‘ts,

ay
‘oO.

oy

bay
_ VY -
e
~¥ ®, ~~
ary. if
Wy f
vi
¥ }} vi
yo f
| Se y
ar Ws
ne
re Ls
Bz \
y A
f
4 =

’
§
* y’
a
] in =i)
ae el ed! A ; ae
: Aven Oe
ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

mola Orme nwGHN TS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

]

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
L901,
| Wel ee Dad Od Ds

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ACCOMPANYING

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Institution for
the year ending June 30, 1900.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., March 1, 1901.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents, to
submit to Congress the Annual Report of the operations, expenditures,
and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June
30, 1900.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

Sy les (LANGLEY.
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution.

Hon. Wiiuui1am P. Frye,

President pro tempore of the Senate.

Iil
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900.

SUBJECTS.

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the session of January,
24, 1900.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund. and
receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30, 1900.

3. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1900, with statistics of exchanges, ete.

4. General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1900.

IV
CONTENTS.

Page.
Letter from the Secretary, submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to
COCR OT 2 ace eb eb cote cegecs Hoes aaa SoS oa ane eee eee ee ee UI
CGeneralisipjeciso1 the Ammual Report... 2.242. ..425.- 2.422252 Yesss.s- nse: IV
UDEV EESOIPS C1 ASSL B55 00 Fe to eg V
Coon) DELP SS) Bisje 5 Se ne ea eee ee VuI
Members exrojicioror the Establishment... — 2225-5255. --2--2s2-s----5+e--2- Ix
Peeemin or ihe: southsonian Inetijution .s-.-- 522. =.-----.22-.----2-2----- 4
PROCEEDINGS OF THE Boarp OF REGENTS.
Siatedameehinpud anuanyact, OU see see eee ane oe oa ease eee XI
Report oF THE Executive Commirrex for the year ending June 30, 1900.
Peinanion Ot the ane Joly. POO0 So eke ke en ek ns YOGOX
Receipisiand. expenditumestonwnemyearss- 2. 9-225 - (oe. css 2 2s teens SOKON:
Appropriawoosor lnternatioual Pxchanees.--..2....----.--.--2-ss-.--- FOOT
Detarivion expendtmres:ON cates Ae keane tt boo ee toa ese XXXI
Aporopration, tor American’ Mihnolopy 2... 2222-22. .--.-------+- ....-- XXXL
Wein or expendismred Of Sale = 25. 40 es5 20) kobe oe eee ieee XXXII
Ee ppropriaions for the National Museum <.-..<.:.s2s.-.-----++---+.-...- XXXIV
Meta Ot CxpenOidired Gr SAME = 9--— ee. 252-5--5-- cs -se--se ee oe XXXIV
Appropriation for Astrophysical Observatory -------------------------- XLVI
einvlcios expenditures:O same". 2....222.22-c-2-5----2-22--26-1-2% XLVIII
Appropriation tor Observation of Solar Kelipse:.---.-=--.---2-2-.------+ KLUX
eatniOmexpendiGulves Ol SAMO a~ 2 2. leche eee ce et ten L
AppLoOpuanon tor the National: Zoolovical Park. -222-2--.2--- 2.222.552. L
Mes ct Ex peMOIGOFeS Ol SAME. sos oo ek oe ak ose ee penn 11
SASL TREE  SUUN TU eal ea lee ae LVII
Acts anD REso.utions oF ConGress relative to Smithsonian Institution, ete..  LIx
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.
ests WaRIeere eee he ee REE ee Ss ee oo weed ueke 1
ee MED ENON LAM SUNSUERUDION <2 222 2 eno e oles ass ses--- se. s-st------ 1
IE ATTIRE ieee ent ee ye NS Oe esas 1
eee eae MAME OC EIN Ne er ae es Qa e een Pee oe 2
ANS OY YONA TTA DR CONT RECESS 01 1 ee ee ec nce er 3
AGUAS TAO. 5S oS eS SEEN ee eS ee ee 4
EUS 2ah pe enes Cae ea ee 6
nS MeOS. .- oe BR ee eee er ee 6
SPD EL TELE cocci ne 5 eS SE ge ee ee ee 9
2001 EI ISISIN TL Se Se 2 a ne 9
2 UVES ELEN 3 eR eee ee 14
IPsec allorenmene 22 A= sk eS Re a ee ee ee 15
PUP UOD MOTT) SS ee Se eee ee acc IS a 15
a nS Se a wh He Soa os es Baws gees be a 17
VI CONTENTS.

Tre SmiItHsonraNn Instrrutrlon—Continued.
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. -.--.-------------------
Gallery of Arts 22 .-.-:-2-2-2 22-222 2229- eee ee
Myre GhildrentsuROOM-. o2-- 2-22 --e ese = 2a nee ee
Correspondence ...--.---------------------- +--+ 2200-22502 202 testes
Jooperation of Executive Departments - ---.------------------- eae
Pepositions =... 2-454. 4e- - ne oS aes aes ee ee
International Conoress: oh Ove rnten li Sts sess
Standards.of ‘COlOPL. cn. 2s. ce os eae seo ee 2 ee eee eer
National Standardizing (Bimeale Soe aera eee
Proposed: Chalcedony Park 5~ .. 2252-25 2 acme ee

Miscellaneous:

Citi rn an ann een Oe Oe Se elane kc oko coon coscer te deeaes
Smithson“ Tablet. 2. is0. she sic oe ae ne ree eee
Boreien Institutions) <q... <2 22 == a ee eee
National MMiusetm: = o.oo e oa eee ee 2 eee ee ee eee
BUea LO he Atm erst Camis tlannN LO ye ae
Imternational sxchanves:: 22.222 52 S22 es eee eae
National Zoological Parks. == 2s <:.222 see oe ne ee eee re
Astrophysical! Observatory <5 2 2 2= e er e ee ee et e
ING@CKOlLOO sc, fe ae err co ei ee Pe ao es
Appendix i. Report on National Mises sete. ses eee eee
II. Report on Bureau of American Ethnology -..---.---------------
Lie sReportion) International lic hain Cs eee ee
Ve -Reportion™ Nati onall/Ao0o! op ceil ile a re eee
V_ Report on Astrophysical! Obsenvatoryess=-= oes5 5522 oe eee eee
Vie Report, of the Wilorarisar = ee ee

VII. Report of the Editor

GENERAL APPENDIX.

Progress in Astronomy during the Nineteenth Century, by Sir Norman Lockyer.
A Preliminary Account of the Solar Eclipse of May 28, 1900, as observed by

the Smithsonian Expedition, by 8. P. Langley
Notes-on Mars, by Sir Robert Ball-and others -. 2. = 30222252 955 eee
On Solar Changes of Temperature and Variations in Rainfall in the Region

Surrounding the Indian Ocean, by Sir Norman Lockyer
The Pekin Observatory

The Progress of Aeronautics, by #. Janssen
Lord Rayleigh on Flight
The Langley Aérodrome
The Zeppelin Air Ship

The Use of Kites to Obtain Meteorological Observations, by A. Lawrence
Rotch

Progress in Chemistry during the Nineteenth Century, by Prof. William

RAMGGY s5o5c50s ccs de cece h out ee
liquid Hydrogen, by Prof. James Dewar _.....5.. 2. ese ee
A Century of Geology, by Prof. Joseph Le Conte
Byolutional Geology, by Prof: W: J.Sollas _...2.2.- 2 ee
Progress in Physics in the Nineteenth Century, by Prof. T. C. Mendenhall --
Electricity during the Nineteenth Century, by Prof. Elihu Thomson
The Photography of Sound Waves, by Prof. R. W. Wood
Unsuspected Radiations, by Prince Kropotkin

Page.
We
18
CONTENTS. waa

Page.
incandescent Mantlestsiby, Vivian Bo Lewes. -2-2=2.-...-..-.-2.-.2-.2-2.-2--- 387
The Imperial Physico-Technical Institution in Charlottenburg, by Henry 8.

CEMENT a hes a ee oo ee 403
The Geographic Conquests of the Nineteenth Century, by Gilbert H.

(GHROEN GOR scase ge uSesc oe SS ean SS ete ae ee eee 417
Through Africa from the Cape to Cairo, by Ewart 8. Grogan .._-....-...---- 43
The ‘‘ Yermak”’ Ice Breaker, by Vice-Admiral Makaroff.............._._._- 449
The Growth of Biology in the Nineteenth Century, by Oscar Hertwig ------- 461
The Restoration of Extinct Animals, by Frederic A. Lucas..........-...---- 479
iesinuiine: Ocean oyearlebrandtee 295" one qsaon see 24: =. 2222-22-22 493
Nanuresreichures by Au Radclytie Diemorel==- 2.220255 2255 220 sesso 507
The Outlaw; a character study of a Beaver, by A. Radclytfe Dugmore -__ ~~~ 517
NeNotablesndvance in Colomehotooraphiy. 7 -42\.2-.22-.5-2.2-5-->-+-<=-+-2- 523
The Breeding of the Arctic Fox, by Henry de Varigny -.-.----..----------- 527
Discoveries in Mesopotamia, by Dr. Friedrich Delitasch--.-....--.....--.---- 535
On Ancient Desemers or Steelyards, by Herrmann Sokeland -_.-..----.------ 551
Mutual Helpfulness Between China and the United States, by His Excellency

VA UIRA TRIO OI) eee eet Fee Ea Ty ey ee Pe Se Satake lee 565
Chinese Folklore and some Western Analogies, by Frederick Wells Williams. 575
The Loot of the Imperial Summer Palace at Pekin, by Count D’Hérisson _... 601
Progress of Medicine in the Nineteenth Century, by Dr. John 8. Billings .... 637
hivka lene. lone Dany (Creare Wg (Syrerd ol) over echs ee eee Geos ee eerie 645
Transmission of Yellow Fever by Mosquitoes, by Dr. George M. Sternberg... 657
Psychical Research of the Century, by Andrew Lang. ............---------- 675
ihe sNews specurumlsby7s.". Wancleyeee- == sesso. oo = ose 2 esc sce Sees See 683
The Century’s Great Men of Science, by Charles 8. Peirce ....:-.-----.----- 693

The Lesson of the Life of Huxley, by Prof. William Keith Brooks --...----- 701
cmimiscences ol Liuxléy, -by sonmeliskertss) 222525... 2-.- nce st sosee le ee 713
LIST

SrecRETARY’s REPORT:
leita alate cr 5 ue ee
Platewllies st oh Soe
late sity 2st one eee

Plater VA tae en fos eee
Plate VIII
Plate SENG. 5 2s eee Ae
Blate PRs 2 een eee eee
Pinte Nel= Xen eas Seen
Jed byes 6) 0) eer Se er eee
Plate XeL VS XOVAL I See eee
Soar Eciiese (Langley):
Blarbe eS Nie ees ee Se ee
TEMPERATURE, AND RaAtn-
FALL (Lockyer):
later = 2 cece lis aoa

SoLaR

Tue Zeppevtin Arr SHIP:
Piste eso eee eee
Tue Use or Krres (Rotch):
Plater=Vi te eee eee
Liquip HyproGen (Dewar):
Plate I-IV
EvoLutTionan GroLoay (Sollas):
Plate I

Vill

PLATES:

Sounpn Waves (Wood):
Platevisl hs tect Ae sees aa
Plate Te Vales es ee ees

Puysico-TecHNIcAL — IysriruTIon

(Carhart):
GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS
venor):
Platten ae et ee

THrouGH AFRICA (Grogan):
Platedeny 22a a5 a ee

YERMAK Ick BREAKER (Makaroff) :
Plate LU 74 ..seee eee

(Gros-

Plated Vi 25s sanss sa sere
Plate Wo ote ee ert aecs

Nature Picrures (Dugmore):
Plated Vises oc eh ne ess oem
Plate V-X
Plate XI-X VII

| OcrLtaAw Braver (Dugmore):

Plated =H ete oe ere
Plate IV-VI
Cotor PHOTOGRAPHY:
Plate I (colored)
DiscoverRrEs IN Mersororamtia (De-
litzsch ) :
PlateI=Ul 223 ee

Plate: Villa Xe. See eee
Tuer New Specrrum (Langley):
Map of spectrum (colored) - - -
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE ‘* ESTABLISHMENT.”

Wiiuram McKrintey, President of the United States.
Garret A. Hopart, Vice-President of the United States.!
MELVILLE W. Fuuuer, Chief Justice of the United States.
Joun Hay, Secretary of State.

Lyman J. GaGa, Secretary of the Treasury.

Russevu ‘A. AtGEr, Secretary of War, to July 31, 1899.
Exrau Root, Secretary of War, from August 1, 1899.
Joun W. Griaas, Attorney-General.

YHARLES Emory Situ, P stmaster-General.

Joun D. Lona, Secretary of the Navy.

K. A. Hirencock, Secreiary of the Interior.

JAMES WILSON, Secretary of Agriculture.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

(List.given on the following page. )

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.
Samuet P. LAnaiey, Secretary,
Director of the Institution and of the U. S. National Musewm.

RicHarpd RarnBun, Assistant Secretary.

1 Died November 21, 1899.
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

By the organizing act approved August 10, 1546 (Revised Statutes,
Title LX XII1, section 5580), ‘*The business of the Institution eal
be conducted at the city of Washington by a Board of Regents, named
the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the
Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United States, three members
of the Senate, and three members of the House of Representatives,
together with six other persons, other than members of Congress, two
of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington and the other
four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of the same State.

REGENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 80, 1900.

The Chief Justice of the United States:
MELVILLE W. FULLER, elected Chancellor and President of the Board,
January 9, 1889.
The Vice-President of the United States:
GARRET A. HOBART (March 4, 1897). Died November 21, 1899.

United States Senators: Term expires.
SHELBY M. CULLOM (appointed Mar. 24, 1885, Mar. 28, 1889,

amc). Dec) 18; 0895). 6. sec ktece 2. os eee eee eee Mar. 3, 1901

OR VEE, eran (ao momiedis) itiey losis i) |e eee nee Jan. 18, 1905

WILLIAM LINDSAY (appointed Mar. 3, 1899) _-.------_.-...- Mar. 3, 1905

Members of the House of Representatives:
JOSEPH WHEELER (appointed Jan. 10, 1888, Jan. 6, 1890, Jan.
15, 1892, Jan. 4, 1894, Dec. 20, 1895, and Dec. 22, 1897) ......-- Dee, 22, 1899
ROBERT R. HITT (appointed Aug. 11, 1898, Jan. 4, 1894, Dee.

AN, A895; Wee. 22, 51897, andes ann. 47, 1/9(0)) ee ee Dee. 25, 1901
ROBERT ADAMS, Jr. (appointed Dee. 20, 1895, Dec. 22, 1897,

and’ Jan’ 4. O00) 2... oes 2 Oe ee oe ee ee Dee. 25, 1901
HUGH A. DINSMORE (appointed Jan. 4, 1900) ..........------ Dec. 25, 1901

Citizens of a State:
JAMES B. ANGELL, of Michigan (appointed Jan. 19, 1887, Jan.

9, 1893s ands Jam. 24-1899) = oe oe ee oe Jan. 24, 1905
ANDREW D. WHITE, of New York (appointed Feb. 15, 1888,
Mars 19) 1894.-and' June 2, 1900); 9 ee June 2, 1906

WILLIAM PRESTON JOHNSTON, of Louisiana (appointed Jan.
26, 1892, and Jan. 24, 1898), died July 16, 1899.
RICHARD OLNEY (appointed Jan. 24, 1900) -........--..-.--- Jan. 24, 1906
Citizens of Washington:
JOHN B. HENDERSON (appointed Jan. 26, 1892, and Jan. 24,

1898) wining la Sw OME Sra cS cle Se a oes See cee ee Jan. 24, 1904
WILLIAM L. WILSON (appointed Jan. 14, 1896) ............-- Jan. 14, 1902
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL (appointed Jan. 24 1898) ...-- Jan. 24, 1904

Executive Committee of the Board of Regents.
J. B. Henperson, Chairman. Witiram L. Wiison
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL. .
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS

AT THE ANNUAL MEETING, JANUARY 24. 1900.

In accordance with the resolution of the Board of Regents, adopted
January 8, 1890, by which its stated annual meeting occurs on the
fourth Wednesday of January, the Board met to-day at 10 o’clock a. m.

Present: The Chancellor (Mr. Chief Justice Fuller), in the chair; the
Hon. W. P. Frye, President pro tempore of the Senate, who was
present by invitation of the Regents in place of the late Vice-President
Hobart; the Hon. S. M. Cullom, the Hon. O. H. Platt, the Hon. R. R.
Hitt, the Hon. Robert Adams, jr., the Hon. Hugh A. Dinsmore, Dr.
James B. Angell, the Hon. J. B. Henderson, Dr. Alexander Graham
Bell, and the Secretary, Mr. 8. P. Langley.

The Secretary said that while he had no excuses for non-attendance
to read he might state that Dr. Wilson had left so recently for Arizona
that there had been scarcely time to hear from him, and that the
appointment of Mr. Richard Olney as a Regent by joint resolution of
Congress was still awaiting the President’s signature.

At the Chancellor’s suggestion, the Secretary read the minutes of
the last annual meeting in abstract, and there being no objection the
minutes were declared approved.

The Secretary announced the death of Dr. William Preston John-
ston, a Regent of the Institution, with a few remarks, and, at the
request of the Chancellor, Dr. Angell submitted a minute and reso-
lutions, which will be found under the heading ‘* Necrology,” on
page 47 of the report of the Secretary.

On motion, the minute and resolutions were adopted by a rising
vote, with the provision that they be suitably engrossed and trans-
mitted to the family of Dr. Johnston.

The death was announced of Vice-President Garret A. Hobart, a
Regent of the Institution, and Senator Platt was designated to submit
a minute and resolutions. These will be found under the heading
** Necrology,” on page 49 of the Secretary’s Report.

On motion, the minute and resolutions were adopted by a rising
vote, with the provision that they be suitably engrossed and trans-
mitted to the family of Vice-President Hobart.

xI
XII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Secretary then read a letter from Mr. James 8. Morrill,
returning his thanks to the Regents for the resolutions concerning
Senator Morrill, his father, passed by the Regents at their last meeting.

The Secretary then announced the appointment of the following
Regents:

Senator William P. Frye, President pro tempore of the Senate,
requested to be present in the place of the Vice-President, deceased.

Senator William Lindsay, appointed March 3, 1899, to succeed
Senator George Gray.

Representative R. R. Hitt, appointed January 4, 1900, to succeed
himself.

Representative Robert Adams, jr., appointed January 4, 1900, to
succeed himself. ;

Representative Hugh A. Dinsmore, appointed January 4, 1900, to
succeed Representative Joseph Wheeler.

The Secretary then presented his annual report to June 30, 1899,
stating that customarily the Secretary made a personal and viva voce
report in a manner which enabled the Regents to question him on any
points on which they wished information, but that now, by the advice
of the Chancellor, as there would probably be scarcely time for later
special business, he would do little more than refer the members to his
printed report, which they had already received.

He then spoke of the fact that while the Institution was never so
well known abroad or more honored than now the enormous increase
of endowments of most institutions of learning in this country left it
with relatively far less means than it once had. With the exception of
$200,000 from Mr. Hodgkins its fund was now practically what it was
fifty years ago, and he urged that its future independence and useful-
ness were concerned in its being able in some way to command such
added means as would leave the Regents with a free disposition of a
larger fund than at present and one absolutely under their own control.
He had intended to ask the Board to use part of the time at their dis-
posal at this meeting in discussing the question and in advising him as
to their wishes upon this point, which he had thought better not to
enlarge upon in his printed report. Under the circumstances he would
not press the matter now, but he hoped that what he said might receive
the consideration of the Regents as a part of his report.

On motion the Secretary’s report was accepted.

Senator Henderson then presented the report of the Executive Com-
mittee to June 30, 1899, which, on motion, was adopted.

Senator Henderson then presented the customary resolution relative
to income and expenditure, as follows:

Resolved, That the income oi the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1901, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the Secre-

tary with the advice of the Executive Committee, with full discretion on the part of
the Secretary as to items.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XIII

On motion the resolution was adopted.

Senator Henderson, chairman of the Permanent Committee, then
reported upon the condition of the Hodgkins and Avery estates, stat-
ing that there remained in the hands of the executor of Mr. Hodgkins’s
will the sum of nearly $9,000, which would have been paid over some
time before to the Institution but for the fact that notice had been
served on the executor to retain money sufficient to meet possible
litigation.

Senator Henderson also referred to the conditional bequest of Wal-
lace C. Andrews, who died in April, 1899, and who, after disposing of
half a million dollars of his large property, gave the residue of his
estate to trustees for the purpose of establishing an institution for the
free education of girls, stating at the close of his will that in case his
intention with respect to the institution for girls ‘‘shall, because of
illegality, become impossible of realization, I then devise and bequeath
the sum intended for it to the Smithsonian Institution at Washington,
D. C., to be devoted for the purpose for which it was established.”

The terms of this will had been studied, with a view of ascertain-
ing whether the gift was valid under the laws of New York, with special
reference to perpetuity. As yet no defect had been discovered. The
will had been drawn with great care, evidently by some one thoroughly
cognizant with the law.

If Mr. Andrews’s estate were a little more than $500,000, the sur-
plus would not suffice to carry out the plan of the institution for girls.
In that event, this surplus would come to the Smithsonian Institution.
As yet, the permanent committee had not been informed how large the
estate was.

KIDDER BEQUEST.

The Secretary stated that he would like to bring before the attention
of the Board, briefly, the matter of the Kidder Bequest of $5,000.
This bequest had already been placed on the same footing by the
Board with a similar sum given as a donation by Dr. Alexander Gra-
ham Bell, both being put at the disposal of the Secretary. Dr.
Bell was here and able to explain the meaning of his gift, but Dr.
Kidder was so no longer, and the Secretary felt a scruple about using
this money for scientific researches in which he might be the principal
agent without being sure that the Regents understood exactly the
conditions in question.

In order that there should be a thorough understanding about the
matter, he would ask Dr. Bell to make a statement of the facts.

Dr. Bell said that previous to the appointment of Mr. Langley as
Secretary, Professor Baird had been afraid that the Secretary of
the Smithsonian might become a purely administrative officer, with-
out time or means for scientific investigation, and Secretary Langley
XIV PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

had, in fact, declined to accept the position if he were wholly inhibited
from carrying on original researches. After conference, Dr. Kidder
and himself (Dr. Bell) had agreed then, at the suggestion of Dr. Baird,
to place a certain sum of money at the present Secretary’s disposal
for scientific investigations. The amount which he (Dr. Bell) gave
had been given by him to be devoted for any purpose to which Secre-
tary Langley might wish to put it in his reseaches, and he felt sure
that such use would be entirely consonant with the wish of Dr.
Kidder.

Dr. Bell then offered the following resolution:

Whereas, at the meeting of the Board of Regents held January 27, 1892, the fol-
lowing resolution was passed:

“That Congress having appropriated $10,000 for the maintenance of an astrophys-
ical observatory, without reference to any precedent condition of buildings to be
furnished by the Smithsonian Institution, that the Secretary be authorized to expend,
under the general resolution relative to income and expenditure, the sum of $5,000
bequeathed by Dr. J. H. Kidder, and $5,000 given by Alexander Graham Bell, in
directions consonant with the known wishes of the testator and the donor.”’

Resolved, That to prevent any misconception as to the meaning of this resolution
the Board of Regents declare that it was their intent that the sum of $5,000, received
from the estate of Dr. J .H. Kidder, be placed at the disposal of the Secretary for his
personal scientific investigations.

After some further discussion, on motion the resolution was adopted.
THE SECRETARY'S STATEMENT.

The Secretary then said that, owing to the evident limitations of time
at the Board’s disposal, he would abridge his usual statement to it.

He spoke briefly of the National Museum, of the cooperation of the
State, War, and Navy Departments in providing animals for the
National Zoological Park, and of the relationship of the Institution to
the Board of Ordnance and Fortifications.

In regard to this last he said that it was a matter on which he would
state to the Regents that his connection with experiments, which had
already their sanction, was being continued on the request of the Way
Department, and reminded them that it was estimated that these
experiments would occupy, even if crowned with unexpectedly early
success, two or more years. The sum allotted by the War [epart-
ment would be insufficient to carry out this work were it not for the
permission of the Regents already given to make use of the facilities
in the workshops under their control, though at the cost of the War
Department. The Secretary was giving his time in his private hours,
apart from his official duties, to this work, and without charge.

The Secretary then spoke of the Hodgkins Fund, of the awarding
of the medal to Prof. James Dewar, of the coming solar eclipse of
May 28, 1900, and of the probability of an appropriation by Con-
gress for this purpose.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XV

In regard to the civil service the Secretary said:

The Board will remember that at its meeting held in 1898 the Regents passed a
resolutioi instructing the Secretary to request of the President certain modifications
in the civil-service regulations, and at its meeting last year the Board was informed
that the Chancellor, together with the Secretary, had called upon the President,
who stated that he was holding the matter under advisement. Asa result of this
action, I beg to report that in the President’s order of May 29, 1899, directing cer-
tain modifications and additions to the civil-service rules, the position of assistant
secretary of the Smithsonian Institution in charge of the National Museum and one
private secretary or confidential clerk to the Secretary of the Institution were relieved
from examination; that for positions on the scientific staff of the Institution non-
competitive examinations are permitted, or examinations may even be waived, pro-
vided the President approve of such action in each case, persons thus entering the
service being not eligible to transfer to other divisions of the classified service.

Continuing his statement the Secretary briefly mentioned the sub-
jects of the National Reserves, the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature, and the Centennial Celebration of Professor Henry’s birth,
as well as the relinquishment of the Toner Lecture Fund.

The Secretary then called attention to a second gift to the Institution
from the Jate Chinese minister, Chang Yen Hoon, of an interesting
bronze piece of great antiquity, which was shown to the Regents. On
motion, the Secretary was requested to make a proper acknowledgment
‘‘by direction of the Board.”

NATIONAL UNIVERSITY.

Senator Henderson then presented the following report of the
Special Committee:

Wasuinaton, D. C., January 24, 1900.
To ihe Bourd of Regents:

In July, 1897, a meeting of the American Association of Agricultural Colleges and
Experiment Stations was held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, at which meeting the fol-
lowing resolution was adopted:

‘‘Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by the President to investigate,
to consider, and, if practicable, devise a plan whereby graduate students of the land-
grant and other colleges may have access to, and the use of, the Congressional Library
and the collections in the Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum, and the
scientific bureaus of the various departments at Washington of the United States Gov-
ernment, for the purposes of study and research; said plan to include suggestions as
to the manner in which such work may be organized, coordinated, and directed to
the best advantage; the composition and organization of such a staff as may be neces-
sary to properly coordinate and direct such work, and also an outline of such legisla-
tion as may be necessary to effect the general purposes of this resolution.”’

This committee seems to have made diligent inquiries into the subjects submitted
to its investigation, and in the autumn of 1898 presented a full and interesting report
of its labors to the Association.

A brief extract from that report is as follows:

‘The inquiries and investigations so far made lead the committee to the conclusion
that it is entirely practicable to provide for the use of the Library of Congress and the
collections of the Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum, and of the various
scientific and other bureaus in the several departments of the General Government,
by graduate students of the land-grant and other colleges for study and research, and
XVI PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

that it is also practicable to organize, coordinate, and direct such work as to make it
eminently effective.

‘“The committee has been greatly desirous that some existing agency be found to
undertake such work of organization, coordination, and direction, and has naturally
turned to the Smithsonian Institution as the one best fitted for the purpose.

‘Hach of its great secretaries—Henry, Baird, and Langley—in the language of
President Gilman, ‘has been free and has felt free to open new roads and enter fresh
fields when the public good required it.’

“The permanence of its organization, its objects, and purposes, as expressed in the
will of its founder, viz, ‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men;’ the fact
that it has nobly performed and is still nobly performing many of the functions
incident to the proposed scheme of graduate study and research, by the encourage-
ment of investigation and research, the study of local history and archeology, and
the founding of libraries and museums; its broad catholicity and its freedom from
partisan influences, have led the committee to hope that it might feel free to take
the work in hand.

‘Tt already has all the officers and agents for its successful general control, and to
them could wisely be left the selection of such additional officers and agents as might
be necessary to direct the details of successful administration. It could wisely con-
trol and direct the application of all funds appropriated or donated for its support.

‘““The committee has thought that, perhaps, the Secretary and Regents might not
look favorably upon the idea of constituting the Smithsonian the permanent agent
for the control and direction of such graduate work, but that they might be willing
to take the initiative in its organization and direction, and when a successful plan
was fully developed, might generously relinquish its control to a separate and inde-
pendent management, such as experience might suggest to be more wise and effective,
as it did under Henry in the case of the Weather Bureau, under Baird in the cases of
the National Museum, the Fish Commission, and the Bureau of Ethnology, and as it
has done under Langley in the cases of the Astrophysical Observatory and the
National Zoological Park.

‘Any positive recommendation as to the agency for the organization, coordination,
and direction of the proposed graduate work, and any detailed plan of organization,
are therefore held in abeyance.

“The committee is unable, at the present time, to present a complete outline of
the legislation necessary to effect the general purposes of the resolution.

“Tt submits tentatively, however, that Congress might be asked to provide for the
establishment of an administrative office in Washington, preferably in the Smith-
sonian Institution, in which graduate students of the institutions we represent, and
others as well, might be enrolled and directed to the appropriate department.

“To maintain this office, pay the expenses of administration, support graduate
courses of research, freely open to the graduate students of the land-grant and other
colleges without distinction, sex, or color, on such terms as the administrative office
should prescribe, and to aid such students in their researches, Congress might be
asked to make an appropriation of, say, $25,000, to be increased annually $1,000, to
be expended under the discretion of the institution or department in which the office
of administration may be located.”’

It appears that this report of its committee was unanimously adopted by the Asso-
ciation, and its secretary, Mr. MacLean, under date of December 16, 1898, communi-
cated to Mr. Langley, as Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, a full report of
the proceedings of the Association on the subject. A short extract from Mr. Mac-
Lean’s letter will best explain the object and purpose of the communication. It is
as follows:

“The committee have resolyed respectfully to ask you and through you the
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution to consider the action of the Association, and
in particular, the matter of the report on pages XVIII, XIX.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XVII

“The committee further earnestly request youand the Regents of the Smithsonian
to intimate to us if the Institution would accede to what is the first preference of all
the educators who haye been consulted—the establishment of an administrative
office in the hands of the Regents and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. If
the Regents will consider the proposition, the committee would like to have the
Regents exercise full power as to the entire plans for the organization of said admin-
istrative office. In case of favorable consideration, the committee would be glad to
know what steps the committee saould take further. It is desired to introduce a
bill before the close of the present session of Congress for the authority and petty
funds needed in the organization of the work. The committee would be glad to
answer any inquiries that you or the Regents would like to make. It is believed
that the scope of the work is set forth in the report.

‘‘The committee regret to trouble you among the multifarious affairs ever waiting
upon you, but they feel confident that you and the Regents have an interest in the
matter so important for education and the diffusion of knowledge as that proposed
by the representative and National Association for whom the committee speak.

‘“Would it be too much to ask if, in your first acknowledgment of the receipt of
the document submitted, you will let me know when the Regents are likely to con-
sider the subject? The committee heartily hope for a favorable consideration and
are sensible of the grace begged of yourself and the Regents.”’

This letter of Mr. MacLean, with the accompanying papers, was, at its last January
meeting, laid before the Board of Regents by Secretary Langley; whereupon the
papers were referred by the Board to a committee of five of its members under direc-
tion of the following resolution:

‘Resolved, That the communication from the committee representing the agricul-
tural colleges of the United States be referred to a committee of Regents to be
appointed by the Chancellor, to consider the same and all kindred questions, and to
make a report thereon at the next meeting of the Board.”’

The Chancellor appointed the Executive Committee consisting of J. B. Henderson,
William L. Wilson, and Alexander Graham Bell, and also J. B. Angell and R. R.
Hitt. The Secretary, at his own request, was not made a member of the committee.

And now your committee comes and takes pleasure in reporting such facts as it has
been able to gather for the information of the Board of Regents.

In the judgment of this committee, it was deemed necessary at the threshold of
the investigations to ascertain with a greater degree of certainty the details of such
plan as might be suggested and formulated by the associated colleges for the accom-
plishment of their wishes. For that purpose, therefore, a joint meeting of this com-
mittee with that of the colleges was recently held, in which the subject was discussed
with commendable frankness and freedom. <A record of the action of this joint
meeting was preserved, and its official proceedings will probably best convey to your
minds the extent and bearing of the questions involved in the proposition of the
associated colleges. These proceedings are as follows:

A joint meeting of the Committees on Graduate Study of the Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution and of the American Association of Agricultural Colleges and
Experiment Stations was held December 27, 1899, in Washington, D. C., at the
residence of Mr. J. B. Henderson, at his invitation. There were present of the
Regents, Messrs. J. B. Henderson, A. Graham Bell, and R. R. Hitt; of the Associa-
tion, M. H. Buckham, president of the University of Vermont; H. H. Goodell,
president of the Massachusetts Agricultural College; Alexis Cope, secretary of Ohio
State University; J. H. Washburn, president of the Agricultural and Mechanical
College of Rhode Island; and A. C. True, Director of the Office of Experiment
Stations. The meeting was called to order at 7.45 p. m. by Mr. Henderson, who
suggested that a joint session be organized. On motion, Mr. Henderson was chosen

sm 1900——1I
XVIII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

chairman and Mr. True secretary. Mr. Buckham briefly explained the purpose of
the Association in favoring the establishment of a Bureau of Graduate Study in the
Smithsonian Institution, urged the importance of this step to the colleges and uni-
versities of the country, and explained that the Association comprised State univer-
sities as well as agricultural and mechanical colleges. The foilowing outline plan
for a Bureau of Graduate Study in the Smithsonian Institution was then read by the
secretary, with the prefatory remark that it was merely tentative and had been
drawn in definite terms to serve as a basis for discussion:

PLAN FOR BUREAU OF GRADUATE STUDY IN THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The Committee on Graduate Study of the American Association of Agricultural
Colleges and Experiment Stations (including all the universities and colleges organ-
ized under the Morrill Act of 1862) asks the Smithsonian Institution to organize and
conduct a Bureau of Graduate Study, having as its principal functions the following:

1. The keeping of a register of graduates of approved colleges and universities who
desire opportunities for graduate study in connection with the different branches
of the United States Government.

2. The conducting of negotiations with the different branches of the Government on
behalf of registered graduates to secure for them opportunities for study and
research according to their qualifications and aims.

. The establishment and maintenance of lecture courses and seminars by specialists
on the subjects on which researches are being made by the Government and

the Smithsonian Institution.

is)

The requirements of this Bureau shall be:

1. A competent chief to organize and manage it.

2. An office force to conduct the routine business.

3. A building for administration offices and lecture rooms.

4, An annual income to pay administrative officers, lecturers, and miscellaneous
expenses.

Methods of securing the needed funds:

1. Ask Congress to provide without delay a new building for the National Museum,
part of which may be utilized for the offices and lecture rooms of the Bureau
of Graduate Study.

2. Ask Congress for an appropriation of $50,000 annually to pay running expenses,
lectures, etc., including rental of temporary quarters until permanent building
is provided.

3. Announce that the Smithsonian Institution will gladly receive funds from private
sources for scientific researches in which graduates of American colleges may
participate and the methods and results of which will be taught to graduate
students connected with the Bureau.

Legislation required:

1. Act of Congress establishing the Bureau and defining its functions.

2. Appropriation for current expenses.

. Appropriation for building for National Museum.

4. Act of Congress permitting officers of the Government participating in the work
of Bureau to receive extra compensation for services performed outside of official
hours; this compensation to be determined by regulations made by the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution.

Reasons why the Smithsonian Institution should undertake the management of a
Bureau of Graduate Study:
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XIX

1. The graduates of the universities and colleges of the United States need opportu-
nities to utilize the libraries, collections, and special apparatus under control of
the Government and to familiarize themselves with the technical and scientific
operations of the Government. This principle has already been recognized by
Congress in act of April 12, 1892, as regards institutions in the District of
Columbia.

2. The National, State, and local governments and the people of the United States
need the services of an increasing number of technical and scientific experts
who can best be trained in special lines in connection with the Government
work.

3. The Smithsonian Institution is regarded by the Government officers and by the
universities and colleges of the country as a central agency for the promotion of
higher scientific education and research. It is already a recognized leader in
scientific enterprises in this country and only needs to broaden its operations
somewhat to take up this new work. It has an invaluable basis for this work
and its freedom from political influences gives it the confidence of the country.
All its traditions regarding scientific work are right.

4. By allying itself with the universities and colleges and with the scientific Govern-
ment bureaus, the Smithsonian Institution will strengthen its scientific leader-
ship and be able more thoroughly to promote the increase and diffusion of
knowledge. It will broaden its basis of support and have a better chance of
securing public and private funds for research work of the highest order. It
will thus be able to maintain and extend its leadership in science and grow in
strength with the growth of universities throughout this country. As local
scientific institutions develop in different parts of the country, is it not desirable
that the Smithsonian Institution shall take an advance step in its relation with
these institutions?

ATTITUDE OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES AND EXPERIMENT
- STATIONS.

If the Smithsonian Institution is declared to be favorable to the organization and
maintenance of a Bureau of Graduate Study, this committee is authorized to pledge
and does pledge the active support of the American Association of Agricultural Col-
leges and Experiment Stations toward the securing of the necessary legislation and
funds for the establishment and support of the Bureau. If the Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution so desire, this committee will take the initiative in seeking the
introduction into Congress of bills for this purpose and in urging their passage, but
only after an express assurance from the Regents that such action will receive their
cordial indorsement and support.

TENTATIVE DRAFT OF ACT OF CONGRESS ESTABLISHING A BUREAU OF GRADUATE STUDY.

Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled, That there shall be and hereby is annually appropriated out
of any money in thé Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of fifty thousand
dollars for the year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and one, and the same
sum for each succeeding year, to enable the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
to organize and maintain a Bureau of Graduate Study for the purpose of securing
for the graduates of the universities and colleges of the several States and Territories
‘and of the District of Columbia, opportunities to utilize the libraries, scientific col-
lections, apparatus, and laboratories owned by the United States and in charge of
officers of the United States, for advanced studies and researches under regulations
to be prescribed by the said Regents and as far as shall be mutually agreed upon
between the said Regents and the heads of the several Executive Departments of the
xX PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

Government, the Librarian of Congress, Commissioner of Labor, Commissioner of
Fish and Fisheries, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with due
regard to the needs and requirements of the technical, scientific, and administrative
work of the Government; and the said Regents are authorized to establish and main-
tain seminars and courses of lectures on subjects relating to the technical and scien-
tifie work of the Government and to employ experts and specialists for this purpose;
and the heads of Departments and the other officers aforesaid are authorized to grant
permission to officers and employees of the Government working under their direc-
tion to take part in the work of the Bureau of Graduate Study under direction of
the said Regents, Provided, That such services shall not in any way interfere with
the efficient discharge of their regular duties as Government officials, And provided
further, That officers and employees of the Government may receive extra compen-
sation on terms to be fixed by the said Regents for services actually performed for
said Bureau of Graduate Study outside of the hours when their services are required
for the discharge of their regular official duties.

And the said Regents are authorized to use the buildings and other property of
the National Museum and to rent buildings as far as may be necessary for the work
of said Bureau.

And the said Regents shall employ a person of scientific attainments and adminis-
trative experience as the chief of said Bureau and are authorized to employ assist-
ants, experts, clerks, and other persons, as far as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this act, and to incur expenses for traveling, printing, and all other
purposes essential to the maintenance of said Bureau within the appropriations pro-
vided by the law.

Expenses.
Salary ior chiel 25-2 cones sat teas sbi sone ee ei eeatee Sse $4, 000
malary oleassistamt chief t22- 2-s.05- 20.62 2S ee See 2, 000
Salanyot tworclerks) (Stenographers): 252-4. +a. a-co nes eee ee eee 2, 000
Dalany.Om messenger and JaMItOP. —...- As 222c-cis hea eeee Se ee 1, 000
palary.oL temporary;employees ...:-.s-.2--.s2.25s5546 5502422 eee 1, 000
Compensation of 50 lecturers (average of 40 lectures in each course for $500),

PAO EGtUMES bn us - Spee eS css sig ee ein Sec ae eee 25, 000
Reunmotmtemporary quarters, heat, lights etes.. = - = 25 55= a eee 5, 000
Bumture, supplies, traveling expenses;.ete vs. 24 22-6 -42a-2e eee 5, 000
Prune andr miscellaneous); <i: 23 be.0Sse one eee 5, 000

potas ees 5S Sek ao oe ot oo ek 2. Re 50, 000

After the reading of this paper a tree discussion of its contents was had, in which
all present took part. At the conclusion of this discussion an understanding was
reached that the committee of the Association would be satisfied with any effective
plan by which graduates of the colleges and other qualified persons should be guided
by the Smithsonian Institution in advanced studies and researches in connection
with the facilities presented by the Government bureaus at Washington, and that
this committee would await the action of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
at their meeting in January, 1900.

Adjourned at 10 p. m.

A. C. True, Secretary.

Dr. William L. Wilson, who was unable to be present, sent the following letter to
the chairman:
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIveErsiry,
Lexington, Va., December 26, 1899.
My Drak Genera: The feeble hope I have been nursing, that I might be able to
go to Washington to-morrow and meet with you and the gentlemen representing
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXI

the land-grant colleges, has flickered out. I know the importance of this meeting
and I am exceedingly desirous of hearing the college committee develop their plans
and wishes.

The more I reflect on the question, in the light of my experience in Washington
and as a college officer, the less able I find myself to formulate any plan on a scale
such as doubtless these gentlemen desire. We are, I am sure, desirous that the
Smithsonian Institution should meet their wishes as far as it can without swamping
the larger work of research and of the diffusion of knowledge among men, which it
was founded to do and which it has so well done.

But our resources are small, and even if adequately increased I do not see clearly
how the work of research and of instruction can be made to go hand in hand. The
best endowed universities have not been able to unite the two, except in a small and
occasional way. The men who by scientific research have extended human knowl-
edge are generally compelled to work in such individual and even eccentric ways
that they can not carry learners with them, and they benefit the world by making
known their results and methods, not by carrying with them a company of specta-
tors, to whom every step must be explained and every process of reasoning made
clear in advance.

Very sincerely, yours, Wm. L. WItson.

At a subsequent meeting of the joint committees, held in this city, at the residence
of Dr. Bell, on the 11th instant, in which President Harper, of the Chicago Univer-
sity, participated as a representative of the National Educational Association, other
proceedings of an interesting character were had. Reports of these proceeding were
promptly furnished by Dr. True to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and
also by this committee.

At the possible risk of being tedious in the presentation of its report your committee
deems it advisable to preserve a full record of the papers and documents connected
with the propositions now submitted to the consideration of the Regents.

The report of Mr. True is as follows:

Unirep States DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
OFFICE OF EXPERIMENT STATIONS,
Washington, D. C., January 12, 1900.
Mr. S. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Dear Srr: With a view to facilitating your consideration of the pending questions
regarding the opening of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government depart-
ments to graduate students, permit me to lay before you a series of papers relating
to this matter.

Exhibit A.—Report of the Committee on Graduate Study of the American Associa-
tion of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations, contained in Bulletin No. 65,
Office of Experiment Stations, Department ot Agriculture.’

Exhibit B.—The Educational Review for December, 1899, containing an account of
the action taken by a committee of the National Educational Association regarding
the project for a National University at Washington."

Exhibit C.—A tentative plan for a bureau of graduate study in the Smithsonian
Institution, which was drawn up by the committee on graduate study of the Associa-
tion of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations and presented to the commit-
tee of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution appointed to consider this matter.’

Exhibit D.—Copy of resolutions adopted by the George Washington Memorial
Association at its annual meeting in December, 1899.

1 Being accessible in the publications mentioned, these exhibits are not printed here.
2This is identical with the document given above, p. XVIII.
XXII PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OP REGENTS.

Exhibit E.—A summary of points on which there is agreement between the com-
mittees of the National Educational Association and the agricultural colleges, drawn
up by President Harper and myself after a conference on this matter January 11,
1900.

I may add that all the plans which have been proposed by the three associations
referred to in the above statement have been based on the idea that the Smithsonian
Institution should be the leader in this enterprise, that it should have a free hand in
the formation and execution of plans for carrying on this work, and that this new
enterprise should be undertaken by the Smithsonian Institution only so far as it can
obtain funds for the purpose from Congress and private sources. There is entire
agreement on the proposition that the funds at present at the disposal of the Smith-
sonian Institution should not be used for this new work.

Iam authorized by the committee on graduate study of the Association of Agri-
cultural Colleges and Experiment Stations to act as their representative here, and as
such I shall be glad to give you any further assistance in my power to make plain
the attitude of this Association in this matter.

Very respectfully, yours,
A. C. Tron,
Secretary of Committee on Graduate Study of the Association
of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations.

Exarpir i.

Points of agreement between committee of National Educational Association and American
Association of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations, regarding the work which
the Smithsonian Institution might undertake for the benefit of graduates of colleges and
universities. :

Memorandum made by President Harper, of Chieago University, of the committee
of National Educational Association, and A. C. True, Director of the Office of Exper-
iment Stations, of the committee of the American Association of Agricultural Col-
leges and Experiment Stations, January 11, 1900.

1. That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution ask the Congress of the United
States for a special appropriation for the work of research and investigation, to be
conducted under their supervision by persons properly qualified therefor. Such
work to be so conducted as to utilize the libraries, scientific collections, apparatus,
and laboratories owned by the United States, and in charge of the officers of the
United States, for investigations and researches, under regulations to be prescribed
by the said Regents, and as far as shall be mutually agreed upon between the said
Regents and the heads of the several Executive Departments of the Government, the
Librarian of Congress, Commissioner of Labor, Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries,
and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, with a view of carrying out the
policy of Congress, declared in the joint resolution of April 12, 1892.

2. That the Regents ask the general public for gifts of money, to be used in providing
buildings, laboratories, equipments, and endowments, for purposes of instruction,
such instruction to be limited to students who are graduates of properly accredited
institutions or those who are otherwise properly qualified, it being understood that
it shall not be the purpose of the Smithsonian Institution to confer degrees of any
kind in connection with such instruction.

3. That the Regents formulate a plan for the appointment of an advisory board;
the members of said board to represent the leading educational institutions of the
country, with a view to securing the active cooperation of the colleges and universities
of the country in carrying on this enterprise.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXIII

(No. 8.)

JOINT RESOLUTION to encourage the establishment and endowment of institutions of learning at
the national capital by defining the policy of the Government with reference to the use of its
literary and scientific collections by students.

Whereas large collections illustrative of the various arts and sciences and facili-
tating literary and scientific research have been accumulated by the action of Con-
gress through a series of years at the national capital; and

Whereas it was the original purpose of the Government thereby to promote
research and the diffusion of knowledge, and it is not the settled policy and present
practice of those charged with the care of these collections specially to encourage
students who devote their time to the investigation and study of any branch of
knowledge by allowing to them all proper use thereof; and

Whereas it is represented that the enumeration of these facilities and the formal
statement of this policy will encourage the establishment and endowment of institu-
tions of learning at the seat of government, and promote the work of education by
attracting students to avail themselves of the advantages aforesaid under the direction
of competent instructors: Therefore,

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the facilities for research and illustration in the following
and any other governmental collections now existing or hereafter to be established
in the city of Washington for the promotion of knowledge shall be accessible, under
such rules and restrictions as the officers in charge of each collection may prescribe,
subject to such authority as is now or may hereafter be permitted by law, to the sci-
entific investigators and to students of any institution of higher education now incor-
porated or hereafter to be incorporated under the laws of Congress or of the District
of Columbia, to wit:

1. Of the Library of Congress.
Of the National Museum.
Of the Patent Office.
Of the Bureau of Education.
Of the Bureau of Ethnology.
Of the Army Medical Museum.
Of the Department of Agriculture.
Of the Fish Commission.
Of the Botanic Gardens.
Of the Coast and Geodetic Survey.
. Of the Geological Survey.
12. Of the Naval Observatory.
Approved, April 12, 1892.

MID oR wb

sole

pl pet
JS)

The papers already copied and referred to in this report are deemed amply suffi-
cient to acquaint the Regents with the propositions made by the associated colleges.

And now, in conclusion, your committee does not hesitate to express its warm and
decided sympathy with the general purposes of the movement thus made for your
consideration. The object sought commends itself to us all, and the zeal and ability
with which it has been pressed upon our consideration by the very able and distin-
guished educators and scientists connected with these colleges furnish ample assur-
ance that the consummation of the great and leading object sought by them is only
a question of time. The material already collected in the bureaus and departments
of the Government furnishes a rich mine of educational wealth that will not be per-
mitted to remain forever undeveloped. This material is now being constantly
enriched by the most valuable additions to its present enormous wealth. Already
it has invited to the national capital many distinguished scientists, anxious to avail
themselves of the superior advantages thus offered for investigation and research.
XXIV PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

Your committee, however, is painfully impressed with the fact that the powers of
the Smithsonian Institution as at present organized are scarcely broad enough to
embrace the work proposed. And the committee is equally impressed with the fact
that even with enlarged authority its present financial condition would absolutely
prevent anything like efficient and creditable performance of the work contemplated.

It is well known to the members of this Board that a great wealth of material—
material which would be of immense utility in the successful accomplishment of the
purposes indicated by the associated colleges, lies buried in the crypts and cellars
of the National Museum.

If our Institution is unable for want of room, as it undoubtedly is, even to place
this valuable material on exhibition for the public eye and as little able to arrange
it for scientific uses, the problem of providing halls for lectures and meeting the nec-
essary expenditures incident to the work proposed, becomes serious and formidable
in the extreme.

Your committee is not prepared to make definite recommendations to the Board
for its final or ultimate action.

That which is clearly inexpedient to-day may become not only expedient, but
eminently desirable to-morrow.

If in your judgment the committee should retain its powers and report progress
from time to time in the future, it will be our highest pleasure to comply with your
further demands.

Yours, truly, J. B. Henperson, Chairman.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., January 23, 1900.
My Dear Senator HENDERSON:

At your request I hand back to you the letter which I sent you some time since in
a personal capacity, now authorizing its use as in your discretion you may deem fit,
though I do so with some hesitation, since it deals with a matter on which the Board
has not yet defined its policy.

Under the circumstances, I can then, perhaps, be of most service by pointing out
what the attitude of the Board has been under analogous circumstances in the past,
and by indicating in a general way the present situation of the Institution and its
relations to the scientific bureaus in Washington.

I will first comply with your request by citing the passage in the communication
of the representatives of the American Association of Agricultural Colleges and
Experiment Stations, concerning which you inquire. This passage reads as follows:

“The committee has thought that perhaps the Secretary and Regents might not
look favorably upon the idea of constituting the Smithsonian the permanent agent
for the control and direction of such graduate work, but that they might be will-
ing to take the initiative in its organization and direction, and when the successful
plan was fully developed, might generously relinquish its control to a separate and
independent management.”’

Next, at your kind solicitation, I take this occasion to speak of the plan in ques-
tion, which, you will remember, is but one of several plans. With these I have
large sympathy, as with every step in aid of the higher education and research. Let
me recall, however, not my opinions, but the decisions of Congress and the Regents.

After the Smithson bequest had been received by the Government, nearly ten
years were employed by Congress in considering the form which the Institution
should take. The most distinguished members in Congress and almost all the nota-
ble educators in this country expressed their opinions, and the proposal that the
Institution should be more or less a teaching body, or in some way assimilable to a
university, was most thoroughly discussed and embodied in various bills, which
failed to become law. The proposal then was defeated, and its defeat created a pol-
icy for the Institution, which has been followed by the Regents up to this time.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXV

I understand that the wish at present is to found a school of research by utilizing
the existing scientific departments and the bureaus of the Government through the
means of an administrative office wader the Smithsonian Institution. This is, of course,
to be managed by the Regents, and it is claimed that it can be supported by a small
appropriation from Congress. I am not, then, considering the abstract merits or the
difficulties of a proposal to found such a system of research, so much as the difficulties
of establishing it under this Institution.

The proposition has much in its favor from one point of view; and yet it seems
questionable whether this connection even furnishes the best means of producing the
results anticipated when we consider that each scientific bureau and office has grown
out of some practical need of the Government; that each at all times is occupied on
practical work, and that each now looks to the head of its department and not to
the Institution as having the sole right to direct any part of its affairs. Let me say,
too, that in an important branch of science like physics, no bureau, with one unim-
portant exception, has any laboratory worth mentioning; that there is at present but
one chemical laboratory in Washington which could be considered with reference to
the admission of students, since in the rest not a score of students could be accom-
modated if a hundred applied; and that the Regents would almost necessarily be
called upon to find means to create these costly accessories of the plan, although they
are now representing to Congress the insufficiency of its appropriations to meet the
needs of the special work which is already committed to them.

What is more important, the Smithsonian Institution has been founded and carried
on with functions so distinct from that of teaching or of a university, that to create
anew department in it for the proposed use would be like remaking the whole
machinery of its action. The change that is proposed, though apparently superficial,
is radical, and in advance of experiment no one knows where it will lead.

It is well, then, to consider here, that while the money question is of very great
importance indeed, it is for the moment secondary. If some one desiring to conduct
such a scheme were to offer to give outright to the Regents of the Institution a fund
as large as its present one, which was to be used for managing a bureau of graduate
study and research (and I should consider even this amount insufficient), I should,
if my opinion were sought, ask to have the plan considered only with the under-
standing that this Institution was distinctly altering its functions in accepting the
money for such a purpose.

These gentlemen suggest an appropriation of something like $50,000, which I under-
stand them to believe will be sufficient, because of their hope to secure continuous
voluntary work by the gratuitous or nearly unpaid contributions of our local men o1
science. This sum would, however, I think, prove wholly inadequate. Being myself
long a student of science here, I may be allowed to say that while in my own knowl-
edge there are some who like to teach and would do it without reward, and do it well,
they are in an almost negligible proportion to the large number who have (it should
always be remembered) accepted the lower salaries given here, as against higher
ones they could obtain in colleges and universities, because no condition of tuition is
now attached to their work of research.

If upon careful consideration it is found that the scientific departments and bureaus
of the Government could be advantageously used in connection with other agencies
as auxiliaries for post-graduate study, without interfering with their primary functions,
I, for one, should be glad to see this done. The Institution and all its branches are
now and always have been open to any properly accredited investigator so far as the
limited accommodations and the regular work permit.

The communication under consideration by your committee comes from representa-
tives of the agricultural colleges and agricultural experiment stations created, in the
main, by the General Government. Their relations to it have always been intimate,
and they present the most important outcome of Congressional action for the higher
XXVI PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

education, each State in the Union haying such a college and experiment station.
The gentlemen who represent these organizations do not stand in the position of
ordinary educators, but are accustomed to deal with Government affairs, whether
with State legislatures or members of Congress, and it is in the course of natural
development that they should seek to crown their system by a great school of
research in Washington, connected more or less directly with the General Govern-
ment. I think their aspiration is a most legitimate one, and I believe that they rep-
resent a body of men who in some way or other are very likely to succeed in any
well-matured plans which they deliberately set out to accomplish.

Since the permissive act of 1892, however, no bureau, within my knowledge, has
taken official advantage of the powers already granted, and I think that this indicates
the feeling which these bureaus may be expected to entertain toward an agent
invested by Congress with larger authority. The responsibility as well as the danger
and trouble of organizing this scarcely formulated plan, and accepting the often
ungracious task of engrafting it on bureaus of the Government not otherwise under
the control of the Institution—in short, of bearing the brunt of the struggle for it in
its early years—would fall on the Smithsonian Institution, whose present kindly
relations with these bureaus I should be sorry to see jeopardized.

Let me say (if in conclusion I may venture to express a personal opinion) that it
is at least certain that the Institution can not draw back from a line of action to
which it is once morally committed, and that ordinary prudence indicates the need
of care in acquiring at its own risk a knowledge of the effect which this radical change
might make in its future.

Very respectfully, yours,
S. P. LANGLEY.

Hon. J.B. HENDERSON,

Chairman of Special Committee of the Board of Regents, Washington, D. C.

CastLE CREEK, Hor SpRINGs,
; Yavapai County, Ariz., January 20, 1900.

Dear Mr. Lanaury: | regret that I shall not be able to attend the annual meeting
of the Regents.

I suppose the most important subject that will come before the Regents will be
the application of the agricultural colleges for some form of connection with the
Institution, through which select graduates of those colleges may secure advanced
instruction in science and in scientific research, in the bureaus under its administra-
tion. I feel much interested in this question, and regret that I am under the dis-
ability of not knowing the definite proposition of the colleges and of not having
conferred with my associates on the committee appointed at the last meeting of the
Regents. Without these lights, it seems to me that many difficulties and much mis-
apprehension must be cleared away, before any safe and practicable plan can be
reached, looking toward the end proposed. That end proposes a diversion of the
Institution and of its scientific bureaus from the main work they were founded to
accomplish, and such diversion if suddenly and sharply made, will lessen their
present efficiency without accomplishing the new results. To receive any consider-
able number of students and give them proper guidance and fair opportunites of
work, would certainly interfere, seriously, with the regular operation of the Institu-
tion and of its affilated bureaus.

It is impracticable to turn aside men engaged in research to the work of instruction,
as a rule, and only a limited number of such men have any aptitude or taste for such
work. Specialists accept positions under the Government at less salaries than col-
leges would pay them because they do not have to teach, and because they can
pursue their researches in their own individual ways, and wherever the local advan-
tages are most favorable. By this method their work inures to the benefit of all
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. XXVITI

the educational institutions of the country, and the scientific and economic world
gets the fruits of that work. It is also true, that collections are destroyed in the
regular work of instruction, and that most of the collections in the National Museum
and scientific bureaus are consequently available only for the individual and advanced
investigator, toward whom the most liberal policy should be, as I feel sure, it always
has been, adopted.

These are some of the views which have occurred to me, and some of the many
difficulties to be reckoned with, in any movement in the direction proposed. I need
not say that I am fully in accord with what I feel sure, is the general wish of the
Regents—to meet the request of the colleges, in the most sympathetic and friendly
spirit, and to extend to them the fullest and freest access to every source and facility
of information, under the control or influence of the Institution, or that can be made
compatible with its administration. Yet it seems to me that any beginning of a new
and wider policy, must keep carefully in view the continued success and preemi-
nence of the Institution itself in its chosen field, and the further fact that the scien-
tific bureaus of the Government have been established and are maintained more for
practical and economic purposes than for strictly scientific purposes, and only inci-
dentally or occasionally for the work of instruction, save as involved in their regular
work.

Very truly, yours, Wo. L. Witson.

Mr. 8. P. Lane ery,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

A very general discussion arose, participated in by Senators Cullom
and Platt, and Messrs. Henderson, Hitt, Bell, and others.

Senator Cullom stated that this might end in the Institution’s
resources being scattered and in its becoming simply a place of learn-
ing, school, or college, or university. He did not think that was the
purpose of the founder, but that the more separately it maintained
itself, the freer would be the position of the Institution in the end, and
that to put the matter on record he would move

That the report be accepted and printed and that the committee be discharged.

Mr. Platt then moved

That the report be accepted, but that the committee be continued.

Mr. Bell observed that the matter was too important to be passed
over briefly, that a very great many of its details might perhaps be
impracticable, but that some features were practicable, and that it
came, he thought, within the functions of the Institution to carry them
out, possibly by the help of Congress.

Aftersome further remarks, Mr. Bell offered the following resolution:

In order to facilitate the utilization of the Government Departments for the pur-
poses of research—in pursuance of the policy enunciatud by Congress in a joint reso-
lution approved April 12, 1892—

Resolved, That Congress be asked to provide for an Assistant Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution in charge of research in the Government Departments,
whose duty it shall be to ascertain and make known what facilities for research exist
in the Government Departments, and arrange with the heads of Departments, and
with the officers in charge of Government collections, rules and regulations under
which suitably qualified persons may have access to the Government collections for
the purposes of research, with due regard to the needs and requirements of the work
XXVIII PROCEEDINGS OF IHE BOARD OF REGENTS.

of the Government; and it shall also be his duty to direct the researches of such
persons into lines which will promote the interests of the Government, and the
development of the natural resources, agriculture, manufactures, and commerce of
the country, and (generally) promote the progress of science and the useful arts and
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.

The Chancellor ruled that the resolution was not in order until the
report had been disposed of, and the discussion was continued on
Senator Cullom’s motion, turning on the advisability of continuing
the committee, Senator Henderson, the chairman, remarking that if
the committee were continued it should be instructed as to the wishes
_ of the Board.

Mr. Adams said that he thought it would be better to take some
decisive action; that if it were not thought within the province of
the Institution to undertake this it would be franker to say so, in
order that the people who were looking to the Institution for help
could turn elsewhere, and that he thought it would be better for the
movement itself that some such positive statement should be made
now and not postpone the matter, giving these gentlemen ground for
hope that the Institution would do something favorable.

The Chancellor observed that it was open to these gentlemen them-
selves to go to Congress and obtain the assistance they desired.

There were further remarks by different Regents on Senator Cul-
lom’s motion, when upon the suggestion that it would be considerate
to the committee to use instead of the word ‘* discharged” some other
expression which would give a similar meaning, Mr. Hitt said that a
motion to accept, like a motion to adopt, carried with it the discharge
of the committee.

Senator Cullom by consent modified his motion by omitting any
reference to the ‘* discharge” of the committee.

Senator Platt said he would not insist on the motion that the com-
mittee be continued. :

The Chancellor then put the motion as modified, ‘‘ That the report
be accepted and printed,” and it was adopted without any dissenting
voice.

Mr. Bell then moved the adoption of his resolution, but it being
now a quarter to 12 o’clock, the Chancellor and the Congressional
Regents were obliged to leave, and it was voted to adjourn to meet
again on the call of the Chancellor and the Secretary, leaving Mr.
Bell’s resolution pending for consideration at some future meeting.
A)

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

For THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your Executive Committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Institution, the appropriations by Con-
gress, and the receipts and expenditures for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the U. S. National Museum, the International Exchanges, the
Bureau of Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, and the Astro-
physical Observatory for the year ending June 30, 1900, and balances
of former years:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Condition of the Fund July 1, 1900.

The amount of the bequest of James Smithson deposited in the
Treasury of the United States, according to act of Congress of August
10, 1846, was $515,169. To this was added by authority of Congress,
February 8, 1867, the residuary legacy of Smithson, savings from
income and other sources, to the amount of $134,831.

To this also have been added a bequest from James Hamilton, of
Pennsylvania, of $1,000; a bequest of Dr. Simeon Habel, of New York,
of $500; the proceeds of the sale of Virginia bonds, $51,500; a gift
from Thomas G. Hodgkins, of New York, of $200,000 and $8,000,
being a portion of the residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, and
$1,000, the accumulated interest on the Hamilton bequest, making in
all, as the permanent fund, $912,000.

The Institution also holds the additional sum of $42,000, received
upon the death of Thomas G. Hodgkins, in registered West Shore
Railroad 4 per cent bonds, which were, by order of this committee,
under date of May 18, 1894, placed in the hands of the Secretary of
the Institution, to be held by him subject to the conditions of said
order,

XXIX
XXX REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Statement of the receipts and expenditures from July 1, 1899, to June 30, 1900.

RECEIPTS.
Castton mand July 41899 <= 220-5 o== aoe ee $74, 703. 42
interest onstond) july ol 1899 52222 =e eee $27, 360. 00
Interest on fund January 1, 1900 ---.-.---.---- 27, 360. 00
54. 720. 00
Interest to January 1, 1900, on West Shore bonds ----..--- 1, 680. 00
$131, 103. 42
(Cash! from sales of publications. =... 2-22: ©=4-2 2 eeeaees 277. 84
Cash from repaymenis, freight, ete’.-.:--25--=2---2222--2 4, 131. 97
—_____—_. 4, 409. 81
Total receipts .. 2 .22.s-22. 2. 22 ee 135, 513. 28
EXPENDITURES.
Building:
Repairs, care, and improvements. ----.---- $7, 376. 30
Hnrniture:and chsxtures® <2. 2225-22 ee eee 524. 22
Sree oe IRS
General expenses:
Postage and telegraph ..........-.-------- 364. 88
StALIOMERY, [aoe ee ee ee 830. 47
Incidentals (fuel, gas, ete.) ... =. 2225--28 4, 644. 36
Library (books, periodicals, etc.)-.-.------ 2, 950, 97
aL ATI CHA whee ee eee hs Aa ee 20, 576. 39
Gallery Ol. artececele tees eee eae 356. O1
Weetm espe =. aw 2 3 ee 136. 96
——————_ 29, 860. 04
Publications and researches:
Smithsonian contributions ..........---.-- 1, 450. 17
Miscellaneous collections. -.........---.--- 1, 469. 14
ING DOLLS ee eS a ne ee ee oe 2, 042. 34
Researches:: 228522222 ee eee eee 6, 326. 91
Epparatns:.¢ 2 Se ee ee 224. 81
itodskarnis fend 2s 053i eee eee ee ee 4, 029. 95
IE ploraMOnS.. 655-5 hee eee sees 1, 400. 00
16, 943. 32
Literary and scientific exchanges......:_........-.--- 4, 590. 28,
————_—— 59,294.16
Balance unexpended June 30, 1900 -=:- 22-22 go ee 76, 219. 07

The cash received from the sale of publications, from repayments
for freights, etc., is to be credited to the items of expenditure, as
follows:

Smithsonian ‘contributions ...252 - 24 5 oe $26. 37
Miscellaneous collections’... .<: =<. ..2 (2. eee 191. 08
HGPOTis.. 222 < 25s 5260 55.- es 8 eee 24.79
Special publicationus-..-.22-. 25. 2..0.. =e 35. 60

——_ $277. 84

‘In addition to the above $20,576.39 paid for salaries under general expenses,
$8,176.47 were paid for services, viz, $2,875.58 charged to building account, $999.95
to Hodgkins fund account, $1,648.02 to library account, $2,289.92 to researches
account, and $363 to furniture account.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. AXXI

0 pte oe a $2, 598. 20
WL) PESTS 22: hd ee ee 508. 77
(0 0) US Da ee eee eee 1, 000. 00
of 206i. 4: se Lee 25. 00°
$4, 409. 81

The net expenditures of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1900, were therefore $54,884.35, or $4,409.81 less than the gross
expenditures, $59,294.16, as above stated.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise. are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of the
Secretary of the Institution, and all payments are made by his checks
on the Treasurer of the United States.

Your committee also presents the following statements in regard to
appropriations and expenditures for objects intrusted by Congress
to the care of the Smithsonian Institution:

Detailed statement of disbursements from appropriations committed by Congress to the care
of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, and from balances
of former years.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1900.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriated by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, ‘‘for
expenses of the system of international exchanges between the United
States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, including salaries or compensation of all necessary em-
ployees and the purchase of necessary books and periodicals”’ (sundry
TE SSL NS 2) a ee ee $24, 000. 00

DISBURSEMENTS.

: : [From July 1, 1899, to June 30, 1900.]
Salaries or compensation:

ienrasor, “L2InOnsnn. AL Paes ce $2, 700. 00
Webichelerk.'2 MOnths, Si plia_-—..-o-= 22-2 ook eee 2, 100. 00
ieleriont > Moniisrnn gio. 2 = ee ok 1, 800. 00
dtelerka ta nOntns as PhiGiae oe eee eS ets 1, 400. 03
ePlerk Lamon tis ab lO eae 8 Se eo sek 1, 200. 00
RICE) OAPI ORGS IE pI es ee ke 200. 00
ielerkast@nOninn Abmnt = oe ee oles tae 960. 00
1 clerk, 5 months, at $75; 7 months, at $90__....-.....-- 1, 005. 00
PACE INET 2b gee ee = te eS 632. 50
Mewueeicithins t MOntHT AnD Mr oe Se tee 600. 00
CET S SS 8 peg 80 2 540. 00
1 copyist, 8 months 47 days, at $45 ...-...---..--------- 428.93
1 messenger, 7 months 11 days, at $25 -....--...-------- 184. 16
1 messenger, 33 months 8 days, at $25 -...-.....-------- 93.95
1 laborer, 273 days, at $1.50; 14 months, at $45. --.....--- 477.00
ERS Te a Se 156. 00
LS SS eG SEs “oh ) ee ee 600. 00
Ts SR OS 1, 100. 00
ee aL TE D2 ee ae 172. 00

Total salaries or compensation..........-.-.-.-------- 16, 349. 57
XXXII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

General expenses:

BOCK iene eae Sos c aes eee cee bh eaCe ne eee $5. 00

Wreio Wieee ere e eee toe eS ae ae ae eae 3, 548. 68

JES ey THOS 1 (Sp. ct ee tara ae I 993. 80

Postage and telesraph — 22... -<- ssc en- es eocse 202. 00

Slanounenyiano supplies: £2252. .2a-<co sek 324. 32

Mravelinovexpenses.-c-c-o- 2+ -ssse ences cose 37. 80

: —_— $5, 111.60

MotalkaishUrseMments\-<< 22. 22-2 eet eee tee ere $21, 461.17
ise bag iol WU eee Sao eee emer oS Sao sse sos Se 2, 538. 83

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, 1899.

iaianee uly 1 l8900as perilast TepoOrb.. . -- << os-4-o2 seme s =  eeeee $1, 829. 33

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation:

Hacent,.6 months, at $50.22... =. <5. se ae oecee $300. 00

acent, 6. mouths, at, $91.66% ..-2. 2222-2 eee 550. 00

feacent, Ganonths; at $13.66$ -.2<.-22. 205-252 e5e 82. 00

$932. 00

General expenses:

BOOKS Re aciies son ch eects Sosoce Ss eh eee eee 20. 00

nel ela een oe cee a eS ei csc tee ee eee 779. 16

Siaionery and. supplies=\s.2< 6 .s-<---ssens-se oe ee 71. 68

Mravelin Pex PeNsesi=c. Asi j022 os siocees Soa SS See 24. 90
895. 74

otal’ disbursements: 2.226222. sa ces hes sas a eee eee eee $1, 827. 74

Balance’ sully, l, (900s225..-shceseee seas seer ee ee ee 159

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES, 1898.

18{0\0): <a ne an oe NES et sa SSG eon ole 5. 00

Balances. coc csesc sncedt olka ee bee eS eee ee i, 1

Balance carried, under the provisions of the Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriat' n by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, ‘‘for
continu ‘hnological researches among the American Indians, under
the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries or com-
pensation of all necessary employees and the purchase of necessary
books and periodicals, fifty thousand dollars, of which sum not exceed-
ing one thousand dollars may be used for rent of building.’’ (Sundry
ciylact, March 3, 1899) 2203205: $e) eee eee $50, 000. 00

The actual conduct of these investigations has been continued by the
Secretary in the hands of Maj. J, W, Powell, director of the Bureau of
American Ethnology.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Salaries or compensation:

(edinectoraylehmonths saiewolol-- pease secise ee. > ses ee c= ae $4, 500. 00
| ethnologist in charge, 12 months, at $333.53. ......--- 3, 999. 96
1 ethnologist, 12 months, at $208.33.........-.-.------- 2, 499. 96
L ethnologist, 12 months,.at.$200 -..--...-.--....-22-<- 2, 400. 00
1 ethnologist, 12 months, at $166.67 . 22... 2.2.2... 22-- 2, 000. 04
L-ethnologist, 12: months, at $166.67 ......---22-..-.--- 2, 000. 04
1 ethnologist, 9 months 10 days, at $166.67 ........-.-.-- 1, 555. 59
rethnolcerst, 12: months, atp120.-.--2-..---..22c20- 1, 500. 00
f ethnologist, 12 months; at $125.........2.----.-..=.5 1, 500. 00
iethnolorist 2 months lat pl2o2255eeee ceases cae 1, 500. 00
1 ethnologic translator, 7 months, at $125 ....--....---- 875. 00
ilistratonsl2 months abiplGG:6fes see. sees ees ne 2, 000. 04
iprook reader, DONUTS; At O10... ---2 2.52 .--22< 225 5- 375. 00
i, library assistant,.54 months, ‘at $60 .-.....-------2.+. 330. 00
1 library assistant, 1 month 25 days, at $50 .......----- 90. 32
leclenkesl2amonthis at plOU0be esse see cee eee cee oe ae 1, 200. 00
leclerkeel2mnonths satin 00s) ne seo See eee mer ees 1, 200. 00
ilorclkercdie lO sianvoronil ash Siete SSeS Aner eee Sent rents 1, 000. 00
elerkeroumonths vat plO0) eo. So ece otc eine eee 300. 00
imclenkeeesmonthis pati plh0One= =e acs ae aoe eee ase eeo= 200. 00
Rclenkeel months nanhior es 26. a2 soe oe eee ae oS 900. 00
(clerk, 35 months 44 days, at $60_.- 22-22 25255--2 2 - 218. 70
MMeSsen ee wl Oem OMGHS: «Abo Wes soe cee or eee po ee a 600. 00
skalledmlaborerss2 months, at poles 2. sss eee eae oe 720. 00
iM@aborerlehmonbthnss ab po... .22 2 eee SPSS Use 720. 00
(laborer d2months;at-ptows “sos. 5-2 c++ ceeeee ese ss 540. 00
MADOTeY OMS cated Men oe ac Soca ieee aon se<te 4.50
MBIA ONE OAsO AMS Ath se ot oe ot es cos oes 8. 50

Potalvsa lantesiOL COULMENRATLOM@s- ee seas = sees os oe 34, 737. 65

General expenses:
BOO MheaS Shs SaaS eS eee ee eee gee mee $1, 600. 42
ID SEALER ils eee og se ere eet Sea al 498. 30
REIL Ee Gees Sas ee ee eee 241.55
[CULE Ch RR a fae ei et ee eee 54. 34
[DTT age oe eee eee oe eee eee 419. 05
MA IMSCEIp tee een oe ete ee ese eee 1, 391. 44
Miscellaneous aseeea ee eee enn as 69. 90
Postage and telegraph ...-...-=-..--.----- 57.50
[P40 CUCM arto eg tel ou See Saree 20. 00
1 RSY a EL pe eg eae ee 916. 63
BRCCIAL PELVICER ccc ec Sec eas Shs Se. ot 162. 20
BCGUMONS | 7p eoer ote Ss Setecsers oe 3, 820. 00
Stdiioneny, SUpplles ClGi aes. a4 aes ssc 1, 218. 76
iPravcling CX PeRses <0. ...62- Gem eset anes 2, 644. 91
————— 13,115.00
Total disbursements -

Balance July 1, 1900

DISBURSEMENTS.

AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, 1899.

XXXII

$47, 852. 65

2,147. 35

Balance July 1, 1899, as per last report. --- - Re eee a re Pe een te $3, 035. 00

sm 1900——rII
XXXIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

ROS Sek te ee oe ous week es hae eee ee eee $224. 12
Drawings and illustrations - ...-.------------------------- 169. 00
Reenter 86. 68
Misdbtinwes. 222 2S. oes So = ese 2 ee 22.55
Manoseript =2.-.....--....2----2-<26- eee 43.50
Miscellaneous... ..-<--~ 202. --.-<5-: eee 9. 00
Fostase'and telegraph. -.---.--~--2-23=-92-2=5--5 eee 52. 95
Rentals) fo 2 = oes eos ck ee er 83. 33
Specumene 2: =... =. -2e ee eee es 1, 815. 25
Supplies... 2... 2222-222 < 445655 nese ee ee 94. 14
Traveling. @xpenses'- . .... 22. -<+ <a 342. 00
Totals. sec dei acc celes sees cesonees es: | eee eee $2, 942. 52
Balance July 1, 1900... - 2 22. 222 ee 92. 48
AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY, 1898.
Balance July 1, 1899, as-per last report. ._--22- === 5-5" == ae eee $35. 36
DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses... =.= ------- 22. sso ese ee ee $20. 50
Postage and telegraph: . 2. 2. =. 2 222-2 = See ee eee 8. 47
Total o. 2.122 2222 sane nn egies Seen ee ee 28. 97
Balance 22.22 25:22 2222-522 Se ae ee eee 6.39

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, ‘‘for
continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the collec-
tions from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Govern-
ment and from other sources, including salaries or compensation of
all necessary employees, $170,000, of which sum $5,000 may be used

a
for necessary drawings and illustrations for publications of the
National Museum’? (sundry civil act, March 3, 1899) -__.-.._------- $170, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
SeLVICeS 22.22 4.2.55... Mes eee ee $145, 476. 10
Soecial services:..: 2.210 £-- 22 -eee 1, 226. 30
Total services. — 22.52.2505... $146, 702. 40
Miscellaneous:
Drawings and illustrations _._.._._._._-- 485. 50
pupplies 2. << 2252 So ee ee 3, 270. 33
mtationery 2 fff Ae eee 1, 403. 75
Specimens el4 i iu" F.. . ee eee 4, 806. 34
Lravel Ste 222. Tes eee 2, 063. 53
BRYON < Seo. 52) ssc. Se eee 2, 186. 33
‘Fotal miscellaneous... 3.2 eee 14, 163. 78
Total/expenditures . .. . 2. ..22. 52) ee ae eee 160, 866. 18

Balance July 1,1900. ....:22.5.. 322 See 9, 133. 82

ee inte cial
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XXXV

Analysis of expenditures for salaries or compensation.

Scientific staff:

1 executive curator, 12 months, at $291.66__........__- $3, 499. 92
1 head curator, 12 months, at $291.66 _.............-. 3, 499. 92
1 head curator, 12 months, at $291.66 _.........-...-- 3, 499. 92
menraipn Le montis. ab $200.2. 22 22 22222 be 2 2, 400. 00
Renriory)2 snOntnS ab D200)... = 2/2 2h 2h be Ye 2, 400. 00
Moesrminrete monins. at 200-22... 2.2.2.2 20522. 2, 400. 00
Penriton oY montos at$208:33 - 2... 2452-22222. 2s 2, 291. 63
Rearitor ree moOntns. atiplia. 2-222. 2222222522222 2, 100. 00
1 acting curator, 12 months, at $150 -...-.-----..---- 1, 800. 00
1 assistant curator, 12 months, at $150 _......-...-.-.- 1, 800. 00
1 assistant curator, 12 months, at $130 _-..........._-- 1, 560. 00
1 assistant curator, 12 months, at $150 _...._.......-- 1, 800. 00
f assistant curator, 12 months, at $125 -.........-...- 1,500. 00
iassistant curator, 12 months, at $125 -....-...------ 1, 500. 00
1 assistant curator, 12 months, at $116.66........_-__- 1, 399. 92
1 assistant curator, 12 months, at $150. ........-..---- 1, 800. 00
Lassistant curator, 12 months, at $100... .-..--..-.---- 1, 200. 00
liassistant curator, 12 months, at $150... ...-.-....---- 1, 800. 00
1 assistant curator, 12 months, at $133.33. -.-.....------ 1, 599. 96
1 second assistant curator, 12 months, at $100_._____-- 1, 200. 00
Hedi el SP MOMENS Alpi s2 5 We 5228 5 ss So ee SS 840. 00
Perales | SM OMGNS= Ab POO 22 ane 3 ee ee 5. sa TS 720. 00
Ibi R ibrar A ME Ae ee ee en we 900. 00
Meio SL eMmIGN RNS. AL NOs of 2 Jos St ee eek 600. 00
1 aid, 11 months 22 days, at $75 --....--.------ Sua 878. 23
Pel Ormomhhiss Appl O02. - 2... 2 eet 2 1, 200. 00
iL Celene rravay al ated ou UD ee el gee 1, 200. 00
Pei el aeimOMbns aly plone 2526. oe So Fe Se ee 900. 00
(eae MONG Ab PIs - ee 2 Ss en eee 600. 00
1 aid, 12 months. at $100. __--.- Speer te! see mat Bo 1, 200. 00
3 5) ORG. 58
Preparators:
1 photographer, 12 months, at $158.33 .........------ 1, 899. 96
1 modeler, 11 months 30 days, at $100......-----.---- 1, 200. 00
iPosteologist,..2.months, ab 902.2 =< .- 522-22 sess 1, 080. 00
ippreparator: 2 months at pou=. --.- ..--<..--.--.=-- 960. 00
. preparation. 12 months at $0. -- -.--.--.-------=-- 840. 00
iiepreparaton «2 months at Peau. = - 2 =. 2-2. 2-2 ..---- 960. 00
1 preparator, 12 months, at $45-----._.-.-.--.-------- 540. 00
1 preparator, 1 month 7 days, at $75... -.....--------- 91. 94
Wepreparitore i monte At-peOss. "5-22. -- 2-2 -s.55- 960. 00
iepreparator sl? months, at $40——-- 2. .-. --..-.---- 540. 00
P preparation, 12 months at eo0.. <=. .......---.---- 720. 00
1 preparator, 3 months 70 days, at $75...-..--------- 398. 7§
letaxidermist, Ilamenths, at $60.:-._..-....--------- 720. 00
tad enmist. 2 moOnbas: boo. ..-..----.--.--- 1, 080. 00
taxidermist leimonths. ab 100-2... .....--si.--22- 1, 200. 00
—————— 13,190.69
Clerical staff:
iehief clerk 12, months, at $208.33}. ...---=.-+.2-+:- 2,500. 00
edition se rmonthey ab. p16se-- 522-2... 2 Js ee gM 2, 004. 00

1 chief of division, 12 months, at.$200-_...----------- 2, 400. 00
XXXVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Clerical staff—Continued.

iitmrepistrar, 12 months, ‘at $l67. .- 32.5522 2 eee ee $2, 004. 00
1 disbursing clerk, 12 months, at $116.67__......----- 1, 400. 04
1 assistant librarian, 12 months, at $117.....--.-.---- 1, 404. 00
1 stenographer and typewriter, 2 months 22 days, at $50_ 136. 67
1 stenographer, 9 months 12 days, at $75_..---------- 705. 00
1 stenographer, 10 months 1 day, at $50......-------- 501. 61
1 stenographer and typewriter, 28 days, at $50 .....-- 46. 72
1 stenographer and typewriter, 1 month 30 days, at $50- 99. 78
1 stenographer and typewriter, 3 months 13 days, at $50- 170. 97
1 stenographer and typewriter, 10 months 19 days, at $50 530. 65
1 stenographer and typewriter, 2 months, at $50; 2

monthsanw 29) dave: dbapio. a ee eee eee eee 322.50
1 stenographer and typewriter, 12 months, at $115---- 1, 380. 00
1 stenographer, 12 months, at $150 -....:-..-.-:---£- 1, 800. 00
1 typewniter, 12 months, at $65. -.< 4.252 Sate Sees 780. 00
i typewniter, 12 months, at $5022 = 2222s eee 600. 00
lclerk, 2 months: ab pSona4o> =e =e 1, 000. 08
Iclerky d2hmonths: at S100! 25255525 see ee eee 1, 200. 00
lelerk; i2smonths; at $90: 22 05-55: 5 seen een ee 1, O80. 00
Welerk, w2amonths; at $50): = 255-8 es ee re 600. 00
Welerks d2imonths, at $00... 5222 eee eee 660. 00
clerk iiZamnon ths. ait poo = - ae a eee ee 660. 00
Ivelerk.22omonths; at $60. 5-25 .s2bec eee eee eee 720. 00
iclerkaaZam onthe: at. plo see seep ee eae ee 1, 3880. 00
iclerks d2imonth ss ati 5)22 22 ees ee 900. 00
Ifinaneerclerk. 2 months: aijeliliQ ess] a= 1, 320. 00
1 acting property clerk, 12 months, at $50.......--.-- 600. 00
(clerk, Wimonths 29) days ati hia. sss == eee 538. 50
ielerk wii imonths:28 davchati pode == eee 656. 33
Ielerk wi2Zanonths! ‘ati $50. ease eee ee 600. 00
1 clerk and preparator, 12 months, at $50 _..-.-..---- 600. 00
Welerk, [2imonths: aerpo0 es eos ee ee 1, 080. 00
lkclenke l2rmonitihs sat pol! Sas ee ee 600. 00
itclerk--I2months* at, $50!s- se | eee 600. 00
elerke a2 months: ati 7102 15 eee ee ee 840. 00
liclerk™ I2imonthss at ellos. soe ae 1, 380. 00
1 clerk and preparator, 12 months, at $75 ....-.------ 900. 00
I elerkss Giro rit lisse gO) se = 600. 00
idocument clerk, 12imronths sab ho0 see 600. 00
Ivelerk: l2amonths) at $90.25 ae 1, O80. 00
itcopyistl2 months, at poone see) eee ee 420. 00
iL. copyist; 12 months; ‘at.$55 222022. -2 se. eee ee 660. 00
1 copyist, 276 days, at $50 per month ._.......------- 462.57
Ll copyist, 2 months 58 days, at $50.22 2 eee 195. 76
eopyist, [2smonths wat p40) eee 480. 00
I-eopyist, 7 months M) days, at $2b 2-2 352 eee 257. 50
(ecopyist l2imonths: at po Oke 600. 00
icopyist, L2anonths at $3502. 5s see 420. 00
L-eopyist, 12 months, at:$50. 5.4 a 600. 00
Ecopyistel2 months: at $30) 22 5 ao 360. 00
1 copyist, 8 months 993 days, at $40 .........--.----- 450. 71

$43, 887. 39
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Buildings and labor:

1 general foreman, 12 months, at $115 _-.__.___.__....
(etoremanele months, Ab P5026 .c.c<cosen ee ee
inchictios waten, 12 months, at $65 ............-5--2-
1 chief of watch, 11 months 28 days, at $65_.._--.----
ieeniehomwateh, 12 months, at.$65 -........-...2.-2-
1 watchman, 7 months 40 days, at $50.-.....-..-- aes
watchman. 20 days, at $45 ........-..---26 se. ce
1 watchman, 11 months 30 days, at $45 -.....-....---
1 watchman, 8 months 16 days, at $45 .......--------
1 watchman, 10 months 59 days, at $50 ..---._-------
lawatchmean ta months. ab po0. 222-0 ...2-.ss2 52522
iewatchman= 02 months, at $50.....-.-...---2..252 22
1 watchman, 8 months 27 days, at $65 _.....---------
lmwatehman 2 months: abb45..0 2220622. ..2-con2--
iewatchman, 2 months, at $45_.2........-...22.-222
lewatchiman: 2 months, ati pO0222-.--..222...25- 22.2
enatcnman wlermOonbhs ab POW. 222 20 22. Se oko oe
lewatchmean: Iemonths\ at poOs 2542522255252 222s.
itewatehmean. l2amonths, at po0L. 222.5 acces See
lsvatchman- 12 months, at Sd0e-2 22050255 2en52 252%
lawatchman. L2 months, at $45.22. .22252..-2.22..2.--
lewatchman 12 amonths, atip4os2- 2.25.22... .s46525--
1 watchman, 6 months 14 days, at $50 _-.......-...---
imwatchmeann deamMonths: a6 pons. -ss.sss----seeeo- = -
lewatchman ts months) at papa .a=assaeacs soeee eee
lewatchmian-e la monthss aindo0 sesso aes. we eee eee
1 watchman, 3 months 15 days, at $45 ........-..----
inwatchiman le months atiptoss-.24.. -225-s26+ 05-21
lewatehmans ie months at po0l2.252 45225. 228222 ee
Havccehiman amontoseatipo0s saa55255-s5255--25-5
1 watchman, 10 months 43 days, at $45 ............--
inworkimansta2o5 Gays, \atipleoOssso225 2582-22225 -
igplasterenrordays, ab @areeasssss eco ss see-ss 2 fees
leworkman. 259 Gays. ab ple o0ss*s 26 aa5-2-252-5-22--5
iiworkman, 513 days, at $1502 .-2:22.252...---5...-2
1 skilled laborer, 4 months, at $83.33 .....------.----
1 skilled laborer, 5 months 15 days, at $40 ...--.-----
skilled Vaborer; 12 months. at ‘$502-22-.2-.--:-5s-2-:
1 skilled laborer, 7 months 97 days, at $60 ......-.-.---
skillediiaborer, 12 months: atieo0s-2-=--2---5--2----
Heborer, dor Gays, wtb pl Ue. assess sss ese. 2 Mis 2
imanorer., ole dave vat ploU. 22-2. .2sshe.5 2. -<-
iptaborer. Go Gays, ab plooWss=- 5-22. 2.2. 222.222
GaborerlsodaveratipleoQsee == sae 205-2. c-5 5 se =e
1 laborer, 2 months, at $34.50; 2 months, at $51.50;

2 months, at $33; 5 months, at $30; 1 month, at

CBS sea dio soee sense es eee eee eee
elaborerny leimonthiewati 40s... - = 2-5-2 = S51 --e=
1 laborer, 5 months 15 days, at $45 ....-.------------
PiAbOrer olor Oays; Aiiel. Ue == a2. 2 oi js a-2-<- 258s
iilaborcrroladayeyatdl,O0 R= 2 2 saci1.55- cesses
fitborer lez dayeyabiel.o0> 02... 6. -=2- a---2.055---
iiahorer oo Osvetat Pl.O0. 25.6 22225- 225-55 --55=

$1, 380. 00
600. UO
780. 00
Wes vil
780. 00
414. 52

LO |
538. 55
383. 23
596. 72
600. 00
600. 00
576. 61
540. 00
540. 00
720. 00
720. 00
600. 00
600. 00
600. 00
540. 00
540. 00
322. 58
600. 00
540. 00
360. 00
156. 77
540. 00
600. 00
600. 00
513. 68
488. 25

16. 00
388. 50
469. 50
333. 32
219. 35
600. 00
610. 44
600. 00
273. 00
469. 50
103. 50
204. 00

385. 50
480. 00
246. 77
469. 50
469. 50
228. 00
490. 50

XXXVII
XXXVIII

REPORT OF THE

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Buildings and labor—Continued.

1 laborer, 159 days, at $1.50_...--------------------- $238. 50
iMlabonrerwsan ways, at pl HOS 25.222 ee eee 505. 50
iasboren savoxays,, ab pl O0 ees a eee 412. 50
Nelaibonrerwa ls: Gays,.cbip!l <a Bae ee ea 469. 50
ilaporer, eagdays, at/pl. 00: 5-2 2-2 2h one eee 523. 50
ilaborer ale days, at $1:50_ 2: __ - 2. 2a 469. 50
iaborer: ols days, at $l: 2225200222750.) eee 313. 00
1 laborer, 3284 days, at.$1.50. .-.--.--22. -2552=225e=— 492. 75
iglabonrem eco ie days; abipll D0. se eae eee 356. 25
tmlaboren sols aiyss ati pills. ae se eee ere 313. 00
Heel O rere rs0) CLAS, ub pl =e oes re ee 37.50
i laborer. ois days; at $l-002: = 222s s— 22 eee 469. 50
iulaborer colo days, abuple co. 22s. === ee ae === ee 313. 00
iiaborer, 1Oidays, at $l.50:22.. 2. -- 22s See 28. 50
MWaborer 2 months, at p40 222) 235 eee 480. 00
iMaborer voz days, ab pli o0. 2 22522 so. ee a ee 482. 25
(laborer wsilsidays) at plb0E = 22 a2 2k eee 469. 50
imMaborerv294idays, at $l 00): < 225 =e a eee ee 441. 00
idaborer, Sls days, at $l.50. 22.2 22. 2535 ee 469. 50
(Malborerve43idays, at.olp0\. 25-5522 eee 514. 50
I aborer, 255 days, at $150): . 2-22-5223 Se 382. 50
1 laborer Wet days, at: $1.50 =. -o.<5-522222s55 ee 21. 00
if laborer,oloxidays, at’ $1.50. =~. <2 552-583 eee 470. 25
1 messenger, 12 months, at $40 ....-..-.-----.-=22:s- 480. 00
if’ messenger, 12'months, at $20... 225-2 -- 25-2 300. 00
1 messenger, 9 months 15 days, at $25_-_-.......------ TOW
1 messenger, 12 months, at $25 -._...-..---.----+---- 300. 00
1 messenger, 12 months, at $25 -......----=-25=58=22 300. 00
1 messenger, 6 months 16 days, at $50_-......-------- 325. 81
ivattendantwls days abipl sss per. re 1.50
iFattendant, i2months vat S102 === ee ae ees 480. 00
1 cleaner, 10 months 7 days, at $30 ..-.....-----=---- 306. 77
J-cleaners 2 months; abipa02s2-6s 5522 ee ee 360. 00
itcleaner; sl2months. at pa0e—s5e2> 964444 =e eee 360. 00
icleaner9> days; at $12... == 22223 e ee eee 9.50
Iscleaner:-o months, at $30!22-s=o5 = 150. 00
1 cleaner, 11 months 5 days, at $30)--_ 2.22222 =2b2525= 339. 00
(Weleanersl2 months: at p30)- 2. 2.552 5- ee eee 360. 00
iscleaner; 1 month 11 days*at fo0S= ee 40. 65
i\cleaner; i month 15 days, at p30): 222 a ae 44. 52

Total services .....-2.2.. 223) 84 eee

NATIONAL MUSEUM—PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1899.

Balance as per report July 1, 1899

U cece wns a ee oe ee 6 eo = 26 6S = ae eS ee ee

EXPENDITURES.

MEEVICES i 5o< shpat ae thd kt eR Se ee $25. 00
Special services. ..........-- wo eee ee 313. 15
otalservices... 022.522.5536) eee $338. 15
Miscellaneous:
Supplies? 222052 222.22 .262 3 eee $899. 27
SIRDIONETy 2220 2 iis 3 a ee 425. 83

$38, 308. 52

145, 476. 10

$4, 661. 94
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. KXXIX

Miscellaneous—Continued.

VESTER ss BP Wee le ee $1, 365. 25

Mesvels 55255. - RR ree SE Sai ec 931. 21

(ODER ee ie A Ree ee 700. 70
esa net OUR 5 os oo cog c ce SS eee sh eee $4, 322. 26
LORD) GU SIEUS ee a ge nbn pe ee $4, 660. 41
Dalam cerhUliye eel OOO sere se cee ea oats ae Sroweenios eae es 1.53

PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1899.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.

RECEIPTS.

moncapriation by Congress July 1, 1898_..-.._.. ...2.-.22-++-.---2+-5- $165, 000. 00

EX PENDITURES.

Salaries! Or COMpPensation.--=22.-.2--2-2-<-2- $148, 393. 54
BIE VICCS oo ets 2, 654. 65
bitotalener vices: ee. ao eS iets 2 ta eee) Lee Ne ae $151, 048. 19
Miscellaneous:
SCE] CLIVE Aah ea Sd eee ge ee 3, 665. 28
UAMONeL Ya pe coast na teas ee ee tease 1, 196. 00
RMCCUINONG Sela. Soe oe ne ee 5, 146. 69
TONGS ees = Otne Ra ee ee er pean 2, 024. 31
[BRO Nhe oA oo BGS aa Se ees = EOE 1, 918. 00
otalemiscellancoussess-= Aste es <a ee ee IE: 13, 950. 28
Total expenditures 4. [0.2 -.5.5- ee ee i ls ee A oa 164, 998. 47
Tepileyaneye Urls eei rah OY a Ss Sch = Se ae ls Ss:

NATIONAL MUSEUM—PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS, 1sys.

LEDC COPENS) over a CLOT ELG cl Abaya NW SASS cp ee ee eee $97. 28
EXPENDITURES.
SE DIDS Se i $80. 00
TRntike. sodsect seg URS Be Se ae re eee a 8. 00
‘Theo grerWrSyrey aves avi Wim CESS oe ee ae Nag ee 88. 00
IB INVOSs ss Ss gas a ie ee ey en ee eae 9. 28

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1900.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, “‘for
cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for the exhibition
and safe-keeping of the collections of the National Museum, including
$10,000 for furnishing galleries, and including salaries or compensation
inne ECHBATYCTIDIOVEGS = (2-2. = anno = oo = de osc acewecsnaccsneetes $25, 000. 00
XL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
EXPENDITURES.
!
Regular. | Galleries. Total.
Silanes Ol COMPRLRSalOMe= = ses ee a. sam Fate one ee ee $7,853.77 | $3, 918.50 | $11, 772. 27
Special SCrvidem arses 3. 2- teens eso = ewe ee sees ese PA loe on lantseetien saat 27.22
ARORA U SIN Wel ES Soren sasces ccecoH sansa saSSc ose cE SSeecosessace 7, 880. 99 3, 918. 50 11, 799. 49
ae are |
{HR En DUULO WR CASCS jtsterete are fae eee neat me ene me rel eee 867. - » og
GTGPAReICASCS re nce soc eec oe: see eens lee eee meee selene 533. 50 jose zoek
DTAWErs ATHVS, CtC). 5 2.252. acoso sas ecems eee eee eeeeeeee 394. 90 2, 068. 50 2, 463. 40
rames and: Woodwork. 2:52. 22.22 -o9- 2 esee o eae eee 282. 72 145. 02 | 427.74
Gs Oe eee Oh RT ae Dee ea ey Oey 1, 166. 57 749. 40 1, 915. 97
[BDO EW RRS See SOBs RES arse os ote ccc ceceetore- 604. 95 629. 33 1, 234. 28
MNOGIS). 22 52. Sead daes et cen cecns seine fas ee se me sse wee eae ae Sees 137.19 4. 60 141.79
(C0) he ae Ae SSG aOR a oan en Sah Pine eon ator aeoede Sean ae si 58. 31 14.00 72.31
GISSCHAPS sen. ae aac cee a cen Sete saan ace eosce eee eee DOG Sacer 222. 81
| Bibb tal] Ye) Mane ee oh Oren Ie Rem E pec ccicre adem saan mace ccoS 1,175. 43 574.36 1,749. 79
Paints, oils, ete . 516. 85 | 4.00 520. 85
Oice Punnitures css foes Meo. La some ee te Oe Re eee ASI) DO! eater ee 432. 50
heatherdndi rubbers 2-55-5455 5 Season ae ne eeseeeriee 88. 45 | 8.16 96. 61
Mronebracketss. ssecoe ce oes ce eee eee Sate ray SE nee IAB Y fee ee eee a! 71.37
IDTAWIN ES TOL GASES) ons = oceans eee Sen eee Was Tone ne ect 143. 75
Slate “cement, etelz 2) 5-2-2 occe chet tacos ee eae eee eee eee: BOADOM sass Soese kel 35. 50
PPLAVEN . oso ccec sew sc cincinve ce tektee secs ee Ramune Seen eee meres nee DNOOL ee ers See 2.00
Hinoleum. $i:este-tease. asec ean iri aie 28 efecto ew See oe LOR AO) Ase ese 107.10
Total: miscellaneous2. 2222-3: = = 2s5 ses bose tosses ers - eee 6, 840. 90 | Beane Sands senccncococ:
otal repular/accounts..22.. -2 seen se sates ee eee it Ty Pa ee ol tans a
Total galleries account non be ema H(i locac soon ceae
Totaliexpenditures.-<.....525s=c22- 5522 one e Hee ee eee 24, 424.76
Balance: July ds 1900202 2 eee ogee SE Se Sree 575, 24
NATIONAL MUSEUM—FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1900.
Salaries or compensation:
1 supervisor of construction, 12 months, at $115 2-—- 2 $1, 380. 00
Liearpenter; 62°daysoabes >. s2s 0s. te on ee ee 186. 00
tarpenter;: 207% days;a go 22.2... 22 a2 ee 784. 50
i carpenter, 261 days: at $3: -... 5522. 2 2 ee 483. 00
lcarpenter; 80 days; atipe === 2525524 oe 240. 00
iecarpenter, 131 days; at'$3) 9-2-2! <0. > 2 ee eee 393. 00
ikcarpenter; Lo6-daysatids 24-2222. eee ee 468. 00
Wcanpentéer, ola days at ha cess 5522-5 ee ee 942. 00
l-earpenter; S13. days, at-$3: 5.250. 5-62 eS ee 939. 00
lvcarpenter,, sil daryas ait Da tee ee eee ae 942. 00
icaypenter;, 239) Gays. at bo ss see ses ce a 718. 50
iccarpenter slo dayse ava © 22 == 2 sae ae eee ee 938. 00
Iscarpenter, 17 days;-at $3.2. 5-03.08 51. 00
l-eabinetmaker, ‘309 days, at' $2.25". 22>) 5 3 ee ee ee 695, 25
1 painter; 11-months, ai$65; 1 month, at $67 22a 2 ee 782. 00
i skilled laborer, 9 months, at $60). > 22 eee ee 540. 00
1 skilled laborer, 9 months 39 days, at $60; 1 month, at $64__..._.-- 680. 77
I-skilled laborer,*104 days, at $2._._... 2... = 208. 00
i skilled: laborer, 79) daysati$2- +. j. S435 552 ee 158. 00
iskilled laborer, 5adays; at. $255_.2.- 232 re 106. 00
i laborer, 13’ days; at $1.50). <2. .2-) eee 19. 50
1 Jaborer,:79 Gays, at $125 12 ee oo ee 98. 75
1 laborer; 12, days, ‘at ‘$1.50 J- 2.5 Si eee 18. 00

11, 772. 27
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1899.

XLI

Palamnceasmereporteulyel, (8992. -_ 5 2. 4- a2 - es Sek -o eeb sa ee See $995. 28
EXPENDITURES.
Regular. | Galleries.| Total.
: = - r

RHE EO MCOL Pela MOMs se ac Se cic cae acacia see cece oem cceeale Pe RPS S000) [eet ol lee rare Ss Sele
SToRSD SE OLO ESE ee SS Ge aE See eae ee gS a ee ee eee eee QHOOG he Seen eee | nae Etec
PRO SUNN CEN mee eerie as atone som aisle eran oe ee eee DAVOS ee See | $25. 00

Miscellaneous: | ; |
LORE OCU Ute: SE Cl Ea 2OUDD! Sea asses | 29. 55
IAL EAC WOOCWORK ates see oth bot tans ices atnecs cesses ceeee 17.35 $146. 69 164. 04
Eeurnhnan rence Aa ee eels ot aie SoA aas os Soden peak teacceeeee 153.18 106.40 | 259, 5S
POU eecne aes aairisiseiccies cee Besmieissecc ce ncoegeesee seseneeciedecee | SelOW eee cee. | 3.10
(CHO TD .0c8s ARSE S EEO ORE ee tO Ee ee eee BOL DOA nee antee 30. 58
CGUIGSI i SS ea te ee ee ae a eae tse ones S15 AGH | Bem ncece 37. 46
LLTTERN SP es ae ilar cats er a Oh ee 62.37 304. 24 | 366. 61
EARUTDS OUST ELC ee aoe sae oe Coe ane aa eee Se eo ae se baes ce piseee i630 [Rees 8. 63
Oi CemuUNnITIRe tse 7 Cae ese ates cee Geke cnacs “Soc ae ovens cjeaincere Tas 5 0n| ee see eee 14.50
(Leiter Cy ave lane) bain, Soap Sn Sa ee bee Cone ree BEeE SSE Gere er meetee HiGSsle Sees anon 1.68
Tina NES TOM GANGS eee ee a seecie aoe sas aacece see ems ce/a 2s ees Aran aes 47.00 47.00
ESULLIEN i CoRR ee ai ea ea coe ese ee soa eicine 16:20) ncaa ajo 5 sete 16.20
MOP HISC Ee LANVCOUS eae cn a oack ae ake ein esac eee seheaese~ caeene 374. 60 604. 33 1, 003. 93
Motaliren lar ACCOMM te sass aa ets sae ames See cise cia ooeece sees 3992/60) |) Soe 399. 60
OES OUen est aACCOUM Usa acc a caaste yee eae emee chee ee ene -easee| noes siesee 604. 33 604. 33
DHA Sc a: eee AOE a BL ROE Oe tae eat (Say Wee [Sr det a | 1,008.93
Medinet disallOweanee tee seers nae eae cen ee gene = see ee caliente nis bare! bie oetaens cle 10.00
BRotalkexpencubires sae assent eae ne ene en yr de | es ra re eee RS 993. 93
Beenie OOO sen =o Sae soe aden Saas bceee eoenteln eae s= ‘s Bee aL See Te 35

|
FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1899.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
mppropreation by Congress July 1, 1898 2-2. 2-- 222-052 2-2-22- <2 $35, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
|
Regular. | Galleries.| Total.

— = — —- ee _ 1
BO AeS OL CONMPCHSaAbIOMe san a ba aa mee cease ee sake ovens sede oot §7, 822.37 | $5,138.11 | $12, 460. 48
Re CLEUPSORNA COS tasers oe eee ree nina eee cle ce lcatnirewiscids seaccegeres's= 54. 40 | 4.80 59. 20
Eiiey Er CEN AC ERNIE Se enee mre eee ee NE Re 2 hse noes 7,376.77 | 5,142.91 | 12,519.68

Miscellaneous: |
Deda aynlo nena fansnessodses ossecees Re ee oss nae 2,211.98 | 8,983.70 | 11,195.68
SlOoragseiCases sae 225 phos ee care ne Seen os Sauce cecone ae PR ote Wias20" Zee. aac 175. 20
HOTA WCTSHUAVS GUC oc cena semcbee eee cose eee aacccsececerecm ences cee 612.49 | 217. 44 829. 93
Tes eu Wi OOG WOlK es ee sce mesma cst seas seat aoc e cael > 2 == 651. 97 344.51 | 996. 48
GHIA SSE A ee see en ea ne oh ese ee Sed Seb belen ase | 504. 21 3,295.12 | 3,799.33
STAINING eee RRB Ore en ac atots See oS ISO ErE ee ee ae eran 882. 60 928.79 1,811.39
TRO) Slee ee Gams an = se Oe a er a es Oe ae ae ee a 66299) (2. 2-2 eee 66. 99
(ORGY H 0 WES SS a ey ae ee nat eee a Bree Vos careers 151.41 | 2). 20 171. 61
GLASS} ARS ape me ee a see ee eee ees Snot ae adic cca osetes seca PATS ALY fl Wetec Sse 251.07
HEN DCD eee eee eee ee ete eaten meremeniinsemeciceediecmeseseectc 762. 50 978. 56 1, 741. 06
PANS \OllSHClCn sera ose ees ec emo ctes 26 Be ee ees oF Eee 585044: eee nee ee } 585. 44
Oi eech Ten Gmeee tere ys see Pen eens came Saseaene soe aces 293. 10 6.10 299. 20
HesvernnG mu b beeen peers en nena Seece ee smm. sac esse oes e cee TOs OD) Seeae ae cece 73.30
ROUND TAG KE US Nene ae ee Re ee ee hey Sea etnaie cnc c= 47.41 34.65 82. 06
JMO Of EAT CIES oe se eet oeG AA ORs GOS E SO Ee a= ae ae eee Sete ate era 300553) | xen 22sec 3800. 53
ID revcOS OL CASES pee een Se hie Nee ccna ese eae m= 36. 50 47.00 83. 50
Bini See ese eee ete tes Aaa soe acccees ct eitaweenee 16:20) ln sacjasiar 16. 20
Mota eNMsCe lame OSes naar see may secre rs esc = Hac— ce aie ele emee SE 7,622.90 | 14,856.07 | 22,503.97
otalbresuilar appropriation oe... 22 .<.2n2 scence cine ems 14,999. 67 |..........- Jcecks saeey eve
Motel salleniestapproprianlOM a= seecn osc 2 S— = satel lawie =a ome =| eine ier 19, 998. 98 |....-.-----
MotaWtexpendiuressae teres ee se eee: 2 fae win nla ninein eles are ea seaE ~mlewiclnininalnl| = alnicjeyeie(sintale 34, 998. 65
BalanceJulysi, 19006... .2--=-- - oe Pee con Seats - Sanne See disol Pescenecdiecs OnenEe sosc 1,35

XLII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—FURNITURE AND FIXTURES, 1898.

Balance as per report July 1, 1899 _...--.-------.-------------------- $1. 23 2
Balanee carried, under provisions of section 3090, Revised Statutes, by the Treasury ;
Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900. }
4
NATIONAL MUSEUM—HEATING AND LIGHTING, ETC., 1900. ;
RECEIPTS. 4
Appropriation by Congress for the year ending June 30, 1900, “‘for
expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and telephonic ;
service for the National Museum ”’ (sundry civil act, March 3, 1899).. $14, 000. 00
.
EXPENDITURES. ;
Serilced en? wi ee net $6, 676. 65
PeEIseLViGes =.) o- oaP ness ay 2 ee 8. 00
otaleserviGes © osc. .en 22st ee eee $6, 684. 65
Miscellaneous:
Coalandawouds 2 22.24... .2 ee $3, 649. 09
ante ee ie ene 25,0 2s 1, 125. 10
Rental Omeall(bOXES -- 5. -— 3... 35-6 100. 00
Mlectrical-supplles= 2: — 2<..-<.5..2c2_ a ee 545. 40
BREGKEIGIUY! 2s Soo sth ee 249. 77
Hleating supplies: ..2 2.22222. 22 s225 see 684. 53
eleorams . ==. 285.) eee en ee 16. 85
Melephones!ss 225-445 .250 20-22 1S ee 382. 65
Total miscellaneous’... =. = 2-2 kee ee ee 6, 753. 39
Total expenditures -<---<.¢ 223-5293 ose ee 13, 438. 04
Balance July 1, 1900.. 22.2 -2-5-2: 2525555 561. 96

Analysis of expenditures for salaries or compensation.

Salaries or compensation:

ienpineer, 12 months, at. $115 2. °54;7- 325202 ee $1, 380. 00
ithreman.l2oamonths:atigo0!.- 2. = aa 600. 00
ittireman, 1? months. at-$60)_ 3) eee - 720. 00
1 skilled laborer, 9 months 823 days, at $75 -...-.-------- 882. 50
1 skilled laborer, 8 months 13 days, at $66.67; 3 months, at

$6666. =. See ee Se eee : NG2e25
léskilled laborer, 12 months; at:$60 2°22 9s ee 720. 00
1 telephone operator, 10 months 17 days, at $50 -....----- 527. 42
1 Jaborer, 235 days, at $1.50... :--. =. +3322 eee 302. 50
1 laborer; °314:days; at $1250: = 2. eae 471.00
i laborer, $6:days, at $1.60 ..... ..-2 2 ee eee 129. 00
i\coal passer, /88idays, attel:50- 2 =: 22 ee 132. 00

36, 676. 65

NATIONAL MUSEUM—HEATING AND LIGHTING, ETC., 1899.

Balance ag per réport July il, 1899... 2: = -2 2S eee $1, 780. 02
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLIII
EXPENDITURES.
Miscellaneous:
MEMES ses ee ts ee Sansa a--------- $1. 04
OSD .2siigsic. See a 110. 60
SE ee ee a 30. 00
MeenemEnpplicd ANG INOLOL -- >... ...-- 222-2 hos eesasa--- 818. 92
eT eS aE ee ee eee. 298.87
Re on eo ene a ae ee ee 25. 33
pS aino hs. sel. De US se ee eee ee ae 495. 25
0 SES ee eS ae ee $1, 780. 01
UE be rarh as WUT. 0S 0 Ua ha ai a Se eee OL
HEATING, LIGHTING, ETC., 1899.
Total statement of receipls and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
mepropration by Congress, July 1, 1898_.............-.--=------------ $14, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
SH bined Oni COMpeusatlon= 22. 2i4..-2f..0-4-2---5- 36, 914. 80
2 a OLE Mee ee ee 97. 00
TSUDA CES ei le a at Pe nce $7, 011. 80
Miscellaneous:
erBPAN GROOM peas Se rs = Sk ee $3, 320. 07
WE 2 Oa a I SS a ee 1, 260. 20
een tlic eal OXECS=o = see 2 ee 120. 00
Electrical supplies and motor .....-..-.------ 1, 139. 35
SSE Ce 599. 27
(8 2 LTE ie Ue pe Se eo 41.50
‘Tisha Sa 2a eee ee 12.55
Dah ries 0 2b a ee 495. 25
SEMicieMNISeclitnNeOlSHe = me nee ee at Soa Sekt Te 6, 988. 19
TGUEE |) Sa ENT Mh ees Be SE NS ee ee ee ey ee 13, 999. 99
ER ee Le a eee ee eee .O1
NATIONAL MUSEUM—HEATING AND LIGHTING, ETC., 1898.
meni arr eRe tn eyes Cie | es a Sse ws sic eee = See $5. 49

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the Treas-
ury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—POSTAGE, 1900.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, “‘for
postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National Museum’? (sun-

dry civil aci, March 3, 1899)

EXPENDITURES.
For postage stamps and cards
XLIV REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—PRINTING AND BINDING, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, “‘for
the Smithsonian Institution, for printing labels and blanks, and for the
‘bulletins’ and ‘proceedings’ of the National Museum, the editions of
which shall not be less than 3,000 copies, and binding in half turkey,
or material not more expensive, scientific books and pamphlets pre-
sented toand acquired by the National Museum library ”’ (sundry civil

ACN AECM Os GOOD) asa 2 Sone oie 2 ie eres tre a ore eee ees $17, 000. 00.
EXPENDITURES.

Bimllenmsvot the Museuml..2.22/52.5 52 35 eee ee ao eee $5, 330. 83
iproceeaines of the Museum::-.- 2222-2222 se. eee 5, 564. 61
Walbelsmeis oo =) vt he ose ees ee eee eee 1, 944. 26
Blanks.) 5 tees. Sho She ans se eeeh, eee 168. 00
mgelopess pads, Cir@ul ese. 4. =o ae 83. 53
amd Sears et Sein ee es te he 2a Sire Nee 93.72
TON Pe es a ee ee ance eee ee 1, 556. 36
Congressional IRecord..222..-. 222.) 22225222222 = ee ee 32. 00

Total-expendittres: =... ..) 2... 226622425. eee 14, 773. 31

Balance duly 1,900.2... 2... 23. ee 2, 226. 69

NATIONAL MUSEUM—RENT OF WORKSHOPS, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, “for
rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the National
Niaseom 2 (Sundry civil/act, Maxcheo: e899) = aa == === $4, 040. 00
EXPENDITURES.

Rent of workshops and storage quarters:

ING 4311 INinith street, 'SiW - =. 2235-55 Se ee $1, 999. 92
No. aie Seventh streetisiW 2 s2.oees= e542 eee ee 1, 080. 00
INGwolS Menthrstreetis Wize 22: = 22 tena eee ee 600. 00
INo= 915 Virginia. avenue SW...(rear)| =. 2222) oe. eee 360. 00
Potalexpenditurés:2!: oss... SS ee eee 4, 039. 92
Balance July 1; 19002 3224.88 ace ee ee ee 08
NATIONAL MUSEUM—RENT OF WORKSHOPS, 1899.
iBalance-as per report July 1; 1899 2224. 2 ee eee eee $110. 08
Balance July, 1900. -. ...--12). 3) eee 110. 08
NATIONAL MUSEUM—RENT OF WORKSHOPS, 1898.
Balance July-1, 1899, as.per last report. (2223-42 =e eee eee eee ee $0. 08

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—BUILDING REPAIRS, 1900.

RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, ‘‘for
repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum, including all

necessary

labor and material’’ (sundry civil act, March 3, 1899)

EXPENDITURES.

Salaries or compensation:

iM¢anpemter, 6. days, ago... -...---..---.-----2-- $18. 00
imearpenter, 6 days, at $3.-...2.--.--.-.---.--:: 18. 00
meanpenter, 15 days at Po a2... sccceessced se-- 54. 00
1 carpenter, 145 days, at $3......-..----.-.....-- 435. 00
1 skilled laborer, 2 months 11 days, at $60. ___--- 141. 29
1 skilled laborer, 1044 days, at $2..-....--..---- 209. 00
1 skilled laborer, 234 days, at $2.........-.----- 468. 00
1 skilled laborer, 26 days, at $2.....-...--.----- 52. 00
IMaboren 23a Gays ab pl 204.26o-sesceeccs5-e2 291. 26
IMaborerwlo dayvsratibill-b02. 228.0 .222. 2220.52. 22.50
lmlanorerssloidaysiatiplso0s ss sns. 2 soa. oe ese 24. 00
Miaborer, to days, ati plio0: 22.222. 22. .-s2.2.<-. Pepe)
ilaiporer 1oidayss at plo0 2.2 2 42-2. ss ie sec ee 22.50
laborer, Lo daysrau pl O08. soe. a2 82 se eee == 22. 50
imiathorer sloidaysy at pl D022 season soe ae 22.50
laborer so xdaysy ate pilose qo ee onscreen Sets)
Mlaboreryas Gaye atuplej0 a9 aoe awe 5. 25

$1, 833. 55

Miscellaneous:

6,

XLV

000. 00

“TG TETREW AOS SAO SY a, = Prana ee ee oe Pe AGXG\s |
Cement, sand, mortar, lime, gravel, andcharcoal.. 253. 45
Bicycle wernt eee Pee ect mero tee nS ASS 43. 44
Rags yain Ce Ol Sree es ere es ee esi cis 100. 32
(GIES Seas a ls he A eee ae epee ee 158. 31
Steel beams andrancles 2225222 2222-52305. ---252 457. 23
Drawings, decorating walls, etc........-..------ 367. 25
Clothrandsnaperpnnes =. = eae oe eee eee 19.88
Woorstandgmoldinem. s-s25s5. 8 s5s se ee le le. 260. 20
Laid) SiO SSR Es oe a es ee 65. 06
[BARC ESy AG eS UE Ge ele et Ss ee eg 13. 93
INGO AME CMe See CoRR OR Se ee 10. 00
Motalemuscellancousmesenee seat noe eos oe) Sa oce ase 3, 915. 38
Gay ichlle xg ovoraV GWU Ss Ae ee ee ee eee eer 5, 748. 93
Balancer ul yall OU Meee eee eee a2. So 2 kaos 2 See ee ee 251. 07
NATIONAL MUSEUM—BUILDING REPAIRS, 1899.
EMM Gepas spe take pOnue liven S99 mame we S820. 2 Ss Se esse Soe $81. 08
EXPENDITURES.
SOOO! PSIG Ses PS te ye ee $17. 00
Miscellaneous:
(CUSTER = 2 ene yore LN ry a 10. 55
2 BRGLS occ Abe: 2 AN See nape ne et petra 15. 00
lander Oulo@ Sie mem cer na <a el Re ee ee Se 8.13

\ ae
XLVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Micellaneous —Continued.

Bricks saa soo ees 3 ok bin Uns ee ee ee ee ee ee eee $7. 50
TO Waal Oe) gee ee a ee erie RS eS RS ee Sees 6. 29
Tinie “moran, Bandy 2. . 3. ja=- seg 5 Se ee ee 15. 70
Motalbexpenagupures - 25.0. 3-5 eee oe ee ee ee $80. 17
Balancejuly 1;1900- 20 2<.s25-2 2 22 ~ Soe eee 91
BUILDING REPAIRS, 1899.
Total statement of receipts and expenditurcs.
RECEIPTS.
Appropriation by Congress July 1, 1898---.-=222-- - 2..252.2-22=-—- 222 -=- $4, 000. 00
EXPENDITURES.
Salaries or compensation... 2.2.2. 22-2-52c2_ eee $973. O1
S DEG UNES NaC Bape ones eee a eee SSS SS 17.00 |
Motal services 22245. co<- 214252555550 eee eee $990. OL
Miscellaneous:
Merrazzovande mar blewiloors 22 = Se een ee 1, 420. 56
numbers 5.2 6 Seccee- 2 fee ee oe 545. 45
WioGd work Se: = -seeee.5 0. 22 eee 264. 00
Cement 3-422 2 e-er ee eee 5 eee ee 199. 00
ardiwareran dg: Oo] See ae oe ee 7208
Mortar, sand, gravel, lime, slate_...--....-=----- 150. 31
Paints and: Ouss2....2o.0n 2 2s ee eee 89. 89
Tiron ornillsy eps ae ere eee 29. 60
Bias) re ae. Ere Se esa. So 35. 85
Miles: (ta Saas. eee 4 ee ae ee ee 31. 80
Removinodirt.. Stee =e ree ee 25. 00
IBmishes) 25. =. 2.4) et eee 10. 50
Blue printss >... ss 8 Fe se ee ee 2.09
(GAGE a Gs Sach 5, Poe eh ee ee 27.80
Mra Glare. 2 2... i. 2 hse. 2k ok eee 4. 20
Total: nuscellaneous=..-22---.e2e- 20 eee 3, 009. 08
Total. expenditures: .2. 2. 2. 22.0 Sh 255552 505s ee 3, 999. 09
Balance July i), 1900222. : 4... -225e65e2 bo ee poll
NATIONAL MUSEUM—BUILDING REPAIRS, 1898.
Balance ias per report July 1; 189952. 2 322. ee eee $4. 53

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section
ury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—GALLERIES, 1899.

Balance as per report July 1, 1899

Ironwork
Hardware

3090, by the Treas-

eee $4, 301. 66

13. 57
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. XLVII

TLRS ay = on Sa) ap en $4. 00

en ECD SE Lo A ee 9. 87

0 OT 2 ee ee 7.50

emer maureen er siete eae le eee Lele 156. 00

Pemteiiame venblaters =... 5025 Sli. fe eece SUL he. - 1, 782. 20
rmamerneNnitined eats ee BS So) Eee ee es $4, 095. 87
FETUS ee TC ee ee re 205. 79

GALLERIES, 1899.
Total statement of receipts and expenditures.
RECEIPTS.
mapsapriaion by Conpress, July 1; 1898... 2... 2222... ---4-2<-.2---- $10, 000. 00

EXPENDITURES.

Srlanlestom COMpensatiOl.2.5. 222220 5.525-62¢-..052--- $940. 56
ote Aes seen ar owen we TEE ARM te ee es $940. 56
Miscellaneous:
ANS OREGON CA sepa et eS) enc ss ci ne 1, 609. 38
iegran Gy epee 2 een ee ee En ee ee Oe aD
Merrazzonwoor ang marble... 22 2oss2 .. soos sec ee 1, 295. 09
“ELS a Oe 2g ee er ee ee 103. 34
inlnemprints andidrawines).-.2.2:-2-2-2...s2s. <= 81.00
PNY CISTI Oe senerereteee. RE SM WN eg es 61. 07
Plano areranotOOls «sen. 25 eon eS 54. 56
Sang slate.cement. moran... 42-8) 5 5 Se 234. 45
[Single Le AE TNE PRS ae Ceo ees ee ne me 46. 00
» (CEIIV ER Gee ac Ue Se ee ee ee ee A! pat
[PER Cy eee, See eS ee Se en ee eee 25.65
INTENT gS ace oy Sa eee: Sa re 23. 10
SLES Ee oR ee a. 21.12
|PRH OI Soe a0 ai eens eae ae ae re 5. 25
ID Ter anesss, = Se 6 Roe ae ae eS 4.00
Wiood work= 2 S223 2 oad ee ae AS eS 156. 00
peyueuisiand ventilators:.<2...c2-2-2lb2.e- 21. 1, 782. 20
NotalamMisce lan eousw ses ee eee ce scene ees 8, 853. 65
Rotalexpenditures eaves a seme eels. CSL aL e le ek 9, 794. 21
PPLE) fee (OMG SPIE NS er 205. 79

NATIONAL MUSEUM—GALLERIES, 1898.
aiaMceis pen me pOnuwiilival ISO man see. oe. 2 oe Als Sec, sees ese see ce $8. 87

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the Treas-
ury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

NATIONAL MUSEUM—REBUILDING SHEDS, 1898.
Peat ten TOpOrG mnt LOOO! A 82 p22 os poe es Soon eke oe eee $0. 78

Balance carried, under provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the Treas-
ury Department to the credit of the surpius fund, June 30, 1900.
XLVIII REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
NATIONAL MUSEUM—BOOKS, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, “for
purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in the
National Museum’’ (sundry civil act, March 3, 1899) .........-..----- $2, 000. 00

EXPENDITURES.

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals from July 1, 1899, to

domers0 1900... Ja. 2 a5. 5SMS Te 22k ee ae ee eee 1,121. 28
Balance July 1, 190022224225 2S eee ee ee ee 878. 72

NATIONAL MUSEUM—BOOKS, 1899.
Balance, as per report July 1, 189922). 2. 224 S22 eee $699. 57
EXPENDITURES.

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals from July 1, 1899, to

TumersO: WIOO sos Shoes ee ee Re ee 674. 49
Balanée; July 1, 19002. 2... 2525S Se ee ee 25. 08

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, ‘‘ for
maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the purchase
of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, printing and publishing
results of researches, not exceeding one thousand five hundred copies,
repairs and alteration of buildings, and miscellaneous expenses, ten
thousand dollars’’ (sundry civil act, March 3, 1899)_.__..-......-_-- $10, 000. 00

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation:
peice al im onbh sain G40 ee $2, 000. 02

1 junior assistant, 12 months, at $110 ....._.-- 1, 820. 00
1 instrument maker, 10} months and 264 days,

CET Ene ko 0 ee Ogee RS Se Aeon Py MAL ons $908. 39
1 stenographer, 12 months, at $75 .._..._.._.- 900. 00
iLolkevelies I immvoumilnls CHER AKOO 62 3 ee cee ne 100. 00
[iiiremnam de smorit nSs aitepceo ee ae eee ee 540. 00
incleamer- WIGOkcans aati ape ee 169. 00
1 draftsman, 45 hours, at 75 cents .._.......-- 33. 75
Icanpenter eZ) cans alt pois ie eee 78. 00
icanpentenpls days eatihomee eae eee 39. 00
inicarpenter,-ldidaiys: aly hoes eee = ee 33. 00
I chnajeresonei IO. Cenyth EWiheh Yao eee eee ae 30. 00
LUPAINLER A OF MES Auipou a cee ae ee ee eee Ve AS)
painter, bday, at $2,502. 3.025 oe ee 2. 50
RaiMibenpuk day: AtiG2 <2 on te ee 2. 00
ielecinician, mvmdayssab 2-00-42 seen ee 42.50
1 skilled laborer, 5 days, at $75_-....-:.._2... 1B 183

1 skilled laborer, 2 days, at $2.25; 2 days, at $60 8, 37
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Salaries or compensation—Continued.

XLIX

laborer: bidays) at $l50.._-...2.-.5.--< $7.50
imlabporer 2 days. atl o0lsaceesssecesoas 3. 00
(laborer, Ueda at pli oQlo 2: = elke 150
Motalsalaniesiancompensatlonle- 225-25. 55- 225542555 46- $6, 248. 91
General expenses:
XM panatiis and Oo ls. aa ee eee ee 3926. 65
TRON t RORY SRE eae a eee 122. 90
IDEN IES 2. bee anaes eee eee re nee 41.75
TPIREEI Ol Becta ke ees Ae re ee 18. 62
CEST, = Se PISS ea te ee wee Ee 190. 98
Glas eee Fee eee re ee 27. 30
JS(TAA NADIE ee eee AO eee 2.25
iRostacerand! teleorams = 5.222552 ---2-54- 2.37
Stationery and supplies ........-/...--.-- 382. 83
sina velimouexpensess- = 9... 5.22545 -555=55- 71.33
JEM OVAN EEA KO NOS kee oe ks a Seek ee oe ae 704. 03
JARDA CSTE Ss oe Settles Re a eee ee 44. 30
2, O30. 31
BRO TAN ECS NUISEIMES an ee ee eee ee oe ee Res ee en 58, (84.22
Baller cog ollgpla O(a ax mye er oe See ee oy Ss aS 2 (215578
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, 1899.
eamcer Mhyvall, [s00nas per last report=. 2.5.2 22-.-5- 5 eas4=-keke eee cea $752. 36
DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:
AA DIOPDTRDI OS st ae oe eres Se eget a a a I ne $16. 90
JNOOINS . . oA Sa A Ree Sec ae et eee a SO IE ee 71.47
LENA SLLN cs ee eee ite EE Spe ea ea oe 8. 95
IL tgumanlOyeee sa ay SE eae ee eS ie ec ap VD eee 2. 90
aM PRCA OMe rns eye ae Saosin Sees oe Ss ee 453. 30
RIL CISV GS sec ah ROR wtp AR eg ee Se eee 194. 87
Otaindishursenm emis 2e es ys eee Sept ee es ee oe 748. 39
sme: wll, I Dace on ae See hase ae ee ee ee ee By eM
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY, 1898.
Palance rill S9O\rasspenilast Te pONb= 28 ./5=, Sse ayy ee teste ane $0. 17

Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the
Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

OBSERVATION OF ECLIPSE OF MAY 238, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress “‘ for cost of apparatus, transportation of obsery-
ers and equipment, subsistence, reduction of observations, printing and
publishing of results, not exceeding one thousand five hundred copies,
and employment of such temporary aid as may be required, including all
necessary field and other expenses, four thousand dollars’’ (deficiency

act, February 9, 1900)

sm 1900——rv

$4, 000. 00
L REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Salaries or compensation:

irearpenter, o0% Gays ab $o-- 26. san2=55-2oeae ae 3151. 50
i carnpenter, of days. at po... -.2——<<s2seso eee 111. 00
iicarpenterwls days, at-pa- 25-24 l-sce eae 51. 00
iearpenteh ns Gay, dio... 22... 2 seee eee eee 1.50
itcarpenterss day, at $3.22 22 .\= ses rane ee ae 1.50
ilucarpenter, day, ab $d 29222. 22s nee 1.50
ifearpenter, = Gay, Ab po 222s. 2 2. ee 1.50
patter so days; ab $3. 22. 52a 15. 00
icawnimemaker, 9 days, vat plio0}se sess ere 13.50
ieskilleddaborer, 23 days; atpoUl esse eee 45. 23
1 seamstress, 7 days, and 1 cleaner, 8 days, at 31--- 15. 00
Total salanies or compensa tlOme == ees $408. 23
General expenses:
Apparatis.. 225220. Joo2 scons oe aeee eet Ce eee $682. 52
PULLGIN GS: 3 vos cis He oh lawns cin oe ee eee eee 286. 00
Building material +=222 2.4 32235-52522 eee 76. 92
Castings 22 os .228 Wed Ses a ee eee 19. 65
Freishit and hauling =. 252-20 235) ee eee eee 28. 65
yom ber. ose... Shs oooees ae eee eee Dist
Rental: 5.2 chs set oosece eet cee aoe ee eee 190. 00
Supplies 2% s2sio22tsse-ee coe eee eee 183. 88
Traveline expenseds <2 oe aoe o ee ee ee 497.08
2, 062. 57
Total-disbursements<)1e ae ee ere eee ee ae $2, 470. 80

salance July iL; 1900. . - teeet See ces epee ee itt

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1900.
RECEIPTS.

Appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1900, ‘‘for continuing the construction of roads, walks,
bridges, water supply, sewerage, and drainage; and for
grading, planting, and otherwise improving the grounds;
erecting and repairing buildings and inclosures; care, sub-
sistence, purchase, and transportation of animals, includ-
ing salaries or compensation of all necessary employés,
the purchase of necessary books and periodicals, and gen-
eral incidental expenses not otherwise provided for, sevy-
enty-five thousand dollars; one-half of which sum shall be
paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia and the
other half from the Treasury of the United States; and of
the sum hereby appropriated five thousand dollars shall
be used for continuing the entrance into the Zoological
Park from Woodley Lane and opening driveway into Zoo-
logical Park from said entrance along the bank of Rock
Creek, and five thousand dollars shall be expended in wid-
ening the Adams Mill Road entrance to the Zoological
Park from the corner of Eighteenth street and Columbia
road, by acquiring by purchase or condemnation of land
sufficient to widen the same to a width of one hundred
feet, and such road, so widened, shall form a parkway under
the control of the Zoological Park”? (sundry civil act,
March 3, 1899)

“I

375, 000. 00

1, 529. 20

EEO
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries or compensation:
1 superintendent, 12 months, at $225.__.....-...-..---
i oroperty clerk, 12 months, at $125 .......-..-.-...-..
1 clerk, 6 months, at $75; 6 months, at $90............
1 stenographer, 12 months, at $62.50 ....-.-.-.--.-.--
MEGDNInh. Dayan at OledUSs 205.25 teal ite aus ae
Mea yas. 0 AMONGNE, AG DUOs <- srains cnt a2 sss5>o-5--2 = 24
1 copyist, 2 months and 21 days, at $50 --.....--.-----
i head keeper, 12 months, at $100. _-...........-...-.
iMkeenerwlimonthnraba Oe. 22-22 s.0 sos-5 52sec
ikeeper) (2 months; ati fG0s-.—. 5-3-2. -252- 5-2:
iekceper leomonuns atpOOks 2 == 4-5 3-2 aS ece es oe
iikeeper, 12 mounts, atipol 2-22-22) 222-252. - 5-2-2 ---
(keener itemonthsatihoOes.!sa2 8 ss 25225 os ak as
1 landscape gardener, 12 months, at $75 .......--.-.-.-
1 assistant foreman, 12 months, at $60.....-....---.---
lewatchmans Immonthe atpo0s=-6- 525-225-225 45. e-
{ watchman, 4+ months, at $50; 6 months, at $60__-_---
ematehimanaal2nmombos wat pO se ses. fees ose 2
TL lollevelivsrmayitrl ns IAS onorohrlatspech at 4d) Saeko ee ee ee = ee
1 assistant blacksmith, 12 months, at $60 ..-...-------
lewonkmnanesho months dit wo == eee eee eee 2
ven en ane al MMOMbIS cabo Ue ese ese so nese a2
Le VOLMMAn ooas Cave abe polls sc ceee <2 aS 5 nee meocie. = =
1 laborer, 6 months, at $50; 6 months, at $60....-_..--
He ADOLeIG leamN@Inbns watepoUmet=..22er ee fee cons ee ee So
miDoOrer llc mMOnbHSy AtgOUS. is. 28 se eee <
1 laborer, 3 months and-4 days, at $50_...........----
1 laborer, 33 months, at $45; 8 months, at $50 -.--.---
1 laborer, 94 months and 9 days, at $20 .....-.--.-.---

Total salaries or compensation ..----------------

Miscellaneous:
TESTED Ae St yea, Soe eee ee ee
Bullcinemmaterialwes see sae eat eee eee Soe ck 2s
Henemeweare matemaleretees =. 2 2822-2 cto
Food ee, ee ee ee ea a Se ie ateye cic slateia cue aia cate ever ma sie
PRON obec Seek ae eae ee aE ee ss ee
Tenaoulipheeys ea oR a a ee pee ee ee

lilltostratronss: e+ ese oe eee: a eats LB Se ee ae

MNGee lil ane GUucHte seer eens pee eto te aa le bes
LE SUTIUSR! GUUS Se) YS Sgt ca I
haar amelcclemrapil) S20 25-2 aoe. be. a ots. se se 2'-
IEE AS Cli Miaat eis ee ee eee ae
oad, material andseraditige. <2... 2+. set. 2--
STGHEL PRARES Se 2 De ee ae
Sinmponmeryi POOKS seuenwe. 22... 55. concise ~edax
SGC ECSR S| a a
shravelinesandetleldtempenses £2222 -- 2.52 225-2 ce- sae

$2, 700.
1, 500.
990.

155.

720.

LI
Lit REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
‘Miscellaneous—Continued.
Drees) plants, (ChC se 2 <2: #24) iw eee ae ee ee $426. 70
Water supply, sewerge, ete 2. .<.22 22-22 eee 504. 02
Totalamiscellameouss- 225-5] -see = ee eee 19, 281. 44

Wages of mechanics and laborers and hire of teams in con-
structing buildings and inclosures, laying water pipes,
building roads, gutters, and walks, planting trees, and
otherwise improving the grounds:

i daborer, 34) days, at $l 2.22.22 025542- see eee 34, 25
iilaborer. 14 days, at $2.22 2-2 eee ea eee oe ee 1.50
Plaborere 12% days; at $. <2iss2c-22 ee eee eee 12.50
ilaborer, J2 days, at pl Sess. eee see 12. 00

pyeeisenes soe 153 cubic yards tat GONCEmis Ee: se = 42-60

\Iaborer, 38 days, at. O15. 52)22 2-2 ee see

attendant, LOl-days, at (5/cemis. = 2-22 ee ase ee

ae 2185 days, at Glos.. Ss oan ee eee ere | te

attendant, 102 days, ato Cents 225 s2 == e

ee (93 days, at loos 2 esse nee ee etic
1 laborer, 123 days, at $1; 2423 days, at $1.25._......-- 426.13
1 laborer, 243 days, at $1.25; 225% days, at $1.50.--.--- 369. 24
laborer, | day, at-$l.20_. 0 22 sss on ee 1. 25

water boy, 113% days, at 75 cents]. 222 26-5-2- eo |

attendant, 28% days, abo celtdis2- es ==] =e ane \ ee or

= 274. 87

pie 140} days; at $12.2 223322 ee eee eee |

laborer, 22 days, atipl25'2 22 22-5225 5 se ee )
Ielaborer, 202 days; ati $l.2o.- 5220 ee ses ee 25. 94
ivlaborer, sl? days; at'$l-2b-. 22S 2 oe ee 15. 00
1 laborer, 7} days, at $1.25;,19 days, at $1.50......---- 37.56
iMaborer, 23. days. atielii2p ate. 22 ese = ee a 2
Iiaborer, 26 days, at $1.25... 52 2. 322: eee eee eee 32. 50
Ildborer.23days, ati ple25= 2222s s-- = eee Be Le
laborer tl days. at- $1.20. 2-2-2553 2 ee eee ee 1. 25
laborers l/ days ab Sli2oe2-- eee eee eee eee 21. 25
1 laborer, 100} days, at $1.25; 104 days, at $1.50 -.....- 281. 32,
i laborer, St days, at. $1.25. 24222 5- 5. ee eS 22 23, 12
I laborer, 20% days; at $1.25-- 2-2 ee 25. 62
i laborer 19s. days, ate pleco seca. ae a 24. 06
I aborer:- 7 days, at pL.2520 2 32 2 ee ee 9. 06
1 laborer, 7% days, at $1.25; 213 days, at $1.50.--.._--- 41.31
Mlaborer<49days, ab $150k === eee 73. 50
L laborer; W-days,at $l. 50222 22 22 eee 10. 50
1 laborer, 315? days, at $1:50.— 5. *- Sse eee 473. 65
1 laborer, 63% days, at. $1:50_-_. 2-9 ea ee ee 95. 62
I laborer, 2. days wat $1505 2205 foe ree 3. OO
laborer, 4 days, ati$l5025- - a eee 21. 00
1 laborer; 264 days; at $1.50. 222.22. eee ee 396. 00
il laborer, 323+ days, at $1,502. 2. - Bosse eee 184. 87
1 laborer, 192%. days, at $1.50. ..22- 2 ee 168. 75
I laborer, 139 days, at. $1.50. 2.2 See eee 208. 49
I taborer,; 1422 days, at $1.50.2.2. 222 ee 214. 76
Ilaborer, so days, at $1.50... _: 2202 eee 52. 51
i laborer, 2844 days, at. $1.50: -.. 2.22 3s ee 426. 74
Maborerr2i2e days, ab $l: p0l5- 2-2 =e ae eee 409. 01
i Jaborer days at $1.50). 22 ose ee eee 3. 00
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LILI

Wages of mechanics, laborers, etc.—Continued.

Minhorcire aays, atrpl.oO. 2.2.2. 222 s.-- eke lceees $13. 50
imlahonermmadayss atplsaQl2. 22-2 52.25 22..cebee Sees 10. 50
ieliporers20Gpdays, at. Ol.50.--. 225052522 2scas ck See 310. 14
MM ANOLeI Oy Ss. Abr PL-O0) < - 22. fo 55. os. so.nneosse cee 10. 50
iglanoneryaoordays, ab ol-o0. 5=.-.522 55.5 252seelsc ede, 547.50
minnaronmilndaye. abot DOs. 2t. 2c 22. ssw eeeslon lee 16.50

fabater 7. days, at $1.50... 2-2 2..2--2228 os 5os5 ce | nanos

Inainter.20s days, at $3.2 ......-..-cic22bde wesk | rae
ilaborcrmelsdidays, atipl 50... <= =- .. aoc sccse se. eee 208. 50
imlanorempladays: abel. 50225. .2..2- 2552.4. sass ences 1. 87
iMaborermmleidays:atielo0!\ 22. -2s2-.s56--82ees cece: 18. 00
imanorerel26; days: at S150). -2.2--=--2222256545- 4-- 189. 74
IMiahoreres davis ab plo. 22.22 222555 22 2s eae tes 2 3. 00
iglaboren slo days: at) pll50... 252.2255 .42-- lke eset Se 22.50
HeAonersoss daysy abi pla). 22-62 Jao seeesee eas oseee BL is
iiajporernel042 days, atelso02252.. 2-2-2 55-2 ace seen. 157. 13
Hlabonereoles Gays, at ol. 500. - 2222-25... ce eeessoee 568. 13
lglahonremrabts Gays. atwl.o0.. 22s... 26 5.25625-5- 547.13
Helaponemeso. days nail oO). 2 S252 - te eceeeasseee 52. 50
Welaponempos, days, atl oll -22eeeso-5e- a2 c2sces. 52 a2 96. 75
anoreru/ days, at pU-50\ seekers eke deb seeds 111. 00
HBlahorerseoos dayswat pleo02 32-225 25o552 55 koa 384. 39
Hel HOnere2daye, ab ol oO eas. = 25 Sees A oa 3. 00
iplaborere20G) dayesateb | O0\cas 22 soc ase oeoe Sas a 444, 37
Eeianorer, coor days, at pl.o0%....2--.2-2lecceses ec cen 549. 37
imlaporemtsosdays: atol.o0). 222... --22 252-2222 e ae 278. 62
Menorer la.Gaye, at, Sl.50s2 2.22252 sesh 22-2 Se ase ee 19. 50
iiaiporeceo.Gays, 2b. $1906 .. 2. 5222s ices. s5ssc025 2e~ 9. 00
iMaboreimechoa Gdys* ati plo. 25 s5cs25c5sessseeose = 395. 25
islaboneratOdaysnat bl. oO) t-ss2- ses... s5s- 6. ee ee 15. 00
Nelaboreraia Gave atplen0 nc sacs 258252 ce Se ee ase 238. 49
HBlaporemelindavs at pltoUme ee aes eos sek Ses 16. 50
i aboremeocdays ac ple Ole sees se sees e oh ee Se os 33. 00
PlADGKereee days atpileoWk. sees eee sates ase oes. 33. 75
imlaporen) Ot Ganvsscat pleco! ses ee eee ee 555. 38
mlanorern SO:daysyratepleo0s = yams ee ke oS 270. 03
1 Ibiloyorteie, te Chen eh Aint we as aoe eee See ee 420. 36
dlaiborer ot Gays, ab @loUe ones ceo.. 22 ce ee kt 37. 88
iMaiborersaltyzad ayeratiplen Umi ase seen toe ote bee a 23. 25
HelaboremecoOidavs ati pileoO pepe ee ens cee noes Ss 2 388. 50
Aplaiborer, 240 tidava iat ploUec asco < hea sa coe te ce She: 361. 12
Hela OLer oon dayormatieleoUleeeere ce. - a5. 52.5 seen 547. 50
fplaperer, 219 Oaveade pl. o0le. a 2-26 fo ssct eee. 320208
I laborer, 61 days, at $1.50; 83 days, at $1.75 ......-..-- 236. 75
iilaboreiybts- Gave: it Passes 2 son ol 2S. t 2 ee lL 529. 50
AP IDOLCIROUOs UVR, Ab Poe ss ne ee coms see eu See se est 731. 00
iWOLer elses din Pom as oe oe ao ee tee 26. 00
tuaporerelss Gaye ah Po. 00 e025. 2522s oe- 8 sk ee 345, 63
laborers dayh, aga sO sae... 2s 0.duSsls ce eee 22. 50
iahoreresond avs, SoG 00 20 2.6... 22 22 see see ces 912. 50
Pe WateE Ow, wi srdaye Ab DOLCENILA . 2 =n- be bs oe 39. 00
i watermboy 101 days, at 50 cents): ..2.-.-2-.-)-.2-2-=.: 5.13
i water poy" 10idays,,at o0.cents.. 222. ..---.22-222-2-. 5. 00
iiwaler Doves davcratioO Cents: <4. 2 cssose 4 sss" 9. 00
Me WratenMoyao Onl aysnadu TOICCMUse. 6 25 42 n/ece=e eee 27. 00
LIV

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Wages of mechanics, laborers, ete.—Continued.

ieywater boy, ta days, at-00 centes “S222 ee -eee ee
iewater poy, ls days, at 00 Cente.” secant
1 water boy, 35 days, at 50 cents__. _..--------------:-

owater boy, day, at 00: cents... 6-2. - ee ee
1 water boy, 21 days, at 50 cents; 39} days, at 75 cents.

fattendant, L76y days, at,/5 cents. --s225.5- eae eee |

lwater boy, 1714 days, at 7o.cents. .=..-2.2sess—eeeee
ieattendant,.10:days, at 75 cents. 55 -ce22 eee eee
Pattendant,222 days at 7) CCntssses—s-
ivattendant,- ov days, ab (oiCentsh=sose aes see ae eee
attendant, lb days. at) (o1Centsee= eee eae
attendant, 22 days, /ait) fo CCntse ase = eee
(attendant, 2, days, at 7) Cents a2— a see ee
1 attendant, 365 days, at 75 cents.......----..-2 ee
Iinweeder, 53 days, at 50 cents ..2327 224555
1 weeder,; 582 days, at-50 cerita ..0- 22 a ee
1 stonebreaker, 10 cubic yards, at 60 cents ..---..----.
1 stonebreaker, 86 cubic yards, at 60 cents ..---.------
1 stonebreaker, 284 cubic yards, at 60 cents -.-.--.----
1 stonebreaker, 353 cubic yards, at 60 cents ----.------
iscarpenter 18 days, at:$3) 2-4 45 ae5 eee
ikcarpenter, lo:days, \atigs ¢ 2522 saas ee eee ae ae
Liearpenter, 2 days, at $3 ¢242...20.5.— eee
carpenter 6) days: at $3)... 3235. 2 4552-- eee eee
i<carpenter: W2; days) tat.$2:00'2. 25 =. 55 esa eee
ikcarpenter, 3074-days, at e302 - 9256-2 == ee
incarpenter 10 days; ati$3 —.22-2-essss5- eee eee
lkearpenter, ality days, abs 2 =< 52oscee— sae eee eee
lecarpenter, 254+ days, at.$3\. 5555534955 0e eee
ikcarpenter 25% days.vat po. 5-522 see eee
icampentenr. 20) days div Go.2- 95-5 asso eee
ivearpenter, 142. days, at. $3 <4: 2.55222 -ce eee eee
ieanpenter, 212 days, at) $2.60) 522 845.255.5225 se eee
ipaver, Jd days, ‘at $3.5. oe Resins ye atte e ee
1 blacksmith, 10} days, at $2.50
i-workmian, S65 days, at-$1.7522..2) 32s see ee
1 wagon and team, 85 days, at. $3.22. 2222222525
1 wagon.and team, 1202 days, at.$3:2:. 2-28. s22-- sees
i -wagon and ‘team, 193 days, at-$3 22. so. o2 See eee
i wagon and. team, 123 days; atipa s2s2 sees eee
Ihorse and ‘cart, 8} days,/at $1.50) 3-525 eee ee
1 horse’and cart, 58% days, at.$1.50)2.2 252 eee
1 horse and cart, 146} days, at $1.50
1 horse and cart, 21 days, at $1.50
1 horse and cart, 6 days, at $1.50
1 horse and cart, 7 days, at $1.50
Jhorse and-cart, 2 days, at'$1.50 ¢ 225222 5555s
1 horse and cart, 274 days, at $1.50
1 horse, 246} days, at 50 cents

Total wages of mechanics, ete
Total disbursements

Balance July 1, 1900

. 00

.25

$60, 092, 54

14, 907. 46
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. LV
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1899.
Rewne wuly 1; eo9, as per last report.....2..--2.22-------------2--25- $3, 800. 10

DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

JAM 2S ee Se ee ee $118. 95
DORIS ES oo Sa Se ee ee 700. 90
SeeminentE eARUPEA et ree a on ass Sas estos saan 61. 83
Fencing and cage material. .......-..---- ee ee ee 41. 29
Pined! . ocean SS S055 Soe See SS eae ee ean eee 596. 50
Meine tani ee 8 2 ops =~ oe sce es ss 322. 98
2) 1. esos ose sede: 6 a ae ei meee 16. 38
ILMWIMOGE oo 0th oo oaguASeee Seer Aaa nee eri eee eae 238. 60
RRIBRO EC PrN NOUEY eee oreo en ot wo woe cen ne cee 20. 32
AUSCCHeiA NW, = o6406 SoSSSE CS eRA AS SS ep ee eee ee ere 95. 78
Pants), Oily GRRGy A eee Osea e See eA are 88. 84
(PoDE]eD 2 LGPL Nye Sg 0 i alta?)
(i DS aE iNISUDS o See en al ee 53. 90
ondumaenial amd erading.. 5220202222. lac o we ee 88. 94
Eom Os ClCk So ee Se class -ase---- 338,98
Niner em OO e ste tt ee teen pee ewww = mosses 43.57
cy EET ey fe EI SEOs PS a a ag ee ee ee 411. 00
DEBE. ULES oe SS ee ee ee 89. 14
Wider Supply SeWeragve, ClO@secc- 3 -assteeca- esas ese} 2a. 239. 20
SRG teUleGis OUMSEIMEMUS =A eee Mec enaere te ee cre Sain bay wie eee $3,718: 29
TERNS RT | ES, UT Mee re eS Se 81. 81

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK, 1898.
mance nly 1, 1'899.ag perlast report. 22. -.=-.-..- 22.22.22 e 2s pee eee eee $7. 17
DISBURSEMENTS.
General expenses:

ena ened Rane ea Re eee Se a eee o. . eS elie ee . 65
Isnaini Sees 5 BARB AN ee SO Ae ee rea eager se ee i 6.
Balance carried, under the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 3090, by the

Treasury Department to the credit of the surplus fund, June 30, 1900.

RECAPITULATION.

The total amount of funds administered by the Institution during the year ending
. une 30, 1900, appears from the foregoing statements and the account books to have
been as follows:
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Brom balance of last year, July 1, 1899-..........-.----.- $74, 703. 42
From interest on Smithsonian fund for the year ...-...---- 54, 720. 00
irom interest. on West Shore bonds .......2-52-:2.------- 1, 680. 00
Mommies Of publiermons.-2-25.25....5..2-+----------- 207. 84
Bn cepayments of freieht, ete_.....-..-.----2----------- 4,131.97

— $135, 513. 23
APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTED BY CONGRESS TO THE CARE OF THE INSTITUTION.

International exchanges—Smithsonian Institution:

nome palancemmimn Soy -OStes 2 st cS es. n se. See 6.11
Bromupalanceioiml S9S—99 28.0 Boe 2 See 1, 829. 33
Hronmiappropmation tor 1899-1900... 22.2 oss 22k 24, 000. 00

25, 835. 44
LVI REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Smithsonian Institution:

American Ethnology

Krom: balance Ol US897-98s saa.c2 2s scc 5 SoS eeeee es ase $35.
IMwerm lonllcs Ot USC) oe2 casos sce eosescescsssccs 3, 035.
From appropriation for 1899-1900 -.------------------ 50, 000.

Preservation of collections—National Museum:

36
00
00

Rronimbalancerol di89 7/08 sees. ae sae eee 97. 28

Mirommpalance old 898-00) See aes ea eee 4, 661. 94

From appropriation for 1899-1900 _--------.-=2--2---— 170, 000. 00
Furniture and fixtures—National Museum:

IPreonem lonvbsnaycey rout Whee ae ss sos e- Se oseaosoasacrsse 1. 23

ron balanceiorl898=99) o> see. see oe ae eee 995. 28

From, appropriation for 1899-1900 2" -- ee eee 25, 000. 00
Heating and lighting, etc.—National Museum:

iRromebalance oh di897—98 5225.2 on-air 5. 49

Brom balance of l'SO8=992 sas aa ee 1, 780. 02

Prom appropriation for 1899-1900 = == 2220 2 = See aeee = 14, 000. 00
Printing—National Museum:

Prom appropriation for 1899-1900) 2222s = eee a eee
Rent of workshops, ete.—National Museum:

Rromybalancerol S89 98s" =" eee eee eee eee eee eee . 08

Brom balance Ord 898—99 ee ee eee 110. 08

Krom appropriation tor 899-1900 esas eee aaa eee 4, 040. 00
Postage—National Museum:

Erom appropriation for 1899-1900: _-. -2.2252.=-eeeere see eee
Books—National Museum:

From-appropriation for 1899=1900 =. ---- 2. see eee ee ee
Building repairs—National Museun.:

Hromebalance Of 1897-98 se se— - eee eee eee ee eee 4.58

rom: balance of WS96=09 "sess asa ae ee 81.08

Hromuappropriation forsi899=1 9002 sess 6, 000. 00
Galleries—National Museum:

Krom!’ balance tor l89(—98 === ee eee eee 8. 87

rom balance tor 898=99)e 2. eee ee ee 4, 301. 66
Rebuilding sheds, etc.—National Museum:

Rromlappropriabion tor 1S 9C= 90 ee eee
Astrophysical Observatory—Smithsonian Institution:

trom: balanceyote 897-98) o-, a ee oli

Krom: balance of i 898-99 32 = = eee 752. 36

From appropriation for 1899-1900 ..........-----:---- 10, 000. 00
Obseryation of eclipse of May 28, 1900:

rom appropriation 2. << 2.2.52 5525-2 eee eee
National Zoological Park:

irom: balancerof, 1897-982 == Sa a Te U3)

Hromebalance:of 1898-99" ...5 3. eee eee 3, 800. 10

romeappropriation tor 1899=1900 225252222 e-eee eee 75, 000. 00

$53, 070.

15, 785.

17, 000.

4, 150.
500.

2, 000.

6, 085.

4,510.

36

. 22

3. 51

51

00

00

00

61

53

fo

.53

. 00

»25
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTER. LVII

SUMMARY.

Mae MMMIAUUION | - 5.5 Sn oi Se oni a nee $135, 513. 23
0 DRESS 6ke¢ 355 25, 835. 44
EDEN SO SSS SE Se RS 53, 070. 36
PeecenvatonvoncollectiOns .-o.s<. 2.2.2 ose ccc ees cee eee 174, 759. 22
Rina minpmeran Getix< GUNES sac Lc occ cbse ec es cee ene ee eee cece 25, 996. 51
Reemmmmrmnn NN 0 245. eee ee ees eee ee 15, 785. 51
UIE So SSE ee 17, 000. 00
Pholllt) DHL WACTE GSI OVO) Oy sek RE ee eee eS 4, 150. 16
J OS Mb od Se SRS a ee 500. 00
(PORE - Lon SASS et bes ebpe ras a a ares ae 2, 000. 00
SUPREME PERS IORAT He oe re a eS oink oes cient wiels ws'ee eco toe 6, 085. 61
SR or See ce ee ana nies wecbioece 4, 310. 53
CoD LSE ES 6 ee .78
Peeamnyeical Observatory -.. <<. 222 cscs 2522552. senses 10, 752. 53
Observation of eclipse of May 28, 1900 -.--.............-- 4, 000. 00
ahionaleoolooical Ratks. . oc. o2 os. t es se ee ciesccc wie oe 78, 807.25 _

The committee has examined the vouchers for payment from the
Smithsonian income during the year ending June 30, 1900, each of
which bears the approval of the Secretary, or, in his absence, of the
acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services
charged were applied to the purposes of the Institution.

The committee has also examined the accounts of the several appro-
priations committed by Congress to the Institution, and finds that the
balances hereinbefore given correspond with the certificates of the dis-
bursing clerk of the Smithsonian Institution, whose appointment as
such disbursing officer has been accepted and his bond approved by
the Secretary of the Treasury.

The quarterly accounts current, the vouchers, and journals have
been examined and found correct.

Statement of regular income from the Smithsonian fund available for use in the year ending
June 80, 1901.

Belkines dibihpdle M00). 3.555 s8Y beSo 555 See a eee eee ee ee nee $76, 219. 07
(including cash from executors of J. H. Kidder) ...-..------ $5, 000. 00
(Including cash from Dr. Alex. Graham Bell)-------.....--. 5, 000. 00
10, 000. 00
interest due aud. receivable July 1, 1900 .-........-.---..--- 27, 360. 00
Interest due and receivable January 1, 1901 .........-----..- 27, 360. 00
Interest, West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1900....--- 840. 00
Interest, West Shore Railroad bonds, due January 1, 1901 --- 840. 00

— 56, 400. 00

Total available for year ending June 30, 1901 ...............----- 132, 619. 07

Kespectfully submitted.
J. B. HENDERSON,

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
Executive Committee.
Wasuineton, D. C., January 16, 1901.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM, ETC.

(Continued from previous reports. )
[ Fifty-sixth Congress, first session. ]
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Resolwed by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the vacancy in the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other
than Members of Congress, caused by the death of William Preston
Johnston, of Louisiana, shall be filled by the appointment of Richard
Olney, a resident of Massachusetts. (Approved, January 24, 1900;
Statutes, XX XI, 709.)

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the vacancy in the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, of the class other
than Members of Congress, shall be filled by the reappointment of
Andrew D. White, a resident of the State of New York, whose term
of office has expired. (Approved, June 2, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 718.)

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring),
That there be printed of **The Smithsonian Institution: Documents
relative to its Origin and History,” seven thousand copies, of which
fifteen hundred copies shall be for the use of the Senate, three thou-
sand copies for the use of the House of Representatives, and two
thousand five hundred copies for the use of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. (Passed Senate April 26, 1900; passed House May 11, 1900.
Statutes, XX XI, 10, concurrent resolutions. )

SMiTHsoNIAN Deposit [Liprary OF ConGress]: For custodian, one
thousand five hundred dollars; one assistant, one thousand two hun-
dred dollars; one messenger, seven hundred and twenty dollars; one
messenger boy, three hundred and sixty dollars; in all, three thousand
seven hundred and eighty dollars. (Legislative, executive, and judicial
act for 1901, approved April 17, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 95.)

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

For expenses of the system of international exchanges between the
United States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smith-
sonian Institution, including salaries or compensation of all necessary

LIX
LX ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

employees, and the purchase of necessary books and_ periodicals,
twenty-four thousand dollars. (Sundry civil act for 1901, approved
June 6, 1900; Statutes, X X-XI, 602.)

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

For cases, furniture, fixtures, and appliances required for the
exhibition and safe-keeping of the collections of the National
Museum, including two thousand five hundred dollars for furnishing
new lecture room and including salaries or compensation of all neces-
sary employees, seventeen thousand five hundred dollars.

For expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and _ tele-
phonic service for the National Museum, including three thousand five
hundred dollars for electric installation, seventeen thousand five hun-
dred dollars.

For continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the
collections from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Gov-
ernment, and from other sources, including salaries or compensation
of all necessary employees, one hundred and eighty thousand dollars,
of which sum five thousand five hundred dollars may be used for
necessary drawings and illustrations for publications of the National
Museum; and all other necessary incidental expenses.

For purchase of specimens to supply deficiencies in the collections
ot the National Museum, ten thousand dollars.

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in
the National Museum, two thousand dollars.

For repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum,
including repairs of roof, and for all necessary labor and material,
fifteen thousand dollars.

For rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters for the
National Museum, four thousand and forty dollars.

For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National Museum,
five hundred dollars. (Sundry civil act for 1901, approved June 6,
1900; Statutes, XX XI, 602.)

Printing and binding: For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing
labels and blanks, and for the ‘‘ Bulletins” and ‘* Proceedings” of the
National Museum, the editions of which shall not be less than three
thousand copies, and binding, in half turkey, or material not more
expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to and acquired
by the National Museum Library, seventeen thousand dollars. (Sun-
dry civil act for 1901, approved June 6, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 643.)

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

For continuing ethnological researches among the American Indians,
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries
or compensation of all necessary employees and the purchase of nec-
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXI

essary books and periodicals, fifty thousand dollars, of which sum not
exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars may be used for rent of
building. (Sundry civil act for 1901, approved June 6, 1900; Statutes,
XXXI, 602.)

To pay amounts found due by the accounting officers of the Treasury
on account of the appropriation ‘*‘ American Ethnology, Smithsonian
Institution,” for the fiscal year eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,
thirty-four dollars and ninety-one cents. (Deficiency act for 1900,
approved June 6, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 286.)

Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),
That there be printed at the Government Printing Office eight thousand
copies of any matter furnished by the Director of the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology relating to researches and discoveries connected with the
study of the American aborigines, the same to be issued as bulletins
uniform with the annual reports, one thousand five hundred of which
shall be for the use of the Senate, three thousand for the use of the
House of Representatives, and three thousand five hundred for distri-
bution by the Bureau. (Passed House April 7, 1900; passed Senate
April 27, 1900; Statutes, XXXII, 10, concurrent resolutions. )

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

For maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direction
of the Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, printing and
publishing results of researches, not exceeding one thousand five hun-
dred copies, repairs and alterations of buildings and miscellaneous
expenses, twelve thousand dollars. (Sundry civil act for 1901,
approved June 6, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 602.)

Observation of eclipse of May twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred:
For cost of apparatus, transportation of observers and equipment,
subsistence, reduction of observations, printing and publishing of
results, not exceeding one thousand five hundred copies, and employ-
ment of such temporary aid as may be required, including all neces-
sary field and other expenses, four thousand dollars. (Urgent defi-

f=)

ciency act for 1900, approved February 9, 1900; Statutes, X-X-XI, 11.)
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water
supply, sewerage and drainage; and for grading, planting, and other-
wise improving the grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and
inclosures; care, subsistence, purchase, and transportation of animals,
including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees; the
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, and general incidental
expenses not otherwise provided for, seventy-five thousand dollars;
z

LXItI ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

one-half of which sum shall be paid from the revenues of the District
of Columbia and the other half from the Treasury of the United
States; and of the sum hereby appropriated five thousand dollars shall
be used for continuing the entrance into the Zoological Park from
Cathedral avenue and opening driveway into Zoological Park, includ-
ing necessary grading and removal of earth: Provided, That the unex-
pended balance of the amounts, aggregating eight thousand dollars,
heretofore appropriated for widening, grading, and regulating Adams
Mill road from Columbia road to the Zoological Park entrance is
hereby reappropriated, to be expended under the direction of the Com-
missioners of the District of Columbia; and that the control of Adams
Mill road is hereby vested in the said Commissioners, and all proceed-
ings necessary to purchase or condemn the land necessary to widen
said road as authorized by Act approved March third, eighteen hun-
dred and ninety-nine, providing for sundry civil expenses of the Goy-
ernment for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred,
and for other purposes, shall be taken by said Commissioners.

For construction of a bridge across Rock Creek on the line of the
roadway from Quarry road entrance, under the direction of the Engi-
neer Commissioner of the District of Columbia, twenty-two thousand
dollars, one-half of which sum shall be paid out of the revenues of the
District of Columbia. (Sundry civil act for 1901, approved June 6,
1900; Statutes, XX XI, 603.)

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution is hereby authorized
to reimburse in the amount of two hundred and seven dollars and
seventy-three cents, from the appropriation ‘‘ National Zoological
Park, nineteen hundred,” the official account of John W. Morse,
assistant paymaster, United States Navy, for expenditures incurred
in the purchase, care, and forwarding of a collection of live animals
for the National Zoological Park during the fiscal year ending June
thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine. (Deficiency act for 1900,
approved June 6, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 286.)

For grading and regulating Cathedral avenue from Connecticut
avenue to Woodley road and the highway along the west border of the
Zoological Park from Woodley road to Cathedral avenue, as shown on
the plan of the permanent system of highways, third section, twenty-
one thousand dollars: Provided, That parties interested first deposit
with the collector of taxes of the District of Columbia an equal sum to
be used toward defraying the cost of the work: And provided, That
the full width of the highway bordering the Zoological Park be donated
to the District of Columbia whenever it lies within the limits of Wood-
ley Park.

And the Commissioners of the District of Columbia are hereby
authorized to use as a highway so much of the Zoological Park as lies
within the lines of said proposed highway.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXIil

To construct a masonry retaining wall between Cincinnati street and
Woodley road to define the limits of a new driveway which the Com-
missioners of the District of Columbia are hereby authorized to lay out
along the east side of Rock Creek from Connecticut avenue to Zoolog-
ical Park, four thousand dollars: Provided, That all the land within
the limits of said highway between Cifcinnati street and Woodley
road shall first be dedicated to the District of Columbia. (District of
Columbia act for 1901, approved June 6, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 561.)

Resolved by the Senate and Louse of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the sum of ten thousand
dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary, be, and the same is
hereby, appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, for the repair of county roads and bridges (including
those in the Rock Creek and the Zoological parks) that were damaged
by the storm of June second, nineteen hundred, the same to be imme-
diately available, and to be expended under the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia. (Approved, June 7, 1900; Statutes, X X-XI, 722.)

The Chief of Engineers of the United States Army is authorized to
make an examination and to report to Congress on the first Monday in
December, nineteen hundred, plans for the treatment of that section
of the District of Columbia situated south of Pennsylvania avenue and
north of B street southwest, and for a suitable connection between the
Potomac and the Zoological parks, and in making such examinations
and plans he is authorized to employ a landscape architect of con-
spicuous ability in his profession; for services and expenses incident
to said examination and report the sum of four thousand dollars is
hereby appropriated. (Sundry civil act for 1901, approved June 6,
1900; Statutes, XX XI, 622.

AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That there be printed of the
annual reports of the American Historical Association, beginning with
the report of the year eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, two thousand
five hundred copies in addition to those provided for under existing
law, of which five hundred copies shall be for the use of the Senate,
one thousand copies for the use of the House of Representatives, and
one thousand copies for the use of the American Historical Associa-
tion. (Approved, May 25, 1900; Statutes, XX -XI, 717.)

PARIS EXPOSITION.

For each and every purpose named in the paragraph in the sundry
civil appropriation Act, approved July first, eighteen hundred and
ninety-eight, under the heading ‘* Paris Exposition,” one hundred and
sixty-nine thousand five hundred dollars, of which amount not exceed-
ing ninety-six thousand five hundred dollars may be expended for
LXIV ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

buildings and appurtenances, including fire protection, pier landings,
approaches, and other construction; not exceeding fifteen thousand
dollars may be expended for an exhibit of negro education and indus-
try, and not exceeding twenty thousand dollars may be used for con-
tingent expenses of the commissioner-general, to be expended in his
discretion and audited on his certificate; and the limit of the appro-
priations provided for in said paragraph, as amended by the sundry
civil appropriation Act approved March third, eighteen hundred and
ninety-nine, 1s hereby extended to one million one hundred and nine-
teen thousand five hundred dollars; the appropriation hereby made to
be available until expended: Prowded, That the Commissioner of
Patents is authorized and directed to allow such patent models as have
been previously exhibited at any international exposition as the Sec-
retary of the Interior may select, to be transported to and from and
exhibited at said exposition in the custody of an employee of the
Patent Office duly designated for that purpose by the Commissioner
of Patents; such models to be returned to the Patent Office at the
close of the exposition; but no models shall be removed concerning
which litigation is now pending.

For six additional commissioners, to be appointed as provided by
the sundry civil appropriation Act, approved July first, eighteen hun-
dred and ninety-eight, who shall perform the duties and be subject to
the limitations prescribed therein, at three thousand dollars each,
eighteen thousand dollars. (Urgent deficiency act for 1900, approved
February 9, 1900; Statutes, XX XI, 24.)

NEW YORK PRINTING EXPOSITION.

JOINT RESOLUTION Authorizing the exhibit of Government relics at the New
York Printing Exposition from May second to June second, nineteen hundred.

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized in his discretion to exhibit
at the New York Printing Exposition from May second to June second,
nineteen hundred, a geometrical scroll machine, and such other articles
now in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing; also ‘‘a picture of
Governor William Allen, of Ohio, on a saw blade,” now in the posses-
sion of the Secret Service Division of the Treasury Department; also
copies of charts of Hell Gate, the Battery, and other New York City
points, to be printed from original copperplates now in the possession
of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and such other articles in said
bureaus as may be of interest to the printing trades.

Sec. 2. That the Secretary of War be, and he is hereby, authorized
in his discretion to exhibit at said exposition medical catalogues, old
volumes, works in Russian and other foreign tongues, now in the pos-
session of the Surgeon-General of the Army; also samples of work
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. LXV

and manuscripts written on stumps, and so forth, by generals in the
war of the rebellion, now in the possession of the Rebellion Records
Division of the War Department, and such other articles as may be
of interest to the printing trades.

Sec. 3. That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby,
authorized in his discretion to exhibit at said exposition such general
exhibit of patents as may be of interest to the printing trades.

Sec. 4. That the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be, and he
is hereby, authorized in his discretion to exhibit at said exposition the
old Ben Franklin printing press and such other articles now in the
National Museum as may be of interest to the printing trades.

Sec. 5. That all expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions of
this joint resolution shall be paid by the directors of the New York
Printing Exposition, under such regulations as shall be adopted by the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of
the Interior, and the secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. (Ap-
proved, April 23, 1900; Statutes, XX -XI, p. 714.)

LOUISIANA PURCHASE EXPOSITION.

For defraying the expenses of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition
Commission, when appointed, ten thousand dollars; and when the
Louisiana Purchase Exposition of nineteen hundred and three, a cor-
poration under the laws of the State of Missouri, shall have raised, to
the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treasury, ten million dollars
for and on account of inaugurating and carrying forward an exposi-
tion at Saint Louis, Missouri, to celebrate the one hundredth anniver-
sary of the purchase of Louisiana Territory by the United States,
then the United States will authorize the expenditure of the sum of
five million dollars for such exposition, to be disbursed under the
direction of ‘*The Louisiana Purchase Exposition of nineteen hundred
and three,” under rules and regulations and under conditions to be
hereafter prescribed by the Congress: Provided, however, That said
sum of five million dollars shall not be expended until the said sum of
ten million dollars raised by said Louisiana Purchase Exposition of
nineteen hundred and three shall have been expended for and on
account of said exposition, and there shall be repaid into the Treasury
of the United States the same proportionate amount of the aid given
by the United States as shall be repaid to either the corporation or
the city of Saint Louis: And provided further, That all sums expended
by the Government on account of said exposition, except for its own
buildings and exhibits and the care of the same, shall be deducted from
any general appropriation made for said exposition. (Sundry civil act
for 1901, approved June 6, 1900; Statutes, X-X-XI, p. 644.)

sm 1900——v
os’ VE ee

ohce.© ker

OF

Suit ee eae

Bae nntAnY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900,

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to present herewith my report show-
ing the operations of the Institution during the year ending June 30,
1900, including the work placed under its direction by Congress, in .
the United States National Museum, the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, the International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park,
and the Astrophysical Observatory.

Following the precedent of several years, I have given, in the body
of this report, a general account of the affairs of the Institution and
its bureaus, while the appendix presents more detailed statements by
the persons in direct charge of the different branches of the work.
Independently of this the operations of the National Museum are fully
treated in a separate volume of the Smithsonian Report, and the
Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology constitutes a volume
prepared under the supervision of the Director of that Bureau.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

By act of Congress approved August 10, 1846, the Smithsonian
Institution was created an ‘‘ Establishment.” Its statutory members
are the President, the Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United
States, and the heads of the Executive Departments. The prerogative
of the Establishment is the ‘*supervision of the affairs of the Institu-
tion and the advice and instruction of the Board of Regents.”

A vacancy in the membership of the Establishment, caused by the
death of Vice-President Hobart on November 21, 1899, will remain till
March 4, 1901.

The Hon. Russell A. Alger resigned as Secretary of War, and was
succeeded by the Hon. Elihu Root.

sm 1900——1 1
2 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

As organized on June 30, 1900, the Establishment consisted of the
following ex officio members :
Wituram McKintery, President of the United States.
(Vacancy), Vice-President of the United States.
Metvinte W. Fuuuer, Chief Justice of the United States.
Joun Hay, Secretary of State.
Lyman J. Gace, Secretary of the Treasury.
Exrmu Root, Secretary of War.
Joun W. Griaas, Attorney-General.
CuHarLes Emory Suitu, Postmaster- General.
Joun D. Lone, Secretary of the Nawy.
Eruan Atuen Hrrencocn, Secretary of the Interior.
JAMES Wixson, Secretary of Agriculture.

BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board consists of the Vice-President and the Chief Justice of
the United States as ex officio members, three members of the Senate,
three members of the House of Representatives, and six citizens,
‘*two of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington and the
other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of them
of the same State.”

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents adopted

January 8, 1890, by which its annual meeting occurs on the fourth
Wednesday of each year, the Board met on January 24, 1900, at 10
o'clock a. m.
_ The following is an abstract of its proceedings, which will be found
in fuller detail in the annual report of the Board to Congress, though
reference is made later on in this report to several matters upon which
action was taken at that meeting.

The Secretary announced the death of Dr. William Preston John-
ston, and Senator Platt announced that of Vice-President Hobart.
The action taken by the Board will be found under the head of
‘* Necrology.”

The Hon. William P. Frye, President pro tempore of the Senate,
was present, in accordance with custom, in place of Vice-President
Hobart, deceased. On January 4, 1900, the Speaker of the House
appointed Representatives R. R. Hitt and Robert Adams, jr., to suc-
ceed themselves and Representative Hugh A. Dinsmore to succeed
Gen. Joseph Wheeler.

The Secretary presented his report of the operations of the Institu-
tion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1899, and said that the past
year had brought many evidences of the continued esteem in which
the Institution was held at home and abroad. It was certainly at the
present moment better known in Europe than in any previous period
of its history.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

After the reports of the executive and permanent committees, pre-
sented by their chairman, Senator Henderson, had been adopted, the
Secretary stated that, owing to other business which was to come
before the meeting, he would abridge his usual statement. He then
spoke briefly of the National Museum, of the cooperation of the State,
War, and Navy Departments for increasing the collections of the
National Zoological Park, of the exemption by the President from the
rules of the civil service of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, in charge of the National Museum, and one private secre-
tary or confidential clerk to the Secretary of the Institution, as well as
the waiving of competitive examinations for positions on the scientific
staff, and of other matters. He further referred to the fact that he
was continuing, with the sanction of the Regents, some experiments
for the Board a Ordnance and Fortification which were likely to take
up considerable time, and he desired to repeat that the Secretary’s
time, which was partly given in his private hours, was all without
charge to the War Department.

The Secretary added that he had intended to bring before the Board
specific statements as to the position of the Smithsonian fund relative
to those of other institutions of learning, and to seek their instruction
as to the best means of increasing it. It was the most important sub-
ject, perhaps, that could be brought to their consideration, but in
view of the business immediately before them he deferred enlarging
upon it.

The special committee, composed of the Hon. J. B. Henderson, Dr.
William L. Wilson, Prof. A. Graham Bell, Dr. J. B. Angell, and the
Hon. R. R. Hitt, which had been appointed by the Chancellor in
accordance with a resolution passed at the previous meeting to con-
sider the proposal submitted by the Association of Agricultural Col-
leges and Experiment Stations for the establishment of a Bureau of
Eraduate Study under the Smithsonian Institution, and all kindred
questions, presented a report which dealt comprehensively with the
subject (which will be found in the Report of the Regents to Congress),
and the committee was discharged.

The Board then adjourned.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS.

The Hon. Richard Olney, of Massachusetts, was appointed a Regent
to suceeed Dr. Johnston, by joint resolution of Congress approved by
the President on January 24, 1900, and Dr. Andrew D. White, of New
York, was reappointed a Regent by joint resolution of Congress
approved June 2, 1900.

As organized at the end of the fiscal year, the Board of Regents
consisted of the following members:

The Hon. M. W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United States, Chan-
cellor; Senator William P. Frye, President pro tempore of the Sen-
4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ate, in place of the Vice-President, deceased; Senator 5. M. Cullom;
Senator O. H. Platt; Senator William Lindsay; Representative R. R.
Hitt; Representative Robert Adams, jr.; Representative Hugh A.
Dinsmore; Dr. James B. Angell; Dr. ‘Ruder D. White; the Hon.
Je: Menercn: the Hon. W. L. Wilson; Dr. A. Graham Bell; the
Hon. Richard Olney.

ADMINISTRATION.

The conduct of the business of the Institution, the management of
the bureaus under its charge, the relations with Congress, with the
Executive Departments of the Government, with colleges, universities,
societies, and libraries, with foreign establishments, governmental and
scientific, and with the thousands of persons who address the Institu-
tion seeking aid, counsel and information necessitates details of admin-
istrative labors far in excess of what was contemplated in the early
days of the Establishment. To these the greater part of the Secre-
tary’s time must be given, leaving but a minor portion for engaging
in and directing scientific work.

As far as is consistent with an orderly scheme of government, the
management of the various interests are left to the officers in direct
charge of the several branches of the work. The Secretary feels that
he is fortunate in having such efficient and hearty support as he receives
from these gentlemen, yet all questions of policy and almost number-
less matters of detail arising from Government practice or the regu-
lations of the Regents require his immediate attention and must be
passed upon by him or by the Assistant Secretary, who should have
more than the merely clerical aid he has at present.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, held on January 26, 1898, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted:

‘* Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to request of the Presi-
dent such a modification of the civil-service regulations relating to
appointments as will permit an exemption of such scientific positions
under the Smithsonian Institution as the Secretary may deem best for
the interests of the Institution.”

In accordance with this instruction the Secretary formally laid the
matter before the President in a communication which, since it has
already been the subject of discussion in the public press, may not im
properly be here given. It is as follows:

DECEMBER 5, 1898.
The PRESIDENT:

At the annual meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution, held on January 26,1898, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted:

** Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to request of the Presi-
dent such a modification of the civil-service regulations relating to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

appointments as will permit an exemption of such scientific positions
under the Smithsonian Institution as the Secretary may deem best for
the interests of the Institution.”

Present: The Chancellor, the Chief Justice of the United States, in
the chair; the Vice-President of the United States; Senator Morrill,
of Vermont; Senator Cullom, of Illinois; Senator Gray, of Delaware;
Representative Hitt, of Illinois; Representative W heeler, of Alabama;
Representative Adams, of Pennsylvania; ex-Senator Hendet rson, of
Washington City; the Hon. W illiam L. W ilson, president of Wash-
ington and Lee University; Prof. Alexander Graham Bell, of Wash-
ing City; the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

In accordance with this instruction I respectfully request of the
President the exemption from the operations of the civil-service regu-
lations of the assistant secretaries in charge of the bureaus of the
Smithsonian Institution and of the heads of its several bureaus,
namely, the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau
of Ethnolog y, the Zoological Park, and the Astrophysical Observatory,
and to further respectfully represent that the above exemptions are
indispensable to enable the Institution to serve the Government’s
interests as it has hitherto done.

I further respectfully represent that in the opinion of the Regents
it is desirable that the Secretary should also have the power, as here-
tofore, of appointing scientific men of eminence as curators.

Lask to be permitted to state that men of high scientific position
have been usually found to be unwilling to subject themselves to exami-
nations, that the Smithsonian Institution has for more than a half cen-
tury secured to the Government the services of eminent men by selec-
tion from the whole body of American science, and that in my opinion
the public service will suffer if this can no longer be done.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

S. P. Lanaury, Secretary.

In adopting the recommendations of the Regents the President, on
May 29, 1899, amended the civil-service regulations in the following
respects:

Under section 3, Rule IV, noncompetitive examinations are per-
mitted to test the fitness of persons whom the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution shall nominate for appointment in the classi-
fied service, provided the Secretary shall certify that in his opinion
the positions to be filled ‘‘require such peculiar qualifications in
respect to knowledge and ability, or such scientific or special attain-
ments wholly or in part professional or technical as are HOw ordinarily
acquired in the executive service of the United States,” on which
account *‘an examination should be waived in whole or in part.” It
is required that the President of the United States shall approve such
nominations, whereupon the Civil Service Commission shall grant a
certificate of qualification, ‘‘ upon such evidence as may be satisfactory
to it, that the person so nominated is eligible for and may be appointed
to such position by reason of his ascertained qualifications and by rea-
son of his age, health, and moral character.” Such appointee may
not be transferred to any other position in the classified service except
6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

to one that may be filled in like manner, ‘‘and shall not be assigned
to any other duties than those pertaining to the particular position to
which thus appointed.”

Rule VI is amended to relieve from the requirements of exam-
ination or registration the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution in charge of the United States National Museum, and
‘*not exceeding one private secretary or confidential clerk to the Sec-
retary of the Smithsonian Institution.”

BUILDINGS.

The fitting up of the lower story in the south tower of the Smith-
sonian building as an exhibition room specifically for children has
occupied attention at intervals during the year, and the preliminary
work is now approaching completion. To obtaina maximum of light,
large doors, fitted with glass, protected where necessary by a light
grill of wrought iron, have been placed on the south side, and the win-
dows have been enlarged as far as could be done without interfering
with the masonry. The columns which formerly occupied the room
have been removed and the apartment finished in light color.

The purpose in establishing this room has not been to appeal to the
trained adult mind, but to the untrained and even childish mind, and
to group the objects with regard to those characteristics attractive to
and comprehensible by the general public, and particularly by chil-
dren. In this way it is hoped that the child at least will receive
impressions which will guide and influence it when serious studies are
taken up.

Further progress has been made in the renovation and rearrange-
ment of some of the storage rooms in the south tower, and changes
are in progress in the basement of the north tower.

Improvements in the Museum, the Astrophysical Observatory, and
the Zoological Park buildings are mentioned elsewhere.

FINANCES.

The permanent funds of the Institution are as follows:

Bequest: of Smithson, 1846.0. 5-2 o2 62a nee ee $515, 169. 00
Residuary. legacy of Smithson, 867 322.0552. aon 26, 210. 63
Meposits from. savings of income. 18672. =2 4 ae ee 108, 620. 37
Bequest of James Hamilton, 1875 2.2222) ee ee ee $1, 000
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895 ...........------ 1, 000

2, 000. 00
Bequest of Simeon Habel,.1880 .2.-22 5225 2 ee eee 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881 ........----------------- 51, 500. 00
Gitor Chomas G.-Hodgkins, 1891... 2.0 eee 200, 000. 00
Portion of residuary legacy of Thomas G, Hodgkins, 1894........-.---- 8, 000. 00

Total permanent.fund .....- sccu.d2 eee eee 912, 000. 00
REPORT OF THE SECKETARY. 7

In addition to the above permanent fund, the Regents hold certain

approved railroad bonds, forming part of the fund established by

Mr. Hodgkins for investigations of the properties of atmospheric air.

The fundamental act organizing the Institution (Section 5591, U.S.

Revised Statutes) was amended by act of Congress approved by the
President March 12, 1894, as follows:

The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to receive
into the Treasury, on the same terms as the original bequest of James
Smithson, such sums as the Regents may, from time to time, see fit to
deposit, not exceeding with the original bequest the sum of one mil-
lion dollars: Provided, That this shall not operate as a limitation on
the power of the Smithsonian Institution to receive money or other
property by gift, bequest, or devise, and to hold and dispose of the
same in promotion of the purposes thereof.

The permanent fund of $912,000, as above, is deposited, under this
provision, in the Treasury of the United States, and bears interest at
6 per cent per annum, the interest alone being used in carrying out
the aims of the Institution.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, July 1, 1899, the unexpended
balance, as stated in my last report, was $74,703.42. The total receipts
for the year were $60,809.81, being $56,400 derived from the interest
on the permanent fund in the Treasury and elsewhere, and $4,409.81
received from miscellaneous sources.

The disbursements for the year amounted to $59,294.16, the details
of which are given in the report of the executive committee. The
balance remaining to the credit of the Secretary on June 30, 1900, for
the expenses of the Institution was $76,219.07, which includes the
$10,000 specifically referred to in previous reports, as well as the
interest accumulated on the Hodgkins and other funds, which is held
against certain contingent obligations, besides relatively considerable
sums held to meet liabilities which may be expected to mature asa
result of various scientific investigations and publications in progress.

Congress charged the Institution during the fiscal year 1900 with
the disbursement of the following appropriations:

International Exchanges, Smithsonian Institution..-.......-...---------- $24, 000
mainerican Hthnolopy, Smithsonian Tustitution. 222. ---..2-------------- 50, 000
United States National Museum:
Rrecenvatl GOnuegmenllecmonsme as = = kh 2 Se he ee eee 170, 000
BITTE Gone vel nl Cetin UCC ee eet ee er. et ee yee ce 25, 000
CARB HT) @puaTe Mts SGI EY ok og Al es Eee 14, 000
GEE Ea ee eon ly Ra a fe ie cae ee ee 500
POE Tas U0 jo EQNS ils Sets © 5, a a eg pn 6, 000
Titi: SPAR GPs cs1000 01S) pe Ses 2 ea ae a 4, 040
Ser kts penne GN ees. ee OT) BS oS eS era. a Poe ee ae 2, 000
DOs 2 ae Seg es er yer gE 17, 000
lo PADGETT Eg Sa pe na a Sa re me Sng 75, 000

Astrophysical Observatory, Smithsonian Institution ..-....-.......-------- 10, 000
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The executive committee has examined all the vouchers for dis-
bursements made during the fiscal year, and a detailed statement of
the receipts and expenditures will be found reported to Congress, in
accordance with the provisions of the sundry civil acts of October 2,
1888, and August 5, 1892, in a letter addressed to the Speaker of the
House of Representatives.

The vouchers for all the expenditures from the Smithsonian fund
proper have been likewise examined and their correctness certified to by
the executive committee, whose statement will be published, together
with the accounts of the funds appropriated by Congress, in that
committee’s report.

The following estimates for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1901, for
carrying on the Government interests under the charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution were forwarded as usual to the Secretary of the
Treasury.

International Exchanges. ..:.4.- =) secede Soe eee ee eee $24, 000
munerican Ethnology 3 2=2n.ue% Sac oe eee ee ae ee ey ae 60, 000
National Museum:
preservation Ol collections. == a. see. sare ee 180, 000
Borniture-and: fixtures. 24254 coos. oe 5e een eee ee mee 17, 500
iMegting and lighting: 52 less Se eee as ee as tee eee ae 17, 500
POSIMEs Joi 2/232 e see eee RS A ee ee 500
iRepairs.to buildings = 225.4: - S55 ee ee 21, 500
‘Rent of«workshope =. c2n 3: ofan es ee ee re 4, 040
‘Purchase of Spectniens «=<. a ee ere ee ee 25, 000
Books: he 2 522. eS SS ee ee ee ee ee ee ae 2, 000
Printing, 05: 2205-525 ei Se ee ae ae Se eee 17, 000
Wational: Zoological Park: 52 5-¢3 2252 Sea ee ee a ee 105, 000
mAsuroph ysical Observatory. 2:55 ee eee ee ee ne 1 9 ee 15, 000
Observation of Eclipse of “May:28, 19005. e. seees hoes ere eee 4, 000

The appropriations made by Congress for the fiscal year 1901 were
as follows:

Imiternstional Exchanges: 222 i. Dee aa eee eee hee eee $24, 000
A MVerICE) FALANOLO SY) oo 2A soe 2.5 eee eee em eS 50, 000
National Museum:
Preservation of: collections... a. sae ee ea es 180, 000
Burniture and: fixtures 2225.0: 5222 a eae eee 17,500
Heating and lighting <2 .1-.. 22252 ose a eee ee eee 17, 500
POStAGEE oo. 352 eae lls Ss Sees eer ee 500
Repairs ‘to buildings: 2.2.22. 325 2 ee 15, 000
Rent-of workshops. 4502202: 28 eee02 ee ee ee 4, 040-
Purchase of. specimenge..< ci 3.).. 36 oa ee Oe ee 10, 000
BOOKS) cin Sesecws - <5 se wcdos & ke eee ee 2, 000
ENGNG. cotta ook ec we ee eek oco2n 5 eee ee es 17, 000
Rational Zoolopical Park... 22. .<.0.5-22 5s 0555 ee ea 75, 000
Asirophysical Observatory ===... 2s2s532.5 02a ee eee rae 12, 000

Cieeryation:oi jWeclipse. of May 28,/1900. 2-5 see ee ee 4, 000
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

RESEARCH.

The Institution has continued research work in various fields of
science, including experiments in the solution of the problem of
mechanical flight, and, through its Astrophysical Observatory, inves-
tigations of the solar spectrum. A fuller account of the latter will be
found under the proper head.

The Institution has made some experiments during the year on
**radio-active substances,” based on the discovery by Professor Bee-
querel in 1896, that uranium salts emit invisible radiations capable of
charging electrified bodies and of producing shadow images on sensi-
tive plates.

The Secretary secured from France and Germany specimens of chlo-
ride of radium, polonium subnitrate, and other radio-active substances
prepared by Monsieur and Madame Curie. These substances were
alleged to have the altogether extraordinary property of emitting light,
that is, a form of energy, without limit, somewhat like the pretended
lamp of the medizval alchemists. A portion of this which was repre-
sented as having never been exposed to the sunlight, and which had
certainly been several weeks at least in total darkness, was opened by
Dr. Bolton in an entirely dark room, and immediately displayed a
feeble light which was, nevertheless, strong enough to enable the pho-
tographer to secure a very distinct print of a photograph. Other
experiments were made by Dr. Bolton, which will be found fully
described in the General Appendix of the Smithsonian Report for 1899.

It is not to be presumed that we have obtained this energy out of
nothing, but it remains to be shown what the something is out of which
it may have come. This subject has since attracted much interest
among chemists in this country as well as abroad. The experiments
at the Institution were perhaps the earliest, but not the only ones in
this country, and their publication seems to have excited such wide
attention as to justify this mention.

THE HODGKINS FUND.

The different branches of research now progressing under grants
from the Hodgkins fund are making satisfactory advances.

Prof. William Hallock, of Columbia University, New York, has
supplemented his report of last year by a summary of the further
progress of his investigation of the motion of an air particle under the
influence of articulate speech. The instruments which Professor Hal-
lock has invented, and is now perfecting, have proved a great aid in
this research, and will, he states, enable him to settle definitely the
question of phase differences in the components of a complex sound.

Prof. A. G. Webster, of Clark University, reports the completion
and successful application to the use for which it was designed of the
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

new apparatus, perfec «d with aid from a Hodgkins grant, by means
of which it is now poss dle to measure the intensity of rapidly varying
sounds with :n accuracy not hitherto attained. <A report of the results
of the further experiments of Professor Webster upon the propaga-
tion, reflection, and diffracticn of sound, the action of the megaphone
and the trumpet phonograph, as well as a verification of the theory of
resonators, is awaited later.

A grant was approved November 28, 1899, on behalf of Prof. Louis
Bevier, of Rutgers College, for an investigation of vowel-timbre on
the basis of the phonographic record. This research will endeavor
primarily to determine:

1. The characteristic partia! tones which differentiate the various
timbres recognized by the ear <s the vowels of speech.

2. How these partiais vary 1a articulate speech, with stress, pitch
of fundamental, etc., and in the transition to other sounds.

This research is still in progress, and will be reported upon more
fully, but Doctor Bevier states that the vowels already studied form
a series acoustically, quite as truly as phonetically and physiologically.

The meteorological investigations with kites have been successfully
continued at Blue Hill under the direction of Mr. Rotch with the
assistance of a grant from the Hodgkins fund. During the year
ending July 1, 1900, s'xteen flights were made in four series in order
to obtain the changes with height under different weather conditions,
the maximum altitude reached being 14,000 feet on June 21.

In addition to the above investigations a Hodgkins grant has been
approved to enable Mr. Rotch to carry on a series of experiments in
space telegraphy, it being thought that the unprecedented heights
attained by kites might materially extend the range of communication
by this method. In the preliminary experiments, however, kites were
not used, sufficient elevation being attainable without them, but when
the difference between the stations was increased from 1 mile to 3, kites
were employed to raise the transmitting and receiving wires. In the
later experiments it was found, not unexpectedly, that the long wires,
carried up and supporied by kites, collected so much electricity as to
interfere with and greatiy complicate the messages sent from station to
station. These interruptions seem to show that the limit of elevation
for the receiving wire was under thése conditions less than 500 feet.
The greatest distance covered in the experiments was approximately 12
miles, from a wire supported by a kite about 200 feet above Blue Hill
to the tower of Memorial Hall in Cambridge, which was used as the
receiving station. These experiments draw attention to the fact that
electrification increases with the altitude to which the wire is carried,
and that it is always present, although varying with the meteorological
condition of the atmosphere. The experiments were discontinued in
the autumn of 1899.

sna
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. li

It has been found practicable to approve a second grant on behalf
of the journal, Terrestrial Magnetism, which was warmly recom-
mended by the committee for such aid last year, Professor Bauer, the
editor, as in the case of the first grant, agreeing to send out a specified
number of copies of his journal to scientific men and institutions.

In November of last year an application was received from Dr. Carl
Barus, now connected with Brown University, for a grant from the
Hodgkins fund in aid of his experiments on atmospheric condensation.
This application, having been duly passed upon, was approved.

This research is supplemental to the experiments already conducted
by Dr. Barus, as described in Bulletin No. 12, of the Department of
Agriculture, and will be:

1. A study of the origin, activity, and growth of the condensation
producing dust partictes; their reactions on each other, their relation
to electric radiation, ete.

2. A study of the growth, ete., of water corpuscles after condensa-
tion; the reaction of corpuscles of different sizes on each other, ete.

A preliminary report was submitted by Dr. Barus, and, in accord-
ance with the usage of the Institution and as a matter of interest to
those engaged in similar researches, he has been invited to publish in
the scientific journals a detailed account of his experiments.

A grant has been approved on behalf of Prof. Dr. R. von Lenden-
feld, of the University of Prague, for a study of the motion of birds
in actual free flight, a subject to which, although primarily known as
a zoologist and meteorologist, Dr. von Lendenfeld’s attention has been
directed for years, and for the better understanding of which he has
made numerous anatomical preparations, physiological observations,
ete. The investigations of Dr. von Lendenfeld have been aided by
the Society for the Advancement of Scientific Research in Bohemia,
and also by the Austrian Government. His publications have been
numerous, the simultaneous issue in German and English of his mono-
graph on flight having been arranged for by the author with Mr.
Fischer in Jena and Messrs. Macmillan & Co. in London.

Dr. von Lendenfeld’s published work on his Australian explorations
and researches was submitted to the Institution in 1893, at which time
he entered his application for a grant, since fully considered and
advised upon, and now approved as above stated.

Since my last report ansapplication has been received for a grant in
aid of the researches on the spectrum which have been prosecuted
with ardor by Dr. V. Schumann, of Leipsic, for several years. As is
the custom, the question of the advantage to.science of such a grant
was referred to leading specialists, both in this country and Europe.
The testimony thus obtained as to the value of the work already
accomplished by Dr. Schumann, added to my own knowledge of his
ily REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

investigations, led to the approval of a subvention from the Hodgkins
fund for the prosecution of researches in connection with the spectral
relations of atmospheric air. The apparatus by means of which Dr.
Schumann has heretofore secured such noteworthy results being
chiefly of his own invention, he has been permitted to apply the
present grant to the further perfection of his instruments before enter-
ing upon his special experiments, which will be definitely reported
upon as they progress.

As referred to in my last report, in accordance with the purpose
of the Institution, copies of the Hodgkins prize memoir, La Vie sur.
les hauts Plateaux, which were obtained through the authors, Drs.
Herrera and Lope, have been distributed to the libraries and educa-
tional institutions of the country, thus making a valuable work accessi-
ble in widely separated localities.

In October of last year copies of the Hodgkins medal in silver and
bronze were presented to Pembroke College, Oxford, England, of
which establishment James Smithson, the founder of the Institution,
was a graduate. The receipt of the medals was acknowledged in the
following letter from the Right Rey. Lord Bishop Mitchison, master
of Pembroke College, through whom the presentation was made:

PEMBROKE COLLEGE, OxForD, Wovember 19, 1899.
Drar Dr. Lancury: Yesterday your kind present of the copies of
the Hodgkins medal of the Smithsonian Institution came safely to
hand, and on behalf of myself and of the college I tender you my best
thanks for a beavtiful and interesting gift. The medals will form a
suitable adjunct to the cases of books from the Institution, which

form, as you know, a feature in our college library.
Believe me to be, ver y faithfully, yours,
J. Mrrcuison.

In order that the scope permitted by the will of the donor in
expending the income from the Hodgkins fund may not fail to be
understood by those likely to be interested in the range of researches
which may be thus fostered, a circular, a transcript of which follows,
has been recently issued:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[Presiding officer ex officio, the President of the United States; Chancellor, the Chief Justice of the
United States. ]

THE HopaGxKins Funp. z

In October, 1891, Thomas George Hodgkins, Esq., of Setauket,
New York, made a donation to the Smithsonian Institution, the income
from a part of which was to be devoted ‘to the increase and diffusion
of more exact knowledge in regard to the nature and properties of
atmospheric air in connection with the welfare of man.”

These properties may be considered in their bearing upon any or
all of the sciences—e. g., not only in regard to meteorology, but in
connection with hygiene, or with physics, or with any department
whatever, either of biologic: ul or physical knowledge.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

With the intent of furthering the donor’s known wishes, the Insti-
tution has already given considerable money prizes for treatises em-
bodying new and important discoveries in regard to the nature or
properties of air. This form of encouragement will not at present be
renewed.

A gold medal has been established under the name of the ‘* Hodg-
kins Medal of the Smithsonian Institution,” which will be awarded
annually or biennially for important contributions to our knowledge
of the nature and properties of atmospheric air, or for practical appli-
cations of our existing knowledge of them to the welfare of mankind,
and grants of money are made from time to time to specialists engaged
in original investigations which involve the study of the properties of
atmospheric air.

These properties may be understood in the widest sense of the word.
Thus the physicist may consider them in an investigation which
involves the study, for instance, of atmospheric electricity, or of the
absorptive powers of the air, or of the atmospheric lines in the spec-
trum; the hygienist may be assisted in researches in this connection
looking to the promotion of health; or even the geologist, in a study
which connects the earth’s crust with the absorption of the constitu-
ents of the atmosphere in past or coming time. Thus the Hodgkins
Fund may be considered to cover in effect something belonging to
nearly every division of the applied sciences.

It being the desire of the Institution to give the widest extension to
the great purpose of the founder of this fund, and to prevent any mis-
apprehension of his wishes, it is repeated, then, that the discoveries or
applications proper to be brought to the consideration of the Institu-
tion may be in the field of any department of science without restric-
tion, provided only that they have to do with ‘‘the nature and proper-
ties of atmospheric air in connection with the welfare of man.”

The following conditions are imposed with a view to obtaining the
fullest possible benefit to science from grants made from the fund:

1. Applications for grants should have the endorsement of some rec-
ognized academy of sciences, or other institution of learning, and
should be accompanied by evidences of the capacity of the applicant,
in the form of at least one memoir already published by him, based
upon original investigation.

2. The purchase of necessary laboratory appliances for the particular
research in view is authorized, and in special cases on explanation by
the applicant, the payment of the salaries of assistants in prosecuting
such research; but the defrayment of the purely personal expenses of
the grantee is not intended to be provided from moneys advanced from
the Fund.

3. Upon the conclusion of a research, it is expected that any special
piece or pieces of apparatus purchased from a grant from the Fund
will be returned to the Smithsonian Institution.

4, Should investigations for which a grant has been made be of con-
siderable duration, a summary of progress should be submitted to the
Institution at the end of six months, as well as a subsequent report in
which the results of such investigations may be recorded.

5. The Institution does not claim any legal property in a research
promoted by its aid, but it expects to make the first publication of the
results obtained, if it desire to do so. If this can not be done without
delay, and if the results seem to require it, the Institution has, when
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

requested, hitherto opposed no obstacle to the publication elsewhere
of the fullest abstract of such results, with the understanding that
acknowledgment shall be made in any such preliiunary publication
of the assistance given by it in promoting the research in which the
advances have been made.

All communications in regard to the Hodgkins Fund, medals and
publications, and ali applications for grants of money, should be
addressed to

S. P. LANeLey,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,

Washington, U. S. A.
NAPLES TABLE.

In accordance with the urgent desire cf many of the leading biolo-
gists of the country, a contract for the Table in the Naples Zoological
Station fora third term of three years was entered into in February,
1900, and appointments to the seat were at once approved.

Dr. B. M. Duggar, of Cornell University, was accorded the seat
for six weeks during February and March, 1900.

Asst. Surg. V. G. Heiser, of the United States Marine-Hospital Serv-
ice, was permitted to use the Table at periods suited to his convenience
whiie stationed at Naples during the months of March and April, 1900.
As in this instance, the kindness of Dr. Dohrn, the Director, renders a
double occupation frequently possibie, thus adding materially to the
service of the Table.

It is a matter of regret that Mr. Willard G. Van Name, who received
the appointment for six weeks during the spring, was prevented by
illness from filling his term at the Table.

Dr. T. H. Morgan, of Bryn Mawr College, who occupied the Smith-
sonian seat six months during the winter and spring of 1894-95, and
has since served temporarily on the Smithsonian Advisory Committee
for the Table, was reappointed fora part of June and July, 1900.

The application of Dr. P. C. Mensch, of Ursinus College, Pennsy!-
vania, was approved for the month of November, 1900.

Dr. E. B. Wilson, Columbia University, New York, has returned to
this country and resumed his duties as a member of the Advisory
Committee. Each succeeding year renews the Secretary’s sense of
obligation to the committee for the assistance afforded him in recom-
mending action on the various applications for the Smithsonian seat.

The reports of the different investigators appointed to the Table
show that the advantages for research enjoyed at Naples are appreci-
ated by them; they also testify to the earnest desire of the Director
and his assistants to render all possible aid to those conducting
researches at Naples.

It may be noted that the established condition requiring an appli-
cant for the Table to submit, with his request for the seat, a summary
of his scientific history, including a list of his published works, is not
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5)

only an aid to the Institution in passing upon the question of appoint-
ment, but tends directly to the personal advantage of the student at
Naples, as asummary of such history is forwarded to Dr. Dohrn with
each notice of appointment.

EXPLORATIONS.

While it has never been possible for the Institution to devove large
amounts from its income for carrying on explorations, it has uever-
theless been able to promote such work in various ways, particularly
in connection with the bureaus of the Institution and in cooperation
with the Executive Departments of the Government. The explora-
tions have in these directions had a very wide range, and have been
productive of a very great increase in the knowledge of the natural
history of the regions visited and of the ethnological conditions of
the people.

During the past year the Institution has thus been more or less
directly concerned in explorations in various parts of the world, from
the arctic regions as far south as Patagonia, and in the distant posses-
sions in the Philippines, as well as in South Africa.

In the pages devoted to the National Museum, the Bureau of Eth-
nology, and the Zoological Park the detailed results of explorations
are narrated and need not be repeated here.

PUBLICATIONS.

Through the publications of the Institution and its bureaus, much is
done each year in carrying out one of its fundamental objects, the
‘*diffusion of knowledge.” Works covering practically every branch
of human knowledge have been distributed throughout the world to
libraries and institutions where they may best be available to scholars
and to the reading public.

The Institution itself publishes three established series—the Contri-
butions to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual
Reports. In the first series, in quarto form, are published original
researches in various branches of science. The series of Miscellaneous
Collections, in the words of Secretary Henry (Smithsonian Report, 1861),
‘includes works intended to facilitate the study of the various branches
of natural history, to give instruction as to the method of observing
natural phenomena, and a variety of other matter connected with the
progress of science. Although the object of the Institution is not
educational, yet in carrying out the general plan it has been thought
important in some cases to publish elementary treatises, which will
not only furnish an introduction to special subjects to those who have
not access to expensive libraries, but also serve to point out the way
in which individuals by special studies can not only promote their own
enjoyment, but also cooperate with all others engaged in the same
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

pursuit in extending the domain of knowledge. The objects of nature,
like the specimens of high art, are the luxuries of the cultivated mind,
and the awakening of a taste for the study affords an inexhaustible
source of pleasure and contentment to the most numerous and the
most important classes of the community.”

In carrying out the policy planned for the Miscellaneous Collections,
there have been published in the 40 volumes of that series 106 bio
logical papers, 67 physical papers, and 22 papers of a business charac-
ter, such as lists of libraries, publications, and of correspondents.

The Annual Reports are accompanied by an appendix distinct in
purpose from the other publications of the Institution. Formerly the
Institution published a summary of the progress of science in all its
branches during the year, but this grew so increasingly inadequate
with the more numerous fields that science occupied that it was dis-
continued, and in its place has been published a series of articles,
occasionally original, but more frequently drawn from other and
nontechnical publications, giving short popular memoirs by writers of
authority on the subjects familiar to each, and collectively a résumé
of those of most special! interest in all departments of science which have
appeared during the year. The special characteristic of these memoirs
is that, while authoritative, they are nontechnical and of interest to
the general reader, and there are few portions of the work of the
Institution which more effectively serve in the diffusion of knowledge
than this.

The Institution publishes through the National Museum the Pro-
ceedings and the Bulletin and an Annual Report. Through the Bureau
of Ethnology there are likewise issued very complete works on Ameri-
can Ethnology.

During the past year the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory
have for the first time appeared, the first volume having been put to
press and practically published at the close of the fiscal year. This
work is discussed somewhat in detail in the paragraph devoted to the
Observatory. It is an exhaustive account of the work of the Secre-
tary during a long series of years in his study of the infra-red solar
spectrum, a work begun at Allegheny in 1878, and continued in the
Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution.

An important work put in type during the year, under special
authority of Congress, was a Documentary and Legislative History
of the Institution from 1836 to 1899, comprising about 1,900 pages,
to be published in two volumes.

There has also been in hand a second Supplement to Bolton’s Bibli-
ography of Chemistry, giving about 6,000 titles of academic disserta-
tions. The first part of the Museum portion of the Smithsonian
Report for 1897 was distributed early in the year; but the second part,
to consist of some of the more important papers by the late Assistant
Secretary, Dr. Goode, has not been completed. Both the Smith-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ly
sonian and Museum volumes of the 1898 Report were put in type, but
it was impossible to issue them in bound form before the year closed.

In order to meet the demand for information in regard to the abo-
riginal antiquities of the West Indies, the Institution reprinted from
the Reports for 1876 and 1884, descriptions of the Latimer Collection
from Porto Rico and of the Guesde Collection in Pointe-a-Pitre,
Guadaloupe.

Of the Proceedings of the National Museum, Volume X XI was
published in bound form, and 23 papers included in Volume XXII
were issued as pamphlets.

As the principal paper in the Museum Report for 1898, it seemed
advisable to publish an exhaustive monographic treatise by the late
Professor Cope on the Crocodilians, Lizards, and Snakes of North
America.

The elaborate work by Drs. Jordan and Evermann on the Fishes of
North and Middle America was brought to completion by the publi-
cation of Part 4 of Bulletin +7 of the Museum, this part consisting of
392 plates, with explanations, and a general table of contents of the
four parts of the work.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued Part 2 of the Sevententh
Annual Report, but Part 1 has been delayed. The Eighteenth and
Nineteenth Reports are also in the hands of the Government Printer,
and some progress has been made in the printing of the first bulletin
of a new series authorized by Congress.

LIBRARY.

The number of volumes, parts of volumes, pamphlets, and charts
added to the library has aggregated 25,701. As this appears to show
a decrease over previous years, it seems well to record the fact that
the decrease is apparent and not real. From the inception of the
Institution each item, even a periodical issued weekly, was separately
entered in the accession book. Last year the number of such items
aggregated over 36,000, and the clerical labor involved was very great.
Inasmuch as the separate parts were checked upon cards, it seemed
advisable to give up the old system which, while affording an abso-
lutely permanent record of each item, involved an expenditure of
energy disproportionate to the result. The Librarian of Congress
and the librarian of the Institution joined in recommending this
change.

From January 1, 1900, only completed volumes were entered in the
accession book.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

The third and final conference on an International Catalogue of

Scientific Literature was held in London June 12 and 18, 1900, and the

United States Government was invited to participate, through the
sM 1900 2

18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Department of State, as it has in the previous conferences. The
invitation requested the appointment of delegates prepared to pledge
their governments to definite support of the undertaking; and to meet
this condition the Secretary of State urged upon Congress an appro-
priation of $10,000 for the purpose. As Congress adjourned without
making the grant, it appeared that no authority existed to send a
representative to the conference with the powers stipulated in the
terms of the invitation, and accordingly none was sent. This result
is greatly to be deplored, since probably no country has a larger inter-
est in scientific bibliography than the United States.

So keenly was the absence of American co-operation felt, and the
danger of the entire failure of the undertaking was so apparent should
American aid not be forthcoming, that the Secretary informally agreed
to draw upon the slender resources of the Institution temporarily, and
furnish to this international undertaking an index of American scientific
literature.

It is hoped that in some way Congress may be brought to see the
importance of this undertaking, and make adequate provision. It
would constitute a real reproach to the country, should America not do
its share in this work.

GALLERY OF ART.

The act of foundation of the Institution declares (section 5586 of the
Revised Statutes) that ‘‘ whenever suitable arrangements can be made
from time to time for their reception, all objects of art and of foreign
and curious research, all objects of natural history, plants, and geo-
logical and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United States
* * * shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by
the Board of Regents to receive them, and shall be so arranged and
classified in the building erected for the Institution as best to facilitate
the examination and study of them;” so that the first object of the
Institution, in the eyes of its founders, appears to have been to give
it the curatorship of the art collections of the nation.

During its early years this object was promoted in various ways;
among others by the purchase of a very valuable collection of prints
and engravings belonging to the Hon. George P. Marsh. After the
fire in the Institution in 1865 these prints were deposited for tempo-
rary safe keeping in the Library of Congress and (with other works
of art) in the Corcoran Gallery.

Subsequently an appropriation was granted by Congress for making
a fireproof room in which these could be kept, but it was not until 1896
that the Regents provided for their recall to the Institution. In the
journal of the proceedings of the Board for 1896 (Smithsonian Report,
1896, pp. xlii and xiv) will be found the action taken by the Board
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

providing for their restoration to their own immediate control. The
following resolution offered then by Senator Gray was adopted:

Resolved, That the question of the propriety of bringing the works
of art belonging to the Institution under the more immediate control
of the Board of Regents be referred to the Executive Committee and
the Secretary, with power to act.

In pursuance of this the Institution brought back to its own keeping
a number of prints of value, both from the Library of Congress and
the Corcoran Gallery, leaving, by an amicable understanding with the
latter establishment, as a loan, a few of the works of art, notably a
large picture by Healy.

The old name of the collections was the ‘**Gallery of Art,” a title
which seems almost too ambitious for the present collections of the
Institution, though it is to be hoped that this designation will be justi-
fied by their future increase. These have been placed by me ina room
specially fitted up for that purpose (the Art Room), under the tem-
porary charge of the librarian.

THE CHILDREN’S ROOM.

An educational museum has been elsewhere defined as ‘*a collection
of instructive labels, each illustrated by a well-selected specimen;” but
though the first purpose of a museum be for the increase of original
knowledge by investigation and research, its second purpose is to
entertain as well as to instruct. To some extent the scientific system
of classification which requires a Latin name on every natural-history
specimen is associated with a treatment on the label which does not
principally consider what interests, but what instructs, and makes the
collection less entertaining than it might otherwise be to the general
public; but this, the customary arrangement, while right and neces-
sary for scientific purposes, and the one which must always chiefly
prevail, is not that which is most readily ‘‘ understanded of the people,”
almost the only way to whose comprehension lies through a newly
awakened interest and attention. It may truthfully be said that not
one in twenty persons who enter a museum of natural history does
profit in this sense by the intelligence conveyed along with the Latin
name, and though our own labels are chiefly in English, and though
the wants of this public have already been considered in the National
Museum in the collections as now displayed, it might seem to be pos-
sible to do yet a little more and to place at least in a restricted space
specimens which will engage the interest of the majority of the public
and especially to bring these things within the reach of children.

Speaking for myself, and I believe for most other students of science,
I-may say that each will usually recognize that his ‘* bent” toward his
particular study came to him at a very early period of his life, when
something which excited his childish wonder grew to have unaccountable
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

attraction, which developed into a lifelong pursuit. At least if he can
remember, he will find that this ‘t bent” did not begin in a dry instrue-
tion, but in something which powerfully interested him.

This has been recognized as true philosophy from the time when
Aristotle said ‘* Knowledge begins in wonder;” and with it in view I
have felt desirous of devoting at least some small portion of the col-
lections to the purpose of stimulating the wonder and interest of all
the unlearned, and especially of the children, and I am fitting up in
the south tower of the Smithsonian building a small room on the
ground floor which is to be called the ** Children’s Room.” The little
group of specimens it contains is meant to stimulate, interest, and
entertain rather than to ostensibly instruct. Latin is banished from
its labels, and the classification is not that of science, but that which is
most intelligible to the untrained mind.

T shall return to this subject in a future report, when I can speak
both of the completion of the collection, which is not yet finished, and,
I hope, of useful results in the direction for which it is intended.

CORRESPONDENCE.

The correspondence of the Institution embraces letters having refer-
ence not only to the scope of work of the Institution, but also relating
to the bureaus placed by Congress under its direction. Many letters
relating exclusively to the activities of the bureaus mentioned are
referred to them for attention and answer, but those involving in any
way the policy of the Institution or relating to other than routine
matters are referred to the Secretary.

As in former years, a considerable amount of correspondence relates
to matters not strictly within the purview of the Institution’s inter-
ests, but it has been the endeavor in every instance where the infor-
mation desired could be readily obtained to supply the wants of the
applicant. Where the inquiry addressed to the Institution appears to
come within the immediate scope of the functions of some other branch
of the Government service, the communication has been referred to the
chief of the department or bureau concerned, and the writer so informed.
The correspondence of the Institution is perhaps more varied and
embraces a wider range of subjects than obtains in other departments
of the Government, and but avery small percentage of the letters
received, concern business of aroutine nature. It can readily be under-
stood that this circumstance requires an unusual amount of energy and
labor on the part of the staffs of the Institution and its several bureaus
to properly reply as fully as possible to correspondents.

The system inaugurated in 1890, of registering and referring letters
received at the Institution, when of sufficient importance to warrant
a permanent record of them, has continued in successful operation,
and entries have been promptly made and any arrears avoided.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2A
COOPERATION OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS.

The several Departments of the Government have always generously
cooperated in furthering the interests of the Institution, particularly
in collecting objects of biological or ethnological interest, and the
results of such cooperation are particularly seen in every department
of the Museum. Among those who have been most active in increas-
ing the collections have been officers of the Army and Navy who
have voluntarily given their services to the work.

In order to promote and increase the interest in the Institution on
the part of the officers of the United States resident in foreign coun-
tries, the Secretary of the Institution issued circulars to be sent to
United States consuls and to army and navy officers. The forms of
these circulars were printed in the last Report, and it is gratifying to
note that a considerable number of objects have already been thus
acquired, as mentioned elsewhere.

EXPOSITIONS.

By act of Congress approved March 3, 1899, the sum of $300,000
was appropriated for a Government exhibit at the proposed Pan-
American Exposition to be held at Buffalo in 1901.

The Government Board of Management in charge of the preparation
of the exhibit having apportioned a part of the sum for a display by
the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus, considerable progress has
been made during the year in gathering objects that would best illus-
trate the work of the Institution. In this connection a few objects
connected with the history of art will be exhibited on the part of the
Institution, but the collection will chiefly consist of specimens illus-
trative of its scientific functions, and more especially in the National
Museum and Bureau of Ethnology. An opportunity was thus afforded
for gathering biological collections in Cuba, as well as objects chiefly
of ethnological interest from the Philippines.

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF ORIENTALISTS.

As mentioned in the last report, the Secretary, on December 9, 1898,
designated Dr. Paul Haupt, of Johns Hopkins University, as delegate
of the Institution to the Twelfth International Congress of Orientalists
at Rome, on October 3-15, 1899; and Dr. Haupt, as well as Prof.
Charles R. Lanman, of Harvard University, and Prof. Morris Jastrow,
of the University of Pennsylvania, were, upon recommendation of the
Secretary, appointed as delegates of the United States Government.

The congress was a notable one, nearly 600 persons being present,
of whom 15 were from the United States, and a number of valuable
papers were presented by the American members. One important
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

outgrowth of the meeting was the establishment of an International
Association for the archzologic exploration of India. The next con-
evess will be held in December, 1902, in Hamburg, Germany, while
Athens has been proposed as the place of meeting for the Fourteenth
Congress.

STANDARDS OF COLOR.

Mr. Robert Ridgway, curator of ornithology in the National
Museum, published a number of years ago, for the use of naturalists,
a handbook on color, and he requested a grant from the Institution
fora new edition. It appeared to the Secretary that a work upona
more extended scale and a somewhat different plan would be of value
primarily to naturalists, but also in every department of science, to
artists, and in many branches of industry.

At the present time there is practically no uniformity in the common
use of color names, one name designating as a rule as many as half a
dozen different shades; nor is there any absolute method commonly
available by which a person in one place can describe to a person in
another the exact shade or tint meant by a given name. The produc-
tion of a work which would obviate these difficulties and make availa-
ble what might be called the ‘‘ CONSTANTS OF NATURE” in color, is
directly in line with previous publications of the Institution in
endeavoring to establish standards whereby a definite nomenclature in
scientific and popular writing might be introduced.

The conception is that of a comprehensive and important work, and
this has been under consideration for some time, for it has been felt
that it could not be undertaken by the Institution unless it was to be
done in a worthy manner. One of the difficulties in such books as
they have hitherto been published, is that they are absolutely depend-
ent upon color illustrations which fade with time, so that the original
tints, which should be the standards of comparison, can not be
recovered.

The Secretary, after consulting with others expert in the matter,
decided that it would be desirable not only to secure more permanent
tints, but to connect every tint published in the book with some defin-
ite wave length in the spectrum, whether the solar spectrum or a com-
posite one. The investigations of Professor Rood and others show
that it is difficult to do this directly, but that it can be effected by the
use of intermediate means of comparison.

Again, experiments must be made to determine how far this large
object (of connecting every tint employed with some definite wave
length or combination of wave lengths of light) is practicable. If it be
fully so, the work may be said to be in one sense something absolutely
permanent, relating as it will to standards which can never alter with
time, so that, as has been said, those who expect that their writings
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

will be more permanent than the planet itself should take this method
of illustrating them.

The work promised such magnitude that a committee was appointed,
as follows: Mr. Ridgway, curator of the ornithology in the National
Museum, as possible editor; Mr. Holmes, head curator of anthro-
pology, and known as an artist of ability; Dr. Gill, the distinguished
naturalist, and Dr. Adler, the librarian of the Institution, who has
been charged to procure information on the history of the subject.
To these it is quite probable there will be later added a physicist and
possibly a special colorist, unless these last two qualifications can be
found combined in the same person, which is hardly probable.

NATIONAL STANDARDIZING BUREAU.

The Hon. James H. Southard, chairman of the Committee on Coin-
age, Weights and Measures of the House of Representatives, invited
the Secretary to appear before the committee last April in regard to
the merits of a bill then before Congress for the establishment of a
bureau of standards, but he was unfortunately prevented from doing
so by other engagements.

It is proper to say, however, that the establishment of a bureau of
standards is a matter in which the Secretary has been always greatly
interested, and that at the request of the Superintendent of the Coast
Survey he had an interview with him and made some suggestions in
reference to proposed legislation.

The Secretary was the first to establish a practical plan, which was
afterward very generally adopted by the railways of the United
States, for communicating standard time over long distances, and he
has always taken a special interest in the subject of determinations of
exact measurements in other ways.

The Smithsonian Institution has preserved in its Museum sets of
standards of the United States, and the Secretary has also personally
commenced a collection of instruments to illustrate the history of
standards in all countries. Certain archaic specimens which have
been acquired for this purpose are being at the present time arranged.

He takes this opportunity of recording the fact of his interest in the
measure now before Congress for the establishment of a national
bureau of standards, and saying that his testimony, if given before
the Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures, would have been
in favor of the plan proposed in the bill under consideration.

PROPOSED CHALCEDONY PARK.

The region known as the Petrified Forest in Arizona has been a
place of much popular and scientific interest, and at various times the
question of setting the region apart as a Government reservation has
been agitated but without any definite action until the past year,
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

when, us a result of correspondence between the Institution and the
General Land Office, the further removal of fossil trees has been
prohibited.

Prof. Lester F. Ward visited the region in November, 1899, and
the results of his examination have been published by the Department
of the Interior.

The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution received the following
letter from the honorable Commissioner of the General Land Office:

PETRIFIED FOREST, ARIZONA.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,
GENERAL LAnp OFFIcE,
Washington, D. C., June 17, 1899.

Str: Iam in receipt of a certified copy of a memorial by the legis-
lature of Arizona praying that certain lands in Apache County, Aviz.,
in the vicinity of the town of Holbrook, known as the ‘‘ Petrified For-
est,” be withdrawn from entry with a view to creating a reservation
or national park for the purpose of preserving the natural wonders
and curiosities of the same.

I have the honor to request that you will kindly inform me whether
the records of the Smithsonian Institution furnish any information
respecting this locality indicating that the scenic features of the same
are of such a nature as to render it desirable, in the interest of the
public, to set these lands apart as a national park. I will be pleased
to receive a full expression of your views on this subject, and also as
to the importance of preserving the mineralized formations in that
region.

Very respectfully, BinGER HERMANN,
Commissioner.
The SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

To this letter the following reply was made:

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., July 7, 1899.

Str: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of the 17th ultimo requesting information concerning the Petri-
fied Forest near Holbrook, in Arizona, as well as an expression of
opinion concerning the desir ability of setting aside these lands as a
national park, and beg to furnish the following statement:

The region near Holbr ook, Apache County, Arizona, known as the
‘*Petrified Forest,” ‘*Chalcedony Park,” and ‘‘ Lithodendron (stone
trees) Valley,” is of great interest because of the abundance of its
beautiful petrified coniferous trees, as well as of its scenic features.
The trees lie scattered about in great profusion, but none stand erect
in their original place of erowth as do many in the Yellowstone
National Park. The National Museum possesses three splendid trunks
collected there by Lieutenant Hegewald at the request of General
Sherman.

The best popular account of this region is given by Mr. George F.
Kunz, and is as follows:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

‘* Among the great American wonders is the silicified forest, known
as Chalcedony Park, situated about 8 miles south of Carrizo, a station
on the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, in Apache County, Arizona.
* * * The locality was noticed in 1853 by the Pacific Railroad
Exploring Survey. * * * There is every evidence to show that
the trees grew beside some inland sea. After falling they became
water-logged, and during decomposition the cell structure of the wood
was entirely replaced by silica from sandstone in the walls surround-
ing this great inland sea.

“Over the entire area trees lie scattered in all conceivable positions
and in fragments of all sizes, the broken sections sometimes resem-
bling a pile of cart wheels. * * * A phenomenon perhaps unpar-
alleled and the most remarkable feature of the park is a natural bridge
formed by a tree of agatized wood spanning a canyon 45 feet in width.
In addition to the span, fully 50 feet of the tree rests on one side,
making it visible for a length over 100 feet.”

Lieutenant Hegewald writes:

‘*T rode down the valley to examine the thousands of specimens that
lay scattered on each side of the valley along the slopes, which were
perhaps 50 feet high; the valley of the Lithodendron, at its widest
part, being scarcely a half mile. Along the slopes no vegetation what-
ever was to be seen, wood being very scarce; the soil was composed
of clay and sand mostly, and these petrifactions, broken into raion
of pieces, lay scattered all adown these slopes. Some of the large
fossil trees were well preserved, though the action of heat and cold
had broken most of Aisi in sections from 2 to 20 feet long, and
some of these must have been immense trees; measuring the exposed
parts of several, they varied from 150 to 200 feet in leneth, and from
2 to 43 feet in diameter, the centers often containing most beautiful
quartz crystals.”

Dr. Walter Hough, of the Smithsonian Institution, who has visited
the park, writes as follows:

‘In the celebrated Petrified Forest, which is some 18 miles from
Holbrook, Arizona, on the picturesque Santa Fe Railroad, there are
fuitis of several ancient Indian villages. These villages are small, in
some cases having merely a few houses, but what gives sthema peculiar
interest is that they were built of logs of beautiful fossil wood. * * #
The prehistoric dwellers of the land selected cylinders of uniform size,
which were seemingly determined by the carrying strength of a man.
It is probable that prehistoric builders never chose more beautiful
stones for the construction of their habitations than the trunks of the
trees which flourished ages before man appeared on the earth.

** This wood agate also furnished material for stone hammers, arrow-
heads, and knives, which are often found in ruins hundreds of miles
from the forest.”

This ‘‘ wood agate” or ‘“‘wood opal” is now cut and polished into
floor tiling, mantels, clock cases, table tops, paper weights, ete. The
silver testimonial to the French sculptor Bartholdi, made by Tiffany
& Co., had for its base a section of this wood agate.

Prof. Lester F. Ward, an eminent paleo obotanist, who, while officially
attached to the staff of the United States Geological Survey, also holds
the position of associate curator in the National Museum, expects to
visit the Pacific coast this summer, and may return by the southern
route. He tells me that if you so desire he would be pleased to visit
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the region in question for the special purpose of procuring further
information regarding the features covered by your inquiry.
in conclusion I would say that all with whom I have consulted are
agreed that the ‘* Petrified Forest,” or ‘‘ Chalcedony Park,” of Apache
County, Arizona, should be preserved as a public park for the benefit
of the American people. In no other area is there such a profusion of
highly colored stone trees. Fossil wood is scattered over a very great
area of Arizona, but the densest portion and chief place of: interest is
‘*Chaleedony Park,” an area of less than 5 miles square. This region
is about 20 miles south of Carrizo station.
A list of papers relating to the Arizona forest trees is appended.
Very respectfully,
RicHarD RATHBUN,
Acting Secretary.
Hon. BrncerR HERMANN,
Commissioner General Land Office,
Department of the Interior, Washington, VO es

MISCELLANEOUS.

Gifts.—Among the gifts to the Institution during the year may be
mentioned an extensive and valuable collection of archeological
objects presented to the Institution by Mr. Joseph D. McGuire, of
Washington.

Smithson tablet.—The bronze tablet affixed, by the direction of the
Regents, to the tomb of Smithson in Genoa, having been stolen, it has
been ordered to be replaced by one in Carrara marble.

Foreign institutions.—Dr. Andrew D. White, ambassador to Ger-
many and a Regent of the Institution, was designated to represent the
latter at the celebration of the two hundredth anniversary of the Royal
Prussian Academy of Sciences, at Berlin, on March 19 and 20, 1900.

Dr. White attended, and, in his report of the ceremonies, suggested
that the formal congratulations of the Institution should he suitably
engrossed and forwarded to the Royal Academy. This was done
through the Department of State.

The congratulations of the Institution were also sent to the Kaiser-
lich-K6nigliche Geologische Reichsanstalt, on the occasion of its fif-
tieth anniversary, and to the Kéniglich Sachsischen Altertumsverein
on the occasion of its seventy-fifth anniversary.

THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Of the several bureaus of the Smithsonian Institution the National
Museum is of most general interest, and the administration of its busi-
ness has demanded most care.

The primary object of the Museum is the acquisition, preserva-
ty

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. PAL

tion, and classification of the collections of the Institution and the Goy-
ernment, which relate to nearly every branch of human knowledge.
The placing of these, when arranged by their curators, on public exhi-
bition in such a manner as best to afford to visitors an opportunity
to acquire accurate general information concerning them may be
regarded as a necessary adjunct, and serves not only as a means of
instruction but also as a source of entertainment to the public.

The foundation of the Museum collections was the number of ethno
logical and biological objects brought to the United States more than
half a century ago by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, and the collee-
tions made by explorers for the Smithsonian Institution, to whose care
these materials and every other object of natural history were later
transferred.’ The preservation and classification of these objects was
the work of those who for a number of years had charge of the Goy-
ernment collections in the United States Patent Office, and when these
were transferred to the custody of the Smithsonian Institution and were
placed on exhibition, and as other large collections were added to the
Museum, there came gradually into existence a store of valuable objects,
which were, however, unconsecutive and not only often duplicated, but
frequently unrelated owing to the mode of their acquisition.

At the close of the Centennial Exhibition of 1876 at Philadelphia a
great number of collections, chiefly of industrial interest, became the
property of the Smithsonian Museum. For the accommodation of
these objects, a one-story building was begun in 1879 and completed in
1881, containing an area of about 80,000 square feet, and built in the
cheapest manner. This structure was so entirely inadequate to the
object for which a building of five or six stories over the same area
would have barely sufficed, that within two years from its completion
it was found to be too limited for the display of the exhibits then actually
on hand.

It was proposed as early as 1882 to provide additional quarters for
the Museum, with the object of giving accommodation also to the Geo-
logical Survey, there being a BEevieo in Lae bill, BOCRTES oe the Be

a fy henever suitable arrangements can be me, from time to time for ae recep-
tion, all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural
history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United
States, which may be in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody they may be,
shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to
receive them, and shall be so arranged and classified in the building erected for the
Institution as best to facilitate the examination and study of them; and whenever
new specimens in natural history, geology, or mineralogy are obtained for the
Museum of the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate specimens, which the Regents
may in their discretion make, or by donation, which they may receive, or other-
wise, the Regents shall cause such new specimens to be appropriately classed and
arranged.”’ (Sec. 5586, U. 8. Revised Statutes. )
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

posed building should always remain under the absolute direction of
the Regents.’

The Secretary, in his report for 1888, represented to the Regents the
insufficiency of the existing accommodations for the collections already
in the possession of the Museum, which at that time, within seven years
after the completion of the present Museum building, was already found
to be wholly inadequate. The history of the Museum since then has
been a uniform one of representations to Congress by the Regents of
the increasing insufficiency of its building and lately its intolerable
inadequacy.”

Tn 1899 the Secretary took occasion to say to the Regents:

“The nation has given an adequate house to its great collection of
books. Has not the time come to finally ask of Congress the provision
of an adequate home for this greater collection of specimens, a project
which was dear to the heart of your late colleague, Senator Morrill,
and one which he urged with almost his last breath?”

It has already been observed that by far the greater portion of the
treasures of the Museum have been acquired by Government explora-

1'The proposition was not viewed favorably by the Board, the Chancellor stating
‘‘that it was desirable that new Museum buildings should be erected in any case,
but that since by an act of Congress a certain part of the public grounds had been
set apart and appropriated absolutely and exclusively to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, he for one did not want to see anything else placed on these grounds.”’

He further said: ‘‘If the Smithsonian Institution is to grow, it will need them
all, and whatever is put upon them should be under our exclusive control.’’? (Jour-
nal Proceedings of Regents, page xv, Report 1888.)

The remarks of the Regents in discussing this proposition indicated clearly that
the view of the Chancellor had their unanimous approval.

2 A bill was introduced by Senator Morrill on June 12, 1888, for the erection of an
additional Museum building, and the measure was favorably acted upon by the
Senate, but failed in the House. On June 21 of the same year Senator Morrill moved
the provisions of the bill in the form of an amendment to the sundry civil bill for
1889, and at the following session (January 17, 1889) he again introduced this pro-
vision as an amendment to the sundry civil bill for 1890.

In the Fifty-first Congress Senator Morrill again reported, from the Committee on
Public Buildings and Grounds, the bill for a new Museum building, which bill was
passed by the Senate April 5, 1890, and not being reported in the House, was, on
June 24, 1890, as in previous sessions, again reported by Senator Morrill as an
amendment to the sundry civil bill (for 1891), which amendment was agreed to by
the Senate, but failed in conference, as before. On January 9, 1891, Mr. Milliken, of
the Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds, reported a bill with these same
provisions in the House and Senator Morrill again introduced it into the Senate as
an amendment to the sundry civil bill for 1892. The provisions were repeated in the
bill introduced in the Fifty-second Congress by Senator Morrill, when the bill was
agreed to by the Senate, but no action was taken in the House. In the Fifty-third
Congress the same bill was introduced by Senator Morrill into the Senate, but not
reported. It was again introduced into the Fifty-fourth Congress and later as an
amendment. In the latter Congress Senator Morrill offered the identical provision
as an amendment to the sundry civil bill for 1897. This was again agreed to by the
Senate, ret failed tn the House and was eliminated in conference.

——
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

tions or by gifts from the people of the United States and foreign
countries, but while the people may take just pride in what they feel
is their own, collections gathered in this way are, as has just been
observed, not only partially duplicated or triplicated, but are at the
sume time fragmentary and lacking in that completeness that comes by
systematic work in bringing similar classes of objects together under
a well-considered system.

The filling of the gaps just alluded to can only be brought about by
the application of a purchasing fund. After repeated requests to
Congress, a small appropriation was made at the last session for the
special purpose of purchasing specimens, but the amount thus ayail-
able is so limited and the deficiencies in the present collections are so
great that it will be impracticable to add any entirely new series of
objects at present, and the fund will be devoted to filling the gaps in
existing series. It is hoped that Congress may hereafter grant larger
sums for the acquisition of specimens.

The curators of the several departments of the Museum have con-
tinued during the past year the classification and arrangement of old
and new material preparatory to its exhibition. The information gath-
ered by the curators while examining and arranging specimens has in
many cases been printed in the form of descriptive catalogues contain-
ing scientific information expressed in such untechnical language that
visitors uninformed in the subject may readily understand the collec-
tions. The Secretary has constantly had in view the importance of the
comprehensive labeling of objects placed on exhibition and he is grati-
fied that much progress has been made in this direction, the museum
having been well defined as a collection of instructive labels each illus-
trated by a well-selected specimen.

In the Appendix will be found a report giving details in regard to
Museum work during the year, with reference to many important
accessions. Mention may be made here of a few additions of special
public interest, among which are a considerable number of memorials
of the war with Spain and the Philippine insurrection. To the geo-
logical collections were added some interesting fossil animals secured
from the fields of Wyoming, and a large amount of zoological
material was collected in Cuba and Porto Rico. There has also been
transferred to the Museum the extensive and very valuable series of
vertebrate fossils collected by the late Professor Marsh during his con-
nection with the United States Geological Survey. This collection
ageregated five car-loads, and is particularly rich in specimens of the
gigantic Dinosaurs, besides fifty skulls of Titanotherium, probably the
best specimens in existence.

The general appearance of several of the Museum halls has been
improved by replacing the old wooden floors by terrazzo pavements,
and appropriation has been made for the completion of this much-
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

needed improvement. Progress has also been made in furnishing with
suitable exhibition cases the new galleries, which temporarily relieve
a part of the congestion, and some interesting collections heretofore
crowded into narrow limits have thus been less inadequately displayed,
though the general aspect may yet be said with truth to be rather that
of a storehouse than a museum.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The operations of the Bureau of American Ethnology were continued
under the direction of Maj. J. W. Powell and his efficient assistants.
The field work of the regular corps extended into Maine, New York,
Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indian Territory, Oklahoma, California, Ari-
zona, New Mexico, Cuba, Jamaica, Ontario, and Nova Scotia, while
special work was done in other districts. The explorations and
researches continue to yield valuable results in the form of contri-
butions to the science of ethnology, while the collections made in con-
nection with the work form an important tributary to the National
Museum.

One of the reconnoissances of the year extended to the Antillean
islands, which are supposed by students to have lain in the pathway
of important aboriginal migrations, and data of consequence were
obtained in the course of the work.

Among the recent acquisitions of the Bureau are two aboriginal
vocabularies, both famed among students. One of these is the Trum-
bull Dictionary of the Natick (Massachusetts) Indian language, which
was conveyed to the Bureau for publication through the intervention
of Dr. Edward Everett Hale, vice-president of the American Anti-
quarian Society, the custodian of the manuscript. The other is a dic-
tionary of the Maya language, known as the Diccionario de Motul,
which has been in existence in manuscript form for centuries, and
which is finally to be published through the agency of the Bureau.

Some practical importance attaches to the recent work of the Bureau
in connection with aboriginal agriculture and crop plants. The inves-
tigation of the wild-rice industry, of the northern lake region espe-
cially, brings out a neglected phase of aboriginal industry, and at the
same time directs attention to a promising natural resource.

One of the collaborators of the Bureau was detailed to the Govern-
ment Board of the Pan-American Exposition, and made important
collections in the Philippine Islands, some of which are designed for
ultimate deposit in the Museum.

The details of the work of the Bureau are set forth fully in the
Appendix to this report.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The free interchange of Government and scientific publications
between this country and the governments and learned societies of
other lands has grown to be one of the most important functions of
the Smithsonian Institution. Great numbers of books are annually
transmitted abroad and great quantities are received in exchange each
year, the quantity handled during the past fiscal year aggregating
113,563 packages, weighing 409,991 pounds, an increase in weight of
more than one-fourth over the previous year.

These exchanges are in no sense of a commercial nature, for no
publications for sale are allowed transmission. More than one-half of
the exchanges consist of Government documents, while the other half
are publications exchanged between learned societies and men through-
outthe world. The International Exchange Bureau has salaried resident
agents in London, Leipzig, and Budapest, and a large number of agents
in various parts of the world who lend their services gratuitously. The
correspondents who more or less regularly exchange publications
through the Smithsonian Institution now aggregate 33,951, of which
7,721 are in the United States and the rest in foreign lands, extending
even to the remotest corners of the world.

The expenses of the Exchange Service were for thirty years met
entirely from the income of the Smithsonian Institution, but when
public documents began to form so large a part of the transmissions
as to become an unbearable drain on its resources, Congress began to
make appropriations for the work, and the entire service, through
international treaties, has since become chiefly (though not entirely)
dependent on annual appropriations by Congress.

Publications from societies in this country intended for trans-
mission abroad must be delivered at the Institution free of expense,
and they are transmitted to foreign societies or individuals without
charge. Packages received from abroad are distributed in this
country under frank by registered mail.

The liberal policy of the United States Government in providing for
the service is not, however, reciprocated abroad except by a few of
the smaller countries. Great Britain, Germany, and Austria have
never, while continuing the exchange service, subscribed to the
Brussels treaty,' while France and Russia have contributed very mea-

'The treaty concluded at Brussels, March 15, 1886, ratified by the President of the
United States July 19, 1888, and of which ratifications were exchanged January 14,
1889, consists of ten articles, in which it is stipulated that there shall be established
in each of the contracting States a bureau charged with the duty of exchanges, which
shall embrace the official documents, parliamentary and administrative, which are
published in the country of their origin, and works executed by order and at the
expense of the Government; each bureau shall cause to be printed a list of the publi-
Se REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

gerly toward the service. The United States, it will be observed, is
the only first-class power which became a party to it, and it may per-
haps be suggested as a not improbable reason for the abstention of such
powers as England, France, Germany, or Russia, that the treaty would
bind them to an exchange system chiefly with smaller powers who could
not return as much as they received. This is an assumption only, but
it refers to a condition which the writer was obliged to have in mind
in his attempted negotiations.

The distribution of packages after they reach Europe and other for-
eign countries is, owing to the conditions just stated, slow and uncer-
tain, except where the Institution has found it expedient to establish
and maintain agencies for promoting its own interests. The returns
from these countries, especially in the way of official documents, has
moreover always been inadequate, due mainly, it would appear, to the
lack of appreciation of the benefits to be gained thereby, but in part
also to indifference. Efforts have constantly been made by the Insti-
tution to stimulate a greater interest in the subject among foreign
countries, and representatives have been dispatched from time to time
to explain the exchange methods and solicit a more liberal participation,
but though something has been accomplished in this way, the relations
have remained until recently practically as they were in the beginning.

In 1870 Professor Henry went to England and while there testified
before an English Government scientific commission regarding the
international exchange system, as it was then constituted in the exclusive
charge of the Smithsonian Institution and carried on at its private
expense.’

Later, Secretary Baird sent Mr. George H. Boehmer, in immediate
charge of the Exchanges, to Europe on a similar errand, and twelve
years after, the present Secretary sent Mr. William C. Winlock,.
curator of the Exchanges, to Leipsic to endeavor to improve the

cations that it is able to place at the disposal of the contracting States, these several
bureaus of exchange to arrange between themselves the number of copies which they
may be able to demand and furnish; transmission shall be made direct from bureau
to bureay; each State assumes the expense of packing and transportation to the place
of destination, but when transmission shall be made by sea, special arrangements may
be made as to the share of the expense that each State shall bear for transportation;
the several bureaus shall serve in an officious capacity as intermediaries between the
learned bodies and literary and scientific societies of the contracting States for the
reception and transmission of their publications. The duties of the exchange will be
confined to the mere transmission of the works of exchanges and will not in any
manner take the initiative to bring about the establishment of reciprocai relations
among correspondents.

The governments subscribing to this treaty are the United States of America,
Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal and the Algarves, Servia, Spain, and the Swiss Con-
federation. The representative of France subscribed to the treaty, but his action was
not confirmed by the French Chambers.

' Journals, Board of Regents, Smithsonian Institution, 1879, p. 775.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 33

exchange relations with Germany. On the occasion of Mr. Winlock’s
visit the Secretary was in Europe and called personally, with Mr.
Eustis, the American minister, on the minister of public instruction
in Paris, and secured from him a promise that he would endeavor to
obtain from the Chambers something more than the inadequate sum,
approximately $2,000, then provided for the French exchanges.

All these missions having proved only partially successful, however,
and the condition of affairs with France having grown worse rather
than better, the Secretary decided to give the matter his personal
attention in an otherwise unofficial trip he was making to Europe for
rest; a purpose with which this business interfered more than he had
anticipated.

The endeavor to improve the relations with the exchanges in Eng-
land, France and Germany commenced in the fiscal year covered by
the present report, but extended in its latter portion into the present
year. Inorder toavoid discontinuity, however, the Secretary presents
the whole subject at this time.

On the 5th of June the Secretary wrote as follows:

JUNE 5, 1900.

Str: I beg to bring to your attention a matter which has been the
subject of much correspondence between the Department of State and
the Smithsonian Institution during the past twenty years, and which
is still in a most unsatisfactory condition. I allude to the system of
international exchanges, which rests upon a treaty concluded at Brus-
eels March 15, 1886, and which was signed by the President July 19,
1888.

To this treaty some of the most important nations of Europe have
never agreed. England and Germany are not parties to it at all,
while France and Russia conformed to a previous convention on the
subject, but have never bound themselves to abide by the terms of the
treaty. This works unfairly to this country, for whereas this Gov
ernment presents one copy of every document published at the Govern-
ment Printing Office to the national or legislative libraries of foreign
countries, a most inadequate return is made; more especially from the
countries of which I speak. Representatives of the Institution have
been sent abroad on repeated occasions by my predecessors in this
office, and by me, to try to regularize our exchanges. They have all
failed, perhaps because as subordinate officers and not working with the
advice of the Department, they could not exercise a proper influence.

Complaints are frequently made through bureaus of this Govern-
ment of failures of the Exchange Service, due in reality wholly to its
inability to control the actions of foreign Governments, and these at
times are transmitted through the Department of State, which I have
accordingly had occasion to already advise that the relations which
exist with the principal foreign countries in this respect are not only
unsatisfactory, but tend to grow worse.

T should be glad to know whether the Department deems it expedi-
ent at this time to obtain the adherence of England, Germany, and
France to the Brussels treaty or to negotiate separate treaties, or
whether any other step could be suggested to bring about a result so

sm 1900 3

34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

eminently desirable to the Government service, to the Library of
Congress, and to this Institution.

If the Department deem it expedient to take up the matter this
summer, I am prepared to go abroad without cost to the Department,
and if I could be useful by furnishing any ambassador or minister at
the posts mentioned with any detailed information he may desire I
should be very glad to put my services at its disposal.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
S. P. Lanerny, Secretary.

The SECRETARY OF STATE,

Washington, D. C.

To the above communication the following reply was received:

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, June 20, 1900.

Str: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
June 5, in which you bring to the attention of this Department the
unsatisfactory condition of the system of international exchanges
which rests upon a treaty concluded at Brussels March 15, 1886. You
state that some of the most important nations of Europe have never
agreed to this treaty, England and Germany not being parties to it at
all, while France and Russia conform to the provisions of the conven-
tion on the subject but have never bound themselves to abide by the
terms of the treaty. You point out that this works unfairly to this
country, which receives an inadequate return for the documents which
it sends out. You call attention to the failure of previous attempts
to ameliorate the existing state of things. You inquire whether or
not it seems expedient to this Department at this time to obtain the
adherence of England, Germany, and France to the provisions of the
treaty or to negotiate separate treaties, or whether or not any other
system could be suggested to bring about a result so eminently desir-
able to the Government service, to the Library of Congress, and the
Smithsonian Institution.

You state that you are about to proceed abroad, and that you would
be disposed to place your services at the disposal of the Department
for the execution of plans for the improvement of the Exchange Serv-
ice. In reply to your generous proposition I have the honor to say
that it does not seem expedient to endeavor to urge upon England,
Germany, and France adhesion to the Brussels treaty, as it is probable
that they have what appear to them sufticient reasons for not becoming
signatories to this convention. It is possible that one of their objec-
tions is that adherence to the convention would require them to furnish
complete sets of valuable publications to the smaller and less important
governments in exchange for publications which they may deem of
inconsiderable value. At all events it does not seem practicable to
endeaver to overcome their disinclination to become participants in the
arrangements of the treaty.

It is, however, eminently proper that during your contemplated
visit to Europe you should lay this matter clearly before the diplo-
matic representatives of the United States in the capitals where your
Journey may call you, and perhaps have personal conversations with
those officers of the foreign governments to which reference has been
made, who may be able to facilitate the sending of publications of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

those governments in exchange for those sent from the United States.
Such arrangements as will secure to this country the full benefits which
might be secured through the adherence of England, Germany, and
France to the Brussels tre aty may doubtless be obtained in’ this
manner, which would be found, perhaps, less objectionable to them
than a formal adherence to the convention, against which, for some
reason, they seem to entertain a prejudice.

‘I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

Joun Hay.
Hon. 8. P. Lanewry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.

The results of the Secretary’s labors are summarized under the head
of each country separately, as follows:

ENGLAND.

On July 18 the Secretary presented to the embassy a written state-
ment concerning the condition of exchange matters between the
United States and Great Britain, a copy of which follows:

Lonpvon, Eneiann, July 18, 1900.

Str: The Smithsonian Institution, consisting of an establishment
composed of the President of the United States, the Vice-President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of the Departments, was founded by
an act of Congress in the year 1846, with functions rather general
aa local in their character, it being described in the words of the act

s ‘for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.’

ae has, as a part of these functions, at all times pr omoted the inter-
communication of literary and scientific matter between the United
States and Great Britain, as well as with other nations, and this sys-
tem of literary and scientific exchange, while officially promoted by
the Government of the United States since the first-half of the pres-
ent century, has more recently been extended by the legislation of
which I now speak.

With the approval of the Secretary of State, I have then the honor
to address you the following memoranda concerning the exchange of
official and other publications between the United States and Great
Britain, and to respectfully ask your interest in concluding a long-
needed arrangement which shall provide on the part of the British
Government for action reciprocal to that of the United States, regard-
ing, first, exchanges of official publications of the Government, | and,
second, for scientific and literar y exchanges.

MEMORANDA CONCERNING EXCHANGES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND GREAT BRITAIN.
1. Government exchanges.

On March 2, 1867, the following joint resolution of Congress was
approved by the President:

* Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the l nited
States of America in Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all docu-
ments hereafter printed by order of either House of C ongress, and
fifty copies additional of all documents printed in excess of the usual
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

number, together with fifty copies of each publication issued by any
department or bureau of the Government, be placed at the disposal
of the Joint Committee on the Library, who shall exchange the same,
through the agency of the Smithsonian Institution, for such works
published i in fore eign countries, and especially by foreion governments,
as may be deemed by said committee e an equive alent: said works to be
deposited in the Library of Congress.’

In accordance with this, the United States has since that time
presented, through the Smithsonian Institution, a complete set of
all its official publications to the British Museum, for the British
Government.

In 1886, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal, Servia, and Spain entered
into a convention at Brussels, to which the United States was a party,
by which they agreed to reciprocal arrangements as to the manner of
exchanging both official and liter: ary and scientific publications, as well
as to the expenses of shipment and the establishment of offices.

To this convention Great Britain did not become a party.

On October 1, 1875, the Institution addressed, through the proper
channel, a request to the English Government to arrange for an ade-
quate return on its part of its own publications for those sent by the
United States Government. Lord Derby, however, in a letter of
March 1, 1877, requested the American minister to ‘*inform Pro-
fessor Henry, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, that Her
Majesty is crateful for the offer made by the Smithsonian Institution,
but are not prepared to enter into an arrangement for the unlimited
exchange of documents suggested in his letter to you.”

Various departments and offices of the British Government have
since sent in exchange British Government publications, but only
lately in a systematic manner and in quantity that would be deemed
an equivalent for those of the United States.

In the twenty-three years which have elapsed since Lord Derby’s
letter was written the alre ady considerable sendings of the United
States Government to England have been increased more than three-
fold, and it seems now desirable that the British Government snall
(if it does not wish to become a party to the Brussels treaty) estab-
lish some suitable bureau or office charged with the duty of collecting
all publications not confidential, issued by Her Majesty’s Government,
to be transmitted to the United States in exchange for the set of pub-
lieations now forwarded to the British Museum. The Institution
has of late received British official publications from Her Majesty's
stationery office.

2. Scientific and literary exchanges.

Since its foundation the Smithsonian Institution has conducted a
system of the exchange of literary and scientific publications volun-
tarily presented by institutions or individuals in the United States to
others in Great Britain and her colonies, and reciprocally. This inter-
national system has proven itself of the greatest value to literary
and scientific men everywhere, and it has been conducted through the
established agencies and correspondents of the Institution free of cost
to such institutions and individuals in Great Britain and her colonies.

This system was formally recognized in convention in Brussels
with regard to the participation above referred to, but in this case
Great Britain has taken no steps to reciprocate.
‘ REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ot

Up to the present time, nevertheless, the Smithsonian Institution,
ether than interrupt this useful work, and while still acting for the
United States Government, has maintained in London an agency
transacting all the business for scientific institutions and individuals
within Great Britain that it could be expected the English Govern-
ment itself would transact.

It is desired that, in addition to the arrangement for conducting the
exchange of Government official publications above referred to, or as
a part of it, the Government of Great Britain shall establish such a
_ bureau to receive such literary and scientific exchanges within the
British Empire as the Smithsonian Institution does for “Great Britain.
within the United States, and that the British Government shall agree
to pay the cost of delivery at the port of New York or San Francisco
onall matter of this kind, the United States Government agreeing to
pay all the costs of delivery on similar matter either at the ports of
Liverpool or Southampton.

I beg to add, in anticipation of any possible inquiry, that as regards
the literary and scientific exchanges, not only are those of a mercantile
character not admitted, but that such are rarely tendered even, and
that, so far as can be oathered from an experience of somewhat over
fifty years, the great advantag es that this system offers to literary and,
scientific men are unlikely to ‘be abused.

I beg to inclose with this, for your convenience, a copy of a recent
letter from the honorable the Secretar y of State,a copy of the Brussels
treaty referred to, and a copy of the History of the Smithsonian
Exchange System between the years 1849 and 1881.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S. P. LAaneciey,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
The Hon. JosEpH H. CHoare,
American Ambassador to the Court of St. James,
London, England.

The ambassador, Mr. Choate, and the first secretary of the embassy,
Mr. White, used every available means to bring the matter to the
attention of the foreign office, but it was not until October 9, after
the Secretary’s return from France and Germany, that he was able to
arrange an interview with Mr. Villiers, the under secretary for foreign
affairs. In the course of this conversation, Mr. Oakes and Mr. Plow-
man, the assistant comptroller of the Secretary’s office, were called in
for consultation. Mr. Villiers and his associates seemed to doubt if
the English Government would undertake to act as a medium for the
forwarding and distribution of scientific exchanges, and stated that
the matter had already been referred to the treasury. The Secretary
represented that we did not want to involve them in an expenditure, as
they seemed to apprehend, but to have them meet us halfway, and
recognize the utility of the work which was now being carried on by
affording it an official sanction, such as our Government had already
done, thus giving to them something which they were not giving to
us. The Secretary laid stress upon the fact that we were not asking
them to enter on anything resembling the general reciprocity of the
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Brussels treaty, but to arrange for the exchange of such things with
the United States alone.

The Secretary found them disposed to hesitate as to recommending
their Government to take up the subject of the scientific exchanges,
or to undertake to furnish a complete series of its publications, embrac-
ing all such works as are published by booksellers with the aid of
grants or subscriptions from the Government.

This last provision was objected to, but it seems to be easily modifi-
able. The interview was unproductive of immediate results, but the
matter was held open for further consideration, and the Secretary
stated that it was the intention of the Institution to write more particu-
larly as to exactly what it desired, and to propose only such terms as
reciprocal justice seemed to call for.

FRANCE.

As an introduction to my efforts to bring the subject of my visit to
France before the ministry, I addressed a letter to the United States
embassy, setting forth the facts and the objects which it was my pur-
pose to accomplish. A copy of this letter follows:

JULY 28, 1900.

Str: The Smithsonian Institution, consisting of an establishment
composed of the President of the United States, the Vice-President,
the Chief Justice, and the heads of departments, was founded by an
act of Congress in the year 1846, with functions rather general than
local in their character, it being described in the words of the act as
‘*for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

It has as a part of these functions at all times promoted the inter-
communication of literary and scientific matter between the United
States and France, as well as with other nations, and this system of
literary and scientific exchange, while officially promoted by the Gov-
ernment of the United States since the first half of the present century,
has more recently been extended by the legislation of which I now
speak.

With the approval of the Secretary of State, I have the honor to
address you the following memoranda concerning the exchange of
official and other publications between the United States and France,
and to specially ask your interest in concluding a long-needed arrange-
ment which shall provide, on the part of the French Government, for
action reciprocal to that of the United States concerning these two
classes, and regarding, first, exchanges of official publications of the
Government, and, second, for scientific and literary exchanges con-
ducted by the Government.

MEMORANDA CONCERNING EXCHANGES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND FRANCE.
1. Exchange of Government publications.

On March 2, 1867, the following joint resolution was approved by
the President:

** Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That fifty copies of all doc-
uments hereafter printed by order of either House of Congress and

‘
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

fifty copies additional of all documents printed in excess of the usual
number, together with fifty copies of each publication issued by any
department or bureau of the Gs eeeincnt, be placed at the disposal
of the Joint Committee on the Library, who shall exchange the same,
through the agency of the Smithsonian Institution, for such works
published in foreign countries, and especially by foreign governments,
as may be deemed by said committee an equivalent; said works to be
deposited in the Library of Congress.”

In accordance with this the United States has since that time presented,
through the Smithsonian Institution, a complete set of its official pub-
lications to the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris, through the Bureau des
Echanges Internationaux.

In 1886, Belgium, Brazil, Italy, Portugal, Servia, and Spain entered
into a convention at Brussels to which the United States was a party,
by which they agreed to reciprocal arrangements as to the manner of
exchanging both official and literary and scientific publications as well
as the expenses of shipment and the establishment of offices.

To this convention France was a signatory, but did not eventually
become a party.

The French Government, however, appears to have established a
bureau, *‘des Echanges Internationaux.”

On February 8, 1879, the Smithsonian Institution addressed a request
to Baron de Vatteville, Commissionaire des Echanges Internationaux,
requesting * * * *‘not merely the special publications of some of
the scientific bureaus, but a series of everything published by the
State, as complete as that which we send, to aad the records of the
legislature of the Republic, its reports upon education, statistics, com-
merce, navigation, topographical and geological explorations, etc.”

The returns made on account of this appeal have never been satis-
factory, and while the various departments and offices of the French
Government have from time to time sent in exchange some French
Government publications, the receipts have been wholly inadequate,
being less than one-fifth of the amount sent by the United States, and
consisting of ordinary reports, with few publications of intrinsic
value.

In this connection, I beg to state that in June, 1895, accompanied
by the then American minister, Mr. Eustis, 1 visited the Ministre
de Instruction Publique et des Beaux Arts to obtain an improvement
of the International Exchange System in this particular, and also with
regard to the scientific and literary exchanges mentioned. He then
promised the American minister that he would apply to the French
Chambers for an additional grant for this bureau. He-also promised
that he would demand an act for the better doing of this aa to pro-
vide means of sending these publications more frequently, at least
every month. Healso promised that a separate set would be sent to
the library of the Institution.

I have received an official and written statement from Mr. Eustis
to the same effect.

You will see from the inclosed copy of a letter written on the part
of the minister of foreign affairs by the minister plenipotentiary on
July 29, 1895, that it is officially stated that the Ministre de ’Instruc-
tion Publique et des Beaux Arts has resolved to ask of Parliament a
**majoration” of credit for the International Exchanges, and, further
than this, that he intends to have an arrangement with the different
AO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ministerial departments in order that everything that the Government
publishes shall be sent.

I particularly call your attention to this expression of intended offi-
cial action, which, so far as I know, has had no result.

It has been understood that this was due primarily to the wholly
inadequate appropriation of 10,000 franes, which appears to be all that
is given by the French Government for this ser vice, as compared with
120,000 frances ($24,000) appropriated by our own Government for ¢
similar service.

It seems, then, desirable that the French Government shall, if it does
not desire to become a party to the Brussels treaty, undertake to make,
through some designated channel, delivery of all its official publications
thr ough the bureau in question in exchange for the set of publications
now forwarded to the Bibliotheque Nationale.

2. Scientific and literary exchanges.

Since its foundation the Smithsonian Institution has conducted a
system for the exchange of literary and scientific publications volun-
tarily presented by institutions and individuals in the United States
to others in France and her colonies, and ree iprocally. This interna-
tional system has proved itself of the greatest value to literary and
scientific men everywhere, and it has been conducted on the part of
the United States Government by the Smithsonian Institution with
the understood cooperation of the French Government, the Institution
delivering the publications in question at the port of Havre at the
cost of the United States Government. There has, however, been
much complaint from the correspondents of the institution of the
delay of the delivery of publications forwarded from America to
France and from France to America, a delay which arises in French
territory and from causes beyond our control. The French Govern-
ment now delivers French literary and scientific publications at the
port of New York, and the naanne punctually distributes these at
its own cost.

I beg to add, in anticipation of any possible inquiry, that as regards
the literary and scientific exchanges, not only are those of a mercan-
tile character not admitted, but that such are rarely tendered even;
and that so far as can be eather ed from an experience of somewhat
over fifty years, the great adv antages that this system offers to literary
and scientific men are unlikely to ‘be abused.

I beg to inclose with this for your convenience a copy of a recent
letter from the honorable the Secretary of State, a copy of the Brus-
sels treaty referred to, and a copy ‘of History of the Smithsonian
Exchange System between the years 1849 and 1881.

T have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

S. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Henry Vienaup, Esa.,
Chargé @ Affaires, United States Embassy,
Avenue Kleber, Paris.

In spite of the good will of the embassy, the Secretary found it impos-
sible to secure an immediate interview with the minister of public
instruction, and as he did not wish to remain in Paris indefinitely he
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

proceeded to Germany, and upon his return to Paris in September it
was finally arranged that he should call on the representative of the
minister, as the minister himself was absent. The Secretary did so in
company with Mr. Henry Vignaud, the first secretary of the embassy,
but in the continued absence of the minister the Secretary was referred
to Monsieur Louis Liard, chief of the libraries of France, to whose
charge has recently been transferred the matter of the Exchanges,
and on whose recommendation the minister of public instruction, the
Secretary was assured, would almost certainly act.

The Secretary saw Monsieur Liard, who stated that the exchange
affairs had only recently come into his own department, and while
looking up the matter of appropriations the Secretary told him that
at a time when the French appropriation for the exchanges was
10,000 francs per annum the minister had explicitly promised him,
in the presence of the American minister, Mr. Eustis, that he would
ask the Chambers to increase the amount, instead of which, Mr. Liard
informed the Secretary, the appropriation had been reduced to 6,000
-franes. He then promised that there would be no further reduction, but,
on the contrary, that there would be an increase. The Secretary spoke
to him privately about the Smithsonian Institution, and told him the
difficulties that were experienced in France about the delay in trans-
mitting parcels to the interior, which he promised should be looked
after.

Asaresult of the conversation above noted, the Secretary believes
that there is a better prospect of an ultimate improvement in the
French exchange service than he has ever previously allowed him-
self to feel.

GERMANY.

A letter of similar tenor to that already cited to the American
ambassador at Paris was written to the United States ambassador in
Berlin, in which it was stated, however, that the United States Goy-
ernment was sending through the Smithsonian Institution six entire
sets of its publications to the German Empire, and that various depart-
ments and offices of the German Government have sent their publi-
cations in exchange, but not in quantity that would be deemed an
equivalent for those of the United States. It was further stated that
it seemed desirable that the German Government should, if it did not
wish to become a party to the Brussels treaty, establish some suitable
bureau or office, charged with the duty of collecting all publications,
not confidential, issued by the Imperial Government, or by the govern-
ments of Baden, Bavaria, Saxony, and Wiirttemberg, to be transmitted
to the United States in exchange for the six sets of publications now
forwarded to Germany for those countries.
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The embassy acknowledged the receipt of the Secretary’s letter in the
following terms:

Empassy OF THE UNITED STATES oF AMERICA,”
Berlin, July 25, 1900.

Str: Before going on leave Mr. White turned over to me your letter
of the 20th instant, the receipt of which has, I believe, already been
acknowledged. Mr. White did not, however, inform meas to what he
had written you, and now that he will not be here I do not know if it
is still your intention to come to Berlin. I therefore write to say that
I shall be here through the summer, and will gladly do anything in
my power to be of service in the matter in question. The Department
of State, under date of the 21st ultimo, had already instructed the
Embassy in regard to its assisting you.

As you are no doubt aware, German (Imperial, Prussian, Bavarian,
Saxon, Wiirttemberg, or Baden) public documents are not distributed
gratuitously as freely as are similar documents in the United States,
and that if any ministry or other similar office wishes to have more
than the limited number of such documents as are regularly placed at
its disposal it must purchase them from the publisher. You also, of
course, know that as yet Germany has no central distributing office
similar to that of the Smithsonian Institution, nor does any such oflice
exist in any of the several federated states. Moreover, I have not
heard of any intention to establish any such office or offices, and I do
not know of any central authority who (which) might be interested in
maintaining an exchange of public documents with all six of the insti-
tutions with which you now exchange. Would it not be practicable to
correspond with the heads of each of these six institutions, making
each one responsible for your receiving a proper return of the docu-
ments of the Empire or the individual State which you consider him
to represent ‘

Awaiting a further communication from you before taking any
action, I am, sir, your obedient servant,

JoHN B. JACKSON,
Chargé @ Affaires.
‘Hon. 8. P. Lane ier,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Care of American Embassy, London.

Upon the Secretery’s arrival at Berlin he found a note at the
embassy from Mr. Herbert Putnam, the Librarian of Congress, which,
as it bears an important part in the work, is quoted in full:

Hotei BrisTou,

Berlin, August 11, 1900.
My Dear Dr. Lanetry: I brought to Berlin notes of introduction
from the German ambassador at Washington to the imperial minister
of the interior and to the Prussian Kultus-Minister and had intended

to approach these officials in the matter of international exchanges.
Learning, however, at the American embassy that you are to visit
Berlin on a similar mission, I have contented myself with the mere
delivery of my credentials, accompanying them, however, with a note,
in which I intimated the probability of your visit and urged the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

importance of your mission to the interests which I represent, includ-
ing the Congress of the United States.

I brought with me a memorandum (incomplete doubtless, yet sug-
gestive) of the German imperial and of the Prussian serial documents
issued, witha note of those now in the Library of Congress. These lists
have been left at the embassy for you to use in case they may seem cal-
culated to be of service. They may, if you think best, be left with the
authorities here. If this seem inadvisable, they will be forwarded
from the embassy to the Library of Congress. In such lists I am
careful to disclaim accuracy or completeness.

With best wishes, faithfully yours,
HerBert Putnam,
Librarian of Congress.
Mr. 8. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary, ete.

Upon reviewing the matter carefully with Mr. Jackson, the Secretary
was informed that there was no central authority in Germany, not
even the chancellor of the Empire, who could deal with the exchange
question. Each of the different States must be appealed to separately,
and the minor ones are jealous of any appearance of interference from
federal authorities. There seems to be positively no way to get ofli-
cial action short of the Reichstag, which could only provide the money,
but could not insure that the matter would be accepted by the sepa-
rate states any more than the action of the United States Congress in
appropriating for our exchanges can bind the separate States of the
Union.

After my interview, Mr. Jackson kindly called on an official who
represented Prince Hohenlohe in his absence. This officer, however,
could not take upon himself to make even a suggestion in the eee
of Prince Hohenlohe as to what action might be taken.

The Secretary called at the Parliament House and consulted at length
with Dr. Muller, the librarian, who agreed that the only official who
it could be even remotely hoped would do anything with regard to
exchanges would be the chancellor. The only power that could act
authoritatively is the German Parliament itself, and Dr. Muller prom-
ised to interest himself in having the matter presented before it in
November, in the hope of some effectual action.

In this connection the Secretary may state that he arrived in Berlin
at a most inopportune time to transact the business he had in hand,
inasmuch as only two out of the sixteen ministers were in the city, but
that the kindness of the embassy represented by Mr. Jackson did
everything for him that could be done under such condition.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The act of Congress establishing the National Zoological Park placed
it under the direction of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
It occupies about 170 acres in a region along Rock Creek valley, which
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

is probably the most beautiful in its diversified natural features of any
similar park in any capital of the world. The objects of the park
have been abundantly set forth at other times. Though essentially
national and not local, it is intended to have, in connection with other
and remote national parks in the West, a representation of all our
North American animals which can be safely transported here, and it
is situated in the national capital to serve as a constant object lesson
of what Congress may do.

In addition to this, its primary function, the park receives animals
which are sent from various parts of the world by the officers of the
Army and Navy and other agents of the Government, and an extremely
limited number is added to its collection by purchase.

The present Secretary, who was instrumental in asking the interest
of Congress in originally securing the fine tract of land embraced
within the park, has taken a continued interest in personally superin-
tending the details of its embellishment, always having it as a guiding
principle in his treatment of its features to leave nature largely to
herself, and not to attempt to beautify what is already beautiful, but
to expend the means at his command in providing the necessary build-
ings for holding the collections and in making good roads which shall
make every part of this beautiful region accessible.

The extremely limited appropriations allowed by Congress have
made it almost impossible to carry out the original programme of pro-
curing a large collection of specimens of our native animals. Even
as it is, however, the collection is believed to be an extremely interest-
ing one, notwithstanding the limited means.

The present value of buildings, roadways, and other improvements
is estimated at about $150,000, and there are 839 animals, small and
great, in the collection. The Superintendent’s report, on another page,
mentions a number of improvements made during the year, including
the completion of the antelope house, new paddocks and sheds for
moose, caribou, fallow deer, and arctic foxes, fence for buffalo pad-
docks, temporary house for birds, and the continuation of the drive-
way along Rock Creek.

The western boundary of the park, for some years past unsettled
owing to the provisions of the highway act, has “been finally deter-
mined during the year. The terms of the legislation concerning this
boundary will be found in the superintendent’s report, accompanied
by an illustrative map. Its effect may be stated briefly as running an
avenue 90 feet wide through the highest portion of the land of the
park, where it is objectionable as disfiguring the landscape. It takes
away for this purpose about 46,000 square feet, and the change in-
volves the addition of 66,500 feet of lower lying and less desirable
land. So far, it is not in the interest of the park that this change
should have been made, but the legislation was not opposed, for rea-
sons of general public interest, and also because, if any avenue was to

‘

eal

ee ee ee ee ee

era So. oh to

ee ee ee eee ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

be here, it had better be of this width to move back the buildings
which will doubtless eventually be placed here, so that they may not
immediately dominate that portion of the park which was especially
intended to be secluded.

By act of Congress, March 3, 1899, provision was made for widening
the Adams Mill road entrance to the park and placing under the con-
trol of the park, not only the portion of the road within the park, but
that exterior to it. As regards the portion exterior to the park, its
control as a residential street presented serious difficulties, and the
Secretary was willing to see this part placed by subsequent legislation
under the control of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia.

As a result of the circular sent abroad to officers of the United
States, mentioned in the last report of the Secretary, the Zoological
Park has secured some valuable additions and has arranged for future
acquisitions. An account of these will be found in the report of the
superintendent.

Among the imperative needs of the park are a suitable bird and
reptile house, a house for small mammals, and a building for the
aquarium.

Earnest efforts have been made to obtain from Alaska one or more
specimens of the great Kodiak bear, but so far without success, and
unless Congress furnish means to do so within a very brief time, this,

the largest carnivorous animal of the world, will become extinct.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

It is gratifying to be able to state that the first and long-delayed
volume of Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory is now about to be
issued. This volume is devoted primarily, though not exclusively, to
the investigation of the infra-red solar spectrum, its absorption lines,
and its variations in terrestrial absorption. This research, and the
development of the sensitive bolographic apparatus with y, aich it has
been carried on, have largely occupied the Astrophysical Observatory
since its foundation, and are a continuation of researches in which the
writer was engaged for many years at the Allegheny Observatory.
The high degree of sensitiveness and accuracy which have now been
reached in the bolometric apparatus of the Astrophysical Observatory,
and the still greater progress in this direction which, as will be seen
in the detailed report of the aid acting in charge, is now being
achieved, place the Observatory in a position to enter new fields
of work from which it has hitherto been barred by the lack of sufti-
ciently sensitive appliances.

At the close of last year an application was made to Congress for a
special appropriation to observe the total solar eclipse of May 28,
1900, in this country.
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In view of the fact that the Observatory possessed a considerable
quantity of apparatus which could be usefully employed in the expe-
dition, and that the money could be chiefly allotted to the direct obser-
vations, the amount asked for was only $4,000, and this, which was
granted by Congress, has been found, with strict economy, to be
sufficient.

The appropriation was made on February 9, and preparations were
immediately commenced for a rehearsal of the actual observations,
which were to take place later. In doing this the Institution, which
had borrowed, through the great kindness of Prof. E. C. Pickering,
Director of the Harvard University Observatory, an achromatic lens of
12 inches aperture and 135 feet focus, installed this with numerous other
pieces of apparatus in the open space immediately south and west of
the Astrophysical Observatory, and all the material of the future

_camp was placed in position there and the observers accustomed to
such portions of the work as could be undertaken in rehearsal.

The chief object of the expedition was intended to be the securing
of a number of photographs of the corona on different scales, and
especially on the unprecedentedly large scale afforded by the lunar
image of the 135-foot lens, which was about 15 inches in diameter.
This lens was, of course, placed so as to direct its beams horizontally,
the light being fed into it by a ‘‘coelostat,” the only considerable instru-
ment ordered specially for the expedition.

A lens of 5 inches aperture and 38 feet focus, kindly lent by Pro-
fessor Young, of Princeton, was placed in position to point at the sun,
and the equatorial portion of the coelostat was made to carry a photo-
graphic telescope of 6 inches aperture and 7 feet focus for obtaining
photographs of the portion of the corona near the sun. In addition
to this, special preparation was made for a photographic search for
intramercurial planets, which will be described later.

The question of the heat of the inner corona is an interesting one,
about which testimony differs, for although numerous attempts have
been made to measure it, they have been insufficient to give assurances
of any positive result having been reached, particularly as some of them
have been in comparatively inexperienced hands. The task of secur-
ing some authentic record of this with the bolometer the Secretary
assigned to Mr. C. G. Abbot, who has had long experience in the
use of the instrument and who was liberally supplied with every
accessory that could be transported to the field, includiny the great
siderostat made by Grubb, which alone weighs many thousand pounds.

It had at first been intended to establish the camp at Winton, North
Carolina, but after anxious consideration, Wadesboro, in the same
State, was substituted, and Mr. Abbot, with some of his immediate
assistants, and all the heavier apparatus, left for that place on the
3d of May. Owing to the kindness of the United States Coast and
*

ay
Smithsonian Report, 1900. PLATE i.

WILLIAM PRESTON JOHNSTON,

Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. Born 1831, died 1899.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. AT

Geodetic Suryey, Mr. G. R. Putnam was detailed to make the requi-
site determinations of latitude and longitude and also to determine the
position of the great horizontal telescope and the like accessory fea-
tures, and most acceptable service was rendered by him.

So full an account of the eclipse is given in Mr. Abbot’s report that
itis only necessary to say here that the observations were almost
uniformly successful. A considerable number of photographs of the
corona were secured, some of which are upon an unprecedentedly
large scale, and these, it is believed, will be of value in investiga-
tions of the nature of this still enigmatical solar appendage. A
photographic search for hitherto unrecognized objects near the sun
developed the fact that even in an ordinary sky, in an eclipse in which
the reflected sunlight was brighter than usual, stars as small as the
8.3 magnitude could be secured.

The apparatus was designed not so much for this, however, as for
the obtaining evidence of possible intramercurial plarets, but upon
this latter point we have not yet obtained any certainty. Certain Sus-
picious objects are found on the plates, but unfortunately observa-
tions of the same kind at other stations were unsuccessful, so that
there is nothing with which to compare them. Studies are still going
on, however, and it is possible that this part of the observations may
yet yield results of interest.

The delicate and difficult observations upon the heat of the inner
corona were made by means of the bolometer, and appear to have
been quite successful, being perhaps the first trustworthy observations
of the kind; and, as will be seen in the more detailed report, these
lend some additional weight to the view that the corona is something
analogous to an electric phenomenon.

\

NECROLOGY.
WILLIAM PRESTON JOHNSTON. »

Ata meeting of the Regents on January 24, 1900, Dr. Angell sub-
mitted the following minute to go upon the records in regard to the
death of William Preston Johnston, president of Tulane Univ ersity:

President Johnston died at Lexington, Virginia, on July 16, 1899;
in the sixty-ninth year of his age. He was born in Louisy ille, Ken-
tucky, January 5, 1831. His father, the distinguished officer, Gen-
eral Albert Sidney Johnston, was of New Engl: und descent; his mother
‘was of the Preston family, long conspicuous in Virginia and Ken-
tucky. Our late colleague, ‘while a student in school and college, gave
promise of his future eminence. After graduation at Yale Colleg e he
studied law and entered on the practice e of his profession at Louisville.
But his dominant taste even then was for letters rather than for law.
On the outbreak of the civil war, like his father, he entered the
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Southern army. Most of his service was rendered on staff duty, and
was regarded by his superiors as of the highest value.

Soon after General Lee was called to the presidency of Washington
and Lee University, he assigned to Mr. Johnston the chair of litera-
ture and history in that institution. The duties were most congenial
to him, and with marked success he held the position for ten years.
While there he wrote the well-known biog graphy of his father.

In 1880 he was called to the presidency “of the University of Louisi-
ana at Baton Rouge. With characteristic vigor he set about the task
of lifting it from its apparently moribund condition. When in 1883
Paul Tulane set apart a most generous sum for the endowment of the
institution which now bears his name, Colonel Johnston was asked to
organize the new university. With much tact and wisdom, he, with
others, made a successtul endeavor to merge the State U niversity and
the Tulane Univ ersity in one institution, over which he presided with
signal efficiency to the day of his death. Tulane University comprises
several departme nts, and holds a most conspicuous position among
the universities of the South. It is the general verdict of those most
familiar with its history that its success has been largely, if not mainly,
due to the wisdom, learning, and influence of our lamented colleague.

President Johnston was not only a successful administrator, but he
was also a writer of decided literary merit. His essays on literary
subjects and his occasional addresses are of a high type of excellence.
He has also printed at least two volumes of poems that breathe the
deeply religious spirit which was one of the marked characteristics of
the author.

President Johnston was held in the highest esteem by all who knew
him on account of his dignity, sincerity, and elevation of spirit.

For several years past ‘he has had to contend in the discharge of his
important official duties with a serious bronchial affection which was
very debilitating. But his fidelity to his trusts and his invincible
energy held him firmly at his post until the end of his days.

He was deeply interested in the work of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. We wish hereby to record the expression of our sense of the
great loss we have sustained in his death.

The following resolutions were then adopted by the Board:

Wuereas the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution are called upon
to mourn the death, on July 16, 1899, of William Preston Johnston,
| Wi Dia Bs pees of Tulane Univ ersity, and a member of this board
since 1892,

Be it resolve d, That the Regents desire to place on record an expres-
sion of their sense of the gr eat. loss they have suffered in the decease
of their esteemed colleague, their high appreciation of his profound
scholarship and literary “eifts, of his wise and conspicuous influence
in the promotion of sound lear ning, of his brilliant and useful career
as a teacher and as an administrator of universities, of his sincere
devotion to the interests of this Institution, and of his pure and noble
character, which commanded the respect and affection of all who knew
him.

Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon the records of the
Institution, that a copy be communicated to the family of President
Johnston, and that we, the Regents, convey the assurance of deep
sympathy with them in their affliction.
Smithsonian Report, 1900. PLATE Il.

GARRET A. HOBART,

Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. Born 1844, died 1899.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49
GARRET A. HOBART.

At the same meeting of the Regents Senator Platt announced the
death on November 21, 1899, of Vice-President Garret A. Hobart, a
Regent of the istinatiod: and said:

As an associate and friend of the deceased Vice-President, Garret A.
Hobart, I wish to speak briefly of him and of his life.

He was taken away from us, from the country which honored him
and which he greatly honored, in the prime of his manhood and the
height of his usefulness. Though born without the accessory of for-
tune, his ancestry was of the best and his blood the purest. A poor
boy, "facing the world alone, he wrought out a career indeed enviable,
furnishing one more of the many examples of what a boy may become
in the estimation of all under our republican institutions. He pos-
sessed ina large degree the only ambition worth cherishing—the ambi-
tion to make the most of himself, that he might be most useful. Like
other self-made men, he struggled for an ‘education and fora place
among his fellow-men. Nature endowed him with its most generous
gifts—sagacity, manly force, cordiality, charity, intellectual and moral
attributes. Few men have possessed i in a greater degree the capacity
to make and retain friends, ready to serve him and to promote and
advance his purposes.

It is often said that to sueceed one must make enemies. Garret A.
Hobart was an exception to this rule. He had no enemies, but ‘** troops
of friends.” Of him it can be said more truly than of anyone I have
ever known—

None knew thee but to love thee
Nor named thee but to praise.

Office and honor sought him more than he sought them. He brought
to the office of Vice-President a new dignity and new usefulness. He
achieved wealth only to bestow the blessings which wealth gives the
opportunity to scatter. In the life of such a man we are all ennobled;
in his death we are all bereaved.

He seems like one lent to our social, political, and business life as
an uplifting force and as an example to be emulated. Such men do
not really die; they live, because they have impressed themselves upon
the history of their age.

I think it most proper that resolutions expressing our unstinted
admiration of our departed associate should be placed upon the rec-
ords, and that we communicate to his widow and family our most
sincere and heartfelt sympathy.

The following resolutions were adopted by the Board:

Resolved, That in the death of Garret A. Hobart, Vice-President of
the United States, and ex officio a member of the Board of Regents,
the Institution has sustained a severe loss and the members of the
Board a personal bereavement.

Lesolved, That we desire to place on record our appreciation of his
services as « Regent of the Smithsonian Institution and our tribute of
regard for his personal character and worth, as well as our intense
sympathy for his widow and family, to whom his loss is most irrepara-
ble. Mr. Hobart was a man of rarest quality, a typical and thorough

sm 1900 4

50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

American, successful in all that he undertook, characteristically of a
broad and generous nature, a self-made man in the best sense of the
term, a complete man in all his developments; a Vice-President of the
United States most loved and honored and most conspicuous in the dis-
charge of official duties, enjoying the friendship of the President, of
the Senate, of all with whom he associated, and of the people of the
United States. While we mourn his loss we admire his life and his
character.

Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon the records of the
Institution and an engrossed copy thereof transmitted to his widow
by the Secretary.

Respectfully submitted.
S. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

lites ' a EEE Eo
bi

APPENDIX TO THE SECRETARY’S REPORT.

APPENDIX I.
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Sm: I have the honor to report as follows regarding the condition and operations
of the National Museum during the year ending June 30, 1900:

Organization and staff.—The organization of the Museum remains the same as
during the past two years, comprising, beside the administrative offices, three scien-
tific departments—anthropology, biology, and geology, each in charge of a head
curator and each composed of several divisions, anthropology having 8, biology 9,
and geology 3. There are also 17 minor divisions, known as sections.

The scientific staff at the close of the year consisted of 3 head curators, 17 curators,
13 assistant curators, 15 custodians, 11 aids, 4 associates, and 1 collaborator, a total
of 64 persons, but of these only 33 were under pay from the Museum, the remainder,
nearly one-half of the scientific personnel, serving as volunteers or in an honorary
capacity. —

The executive office continued in the immediate charge of the Executive Curator,
Dr. Frederick W. True, the Assistant Secretary exercising only a general supervision
over the work, under the direction of the Secretary, who is the keeper ex officio of
the Museum.

But few changes occurred in connection with the scientific staff. In the death of
Mr. Frank Hamilton Cushing on April 10, 1900, the Museum, as well as the Bureau
of Ethnology, lost one of its most active and distinguished workers, whose services
with the Institution began nearly a quarter of a century ago. Medical Director
James M. Flint, U.S. N., under whose charge the Division of Materia Medica was
established in 1881, and who has been its Honorary Curator under detail by the
Secretary of the Navy for three separate periods, aggregating about thirteen years, was
placed on the retired list of the Navy in February, 1900. Proposing to continue his
residence in Washington, however, Dr. Flint has volunteered his further services in
the same capacity, and they have been gladly accepted. Mr. W.R. Maxon was
appointed an aid in the Division of Plants in November, 1899.

Buildings.—The collections, laboratories, and offices are mainly provided for in the
Museum and Smithsonian buildings, but the workshops are now housed in separate
structures, two on the Smithsonian grounds and three in rented quarters south of B
street S.W. A largeamount of material still remains in storage in the large sheds on
Ninth street and on Armory Square because of the lack of accommodations.

The need for additional quarters, which was long ago evident, has now become so
urgent that unless relief is soon obtained it will be difficult to properly administer
the affairs of the Museum or to fulfill its most important function as the custodian of
all material objects resulting from Government explorations. Under the conditions
as they now exist, some of the most valuable of the collections have to be kept in
insecure buildings in the shipping cases in which they were received; they can not
be arranged, classified, and made available to investigators as the law provides; the
exhibition halls are overcrowded, preventing that enlargement in the display series
which the public is led to expect; and the laboratory accommodations are greatly
cramped, besides being in most cases very poorly adapted to their purpose.

51
52. REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The only noteworthy building alterations during the year were the substitution of
a terrazzo payement for wood in two of the halls and the flooring over one of the
ranges, so as to obtain a second-story room for laboratory use by the Divisions of Mam-
mals and Plants. The furniture acquired consisted of 40 exhibition cases and 250
storage cases, many of these being for the new galleries built during the preceding
year.

Collections.—The increase in the collections has amounted to 206,617 specimens,
bringing the total number now in the Museum up to 4,819,836. The additions, com-
prised in 1,467 different lots or accessions, represent the results of Government and
other explorations, gifts, exchanges, purchases, and deposits.

The acquisitions by the Department of Anthropology have been especially numerous
and important. Admiral Dewey has presented two antique brass cannon from the
Spanish armament captured at Manila, and among other historical contributions have
been the following: Many objects relating to the Spanish-American war, including
uniforms, small arms, and cannon, from the Navy Department; military and personal
relics of the Ord family, from Lieut. James T. Ord, U. 8. A.; personal relics of Gen.
Thomas Sword, from Miss E. H. Cotheal; a collection of cuttings from 33 flags of
historic interest, from the Library of Congress; a series of autograph letters of men
prominent in the civil war, from Mrs. L. O. Mason, and additions to the deposits of
the Society of Colonial Dames and the Daughters of the American Revolution.

During the cruise of the U. 8. Fish Commission steamer Albatross among the islands
of the South Pacific Ocean, Mr. C. H. Townsend and Mr. H. F. Moore kindly gave
attention on behalf of the Museum to the utensils and costumes of the natives, of
which they secured a large collection. Many relics of the ancient peoples of Cuba
and Jamaica were obtained by Maj. J. W. Powell and Mr. W. H. Holmes during a
visit to those islands, and Dr. Walter Hough brought back from Mexico an interesting
ethno-botanical collection, including many plants used in the native arts, ancient and
modern, specimens of native handiwork, and a series of photographs.

The Hon. Perry M. de Leon, United States consul-general at Guayaquil, presented
two ancient stone chairs from Ecuador, which, with other chairs surrounding a large
stone table, were found in what appeared to be an ancient council chamber, brought
to light about thirty years ago by the action of a freshet. A mummy from the
valley of Cuzco, Peru, was contributed by Dr. C. H. Russell, U. 8. N., of the U. 8. S.
Newark, and a collection of weapons of Australian aborigines, by the Hon. F. W.
Goding, United States consul at Newcastle, New South Wales.

The Bureau of Ethnology has transmitted a collection of Indian skulls and other
ethnological material obtained by Prof. J. B. Hatcher in Tierra del Fuego, Patago-
nia; aseries of copper implements from Houghton County, Michigan; many stone
implements from the West Indies, and a collection of baskets of the Washoe Indians.
A collection of stone implements was deposited by Dr. Roland Steiner, of Grove-
town, Georgia, and a collection of vases by the Grueby-Faience Company, of Boston,
Massachusetts.

The following were obtained by purchase: A large series of objects illustrating the
arts of the peoples of the Congo Valley of Africa, from the Rev. Samuel Phillips
Verner, and a collection of ethnological specimens from the tribes of Angola, Africa,
from the Rey. W. P. Dodson.

In the Department of Biology practically every branch has received additions of
greater or less value. Dr. W. L. Abbott, whose explorations have enriched the
Museum for many years, presented a large and important collection of zoological and
ethnological material from the Malay Archipelago and other eastern localities, including
Trong, Lower Siam, and Singapore, the zoological specimens comprising mammals,
birds, batrachians, insects, and other groups of invertebrates.

From the Harriman Alaskan Expedition of 1899 the Museum has received the
collections made in three groups, as follows: The birds by Mr. Robert Ridgway, the

os
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Den

mollusks by Dr. William H. Dall, and the insects by Mr. Trevor Kincaid, of Seattle.
The collection of insects is supposed to be the most complete one for Alaska that has
yet been obtained, and was presented to the Museum by Mr. Harriman.

Extensive additions have been made to the collection of bats from Trinidad, Bar-
bados, Cuba, and the Philippine Islands by Mr. E. T. Giers, Mr. P. Donough, Lieut.
J. W. Daniel, jr., and Mr. L. M. McCormick. <A skeleton of the recently discovered
marsupial mole, Notoryctes, was received from University College, Dundee; an Afri-
ean rhinoceros was presented by the Forepaugh & Sells Brothers Menagerie, and
many European mammals were acquired by purchase.

The Division of Birds has received the Goodfellow collection of humming birds,
comprising about 1,200 specimens; 300 specimens of the birds of the United States of
Colombia, from Mr. Outram Bangs; 500 specimens of Hawaiian birds, from Mr. H. W.
Henshaw; a specimen of the Cuban Macaw (Ara tricolor), now believed to be extinct,
from Maj. W. A. Glassford, U. 8. A., and a skeleton of the rare Harris’s Cormorant,
from Leland Stanford Junior University.

Of fishes Dr. David 8. Jordan has contributed a collection from Japan, including
the types of 14 new species; the Museo Civico of Milan, Italy, a collection from the
Red Sea and the Mediterranean; and the U.S. Fish Commission, specimens from
Japan, Alaska, Hawaii, and California.

Many additions have been made to the Division of Insects, some of the most note-
worthy being the following: The very important collection of spiders brought
together by the late George Marx, containing several thousand specimens, among
which were many types and cotypes; a large collection of Coleoptera from the late
Hugo Soltau, of Louisville, Kentucky; many types and cotypes of species described
by Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, received from the New Mexico Agricultural Experiment
Station; a series of insects collected in Porto Rico by Mr. August Busck, from the
Department of Agriculture, and collections of Mexican Hymenoptera and South
American Lepidoptera, obtained by purchase. Mr. E. A. Schwarz has continued to
make important additions to the Hubbard and Schwarz collection of Coleoptera,
presented to the Museum in 1898.

The Division of Mollusks has been enriched by collections made in Samoa by Sir
Charles Eliot, the British representative on the Samoan Commission, and in Alaska
and Hawaii by Dr. William H. Dall and others; by a series of South Australian
shells received from Mr. Walter B. Reed, of Adelaide, and by a valuable lot of land
shells from the Galapagos Islands, presented by the Leland Stanford Junior Uni-
versity. Through the addition last mentioned the National Museum is supposed
to have acquired the most complete representation of Galapagos land shells now
existing.

The more important acquisitions among the other groups of marine invertebrates
have been as follows: From Dr. J. C. Branner, the crustaceans collected on the Bra-
zilian coast by the Agassiz-Branner expedition of 1899; from Mr. H. W. Henshaw,
Hawaiian crustaceans; from the U. 8. Fish Commission, crustaceans and corals from
Porto Rico; from the Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture, crusta-
ceans from Texas and Mexico; from Dr. C. H. Eigenmann, cotypes of an isopod
crustacean from Izels Cave, Texas; from Dr. C. A. Kofoid, cotypes of a new genus
of Volvocide; from Rey. George W. Taylor, of Nanaimo, British Columbia, cotypes
of two species of British Columbia sponges.

The Herbarium is constantly in receipt of material from all parts of the world.
Its most important addition last year was the private collection of plants belonging
to Dr. Charles Mohr, of Mobile, Alabama, which he has generously presented to the
Institution. This contribution, comprising upward of 3,000 specimens from the
Southern States, is of especial value, as this region has heretofore been poorly repre-
sented in the National Museum. Mrs. Marie de Chalmot, of Holcomb Rock, Vir-
ginia, has donated 3,000 specimens of European and American plants, and Mr. A. H.
54 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Curtiss, of Jacksonville, Florida, 1,100 specimens from the United States. Dr. J. N.
Rose made a large collection of plants on his expedition to Mexico during the early
part of the year, as mentioned elsewhere. The Department of Agriculture has trans-
mitted 2,500 plants collected in Alaska by Mr. F. V. Coville and Mr. T. H. Kearney;
807 plants collected in the State of Washington by Mr. Kirk Whitead, and 2,300
plants collected in Virginia and North Carolina by Mr. T. H. Kearney. Four hun-
dred and thirteen plants from Oregon have been received from the U. 8. Geological
Survey.

The principal addition to the Department of Geology was the extensive and unique
collection of vertebrate fossils made for the U. 8. Geological Survey by, or under the
direction of, the late Prof. O. C. Marsh, and which was in the possession of the latter
at Yale University at the time of his death, in 1899. A part of this collection, com-
prising two carloads, had been transferred to the Museum several years before. The
remainder, filling 600 boxes and requiring 5 cars for its transportation, was received
during the past year. This collection is the most important of its kind ever brought
together, being exceedingly rich in large Dinosaurs, especially of the genera Tricera-
tops and Stegosaurus. Of Titanotherium there are nearly 50 complete skulls. Forty
or more species of Dinosaurs and of Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary mammals are
represented by type specimens.

A nearly complete femur of a large Dinosaur, a fine specimen of the fossil gar
(Lepidosteus atrox) , aseries of Mesozoic invertebrate fossils, and many lithological speci-
mens were obtained in Wyoming by Mr. Charles Schuchert, and an interesting series
of cycads was collected in the same State by Prof. Lester F. Ward and Mr. Schuchert.

A fine skull of an Elotherium and another of a Diceratherium were obtained by
purchase; a series of Jurassic fishes, recently described by Mr. C. R. Eastman, was
transmitted by the Geological Survey, and a well-preserved specimen of fossil gar
( Lepidosteus simplex) was secured through exchange from the Glen Island Museum,
New York.

An important collection of Texas Jurassic invertebrate fossils, described by Prof.
F. W. Cragin, was received from the Geological Survey; a large number of Lower
Helderberg fossils from New York, containing several new species, were obtained
from Mr. John M. Clarke, and many Guelph (Upper Silurian) fossils were acquired
by purchase.

A series of specimens showing the twenty stages in development of the Cambrian
trilobite (Sao hirsuta) was received in exchange from the National Museum at Prag,
Bohemia, through Dr. Anton Fritsch, and a restoration by. Prof. C. E. Beecher of
the fossil Crustacean, Stylonurus, from Yale University.

Many fossil corals were presented by the Hon. Delos Arnold, Prof. J. C. Merriam,
Mr. T. W. Vaughan, and Mr. J. A. Singley, and a specimen of the rare echinoid
Oligoporus nobilis was donated by Mr. W. L. Woods.

Collections of Cambrian brachiopods, of Rocky Mountain, Ordovician, Silurian, and
Devonian fossils, and of fossil plants from a number of localities, as well as about
2,000 rock specimens representing areas recently examined by the Survey, including
the Little Belt Mountains, the Uvalde, Anthracite and Crested Butte, and Big Trees
quadrangles, and the’Silver Cliff and Rosita districts of Colorado, were transferred
by the Geological Survey to the keeping of the Museum.

A meteorite weighing about 64 pounds, which fell at Allegan, Michigan, on July
10, 1899, was purchased, and other meteorites were secured by exchange from the
following localities: Jerome, Gove County, Kansas; Bishopville, South Carolina;
Indarka, Augustinowka, and Bischtube in Russia; Lissa, Bohemia, and Schénenberg
in Bavaria.

A large number of specimens of voleanic material collected in Hawaii by Prof.
C. H. Hitchcock, and a series of orbicular granites from Finland, Sweden, and
Rhode Island were added to the collections.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

Prof. C. U. Shepard, of Summerville, South Carolina, has deposited the private
collection of minerals which had belonged to his father, containing about 5,000 speci-
‘mens, some of which are very choice. This collection was accompanied by a number
of books, pamphlets, and manuscript notes.

Three fine opals have been added to the gem collection, and three Japanese beryls
have been cut from rough specimens belonging to the Museum.

Explorations.—Although having very limited means for field investigations, at least
afew members of the scientific staff spend a month or more during every year in
adding to the collections, making their trips independently or in connection with
expeditions sent out by other Government bureaus or under private auspices. Much
important material is obtained in this way.

Dr. F. W. True spent several weeks of the summer of 1899 at the station of the
Cabot Steam Whaling Company, in Newfoundland, studying the finback and hump-
back whales, which are the objects of the fishery in that locality. Anthropological
researches were carried on in Cuba and Jamaica during the spring of 1900 by Maj.
J. W. Powell and Mr. W. H. Holmes. Extensive zoological and botanical collec-
tions were made in Cuba and Porto Rico for the Pan-American Exposition by Dr.
Leonhard Stejneger, Dr. Charles W. Richmond, Mr. William Palmer, and Mr. J. H.
Riley, of the Museum staff. The Philippine Islands were visited by Col. H. H.
Hilder, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, in the interests of the same exposition.

_ The expedition to Mexico by Dr. J. N. Rose and Dr. Walter Hough, which started
in the spring of 1899, as noted in the last report, continued during a part of the sum-
mer and was very successful. Its object was the collection of both botanical and
ethno-botanical specimens. At the close of the year Mr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., was
in Venezuela, haying been detailed to accompany Lieut. Wirt Robinson, U.S. A.,
for the purpose of making collections of the higher vertebrates.

During the summer of 1899 Mr. Charles Schuchert accompanied an expedition
under the auspices of the Union Pacific Railroad Company to the fossil beds of
Wyoming, and he was also associated with Prof. Lester F. Ward in an examination
of the region in Wyoming where fossil cycads abound.

On the Harriman expedition to Alaska, which was absent during June and July,
1899, the National Museum was represented by Dr. William H. Dall, Mr. Robert
Ridgway, Dr. C. Hart Merriam, and Mr. F. V. Coville. Before returning to Wash-
ington Dr. Dall visited Hawaii for the purpose of studying its molluscan fauna.

The Government explorations which contribute most constantly and most exten-
sively to the Museum are those conducted by the Geological Survey, the Fish Com-
mission, and the scientific bureaus of the Department of Agriculture, in all of which
there was much activity during the past year. The cruise of the Fish Commission
steamer Albatross to the South Pacific Ocean offered an opportunity for securing eth-
nological objects from many interesting islands, and, through the courtesy of the
Commissioner, two of the naturalists attached to the expedition, Mr. C. H. Townsend
and Mr. H. F. Moore, were authorized to collect in this field.

Exchanges.—The exchange of duplicate specimens as a means of acquiring new
material for its collections, authorized by the fundamental act establishing the Insti-
tution, has been carried on from the beginning and with much profit. The exchange
may have reference to any number of specimens from one upward, and may be
conducted with an individual, a museum of natural history, or any other character
of establishment, provided, only, that a proper equivalent be sent in return. The
domestic exchanges were many during the past year, though none was of large extent.
The parties to exchanges from abroad were as follows: Great Britain—the British
Museum of Natural History at London, the Royal Botanical Gardens at Kew, Uni-
versity College at Dundee, the Horniman Museum at London, Mr. G. E. Mason, of
Fulham, and Mr, E. Lovett, of Croydon; France—the Museum of Natural History at
Paris, and Mr. Jean Miguel, of Barrubio, Hérault; Germany—the Royal Zoological
56 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Museum at Dresden, the Royal Botanical Museum at Berlin, and the Geological-
Paleontological Institute at Munich; Bohemia—the National Museum at Prag, and
Dr. K. Urba, of the same city; Italy—the museums of Natural History at Milan and
Genoa, and Dr. Paolo Magretti, of Milan; Switzerland—Mr. Paul Narbel, of Cour
Lausanne; Belgium—Baron R. de Vriére, of Phem, Zedelghem; Denmark—Dr. E.
Warming, of the University of Copenhagen; Sweden—Prof. A. M. Fries, of Upsala;
Russia—M. Melnikof, of St. Petersburg; India—the Indian Museum and the Royal
Botanical Garden at Calcutta; South Africa—the Botanical Gardens at Durban, Natal;
New Zealand—Canterbury Museum at Christchurch and the Public Museum at Wan-
ganui; Australia—Mr. F. H. McK.Grant, at Melbourne, Victoria; Canada—Mr. Eugene
Coubeaux, of Prince Albert, Saskatchewan; Mexico—the National Museum in the
City of Mexico; Brazil—the Museo Paulista at Sao Paulo.

Installation.—Very considerable progress has been made in the work of installa-
tion, which comprises, besides the placing of specimens on exhibition, the arrange-
ment of the reserve or study series and the packing away in storage of such material
as can not be provided for in the overcrowded Museum and Smithsonian buildings.
There is now on hand so large an amount of this material as to entirely fill a number
of outside storehouses, and the quantity is being constantly increased. During the
year it was thoroughly overhauled, the packing cases were relabeled as to their con-
tents and sytematically arranged, and a complete catalogue was prepared to facili-
tate the finding of collections as desired. Among these stores are hidden away many
thousands of valuable and interesting specimens, liable at any time to destruction by
fire and pests—a silent but forcible reminder of the necessity for a new Museum
building.

That part of the installation which interests the general public receives naturally
the greatest amount of attention and involves by far the greatest expenditure of money.
The exhibition cases must present a finished and artistic appearance; the collections,
selected with due reference to the instruction of the visitor, must be suitably pre-
pared and tastefully mounted, and each specimen, each grouping of specimens, and
each case must have a label, tersely worded and easily decipherable. The reorgan-
ization of the exhibition halls is rapidly progressing. Some are being newly fitted
up, while in others there is simply such a rearrangement, more or less extensive, as
may be deemed necessary or as the circumstances permit. The lack of means to
provide sufficient cases of a suitable character, however, interposes a serious difficulty
in carrying on this work. A large proportion of the cases now in use are of anti-
quated pattern, and not adapted to modern methods of installation. Very many
have been defaced or worn-out in connection with the different expositions, and
until these can be replaced there must be much incongruity in the appearance of the
exhibition halls.

Among the things accomplished in this direction by the Department of Anthro-
pology has been the arrangement of the ceramic collection in a handsome, new, ebon-
ized case, which extends around the entire gallery of the Northeast Court, producing
one of the most attractive features in the Museum. The extensive basketry collec-
tion and the ethnological exhibits illustrative of Latin America have been installed
in the corresponding gallery of the Northwest Court. The exhibits in the West North
Range, which contains the Indian groups and the Catlin paintings, have been as
nearly completed as is now possible, and many additions and improvements have
been made in connection with the exhibits of American History, the Graphic Arts,
Land Transportation, and Materia Medica. No changes have been made in the large
hall so long occupied by the Division of Prehistoric Archzology, nor does any
rearrangement there seem advisable until means shall be provided for a thorough
renovation of the room, which is now in every respect quite unpresentable.

For the Department of Biology one large wall-case has been built along the east
side of the South Hall, to receive the specimens of North American carnivores, and

a a ar al
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57

the installation in this hall has been otherwise much improved. The Southeast
Range has been cleared of storage, and entirely assigned to the exhibition of reptiles
and fishes, of which a partial display is now in place. The rearrangement of the
bird collection has been nearly completed, and a system of lighting the central dark
cases by means of electric lamps has been devised.

The condition of both the exhibition and reserve collections in the Department of
Geology has been greatly improved, and, except as to labeling, many parts of the
display series are now in a practically finished state.. The two galleries in the south-
ern ranges have been fitted up as storerooms and laboratories for the Divisions of
Paleobotany and Vertebrate Paleontology, the collections of which have been trans-
ferred to the racks and drawers provided for the purpose. Much of the activity of
the Department of Geology has been directed toward unpacking and arranging the
Marsh Collection of vertebrate fossils, to which reference is made elsewhere.

Public benefits —While the principal function of the Museum is to care for and
classify the Government collections, it is best known to the public through its educa-
tional features and as a place where information may be sought on many scientific
topics. Being one of the chief points of interest at the national capital, it is visited
by large numbers of persons from all parts of the country, the annual attendance
during the past twenty years haying averaged about 220,000, though in years of
Presidential inauguration it has sometimes exceeded 300,000. During the past year
the number recorded was above 225,000.

In the matter of supplying information the Museum is called upon from all parts
of the country and to some extent from abroad. Specimens are sent to it for identifi-
cation and analysis, and inquiries are received bearing upon every subject coming
within its scope, as well as upon many with which it has no relation. Every com-
munication is answered, and so far as possible the writer’s wishes are complied with,
though requests for chemical analyses can not be met, as the Museum is not equipped
for work of that character. Over 700 lots of objects were received for examination
during the year, while of letters asking information there was an average of not less
than 100 weekly. As will be realized, the time of both the scientific and the clerical
staff was heavily drawn upon in preparing the necessary replies.

A number of students have been given facilities and allowed the use of collections
for carrying on researches at the Museum, and a large amount of material has been
sent to specialists in different parts of the country and abroad for working up. While
the latter has mainly been done under agreement to prepare reports for the use of
the Museum, yet specimens are constantly being lent to institutions and individuals
to aid in investigations conducted in their own behalf.

The distribution of duplicate specimens among educational establishments through-
out the United States has come to be regarded as one of the important features in the
work of the Museum. It can only be carried on, however, upon a very limited
scale with the funds now available, as entire collections have first to be identified,
and the expenditure of a relatively large amount of labor and material is required for
assorting, labeling, and preparing the specimens for shipment. During the last year
39 sets of such duplicates, containing about 7,000 specimens in all, were sent out.
The principal subjects represented were marine invertebrates, geology, and prehis-
toric archeology.

Pan-American Exposition.—The preparation of the exhibits for the Pan-American
Exposition at Buffalo in 1901, as authorized by the Fifty-fifth Congress, was begun
during the year under the immediate direction of Dr. F. W. True, who has been desig-
nated as the representative of the Smithsonian Institution and its bureaus on the
Government Board of Management.

Publications.—Volume 21 of the Proceedings was issued early in the year, and 24
papers of Volume 22 have been printed and distributed in separate form. Volume 1
of the Annual Report for 1897 was received from the Government Printing Office in

58 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

December. The second volume of this Report, still in course of printing, will con-
tain a biographical account of Dr. George Brown Goode, the late Assistant Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, in charge of the National Museum, and reprints of sey-
eral of his most important papers on museums and on the history of scientifie progress
in the United States. It is expected that the Report for 1898 will be ready for distri-
bution early in the coming fiscal year. The appendix to this Report will consist of
only one paper—a monographic treatise on the Crocodilians, Lizards, and Snakes of
North America, by the late Prof. Edward Drinker Cope. Part 4 of Bulletin No. 47,
entitled ‘‘The Fishes of North and Middle America,’’ by Dr. David Starr Jordan and
Dr. Barton W. Evermann, was issued just before the close of the year. This volume,
consisting of 392 plates, with their explanations and a general table of contents, com-
pletes one of the most important works thus far published by the Museum. Three
additional pamphlets containing instructions to collectors, etc., were issued during
the year as parts M, N, and O, of Bulletin 39. The titles of these are: ‘‘The meth-
ods employed at the Naples Zoological Station for the preservation of marine ani-
mals,’’ by Dr. Salvatore Lo Bianco (translated by E. O. Hovey, of the American
Museum of Natural History); ‘‘ Directions for preparing study specimens of small
mammals,’’ by Gerrit S. Miller, jr., and. ‘‘Directions for collecting and rearing
dragon flies, stone flies, and May flies,’’ by James G. Needham.

LTibrary.—Three hundred and thirty-seven books, 728 pamphlets, and 4,298 parts
of periodicals have been added to the library, which now contains over 15,000
bound volumes and 27,000 unbound papers.

Respectfully submitted. RicHarp RATHBUN,

Assistant Secretary.
Mr. S. P. LANGLEY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

Av@ust 1, 1900.
APPENDIX IT.

REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETH-
NOLOGY FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900.

Sm: I have the honor to tender the following report of operations conducted by
the Bureau of American Ethnology during the year ending June 30, 1900, in accord-
ance with the act of Congress making provision ‘‘for continuing researches relating
to the American Indians under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution,’’
approved March 3, 1899.

The work of the year has been carried forward in accordance with a formal plan
of operations submitted on May 13, 1899, and approved by the Secretary under date
of June 16, 1899.

The field operations of the regular corps have extended into Arizona, California,
Cuba, Indian Territory, Jamaica, Maine, Minnesota, New Mexico, New York, Nova
Scotia, Oklahoma, Ontario, and Wisconsin; while operations have been conducted
by special agents in Alaska, Argentina, and Porto Rico. The office work has com-
prised the collection and preparation of material from most of the States and Terri-
tories, as well as from various other parts of the Western Hemisphere.

As during previous years, the researches have been carried forward in accordance
with a scientific system developed largely in this Bureau. This system is outlined
in the classification adopted in previous reports and continued in the present one.

FIELD RESEARCH AND EXPLORATION.

The Director, aided by Mr. Frank Hamilton Cushing, spent the earlier months of
the fiscal year in an investigation of the middens and tumuli representing the work
of the aborigines in northeastern United States, especially in Maine. A considerable
number of both classes of accumulations were excavated, with instructive results.
Among the relics brought to light were many of customary types, together with a
smaller number of much significance in that they represent early stages of accultura-
tion through contact with Caucasian pioneers; and in addition to the aboriginal and
accultural artifacts, the explorers were rewarded by finding the remains of a metallic
armor, of European make, in such associations as to throw light on the beginning of
warfare between red men and white. .

Later in the year the Director, accompanied by Prof. W. H. Holmes, of the United
States National Museum, repaired to Cuba and Jamaica for the purpose of tracing
lines of cultural migration between the great continents of the Western Hemisphere.
The researches of the last two decades have shown clearly that the customs of the
aborigines in what is now southeastern United States were affected by extraneous
motives and devices; the phenomena have suggested importation of objects and
ideas belonging to what is commonly styled ‘‘Caribbean art’’ from South America
by way of the Antilles; and it was thought desirable to seize the opportunity offered
by recent political changes for special studies in the Antillean islands. Although the
trip was a reconnaissance merely, it yielded useful data on which to base further
researches, including a small collection for the Museum.

A noteworthy trip was made early in the fiscal year by Mr. F. W. Hodge, with a
party of volunteer assistants comprising Dr. Elliott Coues, of Washington, Dr. George
Parker Winship, of Providence, and Mr. A. C. Vroman, of Pasadena. The journey

59
60 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

was so planned as to touch the less known pueblos of the plateau country and val-
leys of New Mexico and Arizona and to obtain data relating to social organization,
migrations, and customs, as well as typical photographs of individuals, habitations,
etc. All of the existing pueblos of New Mexico were visited and many of the ruins,
The trip yielded a large body of data for incorporation in the reports and especially
in the Cyclopedia of Native Tribes.

About the middle of September Dr. J. Walter Fewkes proceeded to New Mexico
for the purpose of completing his investigation of the mythology and ceremonies of
the Hopi Indians, his trip being so timed as to permit observation of the autumn
and winter ceremonies not previously observed by ethnologic students. He remained
in the pueblo throughout the winter, and his studies proved eminently fruitful.
Toward the end of March he repaired to Arizona for the purpose of locating aborigi-
nal ruins near Rio Colorado Chiquito, concerning which vague rumors were afloat;
and this work, also, was quite successful, as noted in another paragraph.

During the early autumn Dr. Albert 8. Gatschet visited several groups of survivors
of Algonquian tribes on Cape Breton Island for the purpose of extending the studies
of the previous year in New Brunswick; he succeeded in obtaining considerable
linguistic material, in addition to other data pertaining to the northeasternmost rep-
resentatives of that great Algonquian-speaking people neighboring the Eskimo on
their north and extending thence southward more than halfway across the present
territory of the United States.

Early in the winter Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt revisited the remnants of several Iroquoian
tribes in New York and Ontario and continued the collection and comparison of the
tribal traditions. Finding the conditions favorable for recording some of the more
noteworthy traditions, he spent several weeks in an Indian village near Hamilton,
Ontario, returning to the office in April.

Toward the end of the calendar year Mr. J. B. Hatcher, who had been operating
in Patagonia and Terra del Fuego as a special agent of the Bureau, returned to the
country with a considerable collection for the Museum, as well as a large number of
photographs illustrating the physical characteristics, costumery, habitations, and
occupations of the Tehuelche and Yahgan tribes. He also brought in an extended
vocabulary collected among the natives of the former tribe and useful notes relating
to the social organization and other characteristics of the two tribes.

Toward the end of the fiscal year Miss Alice C. Fletcher was commissioned as a
special agent to visit Indian Territory and Oklahoma for the purpose of obtaining cer-
tain esoteric rituals of the Pawnee tribe. Her work was notably successful, as is indi-
cated in other paragraphs.

Dr. Willis E. Everett remained in Alaska throughout the fiscal year, pursuing his
vocation as a mining engineer, but incidentally collecting, for the use of the Bureau,
linguistic and other data pertaining to the native tribes.

About the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Robert Stein, formerly of the United States
Geological Survey, accompanied a Peary expedition northward as far as Elsmereland,
where he planned to spend the winter in geographic and related researches. He
sarried instructions from the Bureau for such archzeologic and ethnologic observations
as he might be able to make, together with photographic apparatus and materials
needed in the work. Elsmereland is not known to be now inhabited, nor to have
been inhabited in the past, by the aborigines, but the situation of the island is such
as to indicate that it was probably occupied at least temporarily by Eskimauan tribes
in some of the migrations attested by their wide distribution; hence it is thought
probable that archzeologic work on the island may throw light on the early history of
this widely dispersed orarian people. A brief report of progress was received after
the close of the fiscal year.

During the autumn Mr. Robert T. Hill, of the United States Geological Survey,
visited Porto Rico in the interests of that Bureau and of the Department of Agricul-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

ture; and the opportunity was seized to arrange for obtaining through his cooperation
such photographs and other data of ethnologic character as he might be able to dis-
cover in connection with his other duties. The arrangement yielded material of
value.

OrricE RESEARCH.

WORK IN ESTHETOLOGY.

In the course of a reconnoissance of the Greater Antilles, the Director and Profes-
sor Holmes enjoyed moderate opportunities for observing (chiefly in local collections)
artifacts of the class commonly regarded as displaying traces of Caribbean influence;
and while neither time nor opportunity permitted exhaustive study, a few interesting
generalizations were made. One of these relates to the relative abundance of sesthetic
and industrial motives among those artifacts displaying traces of a Southern influ-
ence. On comparing the objects and special features in connection with those from
Florida and other portions of southern United States, it was noted that the presum-
ably imported or accultural features are predominantly esthetic, and only subordi-
nately of technical or industrial character—i. e., it would appear from the collections
that esthetic motives travel more freely, or are interchanged more readily, than
_ purely utilitarian motives among primitive peoples. The relation is of course com-
plicated by the relative abundance of fiducial or other sophic motives, which often
blend with both esthetic and industrial motives in puzzling fashion; but even after
these motives are weighed or eliminated, the general relation remains unchanged.
The generalization promises to be of service as a guide in the study of that affiliation
of tribes, or integration of peoples, which complicates every ethnologic problem. The
inquiries were greatly facilitated by Professor Holmes’s artistic training and his
extended familiarity with both the esthetic and the industrial motives of aboriginal
artifacts; nor could the generalization have been made without the aid of Mr. Cush-
ing, and the opportunity of examining his remarkable collection of artifacts of wood
and shell from the muck beds of western Florida, of which a considerable part is now
in the National Museum. The details of the work are reserved for later reports.

Throughout the fiscal year Mr. W J McGee was occupied primarily with adminis-
trative duties as Ethnologist in Charge in the office, but partly in the preparation of
reports on field researches of previous years. One of his subjects of study was the
esthetic status of the Seri Indians of Tiburon Island and adjacent territory. The
tribe is notably primitive in several respects, as indicated in previous reports, and
this primitive character is well displayed in their meager esthetic. One of the con-
spicuous customs of the tribe is that of face painting, the paint being applied uni-
formly in definite patterns, of which nearly a dozen were observed. The custom is
practically limited to the women, though male children are sometimes painted with
their mothers’ devices. On inquiry into the’uses and purposes of the designs it was
found that each pertains to and denotes a matronymic group or clan, and that the
more prominent designs, at least, are symbols of zoic tutelaries—e. g., Turtle, Peli-
can, etc. It thus appears that the painted devices are primarily symbolic rather
than decorative, though comparison of the devices used by different members of the
same clan or by the same female at different times, indicates that the sematic func-
tion does not stand in the way of minor modification or embellishment of the device
through the exercise of a personal feeling for decoration. The investigation is of
interest in that it establishes the symbolic basis of «sthetic concepts along a new line,
and it is of even deeper interest in that it seems to reveal nascent notions of decora-
tion, and thus aids to define the beginning of purely artistic activities. The sym-
bolic devices themselves are of much significance as indices to the social organization
on the one hand, and to the prevailing belief of the tribe on the other hand. The
restriction of the painted symbols to the females and the especially conspicuous use
of them by matrons betoken the strength and exclusiveness of that sense of maternal
62 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

descent which is normal to the lowest stage of culture; the devices are at once blood-
signs, definite as the face-marks of gregarious animals, and clan-standards, significant
as tartan or pibroch; and the confaement of their display to the recognized blood-
carriers of the clan attests, perhaps more clearly than any other phenomena thus far
noted, the strength of that semi-instinctive feeling expressed in maternal organiza-
tion. In like manner, the representation of local tutelaries in the painted devices
attests the intensity and dominance of that zootheistic faith which seems to be nor-
mal to the lowest stage of intellectual development. The details of the investigation
are incorporated in a memoir appended to an earlier report.

In the course of his work among the Hopi Indians, Dr. Fewkes succeeded in defin-
ing certain steps in the development of the drama. The ceremonies of the folk, like
those of other primitive peoples, are primarily fiducial, and involve representation,
or even personation, of the deified potencies forming the tribal pantheon. The
motive of one of the dramatic—or rather dramaturgic—pieces is the growth of corn;
and the mise en scéne comprises realistic representations of both the maleficent and
the beneficent agencies connected with the making of the crop and the development
of the plant in general. The performance is designed primarily to invoke the favor
of the mysteries by appropriate symbols of both being and action, but an ancillary,
or perhaps coordinate, design of this ceremony is the edification (combining instruc-
tion and diversion) of the-tribe at large; accordingly a portion of the interior is set
apart as a stage, while the greater portion is reserved as an auditorium. Both the
mystical and the human powers are represented or personified by actors, who, with
their properties, occupy the stage; and since that part of the mechanism connected
with the portrayal of the mysteries is esoteric, a screen is provided to conceal it and
give an air of realism to the performance. The screen is painted with appropriate
symbols tending to heighten the illusion to the childlike minds of the audience, and
it is perforated to permit the passage of masked effigies representing the mystical
potencies, which are operated by shamans hidden behind the screen, something after
the fashion of marionettes. The front of the stage is occupied by a symbolized field
of corn; it is the rdle of the symbolized potencies representing storm and drought
to emerge from their respective apertures in the screen and destroy the symbolic
cornfield; but they are opposed, in part by musical and other incanations of a group
of shamans occupying one side of the stage, and in part by human actors who wrestle
with and finally overcome the evil marionettes. The entire dramatization stands on
a higher plane than that prevalent among most of the tribes of the territory of the
United States, though lower than that reached among the Nahuatlan and Mayan peo-
ples and reveals various connecting links between primitive dramaturgy and theatrical
representation proper. A specially significant feature of the performance is the rdéle
assigned to human actors in boldly defying, and eventually overcoming, the powers
of darkness and evil; for this esthetic feature reflects a noteworthy aspect of industrial
development. Dr. Fewkes’s detailed descriptions, with the attendant photographs
and drawings, are in preparation for an early report.

WORK IN TECHNOLOGY.

As indicated in earlier reports, the researches of the last decade have shown that
the esthetic motives of primitive peoples arise in symbolism; and, as noted in one or
two recent reports on the work, various indications have been found that industrial
motives similarly arise in symbolism connected with zootheistic faith. The suggest-
ive phase of industrial development is that in which teeth, horns, claws, mandibles,
and other animal organs are used as implements or weapons in a manner imitating
more or less closely the natural functions of the organisms. In completing his studies
of Seri technic during the year, Mr. W J McGee has discovered definite survivals
of this stage of industrial development. The favorite Seri awl is the mandible of a
bird, and even when the material is hard wood the implement is shaped in imita-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

tion of the natural organ; the war shield is a turtle-shell or pelican pelt; similarly
the arrows and turtle harpoons of the tribe are fitted with a foreshaft usually of hard
wood, though there are linguistic and other indications that the use of wood is a
vestige of a former use of teeth, probably of the local sea lion while many of the
‘manual operations are evidently imitative of normal movements of local animals,
most of which hold place in the Seri pantheon. These features of the Seri technic
throw light on the use of zoic motives in the decoration of primitive weapons, and
hence permit the solution of some of the most puzzling problems of American arche-
ology; at the same time they serve to define a stage in industrial development in a
manner which appears to be applicable to all primitive peoples. In general, the
stage would seem to be antecedent to that defined by the chance-dominated use of
stone, which has already been characterized as protolithic; it corresponds with the
stage provisionally outlined by Cushing as prelithic; but, taking due account of the
materials, processes, and motives characteristic of the stage, it may be distinguished
as hylozoic, or perhaps better as zoomimic. Accordingly the earlier stages of indus-
trial development may be defined as (1) zoomimic, in which the predominant imple-
_ ments are beast organs, used largely in mimicry of animal movements; (2) protolithic,
in which the prevailing implements are stones selected at random and used in ways
determined by mechanical chance; and (3) technolithic, in which the prevailing
implements are of stone shaped by preconceived designs and used in accordance with
the teachings of mechanical experience. This classification of the industries is elabo-
rated in an earlier report, the material for which was revised during the year.

In continuing the preparation of his memoir on the contents of the Florida shell
mounds and muck beds, Mr. Cushing brought out many new examples of that
ideative association which forms the basis of zoomimic industry. Several of these
examples were found in the muck-preserved implements and weapons of wood from
Florida; others were found in various museums in the form of artifacts of stone, and
even of metal, shaped in imitation of animals, or furnished with symbols of animals
and animal organs; still others were found in the hieroglyphics and hieratic codices
of Mexico and Yucatan. The assemblage of objects seems clearly to indicate that
while the zoomimic motive was the primary one and stood nearly alone at and long
after its inception, it was not completely displaced by the protolithic or even by the
technolithic motives of higher stages, but persisted in connection with these quite
up to the time of Caucasian invasion—indeed, it would appear that the zoomimic
motive in handicraft was the correlative and concomitant of that zootheism out of
which none of the tribes had completely risen up to the time of the discovery.

In the course of his reconnaissance of the inhabited and ruined pueblos in New
Mexico and Arizona, Mr. F. W. Hodge, with his companions, brought to light a
number of notable examples of stone work. Two types are especially instructive.
The first of these is represented by the ruins in Cebollita Valley. The stones used
in the walls were cleft with great regularity and laid, after carefully facing by peck-
ing, in such manner as to produce a practically smooth surface, with corners squared
almost as neatly as those of a well-laid brick structure. The second type, also repre-
sented by ruins in the Cebollita Valley, is similar, save that the corners were rounded
apparently on a uniform radius, while the stones were dressed in such manner as to
conform to the curve about as closely as does metal-wrought masonry. The perfec-
tion of the stone work of both types suggests Caucasian skill; but the indications of
great antiquity, coupled with the absence of binding mortar, and especially the
laying of the stones in such manner as to reveal ignorance of the principle of breaking
joints, prove that the work was primitive.

In his reconnaissance of the ruins of Rio Colorado Chiquito, Dr. Fewkes reex-
amined critically the ancient structure discovered by Sitgreaves in 1851, which is of
much interest as one of the earliest known ruins of the pueblo country. His observa-
tions on the subject are of interest, partly in that they afford a basis for estimating
64 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the duration of such ruins when protected from vandalism either by inaccessibility,

as in this case, or by such legislative or executive action as is frequently contemplated |
by governmental authorities. The detailed measurements and comparisons will be

incorporated in a later report. During the same trip Dr. Fewkes discovered a num-

ber of additional ruins including those of cavate dwellings located in the softer layers

of heterogeneous volcanic deposit. Some of his observations throw useful light on

the methods of excavating such deposits employed by the aborigines, as well as on

their general modes of life.

During the autumn it was ascertained that Dr. A. E. Jenks, of the University of
Wisconsin, was engaged in a study of the wild-rice industry of the aborigines, and it
was thought well to take advantage of the opportunity to systemize and place on per-
manent record the considerable body of material brought together through his
researches. Accordingly provision was made to have Dr. Jenks visit various locali-
ties in Wisconsin and Minnesota in which the wild-rice industry is still carried for-
ward by the Indians; and provision was also made for photographing the various
operations connected with the harvesting, preserving, and cooking of the produce.
The inquiry derives importance primarily from the large use of wild rice among the
aboriginal tribes and incidentally from the possible utility of the product in enlight-
ened agriculture. The world is indebted to the natives of the Western Hemisphere
for several important commodities. Among these corn, i. e., maize, occupies the first
place; others are the turkey, two or three varieties of beans, certain squashes, besides
the remarkable paratriptic tobacco, whose use has spread throughout the world since
the time of Raleigh; and there are indications that the wild rice (Zizania) of the
region of glacial lakes may constitute a notable addition to the list. Led to the subject
by the work of the Bureau, the Department of Agriculture has instituted inquiries
concerning the extent of the wild rice area and concerning the possibilities of utiliza-
tion of the resource. Dr. Jenks’ memoir is incorporated in the Nineteenth Annual
Report.

WORK IN SOCIOLOGY.

Except when occupied in field work, the Director continued the synthetic study of
demotic activities, and during the year he completed the preliminary outline of the
activities expressed in institutions. The science of institutions is commonly desig-
nated sociology, after Auguste Comte, Herbert Spencer, and other European writers;
and though the term is sometimes loosely used it fairly meets the requirements of scien-
tific exposition. The branch of knowledge which it is used to designate is one of the
five coordinate sciences (esthetology, technology, sociology, philology, and sophi-
ology) constituting demonomy, or the system of knowledge pertaining to the human
activities. Viewed in its activital aspect, sociology combines several subordinate
branches. The first of these is statistics (sometimes called demography ), which deals
with the units of social organization; the second is economics, which deals espe-
cially with the forces and values involved in, or controlled by, human organization.
The third branch of sociology is civics, which may be defined as the science of meth-
ods in governmental action, or in the regulation of the conduct of associates—methods
which have for their normal objects peace, equity, equality, liberty, and charity
among the associates. The means of attaining these ends in primitive society have
been ascertained almost wholly through the researches in American ethnology; they
have been indicated ina brief outline of regimentation appended to an earlier report.
The fourth branch of sociology may be noted as historics; it deals with the methods
adopted for the maintenance and perpetuation of social organization. Coordinate
with these branches is the science of ethics, which deals with the ideal bases and the
practical objects of associate organization. The ethics of primitive life have been
ascertained almost wholly through observation among the aborigines of America; the
ethical relations existing among the tribesmen have been a revelation to students;
and no line of ethnologic inquiry has yielded richer results than that pertaining to
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

this subject. An outline of the definition of sociology has been printed for the use
of students, and for the benefit of such suggestions as may be offered by other inquir-
ers; and it is planned to expand the discussion and incorporate it in a later report.

The primary purpose of the trip by Mr. Hodge and his companions was to ascer-
tain and record the details of social organization as now maintained among the
pueblo tribes. As indicated in various publications of the Bureau, the aborigines of
America belong in approximately equal proportions to two of the culture stages
defined by social organization—i. e., (1) savagery, in which the institutions are based
on consanguinity reckoned in the female line, and (2) barbarism, in which the insti-
tutions are founded on consanguinity reckoned in the male line. In some cases a
transitional condition has been found, as, for example, among the Muskwaki Indians,
who give a patronymic to the first-born child, but, in case of its death in infancy,
revert to the matronymic system; sometimes, again, the basis of the organization
is so well concealed as to be obscured, as among the Kiowa Indians (noted in the
last report); or, again, the consanguinity may be practically concealed by the over-
placement of some other factor, as among the California tribes, who regard language
as the ostensibly dominant factor of their institutions (also noted in the last report);
but the fortuitous relations may commonly be reduced without serious difficulty, and
shown not to affect the general fact that the American aborigines belong to the cul-
ture stages of savagery and barbarism in about equal proportions, reckoned on the
basis of population—though it is to be remembered that the tribes belonging to the
higher stage are uch the larger and fewer. Now a recent line of inquiry relates
to the causes and conditions of the transition from the first great stage to the
second. In the Old World the transition has been fairly correlated with the gradual
passage from hunting to herding—there the initial phase of agriculture; but in
the Western Hemisphere the characteristics of the native fauna were not such as to
place herding in the van of agricultural development. Accordingly it has been
thought desirable to trace the influence of harvesting and planting, when pursued for
generations, on social organization; and the most favorable opportunity for such
research was that afforded by the Pueblos. Morever, it seemed desirable to inquire
into the rate of the transition, as indicated by records covering a considerable period;
and for this purpose also the Pueblos seemed to be admirably adapted, partly since
the customs of the people have been subjects of record for three and a half centuries,
and partly because their arid habitat is so uninviting as to have practically repelled
the invasion of revolutionary methods. It was by reason of his intimate acquaint-
ance with the early records, and also in the hope that he might be able to discover
unpublished manuscripts among the ancient archives of the missions, that Dr. Elliott
Coues, compiler of the American Explorers’ Series, was attached to the party.
Although no noteworthy discoveries of manuscripts were made, a considerable body
of data essential to the discussion of social organization in the pueblo region was
obtained. Portions of the material are in preparation for prospective reports, while
Mr. Hodge is incorporating the data relating to the clans and gentes of the Pueblo
peoples in a Cyclopedia of Native Tribes.

During his stay among the Hopi, Dr. Fewkes’ atterition was directed to the inter-
relation between the tribesmen and certain feral creatures, notably eagles. The eagles
are of much consequence to the folk, chiefly as a source of feathers, which are exten-
sively used in ceremonies for symbolic representation, etc.; and it appears from the
recent observations that particular clans claim and exercise a sort of collective owner-
ship in certain families of eagles, perhaps homing in distant mountains; and that
this right is commonly recognized by other clans,and even by neighboring tribes.
Thus the relation affords a striking example of that condition of toleration between
animals and men which normally precedes domestication, and forms the first step in
zooculture, as has been set forth in preceding reports. These relations, together
with the methods of capture, ete., will be described in a prospective paper.

sm 1900

5)
66 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

WORK IN PHILOLOGY,

During the later months of the fiscal year the Director resumed the synthesis of
the native American languages, and the comparison of these with other tongues, with
the view of defining the principles of philology on a comprehensive basis. The task
is one of magnitude; the records in the Bureau archives comprise more or less com-
plete vocabularies and grammars of several hundred dialects representing the sixty
or more linguistic stocks of North America; and the study necessarily extends not
only over this material but over a considerable part of the published records of other
languages, both primitive and advanced. Accordingly, while satisfactory progress
was made in the work, definite announcement of results must be held for later reports,

In connection with the general linguistic researches it was deemed necessary to
extend the classification of stocks southward over Mexico and Central America; and
this extension was undertaken with the aid of Dr Cyrus Thomas, whose researches
concerning the native codices of Mexico and Yucatan have familiarized him with
the literature of these and neighboring regions, and to some extent with the aboriginal
languages. Dr. Thomas devoted several months to the work; and about the close of
the fiscal year he had completed a provisional classification and map of native lin-
guistic stocks in Mexico and Central America, designed to supplement the classifica-
tion and map of the American Indians north of Mexico published in the Seventh
Annual Report. The material remains in the hands of the Director for use in gen-
eral study and for revision for publication.

As noted above, Dr. Albert 8. Gatschet visited Nova Scotia early in the fiscal year
for the purpose of completing his collections of the northeasternmost Algonquian
tongues—his work on Cape Breton Island was especially fruitful—and his collections
will enable him to round out the comparative vocabulary of Algonquian dialects so
far as the tribes of northeastern United States and contiguous territory are concerned.
On returning to the office he resumed the extraction of lexic and grammatic material,
and pushed forward the preparation of the comparative vocabulary, and in connec-
tion with the work he prepared synthetic characterizations of the principal elements
of several typical dialects, including the Kataba of the Siouan stock.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt continued the preparation of his memoir on the comparative
mythology of the Iroquoian tribes. On juxtaposing the principal cosmogonic myths
of the several tribes, various indications of incompleteness were found; and it was
chiefly for the purpose of verifying certain of the versions that he revisited Ontario,
as has been already noted. He succeeded in obtaining a considerable body of new
data, and after his return from the field he made good progress in the preparation of
his memoir, which is designed for incorporation in an early report. Early in the
fiscal year Mr. Hewitt made a notable comparison between the Seri language, as
recorded recently by Mr. McGee (and as previously obtained from an expatriated
Seri man at Hermosillo by M. Pinart, Commissioner Bartlett, and Sefor Tenochio),
with the Yuman, Piman, and other southwestern dialects recorded by various
explorers. For atime the language of the Seri was supposed to be related to the
tongues of the Yuman stock; but Mr. Hewitt’s exhaustive study of the extensive
body of material now preserved in the Bureau archives seems to demonstrate the
absence of such relation, and to indicate that the language of the tribe represents a
distinct stock. Accordingly the classification of Orozco y Berra and other Mexican
scholars of the middle of the century is revived; and in conformity with the princi-
ples of nomenclature and classification announced in the Seventh Annual Report,
the definition of the language, dialects, and tribes is as follows:

Stock. Dialects and tribes.
Seri (extant).

Tepoka (recently extinct).
Guayma (long extinct).
Upanguayma (long extinct).

Serian.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 67

In the course of his stay in the Hopi Village, Dr. Fewkes was so fortunate as to
discover a series of hieratic paintings, primarily representing the tribal pantheon,
but connected incidentally with the tribal history. The paintings were executed by
an aged shaman as a sort of personal record akin to the calendars, or winter-counts,
which play so large, yet so obscure, a role in Indian life; and they would doubtless
have been sacrificed on the death of the artist had not Dr. Fewkes discovered them
and succeeded, after much difficulty, in securing them. The series comprises some
four hundred representations, mostly on separate sheets; the pictures partake of the
characteristics of the petroglyphs and calendaric inscriptions such as those described
by the late Colonel Mallery; they also present suggestive similarities to the codices
of more southerly regions. It is the design to incorporate the entire series, repro-
duced in facsimile, in an early report.

One of the best known contributions to American aboriginal linguistics is the
Elliot Bible, published in the Natick language in 1685. This contribution was sup-
plemented in a highly notable way during the present century through the labors of
the late James Hammond Trumbull, who compiled from the Bible, with the aid of
other sources of information at his command, a vocabulary of the Natick tongue.
Unfortunately for students, this compilation was not published, but on the death of
Dr. Trumbull, in 1897, it passed into the custody of the American Antiquarian
Society, at Worcester, Massachusetts. Here it attracted the attention of scholars
and publicists, including Dr. Edward Everett Hale; and it was proposed by Dr. Hale,
with others, to offer the manuscript to the Bureau for publication. Among the
scholars interested in this and cognate publications relating to the aborigines was
the Hon. Ernest W. Roberts, Representative of the Seventh Massachusetts district
in the Congress; and at his instance authority was granted for resuming the publica-
tion of bulletins by the Bureau. Accordingly, when Dr. Hale, early in 1900, brought
the valuable manuscript of the Trumbull Dictionary to Washington it was assigned
for publication as the first of the new series of bulletins. Before the close of the
fiscal year the compositon was well under way, while Dr. Hale was engaged in the
preparation of a historical introduction.

Another contribution of the first importance to knowledge of the aboriginal Ameri-
can languages is the vocabulary of the Maya tongue, compiled during the earlier
decades of Spanish occupation and well known to scholars (though never printed)
as the Diccionario de Motul. Two or three copies of the work are extant in manu-
script; one of these passed into the possession of the late Dr. Carlos H. Berendt about
the middle of the present century, and in the course of a lengthy stay in Yucatan
he undertook to revise and complete the vocabulary and to bring it up to date by
the introduction of all Maya terms in modern use. Dr. Berendt’s additions nearly
doubled the volume of the original manuscript, and greatly enhanced its value;
unfortunately he died before his plan for publication was carried out. Before his
death, however, he turned the manuscript over to the late Dr. Daniel G. Brinton, of
Philadelphia, in order that it might be published in that ethnologist’s Library of
Aboriginal American Literature. Finding the work too extensive for his facilities,
Dr. Brinton made a provisional arrangement, before his death, in July, 1899, to trans-
fer the manuscript to the Bureau; and after his decease the arrangement was carried
out by his legatees and executors, including the University of Pennsylvania, to which
institution his valuable library was bequeathed. Both the original vocabulary and
Dr. Berendt’s supplement are in Maya-Spanish and Spanish-Maya; and, as a neces-
sary preliminary to publication by the Bureau, a transcription was begun by Miss
Jessie E. Thomas, assistant librarian, a student of the Maya language. Toward the
close of the fiscal year Sefor Andonaro Molina, of Merida, Yucatan, an eminent
student of the Maya language, visited this country, and, learning of the proposal to
publish the Diccionario de Motul, came to Washington to proffer his services in any
further revision of the material that might seem desirable. His offer was gladly
68 REPORT OF THE SECKETARY.

accepted and provision was made for supplying him with copies of the transcript of
the vocabulary.

During the year Dr. Franz Boas made additional contributions of importance to the
linguistic collections of the Bureau. He also completed a second volume of Chinook
texts, which would have been sent to press before the close of the fiscal year except
for his prospective absence in field work and consequent delay in proof revision.
The matter will be incorporated in an early report or bulletin.

WORK IN SOPHIOLOGY.

In pursuing his investigation of the time-concept of Papago Indians as noted in the
last report, Mr. McGee was led to a study of the relations existing between this nota-
bly altruistic tribe and their hard physical environment; and clear indications were
found that with the degree of cultural development possessed by the Papago, tbe
tendency of a severe environment is to develop altruism. At the same time it was
noted that the neighboring Seri tribe, surrounded by an environment of similar char-
acteristics in many respects, are notably egoistic and inimical toward contemporaries;
and the striking differences led to further research concerning the interrelations
between human groups and their physical surroundings—interrelations which may
conveniently be styled adaptions. Now, when the study was extended to other tribes
it became manifest that such adaptions may be arranged in serial order, and that when
so arranged the Seri stand at the end of the series marking the most intimate inter-
action between mind and externals, while the Papago stand in the front rank of
aboriginal tribes as graded by power of nature-conquest; and from this point it is
easy to extend the scale into civilization and enlightenment, in which men control
rather than submit to control by their physical surroundings. The serial arrange-
ment of peoples in terms of relative capacity in nature-conquest can hardly be deemed
new, though the special examples (particularly the notably primitive Seri) are
peculiarly instructive; but the successive adaptions thus defined were found unex-
pectedly significant in measuring various degrees of interdependence between envi-
ronment and thought, for it became evident in the light of specific examples that
the habitual thought, like the habitual action of an isolated and primitive folk is a
continuous and continuously integrated reflection of environment. On pursuing the
relations it was found that the Seri, habitually submitting to a harsh environment
as they do, merely reflect its harshness in their conduct, and that the Papago, seek-
ing habitually to control environment in the interests of their kind as they do, are
raised by their efforts to higher planes of humanity. The general relation between
thought and surroundings was found to be of exceeding broad application, extending
far beyond the local tribes. Indeed, it finds most definite expression in the current
scientific teaching that knowledge arises in experience, and it seemed desirable to
formulate the relation as a principle of knowledge which may appropriately be styled
the responsivity of mind. The principle promises to be especially useful to ethnolo-
gists confronted with those suggestive similarities in artifacts, habits, and even lan-
guages, which were interpreted as evidences of former contact until their incongruity
with geographic and other facts proved them to be coincidental merely, for the inter-
dependence of thought and environment offers an adequate explanation of the coin-
cidences, while the diminishing dependence of thought on environment with cultural
advancement equally explains the preponderance of such coincidences among lowly
peoples. A preliminary announcement of the results of the study has been made,
but full publication is withheld pending further field work.

Mr. James Mooney spent the greater part of the fiscal year in elaborating for pub-
lication the extensive collection of material made by him among the Cherokee
Indians several years ago. The collection comprises a nearly complete series of the
myths and traditions of the tribe, cosmogonic, historical, interpretative, and trivial;
for among the Cherokee, as among other primitive peoples, the traditions vary widely

a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

in character and purpose. Mr. Mooney’s collections are peculiarly valuable in that
they are so complete as to indicate the genesis and development of the tribal tradi-
tions. It would appear that the parent myth usually begins as a trivial story or
fable, perhaps carrying a moral and thus introducing and fixing some precept for the
guidance of conduct; the great majority of these fables drop out of the current lore
within the generation in which they are born, but those chancing to touch the local
life strongly or happening to glow with local genius survive and are handed down
to later generations. The transmitted fables form a part of the lore repeated by the
eldermen and elderwomen night after night to while away the long evenings by the
camp fire, and in this way they become impressed on the memory and imagination
of the younger associates; for under the conditions of prescriptorial life they come to
take the place of learning and literature in the growing mind of the youth. In the
successive repetitions the weaker fables are eliminated, while the more vigorous are
gradually combined and eventually strung together in an order made definite by
custom; at the same time they acquire sacredness with age, and some of them
become so far esoteric that they may not be repeated by youths, or perhaps even by
laymen, when they are the exclusive property of sages or shamans. Now the fable,
per se, is seldom vigorous enough to pass unaided into the esoteric lore of the tribe;
but when it serves to interpret some interesting natural phenomenon, either in its
original form or in its subsequent association, it is thereby fertilized, and, with the
combined vitality of fable and interpretation, enjoys greatly increased chance of sur-
vival. Sometimes the historical element is also added, when the composite intel-
lectual structure is still further strengthened, and may persist until history blends
with fancy painted prehistory, and the story becomes a full-fledged cosmogonic
myth. Accordingly, the character and the age of myths are correlated in significant
fashion. Mr. Mooney’s memoir is incorporated in the Nineteenth Annual Report,
which was sent to the printer on March 28, and proofs were in hand before the close
of the fiscal year. Since it is the first of a series of memoirs on the Cherokee by the
same author, it was thought well to preface the publication with an extended review
of the history of the Cherokee Indians from the time of discovery up to the removal
of a portion of the tribe to Indian Territory, and in collecting material for this his-
torical sketch Mr. Mooney was able to throw new light, not only on the moyements
of the tribesmen themselves, but on the routes of travel taken by various explorers
from De Soto down.

Although handicapped by illness, Mrs. Matilda C. Stevenson continued the prepa-
ration of the final chapters in her monograph on Zui mythology. The work was so
nearly completed at the end of the fiscal year that it was assigned a definite place in
the Twenty-first Annual Report.

Dr. Fewkes’s observations on the winter ceremonies of the Hopi Indians yielded
important data of the nature suggested in previous paragraphs, and on his return
from the field he at once took up the preparation of a memoir designed for incorpo-
ration in an early report.

A notable acquisition of the year was the Pawnee ritual, known as the Hako,
obtained by Miss Alice C. Fletcher. Its basis is one of those house ceremonies which
hold so large a place in aboriginal thought; and it is so exceptionally full as to at once
reveal some of the most strictly characteristic phases of primitive thought and illu-
mine the simpler house rituals already recorded. It is cosmogonic in import, and
thus reflects the faith of the tribe. At the same time its details indicate the tribal
migrations for many generations. It reveals primitive notions concerning the origin
of fire and the relations of this agency to deified animals. It comprises a partially
archaic vocabulary which promises to throw light on tribal affinities, and it includes
rhythmic and fundamental melodic features which contribute in important degree
to knowledge of aboriginal music. The entire ritual, including the musical accom-
paniment, is well advanced in preparation for the Twentieth Report.
70 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Dr. Cyrus Thomas continued the examination of Mayan and Mexican aboriginal
number systems, with special reference to the Mayan and Mexican calendar systems.
Early in 1900 he completed a memoir on the subject, entitled ‘‘ Mayan Calendar Sys-
tems,’’ which was incorporated in the Nineteenth Annual Report. Later in the
fiscal year he continued in cognate work, making gratifying progress. One of the
most interesting features of aboriginal culture to the scholars of the world is the
series of highly developed calendaric systems extending from Mexico on the north to
Peru on the south; these systems reflect a knowledge of astronomy considerably less
advanced than that prevailing in Chaldea and Egypt at the beginning of written
history, yet sufficiently advanced to indicate the beginnings of astronomic observa-
tion and generalization, and thus define a stage of scientific development of which
the Old World record is practically lost. Accordingly Dr. Thomas’s researches are
deemed especially valuable to scholars.

As already noted, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt has applied the comparative method to the
study of aboriginal traditions with excellent results. During the closing months of
the fiscal year he was occupied in revising his memoir on Iroquoian mythology, and
incorporating certain important data obtained during his winter trip. The material
is nearly ready for the press.

DESCRIPTIVE ETHNOLOGY.

Except during the time spent in field work, Mr. F. W. Hodge was occupied in
arranging material for the Cyclopedia of Native Tribes and in editorial work. In the
former task he was aided during a part of the year by Dr. Cyrus Thomas, and in the
latter by Col. F. F. Hilder, ethnologic translator, and Mr. H. 8. Wood, assistant
editor. Dr. Thomas finished the revision of the Cyclopedia cards pertaining to the
Siouan stock early in the fiscal year; accordingly this portion of the work is ready
for publication save for the requisite editorial scrutiny. The plan for the Cyclopedia
has bee. set forth in some detail in earlier reports and need not be repeated.

’ COLLECTIONS.

The collaborators engaged in field work made more or less extensive collections
for use in their researches, and for subsequent transfer to the National Museum;
and, in addition, a number of special collections were acquired. Conspicuous among
these was the Hudson basketry collection, from California, for which negotiations
were opened during the last fiscal year, though the material was received and installed
during the current year; it is regarded as one of the most instructive collections
of American aboriginal basketry extant, and its possession, in connection with the
very considerable collections of corresponding ware already in the Institution, places
the National Museum in a foremost position among the museums of the world so
far as opportunities for study of primitive basketry are concerned. Another note-
worthy collection was that of Mr. J. B. Hatcher in Patagonia, of which the final
portions were received during the fiscal year, together with a good series of photo-
graphs illustrating the uses of artifacts, the construction of habitations, ete.; while
various collections of objects required to complete series, ete., were acquired by
purchase. Among the minor collections was an exceptionally fine one of copper
implements from the Lake Superior region; these implements were noteworthy in
that while of aboriginal design, the material was wrought with metal tools in such
wise as to show the influence of Caucasian contact; so that the collection forms an
instructive example of acculturation, and serves as a useful guide in the classification
of other copper objects in the Museum. A particularly useful series of stone imple-
ments, known as the Steiner collection, was also among the acquisitions of the year.

Although collateral to the work of the Bureau, it is proper to report that Col. F.
F. Hilder, ethnologic translator and acting chief clerk of the Bureau, was, on Janu-
ary 16, 1900, detailed to the Government Board of the Pan-American Exposition,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. vis

and that under a commission from that Board he visited the Philippine Islands and
made extensive collections of ethnologic and archzologic material, with the under-
standing that, after use during the exposition, a considerable portion of it should be
transferred to the National Museum. Toward the close of the’ year Colonel Hilder
reported the shipment of extensive collections, together with a good series of photo-
graphs, drawings, etc., designed for use in the installation. Incidentally he availed
himself of opportunities to obtain certain useful ethnologic literature required for the
library of the Bureau.

PROPERTY.

As explained in previous reports, the property of the Bureau is practically limited
to (1) office furniture and other appurtenances to office work, (2) ethnologic manu-
scripts and other records of original work, (3) photographs and drawings of Indian
subjects, (4) a small working library, (5) collections held temporarily by collabora-
tors for use in research, and (6) undistributed residua of the editions of the Bureau
publications. During the fiscal year there has been no noteworthy change in the
amount or value of the office property; a considerable number of manuscripts (includ-
ing two of special value noted in earlier paragraphs) have been added to the archives,
either temporarily or permanently; over a thousand photographic negatives and
several hundred prints and drawings have been added to the collection of illus-
trative material, while the library has maintained normal growth, chiefly through
exchanges. There was no considerable accumulation or transfer of objective mate-
rial required for study during the year, while there was a considerable reduction in
the number of back Reports through the constantly increasing public demand for
ethnologic literature.

PUBLICATION.

Mr. F. W. Hodge remained in charge of the editorial work, with the assistance of
Col. F. F. Hilder during the earlier part of the year and of Mr. H. 8. Wood during
Colonel Hilder’s absence in the Philippines. The second part of the Seventeenth
Annual Report was received from the Government Printing Office during the year,
though the first part was unfortunately delayed. The printing of the Eighteenth
Report was practically completed. The Nineteenth Report was transmitted for
publication on March 28, and the composition of this Report and also of the first
bulletin of the new series was under way before the close of the fiscal year.

Mr. DeLancey Gill, the illustrator of the Bureau, remained in charge of the photo-
graphic work and of the preparation of copy for the frequently elaborate illustrations
required in presenting adequately the results of the researches.

LIBRARY.

The work in the library of the Bureau was maintained under the supervision of
Mr. Hodge. During the greater part of the fiscal year he had the assistance of Mrs.
Lucretia M. Waring, who made good progress in the cataloguing of the books and
pamphlets in accordance with the classification of anthropic science developed in the
Bureau. The number of books and pamphlets on hand at the close of the fiscal year
is about 12,000 and 4,000, respectively.

NECROLOGY.

It is with much sorrow that I have to report the death of Frank Hamilton Cush-
ing, ethnologist in the Bureau, on April 10, 1900. Mr. Cushing was one of the most
enthusiastic students of ethnology ever produced in America, and the spark of his
genius illumined many problems of the science. His death was a blow to the
Bureau and a loss to the world. A more extended obituary will be transmitted
later.
72 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

On December 25, 1899, Dr. Elliott Coues died suddenly. While he was not an
officer of the Bureau, he had frequently cooperated with the Director and the col-
laborators, especially during the earlier portion of the fiscal year, when he was
attached to a party engaged in work in the pueblo region. An enthusiastic student
of early American history, he was brought in frequent touch with ethnologists and
ethnologic problems, thereby acquiring extended and accurate knowledge of the
aborigines; hence his death was a serious loss to the science.

Dr. Walter J. Hoffman, for many years an attaché of the Bureau, died November
8, 1899. He entered the Bureau in its earlier years as an assistant to the late Col.
Garrick Mallery, and spent some years in the collection of petroglyphs and other
aboriginal records. Subsequently he made independent studies in different tribes,
notably the Menominee of Wisconsin. His principal publications in the Bureau
Reports are ‘‘The Midewiwin, or Grand Medicine Society of the Ojibwa,’’ in the
Seventh Report, and ‘‘The Menominee Indians,’’ in the Fourteenth Report. His
connection with the Bureau was temporarily severed in 1895, when he undertook
certain special work for the United States National Museum; in 1897 he was
appointed United States consul at Mannheim, Germany, where he availed himself
of opportunities for study of aboriginal American collections and records. His
health failing, he returned to his home near Reading, Pa., in the autumn of 1899,
where his death occurred. Although he was but 53 years of age at the time of his
death, he was one of the pioneers in American ethnology.

I have the honor to be, yours, with respect,
J. W. PowE.., Director.

Mr. 8S. P. LANGLEY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.
Appenpix ITI.

REPORT ON THE OPERATIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE
SERVICE FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report upon the operations of the
International Exchange Service for the year ending June 30, 1900.

About seven years ago extensive improvements were made in the basement of the
eastern wing of the Smithsonian Building, and five communicating rooms were
arranged expressly for the use of the ExchangeServiceand havesince been so occupied.
The general equipment of these offices consists of sorting and folding tables; bins for
the geographical classification of exchanges contributed in the United States for distri-
bution abroad; book cases for directories of the principal cities of the world, college
year books, and other publications for ready reference; filing cases for index cata-
logues and cases for correspondence, exchange ledger accounts, and receipt cards for
exchange packages, both foreign and domestic; necessary desks with customary
equipments, a typewriter, copying press, ete. The property acquired during the
year has consisted almost exclusively of boxes, packing materials, stationery, and
other expendable supplies, the cost of which was $1,322.

The space originally assigned to the International Exchanges has not since been
enlarged, although the work of late has materially increased. The duties of the sery-
ice require the constant handling of heavy boxes and packages, necessitating frequent
repairs to the floors, walls, and furniture, the expense of which is invariably borne
by the Smithsonian Institution and not from the Congressional appropriations for
the support of the Exchange Service.

Losses of exchanges occurred during the year by the burning and subsequent sink-
ing of the steamship Patria, of the Hamburg-American Line, off the English coast on
November 4, 1899, while en route from New York to Hamburg, the consignment
consisting of three cases for Russia, three for Sweden, three for Austria, and one for
Hungary. All contained miscellaneous publications for correspondents in those
countries. Two cases of miscellaneous exchanges for Switzerland and one case of
United States Government publications destined for the Bibliotheque Fédérale, Bern,
were destroyed by fire while on the docks of the North German Lloyd Steamship
Company at Hoboken, N. J., on June 30, 1900. All available duplicate publications
to replace those destroyed by the burning of the steamship Patria were forwarded to
the original addresses, and an attempt will be made to secure duplicates of those
burned on the Hoboken docks. It is assumed that there will be no difficulty in
procuring all contributions by individuals and societies, but a special act of Congress
may be necessary in order to obtain the Congressional documents, inasmuch as their
distribution is specific and no provision is made for replacing duplicates when
losses occur in the manner above mentioned.

The comparative statements which follow in this report show in the aggregate a
marked increase in the extent of transmissions during the year ending June 30, 1900,
over those of the previous twelve months. The number of correspondents has been
increased during the year by 2,982, and now aggregates 33,951. Of this number,
7,721 are in the United States. Fifteen thousand seven hundred and twenty-eight
packages, or 92,108 pounds in weight, represent the increase in transmissions during
the past year. Thisis equivalent to 16 percent and 29 percent, respectively. During

73
V4 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

this time 1,768 cases, representing 687 separate transmissions, or an average of more
than 13 transmissions each week, were shipped abroad. Notwithstanding the increase
in the number of shipments, the office routine has of late been so simplified as to
enable the regular foree employed in the Exchange office to distribute packages
immediately after their receipt at the Institution, and, with the exception of the
record division, in which the work has occasionally been behind, no part of the
service has suffered.

The Government appropriation for the support of the International Exchanges
during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, was $3,000 above that for the previous
year. This increase, which has been applied mainly to transportation charges, has
enabled the Institution to make use of the most expeditious carriers of freight and
express from New York to the principal ports of all other countries, whereby its
packages now reach their destination in much less time than formerly. This is a
most decided improvement over the previous conditions, under which, with wholly
insufficient means, the Institution was obliged to avail itself of the privileges so gen-
erously granted by such of the steamship companies as were willing to take its
freight gratuitously or at greatly reduced rates, and to accept such service as the
companies could afford to give on these terms. While the railroad service could be
improved both in this country and in Europe by a somewhat increased expenditure.
which, however, it is as yet impossible to make, the arrangements so far consum-
mated by the Institution, both as to ocean transportation and the distribution of
packages received from abroad for the United States, are fairly satisfactory.

Exchange relations with Spain, which were suspended during the continuance of
the recent war with that country, have been reestablished, and by direction of
the Spanish secretary of state, under date of September 30, 1899, the Ministerio de
Fomento at Madrid has been designated to receive and distribute all parcels sent from
the United States through the Smithsonian Institution, thus becoming the recognized
medium of exchange in Spain.

Since the last report full exchange relations have been established between the
United States and Costa Rica; but all efforts in the direction of inaugurating an official
bureau for handling miscellaneous exchanges in Japan have so far failed, although the
government of that country bears the expense of distributing such publications as are
sent to the various governmental institutions and to individuals officially connected
therewith.

For the past six months China, with a single exception, has been the only country
in the world in which there have not been some means of distributing exchanges.
Formerly the Zi-ka-wei Observatory at Shanghai attended to the matter, but it has
lately been forced to decline further service. The Chinese minister at Washington has
taken much interest in the International Exchange Service and has expressed him-
self not only in favor of sending regularly to this country the official publications of
his government in exchange for the congressional and departmental documents of
the United States, but also of establishing in China an official bureau through which
exchanges could be distributed to institutions and individuals throughout the Empire.
Until recently it was thought that negotiations were progressing favorably to this
end, but the present condition of the Chinese Government will, it is feared, indefi-
nitely postpone the consummation of this plan.

Messrs. William Wesley & Son, at London, Dr. Felix Fligel, at Leipsic, and Dr.
Joseph von Ko6résy, at Budapest, continue in the service of the International
Exchanges as salaried agents, and to them, as well as.to the large number of agents
who gratuitously serve the Institution in the distribution of exchanges, grateful
acknowledgments are due.
REPORT OF

THE

SECRETARY.

(G3

Tabular statement of the work of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
1899-1900.

Number | Weight
ee | ae
handled.| handled.
1899
Se 8, 230 34, 676
PSP USt.. - = -\-- -/< 13, 919 35, 251
September ..... 5, 758 19, 968
October ....---- 5, 669 18, 952
November ....- 8, 766 26, 903
December...... 9,814 31,401
1900. |
VanUary....---| 8, 204 | 27,749 |
February ....-. S72 | 70, 217 |
MEO aaa eee 12, 527 | 28, 522
Avil ee 12, 495 60, 218
| 13,928 | 36, 985 |
TS ie" 5,516) —-19, 149 |
otal ses. 2... | 113,563 | 409, 991 |
Increase over
1898-99 ..... 15, 728 92, 108

Number of correspondents June 30, 1900.

Foreign
societies.

10, 845

523

Domestic pore |
soc Sts
ocieties. | viduals.

125

Domestic
indi-
viduals.

Packages | ,
sent to do- Pea
ne ad- labroad.
resses.
28, 625 1, 768
12,020 | 268

1 Decrease.

The following table shows the number of packages of exchanges handled and the
increase in the number of correspondents each year from 1894 to 1900:

1893-94, | 1894-95. | 1895-96.| 1896-97.| 1897-98.| 1898-99. Li g90=1060:
Number of packages received -....-- 97,969 | 107,118 | 88,878] 81,162 | 84,208 | 97,835 113, 563
Weight of packages received...lbs. .| 235,028 | 326,955 | 258,731 | 247,444 | 301, 472 | 317,883 409, 991
Ledger accounts: |
Horeipn societies|.=------.------- 6,991 8, 751 8, 022 9,414 | 10,165 | 10,322 10, 845
Woreipniindividuals:: 2-22-22. - 8,619 9, 609 10, 878 12,013 12,378 13, 378 15, 385
Domestic societies. ...:-..-- een 1, 620 2,014 2,115 2, 445 | 2,533 2,596 2,721
Domestic individuals -........-. 2,993 | 3,034] 3,899| 4,186) 4,382] 4,673 5, 000
Packages to domestic addresses.....| 32,931 | 29,111 | 34,091 | 28,619 21,057 | 30,645 | 28, 625
Cases shipped abroad.........------- 905| 1,364| 1,043] 1,300] 1,380] 1,500 | 1,768
| |

76

REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

CORRESPONDENTS.

The record of exchange correspondents at the close of the year contained 33,951
addresses, being an increase of 2,982 over the preceding year.
gives the number of correspondents in each country and also serves to illustrate the

. scope of the service:

The following table

Number of correspondents of the International Exchange Service in each country on June
30, 1900.

Correspondents. Correspondents.
Country. ; il ae: Country. ; ;
es I iduaia Total. ee Gane Total.
AFRICA. AMERICA (NORTH )—con-
Wigerin, cng ee. 20 31 51 tinued.
ATOT=Z0) Re oo ee ee el ere eee 1 || West Indies:
INZONES = eae eee eee meee 5 l4 19 Agrouiillae ss eeces solos eee ce 1 1
Beira ces sore en ee eect 1 1 Abi oun: -eotees oe Se 5 4 9
Canary Islands......---. 1 6 Us iBghamiassse: see. oe 2 10 12
Cape Colonyis.~5-222--- 39 68 107 Banbadosmeeee-os=ee 8 10 18
Cape Verde Islands .....;.......- 5) 5 | IBGLMNG Ase. nae eee 3 13 16
1D AY O tena eee ae 27 50 77 BuenvAyre.. 52: 5-2-<\-e aoe 1 1
INGFeNChiONON EO a an1- so aect [ee see 1 1 |! Cupane cer # ee 41 95 136
Gam bide. cen eee Akasa acon ase 2 2 || GQUTACHON 75 sea o da |mea- cree 3 3
OG Consiees wr ecctce adlacee need 2 2 || Dominiéa --.2-2.222- 1 7 8
Goree=Dakare- sc so0 2c a-s5see8 3 3 || Grenada 2.22 =--e-o- 2 4 6
KonpoRree State: 2.5---|--<25 .55 2 3 Guadeloupe.....---. 2 5 id
WAS OSes ene ees ce | 2 1 3 |! lgt Sine ean a sReeNascee 6 16 Pere
iberideeccscs cwes.nsc5-8 2 5 7 JaMalea.--2h222 5056 11 34 45
Lorenzo-Marques ....--. lacs 2 2 Martinique ......-.. 1 5 6
Madagascar Egeisitie Jometsics 2 6 | 8 Monitserrmits <2 .2-2-4le~e-0-1- 2 2
Mad eins hese. 55ceoc 3 3 6 INGVIB = eee eee eas eeeeeaec 1 1
MAILS oe te a esis 11 6 | 17 POTtOsRICOl- 2 see eee ee 19 19
MOTOCC OMsapet aes -ee ote lasecieme 10 | 10 St. Bartholomew ....|-------- 2 2
MOZAMDIGUEC. <2 a2 5--2- =< eke erm acl 1 | 1 | St. Christopher. ...-. 1 4 5
NL talise ees" 2 Sees 1 age 26 | StiGrotk seers oes 1 2 3
Orange Free State ...... Beeeeoee | 1 | 1 St. Eustatius ........ [ae eee i 1
ReuUMION Ne. ~Aesee- aces 2 crease 2 | Sto Martine. 2 25. 52) seeeceer 2 D
Sip IGN C ee eee so oeae 2 | 2 | 4 Stlucia, ..2222-2cs=2 2 3 5
SICEKA CONG) see os=- he 1 | 3 | 4 | Sie DMOM as =e sess oes il 3 4
South African Republic. 13 8 21 | Stvimcent=ess- eas 1 2 3
SIUOUINIS eee eet ea ee oe 6 | 8 14 | Santo Doming»...... 2 10 12
WANZADET oie ses a5 See lee | 5 5 TODASO es -ccesee- ees easeenee 1 1
AMERICA (NORTH). | Trinidad ............ a0 2 19
| Turks Islands ....-.-- 1 5 6
Canada sass. saa aie 242 435 677
Central America: AMERICA (SOUTH).
British Honduras... 4 7 11 || Argentina ........-.---- 120 ueuecILO 239
Costa Ries z...:-..2 25 29 Bt'||, Bolivia-s. 2.28 2222-46 15 | 9 24
Guatemala.......... Bei. mane 91:'|| Hragil est tose ee 103) 128 231
Honduras..........- 9) 2 34 || British Guiana .......... 4 9 23
Nicarar isos sen 11 31 42./\\ Chile-soc- sae sae 75 77 152
San Salvador ....... | 10 o4 ll Colonibia =. 5-ss5e eee 84} 45 79
Greenland 222-425 02 te: rN Mie ee 2 || Duteh Guiana..........- 2 2 4
Mexia <2 sc. oe 136| 121 257 || Ecuador .........-----+- 2.) Gakod 33
Newfoundland ......... 12 14 96" ||" Halkland Islands) 5.2 s2|meceeess | 4 4
St. Pierre-Miquelon -..... 1| 2 3. || RrenchiGiuiana) se. acess eases 2 2
United States ..........- 2,721 | 5,000 7. 7212) || SPT Qe sy nese ee 12 | i 19

REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

re

Number of correspondents of the International Exchange Service in each country on June
30, 1900—Continued.

Correspondents. | Correspondents.
Country | sae ae Country. | ' =
ries! pada, || OE Me Widuals,| Total.
|
AMERICA (SOUTH )—Ccon- | | EUROPE.
tinued. eATistriaues a5 eee 653 $31 | 1,484
ee ees Hate ee 2 20H eHelwiar 22 ie ve 303 | 326 629
Uruguay .....----------- | 39 25 64 \| Bul panigeeseaee eee e 12 10 Dy
Venezuela ........-.---- al 38 a Denmark 2s. ce - 98 146 244
ASIA HTanCG=e eee oe oe 1,589 | 1,781 3, 320
A MTED) SO), eae oe 7 7 i Germany sa5=5 see eee 2,176 | 2,802 4,978
OMIM C Ob eeee seams ces .ccmecisaccec 1 Hf Galo all beara ee ee ee aeeae | 4 4
ipTivish+ Burma... 3. - <2. idle se sees i Great Britain <-="--=2=-< 1,709) |) 633728) 5 5487
British North Borneo.... Swe ayereere 1 1 1 Greece Races noo oe aaeek 37 | 36 73
(EIGER eee ees See 1 (GT celandeess. 22 = os) 16 | 8 24
MEVLOMN Saacce soe Sack te 20 10 S10) "|| Sha ake eee ee ees 724 712 | 1,486
J ees 37 80 7 UU REMPUTEK. --= 5552-2 8 | 2 10
Cochin China ........-.. 4 4 Bul Malteiedss.22 08 oa 8 11 | 19
E\VORUE SS eee 2 3 5 || Netherlands ............ 178 230 | 408
UR DRTNGOS) Goo e ae oneIenoel BEEe oes 1 IIBNORWiHYeacee sos ce cece S | 117 | 112 229
French East Indies ..... 1 1 2 | Portugal = oss sc nkiss 96 | 71 | 167
One KON ge -tee. fii sss5< "i 12 19 | Roumania weet eee ence) 30 46 76
LEWD See ee 192 168 360 | IRUUISN eerste eae ee ee | 431 | 665 | 1,096
APSE es oer 110 236 BapaleSenyiancsco.co8e sobs: | 17 | 12 29
iit eee ee 13 29 PMN SpAIER Seca. Shee S ee: | 154 166 320
th: rn 1 7 Bullsswredense- 55-5 5..cc<-s: | 162| 244| 406
INGWHGIINGS) .-cecscoccelssscaee< 1 1 | Swaltizerlandass = 2. -—5" 308 476 784
Beenie secre een 2 8 | IM ERY i= kk S 2-2. tea ccl 33 72 105
Philippine Islands. ..._- 7 10 17 || ROSES.
Portuguese India ....... lif | Sy sees 1 ||
cin: ee 4 13 7 Bismarck Archipelago. .|....---- 1 i
Straits Settlements. ..... ear 13 03 || Fit ORE Sah gece: | : q
Gumatia coe. leel aoe 9 2 || Hawaiian Islands.....-. | 20 47 67
| Marshall Islands....-...!..----.- 1 1
ee EASA. | New Caledonia ......... | anes 2 2
New South Wales. ...... 64 102 166 || New Hebrides ....-..-.. Ait) See 1
New Zealand ..........- 66 77 TB a GAMNOR) Secceceaazee cess ey 5 5
Queensland... .......--- 32 42 7PM 0 a eee ee ee lesan Sees 3 | 3
South Australia......... 37 62 aan ena 3 aos 2 eee 2 | 2
TRSGHe@ GN GW ee ee ae me ee 16 15 31 | International .....--:-.-- BiH Seco oee | 33
eee a, =- fase Sap =D) Mopale cee Sok | 13,566 | 20,385 | 33, 951
Western Australia ...__. 12 19 31 |

EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT

DOCUMENTS.

The following table shows the number of packages handled during the year for the

several branches of the Government.

By comparison with the last report it will be

observed that there has been an increase this year of 49 per cent in the transmissions

abroad and a decrease of nearly 35 per cent in the receipts.

The packages enumer-

ated as sent by the Library of Congress were those forwarded in conformity with the
act of Congress of 1867.
78

REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

Statement of Government exchanges during the year 1899-1900.

Packages. Packages.
Name of bureau. Sane aut Name of bureau. Becaived Ieeenun
for— by— for— by—
American Historical Association 14 10 || Intercontinental Railway
Astrophysical Observatory --..- Ae Sea COMMISSION! -haen ass as-senoe 2 Sormessen
Bureau of American Ethnology. 217 58 || Interstate Commerce Commis-
Bureau of American Republics. 9 4 BION 6. Ss once eee Seo eee 0 28
Bureau of Education.-........-- 88) 2 sa—csn/ Library of Congress ........... 7,524 | 26,970
Bureau of Engraving and Print- | Light-House Board............ 6 88
MMOs. | a semtonee seek a teaee ees Dl oe eista-aret Marine-Hospital Service. ....-. 20 207
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery eee National Academy of Sciences. Ut 442
Bureau of the Mint............. 3 307 || National Museum ............. 261 1,900
Bureau of Navigation .......-... A eas eraeie National Zoological Park ..... 5 1
Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Nautical Almanac Office. ...-. 32 240
Wepantment hess a-.- aces eens 70 | 3,662 || Naval Observatory -..-.--....-- N33" | Soccer
Bureau of Steam Engineering, | || Navy Department............. LO} See aoe
Navy Department ............ eee ees Office of the Chief of Engineers 33 85
CeNnsusiOMCE!-ce-o- as eee eeeee TONE Se se Aes Office of Indian Affairs........ D”| Seeman
Civil Service Commission -.-.--.-. 5 86 || Ordnance Office, War Depart-
Coast and Geodetic Survey..... 87 O56 ||, anemia ieee Secs ee 1S | esiemta stots
Commissioner of Railroads..... i | See | Patent Omee 2. 2 se2o2ke cine 75 1, 362
Commissioners of the District | Post-Office Department. .:...-- a Ie Se
OLCOMMMDIA ceacccee sete ros -cc 2 14 | President of the United States. si Bee oe
Comptroller of the Currency. ... 9 142 | Record and Pension Office, War
Department of Agriculture..... 444 76 || Department .........-.---..-|---------- 291
Department of the Interior..... 32 595 | Smithsonian Institution.....-.. 2,074 1, 325
Department of Justice.........- 1 es oe eee | Superintendent of Documents. 1 1, 349
Department of Labor........-.. 15 7 | Surgeon - General’s Office
Department of State ...:....... 29 13 | (CANTLY) epee meee seresisieie eee 171 349
Entomological Commission .... isco | Treasury Department ......... 9] 443
HishiCommission.-..-25..4...-. 97 380 | Wrar-Department 2.5 see. ss an 53 15
General Land Office. ...--...- B iiccsence | Weather Bureaus. eee 69 693
Geological Survey.............- 519 | 7,799 | Ce ete es LAR cia 12, 289 | 49,197
Hydrographic Office............ Ob As eeasae

RELATIVE INTERCHANGE OF

PUBLICATIONS BETWEEN THE

COUNTRIES.

UNITED STATES

AND OTHER

Following is a comparative statement of exchange transmissions by packages
between the United States and other countries during the years 1899 and 1900:

Comparative statement of packages received for transmission through the International
Exchange Service during the fiscal years ending June 30, 1899, and June 30, 1900.

| 1899. 1900.
Country. Packages Packages.
For— | From— For— | From—
ANSETIAS Soc once = 3 Feb osie.d geet abideds ced oh ceeee Cem oes ee eae 116 56 96 8
ATI OLAS a suse oration eases oan se eben Case ene ee date Wee eee, DY seb ao Pie Paschal eee
PATHTIO IAS he acet etre Seen ol: ees ae ee er eect Adil PSN 28 seem Si ae ee
AT ADI) < olivine ume cece nee eae gece nace ooo ue oTee cote a cere SEE eee | ieee eres On| =e ate ee
VALET HUM Sie Mae | Sec etches eco Sc e eee ere et 1, 534 492 3,127 308
ATISiria-~H Une anys so- oe oce teem niag ae Ook ce Soo er eee 3,578 1, 381 4, 387 2,125
AZOVOCS oo. 2 aries esas siaie see one te me mamtawinaeee ee eee See LO)-ja-seee cae (i Seceedocee
Bahamas. eos eich. see tk ook hs lr ener NO TE ees 8} \[eaceotomas
Barbados) cio cee casane sane case ty sae EEE Cane ac eee eee Ds | Sade rece es 7 tt

— ee

————_
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. “s,

Comparative statement of packages received for transmission through the International
Exchange Service, etc.—Continued.

1899. 1900.
Country. Packages. Packages.
For— | From— For— | From—
fe ea i eMR eRR  RE  os dise's ohana owen eudeets 1,701 1, 382 », 148 1,564
SE ESUTN DIOS eet yam Seca ciciet create wie Stele s wae wig eeebneise's'e Bilcceisjescse Dee ee ee
SES eHliyel Lee ie statate s saiatare wie = ciniclowicinleiewicisie'ae seececmauwadoscs 26i)Saseeeeciee HOt aero eee
PEs G7Hl | PEE re pe) oc Set eizneajccd vi sce cee. cje cae dccioncioes 903 409 1,385 | 803
PRIN PAU EII CHS an ase is tiaecicic ab cinta ne cincteec ec aciasdiale e'elcie wie were 2, 060 1, 281 2,479 1,396
EPUB PD UNIN Dy ote cisisc icles aicis'ciae asisa ceca atic e siectedeiceceecicenes 2) | Seeematteee 1 1
British Guiana...... RO COO DEAS EIT COS CURIS ECR Ee ane eenre 37 1 OG | Paeerne <3
LSTUGIA, 18 SOv OG NOTRE oe ae ee ee er A ame cecerere Dhs|icts aietolereee
EON ECHE ICL een SRE eee NS Mota Sa oa chass ne clad ahaie eke a ocises's easier 55 1 63 1
(VER TAy IGTRIING Se Coe BeOn Seep caer Cen ECEE OCE EE eat 1 A Seeeee Sood) aaqaccosea Beecdcdooc’e
CEOS (OO Ss Shads Saphe GenenED soe GS BE Senne ee eee 194 3 210 8
PNAC moe cae ce clas celtic cae oa ocale sone ee oe emis acisisem cs Seen AGy Des en oe aee AO! tay oe ee
( SHMNIG Vost a onan COG EU REED BCE CC ECO SE DESO Ee Stee aaa MASA leeeeemeee 1, 106 211
TERT eee ere See see ioe Bie oe eine O tae ee Seosamce eewieeee ns, 155 148 238 173
CRMTMONE) . 5 se Jes Ch abo Sag B CE ROE CODEC SNe ASE ee eee BOO ectesieratesice 704 14
CHDSISS TRG, 21 es SI Rae Py ae a Oa ree ee ee 214 295 922 478
ERT PRR erent Tre ee a ror teiala fine Satis poke wcle cae skie 204 11 196 22
SEER OME I ERE SIE. MeO, mote inn ce ern aR eae aoe NeSecie eels |Sactceteee 0 Reese ne
USHERS 6 sa Sapte e Gb nar BE OOne Date BOON BASSE con O Sere See ree Si |e oa siseeee oR Reseegoasee
IDSTITRT IA Se SARE eee ae ee Se ee OE eee er aR 777 127 1, 067 266
ID ERTUNTEKGE SS Sa © aa eg nN en oe Bal oeeaoasce QO, cedycrmerase
PUREE NON Cr USNS eee ts ee ec ee Rete ee Se EG eee 4 | os ccctecame
BITE NO OTE 5, LE Se al REE CS a es ee ee eee (aye) ae ae ea 1) ree et
IMERTDU Se Gig. g SoU Oe BO SEO ES Ee ia eee hope e eee eee eee 88 21 96 |aossceceee
ir lika bya GT Wai6 ek Oe ce ee eee Ao eee Mle Seeitsenoe
Fiji Islands....... ee Sakae Me the es A mB. Te eee ease Be 35 | aaa eee
TUPTNORG spas sos ee on RoE Aas Se Ot ee ee a ee | ara ol Perse tropics
NENT COs os ee veers aes oe ae Sk AG Ae pe ee 7, 022 3, 129 7,178 3, 458
ODEN Oeelaihn (Chins oo 6% Bae ee pesce cose Se BeB ESE Bee Bee EES) peepee esee EeRceesses I |e aooccnsse
PIRGaDG the LEIA W OY Kae ee 2 eS ee ae Ree Sees DR Ns aces cae lass ctw se aehins oeiietoats
ReccUTT ATI yA NC ey aes BE Ss a ere NEN! Bi a 11, 219 6, 018 12,576 6, 139
SOUROIGNES “Sees See ahead ee Sit oe enn Mle nen re a Aen ee (ee 2) | Wetec
Pere clin GOSS lee ee ae ee ee eee ie Seas Se oeeS ey oaa oe eS eeise| Ecoreeb snc lncinoo ese sc
FCEESIN CLG) Op eenee eee AA eh apa a ol an Salle eeOS eee a} PReodeeee
nent Britaimuamndylrelamcdlie sy-sn esses feo ee ae tee 10,411 | 13,603} 10,843 8, 950
\SIREROO sta d5 5 SEES OGRE eee RH ES OS a Se S9Di | zaecessese PLUS Y iil eGeesccs
IG STOUT HIG | SAE oS ee ae ee ea tee ne ae ee ne Tie Aeee ster Dee emia
‘CECI NE ea ee os se ae ee res ae ON eB mcs Dileeeoesees
(OT TRE HSM EE ET esses oe SEL eh eo Ea ga (ial Reeser TEE aaenoceos
HUTTE e SOEb BDO abo SOR CE ee ab 2t SOaS ae ee a I esc5ucceed|Gacededsce|\ soonstoce
ee eR Me ea | ee B65 eeee
BENG TIT TIC Wee Rik ae at ee See ces at ie ene ee 85 12 71 8
SUSTRGUIE 3th ne GR OLE R RSE meen ee Ce EE eee ee er 12 72 41 267
ETOAO OU Paes ae sea eee ee ae Oa ees secs, ceSeesecceteses 23) ee enne een $2: Sivinswse nc
VSS SING ee Se aes Sos eS Seeger Sets ae eee AQitciceewec sce 35 | 1
SEGID 330 o> aga08 abd boa See Ce se ee SAR ane 1, 069 89 ae yal 154
ITN C58 380 SOc. oat oo SL IE lee ae ee a 3,091 1, 334 3, 862 992
J DROWNS Sp Seco b Aa Sent O ae RAO E Bee eee ee Ciel aeeeneee. Ue oaceanccs.c
[ADT 265s es SS Se Oe EE ee ee 955 52 1, 394 20
JET Seiicin SBS Oa neete Geter E eee ne ee 152 66 151 124
ORIN Se sete eon 6 de RED OOE ES Ale eee 19} ee scseeee
WEIEGES 5 soon 5 deedkeht o DABROUO OEIC: COR REAR CAR OEE eae eee 10 soneeeaeete cig eee ae
IGT Teen ene oi eres? == aiass cciniesie sion s'ctat:@ aisle Ree enero wae 26} Borscee Sse 52) eee

HOUTEN COUMATGICZ == ae neces cnc sec css asec se Mats pamieteeheie he 7 : DOR Be CAGA hoccece sae nocea tea

80 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Comparative statement of packages received for transmission through the International
Exchange Service, etc.—Continued.

1899. 1900.
Country. Packages Packages.
For— | From— For— | From—
EXEM DULL Aer = <:-\iossecie wee oo ace pe eee cee eal eee GAs esos eee Obi || Joeae see
MadapasGHier nn 226: asta se eee Hoek ace Oneness eee Mel fe Aaarararars 1 eee tger ras
MBG eIre ha oat twin nce cae tec Sees MeN ea tae tee re eee oD) Eee eee 1 eres ey
Ua aor Sic es avanen, Se oct an Pm aye rescva ta a err a re ee Sal eee aes 3D) fee eee
ME SRtIMIQUC B85. 765.55 ee 5 cca sn Soe See Oe Oe ete fh nese e ee Ba ee
NISUULY UERUS are sic rosa ae cine woe yatta ene oe ae ee ee ae 9" | aaa eee YG Reepsaoese
iN (C>6 (5) Mane ee Sk ST yee Y: 1, 506 1,418 1, 641 4,099
Montenesr onc ccc. eo se set Se ee oad oe Se ee ined ee erence | ete terete L522 eceente
MOROCCO se Fence cet nactd anc aie miei ere Sea iat oo RC | eee eee |e aan 1 aac,
Natal 52-22 Bee i) hte Be eS ei ie rt alle ee DENI hares tae 46 5
INGERerIaAn GSS ten ae. nc asasae eee race ee eee eee eee 1, 392 543 1, 662 533
New Caledonian ss... 22s ceca ale wae aa oe Aes er Sere ee eae | om ements | eter iis seee coe
Newroundland. *JA55 5 Sits see ee oa 5 Pe ao eee DOM eerie is cteicte SU |Saeeeeeee
ING WwilebridieSsccsecc. -nccse eo ataer cheese ease eninttee nate ae Se ee eieme as] eisai A | Seeeee acters
ING WT GOULD HVURICR Lees Bee SO hee 28 Beg soe ee ey ee 1,113 261 1,390 360
ISGR AYAD TIEN OTe aE ee, ab eS ae ay eek ee te ee eS one es 572 6 834 5
NCAA EUS car oc.. 2c ta cere eccrine ers wie eel ro ee Sa ee Chal SACRE eaoe a | 3) RES oc
INOW ALY = fame aotee ast ood oie os eee ccm aed ee eee ee ee 1, 039 259 | 1, 237 383
1 igs al UC ge eR ed i ay em ee Ae ee ok, 5 1B? S35 se ace 39 13
IBGTSI Bio essere me aecience ce 8 Gott none Se eee eee Sle Bceetcccer 22) ceases
OI Ube er ee, Mee wise e Deine ose. atte eae Gee eee 419 186 724 25
Bhilippine Wslanas: 2.200. ssc esse cee acbece neo eee ST sl clas cee eh 69) |! -ss5o-nee
ROFLOPRICO ej aeids'<% sidsnie wee se sees eeee ROPE eRe ra wel oooderice acl loaeeooacdae 10S ce esas
Mb rari Hla see 2 rcinke Succ, oie One (neers alee 635 500 909 fo: sc) ee
Qucenslen GS-53 255 555 s8 et ieee ee ene O2Ba lise desemes 814) | Saeee=e
REUNION 2-5-6 -<- Age nee atann b ase ee NS"). Jeseaeoce a esses
FROUMIAMTA, 3 ot cee Genoese cos stele Teenie See eae ee 110 110 189 101
PRUISS Sige mee na Sree erwin cra la nraveis aoe tierce ee eee 2,515 | 1,033 2, 951 779
Stopartholomewss 2). Soca c ae ee eee 5 ee | errant 1 Seen
Sh. COLOUR Ss as = Sok ees ooo ie Sotto gts Se eae ee ee See | cee eee te | ee Ws). Sosa
(ira) 3 [2 Vesa: ee ee ie ee ee ea ee Oe ee a ee ee ale asec a Ee
SU RGUES: Gece ee ses ace | neem cae oe ee ae 5 a eA ee ee oes BU reel a
SOMA ae obs th de ec SRSA a Seicn cals See Sees oe ee eee Remeeeeaer iL osiceen
StAPHOmMaS: os... Fete oo a See oe ee ee ee eee oe ee eee & bp eee
SteVineent oc<— Sale oecc nec cee oe cee Se ee See iss seeeee bl eee ee
St JOT Renee Sean ere eM Meee CMa sine yi Ae mks ASEH Ae cee acesad (PAN pega shoe
Sal Ce O70 (ert: eens eter te ieee eae ee eae ae Bul eee ae 3 |cscenaenan
Santo” DOMIngG.< ee. eco se se eee = ees Od ROBO niae Tole Seen
Skim Sal vad Or cso ots 2 AS aa ee ew arene tn ae ee Doom 53 24
SSL AE: Nett Sent aera s SERRE beth Ret A et Le ed Spe Seen ee 43 | 46 36 al
SLEDS Satie ow crelsc ek ee a ee ae Sw etn Sree ae ea 38 Beets See GY fal ere eA
SIOITA MuCON eee. ssn sesso ais ae ee ee er ae ee aL the FaeFate Pa iran
Society Islands. <..0: e322. ade 2 Ho soee eee ee ee eee eee eee bie eee ea
South AtnicanvRepulb lies as ss. 28 =e ee eras ee ee 1782) Sawer . 694 |! 104
South Australiaz=..-2.---¢ BE ae a a Se ee ee 491 43 781 | 39
SPAM os <2 see cee eS SR eect he = her et eee ee ee 50 | tae eo 1 21D eieeeees
Straits} Settlements. sacs ac 5: -2 sat aces Sees eee eee AG eee ae aoe | $4 3 a eee
Shae CBee aise > Scone seg mor See aeaigeris cece nee edocs ISeeesocecee | ig eee S555} Ib emescce nce
SWeGEN 5 behest eh Seite terete s ca a ee Se 1,512 | 280 1,916 | 493
Switzerland. o-s so dees cae cecanen camedie- oe see eemeese 1, 847 615 2,120 | 726
Sy tlary onde es Sta eaeee sas sae meee ae sameeren Acca e eee aa Uc emacced | IU he -e5S5550-
Pasian. ietessosse eee Loe Rode e ges ee ee | S68) ee. 5 Saal 644 | Z
TONBA« 6 os/s becioe cr win Fado eee oe hice eee Wade ona eee ae aac aeioe ame [Pesessenne | 6 taba s 24 =
REPORT OF THE

Comparative statement of packages received for transmission through
Exchange Service, etc.—Continued.

SECRETARY.

81

, the International

Country.

TUNIC). 21263 520s = GeO GBS DOC CE EE BORE eee eae
ERNE eRe eer nie ie STA. = Ss = Sisig Se ewadu sSecmn cess
CRO oeetgecace bee aee Seen eee ee rar
TRH USISHOVGIES 2 S45 seers Se Nelsen
Rica) SUES 2. 275566 c0e 206 Sop eE EE SBOB RCS SEE eee aa

“DSTSTE oo 3es So SaeHy ate ee ae ee ee ene
UC ETNECIBSIG, 40 SS at eoe ae tee ee
“URDU eo Seon Begs ee eee
OO oRgE GAWISTTRSTID - 23 22 6a Sees oe egg OR Ee ee ee ee
Zanzibar

1899. | 1900.
Packages. Packages.
For— ,| From— For— | From—
el = =
OF eee sees Oil eres Pee
2th | ee TW Se estes
AOulaSacemcose 621 (Garant
Ao seeere eyste | Eee
30, 645 62, 184 28, 625 | 76, 264
539 237 817 116
BIO ieee ase se 699 1
825 131 | 1,101 | 517
OLLI ectcsce OD) Verse errs
are haere sic 2. ape 0

The following is a list of the Smithsonian correspondents acting as distributing
agents, or receiving publications for transmission to the United States, and of coun-

tries receiving regularly exchanges through the Institution:

Algeria. (See France.)
Angola. (See Portugal.)
Argentina: Museo Nacional, Buenos Ayres.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Wien.

Azores. (See Portugal.)

Belgium: Commission Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Brussels.

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Inmigraci6n, Estadistica y Propaganda Geogritica, La Paz.

Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London, England.

British Guiana. (See British Colonies. )
British Honduras. (See British Colonies. )
Bulgaria: Dr. Paul Leverkiihn, Sofia.
Canada: Packages sent by mail.

Canary Islands. (See Spain. )

Cape Colony: Superintendent of the Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Universidad de Chile, Santiago.
China. (Shipments suspended for the present. )
Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficino de Depdésito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, San José.

Cuba: Dr. Vicente de la Guardia, Habana.

Denmark: Kong-Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

East India: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Egypt: Société Khédiviale de Géographie, Cairo.
Fiji Islands. (See British Colonies. )

France: Bureau Francais des Echanges Internationaux, Paris.

Friendly Islands: Packages sent by mail.

Germany: Dr. Felix Fliigel, Wilhelmstrasse 14, Leipzig-Gohlis.

Gold Coast. (See British Colonies. )

Great Britain and Ireland: William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex street, Strand, London,

England.

Greece: Prof. R. B. Richardson, Director, American School of Classical Studies, Athens.

Greenland. (See Denmark. )
sm 1900—-6
82 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Guadeloupe. (See France. )

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Guatemala, Guatemala.

Guinea. (See Portugal.)

Haiti: Secrétaire d’ Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Hawaiian Islands: Foreign Office, Honolulu.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Dr. Joseph von Korésy, ‘‘Redoute,’’ Budapest.

Iceland. (See Denmark. )

Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

Jamaica. (See British Colonies. )

Jaya. (See Netherlands.)

Korea: Packages sent by mail.

Leeward Islands. (See British Colonies. )

Liberia: Care of American Colonization Society, Washington, District of Columbia.

Luxemburg. (See Germany.)

Madagascar. (See France. )

Madeira. (See Portugal.)

Malta. (See British Colonies. )

Mauritius. (See British Colonies. )

Mexico: Packages sent by mail.

Mozambique. (See Portugal. )

Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London, England.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Den Helder.

New Guinea. (See Netherlands. )

New Hebrides: Packages sent by mail.

Newtoundland: Packages sent by mail.

New South Wales: Government Board for International Exchanges, Sydney.

New Zealand: Colonial Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet, Christiania.

Paraguay: Care Consul-General of Paraguay, Washington, District of Columbia.

Persia. (See Russia.)

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Philippine Islands: Packages sent by mail.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.

Roumania. (See Germany.)

Russia: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Impériale
Publique, St. Petersburg.

Saint Helena. (See British Colonies. )

Santo Domingo: Packages sent by mail.

San Salvador: Museo Nacional, San Salvador.

Servia. (See Germany. )

Siam: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

South African Republic: William Wesley & Son, 28.Essex street, Strand, London.

South Australia: Astronomical Observatory, Adelaide.

Spain: Oficina para el Canje de Publicaciones Oficiales, Cientificas y Literarias.
Seccion de Propiedad Intelectual del Ministerio de Fomento, Madrid.

Straits Settlements. (See British Colonies.)

Sumatra. (See Netherlands.)

Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.

Sweden: KongligaSvenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart. ,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

Trinidad. (See British Colonies. )

Tunis. (See France.)

Turkey: American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston, Massa-
chusetts.

Turks Islands. (See British Colonies. )

Uruguay: Oficina de Depodsito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, Montevideo.

Venezuela: Museo Nacional, Carécas.

Victoria: Public Library, Museum, and National Gallery, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Victoria Public Library, Perth.

Zanzibar: Packages sent by mail.

The distribution of exchanges to foreign countries was made in 1,768 cases, 239 of
which contained official documents for authorized depositories, and the contents of
1,529 cases consisted of Government and other publications for miscellaneous cor-
respondents. Of the latter class of exchanges the number of cases sent to each coun-
try is given below.

ED eae eee ee SS |p Nebo cere cae et se bode 5 2 ea
ANUGHEE Ge Bet eee (AC NewsSouthy Wales 4.2223. 52552- 19
SL STS gc AG Wetherandat Joe se 5 Saastes aS 4 34
EACUUITIN TE aes os Se ee nee eae oe Asa Nie we Zeal amelie cans ee wet ees 10
TR TARA * SS ey Se a ee ee eae eae Her NECH PAU crete Hace iio a04 2 behets 5 Oe 4
Pmiginn Colonies. +... --2s.eses!- iFeleNotwanenee JH6 Fe eect t pated en 22
BemerO OO S Sasa 2 42 Lon She Shee ee E RAMU Va Bee Si Lela cmete ee Le oe.
(TES ieee A ee lee eee APARNA  ee ae es a oes a a ee 7
OL Le a eer TEM (Ete) via (2's C1) a

7 NELERI GTI Ses se ee a Po Pe Ounierm esse. tse te oad to: 14
Costa Rica ......-- ofS Seer ie Fi Oueemslantds sm seh onoe efi Seoe sacs 7
CNG OPD sheet dees ah aan, Gea ee enn a FnLVOUmMemNe ee ears er eine 2 Pe a

PD ravine ep eee eae re es LEASE 5 Sih) te Oe a oe ee 60
(DXRUGLAM Gabe hei eee ee ee Sa AGO oe eet ee at tee re poe 3
DSI 8s We Ne apa ee TSE Maeda eo 3 Et = oh
Benet aI GE os oo Sg Bit Iu8 so oh 3 Til Pelee oO Sane EE aes ee ih hel
LUA ee ee OSouthwAustralia..< 2642 ficece kee 14
Prance and colonies ._...-2--2<-+.- 169 | South African Republic?-..--------
GUC Re HN eae 5 ee eee PS MMCOCIUIN fod to ops ont A Sha a 8 Se 26
Great Britain and Ireland........-- Slee VeM Chie LE, 2c hn RT eo ae 48
EKCCCC mene ag tr ay ven ues, th Pee owatzerland is 4: a 2,52 eee. Sane 42
SES Damn a yaa 2 bere St ee 4 3
SS LS HET SES SEES eee oh Secrce n ity Pacniaateas ak See oe eee Ger See
TCD eS ga SMR Keyes ssc Se ae ete 6
“TUTTE ge Sa RS ORL Se 25 | Wares Yr 5 eee Saat 6
BRE Se Aue 2 a oe se AaleMenemiclats 08 Secactiss se s¥ A ahs 5
ST dagen ei ta acl eka ee ee PD GRC LOTR eo ys VPS 2 cht, MN es 14
TIGL A ain Ea rE ee ey Paw estern Australia, (- J. 95-22-02 17
RIGO Sys cones Sata er

The following is a list of depositories of regular sets of United States Government
publications forwarded abroad through the International Exchange Service on August
1, November 1, and December 30, 1899, and on March 12 and May 14, 1900:
Argentina: Library of the Foreign Office, Buenos Ayres.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Wien.

—

1 Included in transmissions to Netherlands.
* Packages sent by mail.

® Included in transmissions to Great Britain.
*TIncluded in transmissions to Germany.
84 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Baden: Universitits-Bibliothek, Freiburg.
Bavaria: Kénigliche Hof-und Staats-Bibliothek, Miinchen.
Belgium: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.
Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Buenos Ayres: Library of the Government of the Province of Buenos Ayres, La Plata.
Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.
Canada: Legislative Library, Toronto.
Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso, Santiago.
Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogoté.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, San José.
Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.
England: British Museum, London.
France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.
Greece: National Library, Athens.
Haiti: Secrétaire d’ Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.
Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
India: Secretary to the Government of India, Calcutta.
Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Roma.
Japan: Foreign Office, Tokyo.
Mexico: Museo Nacional, Mexico.
Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague.
New South Wales: Government Board for International Exchanges, Sydney.
New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington. ;
Norway: Departementet for det Indre, Christiania.
Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.
Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.
Prussia: K6énigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.
Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.
Saxony: Konigliche Bibliothek, Dresden.
South African Republic: Department of Foreign Affairs, Pretoria.!
South Australia: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.
Spain: Seccion de Propiedad Intelectual del Ministerio de Fomento, Madrid.
Sweden: Kongliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
Switzerland: Bibliotheque Fédérale, Berne.
Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
Turkey: Minister of Public Instruction, Constantinople.
Uruguay: Oficina de Depdsito, Reparto y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Montevideo.
Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.
Western Australia: Victoria Public Library, Perth.
Wiirttemberg, Kénigliche Bibliothek, Stuttgart.
Respectfully submitted. Ricnuarp Rarusun,
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. §. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

1 Shipments subsequent to August 1, 1899, suspended.

1 — "
Co Oe ret > 2

elite

ae
APPENDIX IV.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL
PARK.

Sir: I have the honor to herewith submit the following report relating to the con-
dition and operations of the National Zoological Park for the year ending June 30,
1900.

At the close of that period the approximate value of the property belonging to the
park was as follows:

FLIES Himes doye rath oe ee eo eee ee Se ee ee eee Wee $57, 000
meiduies. for administrative purposes... _.---.<.-.--2.220+<-+b<2-sseeceesee 12, 000
nce nurniiore cixtures: and books! 122 2 Ves ee ee cee ee 2, 600
Beene ny. tools 1nd uniplemcntnis.20) 2202. 2 od. gb Ge eit k 2, 000
Sener Ean CeO ULC OOM tN CLOSUTEH 2 omnes Ao aero )o5 (Re oe Saas heen See 25, 000
EeisnineenyeS a palblag.. LuUShIC Sead: (ClGre. 9-2 ease one eee a a ee Se 46, 000
BRS Est es aire era = reg aN NX te ee ae EN otis pat 0 tlh 1, 000
LODCEES, 5 GE slice Spec ase Sa nea ein seg Med ei, = De Renee Ee Rea Sn Sees 800
SPiN: zoolosical collections... 1.5 6 oc saci ck eee 32, 000

A detailed list of the animals in the collection is appended hereto. They may
be classified as follows:

| Indige- as | Domesti-|
nous, | -oreisn. | eated. Total.
_ -DILIWIDIS: «Jee ee ee eee Sen Sot eee SS See ee OR eee er a 323 80 82 | 485
Eon oe ee SR Se oe eo 198 | 39 | 62 224
2: FPIDT.. Lol ae OO ge ell 8 ee eee OE eS Se Se a 94 | 36h pees | 130
p21 aE US a eee eee 540 | 155 144| 839

a | | |

The accessions of animals during the year have been as follows:

Bal Si SE RR SP eS scat A eee en an a a ee 121
Seeeeived irom Yellowstone National Park ...........-.-----------+-=--+----- 1
BREET UIC eetethe (sas. sla. ey emhe Sis ey gS ee ee ee cee 103
tM aR ECAC Thayer te cers oe he Weel hs GI RS ENY ee ee Po Be NAT 42
Ey rs CSS oY Nap pe pe ee ed ee 37
Meueree national Zoolocical Park... ....22:-.-----5-.t-<2- 42-02 -eeccessseenes 124
TROUGN oo oS eee ee ten ee Re ie De 20d Mars age ee Se Se Re Ee 444

The cost for purchase, collection, and transportation of these accessions has been
$4,400. Besides this there has been spent for books, photographs, apparatus, and
office furniture the sum of $1,100. :

The following improvements have been made in the buildings during the year:

Principal animal house.—The floor, hastily constructed of cheap material in 1891,
has been relaid throughout, a new boiler and an enlarged heating plant suitable for
maintaining the temperature necessary for tender tropical animals has been installed,

85
86 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

and the stairway at the eastern end has been rebuilt so as to offer more convenient
access to the boiler room. Cost, $1,400.

Antelope house.—The east wing of this structure, left unfinished for want of funds,
has been completed and furnished with suitable cages. The cages along the western
front have also been fitted with steel bars and a series of open-air paddocks built
along the west side. A cement floor has been laid, extending under the cages. Total
cost, $2,500.

Aquarium.—The old pumps received from the Fish Commission with the general
plant being worn out, new salt-water pumps with hydraulic motors were supplied.
A steam boiler with coil for heating salt water was put in, a tank for cooling the
water also constructed, and a thermostat installed that controls the temperature of
the water within 2° F. For transporting salt water a new outfit of cans was pur-
chased. The supply is brought from Norfolk by steamer. Total cost, $900.

Temporary house for birds.—There being no suitable house for birds in the park,
the small frame building formerly used for dogs was fitted up with outside cages and
bathing pools. It is far from being satisfactory, as there is no means for heating it.
The hardier species of birds, together with some that should be supplied with better
protection, were housed here for the winter. Cost, $650.

New paddocks and sheds for moose, caribou, fallow deer, and arctic fowes.—The acces-
sion of these new species made it necessary to construct paddocks and shelters near
the western entrance of the park, each provided with a pool or other water supply.
Cost, $1,400.

Cage for harpy eagle.—A commodious open-air cage was built for this fine bird ata
cost of $150.

Fence for buffalo paddocks.—The strong iron fence built for the bison was unsatis-
factory as it has been much bent and injured by the frequent plunging and butting
of these powerful animals. It has been replaced by a Page wire fence stretched
between iron posts. The resiliency of this structure makes it much less liable to
injury, and the animals attack it much less frequently than they do a stiff resisting
fence. Cost, $1,000.

Driveway along Rock Creek.—This road, provided for by a special clause in the act
appropriating funds for the park, has been continued by making a short connecting
branch under the Klingle bridge, by repairing the damage done by the ice jam in the
winter of 1898-99, by completing the masonry dam required for the protection of the
roadway at the lower ford near the site where formerly stood the Adams mill,
and by making the ford practicable for carriages. As several serious accidents have
oecurred through attempts to cross at the fords on this road during high water, posts
and chains have been placed on either bank near the fords and access to them is
prevented during a dangerous condition of the stream. The cost of the extension of
this driveway was equal to the amount appropriated, viz, $5,000.

Main driveway.—This was resurfaced with gravel from Quarry Road bridge to the
concourse, at a cost of $400.

Walks.—In front of the new outer yards at the antelope house a crushed-stone walk
was made connecting with the general system, at a cost of $300.

Repairing damages of storm.—On June 2, 1900, there occurred a remarkable and
unprecedented rainfall, nearly 3$ inches falling during two hours. This did much
damage to the roads and waterways in the park, especially on the eastern side, where
the raw condition of the banks of earth made for the grading of the contiguous city
roads caused hundreds of tons of gravel and débris to be precipitated upon the park,
filling up the pelican pond, tearing down fences, destroying gutters and drain pipes, ete.
The repair of this damage and the resurfacing of the roadways and walks cost $1,400.

Care of grounds.—The general care of the grounds, including the trimming of forest
growth, removal of dead and injured trees, thinning and pruning, the care and trans-
portation of nursery stock, etc., cost $700.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87
BOUNDARY OF THE PARK.

The following legislation has been enacted affecting the boundaries of the park:

For the purpose of opening Cathedral avenue in accordance with the highway
extension plans, the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to
convey all right and title of the United States in and to a parcel of land bounded on
the north by block two of the subdivision called Meridian Hill, and on the east by the
east line of said block two extended southward, and on the west by the east line of
Sixteenth street west, as said line is now extended and laid down through said block
two, and on the south by a line parallel to W street of the city of Washington and
distant ninety feet north from the south line of said W street, to the parties owning
a good and unincumbered title in fee simple to lots numbered twenty-two to twenty-
nine, both inclusive, in block numbered five of the subdivision called Woodley Park,
in the District of Columbia, containing about one hundred and three thousand five
hundred square feet of land, and adjoining the land of the United States embracing
the Zoological Park, upon the conveyance by said parties of the said lots to the
United States: Provided, That said lots in said Woodley Park, when so conveyed
to the United States, as aforesaid, shall become a part of the said Zoological Park and
shall be subject to the inclusion of so much of the same on said Cathedral avenue as
may be necessary for the purpose of opening the said avenue. (Sundry civil act,
July 1, 1898. )

For grading and regulating Cathedral avenue from Connecticut avenue to Woodley
road and the highway along the west border of the Zoological Park from Woodley
road to Cathedral avenue, as shown on the plan of the permanent system of high-
ways, third section, twenty-one thousand dollars: Provided, That parties interested
first deposit with the collector of taxes of the District of Columbia an equal sum to
be used toward defraying the cost of the work: And provided, That the full width of
the highway bordering the Zoological Park be donated to the District of Columbia
whenever it lies within the limits of Woodley Park. And the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia are hereby authorized to use as a highway so much of the Zoo-
logical Park as lies within the lines of said proposed highway. (District act, June 6,
1900. )

A sketch map showing the several successive alterations of the boundary of the
park in this region is herewith appended.

Removal of trees from Cathedral avenue.—It will be noted that the most recent legisla-
tion cedes to the District of Columbiaa strip of ground required for Cathedral avenue.
This strip was planted during 1891 and 1892 with fine evergreen trees, which have
grown well and are now large and very valuable specimens. These have been care-
fully removed by special apparatus so as to disturb the roots as little as possible, and
replanted in various situations throughout the park where needed, at a cost of $1,100.

The amount appropriated for the park during the year was $75,000, of which $5,000
was for continuing the driveway along Rock Creek already mentioned and $5,000 for
widening the Adams Mill road near the entrance to the park. It will be remembered
that this road is partly without, partly within, the park. The terms of the act refer
to the portion without the park and are as follows:

And five thousand dollars shall be expended in widening the Adams Mill road
entrance to the Zoological Park from the corner of Eighteenth street and Columbia
road, by acquiring by purchase or condemnation of land sufficient to widen the same
to a width of one hundred feet, and such road, so widened, shall farm a parkway under
the control of the Zoological Park. (Sundry civil act, March 3, 1899.)

An estimated valuation of the property affected by the widening prescribed by

this act showed that the sum appropriated was far from adequate for its purchase.

It was also found that there would necessarily be some difficulty in placing a resi-
dential street under the control of the Zoological Park owing to the municipal regu-
lations concerning water, gas, sewers, etc. It was therefore deemed best to defer
action until the sense of Congress could be had concerning the matter. During the
last session the law was changed by the following legislation:

The unexpended balance of the amounts, aggregating eight thousand dollars, here-

tofore appropriated for widening, grading and regulating Adams Mill road from
Columbia road to the Zoological Park entrance is hereby reappropriated, to be
88 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

expended under the direction of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia; and
the control of Adams Mill road is hereby vested in the said Commissioners of the
District of Columbia and all proceedings necessary to purchase or condemn the land
necessary to widen said road as authorized by act approved March third, eighteen
hundred and ninety-nine, providing for sundry civil expenses of the Government for
the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred, and for other purposes, shall
be taken by said Commissioners. (Sundry civil act, June 6, 1900. )

It is hoped that the provisions of this act may result in an improyement of the city
roads giving access to the park. At present they are far from satisfactory.

The improvement of the Adams Mill road (without the park) has been necessarily
delayed owing to the advance of property and the above-mentioned difficulties. A
similar condition has prevailed at the western entrance to the park, near Con-
necticut avenue extended. An appropriation was made some years ago for the
widening and improvement of this street, but it appears to have been insufficient
as the work has never been completed. Its unfinished aspect greatly mars the
approach to the park, and during wet weather the road, which has not been macad-
amized, becomes very muddy and unpleasant for carriages. As the roads within
the park are among the best in the District and give access to beautiful drives in
the upper park along Rock Creek, it seems highly desirable that this condition
should not continue.

It should be noted that the act appropriating funds for the District of Columbia
has this year provided for a road to be led along the left bank of the creek, finally
abutting upon the park at the situation shown upon the annexed map. The exact
terms of this act are as follows:

To construct,a masonry retaining wall between Cincinnati street and Woodley road
to define the limits of a new driveway, which the Commissioners of the District of
Columbia are hereby authorized to lay out along the east side of Rock Creek from
Connecticut avenue to Zoological Park, four thousand dollars: Provided, That all land
within the limits of said highway between Cincinnati street and Woodley road shall
first be dedicated to the District of*Columbia. (District act June 6, 1900. )

In the report of two years ago it was mentioned that the bridge over Rock Creek
near the Quarry road entrance had begun to show signs of decay. This has increased
alarmingly, and it was thought best to have the structure examined by an expert
engineer. Mr. H. R. Leonard, of Philadelphia, a civil engineer recommended by the
bridge department of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, made a report on the struc-
ture to the effect that it was unsafe and should be immediately replaced by a new
one. Heavy traffic over the bridge was at once stopped and Congress was asked to
appropriate the sum of $10,000 for an iron bridge. Afterwards, owing to the advance
in price of iron, it was asked that this amount be increased to $12,000. It was finally
determined by Congress that a bridge either of natural or artificial stone should
be constructed, and the sum of $22,000 was appropriated for the purpose. The con-
struction will be conducted under the direction of the engineer Commissioner of the
District of Columbia.

The question of completely inclosing the park with a boundary fence has been
considered during the year. The fence built in 1890 was not completed at the lower
portion along the banks of Rock Creek, and was never extended across the roads at
the various entrances. Besides this, successive changes of boundary and the con-
struction of roads along the boundary line at the lower end of the park have made
it necessary to remove the fence in that region. It should also be noted that even
where the fence is complete it affords no effective barrier against predatory dogs and
cats. In consequence of this, several accidents to animals have occurred. The
number of attacks of dogs up to June 30, 1900, is as follows:

August, 1891, Virginia deer seriously injured by dogs.

October 10, 1891, prong-horn antelope, frightened by dogs, ran into fence of pad-
dock and broke its neck.

October 3, 1892, two South American deer killed by three dogs.
REPORT OF SECRETARY LANGLEY. 1900. PLATE fil.

~~ ; SUCCESSIVE BOUNDARIES

XK OF A PORTION

XC Or THE

. NATIONAL
ZOOLOGICAL PARK

SCALE OF FEET
En 7

1900

by H PWaggaman ooh y er \
Beg) eed, CAPO (uit pet trees Os ible ——_
' Frne/ Boundary SS ans Hi (ay,
Z ——$_—_<—7
a ath ee 7
VAT We
Wh ae / ;
ifkict hn
yy

Re nilht> oF 4 10
awe se

JaMorrau:
ARIAT TADI90JOOS

Ong!

uy"
y au tee. son Ww. en
yy ee ty re i mh
yoy li be be bi ye ns" Ne Pe oe I

le

Ne)

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 8

March 31, 1896, three goats killed by dogs.

December, 1897, mule deer buck, frightened by dogs, ran into fence, broke its
horns, tore off one hoof, and was otherwise so badly injured that it never recovered.

January, 1900, pack of dogs killed two deer and injured four, three of which
died in consequence.

The cats prey upon the wild birds, squirrels, and other small animals, and are
eyen asource of danger for some of the captive colonies of ground squirrels and
prairie dogs. Attempts have been made to remedy this by increasing the force of
watchmen, by strewing poisoned meat near the deer pens, and by removing from
the park all domestic dogs which attract their kind. The most effectual remedy
would of course be a dog and cat tight fence with guarded gates. An appropriation
of $20,000 for a fence of this character was asked of Congress, but has not yet been
granted.

It should be noted, moreover, that the maintenance of guarded entrance gates
involves an increase in the number of watchmen and the advantage gained seems
hardly commensurate with the annual expense required, for even with the best
repairs the old fence will not prove an effective barrier.

The expense of a thoroughly protective fence inclosing the entire park is undoubt-
edly an obstacle to its erection. If it is impracticable to make so large an inclosure,
T would still recommend that a considerable section of the more secluded portion of
the grounds be thus fenced off. This would be of the greatest value for the exhibi-
tion of game birds of all species, for deer, antelope, rabbits, squirrels, ete.

The situation of the park at the bottom of a deep valley, while it adds to its seclusion,
entails some disadvantages. The city roads that lead into it are steep in grade, and
during great storms like that of June 2, 1900, the storm water is precipitated in tor-
rents upon the park, bringing down tons of débris that clog the pipes and overwhelm
the roads. The only effective remedy for this is the construction of culverts of suffi-
cient size to readily carry into the creek all the water that may fall. The raw slopes
of the city streets that lie on a higher level than the park to the eastward continue to
be a great source of annoyance, as large quantities of red mud wash down from them
upon the park grounds after every heavy rain.

During the year the District Commissioners constructed a sewer from Ontario
avenue through the park, connecting with the intercepting sewer formerly constructed
by them. The point where this sewer enters the park at Ontario avenue should be
protected by a proper retaining wall. Such a wall should also be built along Klingle
road, where the little stream that follows the park boundary for a short distance has
cut into the road.

The circular sent to officers abroad with reference to collecting animals for the
National Zoological Park has elicited some very satisfactory responses. Mr. E. 8.
Cunningham, United States consul at Aden, Arabia, states that wild animals can be
procured in that vicinity at low rates and that transportation to New York can be had
without great difficulty. Two young lions and two beautiful young leopards have
already been secured by his efforts. The consul at Maracaibo has secured free trans-
portation for his animals and has offered to attend to procuring them. The consul
at Singapore sends a list of animals that may be procured at that port, with prices of
the same, which are far below those at which the same animals can be obtained here.
Other officers abroad have also offered to procure animals.

Mr. M. W. Gibbs, the consul at Madagascar, collected some of the rare animals of
that region, expecting to deliver them to the U.S. 8. Chicago, whose commanding officer
had been instructed by the Navy Department to transport them for the park.
However, for some reason not clearly understood, the officer in command of the
Chicago refused to take the animals. The bubonic plague shortly appeared in Mada-
gascar, the shipment of animals then became impracticable, and it therefore became
necessary to release them.
90 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Through the good offices of the consul at Winnipeg, Manitoba, a fine pair of
young moose was procured for the park, and the consul at St. Johns, Newfound-
land, has undertaken to procure a pair of the little-known Newfoundland caribou
(Rangifer terrx-nove). Mr. K. K. Kenneday, consul at Para, Brazil, secured a
valuable collection of eighteen small mammals and birds from his excellency the
governor of the province. A large female tapir belonging to this collection died en
route.

Other contributors have been as follows:

Brig. Gen. James H. Wilson, U. 8. V., commanding the Department of Matanzas
and Santa Clara, Cuba: Ten flamingoes, and on behalf of Gen. Dantin y Feliz, a
pair of jutia-conga.

Lieut. Commander W. H. H. Southerland, U. 8. N., commanding U. S. S. Scor-
pion: Two crab-eating raccoons, obtained off the mouth of the Orinoco River.

Lieut. William A. Lieber, jr., U.S. A.: A black ape and a moor macaque, obtained
by him while serving in the Philippines.

Lieut. Roger Welles, jr., U.S. N.: A young Baird’s tapir, obtained on the Isthmus
of Panama.

Capt. George F. Chase, U.S. A.: A Philippine deer.

Alfred Benitz, Calchaqui, Argentine Republic, through James M. Ayers, United
States consul at Rosario, a very fine female white-lipped peccary.

Maj. Charles A. P. Hatfield, U. S. A., Puerto Principe, Cuba, on behalf of his
daughter, Miss Helen Hatfield, two jutia-conga and one sandhill crane.

The advent of these specimens and of others from domestic sources has taxed the
park very severely to supply the necessary quarters. In several preceding reports
attention has been drawn to the fact that there is not at present in the park any
adequate housing provided for birds, reptiles, or small mammals. The larger cats
are well housed, but for other classes the accommodations are insufficient. Animals
from widely different regions, accustomed to different surroundings, temperature,
and protection, are crowded together in a single building with the same conditions
of heating, lighting, ventilation, and shelter. While the park has the nucleus of an
excellent collection of aquatic birds, there are no suitable quarters for them during
winter and they are then deprived of the proper bathing facilities. In consequence
of this the whole of the fine group of flamingoes received from Cuba was lost. The
parrots and macaws are necessarily placed during winter on top of the other cages
within the principal animal house. In this situation they are not properly protected
and the mortality is consequently far above what it should be.

The reptiles of the park are in no better case. The rare and curious specimens of
the giant tortoise from the Galapagos Islands are housed in an office room wholly
unsuited for them, with but little sun and insufficiently ventilated. Many visitors
never see these strange and remarkable animals. The alligators are unreasonably
crowded, and often injure each other in consequence. There being no room for
tanks for other amphibious creatures, no attempt has been made to obtain the rapidly
disappearing American crocodile or any of the large sea turtles of our coast. The
collection of snakes is very badly crowded, one case sufficing for the great tree
snakes—pythons, boas, and anacondas being crowded together in a manner that is ©
uncomfortable for the animals and confusing to the public. All this is in marked
contrast to the practice in the best zoological gardens elsewhere, which have reptile
houses with glass cages, in which the animals can receive proper attention and have
earth, water, and sunlight. The recently constructed reptile house at the New York
Zoological Park cost $48,000, and is one of the chief attractions of the place.

The small mammals are so inadequately housed that visitors have complained of
certain cases. Many of them have no outside yards, and nothing can be done toward
providing them with natural surroundings or with secluded breeding cages. In this
the cardinal principle that was in view at the establishment of the park is violated,
Smithsonian Report, 1900

PLATE IV.

"MUVd IVOINOI100Z NI Y¥vag

*

Te

Ly

Smithsonian Report,

190C

),

PLATE V.

MOOSE IN ZOOLOGICAL PARK.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

and something must be done to remedy these defects if any proper results are
expected.

Immediate steps should be taken for the erection of a suitable bird and reptile
house, as well as a house for small mammals, these being the most important needs
of the park at the present time.

Some attempts have been made during the year to collect rare and valuable
American animals by organizing special expeditions on a limited scale. ,

The great Kodiak bear of Alaska, of which mention has been made in former
reports, is especially desired, not only because of its great size, but also because it is
rapidly disappearing. Persistent but fruitless efforts have been made to procure this
animal through the various fur-trading agencies that have posts in the country it
inhabits. It was finally determined to send out Mr. Elwood Hofer, a well-known
guide and hunter of the Yellowstone Park, who has served the Smithsonian well on
many occasions. Mr. Hofer went to the Alaskan coast and Kodiak Island in April,
but he did not succeed in capturing any bears nor even in taking cubs. Mr. Hofer
was also commissioned to procure other Alaskan animals. The extent of country
over which he was obliged to travel and the exingencies of transportation did not
permit him to do much in this way. His total collections amounted toa grizzly bear
cub, three black bear cubs, a young porcupine, and some ground squirrels. None of
these, with the possible exception of the grizzly bear cub, whose specific characters
have not yet been determined, are characteristic of Alaska, and could have been
readily procured much nearer to the park. The expedition must be considered as a
failure, owing to the difficulty of carrying on extended operations in that country
and the scarcity of the animals.

Another animal that has been especially desired is the mountain sheep. . Several
attempts have previously been made to obtain specimens of this animal by offering
definite prices to hunters. These have been unsuccessful, probably because the men
have not been able to procure the necessary outfit and supplies for a long and arduous
expedition. Finally a contract was made with Mr. C. 8. Jones to make a special
expedition for the purpose. Through the intervention of Senator Wolcott the goy-
ernor of Colorado kindly accorded permission to collect in that State for the United
States Government. It was hoped to procure three pairs of animals, but only two
young lambs, both males, were captured, and these have since died.

An attempt was made to collect the California condor, the largest flying bird in
North America, now rapidly becoming extinct. The park has procured one young
specimen of this fine bird by purchase.

The aquarium has been an object of considerable interest to visitors during the

year. Acknowledgment should be made of the courtesy shown by Mr. J. E. Jones,
the director of the public aquarium at Battery Park, New York City, who has greatly
added to the interest of the collection here by exchange of valuable specimens, among
which were several of the beautifully colored tropical fishes from the Bermudas.
Considerable attention has been paid during the year to the preparation of plans and
estimates for a new aquarium building suitable for the permanent installation of an
attractive exhibit, but Congress has made no appropriation for the purpose.
- Besides the service rendered by the Park to the schools, which was commented on
in a previous report, the value of its collections has received recognition from another
source. Well-known illustrators, including Messrs. Charles R. Knight, J. M. Gleeson,
and L. A. Fuertes, have worked here during the year for considerable periods, and
some of Mr. Ernest Seton-Thompson’s charming pictures are based on studies made
in the park.

Of the more important photographic work may be mentioned that of Mr. A. Rad-
clyffe Dugmore, the author of “‘ Bird Homes,” whose picture of a beaver is shown here-
with, and that of Mr. E. F. Keller, of New York City, whose photographs of mule
deer, bear, moose, and antelope are also reproduced.
oe

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Under the unfavorable conditions that prevail in the park as to winter quarters, a
The deaths during the year have reached 140,
Among the more important losses are those of
the Virginia deer already mentioned, a buffalo cow that died from some defect of
nutrition, three antelopes, a mule deer, three black bears, and a cinnamon bear.
A number of raccoons escaped from their inclosure.

From time to time surplus animals have been exchanged with other gardens or

low death rate can not be expected.
of which 87 were birds and reptiles.

with dealers.

here are appended hereto a complete list of the animals in the park at the close
of the fiscal year and a list of accessions from various sources.

Animals in the National Zoological Park, June 30, 1900.

| Num-

Name. ua Name. bee
MAMMALS. MAMMALS—continued.
North American species. North American species—Continued.

American bison (Bison americanus) ..-.-- 10 || Fox squirrel (Sciwrus niger)...-...-------- 9
Prong-horn antelope (Antilocapra ameri- || Gray squirrel (Sciwrus carolinensis) ..----- 29

COULOM eee ee eae ee elm sai Selina paetee 2 || Mountain chipmunk ( Lutamias speciosus) . 18
Virginia deer ( Odocoileus virginianus) - .-.- 7 || Thirteen-lined spermophile (Spermophi-
Mule deer ( Odocoileus macrotis) ....------ A hesitridecimiineatus) ses-= = sae 13
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ..------ 21 | Beechey’s ground squirrel (Spermophilus
Woodland caribou (Rangifer caribou) ----- 1 DECCNEYL) conse ce en Gee ees teens 1
Moose (Alces americanus) ....------------- 2 || Yellow-headed ground squirrel (Spermo-
Collared peccary (Dicotyles tajagu) -.----- 2 | DUS'DTEUCOUAUE) sasee see eee ene 20
Ocelot (FEMS pardGluis) =222 22 -<0--4-<e-5an- 2 / Antelope chipmunk (Spermophilus leu-
EU CHES CON COLON) e- =o 52 ~ osm sean ae DH) CUTUS) E ectetisisas seis nee ee ee 2
Spotted lynx (Lynx rufus maculatus) -..-- 3 || Canada porcupine (Erethizon dorsatus) .- - 4
Gray wolf (Canis lupus griseo-albus) --.--- 5 || Mexican agouti (Dasyprocta mexicana) --.| 2
Black wolf (Canis lwpus griseo-albus) - -- - - - 3 || Northern varying hare (Lepus america- |
WOVOLe (CANIS LAiANS)\ <=. ose - se ecciente= = = 9 | MUS) tccenecesee Sees nweetoKeesstueee cents 9
Red fox ( Vulpes pennsylvanicus) ...-..----- 7 Rocky Mountain varying hare (Lepus
Arctic fox (Vulpes lagopus) -....---.------ 11 || americanus bairdt) .......--------------- 1
Swaitt tox ( Vulpes veloz) =. 2-2-2--55-2265-2- 2 | Peba armadillo ( Tatusia novemcincta) ..-. 3
Gray fox ( Urocyon cinereo-argenteus) . .-.-- 1 | Opossum (Didelphys virginiana) ...-.- cone 1
North American otter (Lutra hudsonica) .- 1 ; : 4
American badger ( Taxidea americana) ... 2 Dh chin geile LNG CEL aot
Kinkajou ( Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) ....-- 1 || Macaque monkey (Macacus cynomolgus) .- 8
Common skunk (Mephitis mephitica) .-...- 1 || Bonnet monkey (Macacus sinicus)...----- 1
American civet cat (Bassariscus astuta) -- 1 || Moor macaque (Macacus maurus) -.------- 1
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica) ...-...-- 1 || Green monkey (Cercopithecus callitrichus) . 1
RACCOON EENOCYOT LOCOn)) == -acee ace aee eeee 18 || Black ape (Cynopithecus niger)....-------- u
Black bear ( Ursus americanus) ......-.---- 3 || Red-faced spider monkey (Ateles paniscus) 1
Cinnamon bear ( Ursus americanus)... ..--- 1 || Black spider monkey (Ateles ater) .-..-.-.-- 1
Grizzly bear ( Ursus horribilis) ..........-. 2 || Gray spider monkey ( Afeles grisescens).... 1
Polar bear ( Thalarctos maritimus) ......-- 1 || Apella monkey (Cebus apella)-......--.---. 2
California sea lion (Zalophus california- Capuchin (Cebus capucinus) ....-.-------- 4

DOR BEBE Ec HBAS IES Ide Do abe oOCHOOODE eae aD > 4 || Azara’s douroucouli (Nyctipithecus azarz) . 1
Harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) .........-.--- 2 || Lion (Felis leo)........ Sea cosas =ciess eee ees 8
Common pocket gopher (Geomys bursa- | Tiger: (-HeUs tigrts) ceseclessioe ses os =aci=0 a2 2

MUS) oS ERM. Oo s Jace tase in conan eee nee 25 eeopard (AEs Manus) accesso ece~ ese oe esa 2
California pocket gopher (Thomomys Spotted hyena (Hyxna crocuta) ....---.--- 1

DOES) Se -Selhs eRe Shao ea saan eee eS Sake 2) |} WO DOUNG Sous ssen a eae se eee 2
American beaver (Castor fiber)..........-- SIL StyBernardedog: sacnccsuemesenc cee haces 1
Hutia-conga (Capromys pilorides).......-- 5. || POinter see bs. at aos eee ener case 1
Woodchuck (Arctomys monax)......-...-- 2|| Chesapeake Bay dog..--..5-----+-.<2-<e00 1
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) .-.-..--- | 68, lisBedlingtonctermlien!.sce=- oss. -eemeeoe eee 1

PLATE VI.

Smithsonian Report, 1900

“MYVd 1VOISO100Z NI

4¥33qd J1nNW

1) _
° a
‘ se
‘ ; ‘ A
Te v4, wm Byline Wisteria et oe meine » > hs nw ty Dee a a Co “Reo avies go = 4
i ’ : 7 = 7 :
5 oN : : ‘ = e
: : 2
\ . .
. t 4 = : e . -
, *
" E t VW 7
p ‘ i : , U m4 —
> ’ F : L ty - ; ’ <
7 - J
, c ’ 7? 4

“MYVd IWOIDO10O0Z NI AdOISLNY

PLATE VII.

:
&

oe

REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

Animals in the National Zoological Park, June 30, 1900—Continued.

Name.

MAMMALS—continued.
Domesticated and foreign species—Cont’d.

Smooth-coated fox terrier
Wire-haired fox terrier
prowl Erench poodle.............--.-:---
IDS hiitivoy (60) ae ee a
Mongoose (Herpestes mungo)
Mayra (Galictis barbard)....------=-...----
Red coati-mundi (Nasua rufa)...-...-----
Crab-eating raccoon ( Procyon cancrivora) .
Sun bear ( Ursus malayanus)
Sloth bear (Melursus labiatus).....-...----
Indian fruit bat (Pteropus medius)......-.
Wins DORE ((SUS'SCTOSG). «=. <<-cncsescaseeces
Solid-hoofed pig (Sus scrofa var.) .....----
White-lipped peceary (Dicotyles labiatus) .
PACTTUE (BOS UILUECIS) orc a = aes onl ose a's oe
Yak (Poephagus grunniens).....--.-------
Barbary sheep ( Ovis tragelaphus)
Common goat (Capra hircus)
Cashmere goat (Capra hircus) ....-.-.-.---
Angora goat (Capra hircus)..........-.-.-
Nylghai (Boselaphus tragocamelus)...----.
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) .-.-.
Sambur deer (Cervus aristotelis)....-....--
Philippine deer (Cervusphilippinus)......-
Fallow deer (Dama vulgaris) .........----
Common camel (Camelus dromedarius) --.
Llama (Auchenia glama).-...-..-.---.-----
South American tapir (Zapirus ameri-
FT), DORE) ee Ne es ee ene eee
Baird’s tapir (Elasmognathus bairdi) .....-
Indian elephant (Elephas indicus)........
Crested agouti (Dasyprocta cristata) ....-.
Hairy-rumped agouti (Dasyprocta prym-
BIDLOW LU) =) ic \<ttatee se ao Sas cicwee se Sinacenies
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azarex)
Acouchy (Dasyprocta acouchy) ......-----
Golden agouti (Dasyprocta aguti)......-..
pM One (MUS TOUS) = 5 are cnn wie cia science
Crested porcupine ( Hystrix cristata)
Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus) ........---.--
English rabbit (Lepus cuniculus) ......-.-
Six-banded armadillo ( Dasypus sexcinctus)
Gray kangaroo (Macropus sp.) ....--------!
Bennett’s red-necked wallaby (Macropus
MOPECDILES OCTUIUCIUL)aic.s.cesccclacacenccseceses
Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) ......----|
Brush-tailed rock kangaroo (Petrogale |
PRL 5 eet ne cia ee aie, a'siaienanie/Seeicace.<

BIRDS.

Clarke’s nutcracker (Nucifraga colwm-

Road runner (Geococcyzx californianus).. -

Num-
ber.

Name.

DHorenNNRrRPRPNSN NH HY We HY Ww

fe oe coe cee Se

Oo wv

Oo et et ee

BIRDS—continued.

Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Cacatua gale-

Roseate cockatoo (Cacatua roseicapilla) . - -
Yellow and blue macaw (Ara araraunea) -
Red and yellow and blue macaw (Ara

UECOO)) Peper tee ere = alee starelsiate aint alata Pate tata
Green paroquet (Conwrus sp.).----.---.---
Carolina paroquet (Conurus carolinensis) -
Yellow-naped amazon (Amazona auro-

PD CUURCLL OD) eae aie setter ere aremiaitata alae errata
White-fronted amazon (Amazona leuco-

cephala)
Festive amazon (Amazona festiva)

Levaillant’s amazon (Amazona levaillanti)
Mealy amazon (Amazona farinosa)

Gray parrot ( Psittacus ¢rithacus)

Great horned owl ( Bubo virginianus.-..---
Bald eagle ( Halixetus lewcocephalus)
Harpy eagle ( Thrasaétus harpyia).....----

Barred owl (Syrniwm nebulosum)

Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos)....------
Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis)
Broad-winged hawk (Buteo pennsylvani-

cus)
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) ....-.--.
California condor (Pseudogryphus califor-

nianus)
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura)
Ring dove (Columba palumbus)

|| Chachalaca (Ortalis vetula maccallii) ..---.

Cua DA CPEnCLONE SD.) cen cela eae sine
Crested curassow (Crax alector)....--.-.--
Lesser razor-billed curassow ( Mitwa tomen-

tosa)
Wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo)

| Pea fowl (Pavo ceristatus) .......-----------

Valley partridge (Callipepla californica

vallicola)
Mountain partridge (Oreortyx pictus)
Sandhill crane (Grus mexicana) ......-----

Whooping crane (Grus americana)...-----
Green heron (Ardea virescens)
Little blue heron (Ardea cxrulea).....--.-

Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) .-...---

Black-crowned night heron (Nycticorax
MY CLCOTAG NEVIUS) jon o< = a= atette so n\-\-folcieiat= 12)

| Scarlet ibis (Guararubra)......-.-.-------

' Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)

Boatbill (Cancroma cochlearia)
Whistling swan (Olor columbianus)

Brant (Branta bernicla)
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) --------

orp We

! 10

Qe eK OD

i

Re wow nT oe

34

me we OD

ww oo =
REPORT OF

THE

SECRETARY.

Animals in the National Zoological Park, June 80, 1900—Continued.

to RO coe bo bo ee ei et he co me

Name. Nae Name. Num-
BIRDS—continued. REPTILES—continued.
Hutchins’s goose ( Branta canadensis hutch- Banded basilisk ( Basiliscus vittatus)....-- 1
RINSUD) erento es aneaeeens ope mema cosets 1) sieuanel (Clown: sp: )\s-<-=.2-. soso eee 1
Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) .-...----- 2 || Mexican comb-lizard (Ctenosaura teres) -- - 6
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericulata) . 16 || Bailey’s lizard (Crotaphytus baileyi) ...---- 1
Pintails(Dalaacutd)) <2. -s-s-225 eee | 1 || Alligator lizard (Sceloporus sp.)..-...----- il
Pekin duck GAnasisp:)\.<. = =e -seeeeeeee 4 || Skink-tailed lizard (Gerrhonotus scinci-
Mallard duck (Anas boschas) .....---.---- 2 COUGAQ)) <seicctocls Jaen ose ee Soa cee eee 1
Common duck (Anas boschas) ..----..----- 2 || Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum)....-. 5
American tree duck (Dendrocygna discolor) 1 || Diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus adaman-
American white pelican (Pelecanus ery- Il "COWS War. dia Sie cle Saecineneeenie cee mamas semen
LEMOTYTCNOS) see meee aces eee nee 8 || Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) - . -
Brown pelican (Pelecanus fuscus) ...-.---- 5 | Copperhead (Ancistrodon contortrix) ....--
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz dilophus | Water moccasin (Ancistrodon piscivorus) -
PlONGANUS) ccc cence sone daseseeeee ees 3 | Indian python (Python molurus).....-----

. Snake bird (Anhinga anhinga) .-...-------- 3 | West African python (Python sebx)-...----
Gannet: (Sula Dassana) ee ce ace eee = 2 || Common boa (Boa constrictor) ......-..---
American herring gull (Larus argentatus '| Yellow tree-boa ( Epicrates tnornatus) .----

S$mithsontanus) Ses. see--8 ee see eee eee 1 |} Anaconda (Eunectes murinus) .........----
Common rhea (Rhea americana) ...-.----- 1 | Scarlet snake (Cemophora coccinea) ..-.----
Cassowary ( Casuarius galeatus) .....-.----- 2 | Bull snake (Pituophis sayi)..........------

Sstnsucs | Pine snake (Pituophis melanoleucus) -..---
| Black snake (Bascanium constrictor) -...--
Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) ...-.- 28 Coach-whip snake (Bascanium flagelli-
Painted turtle (Chrysemys picta).......--- 6) Yoriey. ee ae ot 1
Musk turtle (Aromochelys odorata) ...-.--« 2 | King snake (Ophibolus getulus) ........--- 3
Mud turtle (Cinosternum pennsylvanicum) . 5 Mountain black snake (Coluber obsoletus) . 1
Terrapin (Pseudemys sp.) ..--------------- WGarterenake (Eutexnia sirtalis) ........-.- 3
Gopher turtle (Xerobates polyphemus) ..-.-- ET NWeteranaice (Natrix sipedon)........----- Fy
Tortoise (Cistudo carolina) ...------------- 2 Gopher snake (Spilotes corais couperii)-... 3
Dunean Island tortoise ( Testudo ephippium) 2 |
Albemarle Island tortoise ( Testudo vicina) . 2 |
|
Last of accessions for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900.
ANIMALS PRESENTED.
Number
Name. Donor. of speci-
mens.
Macaque monkey ....-.....- Dr: W. Mi Nihisery Keedysyille; Mid 2 Ses ae eeree cease eee 1
Moor mace que) sees. jeeenteee Lieut.<Wma. A. diieber 0. Si Ams ss. oe eee eee ae sere eee 1
Blackiape:s sc. -csceseereseseo| sense do ssscese- eye BE aia ee ee ee ere eee 1
Apella monkey.<-=.2-.2.-.--- Dr..J. Paeside Carvalho: Para ibrazile een eee one sne ce cee cee 1
Red-faced spider monkey -..|.-..- GO sc esctiscscsce eo te ceees ase Sees Se eee oe eee 1
Gray spider monkey......... Edward Somborn, Washington, D: \Cosscecses ace seas cee ee 1
Capuchinl Ss -ceesenasco sek August Schwartz, Washington, (D.C 222 sees -e-eseseaas eee 1
Azara’s douroucouli.......-.. Dr; J. Paes:dei Carvalho: Para, Brazile see eee il
OCelOb S2- scenes ner eeee loeesss GO 22s gadless shee ae ote eee ee oe eae 1
TRC GUTOR 3. Somers eer ee eee Ben}. Miller Washing tonmDy Cceaeesee ee oe eee eee eee 1
WO -asmace ont ce maeeeee Mrs. Hi.\Cobb; Washington Dy © 22.82. see seeace eee eee eee 1
Dow. “22.seacceeesesee = Donor UNKNOWNS... .5- ssscee- secs ce sales eee eee eee 1
Red coati-mundi ............ Dr. J. Paes de Caryalho, Para, Brazil. 222.s5-26 ee see eee 1
RACCOON =s-coce ete se tae ces W.. Mi Keeler: Washington: DiC 3.2 sere ce sore eee eee eee 2
DO. ca 2ebewiedowetes ee as Miss:E. Scholl, Washington, D.C, s2sccessee een saseeease eee u
REPORT OF THE

SECRETARY.

List of accessions for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900—Continued.

ANIMALS PRESENTED—Continued.

Name.

Crab-eating raccoon
Black bear
Baird’s tapir
Virginia deer
Philippine deer
White-lipped peceary
Gray squirrel

Woodchuck
Jutia-conga

Golden arouti=-..-<-....~.--
Crested agouti
Guinea pig
English rabbit

Opossum
Road runner
Roseate cockatoo
Red and yellow and blue

macaw.
Red-fronted amazon

Great horned owl
Sereech owl
Red-tailed hawk

Turkey vulture
Wild turkey
Sandhill crane
2S TEU] onl eee daceeconeeeee
PALO DIS <os ocee ect sane
American flamingo .........
American black-backed
goose.
American tree duck
Mandarin duck

| Donor unknown

Donor.

Number
of speci-
mens.

A. B. Suit, Suitland, Md
Lieut. Roger Welles, jr., U.S. N
GridirontGluhy Washing tony D.C) ss2s25. see ee eee
Cant; Georse Chase ale SocAv - Ae Se Se vee oe aoe oe Se
Alfred Benitz, Calchaqui, Argentine Republic
Cy Oa ROSSOM VV AST a COT) Casein tere ta een ce
Mrs. A: J. Marble, Berkeley Springs, W. Va .........------.----
i MTEC AWaShime FON YDS Corer me coeeteric canoe cee cise ye
NMisssRobby Wasim stone AG sae oe = ec eae See we
MrsyEeCoBeim Washineton is Cleo me. 4a 5 asco oe aoe ae

George Hellen, Washington, D.C

Gen. Clemente Dantin y Feliz, Bolondron, Cuba

Miss Helen Hatfield, Puerto Principe, Cuba
Dr. J. Paes de Carvalho, Para, Brazil
CrewrOiMUsossaOlphins ses eee eres Scere ams meee
Wil berslaWitiehib i. Washoe On © eae aoe oc eee aoe
JOWESOMLerWLe VW Wasmimetonw): Clee sea tenons Sana ccrsce cc
R. L. MeGuire, Washington, D. C
Missylatdianiken eV vashimeton WiC ees.) =a s5- eons sae aes
Miss Ada B. Gayer, Washington, D.C
ING EH Besson Washing tom. Ds Clete eas a ene ance ase
Stanley; Coyalle; Washington? DsG\-. 2. 222-2 A. sees nee
Dr Co WwW. Montgomery, Washington, D.C.o- 222. .2-.+--2--2---
Henry Bishop, Baltimore, Md
Mrs. B. W. King, Takoma Park, D.C
Dr. J. Paes de Carvalho, Para, Brazil

Misside GanvalhowwWasbineton. Ds Oc s.nce<-se5- eoeeceec eee
NirsxGaN. Wiebper Wirshin SOM ds Gesemeae cts eens = Seco nae:
Juhine SechMediholz as bine TOM C secon] acces =e eee eee
VW Es Galle Wis chimme tome Ove nee eae enon ya eit ete earl
Dr We ke Sealieane Wiashine ton yO C cen rie sees secede eee

J. E. Babeock, Washington, D. C
Thomas A. Cox, jr., Cullowhee, N.C
Gridiron Clube Washington. Di Ciacc.eseeee ts aoc os eee
Louis Krafit, Alexandria, Va
Miss Helen Hatfield, Puerto Principe, Cuba’
Dey el KSSH COR ey gn llovoy Det hye i Sq All| See eee oo a a eceaace

Brig. Gen. Jas. H. Wilson, U.S. V
Dr. J. Paes de Carvalho, Para, Brazil

Mrs. Gardiner G. Hubbard, Washington, D.C
ITS aKONE HUMAN AYOK, A0ed SAE ee aA ee ese © tees oe eee Re Oe Reema
Eugene Letcher, Washington, D.C
Elmer Bateman, Washington, D.C
Miss Mary Brewster, Washington, D.C
Minsteal cre arper iW ash tOn, Ws Occ sone sae ase a= ee = <laral=

H. Smith, Washington, D.C

Lieut. Commander W. H. H. Southerland, U.S. N......-.----|

er a

bo

or)

Reb eu eahilercs VV Astin SCOMs Ds Oxem rea oie heehee }

BH OR eB Be eB bw

Noo oO

96 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

List of accession

.

s for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900—Continued.

ANIMALS PRESENTED—Continued.

Number
Name. Donor. of speci-
mens.

A LOLs eee ee cee ee eee Miss NorrissWashiitte ton DS Oss aee oeee mee ano = 2 oecia ere ere eee #)

DOR eee ah Lae EW. Roberts; Baltimore Md ees sos sec see a acini a eee 2
VESTN IY he See enh ete ge Henry Bishops Baltimore; Maiee-seeeeeee a= pee--e esses eae 1
Banded rattlesnake ...-..--. C.N. Uslin, Princess Anne County, WViipeetiesec nen se cam eee 1
Copperhendiss—-eereeses-teee B.D. Galloway: Washington iDu@ 2--s-ceess2-5-2=t ese. case eee 1
@ommon boat o-2-okee- eee Dro J Pacsdei@arvalhovPara sBradile ss scence oe eeesee eee it
AMA CONG 8 -eos: ae ac eee eee ee eee GOedesee ce soe eee sere sae es eh ae MIE ay. CE ONES 1
Blak: snakets-< 2... see secse HH Dove: Washington, DiGie.s2=) can sen oceeaceseee eco c uae 1

DOL set one wearer eee Ameals Harris Washington. DiGi 5-.22eeaeeecen eee ae cee iI;
Coachwihip'=.252-~ <2it2o-e= ASM Nicholson; Orlando w Mla, 2ascesseee eee ees eee = eee 3
Keine oma ij. ara se eeces oe oleae Ole 22 eee ee eee etree nic is Veja spa Sxl miowciseisinsie pibieleeat 1
PilOtSNAKee secret eee GaSoMiller.jr.,, Washington, Da@ls. ones. - <n secesemee-seeer eee u
Hog-nosed snake ......-....- | William: Seal DelainsNudiste: 2 aesces- cesses sceoacresee il
Garter snake .2s.--ec2seeeee Droh Re nModge, Washimeton sD a@ ss sees son session) eee 1

ANIMALS LENT.

Macaque monkey -.----..--- U:'S: Marine Hospitals 3.3222. cacaon- sce ccc mp eeer ee aeaencecerts 2

DOLsShec as are oes so ee eee  W. Me Keeler, Washington, nC 22 fos 0a. cnet cee eae 1
Pic=tanll monkeyaees eee eee | Wi. POM Rains; Washington, DiCes.s.sse- -sasss-casseee eee cee 1
JaVa MNOMKC Yeo 2s- este nea ee Lieut. PSPs Schiley; WuScAkes ane + -ceceeeseeee eases a ceeaeee 1
Aretic {OK -=<<2=2-2nsecem.o5-) BYTOM Andrews: Washington. |D Cea... canoe -se-eee ee eeeecee 12
RACCOONS ac S22 see eee (GB Se schmid. Wiashimotony Da Cys cae cae ee eetee eer ce eraee eee 4
IBlgek bear sho. 2 sae eee en Admiral George Dewey, Was uN esse. oeeee see eee 1

DO ee Soca ase eee | TMi Rudd. Washi eto, DOs foececre cies <aietajne eis rete ie 1
Common -go0atese. 5 -— =e ee Rid. Wynne; Washimeton Ds Coos soc eecesee eae esic ee sce 1

D Oise Soe eee ey Be SaSchmid Washing ton DiC cer cscs. cde nee seee seas a see 5
Canada porcupine-.-.-=.--.-|.---- GO: cccstamesent es oe foSne ca eeaes ance Set Ee eee ene ae eeeee 1
White-fronted amazon .....-. RG. Paine, Washington: DiC. tec. + -ee os eee eee nae eee 1
Yellow-headed amazon ..... Mrs. L. Hopfenmaier, Washington, D.C..---...--..-.--..-...- 1
Yellow-naped amazon ...-.. Mrs; A) Bo Williams, Washineton DD: o 22-2 =sessees eee 1
Greenwparoquel a.--4es-see— Miss\Clarke; Washington sD: Ose: seen eee eee nae een ae eee 1
Great horned owl ...-....-..- Baw. S.schmid, Washine ton Ds Ce seses ce sere eee 1
IBATTCG OW athe seaccc sane |eeeee GO! ecciccrac Sects an sony Scie Dea eee oe ae ie ee ae ee eee i
Sparrow Hawk...c-.cscseccass| cee OG .oek roe coe Se eS a Se ee en eee 1
Red-tailed hawk .-......-..-|..--- OO 520 cet coc oe db ce ee esis See are ee etree etait ete tetatone 1
Commioniboace-=---=5-s---- RuiG. Paine, Washineton © se... = sera eee eeeen ee eee ee 4

ANIMALS RECEIVED IN EXCHANGE.

BIS CkA WOU jaa see eee eases _ Henry Bishop, Baltimore, Md ....--..-------------++++-+++-+- 1
INC Keclololale ae heeoce asceace = 356 eee GOs bse a2 eh ac 0 See Sata ee ee ence ee eee oes 7

DOP ee oaae ee ae oe ee ee {35 Se SchnagdlsWras biting tiaris Ds Cease e eee ten 5
Polanibedtss sas s2aaa2 secre | William Bartels, New York 22s2-<..neese cee eee eee ee 1
RV IGiAls fi. tema as eee 2 | etc stie o. bacc- ccs Dene ale sees ee eee a eae ee eee 1
PANS OTA POU oc occce- aw us- | Henry Bishop baltimore sMidte ss oe eee eee eee ae 2
Wild ours .s2..8 apes sana: |xicdep QO wae as ee le ct Oeil a tk 2
Gollared peccary 2.2.--2----5 | William Bartels, New) VOrke< = cn s.ec mee see ne tees terete oe 2
Roseate cockatoo..........-- | G.iSebille Washington sD SG asen a= oe eee eee ete terete 5
White-fronted amazon ......| William Bartels New Yorkos. Jacceen teu ee eben eeceiae see 6
European lapwing .-.-....--. |G. Sebille,; Washington.) DiC ce ss.ccnecee seer eee eee eee 2
(Cfrpoho Ghee coc ee Osa eacaciconL | Henry, Bishop-baltimone: Midles seas mecc see eee ee eres 2
Common Thea s-eseceeeeee Carl Hagenbeck, Hamburg, Germany -...-.22--.. 2.5. -escens 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 97
Animals purchased and collected.

ReeeME IO MICO MACHCHS RDI) ons 5 Ses ai eee ee Se ee es oc 5 seh Leek oe Sek

4
RETREAT CRSA EUS OSU) nome. Ae ee cco oe eee eli Se ealad weeet 2
icalitornia sea lion (Zalophus californianus) -.........--=.2-+----+-----+-05-- 1
Reena caribou (hanger carwow) 2. 22-62. 2352s cee lek ee eee sete esses 1
HER PSSEE Te ACETAL 2
OASOMUUECE IN OS CHUIESTTULO EN pee eee Soe eee me een eet ie eres Se SR 14
Thirteen-lined spermophile (Spermophilus tridecimlineatus) ....-------------- 13

EMRE OM CHMOMYS LUGOUICIONUS) 2 2 2 5 tc cates ew See =-scesne ede S++ 7s 19

Peinada porcupine (Mrethizon-dorsatus) .. |... 22252255. .- 25528 sss bee daeeleecds 2
Moebern-yarying hare (Lepus americanus) -..2-2:222--52 -s-sieien- see eece- 7
Depa eeeLC MINA (KEstiiCOOOTEONEN) © 5 2 os Se Ol Ye oe eo oe Se 1
Ree Terres: CQInRGTICS UTE) 2222S. oo oe esas ozseocseces + sess sees 2
California condor (Pseudogryphus californianus)....-..---------------------- 1
Paeannomeowl (bubo virginianus) - 20.0.2. 052525554-6-- 20 s- suse ence es 2
imiilesmine merony (PAnrded: CAnILed oe. son oe ee ao eee ae See Sas Saas ais saee en Se 1
Sianioe swan ( Olor Coltmoianus)) =. 2s - ones oes scenes sb nese. t ood es See 4
Pemeertin pe lieth LeleCOMUS JUSGHS ht. sot Seal cco os clon See nnn s Sete seen 5
PEESCUIE ALN IOC HUI GN te eee oS ea rs WR Soe eae ae 2
Beebe com lizard (Cinonaiiratercs ie 28) one no So ns eis ese See 12
emMederuiesnake (Cronus NOTIOUS mer onan te ane ee oe Soe cece 4
Beremnenake (Cemopnoracocempa) 222 5s. 25. 265 teecss Slee +s -s22-=see 1
femmeiake (Puioniiis MeanOleUueUs) J.2 see ao oes ere eee se ow aoe dee os 2
fuer nuake (Bascantumn Cconsireior )io- =<. accnee see as Saas at oes ete 2s 1
Animals born in the National Zoological Park.
Rem CONES LANES GT ISCO-ULOUS ) o> See ate ta Gee soso] - eee eet 5
ETN RIe 8) Weer ann Sou Boe ee EERE ool ee 4
aeRO (ON CRICOMIEA Nios Me nen te te) res ee at oko ake 1
RRO 2 L10CLLG1h8)\) eee 2 Seo a i em ee ie OC ee eee Re oS a 3
Perens: SO. (COMTI IIN CU) iy momen ee nes eS  e ene  S2 S tae 2
Er ANTE! | CUTE MITCH eso ere en eon Sa NOME oa cars oa oe {!
Perey cOa ta (Capa UnCUS) wene mae eer ne Sn ee ey ee ee ee Foe deo 1
Semetacdn-elix (Cervis Canadensis) sno sac eee e eet eo e- 2 hc - ae 2
Briniadecr (Odocodeus amrgumanus) 2.222.222.2222 22222 2s 2 elie eon a- 2
SE SAUTE CINCIFEC CLOMID ee 2 ee ee re ee ee ee eae Sak ein = 2
Beane irel\( SCIWIINS COTOMMENSIE) 2 755 28 oases ee ss 22-2 = 2
eae Or (OUnOMmiys MIOvICWINUs i. -2 2254 - =. (3ac Gas eeee ees ees e4eee-4-2- 19
Seeear porcupine ( Framcon dorsatus)....-.--<-.=.2+2-45<2es+-2e22+22se--2 1
REE tATOO! (Marrone: Ae Seeoe se Soe Pees i et eee nee sieest 1
RR RMEMMNIR TSU TCI CMIS nite ae Sed. hes Pee Ne he ye eee ne 15
Dee Kaiti apy eee ee So ee ees eee ay seew ee see 1
REINO CROC COMSITICION 28 28 222 1: eke en oe, Mi eece Seesc seeks 62
Animals received from the Yellowstone Park.
Pmmennivelk, (Orvis canadensis), ....- 20s. - 225+ 2-4-2 shin nanie-eclee-ssees 9
Sesemia deer (Odocoileus virginianus). ..->------+-----2---2------++--+------ 3
Ramer Onocoilens macrotis)... 55 2 o2 a 055-062 seen eee ot oe eee oe ee 5

sm 1900——7
98 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SUMMARY.
Animals onvhand)Jiuliy, USO Oee: Se Sey a acest er eee eet 675
‘Accessions during they ear: =< 26.052 se cce. So eee Ieee ee ee eee eee 444
el Bo 21 Meee ee ergs eo fe SES Sit orn ct SO SCORE OOo en aeie 1,119
Deduct losses (by exchange, death, and returning of animals) --...---------- 280
On hand Junie: 30-1900 -..cem se sees tea oe are eee ee ee eee 839

Respectfully submitted.
FRANK Baker, Superintendent.

Mr. S. P. Lana ey,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution,

Zoe Ne

Beaver in National Zoological Park.
APPENDIX V.

REPORT OF THE WORK OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY FOR
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1900.

Sm: The kinds and amounts of the Observatory property are approximately as
follows:

ELLIS Se OS Ae ES he eS $6, 300. 00
PRR RRM S ys Sen as oore See oe ine, 3 tsa has a alee tae eaten 30, 000. 00
RrrEVE AIO STC CULCM ne ia eae ts ee es eS tS te ote 5, 400. 00

TRG aes ae tag BA a OE aia eae em i Ea eee 41, 700. 00

During the past year the acquisitions of property of the kinds just enumerated
have been as follows:

(a) Apparatus.—Astronomical and physical apparatus has been purchased at an
expenditure of $2,100.'| The main separate items are an equatorial mounting for 8-inch
telescope, with clock and with coelostat attachment; a 10-inch concave mirror of 75
centimeters focus, and a special tremor reducing support and magnetic shielding
device designed for use with a new galyanometer of extraordinary sensitiveness. A
12-horse power motor with connection to the city electric service, for use in running
the cooling plant, has been installed at a cost of $200.

(b) Library and records.—The usual periodicals have been continued, and additional
photographie star and moon maps have been purchased, the total expenditure for
these purposes being $200.

Total accessions of property, $2,500.

No alterations of consequence have been made in the Observatory buildings and
grounds. The cost of repairs to buildings has aggregated $200.

Losses of property have been inconsiderable, from a monetary point of view, but I
regret that a box of bolographs containing the originals of some of the illustrations of
the forthcoming Volume I of the Annals was injured by water during my absence on
the eclipse expedition, and the bolographs (about 20in number) were much damaged.
It is fortunate, however, that negatives of them are preserved.

THr WorK OF THE OBSERVATORY.

Two objects have principally occupied the Observatory staff during the past year—
first, the publication of Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, Volume I, and,
second, the observation of the total solar eclipse of May 28, 1900. Considerable time
was, however, devoted to the design and construction of the sensitive galvanometer,
with magnetic shielding and steady support above alluded to.

It will be most convenient to describe the work of the year under three headings,
as follows:

1. Publication.

2. Progress of the usual work of the Observatory.

3. Observation of the solar eclipse.

(1) Publication.—Volume I of Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, now being
issued, containing an account of the research on the infra-red solar spectrum and the

"I here include only such apparatus as is of permanent value to the Observatory,
and not such as served a merely temporary purpose in connection with the recent
total solar eclipse.

99
100 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

mapping of the absorption lines in this region, and of subsidiary investigations con-
nected with these, comprises nearly 300 pages, uniform in size with Smithsonian
Contributions. It is illustrated by abort thirty-five full-page or folded plates and
numerous text figures. The text contains full descriptions of the apparatus and
methods employed in mapping the infra-red solar spectrum by the aid of the bolom-
eter, and gives as a result of research the positions in deviation and in wave length,
as well as the relative intensities of over 700 absorption lines or bands between the
visible limit of the red at A (0.76 sc) and what is practically the limit of the solar
spectrum for terrestrial purposes at 6 /.

A chapter is devoted to a discussion of the seasonal and other variations in terres-
trial absorption, which have been noted at many points in the infra-red spectrum.
These variations, and especially those of a seasonal character, to which attention has
been drawn in several of my earlier reports, form an extremely interesting and per-
haps important feature of these studies.

It is greatly to be regretted that the very best photo-mechanical processes are
inadequate to justly reproduce the bolographs, upon whose evidence the spectrum
lines are determined, and this I fear will prove a still more serious hindrance to the
publication of the photographic results of the eclipse expedition shortly to be
described. This unavoidable inadequacy of representation is a very considerable
obstacle to the satisfactory publication of astronomical and, to a lesser extent, other
scientific results, in these days when the advance of science is increasingly connected
with the interpretation of delicate photographie detail.

(2) Progress of the usual work of the Observatory.—The ordinary operations of the
Observatory have been much restricted by the two special lines of work already
alluded to, for it must be recalled that the present observing force consists of but two
persons, so that the long preparations for the eclipse and the reading and rereading
of the proof sheets of the Annals left little time for other work.

As mentioned in my last report, designs were then entertained for constructing a
new galyanometer of the highest sensitiveness, with a support calculated to reduce to
the lowest limits the earth tremors which are so prejudicial in the use of such sensi-
tive instruments, and with a thorough system of magnetic shielding to enable the
galyanometer to escape the fluctuations of the magnetic field. This apparatus has
been finished, excepting the needle system of the galvanometer, and was tried in
January of this year with a temporary needle system of only 1.9 milligrams weight.
The result appears to be promising. As thus tried, with the galvanometer case par-
tially exhausted and a time of swing of about three seconds, no fluctuations of the
spot of light reflected from the galvanometer mirror exceeding 0.1™ could be
observed on the scale 2 meters distant. The system of support and the magnetic
shielding appear, therefore, to be very perfect, and a few words describing them may
be appropriate here.

System of support.—A massive pier rises through the basement room of the new
laboratory to the level of the ground floor. Upon this is a four-legged table 8 feet
high, whose top is a flat iron ring of about 500 pounds weight. Four iron cylinders
are fastened upon the top of the ring, and in these float on mercury smaller iron
cylinders supporting a second iron ring. From the floating ring descend three steel
wires, each 15 feet long, passing through holes in the capstone of the pier and sup-
porting a heavy cage of iron, in which is the galvanometer. The points of support
are at the plane of the center of gravity of the iron cage, and also in the plane of
the support of the galvanometer-needle system. Four dampers in glycerin baths
prevent torsional vibration of the cage. Thus the whole is a combination of four
methods of reducing the effects of earth tremors. First, a deep solid pier; second,
a ‘‘rickety table,’ supporting a weight of 1,600 pounds; third, a mercury flotation
of 1,000 pounds, whose center of gravity is below the mercury itself; fourth, a long
‘Julius three-wire suspension,’’ supporting 700 pounds.
) GNOLONIHSYM OH LI TOLOHd "OD SH31 9d SINHON GHA

PLATE Vill,

COG1 OT Aww
“O°N ‘O¥OBS30WM

Twimouvnca g

avonpansi
Berit ry
SONNOYD NOILIG3dX 9 aSdi10g

asoosba @
Wea ninen
"e

Wav vewes
Baws Haw. O
2a pe ememsey

awvs

Dense Be) Pees ot 340963134 Nviaw

SIWYSAA

°
ATOG NUNS, Lane ae) ©

Avi woAyne®

MOVEL NODWM

Reeasvase O3HS ONIAHISEO
mous O
Dikawaver

NVINOSHLIWS

snawwwdey
YM Larewre wiwnaw

a2vimos @
Qtawwoun

1900

wolves
wisowunnal

ae ee se

°

REPORT OF SECRETARY LANGLEY

icin -

Loop BET

ae ren Pr or

& t
hiel vation thon z
tin r Ayal ty

ov peronnng

ae Se.

Oia

[Chie EHD

> thre
' ute ‘oary Lids ulna x ta
4 t q be © f
ie AX ; ee ein fly fo

em BS

cs

saan ae it Wide NE et " ae pases Na ie |
: a ws Y We fear i in ne ly 0 cite

1 ae vy a. .

Iyes) h¥ Hnary sett heany, oh
lin rT] a wor i if
e cihuspate vt w
" Fa
f
j

ron ie

é
4

ine. ny

ae
wit orn

ntiaten alt a vaghupe a
ty i ol ands om

‘Stee 4 ue ti wet reyipio

arc ST de dry aBhe Hh <b ee Pon teoe “+ wewle retest s cuntbe, Stele). Fey
hk te ee artes
; oy ete thet eRe

pein. of Only a i to ribet,
fh. the gulwaniia ter aah Phe .

nite, ae inp. pions 7 ns 7

fh) ek |
ut ; * ob rt | ‘ dh ie ta an it ! a
“ wong il 4 Bess os ‘kab Pe

re

ene QAcent Lie,

tps Keeguraunt rox
i. Libs
! i a “or G8

Vin

‘
-
“ae sre i hey

me a

peta Sadat FG

igre peboid w tie :

ots. th ; ndnle

oe he

ule yo Mk Pag:
- * H “a

PLATE IX.

900.

Report,

Smithsonian

‘dNVQ NVINOSHLINS JO M3IA IVYANSD

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 101

System of magnetic shielding.—Three magnetic shields are employed. The outer is
a square iron box without top or bottom and of about 2 tons weight. Within this,
and supported on the swinging iron cage, are two concentric iron cylinders, of which
the inner is only 3 inches in diameter and immediately incloses the galvanometer,
No side openings are made in the shields, the galvanometer being read by means of
a spot of light reflected vertically through a glass in the capstone of the pier.

It will be noticed from this description that all observations will be conducted in
the upper room, while the galvanometer itself is below the level of the ground in a
room of very constant temperature. It is hoped shortly to continue work on this
apparatus, and to provide the galvanometer with a needle system of great sensitive-
ness, which it is thought from the experiments already made may be used without
prejudicial tremors in a vacuum and at ten seconds (single) vibration. If these
expectations should be realized the useful or working sensitiveness of the new
galvanometer will be several hundred times that customarily employed in mapping
the infra-red solar spectrum, and a large new field of work will be practicable.

(3) Observation of the solar eclipse-—Considering the near approach of the path of
totality of the total eclipse of May 28, 1900, you deemed it desirable for this Observa-
tory to take part in the observation of this important astrophysical phenomenon, and
this view having recommended itself to Congress, an appropriation of $4,000 was
made immediately available for the purpose in February. The use of the special
apparatus already belonging to the Observatory, the very generous offer by Prof.
E. C. Pickering, the director of the Harvard College Observatory, of the loan of the
new 12-inch lens of 135 feet focus belonging to the Harvard College Observatory, and
of several other valuable pieces of optical apparatus, together with loans of a 5-inch
lens of 38 feet focus by Princeton University, and of a 5-inch equatorial by the Naval
Observatory, enabled the expedition to take larger proportions than this modest
appropriation might otherwise have justified.

This apparatus with many other adjuncts was temporarily installed in Washington
in the Smithsonian grounds, and placed in the position each piece would occupy in
the actual eclipse. This was with the view of familiarizing the observers with them,
by successive rehearsals, which went on with assiduous practice during two months
before all was taken down for shipment to the proposed site.

Choice of site—Three successive years of special observations had enabled the
Weather Bureau to determine the relative chances of cloudiness at various points
along the eclipse track, and from these results it appeared that the interior of the
country was more favorably situated in this respect than those parts of the path lying
near the coasts. Certain towns appeared more favorable than others, owing to local
conditions, although such special results were less trustworthy than the broad indica-
tions already cited. However, as the Eastern stations were to have both a higher
solar altitude and a longer duration of totality, and as personal inspection of the
- ground by me, together with a careful consideration of the Weather Bureau results,
seemed to justify the selection, the town of Wadesboro, N. C., was approved by you
in preference to stations more remote from Washington. The actual grounds
occupied formed a nearly level plat of several acres extent, sheltered from the wind
by knolls, buildings, and trees, but being almost the highest land thereabouts, and
indeed about 600 feet above sea level. These grounds were freely offered by John
Leak, esq., of Wadesboro. A shed and the necessary piers for instruments were
erected in the latter part of April.

Plate No. VIII gives a ground plan of the Smithsonian camp, showing the canvas
covers of the two 135-foot tubes, the sheds containing the bolometric apparatus and
its accessories, and the photographic cameras for the 40-inch and 11-foot lenses, with
numerous other pieces; and also on the left a portion of that of the Yerkes Observa-
tory.

Plate No. IX gives a general view of the camp as finally occupied. The equipment of
the Smithsonian expedition is shown at the right of the wagon track, while on the

102 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

left is a portion of that of the Yerkes Observatory. The 135-foot horizontal telescope
is under the canvas seen on the right. Its companion tube is hidden by it. On its
left extremity is seen, though on a very diminished scale, the ccelostat mirror which
‘‘fed”’ it (this is shown on an enlarged scale in the next illustration), and also the
box of the 6-inch aperture camera equatorially mounted. Immediately in front of the
tube and cutting off a portion of the view are the sheds containing the apparatus for
the bolometric study of the corona and that for the large cameras for the 11-foot and
other lenses. The great Grubb siderostat and other pieces of apparatus are hidden
from view by the sheds. On the right of the sheds and immediately in the fore-
ground is the 5-inch achromatic loaned by the United States Naval Observatory.
At the right hand extremity of the long tube is seen the photographic house, which
serves equally for the 135-foot lens and for that of the 38-foot focus lens, which latter
is in the tube inclined upward.

Nature of the observations.—The chief aim of the observations was the investigation
of the corona, and of this especially the inner portions. This investigation was three-
fold—photographic, bolometric, and visual. In addition to these main objects there
was included the photography of the sky near the sun for the discovery of possible
unknown bodies, an attempt to photograph the ‘‘flash spectrum’’ with an automatic
‘amera, and the observation of times of contact both by the ordinary visual methods
and by photography.

Pieces of apparatus employed.—(a) Apparatus for photographic purposes: For the
- direct photography of the inner corona the 12-inch lens of 135 feet focus was used as
a horizontal telescope in connection with a ccelostat carrying an 18-inch plane mirror.
(Plate X.) Here are shown on a large scale the lens in question, the extremity of
its canyas tube, and the ccelostat and equatorially mounted camera described in the
preceding plate. It was also arranged to use with this lens just before second con-
tact an objective prism forming a spectrum upon a plate moved each second by clock-
work, and thus suited to catch the ‘flash spectrum,”’ so called. This necessitated a
second tube 135 feet long, inclined at about 8° to that used for the direct photographs
of the corona. Both tubes were made of black canton flannel and were 42 inches
square with diaphragms of progressively increasing size 10 feet apart. The two tubes
were fastened to trestlework and were covered by long canyas A tents. Nearly 1,000
yards of canvas and flannel were thus made up. The direct tube ended in a small
photographic house which had been prepared in sections and was transported from
Washington. Plates 30 inches square were here exposed.

The direction of the long tubes was necessarily a matter of care, as they had to be
placed beforehand where calculation showed the sun would be, and were incapable
of adjustment.

Besides this great horizontal telescope, the 5-inch 38-foot lens was also used for
obtaining inner coronal photographs. This lens was mounted upon a pole in such a
way as to be in line with the sun from the east window of the photographic house at
the moment of totality. A conical tube of white canvas, well blackened within, and
36 inches square at its lower end, ran from the house to the lens, but was not attached
to the lens or its mounting. There being thus no provision for following the appar-
ent motion of the sun with the lens, a suitable motion was given to the photographic
plates by means of a water clock. With this instrument 11 by 14 inch plates were
employed.

Upon the same instrument which carried the 18-inch mirror of the horizontal tele-
scope (shown in Plate X) was mounted equatorially a 6-inch photographie lens of
7% feet focus, provided with a conical tube, so that a considerable field was covered.!

' The focal curve of this lens was determined and it was intended to use a nest of
small plates so arranged as to be in focus over a large field. On the night before the
eclipse, however, it was so warm that the wax used to fasten the plates softened
repeatedly, and after several trials it was found necessary to use a flat plate, on which
the focus was good for perhaps 6° from the center.

‘
1900

Smithsonian Report,

PLATE X.

‘WSINd GNV SNA Iva SHL

SNIMOHS OGNV VHYAWVO IVIYOLVNOFW HLIM LVLSO1DD

i ae.
ine Pigs

tee

7]

Kel ‘- peor
i .

Ad,
1400

Lo :

roa Su

“ SAyee ice

7 na! ag ehrott
faye, 205

es

‘SVHSAWVD LANV 1d TWIYNOYSWVYLN|

PLATE XI.

io]

a

¢
WY

Smithsonian Report, 1900. PLATE XIl.

THE BOLOMETRIC APPARATUS.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1038

A shade glass opaque to violet light was placed over this lens. The purpose of
the shade glass was to enable a comparison to be made between the form of the outer
corona as photographed with yellow and green light and as photographed with the
complete coronal radiations by other lenses shortly to be described.

Within the eastern part of the shed there was mounted upon an improvised polar
axis a collection of four cameras, quite ponderous in appearance, as indicated in
Plate XI, but really not very heavy, and well provided as to moving gear by being
connected with the very accurate spectrobolometer clock. These cameras were two
similar pairs, one with short-focus, the other with long-focus lenses. The former
were two landscape lenses of 43 inches aperture and 40 inches focus, each provided
with a 30-inch square plate. In front of one lens was placed a shade glass opaque to
violet light. The two long-focus lenses were of 3 inches aperture and 11 feet focus,
and were thus like those recommended in the Harvard College Observatory Circular
No. 48 as most suitable for a photographic search for a possible intramercurial planet.
The axes of these two cameras were inclined so that together they covered a space
east and west of the sun about 12° by 28° in extent. Their fields were found to be
so nearly flat as to make it undesirable to use a nest of plates arranged upon acuryed
surface, as recommended in the Harvard circular above alluded to, and each camera
had a single plate 24 by 30 inches.

All the photographs with the seven lenses above described were taken upon Cramer
double coated isochromatic plates of great rapidity.

An automatic camera, giving exposures from a break-circuit chronometer beating
seconds, was provided for the purpose of securing the times of contacts. This camera
had a 22-inch lens with pin-hole aperture, and the exposures were made upon very
slow nonhalation celluloid plates 15 inches in diameter, rotated slightly after each
exposure by an electrical escapement. One plate was provided for first contact, one
for both second and third, and one for fourth contact. Asno clockwork was applied
to moye this camera, the successive exposures made a spiral series of images of the
sun, from the appearance of which the gradual encroaching of the moon could be
observed.

(b) Apparatus for bolometric purposes: This consisted of a complete bolographic
outfit, including not only the great Grubb siderostat with supplementary mirror,
but also a double-walled chamber of nearly uniform temperature. The view of it is
shown in Plate XII, and its purpose was to enable the total radiation of the inner corona
to be observed, and in addition, if practicable, to determine the distribution of these
radiations in the spectrum. The latter observation it was hoped would throw light
on the composition of the corona, for it is well known that different substances and
different temperatures have each its characteristic energy spectrum. A beam of
light from the 17-inch mirror of the great siderostat, reflected due south into the shed,
passed through a cat’s-eye diaphragm whose aperture was controlled by the observer
at the galvanometer, thence to a condensing mirror, which reflected the rays directly
back to the focus at 1 meter distance, where was a slit 1 centimeter high and 1 milli-
meter wide. From the slit the rays were reflected out of the optic axis of the con-
densing mirror by two parallel plane mirrors, and fell upon a collimating mirror
of 75 centimeters focus. Thence they were reflected upon a prism 8 inches in dia-
meter, one of whose surfaces was silvered, so that the prism might be used either
to refract or reflect the rays, according as the glass or silvered face was turned
toward the collimator. From the prism the rays passed to an image-forming mir-
ror, in the focus of which, at 75 centimeters distance, was the bolometer strip 1 centi-
meter high and 1 millimeter wide. The bolometer and galvanometer with their
accessories were essentially as used for solar spectrum work in Washington, and
while the optical train, with its seven reflections and small slit, greatly reduced the
radiations, the sensitiveness of the bolometer was yet such that subsequent observa-
tions on the full moon gave a deflection of 85 divisions when the aperture of the dia-
phragm was but 17 centimeters square.
104 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Nevertheless it was found that no ‘‘drift’’ or ‘‘ wiggle’’? was noticed when the glass
plate in front of the bolometer case was removed. Accordingly there was no plate
in front of the bolometer at the time of the eclipse, and of course none was interposed
during the observation just recorded.

The expedition was strengthened by the presence of Professor Hale, of Yerkes
Observatory, who used a second beam from the 18-inch coelostat mirror, also driven
by the great siderostat, in connection with bolometric apparatus for the purpose of
observing if a difference in radiation could be detected between the coronal rifts and
streamers.

(c) Apparatus for visual observations. Four visual telescopes were employed for
observing the coronal structure and the times of contact. These were:

A 5-inch of about 6 feet focus (shown in Plate XIII), loaned by the United States
Naval Observatory, haying an equatorial stand and clock.

A 6-inch of 74 feet focus with equatorial stand, but no clock.

A 33-inch of 8% feet focus with rough alt-azimuth stand.

A Coast Survey meridian transit instrument of about 23 inches aperture and 23 feet
focus used as an alt-azimuth telescope to observe contacts.

THE PERSONNEL OF THE EXPEDITION.

The Director, Mr. 8. P. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, observed
with the 5-inch equatorial; and the other members of the expedition were assigned
as follows:

Mr. C. G. Abbot, aid acting in charge, with Mr. C. IK. Mendenhall to the bolo-
metric apparatus.

Mr. T. W. Smillie, photographer of the National Museum (in general charge of
photography, including the development of all plates), specially to the direct 135-
foot focus camera.

Mr. F. E. Fowle, jr., junior assistant, to the 38-foot focus camera.

Mr. G. R. Putnam (detailed from the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey)
to the determination of latitude and longitude, the observation of times of contact,
and the direction of signals.

The Rey. Father Searle, C. 8. P., together with Mr. Paul A. Draper and Mr. C. W. B.
Smith, to the combination of che wide field cameras.

Mr. De Lancey Gill to the 6-inch photographie telescope and the objective ash

Mr. R. C. Child to the 6-inch visual telescope, the electrical circuits of the chrono-
graph, the prismatic camera, and the contact camera.

The Rey. Father Woodman, C. 8. P., to the 33-inch telescope.

Mr. A. Kramer, instrument maker, to the movements of the siderostat and 5-inch
equatorial. z

Besides these there volunteered for the day of the eclipse Mr. Little, of Wadesboro,
and Mr. Hoxie, assigned, respectively, to strike signals and to record contacts for Mr.
Putnam.

Prof. George E. Hale was connected, as already said, with the Smithsonian party,
while at the same time in general charge of the Yerkes Observatory expedition, whose

camp adjoined ours.
THE EXPEDITION.

After the preparation of the apparatus and the preliminary rehearsal for the eclipse
on the Smithsonian grounds, a freight car was completely filled with the apparatus,
and left Washington May 2.

The first four members of the expedition, Messrs. Abbot, Fowle, Kramer, and
Smith, left Washington May 3, and were followed in a few days by two more, Messrs.
Putnam and Draper, the former of whom, however, returned after determining the
latitude and longitude and helping to adjust several polar axes. Messrs. Smillie,
Mendenhall, Child, and Gill reached Wadesboro May 16, and the other members of
the party arrived about two days before the time of the eclipse. Pleasant accommo-
PLATE XIII.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

“WIYOLVYNOA HONI-G SHI

| : caine :
meee ea oe
re

oa REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 105

dations were found in the town, only about a quarter of a mile from camp, and the
greatest courtesy was shown to the eclipse expedition at all times by the townspeople.
A pleasant feature was the presence of large parties from Yerkes Observatory, Prince-
ton Observatory, and from the British Astronomical Association. The days and—
toward the last—a considerable portion of the nights were busily occupied in adjust-
ing and trying the apparatus. On May 26 and 27 full rehearsals took place in prep-
aration for the final event.

The day of the eclipse was cloudless and clearer than is usual in the Eastern States,
though the sky was not exceptionally blue. All the programme was carried out suc-
cessfully, except only that Professor Hale’s bolometer suffered an accident which pre-
vented him from obtaining bolometric evidence of rifts and streamers, but not from
securing other interesting data.

After the eclipse the members of the expedition returned home in nearly the same
order as they came, and the last members to leave reached Washington June 1.

THE RESULTS.

1. With the 135-foot direct camera.—Mr. Smillie secured five negatives during the
eclipse, all good. Three others which he exposed after totality were of much less
value, as was to be expected. The enormous scale of these photographs (the moon’s
disk measures 153 inches in diameter), together with the excellent detail in the promi-
nences and inner corona, make them most interesting.

Plates XIV! and XV! show, respectively, the south polar streamers and a group of
prominences on the southwest limb. As remarked at an earlier page, it has proved
impossible to adequately reproduce the delicate detail of the originals. In the two
illustrations given the subjects are so marked that a still interesting result is shown
even after the loss of the finer structure. But the equatorial coronal streamers,
though in the original clearly shown to be finely subdivided, curiously curved and
even recurved, interlocked and arched, are so delicate that it was hopeless to attempt
their reproduction. Even contact prints fail to show their structure unless made on
glass plates, and thus viewed by transmitted light.

Some, but I think not all the prominences, appear to be set each within its little
coronal arch, and thus present the so-called ‘‘hooded’’ appearance which was
noted in photographs of the Indian eclipse of 1898. I am quite sure, however, that
this feature is much less marked than was then the case.

Tt would hardly seem possible that the directions of the curved equatorial streamers
can be assigned to such a simple system of foci as has been sometimes supposed,
for their arrangement appears to be complicated to the last degree. Nothing final
can yet be said on this point pending a thorough examination, and this it is hoped
will yield many interesting results. :

2. With the 135-foot prismatic camera.—Nothing of value was secured with this
instrument. The plate appears to have been exposed at successive intervals, but was
completely fogged over, no spectrum appearing.

3. With the 38-foot camera.—Mr. Fowle obtained seven negatives during totality,
all good. Others taken after third contact were of little value. What has been
said as regards the results with the 135-foot camera applies very well here, except
that not quite equal detail was secured, owing to the lesser power of the apparatus.
Somewhat greater coronal extension was, however, obtained in the longer exposures,
because of the greater focal ratio of the lens, and Plate XVI is given to illustrate this
part of the corona.

4. With the 6-inch photographic telescope.—Mr. Gill obtained an excellent negative of
eighty-two seconds’ exposure, showing the longest extension of the coronal streams
obtained with any of the instruments. It seems probable, however, that a some-
what better result would have been reached with a less exposure or a less aperture.

}These are not enlarged, but are portions of the original focal images of over 15
inches diameter already referred to as obtained in the 135-foot focus camera.
106 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The greatest extension obtained exceeds three diameters from the moon’s limb,
Here the streamers fade away into the background of sky, as if overpowered by
skylight rather than as here ending.

5. The combination of four wide-field cameras.—These cameras were all in a measure
successful, though not in equal measure, for one of the long-focus and one of the
short-focus negatives was better than its mate, the former being on a better plate
and in better focus, while the short-focus camera with screen showed unaccountable
effects of motion not found in any others.

Comparing the long-focus with the short-focus negatives, the former were far supe-
rior both as corona pictures and as showing faint stars. One of the 11-foot focus
negatives has probably the best general view of the corona secured by the expedi-
tion. (See Plate XVII.) On this plate the corona is seen asawhole. It hardly shows
the full extent of the corona, which, as seen by the naked eye, extended to nearly
three solar diameters, but it exhibits most clearly the curves on either side of the
solar streamers, although perhaps not showing quite as great extension as that
obtained with the 6-inch photographic telescope.

As regards faint stars and new objects, the better of the two 11-foot focus negatives
covering the region west of the sun shows 114 stars, the faintest being of the 8.4
magnitude as given in Argelander’s Durchmusterung, a result which, considering the
amount of diffused light during the eclipse and the milkiness of the sky, is almost
surprising. Six uncharted objects were found upon this plate, which appeared star-
like and may conceivably be intra-mercurial planets, though nothing is to be under-
stood as here predicated of them until a later and careful examination of the plates.

This photograph was unsuited for purposes of direct reproduction for the reason
that the fainter stars required the best of conditions for seeing even on the original
and would inevitably have been lost. It was nevertheless thought interesting to give
an accurate map showing all the stars and suspects found, and this is done in Plate
XVIII. The general reader will perhaps gain a better idea of the value of photog-
raphy as an aid to investigation when he sees in this map, obtained in eighty-two
seconds exposure, in a brighter than moonlit sky, not only the corona and the planet
Mercury just beyond its rays, but more stars near the Pleiades than he can see with
the unaided eye in the darkest night. Astronomers are invited to compare this map
with the Durchmusterung charts, to see both the strong and the weak points of
the plate. It will be recognized that the outer portions of the map show fainter
stars than the middle part, and thus it is indicated that advantage in focus would
have come if the plate had been slightly concave.

The negative covering the region east of the sun was much less satisfactory, and
showed but 13 stars, the faintest being of the 6.3 magnitude. Two uncharted objects
were found, but of their starlike character there is less certainty than in the case of
four of the six discovered on the western plate.

The positions of these objects as interpolated on the Durchmusterung charts for
the epoch 1855 and their approximate position for 1900 are as follows:

EPOCH 1855.

Rightascen-| Decli- | Magnitude.| Probability.
h. m &. Os
3 40 2 | 20 08 7.2 ?
3 47 65 | 2 2 5 to 5.5 Good.
3 52 28 | 17 60 6.5 Do.
3 58 48 | 18 31 6.1 Do.
| 4 8 08 | 19 39 6.2 Do
See 21 49 7.0 ?
4 31 00 | 19 50 ae 2
1 52 00 | 20 36 | 5.5t06.0 2

Smithsonia

PLATE XIV.

Plate XIV.

BY THE 12-INCH LEN

= Steen eggalatbeme eit te

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

om

PS
z
=
>
A

an,> ve

ny ae
ae

Dias

viv, fear
BOA.
Smithsonian Report, 1900 PLATE XVI.

CORONA WITH 5-INCH LENS, SIX SECONDS’ EXPOSURE.
Smithsonian Report, 1900. PLATE XVII

GENERAL VIEW OF THE CORONA.

Con *
LA gt cobl cl Veh Sh
mer. Ory iy

REPORT OF SECRETARY L PLATE XVIII.

ES = 36" aor 28"
| : ors
25) ;
|
\ 24
| ®,
24 Sai a

22) ;
at
21) |
ae
20)
|
20 | , |
| | . i | Ig

19 | | |
: |

° aes
3

20™ 16

THE NORRIS PETERS CO. PHOTO-1.'THO., WASHINGTON

40" S67 sie
1 he

—! a} ti

a *

:
i
=

—

;
|

oat | RERAeeeR ieee

14

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 107

EPOCH 1900.

Rightascen-) Decli- Magnitude. Probability.
|

Vike Wits 2

a 42 2052 Tee ?

3 50 20.3 5 to 5.5 Good,
3 5D 17.9 6.5 Do.
4 1 17.6 6.1 Do.
4 11 19.8 6.2 Do.
4 18 21.9 7.0 ?

4 34 19.9 4.5 2?
4 55 20. 7 5.5 to 6.0 ?
|

Unfortunately we can not either confirm or reject these possible planets by obtaining
additional evidence from the shorter-focus plates, excepting possibly in one instance,
for near-by stars of about equal brightness are not shown on these other plates, so
that the absence of the suspects is only natural. However, the negative taken with
the 6-inch photographic telescope has a doubtful object precisely in the place of the
suspect at right ascension (1855) 4 hours, 8 minutes, 8 seconds, but this is so faint as
to be by no means a certain confirmation. It may be said with certainty that no
new objects as bright as fourth magnitude were in the field.

It had been expected that other observers having similar apparatus would obtain
additional evidence, but this, so far as learned, was not the case, and future eclipses
must be awaited to settle the question of the possible intra-Mercurial planets.

6. With the bolometric apparatus.—The heat of the inner corona was successfully
observed, and caused a deflection of 5 divisions as compared with the dark surface
of the moon, but its spectrum was too faint to observe with the bolometric apparatus.
Both the moon and the corona gave negative deflections (18 and 13 divisions respec-
tively) as compared with screens at the temperature of the bolometer, while with
only one five-hundredth the aperture the sky where the inner corona was about to
appear gave positive deflections as compared with the screens, decreasing from 80 to 5
divisions during the five minutes preceding the totality.

These observations indicate not only that the coronal radiation is very slight, but
that the apparent temperature of the inner corona is below 20° C. For it will be
noticed that the bolometer lost heat by radiation to the corona, as evidenced by a nega-
tive deflection. Hence, when we consider its visual photometric brightness at the
point where the bolometric measures were taken, which, judging from the results
obtained by several observers during the eclipses of 1870, 1878, and 1898, was at least
equal to that of the full moon, it is difficult to understand how the lght of the
corona can be due largely to reflection of rays from the sun or even to the incandes-
cence of dust particles, for from sources of these kinds, which emit a great preponder-
ance of invisible infra-red rays, the bolometer would have given large positive
deflections.

Thus during observations taken two days before the full moon of August, 1900,
with apparatus as nearly as possible identical with that used at Wadesboro, but
unfortunately with a very hazy and humid and even cloudy atmosphere, positive
deflections of 55 divisions were obtained from the moon as compared with a screen
at the temperature of the bolometer, and 86 divisions as compared with the dark
zenith sky.!

Observations on the daylight sky at a distance from the sun also resulted in large
positive deflections.

‘As appears in the Allegheny researches on the temperature of the moon, these
deflections would undoubtedly have been considerably increased had they been
made ina clear and dry atmosphere at the time of the full moon.
108 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

In the case of the moon, as you have shown, about three-fourths of the deflec-
tion is due to the radiations of the moon itself, whose surface is slightly warmed by
the solar rays, the remaining one-fourth being due to direct reflection of solar rays;
but in the case of the daylight sky it was found here that the quality of the radia-
tions was almost the same as that ofthe rays direct from the sun, so that the heat-
ing of the bolometer in this case is almost solely by direct reflection and not from
primary radiations due to first warming of dust or other particles in the air.

The important result of a comparison of the radiations of the inner corona, the
full moon, and the daylight sky somewhat remote from the sun is that while the
three are roughly of equal visual brightness, the corona is effectively a cool and far
from intense source, while the moon and the sky are effectively warm and many
fold richer in radiation. Hence it would appear plausible to suppose that the corona
merely sends out visible rays and that its light is not associated with the great pre-
ponderance of long wave-length rays proper to the radiation from bodies at a high
temperature. If this be so, the coronal radiation might be compared with that from
the positive electrical discharge in vacuum tubes, in which, as researches of K. Ang-
strom and R. W. Wood have shown, there is neither an infra-red spectrum nor a
high temperature. I am not sure whether this analogy can safely be carried further
to explain the coronal constitution, but it may be recalled that the earth has in the
aurora an electrical phenomenon of this nature; that the coronal streamers appear
not unlike an electrical discharge; that the observed polarization of the coronal light
is perhaps not necessarily by reflection, for polarization may be otherwise caused, as
by the emission or absorption of bodies of peculiar internal structure, or even by
magnetic influences, as in the Zeeman effect; that the corona does not seem to grow
more red as it recedes from the sun, as we should expect incandescent dust to do,
and finally the evidence of coronal spectroscopy seems not inconsistent with the
hypothesis of a glow electrical discharge.

7. With visual telescopes.—I understand that in your own view, with the 5-inch equa-
torial, the inner corona appeared to havea much less minutely divided structure than
that of 1878, and to be chiefly noticeable in its equatorial as opposed to its polar
extensions. Prominences were plainly seen, and especially one large one at the
southwest limb.

Mr. Child, with the 6-inch, being the artist of the party, made sketches from which
he later prepared in pastel color a representation of the corona and prominences
strikingly in accord with the photographs which were subsequently developed.

Rey. Father Woodman, with the 33-inch, received impressions similar to those of
the other visual observers.

8. Times of contact.—Mr. Putnam, a part of whose duty it was to direct the giving
of signals, observed first, second, and fourth contacts, but missed the third in conse-
quence of being hindered by directing the last signal.

His observations, reduced to seventy-fifth meridian mean time, are as follows:

hs am. s.
UES ACOMUALCE Sea se a a ee a et LL LOMAS Om along
Second comtacth=.ce a. 2 ee eee eae eee 20 AD loa
Eourth: contact.,- Minos cee oe See ee ee Se a ee ee 27) LODE aiine

Father Woodman’s observations are as follows:

Rem ae Se
Hirst. contact..cj2 2 = eS oe Se ee Se eee ey 1936) 2
Second Comlact< <2. natceee tes reer Se es aS ht ee 20 45 16
PIT CONtACE ae cas See ee ee ee a ee a ee 20 46 47
Bourth contact se occa sees oo Soe see oe Oe ee ee 22 OD eb

The photographic contact camera furnished apparently excellent records of first,
third, aud fourth contacts. These have not been finally reduced, but it is found
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 109

more difficult to determine the times from them than was expected, and it seems
doubtful if this method is desirable to be employed in future.

9. Position of the camp.—From observations of stars made on five nights, taken in
connection with noon-time signals transmitted from the United States Naval Observa-
tory, Mr. Putnam determined the latitude and longitude of the camp to be:

Latitude -...-.- S42 Sor? ~~ a2Z north.
(S02 a 27 ye 2,

west of Greenwich.
5h. 20m. 17. 8s. J ( ; )

SUMMARY.

The operations of the Astrophysical Observatory during the past year have been
distinguished, first, by the publication of the first volume of its Annals, in which the
infra-red solar spectrum is the main topic; second, by progress in the preparation of
a highly sensitive, steady, and magnetically shielded galvanometer; third, by obser-
vations of the total solar eclipse, in which excellent large-scale photographs by the
corona were secured, the coronal extensions photographed to upward of three diam-
eters from the moon’s limb, the absence of intra-mercurial planets above the fourth
magnitude made nearly certain and the presence of several such between the fifth
and seventh magnitude rendered as probable as single photographs can do, and
finally, in which the small but measurable intensity of the total radiations and the
effectively low temperature of the inner corona were observed by the aid of the

bolometer.
Respectfully submitted. C. G. ABzor,

Aid Acting in Charge Astrophysical Observatory.
Mr. 8. P. LANGLEY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.
APPENDIX VI.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1900.

Str: I have the honor to present herewith the report of the operations of the
library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1900.

Quarto or | Octavo or
larger. smaller, | Total.
NV CLUE TRIOS Se res ee sa eats cee Se eine = armen Jae meee as er 669 1, 383 2, 052
Ears tGheyo lUmies Sets ee ee epee se es eee ee eet 10, 294 | 4,163 14, 457
Pepe tye Renn ae cote Sw yo cine oes Sears Se oon Se ee oe Saas See e eee $13 5,538 6, 351
CG Dey NS he eg oe a SN en ee eR re i Pea EE eS EN be tn ee ete, 841
Motels peo ee ee = een Raye cat Sek news 2 ois oe eee beoee sa8esSc)-osenSancecs 23,701

The accession numbers in the record book run from 413773 to 431970.

The additions to the Secretary’s library, the office library, and the library of the
Astrophysical Observatory number 386 volumes and pamphlets and 1,484 parts of
volumes, making a total of 1,870 and a grand total of 25,571. The gain in volumes
and pamphlets and loss in parts of volumes, as shown in the above statement, is
accounted for by the system of recording accessions begun January 1, 1900.

It has been the practice hitherto to record in the accession book each separate
item, and while this plan rendered it possible to have a permanent record of every
publication, the labor involved became very great. The necessity for it had disap-
peared to a certain extent since the use of card records, and after careful considera-
tion it seemed best to institute the system of recording only completed volumes of
periodicals and transactions (which form the bulk of the Institution’s library) in the
accession book.

In accordance with the general plan for the increase of the library, 808 letters were
written for new exchanges and for completing series already in the library. Asa
result 213 new periodicals were added to the list, and 309 defective series were either
completed or added to, as far as the publishers could supply the missing parts.

The library of the National Museum has been increased during the year by
15,606 books, pamphlets, and parts of periodicals, 6,988 of which were from the
Smithsonian Institution, and the remainder directly to the Museum, secured either
by gift, purchase, or exchange. The Museum library now consists of a central refer-
ence library and of 27 sectional libraries, and the collection is constantly growing in
size and value. A more detailed account of its operations is presented in connection
with the report of the Museum.

Besides the periodical room and the reference room, the library of the Institution
now includes several small but carefully selected collections: The Secretary’s library,
the art collection, the sectional library of Aerodromics, and the law reference section.
The small collection of the Astrophysical Observatory and of the National Zoological
Park are also under the Librarian’s care. All the library interests of the Institution
and its bureaus, with the single exception of the Bureau of Ethnology, are centered
in one office.

110

— = 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1 i

The number of books and bound periodicals in the circulating library established
for the employees is 1,220; 1,824 volumes circulated among 115 readers, and the cur-
rent periodicals were largely used. The pleasure and instruction afforded the
employees of the Institution and Museum by this small collection amply justifies
the extremely moderate outlay.

The inaugural dissertations and academic publications of the following universities
have been accessioned: Basel, Berlin, Bern, Bonn, Breslau, Cornell, Erlangen, Freid-
burg, Geissen, Gratz, Griefswald, Halle a. 8. Heidelberg, Helsingfors, Jena, Johns
Hopkins, Jurjew, Kiel, Konigsberg, Leipzig, Louvain, Lund, Marburg, Rostock, St.
Petersburg, Strassburg, Toulouse, Tubingen, Utrecht, Wiirzburg, and Zurich.

Very respectiully,

; Cyrus ApuerR, Jabrarian.
Mr. 8. P. LANGLEY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
AppEeNDIx VII.
REPORT OF THE EDITOR.

Srr: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publications of the
Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1900:

I. SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.

No memoir of the series of contributions was published during the year.
Il. SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.

Of the series of miscellaneous collections there has been nearly completed during
the year a bibliography of Academic Chemical Dissertations to form a Second Supple-
ment to the Select Bibliography of Chemistry by H. C. Bolton, published several
years ago, and to which a First Supplement was published in January 1899.

The first volume of the Miscellaneous Collections, published in 1862, comprised 738
pages of directions for meteorological observations, and psychrometrical, meteoro-
logical;and physical tables. In the second volume were catalogues of birds, reptiles,
shells, and other natural history and anthropological subjects. The third and fourth
and sixth volumes were devoted almost entirely to catalogues and classifications of
insects. In the fifth volume was a bibliography of conchology and lists of Smith-
sonian publications and correspondents. The seventh volume was a monograph on
bats, with check lists of fossils, descriptions of land and fresh-water shells, ete. The
eighth volume included catalogues and descriptions of insects, shells, arrangement of
families of birds, circulars to collectors, etc. The ninth volume was composed of a
bibliography of conchology and a catalogue of society publications. In the tenth
volume were printed exhaustive works on mollusks, etc., and in the eleventh was
given a classification of families of mammals and fishes, classification of insects, ete.
A review of American birds in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution by. Pro-
fessor Baird, and Clarke’s Specific Gravity Tables comprised the twelfth volume.

Without reviewing each of the subsequent volumes, it may suffice to say that after
publication funds became available for the use of the National Museum, very many
papers of the Miscellaneous Collection class were printed in the Museum Proceed-
ings and Bulletins, and for a time these were reprinted in the miscellaneous series.

Ill. SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

The Annual Report for 1897 is in three volumes—one devoted to the Institution
proper, one to the National Museum, and a third volume comprising some of the
most important papers published by the late assistant secretary, G. Brown Goode.
The latter volume is not completed, but the first two volumes have been distributed.
Both the Smithsonian and Museum volumes of the 1898 Report were practically com-
pleted during the year, but it was not possible to make a general distribution of them.
Progress was made in the preparation of the Report for 1899, though no portion was
put in type except the Secretary’s Report to the Board of Regents.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing —
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending ~

112
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. PES

June 30, 1897. Report of the U. S. National Museum, Part I, Washington: Govern-
ment Printing Office, 1899. 8°. XXVII -+ 1021 pages, with 150 plates.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ending
June 30, 1898. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1899. 8°. LV -+713 pages,
with 13 plates and 3 maps.
~ Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the institution for the year ending
June 30, 1898. Report of the U.S. National Museum. Washington: Government
Printing Office. 1900. XVIII + 1294 pages, with 36 plates.

IV. SEPARATES FROM THE SMITHSONIAN REPORTS.

1172. The Latimer Collection of Antiquities from Porto Rico in the National
Museum and The Guesde Collection of Antiquities in Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe,
West Indies. By OtisT. Mason. (From the Smithsonian Reports of 1876 and 1884. )
Washington. 1899. 8°. pp. IV, 372-939, 731-837.

1178. Report of S. P. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, for the
year ending June 30, 1899. Washington: Government Printing Office. 1899. 8°.
III + 81 pages, with 5 plates and a colored map.

1181. Journal of Proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, Report of Executive Committee, Acts and Resolutions of Congress. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pp. XI-LV.) Octavo pamphlet.

1182. Recent Progress accomplished by Aid of Photography in the Study of the
Lunar Surface, by MM. Loewy and Puiseux. (From the Smithsonian Report for
1898, pages 105-121, with 3 plates.) Octavo pamphlet.

1183. The Function of Large Telescopes, by George E. Hale. (From the Smith-
sonian Report for 1898, pages 123-137.) Octavo pamphlet.

1184. The Le Sage Theory of Gravitation, by M. Le Sage, with introduction by
S. P. Langley. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 139-160.) Octavo
pamphlet.

1185. The Extreme Infra-Red Radiations, by C. E. Guillaume. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 161-165.) Octavo pamphlet.

1186. The Chemistry of the Stars, by Sir Norman Lockyer. (From the Smith-
sonian Report for 1898, pages 167-178.) Octavo pamphlet.

1187. The Perception of Light and Color, by Georges Lechalas. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 179-196.) Octavo pamphlet.

1188. Some Curiosities of Vision, by Shelford Bidwell. (From the Smithsonian
Report for 1898, pages 197-207.) Octavo pamphlet.

1189. Progress in Color Photography, by G. H. Niewenglowski. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 209-215.) Octavo pamphlet.

1190. The Development of Electrical Science, by Thomas Gray. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 217-234.) Octavo pamphlet.

1191. Telegraphy Across Space, by Silvanus P. Thompson. (From the Smith-
sonian Report for 1898, pages 235-247.) Octavo pamphlet.

1192. Signaling Through Space without Wires, by W. H. Preece. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 249-257.) Octavo pamphlet.

1193. Note on the Liquefaction of Hydrogen and Helium, by Professor James
Dewar. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 259-266.) Octavo pamphlet.

1194. The Recently Discovered Gases and their Relation to the Periodic Law, by
William Ramsay. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 267-276.) Octavo
pamphlet.

1195. The Kinetic Theory of Gases and Some of its Consequences, by William
Ramsay. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 277-287.) Octavo
pamphlet.

sm 1900——8
kes REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

1196. The Revival of Inorganic Chemistry, by H. N. Stokes. (From the Smith-
sonian Report for 1898, pages 289-306.) Octavo pamphlet.

1197. Scientific Ballooning, by Reverend John M. Bacon. (From the Smith-
sonian Report for 1898, pages 307-319.) Octavo pamphlet.

1198. The Tundras and Steppes of Prehistoric Europe, by Professor James Geikie.
(From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 321-347, with colored map.) Octavo
pamphlet.

1199. Modification of the Great Lakes by Earth Movement, by C. K. Gilbert.
(From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 349-361.) Octavo pamphlet.

1200. The Plan of the Earth and its Causes, by J. W. Gregory. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 363-388.) Octavo pamphlet.

1201. Funafuti: The Story of a Coral Atoll, by W. J. Sollas. (From the Smith-
sonian Report for 1898, pages 389-406.) Octavo pamphlet.

1202. Oceanography, by M. J. Thoulet. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898,
pages 407-425.) Octavo pampblet.

1203. The Relation of Plant Physiology to the Other Sciences, by Doctor Julius
Wiesner. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 427-444. (Octavo pam-
phlet.

1204. Pithecanthropus erectus: A form from the Ancestral Stock of Mankind, by
Eugene Dubois. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 445-459, with three
plates.) Octavo pamphlet.

1205. On our Present Knowledge of the Origin of Man, by Ernst Haeckel. (From
the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 461-480.) Octavo pamphlet.

1206. The Laws of Orientation among Animals, by Captain G. Reynaud. (From
the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 481-498.) Octavo pamphlet.

1207. The Fresh-Water Biological Stations of the World, by Henry B. Ward.
(From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 499-513.) Octavo pamphlet.

1208. The Theory of Energy and the Living World. The Physiology of Alimen-
tation. By A. Dastre. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 515-549.)
Octavo pamphlet.

1209. The Economic Status of Insects as a Class, by L. O. Howard. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 551-569.) Octavo pamphlet.

1210. Recent Advances in Science, and their Bearing on Medicine and Surgery,
by Professor R. Virchow. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 571-578. )
Octavo pamphlet.

1211. A Sketch of Babylonian Society, by F. E. Peiser. (From the Smithsonian
Report for 1898, pages 579-599.) Octavo pamphlet.

1212. The Excavations of Carthage, by Philippe’ Berger. (From the Smithsonian
Report for 1898, pages 601-614.) Octavo pamphlet. -

1213. The Transportation and Lifting of Heavy Bodies by the Ancients, by
J. Elfreth Watkins. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 615-619, with
4 plates.) Octavo pamphlet.

1214. The Past Progress and Present Position of the Anthropological Sciences, by
FE. W. Brabrook. (From the Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 621-636.) | Octavo
pamphlet.

1215. The Origin of African Civilizations, by L. Frobenius. (From the Smith-
sonian Report for 1898, pages 637-650, with a colored map.) Octavo pamphlet.

1216. Dogs and Savages, by Doctor B. Langkavel. (From the Smithsonian Report
for 1898, pages 651-675.) Octavo pamphlet.

1217. The Life and Works of Brown-Séquard, by M. Berthelot. (From the
Smithsonian Report for 1898, pages 677-969.) Octavo pamphlet.

Report upon the condition and progress of the U. 8. National Museum during the
year ending June 30, 1897, by Charles D. Walcott, acting assistant secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution in charge of the U.S. National Museum. (From the Annual
Report of the U. 8. National Museum for 1897, pages 1-245.) Octavo pamphlet,

—
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

Recent Foraminifera. A Descriptive Catalogue of Specimens dredged by the U.S.
Fish Commission Steamer Albatross. By James M. Flint, M.D., U. 8. N., honorary
curator, Division of Medicine, U. 8. National Museum. (From the Annual Report
of the U. 8. National Museum for 1897, pages 249-349, with 80 plates.) Octavo
pamphlet.

Pipes and Smoking Customs of the American Aborigines, based on material in the
U.S. National Museum, by Joseph D. McGuire. (From the Annual Report of the
U. 8. National Museum for 1897, pages 351-645, with 5 plates.) Octavo pamphlet.

Catalogue of the Series Illustrating the Properties of Minerals, by Wirt Tassin,
assistant curator, Division of Mineralogy. (From the Annual Report of the U.S.
National Museum for 1897, pages 647-688.) Octavo pamphlet.

Te Pito Te Henua, known as Rapa Nui; commonly called Easter Island, South
Pacific Ocean, by George H. Cooke, surgeon, U. 8. Navy. (From the Annual Report
of the U.S. National Museum for 1897, pages 689-723.) Octavo pamphlet.

The Man’s Knife among the North American Indians, a Study in the Collections
of the U.S. National Museum, by Otis Tufton Mason, curator, Division of Ethnology.
(From the Annual Report of the U. 8S. National Museum for 1897, pages 725-745.)
Octavo pamphlet.

Classification of the Mineral Collections in the U. 8S. National Museum, by Wirt
Tassin, assistant curator, Division of Mineralogy. (From the Annual Report of the
U.S. National Museum for 1897, pages 747-810.) Octavo pamphlet.

Arrowpoints, Spearheads, and Knives of Prehistoric Times, by Thomas Wilson,
curator, Division of Prehistoric Archeology. (From the Annual Report of the U.S.
National Museum for 1897, pages 811-988, with 65 plates.) Octavo pamphlet.

V. PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Proceedings of the United States National Museum, Volume XXI. Published
under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington: Government
Printing Office. 1899. 8°. XIII -+ 933 pages, with 89 plates.

The contents of this volume were enumerated in the editor’s report for last year.

During the present fiscal year the following articles from Volume XXII of Pro-
ceedings have been printed and distributed:

Proc. 1179. The Osteological Characters of the Fishes of the Suborder Percesoces,
by Edwin Chapin Starks. 8°. pp. 1-10, with plates I-III.

Proc. 1180. Notes on Birds from the Cameroons District, West Africa, by Harry
C. Oberholser. 8°. pp. 11-19.

Proc. 1181. Descriptions of two new Species of Tortoises from the Tertiary of the
United States, by O. P. Hay. 8°. pp. 21-24, with plates IV—VI.

Proc. 1182. A List of the Birds collected by Mr. R. P. Currie in Liberia. 8°. pp.
25-37, with plate VII.

Proce. 1183. A List of the Biting Lice (Mallophaga) taken from Birds and Mam-
mals of North America, by Vernon L. Kellogg. 8°. pp. 39-100.

Proc. 1184. New Species of Nocturnal Moths of the Genus Campometra, and
Notes, by John B. Smith. 8°. pp. 101-105.

Proc. 1185. Synopsis of the Solenidze of North America and the Antilles, by
William H. Dall. 8°. pp. 107-112.

Proc. 1186. The Osteology and Relationship of the Percoidean Fish, Dinolestes
lewini, by Edwin Chapin Starks. 8°. pp. 113-120, with plates VITI-XI.

Proc. 1187. Description of two New Species of Crayfish, by W. P. Hay. 8°. pp.
121-123.

Proc. 1188. Contributions to the Natural History of the Commander Islands.
No. XIII. A New Species of Stalked Medusae, Haliclystus stejnegeri, by K. Kishi-
nouye. 8°. pp. 125-129.

Proc. 1189. Description of a New Species of Idotea from Hakodate Bay, Japan,
by Harriet Richardson. 8°. pp. 131-134.
116 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Proc. 1190. List of Shells collected by Vernon Bailey in Heron and Eagle lakes,
Minnesota, with Notes, by Robert E. C. Stearns. 8°. pp. 135-138.

Proc. 1191. Description of a New Variety of Haliotis from California, with faunal
and geographical notes, by Robert E. C. Stearns. 8°. pp. 1389-142.

Proce. 1192. On the Lower Silurian (Trenton) Fauna of Baffin Land, by Charles
Schuchert. 8°. pp. 1438-177, with plates XTI-XIV.

Proc. 1193. Some Neocene Corals of the United States, by Henry Stewart Gane.
8°. pp. 179-198, with plate XV.

Proc. 1194. A New Fossil Species of Caryophyllia from California, and a New
Genus and Species of Turbinolid Coral from Japan, by T. Wayland Vaughan. 8°.
pp- 199-203, with plate XVI.

Proc. 1195. Notes on Birds Collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in Central Asia, by
Harry C. Oberholser. 8°. pp. 205-228.

Proc. 1196. Notes on Some Birds from Santa Barbara Islands, California, by
Harry C. Oberholser. 8°. pp. 229-234.

Proc. 1197. Catalogue of a Collection of Birds from Madagascar, by Harry C.
Oberholser. 8°. pp. 235-248.

Proc. 1198. Report on a Collection of Dipterous Insects from Puerto Rico, by
D. W. Coquillett. 8°. pp. 249-270.

Proc. 1199. The Decapod Crustaceans of West Africa, by Mary J. Rathbun. 8°.
pp- 271-316.

Proc. 1200. Description of a New Bird of the Genus Dendrornis, by Charles W.
Richmond. 8°. pp. 317,318.

Proc. 1201. Descriptions of New Birds from Lower Siam, by Charles W. Rich-
mond. 8°. pp. 319-321.

Proc. 1202. On the Genera of the Chalcid-flies belonging to the Subfamily Encyr-
tinae, by William H. Ashmead. 3°. pp. 323-412.

Part 4 of Bulletin 47, entitled ‘‘The Fishes of North and Middle America,’’ by
Doctors Jordan and Evermann, was issued before the close of the fiscal year. This
volume, which contains 392 plates, with explanations and a general table of contents,
completes one of the most important works thus far published in the Bulletin series.

Bulletin of the United States National Museum, No. 47. The Fishes of North and
Middle America. By David Starr Jordan and Barton Warren Evermann. Part IV.
Washington: Government Printing Office. 1900. 8°. pp. CI, 3187-3313, Plates I-
CCCXCII.

The Methods Employed at the Naples Zoological Station for the Preservation of
Marine Animals, by Salvatore Lo Bianco. Translated from the original Italian by
Edmund Otis Hovey. Bull. U. 8. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Part M, Oct. 2, 1899, pp.
[1]-[42].

Directions for Preparing Study Specimens of Small Mammals, by Gerrit 8. Miller, jr.
Bull. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Part N, Aug. 26, 1899, pp. [1]—[10], with 1 fig.

Directions for Collecting and Rearing Dragon Flies, Stone Flies, and May Flies, by
James G. Needham. Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 39, Part O, Nov. 29, 1899, pp.
{1]-[9], with figs. 1-4.

VI. ANNALS OF ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution. Volume I.
By S. P. Langley, Director, aided by C. G. Abbot. Washington: Government Print-
ing Office. 1900. Quarto, pp. vii, 266, with 36 plates.

VII. PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Part 2 of the Seventeenth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology
was published during the year, but the completion of Part I has been delayed. The
printing of the Eighteenth Report was nearly completed, and the Nineteenth Report
was transmitted to the Public Printer. Some progress was also made in the printing
of the first bulletin of the new series authorized by Congress.

+ ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 1 ei

Seventeenth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, 1895-96, by J. W. Powell, Director. Part2. (Navaho
Houses, by Cosmos Mindeleff.) Washington: Government Printing Office. 1898.
Royal octavo, pp. 469-752, with plates Ixxxii-xe, and figures 230-244.

VII. AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

The Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1898 was
completed during the year, and the report for 1899 was transmitted to the Public
Printer. In the editor’s report for last year the contents of the 1898 volume were
enumerated. The 1899 report will be in two volumes, the second volume compris-
ing the correspondence of John C. Calhoun. In the first volume are the following
papers:

Report of Proceedings of Fifteenth Annual Meeting in Boston and Cambridge,
December 27-29, 1899, by A. Howard Clark.

Inaugural Address on History, by James Ford Rhodes, President.

Removal of Officials by the Presidents of the United States, by Carl Russell Fish.

Legal Qualifications for Office in America, 1619-1899, by Frank Hayden Miller.

The Proposed Absorption of Mexico in 1847-48, by Edward G. Bourne.

The Problem of Chinese Immigration in Farther Asia, by Frederick Wells Wil-
liams.

The Droit de Banalité during the French Régime in Canada, by W. Bennett
Munro.

The Restoration of the Proprietary in Maryland and the Legislation against the
Roman Catholics during the Governorship of Capt. John Hart (1714-1720), by Bar-
nard C. Steiner.

The First Criminal Code of Virginia, by Walter F. Prince.

A Critical Examination of Gordon’s History of the American Revolution, by Orin
Grant Libby.

A Recent Service of Church History to the Church, by William Given Andrews.

The Origin of the Local Interdict, by Arthur Charles Howland.

The Poor Priests: A Study in the Rise of English Lollardry, by Henry Lewin
Cannon.

The Roman City of Langres (France) in the Early Middle Ages, by Earle Wilbur
Dow.

Robert Fruin, 1823-1899: A Memorial Sketch, by Ruth Putnam.

Sacred and Profane History, by James Harvey Robinson.

Should Recent European History have a Place in the College Curriculum? by
Charles M. Andrews.

The Colonial Problem, by Henry FE. Bourne.

A Bibliography of the Study and Teaching of History, by James Ingersoll Wyer.

Titles of Books on English History published in 1897 and 1898, selected and
annotated by W. Dawson Johnston.

A Bibliography of Mississippi, by Thomas MeAdory Owen.

Bibliography of Publications of the American Historical Association, 1885 to 1900.

IX. REPORT OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The Second Report of the National Society of the Daughters of the American
Revolution was transmitted to Congress in accordance with the act of incorporation
of that body, but as only the regular document edition was printed by Congress no
copies were received by the Institution.

Respectfully submitted.

A. Howarp CuarK, Edito:.
Mr. S. P: Lanerey,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution. —
GENERAL APPENDIX

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1900.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the GENERAL AppENDIx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
coveries in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution, and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of its
history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers as
would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the Secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for thirty years previous had been
issued. by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report, for 1900.

121
- - 7 i =
1 7 7 - 7
- ‘ > -
¢ _ ~_
=

PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY DURING THE NINETEENTH
CENTURY.’

By Sir Norman Lockyer.

In looking back over a century’s work in the oldest of the sciences
one is struck not only by the enormous advance that has been made in
those branches of the science dealing with the motions of the heavenly
bodies which were cultivated at least eight thousand years ago by early
dwellers in the valleys of the Nile, Tigris, and Euphrates, but with
the fact that during the century that is passing away a perfectly new
science of astronomy has arisen. By annexing physics and chemistry
astronomers now study the motions of the particles of which all celes-
tial bodies are composed; a new molecular astronomy has now been
firmly established side by side with the old molar astronomy which
formerly alone occupied the thoughts of star gazers.

Along this new line our knowledge has advanced by leaps and
bounds, and the results already obtained in expanding and perfecting
man’s views of nature in all her beauty and immensity are second to
none which have been garnered during the last hundred years.

THE POSITION AT THE BEGINNING OF THE CENTURY.

It may be well before attempting to obtain a glimpse of recent
progress that we should try to grasp the state of the science at the
time when the nineteenth century was about to dawn, and this, per-
haps, can be best accomplished by seeing what men were working at
this period at which the greatest activity was to be found in Germany;
there was no permanent observatory in the southern hemisphere or in
the United States.

First and foremost among the workers—he has, in fact, been

“described as ‘‘the greatest of modern astronomers”—was William
Herschel, a German domiciled in England. In the year 1773 he hired
a telescope and with this small instrument he obtained his first glimpses
of the rich fields of exploration open in the skies. From that time
onward he had one fixed purpose in his mind, which was to obtain as
intimate knowledge as possible of the construction of the heavens.

* Copyright, 1901, by The Sun Printing and Publishing Association. Reprinted, by
special permission, from The Sun, New York, January 13, 1901.

. 123
124 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

To do this, of course, great optical power was necessary, and such
was his energ, that, as large instruments were not to be obtained at
any price, he set to work and made them himself.

Herschel presented the beginning of the nineteenth century not only
with a definite idea of the constitution of the stellar system, based on
a connected body of facts and deductions from facts, as gleaned through
his telescopes, but observations without number in many fields. He
discovered a new planet, Uranus, and several satellites of the planets;
published catalogues of nebulz; established the gravitational bond
between many ‘‘ double stars;” and carried on observations of the sun,
then supposed to be a habitable globe. What Herschel did for obser-
vational astronomy and deductions therefrom Laplace did for the fur-
therance of our knowledge concerning the exact motions of the bodies
comprising the solar system. Newton had long before announced that
gravitation was universal, and Laplace brought together investigations
undertaken to determine the validity of this law. These were given
to the world in his wonderful book on ‘* Celestial Mechanics,” the first
volumes of which appeared in 1799.

A survey of the work of these two great astronomers gives one an
idea of what was going on in observational and mathematical astron-
omy at the beginning of the century.

The study was now destined to make rapid strides, as not only were
new optical instruments, some designed for special purposes, intro-
duced, new mathematical processes applied, fresh fields for research
opened up, but the number of workers was considerably augmented by
the increased means available; so much so, indeed, that the first astro-
nomical periodical was founded by Von Zach in 1800 to facilitate inter-
communications between the observers.

The first evening of the nineteenth century (January 1, 1801) augured
well for progress. It had long been thought that all the members of
the solar system had not as yet been discovered, and there was a very
notable gap between the planets Mars and Jupiter, indicated by Bode’s
law. Observers were organized to make a thorough search for the
missing planet, portions of the sky being divided between them for
minute examination. It fell to the Italian observer, Piazzi, to discover
a small body which was moving in an orbit between these two planets,
on the date named. The century thus began with a sensation, and,
because the new body, which was named ‘‘ Ceres,” was not of sufficient

size to be accepted as the ‘‘missing planet,” the idea was suggested

that perhaps it was a fragment of a larger planet that had been blown
to pieces in the past.

An opportunity here arose for mathematical astronomy to come to
the help of the observer, for Ceres soon was lost in the solar rays, and

in order to rediscover it after it had passed conjunction an approxi- |

mate knowledge of its path and future position was necessary.

"ee oan
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 125

With the then existing methods of computation of orbits it was
imperative to have numerous measured positions to use as data for the
calculation. The scanty data available in the case of Ceres were not
sufficient for the application of the method. The occasion discovered
aman, one of the greatest mathematicians of the nineteenth century,
Karl Frederick Gauss, who, although only 25 years of age, undertook
the solution of the problem by employing a system which he had
devised, known as ‘‘ the method of least squares,” which enabled him
to obtain a most probable result from a given set of observations.

This, with a more general method of orbit computation, also elabo-
rated by himself, was sufficient to enable him to calculate future posi-
tions of Ceres, and on the anniversary of the original discovery, Olbers,
another great pioneer in orbit calculations, found the planet in very
nearly the position assigned by Gauss. So great was the curiosity
regarding the other portions of the planet, which was supposed to have
been shattered, that numerous observers at once commenced to search
after other fragments.

These were the actualities of 1801 and thereabouts, but the seed of
much future work was sown. Kant and Laplace had already occupied
themselves with theories as to the world formation, and spectrum anal-
ysis as applied to the heavenly bodies may be said to have been started
by Wollaston’s observations of dark lines in the solar spectrum in 1802.
Fraunhofer was then a boy at school. in the same year the first pho-
tographic prints were produced by Wedgewood and Davy.

OBSERVATORIES.

It has been stated that at the beginning of the century there were
no permanent observatories, either in the southern hemisphere or in
the United States. The end of the century finds us with two hundred
observatories all told, of which fourteen are south of the equator and
forty-seven in the United States, among which latter are the best
equipped and most active in the world.

The observatory of Parramatta was the first established (in 1821) in
the southern hemisphere. This was followed by that of the Cape of
Good Hope in 1829. Of the more modern southern observatories from
which the best work has come we may mention Cordova, the seat of
Gould’s important investigations, established in 1868, and Arequipa, a
dependency of Harvard, whence the spectra of the southern stars have
been secured, erected still more recently (1881).

I believe, but I do not know, that the large number of American
observatories have radiated from Cincinnati, where; in consequence of
eloquent appeals, both by voice and pen, from Mitchell, then professor
of astronomy, an observatory was commenced in 1845. There can be
no doubt that at the present moment, with the numerous well-equipped
126 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

and active observatories, and the careful and thorough teaching estab-
lished side by side with them, which enables numberless students to
use the various instruments, the United States in matters astronomical
fills the position occupied by Germany at the beginning of the century.

In Europe special observatories have been established at Meudon,
Kensington, and Potsdam, so that. new astrophysical inquiries may be
undertaken without interfering with the prosecution or extension of
the important meridional work carried on at Paris, Greenwich, and
Berlin. A large proportion of the observations made by the Lick and
Yerkes observatories in the United States has been astrophysical.

One of the special inquiries committed to the charge of the Solar
Physics Observatory at Kensington at its establishment by the British
Government had relation to the possibility of running home meteoro-
logical changes on the earth, especially those followed by drought and |
famines in various parts of the Empire, to the varying changes in the
sun indicated by the ebb and flow of spots on its surface. With this
end in view observations of the sun were commenced in India and the
Mauritius to supplement those taken at Greenwich. At the same time
other daily observations of sun spots by a different method were com-
menced at Kensington.

This kind of work was at first considered ideally useless; we shall
see later on what has become of it.

IMPROVEMENTS IN TELESCOPES.

The progress in astronomical science throughout the closing century
has naturally to a great extent depended upon the advances made both
in the optics of the telescope and the way in which they are mounted,
either with circles to record exact times and positions, or made to move
so as to keep a star or other celestial objects in the field of view while
under observation. The perfection of definition and the magnitude of
the lenses employed in the modern instrument have been responsible
for many important discoveries.

Ever since the telescope was invented—Galileo’s lens was smaller
than those used in spectacles—men’s minds have been concentrated on
producing instruments of larger and larger size to fathom the cosmos
to its innermost depths.

At the beginning of this century we were, as we have seen already,
in possession of reflectors of large dimensions; Herschel’s 4-foot
mirror, the instrument he was using in 1801, which had a focal length
of 40 feet, was capable of being employed with high magnifying
powers; and it was the judicious use of these, on occasions when the
finest of weather prevailed, that enabled him to enrich so extensively
our knowledge of the stellar and planetary systems. For the ordinary
work of astronomy, however, especially when circles are used, refrac-
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. AY

tors are the more suitable instruments. This form suffers less from
the vicissitudes of weather and temperature, and is therefore more
suited where exact measurements are required.

Toward the end of the eighteenth century a Swiss artisan, Pierre
Guinard, after many years of patient labor, succeeded in producing
pure disks of flint glass as large as 6 inches in diameter. The modern
refracting telescope thus became possible.

In 1804 there was started at Munich the famous optical and mechan-
ical institute which soon made its presence felt in the astronomical
world. Reforms in instrument making were soon taken in hand, and
under the leadership of the great German astronomer, Bessel, great
strides were made in instruments of precision. Fraunhofer, who had
been silently working away at the theory of lenses and making various
experiments in the manufacture of glass, was joined in 1805 by Guinard.
In 1809 Troughton invented a new method of graduating circles,
according to Airy the greatest improvement ever achieved in the art
of instrument making.

In 1824 Fraunhofer successfully completed and perfected an object
glass of 9.9 inches in diameter for the Dorpat Observatory. This
objective might literally have been called a ‘‘giant,” for nothing
approaching it in size had been previously made.

England, which was at one time the exclusive seat of the manufacture
of refracting telescopes, was now completely outstripped by both
Germany and France, and for this we had to thank ‘‘the short-sighted
policy of the Government, which had placed an exorbitant duty on the
manufacture of flint glass.” In 1833 the Dorpat refractor was eclipsed
by one of 15 inches’ aperture, made for the Pulkowa Observatory by
Merz & Mahler, Fraunhofer’s successors, who, about ten years later,
supplied a similar instrument to Harvard College. At this time Lord
Rosse emulated with success the efforts of Herschel, and rehabilitated
the reflector by producing a metallic mirror of 6-foot aperture and
54-foot focal length, which he mounted at Parsonstown. The speculum
weighed no less than + tons. To mount this immense mass efficiently
and safely was a work of no light nature, but he successfully accom-
plished it, and eventually both mirror and the telescope, which weighed
now altogether 14 tons, were so well counterpoised that they could be
easily moved in a limited direction by means of a windlass, worked by
twomen. The perfection of the ‘‘ seeing” qualities of this instrument
and its enormous light-grasping powers were particularly striking, and
observational astronomy was considerably enriched by the discoveries
made with it.

Speculum metal was not destined to stay. Ten years later (1857) the
genius of Léon Foucault introduced glass mirrors with a thin coating
of silver deposited chemically, and these have now universally super-
seded the metallic ones,
128 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

The long supremacy of Germany in the matter of refractors was
broken down ultimately by the famous English optician and engineer,
Thomas Cooke, of York. His first considerable instrument, one of 7
inches aperture, was finished in 1851, and in 1865, a year before his
lamented death, he completed the first of our present giant refractors,
one of 25 inches aperture, for Mr. Newell, of Gateshead. In conse-
quence of the success of Cooke’s achievement other large refractors
were soon undertaken.

Alvan Clark, the famous optician of Cambridgeport, Mass., at once
commenced a 26-inch for the Washington Observatory. The next was
one of 27 inches, made by Grubb for the Vienna Observatory. Object
glasses now grew inch by inch in size, depending on the increased
dimensions of disks that could be satisfactorily cast. Gautier of Paris
completed a 29-inch for the Nice Observatory, while Alvan Clark
made an objective of 30 inches for Pulkowa. In 1877 the latter sue-
cessfully completed the mounting of an objective of 36 inches for the
Lick Observatory, but this immense lens was only achieved aftera
great number of failures. Even this large object glass was surpassed
in size by the completion in 1892 of the 40-inch, which he made for the
Yerkes Observatory, and by that made by Gautier for the Paris
Exhibition of 1900.

So much, then, for the largest refractors. In recent years, since the
introduction of the silver on glass mirrors, with their stability of
figure and brilliant surface, which can be easily renewed, reflectors of
large apertures are again being produced. The first of these was one
of 36 inches aperture made by Calver for Dr. Common, who demon-
strated its fine qualities and his own skill by the beautiful photographs
of the nebula of Orion he was enabled to secure with it. Dr. Com-
mon himself has since turned his attention to the making and silvering
of large mirrors of this kind, and the largest he has actually completed
and mounted equatorially is one with a diameter of 5 feet. Another
of 36 inches aperture is in use at the Solar Physics Observatory, at
Kensington. 7

The progress of depositing silver on glass has led of late years to_
important developments in which plane mirrors are used. Foucault
was the first to utilize such mirrors in his siderostat, in which such
a mirror is made to move in front of a horizontal fixed telescope, which
may be of any focal length, and no expensive dome or rising floor is
required. The plane mirror of the siderostat in the Paris Exhibition |
telescope is 6 feet in diameter.

A variation of this instrument is the ccelostat, more recently advo-—
cated by Lippmann. The Coudé equatorial mounting also depends
upon the use of plane mirrors; with such a telescope the observer is
at rest at a fixed eyepiece or camera in a room which may be kept at
any temperature.

‘4
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 129

Now that in astronomical work eye observations are indispensably
supplemented by the employment of photography, an important modi-
fication of the refracting telescope has become necessary. This was
first suggested by Rutherfurd.

The ordinary achromatic object glass consists, as a rule, of two
lenses, one made of flint and the other of crown glass; but in this form
the photographic rays are not brought to the same focus as the visual
rays. This, however, can be achieved by employing three lenses
instead of two, each of different kinds of glass. The most modern
improvement in the telescope is due to Mr. Dennis Taylor, of Cooke &
Sons, and to Dr. Schott and Professor Abbe, whose researches in the
manufacture of old and new varieties of optical glass have rendered
Mr. Taylor’s results feasible. By the Taylor lens outstanding color
is abolished, all the rays being brought absolutely to the same focus.
Such lenses can therefore be used either for visual observations or for
photography for spectroscopy.

SPECTROSCOPIC ASTRONOMY.

The branch of physics which at the present day aas assumed such
mighty and far-reaching proportions in astronomical work is that deal-
ing with spectrum analysis, which, although suggested as early as the
time of Kepler, did not receive any impetus as regards its application
to celestial bodies until the beginning of the present century at the
hands of Wollaston and Fraunhofer. Then, however, it still lacked
the chemical touch supplied afterward by Kirchhoff and Bunsen.
They showed us that the spectrum observed when the light from any
heated body is passed through a prism is an index to the chemical com-
position of the light source. The constitution of a vapor when ina
condition to absorb light can be determined by an extension of the
same principle first demonstrated by Stokes, Angstrém, and Balfour
Stewart when the century was about half completed.

The first celestial body toward which the spectroscope was turned
was our central luminary, the sun.

Wollaston first discovered that its spectrum was crossed by a few
dark lines. We learned next from Fraunhofer, who in 1814 worked
with instruments of greater power, that the solar spectrum was crossed
not only by a few dark lines, but by some hundreds. Not content
with examining the light of the sun, Fraunhofer turned his instru-
ment toward the stars, the light of which he also examined, so that he
may be justly called the inventor of stellar spectrum analysis. It is
not to the credit of modern science that from this time forward spec-
trum analysis did not become a recognized branch of scientific inquiry,
but as a matter of fact Fraunhofer’s observations were buried in obliy-
ion for nearly half a century. The importance of them was not rec-
ognized till the origin of the dark lines, both in sun and stars, had been

sm 1900——_9
130 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

explained by Stokes and others, as before stated. The lines in the
solar spectrum were mapped with great diligence by Kirchhoff in 1861
and 1862, and later by Angstrém and Thalen, and this was done side
by side with chemical work in the laboratory. The chemistry of the
sun was thus to a great extent revealed. It was no longer a habitable
globe, but one with its visible boundary at a fierce heat, surrounded
by an atmosphere of metallic vapors, chief among them iron, also in a
state of incandescence. To these metallic vapors Angstrém added
hydrogen shortly afterwards.

Here, then, was established a firm link between the heavens and the
earth; the first step to the problem of the chemistry of space had been

‘taken.

It was only natural that as advances were made the instrumental
equipment should keep pace with them. Spectroscopes were built on
a larger scale; more prisms, which meant greater disperson, were
employed to render the measurements of the lines in spectra more
accurate. The growth of our knowledge especially necessitated the
making of maps of the lines in the solar spectrum, and in the spectra
of the chemical elements which had been compared with it on a
natural scale. This was done by Angstrém, who utilized for this
purpose the diffraction grating invented by Fraunhofer, and defined
the position of all lines in spectra by their ‘* wave lengths,” in ten-
millionths of a millimeter or ‘* tenth-meters.”

In 1862 Rutherfurd extended Fraunhofer’s work on the stars by a
first attempt at classification. Two years later Huggins and Miller
produced maps of the spectra of some stars. Donati demonstrated
that comets gave radiation spectra and Huggins did the same for
nebule.

By these observations comets and nebulz were shown to be spectro-
scopically different from stars, which at that time were studied by their
dark lines only. .

Chiefly by the labors of Pickering, the energetic head of the Harvard
Observatory, science has been enriched during the later years by
observations of thousands of stellar spectra, the study of which has
brought about the most marvelous advance in our knowledge.

These priceless data have enabled us now to classify the stars not
only by their brightness, or their color, but by their chemistry.

Next to be chronicled is the application of the so-called Doppler-
Fizeau principle, which teaches us that when a light source is approach-
ing or receding from us the light waves are crushed together or drawn
out, so that the wave length is changed. The amount of change
gives us the velocity of approach or recess, so that the rate of move-
ment of stars toward or from the earth, or the uprush or downrush of
the solar vapors on the sun’s disk, can be accurately determined. A
further utilization of this principle is found when the stars are so close
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. ilail

together that they appear as one if the plane of motion passes near
the earth. A line common to the spectra of both stars will appear
double, twice in each revolution, when the motion to or from the earth,
or, as it is termed, ‘‘ in the line of sight,” is greatest. ** Spectroscopic
doubles,” as these stars are called, yield up many of their secrets
which otherwise would elude us. Their time of revolution, the size
of the orbit, and the combined mass can be determined.

To return from the stars to the sun.

By the device of throwing an image of the sun on the slit of tne
spectroscope the spectra of solar spots have been studied fro.n 1866
onward, and a little later the brighter portions of the sun’s outer
envelopes, revealed till then only during eclipses, were brought within
our ken spectroscopically so that they are now studied every day.

CELESTIAL PHOTOGRAPHY.

Wedgewood and Davy, in 1802, made prints on paper by means of
silver salts, but it was not until 1830 that Niepce and Daguerre founded
photography, which Arago, in an address to the French Chamber, at
once suggested might subsequently be used to record the positions of
stars.

In 1839 we find Sir John Herschel carrying out a series of experi-
ments so important for our correct knowledge of the sequence of steps
in the early stages of photography that I have no hesitation in quoting
from one of Herschel’s manuscripts relating to a deposit on a glass
plate of *‘ muriate ” [chloride] of silver from a mixed solution of the
nitrate with common salt. The manuscript states: ‘*After forty-eight
hours [the choride] had formed a film firm enough to bear draining
the water off very slowly by asyphon. Having dried it, I found that
it was very little affected by light, and by washing it with nitrate of
silver, weak, and drying it, it became highly sensitive. In this state
I took a camera picture of the telescope on it.”

The original of the above-mentioned photograph, the first photo-
graph ever taken on glass, is now in the science collection at the Vic-
toria and Albert Museum, South Kensington.

In the early days of photography colored glasses were first used to
investigate the action of different colors on the photographic plate.
Sir John Herschel was among the first to propose that such investi-
gations should be made direct with a spectrum, and he, like Dr. J. W.
Draper, stated that he had found a new kind of light beyond the blue
end of the spectrum, as the photographic plate showed a portion of the
spectrum there which was not visible to the eye. Advance followed
advance and in 1842 Beequerel photographed the whole solar spec-
trum, in colors, with nearly all the lines registered by the hand and
eye of Fraunhofer, not only the blue end, but the complete spectrum
iNet) PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

from Draper’s *‘latent light,” as he called the ultra violet rays, to the
extreme red end.

The first photograph of a celestial object was one of the moon
secured by Dr. J. W. Draper in 1840; we had to wait until 1845, so
far as I know, before a daguerreotype was taken of the sun; this was
done by Foucault and Fizeau, while the first photograph of a star—
Vega—was taken at Harvard in 1850. After the introduction of the
wet collodion process regular photographs of the sun’s surface were
commenced, at Sir John Herschel’s recommendation, at Kew, in 1858,
and the total solar eclipse of 1860 was made memorable by the photo-
graphs of De La Rue, who before that time had secured most admi-
rable photographs of the moon, as also had Rutherfurd.

Photography now began to pay the debt she owed to spectrum
analysis.

The first laboratory photograph of the spectra of the chemical ele-
ments was taken by Dr. W. A. Miller in 1862.

Rutherfurd was the first to secure a photograph of the solar spec-
trum with considerable dispersion by means of prisms.

In 1863 Mascart undertook a complete photographic investigation
of the ultra violet portion of the solar spectrum, a work of no mean
magnitude. He, however, did not employ a train of prisms for pro-
ducing the spectrum, but a defraction grating, using the light reflected
from the first surface. The first photograph of the spectrum of a star
was secured by Henry Draper, the son of Dr. J. W. Draper, one of
the pioneers in photography, in 1872.

It was not till the introduction of dry plates in 1876 that the pho-
tography of the fainter celestial objects or of their spectra was possi-
ble, as a long exposure was naturally required. Stellar spectra were
photographed by Huggins in 1879 and in the next year Draper photo-
graphed the nebula of Orion. As the dry plates became more rapid
and as longer exposures were employed, revelation followed revela-
tion; the nebule as seen by the naked eye, and even some stars, were
found by the Henrys, Roberts, Max Wolf, Barnard, and others to be
but the brighter kernels of large nebulous patches.

This new application of photography, depending upon long expo-
sures (the longest one I know of has extended to forty hours), had an
important reflex action on the mechanical parts of the telescope; it
was not only necessary to keep the faintest star exactly on the same
part of the plate during the whole of the exposure, but night after
night the stellar image must be brought onto the same part of the
plate so that the exposure might be continued.

A system of electric control of the going of the driving clock of the
telescope by means of a sidereal clock was introduced, the simplest
one being designed by Russell of Sydney, a most elaborate one by
Grubb of Dublin.
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 1338

Another application of the method of long exposures has been the
discovery of minor planets by the trails impressed by their motion
among the stars on the photographic plates on which the images of
both are impressed.

A complete spectroscopic survey of the stars by means of photogra-
phy was commenced in 1886 at Harvard College, as a memorial to
Draper, who died while he was laboring diligently and successfully in
securing advances in astrophysical inquiries. To carry on this work
at Harvard, Professor Pickering wisely reverted to the method first
employed by Fraunhofer and utilized by Respighi and another in 1871,
of placing prisms in front of the object glass.

In the photographing of stellar spectra by means of objective prisms
the driving clock of the telescope must not go exactly at sidereal rate,
but at certain speeds, depending on the brightness and position of the
star under examination.

This is necessary because the image of the spectrum of a star on
the photograph is only a thin line in which it is impossible to see the
spectral lines. The spectrum must be broadened, and this is accom-
plished by making the star image ‘‘trail” to a certain degree on the
plate. This trailing is accomplished by means of the clock, the rate
of which is made to vary. In this way the trail of a spectrum of a
star on the photographic plate is always obtained of the same width,
while the density of the image is made fairly constant by increasing
the rate for bright stars and decreasing it for fainter ones. In this
way spectra of the brighter stars, rivaling in perfection and detail
those obtained of the spectrum of the sun itself thirty years ago, have
been obtained. Such photographs have rendered a minute chemical
classification of the stars possible.

One of the most interesting applications of photography to spec-
trum analysis during the latter part of the century has been the utili-
zation by Messrs. Deslandres and Hale of a suggestion made by
Janssen, that by employing photography images of the sun and its
surroundings can be obtained in light on one wave length. In this
way we can study the distribution of any one of the chemical con-
stituents of the sun separately and note its behavior, not only on the
sun itself, but in the atmosphere which enfolds the disk.

It is strange that, in spite of the suggestion of Faye and others after
him, one of the great advantages of the employment of photography
in astronomical work, namely, the abolition of ‘‘ personal equation,”
has so far been almost entirely neglected. What ‘* personal equation”
is can be perhaps illustrated by considering an observer who is observ-
ing the transit of a star over the wires in a transit instrument.

His object 1s to note the exact time, to a fraction of a second, when
a star passes each wire, and this is done by listening to the beats of a
134 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

clock near at hand and estimating the fractions. Some observers con-
stantly note the time either a little in advance or a little later than the
actual time, and this small distance between the observer and the true
times is more or less constant for each observer. This difference has
to be taken into account for every observation. Even the use of the
chronograph in transit work, by which the observation is electrically
recorded, does not entirely eliminate the error. The photographic
method of transit work has been experimented on, but so far as I know
it has not yet been used at more than one or two observatories. It
will doubtless eventually rid us of ** personal equation” entirely, for
the star image may be photographed and the time recorded by the same
current of electricity.

At the end of the century ‘we may almost say that, except in relation
to the work of the meridional observatories, photographic methods of
recording observations are becoming exclusively used. One of the
cases in which its utility is most in evidence is in the matter of eclipse
observations. Spectra of the sun’s surroundings containing a thousand
lines are taken in a second of time, thus replacing five or six doubtful
eye observations by wealth of results, which have enabled the recent
vast progress to be secured.

CATALOGUES.

Catalogues of the stars were among the first scientific records started
by man, and so long as only the naked eye was used the work was not
difficult, as only approximate positions were attempted, even by Hip-
parchus; but long before the eighteenth century dawned the problem
was entirely changed by the invention of the telescope and by the pro-
vision of accurately divided circles; not only could better positions be
recorded, but the number of stars to be catalogued was enormously
increased, and furthermore other objects—nebule—presented them-
selves in considerable numbers.

In 1801 the star catalogues chiefly relied on were those of Lacaille,
containing about 3,000 stars scattered over the whole heavens.

Maskelyne, who was then astronomer royal, had published in 1790
a catalogue of thirty-six fundamental stars, chiefly for the purposes
of navigation. The first great catalogue of the century was the Fun-
damenta Astronomie of Bessel, produced in 1818. This contained
3,222 stars. The Bonn ‘‘ Durchmiisterung,” with its catalogue of
324,198 stars in the northern hemisphere and the corresponding atlas
published in 1857-1863, was the next memorable achievement in this
direction. For it we have to thank Bessel and Argelander and a per-
fect system of work.

Another monumental catalogue dealing with the stars in the south-
ern heavens has been that of the southern stars observed by Gould
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 135

(1866). While the century is closing another catalogue far more stu-
pendous than anything which could be conceived possible a few years
ago is steadily being compiled. This we owe to the farsightedness
and energy of Admiral Mouchez, a late director of the Paris Obsery-
atory. The work was commenced in 1892.

The whole heavens, north and south alike, have been divided into
zones, and the chief observatories on the earth’s surface are busy
night after night in taking photographs of that part intrusted to
them. The whole heavens are thus being made to write their autobi-
ography, and the total gain to the astronomy of the future of this
most priceless record can perhaps be scarcely grasped as yet, although
the advantage of being able at any point of future time to see on a
photographic plate what the heavens are telling now is sufliciently
obvious.

Catalogues of the stars have, of course, led to other minor cata-
logues of various classes of stars, binary, variable, and the like. In
the later years catalogues of stars, according to their spectra, have
enriched science.

The first extensive catalogue of stella spectra was published by
Vogel. It dealt with 4,051 stars, and appeared in 1883. It has since
been followed by the Draper catalogue, based upon photographs of
the spectra, which contains a much larger number. With regard to
nebulz Herschel published his third catalogue in 1802. The last cata-
logue of this nature is by Dreyer (1888), and contains 7,840 of these
objects. In the time of Tycho they could be counted on the fingers of
one hand.

INVESTIGATIONS OF SOME IMPORTANT ASTRONOMICAL CONSTANTS.

The century has been fruitful in the determination of many numer-
ical values which are all important in enabling us to determine the dis-
tance and masses of the heavenly bodies, thereby giving us a firm
grasp not only of the dimensions of our own system, but of those
scattered in the celestial spaces.

To take the distances first. We must begin with the exact measure
of the earth; for this we must measure the exact length of an are of
meridian or of parallel; that is, a stretch of the earth’s surface lying
north or south or east and west, between places of which the latitudes
are accurately known in the former case and the longitude in the latter.
In either case we can determine the number of miles which go toa
degree. Beginning at the opening of the century with an are of
meridian of 2 degrees measured by Gauss from Gottingen to Altona,
the arcs of meridian have grown longer as the century has grown older,
till, at the close, the measurement of an are of meridian from the Cape
to Cairo, embracing something like 68 degrees of latitude, is being
mooted.
136 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

The measurements of ares of parallel have been developed by the
rapid extension of telegraphic communications which now permit the
longitude of the terminal stations to be determined with the greatest
accuracy.

Thanks to this work we now have the size of our planet to a few
miles. The polar diameter is 41,709,790 feet; but the equator is not a
circle, the equatorial diameter from longitude 8° 15’ west to longitude
188° 15’ west is 41,853,258 feet; that at right angles to it is 41,850,210
feet; that is, some thousand yards shorter. The earth, then, is shaped
like an orange slightly squeezed.

Knowing the earth’s diameter, we can obtain the sun’s distance by
several methods—the old one by observing transits of Venus, one of
which Cooke went out to observe in 1769, and two of which recurred
in 1874 and 1882; new ones by observations of Mars or one of the
minor planets at a favorable opposition, and by determining the velocity
of light.

The recent discovery of a minor planet, ** Eros,’ which in one part
of its orbit is nearer the earth than Mars, has recently revived
interest in this method and a combined attack is in contemplation.

It has been long known that light has a finite velocity; but we had
to wait till the sixties before Fizeau and Foucault showed us how to
determine its exact value. The methods introduced by them have
been recently applied by Cornu, Newcomb, and Michelson, and the
resulting value is slightly less than 300,000 meters per second. Com-
bining this with the constant of aberration, the distance of the sun can
be determined.

It is wonderful how these vastly different methods agree in the
resulting mean distance. At the beginning of the century it stood
roughly at 95,000,000 miles; this has been reduced to 93,965,000 miles.
The extreme difference between the old and new values of the solar
parallax, two-fifths of a second of arc, is represented by the apparent
breadth of a human hair viewed at a distance of about 125 feet.

Knowing the distance of the sun, the way is open to us to determine,
by a ede suggested by Galileo, the distances of those stars w hich
occupy a different position among their fellows, as seen from opposite
points in the earth’s orbit round the sun, points 186,000,000 miles
apart. We now know the distances of many such stars, Bessel having
determined the first in 1838. The nearest star to us, so far as we know,
is Centauri, the light of which takes four and a half years to reach
us. Not many years ago Pritchard applied photography to this branch
of inquiry. We may “hereto expect a still more rapid progress in
the future.

ob )al

1(Dr. E. von Oppolzer gives the remarkable announcement of a variation of the
brightness of Eros of about one magnitude, the change taking place in a few hours.—
Nature LXIII, 1901, page 383.]
‘
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 137

With regard to masses: We naturally must first know that of the
earth; having its size, if we can determine its density, the rest follows.

The problem of determining the mean density of the earth has
occupied the minds of many workers during the closing century.
Newton (about 1728) pointed out how it could be deduced by observing
the deviation from the vertical of a plumb line suspended near a large
mass of matter—a mountain—the volume and density of which could
be previously determined. This method, which is very laborious and
requires the greatest skill and most delicate instruments, has been
employed several times—by Bouguer and Condamine in 1738 at Chim-
borazo; Maskelyne in 1774 at Schehallien, in Scotland, and James at
Arthur’s Seat, near Edinburgh.

At the beginning of the century another method was introduced by
Cavendish. This consists in measuring the attraction of two large
spheres of known size and mass, such as two balls of lead on two very
small and light spheres, by means of a torsion balance constructed by
Mitchell for this purpose.

The most recent determination by this method, and one which is
considered to give us perhaps the most accurate value, is that which
is due to the skill and ingenuity of Professor Boys. His improvement
consisted in constructing a most delicate torsion balance. The attracted
spheres consisted of small gold balls suspended by a quartz fiber car-
rying a mirror to indicate the amount of twist. The whole instrument
was quite small and could easily be protected from air currents and
changes of temperature, while the use of the quartz fibers reduced to
a minimum one of the greatest difficulties of the Cavendish experiment.
The value of the mean density of the earth is now considered to be
5.6, which means that if we have a globe of water exactly the same
size as our own earth the real earth would weigh just 5.6 times this
globe of water. The earth’s weight in tons does not convey much
idea, but that it is six thousand trillions may interest the curious.
This determination has enabled the masses of the sun, moon, planets,
and satellites, and many sidereal systems to be accurately known in
relation to the mass of the earth.

SOME ACHIEVEMENTS OF MATHEMATICAL ANALYSIS.

Uranus, a planet unknown to the ancients, was discovered by its
movement among the stars by William Herschel in 1781. It was not
until 1846 that another major planet was added to the solar system,
and this discovery was one of the sensations of the century.

The story of the independent discovery of Neptune by Adams and
Le Verrier, who were both driven to the conclusion that certain appar-
ent irregularities in the motion of Uranus were due to the attraction of
another body traveling on an orbit outside it, has been often told. The
138 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

subsequent discovery of the external body not far from the place at
which their mathematical analysis had led them to believe it would be
seen will forever be regarded as a fine triumph of the human intellect.

But the results of the inquiries which now concern us are generally
of not so sensational a character, although they lie at the root of our
knowledge of celestial motions. They more often take the shape of
tables and discussions relating to the movements of the bodies which
make up our solar system.

Gauss may be said to have led the way during the present century
by his Theoria molus corporum celestium solem ambientium. This was
a worthy sequel to the Mechanique Celeste, in which work, toward
the end of the preceding century, Laplace had enshrined all that was
known on the planetary results of gravitation.

In later years Le Verrier and Newcomb have been among the chief
workers on whom the mantle of such distinguished predecessors has
fallen. From them the planet and satellite tables now in use have
been derived.

But the motion of our own satellite, the moon, has had fascinations
for other analysts besides those we have named.

The problem, indeed, of the moon’s motion is one of the most diffi-
cult, and has taxed the ingenuity of astronomers from an early date.
Even at the present day it is impossible to predict the exact position
of the moon at any one moment, owing to inequalities and perturba-
tions the exact varying values of which are not known.

The two most important theories of the motion of the moon, com-
pleted toward the middle of the century, were due to Hansen and
Delaunay. The former’s appeared in 1838, the lunar tables being
published later (1857), while the latter’s was published in 1860.

Hansen’s theory had for its chief object the formation of tables. To
avoid the inconvenience of using in his calculations series which slowly
converge he inserted numerical values throughout. In Hansen’s solu-
tion the problem is one actually presented by nature, allowance being
made for every known cause of disturbance. There is one disadvan-
tage, namely, thateshould observations demand a change in any of the
constants used there is no means of making any correction in the
results.

Delaunay’s theory surmounted this difficulty, but at the expense of
still greater inconvenience for making an ephemeris. The slow con-
vergence of certain series involved an immense amount of labor to give
sufficiently approximate results.

More recently, as the century is closing, Dr. Brown has taken up the
subject and made a fresh attempt to calculate the motion of our satellite.
It may be stated that he adopts all Delaunay’s modifications of the
problem and works them out algebraically; but there are many tech-
nical differences which it would be out of place to mention here.

ms

er pies
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 139

Enough has been stated to show that there is not likely to be any
breach of continuity in the treatment of this most important problem.

Another attack on the moon, and incidentally its motion, has
recently been made by another analyst—Prof. George Darwin. Grap-
pling with all the consequences of tidal friction, he has been able to
present to us the past and future history of our satellite. Beginning
as a part of the material congeries from which subsequently, some
50,000,000 years ago, both earth and moon, as separate bodies, were
formed, it has ever since been extending its orbit, and so retreating
farther away from its center of motion, while the period of the earth’s-
rotation has been increasing at the same time from a possible period
of some three hours when the moon was born to one of 1,400 hours
when the day and month will be equal, something like 150,000,000
years being required for the process.

STELLAR EVOLUTION.

It was only in the eighties, after thousands of observations of the
spectra of stars, nebulae, and comets had been secured, that the full
meaning of the revelations of the spectroscope began to dawn upon
the world.

Before the introduction of spectrum analysis all stars were supposed
to be suns, and the only difference recognized among them was one of
brillianey, and the variation of brilliancy in the case of some of them.

It ultimately came out that great classes might be recognized by the
differences of their spectra, which were ultimately traced to differences
in their chemistry and in their temperature, as determined by the
extension of the spectra in the ultraviolet, the whiter stars being
hotter than the red ones, as a white-hot poker is hotter than a red-hot
poker.

Next there was evidence to show that a large proportion of the stars
were not stars at all like the sun, but swarms of meteorites; and in
this way the mysterious new stars which appear from time to time in
the heavens, and a large number of variable stars, were explained as
arising from collisions among such swarms.

The inquiry which dealt with the spectroscopic results, having thus
introduced the ideas of meteor swarms and collisions to explain many
stellar phenomena, went further and showed that the various chemical
changes observed in passing from star to star might also be explained
by supposing the whole stellar constitution to arise from cool meteoritic
swarms represented by nebul, the changes up to a certain point being
explained by a rise of temperature due to condensation toward a cen-
ter. Here the new view was opposed to that of Laplace, advanced
during the last century, that the stars were produced by condensation
and cooling; but Kelvin had shown, before the new view was enun-
ciated, that Laplace’s view was contrary to thermodynamics, a branch
140 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

of science which had developed since Laplace published his famous
Exposition du Systeme du Monde.

After all the meteorites in the parent swarm had been condensed
into the central gaseous mass that mass had to cool. So that we had
in the heavens not only stars more or less meteoritic in structure, of
rising temperature, but stars chiefly gaseous, of falling temperature.
It was obvious that representatives of both these classes of stars might
have nearly the same mean effective temperature and therefore more
or less the same spectrum. A ininute inquiry entirely justified these
conclusions.

So far has the detailed chemistry of the stars been carried in the lat-
ter years of the century that the question of stellar evolution has given
rise to that of inorganic evolution generally, the sequence in the phe-
nomena of which can only be studied in the stars, for laboratory work
without stint has shown that in them we have celestial furnaces, the
heat of which transcends that of our most powerful electric sparks.
In this way astronomy is paying the debt she owes to chemistry.

THE SUN AND HIS SYSTEM.

Although the outer confines of space have, as we have seen, been
compelled to bring their tribute of new knowledge by means of the
penetrating power possessed by modern telescopes, and the camera and
spectroscopes attached to them, the study of the near has by no means
been neglected, and for the reason that in astronomy especially we
must content ourselves in the case of the more distant bodies by sur-
mising what happens in them from the facts gathered in the region
where alone detailed observations are possible.

Thus what we can learn about the sun helps to explain what we dis-
cern much more dimly in the case of stars. A study of the moon’s face
we are compelled to take as showing us the possibilities relating to the
surface condition of other satellites so far removed from us that they
only appear as points of light.

To begin, then, with the sun. Where a volume might be written a
few words must suffice. IJ have already stated that at the beginning
of the century the prevailing opinion was that it was a habitable globe.
It was limited to the fiery ball we see. At the end of the century it
is a body of the fiercest heat, and the ball we see is only a central
portion of a huge and terribly interesting mechanism, the outer por-
tions of which heave and throb every eleven years. Spots, promi-
nences, corona, everything, feel this throbbing.

Although the discovery of spots on the sun was among Galileo’s
first achievements, it was reserved for the last half of the present
century to demonstrate their almost perfect periodicity.

Thanks to the labors of Schwabe, Wolf, Carrington, and De la Rue,
Stewart and Loewy, we now know that every eleven years the spots
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 1A

waxand wane. Tacchinaand Ricco, during the last thirty years, have
proved that the prominences follow suit, and the fact that the corona
also obeys the same law was established during the American eclipse
of 1878.

The study of solar physics consists in watching and recording the
thermal, chemical, and other changes which accompany this period.
Some of these effects can be best studied during those times when the
ball itself is covered by the moon in an eclipse. Then the outer por-
tions of the sun are revealed in all their beauty and majesty, and all
the world goes to see.

But it is the quiet daily work in the laboratory which has enabled
us to study the sun’s place in relation to the other stars, and so to
found a chemical classification of all the stars that shine.

From the sun we may pass to his system, and first consider the
nearest body to us—the moon.

While some astronomers have been discussing the movements and
evolution of our satellite, others have been engaged upon maps of its
surface, upon questions dealing with a lunar atmosphere, or a study
of the origin of the present conformations and of possible changes.
The science of selenology may be said to have been founded by
Schréter at the beginning of the century, but it required the applica-
tion of photography in later years to put it on a firm basis. Maps of
the moon have been prepared by Lohrmann, Beer and Miidler, and
Schmidt, the latter showing the positions of more than 30,000 craters.

Very erroneous notions are held by some as to what we may hope to
do in the examination of the moon’s surface by a powerful telescope.
A power of a thousand enables us to see it as if we were looking at York
from London. It is recorded that Lassell once said that with his largest
reflector in a ‘‘fit” of the finest definition he thought he might be able
to detect whether a carpet as large as Lincoln’s Inn Fields was round
or square. Under these circumstances, then, we may well understand
that the question of changes on the surface has been raised from time
to time never to be absolutely settled one way or the other. By many
the existence of an atmosphere is denied, and this is a condition which
would negative changes, anything like the geological changes brought
about on the surface of the earth, but the idea is now held by many
that there is still an atmosphere, though of great tenuity.

The last few years of the century have been rendered memorable
from the lunar point of view by the publication and minute study of a
most admirable series of photographs of the moon obtained by the great
equatorial Coudé of the Paris Observatory by Loewy and Puiseaux.
One of the chief points aimed at has been to determine the sequence of
the various events represented by the rilles, craters, and walled plains,
the mountain ranges and seas. This work is still in progress, the
fourth part of the atlas being published in 1900; but enough has
142 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

already appeared to indicate that the results of the inquiry when
completed will be of the most important kind. The authors have
already come to the conclusion that the lunar and terrestrial sea bot-
toms much resemble each other, inasmuch as both have convex sur-
faces. The lunar seas began by sinking of vast regions; the formidable
voleanic eruptions of which the moon has been the scene have taken

place in times equivalent to those labeled ‘‘recent” in geological par--

lance. There is evidence that the axis of the moon has undergone
great displacements, and four great periods of change have been made

out. Finally they state that there is serious ground to believe that.

there is an atmosphere of some sort remaining.

It may readily be understood that with each increase of optical power
new satellites of the various planets have been discovered. Soon after
the discovery of Neptune a satellite was noted by Lassell. In 1846
both he and the eagle-eyed observer Dawes independently discovered
another satellite (Hyperion) of Saturn. Lassell was rewarded in the
next year by the discovery of two more satellites of Uranus; but,
strangest observation of all, in 1877 Hall discovered at Washington two
satellites of Mars some 6 or 7 miles only in diameter, one of them
revolying round the planet in seven and one-half hours at a distance of
less than 4,000 miles. As the day on Mars is not far different in dura-
tion from our own, this tiny satellite must rise in the west and south
three times a day.

Wonderful as this discovery was, it is certainly not less wonderful
when we consider it in connection with a passage in Gulliver’s Travels,
so true is it that truth is stranger than fiction. Swift, in his satirical
reference to the inhabitants of Laputa, writes: ‘‘ They have likewise
discovered two lesser stars or satellites, which revolve round Mars,
whereof the innermost is distant from the center of the primary planet
exactly three of his diameters and the outermost five. The former
revolves in the space of ten hours and the latter in twenty-one and a
half.”

The last discovery of this kind has been that of an inner satellite of
Jupiter by Barnard in 1892.

The planets from Mercury to Saturn were known to the ancients.
I have already referred to the discovery of Uranus by Herschel’s giant
telescope, not long before the century was born, and of Neptune, by
analysis, toward the end of the first half of the century. With regard
to what modern observations have done in regard to their physical
appearance, the first place in general interest must be given to Saturn
and Mars. ;

Saturn has always been regarded as the most interesting of the
planetary family on account of its unique rings. Many subdivisions
of the rings, and a dusky ring, first seen by Dawes and Bond, have
been discovered during the last sixty years.

—————
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 148

The meteoritic nature of the rings was suggested by Clerk Maxwell
in 1857, and Keeler’s demonstration of the truth of this view by means
of the spectroscope, a few years ago, was brilliant in conception and
execution.

But during the last half of the century the interest centered in Mars
has been gradually increasing. The drawings made during the oppo-
sition of 1862, when compared with those made by Beer and Madler
(1830-1840), made it perfectly clear that in this planet we had to deal
with one strangely like our own in many respects. There were obyi-
ously land and water surfaces; the snow at the poles melted in the
summer time; clouds were seen forming from time to time, and the
changing tones of the water surfaces suggested fine and rough weather.

Afterwards came the revelation of the hawk-eyed Schiapare!li, begin-
ning in the year 1877, and his wonderful map of the planet’s surface.
The land surfaces, instead of being unbroken, were cut up, as an Eng-
lish farm is cut up by hedges; straight lines of different breadths and
tints crossed the land surfaces in all directions, and at times some of
them appeared double. Schiaparelli naturally concluded that they
were rivers—water channels—and, being an Italian, he used the appro-
priate word canali. This, unfortunately, as it turned out, was trans-
lated canals. Now canals are dug, ergo there were diggers. From
this the demonstration not of the habitability, but of the actual habi-
tation, of Mars was a small step, and the best way of signaling to
newly found kinsmen across some 30,000,000 miles of space was
discussed.

The world of science owes a debt of gratitude to Mr. Percival
Lowell for having taken out to the pure air and low latitude of Ari-
zona an 18-inch telescope for the sole purpose of accumulating facts
tending to throw light upon this newly raised question. This he did
in 1894. Schiaparelli has continued his magnificent observations
through each opposition when the planet is most favorably situated
for observation, and since 1896 Signor Cerulli, armed with a 15-inch
Cooke, in the fine climate of Italy, has joined in the inquiry, so that
facts are now being rapidly accumulated. It has been stated that
markings similar to the strange so-called ‘*canals” on Mars are to be
seen on Mercury, Venus, and even on the satellites of Jupiter. Mr.
Percival Lowell does not hesitate to proclaim himself in favor of their
being due, in Mars, to an intelligent system of irrigation. Signor
-Cerulli claims that wherever seen they are mere optical effects. We
may be. well content to leave to the next century a general agreement
on this interesting subject.

Finally, in our survey of our own system come comets and meteor
swarms. One of the most fruitful discoveries of the century, that
comets are meteor swarms, we owe to the genius of Schiaparelli,

144 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

A. H. Newton, and other workers on those tiny celestial messengers
which give rise to the phenomena of ** falling” or ‘* shooting” stars.

The magnificent displays of 1799, 1833, 1866, and, alas, that which
failed to come in 1899, we now know must be associated with Tempel’s
comet. This is by no means the only case so far established. The
connection will in the future be closer still when the orbits of the
various swarms observed throughout the year shall be better known.

Comets which attract public attention by their brightness and
grandeur of form are rather rare, and, in fact, only twenty-five
of such have been seen since 1800. We have, however, with the
great advance in instrumental equipment, been able to discover many
which are scarcely visible to the naked eye, and this has swollen the
number of comets very considerably. In the seventeenth century we
find that only thirty-two were observed, while in the eighteenth this
number was more than doubled (seventy-two). This century more
than three hundred have been placed on record, which is practically
more than four times the number seen last century.

The last great comet visible any considerable time was that discoy-
ered by Donati in 1858 and so carefully observed by Bond. It is
unfortunate that since the importance, in so many directions, of spec-
troscopic observations of comets has been recognized they have been
conspicuous by their absence.

THE CONNECTION BETWEEN SOLAR AND TERRESTRIAL WEATHER.

Everybody agrees that all the energy utilized on this planet of ours,
with the single exception of that supplied by the tides, comes from
the sun. We are all familiar with the changes due to the earth’s daily
rotation, bringing us now on the side of our planet illuminated by the
sun, then plunging us into darkness. That changes of season must
necessarily follow from the earth’s yearly journey round the sun is |
universally recognized.

On the other hand, it is a modern idea that those solar phenomena
which prove to us considerable changes of temperature in the sun —
itself may, and, indeed, should, be echoed by changes on our planet,
giving us thereby an eleven-year period to be considered as well as a
year and a day.

This response of the earth to solar changes was first observed in
the continuous records of those instruments which register for us the
earth’s magnetism at any one place. The magnetic effects were
strongest when there were more spots, taking them as indicators of
solar changes. Lamont first, without knowing it, made this out at the
beginning of the latter half of the century (1851) from the Géttingen
observations of the daily range of the declination needle. Sabine,
the next year, not only announced the same cycle in the violence of
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 145

the ‘‘magnetic storms” observed at Toronto, but at once attributed
them to solar influence, the two cycles running concurrently. It is
now universally recognized that terrestrial magnetic effects, including
aurore, minutely echo the solar changes.

The eleven-year period is not one to be neglected.

Next comes the inquiry in relation to meteorology. Sir William
Herschel, in the first year of the century, when there were practically
neither sun spot nor rainfall observations available, did not hesitate to
attack the question whether the price of wheat was affected by the
many or few spot solar condition. He found the price to be high
when the sun was spotless, and vice versa.

By 1872, however, we had both rainfall and sun-spot observations,
and the cycle of the latter had been made out. Meldrum, the most
distinguished meteorologist living at the time, and others pronounced
that the rainfall was greatest at sun-spot maximum, and, further, that
the greatest number of cyclones occurred in the East and West Indies
at such times.

This result with regard to rainfall was not generally accepted, but
Chambers showed shortly afterwards an undoubted connection between
the cycles of solar spots and barometric pressure in the Indian area.

By means of a study of the widened lines observed in sun spots an
attempt has been recently made to study the temperature history of
the sun since about 1877, and the years of mean temperature and when
the heat was in excess (+) and defect (—) made out have been as
follows:

HEAT CONDITION.

Mean. | +Mean. | — Mean. a tieantll — Mean.

“ODT 6 a6 SoC PASSE IE OEE BOO COC SESE AI aCe | 1869 | 1876 1881 1886-87 | 1891-92

—-

—— SS v SS SSS
1870-1875 1877-1880 1882-1886 1887-1891 1892

Having these solar data, the next thing to do was to study the Indian
rainfall during the southwest monsoon for the years 1877-1886, the
object being to endeavor to ascertain if the + and — temperature
pulses in the sun were echoed by + and — pulses of rainfall. The
Indian rainfall was taken first because in the Tropics the phenomena
are known to be the simplest. It was found that in many parts of
India the + and — conditions of solar temperature were accompanied
by + and — pulses, producing pressure changes and heavy rains in
the Indian Ocean and the surrounding land. These occurred generally
in the first year following the mean condition; that is, in 1877-78 and
1882-83.

The rainfalls at Mauritius, Cape Town, and Batavia were next col-
lated to see if the pulses felt in India were traceable in other regions

sm 1900——1L0
146 PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY.

surrounding the Indian Ocean to the south and east. This was found
to be the case.

A wider inquiry was followed, we are told, with equal success, so
that we are justified in hoping that the question of the dependence of
terrestrial upon solar weather has made a step in advance.

But just as the general public and practical men took little heed of
the connection between sun spots and magnetism until experience
taught them that telegraphic messages often could not ‘‘ get through”
when there were many sun spots, so the same public will not consider
the connection in regard to meteorology unless the forecasting of
droughts and famines be possible.

The recent work suggests that if the recent advances in solar physics
be considered, the inquiries regarding rainfall may be placed on a
firmer basis than they could possibly have had in 1872 and that such
forecastings may become possible.

What was looked for in 1872 was a change in the quantity of rain at
maximum sun spots only, the idea being that there might be an effect-
ive change of solar temperature, either in excess or defect, at such
times, and that there would be a gradual and continuous variation
from maximum to maximum.

We see that the rainfalls referred to above justify the conclusions
derived from the recent work that two effects ought to be expected in
a sun-spot cycle instead of one. There was excess of rainfall, not
only near the sun-spot maximum, but near the minimum.

If the authors of this communication to which I refer are right,
then droughts and famines occur in India because the rain pulses,
which are associated with the solar heat pulses, are of short duration.
When they cease, the quantity of rain which falls in the Indian area
is not sufficient, without water storage, for the purposes of agricul-
ture. They are followed, therefore, by droughts, and at times subse-
quently by famines. They divide the period 1877-1889 as under:

1877.
Rainiromy— pulse Jes 2. ce. o es 2 oa ee eie a ae e one eee 1878.
; 1879 (part).
1879 (part).
INOprainm pulse <2 ees s S Aeon oes Sa bee ae en ee ee nee err 1880 (central year).
1881 (part).
1881 (part).

82
Rain from >} pulses sa2s oe tess ee Cae es ee epee ne

1884 (part).

1884 (part).
No rain pulse Hee (central years)
RIOR Bao ar eo? re onc cee a eee 1886 eae”

1887 (part).

(1887 (part).
Rain arom: pulses 2438.5. sees ste case ee ee See ae |
PROGRESS IN ASTRONOMY. 147

Their statement is based on the fact that all the famines which have
devastated India for the last seventy years have occurred at intervals
of eleven years or thereabouts, working backward and forward from
the central years 1880 and 1885-86 in the above table, the middle
years, that is, between the pulses.

Mr. Willcocks, in a paper read at the Meteorological Congress at
Chicago, remarked that ‘*‘ famines in India are generally years of low
flood in Egypt.”

It is now pointed out that the highest Niles follow the years of the
+ and — pulses, as does the highest rainfall in the Indian area.

Even if these results, which were communicated to the Royal Soci-
ety of London five weeks before the end of the century, be confirmed,
it may be pointed out that Sir William Herschel’s suggestion of 1801
will have required a whole century for its fulfillment, so slowly do
those branches of science move which have not already led to some
practical development.
: is rote penn et ‘ie 1% eee pass
ane Ste! ee yond; tae? 7 Ae" tere
~ ae Bist Ge ot 8 Paes a ae bee a
thie tes 442! Wiles 8 ety) oH R: wesics, HRS Ae .. Gee “ant
Je nea ‘i ie, ee ‘ean rT Ys eee ren Re aenee
Si artis) & ef 2 opr Stayt Gree fee leet it Sean .

7 Ser attics: Ree risteg ee ay oy bgt OS ME om oa) "

- % oO or 2 eth al

Eddy Hic cds stisty bieshiae pent gik Nae tt tal Re
-& - ; Lae oe. ee oe r o) CAG ie ligh = rae vari, €€ 96 Stoapenea 4
- P ik ..) a «pease Fa Tee <r hep 18 Fee
cae ae = Fhe Mice TRY Ss lal iN

7 a 4% ' ve ogre] th! baad Fe’ Se, Abe Sa Sayttylh
col tid Veet her rtaniie Ee ume
a eens &a eons han ot ey a Petr al
oe rt or a af ye : [tetepeeathi te itt

ni

a i _= - ; an teed
= i
_ . WF

-e
: “ - ¥
pi
7 is .
7) Sit
a
. “)° | a
\ 7 a)

> - ‘ Se fare) ic or
+ obs heb Henle
ak.

e t a
23 Wy Ge ae rine a

is any shoei e

A PRELIMINARY ACCOUNT OF THE SOLAR ECLIPSE OF
MAY 28, 1900, AS OBSERVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN
EXPEDITION.’

By 8. P. Lane ey.

Partly in deference to the report of the United States Weather
Bureau, from which it appeared that the chance of a fair eastern sky
on the morning of the eclipse was about 8 to 1, and after examination
by Mr. Abbot of many stations in North Carolina, Wadesboro, of that
State, was selected early in April as the site of the Smithsonian obser-
vations. The advantages of Wadesboro being also recognized by Pro-
fessor Young, of Princeton, Professor Hale, of Yerkes Observatory,
and the Rey. J. M. Bacon, of the British Astronomical Association, it
came about that four large observing parties, besides several smaller
ones and numerous excursionists from the surrounding country, were
all joined to produce at Wadesboro one of the largest company of
eclipse observers ever assembled for scientific purposes. Itis a matter
for congratulation that the sky at Wadesboro upon the day of the
eclipse was cloudless and clearer than the average, so that the efforts
of the observing forces were not thwarted by any circumstances beyond
their control. The provisions of the mayor and authorities of Wades-
boro for preventing intrusion before and during the eclipse, and thus
securing an undisturbed field of operations, deserve especial recogni-
tion. Further than this, the many acts of courtesy and hospitality to
the visiting astronomers on the part of the townspeople will long be
remembered by the recipients.

The Smithsonian party proper consisted of thirteen observers, and
included Mr. Langley, Mr. Abbot, aid acting in charge of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory; Mr. Smillie, in charge of photog-
raphy; Mr. Putnam, of the United States Coast Survey, Mr. Fowle,
Mr. Mendenhall, Mr. Child, Mr. Draper, Mr. Gill, Mr. Kramer, and
Mr. Smith. Included with these the Rey. Father Searle and the Rey.
Father Woodman gave most valuable assistance. Mr.. Hoxie, of Port
Royal, S. C., and Mr. Little, of Wadesboro, rendered valued assist-
ance to Mr. Putnam during totality.

1Reprinted from Science, Vol. XI, No. 286, June 22, 1900.
149
150 SOLAR ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900.

Professor Hale, of the Yerkes Observatory, was a member of the
party, while still in general charge of the Yerkes expedition, and his
counsel and aid were of the greatest service. Mr. Clayton, of Blue
Hill Meteorological Station, occupied a part of the grounds of the
Smithsonian party.

The main object of the investigation was, of course, the corona, and
of this (first) a photographic and visual study of its structure, with
(second) a determination by the bolometer whether appreciable heat
reaches us from it, and, if possible, an examination of the form of its
spectrum energy curve.

The writer had been particularly struck, when observing the eclipse
of 1878, on Pikes Peak, by the remarkable definiteness of filamentary
structure close to the sun’s limb, and had never found in any photo-
graphs, not even in the excellent ones of Campbell taken at the Indian
eclipse of 1898, anything approaching what he saw in the few seconds
which he was able to devote to visual observations at the height of
14,000 feet. His wish to examine this inner coronal region with a
more powerful photographic telescope than any heretofore used upon
it was gratified by the most valued loan, by Prof. E. C. Pickering, of
the new 12-inch achromatic lens of 135 feet focus just obtained for the
Harvard College Observatory. This lens, furnishing a focal image of
more than 15-inch diameter, was mounted so as to give a horizontal
beam from a coelostat clock-driven mirror by Brashear, of 18-inch
aperture, and used with 30-inch square plates. To supplement this
great instrument, a 5-inch lens of 38 feet focus, loaned by Professor
Young, was pointed directly at the sun. This formed images upon 11
by 14 inch plates moved in the focus of the lens by a water clock.
Specially equatorially mounted lenses of 6, 4, and 3 inch aperture,
driven by clockwork, were provided for the study of the outer corona,
and the search for possible intramercurial planets.

For the bolometric work the massive siderostat, with its 17-inch
mirror, with a large part of the delicate adjuncts employed at the
Smithsonian Institution in recent years to investigate the sun’s spec-
trum, was transported to Wadesboro. The excessively sensitive gal-
vanometer reached camp without injury even to its suspending fiber,
a thread of quartz crystal one fifteen-thousandth of an inch in diameter.

Besides these two chief aims (the photography and bolometry of the
inner corona), several other pieces of work were undertaken, including
the automatic reproduction of the ‘flash spectrum” by means of an
objective prism with the 135-foot focus; the photographic study of
the outer coronal region, including provision for recognizing possible
intramercurial planets, already alluded to, visual and photographic
observations of times of contact, and sketches of the corona, both
from telescopic and naked-eye observations.
SOLAR ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900. 151

The assignment of the observers was as follows: Mr. Langley, in
general charge of the expedition, observed with the same 5-inch tele-
scope used by him on Likes Peak in 1878, which was most kindly
lent for this special comparison by the United States Naval Obser-
vatory; C. G. Abbot, aid acting in immediate charge, assigned with
C. E. Mendenhall to the bolometer; T. W. Smillie, having general
direction of the photographic work, made exposures at the 135-foot
telescope; F. E. Fowle, jr., assigned to 38-foot telescope; Father
Searle, directing the assembled telescopes for the outer coronal
region, and for intramercurial planets, assisted by P. A. Draper and
C. W. B. Smith, exposed two cameras of 3-inch aperture and 11-foot
focus, and two of 43-inch aperture and 34 feet focus; all four of these
telescopes being mounted on a single polar axis driven by an excellent
clock; De Lancey Gill, assisting Mr. Smillie, removed the flash spectrum
objective prism at second contact, and made a single long exposure
with a 6-inch photographic lens of 7; feet focus equatorially mounted;
Assistant G. R. Putnam, who, by the kindness of the Superintendent
of the United States Coast Survey, was detailed for latitude,’ longi-
tude,’ and time observations, also observed contacts, directed the strik-
ing of signals by Mr. Little, and rendered other valuable services.
Mr. Putnam was assisted in recording contacts by Mr. Hoxie. R. C.
Child, observing with a 6-inch telescope of '7} feet focus, made sketches
with special references to inner coronal detail, and was, in addition,
charged with all electrical circuits for chronograph and automatic
photographic apparatus. Father Woodman, with a 3$-inch telescope,
observed contacts and made sketches.

The first detachuent, consisting of Messrs. Abbott, Fowle, Kramer
(instrument maker), and Smith (carpenter), reached Wadesboro May
4, and were soon joined by Messrs. Draper and Putnam. The latter
returned to Washington after a short but satisfactory latitude and
longitude campaign, reaching Wadesboro again just before the eclipse,
Other members of the party reached camp on and after the middle of
the month. The first comers found a very satisfactory shed already
erected and piers begun. Nota day passed, from the time of the arrival
of the apparatus, May 7, to the day before the eclipse, that was not
fully occupied in perfecting the arrangements.

The most striking portion of the installation was the line beginning
at the northwest pier, with its equatorial and ccelostat, continued from
thence south of east by the two great diverging tubes of the 135-foot
telescope and spectroscope. These tubes were covered with white
canvas, presenting the appearance of two immensely prolonged A tents,
ending beyond the photographic house, where the 38-foot telescope
tube pointed east and upward at an angle of 42° with the horizon. -

70! 20" 17.858W
152 SOLAR ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900.

all this long branching extent of white canvas ending in the uplifted
tube of the 38-foot telescope, was seen in the light of the moon, the
extensive field, with its preparations, exhibited a still more picturesque :
scene than by day.

Less imposing, and perhaps more ungainly, was the combination of
four great cameras under the main shed, designed to search for new
planets and to depict the outer corona. These might well be described
as like a cabin and an outbuilding, mounted on a polar axis, yet
despite their awkward proportions they were made to follow very
accurately.

The morning of the eclipse dawned cloudless and very fairly clear.
Deep blue sky, such as the writer had seen on Pikes Peak, of course
is not among the ordinary possibilities of an eclipse, but the milkiness
of the blue was less pronounced than is usual in the summer season,
and all felt that the seeing promised well.

At fifteen minutes before totality a series of rapid strokes on the
bell called everyone to his post, and one minute before the expected
contact five strokes were given as a final warning. Coincidently with
the actual observation of the second contact by Mr. Putnam, the first
of two strokes upon the. bell sounded, and the work began. After
eighty-two seconds (the duration of totality from the Nautical Almanac
was ninety-two seconds) three strokes were given as a signal to stop
the long photographie exposures. Scarcely more than five seconds
after this the sun’s crescent reappeared. The duration of totality as
observed by Mr. Putnam was approximately eighty-eight seconds.

To visual observers the sky was notably not a dark one. No second
magnitude stars were observed with the naked eye, and most of the
on-lookers saw only Mercury conspicuously, though Venus was distin-
guished at a low altitude, and Capella also was seen. So high a degree
of sky illumination can not but have operated unfavorably in the study
of the outer corona or in the search for intramercurial planets, and
this is to be remembered in connection with what follows.

BRFORE TOTALITY.

A deepened color in the sky, a fall of temperature, and a rising
breeze were distinctly noticeable. No change in direction of the wind
was noticed. Shadow bands were seen, but those who attempted to
measure their velocity found them too rapid and flickering for any
great exactness in this determination. ‘There was tolerable unanimity
among independent observers as to their size and distance apart (about
5 inches), though some thought this less as totality approached.

It was noticed that the birds grew silent just before and during
totality, but, true to their nature, the English sparrows were last to
be still and first to begin their discussion of the eclipse after the return
of light.
SOLAR ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900. 1053)

DURING TOTALITY.

The attention of all visual observers was at once caught by the equa-
torial streamers. Father Woodman’s comparison of the appearance to
a structure of mother-of-pearl was generally recognized as good, but
different observers differed on the color estimate. A yellowish-green
tinge was noticed by the artist of the party, Mr. Child, while to others
the light was straw-colored or golden.

The general coronal form, to the naked eye, was nearly that of the
small annexed photograph, which, though taken by one of the smaller
objectives, gives a good view of the relative intensities. The same
extensions of the equatorial corona could be followed by the naked eye
from 3 to 34 solar diameters.

The visual telescopic observations of tue writer gave little indication
of the finely divided structure of the inner corona which he had noticed
at Pikes Peak. Structure, to be sure, was evident, but not in such
minute subdivision as had then been seen, and though one remarkable
prominence as well as several smaller ones was visible, the coronal
streamers did not give to the writer the impression of being connected
with these prominences, though the relationship of some of them to
the solar poles was abundantly manifest.

AFTER TOTALITY—RESULITS.

Comparing notes after totality, all observers reported a successful
carrying out of the programme. The greatest interest centers in the
direct coronal negatives taken with the 135-foot telescope. Mr. Smillie
exposed six 30 by 30 inch plates during totality, with times ranging from
one-half a second to sixteen seconds, and three others were exposed by
him immediately after the third contact.

At this writing only a part of the negatives taken have been devel-
oped. Their general quality may be inferred from the examples here
given, after due allowance for the great loss suffered by translation on
to paper, even with the best care."

Plate I is a view taken with one of the smaller objectives (6 inches),
given here to afford the reader an idea of the general disposition of
the coronal light. The upper part is the vertex in the inverted field.

Plate II is a portion of one of the great 15-inch circular images
obtained with the 135-foot focus telescope. It was obtained in the
great disk in the last exposure during totality of 8 seconds, showing
one of the principal prominences then on the sun’s disk, with a dispo-
sition of the lower filaments near it.

Plate III is a portion of the same set of plates, but taken with a
sixteen-second exposure. The part near the sun has, of course, been

The illustrations here are later than those provided for Science, and are repeated
here for the readers anew, though already given on pages 104, 105 of the Secretary’s
report in this volume, where others will be found.
154 SOLAR ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900.

intentionally over-exposed, in order to better exhibit the remarkable
polar streamers, extending here to a distance of about six minutes
from the sun, but still further in Mr. Child’s telescopic drawing (not
given).

Plate IV is a view of a small part of the apparatus on the field,
including the terminus of the 135-foot horizontal tube with its canvas
covering, which has been described as like an extended A tent. The
photographic room is seen at the end of the tube and beyond that the
tube containing the lens loaned by Professor Young, pointing directly
skyward. In the immediate foreground is the 5-inch equatorial.

That it will be impracticable to give here all of the disk of the moon
in the large photographs will be evident when it is considered that the
lunar circumference on each plate is about 4 feet; but it will be inferred
from the examples that the prominences and polar streamers, as well
as their features, appear in imposing magnitude and detail.

Many of what it is hoped will be. most interesting photographs still
await development, but Mr. Smillie’s thorough preparation is promis-
ing adequate results.

HEAT OF CORONA.

Mr. Abbot, with the aid of Mr. Mendenhall, appears to have meas-
ured the heat of the corona, and in spite of previous efforts this is
probably the first time that it has been really shown to exist. For
five minutes before second contact the bolometer was successfully
exposed to the region of the sky close to the narrowing crescent of the
sun where the corona was shortly to appear. A diaphragm was inter-
posed in the beam having an aperture of only 0.4 square centimeter,
and deflections rapidly diminishing from 80 to 6 millimeters were
obtained, the last being about forty seconds before totality. Then the
diaphragm was opened to 290 square centimeters and a negative deflec-
tion of 13 millimeters was observed after totality, where these positive
deflections had just been found, showing that the corona was actually
cooler than the background which had been used at the room tempera-
ture. Next the black surface of the moon was allowed to radiate upon
the bolometer, and the still larger negative deflection of 18 millimeters
was observed.*

1 Additional note, April, 1901.—It will be observed that three fundamental observa-
tions were taken, (1) on a screen of dark cardboard of the temperature of the bolom-
eter; (2) on the dark body of the moon, and (3) on the inner corona. There was
unfortunately not time to take a fourth on the sky near the corona, which was desir-
able though not indispensable.

These three observations give the following readings: The one on the screen was
arbitrary, and calling it zero, that on the dark moon was minus 18, and that on the
inner corona was minus 13. The sky radiation during the last two in neighboring
regions is taken as equal. The algebraically increased reading for the coronal radia-
tion, then, was probably due to this radiation being superposed on that of the sky.

Since the eclipse the bolometer has been set on a screen of its own temperature,
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Langley,

GENERAL VIEW OF THE CORONA.

>
>

[

N¢

OMINE

IAWVAYLS UV 10d NNS SH1 IWHLNaAQD

Smithsonian Report

1900

Lang

, Solar Ecitpse.

at

sito ae — _

PLATE IV.

THE 5-INCH EQUATORIAL.
SOLAR ECLIPSE OF MAY 28, 1900. 1 C55)

The important result was that the corona gave a positive indication
of heat as compared with the moon.

This heat, though certain, was, however, too slight to be subdivided
by the dispersion of the prism with the means at hand.

The negatives taken to depict the outer corona show from three to
four solar diameters extension for the longest streamers. The equa-
torial ‘‘ wings” as they recede from the sun are finally lost in an illu-
minated sky, without any indication of having actually come to an end.

No attempt to carefully examine the plates taken for intramercurial
planets has yet been possible. It is, however, as has been remarked,
doubtful if very faint objects will be found, in consideration of the
considerable sky illumination during totality. However, Pleione in
the Pleiades (a star of the 6.3 magnitude) is plainly seen on one of the
plates and some smaller ones are descernible.

On the whole, the expedition may be considered as promising to be
very satisfactory in its results, and that it was so is largely owing not
only to the efficient care of Mr. Abbot, but to the many gentlemen
who have assisted me with the loan of valuable apparatus, with coun-
sel, with voluntary service, and with painstaking observation, to one
and all of whom I desire to express my obligations.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

Washington, D. C., June 9, 1900.

giving zero; on the bright moon, giving plus 55, and on the night sky near the
moon, giving minus 30.

From my study of the visual photometric observations made at Pikes Peak in 1878
and at other places, it appears that the average visual brightness of the portion of the
corona covering the bolometer at Wadesboro was approximately equal to that of the
full moon.

We infer, then, that the full moon being of the average brightness of the observed
portion of the inner corona, the bolometric effect of its visual radiation may be sup-
posed to be equal to that of the corona, but the observations above recorded show
that the total radiations from the moon being 50 plus 30, or 80 bolometric divisions,
are 16 times as great as the radiations from the inner corona, being only 5 (i.e., —18
+18) such divisions, and hence it may be supposed that the corona lacks that ‘large
amount of infrared radiation which is proper to the moon’s spectrum.

The moon’s spectrum, however, is that of a heated solid body, and all heated solid
bodies, and heated gaseous bodies as well, send to the bolometer large amounts of
infrared radiation. So far, then, we might conclude that the inner corona has not
the radiations of a hot solid or gaseous body, but owing to the lack of a contempo-
rary measure-of the sky radiation just outside the corona, and of a full knowledge
of the influences that the atmospheric radiations proper would have on our ability
to discriminate this radiation, the above conclusions, though highly probable, are
not presented as being absolutely final, and it is hoped to repeat them at the forth-
coming eclipse in May, 1901. (S. P. L.)
he we
- Lp < ate
frx- ERs ey ha

NOTES ON MARS.

The following article by Sir Robert Ball, which appeared as long ago
as 1893, is republished on account of its clear, untechnical statement
of a proposed theoretical means for determining if Mars has or has not
an atmosphere, which has been lately the subject of much discussion,
for, since it appeared, this interesting theory of Mr. Johnstone Stoney
has received different interpretations, and some of these are adverse
to the belief in a Martian atmosphere.

It is, indeed, probable, from observation, that there is little atmos-
phere, or at least little like our own, and it is doubtful whether there is
water or snow, but observations are not consistent, and the question
must be considered as still debatable. The conclusions of Mr. Stoney,
are not, however, universally accepted. For instance, Mr. Cook, in
the Astrophysical Journal for January, 1900, using other assumptions,
comes to the conclusion that, although Stoney’s result for the moon
may be true, that yet the earth and the major planets might not only
retain an atmosphere of nitrogen and oxygen, but also of hydrogen
and helium.—S. P. L.

I. Mars,.*

By Sir Roperr 8. Batt, F. R. 8.

* * * From one cause or another it happens that Mars is the most
worldlike of all the other globes which come within the range of effective
observation. It would, indeed, be very rash to assert that other bodies
may not have a closer resemblance to our earth than Mars has, but of
them we have either little knowledge, as in the case of Venus, or no
knowledge at all. No doubt both Jupiter and Saturn can vie with Mars
in the copiousness of detail with which they delight the astronomers
who study them. These grand planets are deserving of every attention,
but then the interest they excite is of a wholly different kind from that
which makes a view of Mars so attractive. Jupiter offers us a meteoro-
logical study of the most astounding cloud system in creation. Saturn
gives an illustration of a marvelous dynamical system, the like of which
would never have been thought possible had it not actually presented

From Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, January 28, 1893,
vol. 5, No. 28. Reprinted (with omissions) from Goldthwaite’s Geographical Maga-
zine for December, 1892.

157
158 NOTES ON MARS.

itself to our notice. But the significance of Mars is essentially derived
from those points of resemblance to the earth which are now engrossing
attention. Mars is clearly a possible world, presenting both remarkable
analogies and remarkable contrasts to our own world, and inducing us
to put forth our utmost endeavors to utilize so exceptional an occasion
as that presented in the close approach which it has now made. Let us
see what we have learned about this globe.

In the first place, it should be noticed that Mars must be a small world
in comparison with our own. The width of this globe is only 4,200
miles, so that its volume is but the seventh part of that of the earth.
The weight of Mars is even less than what might have been expected
from his bulk. It would take nearly ten globes, each as heavy as Mars,
to form a weight equal to that of the earth. This fundamental differ-
ence in dimensions between Mars and our globe is intimately connected
with certain points of contrast which it offers to the earth. Of these
the most important is that which concerns the atmosphere. When we
consider the qualification of a globe as a possible abode for organic
beings, it is natural to inquire first into the presence or the absence of
an atmosphere. Seeing that our earth is enveloped by so copious a
shell of air, it follows that the beings which dwell upon its surface
must be specially adapted to the conditions which the atmosphere im-
poses. Most, if not all, animals utilize this circumstance by obtaining
a proximate source of energy in the union of oxygen from the atmos-
phere with oxidizable materials within their bodies. In this respect
the atmosphere is of such fundamental importance that it is difficult
for us‘to imagine what that type of life must be which would be fitted
for the inhabitants of an airless globe. In other respects, which are
hardly less important, the conditions of life are also dependent on the
fact that we live at the bottom of an ocean of air. It is the atmos-
phere which, to a large extent, mitigates the fierceness with which the
sun’s rays would beat down on the globe if it were devoid of such pro-
tection. Again, at night, the atmospheric covering serves to screen
us from the cold that would otherwise be the consequence of unre-
stricted radiation from the earth to space. It is, therefore, obvious
that the absence of a copious atmosphere, though perhaps not abso-
lutely incompatible with life of some kind, must still necessitate types
of life of a wholly different character from those with which we are
familiar. In attempting, therefore, to form an estimate of the proba-
bility of life on another world it is of essential importance to consider
whether it possesses an atmosphere. * * %*,

Modern research has demonstrated that iat we calla gas is in truth
a mighty host of molecules far too small to be per ceptible by the most
powerful microscope. Each of these molecules is animated by a rapid
movement, which is only pursued for a short distance in one direction
before a rencontre takes place with some other molecule, in consequence
NOTES ON MARS. 159

of which the directions and velocities of the individual molecules are
continually changing. For each gas the molecules have, however, a
certain average pace, which is appropriate to that gas for that temper-
ature, and when two or more gases are blended, as in our atmosphere,
then each molecule of the constituent gases continues to move with its
own particular speed. Thus, in the case of the air, the molecules of
ogygen, as well as the molecules of nitrogen, are each animated by
their characteristic velocity, and the same may be said of the molecules
of carbonic acid or of any other gas which in more or less abundance
may happen to be diffused through our air. For two of the chief
gases the average velocities of the molecules are as follows: Oxygen,
a quarter of a mile per second; hydrogen, 1 mile a second; in each
case the temperature is taken to be 64° C. below zero, being presuma-
bly that at the confines of the atmosphere. It will be noticed that
there is a remarkable difference between the speeds of the two mole-
cules here mentioned. That of hydrogen is by far the greatest of any
gas.

We may now recall a fundamental fact in connection with any celes-
tial body, large or small. It is well known that with the most power-
ful pieces of artillery that can be forged a projectile can be launched
with a speed of about half a mile per second. If the cannon were
pointed vertically upward, the projectile would soar to a great eleva-
tion, but its speed would gradually abate, and the summit of its jour-
ney would be duly reached, after which it would fall back again on the
earth. Such would undoubtedly be the case if the experiment were
made on a globe resembling our own in sizeand mass. But ona globe
much smaller than the earth, not larger, for instance, than are some
of the minor planets, it is certain that a projectile shot aloft from a
great Armstrong gun would go up and up and would never return.
The lessening gravitation of the body would fail to recall it. Of
course we are here reminded of Jules Verne’s famous Columbiad.
According to that philosopher, if a cannon were pointed vertically and
the projectile were discharged with a speed of 7 miles a second, it
would soar aloft, and whether it went to the moon or not, it would at
all events not return to the earth except by such a marvelous series of
coincidences as those which he has described. But the story will, at
all events, serve to illustrate the fact that for each particular globe
there is a certain speed with which if a body leaves the globe it will
_hot return.

It is a singular fact that hydrogen in its free state is absent from
our atmosphere. Doubtless many explanations of a chemical nature
might be offered, but the argument Dr. Stoney has brought forward
is most interesting, inasmuch as it shows that the continued existence
of hydrogen in our atmosphere would seem to be impossible. No
160 NOTES ON MARS.

doubt the average speed at which the molecules of this gas are hurry- -
ing about is only 1 mile a second, and therefore only a seventh of the
critical velocity required to project a missile from the earth so as not
to return. But the molecules are continually changing their velocity,
and may sometimes attain a speed which is seven times as great as the
average. Suppose, therefore, that a certain quantity of hydrogen
were diffused through our air. Every now and then a molecule of
hydrogen in its wandering would attain the upper limit of our atmos-
sphere, and then it would occasionally happen that with its proper
speed it would cross out into space beyond the region by which its
movements would be interfered with by the collisions between other
atmospheric molecules. If the attraction of the earth were sufficient to
recall it, then, of course, it would duly fall back, and in the case of
the more sluggishly moving atmospheric gases the velocity seems
always small enough to permit the recall to be made. But it happens
in the case of hydrogen that the velocity with which its molecules are
occasionally animated rises beyond the speed which could be controlled
by terrestrial gravity. The consequence is that every now and then
a molecule of hydrogen would succeed in bolting away from the earth
altogether and escaping into open space. Thus it appears that every
molecule of free hydrogen which happened to be present in an atmos-
phere like ours would have an unstable connection with the earth, for
wherever in the vicissitudes of things it happened to reach the very
uppermost strata it would be liable to escape altogether. In the
course of uncounted ages it would thus come to pass that the particles
of hydrogen would all effect their departure, and thus the fact that
there is at present no free hydrogen in the air over our heads may be
accounted for.
If the mass of the earth were very much larger than it is, then the
velocities with which the molecules of hydrogen went their way would
never be sufficiently high to enable them to quit the earth altogether,
and consequently we might in such a case expect to find our atmos-
phere largely charged with hydrogen. Considering the vast abundance
of hydrogen in the universe, it seems highly probable that its absence
from our air is simply due to the circumstances we have mentioned.
In the case of a globe so mighty as the sun, the attraction which it
exercises, even at the uppermost layers of its atmosphere is so intense
that the molecules of hydrogen never attain pace enough to enable
them to escape. Their velocity would have to be much greater than
it ever can be if they could dart away from the sun as they have done
from the earth. It is not, therefore, surprising to find hydrogen in
the solar atmosphere. Ina similar manner we can explain the abun-
dance with which the atmospheres of other massive suns like Sirius or
Vega seem to be charged with hydrogen. The attraction of these vast
NOTES ON MARS. 161

globes is sufficiently potent to retain even an atmosphere of this subtle
element. * * *

The discussion we have just given will prepare us to believe that a
planet with the size and mass of Mars may be expected to be encom-
passed with an atmosphere. Our telescopic observations completely
bear this out. It is perfectly certain that there is a certain shell of
gaseous material investing Mars. Thisis shown in various ways. We
note the gradual obscuration of objects on the planet as they approach
the edge of the disk, where they are necessarily viewed through a
greatly increased thickness of Martian atmosphere. We also observe
the clearness with which objects are exhibited at the center of the disk
of Mars, and though this may be in some measure due to the absence
of distortion from the effects of foreshortening, it undoubtedly arises
to some extent from the fact that objects in this position are viewed
through a comparatively small thickness of the atmosphere enveloping
the planet. Clouds are also sometimes seen apparently floating in the
upper region of Mars. This, of course, is possible only on the suppo-
sition that there must be an atmosphere which formed the vehicle by
which clouds were borne along. It is, however, quite obvious that the
extent of the Martian atmosphere must be quite insignificant when
compared with that by which our earth is enveloped. It is a rare cir-
cumstance for any of the main topographical features, such as the out-
lines of its so-called continents or the coasts of its so-called seas, to be
obscured by clouds to an extent which is appreciable except by very
refined observations. Quite otherwise would be the appearance which
our globe would present to any observer who would view it, say, from
Mars or from some other external world at the same distance. The
greater part of our globe would seem swathed with vast clouds, through
which only occasional peeps could be had at the actual configuration
of its surface. I dare say a Martian astronomer who had an observa-
tory with sufficiently good optical appliances and who possessed sufli-
cient patience might, in the course of time, by availing himself of
every opportunity, gradually limn out a chart of the earth which would
in some degree represent that with which we are familiar in our atlases.
It would, however, be a very tedious matter, owing to the interrup-
tions to the survey caused by the obscurities in our atmosphere. The
distant astronomer would never be able to comprehend the whole of
our earth’s features in a bird’s-eye glance, as we are able to do with
those features on that hemisphere of Mars which happens to be turned
toward us on a clear night.

As to what the composition of the atmosphere on Mars may be we
can say but little. In so far as the sustenance of life is concerned, the
main question, of course, turns on the presence or the absence of oxy-
gen. It may be pertinent to this inquiry to remark here that a globe

sm 1900——11
162 NOTES ON MARS.

surrounded by air may at one epoch of its career have free oxygen as
an ingredient in its atmosphere, while at other epochs free oxygen
may be absent. This may arise from another cause besides the pos-
sible loss of the gas by diffusion into space from small globes in the
manner already explained. Indeed, it seems quite probable that the
oxygen in our own air is not destined forever to remain there. It
passes through various vicissitudes by being absorbed by animals and
then restored again in a free state under the influence of vegetation.
But there is an appetite for oxygen among the inorganic materials of
our globe which seems capable of using up all the oxygen on the globe
and still remain unsatisfied. We have excellent grounds for believing
that there is in the interior of the earth a quantity of metallic iron
quite sufficient to unite with all the free oxygen of the air, soas to form
oxide. In view of the eagerness with which oxygen and iron unite
and the permanence of the compound which they form, it is impos-
sible for us to regard the presence of oxygen in the air as represent-
ing a stable condition of things. It follows that, even though there
may be no free oxygen in the atmosphere of Mars, it is by no means
certain that this element has always been absent. It is, however, not
at all beyond the reach of scientific resources to determine what the
actual composition and extent of the atmosphere of Mars may be,
though it can hardly be said that as yet we are in full possession of the
truth.

An almost equally important question is as to the telescopic evidence
of the presence of water on Mars. Here again we have to be reminded
of the fact that even at present, when the planet is relatively so near us,
it is still actually a very long way off. It would be impossible for us
to say with certainty that an extent which by its color and general ap-
pearance looked like an ocean of water was really water, or was even
a fluid at all. It is so easy to exaggerate the capabilities of our great
telescopes that it may be well to recount what is the very utmost that
could be expected from even our greatest instrument when applied to
the study of Mars. Let us consider, for example, the capabilities of
the Lick telescope in aiding such an inquiry as that before us. This
instrument, both from its position and its optical excellence, offers a
better view of Mars at the present time than can be obtained else-
where. But the utmost that this telescope could perform in the way
of rendering remote objects visible is to reduce the apparent distance
of the object to about one-thousandth part of its actual amount. Some,
indeed, might consider that even the Lick instrument would not be
capable of giving so great an accession to our powers as this statement
expresses. However, I am willing to leave the figure at this amount,
only remembering that if I estimated the powers of the telescope less
highly than these facts convey, the arguments on which I am entering
would be correspondingly strengthened.
NOTES ON MARS. 163

As we have already said, Mars is at present at a distance of 35,0( 90,000
miles, and if we look at it through a telescope of such a power as we
have described, the apparent Hea is reduced to one-thousandth
part. In other words, all that the best telescope can possibly do is to
exhibit the planet to us as it would be seen by the unaided eye if it
were brought into a distance of 35,000 miles. This will demonstrate
that even our greatest telescopes can not be expected to enable us to
answer the questions that are so often asked about our neighboring
globe. What could we learn of Europe if we have only a bird’s-eye
view of it from a height of 35,000 miles; that is to say, from a height
which was a dozen times as far as from the shores of Europe to Amer-
ica? The broad outlines of the coast might of course be seen by the
contrast of the color of a continent and the color of the ocean. Pos-
sibly a great mountain mass like the Alps would be sufficiently notice-
able to permit some conjecture as to its character to be formed. But
it is obvious that it would be hopeless to expect to see details. The
smallest object that would be discernible on Mars must be as large as
London. It would not be possible to see a point so small as would
either Liverpool or Manchester be if they were on that point. There
is, no doubt, a remarkable contrast between the dark colors of certain
parts of Mars and the ruddy colors of other parts. It would, how-
ever, be going rather far to assert that the former must be oceans of
water and the latter continents of land. This may indeed be the case,
and most astronomers, I believe, think that it is the case, but it cer-
tainly has not yet been proved to be so.

Undoubtedly the most striking piece of evidence that can be adduced
in favor of the supposition that there is water on Mars is derived from
the ‘‘ snowy ” poles on the planet. The appearance of the poles of Mars
with their white caps is one of the most curious features of the solar
system. The resemblance to the structure of our own polar regions
is extremely instructive. It is evident that there must be some white
material which from time to time gathers in mighty volume round the
north and south poles of the planet.

It is also to be noticed that this accumulation is not permanent. The
amount of it waxes and wanes in correspondence with the variations
of the seasons on Mars. It increases during Mars’s winter, and it
declines again during Mars’s summer. In this respect the white
regions, whatever they may be composed of, present a noteworthy
contrast to the majority of the other features on the planet. The
latter offer no periodic changes to our notice; they are evidently com-
paratively permanent marks, not to any appreciable extent subject to
seasonal variations. When we reflect that this white material is some-
thing which grows and then disappears according to a regular period,
it is impossible to resist the supposition that it must be snow, or pos-
sibly the congealed form of some liquid other than water, which dur-
ing Mars’s summer is restored to a fluid state. There can hardly be
164 NOTES ON MARS.

a doubt that if we were ever able to take a bird’s-eye view of our own
earth its poles would exhibit white masses like those which are exhib-
ited by Mars, and the periodic fluctuations at different seasons would
produce changes just like those which are actually seen on Mars. It
seems only reasonable to infer that we have in Mars a repetition of
the terrestrial phenomenon of arctic regions on a somewhat reduced
scale.

Among the features presented by Mars there are others in addition
to the polar caps which seem to suggest the existence of water. It
was in September, 1877, when Mars was placed in the same advan-
tageous position for observation that it occupies at present, that a
remarkable discovery was made by Professor Schiaparelli, the director
of the Milan Observatory. Inthe clear atmosphere and the convenient
latitude of the locality of his observatory he was so fortunate as to
observe marks not readily discernible under the less advantageous
conditions in which our observatories are placed. Up to his time it
was no doubt well known that the surface of Mars could be mapped
out into districts marked with more or less distinctness—so much so
that charts of the planet had been carefully drawn and names had
been assigned to the various regions which could be indicated with
sufficient certainty. But at the memorable opposition to which we
have referred the distinguished Italian astronomer discovered that
the tracts generally described as ‘* continents” on Mars were traversed
by long, dark ‘* canals,” as he called them. They must have been each
at least 60 miles wide, and in some cases they were thousands of miles
in length. Notwithstanding the dimensions to which these figures
correspond, the detection of the Martian canals indicates one of the
utmost refinements of astronomical observation. The fact that they
are so difficult to see may be taken as an illustration of what I have
already said as to the hopelessness of discerning any object on this
planet unless it be of colossal dimensions.

It is impossible to doubt that considerable changes must be in prog-
ress on the surface of Mars. It is true that, viewed from the dis-
tance at which we are placed, the extent of the changes, though intrin-
sically vast, seem relatively insignificant. There is, however, too
much testimony as to the changes to allow of hesitation.

Speculations have naturally been made as to the explanation of these
wonderful canals. It has been suggested that they may indeed be
rivers; but it hardly seems likely that the drainage of ecntinents on
so small a globe as Mars would require so elaborate a system of rivers,
each 60 miles wide and thousands of miles in length. There is, how-
ever, a more fatal objection to the river theory in the fact that the
marks we are trying to interpret sometimes cross a Martian continent
from ocean to ocean, while on other occasions they seem to intersect
each other. Such phenomena are of course well-nigh impossible if

‘
NOTES ON MARS. 165

these so-called canals were in any respect analogous to the rivers which
we know on our own globe. It can, however, hardly be doubted that
if we assume the dark regions to be oceans the canals do really repre-
sent some extension of the waters of these oceans into the continental
masses. Other facts which are known about the planet suggest that
what seem to be vast inundations of its continents must occasionally
take place. Nor is it surprising that such vicissitudes should occur
on a globe circumstanced like Mars. Here, again, it is well to remem-
ber the small size of the planet, from which we may infer that it has
progressed through its physical evolution at a rate more rapid than
would be possible with a larger globe, like the earth. The sea is con-
stantly wearing down the land, but, by upheavals arising from the
intensely heated condition of the interior of our globe, the land is still
able to maintain itself above the water. It can, however, hardly
be doubted that if our earth had so far cooled that the upheavals
had either ceased or were greatly reduced the water would greatly
encroach on the land. Ona small globe like Mars the cooling of the
interior has so far advanced that in all probability the internal heat
is no longer an effective agent for indirectly resisting the advance of
the water, and consequently the observed submergence is quite to be
expected.

That there may be types of life of some kind or other on Mars is, I
should think, very likely. Two of the elements, carbon and hydrogen,
which are most intimately associated with the phenomena of life here,
appear to be among the most widely distributed elements throughout
the universe, and their presence on Mars is in the highest degree prob-
able. But what form the progress of evolution may have taken on
such a globe as Mars it seems totally impossible to conjecture. It has
been sometimes thought that the ruddy color of the planet may be due
to vegetation of some peculiar hue, and there is certainly no impossi-
bility in the conception that vast forests of some such trees as copper
beeches might impart to continental masses hues not unlike those which
come from Mars. Speculations have also been made as to the possi-
bility of there being intelligent inhabitants on this planet, and I do
not see how anyone can deny the possibility, at all events, of such a
notion. I would suggest, however, that as our earth has only been
tenanted by intelligent beings for an extremely brief part of its entire
history—say, for example, for about one-thousandth part of the entire
number of years during which our globe has had an independent exist-
ence—so we may fairly conjecture that the occupancy of any other
world by intelligent beings might be only a very minute fraction in the
span of the planet’s history. It would therefore be highly improb-
able, to say the least of it, that in two worlds so profoundly different
in many respects as are this earth and Mars the periods of occupancy
by intelligent beings should happen to be contemporaneous. I should
166 NOTES ON MARS.

therefore judge that, though there may once have been or though there
may yet be intelligent life on Mars, the laws of probability would
seem against the supposition that there is such life there at this
moment.

We have also heard surmises as to the possibility of the communica-
tion of interplanetary signals between the earth and Mars, but the
suggestion is a preposterous one. Seeing that a canal 60 miles wide
and 1,000 miles long is an object only to be discerned on exceptional
occasions and under most favorable circumstances, what possibility
would there be that, even if there were inhabitants on Mars who desired
to signal this earth, they could ever succeed in doing so? We are
accustomed to see ships signaling by flags, but what would have to be
the size of the flags by which the earth could signal to Mars or Mars
signal to the earth? To be effective for such purpose each of the flags
should be at least as big as Ireland. It is true, no doubt, that small
planets would be fitted for the residence of large beings, and large
planets would be proper for small beings. The Lilliputians might be
sought for on a globe like Jupiter, and the Brobdingnagians on a globe
like Mars, and not vice versa, as might be hastily supposed. But no
Brobdingnagian’s arms would be mighty enough to wave the flag on
Mars which we should be able to see here. No building that we could
raise, even were it a hundred times more massive than the Great
Pyramid, would be discernible by the Martian astronomer, even had he
the keenest eyes and the most potent telescopes of which our experience
has given us any conception.

Ul. Tur Canats or Mars.?
By Miss M. A. Orr.

The physical condition of Mars is a problem over which discussion
still rages with unabated vigor. While Mr. Lowell sees in the Martian
“canals” a vast system of artificial irrigation, and M. du Ligondés
geological fissures, through which rise to the frozen surface vivifying
vapors from a still heated interior, M. Antoniadi ascribes their doubling
to a defect in focusing, and others disbelieve in even their single
existence. But the enigmatical lines have appeared to so many, and
in the main with such consistent similarity, that the ranks of these
unbelievers grow thin. Between rejecting the canals altogether, how-
ever, and accepting them as actual physical entities there are other
possible alternatives. Mr. Walter Maunder, in an article in Knowl-
edge for November, 1894, and more recently Signor Cerulli, in recount-
ing his observations of Mars in the opposition of 1896-97, at his private
observatory of Collurania (Teramo), showed how the mathematical

From Knowledge, February 1, 1901. [See article on Canals of Mars in Smith-
sonian Report for 1894. ]
os
H

NOTES ON MARS. 167

lines and spots we find in the faint markings of Mars might be merely
the easiest form in which, with our present optical means, we could be
cognizant of its realfeatures. This latter treatise elicited replies from
Schiaparelli and Flammarion, but their arguments in favor of the
physical existence of the markings as such, and of actual changes tak-
ing place in them, are not altogether conclusive. Signor Cerulli’s
observations during the last opposition have confirmed him in the
belief that the markings are optical, and his new report' is substan-
tially a full exposition of his theory. These observations extended
from August, 1898, to March, 1899, and were made with a 154-inch
Cooke equatorial, with powers of 400 and 500, always without stops or
colored screens, the object being not to get sharp definition of any
special feature, but as complete a picture as might be of all the phe-
nomena. The author shows what is the explanation, on his theory, of
the features seen and their apparent variations, and brings forward
ingenious and novel arguments to prove his case.

It must be remembered that in a bird’s-eye view of a world
some 40,000,000 miles away-all we can take note of are contrasts
in tone or color, while the real contour of objects is masked or
invisible. Small or faintly shaded objects, invisible singly, will
produce an effect, if close together, of one large mass, and from
our inability to see the irregularity of their grouping will ap-
pear as round spots or long streaks. But conditions of seeing
vary enormously on Mars, according to its distance and position
and the changing illumination of its disk, not to speak of varia-
tions in ourselves, our atmosphere, and our instruments. The con-
trasts, therefore, will vary, more detail will sometimes be seen in
the patches and streaks, fainter markings at their edges will appear
and disappear, altering their outline and extent. The hazy aspect of
Schiaparelli’s canals may thus be a nearer approximation to reality
than the sharply defined, and the doubling may be due to disappear-
ance of faint shadings between more easily grasped boundaries. That
the canals were discovered after the opposition of 1877, being only sus-
pected during the most favorable period, that they are sharpest with
colored screens and comparatively small apertures, while in the great
Lick and Washington telescopes they have been seen either as few
diffused markings or not at all, suggest that the fine lines are simply

-a mode under which faint markings may present themselves to imper-

fect vision. There is undoubtedly truth in the apparent paradox that
greater distinctness comes with poorer vision, for in the best moments
the eye dimly perceives, even where it can not grasp, divisions in
simple masses, curves, and blurring in narrow lines, indeterminate
shadows in clear spaces.

1 Nuove osservazioni di Marte: Saggio di una interpretazione ottica delle sensazion1
areoscopiche. By VY. Cerulli. Collurania, 1900.
168 NOTES ON MARS.

Whether the optical theory accounts for all the variations, including
those of the polar caps, the future must decide. Most interesting is
Cerulli’s appeal to the past history of areography, referring to Flam-
marion’s valuable collection of drawings, all carefully copied from
originals, in his Plancte Mars. Here we may see now in the first
rude telescopes impressions of Martian markings were summed up in
one large round spot, or one wide band, which latter was by Cassini
and some others seen double. By degrees the easiest features of the
Southern Hemisphere were distinguished, but appeared so variable
that an atmospheric origin was ascribed to them. It is particularly
instructive to compare Knott’s drawing of November. 3, 1862, with
Lord Rosse’s of three days later. Knott’s telescope was of 74-inch
aperture, and the features which in the 6-foot Rosse reflector appeared
as large dark patches on a fainter background he portrays as narrow
lines on white—canals on a large scale. Again, in two excellent draw-
ings by Kaiser, a broad band where we now recognize Praxodes, seen
at the opposition of 1862, becomes, six weeks later, when seeing was
more difficult, two narrow bands with faint shadings between. Other
examples of gemination in lines and in spots, contractions and enlarge-
ments, etc., may be traced, and through all the series there is a
remarkable, but in no wise astonishing, variety of representation.
One has but to consider the fugitive faintness of the objects, the im-
perfections of the instruments, and the personality of the observers,
which affects not only their vision but their mode of portrayal. On
this last point, which comes out very clearly on an examination of the
illustrations in La Planéte Mars, Signor Cerulli has not perhaps laid
enough stress, nor on the influence of unconscious imitation.

Mr. Green, the artist astronomer, used to insist on the importance
of the trained hand as well as the trained eye in order to obtain true
pictures of planetary detail.

Is the history of discovery with regard to the large markings in
Mars’s southern hemisphere repeating itself now with the more deli-
cate shadings in the northern? And with better optical means would
they also lose their misleading appearance of mathematical regularity
and their instability

The artificial origin of the Martian ‘‘canals” can hardly be main-
tained now that they have been seen to traverse the polar caps and to
appear in Venus, Mercury, and two of the Jovian satellites. On the
optical hypothesis, on the other hand, this is precisely what we might
expect. It is perhaps going too far to suggest that the bands of Jupiter
and their varying appearances are strictly analogous to canals, since
their atmospheric origin is rendered probable by other considerations,
notably by the planet’s low density; yet there is certainly a startling
resemblance between some early drawings of Mars and recent diagrams
NOTES ON MARS. 169

of Jupiter. Schréter’s Mars, for instance, on page 77, fig. 48, of ‘‘ La
Planéete Mars” (1892 edition), tempts one to quote Dante:

Such would Jove become, if he and Mars

Were birds, and changed their plumage.

We are indebted to M. Flammarion for another line of evidence.
- He had the happy idea of collecting naked-eye views of the moon by
different observers, and in response to his appeal an interesting series
appeared in the Bulletin de la Société Astronomique de France from
January to June of last year. The disk of the moon to the unaided
eye is about the same size as that of Mars in an average telescope, but
the conditions are not quite the same, as naked-eye vision does not
admit of straining and misfocusing to the same extent as telescopic.
Nevertheless, the study of these drawings is, as M. Flammarion remarks,
a lesson on the value to be attached to observations at the limit of visi-
bility, and no one would have believed that the same thing could have
been represented in so many different ways. The reader may judge
for himself by personal examination whether these drawings support
Cerulli’s theory of the canals. He will not fail to observe a tendency
to draw the Seas of Serenity, Tranquillity, Plenty, and Nectar, as two
lines more or less parallel, while the Ocean of Tempests is sometimes a
narrow, curved line, its eastern border only being seen in contrast with
the brilliant limb. Tycho in one instance appears as a very large bright
square.

Whether the optical theory be correct or no, probably no one will
deny the wisdom of Signor Cerulli’s advice to regard all Martian maps
as temporary guides, sure to be modified by further investiyation. We
may add, however, that to refrain altogether from speculative hypoth-
eses would be as unscientific as uninteresting; the sensational theories
about Mars have been a stimulus to much excellent work; but the
scientist remembers that they are only theories and is prepared to see
them dispelled by fuller light.

Tl. Ture Messace From Mars.'

Writing from Lowell Observatory, Flagstaff, Ariz., Prof. A. E.
Douglass says in the Boston Transcript: The phenomenon on Mars
which has given rise to the report of a message from that planet on
December 7 of last year was really only a cloud on that planet lighted
up by the setting sun. It wasa true message, giving us knowledge of
Martian climate, but not a message from any intelligent inhabitants.
A great number of clouds of this kind have been seen in previous
years, but none, I believe, for the last four, and therefore this one,
coming as it did in one particular part of the planet, was a matter of
great interest, and I telegraphed information about it to the, East,

1From Boston Transcript, February 2, 1901.
170 NOTES ON MARS.

where it was distributed to all astronomers and to many others
interested.

Astronomers almost never see clouds on the sunlit portions of the
planet. If they exist as thin cirrus clouds, we should perhaps be
unable to see them. Heavy clouds, if they covered a large enough
area of the planet, would be visible. They would have to cover per-
haps a million square miles before they could be recognized with cer-
tainty. But on this earth they cover far more area than that, and
therefore, as we do not see them on Mars at all, we conclude that the
planet is extremely dry. As a matter of fact, it has no oceans and no
surfaces that are positively identified as permanent water surfaces.
Some observers even doubt that the planet is warm enough to permit
the existence of water. The only two indications of water, however,
are in the polar caps of snow and the clouds, such as this one, which
becomes visible to us as the sun sets on the region above which they
float. These clouds stand above such regions like the peaks of high
mountains, and receive the last rays of the setting sun, when all
beneath is dark. They therefore appear to us as bright spots against
a dark background or as bright points extending from the sunlit por-
tion of the planet out into the region of night.

The first observation of a phenomenon of this kind was made at the
Lick Observatory in 1890. A few were seen in 1892 at a number of
observatories. Over 350 were observed and studied at this observa-
tory in 1894, and many were seen in 1896. The result of the study of
several hundred of them is given in Vol. I of the Annals of the Lowell
Observatory. By that research it became evident that many of them
were formed at sunset. In character they were probably like our
dense cumulus clouds. Their average elevation was much greater
than our cumulus clouds, being several miles on an average, and one
was seen at least as high as 15 miles above the surface, that of Novem-
ber 25, 1894. In that case the cloud was seen near the sunrise termi-
nator, as it is called—that is, the north and south line on the planet at
which the sun was rising. If we were searching for signals, the cloud

of November 25, 1894, would be a very much more striking case than ©

anything seen before or since. On the night of November 25 this
cloud was seen as a white spot against the dark background of the
unillumined surface beneath. It was 100 miles across and at least 15
miles above the surface. It remained in that point over half an hour,
then suddenly disappeared. On the following night it was only 8 miles
high. Instead of remaining constantly asa bright spot, it appeared
and disappeared. ‘The first appearance lasted sixteen minutes; after
four minutes it disappeared; it cameagain for only a moment, and after
six minutes more it again appeared for twoand one-half minutes. Then
followed an absence of three minutes, presence for two minutes,
NOTES ON MARS. 171

absence for three minutes, presence one minute, absence eight minutes,
and a final brief appearance forty-six minutes after the first sight of it.

If some genius can prove that these were a series of signals from
Mars, it would be a matter of the greatest importance. My own belief
is that it was a message from Mars, not from inhabitants of the sur-
face, but from the clouds which inhabit its atmosphere. They were
giving us an illustration of the effect on them of sunlight and showing
us how they form and disappear with its absence and presence.

The cloud which was observed on December 7 and 8 gave us also a
scientific message of great importance. It was seen on those two suc-
cessive mornings and lasted for an hour each time. It was less on the
second morning, as if the moisture had been dissipated, or had been
used in some way so that it could not condense into visible clouds. It
formed above the deserts on the north side of a large, dark marking
on the planet, Icarium Mare, which is supposed to be vegetation.
This is significant in two ways. First, it corroborates our idea that
the dark markings are vegetation by showing, as we should expect,
that the regions of vegetation have more moisture in them than the
surrounding regions, which are desert. Second, it appeared on the
north side of the dark marking, showing that there must have been a
motion of the air fromthe south. Thatis, at this point on the equator,
in a season which corresponds to our April 23, the wind was from the
south. At that time the sun was about 13° north of the equator, and
the point beneath most heated by the sun was therefore north also, and
the wind was blowing toward that point. This is exactly what we find
onthe earth in the case of the trade winds, which blow toward the heat
equator. And so we have received the most interesting information
that in these zones, at least, the winds on Mars and on the earth blow
in the same direction.

Knowing, then, that such similarity exists, scientists can advance
with confidence from a knowledge of our own weather conditions to
those on Mars. They can have the satisfaction of knowing that their
theories are not pure speculation. This, then, is the important message
which we have received from Mars.

IV. Messaces From Mars.*

We feel that some apology is needed for the appearance in these
pages of a note with this sensational heading; but there have been so
many paragraphs lately in the daily press under the title that, on the
sole ground that this is a chronicle of astronomical and quasi-astro-
nomical events, we think the subject should be mentioned. First, a
telegram came from America saying that Mr. Douglass, at Lowell
Observatory, Ariz., had seen a projection on the northern edge of

1 Extract from The Observatory, London, February, 1901, p. 102.
1G NOTES ON MARS.

Tcarium Mare, which remained visible for more than an hour. Some
one interpreted this by the well-worn surmise that the Martian inhab-
itants were signaling to us. Sir Robert Ball tried to convince the
public of the fallacy of this in one of his lectures at the Royal Institu-
tion, and M. Flammarion, with the same end in view, explained to an
interviewer that this appearance was probably a sunset effect on our
neighbor. Next, Mr. Nikola Tesla, having a wireless-telegraphy appa-
ratus on a mountain in America, said that he had noticed effects on
his receiver for which he could not account, and therefore he concluded
that they must have been caused by the inhabitants of Mars. The
message, according to Mr. Tesla, was not particularly lucid, being, as
he said, merely ‘‘ one, two, three;” but he did not hesitate to explain
that it is quite within the bounds of possibility to establish electrical
communication with our neighbor. These utterances, which have been
cabled at length to the English papers, have furnished texts for many
jocose paragraphs and small poems; the interviewers have been busy.
* * * M. Loewy very naturally asked his interviewer, ‘‘ Why
Mars? How did Mr. Tesla know that it was not Venus or Mercury
who was signaling?”

A third matter, which comes under the heading, relates to a bequest
of a Mme. Guzmann, who in 1891 left 100,000 francs to be awarded as a
prize to the first person who shall be successful in communicating with
another world other than the planet Mars. The Academy hesitated to
accept the bequest, but has at last done so, influenced, perhaps, by
the fact that the will goes on to say that each time the prize has not
been awarded for a period of five years the accumulated interest shall
be attributed to a work seriously helping the progress of astronomy.
The Academy, in accepting the trust, remarks that the intentions of
the founder will be scrupulously executed, and quotes from Mon-
taigne: ‘* It is astupid presumption to condemn as false all that which
may not appear likely to us. There is no greater madness in the
world than to reduce everything to the measure of our capacity and
competence.” But why is Mars excluded? Is it to bar Mr. Tesla?
ON SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE AND VARIA-
TIONS IN RAINFALL IN THE REGION SURROUNDING
THE INDIAN OCEAN.’

By Sir Norman ‘bigot Ko C.B., F. RB. S., and W. J.S: Lockyer.
M. A. (Camb.), Ph. D. (GOtt.).

The fact that the abnormal behavior of the widened lines in the
spectra of sunspots since 1894 had been accompanied by irregularities
in the rainfall of India suggested the study and correlation of various
series of facts which might be expected to throw light upon the subject.

The conclusions already arrived at from bringing together the results
of several investigations undertaken with this view may be stated as
follows:

(1) It has been found from a discussion of the chemical origin of
lines most widened in sunspots at maxima and minima periods that
there is a considerable rise above the mean temperature of the sun
around the years of sunspot maximum and a considerable fall around
the years of sunspot minimum.

(2) It has been found from the actual facts of rainfall in India
(during the southwest monsoon) and Mauritius, between the years
1877 and 1886, as given by Blanford and Meldrum, that the effects of
these solar changes are fe!t in India at sunspot maximum, and in
Mauritius at sunspot minimum. Of these the greater is that produced
in the Mauritius at sunspot minimum. The pulse at Mauritius at
sunspot minimum is also felt in India, and gives rise generally to a
secondary maximum in India.

India therefore has two pulses of rainfall, one near the maximum
and the other near the minimum of the sunspot period.

(3) It has been found that the dates of the beginning of these two
pulses on the Indian and Mauritius rainfall are related to the sudden
remarkable changes in the behavior of the widened lines.

(4) It has been found from a study of the famine commission reports
that all the famines therein recorded which have devastated India
during the last half century (we have not yet carried the investigation
further back) have occurred in the intervals between these two eee

' Reprinted (abridged) from eee Nov hae 29 sie eee Grol 1900.
173
174 SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE.

(5) It has been found from the investigation of the changes in (1)
the widened lines, (2) the rainfall of India, and (3) of the Mauritius
during and after the last maximum in 1893 that important variations
from those exhibited during and after the last maximum of 1883
occurred in all three.

It may be stated at the same time that the minimum of 1888-89
resembled the preceding minimum of 1878-79.

(6) It has been found from an investigation of the Nile curves
between the years 1849 and 1878 that all the lowest Niles recorded
have occurred between the same intervals.

(7) The relation of the intervals in question to the droughts of -

Australia and of Cape Colony and to the variations in the rainfall of
extratropical regions generally has not yet been investigated. We
have found, however, a general agreement between the intervals and
the rainfall of Scotland (Buchan), and have traced both pulses in the
rainfalls of Cérdoba (Davis) and the Cape of Good Hope.

(8) We have had the opportunity of showing these results to the
meteorological reporter to the government of India and director-
general of Indian observatories, John Eliot, esq., C. I. E., F. R.S.,
who is now in England, and he allows us to state his opinion that they
accord closely with all the known facts of the large abnormal features
of the temperature, pressure, and rainfall in India during the last
twenty-five years, and hence that the inductions already arrived at will
be of great service in forecasting future droughts in India.

Sotar Puysics OpsErvatory, October 26.

ADDENDUM.

Since Meldrum and one of us called attention, in 1872, to a possible
connection between sunspots and rainfall, there has been a large liter-
ature upon the subject which it is not necessary for us to analyze; it
may be simply stated that, in spite of the cogent evidence advanced
since, chiefly by Meldrum, and in later years by Mr. Hutchins," it is
not yet generally accepted that a case for the connection has been
made out.

What has been looked for has been a change at maximum sunspots
only, the idea being that there might be an effective change of solar
temperature, either in excess or defect, at such times, and that there
would be a gradual and continuous variation from maximum to
maximum.

At the same time it is possible that the pressure connection, first
advanced by Chambers, is now accepted by meteorologists as a result
of the recent work of Eliot.

The coincidence, during the last few years, of an abnormal state of
the sun with abnormal rain in India, accompanied by the worst famine

——

*“Cycles of Drought and Good Seasons in South Africa, 1889.”
SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE. a Edis)

experienced during the century, suggested to us the desirability of
reconsidering the question, especially as we have now some new fac-
tors at our disposal. These have been revealed by the study, now
extending over twenty years, of the widened lines in sunspots, which
suggested the view that two effects ought to be expected in a sunspot
cycle instead of one.

THE WIDENED LINES.

It will be gathered from previous communications to the Royal
Society * that, on throwing the image of a sunspot on the slit of a spec-
troscope, it is found that the spectrum of a spot so examined indicates
that the blackness of the spot is due not only to general, but to select-
ive absorption,” and that the lines widened by the selective absorption
vary from time to time.

Since the year 1879 the selective absorption in spots has been
observed for every spot that was large enough to be spectroscopically
examined, the method adopted being as follows:

The regions of the spectrum investigated le between F—# and d—D,
and an observation consists in observing the six most widened lines in
each of these regions. These lines are then identified on the best solar
spectrum maps available and their wave lengths determined.

An examination of many years’ records of these widened lines has
shown that at some periods they are easily traceable to known ele-
ments, while at others their origins have not been discovered, so the
latter have been classed as ‘‘unknown” lines. If we compare these
two periods with the sun-spot curve as constructed from the measure-
ments of the mean spotted area for each year, it is found that when the
spotted area is greatest the widened lines belong to the ‘‘unknown”
class, while when the spotted area is least they belong to the ** known”
class.

The majority of the lines traced to some terrestrial origin belong to
iron, but the lines of other elements, such as titanium, nickel, vana-
dium, scandium, manganese, chromium, cobalt, ete., are also repre-
sented in a less degree.

It is quite likely that some of the ‘Cunknown” lines are higher tem-
perature (enhanced) lines of known chemical elements.

In our laboratories we have means of differentiating between three
stages of temperature, namely, the temperature of the flame, the
electric are, and the electric spark of the highest tension. At the
lowest temperature, that of the flame, we get a certain set of lines; a
new set is seen as the temperature of the electric arc is reached. At

the temperature of the high-tension spark we again have many new
So a
1 Proc. Roy. Soc., vol. x1, p. 347, 1886; vol. xlii, p. 37, 1887; vol. xlvi, p. 385, 1889; vol.
lvii, p. 199, 1894.
?P.R.S., Lockyer, 1866, October 11.
176 SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE.

lines, called enhanced lines, added, while many of the are lines wane
in intensity.

It is found that at sun-spot minimum, when the ‘* known” lines are
most numerous, the lines are almost invariably those seen most promi-
nent in the arc. Passing from the sun-spot minimum toward the
maximum the ‘‘unknown” lines gradually obtain the predominance.
As said before, they may be possibly ‘*enhanced lines;” that. is,
lines indicating the action of a much higher temperature on known
substances.

Unfortunately the records of enhanced lines at South Kensington,
having been obtained from photographs, are chiefly confined to a
region of the spectrum not covered by the visual observations of
widened lines in sun-spot spectra.

We can only point to the evidence acquired in the case of one
metal—iron—for which photographs of the enhanced lines in the green
and yellow parts of the spectrum have been obtained.

This evidence quite justifies the above suggestion, for the enhanced
lines of iron can be seen revealing themselves as the number of
unknown lines increases.

We are, therefore, quite justified in assuming a very great increase
of temperature at the sun-spot maximum when the ‘‘ unknown” lines
appear alone.

The curves of the ‘‘known” and ‘‘unknown” lines have been
obtained by determining for each quarter of a year the percentage
number of known and unknown lines and plotting these percentages
as ordinates and the time elements as abscissee. Instead of using the
mean curves for all the known elements involved, that for iron is
employed, as it is a good representative of ‘‘ known” elements, and
has been best studied. When such curves have been drawn, they
cross each other at points where the percentage of unknown lines is
increasing, and that of the iron or known lines are diminishing, or vice
versa.

We seem, therefore, to be brought into the presence of three well-
marked stages of solar temperature.

When the curves of known and unknown lines cross each other—
that is, when the number of known and unknown lines is about equal—
we must assume a mean condition of solar temperature. When the
unknown lines reach their maximum, we have indicated to us a + pulse
or condition of temperature. When the known lines reach their
maximum, we have a — pulse or condition of temperature.

The earliest discussion showed that, generally speaking, the unknown-
lines curve varied directly and the iron-lines curve varied inversely
with the spot-area curve. The curves now obtained for the whole
period of twenty years not only entirely indorse this conclusion, but
enable more minute comparisons to be drawn.
SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE. iy eye

The ** widened line” curves are quite different from those furnished
by the sun spots. Ascents and descents are both equally sharp,
changes are sudden, and the curves are relatively flat at top and bot-
tom. ‘The crossings are sharply marked.

During the period since 1879 three such crossings have occurred,
indicating the presence of mean solar temperature conditions, in the
years 1881, 1886-87,’ and 1892. It was expected that another crossing
with the known lines on the rise would have occurred in 1897, indieat-
ing thereby thearrival of another mean condition of solar tempera-
ture, but as yet no such crossing has taken place. * * *

It becomes, therefore, of the first importance to correlate the times
of mean solar temperature, and of the + and — heat pulses, with the
solar weather cycle, in order to arrive at the temperature history of
the sun during the period which now concerns us. * * *

CONNECTION OF THE SPOTS WITH PROMINENCES.

In 1869, when a sun-spot maximum was approaching, the promi-
nences were classified by one of us into eruptive and nebulous; the
former showing many metallic lines, the latter the hydrogen and
helium lines chiefly. * * *

The eruptive prominences, unlike the nebulous ones, were not
observed in all heliographic latitudes; but, according to the extended
observations of Tacchini and Ricco, had their maxima in the same lati-
tude as the spots. * * * This is corroborated by what Professor
Respighi many years ago stated: ‘*In correspondence with the maxi-
mum of spots, not only does the number of the large protuberances
increase, but more than this—their distribution over the solar surface
is radically modified.” * * *

In photographs near sun-spot maximum the concentration of the
prominences in zones parallel to the Equator is perfectly obvious at a
glance. Eruptive or metallic prominences are thus seen to cover a
much larger area than the spots, so that we have the maximum of solar
activity indicated, not only by the increased absorption phenomena
indicated by the greater number of the spots, but by the much greater
radiation phenomena of the metallic prominences; and there seems
little doubt that in the future the measure of the change in the amount
of solar energy will be determined by the amount and locus of the
prominence area.

Spots are, therefore, indications of excess of heat, and not of its
defect, as was suggested when the term ‘‘ screen” was used for them.
We know now that the spots at maximum are really full of highly

1 According to the observations the mean was reached in December, 1886, or Jan-
uary, 1887.

sm 1900

12
jwise SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE.

heated vapors produced by the prominences, which are most numerous
when the solar atmosphere is most disturbed. * * *

The Indian meteorologists have abundantly proved that the increased
radiation from the sun on the upper air currents at maximum is accom-
panied by a lower temperature in the lower strata, and that with this
disturbance of the normal temperature we must expect pressure
changes. Chambers was the first to show that large spotted area was
accompanied by low pressures over the land surface of India. (Abnor-
mal Variations, p. 1.)

INDIAN RAINFALL. SOUTHWEST MONSOON, 1877-1886.

It will be clear from what has been stated that our object in studying
rainfall was to endeavor to ascertain if the + and — temperature pulses
in the sun were echoed by + and — pulses of rainfall. The Indian
rainfall was taken first, not only because in the Tropics we may expect
the phenomena to be the simplest, but because the regularity of the
Indian rains had broken down precisely when the widened line obser-
vations showed a most remarkable departure from the normal. * * *

The first investigation undertaken was the study of the rainfall tables
published by the meteorological department of the government of
India. These were brought together by Blandford down to the year
1886." As the widened line observations were not begun at Kensing-
ton till 1879, the discussion was limited in the first instance to the
period 1877-1886, inclusive, embracing the following changes in solar
temperature, occurring, as will be seen, between two conditions of
mean solar temperature:

i

|
[ean. — pulse. | Mean. | + pulse. | Mean.

|
| |
1876 1877-1880 1881 1882-1886 1886-1887

* % &

It soon became evident that in many parts of India the +
and — conditions of solar temperature were accompanied by + and —
pulses producing pressure changes and heavy rains in the Indian Ocean
and the surrounding land. These occurred generally in the first year
following the mean condition, that is, in 1877-78 and 1882-83, dates
approxumating to, but followed by, the minimum and maximum periods
of sun spots.

Meldrum, as far back as 1881,” referred to ‘‘ the extreme oscillations
of weather changes in different places, at the turning points of the
curves representing the increase and decrease of solar activity.”

It was especially in regions such as Malabar and the Konkan, when
the monsoon strikes the west coast of India, that the sharpness and
individuality of these pulses was the most obvious. * * *

‘Indian Meteorological Memoirs, Vol. III.
*On the Relations of Weather to Mortality, and on the Climatic Effect of Forests.
SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE. 179

THE RAINFALL OF °*WHOLE INDIA.’

The next step was to work on a longer base, and for this purpose
Eliot’s whole India table of rainfall, 1875-1896 (Nature, vol. lvi. p.
110), embracing both the southwest and northeast monsoons, being at
our disposal, was studied.

It was anticipated that such a table, built up of means observed over
such a large area and during both monsoons, would more or less con-
ceal the meaning of the separate pulses observed in separate localities;
this we found to be the case. * * *

The pulses in the period stand as follows:

Percentage Heat
varlation. pulse.

= Wi, RS +15 . — Years after
2 ; | rise of
— Max. 1882 1 6 a Years alter! iron
| rise ol | . lines.
|_j__ Min. 1889 + 6 = SSS
ie | unknown
Max. 1893 +22 + —— lines.

The variations in the intensities of the pulses of rain at the suecess-
ive maxima and minima are very remarkable and suggest the working
of a higher law, of which we have other evidence. But, putting this
aside for the present, it should be pointed out that even normally we
should not expect the same values for the rainfalls in 1882 and 1893,
because the amount of spotted area was so different, 1,160 millionths
of the solar surface being covered with spots in 1883, and 1,430 in 1893.

The very considerable variation in the quantity of snowfall on the
Himalayas has often been pointed out by the Indian meteorolo-
pis,

The Himalayan snowfall, beyond all question, follows the same law
as the rain, the values occurring at the + and — pulses, as under,
being among the highest: '

Inches.
a= == GjS0) San GBH:

ae eile
L— — 77-8 ... 207
| 82-3... 81
From these tables it follows that both in rainfall and snow the quan-

tity is increased in the years of the rise both of the unknown and iron
mes. <= *

110

THE MAURITIUS RAINFALL.

* * * With regard to the general rainfall of Mauritius through-
out the year, it may be stated that on the average the most rainy
months are from December to ot both months inclusive.

a aaa Meeorolaeical Memoirs, Vol. III, p.
180 SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE.

The months of November and May are those in which the daily
rainfall is increasing and diminishing, respectively. Sometimes in
July or August there is a slight tendency for a small increase.

THE MAURITIUS RAINFALL CURVES FOR THE PERIOD 1877-1886.

In plotting the Mauritius rainfall curve for the period 1877-1886, it
was observed that the curve is of a fairly regular nature, showing
alternately an excess and deficiency of rainfall. * * *

Comparing the times of occurrence of the two pulses of rainfall at
Mauritius with the times of the crossings of the known and unknown
lines, it is found that the Mauritius maximum rainfall of 1877 occurs
about a vear after the rise of the known lines in 1876. The next
Mauritius pulse of rainfall in 1882 follows the succeeding crossing,
when the unknown lines are going up, also about a year later. * * *

The delay of about a year in the effect of the Mauritius pulse being
felt in Ceylon and India is exactly what would be expected if the rain
at sun-spot minimum comes from the south, as has been surmised.

The fact that the pulses at Mauritius, Ceylon, and India in 1882
occur simultaneously is very strong evidence in favor of an origin in
the equatorial region itself for the Indian rain at sun-spot maximum.
The pulse at maximum in the Indian southwest monsoon may depend
toa large extent upon the action of the excess of solar heat on the
equatorial waters to the south of India, and not on an abnormal effect
on the southeast trade. * * *

RESULT OF THE COMPARISON OF RAINFALL.

It seems quite certain that we are justified in associating the 1878
pulse of rainfall during the southwest monsoon in India with the rain-
fall common to Mauritius, Batavia, and the Cape at that date; that in
all cases the rain has been associated with some special condition con-
nected with the southeast trade in the Indian Ocean.

The rainfall of Cordova suggests that the same trade wind in the

y
.

Atlantic Ocean was similarly affected at the same time. * * *

SUBSIDIARY PULSES.

In a normal sun-spot curve we find a sharp rise, generally taking
three or three and a half years, to maximum, and a slow decline to
minimum, on which the remaining years of the cycle are spent.

The curve on the upward side rises generally regularly and continu-
ously; on the downward portion the regularity of the curve is very
often broken by a ‘thump” or sudden change of curvature. There
has not yet been a complete discussion of the number and character of
the prominences associated with the spots during the cycle; we have
found, however, that the ‘‘hump” in the sun-spot curve in 1874 was
accompanied by a remarkable increase in the number of eruptive
prominences. ,* * *
SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE. 18]

THE INTERVALS BETWEEN THE PULSES.

There will obviously be intervals between the ending of one pulse
and the beginning of the next, unless they either overlap or become
continuous.

The + and — pulses, to which our attention has been chiefly directed,
are limited in duration; and when they cease the quantity of rain which
falls in the India area is not sufficient without water storage for the
purposes of agriculture; they are followed, therefore, by droughts.
and at times subsequently by famines.

Taking the period 1877-1889 we have

Shin ign —= we. 38 ee aep Bee ee Deco
79 (part)
79 (part)

| UE DUS eS ee ee 80 (central year)
81 (part)

‘81 (part)

82

83

84 (part)

84 (part)

a ee is a aa Oe eee ES \ (central years)
87 (part)
87 (part)

Rain from + pulse............. ee ea aoe bake

8 SUED ss Pe Ge Ses 2 ee |

The duration of these + and — pulses of rainfall was determined
in the first instance by the Mauritius rainfall, which shows both pulses;
and later from the Malabar rainfall, which perhaps shows the effect
of the southwest monsoon in its greatest purity.

All the Indian famines since 1836 (we have not gone back further)
have occurred in these intervals, so far as they can be carried back on
the assumption of an eleven-year cycle.

The following tables show the result for the two intervals:

The interval between the pulses, taking 1880 as the central year, on the upward curve.

1880 Madras famine.
N.W.P. famine.
1880—11=1869, N.W.P. famine (1868-69).
1869—11=—1858, N.W.P. famine (1860).
1858—11=1847.
1847—11=1836, Upper India famine (1837-38). (Great famine. )

The interval between the pulses, taking 1885-86 as the central years, on the descending curve.

Bengal famine \/7 04 _e«
1885-86) Madras famine 1884-85).

1885-86—11=1874-75, N.W.P. famine (1873-74).
Bombay famine (1875-76).
Bombay famine 4876-77
Upper India famine( oo.” 17).
182 SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE.

sfMadras famine|/j opr pe
’\Orissa famine je? LOE
1863-64—11—1852-53, Madras famine (1854).

1874-75—11 = 1865-64

It is clear from the aboye table that if as much had been known in
1836 as we know now, the probability of famines at all the subsequent
dates indicated in the above tables might have been foreseen.

The region of time from which the above results have been obtained
extended from 1877 to 1886. The next table will show that if the
dates, instead of being carried back, are carried forward, the same
principle enables us to pick up the famines which have devasted India
during the period 1886-1897.

Same intervals, going forward.
1880.
+11 1891, N.W.P. famine (1890).
Madras famine
Bombay amine (1891-92).
Bengal famine,
(1885-86).
+11 1896-97, General famine.

This result has arisen, so far as we can see, from the fact that the +
and — pulses included in the period 1877-1886 were normal—that is,
were not great departures from the average.

NILE FLOODS.

After we had obtained the above results relating to the law followed
by the Indian famines we communicated with the Egyptian authorities
with a view of obtaining data for the Nile Valley.

We have since found, however, from aimemorandum by Mr. Eliot,’
that Mr. Willcocks, in a paper read at the Meteorological Congress at
Chicago, remarked that ‘‘famine years in India are generally years of
low flood in Egypt.”

It remains only for us, therefore, to point out that the highest Niles
follow the years of the + and — pulses. Thus:

1871, one year after -+ pulse 1870.

1876, two years after subsidiary pulse of 1874.

1879, two years after — pulse 1877.

1883-84, one and two years after ++ pulse 1882.

1893-94, after +- pulse 1892 (India excess rainfall, 1892-93-94).

THE GREAT INDIAN FAMINE OF 1899.

When, in a sun-spot cycle, the solar temperature is more than
usually increased the regularity of the above effects is liable to be
broken as the advent of the — pulse is retarded.

! Forecast of southwest monsoon rains of 1900.
SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE. 183

This, as we have already pointed out, is precisely what happened
after the abnormal + heat pulse of 1892, following close upon the
condition of solar mean temperature.

The widened line curves, instead of crossing, according to the few
precedents we have, in 1897 or 1898, have not crossed yet—that is, the
condition of ordinary solar mean temperature has not even yet been
reached.

We have shown that, as a matter of fact, in a normal cycle India is
supplied from the southern ocean during the minimum sun-spot period
and that this rain is due to some pressure effect brought about in high
southern latitudes by the sun at — temperature.

As the — temperature condition was not reached in 1899, as it would
have been in a normal year, the rain failed.

We may say then that the only abnormal famine recorded since 1836
occurred precisely at the time when an abnormal effect of an unpre-
cedented maximum of solar temperature was revealed by the study of
the widened lines. * * *

NOTE BY MR. LANGLEY.

We find that in the charts certain lines, whose character is to us
unknown, reach their maximum at the same time that the sun spots
do, while another class of lines, which are known, attain their mini-
mum at the same time.

It may not at first be entirely clear to the general reader how our
knowledge or our ignorance can appear as active factors in determin-
ing the position of lines in the sun, as they seemingly do, but the
paradox is easily explained when we notice that the lines of which we
are ignorant are those which are associated at such high temperatures
that we can not observe them, while those which we know, are dis-
associated at temperatures which bring them within the range of the
means in our laboratories.

This, then, is the simple explanation of this most interesting, but
at first sight paradoxical, observation of Mr. Lockyer.

In the plate annexed (PI. 1) the upright lines are one year apart in
every case; the upper curve is that showing the increase and decrease
of the spots on the sun. Thus, in 1883, the sun spots had reached the
greatest display at that time so n by the altitude of the curve, after
which they ran down, reaching their smallest amount very nearly
seven vears fe about 1889—and then mounting again until, in
1893, they had again reached their maximum value, which was indeed
ete: than the previous one.

Now, if we look immediately under them in the same years when
these were at a maximum, we shall see that the irregular lines, which
184 SOLAR CHANGES OF TEMPERATURE.

represent the growth or diminution of the percentage of the whole
number of lines due to iron in the spots, are at a minimum when the
others are at a maximum, and are at a maximum when the others are
at a minimum, and that again they have fallen to a minimum at the
time of the maximum in 1893.

These lines which are at a minimum when the sun spots are at a
maximum, and vice versa, are the known iron lines, but there is also a
dotted curve whose maximum and minimum agree with those of the
sun spots, and those are the lines whose provenance we do not know.

These are the solar phenomena. We shall see the same thing restated
in its apparent connection with terrestrial phenomena by looking at
Plate IJ, which is drawn on the same scale of years. Here we see
that the close of the famine year in each case agrees with the period
when the dotted line crosses the solid line; that is, where certain lines
due to temperature appear or disappear. Hence, at certain periods of
about eleven years we have spectroscopic evidence that there are
changes of temperature in the sun, and from what follows, that these
apparently coincide with the close of the famine years in India, as
well as with other terrestrial phenomena. This is the important coinci-
dence pointed out by Sir Norman Lockyer. It does not seem probable
that it can be due to chance, but we must await further observations
before feeling that this most interesting observation has acquired the
character of entire demonstration.
‘

4 Smithsonian Report, 1900,—Lockyer. PLATE I.

ssi a ite ae

1879 | 1850 | 188i | 1882] 1883] 1884] 1885 | 1886 | 1887 | 1888 | 18839 | 1830 | 1891 3 1884 | 1895

IRON] LINES

DERVATIONS

NO 0

PLATE II.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Lockyer.

Sv
Sv

VSS
Svat

WW

CVHCVIN.

4

MN

VIONI
LL Avaniog

AVEW Od
SVHOWW 2-168)

el

d MN 068)
YV3A BNIWW4

M01 €L81 sl ae
PHI WL ass

ASONIS SPRSI
“SUV BA 3NI

A ANIV

'
onsbous \

+7
ed

+ a
ONISSOWD,

zl =|
TAVINIVY SILLIUAWIN

eek

SINI7 NMOKINA

a oe LSLL LY ML pip, pom

\/

YY Ul

ei

3aS1nd+ NV3IW

3S 1Nd -

NVAW

‘

i,

ape ae a Ly,
YN LOd

+——

ia

yy }
ims”

3aS1nd+ NvIw asind—

gS Ter rT es ae Se ee =e
THE PEKIN OBSERVATORY:.!

The scientific world has been shocked at the looting of the Pekin
Observatory by the French and German troops. The instruments are
to be sent to Europe. It is greatly to General Chaffee’s credit that he
protested vigorously against this very unwarrantable act of vandalism.
At the end of this century institutions like an observatory should at
least be held sacred ty civilized combatants. Our engravings repre-
sent a bronze sphere and a celestial globe of the same material, nearly
7 feet in diameter, constructed under the direction of Father Verbiest,
in the seventeenth century. Our first engraving represents a bronze
quarter circle sent by Louis XIV to the Emperor Kang Hi in the sey-
enteenth century. Our fourth engraving represents the chief piece of
this observatory, so rich in artistic wonders. It is a bronze astronom-
ical instrument, vaguely recalling an equatorial. It was constructed in
the thirteenth century by Ko Chon King, astronomer of the Emperor
of the first Tartar dynasty and the founder of Pekin. The fifth engrav-
ing gives a general view of the astronomical instruments installed upon
the terrace of the observatory by Father Verbiest while he was presi-
dent of the tribunal of mathematics in 1674. Up to the present noth-
ing has been changed in the arrangement of these apparatus, and they
stand now just as they were placed by the learned missionary two hun-
dred years ago.

The general view of the Pekin Observatory, established at the begin-
ning of the nineteenth century near the Tartar rampart and the Temple
of the Lettered, has a feudal character which more closely recalls the
old gates with elliptic arches of the fortified cities of the Middle Ages
than the original structures of the extreme East. It is a massive
square tower, of medium height, at the top of which is observed a
series of odd silhouettes. These latter are those of the instruments
shown in one of our drawings. A little lower, from the left of the
tower, starts a sort of shed with curved roof, and very Chinese, under
which have rested, since the foundation of Pekin, a few Mongolian
instruments, which are genuine artistic marvels, that our engraving
can scarcely give any idea of.

This observatory is, or rather was, one of the rare curiosities of the
capital of the Celestial Empire.

‘Reprinted from Scientific American Supplement, No. 1304, December 29, 1900.
185
186 THE PEKIN OBSERVATORY.

According to those who have studied them, the accuracy of the instru-
ments is questionable, the Chinese artisans charged with the gradua-
tion not having reproduced with exactness the models given to them.

Nowhere is there met a trace of a telescope or even of a simple tube
capable of concentrating the visual rays of the observer upon a single
point. The pinnule is alone empioyed for observations. Fortunately
for science, alongside of this official observatory, the Cluny Museum
of Chinese Astronomy, stand some establishments, such as Lika Wey,
in which are found the most improved models of contemporary optics.
For our engravings we are indebted to L’Ilustration.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Pekin Observatory. PLATE |

Fig. 2.—CHINESE BRONZE ARMILLARY SPHERE (SEVEN-
TEENTH CENTURY).

BRONZE QUADRANT SENT BY LOUIS XIV TO
EMPEROR KANG Hi.

ile

Fig.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Pekin Observatory.

sm 1900——13

PLATE II.

| ¥ a i
i \

FiG. 3.—BRONZE CELESTIAL GLOBE (ABOUT 7 FEET IN DIAMETER), CONSTRUCTED BY PERE VERBIEST, IN 1674, AT THE

OBSERVATORY OF PEKIN.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Pekin Observatory.

PLATE III.

Fic. 4.—CHINESE BRONZE ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENT OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Pekin Observatory,

IV.

FiG. 5.—GENERAL VIEW OF THE ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS AT THE CHINESE OBSERVATORY, PEKIN.
>

THE PROGRESS OF AERONAUTICS.?

[Address of M. Janssen, president of the International Aeronautic Congress at the
opening of the congress, September 15, 1900, at the Observatory of Meudon, near

Paris.

GENTLEMEN: First of all I must thank you for the great honor that
you have just done me in calling me for the second time to preside at
this congress. I feel it keenly and shall use my best endeavors to
justify your choice.

I shall certainly be the interpreter of your sentiments in thanking
the members of the committee on organization for the zeal and talent
put forth by them in the arrangements for this congress, which unites
in its bosom not only members of every nation and embraces the most
diverse branches of aeronautics, but includes also elements of the civil
and military order. I will affirm that, thanks to the elevation of
intellect and of sentiments which has been shown on all hands, every-
thing has been successfully and perfectly coordinated. This congress
will certainly contribute to join in one spirit of progress and of con-
fraternity two elements so important and so necessary to the greatness
of nations.

I address the thanks of the committee on organization to our foreign
colleagues who have responded with such warmth and amiability to
our invitation. They have made us most happy and most proud, and
we can assure them that no effort shall be spared to render their visit
fruitful and agreeable. It is to be hoped that our foreign colleagues
will, upon the occasion of this congress, knit ties of friendship that
will not be loosed at its dissolution; for one of the fruits, perhaps the
most important of the fruits, of reunions of this kind is the establish-
ment of personal relations between men, no doubt already acquainted
with one another’s works and appreciative of them, but who never-
theless have never had an opportunity to see one another and to talk
over the subjects of their studies.

The mind of a writer is not entirely expressed in his works. Often
the best fruit of his meditations and labors is something of which he is
not himself aware and which he can not record. A lively and friendly
talk with a fellow-student who has followed the same career will bring
these treasures up from their depths, and out of this spring new ideas,
new points of view; nay, new subjects for study, enlarging and clear-
ing the intellectual horizon.

Printed also in

1Translated from Annuaire du bureau des longitudes pour 1901.

Reyue Scientifique, September 29, 1900. ae
188 THE PROGRESS OF AERONAUTICS.

Let us add that a mutual enjoyment and a durable friendship almost
invariably spring from such encounters. I do not doubt that the pres-
ent congress will bring a rich harvest of these excellent fruits.

Let us now glance rapidly at the most important items of progress
in aeronautics since the last congress held its meeting in Paris in 1889.
The progress has been great in all directions. New and highly impor-
tant subjects of study have been opened up, so that this review will
necessarily be extremely incomplete, and I must beg our colleagues to
pardon me some omissions which circumstances force me to make, as
well as some references that will be far more summary than I would
like to have them.

The siege of Paris in 1870 attracted renewed attention to the employ-
ment of balloons and of carrier pigeons in war, matters which had been
laid aside in France since the First Empire. America had been about
the only power which before 1870 had considered military aerostation.

The Government of the Republic soon seriously took up the creation
of special military services in aerostation and in peristerophily (‘‘co-
lombophilie”). For this purpose the fine central institution of Chalais
was founded and organized, and rapidly got systematically to work.
The duty of this institution is not merely to prepare the instruments
and to instruct the persons which are to be employed for the aero-
nautic service of our armies and military stations, but, further, to
investigate all the improvements of which those engines and services
are susceptible, and even to undertake studies which promise to con-
duct to new inventions and discoveries in the field of aerial navigation.

The majority of the other nations of the Continent very soon fol-
lowed the example set by France in this respect, and indeed it must
be admitted that several of them improved upon their model, either in
regard to the material or in that of the mode of using it. To-day
these services have acquired great importance in those nations. — It
even happens in Germany and Russia that the aeronautic service of
war often comes to the aid of civil aerostation by lending balloons for
experiments of scientific interest. Aerostation and aeronautics will
therefore have no insignificant part in future wars. But already the
war of the rebellion in America and, quite recently, that of the Trans-
raal have shown us to what advantages skillful generals can turn a
well-conducted aerostatic service. Indeed, if we reflect upon the cease-
less increments in the numbers of armies, in the range of the arms,
whether of artillery or of infantry, we shall readily foresee a corre-
sponding enlargement of the theaters of war, and this, in its turn,
will render indispensable both balloon reconnoissances and also more
and more powerful optical instruments; nor must we forget the impor-
tant service of the balloon in directing the fire of artillery.

Nevertheless, great as has been the progress which the services of
military reconnoissances by aerostation have accomplished in the hands
THE PROGRESS OF AERONAUTICS. 189

of the skillful officers who have been charged by their governments
with the creation and functioning of these services, it must be con-
fessed that important desiderata still remain. Thus it is possible now
to get away froma besieged place almost without risk, but to get in
again is quite another thing, for this second problem depends upon
the famous one of steering a balloon, a problem which began to be
solved in 1886 at Chalais-Meudon, but of which the complete solution
is still in futuro.

Since 1889 this great question, how to steer a balloon, has been con-
tinually agitated. Yet we must confess that while highly interesting
essays have been made, which merit all our sympathy, no decisive step
has been taken. In Berlin two overbold experiments have resulted
tragically. Yet experimenters have not been discouraged. M. Santo-
Dumont is even now preparing to contest the prize of 100,000 franes
that M. Henry Deutsch has founded at the Aero Club; and Count
Zeppelin is making a new and grand attempt on the Lake of Constance
with a partitioned balloon 117 meters long, moved by two petroleum
engines acting on four screws.

But though the steering of balloons is the first and most important
problem, yet it must not be forgotten that it is likewise of very high
interest to perfect aeronautics, whether in the direction of rising to a
great height, or of remaining aloft as long as possible, or of going toa
point named in advance. For, aside from the immediate end pursued,
these ascensions lead to improvement in the instruments and methods
of aerial navigation. As examples, may be mentioned the remarkable
voyage of Count de Castillon de St. Victor from Paris to Sweden, in
which the balloon traveled more than 800 miles (1,300 kilometers), and
that of the Count de la Vaulx, who succeeded in keeping his aerostat
aloft for more than thirty hours without landing. Again, we may
instance the voyage of M. Mallet, who, with the same balloon, made in
a week the tour of France, landing each day. In the matter of height,
the prize, or, to use the language of sport, the record belongs to Mr.
Berson, attached to the Meteorological Institute of Berlin, who several
times rose to 26,000 feet (8,000 meters) and once as high as 30,000 feet
(9,150 meters), which is higher than the highest summits of the Hima-
layas. It is noteworthy that it was by the system of inhaling oxygen,
which had already been tried in France, that Mr. Berson was enabled
to bear the rarification of the air at such extraordinary heights.

Scientific ascensions have been much practiced in Germany, being
stimulated by the Berlin Aerial Navigation Society and by the liberality
of the Emperor. During the last five years no fewer than seventy-five
such ascensions have been made, and the results have been discussed
in the recent great work of Messrs. Asmann and Berson.

The heights attained by these balloons carrying observers are, how-
ever, necessarily limited. Even with the judicious use of oxygen, the
190 THE PROGRESS OF AERONAUTICS.

observer has to contend with the lack of pressure of the air, which
causes an expansion of all the gases contained in his body, and, not-
withstanding the respiratory reparation by oxygen, the expansion may
kill the man. Other means must therefore be employed to carry the
investigations of science to much greater altitudes. Since the 1889
congress, the plan of Le Monnier has been realized of sending up bal-
loons by themselves with self-registering apparatus. Here, too, there
isa limit to the attainable height, but it is much greater than that
of balloons carrying men. We owe to Lieutenant-Colonel Renard
excellent studies and advice for constructing and managing such bal-
loons and to Messrs. Hermite and Besangon their first employment in
France. The success of these first trials and of the studies made by
means of them, especially by Messrs. Violle and Cailletet, was such
as to lead to the appointment of an international commission repre-
senting almost every European nation, and this commission is now
holding a meeting in Paris under the presidency of Mr. Hergesel. It
is easy to see that these aerial soundings, if ore may call them so,
become infinitely more interesting when they are made simultaneously
from stations througuout a region of the earth. *

But balloons are now no longer the only instruments employed for
meteorological researches. The highly ingenious plan of using kites
is also put into practice. These little instruments, which in China and
in ancient India were accessories of public spectacles, have become, in
the hands of our meteorologist, in imitation of Franklin, serious scien-
tific apparatus. We have lately been informed that Mr. Rotch, a
highly distinguished American meteorologist, has succeeded in flying
one of these apparatus carrying his self-registers to a height of 15,800
feet (4,815 meters), little short of that of Mont Blanc. M. Teisserene
de Bort, our devoted colleague, who has kindly consented to give a lec-
ture to the congress, has founded out of his contributions at Trappes,
not far from the old house of Port Royal, an exceedingly interesting
observatory, where meteorology is studied by widely various means,
and where kites are likewise employed. One of them has lately risen
to 16,900 feet (5,150 meters). In Berlin, too, at the Meteorological
Institute, a new service has been instituted in which kites, both alone
and combined with a balloon, are employed for the observation of
atmospheric phenomena.

It was natural that balloons, which are only rendered possible by the
atmosphere, should at first be used for the study of the atmosphere.

3ut now they begin to look higher, and the heavens will confer upon
them a new and honorable office. For while there are astronomical
investigations which require great instruments of the utmost stability,
there is another class of phenomena which only need to be noted
as taking place. Of this number are, for example, the apparitions
of comets, shooting stars, and eclipses. This extremely interesting
THE PROGRESS OF AERONAUTICS. 191

application of the balloon dates from an earlier period; but it had
long been neglected. I was always struck with its importance; and in
1898, when the Leonid shower was expected, M. Hausky made an
ascension under my direction, and obtained interesting results. Last
year, at my request, these observations were repeated in Paris by Mlle.
Klumpke and by Messrs. Tikhoff, the Count de la Vaulx, Mallet, and
de Fonvielle. Ascensions were also made at St. Petersbure, at Strass-
burg, and in England for the same purpose. The Leonid shower of
next November will have a quite special interest. I hope it will not
pass unobserved.

I can not close this recapitulation without at least referring to work
in the direction of machines to be sustained and propelled exclusively
by forces which they produce. The most remarkable results obtained
in this direction are unquestionably those of Mr. Langley, corre-
spondent of the Institute of France and Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution at Washington. Independently of the fine and profound
researches of this scientist upon the resistance of the air, Mr. Langley
has constructed an aeroplane which has progressed and has sustained
itself during a time notably longer than any of the apparatus previ-
ously constructed. Dr. Richet has repeated and varied these fine
experiments on the shore of- the Mediterranean. ‘Time is wanting to
speak of other work upon aeroplanes, but it is impossible not to men-
tion the endeavors of M. Ader to construct a flying bird, or not to
recall the cruel accident which caused the death of a scientist of great
merit. I need not tell you that I refer to the unfortunate Lilienthal,
whose works on the properties of curved surfaces in aeronautics will
not allow the world to forget his name.

While we are speaking of the dead, permit me to devote a word in
memory of the scientists and aeronauts whom we have lost: Eugene
Godard, the elder, an experienced aeronaut, the constructor of the bal-
loons of the siege at the railway stations of Orleans and of the East,
whom I personally have cause to remember with gratitude for the
excellent counsels he gave me at the moment of my departure from
Paris, December 2, 1870, with the balloon Volta; Hureau de Ville-
neuve, founder of the journal L’Aéronaute and one of the founders
of the Society for Aerial Navigation; Gaston Tissandier, too, patriotic
aeronaut of the army of the Loire, the witness to the terrible drama
of the Zenith; the author, with his brother Albert, of experiments upon
using electricity to steer balloons, and founder, also, with Albert, of the
interesting journal La Nature. And still I have to mention Coxwell,
the aeronaut of Mr. Glaisher, whose noble and green old age we salute
to day.

Such, gentlemen, is the picture, necessarily very incomplete, of the
state of aeronautics at this moment. Is it not, however, sufficient to
show how remarkable has been the progress accomplished in the decen-
nial period it covers?
199 THE PROGRESS OF AERONAUTICS.

It must, however, be confessed that aeronautics has not, generally
speaking, been endowed and encouraged by the powers that be as it
should have been in order to attract to it all the varied orders of capa-
bility which it demands and to furnish the resources necessary for its
researches and indispensable for its experiments. Let us not deceive
ourselves. Some nation will have the wisdom to make a great advance
in this direction, and will thereby acquire a power and advantages of
which the results can not to-day be foreseen. Thus, in the ancient
world certain great minds felt beforehand the vast importance of the
part which the liquid element was destined to play in the relations
between peoples. Themistocles said, ‘* He who shall make himself mas-
ter of the sea is destined to become master of the land.” This flash of
genius, true already even then, has by this time attained such a degree
of truth as to be obvious. What supremacy has not our neighbor been
able to gain from her fleets, which dominate the seas which are tied
round the continents, and which are mistresses of almost all the tele-
graphic connections of the globe? Now, if the ocean has given this
power to the nation that has been wise enough to seize it, what will be
the power of the coming mistress of the atmosphere? The sea has its
limits and its frontiers; the atmosphere knows no such thing. The
sea offers a mere surface to the navigator; the aeronaut can profit by
the whole depth of the atmosphere. The sea severs the continents;
the air unites everything and dominates everything. [That the sea
separates, while the air unites, is a proposition the sense of which may
easily escape the reader. The sea renders it difficult to pass, for exam-
ple, between an island and the mainland, and a number of vessels sail-
ing round and round the island could cut off any attempt to make the
passage. Through the air, on the other hand, there will always be a
path from any one point on the earth’s surface to any other, and no
matter how vigilant a patrol were instituted there would be plenty of
room to pass with impunity.| When that mistress, whatever nation
she may be, accedes, in what sense will the frontiers between one State
and another any longer exist, while aerial fleets sail over them with
complete impunity? ‘True, the day of the realization of all that seems
remote enough; yet it is probable, in the light of experience, that it is
less remote than it seems. It is quite certain that come it eventually
will, and that man will not give over his ambition before having made
a complete conquest of the atmosphere. It is the part of good sense
to consider beforehand what are destined to be the consequences of
that revolution upon the economic conditions of life and upon the
relations between nations. Let us hope that that conquest, which
supposes an all-powerful industry and a transcendent science, will
come when civilization has reached such an elevation that it will recog-
nize justice, right, and peace as alone concordant with the welfare of
mankind. It may be that this wish is vain, but at any rate the discoy-
THE PROGRESS OF AERONAUTICS. 193

eries, when they come, will present one aspect under which their ben-
efits will be undeniable and their fruits will be unmixed with any bitter;
and that is their scientific aspect. When man takes possession of this
new estate he will garner as his first harvest a complete meteorology,
phenomena, and cause, through the whole depth of the atmosphere,
and this knowlege, be sure, will have consequences that we can hardly
imagine to-day. Agriculture, industry, navigation, will be trans-
formed. The same knowledge will be utilized the better to avail one’s
self of the energy now wasted in the tides, in great waterfalls, and in
the solar energy which in a given time is scattered over the earth in
six hundred thousand times the amount of what 1s brought up from
coal mines. Such will be the benefits which posterity will reap from
those pacific conquests which I love to contemplate. Here, at least,
we have no reason for other sentiments than those of joy and admira-
tion. Happy are we to have been called to contribute our stone to
such an edifice; happier still our posterity, who shall have the glory of
crowning it. This seizure of a domain from which nature seemed to
have closed all access will certainly constitute, by the constancy and
intensity of the efforts it will have cost, by the discoveries and marvel-
ous inventions that it will have provoked, one of the highest titles to
glory of which the human race will be able to boast.
 ~

LORD RAYLEIGH ON FLIGHT.!

The first Friday evening meeting for this season of the members of
the Royal Institution took place last night, when Lord Rayleigh deliy-
ered a discourse on ‘* Flight.” The Duke of Northumberland was in
the chair, and among the large audience were Lord and Lady Kelvin,
Sir Frederick Bramwell, Mr. A. J. Balfour, Sir Frederick Abel, Sir
William Crookes, Sir James Crichton-Browne, Professor Dewar, Mr.
Justice Stirling, Dr. J. H. Gladstone, Mr. Hiram Maxim, and Sir
i. 1. Wood.

Lord Rayleigh first considered the question what people generally
meant when they spoke of a flying machine, and concluded that size
had a great deal to do with their conception, which was usually of a
machine big enough to carry a man by whom it could be controlled.
The main problem of the flying machine was the problem of the aero-
plane. What were the forces that acted on a plane exposed to the
wind? This was also the vital problem of kites, of which he men-
tioned some of the practical applications by Franklin, Archibald,
Baden-Powell, and others; but kites were always anchored to the
ground, and as soon as we cast ourselves adrift from the ground the
problem became difficult, for it was then necessary to consider how
maintenance in the air could be managed. Now some birds seemed to
maintain themselves in the air with little effort. -What was the nature
of the “soaring” or. ‘‘sailing flight” by which a big bird maintained
itself with but little flapping of the wings? There had been much
discussion about this point, often foolish because of misunderstand-
ings between the disputants. However, the science of mechanics
enabled it to be laid down with certainty that a bird could no more
maintain itseif without motion of the wings in a uniform wind moy-
ing horizontally than in air at perfect rest. It was entirely a question
of relative motion. If, then, a bird was seen to be maintaining itself
without flapping it was certain the air was not moving horizontally and
uniformly. But there might be rising currents of air upon which it
was supported, and these were much more common than was often
supposed. In other cases where it was difficult to imagine the exist-
ence of such currents an explanation might be sought in the nonuni-
formity of the wind, for it was mechanically possible for a bird just
at the point of transition between two different strata of wind to main-
tain its position by taking advantage of the different velocities. The
albatross, he believed, did so. Langley, again, had pointed out how
the bird could turn to account the internal work of the wind by taking

1From London Times, January 20, 1900. fo
196 LORD RAYLEIGH ON FLIGHT.

advantage of its gustiness. Leaving this subject, the lecturer dis-
cussed the general question of the action of the wind on an aeroplane.
He first showed one or two experiments illustrating the curious effects
that might be obtained from a plane exposed obliquely to wind. In
one of these it was seen that a light piece of sheet brass, evenly piv-
oted in and nearly filling up an aperture through which air was issuing
under pressure, tended to set itself square to the aperture so as to
block it as much as possible, but, if started, it continued to rotate in
either direction, emitting a roaring sound. This phenomenon had
never been properly explained, nor had the somewhat analogous action
of a piece of card, which, when dropped, reached the ground with a
rotatory motion. As to the pressure of the wind on a plane surface,
if the latter was falling vertically at the rate, say, of 4 miles an hour,
and also moving horizontally at, say, 20 miles an hour, did the hori-
zontal motion make a difference to the pressure that existed at its
under surface? It might be argued that it did not; but the argument
was fallacious, and the truth was that the horizontal motion much
increased the pressure under a vertically falling plane, a fact on which
depended the possibility of flight, natural and artificial. Lord Ray-
leigh showed how this point might be illustrated, and even investi-
gated, by means of a simple variation of the ordinary windmill.
This was a light wheel having six vanes, each of which could be set
at any desired angle, and it was used by setting four at a particular
angle and finding at what angle the other two must be placed so as to
compensate the rotation of the wheel produced by the former when it

vas moved quickly through the air. He next observed that not only
was there pressure underneath a bird’s wing or an aeroplane, but that
the suction above was not an unimportant matter, and he performed
an experiment to show the reality of this suction, about which he said
there had been some skepticism. Turning to flight on a large scale,
he remarked that it was a natural question to ask, Was it possible for
aman to raise himself from the ground by working a screw with his
own muscular power only? The investigation was not difficult, and
the answer was that it was quite impracticable for him to do so. Arti-
ficial flight was a question of the speed of the horizontal motion. A
bird did not use a revolving mechanism like a screw to propel itself,
but he had no doubt that a revolving mechanism was the most suitable
for artificial flying machines. Whether the difficulties of these would
be surmounted he did not know, but he was disposed to agree with Mr.
Maxim that it was mainly a question of some time and much money.
Still, he did not think flight would ever be a safe mode of conveyance
for those who were desirous of going out for a day’s shopping, for it
was hard to see how alighting on the ground could ever be rendered
quite free from danger. But, as Mr. Maxim once remarked, the first
use of flying machines would be for military purposes, and they had
not yet succeeded in making war quite safe,
THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

I. NOTE PREPARED FOR THE CONVERSAZIONE OF THE AMERICAN INSTI-
TUTE OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS, NEW YORK CITY, APRIL 12, 1901.

What is popularly known as the ‘flying machine” is literally a
machine, without gas to support it, in no way resembling a balloon,
and which its inventor has called the Aérodrome. The Aérodrome
(from words signifying ‘‘air runner”) is, then, the name given to
this apparatus by Mr. Langley to indicate the principle of its action,
which in no way resembles that of a balloon that floats, because
it is lighter than the air, while the aérodrome is hundreds of times
heavier than the air. The weighty machine owes its support to another
principle—that is, to the rapidity with which it runs over the air, like
a skater on thin ice. The balloon ina calm remains indefinitely sus-
pended over one spot. This machine, built almost entirely of steel, is
far heavier in relation to the air than a ship of solid lead would be in
relation to the water, and could not remain in the air if still.

The essence of its action, then, is in its motion, without which it
could not remain suspended. It is moved rapidly by a steam engine,
carrying its own fuel and its water supply, by which it can be kept
up indefinitely, while it is also, and by the necessity of its own action,
rapidly advancing.

This may all be admitted as probably true in theory, but it is not
generally known that this has actually been done.

The two large photographs are each about one-third the full size of
one of several working models,’ each of which is driven by a steam
engine of over 14 horsepower. This and other like models have re-
peatedly flown distances of over half a mile, at a speed of from 20 to
30 miles an hour.

This actual result has not been advertised, and is comparatively little
known, though these models are believed to have done something
absolutely new in the history of the world. They are the product of a
great many years of assiduous labor, and represent the condition of the
experiments in Mr. Langley’s hands up to the close of the year 1596,
since which time he has made no public statement of his work, whichis
understood to be still going on in connection with experiments for the
War Department in demonstrating the possible uses of the future
aérodrome as an engine of war.

1 Here shown in reduced size, Plates IV, V.

sm 1900——14.

197
198 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

Reverting to the present models, they represent a machine whose
weight is about 30 pounds, one-fourth of which is contained in the
engine and machinery, which is of unexampled lightness. Within the
small body, seen in the photograph suspended under the main rod, is
contained everything for generating 14 (brake) horsepower, the total
weight of fire grate, boiler, and every accessory being less than 7
pounds. The engine, with its cylinders, pistons, and every moving
part, weighs 26 ounces. This puts in motion the propellers, which,
turning ata rate of between 800 and 1,200 revolutions per minute,
drives the aérodrome at a speed which varies greatly, according to the
inclination given to the motionless ‘* wings.”

Mr. Langley, after a great many years of preliminary experiment on
supporting surfaces, which he has described in his ‘‘ Experiments in
aérodynamics,” first made a remarkable, and to the engineer, most para-
doxical statement; namely, that in such aérial navigation as was there
shown to be possible, under certain definite conditions the power
required would in theory diminish indefinitely as the speed increased,
and that it would actually diminish in practice up to a certain limit.

This statement, which has since been called ‘‘ Langley’s law,” is
justified in practice, but the conditions which give this increase of
speed with decrease of power are limited by others which demand
that the flight should be made in safety and without that danger of
accident which might come in applying rigorously exact theoretical
conclusions without regard to the security of the flight. The actual
speed which was obtained, then, was under conditions where security
was chiefly sought.

In the experiments which have hitherto been made, safety has accord-
ingly been the first consideration,and the ‘‘ wings,” or rather the
motionless supporting surfaces, have been given such an inclination
as to cause the speed to be limited to between 20 and 30 miles an hour.
The machine has actually traveled very much faster than this, but its
higher speeds have not been measured.

The aérodrome was launched from a specially constructed house
boat on the Potomac in a secluded spot about 30 miles below Wash-
ington, and was supplied with water for a short course lest it should,
in its uncontrolled flight, go altogether out of reach, and lose itself in
the neighboring Virginia forests. The idea of making the flight over
water from a house boat or raft may appear obvious when once stated,
but like many simple results it was only reached after long experi-
ment with other methods, and its utility has since been shown by its
employment by others. There was no other reason why it should not
fly for an indefinite time except the waste of water, which in the model
had no provision for its renewal by condensation. This aérodrome,
which is one of several which have flown considerable distances, per-
formed this first flight on May 6, 1896, at a private trial of which Dr.
THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 199

Alexander Graham Bell was the only witness. His contemporary
statement may be found in the Comptes Rendus of the French Insti-
tute, CX XII, May 26, 1896.

A similar statement by him in the pages of Nature, May 28, 1896,
vol. 54, is as follows:

Through the courtesy of Mr. 8. P. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, I have had on various occasions the privilege of witnessing his experiments
with aérodromes, and especially the remarkable success attained by him in experi-
ments made on the Potomac River on Wednesday, May 6, which led me to urge him
to make public some of these results.

I had the pleasure of witnessing the successful flight of some of these aérodromes
more than a year ago, but Professor Langley’s reluctance to make the results public
at that time prevented me from asking him, as I have done since, to let me give an
account of what I saw.

On the date named two ascensions were made by the aérodrome, or so-called ‘“‘fly-
ing machine,”’ which I will not describe here further than to say that it appeared to
me to be built almost entirely of metal and driven by a steam engine, which I have
understood was carrying fuel and a water supply for a very brief period, and which
was of extraordinary lightness.

The absolute weight of the aérodrome, including that of the engine and all appur-
tenances, was, as I was told, about 25 pounds, and the distance from tip to tip of the
supporting surfaces was, as I observed, about 12 or 14 feet.

The method of propulsion was by aérial screw propellers, and there was no gas or
other aid for lifting it in the air except its own internal energy.

On the occasion referred to the aérodrome at a given signal started from a plat-
form about 20 feet above the water and rose at first directly in the face of the wind,
moving at all times with remarkable steadiness, and subsequently swinging around
in large curves of perhaps a hundred yards in diameter, and continually ascending
until its steam was exhausted, when, at a lapse of about a minute and a half and at
a height which I judged to be between 80 and 100 feet in the air, the wheels ceased
turning, and the machine, deprived of the aid of its propellers, to my surprise did
not fall, but settled down so softly and gently that it touched the water without the
least shock, and was in fact immediately ready for another trial.

In the second trial, which followed directly, it repeated in nearly every respect the
actions of the first, except that the direction of its course was different. It ascended
again in the face of the wind, afterwards moving steadily and continually in large
curves accompanied with a rising motion and a lateral advance. Its motion was, in
fact, so steady that [ think a glass of water on its surface would have remained
unspilled. When the steam gave out again it repeated for a second time the expe-
rience of the first trial when the steam had ceased, and settled gently and easily down.
What height it reached at this trial I can not say, as I was not so favorably placed as
in the first, but I had occasion to notice that this time its course took it over a wooded
promontory, and I was relieved of some apprehension in seeing that it was already
so high as to pass the tree tops by 20 or 30 feet. It reached the water one minute
and thirty-one seconds from the time it started, at a measured distance of over 900
feet from the point at which it rose.

This, however, was by no means the length of its flight. I estimated from the
diameter of the curve described, from the number of turns of the propellers, as given
by the automatic counter, after due allowance for slip, and from other measures, that

_ the actual length of flight on each occasion was slightly over 3,000 feet. It is at least
safe to say that each exceeded half an English mile.

From the time and distance it will be noticed that the velocity was between 20 and
25 miles an hour, in a course which was constantly taking it ‘‘up hill.’ I may add

—

a
200 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

that on a previous occasion I have seen a far higher velocity attained by the same
aérodrome when its course was horizontal.

I have no desire to enter into detail further than I have done, but I can not but
add that it seems to me that no one who was present on this interesting occasion
could have failed to recognize that the practicability of mechanical flight had been
demonstrated.

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL.

No adequate pictures have been made of the actual flight of the aéro-
drome, which from the rapidity of its motion required very special
preparation; but Dr. Bell made on the uniquely interesting occasion
of the first flight some photographs with a small pocket camera, from
which pictures have been taken. They are necessarily inadequate as
pictures, but they distinctly exhibit the aérodrome as a distant and
elevated object in the air. (PI. VI.)

Il. PAPER FROM M’CLURE’S MAGAZINE.

[To partly satisfy a public curiosity which could not be altogether
gratified, Mr. Langley wrote a wholly popular and untechnical account
of the work which had gone on up to June, 1896, in McClure’s Maga-
zine. By the courtesy of the publishers he has been enabled to make
considerable extracts from this article, which are reprinted here.

Attached to the present paper is an entirely mechanical reproduction
of an instantaneous photograph (Plate VI) taken by Dr. Alexander
Graham Bell, showing the aérodrome in actual flight, and which has
never before been published. The original was taken with a small
pocket camera and has been very greatly enlarged for the present
article. It is necessarily inadequate, considered as a picture, but it is
uniquely interesting as giving a distinct exhibit of the aérodrome as
a distant elevated object in the air. The woods beneath it are the
trees on the secluded island of Chopawamsic, near Quantico, on the
Virginia shore of the Potomac River abeut 30 miles below Washing-
ton, where the flight occurred on May 6, 1896. |

THE ‘‘ FLYING MACHINE.” !

*  * * Nature has made her flying machine in the bird, which is

nearly a thousand times as heavy as the air its bulk displaces, and
only those who have tried to rival it know how inimitable her work is,
for the ‘‘ way of a bird in the air” remains as wonderful to us as it
was to Solomon, and the sight of the bird has constantly held this
wonder before men’s eyes and in some men’s minds, and kept the flame of
hope from utter extinction, in spite of long disappointment. I well
remember how, as a child, when lying ina New England pasture, I
watched a hawk s soaring far up in the blue, and sailing for a long time

pesmi be permission, on MeC Ture’ s ‘Macazioe June, 1897. See also Story
of Experiments in Mechanical Flight, by S. P. Langley, in Smithsonian Report,
1897, pp. 169-181.
THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 901

withoutany motion of its wings, as though it needed no work to sustain it,
but was kept up there by some miracle. But, however sustained, I saw
it sweep, in a few seconds of its leisurely flight, overa distance that tome
was encumbered with every sort of obstacle, which did not exist for it.
The wall over which I had climbed when I left the road, the ravine I
had crossed, the patch of undergrowth through which I had pushed
my way—all these were nothing to the bird, and while the road had
only taken me in one direction, the bird’s level highway led every-
where, and opened the way into every nook and corner of the land-
scape. How wonderfully easy, too, was its flight! There was not a
flutter of its pinions as it swept over the field, in a motion which
seemed as effortless as that of its shadow.

After many years and in mature ‘life, | was brought to think of
these things again, and to ask myself whether the problem of artificial
flight was as hopeless and as absurd as it was then thought to be.
Nature had solved it, and why not man? Perhaps it was because he
had begun at the wrong end, and attempted to construct machines to
fly before knowing the principles on which flight rested. I turned for
these principles to my books and got no help. Sir Isaac Newton had
indicated a rule for finding the resistance to advance through the air,
which seemed, if correct, to call for enormous mechanical power, and
a distinguished French mathematician had given a formula showing
how rapidly the power must increase with the velocity of flight, and
according to which a swallow, to attain a speed it is now known to
reach, must be possessed of the strength of a man.

Remembering the effortless flight of the soaring bird, it seemed that
the first thing to do was to discard rules which led to such results, and
to commence new experiments, not to build a flying machine at once,
but to find the principles upon which one should be built; to find, for
instance, with certainty by direct trial how much horsepower was
needed to sustain a surface of given weight by means of its motion
through the air.

Having decided to look for myself at these questions, and at first
hand, the apparatus for this preliminary investigation was installed at
Allegheny, Pa., about ten years ago. It consisted of a ‘‘ whirling
table” of unprecedented size, mounted in the open air, and driven
round by a steam engine, so that the end of its revolving arm swept
through a circumference of 200 feet, at all speeds up to 70 miles an
hour. At the end of this arm was placed the apparatus to be tested,
and, among other things, this included surfaces disposed like wings,
which were hung from the end of the arm and dragged through the
air till its resistance supported them as a kite is supported by the wind.
One of the first things observed was that if it took a certain strain to
sustain a properly disposed weight while it was stationary in the air,
then not only to suspend it but to advance it rapidly at the same time

202 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

took less strain than in the first case. A plate of brass weighing 1
pound, for instance, was hung from the end of the arm by a spring,
which was drawn out till it registered that pound weight when the arm
was still. When the arm was in motion, with the spring pulling the
plate after it, it might naturally be supposed that, as it was drawn
faster, the pull would be greater, but the contrary was observed, for
under these circumstances the spring contracted till it registered less
than an ounce. When the speed increased to that of a bird, the brass
plate seemed to float on the air, and not only this, but taking into con-
sideration both the strain and the velocity, it was found that absolutely
less power was spent to make the plate move fast than slow, a result
which seemed very extraordinary, since in all methods of land and
water transport a high speed costs much more power than a slow one
for the same distance.

These experiments were continued for three years, with the general
conclusion that by simply moving any given weight of this form fast
enough in a horizontal path it was possible to sustain it with less than
one-twentieth of the power that Newton’s rule called for. In particular
it was proved that if we could insure horizontal flight without friction,
about 200 pounds of such plates could be moved through the air at the
speed of an express train and sustained upon it, with the expenditure
of 1 horsepower, sustained, that is, without any gas to lighten the
weight, or by other means of flotation than the air over which it is
made to run, as a swift skater runs safely over thin ice, or a skipping
stone goes over water without sinking, till its speed is exhausted.
This was saying that, so far as power alone was concerned, mechanical
flight was theoretically possible with engines we could then build, since
I was satisfied that boilers and engines could be constructed to weigh
less than 20 pounds to the horsepower, and that 1 horsepower would,
in theory at least, support nearly ten times that if the flight were hori-
zontal. Almost everything, it will be noticed, depends on this; for if
the flight is downward it will end at the ground, and if upward the
machine will be climbing an invisible hill, with the same or a greater
effort than every bicycler experiences with a real one. Speed, then,
and this speed expended in a horizontal course, were the first two
requisites. This was not saying that a flying machine could be started —
from the ground, guided into such flight in any direction, and brought
back to earth in safety. There was, then, something more than power
needed; that is, skill to use it, and the reader should notice the dis-
tinction. Hitherto it had always been supposed that it was wholly the
lack of mechanical power to fly which made mechanical flight impossible.
The first stage of the investigation had shown how much, or rather
how little, power was needed in theory for the horizontal flight of a
given weight, and the second stage, which was now to be entered upon,
was to show first how to procure this power with as little weight as_

a
My
4
— ==

'THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 203

possible, and, having it, how by its means to acquire this horizontal
flight in practice; that is, how to acquire the art of flight or how to
build a ship that could actually navigate the air.

One thing which was made clear by these preliminary experiments,
and made clear nearly for the first time, was that if a surface be made
to advance rapidly, we secure an essential advantage in our ability to
support it. Clearly we want the advance to get from place to place;
but it proves also to be the only practicable way of supporting the thing
at all, to thus take advantage of the inertia of the air, and this point
is so all-important that we will renew an old illustration of it. The
idea in a vague sense is as ancient as classical times. Pope says:

Swift Camilla scours the plain,
Flies o’er the unbending corn, and skims along the main.

Now, is this really so in the sense that a Camilla, by running fast
enough, could run over the tops of the corn? //she ran fast enough,
yes; but the idea may be shown better by the analogous case of a
skater who can glide safely over the thinnest ice if the speed is
sufficient.

Think of a cake of ice of any small size, suppose a foot square. It
possesses (like everything else in nature) inertia or resistance to dis-
placement, and this will be less or more according to the mass moved.
If the skater stands during a single second upon this small mass it will
sink under him until he is perhaps waist deep in the water, while a
cake of the same width but twice the length will yield only about half
as readily to his weight. On this he will sink only to his knees, we
may suppose, while if we think of another cake ten times as long as
the first—that is, 1 foot wide and 10 feet long—we see that on this,
during the same second, he will not sink above his feet. This is all
plain enough; but now suppose the long cake to be divided into ten
distinct portions, then it ought to be equally clear that the skater who
glides over the whole in a second distributes his weight over just as
much ice as though all ten were in one solid piece. So it is with the
air. Even the viewless air possesses inertia; it can not be pushed
aside without some effort; and while the portion which is directly
under the airship would not keep it from falling several yards in the
first second, if the ship goes forward so that it runs or treads on
thousands of such portions in that time, it will sink in proportionately
less degree; sink perhaps only through a fraction of an inch.

Speed, then, is indispensable here. A balloon, like a ship, will
float over one spot in safety, but our flying machine must be in motion
to sustain itself, and in motion, in fact, before it can even begin
to fly.

Perhaps we may more fully understand what is meant by looking at
a boy’s kite. Everyone knows that it is held by a string against the
204 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

wind, which sustains it, and that it fallsinacalm. Most of us remem-
ber that even in a calm, if we run and draw it along it will still keep
up, for what is required is motion relative to the air, however
obtained.

It can be obtained without the cord if the same pull is given by an
engine and propellers strong enough to draw it and light enough to be
attached to and sustained by it. The stronger the pull and the quicker
the motion, the heavier the kite may be made. It may be, instead of
a sheet of paper, a sheet of metal even, like the plate of brass which
has already been mentioned as seeming, when in rapid motion, to float
upon the air, and, if it will make the principle involved more clear,
the reader may think of our aérodrome as a great steel kite made to
run fast enough over the air to sustain itself, whether in a calm or in
a wind, by means of its propelling machinery, which takes the place
of the string.

And now, having the theory of the flight before us, let us come to
the practice. The first thing will be to provide an engine of unprece-
dented lightness that is to furnish the power. A few years ago an
engine that developed a horsepower weighed nearly as much as the
actual horse did. We have got to begin by trying to make an engine
which shall weigh, everything complete, boiler and all, not more than
20 pounds to the horsepower, and preferably less than 10; but even
if we have done this very hard thing we may be said to have only
fought our way up to an enormous difficulty, for the next question
will be how to use the power it gives so as to get a horizontal flight.
We must then consider through what means the power is to be applied
when we get it, and whether we shall, for instance, have wings or
screws. At first it seems as though nature must know best, and that
since her flying models, birds, are exclusively employing wings, this
is the thing for us; but perhaps this is not the case. If we had imi-
tated the horse or the ox, and made the machine which draws our
trains walk on legs we should undoubtedly never have done as well as
with the locomotive rolling on wheels; or if we had imitated the whale,
with its fins, we should not have had so good a boat as we now have in
the steamship with the paddle wheels or the screw, both of which are
constructions that nature never employs. This is so important a point
that we will look at the way nature got her models. Here is a human
skeleton, and here one of a bird, drawn to the same scale (Pl. I).
Apparently nature made one out of the other, or both out of some
common type, and the closer we look the more curious the likeness
appears. 3

Here is a wing from a soaring bird, here the same wing stripped
of its feathers, and here the bones of a human arm, on the same scale.
Now, on comparing them, we see still more clearly than in the skeleton —
that the bird’s wing has developed out of something like our own arm. —
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Aerodrome. PLATE |

THE BONES OF A BIRD’S WING AND THE BONES OF A
HUMAN ARM, DRAWN TO THE SAME SCALE, SHOW-
ING THE CLOSE RESEMBLANCE BETWEEN THEM.

THE SKELETON OF A MAN AND THE SKEL-
ETON OF A BIRD, DRAWN TO THE SAME
SCALE, SHOWING THE CURIOUS LIKENESS
BETWEEN THEM.
=
ie
—

‘
H
»
4

q

i
‘ ae

—_

= Seas
y' we
- a ia
as an ae
av 7
ye Al
oD a
a a
oO en a
> P=
—S* hs
% -
Say fh
a 7 sone
wars
-
:
7 ‘
’
}

THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 205

First comes the humerus, or principal bone of the upper arm, which
is in the wing also (Pl. 1). Next we see that the forearm of the bird
repeats the radius and ulna, or two bones of our own forearm, while
our wrist and finger bones are modified in the bird to carry the feathers,
but are still there. To make the bird, then, nature appears to have
taken what material she had in stock, so to speak, and developed it
into something that would do. It was all that nature had to work on,
and she has done wonderfully well with such unpromising material;
but anyone can see that our arms would not be the best thing to make
flying machines out of, and that there is no need of our starting there
when we can start with something better and develop that. Flapping
wings might be made on other principles, and perhaps will be found
in future flying machines, but the most promising thing to try seemed
to me to be the screw propeller.

Some twenty years ago, Penaud, a Frenchman, made a toy, consist-
ing of a flat, immovable, sustaining wing surface, a flat tail, and a
small propelling screw. He made the wing and tail
out of paper or silk, and the propeller out of cork
and feathers, and it was driven directly by strands cf
india-rubber twisted lamplighter fashion, and which
turned the wheel as they untwisted.

The great difficulty of the task of creating a flying
machine may be partly understood when it is stated
that no machine in the whole history of invention, poisua's fying toy
unless it were this toy of Penaud’s, had ever, so far as (one-eighth of ac-
I can learn, flown for even ten seconds; but something ae
that will actually fly must be had to teach the art of ‘* balancing.”

When experiments are made with models moving on a whirling
table or running on a railroad track, these are forced to move horizon-
tally and at the same time are held so that they can not turn over; but
in free flight there will be nothing to secure this, unless the air ship
is so adjusted in all its parts that it tends to move steadily and hori-
zontally, and the acquisition of this adjustment or art of ** balancing”
in the air is an enormously difficult thing, and which, it will be seen
later, took years to acquire.

My first experiments in it, then, were with models like these, but
from them I got only a rude idea how to balance the future aéro-
drome, partly on account of the brevity of their flight, which only
lasted a few seconds, partly on account of its irregularity. Although,
then, much time and labor were spent by me on these, it was not pos-
sible to learn much about the balancing from them.

Thus it appeared that something which could give longer and steadier
flights than india rubber must be used as a motor, even for the prelim-
inary trials, and calculations and experiments were made upon the use
of compressed air, carbonic-acid gas, electricity in primary and storage
206 THE LANGLEY AKRODROME.

batteries, and numerous other contrivances, but all in vain. The gas
engine promised to be best ultimately, but nothing save steam gave
any promise of immediate success in supporting a machine which would
teach these conditions of flight by actual trial, for all were too heavy,
weight being the great enemy. It was true also that the steam-driven
model could not be properly constructed until the principal conditions
of flight were learned, nor these be learned till the working model was
experimented with, so that it seemed that the inventor was shut up in
a sort of vicious circle. ‘

However, it was necessary to begin in some way, or give up at the
outset, and the construction began with a machine to be driven by a
steam engine, through the means of propeller wheels, somewhat like
the twin screws of a modern steamship, but placed amidships, not at
the stern. There were to be rigid and motionless wings, slightly
inclined, like the surface of a kite, anda construction was made on
this plan which gave, if much disappointment, a good deal of useful
experience. It was intended to make a machine that would weigh 20
or 25 pounds, constructed of steel tubes. The engines were made with
the best advice to be got (I am not an engineer); but while the boiler
was a good deal too heavy, it was still too small to get up steam for
the engines, which weighed about 4 pounds, and could have developed
a horsepower if there were steam enough. This machine, which was
to be moved by two propelling screws, was labored on for many
months, with the result that the weight was constantly increased
beyond the estimate until, before it was done, the whole weighed over
40 pounds, and yet could only get steam for about a half horsepower,
which, after deductions for loss in transmission, would give not more
than half that again in actual thrust. It was clear that whatever pains
it had cost, it must be abandoned.

This aérodrome could not then have flown; but having learned from
it the formidable difficulty of making such a thing light enough,
another was constructed, which was made in the other extreme, with
two engines to be driven by compressed air, the whole weighing but
5or 6 pounds. The power proved insuflicient. Then came another,
with engines to use carbonic-acid gas, which failed from a similar
cause. Then followed a small one to be run by steam, which gave
some promise of success, but when tried indoors it was found to lift
only about one-sixth of its own weight. In each of these the con-
struction of the whole was remodeled to get the greatest strength and
lightness combined, but though each was an improvement on its pre-
decessor, it seemed to become more and more doubtful whether it
could ever be made sufficiently light, and whether the desired end
could be reached at all.

The chief obstacle proved to be not with the engines, which were
made surprisingly light after sufficient experiment. The great difli-
culty was to make a boiler of almost no weight which would give
THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 207

steam enough, and this was a most wearying one. There must be also
a certain amount of wing surface, and large wings weighed prohibit-
ively; there must be a frame to hold all together, and the frame, if
made strong enough, must yet weigh so little that it seemed impossi-
ble to make it. These were the difficulties that I still found myself in
after two years of experiment, and it seemed at this stage again as if
it must, after all, be given up as a hopeless task, for somehow the
thing had to be built stronger and lighter yet.

Now, in all ordinary construction, as in building a steamboat or a
house, engineers have what they call a factor of safety. An iron
column, for instance, will be made strong enough to hold five or ten
times the weight that is ever going to be put upon it, but if we try
anything of the kind here the construction will be too heavy to fly.
Everything in the work has got to be so light as to be on the edge of
breaking down and disaster, and when the breakdown comes all we
can do is to find what is the weakest part and make that part stronger;
and in this way work went on, week by week and month by month,
constantly altering the form of construction so as to strengthen the
weakest parts, until, to abridge a story which extended over years, it
was finally brought nearly to the shape it is now, where the completed
mechanism, furnishing over a horsepower, weighs collectively some-
thing less than 7 pounds. ‘This does not include water, the amount of
which depends on how long we are to run; but the whole thing, as now
constructed, boiler, fire grate, and all that is required to turn out an
actual horsepower and more, weighs something less than one one-hun-
dredth part of what the horse himself does. I am here anticipating;
but after these first three years something not greatly inferior to this
was already reached, and so long ago as that, there had accordingly
been secured mechanical power to fly, if that were all—but it is not
all.

After that came years more of delay arising from other causes, and
I can hardly repeat the long story of subsequent disappointment,
which commenced with the first attempts at actual flight.

Mechanical power to fly was, as I say, obtained three years ago; the
machine could lift itself if it ran along a railroad track, and it might
seem as though, when it could lift itself, the problem was solved. I
knew that it was far from solved, but felt that the point was reached
where an attempt at actual free flight should be made, though the
anticipated difficulties of this were of quite another order than those
experienced in shop construction. It is enough to look up at the
gulls or buzzards soaring overhead, and to watch the incessant rock-
ing and balancing which accompanies their gliding motion, to appre-
hend that they find something more than mere strength of wing neces-
sary, and that the machine would have need of something more than
mechanical power, though what this something was was not clear. It
looked as though it might need a power like instinctive adaptation to
208 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

the varying needs of each moment, something that even an intelligent
steersman on board could hardly supply, but to find what this was a
trial had to be made. The first difficulty seemed to be to make the
initial flight in such conditions that the machine would not wreck
itself at the outset in its descent, and the first question was where to
attempt to make the flight.

It became clear, without much thought, that since the machine was
at first unprovided with any means to save it from breakage on strik-
ing against the ground, it would be well in the initial stage of the
experiment not to have it hght on the ground at all, but on the water.
As it was probable that while skill in launching was being gained, and
until after practice had made perfect, failures would occur, and as it
was not desired to make any public exhibition of these, a great many
places were examined along the shores of the Potomac and on its high
bluffs which were condemned partly for their publicity, but partly for
another reason. In the course of my experiments I had found out,
among the infinite things pertaining to this problem, that the machine
must begin to fly in the face of the wind and just in the opposite
way toa ship, which begins its voyage with the wind behind it.

If the reader has ever noticed a soaring bird get upon the wing he
will see that it does so with the breeze against it, and thus whenever
the aérodrome is cast into the air it must face a wind which may hap-
pen to blow from the north, south, east, or west, and we had better
not make the launching station a place like the bank of a river, where
it can go only one way. It was necessary, then, to send it from some-
thing which could be turned in any direction, and taking this need in
connection with the desirability that at first the airship should light in
the water, there came at last the idea (which seems obvious enough
when it is stated) of getting some kind of a barge or boat and build-
ing a small structure upon it which could house the aérodrome when
not in use, and from whose flat roof it could be launched in any direc-
tion. Means for this were limited, but a little ‘‘scow” was procured,
and on it was built a primitive sort of a house, one story high, and on
the house a platform about 10 feet higher, so that the top of the plat-
form was about 20 feet from the water, and this was to be tke place of
the launch (Pl. I). This boat it was found necessary to take down the
river as much as 30 miles from Washington, where I then was—since
nosuitable place could be found nearer—to an island having a stretch of
quiet water between it and the main shore; and here the first experi-
ments in attempted flight developed difficulties of a new kind—difii-
culties which were partly anticipated, but which nobody would probably
have conjectured would be of their actually formidable character, which
was such as for a long time to prevent any trial being made at all.
They arose partly out of the fact that even such a flying machine as a
soaring bird has to get up an artificial speed before it is on the wing.

‘
THE LANGLEY AERUDROME. 209

Some soaring birds do this by an initial run upon the ground, and even
under the most urgent pressure can not fly without it.

Take the following graphic description of the commencement of an
eagle’s flight (the writer was in Egypt, and the ‘‘ sandy soil” was that
of the banks of the Nile):

An approach to within 80 yards aroused the king of birds from his apathy. He
partly opened his enormous wings, but stirs not yet from his station. On gaining a
few feet more he begins to walk away with half-expanded, but motionless, wings.
Now for the chance. Fire! A charge of No. 3 from eleven bore rattles audibly but
ineffectively upon his densely feathered body; his walk increases to a run, he gathers
speed with his slowly waving wings, and eventually leaves the ground. Rising at a
gradual inclination, he mounts aloft and sails majestically away to his place of
refuge in the Libyan range, distant at least 5 miles from where he rose. Some frag-
ments of feathers denoted the spot where the shot had struck him. The marks of
his claws were traceable in the sandy soil, as, at first with firm and decided digs, he
forced his way; but as he lightened his body and increased his speed with the aid of his
wings, the imprints of his talons gradually merged into long scratches. The meas-
ured distance from the point where these vanished to the place where he had stood
proved that with all the stimulus that the shot must have given to his exertions he
had been compelled to run full 20 yards before he could raise himself from the earth.

We have not all had a chance to see this striking illustration of the
necessity of getting up a preliminary speed before soaring, but many
of us have disturbed wild ducks on the water and noticed them run
along it, flapping their wings for some distance to get velocity before
they can fly, and the necessity of the initial velocity is at least as great
with our flying machine as it is with a bird.

To get up this preliminary speed many plans were proposed, one of
which was to put the aérodrome on the deck of a steamboat, and go
faster and faster until the head wind lifted it off the deck. This
sounds reasonable, but is absolutely impracticable, for when the aéro-
drome is set up anywhere in the open air we find that the very slightest
wind will turn it over, unless it is firmly held. The whole must be in
motion, but in motion from something to which it is held till that criti-
cal instant when it is set free as it springs into the air.

The house boat was fitted with an apparatus for launching the aéro-
drome with a certain initial velocity, and was (in 1893) taken down the
river and moored in the stretch of quiet water I have mentioned—the
general features of the place being indicated on the accompanying
map, page 215—and it was here that the first trials at launching were
made, under the difficulties to which I have alluded.

Perhaps the reader will take patience to hear an abstract of a part
of the diary of these trials, which commenced with a small aérodrome
which had finally been built to weigh only about 10 pounds, which had
an engine of not quite one-half horsepower, and which could lift much
more than was theoretically necessary to enable it to fly. The exact
construction of this early aérodrome is unimportant, as it was replaced
210 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

later by an improved one, of which a drawing is given on page 213, but
it was the first outcome of the series of experiments which had occupied
three years, though the disposition of its supporting surfaces, which
should cause it to be properly balanced in the air and neither fly up
nor down, had yet to be ascertained by trial.

What must still precede this trial was the provision of the apparatus
for launching it into the air. It is a difficult thing to launch a ship,
although gravity keeps it down upon the ways, but the problem here
is that of launching a kind of ship whieh is as ready to go up into the
air like a balloon as to go off sideways, and readier to do either than
to go straight forward, as it is wanted to do, for though there is no
gas in the flying machine, its great extent of wing surface renders it
something like an albatross on a ship’s deck—the most unmanageable
and helpless of creatures until it is in its proper element.

If there were an absolute calm, which never really happens, it would
still be impracticable to launch it as a ship is launched, because the
wind made by running it along would get under the wings and turn
it over. But there is always more or less wind, and even the gentlest
breeze was afterwards found to make the air ship unmanageable
unless it was absolutely clamped down to whatever served to launch it,
and when it was thus firmly clamped, as it must be at several distinct
points, it was necessary that it should be released simultaneously at
all these at the one critical instant that it was leaping into the air.
This is another difficult condition, but that it is an indispensable one
may be inferred from what has been said. In the first form of launch-
ing piece this initial velocity was sought to be attained by a spring,
which threw forward the supporting frame on which the aérodrome
rested; but at this time the extreme susceptibility of the whole con-
struction to injury from the wind and the need of protecting it from
even the gentlest breeze had not been appreciated by experience. On
November 18, 1893, the aérodrome had been taken down the river,
and the whole day was spent in waiting for a calm, as the machine
could not be held in position for launching for two seconds in the
lightest breeze. The party returned to Washington and came down
again on the 20th, and although it seemed that there was scarcely any
movement in the air, what little remained was enough to make it
impossible to maintain the aérodrome in position. It was let go, not-
withstanding, and a portion struck against the edge of the launching
piece, and all fell into the water before it had an opportunity. to fly.

On the 24th another trip was made and another day spent ineffect-
ively on account of the wind. On the 27th there was a similar expe-
rience, and here four days and four (round-trip) journeys of 60 miles
each had been spent without a single result. This may seem to bea
trial of patience, but it was repeated in December, when five fruitless
trips were made, and thus nine such trips were made in these two
THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 211

months and but once was the aérodrome even attempted to be launched,
and this attempt was attended with disaster. The principal cause lay,
as I have said, in the unrecognized amount of difficulty introduced
even by the very smallest wind, as a breeze of 3 or 4 miles an hour,
hardly perceptible to the face, was enough to keep the airship from
resting in place for the critical seconds preceding the launching.

If we remember that this is all irrespective of the fitness of the
launching piece itself, which at first did not get even a chance for trial,
some of the difficulties may be better understood; and there were many
others.

During most of the year of 1894 there was the same record of defeat.
Five more trial trips were made in the spring and summer, during which
various forms of launching apparatus were tried with varied forms of
disaster. Then it was sought to hold the aérodrome out over the water
and let it drop from the greatest attainable height, with the hope that
it might acquire the requisite speed of advance before the water was
reached. It will hardly be anticipated that it was found impracticable
at first to simply let it drop without something going wrong, but so it
was, and it soon became evident that even were this not the case a far
greater time of fall was requisite for this method than that at com-
mand. ‘The result was that in all these eleven months the aérodrome
had not been launched, owing to difficulties which seem so slight that
one who has not experienced them may wonder at the trouble they
caused.

Finally, in October, 1894, an entirely new launching apparatus was
completed, which embodied the dozen or more requisites, the need for
which had been independently proved in this long process of trial and
error. Among these was the primary one that it was capable of
sending the aérodrome off at the requisite initial speed, in the face of
a wind from whichever quarter it blew, and it had many more facilities
which practice had proved indispensable. (PI. III.)

This new launching piece did its work in this respect effectively, and
subsequent disaster was, at any rate, not due to it. But now a new
series of failures took place, which could not be attributed to any
defect of the launching apparatus, but to a cause which was at first
obscure, for sometimes the aérodrome, when successfully launched
would dash down forward and into the water, and sometimes (under
apparently identically like conditions) would sweep almost vertically
upward in the air and fall back, thus behaving in entirely opposite
ways, although the circumstances of flight seemed to be the same. The
cause of this class of failure was finally found in the fact that as soon
as the whole was upborne by the air, the wings yielded under the
pressure which supported them, and were momentarily distorted from
the form designed and which they appeared to possess. ** Momen-
tarily,” but enough to cause the wind to catch the top, directing the
a1 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

flight downward, or under them, directing it upward, and to wreck the
experiment. When the cause of the difficulty was found, the cure
was not easy, for it was necessary to make these great sustaining sur-
faces rigid so that they could not bend, and to do this without making
them heavy, since weight was still the enemy; and nearly a year passed
in these experiments.

Has the reader enough of this tale of disaster? If so, he may be
spared the account of what went on in the same way. Launch after
launch was successively made. The wings were finally, and after infi-
nite patience and labor, made at once light enough and strong enough
to do the work, and now in the long struggle the way had been fought
up to the face of the final difficulty, in which nearly a year more passed,
for the all-important difficulty of balancing the aérodrome was now
reached, where it could be discriminated from other preliminary ones,
which have been alluded to, and which at first obscured it. If the
reader will look at the hawk or any soaring bird, he will see that as
it sails through the air without flapping the wing, there are hardly
two consecutive seconds of its flight in which it is not swaying a little
from side to side, lifting one wing or the other, or turning in a way
that suggests an acrobat on a tight rope, only that the bird uses its
widely outstretched wings in place of the pole.

There is something, then, which is difficult even for the bird in this
act of balancing. In fact, he is sailing so close to the wind in order
to fly at all that if he dips his head but the least he will catch the wind
on the top of his wing and fall, as I have seen gulls do, when they
have literally tumbled toward the water before they could recover
themselves.

Besides this, there must be some provision for guarding against the
incessant, irregular currents of the wind, for the wind as a whole—
and this is a point of prime importance—is not a thing moving along
all of a piece, like water inthe Gulf Stream. Far fromit. The wind,
when we come to study it, as we have to do here, is found to be made
of innumerable currents and countercurrents, which exist altogether
and simultaneously in the gentlest breeze, which is in reality going
fifty ways at once, although, as a whole, it may come from the east or
the west; and if we could see it, it would be something like seeing the
rapids below Niagara, where there is an infinite variety of motion in
the parts, although there is a common movement of the stream as a
whole.

All this has to be provided for in our mechanical bird, which has
neither intelligence nor instinct, without which, although there be all
the power of the engines requisite, all the rigidity of wing, all the req-
uisite initial velocity, it still can not fly. This is what is meant by
balancing, or the disposal of the parts, so that the air ship will have a
‘position of equilibrium into which it tends to fall when it is disturbed,
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Aerodrome. PLATE II

PREPARING TO LAUNCH THE AERODROME.
From a photograph by A. Graham Bell, esq.

7
7

ae

1 ne
; re ee |
ae

om

Res « tal

Lh! Tetrar

REPRE ce) ee

aera (Aviles

i id ¥
, ¢ oe a 4
ieomrogeleig: Rd) Sk ee fiumberciv own > i!
— : - =

a ari - a s) -

ara iT .
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Aerodrome. PLATE III

= Avinlay —

THE AERODROME IN FLIGHT, MAy 6, 1896.

Two views from instantaneous photographs taken by A. Graham Bell, esq,
THE LANGLEY AERODROME. ae

and which will enable it to move of its own volition, as it were, in a
horizontal course.

Now the reader may be prepared to look at the apparatus which
finally has flown. (See diagram.) In the completed form we see two
pairs of wings, each slightly curved, each attached to a long steel rod
which supports them both, and from which depends the body of the
machine, in which are the boilers, the engines, the machinery, and the
propeller wheels, these latter being not in the position of those of an
ocean steamer, but more nearly amidships. They are made sometimes
of wood, sometimes of steel and canvas, and are between 3 and 4 feet
in diameter.

The hull itself is formed of steel tubing. The front portion is closed
by a sheathing of metal which hides from view the fire grate and appa-
ratus for heating, but allows us to see a little of the coils of the boiler

Diagram of the aerodrome.

and all of the relatively large smokestack in which it ends. The coni-
cal vessel in front is an empty float, whose use is to keep the whole
from sinking if it should fall in the water.

This boiler supplies steam for an engine of between 1 and 13 horse-
power, and, with its fire grate, weighs a little over 5 pounds. ‘This
weight is exclusive of that of the engine, which weighs, with all its
moving parts, but 26 ounces. Its duty is to drive the propeller
wheels, which it does at rates varying from 800 to 1,200, or even more,
turns a minute, the highest number being reached when the whole is
speeding freely ahead.

The rudder, it will be noticed, is of a shape very unlike that of a ship,
for it is adapted both for vertical and horizontal steering. It is impos-
sible within the limits of such an article as this, however, to give an

sm 1900 15

914 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

intelligible account of the manner in which it performs its automatic
function. Suflicient it is to say that it does perform it.

The width of the wings from tip to tip is between 12 and 13 feet, and
the length of the whole about 16 feet. The weight is nearly thirty
pounds, of which about one-fourth is contained inthe machinery. The
engine and boilers are constructed with an almost single eye to economy
of weight, not of force, and are very wasteful of steam, of which they
spend their own weight in five minutes. This steam might all be recon-
densed and the water re-used by proper condensing apparatus, but this
can not be easily introduced in so smalla scale of construction. With
it the time of flight might be hours instead of minutes, but without it
the flight (of the present aérodrome) is limited to about five minutes,
though in that time, as will be seen presently, it can go some miles; but
owing to the danger of its leaving the surface of the water for that of
the land, and wrecking itself on shore, the time of flight 1s limited
designedly to less than two minutes.

I have spared the reader an account of numberless delays, from con-
tinuous accidents and from failures in attempted flights, which pre-
vented a single entirely satisfactory one during nearly three years
after a machine with power to fly had been attained. It is true that
the aérodrome maintained itself in the air at many times, but some
disaster had so often intervened to prevent a complete flight that the
most persistent hope must at some time have yielded. On the 6th of
May of last year I had journeyed, perhaps for the twentieth time, to
the distant river station and recommenced the weary routine of another
launch, with very moderate expectation indeed; and when on that, to
me, memorable afternoon the signal was given and the aérodrome
sprang into the air’ I watched it from the shore with hardly a hope
that the long series of accidents had come to a close. And yet it had,
and for the first time the aérodrome swept continuously through the
air like a living thing, and as second after second passed on the face
of the stop watch until a minute had gone by and it still flew on, and
as I heard the cheering of the few spectators, I felt that something had
been accomplished at last, for never in any part of the world or in any
period had any machine of man’s construction sustained itself in the
air before for even half of this brief time. Still the aérodrome went
on in a rising course until, at the end of a minute and a half (for which
time only it was provided with fuel and water), it had accomplished a
little over half a mile, and now it settled rather than fell into the river
with a gentle descent. It was immediately taken out and flown again
with equal success, nor was there anything to indicate that it might
not have flown indefinitely except for the limit put upon it.

‘The illustration from an instantaneous photograph by Mr. Bell, shows the machine
alter Mr. Reed, who was in charge of the launch (and to whom a great deal of the
construction of the aérodrome is due), has released it, and when it is in the first
instant of its aérial journey. (PI. III.)
THE LANGLEY AERODROME. 215

I was accompanied by my friend, Mr. Alexander Graham Bell, who
not only witnessed the flight, but took the instantaneous photograph
of it which has been given. He spoke of it in a communication to the
Institute of France [and in a similar communication to Nature, given
minivon pace 199). * * *

On November 28 I obtained, with another aerodrome of somewhat
similar construction, a rather longer flight, in which it traversed
about three-quarters of a mile, and descended with equal safety. In
this the speed was greater, or about 30 miles an hour. The course of
this date is indicated by the dotted line in the diagram. We may live
to see airships a common sight, but habit has not dulled the edge of
wonder, and I wish that the reader could have witnessed the actual
spectacle. “It looked like a miracle,” said one who saw it, and the
photograph, though taken from the original, conveys but imperfectly
the impression given by the flight itself.

Diagram showing the course of the aérodrome in its flight on the
Potomac River at Quantico.

And now, it may be asked, what has been done? This has been
done: A ‘‘flying machine,” so long a type for ridicule, has really
flown; it has demonstrated its practicability in the only satisfactory
way—by actually flying—and by doing this again and again under
conditions which leave no doubt.

There is no room here to enter on the consideration of the construc-
tion of larger machines, or to offer the reasons for believing that they
may be built to remain for days in the air, or to travel at speeds higher
than any with which we are familiar. Neither is there room to enter
on a consideration of their commercial value, or of those applications
which will probably first come in the arts of war rather than those of
peace; but we may at least see that these may be such as to change the
whole conditions of warfare, when each of two opposing hosts will have
its every movement known to the other, when no lines of fortification

216 THE LANGLEY AERODROME.

will keep out the foe, and when the difficulties of defending a country
against an attacking enemy in the air will be such that we may hope
that this will hasten rather than retard the coming of the day when
war shall cease.

I have thus far had only a purely scientific interest in the results of
these labors. Perhaps if it could have been foreseen at the outset how
much labor there was to be, how much of life would be given to it, and
how much care, I might have hesitated to enter upon it at all. And
now reward must be looked for, if reward there be, in the knowledge
that I have done the best I could in a difficult task, with results which
it may be hoped will be useful to others. I have brought to a close
the portion of the work which seemed to be specially mine—the dem-
onstration of the practicability of mechanical flight—and for the next
stage, which is the commercial and practical development of the idea,
it is probable that the world may look to others. The world, indeed,
will be supine if it do not realize that a new possibility has come to it,
and that the great universal highway overhead is now soon to be

=

opened,
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Aerodrome.

we
Te
9
my
Ww
Zz
Ww
=
@)
ff 3
Og
© #8
Cc Ff
Wu
x
i)
>
Ww
a
oO
Zz
<
|
z
=

Oe Oe , eed, - y P 4 i Ay

s.

hed My = = \ = . , . i 4 . _ \ 7 my t a
vs Pa Pig . as : _ es i i) err et ere ap ie nea eee) ee a A ed ee ome >
ey: = Pah “ . Pere meg ‘ ae ee ey

‘ z ®
> = i ab
eh a i r det ric

- = vi ~ 4 _ ‘ a
= ’ / Viatorrs _ a « ‘ -

yl a be Y r 1.8 : 4 . . * - ‘s ‘ LAr if J
0) ize 4 iy \ ‘ 7 A

*, its ouet, 4 my,
Ts = i : | is ' - ae a
- a 7 =
i 1 AN , ie > ian iy .
e ‘ ‘ oa - r = 7 ;
5 — ; s + 0. 5 }
‘ bar ‘ pet s ;
. x ‘
j ry * aN : ‘
7 ? “. = - P i ; 7 =
} ‘ 7 . A 4 se
7 a ‘ i f
Pars
: al { 7 : 4 hy’
: bot, p J;
7 a . ‘ i ; a ‘
ie by .“ 4 ,
: 4 { : .. ‘rer ’ i
iN - > " he
‘ . ‘ yy
, Mi Ae
77 4
We ;
é i 7 H ; ?
eh A
i] i J
4 Gi
a (c - t jew: Te
oak As a i © F “1 4 _ - ’
¥ = ie at 1 a ‘7
= * Shae iL: ee i ? ' ;
ae “Kye i bg 8 , wae Oe
‘ ,
a at * | > _ -

n wpe ot are? Oral ey

ry

PLATE V.

Aerodrome.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

‘MOTO THOTT MOTA W

LHSI14 NI ANOYXGOHSY 3SHL

ays AM

Abo Lees ee Ak APE E TES hie Ge =a

Care

aap ewer
CRRA tai esl? )

‘bso ‘Tog weqrry “y Aq ydersojoyd snoouryuesur wo

‘O681L ‘9 AVI LHDINS NI ‘G ‘ON 3WOYGOUSY SiAZTONV 7]

ire eiedin aiid by Achy pthe ea m> gma dh

"IA S3LvV1d ‘awospossy—'QO6] ‘oday uRlUOsYy}IWS

———————————

tno ‘11oq7 MUNIN “¥ £4

“9681 "9 AYN 4HOIY Ni ‘Gg ‘ON 3NONOONBY BiAZTIONY]

1A Bad , 5
ee |
lee Le

THE ZEPPELIN AIR SHIP.!

By Tuomas EK. Curtis.

(Photos. by Alfred Wolf, Constanz. These are the only photographs authorized by
Count Zeppelin. )

With all these experiments going on we ought soon to be able to
travel through the air. The celebrated flying machine invented by
Professor Langley a few years ago proved that flying machines could
fly; and the more recent experiments by Schwarz and Danilewsky have
increased the belief that the era of aerial flight was near. The latest
experiment, made only a month or two ago, by Count Zeppelin, on
Lake Constance, with one of the most ingenious, expensive, and care-
fully constructed balloons of modern times, was so successful in proy-
ing the rigidity and safety of an air ship at a high altitude that the
complete submission of the air to the mechanism of man seems nearer
than ever at hand. The interest of the whole scientific world in the
experiment was deep, and an unwonted exhibition of interest by the
ordinary public took place.

The balloon was constructed in a wooden shed on Lake Constance,
at a little town called Manzell, near Friedrichshafen, and this curious
pointed structure, with twenty-two big windows (eleven on each side)
and its almost innumerable pontoons (on which the huge building
floated), has for many months been an object of great attraction to
those visiting the beautiful Swiss lake.

The illustration with which we open this article, while it does not
show the pointed end, so constructed to diminish the resistance of the
air, gives an admirable idea of the balloon-house. Four hundred and
fifty feet long, 78 broad, and 66 high, it is indeed a formidable object.
The rear end, through which we are able to see part of the air ship,
is usually covered with a curtain, to ward off the curious; and the front
end is given up to offices, storerooms, and sleeping accommodation for
such workmen as have to act as sentinels at night.

There can be little doubt that this construction shed is one of the
most perfect of its kind ever devised, and, incidentally, it shows the
care and skill with which Eou Zeppelin and his engineers prepar ed

1 Reprinted by permission from the Strand Meee ine. September, 1900.
217
218 THE ZEPPELIN AIR SHIP.

themselves against untoward delay and accident in the consummation
of their great plan. If, for instance, we could row up to this immense
floating structure we should find it resting gracefully on ninety-five
pontoons, and we could understand the advantage which such a shed,
floating on the bosom of an open lake, would have for the inventor in
the experimental trials of his machine. No ground to fall upon, and
nothing to run against! Again, by anchoring his shed at one point
only the inventor allows it to turn, as on a pivot, with the wind, and
thus gains the aid of the wind in getting his ballon out of the shed with
the minimum of damage and the maximum of speed.

The cost of the construction of the building in which the balloon was
housed alone exceeded 200,000 marks. The plans of the workshop
were made by Herr Tafel, a well-known Stuttgart architect, and the
construction of the balloon was intrustsd to Herr Kaubler. The con-
struction was carried out by seventy carpenters and thirty mechanies,
and that the work was done well and carefully is shown by the fact
that every separate piece of material used in the air ship had been
tested at least twice.

A word or two more about the shed and we may leave it, with the
balloon. If we examine closely we discover that part only of the pon-
toons support the shed, and that the remainder support the balloon. -
In other words, the balloon, on its own supports, can be easily moved
in and out of the shed. ‘The exit, taking place, for reasons already
given, in the direction of the wind, and assisted by it, is particularly safe,
as the danger of pressure in the balloon against the sides of a shed—
so common in sheds built on land—is avoided. It is reasonably certain
that all experiments in air-ship construction will in future take place
on water, owing to the success and ease with which the Zeppelin  bal-
loon has been taken in and out of its house on Lake Constance.

When the balloon is ready for an ascent it is pulled out of the shed
on its own pontoons; and when its flight is over it is placed on the
pontoon floor and drawn into the shed. Each operation takes but a
few minutes. Our second illustration and several succeeding illustra-
tions gives an excellent idea of the floor upon which the balloon rests
before flight. It also affords us our first real view of the huge cigar-
like structure that has so frequently flown itself into world-wide fame.
Conical at both ends, in order that resistance to the air may be lessened,
and cylindrical in shape, it measures 390 feet in length, and has a
diameter of about 59 feet. It looks, even at a close view, like a single
balloon, but in reality it consists of seventeen small balloons, because
it is divided into seventeen sections, each gastight, like the water-
tight compartments on board a steamship. The interior is a massive
framework of aluminum rods, stretching from one end of the bal-
loon to the other and held in place by seventeen polygonal rings
arranged 24 feet apart. Each ring is supported by aluminum wires,
THE ZEPPELIN AIR SHIP. 219

vu

and the whole interior, looked at from one end, appears as if a lot of
bicycle wheels had been placed side by side. The whole series of
seventeen sections is covered with a tough and light network of ramie.

Each section, as we have said, is a balloon in itself, and each section
is covered with a light silk texture, which by virtue of an india-rubber
coating is, in the general sense of the word, gastight. So tight,
indeed, has each balloon been made that one filling of hydrogen (the
lightest and most volatile of gases) has been proved to last for two or
three weeks.

The exterior of the balloon is made of pegamoid, which protects it
both from sun and rain. ‘The total capacity of the interior balloons
is about 12,000 cubic yards of hydrogen gas; and, lest any of our
readers should bankrupt himself by attempting to construct a Zep-
pelin balloon, we may as well add that each filling costs in the neighbor-
hood of £500. When the balloon is ready to be filled the hydrogen
gas, In 2,200 iron bottles, is brought alongside the balloon shed on
pontoons, each containing 130 bottles and all connected with each
other, thus forming a single reservoir, which in turn is connected with
the balloon by a distributing pipe. It takes five hours to fill the
whole balloon.

It is one thing to build a balloon and another thing to make it go.
It is still another thing to be able to control its flight, steering it this
way and that, with the wind and against it. Hundreds of inventors,
including the lamented Darius Green, have failed because of their
methods of steering and propulsion, or the absence of each. But it
is in these very respects that Count Zeppelin may well be said to have
been successful. More, however, of that anon. Suffice to say here
that the propulsion of the great balloon under consideration is effected
by four screws made of aluminum, all working as do the propellers
of a ship. Two of these screws are situated about a third of the
total length from the bow, and the other two a like distance from the
stern. Each screw makes over a thousand revolutions a minute.

In several of our illustrations: the cars of the balloon are plainly
shown. These also are made of aluminum—indeed every part of the
air ship is made of the lightest possible material—and are attached to
the inner framework by rods and wires. The cars are about 5 feet
broad and 3 feet deep and are situated each under a pair of screws,
which may be noted projecting from the sides of the balloon. The
cars carry the motors for driving the propellers, and benzine, by vir-
tue of not requiring such heavy machinery to use it with, has been
chosen for the motive power. Enough benzine may be carried to
work the balloon for ten successive hours. It may be added that the
cars of the balloon are connected, as shown in our photographs, by :
narrow passageway, made of aluminum wires and plates, which are
firmly connected with the balloon above.
926 THE ZEPPELIN AIR SHIP.

One very noteworthy feature of this latest air ship is the sliding
weight—made of lead and weighing 300 kilos—by means of which the
balloon is raised or lowered at the bow or stern. In our illustrations
of this article, particularly the last picture, we may observe the bal-
loon at a decided angle in the sky. This shows the work of the sliding
weight. It was secured in the center of the dragging-cable, the ends
of which were fastened fore and aft. As the dragging cable was about
328 feet long, with a slack of about 753 feet, the stability of the vessel
was greatly improved. The heavy, deep-hanging weight acted as a
regulator of the pendulum-like motion of the air ship. In order to
provide for a descent into the water the sliding weight is inclosed in
a water-tight box filled with air, which causes the box to float when it
touches the water. The value of this piece of mechanism was proved,
as is hereafter shown, when the first experiment in flight was made,
although an unfortunate accident occurred to it, which brought the
flight to an abrupt conclusion.

One word more and we are done with the technical construction of
the balloon. The steering apparatus consists of rudders placed at the
bow and stern of the balloon, and controlled by wires attached to
the two cars. Each rudder is made of cloth with a framework of
aluminum.

The Government lent its aid in a manner worthy of emulation by
governments which are less up to date. When, for instance, the in-
ventor discovered that by allowing his building to float freely about
on the lake he was hampering himself with considerable difficulties, the
naval dockyards at Kiel came to his support with the loan of four
gigantic anchors, by which the floating workshop could be fastened.
The Kaiser was interested in the air ship throughout its construction,
and only the inventor and his immediate colleagues will ever know
how much the imperial aid and interest stimulated them in their
endeavors.

The 30th of June last witnessed a tremendous gathering of scientific
men and others on the shores of Lake Constance, who had come from
far and wide to attend the experimental trials of the Zeppelin balloon.
Experts from various countries were present, and the Kaiser, always
keenly interested in the problems of aéronauters, was represented by
several Germans of wide experience. It was a day when the fate of
an old man of 70 was to be decided—a man who, with exceeding
enthusiasm in his hobby, had put £20,000 into the construction of a
flying machine that had not yet taken its first flight into the air.

The Balloon Company, which had been formed with a capital of
£40,000, half of which was contributed by Count Zeppelin, chartered
a steamer on that day and carried the experts to the scene of the trials.
A delay in filling the balloon occurred and the trial was postponed.
The following day the trial was delayed by a stiff wind, but in the
evening the balloon was drawn from the shed, ballasted and balanced,
THE ZEPPELIN AIR SHIP. Di

a kel

and was sent up a few feet into the air in order that its propelling
power might, be tested. Night then intervened, and the real trial was
again postponed.

The next day, July 2, proclaimed the success of the aérial monster
over which so many months of mental and mechanical labor had been
spent. There was a touch of romance about it too, for it was not
until sundown that the trial trip began, and it was then that the eray-
headed inventor, courageous and confident of the success of his plans,
ventured on a voyage in an untried ship into the darkening night. A
light wind prevailed. Punctually at half past 7 the balloon was taken
from the shed, and, held in position by several ropes, was allowed to
rise about 75 feete At 8 o'clock it was released, and with Count Zep-
pelin, and four assistants in the two cars, began slowly to ascend.

Zeppelin himself, as we have said, is a man of 70, who for many
years has devoted his whole time and energy to the study of aérial
navigation. It has been said that the Schwarz balloon, which was
described in this magazine in March, 1898, gave him the idea of the
present air ship; and those who have read that article will note many
points of similarity in the two pieces of mechanism. Schwarz died
prematurely, and his idea had to be carried to fruition by his friends.
The balloon, for this reason, was, as time proved, a failure; but Count
Zeppelin, noting the great ingenuity of its construction, decided to
improve it, upon the lines of its lamented inventor. The Count lives
in the fine castle of Ebersberg, near Constance, and he looks back on
a distinguished career in the Franco-German war. He made an
extremely daring ride at one time through the outposts of the enemy,
and it is said that the desirability of having some quicker and safer
means of scouting than that in use appealed to him strongly, and sug-
gested at once an aérial machine. He consulted and took the advice
of various authorities in aérial navigation, both of his own country
and abroad, and finally succeeeed in floating, at Stuttgart, the company
already mentioned, which has so successfully built the balloon.

The best account of the short and exciting trip of the Zeppelin bal-
loon has been given by Captain-Lieutenant D. von Bethge, steamship
inspector of Friedrichshafen, who may briefly be quoted: ** It was an
exciting moment,” he writes, ‘‘ when the first command to let go the
cables sounded from the raft, and the air ship, which, up till then,
had been held by the hands of the firemen, laborers, and soldiers, rose
slowly into the air, and suddenly, at the height of 25 meters (82 feet)
was released and soared upward. At first the vessel descended some-
what before the light easterly breeze which was blowing; but when
the engines began to work it steamed against the wind, then turned to
right and left, and afterwards traveled with the wind, turning occasion-
ally hither and thither until it reached Immenstaad.” The distance
traveled was about 34 miles.

In the early part of the tripan accident to the steering mechanism
229 THE ZEPPELIN AIR SHIP.

occurred. A winch broke and hindered the further use of the running
weight, which, as has already been mentioned, was provided in order
that the bow or stern might be lowered or raised, and the horizontal
position regained. Notwithstanding the accident, Lieutenant Bethge
goes on to say, ‘It was still possible to turn the balloon to the left
against the wind, but as it was impossible, owing to the broken cable,
to turn to the right, Count Zeppelin decided to descend.” The descent
took place seventeen minutes after the ascent.

Count Zeppelin has written an account of the trial trip which is of
special interest, as it comes from one with a full knowledge of all the
details. ‘‘The task,” he says, ‘tof bringing down the air ship took
place without a hitch. In spite of a rapid and considerable escape of
gas, followed by but a small sacrifice of ballast, the descent took place
so gently that a descent onto hard ground would seem devoid of
danger.”

The accident to the running weight made it necessary to avert the
imminent danger of capsizing by stopping and going astern with the
screws. ‘* Henceforth,” he adds, ** the whole voyage consisted of alter-
nately going ahead, and then astern, with the screws, so as to prevent
excessive inclination. A further reason for this alternate motion
arose from the circumstance that the air ship, which at first obeyed her
helm well to starboard, ran more and more to the left, owing, appar-
ently, to a curve to larboard, due to the drag of the running weight.
For this reason also, in order to avoid being driven on over the land,
it was necessary to go astern with the screws whenever the stern
pointed toward the lake.”

It seems from all accounts that the floating capacity and the great
lateral stability of the Zeppelin air ship have been conclusively proved.
The ship floated smoothly in a horizontal position. It also obeyed its
rudder up to the moment when the steering cable broke. Moreover,
as Count Zeppelin himself says, ‘‘It has been proved that there is no
danger of fire in connection with the use of the air ship in ordinary
conditions.”

The rigidity of the balloon—important in view of its great length—
has also been established. It is unfortunate that no exact statement of
speed was obtainable owing to the accident, although the reports of sev-
eral experts stationed at different points, now, at the moment of writing,
being made out, may give an approximate idea of that speed. Bethge
estimates that the rapidity of flight before the wind toward Immen-
staad was about 9 meters (29 feet) per second, from which figure the
trifling wind velocity has to be deducted. It is enough, however, to
say that a dirigible balloon, which can maintain a state of equilibrium
and descend with perfect safety to its passengers, has become an
established fact. Future experiments, which the fortune and enthusi-
asm of Count Zeppelin will enable him to carry out, will doubtless
bring the Zeppelin balloon to a gratifying perfection.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Zeppelin Air Ship. PLaTE |

ZEPPELIN AIR SHIP !N FLOATING HOUSE ON LAKE CONSTANCE, SHOWING
- THE REAR END, CONICAL-SHAPE.

PLATE II.

Zeppelin Air Ship,

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

TSE
OR
i hi

“AXV7] SHL NOdN GSMOL ONISE dIHS YI SHL

. :
211 SA A RNS AT ee (AY YN ee ae

PLATE III.

Zeppelin Air Ship.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

pole,

p)

O08 JO[ O} |

o1B

si1o.3U

a1OTOG soyuUrUL Moy Loq suooju0d 9AOGB PIPH

“LHDITG YOS AGVSY dIHS YY SHL

assud pur SIOJOUL TOTAL UL UOOT[VG JO sivd SMOYS Ydvisojoyd

“SNS0SW Y¥OS AGV3HY dIHS YW SHL

PLATE IV.

Zeppelin Air Ship.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

uoolI

Bq pei{l 14.810

“MINI IT Mbs SuLsoysop NOTA
A SUIPT[S Jo uoRIedo MOY WaeS 9q [[IA\ JI GUO JXOU 9} YIIM UONBIAYSNI[L SI) Sule

“LHDSIT4 11N4 NI dIHS YY SHL

Boe ye ees

duo) Ag

sm 1900——16
: tap x oye 3

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Zeppelin Air Ship. PLATE V
EV.

ANOTHER VIEW OF THE AIR SHIP IN FULL FLIGHT.
PLATE VI.

Zeppelin Air Ship.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

‘SLNVdNO00O OL HSONVG
LNOHLIM G3LHDIT LI HOIHM NO ‘axv7] JO WOSOg OL
‘INSGIOOW YAL4V ‘DNIGNSOSSG AIMOTNS dIHS YIY SHL

"JANLILIW HOIH Vv Ly dIHS YIy SHL

cs.

THE USE OF KITES TO OBTAIN METEOROLOGICAL
OBSERVATIONS.!

By A. Lawrence Rortcn,

Director of Blue Hill Metcorological Observatory.

Historical researches, stimulated by the recent practical applications
of kites, seem to show that their first use for scientific purposes was
in 1749, when Dr. Alexander Wilson, of Glasgow, and his pupil, Thomas
Melvill, lifted thermometers attached to kites into the clouds. These
kites, from 4 to 7 feet high and covered with paper, were fastened one
behind the other, each kite taking up as much line as could be sup-
ported, thereby allowing its companion to soar to an elevation propor.
tionally higher. It is related that ‘‘the uppermost one ascended to ar
amazing height, disappearing at times among the white summer clouds,
while all the rest, in a series, formed with it in the air below such a
lofty scale, and that, too, affected by such regular and conspiring
motions as at once changed a boyish pastime into a spectacle which
greatly interested every beholder. * * * To obtain the informa-
tion they wanted, they contrived that thermometers, properly secured
and having bushy tassels of paper tied to them, should be let fall at
stated periods from some of the higher kites, which was accomplished
by the gradual singeing of a match line.” Since the minimum ther-
mometer had not then been invented it is difficult to understand how
the thermometers were prevented from changing their readings while

falling to the ground. The account concludes: ‘*When engaged in

these experiments, though now and then they communicated immedi-
dately with the clouds, yet, as this happened always in fine weather, no
symptoms whatever of an electrical nature came under their observa-
tion. The sublime analysis of the thunderbolt and of the electricity
of the atmosphere lay yet entirely undiscovered, and was reserved two
years longer for the sagacity of the celebrated Dr. Franklin.” Hence
it seems that Franklin’s famous experiment of collecting the electricity
of a thundercloud by means of a kite, performed at Philadelphia in
1752, was not the first scientific application of the kite. and therefore

‘Reprinted (with author’s revision) from Technology Quarterly and Pr ceedings
of the Society of Arts, Boston, June, 1900.

9992
220
994 USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

America can claim only the later and most remarkable development of
this means of exploring the air. About 1837 there existed in Phila-
delphia an organization called the Franklin Kite Club, that flew kites
for recreation. Espy, the eminent meteorologist, was a member, and
he states ‘*that on those days when columnar clouds form rapidly and
numerously the kite was frequently carried upward nearly perpen-
dicularly by columns of ascending air,” a phenomenon which is often
observed to-day. Espy calculated the height at which clouds should
form by the cooling of the air to its dew point, and then employed
kites to verify his calculations of the heights of the clouds. Both these
methods are utilized in the measurements of cloud heights at Blue Hill.

Kites were employed to get temperatures a hundred feet or more
above the Arctic Ocean early in the present century, and in 1847 Mr.
W. R. Birt, at the Kew Observatory in England, flew a kite for the
purpose of measuring temperature, humidity, wind velocity, ete.
His kite, of hexagonal shape, required three strings attached to the
ground to keep it steady, and while he proposed to hoist the instru-
ments up to the kite by means of a pulley, it does not appear that this
was done or that any observations were obtained. In 1882 Mr. Doug-
las Archibald in England revived the use of kites for meteorological
observations and outlined a comprehensive scheme of exploring the
air with kites, which included almost all that has been done since. His
actual work, performed during the next three years, was limited to
ascertaining the increase of wind velocity with height up to 1,200 feet,
and to do this he attached registering anemometers at four different
points on the kite wire, but since the total wind movements only were
registered from the time the anemometers left the ground until they
returned, it was impossible to obtain simultaneous records near the
ground and at the kite, as is done to-day. Mr. Archibald in 1887 took
the first photograph from a kite, a method which MM. Batut and
Wenz developed in France, and Messrs. Eddy and Woglom in the
United States.

The subsequent progress of kite flying for meteorological purposes
was in this country, and it may be chronologicaily stated as follows:
In 1885 Mr. Alexander McAdie (now of the United States Weather
Bureau) repeated Franklin’s kite experiment on Blue Hill, with the
addition of an electrometer; in 1891 and 1892 he measured simultane-
ously the electric potential at the base of Blue Hill, on the hill, and
with kites as collectors several hundred feet above the hilltop, about
the same time that Dr. Weber, in Breslau, Germany, was making a
more extensive use of kites for the same purpose. It was no doubt
William A. Eddy, of Bayonne, N. J., who turned the attention of
American scientific men to kite flying, and created the widespread
interest in kites which exists to-day. About 1890, Mr. Eddy lifted
thermometers with an ordinary kite, but soon afterwards devised a
USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. pea

tailless kite resembling the one used in Java, except that the horizontal
crosspiece is nearer the top of the vertical stick, and its ends are bent
backward in a bow and connected by a cord. The next year, with
several of these kites flown tandem, he lifted a minimum thermometer
and proposed to obtain in this way data to forecast the weather.

Up to this time it does not appear that self-recording instruments—
that is to say, those which make continuous graphic records—had
been raised by kites. In the days of the early experimenters such
instruments were too heavy and cumbersome to be lifted by the more
or less unmanageable kites, but within the past few years M. Richard,
of Paris, has made recording instruments sufliciently simple and light
to be attached to kites. In this way it is possible to obtain simulta-
neous records at the kite and at a station on the ground, and from them
to study the differences of temperature and humidity, and this seems
to have been done first at Blue Hill Observatory. In August, 1894,
Mr. Eddy brought his kites to Blue Hill, and with them lifted a Rich-
ard thermograph which had been partly reconstructed of aluminum
by Mr. Fergusson, of the observatory, so that it weighed but 24
pounds, to the height of 1,400 feet, and here the earliest automatic
record of temperature was obtained by a kite. During the next sum-
mer Mr. Eddy secured photographs of the observatory and hill by a
camera carried between his kites to the height of a hundred feet or more.
Now, that the possibility of lifting self-recording meteorological instru-
ments to considerable heights had been demonstrated, an investigation
of the thermal and hygrometric conditions of the free air was under-
taken by the staff of the Blue Hill Observatory, who had already made
an investigation of the currents of air at various heights by measure-
ments of the clouds.

In the early experiments the Eddy, or Malay kites, as they are also
called, covered with paper or with varnished cloth and coupled tandem
to secure greater safety and lifting power, were used. The kites were
attached at several points on the line, for although it can be demon-
strated theoretically that a greater height is possible by concentrating
all the pull at the end of the line, yet in the actual case of a line which
is not infinitely strong the best results are got by distributing the pull,
and in this way, too, kites can be added as the wind conditions aloft
permit. The Eddy kite flew at a high angle above the horizon and
through a considerable range of wind velocity, but it could not be
kept permanently in balance or made to adjust itself to great varla-
tions in wind velocity, and therefore it was discarded.

The first meteorograph, being a combined recording thermometer
and barometer (from which the height can be obtained), was con-
structed by Mr. Fergusson in August, 1895, and three months later he

226 USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS..

joined a recording anemometer to the thermometer, which was prob-
ably the first apparatus of this kind to be attached to kites. Subse-
quently there was used *the meteorograph, recording atmospheric
pressure, air temperature, and relative humidity, designed by M.
Richard, of Paris, for use in balloons, but now for the first time made
of aluminum. In August, 1895, in addition to the Eddy kites, there
was tried the cellular, or box kite, invented by Lawrence Hargrave,
of Sydney, Australia, which bears no resemblance to the conventional
forms of kites, but consists of two light boxes without tops or bottoms,
fastened some distance above each other. The wind exerts its lifting
force chiefly upon the front and rear sides of the upper box, the lower
box, which inclines to the rear and so receives less pressure preserving
the balance, while the ends of the boxes being in line with the wind
keep the kite steady, and serve the purpose of the dihedral angle in
the Malay kite.

On account of the weight of the large cord necessary to control these
kites and the surface which it presented to the wind, a height of 2,000
feet above Blue Hill could not be reached; so, during the winter of
1895-96, following Archibald’s example and the methods of deep-sea
sounding employed by Captain Sigsbee, United States Navy, steel
pianoforte wire was substituted for the cord. This wire is less than
half as heavy and less than one-fourth the size of cord having the
same strength; and, moreover, its surface is polished, which reduces
the friction of the wind blowing past it. With the wire the height of
a mile was reached in July, and a mile and two-thirds in October, 1896.
Up to this time a reel turned by two men sufliced to draw down the
kites, but the increasing pull and length of wire made recourse to
steam power necessary. In January, 1897, a grant of money was
allotted from the Hodgkins fund of the Smithsonian Institution for
‘the purpose of obtaining meteorological records at heights exceeding
10,000 feet, and no doubt the first application of steam to kiteflying
was the winch built by Mr. Fergusson, with ingenious devices for dis-
tributing, oiling, and measuring the length of wire. The cumulative
pressure of the successive coils of wire finally crushed the drum, and
the next apparatus applied the principle of Sir William Thomson’s
deep-sea sounding apparatus, in which there is no accumulation of
pressure. In October, 1897, records were brought down from 11,000
feet, or 1,000 feet above the prescribed height. The kite reel, in its
various stages of development, is shown in fig. 1, Plate I.

The kites and apparatus at present employed at Blue Hill will now
be deseritbed:

The kites are mostly of Hargrave’s construction with two rectan-
gular cells covered with cloth or silk, except at their tops and bottoms,
and one is secured above the other by four or more sticks. The
wooden frames are as light as possible, but are made rigid by guys of
USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 227

steel wire which bind them in all directions. The average weight is
about 2 ounces a square foot of lifting surface, which is about the same
weight a square foot as the Eddy kites, when all the surface is included
in the estimate. The largest of the Hargrave kites stands 9 feet high,
weighs 11 pounds, and contains 90 square feet of lifting surface, which
in the recent kites isarched, resembling the curvature of a bird’s wing's
(fig. 2, Pl. I). These curved surfaces increase the lift, or upward pull,
more than the drift, or motion to leeward, and so the angular eleva-
tion is augmented without materially adding to the total pull on the
wire, which should not exceed one-half its breaking strength. Another
efficient form that has been used at Blue Hill is the ‘‘aero-curve kite,”
made by Mr. C. H. Lamson, of Portland, Me., and shown in fig. 3,
(Pl. 11). In flight it resembles a soaring bird, and when not in use
it can be taken apart and folded up. Mr. Lamson has recently con-
structed a similar kite, with three superposed surfaces, that has been
the leader in some of the highest flights.

A most important factor in the success of the Blue Hill work was
the application by Mr. Clayton, of the observatory, to every kite of an
elastic cord inserted in the lower part of the bridle to which the flying
line is attached; when the wind pressure increases, this stretches and
causes the kite to diminish its angle of incidence to the wind until the
gust subsides. A kite can be set to pull only a fixed amount in the
strongest wind, when the kite will fly nearly horizontal. We are
therefore able to calculate the greatest pull that can be exerted on
the wire by all the kites, and with this device the kites have flown
through gales of 50 or 60 miles an hour without breaking loose or
injuring themselves. In general, the angle of the flying lines of the
Blue Hill kites is 50° or 60° above the horizon, and in winds of 20
miles an hour the pull on the line is about 1 pound for each square
foot of lifting surface in the kite. Kites can be raised in a wind that
blows more than 12 miles an hour at the ground, and as the average
velocity of the wind for the year on Blue Hill is 18 miles an hour, there
are few days when kites can not be flown. In order to fly in the
- feeblest winds possible a small ands light pilot kite has been used to
help lift the large and heavier kite into the stronger and steadier wind
that usually prevails a short distance above the ground.

The wire to which the kites are attached is steel music wire, 0.032
inch in diameter, weighing 15 pounds a mile, and capable of with-
standing a pull of 300 pounds. The wire is spliced in lengths of more
than a mile with the greatest care, special pains being taken that no
sharp bends or rust spots occur which would cause it to break. To
lift the increasing weight of wire, kites are attached at intervals of a
few thousand feet by screwing on the wire aluminum ¢ ‘lamps to which
the kite lines are fastened, so that the angle may be maintained as
hich as is consistent with a safe pull. Since each kite adds to the
298 USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

strain upon the wire below it, latterly the lower portion of the main
line has been composed of wire 0.038 inch in diameter that possesses
a tensile strength of 390 pounds. The Richard meteorograph, con-
tained in an aluminum cage of about a foot cube, weighs less than 3
pounds, and it is only necessary to screen the thermometer from the
sun’s rays to obtain the true temperature of the air, since the wind
insures a circulation of air around the thermometer. Another meteor-
ograph constructed by Mr. Fergusson records the velocity of the wind
on the same drum with the three other elements, and weighs no more
than the French instrument. It is shown in fig. 4 (PL Il), and fig. 5
(Pl. ILI) is a facsimile record, two-thirds actual size.

The reeling apparatus is an example of how the same apparatus may
serve diametrically opposite purposes. In sounding the depths of the
ocean the wire must be pulled upward, whereas in sounding the heights
of the atmosphere the wire must be pulled in the reverse direction.
Therefore the deep-sea sounding apparatus has been altered by Mr.
Fergusson to pull obliquely downward, the wire passing over a swivel-
ing pulley, which follows its direction and registers ona dial the exact
length unreeled. Next the wire bears against a pulley carried by a
strong spiral spring, by which the pull upon it at all times is recorded
on a paper-covered drum turned by clockwork, then it passes several
times around a strain pulley, and finally is coiled under slight tension
upon a large storage drum. When the kites are to be pulled down,
the strain pulley is connected with a 2-horsepower steam engine, and
the wire is drawn in at a speed of from 3 to 6 miles an hour, but
when the kites are rising the belt is removed and the pull of the kites
unreels the wire.

The method of making a kite flight for meteorological purposes at
Blue Hill is as follows: A kite, fastened to a ring at the end of the
main wire, and the meteorograph clamped to the wire being in the air,
another kite is attached by a cord and the clamp described. The kites
are then allowed to rise and to unreel the wire until its angle above
the horizon becomes low, when other kites are added, the number
depending on the size of the kites and the strength of the wind. After
a pause at the highest attainable altitude, the reel is connected with
the steam engine and the kites are drawn down. ‘The pauses at the
highest point, and when kites are attached or detached, are necessary
to allow the recording instruments to acquire the conditions of the
surrounding air, and because at these times the meteorograph is nearly
stationary, measurements of its angular elevations are made with a sur-
veyor’s transit, while observations of azimuth give the direction of the
wind at the different heights. The time of making each angular meas-
urement is noted, so that the corresponding point on the trace of the
meteorograph may be found. From the length of wire and its angular
elevation the height of the meteorograph can be calculated, it having
USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 229

been found that the sag of the wire, or its deviation either in a vertical
or a horizontal plane from the straight line joining kite and reel, does
not cause un error exceeding 3 per cent in the height so computed.
When the meteorograph is hidden by clouds, the height above the last
point trigonometrically determined is computed from the barometric
record by Laplace’s formula. At night there is only the barometer
from which to determine the height, for, although an attempt was
made to use a lantern to sight upon, yet it soon becomes invisible, or,
when seen, is confounded with the stars. Before and after the flight
the thermometer and hygrometer of the meteorograph are compared
with the standard instruments.

Since the use of wire and more efficient kites the heights have been
greatly increased. Thus the average height above the sea attained
by the meteorograph in the thirty-five flights made during 1898 was
more than a mile and a third, whereas the average height of all the
ascents prior to 1897 was less than half a mile. The extreme height
of 15,807 feet, reached in July, 1900, exceeds the altitude of Mont Blane,
and also the greatest height at which meteorological observations have
been made with a balloon in the United States. The progress upward
each year is shown in this table:

Heights above sea level of kite flights at Blue Hill.

[Blue Hill is 630 feet above the sea. }

Heights, in feet. | Percentages of records above—
eee | | E ” : ie: a ae x 000 4,000
Year. | bero = a 500 1,000 1,500 | 2,00 | 3,006 4,
records. Mean of Absolute meters meters meters | meters | meters | meters
| maxi | maxi | “(7640 | (3,280 | (4,920 | (6,560 | (9,840 | (13,123
creas | TD | feet). feet). feet). feet). | feet). feet).
1894 2 1, 860 2,070 | 0 0 0 0 0 4]
1895 28 1, 6138 2,490 59 0 0 0 0 0
1896 | 56 D2 9,327 | 78 28 9 4 | 0 0
1897 | 38 4,557 | 11,716 | 95 68 45 21 | 5 0
1898 | 35 7, 350 | 12, 070 | 100 92 80 66 | 20 0
1899 | 25 7,402 | 12,441 | 100 94 80 56 28 0
1900 | 24 | 8,451 | 15, 807 | 100 96 85 67 | 38 8
| ie} i eee

The average of the highest points recorded in each one of the
flights during August, 1898, exceeded a mile and a half, and on
August 26 the meteorograph was raised 11,440 feet above Blue Hill,
or 12,070 feet above the neighboring ocean. The meteorograph was
suspended from the topmost kite, one of the Lamson pattern, having
71 square feet of lifting surface, and this was increased to a total of
149 square feet by four kites of the modified Hargrave type that were
attached at intervals to the wire. The 5 miles of wire in the air
weighed 75 pounds, and the total weight lifted, including kites and
apparatus, was 112 pounds. The meteorograph left the ground at-
230 USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

10.40 a. m., attained its greatest height at 4.15 p. m., and returned to.

the ground at 8.40 p. m., its automatic record being shown in fig. 5,
in which the heights are expressed in meters and the wind velocities in
meters per second. The cumulus clouds were traversed three-quarters
of a mile from the earth, and above them the air was found to be very
dry. On the hill the air temperature was 72°, when it was 38° in the
free air 11,440 feet above, and the wind velocity increased from 22 to
40 miles an hour as can be computed from the scale of miles on the
right-hand margin of the anemometer record.

During the past.six years, about two hundred and forty records have
been obtained at Blue Hill in all kinds of weather conditions, from the
eround up to 15,000 feet above it. They are published and discussed in
the Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College, Vol.
xlii, Part I, and in several Bulletins of the Blue Hill Observatory, and
constitute, no doubt, the most thorough study of the lower air yet
made at a single station. The vertical distribution of temperature
and humidity has been investigated and six types have been deduced.
Normally, in fine weather, with increase of height the temperature
decreases at the adiabatic rate for unsaturated air (1° F. for 183 feet)
up to a certain height where there is a sudden rise of temperature, and
above that height the decrease is slower. This rise, which is caused
by a warm current overflowing a colder one, is noted by aeronauts also
at greater heights. Owing to the chilling of the air near the ground
at night it frequently happens that it is warmer at the height of a
thousand feet than it is at the ground, and as the relative humidity aloft
is generally the reverse of what it is at the ground, it follows that at
certain heights in the free atmosphere the nights are warm and dry
while the days are cold and damp. Contrary to the observations on
mountains, the diurnal period of temperature usually disappears above
a mile, but the changes due to cold and warm waves occur simultane-
ously at the ground and at the extreme heights reached by the kites.
The observations obtained during the passage of cyclones and anti-
cyclones indicate that the cause of the cyclone, at least in our latitude,
is its higher temperature with respect to the surrounding air. This
conclusion agrees with the convectional theory of Espy and Ferrel, but
it is possible that the shallow cyclones felt at the earth’s surface may
have superposed on them other cyclones with cold centers.

Atmospheric electricity is noticeable since the use of wire as a flying
line whenever the kites rise higher than a quarter of a mile above the
ground. Usually the wire becomes strongly charged with electricity
when great heights are reached and this is discharged in bright sparks
at the reel. The potential generally increases with altitude, and prob-
ably the electricity is sometimes positive and sometimes negative,
although*no measurements have been made with the kites very high.
USE OF KITES IN METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 23]

Notwithstanding its intensity the quantity of electricity in the atmos-
phere appears insufficient to warrant its collection and storage for
practical purposes.

During the summer of 1898 the United States Weather Bureau
undertook, to obtain daily from seventeen stations equipped with kites
(situated chiefly in the Mississippi Valley), automatic records at a
height of about a mile, with which to draw a synoptic chart of the
upper air for forecasting in connection with a similar chart of surface
observations. The high-level chart could not be drawn regularly on
account of light winds at some stations, but much data concerning
temperature gradients were obtained, and these have been published.
Since the work at Blue Hill was made known to foreign meteorolo-
gists, who have received drawings and models of our apparatus, the
use of kites to obtain meteorological data has been taken up exten-
sively on the Continent of Europe, and already the meteorological
bureaus of France, Germany, and Russia have established depart-
ments for the purpose of obtaining observations in the free air with
both kites and balloons.

Whenever there is wind, kites.possess advantages over any other
method of exploring the air up to the height of at least 15,000 feet.
Although only on mountains can observations at a uniform height be
maintained continuously, yet the conditions there are not those of the
free air at an equal height. Observations in a drifting balloon are
affected by the heated or stagnant air accompanying the balloon, and
the progressive changes in the atmospheric conditions at one place
can not be studied, because, generally, these observations are not
comparable with simultaneous observations made at one station on the
ground. With kites, however, frequent ascents and descents permit
the true conditions prevailing in superposed strata of air at definitely
known heights to be obtained nearly simultaneously. Kites can rise
much higher than captive balloons, which are borne down by the
weight of the cable necessary to control them. Finally, kites cost
very much less than either mountain stations or balloons. It appears,
therefore, that in future the equipment of a first-class meteorological
observatory should include the kite (and perhaps the German kite-
balloon for use when the wind is lacking), so that automatic records
may be obtained daily at the height of a mile or two in the free air,
at the same time that similar observations are made at the ground.
—
~ a,

=

Peatiy ayy i

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Rotch.

PLATE I.

Fic. 1.—EVOLUTION OF THE KITE-REEL.

Fic. 2.—MoDIFIED HARGRAVE KITE.
S

ov ee —

Ez.

ae

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Rotch. PLATE II

Fic. 4.—FERGUSSON’S KITE-METEOROGRAPH.
PLATE III.

Sr ithsonian Report, 1900.—Rotch.

*LHDINA-3SLIM HDIH V SO WVYSOXOSLAW—'G “SI4

ee = =S=====
Nieeee-S-eeUGe=s=a ====
cree rit Seeceee

==:

= =e ee :
Him ee |
——————— =
EE == == :
= Lo s==============—
2eees2e=s===—========s25e=
=sS5

| | (21zHNzeHV I FUNLWAISWIL

STi

8)
HTT |
LTT

r
'
|
i
i
=
le]
ro
=
=
=
I
leo!
b@

=e ernie os f
pol NAT TT RM TT TT
ome 7

PEBL LSNSTY 92° AYOL

VG

sM 1900
ay,

t}
ee Oy nee
) <2 ed a4

rie gts i Tas

7 > - 4 |

SS eS Se SS Oe ee

ee Se eee ee ee

eo.

oT =" —

PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY:!
By Prof. Wriuiam Ramsay.

The progress of the science of chemistry forms one phase of the
progress of human thought. While at first mankind was contented to
observe certain phenomena, and to utilize them for industrial purposes
if they were found suitable, ** philosophers,” as the thinking portion
of our race loved to call themselves, have always attempted to assign
some explanation for observed facts and to group them into similars
and dissimilars. It was for long imagined, following the doctrines of
the Greeks and of their predecessors, that all matter consisted of four
elements or principles, names which survive to this day in popular
language. These were ‘‘fire,” ‘‘air,” ‘‘ water,” and ‘‘earth.” It was
not until the seventeenth century that Boyle in his Sceptical
Chymist (1661) laid the foundations of the modern science by point-
ing out that it was impossible to explain the existence of the fairly
numerous chemical substances known in his day, or the changes which
they can be made to undergo, by means of the ancient Greek hypoth-
eses regarding the constitution of matter. He laid down the definition
of the modern meaning of the word ‘‘element ;” he declined to accept
the current view that the properties of matter could be modified by
assimilating the qualities of fire, air, earth, or water, and he defined an
element as the constituent of a compound body. The first problem,
then, to be solved was to determine which of the numerous forms of
matter were to be regarded as elementary, and which are compound,
or composed of two or more elements in a state of combination, and
to produce such compounds by causing the appropriate elements to
unite with each other.

ANCIENT IDEAS ABOUT THE AIR.

One of the first objects to excite curiosity and interest was the air
which surrounds us, and in which we live and move and have our
being. It was, however, endowed with a semispiritual and scarcely
corporeal nature in the ideas of our ancestors, for it does not affect

1Copyright, 1900, by The Sun Printing and Publishing Association. Reprinted,

by special permission, from The Sun, New York, December 30, 1900. pe
400
934 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

the senses of sight, smell, or taste, and though it can be felt, yet it
eludes our grasp. The word gas, moreover, was not invented until
Van Helmont devised it to designate various kinds of *‘airs” which he
had observed. The important part which gases play in the constitu-
tion of many chemical compounds was accordingly overlooked, and,
indeed, it appeared to be almost as striking a feat of necromancy to
produce a quantity of gas of great volume from a small pinch of solid
powder as for a ** Jinn” of enormous stature but of delicate texture
to issue from a brass pot, as related in the Arabian Nights Entertain-
ments. Gradually, however, it came to be recognized, not merely that
gases have corporeal existence, but that they even possess weight.
This, though foreshadowed by Torricelli, Jean Rey, and others, was
first clearly proved by Black, professor of chemistry in Edinburgh, in
1752, through his masterly researches, as carbonic acid.

The ignorance of the material nature of gases and of their weight
lies at the bottom of the phlogistic theory, a theory devised by Stahl
about the year 1690, to account for the phenomena of combustion and
respiration and the recovery or ‘‘ reduction” of metals from their
“earths” by heating with charcoal or allied bodies. According to
this inverted theory, a substance capable of burning was imagined to
contain more or less phlogiston, a principle which it parted with on
burning, leaving an earth deprived of phlogiston, or ** dephlogisti-
ated” behind if a metal. This earth when heated with substances
rich in phlogiston, such as coal, wood, flour, and similar bodies, recoy-
ered the phlogiston, which it had lost on burning, and with the added
phlogiston its metallic character. Other substances, such as phos-
phorus and sulphur, gave solids or acid liquids to which phlogiston
was not so easy to add; but even they could be rephlogisticated. On
this hypothesis, it was the earths, and such acid liquids as sulphuric or
phosphoric acids which were the elements; the metals and sulphur and
phosphorus were their compounds with phlogiston.

DISCOVERY OF OXYGEN.

The discovery of oxygen by Priestley and by Scheele in 1774, and
the explanation of its functions by Lavoisier during the following ten
years gave their true meaning to these phenomena. It was then rec-
ognized that combustion was union with oxygen; that an ‘‘earth” or
‘*calx” was to be regarded as the compound of a metal with oxygen;
that when a metal becomes tarnished and converted into such an
earthy powder it is being oxidized; that this oxide, on ignition with
charcoal or carbon, or with compounds such as coal,-flour, or wood,
of which carbon is a constituent, gives up its oxygen to the carbon,
forming an oxide of carbon, carbonic oxide, on the one hand, or car-
bonic ‘* acid” on the other, while the metal is reproduced in its ‘‘reg-
uline” or metallic condition, and that the true elements are metals,
—S

PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 235

Ss

carbon, sulphur, phosphorus, and similar bodies, and not the product
of their oxidation.

The discovery that air is, in the main, a mixture of nitrogen, an
inert gas, and oxygen, an active one, together with a small proportion
of carbonic ‘‘acid” (or, as it is now termed, anhydride)—a discovery
perfected by Rutherford, Black, and Cavendish—and that water is a
compound with oxygen of hydrogen, previously known as inflammable
air, by Cavendish and by Watt, finally overthrew the theory of phlo-
giston, but at the beginning of this century it still lingered on, and was
defended by Priestley until his death in 1804. Such, in brief, was the
condition of chemical thought in the year 1800. Scheele had died in
1786, at the early age of 44; Lavoisier was one of the victims of the
French Revolution, having been guillotined in 1794; Cavendish had
ceased to work at chemical problems and was devoting his extraordi-
nary abilities to physical problems of the highest importance, while liv-
ing the life of an eccentric recluse; and Priestley, driven by religious
persecution from England to the more tolerant shores of America,
was enjoying a peaceful old age, enlivened by occasional incursions
into the region of sectarian controversy.

FIRST STRIKING DISCOVERY OF THE CENTURY.

The first striking discovery of our century was that of the com-
pound nature of alkalies and of the alkaline earths. This discovery
was made by Humphry Davy. Born in Cornwall in 1778, he began
the study of chemistry, self-taught, in 1796, and in 1799 he became
director of the Pueumatic Institution, an undertaking founded by
Dr. Beddoes at Bristol for the purpose of experiments on the curative
effects of gases in general. Here he at once made his mark by the
discovery of the remarkable properties of ** laughing gas,” or nitrous
oxide. At the same time he constructed a galvanic battery, and began
to perform experiments with it in attempting to decompose chemical
compounds by its means. In 1801 Davy was appointed professor of
chemistry at the Royal Institution, a society or club which had been
founded a few years previously by Benjamin Thomson, Count Rum-
ford, for the purpose of instructing and amusing its members with
recent discoveries in chemistry and natural philosophy. In 1807 Davy
applied his galvanic battery to the decomposition of damp caustic
potash and soda, using platinum poles. He was rewarded by seeing
globules of metal, resembling mercury in appearance, at the negative
pole, and he subsequently proved that these globules, when burned,
reproduced the alkali from which they had been derived. They also
combined with ‘‘oxymuriatic acid,” as chlorine (discovered by Scheele)
was then termed, forming ordinary salt, if sodium be employed, and
the analogous salt, ‘‘muriate of potash,” if the allied metal, potassium,
were subjected to combustion. By using mercury as the negative
236 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

pole, and passing a current through a strong solution of the chloride
of caleium, strontium, or barium, Davy succeeded in procuring mix-
tures with mercury or ‘‘amalgams” of their metals, to which he gave
the names calcium, strontium, and barium. Distillation removed
most of the mercury, and the metal was left behind in a state of com-
parative purity. The alkali metals, potassium and sodium, were
found to attack glass, liberating the ‘‘ basis of the silex,” to which the
name silicon has since been given.

Thus nearly the last of the ‘‘earths” had been decomposed. It was
proved that not merely were the ‘‘calces” of iron, copper, lead, and
other well-known metals compounds of the respective metals with
oxygen, but Davy showed that lime and its allies, strontia and baryta,
and even silica or flint, were to be regarded as oxides of elements of
metallic appearance. To complete our review of this part of the sub-
ject, suffice it to say that aluminum, a metal now produced on an indus-
trial scale, was prepared for the first time in 1827 by Wohler, profes-
sor of chemistry at Géttingen, by the action of potassium on its
chloride, and alumina, the earthy basis of clay, was shown to be the
oxide of the metal aluminum. Indeed, the preparation of this metal
in quantity in now carried out at Schaffhausen-on-the-Rhine and at the
Falls of Foyers in Scotland by electrolysis of the oxide dissolved in
melted cryolite, a mineral consisting of the fluorides of sodium and
aluminum, by a method differing only in scale from that by means of
which Davy isolated sodium and potassium in 1806.

DAVY’S IMPORTANT WORK.

To Davy, too, belongs the merit of having dethroned oxygen from
its central position among the elements. Lavoisier gave to this im-
portant gas the name ‘‘oxygen,” because he imagined it to be the
constituent of all acids. He renamed the common compounds of
oxygen in such a manner that the term oxygen was not even repre-
sented in the name—only inferred. Thus a ‘‘nitrate” is a compound
of an oxide of nitrogen and an oxide of a metal; a ‘‘sulphate,” of the
oxide of a metal with one of the oxides of sulphur, and so on. Davy,
by discovering the elementary nature of chlorine, showed first that it
is not an oxide of hydrochloric acid (or muriatic acid, as it was then
called); and, second, that the latter acid is a compound of the element
chlorine with hydrogen. This he did by passing chlorine over white-
hot carbon—a substance eminently suited to deprive oxy-compounds
of their oxygen—and proving that no oxide of carbon is thereby pro-
duced; by acting on certain chlorides, such as those of tin or phos-
phorus with ammonia, and showing that no oxide of tin or phosphorus
is formed; and, lastly, by decomposing ‘‘muriatic acid gas” (gaseous
hydrogen chloride) with sodium and showing that the only product
besides common salt is hydrogen. Instead, therefore, of the former

PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 937

theory that a chloride was a compound of the unknown basis of oxy-
muriatic acid with oxygen and the oxide of a metal, he introduced the
simpler and correct view that a chloride is merely a compound of the
element chlorine with a metal. In 1813 he established the similar
nature of fluorine, pointing out that on the analogy of the chlorides it
was a fair deduction that the fluorides are compounds of an undiscov-
ered element, fluorine, with metals; and that hydrofluoric acid is the
true analogue of hydrochloric acid. The truth of this forecast has
been established of recent years by Henri Moissan, who isolated gas-
eous fluorine by subjecting a mixture of hydrofluoric acid and hydro-
gen potassium fluoride contained in a platinum U tube to the action of
a powerful electric current. He has recently found that the tube may
be equally well constructed of copper; and this may soon lead to the
industrial application of the process. The difficulty of isolating fluor-
ine is due to its extraordinary chemical energy, for there are few sub-
stances, elementary or compound, which resist the action of this pale,
yellow, suffocating gas. In 1811 iodine, separated by Courtois from
the ashes of sea plants, was shown by Davy to be an element analo-
gous to chlorine. Gay-Lussac subsequently investigated it and pre-
pared many of its compounds; and in 1826 the last of these elements,
bromine, was discovered in the mother liquor of sea salt by Balard.
The elements of this group have been termed “halogens,” or ‘salt
producers.”
JOHN DALTON’S THEORY.

While Davy was pouring his researches into the astonished ears of
the scientific and dilettante world John Dalton, « Manchester school-
master, conceived a theory which has proved of the utmost service to
the science of chemistry, and which bids fair to outlast our day. It
had been noticed by Wenzel, by Richter, by Wollaston, and by Cavendish
toward the end of the last century that the same compounds contain
the same constituents in the same proportions, or, as the phrase runs,
*““Dossess constant composition.” Wollaston, indeed, had gone one
step further, and had shown that when the vegetable acid, oxalic acid,
is combined with potash it forms two compounds, in one of which the
acid is contained in twice as great an amount relatively to the potash
as in the other. The names monoxalate and binoxalate of potash were
applied to these compounds to indicate the respective proportions of
the ingredients. Dalton conceived the happy idea that by applying
the ancient Greek conception of atoms to such facts the relative weights
of the atoms could be determined. Illustrating his views with the two
compounds of carbon with hydrogen, marsh gas and olefiant gas, and
with the two acids of carbon, carbonic oxide and carbonic “acid,” he
regarded the former as a compound of one atom of carbon and one of
hydrogen and the second as a compound of one atom of carbon and
238 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

two of hydrogen, and similarly for the two oxides of carbon. Know-
ing the relative weights in which these elements enter into combination,
we can deduce the relative weights of the atoms. Placing the relative
weight of an atom of hydrogen equal to unity, we have:

Marsh | Olefiant Carbonic | Carbonic |

| gas. gas. | oxide, acid.
| | |
oe eee == aes —|—————|- has
i, sCarbomiesese- 6 6 Carbon). -.2-- | 5 6
| Hydrogen ...- 1 2 Oxyeenl-2-5- 8 16 |

Thus the first compound, marsh gas, was regarded by Dalton as com-
posed of an atom of carbon in union with an atom of hydrogen; or, to
reproduce his symbols, as @ ©, while the second, olefiant gas, on this
hypothesis, was a compound of two atoms of hydrogen with one of
.carbon, or ©@O©. Similarly the symbols @O and O @O were given
to the two compounds of carbon with oxygen. So water was assigned
the symbol © O, for Dalton imagined it to be acompound of one atom
of hydrogen with one of oxygen. Compounds containing only two
atoms were termed by him ‘‘binary;” those containing three, **ter-
nary;” four, ‘‘quaternary,” and so on. The weight of an atom of
oxygen was eight times that of an atom of hydrogen, while that of an
atom of carbon was six times as great as the unit. By assigning sym-
bols to the elements, consisting of the initial letters of their names, or
of the first two letters, formule were developed, indicating the com-
position of the compound, the atomic weights of the elements being
assured. Thus, NaO signified a compound of an atom of sodium
(natrium) weighing twenty-three times as much as a similar atom of
hydrogen with an atom of oxygen possessing eight times the weight
of an atom of hydrogen. Therefore, 31 pounds of soda should consist
of 23 pounds of sodium in combination with 8 pounds of oxygen, for,
according to Dalton, each smallest particle of soda contains an atom of
each element, and the proportion is not changed however many particles
may be considered.

It has been pointed out by Judge Stallo, of Philadelphia, in his Con-
cepts of Physics that such an hypothesis as that of Dalton is no
explanation; that a fact of nature, as, for example, the fact of simple
and multiple proportions, is not explained by being minified. Allow-
ing the general truth of this statement, it is nevertheless undoubted
that chemistry owes much to Dalton’s hypothesis; a lucky guess at first,
it represents one of the fundamental truths of nature, although its
form must be somewhat modified from that in which Dalton conceived
it. Dalton’s work was first expounded by Thomas Thomson, pro-
fessor at Glasgow, in his System of Chemistry, published in 1805,
and subsequently in Dalton’s own New System of Chemical Philos-
ophy, the three yolumes of which were published in 1808, in 1810,
and in 1827.
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 239

s

‘ATOMIC WEIGHTS.’

The determination of these ‘‘ constants of nature” was at once fol-
lowed out by many chemists, Thomson among the first. But chief
among the chemists who have pursued this branch of work was Jacob
Berzelius, a Swede, who devoted his long life (1779-1848) to the manu-
facture of compounds and to the determination of their composition,
or, as it is still termed, the determination of the ‘‘ atomic weights ”’—
more correctly, **equivalents”—of the elements of which they are
composed. It is'to him that we owe most of our analytical methods,
for prior to his time there were few, if any, accurate analyses.
Although Lavoisier had devised a method for the analysis of com-
pounds of carbon, viz, by burning the organic compounds in an
atmosphere of oxygen contained in a bell jar over mercury and meas-
uring the volume of carbon dioxide produced, as well as that of the
residual oxygen, Berzelius achieved the same results more accurately
and more expeditiously by heating the substance, mixed with chlorate
of potassium and sodium chloride, and then estimating the hydrogen
as well asthe carbon. This process was afterwards perfected by Liebig.
Berzelius, however, was able to show that compounds of carbon, like
those of other elements, were instances of combination in constant and
multiple proportions.

In 1815 two papers were published in the Annals of Philosophy
by Dr. Prout which have had much influence on the progress of
chemistry. They dealt with the figures which were being obtained
by Thomson, Berzelius and others, at that time supposed to represent
the ‘‘atomic weights” of the elements. Prout’s hypothesis, based on
only a few numbers was that the atomic weights of all elements were
multiples of that of hydrogen, taken as a unity. There was much
dispute regarding this assertion at the time, but as it was contradicted
by Berzelius’s numbers the balance of opinion was against it. But
about the year 1840 Dumas discovered an error in the number (12.12)
given by Berzelius as the atomic weight of carbon; and with his collab-
orator, Stas, undertook the redetermination of the atomic weights
of the commoner elements—for example, carbon, oxygen, chlorine,
and calcium. This line of research was subsequently pursued alone
by Stas, whose name will always be remembered for the precision
and accuracy of his experiments. At first Dumas and Stas inclined
to the view that Prout’s hypothesis was a just one, but it was com-
pletely disproved by Stas’s subsequent work, as well as by that of
numerous other observers. It is nevertheless curious that a much
larger proportion of the atomic weights approximate to whole num-
bers than would be foretold by the doctrine of chances, and perhaps
the last has not been heard of Prout’s hypothesis, although in its orig-
inal crude form it is no longer worthy of credence.
240 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

ATOMS AND MOLECULES.

One of the most noteworthy of the discoveries of the century was
made by Gay-Lussac (1778-1850) in the year 1808. In conjunction
with Alexander von Humboldt, Gay-Lussac had rediscovered about
three years before what had previously been established by Cavendish,
namely, that, as nearly as possible, 2 volumes of hydrogen combine
with 1 volume of oxygen to form water, the gases having been
measured at the same temperature and pressure. Humboldt suggested
to Gay-Lussac that it would be well to investigate whether similar
simple relations exist between the volumes of other gaseous substances
when they combine with each other. This turned out to be the case;
it appeared that almost exactly 2 volumes of carbonic oxide unite
with 1 volume of oxygen to form carbon dioxide; that equal volumes
of chlorine and hydrogen unite to form hydrochloric acid gas; that
2 volumes of ammonia gas consist of 3 volumes hydrogen in union
with 1 volume of nitrogen, and so on. From such facts, Gay-Lussae
was led to make the statement that: The weights of equal volumes
of both simple and compound gases, and, therefore, their densities,
are proportional to their empirically found combining weights, or
to rational multiples of the latter. Gay-Lussac recognized this dis-
covery of his to be a support for the atomic theory; but it did
not accord with many of the then received atomic weights. The
assumption that equal volumes of gases contain equal numbers of
particles, or, as they were termed by him, molécules intégrantes, was
made in 1811 by Avogadro, professor of physics at Turin (1776-1856).
This theory, which has proved of the utmost importance to the
sciences both of physics and of chemistry, had no doubt occurred to
Gay-Lussac, and had been rejected by him for the following reasons:
A certain volume of hydrogen, say 1 cubic inch, may be supposed to
contain an equal number of particles (atoms) as an equal volume of
chlorine. Now, these two gases unite in equal volumes. The deduc-
tion appears so far quite legitimate that 1 atom of hydrogen has
combined with 1 atom of chlorine. But the resulting gas occupies
2 cubic inches, and must, therefore, contain the same number of par-
ticles of hydrogen chloride, the compound of the two elements, as 1
cubic inch originally contained of hydrogen or of chlorine. Thus we
have 2 cubic inches containing, of uncombined gases, twice as many
particles as is contained in that volume after combinations. Avo-
gadro’s hypothesis solved the difficulty. By premising two different
orders of particles, now termed atoms and molecules, the solution was
plain. According to him, each particle, or molecule, of hydrogen is
a complex, and contains 2 atoms; the same is the case with chlorine.
When these gases combine, or rather react, to form hydrogen chloride,
the phenomenon is one of a change of partners; the molecule, the
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 24]

double atom, of hydrogen splits; the same is the case with the-mole-
cule of chlorine; and each liberated atom of hydrogen unites with a
liberated atom of chlorine, forming a compound, hydrogen chloride,
which equally consists of a molecule, or double atom. Thus 2 cubic
inches of hydrogen chloride consist-of a definite number of molecules,
equal in number to those contained in a cubic inch of hydrogen, plus
those contained in a cubic inch of chlorme. The case is precisely sim-
ilar if other compounds of gases be considered.
Berzelius was at first inclined to adopt this theory, and indeed went
so far as to change many of his atomic weights to make them fit it. But
later he somewhat withdrew from his position, for it appeared to him
that it was hazardous to extend to liquids and solids a theory which
could be held only of gases. Avogadro’s suggestion therefore rested
in abeyance until the publication in 1858 by Cannizzaro, now professor
of chemistry in Rome, of an essay in which all the arguments in favor
of the hypothesis were collected and stated in a masterly manner. It
will be advisable to revert to this hypothesis at a later point and to
consider other guides for the determination of atomic weights.

EQUAL CAPACITY FOR HEAT.

In 1819, Dulong (1785-1838), director of the Ecole Polytechnique at
Paris, and Petit (1791-1820), professor of physics there, made the dis-
covery that equal amounts of heat are required to raise equally the
temperature of solid and liquid elements, provided quantities are taken
proportional to their atomic weights. Thus, to raise the temperature
of 56 grams of iron through | degree requires approximately the same
amount of heat as is required to raise through | degree 32 grams of
sulphur, 63.5 grams of copper, and so on, these numbers representing
the atomic weights of the elements named. In other words, equal
numbers of atoms have equal capacity for heat. The number of heat
units or calories (one calory is the amount of heat required to raise
the temperature of 1 gram of water through 1° C.) which is necessary
to raise the atomic weight expressed in grams of any solid or liquid
element through 1° C. is approximately 6.2. It varies between 5.7
and 6.6 in actual part. This affords a means of determining the true
value of the atomic weight of an element, as the following example
will show: The analysis of the only compound of zinc and chlorine
shows that it contains 47.49 per cent of zine and 52.16 per cent of chlo-
rine. Now, 1 grain of hydrogen combines with 35.5 grains of chlorine
to form 36.5 grains of hydrogen chloride; and, as already remarked, 1
volume of hydrogen and 1 volume of chlorine combine, forming 2 vol-
umes of hydrogen chloride. Applying Avogadro’s hypothesis, 1 mole-
cule of hydrogen and 1 molecule of chlorine react to yield 2 molecules
of hydrogen chloride, and as each molecule is supposed to consist in
2492 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

this case of 2 atoms, hydrogen chloride consists of 1 atom of each of
its constituent elements. The amount of that element therefore which
combines with 35.5 grains of chlorine may give the numerical value of
the atomic weight of the element if the compound contains 1 atom of
each element. In that case the formula of the above compound would
be ZnCl and the atomic weight of zine 32.7; but if the formula is
ZnCl, the atomic weight of zine would be 32.72; if ZnCl,, 32.7x 3,
and so on. The specific heat of metallic zinc enables this question to
be solved. For it has been found experimentally to be about 0.095, and
6.2-0.095=65.2, a close approximation to 32.7X2=—65.4. The con-
clusion is therefore drawn that zine chloride is composed of 1 atom of
zine in combination with 2 atoms of chlorine, that the atomic weight
of zine is 65.4, and that the molecular weight of zine chloride is
65.4+- (35.5 x 2)=136.4. Inasmuch as the relative weight of a molecule
of hydrogen is 2 (that of an atom being 1) zine chloride in the gaseous
state should be 136.4+2=68.2 times that of hydrogen, measured at
the same temperature and pressure. This has been found experi-
mentally to be the case.

The methods of determining the vapor densities, or relative weights
of vapors, are three innumber. The first method, due to Dumas (1827),
consists in vaporizing the substance in question ina bulb of glass or
of porcelain, at a known temperature, closing the bulb while still hot
and weighing it after it is cold. Knowing the capacity of the bulb,
the weight of hydrogen necessary to fill it at the desired temperature
can be calculated and the density of the vapor thus arrived at. A
second method was devised by Gay-Lussac and perfected by A. W.
Hofmann (1868), and a third, preferable for its simplicity and ease of
execution, is due to Victor Meyer (1881).

In 1858, as already remarked, Cannizzarro showed the connection
between these known facts, and for the first time attention was called
to the true atomic weights, which were up to that time confused with
equivalents, or weights of elements required to replace one unit
weight of hydrogen. These were generally regarded as atomic
weights by Dalton and his contemporaries.

EXCEPTIONS TO THE LAW.

Some exceptions had been observed to the law of Dulong and Petit,
viz, beryllium or glucinium, an element occurring in emeralds; boron,
of which borax is a compound; silicon, the component of quartz and
flint, and carbon. It was found by Weber that at high temperatures
the specific heats of these elements are higher, and the atomic heats
approximate to the number of 6.2; but this behavior is not peculiar to
these elements, for it appears that the specific heat of all elements
increases with rise of temperature.

A certain number of exceptions have also been noticed to the law of
Gay-Lussac, which may be formulated: The molecular weight of a
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 243

compound in a gaseous state is twice its density referred to hydrogen.
Thus equal volumes of ammonia and hydrogen chloride unite to form
ammonium chloride. It was to be expected that the density should
be half the molecular weight, thus:

NH,+HCI=NH,Cl; and 53.5+2=26.75=density. (144-3) (135.5

Keé =
Doss

But the density actually found is only half that number, viz, 13.37;
and for long this and similar cases were supposed to be exceptions to
the law of Gay-Lussac, viz, that equal volumes of gases at the same
pressure expand equally for equal rise of temperature. In other
instances the gradual decrease in density with rise of temperature can
be followed, as with chloral hydrate, the products of which are chloral
and water.

It was recognized by St. Claire Deville (1857) that the decrease in
density of such mixtures of gases was due, not to their being excep-
tions to Avogadro’s: law, but to the gradual decomposition of the com-
pound body with rise of temperature. To this gradual decomposition
he gave the name dissociation. This conception has proved of the
utmost importance to the science, as will be seen in the sequel. To
take the above instance of ammonium chloride, its abnormal density
is due to its dissociation into ammonia and hydrogen chloride; and the
gas which is obtained on raising its temperature consists, not of gas-
eous ammonium chloride, but of a mixture of ammonia and hydrogen
chloride, which, as is easily seen, occupy, when separate, twice the
volume that would be occupied by the gaseous compound. Of recent
years it has been shown by Brereton Baker that, if perfectly free from
moisture, ammonium chloride gasifies as such, and that its density in
the state of vapor is in fact 26.75.

The molecular complexity of gases has thus gradually become com-
prehended, and the truth of Avogadro’s law has gained acceptance.
And as a means of picturing the behavior of gaseous molecules the
kinetic theory of gases has been devised by Joule, Clausius, Maxwell,
Thomson (Lord Kelvin), and others. On the assumption that the
pressure of a gas on the walls of the vessel which contains it is due to
the continued impacts of its molecules, and that the temperature of a
gas is represented by the product of the mass of the molecules, or
the square of their velocity, it has been possible to offer a mechanical
explanation of Boyle’s law, that at constant temperature the volume of
a gas diminishes in proportion as the pressure increases; of Gay-
Lussac’s law, that all gases expand equally for equal rise of tempera-
ture, provided pressure is kept constant; the condition being that equal
volumes of gases contain equal numbers of molecules. A striking sup-
port is lent to this chain of reasoning by the facts discovered by Thomas
Graham (1805-1869), professor at University College, London, and
944 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

subsequently master of the royal mint. Graham discovered that the
rates of diffusion of gases into each other is inversely as the square
roots of their densities. For instance, the density of hydrogen being
taken as a unity, that of oxygen is sixteen times as great; if a vessel
containing hydrogen be made to communicate with one containing
oxygen, the hydrogen will pass into the oxygen and mix with it; and,
conversely, the oxygen will pass into the hydrogen vessel. This is due
to the intrinsic motion of the molecules of each gas. And Graham
found experimentally that for each volume of oxygen which enters the
hydrogen vessel four volumes of hydrogen will enter the oxygen ves-
sel. Now, 4=./16; and as these masses are relatively 1 and 16, and
their temperatures are equal, the squares of their velocities are respec-
tively 1 and 16.

COMPLEXITY OF LIQUID MOLECULES.

The question of molecular complexity of gases being thus disposed
of, it remains to be considered what is the relative complexity of
liquid molecules. The answer is indicated by a study of the capillary
phenomena of liquids, one method of measuring which is the height of
their ascent in narrow or capillary tubes. 1t is impossible in the space
at our disposal to enter into detail as to the method and arguments
necessary. Suffice it to say that the Hungarian physicist EKétvés was
the first to indicate the direction of research, and that Ramsay and
Shields succeeded in proving that the complexity of the molecules of
most liquids is not greater than that of the gases which they form on
being vaporized; and also that certain liquids, e. g., water, the alcohols,
and other liquids, are more or less *‘ associated;” i. e., their molecules
occur in complexes of two, three, four, or more, and as the tempera-
ture is raised the complexity of molecular structure diminishes.

As regards the molecular complexity of solids nothing definite is
known, and, moreover, there appears to be no method capable of
revealing it.

ELECTRO-CHEMICAL THEORY.

While the researches of which a short account has now been given
have led to knowledge regarding the nature of molecules, the struc-
ture of the molecule has excited interest since the early years of the
century, and its investigation has led to important results. The fact
of the decomposition of acidified water by an electric current, discov-
ered by Nicholson and Carlisle, and of salts into ‘‘ bases” and ‘‘acids”
by Berzelius and Hisinger, in 1803, led to a belief that a close connec-
tion exists between electric energy or, as it was then termed, ‘‘ electric
force,” and the affinity which holds the constituents of chemical com-
pounds in combination. In 1807 Davy propounded the theory that all
compounds consist of two portions, one electro-positive and the other |
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 945

electro-negative. This idea was the result of experiments on the
behavior of substances such, for example, as copper and sulphur. If
portions of these elements be insulated and then br uught into contact,
they become oppositely electrified. The degree of electrification is
intensified by rise of temperature until, when combination ensues, the
electrification vanishes. Combination, therefore. according to Davy,
is concurrent with the equalization of potentials. In 1812 Berzelius
brought forward an electro-chemical theory, which for the following
twenty years was generally accepted. His primary assumption was
that the atoms of elements or, in certain cases, groups of atoms are
themselves electrified; that each atom or group of atoms possesses two
poles—one positive, the other negative; that the electrification of one
of these poles predominates over that of the other, so that the atom or
group is itself, as a whole, electro-positive or electro-negative; that
combination ensued between such oppositely electrified bodies by the
neutralization, partial or complete, of their electric charges; and,
lastly, that the polarity of an element or group could be determined
by noting whether the element or group separated at the positive or
the negative pole of the galvanic battery or electrolysis. For Berzelius,
oxygen was the most electro-negative and potassium the most electro-
positive of the elements, the bridge between the ** nonmetals ” and the
**metals” being hydrogen, which, with nitrogen, forms a basic or
electro-positive group, while with chlorine, etc., it forms electro-
negative groups. The fact that an electric current splits compounds
in solution into two portions led Berzelius to devise his ** dualistic”
system, which involved the assumption that all compounds consist of
two portions, one electro-positive, the other electro-negative. Thus,
sulphate of magnesium and potassium was to be regarded as composed
of electro-positive potassium sulphate in combination with electro-
negative magnesium sulphate; the former in its turn consisted of
electro-negative sulphur trioxide (SO,) in combination with electro-
positive oxide of potassium (K,O), while each of these proximate
constituents of potassium sulphate were themselves composed of the
electro-negative oxygen in combination with electro-positive sulphur
or potassium. On contrasting sulphur with potassium, however, the
former was considered more electro-negative than the latter; so that
the group SO, as a whole was electro-negative, while K,O was electro-
positive. The symbols given above, which are still in universal use,
were also devised by Berzelius for the purpose of illustrating and
emphasizing his views. These views, however, met with little accept-
ance at the time in England.

OLD THEORIES LOSE GROUND.

Lavoisier’s idea that oxygen was the necessary constituent of all
acids began about this time to lose ground; for Davy had proved
the elementary nature of chlorine, and hydrochloric acid, one of the
246 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

strongest, was thus seen to contain no oxygen, and Davy expressed
the view, founded on his observation, that iodic ‘‘acid,” I,O,, was
devoid of acid properties until dissolved in water, and that the essen-
tial constituent of all acids was hydrogen, not oxygen. The bearing
of this theory on the dualistic theory is, that while, e. g., sulphuric acid
was regarded by Berzelius as SO,, containing no hydrogen, and was sup-
posed to be separated as such at the positive pole of a battery, Davy’s
suggestion led to the opposite conclusion, that the formula of sulphuric
acid is H,SO,, and that by the current it is resolved into H, and SQ,.
Faraday’s electrolytic law, that when a current is passed through elec-
trolytes in solution the elements are liberated in quantities propor-
tional to their equivalents, led to the abandonment of the dualistic
theory. For when a current is passed in succession through acidified
vater, fused lead chloride, and a solution of potassium sulphate, the
quantities of hydrogen and oxygen from the water, of lead and chlorin
from the lead chloride, and the potassium of the sulphate are in accord-
ance with Faraday’s law. But in addition to the potassium there is
liberated at the same pole an equivalent of hydrogen. Now, if Ber-
zelius’s theory be true, the products should be SO, and K,O, but if the
opposite view be correct, then K, is liberated first and by its subse-
quent action on water it yields potash, and its equivalent of hydrogen,
This was pointed out first by Daniell, professor at King’s College,
London, and it was regarded as a powerful argument against Berze-
lius’s system. In 1833, too, Graham investigated the phosphoric acids,
and prepared the salts of three, to which he gave the names ortho-,
pyro-, and meta- phosphoric acids. To understand the bearing of this
on the doctrine of dualism it must be remembered that P,O,, pent-
oxide of phosphorus, was at that date named phosphoric acid. When
dissolved in water, it reacts with bases, forming salts—the phosphates.
But the quantity of water necessary was not then considered essential;
Graham, however, showed that there exist three series of salts; one
set derived from P,O,, 3H,O; one from P,O,, 2H,O, and a third from
P,O,, H,O. His way of stating the fact was that water could play the
part of a base; for example, the ordinary phosphate of commerce pos-
sessed, according to him, the formula P,O,, 2Na,O, H,O; two-thirds
of the ‘‘water of constitution” being replaced by oxide of sodium.
Liebig, then professor at Giessen (1803-1873), founded on these and on
similar observations of his own the doctrine of polybasic acids—acids
in which one, two, three, or more atoms of hydrogen were replaceable
by metals. Thus, instead of writing, as Graham did, P,O,, 2Na,O, H,O,
he wrote PO,Na,H; and for orthophosphoric acid, PO,H,. The group
of atoms (PO,) therefore existed throughout the whole series of ortho-
phosphates, and could exist in combination with hydrogen, with hydro-
gen and metals, or with metals alone. Similarly the group (P,O,) was
characteristic of pyrophosphates and (PO,) of metaphosphates, for
P,0;, 20,0 (2,07) B,; and P.O. LO] 2(P OE.

.
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 247%
CLEAR IDEAS OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE MOLECULE.

The first clear ideas of the structure of the molecule were. however,
gained from the study of the compounds of carbon. It was difficult to
apply the dualistic theory to them. For few of them are electrolytes.
and therefore their products of electrolysis, being nonexistent, could
not be classified. Nevertheless, Gay-Lussac regarded alcohol, C,H,O,
as a compound of C,H,, ethylene, and H,O, water, and oxalic acid
(anhydrous), C,O,, as one of CO, with CO. The discovery of *‘ isomeric
compounds,” i. e., of compounds which possess the same ultimate
formula and yet differ entirely in their properties, forced upon chemists
the necessity of attending to the structure of the molecule, for only by
such a supposition could the difference between two isomeric bodies be
explained. In 1823 Liebig discovered that silver fulminate and silver
cyanate both possessed the empirical formula AgCNO. In 1825 this
was followed by the discovery by Faraday that oil eas contains a
hydrocarbon identical in composition with ethylene, C,H,, yet differing
from it in properties; and in 1829 Wohler, professor in Gottingen
(1800-1882), discovered that urea, a constituent of urine, could be
produced by heating ammonium cyanate, NH,CNO, a substance of the
same formula. It therefore became clear that the identity of a com-
pound must depend on some other cause than its ultimate composition.

In 1833 Liebig and Wohler took an important step in elucidating
this question by their investigations on benzoic acid, an acid obtainable
by distilling a resin named gum benzoin. They showed that this acid,
-C,H,O,, could be conceived as consisting of the group C,H,O, to which
they gave the name ‘‘ benzoyl,” in combination with OH; that benzoic
aldenyde, C,H,O, might be regarded as its compound with hydrogen;
that it also formed compounds with chlorine and bromine and sulphur,
and replaced hydrogen in ammonia (C,H,O.NH,). They termed this
group benzoyl, a ‘‘compound element,” or a “radical.” This research
was followed by one by Robert Bunsen, professor at Heidelberg, born
in 1811, and recently (1899) dead, which bore reference to cacodyl, a
compound of arsenic, carbon, and hydrogen, in which the idea of a
radical was confirmed and amplified.

The idea of a radical having thus become established, Jean Baptiste
Andrée Dumas, professor in Paris (1800-1884), propounded the theory
of ‘‘substitution,” i. e., that an element such as chlorine or oxygen
(which, be it noticed, is electro-negative on Berzelius’s scale) could
replace hydrogen in carbon compounds, atom for atom, the resulting
compound belonging to the same *‘ type” as the one from which it was
derived. And Laurent, warden of the mint at Paris (1807-1853), and
Gerhardt, professor at Montpelier and at Strassburg (1816-1856),
emphasized the fact that one element, be it what it may, can replace
another without fundamentally altering its chemical character, and

sm 1900——18
248 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

also that an atom of hydrogen can be replaced by a group of atoms, or
radical, behaving for the occason like the atom of an element. It is
to Laurent and Gerhardt that we owe the definition of an atom—the
smallest quantity of an element which can be present in a compound;
an equivalent—that weight of an element which combines with or
replaces one part by weight of hydrogen; and a molecule—the smallest
quantity which can exist in a free state, whether of an element or a
compound. They recognized, too, that a molecule of hydrogen,
chlorine, etc., consists of two atoms.

POWERS OF COMBINATION.

In 1849 Wurtz, professor in Paris (1817-1884), and Hofmann, then
professor in the College of Chemistry in London, afterwards at Berlin
(1818-1892), discovered series of compounds allied to ammonia, NH,,
in which one or more atoms of hydrogen were replaced by a group,
or radical, such as methyl (CH,), ethyl (C,H,), or phenyl (C,H,).
Wurtz referred such compounds to the ammonia *‘ type.” They all
resemble ammonia in their physical properties, smell, taste, etc., as
well as in their power of uniting with acids to form salts resembling
ammonium chloride (NH,Cl) and other ammonium compounds.
Shortly afterwards Williamson, professor at University College, Lon-
don (1855-1887), added the ‘* water type,” in consequence of his
researches on.** mixed ethers’—bodies in which the hydrogen of water
might be regarded as replaced by organic radicals. Thus we have the
series, H.O.H; CH,O-H; CH. O{CH-ONELNET. CH. NEC (CEO Prana
N (CH,),, the first representing compounds following the water type,
the latter the ammonia type. This suggestion had been previously
made by Laurent in 1846. But Williamson extended his views to
inorganic compounds; thus, sulphuric acid was represented as con-
structed on the double water type—HO.SO,.OH, being derived from
H.O.(HH).O.H, the two hydrogen atoms inclosed in brackets being
replaced by the radical SO,. To these tvpes Gerhardt added the
hydrogen and hydrogen chloride types, H.H. and H.Cl; and later
Kekulé, professor in Bonn (1829), added the marsh gas type CH,.
The next important step was taken by Frankland, professor in the
toyal School of Mines, London. His work, however, had been antici-
pated by Crum Brown (professor at Edinburgh University) in a pam-
phlet even yet little known. It was to attribute to elements one or
more powers of combination. To these he gave the name ‘‘ valency,”
and the capacity of possessing valency was called ‘‘ quantivalence.”
Thus hydrogen was taken as a ‘‘monad” or monovalent. Chlorine,
because it unites with hydrogen atom to atom, is alsoamonad. Oxy-
gen, having the power to combine with two atoms of hydrogen, was
termed a dyad, or divalent; nitrogen a triad, or trivalent; carbon a
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 249

tetrad, or tetravalent, and so on. This is evident from inspection of
the formule of their compounds with hydrogen, thus:
H H yal

Hol. H—-O—H |. H—N< SCX
H H H

Instances of penta-, hexa-, and even hepta-valency are not wanting.
KEY TO STRUCTURE OF CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS.

This was the key to unlock the structure of chemical compounds;
and Franklands’ views, just stated, are still held by chemists. The
determination of the constitution of compounds, chiefly those of car-
bon, occupied the attention of chemists almost exclusively until 1880.
The plan of action is much the same as that of a mechanician who
wishes to imitate a complicated mechanism. He must first dissect it
into groups of mechanical contrivances; these are next constructed,
and they are finally built together into the complete machine. In
certain cases the atoms of carbon are arrranged in ‘‘ chains,” as, for
example, in pentyl alcohol,

reo 60-06 —6-E
H,H,H,H,,
each atom being tetrad, and its ‘‘ affinities,” or powers of combination,
saturated either with hydrogen or with those of neighboring atoms of
carbon; in others they are in the form of a ‘‘ ring,” as in benzene, the
formula of which was first suggested by Kekulé, viz:

lal Jal

PCC
Hc? ~—«r'SCHI,
len

Ist Jal

or in both, as in ethyl benzene.

jeiedal

C—G Jal Jol

HcF NCE OCH:
\c=c” H H

inl asl
One or more atoms of nitrogen, or of oxygen, may form part of the
circle, as in pyridine,

Teh slat Ist dal

ane. ee C=C
nZ ScH and furfurane, 0
Gees Gc

Jel Jel late del

and soon. By means of conceptions such as these many interesting

compounds have been built up out of the elements which they contain,
e. g., urea and uric acid, constituents of urine; theobromine and
250 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

caffeine, the essential principles of cocoa and tea; alizarine and indigo,
valuable dyestuffs, and several of the alkaloids, bitter principles con-
tained in plants, of great medicinal value.

THE EFFECT ON INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS.

They have led, too, to the discovery of many brilliant colors, now
almost universally employed, to the exclusion of those less brilliant,
because less pure, derived from plants, and in one or two cases from
animals; the manufacture of gun cotton, dynamite, and similar high
explosives; and to the development of the candle industry, the sugar
manufacture; to improvement in tanning, in brewing, and in the
preparation of gas and oils for illuminating purposes. In short, it may
be said that the industrial progress of the latter half of the century
has been due to the theoretical views of which a short sketch has just
been given.

Such formule, however, can evidently not represent the true con-
stitution of matter, inasmuch as the atoms are imagined to lie ona
plane, whereas it is evident that they must occupy space of three
dimensions and possess the attributes of solidity. The conception
which led to the formulation of such views was due first to Pasteur, in
his later years director of the institute known by his name at Paris,
and more directly to LeBel (Bulletin de la Société Chimique de Paris,
1874) and Van’t Hoff (Voorstel tot Uitbreiding der Structuur-Formules
in de Ruimte, 1874), now professor at Berlin, independently of each
other. In 1848 Pasteur discovered that it was possible to separate the
two varieties of tartaric acid from each other, and that that one which
rotated the plane of polarized light to the right gave crystals with an
extra face, unsymmetrically disposed with regard to the other faces of
the crystal. The variety, the solution of which in water was capable
of producing left-handed rotation, also possessed a similar face, but so
placed that its reflection in a mirror reproduced the right-handed
variety. Pasteur also showed that a mixture of these acids gave
crystals not characterized by an unsymmetrically placed face, and
also that the solution was without action on polarized light. These
observations remained unexplained until LeBel and Van’t Hoff, in
1874, simultaneously and independently devised a theory which has,
up till now, stood the test of research. It is briefly this: Imagine two
regular tetrahedra, or three-sided pyramids, standing each on its tri-
angular base. An idea can best be got by a model, easily made by
laying on a table three lucifer matches so as to form an equilateral
triangle, and erecting a tripod with three other matches, so that each
leg of the tripod stands on one corner of the triangle. At the center
of such a tetrahedron an atom of carbon is supposed to be placed.
Marsh gas, CH,, is supposed to have such a structure, each corner, or
solid angle of the structure (of which there are four), being occupied

e
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 251

by an atom of hydrogen. This represents the solid or stereochemical
formula of methane or marsh gas. Now, suppose one of the atoms of
hydrogen in each of these structures to be replaced by chlorine, the
group (OH), or any other monovalent element or group. It is evident
that, if not exactly similar (owing to the replacement not havine been
made at similar corners in each), the two structures can be made simi-
lar by turning one of them round until the position of the substituting
atom or group (which we will term X) coincides in position with X in
the stationary one. If two such replacements be made, say with X
and Y in each, coincidence can again be made to take place; but the
same is not the case if X, Y, and Z replace the three atoms of hydro-
gen in the structure; for there is one way of replacement which is the
optical image of the other and represents the other’s reflection in a
mirror,

and

DEVELOPMENT OF BACTERIOLOGY.

Now, it is found that when the four corners of such a structure are
occupied by four separate atoms or groups, or when (as the expression
goes) the body contains an ‘‘asymmetrical carbon atom,” if the sub-
stance of one of its derivations can be obtained in a crystalline form,
the crystals are also asymmetric, i. e., each develops a face which is
the mirror reflection of a similar face developed on the other variety;
and if a beam of polarized light be passed through the solution of the
substance, its plane is rotated to the left if one variety be used, and,
if the other, to the right. This hypothesis of LeBel’s and Van’t Hoff’s
has had an enormous influence on the progress of organic chemistry.
By its means Fischer, now professor at Berlin, has explained the reason
of the existence of the enormous number of bodies analogous to grape
and cane sugar and has prepared many new varieties; and it appears
likely that the terpenes, a class of bodies allied to turpentine, and com-
prising most of the substances to which the odor of flowers is due, may
thereby find their explanation. It may be mentioned in passing that
Pasteur, having found that ordinary mold destroyed one variety of
tartaric acid rather than the other in a mixture of the two, and made
use of this observation in order to prepare the unattacked variety in a
state of purity, was led to study the action of organisms more or less
resembling mold; and that this has led to the development of the
science of bacteriology, which has had an enormous influence on our
views regarding fermentation in general, and guides the work of our
physicians, our surgeons (witness Lister’s antiseptic treatment), our
sanitary engineers in their estimate of the purity of drinking water
252 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

and of the disposal of sewage, of our manufactures of beer and spirits,
of wine growers, and more recently of farmers. All these processes
depend upon the action of organisms in producing chemical changes,
whether in the tissues of the body, causing or curing disease, or in the
production of flavored alchohol from sugar, or in the manufacture of
butter and cheese, or in preparing the land for the reception of crops.
We also owe to the genius of Van’t Hoff the most important advance
of recent times in the region of physical chemistry. It had been
observed by M. Raoult, professor at Grenoble, that the freezing point
of a solvent as a general rule is lowered to the same extent if there be
dissolved in it quantities of substances proportional to their molecular
weights. Thus supposing 1.80 grams of grape sugar be dissolved in
100 grams of water and the solution cooled below 0° C. with constant
stirring, ice separates suddenly in thin spicules, and the temperature
rises to —0.185°. If 3.42 grams of cane sugar be similarly dissolved in
100 grams of water the freezing point of the solution is again —0.185°.
Now 1.80 and 3.42 are respectively the hundredth part of the molecular
weights of grape sugar (C,H,,O,) and cane sugar, C,,H,,O,,.. Simi-
larly, Raoult found that quantities proportional to molecular weights
dissolved in a solvent depress the vapor pressure of that solvent
equally, or, what comes to the same thing, raise its boiling point by
an equal number of degrees. But ordinary salts, such as sodium
chloride, potassium nitrate, etc., dissolved in water, give too great a
depression of the freezing point and too high a boiling point. Next, it
had been observed by botanists, De Vries, Pfeffer, and others, who had
examined the ascent of sap in plants, that if a vessel of unglazed porce-
lain, so treated as to cause a film of cupric ferrocyanide (a slimy red com-
pound) to deposit in the pores of its walls, be filled with a weak (about
1 per cent) solution of sugar or similar substance, and plunged in a vessel
of pure water, water entered through the pores. By attaching a manom-
eter to the porous vessel the pressure exerted by the entering water
could be measured. Such pressure was termed ‘‘ osmotic pressure,”
referring to the ‘‘ osmosis,” ov passage through the walls of the vessel.
Such prepared walls are permeable freely to water, but not to sugar
or similar bodies. Van’t Hoff pointed out that the total pressure regis-
tered is proportional to the amount of substance in solution and that
it is proportional to the absolute temperature, and he showed, besides,
that the pressure exerted by the sugar molecules is the same as that
which would be exerted at the same temperature were an equal num-
ber of molecules of hydrogen to occupy the same volume as the sugar
solution. This may be expressed by stating that when in dilute solu-
tion sugar molecules behave as if they were present in the gaseous
state. Here again, however, it was noticed that salts tended to give a
higher pressure; it was difficult to construct a semipermeable dia-
phragm, however, which would resist the passage of salt molecules,
while allowing those of water to pass freely. Lastly, Arrhenius, of
PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. 953

Stockholm, had shown that the conductivity of salt solutions for elec-
tricity may be explained on the assumption that when a salt, such as
KNO,, is dissolved in water it dissociates into portions similar in num-
ber and kind to those it would yield if electrolyzed and if no second-
ary reactions were to fake place. Such portions (K and NO, for
example) had been named ions by Faraday. The conductivity of such
solutions becomes greater, per unit of dissolved salt, the weaker the
solution until finally a limit is reached, after which further dilution no
longer increases conductivity. Now Van’t Hoff united all these iso-
lated observations and showed their bearing on each other. Stated
shortly the hypothesis is as follows: When a substance is dissolved in
a large quantity of a solvent its molecules are separated from each
other to a distance comparable with that which obtains in gases. They
are, therefore, capable of independent action and when placed in a
vessel the walls of which are permeable to the solvent, but not to the
dissolyed substance (*‘semipermeable membrane”), the imprisoned
molecules of the latter exert pressure on the interior surface of these
walls as if they were gaseous. Van’t Hoff showed the intimate con-
nection between this phenomenon and the depression of freezing point
and vapor pressure already alluded to. He pointed out further that
the exceptions to this behavior, noticed in the case of dissolved salts,
are due to their ‘‘electric dissociation” or *‘ionization,” as it is now
termed; and that in a sufficiently dilute solution of potassium nitrate,
for example, the osmotic pressure and the correlated depression of
freezing point and rise of boiling point are practically equal to what
would be produced were the salt to be split into its ions, K and NO,.
These views were vigorously advocated by Ostwald (professor at Leip-
zig) in his ** Zeitschrift fiir physikalische Chemie,” and he and his pupils
have done much to gather together facts in confirmation of this theory
and in extending its scope.

It must be understood that the ions K and NO, are not, strictly
speaking, atoms; they are charged atoms; the K retains a + and the
NO, a — charge. On immersing into the solution the poles of a bat-
tery, one charged + and the other —, the +K atoms are attracted
to the — pole and are there discharged; as soon as they lose their
charge they are free to act on the water, when they liberate their
equivalent of hydrogen. Similarly, the —NO, groups are discharged
at the + pole and abstract hydrogen from the water, liberating an
equivalent quantity of oxygen. Thus the phenomenon of electrolysis,
so long a mysterious process, finds a simple explanation. The course
of ordinary chemical reactions is also readily realized when viewed in
the light of this theory. Take, for example, the ordinary equation:

AgNO,.Aq+NaCl. Ag=AgCl+ NaNO,. Aq;

i. e., solutions of silver nitrate and sodium chloride give a precipitate
954 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

of silver chloride, leaving sodium nitrate in solution. By the new
views, such an equation must be written

a = a = ai <
Ag. Aq+NO,.Ag+Na.Aq+Cl. Aq=AgCl+ Na. Aq+NO,. Aq.

The compound, silver chloride, being insoluble in water. is formed
by the union of the ions Ag and Cl and their consequent discharge,
~forming an electrically neutral compound; while the sodium ions,
charged positively together with the NO, ions, negatively charged,
remain in solution.

One more application of the principle may be given. Many observ-
ers, Andrews, Favre, and Silbermann, but especially Julius Thomsen,
of Copenhagen, and M. Berthelot, of Paris, have devoted much labor
and time to the measurement of the heat evolved during chemical
reactions. Now, while very different amounts of heat are evolved
when chlorine, bromine, or iodine combine, respectively, with sodium
or potassium, the number of heat units evolved on neutralizing sodium
or potassium hydroxide with hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydriodic, or
nitric acids is always about 13,500. How can this fact be explained?
It finds its explanation as follows: These acids and bases are ionized
in solution, as shown in the equation:

ote = aia a at a
H.Aqg+Cl.Agq+Na. Agq+OH.Aq=H.OH-+ Na. Aq+Cl. Aq.

Water is the only compound formed, and it is produced by the union
of the hydrogen ion originally belonging to the acid and the OH, or
hydroxyl ion originally belonging to the base. No further change has
occurred; hence the uniform evolution of heat by the interaction of
equivalent quantities of these acids and bases.

PERIODIC ARRANGEMENT OF THE ELEMENTS.

It now remains to give a short account of the greatest generalization
which has as yet been made in chemistry; it has been termed the
periodic arrangement of the elements.

In 1864, Newlands, of London, and Lothar Meyer, late of Tibingen,
found that by arranging the elements in the order of their atomic
weights certain regularities were to be observed between each element,
and in general the eighth in succession from it, in the order of their
numerical value. Such similar elements formed groups or quantities,
while the elements separating them belong to a period, hence the name
‘‘ periodic arrangement.” Commencing with lithium, a light, lustrous
metal found as silicate in certain minerals, we have the following series.
— sss. S.-

PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. Ze
Lithium Beryllium Boron Carbon
7 92 11 12
Sodium Magnesium Aluminum Silicon
23 24.3 27 28
Nitrogen Oxygen Fluorine Neon
14 16 19 20
Phosphorus Sulphur Chlorine Argon
31 32 30.9 40

and so on. It is only necessary to point out in detail the resemblances
between the elements which stand in the vertical columns, but it may
be stated that the resemblance extends also to the formule and prop-
erties of their compounds. Thus, the chlorides of lithium and sodium
are each white, soluble salts of the formule LiCl and NaCl; oxides of
magnesium and of beryllium are both insoluble, white, earthy powders,
MgO and BeO (GeO), and so on. Newlands in his preliminary sketch,
termed this order the *‘ Law of Octaves,” and predicted the existence
of certain undiscovered elements which should occupy unfilled positions
in the table. Mendeléef, professor at St. Petersburg, in 1869, ampli-
fied and extended these relations, and he and Meyer pointed out that the
volume occupied by equal numbers of atoms of such elements under-
went a periodic variation when the elements are classified as above.
The prediction of undiscovered elements was made by Mendeléef in a
more assured manner, and in several cases they have been realized.
Thus, what Mendeléef called ‘*ekaboron” has since been discovered by
Lecoq de Boisbandron and named patriotically ‘*Gallium.” Men-
deléef’s *‘eka-silicon” is now known as ‘‘ germanium,” discovered by
Winkler, and ‘‘ eka-aluminum ” is now Cléve’s ** scandium.” Moreover,
the atomic weights of cesium, beryllium, molybdenum, and mercury
have been altered so that they fit the periodic table, and further
research has justified the alteration.

The valency of these elements increases from right to left, as will
be seen by inspection of the following series :

LiCl BeCl, BCl, CCl, NH,Cl OH,
Na,O MgO B,O, SiO, PC, SO,
Monad. Dvad. Triad. Tetrad. Triad and Pentad. Dyad and Hexad.
FH Ne
Cl(OH)O; A—
Monad and Heptad. No valency.

The elements of no valency are of recent discovery. In 1804 Lord
Rayleigh had determined the density of the nitrogen of the atmos-
phere, having separated from it the oxygen and carbon dioxide which
are mixed with nitrogen in air. ~He found it to be of somewhat higher
density than that obtainable from ammonia and other compounds of
nitrogen. In conjunction with Ramsay he investigated atmospheric
nitrogen; it was absorbed either by a method devised by Cavendish
or by making it combine with magnesium at a red heat. They found
256 PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY.

that the unabsorbable residue possessed an unknown spectrum, and
that its density was nearly 20. To this new gas they gave the name
‘‘argon,” or inactive, seeing that all attempts to cause it to enter into
combination had failed. In 1895 Ramsay, searching for possible com-
binations of argon in minerals, experimented with one which had been
previously examined by Hillebrand, of Baltimore, and obtained from
it helium, a gas of density 2, possessing a spectrum which had been
previously discovered in 1868 in the chromosphere of the sun by Jann-
sen, of Paris, and named helium by. Frankland and Lockyer. Subse-
quent liquefaction of crude argon by means of liquid air, prepared by
a process invented simultaneously by Linde and Hampson, gave a res-
idue which was named by its discoverers, Ramsay and Travers, ** neon.”
Liquid argon has yielded two other gases also, ** krypon” and **xenon.”
These elements form a separate group in the Periodic Table, com-
mencing with helium, with atomic weight 4; neon, 20; argon, 40;
krypon, 82, and xenon, 128. They all agree in being monoatomic;
i. e., their molecules consist of single atoms, and they have no ten-
dency to form compounds; i. e., they possess no valency.

CHEMISTRY AND COMMERCIAL SUPREMACY.

In this sketch of the progress of chemistry during the century which
has just passed attention has been paid chiefly to the progress of thought.
Allusions must, however, be made to the applications of chemistry to
industrial purposes. The development of the soda industry, the prep-
aration of carbonate of soda and caustic from common salt—initiated
in France by Le Blane (1742-1806)—has been developed by Tennant in
Scotland, and Muspeath and Gossage, and by Hargreaves, Weldon, and
Maetea in England. This process has at present a serious rival in the
ammonia-soda process developed by Solway in Belgium and by Brun-
ner and Mond in England. The manufacture of sulphuric acid, so
long associated with the alkali process, has made enormous strides
during the present century, but is still, in the main, the original proc-
ess of causing sulphur dioxide in presence of water to absorb the
oxygen of the air through nitric oxide. But the saving of the oxides
of nitrogen through the invention of a sulphuric-acid tower by Gay-
Lussac, known by his name, and the reutilization of these oxides in
the ‘‘ Glover” tower, invented by John Glover, of Newcastle, have
greatly lessened the cost of the acid. Concentration of the acid ‘in
iron vessels is now common, the cost of platinum or of fragile glass
vessels being thereby saved. The desulphurization of iron and the
removal of silicon, carbon, and phosphorus by Bessemer’s process,
modified by Thomas and Gilchrist through the introduction of a ** basic
magnesia lining” for the converters, has made it possible to obtain
pure iron and steel from ores previously regarded as of little value.
y = =e
.
’

PROGRESS IN CHEMISTRY. DAS

The use of artificial manures, prepared by mixing refuse animal
matters with tetra-hydrogen, calcium phosphate, and nitrate of soda or
sulphate of ammonia, first introduced by Liebig, has created a revo-
jAtition in agricultural methods and in the weight of crops obtainable
from a given area of soil. The influence of manures on crops has
been fully studied by Lawes and Gilbert for more than fifty years in
their experimental farms at Rothampstead. The most remarkable
advances which have been made, however, are due to cheap electric
current. The electrolysis of alumina, dissolved in fused ervolite to
obtain aluminum, an operation carried out at Schaffhausen on the
Rhine and at the Falls of Foyers in Scotland, the electro deposition
of pure copper for electric wires and cables, electro silvering, gilding,
and nickeling, all these are instances where decomposition of a com-
pound by the electric current has led to important industrial results.
At present soda and chlorine are being manufactured by the electro-
lysis of salt solution contained in rocking trays, one of the electrodes
being mercury, by the Castner-Kellner process. This manufacture is
being carried on at Niagara, as well as in England. But electricity as
a heating agent finds ever-extending application. Henri Moissan
(professor at Paris) led the way by utilizing the enormous heat of the
are in his electric furnace, thereby, among other interesting reactions,
manufacturing diamonds, small, it is true, though none the less real.
The use of electricity as a heating agent has received new applications.
Phosphorus is now made by distilling a mixture of phosphates of lime
and alumina with coke; a new polishing agent has been found in **car-
borundum,” a compound of carbon and silicon produced by heating in
an electrical furnace a mixture of sand and coke, and cyanide of
potassium, almost indispensable for the extraction of gold from ores
poor in gold, is now manufactured by heating a mixture of carbon and
carbonate of barium in an electric furnace in a current of carbon
monoxide. These are but some of the instances in which electricity
has been adopted as an agent in effecting chemical changes, and it
may be confidently predicted that the earlier years of the twentieth
century will witness a great development in this direction. It may be
pointed out that the later developments of industrial chemistry owe
their success entirely to the growth of chemical theory; and it is
obvious that that nation which possesses the most competent chemists,
theoretical and practical, is destined to succeed in the competition
with other nations for commercial supremacy and all its concomitant
advantages.
co.

i
’

s
“
Z

.
a

rhs

LIQUID HYDROGEN.’

®

By Professor Dewar, M. A., LL. D., F. R.S., M. R. I.

My colleague, Lord Rayleigh, in his commemoration lecture dealt
so admirably and exhaustively with some of the discoveries of our
great predecessors in this institution that it will be unnecessary to
pursue further the lines of historical treatment in this lecture.
Instead of discoursing generally on the chemical side of the work
of Davy and Faraday and their successors, it has seemed to me more
appropriate to attempt some experimental demonstrations of the
latest modern developments in a field of inquiry opened out to science
by the labors of the two illustrious chemists just mentioned. With
this object in view, my discourse this evening will be confined to the
subject of liquid hydrogen. Davy said: ‘* Nothing tends so much to
the advancement of knowledge as the application of a new instrument.
The native intellectual powers of man in different times are not so
much the causes of the different success of their labors as the peculiar
nature of the means and artificial resources in their possession.” The
new instrument of research, which for the first time we have to
experiment with before an audience, is the liquid form of the old
inflammable air of Cavendish. Lavoisier toward the end of the last
century had the scientific acumen to declare that, in his opinion, ** if
the earth were suddenly transported into a very cold region, the air, or
at least some of the aeriform fluids which now compose the mass of our
atmosphere, would doubtless lose their elasticity for want of a sufficient
temperature to retain them in that state. They would return to the
liquid state of existence and new liquids would be formed, of whose
properties we can not at present form the most distant idea.” Black
about the same time, in discussing the properties of hydrogen, makes
the following suggestive observations: ‘‘ We may now further remark,
with regard to inflammable air, that it is at present considered as one
of the simple or elementary bodies in nature. I mean, however, the
basis of it, called the hydrogen by the French chemists; for the Paci
mable air itself, namely, hydrogen gas, is considered as a compound of

Centenary commemoration lecture, Royal mentor of Great Bee W en
day, June 7, 1899, His Grace the Duke of Northumberland, K. G., president, in the
chair, by Professor Dewar, M. A., LL, D., F.R.S., M. R, I., Fullerian professor of

chemistry R, I,
259
260 LIQUID HYDROGEN.

<
that basis and the matter of heat. What appearance and properties that
basis would have, were it deprived of its latent heat and elastic form,
and quite separated from all other matter, we can not tell.” The accu-
racy of the prophecy of Lavoisier has been experimentally verified, but
until recently we had no distinctive answer to the riddle of Black. The
object of this lecture will be an attempt to advance the solution of the
problem suggested by Black a century ago. It is interesting to note
how confident Faraday was that hydrogen would ultimately be obtained
in the liquid and solid form. In the course of one of his lectures deliv-
ered in the year 1852 he said: **There is reason to believe we should
derive much information as to the intimate nature of these nonmetallic
elements if we could succeed in obtaining hydrogen and nitrogen in the
liquid or solid form. Many gases have been liquefied; one, carbonic-
acid gas, has been solidified; but hydrogen and nitrogen have resisted
all our efforts of this kind. Hydrogen, in many of its relations, acts
as though it were a metal; could it be obtained in a liquid or solid
condition the doubt might be settled. This great problem, however,
has yet to be solved; nor should we look with hopelessness on this
solution, when we reflect with wonder—and, as I do, almost with fear
and trembling—on the powers of investigating the hidden qualities of
these elements, of questioning them, making them disclose their
secrets and tell their tales, given by the Almighty to man.” It must
be confessed, however, that later physicists and chemists were almost
forced to conclude that the problem was a hopeless one. The full
history of the liquefaction of hydrogen has been dealt with in a Friday
evening discourse' delivered in January of this year, so that all questions
dealing with the work of other investigators may for the present be
omitted in order to save time for the experimental illustrations.

This large spherical double-walled and silvered vacuum vessel
contains 1 liter of liquid hydrogen. You observe it is lifted out
of a large cylindrical vessel full of liquid air. In order to diminish
the rate of evaporation it is necessary to surround the vessel in which
the hydrogen is collected with liquid air. Under such conditions
the rapidity of evaporation is about the same as that of liquid air
when kept in a similar vessel in the ordinary way. In order to
prove that hydrogen is present in the liquid form, the simplest
experiment is to remove the cotton-wool plug, which takes the place
of a cork, and insert a metallic wire, to the end of which is attached
a ball of asbestus for the purpose of absorbing the liquid. On bring-
ing it quickly into the air and applying a light it burns with the
characteristic appearance of the hydrogen flame (Fig. C, Pl. I).
The liquid can readily be poured from one variety of vacuum vessel
into another, so that by means of this unsilvered cylindrical form the
UU of the liquid and other SU may be projected on

: Repeieds in Sontp ein Resear 1899, pages 131- 142,
LIQUID HYDROGEN. 961

a screen (Fig. A, Pl. II). The liquid hydrogen appears in gentle
ebullition and is perfectly clear, only there is a white solid deposit in
the bottom of the tube, which is really solid air. This may be shown
by removing for an instant the cotton-wool stopper, when you see
a snow of solid air falling in the liquid. It is easy to arrange a
method of carrying liquid hydrogen in a small vacuum vessel in such
a way as to prevent the access of air. This is shown in fig. 1, Pl. I,
where the vacuum vessel, after it has been filled by dipping it into the
main supply by means of a supporting wire, is surrounded with a @lass
envelope, which becomes filled with an atmosphere of hydrogen gas
constantly maintained, thereby preventing the access of air. That
the density of the liquid is very small and is altogether unlike liquid
air is shown by dropping small pieces of cork, which float readily in
the latter liquid but sink instantly in the hydrogen (Fig. B, PI. Il).
The real density of the liquid is only one-fourteenth that of water, so
that it is by far the ightest known liquid. This small density explains
the rapidity with which the liquid is cleared on the entrance of the
air snow. The relative smallness of the gas bubbles produced in the
actively boiling liquid, which causes an appearance of opalescence, is
really due to the small surface tension of the liquid hydrogen. The
coefficient of expansion of liquid hydrogen is some five times greater
than that of liquid oxygen, and is comparable with that of carbonic
acid, about 5° from its critical point. The latent heat of evaporation
is about 190 units, and the specific heat of the liquid is very high,
and, so far as my experiments go, leads me to the value 6. This is in
very marked contrast to the specfic heat of liquid oxygen, which is
about 0.5. The extraordinary lowness of its boiling point is at once
apparent by cooling a piece of metal in the liquid and then removing
it into the air, when it will be seen to condense for a moment solid air
on its surface which soon melts and falls as a liquid air. This may be
collected in a small cup, and the production of oxygen demonstrated
by the ignition of a red-hot splinter of wood after the chief portion of
the nitrogen has evaporated. If a long piece of quill tubing sealed at
one end, but open at the other, is placed in the liquid, then the part
that is cooled rapidly fills with liquid air. On stopping any further
entrance of air by closing the end of the tube, the liquid air quickly
becomes solid, showing in the interior a hollow spindle from con-
traction, in passing from the liquid into the solid form (Fig. E, PI. II).
On bringing the tube containing the solid from the liquid hydrogen
bath into the air we observe liquid air running from the surface while
the solid air inside is seen to melt (Fig. D, Pl. II). Here is a tube
into which liquid oxygen has been poured. On placing it in liquid
hydrogen it freezes to a clear blue ice. Liquid nitrogen under similar
circumstances forms a colorless ice. If instead of an open tube in
free air we employ a closed vessel of about a liter capacity to which
262 LIQUID HYDROGEN.

the quill tube is attached, then, on repeating the experiment, the same
results follow, only the volume of the liquid air formed agrees with
the total quantity present in the vessel. This suggests that any air
left in the closed vessel must have a very small pressure. This is con-
firmed by attaching a mercurial gauge to any vessel containing air,
when it will be seen the vacuum produced by hydrogen cooling is
equal to that of a Torricellian vacuum (fig. 2, Pl. I). To reach such a
high exhaustion the solid oxygen and nitrogen at the boiling point of
hydrogen must be practically nonvolatile or have an exceedingly
small vapor pressure. If the ordinary air contains free hydrogen,
helium, etc., which are noncondensable in this way of working, then
the vacuum would not be so high as with pure oxygen or nitrogen.
This method may be used to separate the incondensable gases from
the air. Such air vacua when examined spectroscopically show the
lines of hydrogen, helium, and neon. We may now employ this proc-
ess to produce high vacua, and test their exhaustion by the character
of the electric discharge. Vacuum tubes which have been prepared in
this way show extraordinary resistance to the passage of the electric
discharge; they also show the marked phosphorescence of the glass
characteristic of Crookes tubes (Figs. F and G, Pl. I). It is, how-
ever, the rapidity with which such high exhaustions can be attained
that is so interesting. You will observe that this large Geissler tube,
previously exhausted to some 3 inches pressure, will, when the end
part is immersed in liquid hydrogen, pass through all the well-known
changes in the phases of striation—the glow on the poles, the phosphor-
escence of the glass—in the space of a fraction of a minute. From
this it follows that theoretically we need not exhaust the air out of our
double-walled vessel when liquid hydrogen has to be stored or collected.
This makes a striking contrast to the behavoir of liquid air under
similar circumstances. The rapid exhaustion caused by the solidifica-
tion of the air on the surface of a double-walled unexhausted test
tube, when liquid hydrogen is placed in it, may be shown in another
way. Leave a little mercury in the vessel containing air, just as if it
had been left from making a mercurial vacuum. Now, we know mer-
cury, in such a vacuum, can easily be made to distill at the ordinary
temperature when we cool a part of the vessel with liquid air, so that
we should expect the mercury in the unexhausted test tube to distill on
to the surface cooled with the liquid hydrogen. This actually takes
place. A rough comparison of the relative temperatures of boiling
hydrogen and oxygen may be made by placing two nearly identical
hydrogen-gas thermometers operating at constant pressure side by side
and cooling each with one of the liquids (Pl. III). It will be seen that
the contraction in the thermometer cooled with liquid hydrogen ele-
yates the liquid some six times higher than that of the corresponding
liquid column of the thermometer placed in the liquid oxygen. <A
constant-volume hydrogen thermometer constructed as shown in PI. IV
LIQUID HYDROGEN. 263

gave the boiling point of 21° absolute or —252° (., and a similar
helium thermometer gave the same result. The critical temperature
is about 32° absolute or —241° C., and the critical pressure about 15
atmospheres. If a closed vessel is full of hydrogen gas at atmospheric
pressure, then, unlike the air vessels, it shows no condensation when a
part of it is cooled in liquid hydrogen. To produce liquefaction we
must increase the pressure of the gas or reduce the boiling point of the
liquid hydrogen by exhaustion. Pure hydrogen liquefied in a closed
vessel is perfectly clear, showing no trace of color or any appearance
of absorption bands in the position of the spectrum lines. Electric
sparks passing in the liquid when examined with the spectroscope
show the ordinary line spectrum without any reversals. The vapor
of boiling hydrogen is about fifteen times denser than that of the
ordinary gas, thus bringing it up to the density of air. The liquid
hydrogen, at its boiling point, is about sixty times denser than the
vapor coming off. In the case of oxygen the density of the liquid is
255 times that of the vapor at its boiling point.

If a piece of cotton wool in the form of a little ball is attached to a
thread, placed in liquid hydrogen, and then brought into the magnetic
field, it is found to be strongly magnetic. This is simply due to the
condensation of solid and liquid air in the pores of the wool. _ This
substance we know is magnetic on account of the oxygen it contains.
Pure liquid hydrogen is not magnetic, but when the solid air snow is
in suspension in the fluid, then the magnetic character of the latter
becomes apparent when the vessel is placed in the magnetic field.

All the phosphorescent effects produced at low temperatures formerly
described are intensified at the much lower temperature of boiling
hydrogen. To stimulate phosphorescence at the temperature of liquid
air, ultraviolet light had to be employed, and then the solid body,
organic or inorganic, allowed to rise in temperature. It was during
the rise of temperature that the marked luminous emission took place.
Amongst inorganic bodies the platino-cyanide of ammonia is very
remarkable in this respect, and generally the group in organic chem-
istry known as the ketonic bodies. In the case of bodies cooled in
liquid hydrogen, it appears that some show phosphorescence by simple
stimulation with the light coming from an ordinary carbon filament
electric lamp. The light in this case coming through glass contains
only, we may say, the visible spectra, so that the ultraviolet rays are
not now essential. It is strange to find photographic action still rela-
tively considerable. At the boiling point of liquid air the photo-
graphic intensity is reduced by 80 per cent of the value at the ordinary
temperature. The photographic effect on a sensitive film immersed in
liquid hydrogen as compared with the same placed in liquid air is ats
1 to 2, so that 10 per cent of the action at ordinary temperatures still
remains. As every kind of chemical action so far examined is non-
existent at this extreme temperature, these experiments suggest that

sm 1900-——19
264 LIQUID HYDROGEN.

the cause of the photographic action may be essentially physical. No
better illustration could be given of the rapid diminution of chemical
action at low temperatures than to remind you that fluorine gas, the
most active elementary body, under such conditions may be liquetied
and kept in glass vessels.

The effect of a temperature of 21° absolute on the electric resistance
ot the pure metals is a problem of great interest. — In passing from the
melting point of ice to the boiling point of hydrogen, pure platinum
loses resistance till only one-fortieth remains, and in the case of elec-
trolytic copper the remaining resistance is only one fifty-seventh of
what it was at starting. Such results suggest the approach to the con-
dition of what may be called relatively perfect electric conductivity
as the zero of absolute temperature is approached.

Liquid hydrogen is a nonconductor of electricity, and as regards
being an insulator for currents of high potential it is comparable to
that of liquid air. The properties of the liquid we have witnessed in
no way suggest the metallic character that chemists like Faraday,
Dumas, and Graham anticipated; and for the future hydrogen must be
classed with the nonmetallic elements.

The liquefaction of hydrogen has been the consequence of some ten
years’ devotion to low-temperature research. To many it may seem
that the results have been indeed costly in more ways than one. The
scientific worker who prepares the way for future development in this
sort of inquiry generally selects complicated methods, and is attracted
or diverted into many bypaths of investigation. He may leave to his
successors any credit that may be attached to cheapness and ease of
production of the agent of research—results that must invariably fol-
low. Liquid hydrogen is an agent of research which will enable us
to examine into the properties of matter at the lowest-maintained tem-
perature everreached byman. Much work has still to be accomplished.
One of the most fascinating problems of the study of low temperatures
has been materially advanced. The interval separating us from the
zero of absolute temperature has been reduced to practically one-fourth
the value that it stood at when liquid air was the cooling agent. We
can produce in pure Helium instantaneous temperatures, bringing us
still nearer the goal. Now we can maintain a temperature within less
than 16° of this zero, and the investigator who will make the further
attempt to reduce this distance by an equivalent amount, thereby reach-
ing a steady temperature of 4° or 5° absolute, will indeed face a prob-
lem of almost insuperable difficulty. Well, let us take comfort in an
aphorism of Davy’s: ‘* Fortunately for the active and progressive
nature of the human mind, even experimental research is only a method
of approximation to truth.”

The success of the demonstration has been largely due to the unre-
mitting exertions of my chief assistant, Mr. Robert Lennox, and to the
valuable aid given by Mr. J, W. Heath.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dewar.

PLATE |.

Fig. 1.

LiqguiD HYDROGEN EXPERIMENTS.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dewar.
PLATE Il

LiqguipD HYDROGEN EXPERIMENTS.
Smithsonian Repert, 1900.—Dewar.
. PLATE III.

LIQUID
OXYCEN

LIQUID
HYDROGEN

LiguiD HYDROGEN EXPERIMENTS.
ae

a os a
| ge i
He ~ aegeS 4

a wh © ee oe

ar At
ee

A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.!

By Prof. JosEPH LE CONTE.’

Geology is one of the youngest of the sciences. It may almost be
said to have been born of the present century. It is true that knowl-
edge concerning the structure of the earth had been accumulating ever
since the time of the Greeks and Romans; it is true that these materials
became more abundant and were better organized in the eighteenth
century; but this knowledge had not yet taken form as a distinct
branch of science until about the end of that century. There are two
distinctive marks of scientific as compared with popular knowledge:
First, that its fundamental idea is clearly conceived; and, second, that
its method is distinctly inductive.

1. Fundamental idea.—The fundamental idea underlying geological
thought is the history of the earth. Now, until the beginning of the
present century the earth was not supposed to have any history. It
was supposed to have been made at once, out of hand, about six thou-
sand years ago, and to have remained substantiaily unchanged ever
since as the necessary theater of human history. Changes were known
to have taken place, and in less degree to be still taking place, but these
were not supposed to follow any law such as is necessary to constitute
a history, and thus to constitute a science distinct from geography.
Buffon, about the middle of the last century, did indeed bring out
dimly the idea of an abyss of time, preceding the advent of man, in
which the earth was inhabited by animals and plants wholly different
from those of the present day, but he was compelled by the priests of
the Sorbonne to retract these supposed irreligious views. So tardily
was the fundamental idea of geology clearly conceived that Comte, the
great originator of scientific philosophy, in his classification of the
sciences in 1820, denied a place to geology because, according to him,
it was not a distinct science at all, but only a field for the application ot
all the sciences. It is evident that he did not perceive the fundamental

1 Reprinted, by permission, from Appleton’s Popular Science Monthly, Vol. LVI,
February and March, 1900.

2 In this article I have attempted to give only the development of geological thought.
265
266 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

idea underlying geology and distinguishing it from geography, viz, a
life history of the earth through all time. The claim of geology to
a place in a scheme of classification is exactly the same as that of
astronomy. As astronomy is a field for the application of mathe-
matics, mechanics, physics, and, recently, chemistry, but is distin-
guished from them all by its characteristic fundamental idea of illimit-
able space, so geology is a field for the application of all other lower
sciences, but is distinguished from them all by her characteristic,
fundamental idea of illimitable time. As all other sciences are terres-
trial, but astronomy alone celestial, so all other sciences belong to the
present—the *‘now”—but geology alone belongs to the illimitable
past. The fundamental idea of the one is infinite space, of the other
infinite, in sense of inconceivable, time. All other sciences, including
astronomy, are but a flash-light view of Nature. Geology alone isa
view of Nature in continuous movement

a life history—an evolution
of Nature. This mode of thought began to dawn only in the closing
years of the last and the opening years of the present century. It
seems to have been first clearly conceived by the mind of Hutton in
the last part of the eighteenth century.

2. Inductive method applied.—When the true idea underlying geol-
ogy was clearly conceived, and geology thus distinctly separated from
other departments of science, geology may be said to have been born.
But it was still in helpless infancy, its growth irregular, and even its
continuous life uncertain, because a solid basis of inductive method
was not yet laid. That basis was laid mainly by Hutton in 1795?
and still more clearly by Charles Lyell in 1830, in the principle that
the study of causes now in operation is the only true foundation of
geology.

Geological changes, of course, belong to the irrevocable past, and are
therefore hopelessly removed from direct observation. Their causes
and process must be reconstructed by the skillful use of the scientific
imagination. Until Lyell, more or less probable hypotheses seemed
all that was possible. What a field was here for the conflict of oppo-
site extreme views! But Lyell showed that ‘* causes now in operation ”
are producing similar effects under our eyes, if we will only observe.
From that moment geology became a truly inductive science and its
indefinite progress assured.

These two events, then, viz, the conception of geology as a distinct
science and the introduction of a true scientific method, are the great-
est epochs in the history of geological science. Some dim adumbra-
tions of these appear before this century, especially the former in the
mind of Buffon, and the latter somewhat fully in the mind of Hutton,
but they were not generally accepted and had not become working
principles until the beginning and even some time after the beginning

= = —

1 Hutton’s Theory of the Earth.

A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 267

of the nineteenth century. These must be borne in mind in all we
have further to say of the progress of geology through the century.

When the century opened, the war between the Neptunists and he
Plutonists, between the Wernerites and the Huttonites. was still going
on, but was approaching the usual result in such cases of dispute, viz,
the recognition of the fact that there was truth on both sides, and they
must be combined into a more comprehensive view. The chief differ-
ence of opinion still remaining was as to the relative importance of the
two agencies, aqueous and igneous. Two great advances took place
about the beginning of this century. William Smith, by patient, pains-
taking field observation and mapping, laid the foundation of stratig-
raphy; and Cuvier, by his profound and brilliant studies of the
wonderful discoveries of extinct mammals in the Eocene basin of Paris,
laid the foundations of paleontology. These researches placed in
clearer light than ever before the existence of other time-worlds before
the present one. William Smith published his tabular view of the
British Strata in 1790, but his map was not completed and published
until 1815. Cuvier’s great work on the Organic Remains of the Paris
Basin was published in 1808.

Thus, early in the century the two bases of our science were laid by
Smith and Cuvier. We now proceed to touch lightly only the main
steps of subsequent growth through the century.

As, in the previous century and the early part of this, the discussion
was between the opposite schools of Neptunists and Plutonists, with
the final result of reconciliation in a more scientific view which com-
bined these two surface views into a stereoscopic reality, so now the
discussions began between catastrophism and uniformitarianism, and
ended with a similar final result. Geologists, in the early part of the
century, before the study of causes and processes now in operation
was generally acknowledged as the only rational basis of a true scien-
tific geology, seeing the frequent unconformities in the geological
series and the apparently sudden changes of life forms associated with
these unconformities, were naturally led to the conclusion that the
whole history of the earth consisted of a series of sudden and violent
catastrophes by which the bed of the ocean was suddenly raised and
its waters precipitated on the land as a great wave of translation, car-
rying universal ruin and extermination of all life in its course. Such
catastrophes were supposed to be followed by periods of quiet, during

which the new earth was repeopled, by direct act of creation, with new

forms of life adapted to the new conditions.

This view was in perfect accord with the then accepted doctrine of
the supernatural origin and the permanence of species. Species were
supposed to have been created at once, out of hand, without natural
process, in some place (center of specific origin), spread in all diree-
tions as far as physical conditions would allow, but remained unchanged
268 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

and unchangeable as long as they continued to live or until another
universal exterminating catastrophe. Species are ‘‘medals of crea-
tion.” They are successive individuals struck from the same die,
until the die is worn out or broken. Then a new die is made, and the
process of coinage of identical individuals is renewed.

Thus the whole history of the earth was supposed to consist of a
succession of alternate supernatural and natural events. The catastro-
phes were supernatural; the times of quiet were natural. The crea-
tion of new dies or creation of first individuals was supernatural; the
coinage of individuals of successive generations was natural. But on
the whole the successive conditions of physical geography and the suc-
cessive faunas and floras were higher and more complex according to
a preordained plan. The great apostles of catastrophism were Cuvier
in France and Buckland in England. According to Buckland, the last
of these great catastrophes was the Quaternary or drift period, and
this period was, by him and by many others since, associated with the
Noachian Deluge.

Lyell opposed this view with all his power. According to him we
‘an not judge of geological causes and processes except by study of
‘auses and processes now in operation and producing effects under our
eyes. Theslowoperation of similar causes and processes is sufficient—
given time enough—to account for all the phenomena in geological
history. Thus arose the extreme opposite doctrine of uniformitarian-
ism. Things have gone on from the beginning and throughout all
time much as they are going on now. This view, of course, required
ilimitable time, and was of great service in enforcing this idea.
But, in revulsion from the previous idea of catastrophism, it undoubt-
edly was pushed much too far.

Meanwhile the theory of evolution was incubating in the mind of
Darwin. Even Lyell, while he established the doctrine of slow uni-
form changes so far as inorganic. nature was concerned, was still com-
pelled to admit supernatural catastrophic changes in organic nature.
Species, even for Lyell, were still immutable—still there were super-
natural creation of first individuals, and continuance of similar individ-
uals by natural processof generation. On the publicationof Darwin’s
Origin of Species by Descent with Modification, Lyell at once embraced
the new view as a completion of his principle of causes now in opera-
tion and his doctrine of uniformitarianism. In a certain superficial
sense evolution is certainly confirmatory of the doctrine of uniformity
of causes and processes in the past and the present, but in a deeper
sense it is quite contrary in its spirit. Uniformitarians of the Lyell
school look upon geology as a chronicle of events—evolutionists as a
life history of the earth. The one regards the slow changes as irreg-
ular, uncertain, without progress or purpose or goal; the other as an
evolution to higher and higher conditions, as a gradual movement
A OENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 269

onward toward the present condition and toward man as its goal. The
recognition of this is only now approaching clearness. If eeology is
the history of the evolution of the earth from primal chaos until now,
then the conditions have changed at every step, and absolute uniform-
ity is impossible. Extreme uniformitarianism is therefore untenable.
Catastrophism and uniformitarianism are opposite extremes which
must be combined and reconciled. This reconciliation is only now
being completed, and we therefore put off its discussion for the pres-
ent. Suffice it to say now that geologic thought in this regard has
passed through three stages—catastrophism, uniformitarianism, and
evolutionism. And this latter is the final stage, because (1) it is a
complete reconciliation between the other two, and (2) because it is
plastic and indefinitely modifiable and progressive, while the other
two are equally rigid and unchangeable by their mutual antagonism.

With these fundamental principles in mind, we proceed to touch
briefly the most important advances during the century.

EVOLUTION OF EARTH FORMS.

The idea of the progressive development of the earth in its greater
features throughout all geologic time by the action of forces resident
in the earth itself preceded the acceptance of the evolution of organic
forms. We have said that the fundamental idea of geology is that of
the evolution of the earth through all time. Now, it was Dana who
first studied geology wholly from this point of view. For him geology
was the development of the earth asa unit. Before him, doubtless,
geology was a kind of history—i. e., a chronicle of thrilling events—
but Dana first made it a philosophic history. Before Dana, geology
was an account of the succession of formations and their fossil con-
tents. Dana made it an account of the evolution of earth forms and
the concomitant and resulting evolution of organic forms. It is true
that first and fora long time his evolutional conception was incom-
plete. It is true that while he attributed the evolution of earth forms
to natural causes and processes, he still shrank from applying similar
causes to the changes in life forms, but this was the almost necessary
result of the then universal belief in the supernatural origin and the
unchangeableness of organic forms. He lived to make his conception
of evolution as a natural process, both of the earth and of organic
forms, complete.

Ocean basins and continents.—If we divide geological causes and
processes into two general kinds as to their origin —viz, internal or
earth-derived, and external or sun-derived—evidently the former Is
the original and fundamental kind. These determine earth forms,
while the other only modify them; these determine the great features,
the other only the lesser features; the former rough-hews the earth
features, the latter shapes them. It is the effects of these interior
270 A OENTURY OF GEOLOGY.
v
earth forces which are the most important to study. And among

these effects the most fundamentaliy important of all is the formation
of those greatest features—the ocean basins and continental arches.
The most probable view is that they are formed by unequal radial
contraction in the secular cocling of the earth. The earth was cer-
tainly at one time an incandescently hot mass, which gradually cooled
and contracted to its present temperature and size. Now, if it were
perfectly homogeneous both in density and in conductivity in all parts,
then, cooling and contracting equally in every part, it would retain its
symmetric oblate-spheroid form, though diminishing in size. But if
there were any, the least, heterogeneity either in density or especially
in conductivity over large areas, then the more conductive areas, con-
tracting more rapidly toward the center radially, would form hollows
or basins, and the less conductive areas would stand out as higher
arches. Thus were formed the oceanic basin and the continental
arches of the lithosphere. The same causes which produced would
continue to increase them, and thus the ocean basins would increase in
depth and the continents in height.

The hydrosphere is still to be added. In the beginning of this
process doubtless the lithosphere was hot enough to maintain all the
water in the form of vapor in the atmosphere. But when the surface
was cool enough the water would precipitate and partly or wholly
cover the earth—whether partly or wholly would depend on the
amount of precipitated water and the amount of inequality which had
already taken place. The amount of water, as we know, is sufficient,
if the inequalities were removed, to cover the whole surface 24 miles
deep. Inasmuch as the forming of the inequalities is progressive, and
still going on, it seems improbable that the inequalities had become
sufficiently great, at the time of precipitation, to hold the waters. If
this be so, then the primeval ocean was universal and the future con-
tinents existed only as continental banks in the universal ocean.

However this may have been, there seems little doubt that the same
‘ause Which produced the inequalities continued to operate to increase
them. The ocean basins, so far as these causes are concerned, must
have become deeper and deeper, and the continents larger and larger.
In spite of many oscillations producing changes mostly on the mar-
gins, but sometimes extending over wide areas in the interior of the
continent, this, on the whole, seems to be in accordance with the
known geological history of the earth. If so, then the oceanic basins
have always been oceanic basins, and the places of the continents have
always been substantially the same. This introduces a subject on
which there has been much discussion recently, viz:

The permanency of ocean basins.—Closely associated with the Lyel-
‘lian uniformitarianism was the doctrine of extreme instability of earth
features, especially the forms and places of sea and land. Crust move-
ments were irregularly oscillating to such a degree that in the course
A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. Pan

of geologic history sea and land frequently and completely changed
places. Abundant evidence of this was supposed to be found in the
unconformities so frequent in the stratified series. The t tendency of
that time was toward a belief in up-and-down movements, back-and-
forth changes, without discoverable law rather than progressive
onward movement. On first thought it might seem that such lawless
movement was rather in keeping with catastrophism than uniformita-
rianism. But not so, for the movements are supposed to be very slow.
Again, it might seem on first thought that gradual progressive change
in a word, evolution—would be peculiarly in accord with uniformita-
rian ideas. But again not so, because this doctrine was, above all, a
revulsion from the idea of supernatural purpose or design or goal con-
tained in catastrophism. Uniformitarianism strongly inclined toward
purposelessness, because of its supposed identity with naturalism.
Thus for a long time, and still with many geologists, the tendency is
toward a belief in irregular movements without discoverable law—
toward instability of even the greatest features of the earth, viz, sea
basins and continental arches. iGeclony for them is a chronicle, not a
life history.

The contrary movement of thought may be said to have commenced
with Dana. Dana studied the earth as a unit, as in some sense an
organism developing by forces within itself. The history of the earth
is a life history moving progressively toward its completion. The
forces originating oceanic basins and continental arches still continue
to deepen the former and enlarge the latter. From this point of
view oceanic basins and continental arches must have always been
substantially in the same places. Oscillations there have been at all
times and at all places, but they affect mainly the outlines of these
great features, though sometimes affecting also the interior of conti-
nents and mid-sea bottoms, but not sufficiently to change greatly their
general form, much less to interchange their places.

Such is the doctrine of permanency of oceanic basins. It is undoubt
edly a true doctrine, but must not be held in the rigid form character-
istic of early thought. The forces originating oceanic basins still con-
tinue to deepen éliem and to increase the size and height of continents,
but other forces are at work, some antagonizing (i. e., cutting down
the continents and filling up the ocean beds), and still others determined
by causes we little Oiderstend, by oscillations over wide areas, oreatly
modifying and often obscuring the effects of the basin-m: aking move-
ments. Here, then, we have two kinds of crust movements: The one
fundamental and penal, determining the greatest features of the
earth and moving steadily onward in the same direction, ever increas-
ing the features which it originates; the other apparently lawless, uncer-
tain, oscillating over very wide areas, modifying and often obscuring
the oge of theformer. The old uniformitarians saw only the effects

SM 1L90U- 20

272 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

of the latter, because these are most conspicuous. The new evolution-
ists add also the former and show its more fundamental character, and
thus introduce law and order into the previous chaos. The former is
the one movement which runs ever in the same direction through all
geologic time. The latter are the most common and conspicuous now
and in all previous geologic time. The former underlies and condi-
tions and unifies the history; the latter has practically determined
all the details of the drama enacted here on the surface of the earth.
Of the causes of the former we know something, though yet imper-
fectly. Of the causes of the latter we yet know absolutely nothing.
We have not even begun to speculate profitably on the subject, and
hence the apparent lawlessness of the phenomena. A fruitful theory
of these must be left to the coming century.

Mountain ranges.—-lf oceanic basins and continental domes constitute
the greatest features of the earth’s face, and are determined by the
most fundamental movements of the crust, surely next in importance
come great mountain ranges. These are the glory of our earth, the
culminating points of scenic beauty and grandeur. But they are so
only because they are also the culminating points, the theaters of
greatest activity, of all geological forces, both igneous and aqueous—

=>

igneous in their formation and aqueous both in the preparatory sedi-
mentation and in the final erosive sculpturing into forms of beauty.
A theory of mountain ranges, therefore, lies at the bases of all theo-
retical geology. To the pre-geologic mind mountains are the type
of permanence and stability. We still speak metaphorically of the
everlasting hills. But the first lesson taught by geology is that noth-
ing is permanent; everything is subject to continuous change by a
process of evolution. Mountains are no exception. We know them
in embryo in the womb of the ocean. We know the date of their birth;
we trace their growth, their maturity, their decay, their death; we
even find in the folded structure of the rock, as it were, the fossil bones
of extinct mountains. Ina word, we are able now to trace the whole
life history of mountains.

Mountains, therefore, have always been a subject of deepest interest
both to the popular and the scientific mind—an interest intensified by
the splendors of mountain scenery and the perils of mountain explora-
tion. The study of mountains is therefore coeval with the study of
geology. As early as the beginning of the present century Constant
Prevost observed that most characteristic structure of mountains—
viz, their folded strata—and inferred their formation by lateral pres-
sure. Al] subsequent writers have assumed lateral pressure as some-
how concerned in the formation of mountains. But that the whole
height of mountains is due wholly to this cause was not generally
admitted or even imagined until recently. It was universally sup-
posed that mountains were lifted by volcanic forces from beneath, that

A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 273

the lifted strata broke along the top of the arch, and melted matter
was forced through between the parted strata, pushing them back and
folding them on each side. And hence the typical form of mountain
ranges is that of a granite axis along the crest and folded strata on
each flank. But attention has lately been drawn to the fact that some
mountains, as, for example, the Appalachian, the Uintah, ete., consist
of folded strata alone, without any granite axis. In such ranges it is
plain that the whole height is due not to any force acting from below,
but to a lateral pressure crushing and folding the strata, and a corre-
sponding thickening and bulging of the same along the line of crush-
ing. Then the idea was applied to all mountain ranges. So soon as
the prodigious amount of erosion suffered by mountains, greater often
than all that is left of them, was fully appreciated, it became evident
that the granite axis so characteristic of mountains was not necessarily
pushed up from beneath and protruded through the parted strata, but
was in many cases only a submountain core of igneous matter slowly
cooled into granite and exposed by subsequent erosion greatest along
the crest.

Next, attention was drawn to the enormous thickness of the strata
involved in the folded structure of mountains. From this it became
evident that the places of mountains before they were formed were
marginal sea bottoms off the coasts of continents, and receiving the
whole washings of the continents. Thus the steps of the process of
mountain formation were (1) accumulation of sediments on offshore
sea bottoms until by pari passu subsidence an enormous thickness was
attained. This is the preparation. (2) A yielding along these lines
to the increasing lateral pressure with folding and bulging of the strata
along the line of yielding, until the mountain emerges above the ocean
and is added to the land as a coast range. This is mountain birth.
(3) As soon as it appears above the water it is attacked by erosive
agents. At first the rising by continuance of the crushing and bulging
is in excess of the erosion, and the mountain grows. This is mountain
youth. (4) Then supply and waste balance one another, and we have
mountain maturity. (5) Then the erosive waste exceeds the growth
by upbulging, and mountain decay begins. (6) Finally, the erosive
forces triumph and the mountain is clean swept away, leaving only
the complexly folded rocks of enormous thickness to mark the place
of a former mountain. This is mountain death. Such, briefly, is the
life history of a mountain range.

In all this we have said nothing about causes. In this connection
there are two points of especial importance: (1) Why does the yield-
ing to lateral pressure take place along lines of thick sediments ¢
(2) What is the cause of the lateral pressure‘
O74 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

1. Cause of yielding to lateral pressure along lines of thick sediments.—
The earth was once very hot. It is still very hot within, and still very
slowly cooling. If sediments accumulate upon a sea bottom the inte-
rior heat will tend to rise so as to keep at the same distance from the
surface. If the sediments are very thick, say 5 to 10 miles, their
lower parts will be invaded by a temperature of not less than 500° to
1,000° F. This temperature, in the presence of water (the included
water of the sediments), would be suflicient to produce softening or
even fusion of the sediments and of the sea floor on which they rest.
This would establish a line of weakness, and therefore a line of yield-
ing, crushing, folding, bulging, and thus a mountain range. In the
first formation of a range, therefore, there would necessarily be a sub-
mountain mass of fused or semifused matter which by the lateral
crushing might be squeezed into cracks or fissures, forming dikes. But
in any case the submountain mass would cool into a granite core which
by erosion may be exposed along the crest. The explanation seems to
be satisfactory.

2. Cause of lateral pressure.—No question in geology has been more
discussed than this, and yet none is more difficult and the solution of
which is more uncertain. But the most obvious and as yet the most
probable view is that it is the result of the secular contraction of the
earth which has gone on throughout the whole history, and is still
going on.

It is admitted by all that in an earth cooling from primal incandes-
cence there must come a time when the surface, having become sub-
stantially cool and receiving heat also from the sun, would no longer
cool or contract, but the interior, being still incandescently hot, would
continue to cool and contract. The interior, therefore, cooling and
contracting faster than the exterior crust, the latter following down
the ever-shrinking nucleus, would be thrust upon itself by a lateral
or tangential pressure which would be simply irresistible. If the
earth crust were a hundred times more rigid than it is, it still must
yield to the enormous pressure. It does yield along its weakest lines
with crushing, folding, bulging, and the formation of mountain ranges.

This is the barest outline of the so-called ‘* contractional theory of
mountain formation.” Very many objections have been brought
against it, some of them answerable and completely answered, but the
complete answer to others must be left to the next century. Perhaps
the greatest objection of all is the apparent insufficiency of the cause to
produce the enormous amount of folding found not only in existing
mountains but in the folded structure of rocks where mountains no
longer exist. But it will be observed that I have thus far spoken only
of contraction by loss of heat. Now, not only has this cause been
greatly underestimated by objectors, but, as shown by Davison and
A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 975

especially by Van Hise, there are many other and even greater causes
of contraction. It would be out of place to follow the discussion here.
The subject is very complex, and not yet completely settled.

We have given the barest outline of the history of mountain ranges
and of the theory of their formation as worked out in the last third of
the present century, and, I might add, chiefly by American geologists.
So true is this that by some it has been called the ‘*American theory.”

Oscillatory movements of the earth’s crust over wide areas.—We have
already spoken of these as modifying the effect of the ocean-basin-
making movements, and therefore now touch them very lightly.
These differ from the movements producing oceanic basins on the one
hand and mountain ranges on the other by the fact that they are not
continuously progressive in one direction, but oscillatory—now up,
now down, in the same place. Again, they do not involve contraction
of the whole earth, but probably are always more or less local and
compensatory—i. e., rising in one place is compensated by down sink-
ing in some other place. Nevertheless, they often affect very wide
areas—sometimes, indeed, of more than continental extent—as, for
example, in the crust movements of the Quaternary period or ice age.

These are by far the most frequent and most conspicuous of all crust
movements—not only now, but also in all geological times. If ocean-
basin-forming movements are the underlying cause and condition of
the evolution of the earth, these wide oscillations, by increasing and
decreasing the size and height of continents and changing greatly their
contours, have determined all the details of the drama enacted on the
surface, and were the determining cause of the varying rates and
directions of the evolution of the organic kingdom. ‘These were the
cause of the unconformities and the corresponding apparent wholesale
changes in species so common in the rocky strata, and which gave rise
to the doctrine of catastrophism of the early geologists. These also
have so greatly modified the contours of the continents and their size
by temporary increase or decrease that they have obscured the general
law of the steady development of these, and therefore their substantial
permanency.

Although the most important of all crust movements in determin-
ing the whole history of the earth, and especially of the organic
kingdom, we shall dwell no further on them, because no progress has
yet been made in their explanation. This, too, must be left to the
workers of the twentieth century.

The principle of isostasy.—The principle of static equilibrium as
applied to earth forms was first brought forward (as so many other
valuable suggestions and anticipations in many departments of scl-
ence) by the wonderfully fertile mind of Sir John Herschel, and used
by him in the explanation of the sinking of river deltas under the
276 - A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

increasing weight of accumulating sediments.' It was afterwards
applied to continental masses by Archbishop Pratt® and by the royal
astronomer, Professor Airy.* But for its wide application as a prin-
ciple in geology, its clear definition, and its embodiment in an appro-
priate name we are indebted to Major Dutton, United States Army.*

The principle may be briefly stated as follows: A globe so large as
the earth, under the influence of its own gravity, must behave like a
very stiffly viscous body—that is, the general form of the earth and
its greatest inequalities must be in substantial static equilibrium. For
example, the general form of the earth is oblate spheroid, because that
is the only form of equilibrium of a rotating body. Rotation deter-
mines a distribution of gravity with latitude which brings about this
form. With any other form the earth would be in a state of strain
to which it must slowly yield and finally relieve itself by becoming
oblate. If the rotation stopped, the earth would accommodate itself
to the new distribution of gravity and become spherical.

The same is true of the large inequalities of surface. Oceanic
basins and continental arches must be in static equilibrium or they
could not*sustain themselves. In order to be in equilibrium the sub-
oceanic material must be as much more dense than the continental and
subcontinental material as the ocean bottoms are lower than the con-
tinental surfaces. Such static equilibrium, by difference of density,
is completely explained by the mode of formation of oceanic basins
already given.

So also plateaus and great mountain ranges are at least partly sus-
tained by gravitative equilibrium, but partly also by earth rigidity.
It is only the smaller inequalities, such as ridges, peaks, valleys, etc.,
that are sustained by earth rigidity alone.

These conclusions are not reached by physical reasonings alone, but
are also confirmed by experimental investigations. For example, a
plumb line on the plains of India is deflected indeed toward the Him-
alayas, as it ought to be, but much less than it would be if the moun-
tain and submountain mass were not less dense and the suboceanic
material more dense than the average.’ Again, gravitative determi-
nations by pendulum oscillations, undertaken by the United States
along a line from the Atlantic shore to Salt Lake City, show that the
largest inequalities, such as the Appalachian bulge, the Mississippi
basin hollow, and the Rocky Mountain bulge, are in gravitative equi-
librium—-i. e., the mountain and submountain material is as much

‘Philosophical Magazine, Vol. II, p. 212, 1837; Quarterly Journal of Geological
Society, Vol. II, p. 548, 1837.

* Philosophical Magazine, Vol. IX, p. 231,and Vol. X, p. 240, 1855.

* Philosophical Transactions, 1855, p. 101.

* Philosophical Society of Washington, 1892.

* Pratt, Philosophical Magazine, Vol. LX, p. 231, 1855; Vol. X, p. 340, 1855; Vol.
XVI, p. 401, 1858.

A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 277

lighter as the mountain region is higher than the Mississippi basin
region.

Now, so sensitive is the earth to changes of gravity that, given time
enough, it responds to increase or decrease of pressure ver large
areas by corresponding subsidence or elevation. Hence, all places
where great accumulations of sediment are going on are sinking
under the increased weight, and, contrarily, all places where excessive
erosion is going on, as, for example, on high plateaus and great
mountain ranges, are rising by relief of pressure.

This principle of isostasy is undoubtedly a valuable one, which must
be borne in mind in all our reasonings on crust movements, although
its importance has been exaggerated by some enthusiastic supporters.
Its greatest importance is not as a cause initiating crust movements
or determining the features of the earth, but rather as conditioning
and modifying the results produced by other causes. The id na
belongs wholly to the latter half of the present century. Commenc-
ing about 1840, it has grown in clearness and importance to the
present time.

THE AGE OF THE EARTH.

Until almost the beginning of the present century the general belief
in all Christian countries was that not only the earth and man, but the
whole cosmus, began to exist about six thousand to seven thousand years
ago; furthermore, that all was made at once without natural process,
and have remained substantially unchanged ever since. This is the
old doctrine of the supernatural origin and substantial permanency of
the earth and its features. Among intelligent and especially scientific
men this doctrine, even in the eighteenth century, began to be ques-
tioned, although not publicly; for in 1751 Buffon was compelled by
the Sorbonne to retract certain views concerning the age of the earth,
published in his Natural History in 1749." Remnants of the old belief
lingered even into the early part of the present century, and may even
yet be found hiding away in some of the remote corners of civilized
countries. But with the birth of geology, and especially through the
work of Hutton in Scotland, Cuvier in France, and William Smith in
England, the much greater—the inconceivably ereat—antiquity of the
earth and the origin of its present forms, by eradual changes which
are still going on, was generally acknowledged. Indeed, as already
said, this is the fundamental idea of geology, without which it could
not exist as a science.

Geology has its own measures of time
ages, ete.—but it is natural and right that we should desire more accu-
rate estimates by familiar standards. How old, then, is the earth,
especially the inhabited earth, in years? Geologists have attempted

in eras, periods, epochs,

1 Lyell’s Principles of Geology, eighth edition, p. 41.
278 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

to answer this question by estimates based on the rates of sedimenta-
tion and erosion, or else on the rate of changes of organic forms by
struggle for life and survival of the fittest. Physicists have attempted
to answer the same question by calculations based on known laws of
dissipation of energy in a cooling body, such as the sun or the earth.
The results of the two methods differ widely. The estimates of the
geologists are enormous, and growing ever greater as the conditions
of the problem are better understood. Nothing less than several
hundred million years will serve their purpose. The estimates of the
physicists are much more moderate, and apparently growing less with
each revision. The latest results of King and Kelvin give only twenty
to thirty millions.’ This the geologist declares is absurdly inadequate.
He can not work freely in so narrow a space—he has not elbow room.

The subject is still discussed very earnestly, but with little hope of
definite conclusion. One thing, however, must be remarked. Both
parties assume—the geologist tacitly, the physicist avowedly—the
nebular hypothesis of the origin of the solar system, and therefore
the early incandescent fluid condition of the earth as the basis of all
his reasonings. Now, while this is probably the most reasonable view,
it is not so certain that it can be made the basis of complex mathemat-
ical calculation. There is a possible alternative theory, viz, the
meteoric theory, which is coming more and more into favor. Accord-
ing to this view the planets may have been formed by aggregation of
meteoric swarms and the heat of the earth produced by the collision
of the meteors in the act of aggregation. According to the one view
(the nebular) the heat is all primal, and the earth has been only losing
heat all the time. According to the other, the aggregation and the
heating are both gradual, and may have continued even since the earth
was inhabited. According to the one, the spendthrift earth wasted
nearly all its energy before it became habitable or even a crust was
formed, and therefore the habitable period must be comparatively
short. According to the other, the cooling and the heating, the
expenditure and the income, were going on at the same time, and
therefore the process may have lasted much longer.

The subject is much too complex to be discussed here. Suffice it
to say that on this latter view not only the age of the earth, but many
other fundamental problems of dynamical geology, would have to be
recalculated. The solution of these great questions must also be left
to the next century. In the meantime we simply draw attention to
two very recent papers on the subject, viz, that of Lord Kelvin,”
and criticism of the same by Chamberlin.’

‘Clarence King, American Journal of Science, pp. 45-51, 1893; Kelvin, Science,
Vol. IX, p. 665, 1899. [Smithsonian Report, 1898. ]

*Science, Vol. IX, p. 665, 1899. [Smithsonian Report, 1898. ]

*Tbid., p. 889, and Vols. X and XI, 1899. [Smithsonian Report, 1899. ]
A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 979
ANTIQUITY AND ORIGIN OF MAN.

Even after the great antiquity of the earth and its origin and devel-
opment by a natural process were generally accepted, still man was
believed, even by the most competent geologists, to have appeared only
a few thousand years ago. The change from this old view took place
in the last half of the present century, viz, about 1859, and, coming
almost simultaneously with the publication of Darwin’s Origin of
Species, prepared the scientific mind for entertaining, at least, the
idea of man’s origin by a natural process of evolution.

Evidences of the work of man—flint implements, associated with the
bones of extinct animals and therefore showing much greater age than
usually accepted—had been reported from time to time, notably those
found in the river Somme by Boucher de Perthes. But the prejudice
against such antiquity was so strong that geologists with one accord,
and without examination, pooh-poohed all such evidence as incredible.
It was Sir Joseph Prestwich who, in 1859, first examined them care-
fully, and published the proofs that convinced the geological world
that early man was indeed contemporaneous with the extinct animals
of the Quaternary period, and that the time must have been many
times greater than usually allowed. '

Since that time confirmatory evidence has accumulated, and the
earliest appearance of man has been pushed back first to the late Glacial,
then to the Middle Glacial, and finally, in Mr. Prestwich’s Plateau Gray-
els, to the early Glacial or possibly preglacial times.

Still, however, in every case earliest man was unmistakably man.
No links connecting him with other anthropoids had been found. Very
recently, however, have been found, by Du Bois, in Java, the skull,
teeth, and thigh bone of what seems to be a veritable missing link,
named by the discoverer Pithecanthropus erectus. The only question
that seems to remain is whether it should be regarded as an ape more
manlike than any known ape, or a man more apelike than any yet dis-
covered. The age of this creature was either latest Pliocene or earliest
Quaternary.

BREAKS IN THE GEOLOGICAL RECORD AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE,

From the earliest times of geologic study there have been observed
unconformities of the strata and corresponding changes in the fossil
contents. Some of these unconformities are local and the changes of
organic forms inconsiderable, but sometimes they are of wider extent
and the changes of life system greater. In some cases the unconformity
is universal or nearly so, and in such cases we find a complete and
apparently sudden change in the fossil contents. It was these universal

1 Life and Letters of Sir Joseph Prestwich, pp. 124 et seq.
280 A OENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

breaks that gave rise to the belief in the occurrence of violent catas-
trophes and corresponding wholesale exterminations and re-creations
of faunas and floras.

It is evident, however, on a little reflection, that every such uncon-
formity indicates a land period at the place observed, and therefore a
time unrecorded in strata and fossils at that place—1. e., a lost interval—
certain leaves missing from the book of time. And if the unconformity
be widespread, the lost interval is correspondingly great. It is there-
fore probable that change of species went on slowly and uniformly ali
the time, although not recorded at that place. Intermediate strata
may be and often are found elsewhere, and the supposed lost intervat
filled. The record was continuous and the changes uniform, but the
record is not all found in one place. The leaves of the book of time
are scattered here and there, and it is the duty of the geologist to gather
and arrange them in proper order, so that the record may read con-
tinuously. )

This is the uniformitarian view, and is undoubtedly far truer than the
catastrophic. “But the objection to it is that in the case of very wide-
spread unconformities, such as occurred several times in the history of
the earth, the changes of organisms are so great that if the rate of
change was uniform the lost interval must have been equal to all
the rest of the history put together. Therefore we are compelled to
admit that in the history of the earth there have been periods of com-
parative quiet (not fixedness) during which evolutionary changes were
slow and regular, and periods of revolution during which the changes
were much more rapid, but not catastrophic. This is exactly what we
ought to expect on the idea of gradual evolution of earth forms by
secular cooling, for in the gradual contraction of the earth there must
come times of general readjustment of the crust to the shrinking
nucleus. These readjustments would cause great changes in physical
geography and climate, and corresponding rapid changes in organic
forms. In addition to this, the changes in physical geography and
climate would cause extensive migrations of species, and therefore
minglings of faunas and floras, severer struggles of competing forms,
and more rapid advance in the steps of evolution. Among these
changes of organic forms there would arise and have arisen new domi-
nant types, and these, in their turn, would compel new adjustment of
relations and still further hasten the steps of evolution. Such changes,
whether geographic, or climatic, or organic, would not be simultaneous
all over the earth, but propagated from place to place, until quiet was
reestablished and a new period of comparative stability and prosperity
commenced.

This view is a complete reconciliation of catastrophism and uniformi-
tarianism, and is far more rational than either extreme.

A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 981

Critical periods in the history of the carth.—Such periods of rapid
change may well be called critical periods or revolutions. They are
marked by several characteristics: (1) By widespread oscillations of the
earth’s crust, and therefore by almost universal unconformities. (2)
By widespread changes of physical geography, and therefore by great
changes in climate. (3) By great and widespread changes in organic
forms, produced partly by the physical changes and partly by the
extensive migrations. (4) By the evolution of new dominant types,
which are also the cause of extensive changes in species. (5) Among
the physical changes occurring at these times is the formation of great
mountain ranges. The names of these critical periods or revolutions
are often taken from the mountain range which form their most con-
spicuous features.

There have been at least four of these critical periods, or periods of
greatest change: (1) The pre-Cambrian or Laurentian revolution;
(2) the post-Paleozoic or Appalachian; (3) the post-Cretaceous or
Rocky Mountain; (4) the post-Tertiary or Glacial revolution.

* Now, as these critical periods separate the primary divisions of time
the eras—it follows that the present—the Age of Man—is an era. It
may be called the Psychozoic Era. These views have been mainly
advocated by the writer of this sketch, but I believe that, with per-
haps some modification in statement, they would be accepted by most
geologists as a permanent acquisition of science. *

GEOLOGICAL CLIMATES.

Attention was first drawn to this subject by the apparently unique
phenomena of the Glacial epoch.

For nearly a century past Alpine glaciers, their structure, their mys-
terious motion, and their characteristic erosive effects, have excited
the keenest interest of scientificmen. But until about 1840 the interest
was purely physical. It was Louis Agassiz who first recognized ice
as a great geological agent. He had long been familiar with the char-
acteristic marks of glacial action, and with the fact that Alpine olaciers
were far more extensive formerly than now, and had, moreover, con-
ceived the idea of a Glacial epoch—an ice age in the history of the
earth. With this idea in his mind, in 1840 he visited England, and
found the marks of glaciers all over the higher regions of England and
Scotland. He boldly announced that the whole of northern Kurope
was once covered with a universal ice sheet. A few years later he
came to the United States, and found the tracks of glaciers every where,
and again astonished the world by asserting that the whole northern
part of the North American continent was modeled by a moving ice

99, 1877; Bul-

1Critical Periods, etc., American Journal of Science, Vol. XIV, ps 99, shes
No. 11, 1895.

letin of the Geological Department of the University of California, Vol. 1,
982 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

sheet. This idea has been confirmed by all subsequent investigation,
especially here in America.

But it would be strange, indeed, if the cold of the Glacial epoch
should be absolutely unique. Attention was soon called to similar
marks in rocks of other geological periods, especially in the Permian
of the Southern Hemisphere. This opened up the general question of
geological climates and their causes.

Perhaps no subject connected with the physics of the earth is more
obscure and difficult than this. The facts, as far as we know them, are
briefly as follows: (1) All the evidence we have point to a high, even
an ultra-tropical, climate in early geological times; (2) all the evidence
points to a uniform distribution of this early high temperature, so that
the zonal arrangement of temperatures, such as characterizes present
climates, did not then exist; (3) temperature zones were apparently
first introduced in the late Mesozoic (Cretaceous) or early Tertiary
times, and during the Tertiary the colder zones were successively
added, until at the end there was formed a polar ice-cap as now.

Thus far all might be explained by progressive cooling of the earth
and progressive clearing of the atmosphere of its excess CO, and
aqueous vapor. But (4) from time to time (i. e., at critical periods)
there occurred great oscillations of temperature, the last and probably
the greatest of these being the Glacial period. The cause of these
great oscillations of temperature, and especially the cause of the gla-
cial climate, is one of the most interesting and yet one of the obscurest,
and therefore one of most hotly disputed, points in geology. Indeed,
the subject has entered into the region of almost profitless discussion.
We must wait for further light and for another century. Only one
remark seems called for here. It is in accordance with a true scien-
tific method that we should exhaust terrestrial causes before we resort
to cosmical. The most usual terrestrial cause invoked is the oscilla-
tion of the earth’s crust. But recently Chamberlin, in a most sugges-
tive paper,! has invoked oscillations in the composition of the
atmosphere, especially in its proportion of CO,, as the immediate
‘ause, although this in turn is due to oscillations of the earth’s crust.

THE NEW GEOLOGY.

Heretofore the geological history of the earth has been studied only
in the record of stratified rocks and their contained fossils. But in
every place there have been land periods in which, of course, erosion
took the place of sedimentation. This kind of record is very imper-
fect, because there are no fossils. Until recently no account was
taken of these erosion periods except as breaks of indefinite length in
the record—as lost intervals. But now, and mainly through the work

1 Journal of Geology, Vol. VI, p. 597, 1898, and Vol. VII, p. 545, 1899.
A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 230

of American geologists, interpretation of these erosion periods has
fairly commenced, and so important has this new departure in the
study of geology seemed to some that it has been hailed as a new era in
geology, connecting it more closely with geography. Heretofore for-
mer land periods were recognized by unconformities, and the amount
of time by the degree of change in the fossils, but now the amount of
time is estimated in existing land surfaces by topographic forms alone.
This idea was introduced into geology by Maj. J. W. Powell, and
has been applied with success by William Morris Davis, W J McGee,
and others.

The principle is this: Land surface subject to erosion and standing
still is finally cut down to gently sweeping curves, with low, rounded
divides and broad, shallow troughs. Such a surface is called by Davis
a ‘‘peneplain.” Such a peneplain is characteristic of old topography.
If such a surface be again lifted to higher level, the rivers again dissect
it by ravines, which are deep and narrow in proportion to the amount
and rate of the uplift. If the land again remains steady, the sharply
dissected surface is again slowly smoothed out to the gentle curves of a
peneplain. If, on the contrary, the surface be depressed, the rivers fill
up the channels with sediment, which, on reelevation, is again dissected.
Thus the whole ontogeny of land surfaces have been studied out, so
that their age may be recognized at sight.

Thus, while heretofore the more recent movements of the crust were
supposed to be readable only on coast lines and by means of the old
sea strands, now we read with equal ease the movements of the interior
by means of the physiognomy of the topography, and especially the
structure of the river channels. Moreover, while heretofore the his-
tory of the earth was supposed to be recorded only in stratified rock
and their contained fossils, now we find that recent history is recorded
and may be read also in the general topography of the land surfaces.
Geography is studied no longer as mere description of earth forms,
but also as to the causes of these forms; no longer as to present forms,
but also as to the history of their becoming. Thus geography, by its
alliance with geology, has become a truly scientific study, and as such
is now introduced into the colleges and universities. It is this alliance
with geology which has caused the dry bones of geographic facts to
live. It is this which has created a soul under the dry “ribs of this
death.” This mode of study of the history of the earth has just com-
menced. How much will come of it is yet to be shown in the next
century.

In this connection it is interesting to trace the effect of environment
on geological reasonings in different countries. Heretofore, especially
in England, what we have called peneplains were usually attributed to
marine denudation—i. e., to cutting back of a coast line by constant
action of the waves, leaving behind a level submarine plateau, which
284 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

is afterwards raised above sea level and dissected by rivers. American
geologists, on the contrary, are apt to regard such level surfaces as
the final result of aerial degradation or a base level of rain and river
erosion. The same difference is seen in the interpretation of glacial
phenomena. Until recently English geologists were inclined to attrib-
ute more to iceberg; Americans more to land ice. Again, in England
coast scenery is apt to be attributed mainly to the ravages of the sea,
while in America we attribute more to land erosion combined with
subsidence of the coast line. In a word, in the tight little sea-girt
island of Great Britain, where the ravages of the sea are yearly making
such serious inroads upon the area of the land, it is natural that the power
of the sea should strongly affect the imagination and impress itself
on geological theories, and tend, perhaps, to exaggeration of sea agen-
cies, while the broad features of the American continent and the evi-
dences of prodigious erosion in comparatively recent geological time
tend to the exaggeration of erosive agency of rain and rivers. These
two must be duly weighed and each given its right proportion in the
work of earth sculpture.

PALEONTOLOGY.

Paleontology at first attracted attention mainly by the new and
strange life forms which it revealed. It is the interest of a zoological
garden. ‘This interest is of course perennial, but can hardly be called
scientific. Geology at first was a kind of wonder book.

Next fossils, especially marine shells, were studied as characteristic
forms denoting strata of a particular age. They were coins by which
we identify certain periods of history. They were ‘*medals of crea-
tion.” It was in this way chiefly that William Smith, the founder of
English stratigraphic geology, used them. It was in this way that
Lyell and all the older geologists, unti! the advent of evolution, were
chiefly interested in them.

It was Cuvier, the great zoologist and comparative anatomist, who,
in the beginning of the present century, first studied fossils, especially
mammalian fossils, from the zoological point of view, i. e., as to their
affinities with existing animals. Cuvier’s studies of the vertebrates of
the Paris basin may be said to have laid the foundation of scientific
paleontology from this point of view.

Thenceforward two views of paleontology and two modes of study
gradually differentiated from one another—the one zoological, the other
geological. In the one case we study fossils in taxonomic groups—
i. €., aS species, genera, families, orders, etc.—and trace the gradual
evolution of each of these from generalized forms to their specialized
outcomes, completing, as far as possible, the genetic chain through all
time; in the other, we study fossils in faunal groups, as successive
geological faunas, and the geographic diversity in each geological

A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 285

period, i. e., the evolution of geologic faunas and the causes of
geographic diversity in each. Ina word, we study the laws of distribu-
tion of faunas in time geologically and in space geographically, and
the causes of these laws in each case. The first is strictly a branch of
zoology and botany, and we leave it to these specialists. The second
alone belongs properly to geology. In this purely geologic paleon-
tology, as seen from its scope given above, there are many questions
of widest philosophical interest which are only now attracting the
attention they deserve. I only touch lightly two which have been
brought forward in these very last years of the century.

I. General laws of faunal evolution. The evolution of the organic
kingdom from this strictly geological point of view may be briefly
formulated as follows:

1. Throughout all geological time there has been a general movement
upward and onward, as it were abreast, everywhere. If this were all,
there would be only geological progress, but no geographical diversity.
Geological history would be the same everywhere. A time horizon
would be easily determined by identity of fossil species. This we
know is not true. Therefore there are other elements besides this.

2. In different countries, isolated from one another and under
different conditions, evolution takes different directions and different
rates, producing geographical diversity in each geological period.
This diversity increases with time as long as the isolation continues.
If this were all, the geographical diversity by continued divergence
would have become so great that it would be impossible even approxi-
mately to determine any geological horizon. The history of each
country must be studied for itself. A general history of the earth
would be impossible. But this also is not true. There is, therefore,
still another element.

3. From time to time, at long intervals, i. e., critical periods, there are
widespread readjustments of the crust to internal strain, determining
changes of physical geography and of climate, and therefore wide
migrations of species, with mingling and conflict of faunas. This
would produce more rapid movement of evolution, but at the same
time more or less complete obliteration of geographical diversity.

4. After these periods of migrations and minglings there would be
reisolations in new localities, and the process of diversification would
recommence and increase as long as the isolation continues.

The last of these critical periods of migrations and minglings and
struggles for life among competing species was the Glacial epoch, or
ice age. Therefore the present geographical distribution of species
was largely determined by the extensive migrations of that time. .

Il. Cosmopolitan and provincial faunas.—Vhere are apparently In
the history of the earth periods of widespread or cosmopolitan faunas,
alternating with localized or provincial faunas. The cosmopolitan
286 A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY.

periods are usually times of prevalence of limestones or organic sedi-
ments, and the fossils are very abundant. The provincial periods are
usually characterized by sandstones and shales or mechanical sedi-
ments, and are comparatively poor in fossils. Moreover, it is believed
that the cosmopolitan limestone periods are oceanic periods—i. e.,
periods of wide oceans and lower and smaller continents and little
erosive activity, while the sandstone periods, characterized by provin-
cial faunas, are periods of higher and larger continents, and therefore
of great erosion and abundant mechanical sedimentation.

Now, according to Chamberlin, these remarkable alternations are due
to oscillations of the crust, in which the continents are alternately
lifted and depressed. It must be remembered that abyssal faunas are
almost unknown among fossils. This is the necessary result of sub-
stantial permanency of oceanic basins. The whole geological record
is in shallow-water faunas. These shallow waters are along continental
shore lines and-in interior continental seas. According to Chamberlin
again, during a period of continental depression all the flat continental
margins are submerged, forming broad submarine platforms, and the
lower interior portions of the continents are also submerged, forming
wide and shallow interior seas. Under these conditions continental
waste, and therefore sand and clay sediments, are reduced to a mini-
mum. Life, animal and vegetal, abounds, and therefore much lime-
stone is formed. The oceans are widely connected with one another,
and therefore the faunas are widespread or cosmopolitan. During the
period of elevation, on the contrary, the continents are extended to
the margin of the deep oceanic basins, the broad, shallow, submarine
platforms are abolished, the interior seas are also abolished, the
shallow-water areas are reduced to isolated bays, and their faunas are
peculiar or provincial. Also, elevated and enlarged continents give
rise to maximum erosion, and therefore abundant sediments of sand-
stone and clay, and comparative poverty of life and therefore of lime-
stone. Chamberlin also gives reasons why the oceanic periods should
be warm, humid, equable in temperature, and the atmosphere highly
charged with CO,, and therefore highly favorable to abundant life,
both vegetal and animal, while land periods would be drier and cooler,
the atmosphere deficient in CO,, and therefore cold from that cause
and in many ways unfavorable to abundant life.

These extremely interesting views, however, must be regarded as
still on trial, as a provisional hypothesis to be sifted, confirmed, or
rejected, or in any case modified, in the next century.

Lastly, it is interesting to note the ever-increasing part taken by
American geologists in the advance of this science. There has been
through the century a gradual movement of what might be called the
center of gravity of geological research westward, until now, at its
end, the most productive activity is herein America. This is not due
A CENTURY OF GEOLOGY. 287

to any superiority of American geologists, but to the superiority of
their opportunities. Dana has well said that America is the type con-
tinent of the world. All geological problems are expressed here with
a clearness and a simplicity not found elsewhere. We must add to
this the comparative recency of geological study in this rich field. In
Europe the simpler and broader problems are already worked out, and
all that remain are difficult problems requiring much time. In America,
on the contrary, not only are all problems expressed in simpler terms,
but many great and broad problems are still awaiting solution. For
these reasons the greatest activity in research, and the most rapid
advance during the next century, will probably be here in America.

sm 1900 21

wee WSR
i aa
, ,

ae ee ee

=~ ——_ =

a, a ee a ee a

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY-.!

by rot W. J. Sorias, F. RS.

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

The close of one century, the dawn of another, may naturally sug-
gest some brief retrospective glance over the path along which our
science has advanced, and some general survey of its present position
from which we may gather hope of its future progress; but other con-
nection with geology the beginnings and endings of centuries have
none. The great periods of movement have hitherto begun, as it were,
in the early twilight hours, long before the dawn. Thus the first step
forward, since which there has been no retreat, was taken by Steno in
the year 1669; more than a century elapsed before James Hutton
(1785) gave fresh energy and better direction to the faltering steps of
the young science; while it was less than a century later (1863) when
Lord Kelvin brought to its aid the powers of the higher mathematics
and instructed it in the teachings of modern physics. From Steno
onward the spirit of geology was catastrophic; from Hutton onward
it grew increasingly uniformitarian; from the time of Darwin and
Kelvin it has become evolutional. The ambiguity of the word **uni-
formitarian” has led to a good deal of fruitless logomachy, against

‘which it may be as well at once to guard by indicating the sense In

which it is used here. In one way we are ali uniformitarians, 1. e.,
we accept the doctrine of the ‘‘ uniform action of natural causes,” but,
as applied to geology, uniformity means more than this. Defined in
the briefest fashion it is the geology of Lyell. Hutton had given usa
«Theory of the Earth,” in its main outlines still faithful and true, and
this Lyell spent his life in illustrating and advocating, but as so com-
monly happens the zeal of the disciple outran the wisdom of the master,
and mere opinions were insisted on as necessary dogma. What did it
matter if Hutton, as a result of his inquiries into terrestrial history, had

1Opening address by Prof. W. J. Sollas, D. Se., LL. D., F. R. S., president of the
Section of Geology of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, 1900.

Reprinted from Nature No. 1611, vol. 62, September 15, 1900. see
290 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

declared that he found no vestige of a beginning, no prospect of an end 4
It would have been marvelous if he had! Consider that when Hutton’s
‘*Theory” was published William Smith’s famous discovery had not
been made, and that nothing was then known of the orderly succes-
sion of forms of life, which it is one of the triumphs of geology to
have revealed; consider, too, the existing state of physics at the time,
and that the modern theories of energy had still to be formulated;
consider also that spectroscopy had not yet lent its aid to astronomy
and the consequent ignorance of the nature of nebule; and then, if
you will, cast a stone at Hutton. With Lyell, however, the case was
different; in pressing his uniformitarian creed upon geology he
omitted to take into account the great advances made by its sister sei-
ences, although he had knowledge of them, and thus sinned against
the light. In the last edition of the famous *‘ Principles” we read:
‘It is a favorite dogma of some physicists that not only the earth, but
the sun itself, is continually losing a portion of its heat, and that as
there is no known source by which it can be restored we can foresee
the time when all life will cease to exist on this planet, and on the other
hand we can look back to a period when the heat was so intense as to
be incompatible with the existence of any organic beings such as are
known to us in the living or fossil world. * * * A geologist in
search of some renovating power by which the amount of heat may be
made to continue unimpaired for millions of years, past and future, in
the solid parts of the earth * * * has been compared by an emi-
nent physicist to one who dreams he can discover a source of perpetual
motion and invent a clock with a self-winding apparatus. But why
should we despair of detecting proofs of such regenerating and self-
sustaining power in the works of a Divine Artificer?” Here we catch
the true spirit of uniformity; it admittedly regards the universe as a
self-winding clock, and barely conceals a conviction that the clock was
warranted to keep true Greenwich time. The law of the dissipation of
energy is not a dogma, but a doctrine drawn from observation, while the
uniformity of Lyell is in no sense an induction; it isa dogma in the nar-
rowest sense of the word, unproved, incapable of proof; hence perhaps
its power upon the human mind; hence also the transitoriness of that
power. Again, it is only by restricting its inquiries to the stratified
rocks of our planet that the dogma of uniformity can be maintained
with any pretense of argument. Directly we begin to search the
heavens the possibility, nay even the likelihood, of the nebular origin
of our system, with all that it involves, is borne in upon us. Lyell
therefore consistently refused to extend his gaze beyond the rocks
beneath his feet, and was thus led to do a serious injury to our science;
he severed it from cosmogony, for which he entertained and expressed
the most profound contempt, and from the mutilation thus inflicted
geology is only at length making a slow and painful recovery. Why
7; eer

—— eee ee

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 991

do I dwell on these facts? To depreciate Lyell? By nomeans. Noone
is more conscious than I of the noble service which Lyell rendered
to our cause; his reputation is of too robust a kind to suffer from my
unskillful handling, and the fame of his solid contributions to science
will endure long after these controversies are forgotten. The echoes
of the combat are already dying away, and uniformitarians, in the
sense already defined, are now no more; indeed, were I to attempt to
exhibit any distinguished living geologist as astill surviving supporter
of the narrow Lyellian creed, he would probably feel, if such a one
there be, that I was unfairly singling him out for unmerited obloquy.

Our science has become evolutional, and in the transformation has
grown more comprehensive; her petty parochial days are done, she is
drawing her provinces closer around her, and is fusing them together
into a united and single commonwealth—the science of the earth.

Not merely the earth’s crust, but the whole of earth-knowledge is
the subject of our research. To know all that can be known about
our planet, this, and nothing less than this, is its aim and scope.
From the morphological side geology inquires, not only into the
existing form and structure of the earth, but also into the series of
successive morphological states through which it has passed in a long
and changeful development. Our science inquires also into the
distribution of the earth in time and space; on the physiological
side it studies the movements and activities of our planet; and not
content with all this it extends its researches into etiology and en-
deavors to arrive at a science of causation. In these pursuits geol-
ogy calls all the other sciences to her aid. In our commonwealth
there are no outlanders; if an eminent physicist enter our territory
we do not begin at once to prepare for war, because the very fact
of his undertaking a geological inquiry of itself confers upon him
all the duties and privileges of citizenship. A physicist studying
geology is by definition a geologist. Our only regret is, not that
physicists occasionally invade our borders, but that they do not visit
us oftener and make closer acquaintance with us.

EARLY HISTORY OF THE EARTH—FIRST CRITICAL PERIOD.

Tf Iam bold enough to assert that cosmogony is no longer alien to
geology, I may Broceed further and, taking advant: ge of my temerity,
pass on to speak of things once not permitted tous. I propose, there-
fore, to offer some short account of the early stages in the history of
the earth. Into its nebular origin we need not inquire; that is a sub-
ject for astronomers. We are content to accept the infant earth from
their hands as a molten globe ready made, its birth from a gaseous
nebula duly certified. If we ask, as a matter of curiosity, what was
the origin of the nebula, I fear even astronomers can not tell us.
2992 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

There is an hypothesis which refers it to the clashing of meteorites,
but in the form in which this is usually presented it does not help us
much. Such meteorites as have been observed to penetrate our atmos-
phere and to fall onto the surface of the earth prove on examination
to have had an eventful history of their own, of which not the least
important chapter was a passage through a molten state; they would
thus appear to be the products rather than the progenitors of a nebula.

We commence our history, then, with a rapidly rotating molten
planet, not impossibly already solidified about the center and sur-
rounded by an atmosphere of great depth, the larger part of which
was contributed by the water of our present oceans, then existing ina
state of gas. This atmosphere, which exerted a pressure of something
like 5,000 pounds to the square inch, must have played a very impor-
tant part in the evolution of our planet. The molten exterior absorbed
it to an extent which depended on the pressure, and which may some
day be learned from experiment. Under the influence of the rapid rota-
tion of the earth the atmosphere would be much deeper in equatorial
than polar regions, so that in the latter the loss of heat by radiation
would be in excess. This might of itself lead to convectional currents
in the molten ocean. The effect on the atmosphere is very difficult to
trace, but it is obvious that if a high-pressure area originated over
some cooler region of the ocean the winds blowing out of it would
drive before them the cooler superficial layers of molten material, and
as these were replaced by hotter lava streaming from helow the tend-
ency would be to convert the high into a low pressure area and to
reverse the direction of the winds. Conversely under a low-pressure
area the inblowing winds would drive in the cooler superticial layers
of molten matter that had been swept away from the anticyclones.
If the difference in pressure under the cyclonic and anticyclonic areas
were considerable, some of the gas absorbed under the anticyclones
might escape beneath the cyclones, and in a later stage of cooling
might give rise to vast floating islands of scoria. Such islands might
be the first foreshadowings of the future continents. Whatever the
ultimate effect of the reaction of the winds on the currents of the
molten ocean, it is probable that some kind of circulation was set up
in the latter. The universal molten ocean was by no means homo-
geneous. It was constantly undergoing changes in composition as it
reacted chemically with the internal metallic nucleus; its currents
would streak the different portions out in directions which in the
northern hemisphere would run from northeast to southwest, and thus
the differences which distinguish particular petrological regions of our
planet may have commenced their existence at a very early stage. Is
it possible that as our knowledge extends we shall be able by a study
of the distribution of igneous rocks and minerals to draw some con-
clusions as to the direction of these hypothetical lava currents? Our

at
lt er . ae

o-

ee a ee a a eee

eE"_—aS lO ee

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 993

planet was profoundly disturbed by tides produced by the sun, for as
yet there was no moon; and it has been suggested that one of its tidal
waves rose to a height so great as to sever its connection with the
earth and to fly off as the infant moon. This event may be regarded
as marking the first critical period, or catastrophe if we please, in the
history of our planet. The career of our satellite after its escape from
the earth is not known till it attained a distance of nine terrestrial radii;
after this its progress can be clearly followed. At the eventful time
of parturition the earth was rotating, with a period of from two to four
hours, about an axis inclined at some 11° or 12° to the ecliptic. The
time which has elapsed since the moon occupied a position nine terres-
trial radii distant from the earth is at least fifty-six to fifty-seven mil-
lions of years, but may have been much more. Professor Darwin’s
story of the moon is certainly one of the most beautiful contributions
ever made by astronomy to geology, and we shall all concur with him
when he says: ‘* A theory reposing on vere cause, which brings into
quantitative correlation the length of the present day and month, the
obliquity of the ecliptic, and the inclination and eccentricity of the
lunar orbit, must, I think, have strong claims to acceptance.”

The majority of geologists have long hankered after a metallic
nucleus for the earth, composed chiefly, by analogy with meteorites, of
iron. Lord Kelvin has admitted the probable existence of some such
nucleus, and lately Professor Wiechert has furnished us with argu-
ments—*‘ powerful” arguments, Professor Darwin terms them—in
support of its existence. The interior of the earth for four-fifths of
the radius is composed, according to Professor Wiechert, chiefly of
metallic iron, with a density of 8.2; the outer envelope, one-fifth of
the radius, or about 400 miles in thickness, consists of silicates, such
as we are familiar with in igneous rocks and meteorites, and possesses
a density of 3.2. It was from this outer envelope when molten that the
moon was trundled off, 27 miles in depth going to its formation. The
density of this material, as we have just seen, is supposed to be 3.2;
the density of the moon is 3.39, a close approximation, such difference
as exists being completely explicable by the comparatively low tem-
perature of the moon. ;

The outer envelope of the earth which was drawn off to form the
moon was, as we have seen, charged with steam and other gases under
a pressure of 5,000 pounds to the square inch; but as the satellite wan-
dered away from the parent planet this pressure continuously dimin-
ished. Under these circumstances the moon would become as explosive
as a charged bomb, steam would burst forth from numberless volea-
noes, and while the face of the moon might thus have acquired its
existing features, the ejected material might possibly have been shot
so far away from its origin as to have acquired an independent orbit.
If so, we may ask whether it may not be possible that the meteorites,

994 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

which sometimes descend upon our planet, are but portions of its own
envelope returning to it. The facts that the average specific gravity
of those meteorites which have been seen to fall is not much above 3.2,
and that they have passed through a stage of fusion, are consistent
with this suggestion.

SECOND CRITICAL PERIOD, ‘‘ CONSISTENTIOR STATUS.”

The solidification of the earth probably became completed soon after
the birth of the moon. The temperature of its surface at the time of
consolidation was about 1,170° C., and it was therefore still surrounded
by its primitive deep atmosphere of steam and other gases. This was
the second critical period in the history of the earth, the stage of the
‘*consistentior status,” the date of which Lord Kelvin would rather
know than that of the Norman Conquest, though he thinks it lies
between twenty and forty millions of years ago, probably nearer
twenty than forty.

Now that the crust was solid there was less reason why movements
of the atmosphere should be unsteady, and definite regions of high and
low pressure might have been established. Under the high-pressure
areas the surface of the crust would be depressed; correspondingly,
under the low-pressure areas it would be raised; and thus from the
first the surface of the solid earth might be dimpled and embossed.*

THIRD CRITICAL PERIOD—ORIGIN OF THE OCEANS.

The cooling of the earth would continuously progress, till the tem-
perature of the surface fell to 370° C., when that part of the atmos-
phere which consisted of steam would begin to liquefy; then the
dimples on the surface would soon become filled with superheated
water, and the pools so formed would expand and deepen till they
formed the oceans. This is the third critical stage in the history of
the earth, dating, according to Professor Joly, from between eighty
and ninety millions of years ago. With the growth of the oceans the
distinction between land and sea arose—in what precise manner we
may proceed to inquire. If we revert to the period of the ‘‘ consisten-
tior status,” when the earth had just solidified, we shall find, according
to Lord Kelvin, that the temperature continuously increased from the
surface, where it was 1,170° C., down to a depth of 25 miles, where it
was about 1,430° C., or 260° C. above the fusion point of the matter,
forming the crust. That the crust at this depth was not molten but
solid is to be explained by the very great pressure to which it was sub-
jected—just so much pressure, indeed, as was required to counteract

'It would be difficult to discuss with sufficient brevity the probable distribution of
these inequalities, but it may be pointed out that the moon is possibly responsible,
and that in more ways than one, for much of the existing geographical asymmetry.
—_ a ee ee

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 29

a

(ea |

the influence of the additional 260° C. Thus, if we could have reduced
the pressure on the crust we should have caused it to liquefy. By
restoring the pressure it would resolidify. By the time the earth’s
surface had cooled down to 370° C. the depth beneath the surface at
which the pressure just kept the crust solid would have sunk some
slight distance inward, but not sufficiently to affect our argument.
The average pressure of the primitive atmosphere upon the crust
can readily be calculated by supposing the water of the existing oceans
to be uniformly distributed over the earth’s surface, and then by a
simple piece of arithmetic determining its depth. This is found to be
1.718 miles, the average depth of the oceans being taken at 2.393
miles. Thus, the average pressure over the earth’s surface immediately
before the formation of the oceans was equivalent to that of a column
of water 1.718 miles high on each square inch. Supposing that at its
origin the ocean were all ‘‘gathered together into one place” and
**the dry land appeared,” then the pressure over the ocean floor would
be increased from 1.718 miles to 2.393 miles, while that over those
portions of the crust that now formed the land would be diminished
by 1.718 miles. This difference in pressure would tend to exaggerate
those faint depressions which had arisen under the primitive anticy-
clonic areas, and if the just solidified material of the earth’s crust were
set into a state of flow it might move from under the ocean into the
bulgings which were rising to form the land until static equilibrium
were established. Under these circumstances the pressure of the
ocean would be just able to maintain a column of rock 0.886 mile in
height, or ten twenty-sevenths of its own depth. It could do no more.
But in order that the dry land may appear, some cause must be found
competent either to lower the ocean bed the remaining seventeen
twenty-sevenths of its full depth or to raise the continental bulgings
to the same extent. Such a cause may, I think, be discovered in

a further effect of the reduction in pressure over the continental

areas. Previous to the condensation of the ocean these, as we have
seen, were subjected to an atmospheric pressure equal to that of a
column of water 1.718 miles in height. This pressure was contrib-
utory to that which caused the outer 25 miles of the earth’s crust to
become solid. It furnished, indeed, just about one-fortieth of that
pressure, or enough to raise the fusion point 6° C. What, then,
might be expected to happen when the continental area was relieved
of this load? Plainly a liquefaction and corresponding expansion of
the underlying rock. .

But we will not go so far as to assert that actual liquefaction would
result. All we require for our explanation is a great expansion, and

this would probably follow whether the crust were liquefied or not.

For there is good reason to suppose that when matter ata temperature
above its ordinary fusion point is compelled into the solid state by
296 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY

pressure its volume is very responsive to changes, either of pressure
or temperature. The remarkable expansion of liquid carbon dioxide
is a case in point: 120 volumes of this fluid at —20° C. become 150
volumes at 33° C., a temperature just below the critical point. A great
change of volume also occurs when the material of igneous rocks
passes from the crystalline state to that of glass. In the case of dia-
base! the difference in volume of the rock in the two states at ordinary
temperatures is 13 per cent. If the relief of pressure over the site of
continents were accompanied by volume changes at all approaching
this, the additional elevation of seventeen twenty-sevenths required to
raise the land to the sea level would be accounted for.” How far down
beneath the surface the unloading of the continents would be felt it is
difficult to say, though the problem is probably not beyond the reach
of mathematical analysis; if it affected an outer envelope 25 miles in
thickness, a linear expansion of + per cent would suffice to explain the
origin of ocean basins. If now we refer to the dilatation determined
by Carl Barus for rise in temperature in the case of diabase, we find
that between 1,093° and 1,112° C. the increase in volume is 3.3 per
cent. As a further factor in deepening the ocean basins may be
included the compressive effect of the increase in load over the ocean
floor; this increase is equal to the pressure of a column of water 0.675
mile in height, and its effect in raising the fusion ye would be 2°

10, Barus so names os mater at on ae th = SO Se eee the roc ‘k
is a fresh dolerite without olivine.

* Professor Fitzgerald has been kind enough to express part of the preceding
explanation in a more precise manner forme. He writes: ‘‘It would require a very
nice adjustment of temperatures and pressures to work out in the simple way you
state it, but what is really involved is that in a certain state diabase (and everything
that changes state with a considerable change of volume) has an enormous isother-
mal compressibility. Although this is very enormous in the case of bodies which
melt suddenly, like ice, it would also involve very great compressibilities in the case
of bodies even which melted gradually, if they did so at all quickly, i. e., within a
small range of temperature. What you postulate, then, is that at a certain depth
diabase is soft enough to be squeezed from under the oceans, and that, being near
its melting point, the small relief of pressure is accompanied by an enormous increase
in volume which helped to raise the continents. Now that I have written the thing
out in my own way it seems very likely. It is, anyway, a suggestion quite worthy
of serious consideration, and a process that in some places must almost certainly
have been in operation and maybe is still operative. Looking at it again, I hardly
think it is quite likely that there is or could be much squeezing sideways of liquid or
other viscous material from under one place to another, because the elastic yielding
of the inside of the earth would be much quicker than any flow of this kind. This
would only modify your theory, because the diabase that expands so much on the
relief of pressure might be that already under the land and raising up this latter,
partly by being pushed up itself by the elastic relief of the inside of the earth and
partly by its own enormous expansibility near its melting point. The action would
be quite slow, because it would cool itself so much by its expansion that it would
have to be warmed up from below or by tidal earth squeezing or ei chemical action
before it could expand iscthermally.”’
me.

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 297

C., from which we may gain some kind of idea of the amount of com-
pression it might produce on the yielding interior of the crust. To
admit that these views are speculative will be to confess nothing, but
they certainly account for a good deal. They not only give us ocean
basins, but basins of the kind we want; that is, to use a crude com-
parison once made by the late Dr. Carpenter, basins of a tea-tray form.
having a somewhat flat floor and steeply sloping sides; they also help
to explain how it is that the value of gravity is greater over the ocean
than over the land.

The ocean when first formed would consist of highly heated water,
and this, as is well known, is an energetic chemical reagent when
brought into contact with silicates like those which formed the primi-
tive crust. As a result of its action saline solutions and chemical
deposits would be formed; the latter, however, would probably be of
no great thickness, for the time occupied by the ocean in cooling to a
temperature not far removed from the present would probably be
included within a few hundreds of years.

THE STRATIFIED SERIES.

The course of events now hecomes somewhat obscure, but sooner or
later the familiar processes of denudation and the depesition started
into activity, and have continued acting uninterruptedly ever. since.
The total maximum thickness of the sedimentary deposits, so far as I
can discover, appears to amount to no less than 50 miles, made up as
follows:

Feet.
Recent,and Pleistocené.........-.------ A (VPS weed ye oa a Man.
lPieeenve 25 ee ee RCO: See nee ae ee Pithecanthropus.
iheer@einye 2 gece 9,000
Unban ee eae) i 12,000
DOCANG.-4- skee5h. 55 eeeee TEAC Oe a Oe ed eed Eutheria.
CHERRIES 3 eee 14,000
jimmnesie 22°. bo 8,000
TUNIS. eo ERO eesee See eet Mammals.
ReRinigm: . 2 LOI eS cee 3 Se" Reptiles.
(Cite OCTET ROWE aan Ae DATUM roe eee cite Se \ mphibia.
aie ee 29 000... ..-..-2----- 2% Fish.
SHIDO 2 a aka ee ee 15,000
Orslowlebin 3.5. J.) 17,000
Cemaltgim 1.222 2 5 1G 2000 a sess Pee a a5 3: Invertebrata.
INGeeEhaNy ane mtr ie. ole ee 50,000
ESTORG® 4c, 5605. oe ee 14,000
lelnaiBin <2. Je Ss 2 18,000

Geologists, impressed with the tardy pace at which sediments appear
to be accumulating at the present day, could not contemplate this
colossal pile of strata without feeling that it spoke of an almost ineon-
ceivably long lapse of time. They were led to compare its duration
298 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

with the distances which intervene between the heavenly bodies; but
while some chose the distance of the nearest fixed star as their unit,
others were content to measure the years in terms of miles from
the sun.

EVOLUTION OF ORGANISMS.

The stratified rocks were eloquent of time, and not to the geologist
alone; they appealed with equal force to the biologist. Accepting
Darwin’s explanation of the origin of species, the present rate at
which form flows to form seemed so slow as almost to amount to immu-
tability. How vast, then, must have been the period during which by
slow degrees and innumerable stages the protozoon was transformed
into the man! And if we turn to the stratified column, what do we
find? Man, it is true, at the summit, the oldest fossiliferous rocks 34
miles lower down, and the fossils they contain already representing
most of the great classes of the Invertebrata, including Crustacea and
Worms. ‘Thus the evolution of the Vertebrata alone is known to have
occupied a period represented by a thickness of 34 miles of sediment.
How much greater, then, must have been the interval required for the
elaboration of the whole organic world! The human mind, dwelling
on such considerations as these, seems at times to have been affected
by a sur-excitation of the imagination, and a consequent paralysis of
the understanding, which led to a refusal to measure geological time
by years at all, or to reckon by anything less than :

ee

eternities. ”
GEOLOGIC PERIODS OF TIME.

After the admirable address of your president last year it might be
thought needless for me to again enter intoa consideration of this sub-
ject; it has been said, however, that the question of geological time is
like the Djinn in Arabian tales, and will irrepressibly come up again for
discussion, however often it is disposed of. For my part, I do not
regard the question so despondingly, but rather hope that by perse-
vering effort we may succeed in discovering the talisman by which we
may compel the unwilling Djinn into our service. How immeasur-
able would be the advance of our science could we but bring the chief —
events which it records into some relation with a standard of time!

Before proceeding to the discussion of estimates of time drawn
from a study of stratified rocks let us first consider those which have
been already suggested by other data. These are as follows: (1) Time
which has elapsed since the separation of the earth and moon, fifty-six
millions of years, minimum estimate by Prof. G. H. Darwin. (2) Since
the ‘‘consistentior status,” twenty to forty millions (Lord Kelvin).
(3) Since the condensation of the oceans, eighty to ninety millions,
maximum estimate by Prof. J. Joly.

It may be at once observed that these estimates, although independ-
ent, are all of the same order of magnitude and so far confirmatory of |
EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 299

aitle

each other. Nor are they opposed to conclusions drawn from a study
of stratified rocks; thus Sir Archibald Geikie, in his address to this
section last year, affirmed that, so far as these were concerned, one
hundred millions of years might suffice for their formation. There is.
then, very little to quarrel about, and our task is reduced to an attempt,
by a little stretching and a little paring, to bring these various estimates
into closer Inn oe

Professor Darwin’s estimate is admittedly a minimum; the actual
time, as he himself expressly states, ‘‘ may have been much longer.”
Lord Kelvin’s estimate, which he would make nearer twenty than forty
aia is founded on the assumption that since the period of the

*consistentior status” the earth has cooled simply as a solid body, the
transference of heat from within outwards having been accomplished
solely by conduction.!

It may be at once admitted that there is a large amount of truth in
this assumption; there can be no possible doubt that the earth reacts
toward forces applied for a short time as a solid body. Under the
influence of the tides it behaves as though it possessed a rigidity
approaching that of steel, and under sudden blows, such as those which
give rise to earthquakes, with twice this rigidity, as Professor Milne
informs me. Astronomical considerations lead to the conclusion that
its effective rigidity has not varied greatly for a long period of past
time.

Still, while fully recognizing these facts, the geologist knows—we
all know—that the crust of the earth is not altogether solid. The
existence of voleanoes by itself suggests the contrary, and although the
total amount of fluid material which is brought from the interior to
the exterior of the earth by volcanic action may be, and certainly is,
small—from data given by Professor Penck I estimate it as equivalent
to a layer of rock uniformly distributed 2 mm. thick per century—yet
we have every reason to believe that volcanoes are but the superficial
manifestation of far greater bodies of molten material which lie con-
cealed beneath the ground. Even the wide areas of plutonic rock,
which are sometimes exposed to view over a country that has suffered
long-continued denudation, are merely the upper portion of more exten-
sive masses which lie remote from view. The existence of molten
material within the earth’s crust naturally awakens a suspicion that the
process of cooling has not been wholly by conduction, but also to some
slight extent by convection, and to a still greater extent by the bodily
migration of liquid lava from the deeper layers of the crust toward the
surface.

The existence of local reservoirs of molten rock within the crust is
still more important in another connection—that is, in relation with the

'The heat thus brought to the surface would amount to one- -seventeenth of that
conveyed by conduction.
300 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

supposed ‘‘average rate of increase of temperature with descent below
the ground.” It is doubtful whether we have yet discovered a rate
that in any useful sense can be spoken of as ‘‘average.” The widely
divergent views of different authorities as to the presumed value of
this rate may well lead to reflection. The late Professor Prestwich
thought a rise of 1° F. for every 45 feet of descent below the zone of
constant temperature best represented the average; Lord Kelvin in his
sarlier estimates has adopted a value of 1° F. for every 51 feet; the
committee of this association appointed to investigate this question
arrived at a rate of 1° F. for every 60 feet of descent; Mr. Clarence
King has made calculations in which a rate of 1° F. for 72 feet is
adopted; a reinvestigation of recorded measurements would, I believe,
lead to a rate of 1° F. in 80 or 90 feet as more closely approaching the
mean. This would raise Lord Kelvin’s estimate to nearly fifty millions
of years.

When from these various averages we turn to the observations on
which they are based, we encounter a surprising divergence of
extremes from the mean. Thus in the British Isles alone the rate varies
from 1° F. in 34 feet to 1° F. in 92 feet, or in one case to 1° K. in 130
feet. It has been suggested, and to some extent shown, that these
irregularities may be connected with differences in conductivity of the
rocks in which the observations were made, or to the circulation of
underground water; but many cases exist which can not be explained
away in such a manner, but are suggestive of some deep-seated cause,
such as the distribution of molten matter below the ground. — Inspec-
tion of the accompanying map of the British Isles, on which the rates
of increase in different localities have been plotted, will afford some
evidence of the truth of this view. Comparatively low rates of
increase are found over Wales and in the province of Leinster, dis-
-tricts of relatively great stability, the remnants of an island that have
in all probability stood above the sea ever since the close of the Silu-
rian period. To the north of this, as we enter a region which was
subject to voleanic disturbances during the Tertiary period, the rate
increases.

It is obvious that in any attempt to estimate the rate at which the
earth is cooling as a solid body the disturbing influence of subterra-
nean lakes of molten rock must as far as possible be eliminated; but
this will not be effected by taking the accepted mean of observed rates
of increase of temperature. Such an average is merely a compromise,
and a nearer approach to a correct result will possibly be attained by
selecting some low rate of increase, provided it be based on accurate
observations.

It is extremely doubtful whether an area such as the British Isles,
which has so frequently been the theater of volcanic activity and other
subterranean disturbance, is the best fitted to afford trustworthy re-
sa ade 5

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 30]

sults. The Archean nucleus of a continent might be expected to afford
surer indications. Unfortunately, the hidden treasures of the earth
are seldom buried in these regions, and bore holes in consequence haye
rarely been made in them. One exception is afforded by the copper-
bearing district of Lake Superior, and in one case, that of the Calumet
and Hecla mine, which is 4,580 feet in depth, the rate of increase, as
determined by Prof. A. Agassiz, was 1° F. for every 293.7 feet. The
Bohemian * horst” is a somewhat ancient part of Europe, and in the
Przibram mines, which are sunk in it, the rate was 1° F. for every
126 feet of descent. In the light of these facts it would seem that
geologists are by no means compelled to accept the supposed mean
rate of increase of temperature with descent into the crust as affording
asafe guide to the rate of cooling of a solid globe; and if the much
slower rate of increase observed in the more ancient and more stable
regions of the earth has the importance which is suggested for it, then
Lord Kelvin’s estimate of the date of the ‘‘consistentior status” may
be pushed backward into a remoter past.

If, as we have reason to hope, Lord Kelvin’s somewhat contracted
period will yield to a little stretching, Professor Joly’s, on the other
hand, may take some paring. His argument, broadly stated, is as fol-
lows: The ocean consisted at first of fresh water; it is now salt, and
its saltness is due to the dissolved matter that is constantly being car-
ried into it by rivers. If, then, we know the quantity of salt which
the rivers bring down each year into the sea, it is easy to calculate how
many years they have taken to supply the sea with all the salt it at
present contains. For several reasons it is found necessary to restrict
attention to one only of the elements contained in sea salt. This is
sodium. The quantity of sodium delivered to the sea every year by
rivers is about 160,000,000 tons; but the quantity of sodium which
the sea contains is at least ninety millions of times greater than this.
The period during which rivers have been carrying sodium into the
sea must therefore be about ninety millions of years. Nothing could
be simpler; there is no serious flaw in the method, and Professor
Joly’s treatment of the subject is admirable in every way. But of
course in calculations such as this everything depends on the accuracy
of the data, which we may therefore proceed to discuss. Professor
Joly’s estimate of the amount of sodium in the ocean may be accepted
as sufficiently near the truth for all practical purposes. We may
therefore pass on to the other factor, the annual contribution of sodium
by river water. Here there is more room for error. ‘Two quantities
must be ascertained—one the quantity of water which the rivers of the
world carry into the sea, the other the quantity or proportion of
sodium present in this water. The total volume of water discharged
by rivers into the ocean is estimated by Sir John Murray as 6,524
cubic miles. The estimate being based on observations of 33 great
302 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

rivers, although only approximate, it is no doubt sufficiently exact;
at all events such alterations as it is likely to undergo will not
greatly affect the final result. When, however, we pass to the last
quantity to be determined, the chemical composition of average river
water, we find that only a very rough estimate is possible, and this is
the more unfortunate because changes in this may very materially
affect our conclusions. The total quantity of river water discharged
into the sea is, as we have stated, 6,524 cubic miles. The average
composition of this water is deduced from analyses of 19 great rivers,
which altogether discharge only 488 cubic miles, or 7.25 per cent
of the whole. The danger in using this estimate is twofold; in the
first place, 7.25 is too small a fraction from which to argue to the
remaining 92.75 per cent, and, next, the rivers which furnish it are
selected rivers, i. e., they are all of large size. The effect of this is
that the drainage of the volcanic regions of the earth is not sufficiently
represented, and it is precisely this drainage which is richest in sodium
salts. The lavas and ashes of active volcanoes rapidly disintegrate un-
der the energetic action of various acid gases, and among volcanic
exhalations sodium chloride has been especially noticed as abundant.
Consequently, we find that while the proportion of sodium in Professor
Joly’s average river water is only 5.73 per million, in the rivers of the
voleanic island of Hawaii it rises to 24.5 per million (Walter Maxwell,
Lavas and Soils of the Hawaiian Islands, p. 170). No doubt the
area occupied by volcanoes is trifling compared with the remaining
land surface. On the other hand, the majority of volcanoes are situa-
ted in regions of copious rainfall, of which they receive a full share,
owing to their mountainous form. Much of the fallen rain percolates
through the porous material of the cone, and, richly charged with alka-
lies, finds its way by underground passages toward the sea, into which
it sometimes discharges by submarine springs.

Again, several considerations lead to the belief that the supply of
sodium to the ocean has proceeded, not at a uniform, but at a grad-
ually diminishing rate. The rate of increase of temperature with
descent into the crust has continuously diminished with the flow of time,
and this must have had its influence on the temperature of springs,
which furnish an important contribution to river water. The signifi-
cance of this consideration may be judged from the composition of the
water of geysers. Thus Geyser, in Iceland, contains 884 parts of
sodium per million, or nearly one hundred and sixty times as much as
Sir John Murray estimates is present in average river water. A mean
of the analyses of six geysers in different parts of the world gives 400
parts of sodium per million, existing partly as chloride, but also as
sulphate and carbonate. |

It should not be overlooked that the present is a calm and quiet
epoch in the earth’s history, following after a time of fiery activity.
EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 303

More than once, indeed, has the past been distinguished by unusual
manifestations of volcanic energy, and these must have had sone effect
upon the supply of sodium to the ocean. Finally, although the exist-
ing ocean water has apparently but slight effect in corroding the rocks
which form its bed, yet it certainly was not inert when its temperature
was not far removed from the critical point. Water begins to exert
a powerful destructive action on silicates at a temperature of 180° C.,
and during the interval occupied in cooling from 370° to 180° GC. a
considerable quantity of sodium may have entered into solution.

A review of the facts before us seems to render some reduction in
Professor Joly’s estimate imperative. A precise assessment is impos-
sible, but I should be inclined myself to take off some ten or thirty
millions of years.

We may next take the evidence of the stratified rocks. Their total
maximum thickness is, as we have seen, 265,000 feet, and consequently
if they accumulated at the rate of 1 foot in a century, as evidence
seems to suggest, more than twenty-six millions of years must have
elapsed during their formation.

OBSCURE CHAPTER IN THE EARTH’S HISTORY.

Before discussing the validity of the argument on which this last
result depends, let us consider how far it harmonizes with previdus
ones. It is consistent with Lord Kelvin’s and Professor Darwin’s, but
how does it accord with Professor Joly’s? Supposing we reduce his
estimate to fifty-five millions; what was the earth doing during the
interval between the period of fifty-five millions of years ago and that
of only twenty-six and one-half millions of years ago, when, it is pre-
sumed, sedimentary rocks commenced to be formed? Hitherto we
have been able to reason on probabilities; now we enter the dreary
region of possibilities, and open that obscure chapter in the history of
the earth previously hinted at. For there are many possible answers
to this question. In the first place the evidence of the stratified rocks
may have been wrongly interpreted, and two or three times the amount
of time we have demanded may have been consumed in their forma-
tion. This is a very obvious possibility, yet again our estimate con-
cerning these rocks may be correct, but we may have erroneously
omitted to take into account certain portions of the Archean com-
plex, which may represent primitive sedimentary rocks, formed under
exceptional conditions, and subsequently transformed under the influ-
ence of the internal heat of the earth. This, I think, would be Pro-
fessor Bonney’s view. Finally Lord Kelvin has argued that the life
of the sun as a luminous star is even more briefly limited than that of
our oceans. In such a case if our oceans were formed fifty-five millions
of years ago it is possible that after a short existence as almost boil-
ing water they grew colder and colder till they became covered with

SM 1900. 22,

304 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

thick ice and moved only in obedience to the tides. The earth, frozen
and dark except for the red glow of her volcanoes, waited the coming
of the sun, and it was not till his growing splendor had banished the
jong night that the cheerful sound of running waters was heard again
in our midst. Then the work of denudation and deposition seriously
recommenced, not to cease till the life of the sun is spent. Thus the
thickness of the stratified series may be a measure rather of the dura-
tion of sunlight than of the period which has elapsed since the first
formation of the ocean. It may have been so—we can not tell—but
it may be fairly urged that we know less of the origin, history, and
constitution of the sun than of the earth itself, and that, for aught we
can say to the contrary, the sun may have been shining on the just-
formed ocean as cheerfully as he shines to-day.

TIME REQUIRED FOR THE EVOLUTION OF THE LIVING WORLD.

But, it will be asked, how far does a period of twenty-six millions
satisfy the demands of biology? Speaking only for myself, although
IT am aware that eminent biologists are not wanting who share this
opinion, I answer, amply. But it will be exclaimed, surely there are
**c¢omparisons in things.” Look at Egypt, where more than four
thousand years since the same species of man and animals lived and
flourished as to-day. Examine the frescoes and study the living pro-
cession of familiar forms they so faithfully portray, and then tell us,
how comes it about that from changes so slow as to be inappreciable
in the lapse of forty centuries you propose to build up the whole
organic world in the course of a mere twenty-six millions of years?
To all which we might reply that even changeless Egypt presents us
with at least one change—the features of the ruling race are to-day
not quite the same as those of the Pharaohs. But putting this on one
side, the admitted constancy in some few common forms proves very
little, for so long as the environment remains the same natural selec-
tion will conserve the type, and, so far as we are able to judge, con-
ditions in Egypt have remained remarkably constant for along period.

Change the conditions, and the resulting modification of the species
becomes manifest enough; and in this connection it is only necessary to
recall the remarkable mutations observed and recorded by Professor
Weldon in the case of the crabs in Plymouth Harbor. In response to
increasing turbidity of the sea water these crabs have undergone or are
undergoing a change in the relative dimensions of the carapace, which
is persistent, in one direction, and rapid enough to be determined by
measurements made at intervals of a few years.

Again animals do not all change their characters at the same rate;
some are stable, in spite of changing conditions, and these have
been cited to prove that none of the periods we look upon as probable,
not twenty-five, not a hundred millions of years, scarce any period
EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 305

short of eternity, is sufficient to account for the evolution of the living
world. If the little tongue-shell, Zéngula, has endured with next to
no perceptible change from the Cambrian down to the present day,
how long, it is sometimes inquired, would it require for the evolution
of the rest of the animal kingdom? The reply is simple. The cases
are dissimilar, and the same record which assures us of the persistency
of the Lingula tells us in language equally emphatic of the course of
evolution which has led from the lower organisms upward to man.
In recent and Pleistocene deposits the relics of man are plentiful. In
the latest Pliocene they have disappeared, and we encounter the
remarkable form Pithecanthropus. As we descend into the Tertiary
systems the higher mammals are met with, always sinking lower and
lower in the scale of organization as they occur deeper in the series,
till in the Mesozoic deposits they have entirely disappeared, and their
place is taken by the lower mammals, a feeble folk, offering little
promise of the future they were to inherit. Still lower, and even
these are gone; and in the Permian we encounter reptiles and the
ancestors of reptiles, probably ancestors of mammals, too; then into
the Carboniferous, where we find amphibians, but no true reptiles;
and next into the Devonian, where fish predominate, after making
their earliest appearance at the close of the Silurian times; thence
downward, and the vertebrata are no more found—we trace the evolu-
tion of the invertebrata alone. Thus the orderly procession of organic
forms follows in precisely the true phylogenetic sequence; inverte-
brata first, then vertebrates, at first fish. then amphibia, next reptiles,
soon after mammals, of the lowlier kinds first, of the higher later, and
these in increasing complexity of structure till we finally arrive at
man himself. While the living world was thus unfolding into new
and nobler forms, the immutable Zéngula simply perpetuated its kind.
To select it or other species equally sluggish, as the sole measure of
the rate of biologic change would seem as strange a proceeding as to
confound the swiftness of a river with the stagnation of the pools that
lie beside its banks. It is occasionally objected that the story we have
drawn-from the paleontological record is mere myth or is founded
only on negative evidence. Cavils of this kind prove a double misap-
prehension, partly as to the facts, partly as to the value of negative
evidence, which may be as good in its way as any other kind
evidence.

Geologists are not unaware of the pitfalls which beset neg: ative evi-
dence, and they do not conclude from the absence of fossils in the
rocks which underlie the Cambrian that pre-Cambrian periods were
devoid of life; on the contrary, they are fully pe1 rsuaded that the seas
of those times were teeming with a rich variety of inverte »brate forms.
How is it that, with the exception of some few species found 1 in beds
306 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

immediately underlying the Cambrian, these have left behind no ves-
tige of their existence? The explanation does not lie in the nature of
the sediments, which are not unfitted for the preservation of fossils,
nor in the composition of the then existing sea water, which may have
contained quite as much calcium carbonate as occurs in our present
oceans; and the only plausible supposition would appear to be that
the organisms of that time had not passed beyond the stage now rep-
resented by the larvee of existing invertebrata, and consequently were
either unprovided with skeletons, or at all events with skeletons dura-
ble enough for preservation. If so, the history of the earlier stages
of the evolution of the invertebrata will receive no light from
paleontology; and no direct answer can be expected to the question
whether, eighteen or nineteen millions of years being taken as sufli-
cient for the evolution of the vertebrata, the remaining available eight
millions would provide for that of the invertebrate classes which are
represented in the lowest Cambrian deposits. On a priori grounds
there would appear to be no reason why it should not. If two mil-
lions of years afforded time enough for the conversion of fish into
amphibians, a similar period should suffice for the evolution of trilo-
bites from annelids, or of annelids from trochospheres. The step
from gastrulas to trochospheres might be accomplished in another two
millions, and two millions more would take us from gastrulas through
morulas to protozoa.

As things stand, biologists can have nothing to say either for or
against such a conclusion; they are not at present in a position to
offer independent evidence; nor can they hope to be so until they have
vastly extended those promising investigations which they are only
now beginning to make into the rate of the variation of species.

UNEXPECTED ABSENCE OF THERMAL METAMORPHOSIS IN ANCIENT ROCKS.

Two difficulties now remain for discussion—one based on theories of
mountain chains, the other on the unaltered state of some ancient
sediments. The latter may be taken first. Professor van Hise writes
as follows regarding the pre-Cambrian rocks of the Lake Superior
district: ‘‘The Penokee series furnishes an instructive lesson as to the
depth to which rocks may be buried and yet remain but slightly
affected by metamorphosis. The series itself is 14,000 feet thick. — It
was covered before being upturned with a great thickness of Keweenaw
rock. This series at the Montreal River is estimated to be 50,000 feet
thick. Adding to this the known thickness of the Penokee series, we
have a thickness of 64,000. feet. * * * The Penokee rocks were
then buried to a great depth, the exact amount. depending upon their
horizon and upon the stage in Keweenaw time, where the tilting and
erosion, which brought them to the surface, commenced.

**That the synclinal trough of Lake Superior began to form before
the end of the Keweenaw period, and consequently that the Penokee
i

Oe Ce Ll 4

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 307

rocks were not buried under the full succession is more than probable.
However, they must have been buried to a great depth—at least sev-
eral miles—and thus subjected to high pressure and temperature, not-
withstanding which they are comparatively unaltered.” !

I select this example because it is one of the best instances of a diffi-
culty that occurs more than once in considering the history of sedi-
mentary rocks. On the supposition that the rate of increment of tem-
perature with descent is 1° F. for every 84 feet, or 1° C. for every 150
feet, and that it was no greater during these early Penokee times, then
at a depth of 50,000 feet the Penokee rocks would attain a tempera-
ture of nearly 333° C., and since water begins to exert powerful chem-
ical action at 180° C. they should, on the theory of a solid cooling
globe, have suffered a metamorphosis sufticient to obscure their resem-
blance to sedimentary rocks. Hither, then, the accepted rate of down-
ward increase of temperature is erroneous or the Penokee rocks were
never depressed in the place where they are exposed to observation to
a depth of 50,000 feet. Let us consider each alternative, and in the
first place let us apply the rate of temperature increment determined
by Professor Agassiz in this very Lake Superior district... It is 1° C.
for every 402 feet, and twenty-five millions of years ago, or about the
time when we may suppose the Penokee rocks were being formed, it
would be 1° C. for every 305.5 feet, with a resulting temperature ata
depth of 50,000 feet of 163° C. only. Thus the admission of a very
low rate of temperature increment would meet the difficulty; but, on
the other hand, it would involve a period of several hundreds of mil-
lions of years for the age of the ‘‘consistentior status,” and thus
ereatly exceed Professor Joly’s maximum estimate of the age of oceans.
We may therefore turn to the second alternative. As regards this it
is by no means certain that the exposed portion of the Penokee series
ever was depressed 50,000 feet. The beds lie in a synclinal, the base
of which indeed may have sunk to this extent, and entered a region of
metamorphosis; but the only part of the system that lies exposed to
view is the upturned margin of the synclinal, and as to this it would
seem impossible to make any positive assertion as to the depth to which
it may or may not have been depressed. To keep an open mind on the
question seems our only course for the present, but difficulties like
this offer a promising field for investigation.

THE FORMATION OF MOUNTAIN RANGES.

It is frequently alleged that mountain chains can not be explained
on the hypothesis of a solid earth cooling under the conditions and for
the period we have supposed. This is a question well worthy of con-
sideration, and we may first endeavor to picture to ourselves the con-
ditions under which mountain chains arise. ‘The floor of the ocean lies

1Tenth Annual Report U. 8. Geological Survey, 1888-89, p. 457.
308 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

at an average depth of 2,000 fathoms below the land, and is main-
tained at a constant temperature, closely approaching 0° C., by the
passage over it of cold water creeping from the polar regions. The
average temperature of the surface of the land is above zero, but we
can afford to disregard the difference in temperature between it and the
ocean floor and may take them both at zero. Consider next the increase
of temperature with descent, which occurs beneath the continents. At
a depth of 13,000 feet, or at same depth as the ocean floor, a tempera-
ture of 87° C. will be reached on the supposition that the rate of increase
is 1° C. for 150 feet, while with the usually accepted rate of 1° C. for
108 feet it would be 120° C. But at this depth the ocean floor, which:
is on the same spherical surface, is at O° C. Thus surfaces of equal
temperature within the earth’s crust will not be spherical, but will rise
or fall beneath an imaginary spherical or spheroidal surface according
as they occur beneath the continents or the oceans. No doubt at some
depth within the earth the departure of isothermal surfaces from a
spheroidal form will disappear; but considering the great breadth both
of continents and oceans this depth must be considerable, possibly even
40 or 50 miles. Thus the subcontinental excess of temperature may
make itself felt in regions where the rocks still retain a high tempera-
ture, and are probably not far removed from the critical fusion point.
The effect will be to render the continents mobile as regards the ocean
floor, or, vice versa, the ocean floor will be stable compared with the
continental masses. Next it may be observed that the continents pass
into the bed of the ocean by a somewhat rapid flexure, and that it is
over this area of flexure that the sediments denuded from the land are
deposited. Under its load of sediment the sea floor sinks down, sub-
siding slowly, at about the same rate as the thickness of sediment
increases; and, whether as a consequence or a cause or both, the flex-
ure marking the boundary of land and sea becomes more pronounced.
A compensating movement occurs within the earth’s crust, and solid
material may flow from under the subsiding area in the direction
of least resistance, possibly toward the land. At length when some
30,000 or 40,000 feet of sediment -have accumulated in a basin-like
form, or, according to our reckoning, after the lapse of three or four
millions of years, the downward movement ceases, and the mass of
sediment is subjected to powerful lateral compression, which, bringing
its borders into closer proximity by some 10 or 30 miles, causes it to
rise in great folds high into the air as a mountain chain.

It is this last phase in the history of mountain making which has
given geologists more cause for painful thought than probably any
other branch of their subject, not excluding even the age of the earth.
Tt was at first imagined that during the flow of time the interior of
the earth lost so much heat, and suffered so much contraction in con-
sequence, that the exterior, in adapting itself to the shrunken body,
was compelled to fit it like a wrinkled garment. ‘This theory, indeed,
EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. 309

enjoyed a happy existence till it fell into the hands of mathematicians,
when it fared very badly, and now lies in a pitiable condition nee-
lected of its friends.!
For it seemed proved to demonstration that the contraction conse-
quent on cooling was wholly, even ridiculously, inadequate to explain
the wrinkling. But when we summon up courage to inquire into the
data on which the mathematical arguments are based, we find that they
include several assumptions the truth of which is by no means sclf-
evident. Thus it has been assumed that the rate at which the fusion
point rises with increased pressure is constant and follows the same
law as is deduced from experiments made under such pressures as we
can command in cur laboratories down to the very center of the earth,
where the pressures are of an altogether different order of mag ni-
tude; so with a still more important coefficient, that of expansion,
our knowledge of this quantity is founded on the behavior of rocks
heated under ordinary atmospheric pressure, and it is assumed that the
same coefficient as is thus obtained may be safely applied to material
which is kept solid, possibly near the critical point, under the tremen-
dous pressure of the depths of the crust. To this last assumption we
owe the terrible bogies that have been conjured out of ‘‘the level of
no strain.” The depth of this as calculated by the Rey. O. Fisher is
so trifling that it would be passed through by all very deep mines.
Mr. C. Davison, however, has shown that it will lie considerably
deeper, if the known increase of the coeflicient of expansion with rise
of temperature be taken into account. It is possible, it is even likely,
that the coefficient of expansion becomes vastly greeter when regions
are entered where the rocks are compelled into the solid state by pres-
sure. So little do we actually know of the behavior of rock under
these conditions that the geologist would seem to be left very much to
his own devices; but it would seem there is one temptation he must
resist—he may not take refuge in the hypothesis of a liquid interior.
We shall boldly assume that the contraction at some unknown depth
in the interior of the earth is sufficient to afford the explanation we
seek. The course of events may then proceed as follows: The con-
traction of the interior of the earth consequent on its loss of heat
causes the crust to fall upon it in folds, which rise over the continents
and sink under the oceans, and the flexure of the area of sedimentation
is partly a consequence of this folding, partly of overloading. By
the time a depression of some 30,000 or 40,000 feet has occurred along
the ocean border the relation between continents and oceans has become
unstable, and readjustment takes place, probably by a giving way of
the continents, and chiefly along the zone of greatest weakness, i. e.,
the area of sedimentation, which thus becomes the zone of mountain

1 With some exceptions, notably Mr. C. Davison, a consistent supporter of the
theory of contraction.
310 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

building. It may be observed that at great depths readjustment will
be produced by a slow flowing of solid rock, and it is only compara-
tively near the surface, 5 or 10 miles at the most below, that failure of
support can lead to sudden fracture and collapse; hence the compara-
tively superficial origin of earthquakes.

Givenasufliciently large coefticient of expansion—and there is much
to suggest its existence (vide, p. 296)—and all the phenomena of moun-
tain ranges become explicable; they begin to present an appearance
that invites mathematical treatment; they inspire us with the hope that
from a knowledge of the height and dimensions of a continent and its
relations to the bordering ocean we may be able to predict when and
where a mountain chain should arise, and the theory which explains
them promises to guide us to an interpretation of those world-wide
unconformities which Suess can only account for by a transgression of
the sea. Finally it relieves us of the difficulty presented by mountain
formation in regard to the estimated duration of geological time.

INFLUENCE OF VARIATIONS IN THE ECCENTRICITY OF THE EARTH’S
ORBIT.

This may perhaps be the place to notice a highly interesting specu-
lation which we owe to Professor Blytt, who has attempted to estab-
lish a connection between periods of readjustment of the earth’s crust
and variations in the eccentricity of the earth’s orbit. Without enter-
ing into any discussion of Professor Blytt’s methods, we may offer a
comparison of his results with those that follow from our rough esti-
mate of 1 foot of sediment accumulated in a century.

Table showing the time that has elapsed since the beginning of the systems in the fi. st column,
as reckoned from thickness of sediment in the second column, and by Professor Blytt in
the third.

Period. Years. Years.
MOCeNeires- 2. mee as 4s ce sce kone 4, 200, 000 3, 250, 000
OMOOCENE S242 sere weiss 3, 060, 000 1, 810, 000
Mirowene Yad ent 1,800,000 | 1,160, 000
Pliocenes 24 8 cee es: ee 900, 000 | 700, 00C
Pleistocen@s..4<2s2s25-5-eee | 400, 000 | 390, 000

It is now time to return to the task, too long postponed, of discuss-
ing the data from which we have been led to conclude that a probable
rate at which sediments have accumulated in places where they attain
their maximum thickness is 1 foot per century.

RATE OF DFPOSITION OF SEDIMENT.

We owe to Sir Archibald Geikie a most instructive method of esti-
mating the existing rate at which our continents and islands are being
~

EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. out

washed into the sea by the action of rain and rivers. By this we find
that the present land surface is being reduced in height to the extent.
on an average, of one twenty- four himnleedt foot yearly (according to
Professor Penck, one thirty-six. hundredth foot). If the material
removed from the land were uniformly distributed over an area equal
to that from which it had been derived, it would form a layer of rock
one twenty-four hundredth foot thick yearly, i. e., the rates of denu-
dation and deposition would be identical. But the two areas, that of
denudation and that of deposition, are seldom or never equal, the latter
asa rule being much the smaller. Thus the area of that part of North
America which drains into the Gulf of Mexico measures 1,800,000
square miles, the area over which its sediments are deposited is, so far
as I can gather from Professor Agassiz’s statements, less than 180,000
square miles, while Mr. McGee estimates it at only 100,000 square
miles. Using the largest number, the area of deposition is found to
measure one-tenth the area of denudation; the average rate of deposi-
tion will therefore be ten times as great as the rate of denudation, or
one two hundred and fortieth foot may be supposed to be uniformly
distributed over the area of sedimentation in the course ofa year. But
the thickness by which we have measured the strata of our geological
systems is not an average but maximum thickness; we have therefore
to obtain an estimate of the maximum rate of deposition. Ifweassume
the deposited sediments to be arranged somewhat after the fashion of
a wedge, with the thin end seaward, then twice the average would give
us the maximum rate of deposition; this would be 1 foot in one hundred
and twenty years. But the sheets of deposited sediment are not merely
thicker toward the land, thinner toward the sea, they also increase in
thickness toward the rivers in which they have their source, so that a
very obtuse-angled cone, or, better, the down-turned bowl of a spoon,
would more nearly represent their form. This form tends to disap-
pear under the action of waves and currents, but a limit is set to this
disturbing influence by the subsidence which marks the region opposite
the mouth of a large river. By this the strata are gradually let down-
ward, so that they come to assume the form of the bowl of a spoon
turned upward. Thus a further correction is necessary if we are to
arrive at a fair estimate of the maximum rate of deposition. Consid-
ering the very rapid rate at which our ancient systems diminish in
thickness when traced in all directions from the localities where they
attain their maximum, it would appear that this correction must be a
large one. If we reduce our already corrected estimate by one-fifth,
we arrive at a rate of 1 foot of sediment deposited in a century.

No doubt this value is often exceeded. Thus in the case of the Missis-
sippi River the bar of the Southwest Pass advanced between the years
1838 and 1874 a distance of over 2 miles, covering an area 2.2 miles in
width with a deposit of sediment 80 feet in thickness; outside the bar,
3 be] EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

where the sea is 250 feet in depth, sediment accumulates, according to
Messrs. Humphreys and Abbot, ata rate of 2 feet yearly. It is quite
possible, indeed it is very likely, that some of our ancient strata have
been formed with corresponding rapidity. No gravel or coarse sand
is deposited over the Mississippi delta. Such material is not carried
farther seaward than New Orleans. Thus the vast sheets of conglom-
erate and sandstone which contribute so largely to some of our ancient
systems, such as the Cambrian, Old Red Sandstone, Millstone Grit,
and Coal Measures, must have accumulated under very different con-
ditions, conditions for which it is not easy to find a parallel; but in
any case these deposits afford evidence of very rapid accumulation.

These considerations will not tempt us, however, to modify our
estimate of 1 foot in a century; for though in some cases this rate
may have been exceeded, in others it may not have been nearly
attained.

Closely connected with the rate of deposition is that of the changing
level of land and sea; in some cases, as in the Wealden delta, subsid-
ence and deposition appear to have proceeded with equal steps, so that
we might regard them as transposable terms.. It would, therefore,
prove of great assistance if we could determine the average rate at
which movements of the ground are proceeding; it might naturally be
expected that the accurate records -kept by tidal gauges in various
parts of the world would-afford us some information on this subject;
and no doubt they would, were it not for the singular misbehavior of
the sea, which does not maintain a constant level, its fluctuations being
due, according to Professor Darwin, to the irregular melting of ice in
the polar regions. Of more immediate application are the results of
Herr L. Holmstrém’s observations in Scandinavia, which prove an
average rise of the peninsula at the rate of 3 feet in a century to be
still in progress; and Mr. G. K. Gilbert’s measurements in the Great
Lake district of North America, which indicate a tilting of the conti-
nent at the rate of 3 inches per 100 miles per century. But while
measurements like these may furnish us with some notion of the sort
of speed of these changes, they are not sufficient even to suggest an
average; for this we must be content to wait till sufficient tidal obser-
vations have accumulated, and the disturbing effect of the inconstancy
of the sea level is eliminated.

It may be objected that in framing our estimate we have taken into
account mechanical sediments only, and ignored others of equal impor-
tance, such as limestone and coal. With regard to limestone, its thick-
ness in regions where systems attain their maximum may be taken as
negligible; nor is the formation of limestone necessarily a slow process.
The successful experiments of Dr. Allan, cited by Darwin, prove that
reef-building corals may grow at the astonishing rate of 6 feet in height
per annum.
EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY. ake

In respect of coal there is much to suggest that its erowth was rapid.
The Carboniferous period well deserves its name, for never before,
never since, have carbonaceous deposits accumulated to such a remark-
able thickness or over such wide areas of the earth’s surface. The
explanation is doubtless partly to be found in favorable climatal con-
ditions, but also, I think, in the youthful energy of a new and over-
mastering type of vegetation, which then for the first time acquired
the dominion of the land. If we turn to our modern peat bogs, the
only carbonaceous growths available for comparison, we find from data
given by Sir A. Geikie that a fairly average rate of increase is 6 feet
in a century, which might perhaps correspond to 1 foot of coal in the
same period.

The rate of deposition has been taken as uniform through the whole
period of time recorded by stratified rocks; but lest it should be sup-
posed that this involves a tacit admission of uniformity, I hasten to
explain that in this matter we have no choice. We may feel convinced
that the rate has varied from time to time, but in what direction or to
what extent it is impossible to conjecture. That the sun was once much
hotter is probable, but equally so that at an earlier period it was much
colder; and even if in its youth all the activities of our planet were
enhanced this fact might not affect the maximum thickness of deposits.
An increase in the radiation of the sun, while it would stimulate all the
powers of subaerial denudation, would also produce stronger winds and
marine currents. Stronger currents would also result from the greater
magnitude and frequency of the tides, and thus while larger quantities
of sediment might be delivered into the sea they would be distributed
over wider areas, and the difference between the maximum and average
thickness of deposits would consequently be diminished. Indications
of such a wider distribution may perhaps be recognized in the Paleozoic
systems. Thus we are compelled to treat our rate of deposition as
uniform, notwithstanding the serious error this may involve.

The reasonableness of our estimate will perhaps best appear from a
few applications. Fig. 2 is a chart, based on a map by De Lapparent,
representing the distribution of land and sea over the European area
during the Cambrian period. The strata of this system attain their
maximum thickness of 12,000 feet in Merionethshire, Wales. They
rapidly thin out northward, and are absent in Anglesey; scarcely less
rapidly toward Shropshire, where they are 3,000 feet thick; still Ss
little less rapidly toward the Malverns, where they are only 500 feet
thick, and most slowly toward St. Davids Head, where they are 7,400
feet thick. The Cambrian rocks of Wales were in all probability the
deposits of a river system which drained some vanished land once situ-
ated to the west. How great was the extent of this land none can say:
Some geologists imagine it to have obliterated the whole or greater
part of the North Atlantic Ocean. For my part I am content with a
314 EVOLUTIONAL GEOLOGY.

~

somewhat large island. What area of this island, we may ask, would
suffice to supply the Cambrian sediments of Wales and Shropshire?
Admitting that the area of denudation was ten times as large as the area
of deposition, its dimensions are indicated by the figure @ 6 ¢ d on the
chart. ‘This evidently leaves room enough on the island to furnish all
the other deposits which are distributed along the western shores of
the Cambrian Sea, while those on the east are amply provided for by
that portion of the European Continent which then stood above water.

If 1 foot ina century be a quantity so small as to disappoint the
imagination of its accustomed exercise, let us turn to the Cambrian
succession of Scandinavia, where all the zones recognized in the British
series are represented by a column of sediment 290 feet in thickness.
If 1,600,000 years be a correct estimate of the duration of Cambrian
time, then each foot of the Scandinavian strata must have occupied
5,513 years in its formation. Are these figures sufficiently incon-
ceivable ?

In the succeeding system (that of the Ordovician) the maximum thick-
ness is 17,000 feet. Its deposits are distributed over a wider area than
the Cambrian, but they also occupied longer time in their formation;
hence the area from which they were derived need not necessarily have
been larger than that of the preceding period.

Great changes in the geography of our area ushered in the Silurian
system. Its maximum thickness is found over the lake district and
amounts to 15,000 feet, but in the little island of Gothland, where all
the subdivisions of the system from the Landovery to the Upper Lud-
low occur in complete sequence, the thickness is only 208 feet. In
Gothland, therefore, according to our computation, the rate of accu-
mulation was 1 foot in 7,211 years.

With this example we must conclude, merely adding that the same
story is told by other systems and other countries, and that so far as
my investigations have extended I can find no evidence which would
suggest an extension of the estimate I have proposed. It is but an
estimate, and those who have made acquaintance with ‘‘ estimates” in
the practical affairs of life know how far this kind of computation may
guide us to or from the truth.

This address is already unduly long, and yet not long enough for the
magnitude of the subject of which it treats. As we glance backward
over the past we see catastrophism yield to uniformitarianism, and this
to evolution, but each as it disappears leaves behind some precious
residue of truth. For the future of our science our ambition is that
which inspired the closing words of your last president’s address, that
it may become more experimental and exact. Our present watchword
is Evolution. May our next be Measurement and Experiment, ‘Experi-
ment and Measurement.
Smithsonian Report, 1900,—Sollas
} PLATE I,

Fig. 1.—DISTRIBUTION OF RATES OF INCREASE OF
TEMPERATURE, WITH DESCENT.

The rates taken from ‘“ British Association Report,”’
except in south of Ireland.

se

a}

Fic. 2.—DiSTRIBUTION OF LAND AND SEA, AND OF THICKNESS OF DEPOSITS
OF CAMBRIAN SYSTEM.

Dotted lines indicate distances of 100 and 200 miles from shore.
"h
ee
ee
ey. aa Fes
wht ‘8

" _—
aj 4 a
a aah ospiiet o

a Wi i:

PROGRESS IN PHYSICS IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY:

By Professor MrnpENHALL, Ph. D., D. Se., LL. D.

On January 7, 1610, Galileo, turning his telescope toward Jupiter,
was the first to see the beautiful system of that planet in which the
universe is epitomized. He had already studied the variegated sur-
face of the moon and he had seen the spots upon the sun. A little
later, in spite of the feeble power of his instrument, he had discovered
that the sun rotates upon an axis, and something of the wonderful na-
ture of the planet Saturn had been revealed to him. The overwhelm-
ing evidence thus afforded of the truth of the hypothesis of Copernicus
made him its chief exponent. The time had come for man to know,
as he had never known or even dreamed of before, his true relation
to the universe of which he was so insignificant a part. In a single
year nearly all of these capital discoveries were made. It was truly
an era of intellectual expansion; never before and never since has
man’s intellectual horizon enlarged with such enormous rapidity.
One needs little imagination to share with this ardent philosopher the
enthusiasm of the moment when, because some, fearing the evidence
of their senses, refused to look through the slender tube, he wrote to
Kepler: ‘*Oh, my dear Kepler, how I wish we could have one hearty
laugh together. * * * Why are you not here? What shout of
laughter we should have at this glorious folly!”

Galileo died in 1642, and in the same year Newton was born, When
24 years old he ‘‘ began to think of gravity extending to the orb of
the moon,” and before the end of the century he had discovered and
established the great law of universal gravitation. Thus, at the end
of the seventeenth century the foundations of modern physics were in
place. During the eighteenth century they were much built upon;
but it is the nineteenth that has witnessed not only the greatest
advance in detail, but the most important generalizations made since
the time of Galileo and Newton.

In endeavoring to present to the intelligent but perhaps unscientific
reader a brief review of the accomplishments of this ‘* wonderful

1 Copyright, 1901, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association. Reprinted, by

special permission, from the Sun, New York, February 17, 1901.
315
316 PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

century” in the domain of physics one must not attempt more than
an outline of greater events, and it willbe convenient to arrange them
under the several principal subdivisions of the science according to
the usually accepted classification.

HEAT.

Although more than one philosopher of the seventeenth and eight-
eenth centuries suggested the identity of heat and molecular motion,
the impression made was not lasting, and up to very near the begin-
ning of the nineteenth century the caloric theory was accepted almost
without dispute. This theory implied that heat was a subtile fluid,
definite quantities of which were added to or subtracted from material
substances when they became hot or cold. As carefully conducted
experiments seemed to show that a body weighed no more or no less
when hot than when cold, it was necessary to attribute to this fluid
salled calorie the mysterious property of ‘‘ imponderability;” that is,
unlike all forms of ordinary matter, it possessed no weight. To avoid
calling it matter it was by many classed, with light, electricity, and
magnetism, as one of the imponderable agents. Various other prop-
erties were attributed to caloric, necessary to the reasonable explana-
tion of a steadily increasing array of experimental facts. It was
declared to be elastic, its particles being mutually self-repellant. It
was thought to attract ordinary matter, and an ingenious theory of
caloric was constructed, modeled upon Newton’s famous but erroneous
corpuscular theory cf light. During the latter part of the eight-
eenth century Joseph Black, professor in the universities of Glasgow
and Edinburgh, developed his theory of latent heat, which, although
founded upon a false notion of the nature of heat, was a most impor-
tant contribution to science. The downfall of the caloric theory must
be largely credited to the work of a famous American who published
the results of his experiments just at the close of the eighteenth
century.

Benjamin Thompson, known as Count Rumford, was born in the
town of Woburn, Mass., in 1753. His inclination toward physical
experimentation was strong in his early youth, and he received much
instruction and inspiration from the lectures of Prof. John Winthrop,
of Harvard College, some of which he was enabled to attend under
trying conditions. Having received special official consideration by
appointment to office under one of the colonial governors, he was
accused at the breaking out of the Revolutionary war of a leaning
toward Toryism, and was thus prevented from making his career
among his own people. At the age of 22 years he fled to England,
returning to America only for a brief period in command of a British
regiment. In England he soon became eminent as an experimental
philosopher, and in 1778 became a Fellow of the Royal Society. He
PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. ole

afterwards entered the service of the Elector of Bavaria, by whom he
was made a count of the Holy Roman Empire. In 1799 he returned
to London and founded the ‘* Royal Institution,” which was destined
during the next hundred years to surpass all other foundations in the
richness and importance of its contributions to physical science. It
was while at Munich that Rumford made his famous experiments in
the nature of heat, to which he had been led by observing the great
amount of heat generated in the boring of cannon. Finding that he
was able to make a considerable quantity of water actually boil by the
heat generated by a biunt boring tool, he concluded that the supply of
heat from such a source was practically inexhaustible and that it could
be generated continuously if only the motion of the tool under friction
was kept up. _ He declared that anything which could thus be produced
without limitation by an insulated body or system of bodies could not
possibly be a material substance, and that under the circumstances of
the experiment the only thing that was or could be thus continuously
communicated was motion.

Count Rumford’s conclusions were not accepted fora long time.
Davy, the brilliant professor and eloquent. lecturer at the newly estab-
lished Royal Institution, espoused the mechanical theory of heat, and
made the striking experiment of melting two pieces of ice by rubbing
them together remote from any source of heat. His contemporary,
Thomas Young, who overturned Newton’s corpuscular theory of light
and showed that it was a wave phenomenon, also advocated Rumford’s
notion of the nature of heat; but even among physicists of high rank
it had made little headway as late as the middle of the nineteenth cen-
tury. In the eighth edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica, published
in 1856, the immediate predecessor of the current issue, heat is defined
asa ‘material agent of a peculiar nature, highly attenuated.” And
this in spite of the fact that previous to that date the mechanical theory
had been completely proved by the labors of Mayer, Joule, Helmholtz,
and William Thomson (Lord Kelvin). By these men a solid founda-
tion for the theory had been found ina great physical law of such
importance that it is justly considered to be the most far-reaching gen-
eralization in natural philosophy since the time of Newton. Some
account of this law and its discovery will be given later in this paper.

Among the most important of the century’s contributions to our
knowledge of heat must be included the work of Fourier, as embodied
in his Theorie Analytique de la Chaleur, published in 1822. Joseph

Fourier was born in 1768 and died in 1830. He belonged to that

_ splendid group of philosophers of which the French nation may always

_ be proud, whose work constitutes a large part of the luster of intel-

 lectual France during her most brilliant period, the later years ot the
_ eighteenth and the earlier years of the nineteenth century. His con-

be.

i mae acgvance. Presnel
temporaries included such men as Laplace, Arago, Lagrange, Fresnel,

sm 1900-——23
318 PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

and Carnot. Fourier wrote especially of the movement of heat in
solids, and as his thesis depended in no way on the nature of heat it
will always be regarded as a classic. His assumption that conduc-
tivity was independent of temperature was shortly proved to be
erroneous, but his general argument and conclusions were not greatly
affected by this discovery. His work is one of the most beautiful
examples yet produced of the application of mathematics to physical
research, and mathematical and physical sciences were equally enriched
by it. In its broader aspects his law of conduction includes the trans-
fer of electricity in good conductors and is the real basis of Ohm’s law.

One of the most skillful and successful experimenters in heat was
also a Frenchman, Henri Victor Regnault (1810-1878). He greatly
improved the construction and use of the thermometer, and was the
first to siscover that the indications of an air thermometer and one of
mercury did not exactly agree, because they did not expand in the same
degree for equal increases of temperature. His most important work
was on the expansion of gases, vapor pressure, specific heat of water,
etc., and for careful, patient measuring he had a positive genius.
Until he proved the contrary it had been assumed that all gases had the
same coeflicient of expansion, and Boyle’s law that the volume of a gas
was inversely proportional to its pressure had not been questioned.
His tables of the elastic force of steam have been of immense practical
value, but his studies of the expansion of gases are of greater interest,
because they have pointed the way to one of the most important
accomplishments of the century, the liquefaction of all known gases.

During the earlier years of this century it was the custom to con-
sider vapors and gases as quite distinct forms of matter. Vapors
always came, by evaporation, from liquids and could always be *‘ con-
densed” or reduced to the liquid form without difficulty, but it was
not thought possible to liquefy the so-called ‘**‘ permanent” gases. The
first man to attack the problem systematically was Michael Faraday,
who before the end of the first third of the century had liquetied sey-
eral gases, mostly by reducing them by chemical reactions under pres-
sure. Several of the more easily reducible gases or vapors, such as
ammonia, sulphurous acid, and probably chlorine, had been previously
liquefied by cold; but a quarter of a century elapsed after Faraday’s
researches before the true relation of the liquid and gaseous states of
matter was understood, and it was found that both increase of pres-
sure and lowering of temperature were, in general, essential to the
liquefaction of a gas. It was Thomas Andrews, of Belfast, who first
showed in a paper published in 1863 that there was a continuity in
the liquid and gaseous states of matter; that for each substance there
was a critical temperature at which it became a homogeneous fluid,
neither a liquid nor a gas; that above this temperature great pressure
would not liquefy, while below it the substance might exist as partly
_ al »>

PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 319

liquid and partiy gas. He pointed out the fact that for the so-called
permanent gases this critical temperature must be exceedingly low
and if such temperature could be reached liquefaction would follow.

Subsequent progress in the liquefaction of gases came about by fol-
lowing this suggestion. Very low temperatures were produced by
subjecting the gas to great reduction in volume by pressure, remov-
ing the heat of compression by conduction and radiation, and then by
sudden expansion its temperature was greatly lowered. As early as
1877 two Frenchmen, Pictet and Cailletet, had succeeded in liquefy-
ing oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and air. During the past twenty
years great improvements have been made in the methods of accom-
plishing these transformations, so that to-day it is easy to produce
considerable quantities of all of the principal gases in a liquid form,
and by carrying the reduction in temperature still further portions of
the liquid may be changed to the solid state. The most important
work along this line has been done by Wroblewski and Olszewski of
the University of Kracow, and Professor Dewar, of the Royal Institu-
tion of London. ‘Temperatures as low as about 250° C. below the
freezing point of water have been produced, the ‘‘absolute zero”
being only 273° C. below that point. These experiments promise to
throw much light on the nature of matter and are especially interest-
ing as revealing its extraordinary properties at extremely low tem-
peratures. Among the most curious and suggestive is the fact that
the electrical resistance of pure metals diminishes at a rate which indi-
eates that at the absolute zero it would vanish and these metals would
become perfect conductors of electricity.

The dynamics of heat, or ‘‘ thermodynamics,” was an important field
of research in the early part of the century, on account of its practical
application to the improvement of the steam engine. The science was
created by Carnot, who, in spite of the fact that his views regarding
the nature of heat were erroneous, discovered some of the most inter-
esting relations among the quantities involved and discussed their appli-
cations to the heat engines with great skill. Subsequent contributors
to the theory and practice of thermodynamics were Clausius, Rankine,
Lord Kelvin, and Professor Tait.

The mechanical theory of heat naturally led up to what has already
been referred to as the most important generalization in physical sci-
ence since the time of Newton—the doctrine of

THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY.

This principle puts physics in its relation to energy where chemistry
has long been in its relation to matter. If matter were not conserva-
tive, if it could be created or destroyed at will, chemistry would be an
impossible science. Physics is put upon a solid foundation by the
assumption of a like conservatism in energy; it can neither be created
320 PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

nor destroyed, although it may appear in many different forms which
are in general mutually interconvertible. |

Many men have contributed to the establishment of this great prin-
ciple, but it was actually discovered and proved by the labors of three
or four. Although it was practically all done before the middle of
the nineteenth century, its general popular recognition did not come
until a quarter of a century later. The doctrine was first distinctly
formulated by Robert Mayer, a German physician, who published in
1842 a suggestive paper on ‘*‘ The forces of inorganic nature,” which,
however, attracted little or no attention. Mayer had not approached
the problem from an experimental standpoint. At about the same
time it was attacked most successfully from this side by a young Eng-
lishman, James Prescott Joule, son of a wealthy brewer of Manchester,
England. Joule made the first really accurate determination of the
mechanical equivalent of a given quantity of heat, a physical constant
which Rumford had tried to measure, reaching only a rough approxi-
mation. Substantially Joule’s result was that the heat energy neces-
sary to raise the temperature of any given mass of water 1° F. is the
equivalent of the mechanical energy required to lift that mass through
a height of 772 feet against the force of the earth’s attraction, and, con-
versely, if a mass of water be allowed to fall through a distance of 772
feet under the action of gravity and at the end of its motion be instantly
arrested, the heat generated will suffice to raise its temperature 1° F.
Of such vast importance is this numerical coefficient that it has been
called the ** golden number” of the nineteenth century. Since Joule’s
time it has been redetermined by several physicists, notably by Pro-
fessor Rowland, of Baltimore, the general conclusion being that Joule’s
number was somewhat, but not greatly, too small.

The first clear and full exposition of the doctrine of the conserva-
tion of energy was given by Joule in a popular lecture in Manchester
in 1847, but it attracted little attention until a few months later, when
the author presented his theory at a meeting of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science. Even among scientific men it would
have passed without comment or consideration had it not been for the
presence of another young Englishman, then as little known as Joule
himself, who began a series of remarks, appreciative and critical,
which resulted in making Joule’s paper the sensation of the meeting.
This was William Thomson, who had been only a year before, at the
age of 22 years, appointed professor of natural philosophy at the
University of Glasgow, now known as Lord Kelvin, the most versatile,
brilliant, and profound student of physical science which the century
has produced. From that day to the death of Joule (1889) these two
men were closely associated in the demonstration and exploitation of
a great principle of which they were at first almost the sole exponents
among English-speaking people.
e +

re i:

PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. aot

By an interesting coincidence, in the same year in which Joule
announced the result of his experiments the Physical Society of
Berlin listened to a paper almost identical with Joule’s in character
and conclusions, but prepared quite independently, by a young German
physician, Herman von Helmholtz, destined to rank at the time of his
death (in 1893) as one of the very first mathematicians of the age,
doubtless the first physiologist of his time, and as a physicist with
whom not more than one other of the nineteenth century can be com-
pared. Helmholtz’s paper was rejected by the editor of the leading
scientific journal of Germany, but his work was so important that he
must always share with Joule and Kelvin in the glory of this epoch-
making generalization.

Even a brief sketch of the history of the doctrine of the conserva-
tion of energy would be incomplete if mention were not made of the
work of Tyndall. Although by original research he contributed in no
small degree to the demonstration of the theory, it is mainly through
his wonderful skill in popular presentation of the principles of phys-
ical science that he becomes related to the great movement in the middle
of the century. His masterful exposition of the new theory in a
course of lectures at the Royal Institution, given in 1862 and published
in 1863 under the title ‘‘ Heat as a mode of motion,” was a means
of making the intelligent public acquainted with its beauty and pro-
found significance, and the history of science affords no more admira-
ble example of the possibilities and wisdom of popular scientific
writing than this book. As for the principle of the conservation of
energy itself, it is not too much to say that during the last half of
the century it has been the guiding and controlling spirit of all scien-
tific discovery, or of invention through the application of scientific
principles.

LIGHT.

The revival and final establishment of the undulatory or wave theory
of light is one of the glories of the nineteenth century, and the credit
for it is due to Thomas Young, an Englishman, and Fresnel, a French-
man. Newton had conceived, espoused, and, owing to the great
authority of his name, almost fixed upon the learned world the cor-
puscular or emission theory, which assumes that all luminous bodies
emit streams of minute corpuscles which are reflected, refracted, and
produce vision. Many ordinary optical phenomena were explained by
this hypothesis only with great difficulty, and some were quite unex-
plainable. The transmission of a disturbance or vibratory motion by
means of waves, as in the case of sound, was a well-recognized princi-
ple, and Young and Fresnel applied it most successfully to the phe-
nomena of light. Wave motion in a general way is only possible ina
sensibly continuous medium, such as water, air, etc., and the theory
one PROGRESS IN‘ PHYSICS.

that light was a vibratory disturbance transmitted by means of waves
necessitated the assumption of the existence of such a medium through-
out all space in which light traveled. What is known as the ethereal
medium, at first a purely imaginary substance, but whose real exist-
ence is practically established, satisfies this demand, and the hypothesis
that light is transmitted by waves in such a medium, originating in a
vibratory disturbance at the source, has been of inestimable value to
physical science.

The work of Thomas Young was done in the very first years of the
nineteenth century. He was for two years professor of natural phi-
losophy in the Royal Institution just founded by Count Rumford, and

yas the first to fill that chair. In 1801, ina paper presented to the
Royal Society, he argued in favor of the undulatory theory, showing
how the interference of waves would explain the color of thin plates.
His papers were not for several years received favorably, and they
were severely criticised by Lord Brougham. Augustus Fresnel fol-
lowed Young, but quite independently, about ten years later, and by
him the undulatory theory received elaborate experimental and math-
ematical treatment.

In the meantime another Frenchman had made a capital discovery
in optics, which seemed at first to be quite incompatible with the wave
theory. This was the discovery of what is known as polarization of
light, by Malus, a French engineer, who hit upon it while investigating
double refraction of crystals, for a study of which the French Institute
had offered a prize in 1808. Malus found that when light fell upon a
surface of glass at a certain angle a portion of the reflected light
appeared to have acquired entirely new properties in regard to further
reflection, and the same was true of that part of the beam which was
transmitted through the glass. The light thus affected was incapable
of further reflection under certain conditions and as the beam seemed
to behave differently according to how it*was presented to the reflect-
ing surface the term polarization was applied to the phenomenon. It
was found that the two rays into which a single beam of light was split
by a doubly refracting crystal (a phenomenon which had long been
known) were affected in this way, and that light was polarized by
refraction as well as by reflection. Malus was a believer in the cor-
puscular theory of light; but it was shortly proved, first by Thomas
Young, that the phenomenon of polarization was not only not opposed
to the wave theory, but that that theory furnished a rational explana-
tion of it. This explanation, in brief, assumes that ordinary light is
a wave produced by a vibratory motion confined to no particular plane,
the direction of vibration being at right angles to the direction of the
wave and in any or in rapid succession in all azimuths. When light
is polarized, the vibratory motion in the ether is restricted to one par-
ticular form, a line if plane polarized, a circle or an ellipse if circu-
PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. aZs

larly or elliptically polarized. This simple hypothesis has been found
quite adequate, and through its application to the various phenomena
of polarization, together with the application of Youne’s theory of
the interference of waves to the production of color, the undulatory
theory of light was firmly established before the middle of the cen-
tury. There were many noted philosophers, however, who stood out
long against it, notably Brewster, the most famous English student of
optics of the early part of the century, who declared that his ‘‘ chief
objection to the undulatory theory was that he could not think the
Creator guilty of so clumsy a contrivance as the filling of space with
ether in order to produce light.”

In studying the nature of light it became very important to know
how fast a light wave traveled. A tolerably good measure of the
velocity of light had been made long before by means of the eclipses
of Jupiter’s moons and by observations upon the positions of the
stars as influenced by the motion of the earth in its orbit. It was
found to be approximately 180,000 miles per second, a speed so great
that it seemed impossible that it should ever be measured by using
only terrestrial distances. This extremely difficult problem has been
solved, however, in a most satisfactory manner by nineteenth century
physicists. Everybody knows that in a uniform motion velocity is
equal to space or distance divided by time. If, then, the time occu-
pied in passing through a given distance can be measured, the velocity
is at once known. As the velocity of light is very large, unless the
distance is enormously great the time will be extremely small, and
if moderate distances are to be used, the problem is to measure very
small intervals of time very accurately. Light will travel 1 mile in
about the one hundred and eighty-sixth thousandth part of a second,
and if by using a mile as the distance the velocity of light is to be
determined within 1 per cent, it is necessary to be able to detect dif-
ferences of time as small as about one-twenty-millionth of a second.
This has been made possible by the use of two distinct methods.
Foucault, on the suggestion of Arago, used a rapidly revolving mir-
ror, a method introduced by Wheatstone, the English electrician, who
used it in finding the duration of an electric spark. The essential
principle is that a mirror may be made to revolve so rapidly that it
will change its position by a measurable angle while light which has
been reflected from it passes to a somewhat distant fixed mirror and
returns to the moving reflector. In the other method a toothed
wheel is revolved so rapidly that a beam of light passing between two
consecutive teeth to a distant fixed mirror is cut off on its return to the
wheel by the tooth which has moved forward while the light has made
its journey. This method was first used by Fizeau. In either method,
if the speed of rotation is known, the time is readily found. In point
of time Fizeau was the first to attack the problem, which he did about
324 PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

1849. Foucault was perhaps a year later in getting results, but his
method is generally considered the best. Both methods have been
used by other experimenters, and very important improvements
in Foucault’s method were made in the United States about 1878.
Michelson’s method increased enormously the precision of the
measurements, and it has been applied by him and by Newcomb, not
only for the better determination of the velocity of light in air, but
for the solution of many other related problems of first importance.
Michelson’s final determination of the absolute velocity of light (in
the ether) is everywhere accepted as authoritative.

Another discovery in optics, entirely accomplished during the nine-
teenth century and of the very first importance, is generally known as
spectrum analysis. This discovery has not yet ceased to excite admi-
ration and even amazement, and especially among those who best
understand it. By its use hitherto unknown substances have become
known; to the physicist it is an instrument of research of the greatest
power, and, perhaps more than anything else, it promises to throw
light on the ultimate nature of matter; to the astronomer it has
revealed the composition, physical condition, and even the motions of
the most distant heavenly bodies, all of which the philosophy of a
hundred years ago would have pronounced absolutely impossible.

The beginning of spectrum analysis was in 1802, when an English-
man, Dr. Wollaston, observed dark lines interrupting the solar spec-
trum when produced by a good prism upon which the sunlight fell
after passing through a narrow slit. About ten years later Fraun-
hofer, of Munich, a skillful worker in glass and a keen observer, dis-
covered in the spectrum of light from a lamp two yellow bands, now
known as the sodium or ‘**D” lines. Combining the three essential ele-
ments of the modern spectroscope—the slit, the prism, and the obsery-
ing telescope—he saw in the spectrum of sunlight ‘an almost countless
number of dark lines.” He was the first to use a grating for the pro-
duction of the spectrum, using at first fine wire gratings and after-
wards ruling fine lines upon glass, and with these he made the first
accurate measures of the length of light waves. He did not, however,
comprehend the full import of the problem which he thus brought to
the attention of physicists. About twenty years later Sir John Her-
schell studied the bright-line spectra of different substances and found
that they might be used to detect the presence of minute quantities of
a substance whose spectrum was known. Wheatstone studied the
spectrum of the electric are passing between metals, and in 1847 Dr.
J. W. Draper published a very important paper on the spectra of
solids with increasing temperature. Although quite in the dark as to
the real nature of the phenomena with which they were dealing, these
observers paved the way for the splendid work of the two Germans,
Kirchoff and Bunsen, who, about 1860, found the key to this wonderful

qe
PROGRESS. IN PHYSICS. B25

-

problem and made the science of spectrum analysis substantially what
it is to-day. Its fundamental principles may be considered as few and
comparatively simple.

Waves of light and radiant heat originate in ether disturbances pro-
duced by molecular vibration and have impressed upon them all of
the important qualities of that vibration. Molecules of different sub-
stances differ in their modes of vibration, each producing a wave pecul-
iar to and characteristic of itself. A useful analogy may be found in
the fact that when one listens to the music of an orchestra without
seeing it, it is easy to recognize the tones that come from each of the sey-
eral instruments, the characteristic vibrations of each being impressed
upon the waves in air which carry the sound to the ear. So delicate
and so sure is this impression of vibration peculiarities that it is pos-
sible even to know the maker of a violin, for instance, by a character-
istic timbre which must have its physical expression in the sound wave.
The ear, more perfect than the eye, analyzes the resultant disturbance
into its component parts, so that each element may be attributed to its
proper source. Unaided the eye can not do this with light, but the
spectroscope separates the various modes of vibration which make up
the confused whole, so that varieties of molecular activity are recog-
nizable. The speed at which a source of sound is approaching or
receding from the ear can be ascertained by noting the rise or fall in
pitch due to the crowding together or stretching out of the sound
waves, and in the same way the motion of a luminous body is known
from the increase or decrease of the refrangibility of the elements of
its spectrum.

Indeed, had nineteenth century science accomplished nothing else
than the discovery of spectrum analysis, it would have marked the
beginning of a new epoch. By this device man is put in communica-
tion with every considerable body in the universe, including even the
invisible. The ‘“‘goings on” of Sirius and Algol, of Orion and the
Pleiades, are reported to him across enormous stretches of millions of
millions of miles of space, empty save of the ethereal medium itself,
by this most wonderful ‘‘ wireless telegraphy.” And it is by the
vibratory motion of the invisibly small that all of this is revealed;
the infinitely little has enabled us to conquer the inconceivably big.

Many important contributions to the theory and practice of spec-
trum analysis have been made since the time of Kirchoff and Bunsen,
only two or three of which can be referred to here. Instrumental
methods by which spectra are produced and examined have been
greatly perfected, and this is especially true of what is known as the
‘diffraction grating,” first used by Fraunhofer. A quarter of a cen-
tury ago Rutherfurd, of New York, constructed a ruling engine, by
means of which gratings on glass and spectrum metal were ruled with
a precision greatly exceeding what had before been possible. A few
326 PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

years later Rowland, of Baltimore, made a notable advance in the con-
struction of a screw far more perfect than any before made, producing
gratings of a fineness and regularity of spacing far ahead of any
others, and especially by a capital discovery of the concave grating,
by means of which the most beautiful results have been obtained.
Very recently, Michelson, of Chicago, has invented the echelon spec-
troscope, which, although greatly restricted in range, exceeds all
others in power of analysis of spectral lines. In his hands this instru-
ment has been most effective in the study of the influence of a strong
magnetic field upon the character of the spectrum from light produced
therein, a most interesting phenomenon, first observed by Zeeman,
which promises to reveal much concerning the relation of molecular
activity to light and to magnetic force.

The development of spectrum analysis was necessarily accompanied
by a recognition of the identity of radiant heat and light. The study
of radiant heat, which was carried on during the earlier years of the
century by Leslie, and later by Melloni and Tyndall, by what might
be called thermal methods, has been industriously pursued during the
last two decades by processes similar to those adopted for visual radi-
ation. The most notable contribution to this work is the invention of
the bolometer by Langley, who, at Allegheny and later at Washing-
ton, has made exhaustive studies of solar radiation in invisible regions
of the spectrum, especially among the waves of greater length than |
those of red light, where he has found absorption lines and bands
similar in character to those observed in the visible spectrum. He
has also studied the absorption of the earth’s atmosphere, the relation
of energy to visual effect, and many other interesting problems, the
solution of which was made possible by the use of the bolometer.

Mention must also be made of the invention by Michelson of an
interference comparator, by means of which linear measurements by
optical methods can be accomplished with a degree of accuracy hith-
erto unheard of. With this instrument Michelson has determined the
length of the international prototype meter in terms of the wave
length of the light of a particular spectral line, thus furnishing for
the first time a satisfactory natural unit of length.

By far the most important contribution to the theory of light made
during the last half of the century is that of Maxwell, who, in 1873,
announced the proposition that electro-magnetic phenomena and light
phenomena have their origin in the same medium and that they are
identical in nature. This far-reaching conclusion has been generally
accepted and forms the basis of much of the most important work in
physical research in process of elaboration as the century closes. To
some of this reference will presently be made.
PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. $9'/
ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM.

In no other department of physical science have such remarkable
developments occurred during the past century as in electricity and
magnetism, for in no other department have the practical applications
of scientific discovery been so numerous and so far-reaching in their
effect upon social conditions. In a brief review of the contributions
of the nineteenth century to the evolution of the telegraph, telephone,
trolley car, electric lighting, and other means of utilizing electricity, it
will be possible to consider only a very few of the fundamental discoy-
eries upon which the enormous and rather complex superstructure of
to-day rests. Happily these are few in number, and their presenta-
tion is all the more important because of the fact that in the popular
mind they do not receive that significance to which they are entitled,
if, indeed, they are remembered at all.

The first great step in advance of the electricity of Franklin and his
contemporaries (and his predecessors for two thousand years) was taken
very near the end of the eighteenth century, but it must be regarded
as the beginning of nineteenth century electricity. Two Italian
philosophers, Galvani and Volta, contributed to the invention of what
is known as the galvanic or voltaic battery, the output of which was
not at first distinctly recognized as the electricity of the older schools.
By this beautiful discovery electricity was for the first time enslaved
to man, who was now able to generate and control it at such times and in
such quantities as he desired. Although the voltaic battery is now
nearly obsolete as a source of electricity, its invention must always be
regarded as one of the three epoch-making events in the history of
the science during the past one hundred and twenty years. For
three-quarters of a century it was practically the only source of elec-
tricity, and during this time and by its use nearly all of the most
important discoveries were made. Even in the first decade of the
century many brilliant results were reached. Among the most not-
able were the researches of Sir Humphry Davy, who, by the use of
the most powerful battery then constructed, resolved the hitherto
unyielding alkalies, discovering sodium and potassium, and at the
same time exhibited in his lectures in the Royal Institution in London
the first electric arc light, the ancestor of the millions that now turn
night into day.

The cost of generating electricity by means of a voltaic battery 1s
relatively very great, and this fact stood in the way of the early devel-
opment of its applications, although their feasibility was perfectly
well understood. Without any other important invention or discovery
than that of the voltaic battery much would have been possible, includ-
ing both electric lighting and the electric telegraph. Indeed, electric
telegraphy had long been a possibility, even before the time of Gal-
vani and Volta, but its actual construction and use were almost neces-
328 PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

sarily postponed until a second capital discovery came to remove most
of the difficulties.

This was the discovery of a relation between electricity and_ mag-
netism, the existence of which had long been suspected and earnestly
sought. A Danish professor, Hans Christian Oersted, was fortu-
nate in hitting upon an experiment which demonstrated this relation
and opened up an entirely new field of investigation. What Oersted
found was that when a conductor, as a copper wire, carrying an elec-
tric current was brought near a freely suspended magnet, like a com-
pass needle, the latter would take up a definite position with reference
tothecurrent. Thus an electric current moved a magnet, and acted like
a magnet in producing a ** magnetic field.” The subject was quickly
taken up by almost every physicist in Europe and America. Arago
found that iron filings would cling to a wire through which a current
was passing, and he was able to magnetize steel needles by means of
the current. Ampére, another French physicist, studied Oersted’s
wonderful discovery both experimentally and mathematically and in
an incredibly short time so developed it as to deserve the title of cre-
ator of the science of electro-dynamics.

The first to make what is known as an electro-magnet was an Eng-
lishman named Sturgeon, who used a bar of soft iron bent in a horse-
shoe form (as had long been common in making permanent steel mag-
nets), and after varnishing the iron for insulation wrapped a single coil
of copper wire about it through which the current from a battery was
passed. There were thus two ways of producing visible motion by
means of an electric current, that of Oersted’s simple experiment, in
which a suspended magnetic needle was deflected by a current, and
that made possible by the production, at will, of an electro-magnet.
The application of both of these ideas to the construction of an electric
telegraph was quickly attempted, and two different systems of teleg-
‘aphy grew out of them. One, depending on Oersted’s experiment,
was developed in England first and afterwards in Europe; the other,
that involving the use of signals produced by an electric magnet, was
developed in America and was generally known as the American
method. It has long ago superseded the first method in actual prac-
tice. Its possibility depended on perfecting the electro-magnet and
especially on an understanding of the principles on which that per-
fecting depended. For the complete and satisfactory solution of this
problem we are indebted to the most famous student of electricity
America has produced during the century, Joseph Henry.

In 1829, while a teacher in the academy at Albany, N. Y., Henry
exhibited an electro-magnet of enormously greater power than any
before made, involving all of the essential features of the magnet of
to-day. The wire was insulated by silk wrapping, and many coils were
placed upon the iron core, the intensity of magnetization being thus
PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. a

multiplied. Henry studied also the best form and arrangement of the
battery under varying conditions of the conductor. An electro-
magnetic telegraph had been declared impossible in 1825 by Barlow, an
Englishman, who pointed out the apparently fatal fact that the resistance
offered to the current was proportional to the length of the conducting
wire, and that the strength of the current would be thus so much
reduced, for even short distances, as to become too feeble to be detected.
Henry showed that what is known as an ‘intensity battery” would
overcome this difficulty, discovering experimentally and independently
the beautifully simple law showing the relation of current to electro-
motive force which Ohm had announced in 1897. He also invented
the principle of the relay, by which the action of a very feeble current
controls the operation of «2 more powerful local system. It will thus
be seen that the essential features of the so-called American system of
telegraphy are to be credited to Henry, who had a working line in his
laboratory as early as 1832.

Morse made use of the scientific discoveries and inventions of Henry,
and by his indefatigable labors and persistent faith the commercial
value of the enterprise was really established. In the meantime con-
siderable progress was made in Europe. Baron Schilling, a Russian
councilor of state, devised and exhibited a needle telegraph. The two
illustrious German physicists, Gauss and Weber, established a success-
fully working line 2 or 3 miles long in 1833, and this system was com-
mercially developed by Steinheil in 1837. In England, Sir Charles
Wheatstone made many important contributions, although using the
needle system, which was afterwards abandoned. Before the middle
of the century the commercial success of the electro-magnetic telegraph
was assured, and in the matter of the transmission of messages distance
was practically annihilated.

Oersted, Arago, Ampére, Sturgeon, and Henry had made it possible
to convert electricity into mechanical energy. Motors of various
types had been invented, and the possibility of using the new source
of power for running machinery, cars, boats, etc., was fully recognized.
Several attempts had been made to do these things, but the great cost
of producing the current by means of a battery stood in the way of
success. Another epoch-making discovery was necessary—namely, a
method of reversing the process and converting mechanical energy
into electricity. This was supplied by the genius of Michael Faraday,
who had succeeded Davy in the Royal Institution at London. In 1831
Faraday discovered induction, the key to the modern development of
electricity. He showed that while Oersted had proved that a current
of electricity would generate a magnetic field and set i magnet in
motion, this process was reversible. A magnet set in motion Inamag-
netic field by a steam engine or any other source of power would pro-

duce in a conductor properly arranged a current of electricity, and
330 PROGRESS IN PHYSICS.

thus the dynamo came into existence. In this brilliant investigation
he was almost anticipated by Henry, who was working at Albany along
the same lines, but under much less favorable conditions. Indeed, in
several of the most important points the American actually did antici-
pate the Englishman.

Nearly half a century elapsed before this most. important discovery
was sufliciently developed to become commercially valuable, and it is
impossible in this place to trace the steps by which during the last
quarter of a century the production and utilization of electricity as
existing to-day was accomplished, as a result of which the century
closes, as one might say, in a blaze of light; and it is unnecessary,
because most people have witnessed the spread of the fire which Faraday
and Henry kindled.

Faraday’s discovery of induction furnished the basis of that mar-
velous improvement upon the telegraph by which actual speech is
transmitted over hundreds and even thousands of miles. In connec-
tion with the invention of the telephone the names of Philip Reiss,
Graham Bell, Elisha Gray, and Dolbear will always be mentioned, each
of whom, doubtless independently, hit upon a way of accomplishing
the result with more or less success. To Bell, however, belongs the
honor of having first practically solved the problem, and of devising a
system which, with numerous modifications and improvements, has
come into extensive use in all parts of the world. No other application
of electricity has come into such universal use, and none has contributed
more to the comfort of life.

While it is doubtless true that since Faraday’s time no discovery
comparable with his in real importance has been made, the past twenty-
five years have not lacked in results of scientific research, some of
which may, in the not distant future, eclipse even that in the value of
their practical applications. Among these must be ranked Clerk Max-
well’s theory of electric waves and its beautiful verification in 1888 by
the young German physicist, Hertz. This ‘brilliant student of elec-
tricity succeeded in actually producing, detecting, and controlling
these waves, and out of this discovery has come the ‘‘ wireless telegra-
phy” which has been so rapidly developed within the last few years.
Many other discoveries in electricity of great scientific interest and
practical promise have been recorded in the closing years of the cen-
tury, but the necessary limits of this article forbid their consideration.

No account of the progress of physical science during the nineteenth
century would be even approximately complete without mention of
other investigations of profound significance. For instance, the study
of the phenomena of sound has yielded results of great scientific and
some practical value. The application of the theory of interference
by Thomas Young; the publication of Helmholtz’s great work, the
Tonempfindungen, in which his theory of harmony was first fully pre-
PROGRESS IN PHYSICS. 331

sented; the publication of Lord Rayleigh’s treatise; the invention and
construction by Koénig of acoustic apparatus, the best example yet
furnished of scientific handicraft. All of these mark important
advances, not only in acoustics, but in general physics as well. The
phonautograph of Scott and Kénig, by which a graphic record of the
vibrations of the vocal cords was made possible, was ingeniously con-
verted by Edison into a speech recording and reproducing machine,
the phonograph, by which the most marvelous results are accomplished
in the simplest possible manner.

The century is also to be credited with the discovery and develop-
ment of the art of photography, which, although not of the first
importance, has contributed much to the pleasure of life, and as an aid
to scientific investigation has become quite indispensable.

The wonderfully beautiful experiments of Sir William Crookes, on
the passage of an electric discharge through a high vacuum, and other
phenomena connected with what has been called ‘‘ radiant matter,”
begun about a quarter of a century ago and continued by him and
others up to the present time, laid the foundation for the brilliant
work of Réntgen in the discovery and study of the so-called ‘*X”
rays, the real nature of which is not yet understood. Their further
investigation by J. J. Thomson, Beequerel, and others seem to have
revealed new forms and phases of radiation, a fuller knowledge of
which is likely to throw much light on obscure problems relating to
the nature of matter.

Concerning the nature of matter, the ablest physicists of the cen-
tury have thought and written much, and doubtless our present knowl-
edge of the subject is much more nearly the truth than that of a hun-
dred years ago. The molecular theory of gases has met with such
complete experimental verification and is so in accord with all observed
phenomena that it must be accepted as essentially correct. As to the
ultimate nature of what is called matter, as distinguished from the
ethereal medium, what is known as the ‘‘ vortex theory of atoms” has
received the most consideration. This theory was developed by Lord
Kelvin out of Helmholtz’s mathematical demonstration of the inde-
structibility of a vortex ring when once formed in a medium possess-
ing the properties which are generally attributed to the ether.

Perhaps the most remarkable as well as the most promising fact
relating to physical science at the close of the nineteenth century 1s
the great and rapidly increasing number of well-organized and splen-
didly equipped laboratories in which original research is systematically
planned and carried out. When one reflects that for the most part
during the century just ending the advance of science was more or less
of the nature of a guerrilla warfare against ignorance, it seems safe to
predict for that just beginning victories more glorious than any yet won.
¢ aA nal
ie 2
2 = y a
>.

wre

Mbioems be).

ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.!
By Prof. Exriu THomson.

The great importance which electricity has attained in many depart-
ments of human activity is so constantly evident that we have difficulty
in realizing how short is the time which has been occupied in its
development. The latter half of the nineteenth century must ever
remain memorable, not only for the great advances in nearly all the
useful arts, but for the peculiarly rapid electric progress, and the pro-
found effect which it has had upon the lives and business of the peo-
ple. In the preceding century we find no evidences of the applica-
tion of electricity to any useful purpose. Few of the more impor-
tant principles of the science were then known. Franklin’s invention
of the lightning rod was not intended to utilize electric force, but to
guard life and property from the perils of the thunderstorm. The
numerous instructive experiments in frictional electricity, the first
known form of electric manifestation except lightning, made clear
certain principles, such as conduction and insulation, and served to
distinguish the two opposite electric conditions known as positive and
negative. Franklin’s kite experiment confirmed the long-suspected
identity of lightning and electric sparks. It was*not, however, until
the discovery by Alexander Volta in 1799 of his pile, or battery, that
electricity could take its place as an agent of practical value. Volta,
when he made this great discovery, was following the work of Gal-
vani, begunin 1786. But Galvani in his experiments mistook the effect
for the cause and so missed making the unique demonstration that two
different metals immersed in a solution could set up an electric current.
Volta, a professor in the University of Pavia and a foreign member of
the Royal Society of England, communicated his discovery to the
president of the society in March, 1800, and brought to the notice of
the world the first means for obtaining a steady flow of electricity.
Before this event electric energy had been known to the experimenter
in pretty effects of attraction and repulsion of light objects, in fitful
flashes of insignificant power, or as it appeared in nature, in the fearful
bursts of energy during a thunderstorm, uncontrolled and erratic. The

1Copyright, 1901, by The Sun Printing and Publishing Ass« ciation. Reprinted, by
special permission, from the Sun, New York, February 10, 1901.

sm 1900

333
24

334 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

analogous and closely related phenomena of magnetism had already
found an important application in the navigator’s compass.

The simplest facts of electro-magnetism, upon which much of the
later electrical developments depend, remained entirely unknown until
near the close of the first quarter of the nineteenth century. Mag-
netism itself, as exemplified in loadstone or in magnetized iron or
steel, had long before been consistently studied by Dr. Gilbert, of
Colchester, England, and in 1690 his great work, De Magnete, was
published. It is a first example, and an excellent one, too, of the
application of the inductive method, so fruitful in after years. The
restraints which’ a superstitious age had imposed upon nature study
were gradually removed, and at the beginning of the century just past
occasional decided encouragement began to be given to physical
research. It was this condition which put into the hands of Humphry
Davy, of the Royal Institution in London, at the opening of the cen-
tury, a voltaic battery of some 250 pairs of plates. With this a
remarkably fruitful era of electric discovery began. In 1802 Davy
first showed the electric are or ** arch” onasmall scale between pieces
of carbon. He also laid the foundation for future electro-chemical
work by decomposing by the battery current potash and soda, and thus
isolating the alkali metals potassium and sodium for the first time.
This was in 1807, and the result was not only greatly to advance the
youthful science of chemistry, but to attract the attention of the world
to a new power in the hands of the scientific worker, the electric cur-
rent. A fund was soon subscribed by ‘‘a few zealous cultivators and
patrons of science” interested in the discovery of Davy, and he had at
his service in 1801 no less than 2,000 cells of voltaic battery. With
the intense currents obtained from it he again demonstrated the won-
‘derful and brilliant phenomenon of the electric are by closing the cir-
cuit of the battery through terminals of hard-wood charcoal and then
separating them fora short distance. A magnificent arch of flame was
maintained between the separated ends, and the light from the charcoal
pieces was of dazzling splendor. Thus was born into the world the
electric are light, of which there are now hundreds of thousands burn-
ing nightly in our country alone.

Davy probably never imagined that his brilliant experiment would
soon play so important a part in the lighting of the world. He may
never have regarded it as of any practical value. In fact, many years
elapsed before any further attempt was made to utilize the light of thé
electric are. The reason for this is not difficult to discover. The bat-
teries in existence were crude and gave only their full power for a very
short time after the circuit was closed. They were subject to the very
serious defect of rapid polarization, whereby the activity was at once
reduced. A long period elapsed before this defect was removed.
Davy, in his experiments, had also noted the very intense heat of the
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 335

electric are and found that but few substances escaped fusion or yola-
tilization when placed in the heated stream between the carbon
electrodes. Here again he was pioneer in every important and quite
recent electric work, employing the electric furnace, which has already
given rise to several new and valuable industries. :

The conduction of electricity along wires naturally led to efforts to
employ it in signaling. As early as 1774 attempts were made by Le
Sage of Geneva to apply frictional electricity to telegraphy. "His
work was followed before the close of the century by other similar
proposals. Volta’s discovery soon gave a renewed impetus to these
efforts. It was easy enough to stop and start a current in a line of
wire connecting two points, but something more than that was requi-
site. A good receiver, or means for recognizing the presence or
absence of current in the wire or circuit, did not exist. The art had
to wait for the discovery of the effects of electric currents upon mag-
nets and the production of magnetism by such currents. Curiously,
even in 1802, the fact that a wire conveying a current would deflect a
compass needle was observed by Romagnosi, of Trente, but it was
afterwards forgotten, and not until 1819 was any real advance made.

It was then that Oersted, of Copenhagen, showed that a magnet
tends to set itself at right angles to the wire conveying a current, and
that the direction of turning depends on the direction of the current.
The study of the magnetic effects of electric currents by Arago and
Ampére, and the production of the electro-magnet by Sturgeon, to-
gether with the very valuable work of Henry and others, made possi-
ble the completion of the electric telegraph. This was done by Morse
and Vail in America, and almost simultaneously by workers abroad;
but before Morse had entered the field Prof. Joseph Henry had exem-
plified by experiments the working of electric signaling by electro-
magnets over a short line. It was Henry, in fact, who first made a
practically useful electro-magnet of soft iron. The history of the
electric telegraph teaches us that to no single individual is the inven-
tion due. The Morse system had been demonstrated in 1837, but not
until 1844 was the first telegraph line built. It connected Baltimore
and Washington, and the funds for defraying its cost were obtained
from Congress only after a severe struggle. This can be easily under-
stood, for electricity had not up to that time ever been shown to have
any practical usefulness. The success of the Morse telegraph was
soon followed by the establishment of telegraph lines as a means of
communication between all the large cities and populous districts.
Searcely ten years elapsed before the possibility of a trans-Atlantic
telegraph was mooted. The cable laid in 1858 was a failure. A few
words passed and then the cable broke down completely. This was
found to be due to defects in construction. A renewed effort to lay a
cable was made in 1866, but disappointment again followed; the cable
336 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

broke in mid ocean and the work again ceased. The great task was suc-
cessfully accomplished in the following year, and the pluck and perti-
nacity of those who were staking their capital, if not their reputation for
business sagacity, were amply rewarded. Even the lost cable of 1866
was found, spliced to a new cable, and completed soon after as a sec-
ond working line. The delicate instruments for the working of these
long cables were due to the genius of Sir William Thomson, now Lord
Kelvin, whose other instruments for electrical measurement have for
years been a great factor in securing precision both in scientific and
practical testing. The number of cables joining the Eastern and West-
ern hemispheres has been increased from time to time, and the open-
ing of a new cable is now an ordinary occurrence calling for little or
no especial note.

The introduction of the electric telegraph was followed by the inven-
tionof various signaling systems, the most important being the fire-
alarm telegraph as suggested by Channing and worked out by Farmer.
We now, also, have automatic clock systems, in which a master clock
controls or gives movement to the hands of distant clock dials by elec-
tric currents sent out over the connecting or circuit wires. Automatic
electric signals are made when fire breaks out ina building, and alarms
are similarly rung when a burglar breaks in. Not only do we have
telegraphs which print words and characters—as in the stock ** ticker ”—
but in the form known as the teleautograph, invented by Dr. Elisha
Gray, the sender writes his message, which writing is at the same time
being reproduced at the receiving end of the line. Even pictures or
drawings are ‘‘ wired” by special instruments. The desirability of
making one wire connecting two points do a large amount of work,
and thus avoiding the addition of new lines, has led to two remarkable
developments of telegraphy. In the duplex, quadruplex, and multi-
plex systems several messages may at the same time be traversing a
single wire line without interference one with the other. In the rapid
automatic systems the working capacity of the line is increased by
special automatic transmitting machines and rapid recorders, and the
electric impulses in the line itself follow each other with great speed.

improvement in this field has by no means ceased, and new systems
for rapid transmission are yet being worked out. The object is to
enlarge the carrying capacity of existing lines connecting large cen-
ters of population. The names of Wheatstone, Stearns, Edison, and
Delaney are prominent in connection with this work. For use in
telegraphy the originally crude forms of voltaic battery—such as Davy
used—were replaced by the more perfect types—such as the constant
battery of Daniell, the nitric-acid battery of Grove, dating from 1836,
and the carbon battery of Bunsen, first brought out in 1842. Such
was the power of the Grove and Bunsen batteries that attention was
again called to the electric arc and to the possibility of its use for

ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. Son

electric illumination. Accordingly we find that suggestions were soon
made for electric-arc lamps to be operated by these more powerful and
constant sources of electric current. The first example of a working
type of an are lamp was that brought to notice by W. E. Staite, in
1847, and his description of the lamp and the conditions under which
it could be worked is a remarkably exact and full statement, consid-
ering the time of its appearance. Staite even anticipated the most
recent phase of development in are lighting, namely, the inclosure of
the light ina partially air-tight globe to prevent too rapid waste of
the carbons by combustion inthe air. Ina public address at Neweastle-
on-Tyne, in 1847, he advocated the use of the are so inclosed in
mines, as obviating the danger of fire. But it was a long time before
the electric arc acquired any importance as a practical illuminant.
There was, indeed, no hope of its success so long as the current had
to be obtained from batteries consuming chemicals and zinc. The
expense was too great and the batteries soon became exhausted. In
spite of this fact, occasional exhibitions of are lighting were made,
notably in 1856 by Lacassagne and Thiers in the streets of Paris.
For this service they had invented an arc lamp involving what is
known as the differential principle, afterwards applied so extensively
to are lamps. The length of the arc or the distance between the car-
bons of the lamp was controlled with great nicety, and the light thus
rendered very steady. Even as late as 1875 batteries were occasionally
used to work single electric arc lamps for public exhibitions, or for
demonstration purposes in the scientific departments of schools. The
discovery of the means of efficiently generating electricity from
mechanical power constitutes, however, the keynote of all the won-
derful electrical work of the closing years of the nineteenth century.
It made electrical energy available at low cost. Michael Faraday, a
most worthy successor of Davy at the Royal Institution, in studying
the relations between electric currents and magnets, made the exceed-
ingly important observation that a wire, if moved in the field of a
magnet, would yield a current of electricity. Simple as the discovery
was, its effect has been stupendous. Following his science for its own
sake, he unwittingly opened up possibilities of the greatest practical
moment. The fundamental principle of the future dynamo-electric
machine was discovered by him. This was in 1831. Faraday’s inves-
tigations were so complete and his deductions so masterly that little
was left to be done by others. Electro-magnetism was supplemented
by magneto-electricity. Both the electric motor and the dynamo gen-
erator were now potentially present with us. Faraday contented him-
self with pointing the way, leaving the technical engineer to follow.
Jn one of Faraday’s experiments a copper disk, mounted on an aX1s
passing through its center, was revolved between the poles of a large
338 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

steel magnet. A wire touched the periphery of the disk at a selected
position with respect to the magnet and another was in connection with
the axis. These wires were united through a galvanometer or instru-
ment for detecting electric current. A current was noted as present
in the circuit so long as the disk was turned. Here, then, was the
embryo dynamo. The century closes with single dynamo machines of
over 5,000 horsepower capacity and with single power stations in which
the total electric generation by such machines is 75,000 to 100,000 horse-
power. So perfect is the modern dynamo that out of 1,000 horsepower
expended in driving it 950 or more may be delivered to the electric line
as electric energy. The electric motor, now so common, is a machine
like the dynamo, in which the principle of action is simply reversed;
electric energy delivered from the lines becomes again mechanical
motion or power.

Soon after Faraday’s discoveries in magneto-electricity attempts
were made to construct generators of electricity from power; but the
machines were small, crude, and imperfect, and the results necessarily
meager.

Pixii, in Paris, one year after Faraday’s discovery was announced,
made a machine which embodied in its construction a simple commu-
tator for giving the currents a single direction of flow. This is the
prototype of the commutators now found on what are called contin-
uous-current dynamos. After Pixii followed Saxton, Clarke, Wheat-
stone and Cooke, Stohrer, and others, but not until 1854 was any very
notable improvement made or suggested. In that year Soren Hjorth,
of Copenhagen, described in a patent specification the principle of
‘ausing the electric currents generated to traverse coils of wire so
disposed as to reenforce the magnetic field of the machine itself. A
year subsequently the same idea was again more clearly set out by
Hjorth. This is the principle of the modern self-exciting dynamo, the
field magnets of which, very weak at the start, are built up or strength-
ened by the currents from the armature or revolving part of the
machine in which power is consumed to produce electricity.

In 1856 Dr. Werner Siemens, of Berlin, well known as a great pio-
neer in the electric arts, brought out the Siemens armature, an inno-
vation more valuable than any other made up to that time. This was
subsequently used in the powerful machines of Wilde and Ladd. It
still survives in magneto call-bell apparatus for such work as telephone
signaling, in exploders for mines and blasting, and in the simpler
types of electroplating dynamos. 4

The decade between 1860 and 1870 opened a new era in the construc-
tion and working of dynamo machines and motors. It is notable for
two advances of very great value and importance. Dr. Paccinotti, of
Florence, in 1860, described a machine by which true continuous cur-
rents resembling battery currents could be obtained. Up to that time
&

ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 339

machines gave either rapidly alternating or fluctuating currents, not
steady currents in one direction. The Paccinotti construction. in
modified forms, is now almost universally employed in dynamo
machines, and even where the form is now quite different the Pacci-
notti type has been at least the forerunner and has undergone modifi-
cations to suit special ends in view. Briefly, Paccinotti made his
armature of a ring of iron with iron projections, between which the
coils of insulated wire are wound. Although full descriptions of Pac-
cinotti’s ring armature and commutator were given out in 1864, his
work attracted but little attention until Gramme, in Paris, about 1870,
brought out the relatively perfect Gramme machine. In the mean-
time the other great development of the decade took place.

Although Hjorth had, as stated before, put forward the idea that a
dynamo generator might itself furnish currents for magnetizing its
own magnets, this valuable suggestion was not apparently worked out
until 1866, when a machine was constructed for Sir Charles Wheat-
stone. This appears to have been the first self-exciting machine in
existence. Wheatstone read a paper before the Royal Society in Feb-
ruary, 1867, *‘On the augmentation of the power of a magnet by the
reaction thereon of currents induced by the magnet itself.” This
action later became known as the reaction principle in dynamo
machines.

As often happens, the idea occurred to other workers in science
almost simultaneously, and Dr. Werner Siemens also read a paper in
Berlin about a month earlier than that of Wheatstone, clearly describ-
ing the reaction principle. Furthermore, a patent specification had
been filed in the British patent office by 8S. A. Varley, December 24,
1866, clearly showing the same principle of action, and he was, there-
fore, the first to put the matter on record. The time was ripe for
the appearance of machines closely resembling the types now in such
extended use. Gramme, in 1870, adopting a modified form of the
Paccinotti ring and commutator, and employing the reaction principle,
first succeeded in producing a highly efficient, compact, and durable
continuous-current dynamo. The Gramme machine was immediately
recognized as a great technical triumph. It was in a sense the culmi-
nation of many years of development, beginning with the early
attempts immediately following Faraday’s discovery already referred
to. Gramme constructed his revolving armature of a soft iron wire
ring, upon which ring a series of small coils of insulated wire were
wound in successive radial planes. These coils were all connected
into a continuous wire, and from the junctions of the coils one with
another connections were taken to a range of copper bars insulated
from each other, constituting the commutator. In 1872 Von Hefner
Alteneck, in Berlin, modified the ring winding of Gramme, and pro-
duced the ‘‘ drum winding,” which avoided the necessity for threading
340 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

wire through the center of the iron ring, as in the Gramme construe-
tion. The several coils of the drum were still connected, as in
Gramme’s machine, to the successive strips of the commutator.

In modern dynamos and motors the armature, usually constructed
of sheet-iron punchings, is a ring with projections, as in Paccinotti’s
machine, and the coils of wire are in most cases wound separately and
then placed in the spaces between the projections, constituting in fact
a form of drum winding. In the early seventies a few Gramme ring
and Siemens drum machines had been applied to the running of are
lights, one machine for each light. There were also some Gramme
machines in use for electroplating.

In all dynamos in practical use the currents which are generated are
alternating currents, as they are called. Such currents are character-
ized by rapid changes of direction or reversals. These occur many
times per second, and when such currents are to be made into contin-
uous currents flowing in one direction, the machine is provided with a
commutator for connecting the coils to the circuit, so that the current
will always flow in it in the same direction. Great numbers of dynamos,
however, are used without commutators for changing the direction of
their currents. In such machines the circuit receives, instead of con-
tinuous currents, waves of current or alternating currents. As with
sound, the waves have a pitch—i. e., they follow each other at a certain
number of times per second. In usual practice there will be from 25
waves, which would be a low period, up to 150 or more per second, but
machines can be constructed to produce alternating currents of many
thousand waves or cycles (as they are termed) per second for special
uses. When an alternating current flows from a line, there are times
when the current is changing from one direction to the other and
when there is actually no current, and these are called the zeros or
dead points of the current. Much of the machinery developed in later
years has been of the alternating-current type, generators, motors, etc.,
utilizing these rapidly reversing currents.

At the Centennial Exhibition, held at Philadelphia in 1876, but two
exhibits of electric-lighting apparatus were to be found. Of these one
was the Gramme and the other the Wallace-Farmer exhibit. The
Wallace-Farmer dynamo machine is a type now obsolete. It was nota
good design, but the Wallace exhibit contained other examples reflect-
ing great credit upon this American pioneer in dynamo work. Some
of these machines were very similar in construction to later forms
which went into very extensive use. The large searchlights occasion-
ally used in night illumination during the exhibition were operated by
the current from Wallace-Farmer machines. The Gramme exhibit
was a remarkable exhibit for its time. 'Though not extensive, it was
most instructive. There were found in it a dynamo running an are
lamp, a large machine for electrolytic work, such as electroplating and
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 341

electrotyping, and, most novel and interesting of all, one Gramme
machine driven by power was connected to another by a pair of wires
and the second ran as a motor. This in turn drove a centrifugal pump
and raised water which flowed in a small fall or cataract. A year or
two previously the Gramme machine had been accidentally found to be
as excellent an electric motor as it wasa generating dynamo. The crude
motors of Jacobi, Froment, Davenport, Page, Verenes, Gaume. and
many others, were thus rendered obsolete at a stroke. The first public
demonstration of the working of one Gramme machine by another was
made by Fontaine at the Vienna Exhibition of 1873.

Here, then, was a foreshadowing of the great electric power trans-
mission plants of to-day; the suggestion of the electric station furnish-
ing power as well as light, and to a less degree the promise of future
railways using electric power. Replace the centrifugal pump of this
modest exhibit by a turbine wheel, reverse the flow of water so as to
cause it to drive the electric motor so that the machine becomes a
dynamo, and in like manner make of the dynamo a motor, and we
exemplify in a simple way recent great enterprises using water power
for the generation of the current to be transmitted over lines to distant
electric motors or lights.

The Centennial Exhibition also marks the beginning, the very birth,
it may be said, of an electric invention destined to become, before the
close of the century, a most potent factor in human affairs. The speak-
ing telephone of Alexander Graham Bell was there exhibited for the first
time to the savants, among whom was the distinguished electrician and
scientist, Sir William Thomson. For the first time in the history of
the world a structure of copper wire and iron spoke to a listening ear.
Nay, more, it both listened to the voice of the speaker and repeated
the voice at a far-distant point. The instruments, were, moreover,
the acme of simplicity. Within a year many a boy had constructed a
pair of telephones at an expenditure for material of only a few pennies.
In its first form the transmitting telephone was the counterpart of the
receiver, and they were reversible in function. The transmitter was
in reality a minute dynamo driven by the aérial voice waves; the
receiver, a vibratory motor, worked by the vibratory currents from
the transmitter and reproducing the aérial motions. This arrange-
ment, most beautiful in theory, was only suited for use on short
lines, and was soon afterwards replaced by various forms of carbon
microphone transmitter, to the production of which many inventors
had turned their attention, notably Edison, Hughes, Blake, and Hun-
nings. In modern transmitters the voice wave does not furnish the
power to generate the telephone current, but only controls the flow of
an already existing current from a battery. In this way the effects
obtainable may be made sufficiently powerful for transmission to
listeners 1,500 miles away.
342 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

There is no need to dwell here upon the enormous saving of time
secured by the telephone and the profound effect its introduction has
had upon business and social life. The situation is too palpable.
Nevertheless, few users of this wonderful invention realize how much
thought and skill have been employed in working out the details of
exchange switchboards, of signaling devices, of underground cables
and overhead wires, and of the speaking instruments themselves. Few
of those who talk between Boston and Chicago know that in doing so
they have for the exclusive use of their voices a total of over 1,000,000
pounds of copper wire in the single line. There probably exist now
in the United States alone between 75,000 and 100,000 miles of hard
drawn copper wire for long-distance telephone service, and over
150,000 miles of wire in underground conduits. There are upward
of 750,000 telephones in the United States, and including both over-
head and underground lines, a total of more than 500,000 miles of
wire. Approximately, 1,000,000,000 conversations are annually con-
veyed.

The possibility of suboceanic telephoning is frequently discussed,
but the problem thus far is not solved. It involves grave difficulties
and we may hope that its solution is to be one of the advances which
will mark the coming century’s progress. The advent of the telephone
in 1876 seemed to stimulate invention in the electric field to a remark-
able degree. Its immediate commercial success probably acted also to
inspire confidence in other proposed electric enterprises. Greater
attention than ever before began to be given to the problem of electric”
lighting. An electric arc-lamp, probably the only one in regular use,
had been installed at Dungeness light-house in 1862, after a long set
of trials and tests. It was fed by a Holmes magneto-electric machine
ot the old type, very large and cumbrous for the work. Numerous
changes and improvements had before 1878 been made in arc lamps by
Serrin, Duboseq, and many others, but the display of electric light
during the Paris Exposition of 1878 was the first memorable use of
the electric light on a large scale. The splendid illumination of the
Avenue de Opéra was a grand object lesson. The source of light was
the ‘‘electric candle” of Paul Jablochkoff, a Russian engineer. It was
a strikingly original and simple are lamp. Instead of placing the
two carbons point to point, as had been done in nearly all previous
lamps, he placed them side by side with a strip of baked kaolin between
them. The candle so formed was supported in a suitable holder
whereby at the lower end the two parallel carbons were connected
with the circuit terminals. By a suitable device the are was started
at the top and burned down. ‘The electric candle seemed to solve the
problem of allowing complicated mechanism for feeding the carbons
to be discarded; but it survived only a short time. Owing to unfore-
seen difficulties it was gradually abandoned after having served a great
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 343

Ito

purpose in directing the attention of the world to the possibilities of
the electric arc in lighting.

Inventors in America were not idle. By the close of 1878 Brush of
Cleveland had brought out his series system of are lights, including
special dynamos, lamps, etc., and by the middle of 1879 had in opera-
tion machines, each capable of maintaining sixteen are lamps on one
wire. This was indeed a great achievement for that time. Weston.
of Newark, had also in operation circuits of arc lamps, and the Thomson-
Houston system had just started in commercial work with eight are
lamps in series from a single dynamo. Maxim and Fuller in New
York were working are lamps from their machines, and capital was
being rapidly invested in new enterprises for electric lighting. Some
of the great electric manufacturing concerns of to-day had their begin-
ning at that time. Central lighting stations began to be established
in cities, and the use of arc lights in street illumination and in stores
grew rapidly. More perfect forms of light arc lamps were invented,
better generating dynamos and regulating apparatus brought out.
Factories for are-light carbon making were built. The first special
electrical exhibition was held in Paris in 1881. In the early eighties
also the business of are lighting had become firmly established and
soon the bulk of the work was done under two of the leading systems.

These were afterwards brought together under one control, thus secur-
ing in the apparatus manufactured a combination of the good features
of both. Until about 1892 nearly all the are lamps in use were worked
under the series system, in which the lights were connected one after
another on a circuit and traversed by the same current. This current
has a standard value or is a constant current. Sometimes as many as
a hundred lamps were on one wire. As the mains for the supply of
incandescent lamps at constant pressure or potential were extended
attention was more strongly turned to the possibility of working are
lights therefrom.

Within a few years of the close of the century this placing of arc
lamps in branches from the same mains which supply incandescent
lamps became common, and the inclosure of the are in a partially air-
tight globe, a procedure advocated by Staite in 1847, was revived by
Howard, Marks, and others for saving carbons and attention to the
lamp. The inclosed arc lamp was also found to be especially adapted
to use in branches of the incandescent lamp circuits, which had in cities
become greatly extended. The increasing employment of alternating
currents in the distribution of electric energy has led also to the use of
alternating current are lamps, and special current-regulating apparatus
is now being applied on a large scale to extended circuits of these
lamps. It can beseen from these facts that the art is still rapidly pro-
gressing and the field ever widening. A little over twen'y years ago
practically no arc lamps were used. Now, at the close of the century,
344 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

they are numbered by hundreds of thousands. The annual consump-
tion of carbons in this country has reached 200,000,000.

Almost simultaneously with the beginning of the commercial work
of are lighting, Edison, in a successful effort to provide a small electric
lamp for general distribution in place of gas, brought to public notice
his carbon filament incandescent lamp.

A considerable amount of progress had previously been made by
various workers in attempting to reduce the volume of light in each
lamp and increase the number of lights for a given power expended.
Forms of incandescent are lamps or semiincandescent lamps were tried
on a considerable scale abroad, but none have survived. So, also, many
attempts to produce alamp giving light by pure incandescence of solid
conductors proved for the most part abortive. Edison himself worked
for nearly two years on a lamp based upon the old idea of incandescent
platinum strips or wires, but without success. The announcement of
this lamp caused a heavy drop in gas shares long before the problem
was really solved by a masterly stroke in his carbon filament lamp.
Curiously, the nearest approach to the carbon filament lamp had been
made in 1845 by Starr, an American, who described in a British patent
specification a lamp in which electric current passed through a thin
strip of carbon, kept it heated white when surrounded by a glass bulb
in which a vacuum was maintained. Starr had exhibited his lamps to »
Faraday in England and was preparing to construct dynamos to fur-
nish electric current for them in place of batteries, but sudden death
put an end to his labors. The specification describing his lamp is per-
haps the earliest description of an incandescent lamp of any promise,
and the subsequently recorded ideas of inventors up to the work of
Edison seem now almost in the nature of retrograde movements.
None of them was successful commercially. Starr, who was only 25
years of age, is reported to have died of overwork and worry in his
efforts to perfect his invention. His ideas were evidently far in
advance of his time.

The Edison lamp differed from those which preceded it in the ex-
tremely small section of the carbon strip rendered hot by the current
and in the perfection of the vacuum in which it was mounted. The
filament was first made of carbonized paper and afterwards of bamboo
carbon. The modern incandescent lamp has for years past been pro-
vided with a filament made by a chemical process. The carbon formed
is exceedingly homogeneous and of uniform electric resistance. Edison
first exhibited his lamp in his laboratory at Menlopark, N. J., in
December, 1879, but before it could be properly utilized an enormous
amount of work had to bedone. His task was not merely the improve-
ment of an art already existing, it was the creation of a new art.
Special dynamo machines had to be invented and constructed for work-
ing the lamps, switches were needed for connecting and disconnecting
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 845

lamps and groups of lamps, meters for measuring the consumption of
electric energy were wanted, safety fuses and cut-offs had to be pro-
vided, electroliers, or fixtures, to support the lamps were required, and,
lastly, a complete system of underground mains with appurtenances
was a requisite for city plants.

Even the steam engines for driving the dynamos had to be remodeled
and improved for electric work, and ten years of electric lighting
development did more toward the refinement and perfection of steam
engines than fifty years preceding. Steadiness of lights meant the
preservation of steady speed in the driving machinery. The Pearl
Street station, in New York City, was the first installation for the
supply of current for incandescent lighting in a city district. The
constant-pressure dynamos were gradually improved and enlarged.
The details of all parts of the system were made more perfect, and in
the hands of Edison and others the incandescent lamps, originally of
high cost, were much cheapened and the quality of the production
was greatly improved. Lamps originally cost $1 each. The best
lamps that are made can be had at present for about one-fifth that
price. Millions of incandescent lamps are annually manufactured.
Great lighting stations furnish the current for the working of these
lamps, some stations containing machinery aggregating many thou-
sands of horsepower capacity. Not only do these stations furnish
electric energy for the working of arc lamps and incandescent lamps,
but in addition for innumerable motors ranging in size from the small
desk fan of one-tenth horsepower up to those of hundreds of horse-
power. The larger sizes replace steam or hydraulic power for elevators,
and many are used in shops or factories for driving machinery, such
as printing presses, machinery tools, and the like.

In spite of the fact that it was well known that a good dynamo when
reversed could be made a source of power, few electric motors were
in use until a considerable time after the establishment of the first
lighting stations. Even in 1884, at the Philadelphia Electrical Exhi-
bition, only a few electric motors were shown. Not until 1886 or
thereafter did the ‘“‘motor load” of an electric station begin to be a
factor in its business success. The motors supplied are an advanta-
geous adjunct, inasmuch as they provide a day load, increasing the out-
put of the station at a time when the lighting load is small and when
the machinery in consequence would, without them, have to remain
idle. The growth of the application of electric motors in the closing
years of the century has been phenomenal, even leaving out of consid-
eration their use in electric railways.

- Twenty years ago an electric motor was a curiosity; fifty years ago
crude examples run by batteries were only to be occasionally found in
cabinets of scientific apparatus. Machinery Hall at the Centennial
Exhibition of 1876 typified the mill of the past, never again to be
346 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

reproduced, with its huge engines and lines of heavy shafting and belts
conveying power to the different tools or machines in operation. The
modern mill or factory has its engines and dynamos located wherever
convenient, its electric lines and numerous motors connected thereto,
and each of them either driving comparatively short lines of shafting
or attached to drive single pieces of machinery. The wilderness of
belts and pulleys which used to characterize a factory is gradually being
cleared away and electric distribution of power substituted. More-
over, the lighting of the modern mill or factory is done from the same
electric plant which distributes power.

The electric motor has already partly revolutionized the distribution
of power for stationary machinery, but as applied to railways in place
of animal power the revolution is complete. The period which has
elapsed since the first introduction of electric railways is barely a dozen
years. It is true that a few tentative experiments in electric traction
were made some time in advance of 1888, notably by Siemens, in Ber-
lin, in 1879 and 1880, by Stephen D. Field, by T. A. Edison at Menlo-
park, by J. C. Henry, by Charles A. Van Depoele, and others. If we
look further back, we find efforts, such as that of Farmer in 1847, to
propel railway cars by electric motors driven by current from batteries
carried on the cars. These efforts were of course doomed to failure
for economical reasons. Electric energy from primary batteries was
too costly, and if it had been cheaper the types of electric motor used
yielded so small a return of power for the electric energy spent in
driving them that commercial success was out of the question. These
sarly efforts were, however, instructive, and may now be regarded as
highly suggestive of later work. Traction by the use of storage bat-
teries carried on an electric car has been tried repeatedly, but appears
not to be able to compete with systems of direct supply from electric
lines. The plan survives, however, in the electric automobiles, many
of which have been put into service within a year or two. The electric
atuitomobile is not well fitted for country touring; it is best adapted to
cities, where facilities for charging and caring for the batteries can be
had. However, the electric carriage is of all automobile carriages the
most easily controlled, most ready; it emits no smell or hot gases and
is nearly noiseless.

About 1850 Hall, a well-known instrument maker of Boston, cata-
logued a small toy electric locomotive dragging a car upon rails which
were insulated and connected with a stationary battery of two Grove
célls. This arrangement was sold as a piece of a scientific apparatus,
and appears to be the first example of an electrically driven vehicle
connected by rolling contacts to an immovable energy source. Other.
early experimenters, such as Siemens, Field, and Daft, subsequently to
Hall, used in actual railway work the supply by insulated tracks.
This was supplanted later by overhead insulated wires or by the insu-
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 347

lated third rail. Siemens & Halske, of Berlin, used a special form of
overhead supply in 1881, and during the electrical exhibition in Paris
in that year a street tramway line was run by them. Later Edison
experimented with a third rail supply line at Menlopark, and at
Portrush, in Ireland, an actual railway was put into operation by
Siemens & Halske using the third rail system. This was about 1883.
The power of the Portrush railway was that of a water wheel driving
the generating dynamo. .

The modern overhead trolley, or underrunning trolley, as it is
called, seems to have been first invented by Van Depoele, and used
by him in practical electric railway work about 1886 and thereafter.
The universality of this invention for overhead supply marks the
device as a really important advance in the art of electric traction.
Van Depoele was also a pioneer in the use of an underground conduit,
which he employed successfully in Toronto in 1884. The names of
Edward M. Bentley and Walter H. Knight stand out prominently in
connection with the first use of an underground conduit, tried under
their plans in August, 1884, at Cleveland, on the tracks of the horse
railway company.

We have barely outlined the history of the electric motor railway
up to the beginning of a period of wonderful development result-
ing in the almost complete replacement by electric traction of horse
traction or tramway lines, all within an interval of scarcely more than
ten years. ;

The year 1888 may be said to mark the beginning of this work. In
that year the Sprague Company, with Frank J. Sprague at its head,
put into operation the electric line at Richmond, Va., using the under-
running trolley. Mr. Sprague had been associated with Edison in
early traction work, and was well known in connection with electric
motor work in general. The Richmond line was the first large under-
taking. It had about 13 miles of track, numerous curves, and grades
of from 3 to 10 per cent. The enterprise was one of great hardihood,
and but for ample financial backing and determination to spare no
effort or expenditure conducive to success, must certainly have failed.
The motors were too small for the work, and there had not been found
any proper substitute for the metal commutator brushes on the
motors—a source of endless trouble and of an enormous expense for
repairs. Nevertheless, the Richmond installation, kept in operation
as it was in spite of all difficulties, served as an object lesson and had
the effect of convincing Mr. Henry M. Whitney and the directors of
the West End Street Railway of Boston of the feasibility of equipping
the entire railway system of Boston electrically. Meanwhile the
merging of the Van Depoele and Bentley-Knight interests into the
Thomson-Houston Electric Light Company brought a new factor Into
the field, the Sprague interests being likewise merged with the Edison
General Electric Company.
348 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

The West End Company, with 200 miles of track in and around
Boston, began to equip its lines in 1888 with the Thomson-Houston
plant. The success of this great undertaking left no doubt of the
future of electric traction. The difficulties which had seriously
threatened future success were gradually removed.

The electric railway progress was so great in the United States that
about January 1, 1891, there were more than 240 lines in operation.
About 30,000 horses and mules were replaced by electric power in the
single year of 1891. In 1892 the Thomson-Houston interests and
those of the Edison General Company were merged in the General
Electric Company, an event of unusual importance, as it brought
together the two great competitors in electric traction at that date.
Other electric manufacturers, chief among which was the Westing-
house Company, also entered the field and became prominent factors
in railway extension. In a few years horse traction in the United
States on tramway lines virtually disappeared. Many cable lines were
converted to electric lines, and projects such as the Boston Subway
began to be planned. Not the least of the advantages of electric
traction is the higher speed attainable with safety. The comfort and
cleanliness of the cars, lighted brilliantly at night and heated in win-
ter by the same source of energy which is used to propel them, are
important factors.

All these things, together with the great extension of the lines into
suburban and country districts, and the interconnection of the lines of
one district with those of another, can not fail to have had a decidedly
beneficial effect upon the life, habits, and health of the people. While
the United States and Canada have been and still are the theater of
the enormous electric advance in electric traction, as in other electric
works, many electric car lines have in recent years been established in
Great Britain and on the Continent of Europe. Countries like Japan,
Australia, South Africa, and South America have. also in operation
many electric trolley lines, and the work is rapidly extending. Most
of this work, even in Europe, has been carried out either by importa-
tion of equipment from America or by apparatus manufactured there,
but following American practice closely. The bulk of the work has
been done with the overhead wire and under running trolley, but there
are notable instances of the use of electric conductors in underground
slotted conduits, chief of which are the great systems of street railway
in New York City.

In Chicago the application of motor cars in trains upon the elevated
railway followed directly upon the practical demonstration at the
World’s Fair of the capabilities of third-rail electric traction on the
Intramural Elevated Railway, and the system is rapidly extending so
as to include all elevated city roads. A few years will doubtless see
the great change accomplished,
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. B49

The motor car, or car propelled by its own motors, has also been
introduced upon standard steam roads to a limited extent as a supple-
ment to steam traction. The earliest of these installations are the one
at Nantasket, Mass., and that between Hartford and New Britain. in
Connecticut. A number of special high-speed lines using similar plans
have gone into operation in recent years. The problem of construct ing
electric motors of sufficient robustness for heavy work and controlling
them effectively was not an easy one, and the difficulties were increased
greatly because of the placing of the motors under the car body,
exposed to wet, to dust, and dirt of road. The advantage of the motor
car or motor-car train is that the traction or hold upon the track
increases with the increase of the weight or load carried. It is thus
able to be accelerated rapidly after a stop and also climb steep grades
without slipping its wheels. Nevertheless there are circumstances
which favor the employment of a locomotive at the head of a train, as
in steam practice. This is the case in mines where trains of coal cars
or ore cars are drawn by electric mining locomotives. Many such
plants are in operation, and at the same time the electric power is used
to drive fans for ventilating, pumps for drainage, electric hoists, ete.,
besides being used for lighting the mines. ‘The trains in the tunnels
of the Metropolitan Underground Railway of London have for many
years been operated by steam locomotives, with the inevitable escape
of steam, foul, suffocating gases, and more or less soot.

A number of years ago the tunnel of the City and South London
Railway was put into successful operation with electric locomotives
drawing the trains of cars, and the nuisance caused by steam avoided.
This work recalls the early efforts of Field, of Daft, and Bentley &
Knight in providing an electric locomotive for replacing the steam
plant of the elevated roads in New York City. Well conceived as
many of these plans were, electric traction had not reached a sufficient
development, and the efforts were abandoned after several more or
less successful trials. It is now seen that the motor-car train may
advantageously replace the locomotive-drawn train in such instances as
these elevated railways.

The three largest and most powerful electric locomotives ever put
into service are those which are employed to take trains through the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad tunnel at Baltimore. Whey have been
in service about seven or eight years, and are fully equal in power to
the large steam locomotives used on steam roads. Frequently trains
of cars, including the steam locomotive itself, are drawn through the
tunnel by these huge electric engines, the fires on the steam machines
being for the time checked so as to prevent fouling the air of the
tunnel. There was opened in London in 1900 a new railway, called the
Central Underground, equipped with twenty-six electric locomotives
for drawing its trains. The electric and power equipment, which

SM 1900 25

350 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

embodied in itself the latest results of American practice, was also
manufactured in America to suit the needs of the road. Other similar
railways are in contemplation in London and in other cities of Europe.
As on the elevated roads in New York City, the replacement of
underground steam traction, where it exists, by electric traction is
evidently only a question of a few years.

An electric railway may exemplify a power transmission system in
which power is delivered to moving vehicles. But the distances so
covered are not generally more than a few miles from the generating
station. Where, however, abundant water power exists, as at Niag-
ara, or where fuel is very expensive and power is to be had only at
great distances from the place at which it is to be used, electricity fur-
nishes the most effective means for transmission and distribution.
Between the years 1880 and 1890 the device called the alternating cur-
rent transformer was developed to a considerable degree of perfection.
It is in reality a modified induction coil, consisting of copper wire and
iron, whereby a current sent through one of its coils will induce simi-
lar currents in the other coils of apparatus. It has the great advan-
tage of having no moving parts. Faraday, in 1831, discovered the
fundamental principle of the modern transformer. Not only, how-
ever, will the current in one coil of the apparatus generate by induc-
tion a new current in an entirely separate coil or circuit, but by
suitably proportioning the windings we may exchange, as it were, a
large low-pressure current for a small but high-pressure current, or
vice versa. This exchange may be made with a very small percentage
of loss of energy. These valuable properties of the transformer have
rendered it of supreme importance in recent electrical extension. The
first use made of it, in 1885-86, was to transform a high-pressure cur-
rent into one of low pressure in electric lighting, enabling a small wire
to be used to convey electric energy at high pressure and without
much loss to a long distance from the station. This energy at high
pressure reaches the transformer placed within or close to the building
to be lighted. A low-pressure safe current is conveyed from the
transformer to the wires connected to the lamps. In this way a cur-
rent of 2,000 volts, an unsafe and unsuitable pressure for incandescent
lighting, is exchanged for one of about 100 volts, which is quite safe.
In this way also the supply station is enabled to reach a customer too
far away to be supplied directly with current at 100 volts without enor-
mous expense for copper conductors.

The alternating current transformer not only greatly extended the
radius of supply from a single station, but also enabled the station to
be conveniently located where water and coal could be had without
difficulty. It also permitted the distant water powers to become
sources of electric energy for lighting, power, or for other service.
For example, a water power located at a distance of 50 to 100 miles or
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 3 Fay |

t

more from a city or from a large manufacturing center where cost of
fuel is high may be utilized as follows: A power station will be
located upon the site of the water power and the dynamos therein will
generate electricity at, say, 2,000 volts pressure. By means of step-up
transformers this will be exchanged for a current of 30,000 volts for
transmission over a line of copper or aluminum wire to the distant
consumption area. Here there will be a set of step-down transformers
which will exchange the 30,000 volt line current for one of so low a
pressure as to be safe for local distribution to lamps, to motors, ete.,
either stationary or upon a railway. The same transmission plant
may simultaneously supply energy for lighting, for power, for heat,
and for charging storage batteries. It may therefore be employed
both day and night.

These long-distance power-transmission plants are generally spoken
of as ‘‘two-phase,” ‘* three-phase,” or ‘* polyphase” systems. Before
1890 no such plants existed. A large number of such installations are

_now working over distances of a few miles up to 100 miles. They differ

from what are known as single-phase alternating systems in employing,
instead of a single alternating current, two, three, or more, which are
sent over separate lines, in which the electric impulses are not simul-
taneous, but follow each other in regular succession, overlapping each
other’s dead points, so to speak. Early suggestions of such a plan,
about 1880 and thereafter, by Baily, Deprez, and others bore no fruit,
and not until Tesla’s announcement of his polyphase system in 1888
was much attention given to the subject. A widespread interest in
Tesla’s work was invoked, but several years elapsed before engineering

difficulties were overcome. This work was done mainly by the tech-

nical staffs of the large manufacturing companies, and it was necessary
to be done before any notable power transmissions on the polyphase
system could be established. After 1892 the growth became very rapid.

The Falls of Niagara early attracted the attention of engineers to the
possibility of utilizing at least a fraction of the power. It was seen
that several hundred thousand horsepower might be drawn from it
without materially affecting the fall, itself equivalent to several millions
of horsepower. A gigantic power station has lately been established
at Niagara, taking water from a distance above the falls and deliver-
ing it below the falls through a long tunnel, which forms the tailrace.
Ten water wheels, located in an immense wheel pit about 200 feet deep,

each wheel of a capacity of 5,000 horsepower, drive large vertical

shafts, at the upper end of which are located the large two-phase

-dynamos, each of 5,000 horsepower. The electric energy from these

machines is in part raised in pressure by huge transformers for trans-
mission to distant points, such as the city of Buffalo, and a large
portion is delivered to the numerous manufacturing plants located at
moderate distances from the power station. Besides the supply of

©
352 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

energy for lighting and for motors, including railways, other recent
uses of electricity to which we have not yet alluded are splendidly
exemplified at Niagara. Davy’s brilliant discovery of the alkali metals,
sodium and potassium, at the opening of the century, showed the great
chemical energy of the electric current. Its actions were afterwards
carefully studied, notably by the illustrious Faraday, whose discoveries
in connection with magnetism and magneto-electricity have been briefly
described. The electric current was found to act as a most potent
chemical force, decomposing and recomposing many chemical com-
pounds, dissolving and depositing metals. Hence early in the century
arose the art of electroplating of metals, such as electro-gilding, silver-
plating, nickel-plating, and copper deposition, as in electrotyping.
These arts are now practiced on a very large scale, and naturally have
affected the whole course of manufacturing methods during the cen-
tury. Moreover, since the introduction of dynamo current electrolysis
has come to be employed in huge plants, not only for separating metals
from each other, as in refining them, but in addition for separating
them from their ores, for the manufacture of chemical compounds
before unknown, and for the cheap production of numerous substances
of use in the various arts on a large scale. Vast quantities of copper
are refined and silver and gold often obtained from residues in sufficient
amount to pay well for the process.

At Niagara also are works for the production of the metal alumi-
num from its ores. Similar works exist at other places here and
abroad where power is cheap. This metal, which competes in price
with brass, bulk for bulk, was only obtainable before its electric re-
duction at $25 to $30 per pound. ‘The metal sodium is also extracted
from soda. A large plant at Niagara also uses the electric current for
the manufacture of chlorine for bleach, and caustic soda, both from
common salt. Chlorate of potassium is also made at Niagara by
electrolysis. The field of electro-chemistry is indeed full of great
future possibilities. Large furnaces heated by electricity, a single
one of which will consume more than a thousand horsepower, exist
at Niagara. In these furnaces is manufactured from coke and sand,
by the Acheson process, an abrasive material called carborundum,
which is almost as hard as diamond, but quite low in cost. It_is made
into slabs and into wheels for grinding hard substances.. The electric
furnace furnishes also the means for producing artificial plumbago, or
graphite, almost perfectly pure, the raw material being coke powder.

A large amount of power from Niagara is also consumed for the
production in special electric are furnaces of carbide of calcium from
coke and lime. This is the source of acetylene gas, the new illumi-
nant, which is generated when water is brought into contact with the —
carbide. The high temperature of the electric furnace thus renders —
possible chemical actions which under ordinary furnace heat would
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 353

. Oy

not take place. Henri Moissan, a French scientist, well known for
his brilliant researches in electric furnace work, has even shown that
real diamonds can be made under special conditions in the electric
furnace. He has, in fact, probably practiced in a small way what has
occurred on a grand scale in nature, resulting in diamond fields such
as those at Kimberley. One less problem is thus left to be solved.
The electro-chemical and kindred arts are practiced, not alone at
Niagara, but at many other places where power is cheap. Extensive
plants have grown up, mostly within the five years before the close of
the century. All of the great developments in this field have come
about within the last decade.

The use of electricity for heating is not confined to electric fur-
naces, in which the exceedingly high temperature obtainable is the
factor giving rise to success. While it is not likely that electricity
will soon be used for general heating, special instances, such as the
warming of electric cars in winter by electric heaters, the operation
of cooking appliances by electric current, the heating of sad-irons
and the like, give evidence of the possibilities should there ever be
found means for the generation of electric energy from fuel with such
high efficiency as 80 per cent or more. Present methods give, under
most favorable conditions, barely 10 per cent, 90 per cent of the
energy value of the fuel being unavoidably wasted.

Another application of the heating power of electric currents is
found in the Thomson electric welding process, the development of
which has practically taken place in the past ten years. In this proc-
ess an exceedingly large current, at very low electric pressure,
traverses a joint between two pieces of metal to be united. It heats
the joint to fusion or softening ; the pieces are pushed together and
welded. Here the heat is generated in the solid metal, for at no time
during the operation are the pieces separated. The current is usually
obtained from a welding transformer, an example of an extreme type
of stepdown transformer. Current at several hundred volts passed
into the primary winding is exchanged for an enormous current at
only 2 or 3 volts in the welding circuit in which the work is done.
The present uses of this electric welding process are numerous and
varied. Pieces of most of the metals and alloys before regarded as
unweldable are capable of being joined, not only to pieces of the same
metal, but also to different metals. Electric welding is applied on the
large scale for making joints in wires or rods, for welding wagon and
carriage wheel tires, for making barrel hoops and bands for pails, tor
axles of vehicles, and for carriage framing. It has given rise to special
manufactures, such as electrically welded steel pipe or tube, wire
fencing, ete. It is used for welding together the joints of street-car
rails, for welding teeth in saws, for making many parts of bicycles, and
354 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

in tool making. An instance of its peculiar adaptability to unusual
conditions is the welding of the iron bands embedded within the body
of a rubber vehicle tire for holding the tire in place. For this pur-
pose the electric weld has been found almost essential.

Another branch of electric development concerns the storage of
electricity. The storage battery is based upon principles discovered
by Gaston Planté, and applied since 1881 by Brush, by Faure, and
others. Some of the larger lighting stations employ as reservoirs of
electric energy large batteries charged by surplus dynamo current.
This is afterwards drawn upon when the consumer’s load is heavy,
as during the evening. The storage battery is, however, a heavy,
cumbrous apparatus, of limited life, easily destroyed unless guarded
with skill. Ifa form not possessing these faults be ever found, the
field of possible application is almost limitless.

There is no space here to deal with the developments of the use of
electricity in the employment of the physiological powers of the elec-
trical current which have given rise to the science of electro-thera-
peutics. It is probably true that electricity is finally to be one of the
most potent agencies in the treatment of disease and in the alleviation
of human suffering; but unfortunately the name *‘ electricity ” is often
made use of by the quack and charlatan to put forward wares in the
form of electric belts, electric insoles, electric combs, and what not,
the effect of which is absolutely nil except in the imagination of the
user. There are also devices which do, in fact, produce slight elec-
trical effects, which are paraded as panaceas for serious ills, when in
reality their electrical effects amount to nothing and their therapeutic
value is less than nothing.

There is no space, either, to dilate upon the possibilities in an artistic
way which have arisen in the development of electricity for lighting.
Magnificent effects, scenic and otherwise, are now within the reach of
the artist. The great international expositions have in late years been
characterized by the profusion of such effects depending on electricity.

The above by no means complete account of the progress in electric
applications during the century just closed should properly be supple-
mented by an account of the accompanying great advances regarded
from the purely scientific aspect. It is, however, only possible to
make a brief reference thereto within the limits of this article. The
scientific study of electricity and the application of mathematical
methods in its treatment have kept busy a host of workers and drawn
upon the resources of the ablest minds the age has produced. Gauss,
Weber, Ampere, Faraday, Maxwell, and Helmholtz are no longer with
us. Of the early founders of the science we have yet such men as Lord
Kelvin, formerly Sir William Thomson, Mascart, and others, still
zealous in scientific work. Following them are a large number notable
for valuable contributions to the progress of electrical science, in dis_
ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 355

coveries, in research, and in mathematical treatment of the yarious
problems presented. Modern magnetism took form in the hands of
Rowland, Hopkinson, Ewing, and many other able workers.

-Has science any answer to make to the question, What is electricity 2
We think not; nor has it any answer to make to the question, What is
energy? The most that science can possibly expect to do is to extend
our horizon and permit us to acquire a deeper knowledge of the inti-
mate relations of things. We speak of the ether as the electrical
medium, and we acquire more and more knowledge of its properties
and actions as the years go by. Facts are gradually being accumulated
by workers in all departments of science, and there must follow gen-
eralizations which will bring into harmony the present discordancies
where they appear. It will probably be found that the electrical
properties of the ether are the fundamental ones on which the universe
is built and that the properties of matter, which we speak of as
mass, weight, inertia, cohesion, elasticity, etc., are dependent upon or
have their origin in the ether properties. Perhaps, just as light and
radiant heat have been shown to be electrical vibrations, gravitation
and the other properties may follow. True it is that electrical laws
are most simple, most definite. Electrical measurements can be made
with the utmost accuracy and delicacy. Indications these are of its
fundamental and universal character.

In order to account for the passage of light, radiant heat, magnet-
ism, and other forces through space science has need of what is called
the ether, a medium filling all space and propagating waves of heat
and light, as well as magnetic disturbances and gravitation. The sun
radiates to the earth luminous waves and heat waves. Moreover, it
has been shown that whenever there is a great cyclonic storm upon
the sun the earth sympathizes or receives influences which disturb the
compass needle. There is reason to believe that the eleven-year sun
spot periods find their expression upon the earth in the greater
frequency of displays of aurora borealis, magnetic storms, and even
thunderstorms following the more active storm period of the sun,
when the sun spots are most numerous.

What, then, is the nature of this ether of space‘ To this question
no complete answer can as yet be given, except to say that it is the
electro-magnetic medium. It is the ether and not the air which enables
a magnet to attract or repel, for the action occurs in the best vacuum,
undiminished. It is the ether and not the air which enables an electri-
fied body to act upon surrounding bodies in attracting or repelling
them. When we sit in front of an open fire, it is the ether which
brings the light and also the heat radiated tous. Early in the century
the theory that light consisted of ether vibrations of a particular char-
acter became the commonly accepted theory. It remained for Clerk
Maxwell, a mathematical physicist of the highest eminence, to put
356 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

forward, about the middle of the century, the idea that light waves
were really electrical waves. Light would, then, become one form of
the manifestation of electrical force; and the same would be true of
radiant heat. This theory, however, lacked experimental confirma-
tion until the researches of the late Dr. Hertz, too early lost to science.
We see references to what are called ‘*‘ Hertzian waves.” These are
waves identical in nature with ight waves, but of much lower pitch or
period. Red light consists of about four hundred millions of millions
of electrical waves in the ether per second; blue or violet light about
double that number. Hertz showed in his experiments that electric
sparks between polished balls, under proper conditions, were attended
by ether waves of the same nature as those of light, but having a pitch
represented by some millions of vibrations per second. These waves,
however, could be reflected, could be refracted, could be polarized, and
be dealt with as if they were light waves. Ordinary alternating-cur-
rent waves are, in fact, closely akin to these waves, only their speed
is from 25 to 200 or 300 per second. Their ** frequency” is low.

When we speak of ** high-frequency waves ” we usually mean waves
of great rapidity as compared with ordinary alternating-current waves.
When a Leyden jar is discharged through a short wire, or coil of wire,
there is momentarily generated a set of high-frequency waves. This
was shown by Henry in the early half of the century. The brilliant
effects which have been produced within recent years by Mr. Tesla, as
well as by the present writer, in the use of high-frequency discharges
or waves are well known. Electric sparks many feet in length are
easily generated. Astonishing luminous effects accompany high-fre-
quency experiments. Conductors glow in the dark with a bluish
luminosity. Vacuum tubes are caused to give out light many feet
away from the apparatus in which the high-frequency discharges are
generated,

Most curious perhaps of all, to the lay mind, is the possibility of
passing through the body current enough at high frequency to light
lamps in circuit with the body, without producing any harmful effects,
and, in fact, without producing any sensation whatever. Spark dis-
charges from the apparatus which would seem to have the power to
kill instantly are received harmlessly. Indeed, when currents have a
frequency more than a certain amount—say 10,000 per second—the
physiological effects seem to be in abeyance, as if the rapid reversals
of the current could not leave any permanent effect.

Certain forms of moderately high frequency currents give promise
of actually producing insensibility to pain without interfering with
consciousness, and it is possible that the future may see surgical opera-
tions performed with the protection of the subject from painful sensa-
tions by the passage of these currents. Up to the present, however,
there has been no use actually made in the practice of high-frequency

ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. ont

effects, unless we class with such effects those of transmission without
wires.

Wireless telegraphy of to-day is, however, a direct outcome of
Hertz’s experiments on electric waves. It is but little more than ten
years since Hertz announced his results to the world. His work. sup-
plemented by that of Branly, Lodge, and more recently Marconi, has
made wireless telegraphy a possibility, and there are indications that
enormous distances may yet be covered by this ethereal transmission.
Just here we may refer to the fact—for it is a fact—that the electrical
energy transmitted over a line, which may be many miles in length,
really does not travel by the wire connecting the two points. It trav-
els in the ether surrounding the wire. The wire itself is, in fact, the
guiding core of the disturbances in the ether which proceed outward
in all directions to unlimited distances. The guiding core or conduct-
ing wire is needed to focalize or direct the delivery of the energy.
This curious conclusion of science, then, that the power from the
power-station wire travels in the space around the wires led from the
station is one of the results of recent electrical studies, just as with
light those studies begun by Maxwell and Hertz have led to the iney-
itable conclusion that the light of the candle, the light of a kerosene
lamp, and the light of a gas burner are all in essence electrical phe-
nomena, as are all forms of radiation in the ether.

The wireless telegraph of to-day utilizes a sudden electrical disturb-
ance made at one point, which travels by the surrounding ether in all
directions and is picked up in feeble fashion, it may well be, by very
sensitive receiving instruments. The shock or disturbance to the
ether is thus recognized, and by a preconcerted system of signals the
slight disturbances are sent out in a sequence such as to convey intel-
ligible messages. Distances of upward of 100 miles are thus covered
with what must be regarded as an extremely feeble means so far as
the scale of the apparatus is concerned, and there would seem to be
no reason why the scale of operations greatly increased may not in the
near future widely extend the range over which wireless telegraphy
can work.

The wonderful X ray and the rich scientific harvest which has fol-
lowed the discovery by Roéntgen of invisible radiation from a vacuum
tube were preceded by much investigation of the effects of electric
discharges in vacuum tubes, and Fittor*, followed by Crookes, had
given special study to these effects in very high o1 nearly perfect
vacua. Crookes, though specially cnriching science by his work,
missed the pecular X ray, which nevertheless must have been emitted
from his vacuum tubes, not only in his hands, but in those of subse-
quent students. It was as late as 1896 that Réntgen announced his
discovery. Since that time several other sources of invisible rade
have been discovered, more or less similar in effect to the radiations
358 ELECTRICITY DURING THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

from a vacuum tube, but emitted, singular as the fact is, from rare
substances extracted from certain minerals. Leaving out of consider-
ation the great value of the X ray to physicians and surgeons, its
effect in stimulating scientific inquiry has almost been incalculable. The
renewed study of effects of electric discharge in vacuum tubes has
already, in the work of such investigators as Lenard, J. J. Thomson,
and others, apparently carried the subdivision of matter far beyond
the time-honored chemical atom, and has gone far toward showing
the essential unity of all the chemical elements. It is as unlikely
that the mystery of the material universe will ever be completely
solved as it is that we can gain an adequate conception of infinite
space or time. But we can at least extend the range of our mental
vision of the processes of nature as we do our real vision into space
depths by the telescope and the spectroscope. There can now be no
question that electric conditions and actions are more fundamental
than many hitherto so regarded.

The nineteenth century closes with many important problems in
electrical science as yet unsolved. What great or far-reaching dis-
coveries are yet in store, who can tell/ What valuable practical
developments are to come, who can predict? The electrical progress
has been great—very great—but after all only a part of that grander
advance in so many other fields. The hands of man are strengthened
by the control of mighty forces. His electric lines traverse the moun-
tain passes as well as the plains. His electric railway scales the Jung-
frau. But he still spends his best effort, and has always done so, in the
construction and equipment of his engines of destruction, and now
exhausts the mines of the world of valuable metals for ships of war,
whose ultimate goal is the bottom of the sea. In this, also, electricity
is made to play an increasingly important part. It trains the guns,
loads them, fires them. It works the signals and searchlights. It
ventilates the ship, blows the fires, and lights the dark spaces. Per-
haps all this is necessary now, and, if so, well. But if a fraction of
the vast expenditure entailed were turned to the encouragement of
advance in the arts and employments of peace in the coming century,
can it be doubted that, at the close, the nineteenth century might
come to be regarded, in spite of its achievements, as a rather wasteful,
semibarbarous transition period /

|

ie
~THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES AND THE DEMON.
STRATION OF THE EVOLUTIONS OF REFLECTED WAVE
FRONTS WITH THE CINEMATOGRAPH.!

By R. W. Woop.

INTRODUCTION.

In a paper published in the Philosophical Magazine for August, 1899,
I gave an account of some experiments on the photography of sound
waves, and their application in the teaching of optical phenomena.
Since writing this paper I have extended the work somewhat, and at
a meeting of the Royal Society, on February 15, 1900, gave an account
of this work and demonstrated certain features of wave motion with
the cinematograph.

In the present article I propose to give a somewhat more extended
account of the work, paying especial attention to the analogies between
the sound waves and waves of light.

In teaching the subjects of optics we are obliged to resort to dia-
grams when dealing with the wave front, and in spite of all that we
can do the student is apt to form the opinion that the rays are the
actual entities, and that wave fronts are after all merely conceptions.

The set of photographs illustrating this article will, I think, be of
no small use to teachers in ridding the minds of students of the
obnoxious rays, and impressing the fact that all of the common phe-
nomena of reflection, refraction, and diffraction are due simply to
changes wrought on the wave front.

Sound waves in air were first observed and studied by Toepler, by
means of an exceedingly sensitive optical contrivance for rendering
visible minute changes in the optical density of substances. A very
full description of the device will be found in Toepler’s article (Wied.
Annalen, cxxxi), while a brief account of it will be given presently.

The waves in question are the single pulses of condensed air given
out by electric sparks. A train of waves would complicate matters
too much, and for illustrating the optical phenomena which we are to
take up would be useless.

The snap of the spark gives us just what we require, namely, & sin-
gle wave front, in which the condensation is considerable.

‘Reprinted from Nature, No. 1606, vol. 62, August 9, 1900.

359
860 PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES.

When seen subjectively, as was the case in Toepler’s experiments,
the wave fronts, if at all complicated, as they often are, can not be
studied to advantage, as they are illuminated for an instant only and
appear in rapid succession in different parts of the field. By the aid
of photography a permanent record of the forms can be obtained and
studied at leisure. The first series of photographs, published in the
Philosophical Magazine, were made with an apparatus similar to the
one to be presently described; while most of those illustrating this
article were made on a much larger scale by employing a large silvered
mirror in place of the lens, an improvement due to Professor Mach, of
Prague, who has given much attention to the subject.

As it is a matter of no trouble at all to set up ina few minutes, in
any physical laboratory, an apparatus for showing the air waves sub-
jectively, and as the method does not seem to be as well known as it
deserves to be, a brief description of the ‘* Schlieren ” apparatus, as
Toepler named it, may not be out of place.

THE APPARATUS.

The general arrangement of the ** Schlieren” apparatus is shown in
figure 1. A good-sized achromatic lens of the finest quality obtainable,
and of rather long focus, is the most important part of the device. I

&
a nS ern
_ =a ce a =
——— ww oe
Elo [ff realimage eee
— ~of Spark eo a had oa 7 OT Diss yg arerk

oO Ps ey ee

— Ee Se =

Fig. 1.

have been using the object glass of a small telescope figured by the
late Alvan Clark. Its diameter is 5 inches, and the focal length
about 6 feet. I have no doubt but that a smaller lens could be used
for viewing the waves, but one of at least this size is desirable for
photographing them.

The lens is mounted in front of a suitable source of light (in tne
present case an electric spark), which should be at such a distance that
its image on the other side of the lens is at a distance of about 15 feet.

The image of the spark, which we will suppose to be straight, hori-
zontal, and very narrow, is about two-thirds covered with a horizontal
diaphragm (7), and immediately behind this is placed the viewing tele-
scope. On looking into the telescope we see the field of the lens uni-
formly illuminated by the light that passes under the diaphragm, since
every part of the image of the spark receives light from the whole
lens. If the diaphragm be lowered, the field will darken; if it be raised,
the illumination will be increased. Jn general it is best to have the
diaphragm so adjusted that the lens is quite feebly illuminated, though
this is not true for photographie work. Let us now suppose that there
is a globular mass of air in front of the lens of slightly greater optical
PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES. 361

density than the surrounding air (4). The rays of light going through
the upper portion of this denser mass will be bent down and will form
an image of the spark below the diaphragm, allowing more light to
enter the telescope from this particular part of the field; consequently
on looking into the instrument we shall see the upper portion of the
globular mass of air brighter than the rest of the field. The ravs
which traverse the under part of **),” however, will be bent up, on the
contrary, forming an image of the spark higher up and wholly covered
by the diaphragm; consequently this part of the field will appear black.
It will be readily understood that with the long path between the lens
and the image a very slight change in the optical density of any por-
tion of the medium in front of the lens will be sufficient to raise or
depress the image above or below the edge of the diaphragm, and will
consequently make itself manifest in the telescope.

The importance of using a lens of first-class quality is quite appar-
ent, since variations in the density of the glass of the lens will act. in
the same way as variations in the density of the medium before it and

SSS

RQ

liLuminaroRr

Fie. 2. 2
produce unequal illumination of the field. It is impossible to find a
lens which will give an absolutely even, feeble illumination, but a good
achromatic telescope objective is perfect enough for every purpose.
A more complete discussion of the operation of the apparatus will be
found in Toepler’s original paper in the Annalen. The sound waves,
which are regions of condensation and consequent greater optical den-
sity, make themselves apparent in the same way as the globular mass
of air already referred to. They must be illuminated by a flash of
exceedingly short duration, which must occur while the wave is in the
field of view.

Toepler showed that this could be done by starting the sound wave
with an electric spark and illuminating it with the flash of a second
spark occurring a moment later, while the wave was still in the field.
A diagram of the apparatus used is shown in fig. 2. In front of the
lens are two brass balls (a «), between which the spark of an induction
coil passes, immediately charging the Leyden jar ¢, which discharges
across the gap at ¢ an instant later. The capacity of the jar is so
362 PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES.

regulated that the interval between the two sparks is about one ten-
thousandth of a second. The field of the lens is thus illuminated by
the flash of the second spark before the sound wave started by the first
spark has gone beyond the edge of the lens.

To secure the proper time interval between the two sparks it is nee-
essary that the capacity of the jar be quite small. A good-sized test
tube half full of mercury standing in a jar of mercury is the easiest
arrangement to fit up. This limits the length and brilliancy of the
illuminating spark, and with the device employed by Toepler I was
unable to get enough light to secure photographs of the waves.
After some experimenting I found that if the spark of the jar was
passed between two thin pieces of magnesium ribbon pressed between
two pieces of thick plate glass a very marked improvement resulted.
With this form of illuminator I found that five or six times as much
light could be obtained as by the old method of passing the spark
between two brass balls.

The spark is flattened out into a band and is kept always in the
same plane, the light issuing in a thin sheet from between the plates.
By this arrangement we secure a light source of considerable length,
great_intensity, and bounded by straight edges, the three essentials
for securing good results. The glass plates, with the ribbon termi-
nals between them, must be clamped in some sort of a holder and
directed so that the thin sheet of light strikes the lens. This can be
accomplished by darkening the room, fastening a sheet of paper in
front of the lens, and then adjusting the plates so that the paper is
illuminated as much as possible. The image formed by the lens will
be found to have very sharp straight edges,’ on one of which the
edge or the diaphragm can be set in such a manner as to allow but
very little light to pass when the intervening medium is homogeneous.
A very slight change, however, in any portion may be sufficient to
cause the entire amount of light passing through that portion to pass
below the diaphragm and enter the telescope.

The photographs were made by substituting a photographic objec-
tive for the telescope in the focal plane of which a vertical board was
mounted to support the plate. The room was darkened, a plate held
in position, and a single spark made to pass between the knobs by
pulling a string connected with the hammer of the induction coil.
The plate was then moved a trifle and a second impression secured in
the same way. This obviated several of the difficulties experienced
in the earlier work. The images never overlapped, and the hot air
from the spark did not appear in the pictures. About thirty-five
images were obtained on each plate in less than a minute, from which

1Tf more than one image appears it means that the plane of the glass plates of
the illuminator does not lie parallel to the optical axis of the system. It is of prime
importance to secure a single image.
—="

~ vid

PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES. 363

it was usually possible to pick a series showing the wave in all stages
of its development, owing to the variations in the time interval
between the two sparks.

In the first series the pictures were so small that it was necessary to
enlarge them several diameters. Those of the new series, owing to
the use of an 8-inch mirror in place of the 5-inch lens, and an objec-
tive of larger aperture and longer focus, required no enlarging.

THE WAVE-FRONT PHOTOGRAPHS.

In the study of optics we may treat the subject of regular reflection
in two ways, by rays and by wave fronts. When spherical waves of
light are reflected from a plane surface, we know that the reflected
waves are also spherical in form, the center of curvature being a point
just as far beneath the reflecting surface as the source of light is above
it. In the first of the series of photographs we have the reflection of
a spherical wave of sound by a flat plate of glass, the wave appearing
as a circle of light and shade surrounding the image of the balls
between which the spark passed (fig. 3, Pl. I). The reflected wave or
echo from the plate is seen to be spherical, with a curvature similar to
the incident wave.

When we have a source of light in the focus of a parabolic mirror,
the rays leave the mirror’s surface parallel to one another and move
out in an intense narrow beam. Treating this case from the wave-
front point of view, we ascertain by the usual geometrical construc-
tion that the spherical wave is changed by reflection into a plane or flat
wave which moves out of the mirror without further divergence. In
the picture (fig. 4, Pl. I) only a portion of the parabolic reflector is
shown near the bottom. The sound wave starts in the focus, and the
reflected portion appears quite flat.

What happens now if we use a spherical mirror in the same way ‘

Owing to the spherical aberration the reflected rays are not strictly
parallel, or the reflected wave is not a true plane. Let us start a sound
wave in the focus of such a mirror, and follow the reflected portion
out of the mirror (fig. 5, Pl. I). We notice that near the axis of the
mirror the effect is much the same as in the case of the parabola—that
is, the reflected front is plane. Thus we are accustomed to say that
if we confine ourselves to a small area around the axis, a mirror of
spherical form acts almost as well as a parabola. If, on the contrary,
we consider the reflection from the entire hemisphere, we see that the
reflected wave curls up at the edges, having a form not unlike a flat-
bottomed saucer. The fiat bottom moves straight up, traveling every-
where normal to its surface; but the curled up edges converge inward,
coming to a focus in the form of a ring around the flat bottom. This

od

Mita oreandicome others left and rieht have been inadvertently interchange
by the engraver. The series should be followed by the numbers.

364 PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES.

ring, of course, does not show in the photograph, which is a sectional
view, but it will be seen that in one of the views (No. 4) the curved
edge has disappeared entirely. In reality it is passing through a ring
focus, and presently it will appear again on the other side of the focus,
curved the other way, of course, and trailing along after the flat bot-
tom. This curious evolution of the wave can be shown by geomet-
rical construction, and I shall show later how its development can be
shown with the cinematograph.

When the spherical waves start in one focus of an elliptical mirror,
they are transformed by reflection into converging spheres, which
shrink to a point at the other focus, the surface being aplanatic for
rays issuing from a point. An elliptical mirror was made by bending
a strip (fig. 6, Pl. 1) of metal into the required form, and a sound wave
started at one of the foci. The transformation of the diverging intoa
converging sphere and the shrinkage of the latter to a point at the
other focus are well shown (fig. 6).

We will consider next another case of spherical aberration. When
parallel rays of light enter a concave mirror those reflected from
points of the mirror near its axis converge approximately to a point
situated halfway between the surface of the mirror and its center of
curvature. The wave front in the case of parallel rays is, of course,
plane and is changed by reflection into a converging shell of approxi-
mately spherical curvature. If we investigate the case more carefully,
we find, however, that the reflected rays do not come accurately to a
focus, but envelop a surface known as the caustic—in this case an
epicycloid. The connection between the wave front and the caustic is
perhaps not at once apparent. Let us examine the changes wrought
ona sound wave entering a concave hemispherical mirror (fig. 7, Pl. I).

If we follow the wave during its entrance into the mirror, we see
that the reflected portion trails along behind, being united to the unre-
flected part at the mirror’s surface. After the reflection is complete
we find the reflected wave of a form not unlike a volcanic cone with
a large bowl-shaped crater (No. 4). This bowl-shaped portion we may
regard as a converging shell, which shrinks to a point at the focus of
the mirror. As it shrinks the steep sides of the cone run in under the
bowl, crossing at about the moment when the converging portion is
passing through the focus (No. 6). The rim of the crater forms a cusp

on the wave front, and if we follow this cusp we shall see that it traces
the caustic surface. Hence we may define the caustic as the surface
traced by the cusp of the wave front.

The portion of the wave which comes to a focus at once begins to
diverge again, uniting with the sides of the crater, the whole moving
out of the mirror in a form somewhat resembling a mushroom or the
bell of a Medusa jellyfish. The turned-under edges of the bell are
Smithsonian Report, 1900 —Wood
PLATE |.

PHOTOGRAPH
Smithsonian Report, 1900 Wood
PLATE Il.

PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVE
ayir

PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES. 365

_ cusped, and these cusps trace the caustic enveloped by the twice-reflected
rays. These forms can also be constructed geometrically.

_ A much more complicated case is now shown (fig. 8, Pl. ] ). Here the
waye starts within a complete sphere or rather cylinder. (Cylindrical
surfaces have been used in all these cases for obvious reasons. the sec-
tional views shown in the photographs being the same for both forms
of surface.) Starting in the principal focus of the closed mirror, the
wave is bounced back and forth, becoming more complicated after each
Teflection, yet always symmetrical about the axis. Only a few of the
many forms are shown, and with the exception of the first three or
four are not arranged in order; for at the time that the series were
arranged on the slide this case had not been worked out geometrically,
and it was quite impossible to determine the evolution of the different
forms. More recently this case has been constructed for five reflec-
tions and all of the forms shown in the photographs found.

We will take up next some cases of refraction, the first being that of
a spherical wave ata flat surface of a denser medium. In fig. 9, Pl. III,
we have a rectangular tank with sides made of plane parallel glass and
covered with a collodion film of soap-bubble thickness made by the
method described by Toepler. Ordinary collodion is diluted with
about ten parts of ether, poured on a small piece of plate glass, and
immediately drained off. As soon as it is quite dry a rectangle is cut
with a sharp knife on the film. Toepler’s method of removing the film
was to place a drop of water on one of the cuts and allow it to run in
by capillarity, but I have had better success by proceeding in the fol-
lowing manner: One end of the plate is lowered into a shallow dish of
water and the plate inclined until the water comes up to one of the
cuts. By looking at the reflection of a window in the water it is pos-
sible to see whether the film commences to detach itself from the glass.
If all goes well, it will float off on the surface of the water along the
line of the knife cut, and it should be slowly lowered (one end resting
on the bottom of the dish) until the rectangular piece detaches itself and
floats freely on the surface. The edges of the tank are well greased,
and then lowered carefully upon the film, to which they will adhere.
“The whole must then be lifted from the water in an oblique direction,
when the film will be found covering the tank and exhibiting the most
beautiful interference colors. The tank was filled with carbonic acid
and placed under the origin of the sound wave. On striking the c i-
lodion film the wave is partly reflected and partly transmitted, and it
will be seen that the reflected component in air has moved farther than
the transmitted component in the carbonic acid. The spherical wave
front is transformed into an hyperboloid on entering the denser
medium. This is well shown in No. 3 of the series. In No. + the
wave is seen in air, having been reflected up from the bottom of the

sm 1900——26
366 PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES.

In fig. 10, PL. IL, we have the refraction of the wave in the same tank
under oblique incidence. The bending of the wave within the tank
is very marked. The wave fronts reflected from the side which fol-
lows the unreflected portion is also interesting in connection with
Lloyd’s single mirror interference experiment (No. 2 of series).

After several failures I succeeded in constructing a prism with its
two refracting faces of this exceedingly thin collodion, which, when
filled with carbonic acid, showed the bending of the wave front exactly
as we figure it in diagrams for light. It was necessary to have the
collodion thinner than before, since if we are to photograph the wave —
after twice traversing the film, we must lose as little energy as pos-
sible by reflection. Fig. 11, Pl. III, shows the refraction in a carbonic-
acid prism, the bending being particularly noticeable in No. 4, on
which I have, with a pair of dividers, traced out the position which
the wave front would have occupied had it not traversed the prism.

The bending of the wave front in the opposite direction is shown in
fig. 12, Pl. Il], where the same prism is filled with hydrogen gas, in
which sound travels faster than in air.

In the next figure we have a very interesting case, though, owing to
the experimental difficulties, the photographs are not quite as satis-
factory as some of the others. It represents the transformation of a
spherical into a plane wave by passage through a double convex lens.

The construction of the cylindrical lens of exceedingly thin collodion
was a matter of great difficulty. The flat, circular ends were made of
thin mica as free from striz as possible, that the passage of the wave
through the lens could be followed. On these disks the collodion filma
was wound, the whole forming a hollow drum, which was then filled
with carbonic acid. The sound wave, started at the principal focus of
this lens, is seen to be quite flat after its emergence (fig. 18, Pl. I).

We will next take up some cases of diffraction, beginning with the
well-known principle of Huygens, that any small portion of a wave
front can be considered as the center of a secondary disturbance and
that a small portion of this secondary disturbance can act as a new
center in its turn.

In fig. 14, Pl. Il, we have the wave starting above a plate with a
narrow slit in it. This slit is seen to be the center of a secondary
hemicylindrical wave which moves down precisely as if the spark were
located at the slit. After proceeding a short distance this secondary
wave encounters a second slit, and the same thing happens as before,
the little slice that gets through spreading out into a complete wave,
while the intercepted portion bounces back and forth between the
plates.

Fig. 15, Pl. IV, shows the very limited extent to which sound shad-
ows are formed. The wave is intercepted by a small glass plate. Just
PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES. 367

°
below the plate in No. 3 of the series a gap in the wave is found, which
constitutes a shadow. But presently, by diffraction, the wave curls in,
closing up the gap and obliterating the shadow entirely. In the last
one of the series it is interesting to note how the diffracted waves have
their centers at the edges of the obstacle, the edges acting as secondary
sources, as in the case of the diffraction of light.

The passage of a wave through a diffraction grating is shown in fig.
16, Pl. IV. The grating is made of strips of glass arranged on a cyl-
indrical surface, the wave starting at the-center of curvature. In No.
2 of the series the union of the secondary disturbances coming from
the openings into a new wave front is beautifully shown. In No. 3
the reflected wavelets have converged to the center, but as each one
is a complete hemicylinder, we see them radiating from the center.
This form can be constructed by describing semicircles around points
on a circle of such radius that they all pass through the circle’s center.
These semicircles represent secondary wavelets starting simultaneously
from the various grating elements. In the last three pictures of the
series the wave passes down, strikes the table, and is reflected up
again, und it is interesting to see how the medium is broken up into
meshes by the crossing and recrossing of the secondary waves.

Fig. 17, Pl. [1V, shows the form of the secondary wavelets formed by
the reflection of a wave from a corrugated surface and is interesting
in connection with reflection gratings.

The formation of a musical note by the reflection of a single pulse
from a flight of steps is shown photographed in fig. 18, Pl IV. This
phenomenon is often noticed on a still night when walking on a stone
pavement alongside a picket fence, the sound of each footstep being
reflected from the palings as a metallic squeak, which Young has
pointed out to be analogous to the power of a diffraction grating to
construct light of a definite wave length.

It occurred to me, while making some geometrical constructions to
aid in unraveling some of the complicated forms reflected from surfaces
of circular curvature, that a very vivid idea of how these curious wave
fronts are derived one from another could be obtained if a complete
series could be prepared on the film of « cinematograph, and prc yjected
in motion on a screen.

Having been unable to so control the time interval between the two
sparks that a progressive series could be taken, I adopted the simpler
method of making a large number of geometrical constructions and
then photographing them on a cinematograph film.

Asa very large number of drawings (one hundred or so) must be
made if the result is to be at all satisfactory, a method is desirable that
will reduce the labor to a minimum. I may be permitted to give, as
an instance, the method that I devised for building the series illustrat-
3608 PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES.

ing the reflection of a plane wave in aspherical mirror. The construe-
tion is shown in fig. 19.

ABC is the mirror, AOC the plane wave. Around points on ABC
as centers describe circles tangent to the wave. These circles will be
enveloped by another surface, ADE, below the mirror (the orthogonal
surface). If we erect normals on this surface, we have the reflected
‘ays; and if we measure off equal distances on the normals, we have
the reflected wave front. By drawing the orthogonal surface we avoid
the complication of having. to measure off the distances around a
corner. The orthogonal surface is an epicycloid formed by the rolling
of a circle of a diameter equal to the radius of curvature of the mir-

ror on the mirror’s surface, and normals can be erected by drawing the
are FG (the path of the center of the generating circle) and describ-
ing circles of diameter BE around various points on it. A line joining
the point of intersection of one of these circles with the epicycloid
and the point of tangency with the mirror will, when produced, give
a reflected ray; for example, JK produced for circle described around
H. The construction once prepared, the series of wave-front pictures
can be very quickly made. Three or four sheets of paper are laid
under the construction, and holes are punched through the pile by
means of a pin, at equal distances along each ray (measured from the
orthogonal surface).
PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES. 369

The center of the mirror and the point where its axis meets the
surface are also indicated in the same manner. The sheets are now
separated, and corresponding pin holes are united on each sheet by a
broad black line, which represents the wave front. After a time it
becomes necessary to consider double reflections, and to do this we are
compelled to construct twice-reflected rays (indicated by dotted lines),
and measure around a corner each time.

About a hundred pictures are prepared for each series, and the
pictures then photographed separately on the film, which, when run
through the animatograph, give a very vivid representation of the
motion of the wave front.

Three films have been prepared thus far—reflection of a wave enter-
ing a concave hemispherical mirror (fig. 20, Pl. V); reflection of a
spherical wave starting in the principal focus of a concave hemi-
spherical mirror (fig. 21, Pl. V), and the reflection of a similar wave
within a complete spherical mirror (fig. 22, Pl. VI). A number of these
constructions, taken at intervals alone the film, are reproduced, and
comparison of them with the actual photographs shows the close agree-
ment between the calculated forms and those actually obtained.

T have already mentioned the fact that the cusps on the wave fronts
trace out the caustic surfaces. This is beautifully shown in figs. 23
and 24, Pl. VI, where the successive fronts are seen superposed. ‘The
former is for the reflection of a plane wave in a spherical mirror, the
latter for the reflection of a spherical wave starting at the focus of a
similar mirror. The caustic curve is shown by a dotted line in fig. 25,
and is seen to be traced by the cusps on the wave fronts. The con-
struction shows that there is a concentration of energy at the cusp;
consequently we may define the cusp as a moving focus, and the caustic
as the surface traced by it. Though I hesitate in claiming that this
relation, at once so apparent, is at all novel, I may say that, so far as
I have been able to find, it is not brought out in any of the text-books,
caustic surfaces being invariably treated by ray rather than hy wave-
front methods.

The cinematograph series illustrating reflection inside a complete
sphere was the most difficult to prepare, as several reflections had to
be considered. It has been completed for three reflections, and Mr.
Max Mason, of Madison, to whom I am greatly indebted for his patient
work in assisting me, is going on with the series. As will be seen, the
wave has already become quite complicated, and it will be interesting
to see what further changes result after three or four more reflections.
I am also under obligations to Prof. A. B. Porter, of Chicago, who
prepared the set of drawings illustrating the passage of a wave out
from the principal focus of a hemispherical mirror.
ate)

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Wood.
PLATE III.

Fig. 14.

\A

PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVE
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Wood.
: PLATE IV,

Fig. 18

PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES
a Bat

ig. 20.

PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES.
Pree

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Wood

PHOTOGRAPHY OF SOUND WAVES.

Pe

PLATE YI.

UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.’
By Prince Kroporkry.

The sensation created five years ago by the discovery of the Ront-
gen rays had hardly begun to subside, and the patient, minute explo-
ration of the newly opened field was only just beginning, when new,
and new discoveries of formerly unsuspected radiations, came to add to
the already great complexity of the phenomena, upsetting the provi-
sional generalizations, raising new problems, and preparing the mind
for further discoveries of a still more puzzling character. At the
present time the physicist has to account for not only the kathode and
the X or Réntgen rays, but also for the **secondary ” or **S-rays” of
Sagnac, the ‘Goldstein rays,” the ‘* Beequerel rays,” and, in fact, for
all the radiations belonging to the immense border land between elec-
tricity and light. Nay, most fundamental questions concerning the
intimate structure of matter are being raised in connection with these
investigations, and the physicist can not elude them any longer,
because one of his most important principles, established by Carnot
and generally recognized since, seems also to require revision, or has,
at least, to receive a new interpretation.

So many different ‘‘rays” are now under consideration that it is
necessary to begin by well defining them in a few words, even at the
risk of repeating things already said in these pages and generally
known. The ‘‘ vacuum tube” is the starting point for all new radia-
tions, and in its simplest form it is, as is known, a sealed glass tube,
out of which the air has been pumped, and which has at each
end a piece of platinum wire passed through the glass and entering
the tube. When these two wires are connected with the two
poles of an induction coil, or the electrodes of an influence elec-
trical machine, or a powerful battery, they become poles them-
selves. The tube begins to glow with a beautiful light, and a stream
of luminous matter flows from its negative pole—the kathode—to
the positive pole. These are the kathode rays, the detailed explora-
tion of which was begun years ago by Hittorf, but won a special
interest when Crookes took them in hand, and once more when the

: Z - nee 4a 5 tT. 9QR Sac ry. 1900, by permis-
‘Reprinted from The Nineteenth Century, No. 256, December, | eI

sion of Leonard Scott Publication Company. sh
ol
B12 UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.

Hungarian professor, Lenard, began to study them, in the years 1893—
1895. It is evident that the glass tube may be given any shape
that is found convenient for some special purpose, and that the degree
of exhaustion of air (or of any other gas with which the vessel was
filled before exhaustion), the forms and the disposition of the two
poles, as also all other details of construction, may be varied at will,
according to the experiments which are intended to be made. Now,
if such a tube be placed inside a black cardboard muff which intercepts
its light, and if it be brought into a dark room near to a screen painted
with some phosphorescent substance, this substance begins to glow,
although no visible light is falling upon it. If a wire be placed
between the tube and the screen, its shadow appears on the screen, and
if the hand be placed instead of the wire, dark shadows of the bones, but
almost none of the flesh, are projected. A thick book gives, however,
no shadow at all; it is transparent for these rays. Some radiations,
proceeding along straight lines, must consequently issue from the tube
and pass through the cardboard muff. Like light, they make the
phosphorescent screen glow, move in straight lines (as they give
shadows), and decompose the salts of the photographic film; but they
are invisible and pass through such bodies as are opaque for ordinary
light. These are the X or Réntgen rays.

Various secondary rays originate from them. If the Réntgen rays
meet a metallic mirror, they are not reflected by it, but simply
diffused—that is, thrown irregularly in all directions; and, although
they do not pass through metals as a rule, they may be made strong
and penetrating enough to pass through thin metallic plates. But in
both cases they will acquire some new properties which will depend
upon the metal which has diffused them or through which they have
passed. Some new radiations will be added to them, and these radia-
tions were named secondary rays, or S rays, by M. Sagnac, who discoy-
ered them. On the other hand, if kathode rays have been passed
through a perforated metallic plate, they also get altered, and in this
case they will sometimes be named Goldstein rays. And, finally, there
is a very wide set of extremely interesting (also invisible) radiations
emitted by phosphorescent substances. They were discovered by H.
Becquerel, and are named now Becquerel rays or uranium rays. More
will be said of them presently.

This is, then, the world of radiations the very existence of which
was mostly unsuspected five years ago, and which have to be ex-
plained—the difficulty being in that they link together the Hertzian
waves which are now used for wireless telegraphy, the visible light,
the invisible radiations in the ultra-red and the ultra-violet parts of
the spectrum, to so-called ‘‘ actinic ” glow of various substances placed
in the violet portion of the spectrum, and many other phenomena.
Light, electricity, magnetism, and the molecular movements of gases,
liauids, and solids—all these formerly separated chapters of physics

UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS. 373

t

have thus been brought into a most intimate connection and huddled
together by these wonderful radiations.

Thousands of most delicate experiments have been made and hun-
dreds of papers have been written during the last five years, in order
to determine the properties and the constitution of these different sorts
of rays. Various hypotheses have been advocated, and yet scientific
opinion is still hesitating, the more so as new discoveries are made all
the time, and they show that we are not yet the masters of the whole
series of phenomena brought under our notice. Upon one point only—
and a very important one—a certain consensus of opinion begins to be
established; namely, as to the kathode rays. Most explorers, includ-
ing Lenard,’ begin to be won to the idea that the kathode rays are the
paths of very minute particles of matter which are thrown at a very
great speed from the surface of the kathode and are loaded with elec-
tricity. Even under ordinary conditions, when an electric discharge
takes place between one metallic electrode and the other under the
ordinary atmospheric pressure in a room we see that most minute par-
ticles of the metal are torn off the negative electrode (the kathode) and
are transported in the electric spark. Molecules of air join in the
stream, creating the well-known “electric wind,” and the air path of
the electric spark becomes electrified to some extent. The more so
when the discharge takes place in the extremely rarefied medium of a
vacuum tube.” In this case the molecules of the rarefied gas, as also
the metallic particles joining the current, are transported at a much
greater speed, and we see them as a cone of light.

That. kathode rays are real streams of particles of matter seemed
very probable already in 1896, when the subject was discussed in these
pages.’ Recent researches tend to confirm more and more this idea.
They act as a real molecular or atomic bombardment and they heat the
objects they fall upon; thus, a thin lamella of glass which is placed in
their path will be molten.‘ It is also known from Crookes’s experi-
ments that when a little mill is placed so as to receive them on its wings
it is set in motion, and a back current seems to be originated at the
same time, as has been demonstrated by Swinton.’ They are deflected
from their straight path by a magnet and are twisted along the lines

1 Annalen der Physik, 1898, Vol. LXIV, p. 279.

“J chiefly follow here Prof. J. J. Thomson, who has explained his views in several
articles (Philosophical Magazine, October, 1897, Vol. XLIV, 5th series, p. 293; 1898;
Vol. XLVI, p. 528; 1899, Vol. XLVIII, p. 547; also Nature, 1598, Vol. LVUI, p. 8,
1900, Vol. LXII, p. 31); and also Dr. L. Zehnder, the author of a Mechanik des
Weltalls (1897), in his address before the Freiburg Natural History Society in 1898.

3 Recent Science, in Nineteenth Century, March, 1596.

4Goldstein’s researches into the compound nature of the
effects deserve a special notice. They are published in several issues of the Annalen
der Physik for the last few years. ;

’Swinton in Philosophical Magazine, 1898, Vol. XLVI, p. 387; Broca, Comptes
Rendus, 1899, Vol. CX XVIII, p. 356.

cathode rays and their
374 UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.

of force. Besides, a weak electrostatic force has upon them the same
effect, showing that they are electrified negatively. Perrin* and others
who followed him have proved that these rays carry negative elec-
tricity with them. If they are taken out of the vacuum tube in which
they originated to another tube and are made there to fall upon an
electroscope they discharge it. Negative electricity can not be sepa-
‘ated from them; it follows with them when they are deflected by a
magnet; it is their property——not something added to them.

Moreover, it was already noticed by Crookes, and confirmed since by
Professor Thomson, that most of their properties do not depend upon
the nature of the gas—air, oxygen, hydrogen, etc.—with which the
tube was filled first, and of which a minute quantity always remains in
the tube. They appear as a property of matter altogether rather than
a property of this or that gas. And when attempts were lately made
to measure the sizes of the particles which are carried in the kathode
rays, it was found that they are extremely minute—much smaller than
the probable size of atoms—while the charges of electricity which they
‘arry with them are relatively great.*

All these facts have brought Prof. J. J. Thomson to the conclusion
that the matter which is carried in the cathode rays is not ordinary
matter, such as we know it in our everyday chemical experience, but
matter in a state of a high dissociation. We know that the molecules
of all bodies in nature consist of atoms; but even these atoms, small
though they must be, are giants in comparison with the particles trans-
ported in the kathode streams. Consequently, we must think that the
atoms themselves are dissociated in the intensive electric field. They
divide into what we may call the primary atoms of some primary mat-
ter out of which the atoms of all chemical elements must be built up,
and these primary atoms are carriers of electricity.* Of course, not
every molecule need be dissociated, and some experiments show that
the number of dissociated molecules is really very small in comparison
with their total number. If one out of each three milliards of mole-
cules is in a state of dissociation, this will do to account for the facts
and the measurements which have been made, although many more
molecules may have been dissociated in the kathode stream only to be
reconstructed after having exchanged atoms with their neighbors.

It must be said in favor of this hypothesis that dissociation under the
action of violent electrical vibrations—i. e., the breaking up of mole-
cules into zons, or elementary atoms carrying electricity with them—is
familiar to physicists. Besides,if we can not yet specify what we

1 Annalen der Physik, 1898, Vol. LX VI, p. 1.
*J. J. Thomson, Philosophical Magazine, Vol. XLVI, p. 528.
* Professor Thomson names them ‘‘corpuscles,’’ but this is hardly an appropriate
name for such minute subdivisions of the atoms. To the biologist it conveys an idea
of organization; and in physics it was used formerly as a substitute for ‘‘molecules.”’
UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS. 315

mean by our atoms ** carrying negative or positive electricity.” we may
imagine that this means sarry ing a certain vibratory or, perhaps, spiral
movement, or any other sort of motion which we prefer not to specify
in order to avoid spreading conceptions which may prove to be erro-
neous. But we know for certain that gases, which usually are no con-
ductors of electricity, become conductors under the influence of electric
discharges, as also of the ultraviolet light, or even after having passed
through flames. In such cases they become able to transport electric-
ity—that is, some motion or some state unknown, which we name elec-
tricity—from one spot of space to another. A stream of dissociated
and electrified particles of matter rushing in the kathode stream is thus
a very probable explanation—the more so as similar streams are already
admitted in order to explain the electro-chemical decomposition of
salts and many properties of solutions.'. The kathode rays would then
be *‘an electric dance of atoms along the lines of force,” as Villariand
Righi have expressed it.

One question only must be asked: Is it necessary ‘to suppose that the
molecules are so dissociated as to set free the ‘* primary matter” out of
which the atoms of all elements are composed? Theoretically, there is
no objection to this view. Modern science knows that the atoms—or
the ** chemical individuals,” as Mendeléeff would prefer to name them—
are only treated as indivisible in the chemical processes in the same
sense as molecules are (or rather were) treated as indivisible in physical
processes. The modern physicist does not consider the atoms indivisi-
ble in the sense Democritus taught it, but in the sense in which the sun
is an individual amid the boundless interstellar space. He is even
inclined to admit that the atoms have a complicated structure and are
vortex rings similar to rings of smoke (Lord Kelvin and Helmholtz),
or minute systems similar to planetary systems (Mendeléeff).” The
‘dissociation of atoms” would therefore be admissible; but before
admitting the ultimate dissociation advocated by J. J. Thomson, can
we not find a simpler explanation? Several explorers are inclined to
think so, and Dr. Villard points out one possible issue. The kathode
raysare, in his opinion, mere streams of hydrogen atoms or molecules—
the presence of this gas in all tubes, even the best exhausted, being
explained by the particles of water sticking to the glass, or by the
decomposition of the alkalies of the glass. One fact certainly speaks
in favor of Villard’s view: A small copper oxide plate, being so placed
as to receive the kathode rays, parts with its oxygen (is reduced) just
as if it had been struck by a jet of hot hydrogen. Besides, the spots
where the rays fall upon the glass of the tube are blackened, and these

ne: ie oe OA : veGha 0 tartare

1See Recent Science, in Nineteenth Century, August, 1892, and January, 1894.
2Let me mention in connection with this a brilliant article by Mendeléeff weg
““Matter,’”’ in the new Russian Encyclopedic Dictionary, published by Brockhaus &

Kiron, Vol. VI, p. 151.
376 UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.

black spots again are such as if they had undergone a hydrogen bom-
bardment. Moreover, the spectroscope reveals the hydrogen line in —
the glowing tubes.’ But all this, while proving the presence of
hydrogen in the vacuum tubes, does not speak against the hypothesis —
of J. J. Thomson, which still remains, up till now, the most plausible
explanation of the kathode rays.

And yet one feels that the last word even about these rays has not
yet been said. Dr. Joseph Larmor was quite right when he remarked,
in his suggestive address delivered before the British association at
Bradford,’ that the study of electrical discharge in rarefied gases has
conduced us to enlarged knowledge ** of the fundamental relations in
which the individual molecules stand to all electrical phenomena.” Up
till now we took these phenomena ina block. We studied the sum
total of the actions of an infinity of molecules in a certain direction.
Now we are bound to question the molecule itself as to its speed, its
behavior, and its constitutive parts, and we find that a mobility of its
component parts must be taken into account instead of the rigidity
with which we formerly endowed it.

The philosophical value of this new move in electrodynamics—the
value of the principle of action being introduced into the theories of
vibration of the formerly *‘immaterial” ether—is immense, and it is
sure to bear fruit in natural philosophy altogether. Ether itself,
after having resisted so long all attempts to seize its true characters,
becomes dissociated matter, filling space and upsetting many an old
preconceived idea. No wonder, then, if it takes us some time before
our views are settled upon these new phenomena, so full of unexpected
revelations and philosophical consequences.

If the kathode rays are in all probability streams of dissociated mole-
cules which are thrown off the kathode, what are, then, the Réntgen
or X-rays! They certainly originate from the former, either in the
spot where they strike the glass or, what appears more correct, within
the tube itself in the kathode stream. Butare both of the same nature 4
Roéntgen himself indicates many points of resemblance between the
two, and considers them in his third memoir’ as ‘* phenomena prob-
ably of the same nature.” Lenard goes even a step further. He rep-
resents them both as parts of the same scale or of the same ** magnetic
spectrum;” the X-rays, which are not deflected by a magnet, being at
one end of the scale, while a series of intermediate radiations connect
them with the kathode rays occupying the other end of the scale.*
Both provoke fluorescence, both produce similar photographic and

‘Dr. P. Villard, in Revue Générale des Sciences, 1899, Vol. X, p. 101.

* Nature, the 6th of October, 1900, Vol. LXII, p. 449, gives it in full.

* Sitzungsberichte of the Berlin Academy of Sciences, 1897, p. 576; summed up in
various scientific reviews.

* Annalen der Physik, 1897, Vol. LXIII, p. 253.

fd

ey ee ee es ee

UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS. 377

electric effects, and both have different degrees of penetration through

&
+ opaque bodies, which depend upon the source of elec ‘tricity and tie
_ media through which they have passed. Moreover, the X- rays are cer-

tainly not homogeneous, and consist of a variety of radiations.
And yet the many analogies which have been noticed between the
R6éntgen rays and ordinary light stand in opposition to a full assimila-

tion of the X-rays to the kathode streams, and the opinion that, like

light, they are vibrations of the ether takes the upper hand.‘ These

_ may be vibrations of a very short wave length, perhaps a hundred

times shorter than the waves of green light; or they may be aia
tudinal vibrations,” as Lord Kelvin had suggested at the outset;? or,
as Prof. J. J. Thomson thinks, they may be a mixture of y ee ‘of
different sorts—*‘ pulsations” of the ether, as he puts it—that is, some-
thing similar to what is called ‘ta noise” in the theory of sound.

Already, in his second memoir, Réntgen had indicated that his rays
discharge an electrified body, both directly when they fall upon it and
by their action upon the surrounding air, which they render a con-
ductor of electricity. This was an important remark, because the
researches of the previous four years had eel established that the
violet rays—i. e., the short waves as well as the invisible
ultraviolet radiations, have the very same effect. A link was thus
established between the problematic rays and common light, and some
of the best physicists (Lord Kelvin, Righi, Perrin, Guggenheimer,
Villari, Starke, and many others) engaged in a minute experimental
work in order to specify these analogies. The result was that the
resemblance between the X-rays and the short-waved radiations of
light was proved.

A further confirmation of the same analogy was given by the dis-
covery of the “secondary” and ‘‘ tertiary ” rays by the Paris professor,
G. Sagnac.* He studied what becomes of the Réntgen rays when they
strike different metallic surfaces. They are not reflected by them, but
only diffused irregularly; however this diffusion differs from reflee-
tion, not only by its irregularity, but still more by the fact that the

DP aractar of the ‘“ secondary ” radiations (or ‘< tertiary, if the A have

been diffused byrice) isaltered. ‘They become more like ordinary light.

*See Gains: peal against such an rene based upon their different
behavior toward electrified bodies (Annalen der Physik, Vol. LXV I, p. 65), to which
it may be added that the heating effect of the first radiations is very much smaller
than the same effect of the latter (EK. Dorn), and compare these remarks with the
anode current, the existence of which was maintaine od by Crookes since 1891. Swin-
ton (Phil. Mag., 1898, XLVI, p. 387) confirmed its e xistence, and Riecke (Ann. der
Physik, XLVI, p. 954) has Pescived its energy.

"See Minetecnth Century, March, 1896, where

explained. | : :
’He gave an account of his researches in Revue Générale des Sciences, the 30th of

the meaning of this suggestion was

April, 1898.

sm 1900-——27
378 UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.

Their power of penetration through opaque wood or the human flesh
is diminished; and just as a phosphorescing surface which has been
struck by ultraviolet radiations begins to glow with a yellow or green
light—of a diminished wave length, as G. G. Stokes had remarked it—
so also the diffused secondary radiations behave as if they were of
shorter wave lengths than the rays which originated them. The space
between the violet light and the Réntgen radiations is thus bridged
over, their analogy with light becomes closer, and the hypothesis
according to which they are treated as vibrations of the ether gains
further support.

Many other curious properties of the Réntgen rays have been revealed
during the last four years. The most interesting is that they are not
quite ‘‘ invisible light.” When they are of great intensity they become
visible. However, the portions of our retina which are excited by
them are the peripheral parts only, which contain more rods than the
central parts lying opposite the iris. The cones, or those constituent
parts of the retina which are supposed to convey to our brain the color
sensations, are, on the contrary, but very slightly, if at all, irritated
by the X-rays.’ Then the more perfect is the vacuum in a Crookes
tube, and consequently the greater is the electrical force required to
originate Réntgen rays, the more penetrating they are. In such cases
they pass through metals, and Réntgen himself has photographed bul-
lets inside a double-barreled Lefaucheux pistol, while other explorers
have obtained radiograms with rays which had passed through an
aluminum plate 1.4 inches thick, and even a cast-iron plate nearly 1
inch thick.” The inside of a watch which had a steel lid, the inner
mechanism of a lock, as also both sides of a bronze medal, were photo-
graphed in the same way; while, on the other hand, Goldstein obtained
beautiful radiograms showing the internal structure of a Nymphea
flower, of a hermit crab inside its shell, and so on.*

But the chief progress was made with the medical applications of
the Réntgen rays. The half-mystical enthusiasm of the first days,
when they were supposed to provide a new curative method, rapidly
subsided. But their usefulness for ascertaining lesions in the bones,
and for the discovery of the actual position of strange bodies—bullets,
needles, and so on—in the human tissues, has grown in proportion as
surgeons have learned better to handle them.

The pernicious effects of the invisible rays on the skin are now elimi-
nated by shortening the time of exposure which is required to obtain

1 Prof. Elihu Thomson’s address delivered before the American Association of
Science in 1899 (Science, 1899, Vol. X, p. 236; translated in Naturwissenschaftliche
Rundschau, XIV, p. 585).

? Radiguet, Sagnac, Hall Edwards.

5 Max Levy, ‘‘Fortschritte der Rontgentechnik,’’ reproduced in various periodicals.

UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS. 379

a good radiogram, and the morbid effects have been traced by Russian
explorers (Danilevsky, Tarkhanoff) to electric radiations altogether,
rather than to the X-rays themselves. Formerly it required eighteen
minutes to obtain a radiogram of the hand. Now we are told that Dr.
Donath obtains in two seconds a distinct radiogram of so difficult a
subject as the shoulder and the chest; while Tesla, with his powerful
alternate currents, could show distinct shadows at a distance of 165 feet
from the vacuum tube. In the hands of an able surgeon—as Prof.
E. Bergmann illustrated before the Association of German Naturalists
and Physicians in 1899—the X-rays become a most precious means of
exploration. The growth of the bones, from birth till matured age,
could be studied with their aid, and the various causes which retard
growth (rachitism, tuberculosis) or produce midgets could be ascer-
tained. The fearful splintering of the bones by the modern bullets,
and especially by the English dumdum bullet, became known, and the
radiograms of Bruns showing the effects of the dumdum provoked
on the Continent a unanimous indignation against this bullet. Many
limbs were saved during the last Greek-Turkish war by Nasse and
Kiittner continually resorting to radiography. So also in the Soudan
war. In fractures of the kneecap the Rontgen rays have proved sim-
ply invaluable, but perhaps the best service they rendered was to
demonstrate that in many cases it was far preferable to leave pellets
of lead, small revolver bullets, and even Peabody-Martini bullets
where they were lodged in the tissues instead of trying to get them
out. In fact, Dr. Bergmann’s radiograms prove that a bullet may
sometimes remain in the lungs without occasioning any trouble. Such
was the case of a German soldier who had carried a bullet in his lungs
for twenty-nine years, since 1871, without knowing it. The German
professor goes even so far as to maintain that there are cases when a
small bullet lodged in the white mass of the brain will remain there
firmly imbedded, without producing any noticeable trouble, and that
there is less danger in leaving it there than in extracting it.

If Roéntgen’s discovery had only the effect of alleviating so many
human miseries, it would already rank among the great achievements
of the century, but its profound effects upon natural philosophy are
far from being yet exhausted.

Every one knows the phosphorescent match boxes provided with a
white surface, which is usually protected from moisture by a glass,
and glows in the darkness. making the box visible at night. Sulphide
of lime is generally used for making such glowing surfaces, but vari-
ous compounds of barium, calcium, strontium, uranium, and so on
possess the same property of glowing in the dark after they have been
exposed for some time to light. They are said in this case to *‘ store
up” light energy, which they give away afterwards; this was, at least,
~

380 UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.

the explanation that used to be given some time ago.’ Now, it was in
this rather neglected domain that Henri Becquerel discovered the won-
derful radiations which have received his name, and which, owing to
the speculations they provoked as regards the theory of matter, have
engrossed for the last four years the attention of physicists, even more
than the Réntgen rays themselves.

It will be remembered that a phosphorescent screen which began to
glow in the proximity of a vacuum tube upon which Réntgen was
experimenting led him to his memorable discovery. It was only nat-
ural, therefore, to see whether phosphorescent screens would not
reinforce the X-rays; and in the course of such experiments M. Henry
noticed that a phosphorescent sulphide of zine gaye up radiations
which, like the R6éntgen rays, would pass through black paper and
affect after that the photographic plate.” M. Niewenglowski, also at
Paris, made the same remark concerning a sulphide of lime previously
exposed to light. Then, at the next sitting of the Paris Academy of
Sciences Henri Becquerel came forward with a work on the radiations
emitted by phosphorescent substances,‘ and this first work was fol-
lowed by quite a number of papers in which the new radiations were
studied under all possible aspects. Becquerel was joined in his
researches by many others, and especially by Mme. Sklodowska-Curie
and her husband, M. Pierre Curie, who soon discovered, with the
aid of the new radiations, two new elements, and by this time the
** Becquerel rays” have already a bulky literature. During the past
year nearly every week brought with it the discovery of some new and
puzzling property of these radiations.’

The main point of the discovery was that phosphorescent bodies
emit not only the well-known glow, which is visible to our eye, but
also invisible radiations, similar to the Réntgen ray. Some salts of
the metal uranium, and the metal itself, need not be exposed to light

)

1The terms ‘

‘phosphorescence’’ and ‘‘fluorescence’’ are rather indiscriminately
used to describe glowing after an exposure to light, as the distinction between the
two, proposed by Wiedemann, can not be maintained any longer. Other causes may
also provoke ‘‘luminescence:’’ the diamond glows after having been slightly heated,
quartz after some rubbing, and gases when they are electrified. As to the many
luminescent animals, such as the glowworm, various marine animals and bacteria,
we are not concerned with them now.

“Comptes Rendus of the Paris Academy of Sciences, the 10th of February, 1896,
Vol. CX XII, p. 312.

3Ibid., CX_XII, p. 386.

*Thid., the 24th of February, 1896, Vol. CX-XII, p. 420. Further communications in
the same and subsequent volumes.

° The literature of the subject is already immense. The main contributions to
it will be found in Comptes Rendus, Philosophical Magazine, and Annalen der
Physik. Excellent articles for the general reader appeared in Nature, the 14th of
June, 1900, and in Reyue Générale des Sciences, the 30th of January, 1899, by Mme.
Sklodowska-Curie.
UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS. 381

for more than one-hundredth part of a second to begin to glow, and
long after the glow has disappeared they continue to send out the
invisible radiations affecting the photographic film for months, and
even years, as it appeared later on, even though the salt of the metal
remained all the time in a closed box locked in a drawer in a dark
room. The Becquerel radiations are thus quite different from phos-
phorescence or fluorescence. They are similar in nature to the kathode
rays and the Réntgen rays, with one substantial difference only. In
the vacuum tube we know the force—electricity—which supplies the
energy for setting the atoms or the molecules of the gas into motion,
while here we see no such source of energy; the radiations continue
months and years after the phosphorescent body has seen the light,
and there is no notable diminution of its radiating activity. Besides,
certain substances need not be influenced by light at all for sending
out radiations, and this properly belongs, as it appeared later on, not
only to phosphorescent bodies, but to a great variety of substances,
organic and inorganic, so that one has to ask oneself whether the
Becquerel radiations are not a property of matter altogether.

The first experiments of Becquerel were these: A little lamina of the
double sulphide of uranium and potassium, which has a great phos-
phorescing power, was placed upon a black paper envelope containing
a photographic film. A glass plate, or a thin plate of aluminum or of
copper, was introduced between the two, and the whole was either
exposed to diffused daylight or closed in a black box and put in a
drawer. In a short time in the first case—in a few hours in the sec-
ond—the photographic film would show that some rays had been radi-
ated from the sulphide. They had traversed the paper and partly also
the metals, though less so than the paper, and the plate bore the image
or the shadow of the piece of copper.

The analogy with the Réntgen rays was thus evident, and further
inquiry confirmed it. Like the kathode rays, the Becquerel radiations
are deflected from their rectilinear paths by a magnet; but, like the
Réntgen rays, they can not be reflected or broken or polarized.’ And,
like the kathode rays, they render the air through which they pass a
conductor of electricity; they carry electricity with them, and con-
sequently it is most probable that they are not vibrations of the ether,
but electrified particles of matter, or ions, like the kathode nays, And
so we have the puzzle, or, at least, the quite unexpected fact, of matter
radiating molecules without any electrical or luminous or heating cause
provoking and maintaining that radiation or evaporation.

The Becquerel rays, as was just said, send electrified particles
which are capable of neutralizing the electricity of other bodies with

1Tn his first researches Becquerel thought that he had seen reflection and refrac-
tion of these rays; but now he has abandoned this idea (Comptes Rendus, 1899, Vol.
CxeX VIL, p: 771).
882 UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.

which they come into contact. The gold leaflets of a charged electro
scope drop at the contact with them.’ But Becquerel was not satisfied
with merely stating this fact; he immediately devised a very delicate
instrument for measuring the activity of different rays given up by
various bodies. Perhaps he did not realize that he was thus endowing
science with a new method of analysis, which would lead, like spec-
trum analysis, to the discovery of new elements; but in the hands of
M. Curie and Madame Sklodowska-Curie this method really led to
the discovery of at least one element, radium, and perhaps two more—
polonium and actinium.

From the very outset it became evident that compounds of uranium,
and especially the metal itself, prepared in a pure state by Moissan, in
his electric furnace, were possessed of the greatest radio-activity.
Thorium, with its compounds, came next. As to the other elements,
nearly all of which were examined by Mme. Sklodowska, they were
all much inferior to these two. It was also noticed during these
researches that, as a rule, the compounds were inferior to the pure
metals themselves. One mineral, however, the Bohemian pitchblende,
as also two others of less importance—all compounds of uranium—
proved to be much more radio-active than pure uranium itself, and M.
and Mme. Curie, suspecting that the pitechblende must contain some
new substance more active than uranium, began a most painstaking
laboratory work in order to isolate that special substance. They
obtained at last a metal identical as to its chemical properties with
bismuth, but far more radio-active, and they named it polonium, in
honor of Madame Sklodowska’s fatherland. Then, beginning once
more, in company with G. Bémont, the whole research from the
beginning, in order to hunt for another very radio-active substance of
which they had suspected the existence, they obtained another metal
similar to barium by its chemical properties, but still more radio-
active, which they named radium.” And finally, A. Debierne has dis-
covered lately, by the same method, a third element named actinium
and chemically similar to titanium.* Mr. Crookes, while disagreeing
with the Curies as regards their new elements, came also, after a long
research, to some new element, or at least to some new variety of
uranium, which he named **Ur X,” and which in his opinion is neither
polonium nor radium.‘ The new method of ‘‘ radiation analysis” had
thus completed its proofs.

Of course, so long as these new elements have not been separated

This fundamental property of the Becquerel rays was announced on the very
same day by Becquerel at Paris (Comptes Rendus, 1897, Vol. CX XIV, p. 438), and
by Lord Kelvin, J. C. Beattie, and Smoluchowski Smolan at Edinburgh, before the
Edinburgh Royal Society (Nature, 1897, Vol. XLV, p. 447).

?Comptes Rendus, 1899, Vol. CX XVII, p. 1215.

3TIbid., 1900, Vol. CX XX, p. 906.

* Proceedings of the Royal Society, the 10th of May, 1900.

aad ouatil
bald sail

t

UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS. 383

chemically from their nearest of kin—bismuth, barium, and titanium—
their existence must still remain doubtful. Butthe spectrum of radium
has already been examined by Demargay! and by Dr. C. Runge under
avery great dispersion; and the great German specialist in spectra
found that radium really gives three distinct lines which belong to no
other element.*

The radio-activity of these new metals is really striking. For polo-
nium it is four hundred times, and for radium nine hundred times.
greater than for metallic uranium. Radium illuminates a phosphores-
cent screen indefinitely, and its salts glow without requiring for that
a preliminary excitement by light. F. Giesel, who, almost simultane-
ously with the Curies, obtained a substance that must be radium, saw
the chloride and bromide of this substance, although chemically iden-
tical with the same compounds of barium, sending such strong rays
that the shadow of a hand appeared on a phosphorescent screen at a
distance of 18 inches and the rays pierced metallic plates four-tenths
and eight-tenths of an inch thick. Salts containing an admixture of
the new substance were so phosphorescent that one could read in their
blue light. As to polonium, although a pure specimen of it was as
phosphorescent as pure radium, its invisible rays had, however, a much
smaller penetrating power; even cardboard would weaken them.*

The main interest of these researches is, however, in the problematic —
nature of the Becquerel radiations. Are they not a general property
of matter, only varying in degree in different substances? This is the

question which is now asked. Some thirty or thirty-five years ago it

was mentioned in some scientific reviews that various objects—a printed

left their impressions on a white sheet of

page or a piece of metal
paper if the two had been kept for some time at a small distance from
each other. These experiments, which seemed to prove the existence
of some sort of radiation of matter, interested me then a great deal
because they gave support to a very ingenious theory, developed by
Séeguin, concerning the existence of infinitely small particles of matter
dashing in all directions through space and penetrating matter. . With
the aid of these particles Séguin endeavored to explain gravitation,
heat, light, and electricity. Now W. J. Russell, continuing the experi
ments of Colson on zinc and other metals,‘ laid before the Royal Society
in the autumn of 1897, and later on with more details, ina Bakerian
lecture, experiments having very much the same purport. He found
that certain metals (magnesium, cadmium, zinc, nickel, ete.) and certain

fae ae 9 al . Ao olves : eraph of
1 Revue Générale des Sciences, the 30th of September, 1900, gives a photogray

this spectrum.

2 Annalen der Physik, 1900, 4th series, Vol. II, p. 742. Polonium gave no charae-
teristic lines.

* Physikalische Zeitschrift, Vol. I, 1900, p. 16.

*Comptes Rendus, 1896, Vol. CX XIII, p. 49.
384 UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS.

organic bodies (printing ink, varnishes) will act on a photographic
plate by their ‘‘emanations,” exactly as if the plate had been acted
upon by light, the boiled oil of the printing ink and the turpentine in
varnish being the active substances. Remarkably clear photographs
of a printed page and a lithographic print were thus obtained without
the aid of light. Many organic substances act in the same way, anda
piece of old dry board gives its likeness simply after having been laid
for some time over a photographic film, while a plate of polished zine,
separated from the film by a sheet of paper, will send its radiations
through the paper and give a photographic reproduction of its water-
marks.’

In what relation these ‘‘ emanations” stand to the Becquerel rays
‘an not yet be determined. But it becomes more and more certain
that, like the kathode rays, the Becquerel radiations also consist of
material particles projected from the radio-active bodies and carrying
electricity with them. They may possibly be accompanied by vibra-
tions of ether of the nature of light, but the fact of a real transport
of particles of matter is rendered more and more apparent by the
researches of Becquerel, the Curies, Elster and Geitel,’ and Ruther-
ford.’ The ‘* emanations” from thorium compounds are even affected
by drafts in the room. But these emanations are neither dust nor
vapors. They must be atoms, or ions, of the radiating body, and
they communicate radio-activity, and, consequently, the power of dis-
charging electricity to the surfaces of the bodies with which they come
incontact. From glass that ‘* acquired” activity may be washed away,
while to other bodies it clings like a sprinkling of the ‘* jack-frost”
powder, and M. Curie is described in Nature as being unable for a time
to make electrostatic experiments on account of this ‘‘ acquired” radio-
activity.‘ Moreover, the Becquerel radiations exercise a chemical
action; they ozonify air, as they ‘‘ ionize” it, and a glass bottle which
contains salts of radium takes a violet color, thus showing that chem-
ical processes are provoked by the radiations.’

‘

1 Proceedings of the Royal Society, Vol. LXI, p. 424. Bakerian lecture, delivered
on the 24th of March, 1898; Nature, the 28th of April, Vol. LVII, p. 607.

?Verhandlungen der deutschen physischen Gesellschaft, 1900, p. 5; summed up in
Naturwissenschaftliche Rundschau, Vol. XV, p. 103.

3 Philosophical Magazine, 1899, Vol. XLVII, p. 109; 1900, Vol. XLIX, pp. 1, 161.

4See E. Rutherford’s paper in Philosophical Magazine, 1900, Vol. XLIX, p. 161;
also Nature.

5 A salt of uranium may be submitted to absolutely any chemical transformations,
but when you return to the salt from which you started in your work, you find in it
the very same electrical radio-activity which it had at the start. Impurities do not
affect it. The radiation seems thus to belong to the molecule of uranium, and hardly
to be influenced by external causes. (Sklodowska-Curie, in Revue Générale, 1899,
xp. 472)

UNSUSPECTED RADIATIONS. 385

Many problems relative to the structure and life of matter have thus
been raised by these researches. Various hypotheses are offered to
explain them, and J.J. Thompson’s hypothesis—a further develop-
ment of his kathode-rays hypothesis—appears, after all, the most
probable. The molecules of which all bodies are composed are not
something rigid. They live; that is, an atom or a ‘‘corpuscle” is
continually being detached from this or that molecule, and it wanders
through the gas, the liquid, or even through the solid;' another atom
(or corpuscle) may next take its place in the broken molecule; and so
a continual exchange of matter takes place within the gaseous, liquid,
or solid bodies, the wandering ‘* corpuscles” always carrying with them
the sort of motion which we call an electrical charge. Those atoms or
corpuscles which escape from the surface of the body would give what
we call now Becquerel rays, and it would not be a simple coincidence
that those two elements which possess the greatest atomic weights, and
consequently have the most complex molecules,” possess also the highest
radio-activity. We know that in solutions the so-called unstable com-
pounds play an immense part; they are continually broken up, losing
part of their atoms, and are continually reconstituted as they take in
new atoms. And we know that in living matter the most compound
molecules—those of albumen—are those which are split up most easily,
and that what we call life consists in a continual splitting up and
rebuilding of these molecules. Are not the Becquerel radiations
revealing to us that continual splitting and rebuilding of molecules
which constitutes the life of both inorganic and organic matter?
These are the grave questions which natural philosophers are brought
to ask themselves, and which will certainly require many more patient
researches.

1Compare with Roberts-Austen’s researches on the permeation of solid metals,
mentioned in a previous ‘‘ Recent Science ”’ article.

?Thorium, 232.6; uranium, 239.6. Both belong to the twelfth and last series of
Mendeléeff. The atomic weight of radium must be greater than 174. (Comptes
Rendus, CX X XI, p. 382.)
INCANDESCENT MANTLES.!
By VivIAN B. Lewns, F. 1. 6, F2CeS:

There is nothing more wearying to the practical man than to listen
to the preachings of the scientist who imagines that the thoughts born
within the four walls of his study are superior to the hard-earned
_ experience of years of labor, and nothing is further from my intention
than to impose this suffering upon you. There are, however, sides to
many questions which can be made clear; details, the explanation of
which can help, and innovations, the description of which will interest
those employed in actual every-day work, and it is in this way that
lectures can be made most valuable, while the more practical working
experiences find their most fitting record in the discussion which every
lecturer hopes to excite.

It was long before the incandescent mantle came to the help of the
gas engineer in his fight against the threatened encroachments of the
electric light that the name of Auer von Welsbach became known to
the scientific world as one of the most promising students in the
domain of the rare earths that the world-famous laboratories of Hei-
delberg and Vienna had produced.

Boiling a solution of some of these rare oxides, and using a ragged
sheet of asbestus card to shield the beaker containing the solution of
the salts from the fierce flame of the Bunsen burner, he noticed that a
small quantity of liquid, having boiled over and having evaporated on
the projecting fibers at the edge of the card, endowed them with the
power of becoming brilliantly incandescent under the exciting heat of
the nonluminous flame. Seizing the clew thus obtained, Welsbach set
himself to solve the problem of how to utilize the manifestly high
light emissivity of these bodies as a practical aid to artificial illumina-
tion, and the result of that quest has been to place the gas industry
well beyond the reach of electrical competition for many years to
come, and to insure fame and more substantial reward to the keen

Fr rs e . ' a5 vonee: ry Ysx716 2

1Paper read before the Institution of Gas Engineers, on May 3, by Vivian B.
x a m: - “an 7

Lewes, Professor of Chemistry, Royal Naval College, Greenwich, England. 1 rinted
5 ; 7 ara) - ‘ “ Toa 92 99

in Progressive Age. Reprinted in Scientific American Supplement, Nos. 1230, 1231,

July 29, August 5, 1899.

387
388 INCANDESCENT MANTLES.

worker whose practical appreciation of the importance of his discovery
resulted in one of the most phenomenal successes of modern times.

The term ‘‘rare earths” is one of those anomalies which mar the
vaunted precision of science, as although it might justly be applied to
the oxides of many metals, it was in 1885 used to designate a small
band of metallic oxides which occur in certain rare minerals, of which
cerite and gadolinite may be taken as types.

The term ‘‘ earth” was applied to such bodies as the oxide of chro-
mium, Cr,O,; and alumina, Al,O., while the ‘‘alkaline earths” were
the calcium and magnesium groups.

These rare earths were generally considered to be: Cerium oxide,
Ce,O,; lanthanum oxide, La,O,; didymium oxide, Dy,O,; yttrium
oxide, Y,O,; erbium oxide, Er,O,; together with some others even
scarcer, and these are divided into two groups:

Cerite earths. Ytterite earths.
Cerium oxide, Yttrium oxide,
Lanthanum oxide, Erbium oxide,

Didymium oxide,

which are easily divided from each other by the action of an excess of
potassic sulphate, the cerite earths forming ‘‘alums” which are insol-
uble in potassic sulphate and so separate out, while the ytterite earths
remain in solution. These rare earths are ail bases, but there are
other metallic oxides, equally rare, which play an important part in
mantle making, but can not be classified with them. Thoria, ThO,,
and zirconia, ZrO,, are not earths, and in some combinations’ show
rather an acidulous than a basic tendency. ‘These two metals, thorium
and zirconium, are classed with titanium, silicon, ete.

It was with the study of these oxides that Welsbach was most con-
cerned at the period when his early attempts began to assume tangible
shape, and having discovered the possibility of making a mantle to fit
the shape of a nonluminous Bunsen flame by soaking a cotton fabric in
a solution of salts of the rare earths and then burning out the organic
matter in such a way as to leave a ghost of the departed threads built
up of the oxides of the metals used—thin enough to be excited to
luminosity by the heat of the flame, and yet resistant enough to retain
its shape under the temperature to which it was submitted—he took
out his celebrated patent of 1885, which has proved an efficient first
line of defense against those who, left without the charmed circle, yet
have hungered for the baked meats within.

In the 1885 patent Welsbach protects the idea of making a mantle
by saturating the cotton fabric and then burning off, using mixtures
of the salts which he gives as ‘‘60 per cent zirconia or oxide of zir-
conium, 20 per cent oxide of lanthanum, 20 per cent oxide of yttrium.
The oxide of yttrium may be dispensed with, the composition then
being 50 per cent zirconia and 50 per cent oxide of lathanum. Instead
INCANDESCENT MANTLES. 389

of using the oxide of yttrium, ytterite earth, and instead of the oxide
of lanthanum, cerite earth, containing no didymium and but little
cerium, may be employed.”

As a commercial article, the mantles made under this patent were
dire failures; they gave a candlepower which varied from 3 to 6 can-
dles per foot of gas consumed, and were so friable that the mantles of
to-day seem giants of strength as compared with their puling fore-
fathers. They, however, fulfilled the important function of launching
the idea of the mantle, and hardly had the patents been taken out than
Welsbach made the further discovery that by going outside the group
of rare earths, and by replacing zirconia as a basis by thoria, increased
life and strength could be given to the mantle, and this was protected
by the patent taken out by Welsbach in 1886. .

In this patent he protects the use of thoria alone or in admixture
with zirconia, lanthana, yttria, didymia, erbia, magnesia, or alumina.
During the next few years the composition of the mantles made by
the Welsbach companies was of a very variable character, but the
largest proportion of them consisted of commercial thoria and gave a
light of 6 to 8 candles per foot of gas, this being due to the fact that
the material used was not pure and contained traces of ceria, which
gave it the power of emitting what was then a considerable amount of
light.

Pure thoria gives a practically nonluminous mantle, and with chem-
ically pure material the light obtainable is under 1 candle per cubie
foot of gas, while even now a mantle made from the commercially
pure thoria, manufactured for mantle making, gives a light of from 4
to 5 candles per cubic foot of gas, this being entirely due to the diffi-
culty of separating the last traces of ceria; and as 0.1 per cent of ceria
eauses the thoria to give about 5 candles per foot of gas, it is difficult
to obtain a sample which does not give a certain amount of light.

The use of ceria together with thoria is mentioned in some of Wels-
bach’s early foreign patents, but the exact date at which it was first
realized that ceria in traces had the marvelous effect on the light
emissivity of the thoria mantle that we find in the mantles of to-day is
not very clear, but it is evident that the advantage of the presence of
small quantities of ceria was beginning to be realized by 1891, when
Mr. W. McKean, the chemist of the English Welsbach Company, read
a very interesting paper before the Society of Chemical Industry and
pointed out that ceria is by no means a disadvantage in small quanti-
ties, as it adds to the constancy of the illuminating power, and he
gives a table showing the influence of the presence of ceria in the
lighting fluid, and also the influence upon the light which increasing
percentages of ceria have. Thus, for instance, the ordinary lighting
fluid contains 0.25 per cent of ceria, gives 25 candles for a consumption
of 2.5 cubic feet of gas, or 10 candles per foot, while increasing the
390 INCANDESCENT MANTLES.

percentage of ceria in the fluid to 0.5 reduces this to 18 candles for 2.5
cubic feet, and when | per cent of ceria is added a further reduction
to 13.5 candles for the 2.5 cubic feet is found; but while the candle-
power lost 43.2 per cent in 1,000 hours with the 0.25 per cent of ceria,
it only lost 12.6 per cent in one experiment and 28 per cent in another
with 1 per cent of ceria present in the original fluid. He also gives
in the same paper as a composition for a mantle giving a yellowish
light: Lanthana, 40 per cent; thoria, 28 per cent; zirconia, 30 per
cent; ceria, 2 per cent; showing that at this period the use of ceria
in small quantities in mantles containing thoria was by no means
unknown.

Later on, in 1893, Mr. Moeller, having clearly realized that commer-
cial thoria contained traces of ceria and that it was owing to this that
the earlier mantles gave any light, took out a patent in which he sought
protection for thoria in combination with very small traces, not exceed-
ing 1 or 2 per cent, of certain other rare metals, such as uranium,
cerium, terbium, neodymium, samarium, praxeodymium, yttrium,
and lanthanum, and the mantles of to-day nearly all consist of 99 per
cent thoria and 1 per cent ceria; as although several of the oxides
mentioned in minute traces endow a nonluminous thoria mantle with
the power of emitting light, vet ceria so far transcends the others, not
only in its power of exciting luminosity, but of keeping up the illumi-
nating power over a long period, that as far as our knowledge goes it is
needless to look beyond it.

An absolutely pure thoria mantle gives less than 1 candle per cubic
foot of gas consumed, a pure ceria mantle gives but little light and of
ared nature, so that for all practical purposes the ingredients when
used alone are valueless, but the smallest addition of ceria gives a
‘apid leap up in its power of light emissivity, which reaches its maxi-
mum when from 0.9 to 1 per cent of the total oxide consists of ceria,
further additions causing a rapid falling off in the light, while the
light emitted first assumes a yellowish and then a reddish tint as the
percentage increases.

The following curve of candlepower and percentage of ceria shows
the average result obtained, but it must be borne in mind that certain
traces of impurities derived from the ash of the cotton and from the
salts used lower to a certain degree the absolute candlepower, although
they do not affect the general contour of the curve. (Fig. 1.)

Several attempts have been made to explain the wonderful power of
light emissivity possessed by the thoria-ceria mantle. Dr, Drossbach
was of opinion that the rare earths had a special action in converting
the heat rays into light rays, and that the molecules of ceria acted by
bringing the heat vibrations of thoria to the most favorable state of
resonance with the vibration of the hot flame gases. Dr. Moscheles
and Dr. Killing both pointed out that cerium formed two oxides and
INCANDESCENT MANTLES. 391

that other metals having the same characteristics would act as exciters
when used in the proper proportions, and both attributed the high
incandescence of the mantle to changes in the state of oxidation
increasing the intensity of combustion on the mantle surface, while
Dr. Killing also pointed out that a catalytic action probably took
place.

Dr. Bunte has given by far the best exposition of the theory of the
incandescent mantle, which if it does not make all points clear, yet
offers a simple and probable explanation of the observed phenomena,
which he ascribes to intense local temperature due to the ceria exer-
cising a power of attracting oxygen and causing its combination with
the flame gases.

The remarkable influence which ceria exerts in awakening light
emissivity in the mantle becomes still more remarkable when one con-
siders that although the percentage by weight of the ceria is only 1,
yet that by volume it is enormously less. When nitrate of cerium is

Candles per cubic feat gas.

i 2 3 4 Ss 6 7 6 9 10
Percentage of ceria.

Fic. 1.—Effect of ceria upon light emission of a thoria-ceria mantle.

converted into ceria by the action of heat, but little change of volume
takes place, but when nitrate of thorium is decomposed in the same
way its conversion into oxide is accompanied by an increase in bulk of
an extraordinary character, the substance swelling up and producing
a light powder occupying many times the bulk of original salt, so that
in the finished mantle small indeed must be the space occupied by the
exciting ceria.

This seems to point to some specific action on the part of the ceria,
and cases are not uncommon in which dilution with some inert material
increases physico-chemical action of the kind one would expect of the
ceria. If port or claret be shaken’ up with powdered charcoal, which
consists of nearly pure carbon, and the mixture Is then filtered, the
color is but little changed, while if animal charcoal or some of the
artificially prepared imitations of it containing less than LO per cent Ob
carbon distributed over the surface of inert mineral matter be used for
the same purpose, the liquid is absolutely decolorized.
392 INCANDESCENT MANTLES.

Another example which bears closely upon the case of the ceria is to
be found in the action of platinum upon mixtures of hydrogen or coal
gas and air. If a piece of platinum foil be heated to redness in a
Bunsen flame, and the gas be then turned out and again turned on
before the platinum has had time to grow too cool, it again becomes
heated to redness in the stream of gas and air and continues in that
condition as long as the gases are passing over its surface, while if
brought to what would have been the outer envelope of the flame had
the gaseous mixture been alight, the temperature is so increased that
the ignition point of the gas is reached. The action here is what is
known as catalytic or surface action, and is due to the fact that plati-
num has the power of condensing gases upon its surface, and in doing
so renders them so chemically active that combination between the
condensed gases is often induced, and in the case of the coal gas and
air enough heat is evolved on the surface of the platinum to raise it to
redness. The result being due to surface action, it is manifest that an
increase of the surface must increase the activity of the substance, and
if, instead of taking metallic foil with its comparatively small area of
exposed surface, spongy platinum made by reduction from platinum
salt or asbestus coated with the reduced metal be employed, ignition
of the gaseous mixture without the preliminary heating takes place.

The fact that the platinum foil remains red hot in the stream of
coal gas and air, which is only at atmospheric temperature, at once
shows that the heat evolved by such an action is localized in the body
starting the action, and it is manifestly possible, and indeed probable,
that the very minute particles of ceria scattered over the surface of the
inert thoria and so subdivided as to be capable of easy and rapid heat-
ing to a very high temperature may give rise to an action of the same
kind. Indeed, one knows that te a certain extent this is so, because if
the mantle burner be turned off and again turned on while the mantle
is still hot, the mixture of gas and air is reignited, although the rod and
mantle material are manifestly below the ignition point of the gas, and
the fact that this does not take place with a pure thoria mantle is a
fairly good proof that it is the ceria and not the thoria which is acting.

Dr. Bunte has found that thoria had no influence in bringing about
the ¢ anise of hydrogen and oxygen, and the temperature at which
the two combined to form water was the same whether thoria was
present or not, but that the presence of ceria caused them to combine
at 600° F. instead of 1,200° F. This being so, the question arises as
to what the action can be that the ceria induces, the localization of the
heat from which causes its minute and subdivided peel to glow
with so high an incandescence.

When ina Bunsen burner the admixture of gas and air has been
carried to the extreme limit, so that what would have been the inner
cone of the Bunsen flame settles down as a green and seething sheet
——.~*

INCANDESCENT MANTLES. 393

on the gauze of the burner top, being indeed only prevented from
flashing back in the tube by the conducting power of the gauze and
the accelerated rush of the gas and air mixture through its meshes,
the combustion is being completed in two stages, the first taking place
on the surface of the gauze where the hydrocarbons of the coal gas
undergo incomplete combustion at the expense of the oxygen of the
admixed air yielding carbon monoxide and hydrogen, together with
small quantities of carbon dioxide and water vapor, and it is the com-
bustion of the carbon monoxide and hydrogen which gives the outer
flame in which the mantle is heated, this combustion entirely taking
place at the expense of the oxygen derived from the air surrounding
the flame and not from the air originally mixed with the gas in the

burner tube. It is a mistake to speak of this outer flame as a ‘‘solid

flame,” an expression often used in connection with burners in which
sufficient air is introduced with the gas to flatten the inner zone onto

the gauze, as it is merely the structureless flame which is always ob-

tained on burning gases like carbon monoxide and hydrogen which
burn only in one stage. Any user of mantles knows perfectly well
that it is only in the edge of this outer flame that the mantle material
acquires its true incandescence, this being due to the fact that it is only
when the maximum quantity of air and the carbon monoxide and
hydrogen meet that the highest temperature is attained, and it is here
that combustion is at its fiercest and that the catalytic action of the
ceria creates points of high intensity.

The view put forward by Moscheles and Killing may be shortly
stated as follows: Cerium is a metal which exists in two states of oxi-
dation, a lower or cerous oxide, Ce,O,, and a higher or ceric oxide,
CeO,, and it is easily conceivable that in its highly subdivided condi-
tion and at a high temperature, exposed as it is to the high reducing
action of hydrogen and carbon monoxide, which tend to take oxygen
from it and convert it into cerous oxide, and also to the oxidizing action
of the air, which tends to again build it up into ceric oxide, a contin-
ual oxidation and reduction is taking place, the abstraction of oxygen
from the air and its liberation to combine with reducing gases on the
surface of the ceria raising these attenuated particles far above the
temperature of the flame.

_It is quite clear that whether one accepts the Killing theory of dual

oxidation, or Bunte’s of catalytic action of the ceria, one arrives at an

explanation of the fact that unless the mantle be just in the right posi-
tion so that both the air and flame gases have access to it, the lumi-
nosity is practically destroyed.

It may be roughly stated that there now exist two classes of theory
with regard to the mantle, the first being that the ceria or cerla and
thoria exercise some occult power in converting heat rays into light,
and the seeond, the theories of Killing and Bunte, which ascribe the

sm 1900 28

394 INCANDESCENT MANTLES.

wonderful light emissivity to the exalted temperature brought about
by local combination due to the power of the ceria in attracting
oxygen, and it matters but little whether this be brought about by a
purely chemical or by a physicochemical action.

It is clear that if the light be due to the conversion of heat rays into
light, on heating the material out of contact with air, the same differ-
ences in their power of emitting light should be observed as exist in
the mantle, and several experiments have been made in order to find
if this were so or not.

Dr. Bunte took a thick-walled tube of are carbon, having the walls
of its middle portion reduced for a length of 4 inches to a thickness
of 0.059 inch, and heated it by an electric current until the middle por-
tion attained a most intense white heat far above 3,630° F. In order
to prevent combustion and loss of heat, the middle of the tube was
embedded in magnesia, over which asbestus was wrapped. Small square
prisms—0.59 inch long by 0.28 inch wide—of magnesia were coated
with the substances to be examined, and each was cemented to a simi-
larly shaped piece of carbon or magnesia, so that the two adjoining
faces consisted of the two substances to be compared. On placing these
double prisms in the tube it was possible with certain precautions to
observe the relative intensities of the radiation by comparing the two
halves of the surface visible in the tube. These researches showed
very small differences in the intensity of the radiation from carbon,
magnesia, pure oxides of thorium and cerium, and the Welsbach
mixture.

Within the last few weeks confirmation has been given of Dr. Bunte’s
results by an extremely interesting paper communicated to the Royal
Society by Mr. A. A. C. Swinton, in which he inclosed the luminous
materials in a vacuum tube and subjected them to bombardment by
means of cathode rays which would raise them to a very high tempera-
ture, as it is possible by such a method to melt platinum and glass and
bring finely divided carbon to bright incandescence. The mantle to
be experimented on was mounted on a platinum wire frame and placed
between the two electrodes, so that as the electric current alternated
and each electrode became in turn the cathode the mantle was sub-
jected on alternate sides to cathode-ray bombardment. Experiments
were made with mantles consisting entirely of ceria and thoria, both
separate and mixed in different proportions, and in order to obtain
accurate comparisons between the pure oxides and different mixtures
the mantles were made in patchwork, each mantle being made up of
two or four sections separately impregnated with different solutions
and then sewed together with impregnated cotton before being burned.

With a compound mantle prepared in this way, composed one half
of pure thoria and the other half of a mixture of 99 per cent thoria
with 1 per cent ceria, it was found that after exhaustion on starting
INCANDESCENT MANTLES. 395

the cathode discharge the thoria plus ceria heated up to incandescence
more rapidly, and on stopping the discharge cooled more rapidly than
the pure thoria. Further, when at full incandescence and observed
through a dark glass the thoria plus ceria was slightly more luminous
than the pure thoria, though the difference was very small, probably
not more than 5 per cent. Owing to the difficulty of obtaining a con-
stant vacuum, accurate photometric measurements were not possible,
but the amount of light under favorable conditions was roughly esti-
mated as at least 150 candlepower per square inch of incandescent sur-
face, this being obtained with an expenditure of electrical energy in
the secondary circuit of about 8,000 volts pressure of approximately
1 watt per candle. The amount of exhaustion suited to give the best
results varied with the dimensions of the tube and the conditions men-
tioned in the paper, but was approximately about 0.00005 atmosphere,
the maximum luminosity being obtained when the dark spaces of the
two cathodes just crossed at the center of the bulb. Owing to the
large amount of gas occluded by the mantle, a proper degree of per-
manent exhaustion was very difficult to arrive at, and required con-
tinuous pumping for many hours, with the cathode rays turned on at
intervals.

Even then the conditions of maximum luminosity were exceedingly
unstable, owing to the further liberation of occluded gas on the one
hand and on the other to the rapid increase in the degree of exhaus-
tion, owing to absorption of the residual gas by the electrodes. That
such absorption probably took place in the aluminum electrodes and
not in the mantle was demonstrated by other experiments with a tube
in which there was no mantle, but only two electrodes of aluminum
wire.

These experiments all point to the fact that the idea of a mixture of
99 per cent thoria and 1 per cent ceria having the peculiar power of
converting heat rays into light, while thoria and ceria alone have not
this power, or at any rate only have it to a very limited extent, is not
tenable, as otherwise the same difference would have been noticed when
the materials were heated either in the carbon-tube furnace or in the
vacuum tube, and this undoubtedly gives great support to the second
theory.

It has been pointed out that the amount of ceria in the mantle is so
extremely small that it seems hardly credible that any surface action
that it possessed would play an important part in the production of
luminosity, but Dr. Bunte answers this objection by saying that
“according to Davy’s theory, the illuminating power of an ordi-
nary gas flame is due to particles of carbon which are separated
from the gas and raised to a white heat. The carbon arises chiefly
from the decomposition of the heavy hydro carbons ethylene and ben-
zene, which form together about 5 per cent of the volume of the gas.
396 INCANDESCENT MANTLES.

Assuming, for the sake of simplifying the calculation, that all the car-
bon of the benzene and half that of the ethylene is separated and
heated to incandescence in the flame, it may be calculated that about
54 milligrammes of carbon are separated from a liter of good coal gas
(23.6 grains from 1 cubic foot). Thus 4 per cent of ethylene and 1
per cent of benzene gives per liter of gas 60 cubic centimeters of -car-
bon vapor from the benzene and 40 cubic centimeters from the ethyl-
ene, in all 100 cubic. centimeters, which is equivalent to about 54
milligrammes of carbon. The volume of the luminous portion of a
flame having a consumption of 5.297 cubic feet per hour and an illumi-
nating power of 17.5 candles is about 2 centimeters at 32° F. There
2X 54
1,000
grain of incandescent carbon. Such an extremely small quantity of
incandescent carbon as 0.0015 grain gives the luminous surface to the
gas flame and emits a light of 17.5 candlepower. Now, the 1 per cent
of ceria in the Welsbach mantle amounts to about 4 milligrammes (0.06
grain) per mantle, or about forty times the quantity of incandescent
carbon in an ordinary flat flame. The quantity is, therefore, quite
sufficient to explain why the Welsbach burner may give a light of 60
candles while the flat flame, or Argand burner, furnishes only 17.5
candles.”

The only other legalized mantle at present before the public is the
Sunlight, the ingredients of which consist of alumina and the oxides
of chromium, and it is interesting to see how far the light yielded by
this mantle can be attributed to the same action as in the case of the
Welsbach. If a mixture of alumina or alumina and zirconia with
avery small percentage of chromium be employed, a very high candle-
power is produced, which, however, soon dies away, owing to the
volatilization of the chromium compound, while if the amount of
chromium present be increased, the mantle acquires a more ruddy
light and retains its illuminating power for a much longer period, so
that, with a proper percentage of chromium, a candlepower of 10 to
11 candles per cubic foot of gas can be obtained for a period of 400
to 500 hours, and it is noticed that the chromium, which on first burn-
ing shows as green chromium oxide, rapidly combines with the alu-
mina to form a pink compound which has much the same composition
as the ruby, and it is quite probable that the increased life given by
the larger quantity of chromium is due to the fact that the lighting
power of the mantle is really dependent on small traces of the oxide
of chromium, and that as this gradually volatilizes off from the sur-
face of the mantle some of the pink compound gets dissociated by
heat and supplies a fresh portion of chromium oxide to the surface of
the mantle, this pink compound being far less volatile than the chro-
mium oxide itself,

is, therefore, in it milligrammes, or 0.1 milligramme=0.0015
INCANDESCENT MANTLES. 397

Thoria, as far as the life of the mantle goes, is perhaps the most
important constituent, as there is no other known oxide which will
stand heat for so long a period without being affected by it, and the
getting away from shrinkage in the mantle was one of the chief steps
which led from the failure of the early mantles to the success achieved
by the later ones.

Moreover, thoria is a body having a very low specific heat, and
owing to its bulk when produced from the nitrate of thorium by the
action of heat is a good nonconductor, so that the temperature created
on the surface of the ceria particles is more readily localized there.

Within the last few years attempts have been made to attack the
question of mantle making from a different standpoint. Admitting the
superiority of thoria with its 1 per cent of ceria over other mantle
mixtures, efforts have been made to obtain mantles of filaments of this
mixture upon the principle under which the old Clamond basket was
made.

Clamond produced his incandescents by making a paste of magnesia
with acetate of magnesia in solution, and molded the mixture into
threads by squeezing through holes in a plate, the threads while still
moist and plastic being wound to the required shape on a mandrel or
mold, the still moist threads being pressed together and made to cohere
at the points where they crossed each other, and then on baking the
acetate luting burnt to oxide and the coherent magnesia hood or basket
remained.

The reduction in size of the filaments to be rendered incandescent
was a great advance over the old lime light and enabled incandescence
to be produced by a burner instead of a blowpipe, while Welsbach’s
discovery, or rather adaptation of the principle of saturating a fabric
and incinerating, created a new era in incandescence by giving a degree
of fineness not before approached.

As was natural, attempts were then made to reduce still further the
size of the filaments in the Clamond basket, and on November 4, 1590,
Lungren patented a distinct advance. It was found that if you made
a plastic filament as Clamond had done, but finer in substance, it dried
very quickly, and on attempting to make the material cohere at the
crossing of the threads, those first wound on the mandrel, being drier
than those wound across them, were harder, and on pressure being
applied cut through the softer threads instead of welding with them.
Finding this, Lungren patented the idea of making a plastic mass of
some elastic material charged with refractory earths or metallic oxides,
expressing from some such mass fine wires or threads, weaving or
interlacing the threads into a fabric from which the cone or mantle
could be made and then burning out the combustible elastic binder. In
making this binder he gives mixtures of glue with elycerin, india
rubber dissolved in naphtha, or boiled linseed oil as examples, but also
says that a variety of materials may be used.
398 INCANDESCENT MANTLES.

One of the most remarkable developments of the last fifty years has
been the wonderful way in which the lower form of gun cotton, known
as collodion cotton, has been utilized for commercial purposes, and at
the present time it bids fair to invade the territory of incandescent
mantle making. It was in 1838 that the chemist Pelouze drew atten-
tion to the fact that when paper was acted upon by the strongest nitric
acid it increased in weight and acquired the property of burning with
enormous rapidity, while as early as 1832 Braconnot had prepared a
substance called ‘* xyloidin” by acting upon starch, linen, and sawdust
in the same way. It was not, however, until 1845 that any serious
attention was directed to the use of such substances as explosives,
when Schonbein first called attention to nitrated cotton wool and advo-
cated its use as a substitute for gunpowder, showing that in explosive
energy it was far superior to it.

Experiments were at once instituted on a large scale and its manu-
facture carried on in England and also on the Continent, but in 1847
a very serious explosion occurred at the works in which it was manu-
factured by the Messrs. Hall, at Faversham, while a year later an
even more serious explosion followed in the gun-cotton factory at
Bouchet, near Paris, and as no reason could be assigned for these and
other similar explosions, gun cotton was looked upon as too danger-
ous an explosive for ordinary use, and its manufacture was for a time
discontinued.

During this brief period, however, it had been discovered that if
the strength of the nitric acid employed in the manufacture were
slightly reduced, a compound was formed which had the property of
dissolving in a mixture of alcohol and ether, which was not the case
with the true gun cotton, and that on allowing the solvent to evaporate,
a semitransparent mass was left in which no trace of the structure of
the original material remained. This solution was eminently adapted
for forming thin films on glass plates, and as this was a great desid-
eratum at this particular period for photographic purposes, the new
material began to be manufactured on a fairly large scale. It was
soon found that by slight modifications in the method of manufacture
and by loading it with various foreign materials, excellent imitations
of amber, ivory, and tortoise shell could be obtained, with the result
that the manufacture of collodion has now attained considerable
importance.

One of the most beautiful applications of collodion is the manufac-
ture from it of artificial silk. In the interesting but little-known
town of Besancon, the French inventor Chardonet has established a
manufactory in which collodion made by nitrating wood pulp is dis-
solved in the smallest possible quantity of alcohol and ether, and the
emulsion is then squeezed out under a pressure of 750 pounds to the
square inch through capillary glass tubes, the clear way of which is
INCANDESCENT MANTLES. 399

less than one-hundredth of a millimeter, this enormous pressure
_ being required to cause the material to flow evenly through the exces-
sively small apertures. The filaments of from ten to twelve of these
tubes are then twisted and wound on to a bobbin in a machine of the
same character as used for the spinning of silk fiber. The air of the
room in which this operation is carried out is kept ata sufliciently
high temperature to cause the instantaneous setting of the filaments
owing to the evaporation of the alcohol and ether, so that within 3 or
4 inches of the tube from which the material is issuing it has lost all
stickiness and may be twisted without cohesion between the threads.
These threads have all the appearance of silk, but have one serious
drawback, that being practically a low form of gun cotton, they are
excessively inflammable and burn with a violence only a little removed
from that of true gun cotton. In order to overcome this trouble, the
skeins of artificial silk are soaked in ammonic sulphide, which has
the effect of what is termed ** denitrating” them and converting them
once more into cellulose, so that after washing and drying the mate-
rial is not more inflammable than an ordinary fabric. This material
is capable of taking every shade that the dyer’s art can impart to it
and forms a most beautiful and wonderful imitation of silk, lacking
only to a slight degree the elasticity found in the original article.

This extremely beautiful process was brought to perfection by
Chardonet and protected by him during the period which extended
between 1886 and 1893, and in 1894 De Mare took out a patent for
making incandescent filaments by charging collodion with metallic salts
and oxides, squeezing into threads, weaving, and burning. In this
patent, however, he makes no mention of denitrating the collodion
filaments before burning, which would make it extremely difficult to
make a mantle according to his patent.

In 1895 Knoffler patented the manufacture and denitration of collo-
dion threads or filaments loaded with oxides or salts, and in his first
claim mentions that the filaments may be ‘‘individual or spun and
eventually wrought or woven threads which are made after the manner
of the so-called artificial silk.”

Later on Plaissetty took out a patent which differs from Knoffler’s
only in that he uses glacial acetic acid as the solvent for his collodion
cotton, and instead of denitrating with ammonic sulphide, uses a solu-
tion of sulphide of lime, which, however, has the drawback of leaving
a trace of lime as an impurity in the finished mantle.

Mantles made by such methods as those devised by Knofiler and
Plaissetty are developments of the Clamond hood and not of the Auer
mantle, the difference being that whereas the Clamond class consists
of filaments of even density made by squeezing a plastic material
into rods or threads which, after the binding material 1s burned off,
leave a uniform mass of oxide, the Auer class consists of filaments
400 INCANDESCENT MANTLES.

having a dense central portion surrounded by a more or less spongy
coating, due to the fact that the soaked fabric on burning off leaves the
oxides produced from the interior of the capillaries in a dense state
while the salt on the exterior of the cotton in its conversion into oxide
by heat is rendered spongy by the escape through it of the gaseous
products of the combustion of the cotton, so that if a section of one of
the filaments constituting a strand could be examined under the micro-
scope, the appearance would be somewhat as described... The physical
effect of this on the mantle is that the Clamond class is harder than the
Auer and does not show the same high incandescence until the surface
of the filaments has become eroded by burning for a short period, the
life of the Clamond class when made of the same material as the Auer,
however, being longer. For instance, two mantles made one by the
Plaissetty and one by the Auer method so as to yield an ash containing
99 per cent thoria and 1 per cent ceria would give curves of the
following character (fig. 2), the total life of the Knoffler and Plaissetty
mantles being probably a third longer that of the Auer:

Candle-power

109 200 300 400 soo 600 700
Hours burning, —— = — Knoffier.

Fic. 2.—Endurance of Welsbach and Knoffler mantles compared.

There seems every probability that mantles of Knoffler and Plais-
setty type will play an important part in incandescent lighting, as in
Paris the Welsbach Company has acquired the patent rights of the
process and is introducing an innovation upon it. On taking a collo-
dion mantle and heating it in a drying oven for a certain length of
time a considerable shrinkage takes place, and if this shrunken*mantle
is then placed on a burner and burnt off the fabric rapidly moulds
itself to the form of the flame with but little manipulative aid. For
street lighting and for maintenance work it would manifestly be a
great convenience to do away with the collodionizing altogether, which
always, to a certain extent, impairs the light-giving power of the
mantle.

Another new feature which has peen introduced into mantles of this
class is the doing away with the asbestus thread and loop, which has
INCANDESCENT MANTLES. 40]

always been a weakness in the fabric, and to make the strangulation at
the top of the mantle by sewing it around with fibers of the same charac-
ter as those of which the mantle itself is made, this constricted annu-
lus then resting upon a supporting ring which is fixed as the ordinary
support in the center of the mantle.

The asbestus thread has always weakened the top of the mantle
owing to the difference in the rate of contraction during burning off,
and with a mantle merely resting on a supporting ring in this way you
get what is really an antivibrating arrangement which materially
enhances the life of the mantle for outside work.

The matter which | have brought before you has already occupied
so much time that I do not propose to go into the question of burners.
Many highly vaunted improvements have been introduced during the
last two years, but they have all been based upon the idea first intro-
duced by Bandsept of getting the proper admixture of the maximum
of air and gas to be burned at the bottom of the burner and completing
and perfecting the mixture close to the mouth of the burner where
the combustion is to take place.

In many cases the increased luminosity given by such burners is
really due to the length of tube, the increase of which acts in the same
way as increase in gas pressure. These improved burners have shown
themselves to be extremely variable, as while with carefully adjusted
samples and careful manipulation in the laboratory it has been possi-
ble to get as much as twenty-five candles per foot of gas with a prop-
erly prepared Welsbach mantle, yet in practice on a big scale the duty
given is quite as often seventeen candles or less, and the old Bandsept
burner, when properly made, is still as good as or better than any of
the new ones.
rey ere
ea :

|

i ae i a al
.

ye

“2

ce s y

a Ke

mate

Pan ae

7 a

- 7 cs
ri *

ies Saat oe
PAu 2
THE IMPERIAL PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN
CHARLOTTENBURG.!

By Henry S. Carnart

I. HISTORICAL.

Through the courtesy of Professor Kohlrausch, president of the
Reichsanstalt, and the curatorium or governing body of the institu-
tion, the writer was accorded the privilege of working in the Physi-
kalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt as a scientific guest during the last
few months of 1899. An unusual opportunity was thus afforded of
learning rather intimately the methods employed and the results
accomplished in this famous institution for the conduct of physical
research, the supply of standards, and the verification of instruments
of precision for scientific and technical purposes.

It is well known that the Keichsanstalt is situated in Charlotten-
burg, a suburb of Berlin just beyond the renowned Thiergarten. The
buildings occupy an entire square, the larger part of which, valued at
500,000 marks, was the gift of Dr. Werner Siemens. In making this
gift, which was offered in land or money at the option of the Govern-
ment, Dr. Siemens declared that he had in mind only the object of
serving his fatherland and of demonstrating his love for science, to
which he avowed himself entirely indebted for his rise in life. The gift
was made as a stimulus to the Government to establish an institution
for physical research. The kind of institution desired had been amply
described in suitable memorials prepared by himself, Professor von
Helmholtz, and others of scarcely less distinction. The first memorial
bears date of June 16, 1883. It relates to ** The founding of an insti-
tution for the experimental promotion of exact natural philosophy
and the technical arts of precision.” It points out the need of such
an institution, details the benefits likely to accrue from it, lays great
stress on the intimate relation existing between scientific investigations
and their application i in the useful arts, and sets forth somewhat in

‘A paper presented at the one eee md fonieeeth meeting of the American
Institute of Electrical Engineers, New York, September 26, 1900. President Hering
in the chair. Reprinted from Transactions of the American Institute of Electrical

Engineers, Vol. XVII, Nos. 8 and 9, August and September, 1900. ie
o
404 PpHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG.

detail a plan of organization. The memorialists had in mind at that
time a ‘‘physico-mechanical institution,” but in a memorial of the
following year (March 20, 1884) the title was changed to the one which
the institution now bears—‘* Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt.”
From this second memorial it is learned that the first steps toward the
furtherance of exact science and technical precision in an institution to
be founded and maintained by the State were taken as early as 1872.
This movement had the support of the crown prince, the late Emperor
Frederick, and the matter was taken in hand by Count von Moltke as
chairman of the central bureau of metrology in Prussia. He called
together a commission near the end of the year 1873, and in the fol-
lowing January this commission reported a series of propositions for
the improvement of the scientific mechanic arts and of instruments
of precision. These propositions formed the foundation for a memo-
rial on the same subject to the Chamber of Delegates of the Prussian
Government in 1876. The result was that appropriate rooms were set
aside in the new building of the Technical High School in Charlottenburg
for the organization of an institution for the cultivation of the arts of
precision.

The general plan of the Reichsanstalt was adopted in 1887, and an
appropriation of 868,254 marks was made and spread over the budget
for three years. The main building for the first or scientific division
was completed in 1893. The second or technical division was housed
ina portion of the Technical High School till the buildings for this
division were completed, in 1897. All departments of activity of the
Reichsanstalt are now accommodated on the square facing on March
strasse in Charlottenburg. They include the division for pure scientific
research, mechanical measurements of precision, electrical measure-
ments and instruments, the measurement of large direct and alter-
nating currents and electromotive forces, the optical department, the
department of thermometry, the department of pyrometry, and the
department of chemistry. To these as auxiliaries should be added
the power plant and the workshop.

Il. ORGANIZATION.

The two divisions into which the Reichsanstalt is divided correspond
to the two paramount objects which the founders had in view, viz,
research in pure science and the cultivation of precision in the tech-
nical applications of science. The same idea is embodied in the very
name of the institution—The Imperial Physico-Technical Institution.
lf the sole purpose of the Anstalt had been the promotion of improve-
ments in the mechanic arts, in engineering, and in instruments of pre-
cision, the first, or scientific, division would still have been essential to
secure the ends sought. All the applications of science rest on the
foundation of pure scientific discovery. The creation of new and
PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG. 405

improved methods and instruments for physical measurements requires
the most exhaustive and painstaking investigations asa preliminary to
a steady and confident advance. The practical value of research in
pure science is no longer in question. The wise founders of the Reichs-
anstalt made no mistake in coupling an institution for the promotion
of technical precision with one for the prosecution of research in phys-
ical science. :

The governing body, or curatorium, of the Reichsanstalt is appointed
by the Emperor. At its head is Herr Weymann, imperial privy coun-
selor. The function of the curatorium is the appointment of the
officials and the general management of the institution. The chief
officer of the Reichsanstalt is the president, and the most distinguished
physicist of the realm is sought for this position. Helmholtz was taken
from the university in Berlin to become the first incumbent of the
office. After his death, in 1894, his successor as professor of physies in
the university, Prof. F. Kohlrausch, became his successor as president
of the Reichsanstalt.

The president, who is at the same time director of the first division,
is held responsible for the successful work of the Reichsanstalt. All
other officials are therefore subordinate to him. In his absence the
duties of his office devolve upon the director of the technical division.
Subordinate to the director of this second division are the professors,
associates, and assistants of various grades. A professor in charge of
a department has the direction of all those employed in it, including a
skilled departmental mechanician. :

The specific duties of the president may be briefly enumerated. He
must lay before the Curatorium at its annual meeting the following:

1. A report on the work executed in both divisions.

9. The plan of work for the undertakings to be carried out the ensu-
ing year.

3. Propositions relative to the money to be expended for scientific
and technical work; also for salaries and remunerations.

4, Propositions relative to the rank of permanent associates and
assistants; also relative to the bestowal of places to work in the Reichs-
anstalt as scientific guests.

He takes a vote on the propositions in 3 and 4, and reports the con-
clusions of the Curatorium to the Government for approval. It is also
the duty of the president to sign vouchers for all payments, and he is
held responsible for the proper expenditure of the money appropriated
for the maintenance of the institution.

The different functions of the two divisions composing the institu-
tion are defined in rather broad terms. It is the duty of the first divi-
sion to carry out physical investigations requiring more uninterrupted
time on time part of the observer, and better
of instruments and local appliances, than priv

accessories in the way
ate individuals and
406 PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG.

laboratories of institutions for teaching as a rule can offer. These
investigations shall be carried out partly by officers of the Anstalt
and partly, under their oversight, by scientific guests and voluntary
workers. By scientific guests in general are meant the holders of sci-
entific positions in the German Empire, who wish to prosecute scien-
tific researches, the plan of which they have submitted, and for which
they have not at home the necessary appliances. They must be
recommended by the State in which they reside, and must be accepted
by the Curatorium.

Young men may be accepted as voluntary workers who have proved
their ability by scientific publications. They will undertake researches
which have been determined upon by the Curatorium or the director;
or they may investigate subjects which they themselves suggest, and
which appear to the director to be practicable and worthy of execu-
tion. The scientific results obtained must be published only at the
discretion of the authorities of the institution, who reserve also the
right to publish them in the researches of the Reichsanstalt. Provi-
sion is made that voluntary workers shall not use the institution for
private ends nor to obtain patents.

The second division of the Reichsanstalt is placed under a director,
who is subject to the higher authority of the president. Such a di-
rector was considered necessary on account of the special work of this
division, as well as because of the intimate relations into which it is
brought with many persons engaged in industrial pursuits. He should
therefore not only be a scientific man but should at the same time have
some technical knowledge of the applications of science. Under the
director are placed the permanent heads of the subdivisions of the
technical department, one having the oversight of thermometry, one
of optics, two of electricity, and one of mechanical measurements of
precision. Along with these, and of the same rank and compensation,
is the director of the workshop. Under him at present are eight
mechanics, and the shop is provided with the finest tools for the execu-
tion of the most exact work required by the institution. For exam-
ple, it has a circular-dividing engine that cost $2,500. The founders
of the Reichsanstalt foresaw the necessity of such mechanical aids for
the furtherance of the exact work to be undertaken. They wisely con-
cluded that such special constructions and new types of instruments as
they might require from time to time could be more conveniently and
more cheaply built in their own shop than by private instrument
makers.

II. COST AND MAINTENANCE.

The following are the official accounts of expenditures for the
grounds, buildings, furniture, and instruments for the two divisions,
to which are added the yearly expenses;
PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG. 407

Drviston I.

Marks
1. Acquisition of ground, the gift of Dr. Werner Siemens .____. ear cb
2. For erection of buildings:
coo HELIO [OVC BUT a a ee rs 387, 000
ier meimery MUMNGINE = 2.2.2.6. Se eee 50, 000
Peoemmmnistraiaon building ...2.2.........0-2.. 22.22. 100, 000
Pee OH MOUSE 2 2. = oo ce cae oie Soc eee nll: 99, 254
Epeeeeme PAW AN, CLE. =. . 2 ee ic ck eee 10, 472
fmormainibot street... 5.0.2 30, 274
peperiuame ror Dathery . 2.2... .2. 020. 2 bee oan. 8, 500
3. Fittings and furniture... .. 2 Bie 0 E24 ae pe ea ee ee ee ae 58, 000
4. Equipment of machinery and instruments...__...._....... 82, 310
—— _ i, 325, S10
Drviston IT.
Pere metmonmGLOrOund 2 _.-..2.-2..2-21-.-2.2+- 2-222 s eee 373, 106
2. Erection of buildings:
um MMIMMETMCNTR SS ee is Ls ee Saeed 922, 000
Depmneranamy inline, -_....- 22. 2. < 2 ele ee ee deel 218, 000
Co EC INST aC EG Dh ca 180, 000
Sepemeiime ton Olicials: ..-_ |. 5.2542. -4-. 2+---2-0es 4s 140, 000
ep aatinnal improvements .--....-.--..-20-.-2:=-2-. 348, 000
IMPS MM TIENNCUTe = ><... 2... 4--2-..------ 22-2 nase oe 108, 300
4. Equipment of machinery and instruments ....-..-.....-.- 471, 390
2, 760, 796
LOSS Mac es OM OTe TSE eos rr 47, 500
Ee eee
epeauemeaaell together... 202.2. 25.53 -- noes ses es sche ees 4, 039, 106
The annual expenditures for 1899 were as follows: =e
arks,
lee xpencinunesitor salaries and laborers. ..--.--.--1.----------:-s---:ss: 206, 604
2. Miscellaneous articles, experimental work, and care Da buildimes= =: 25 2- 127, 000
pee SEES FSD 8 12 St Soc Senn nse be wee secs sese eae 333, 604

The receipts for calibrating instruments, testing materials, verify-
ing standards, and the like now amount to about 40,000 marks annu-
ally. This sum should be deducted from the yearly expenditures,
leaving a net sum of about 300,000 marks.

In round numbers the Reichsanstalt has cost $1,000,000, and the
annual appropriation for its maintenance is $75,000.

IV. RESULTS.

A very pertinent inquiry is, What are the results of all this expendi-
ture? Might not more good be accomplished by State aid to some
existing technical school or university? The results atte ained must be
set by the side of the objects which the founders of the institution had
in view in order to ascertain whether the sequel has justified their pre-
dictions. In the memorials to,which reference has already been made
Professer von Helmholtz and Dr. Werner Siemens pointed out the
408 PpHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG.

advantages likely to accrue to Germany from the maintenance of an
imperial institution for research, which should at the same time assume
the cognate function of fixing and certifying standards of mechanical
and physical measurements. Attention was drawn to the fact that
other countries, notably England, had enjoyed great renown in science
because of the brilliant researches and discoveries of some of her scien-
tific men who had the good fortune to be possessed of leisure and
large private means and the scientific spirit to devote them to investi-
gations demanding both as a sine qua non.

These conditions the memorialists declared were lacking in the father -
land. Her scholars who had the enthusiasm and the capacity for exact
scientific investigation possessed neither the private fortune to devote
to it nor the uninterrupted time for the execution of the work. They
were to be found among the men engaged in teaching, but their pro-
fessional duties absorbed their time to such an extent that only an
inadequate residue remained; and even that little was divided into
fractions too small to admit of the sustained and continuous attention
which any important investigation demands.

It was further pointed out that if the Government would supply the
conditions favorable to scientific discovery, the men could be found
whose work would reflect great credit on the State, while the interac-
tion between pure science and its applications to arts and manufactures
would put Germany in the forefront of scientific renown and of the
intelligent application of science to useful purposes.

It was further urged by von Helmholtz that the brilliant investigations
of Regnault and other French physicists many years ago should now
be repeated with the superior methods and instrumental appliances
available at the present time. These investigations drew the attention
of the scientific world to France and made it the focus of scientific
interest. Her instrument makers, even up to the present, have reaped
a rich reward in foreign orders for instruments made eminently
desirable and almost indispensable by these distinguished French
investigators.

Other problems, too, needed solution—problems forced to the front
by modern requirements and discoveries. The applications of elec-
tricity, for example, present new questions for science to answer, while
the interests of the consumer at the same time call for some form of
control by the State of the instruments employed in fulfilling con-
tracts. The very units in which such measurements are made need to
be authoritatively settled—a task demanding the highest manipulative
skill in experiment and the most refined appliances which experience
can suggest and money purchase.

The German Government admitted the force of these considerations
and made splendid provision, both for pure science and its technical
PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG. 409

applications, by founding the Imperial Institution at Charlottenburg.
The results have already justified in a remarkable manner all the
expenditure of labor and money. The renown in exact scientific
measurements formerly possessed by France and England has now
been largely transferred to Germany. Formerly scientific workers in
the United States looked to England for exact standards, especially in
the department of electricity. Now they go to Germany. So com-
pletely has the work of the Reichsanstalt justified the expectations of
its founders, and so substantial are the products of this already famous
institution, that other European nations are following Germany’s
example. Great Britain has already made an initial appropriation
for a national physical laboratory, to be organized on a plan similar to
that of her Teutonic neighbor. Mr. R. T. Glazebrook, who has long
served as secretary of the electrical standards committee of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, has been appointed
director and has entered on his duties. The new institution will absorb
the old Kew Observatory, and other buildings will be added at once
for the extension of the functions of this observatory so as to include
the larger enterprise contemplated in the establishment of the new
national laboratory.

Russia also has a number of large and well-equipped laboratories in
connection with her central bureau of weights and measures. One of
these is devoted to the verification of instruments for electrical meas-
urement. It employs fourteen men. and the budget is about $45,000
per annum.

France is also moving in the same direction. The great service of
France in fixing standards of length and mass has long been freely
recognized by the civilized world. But her national bureau for this
purpose is now considered to be too limited in scope to solve the new
problems présented. Quite recently a committee of learned men from
Paris, under the leadership of Minister Bourgeoise, visited Charlotten-
burg for the purpose of examining into the working of the renowned
institution located there. Professor Violle, one of the most illustrious
physicists of the French capital, accompanied the committee. What
better evidence of the success of Germany’s great institution can be
demanded than the consensus of favorable opinion among those hest
qualified to judge that its fruits are already of the highest order of
merit and its imitation by other European nations the sincerest form
of flattery # :

It would not be just to form an estimate of the success of the Reich-
sanstalt without taking into account its scientific publications. Ener
are numerous and of great value. Most of the reports of work done
are made public with official sanction in various scientific and tech-
nical journals. During the past year thirty such papers have been

sM 1900 29

410 PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG.

published. The detailed accounts, however, of the most important
undertakings thus far completed are contained in three quarto vol-
umes of investigations. Among those contained in the first two vol-
umes may be mentioned papers pertaining to thermometry and _ to
units of electrical resistance.

The investigations in thermometry comprise such topics as_ the
influence of the glass on the indications of the mercurial thermometer,
division of the thermometer, and determination of the errors of divi-
sion, determination of the coefficient of outer and inner pressure, deter-
mination of the mean apparent coefficient of expansion of mercury
between 0° C. and LOO° C. in Jena glass, and investigations relating to
the comparison of mercurial thermometers. :

Four papers of exceptional value relate to normal standards of
electrical resistance. They are the probable value of the ohm accord-
ing to measurements made up to tne present time, the determination
of the caliber correction for electrical resistance tubes, the normal
mercury standard ohm, and the normal wire standard ohm of the
Reichsanstalt. When one recalls that the ohm as a practical unit of
measurement is defined in terms of the resistance of a specified column
or thread of mercury, it will readily be seen that the work done at
Charlottenburg in this particular field is fundamental in character and
of the most universal importance.

In passing it is worthy of remark that all the standard resistances
designed and constructed at the Reichsanstalt are carefully compared
with the mercurial standards early in each year. This custom is in
accordance with the action taken by the electrical standards committee
of the British Association at Edinburgh in 1892, when the mercurial
standard was definitely adopted. At this meeting of the committee
representatives of American, French, and German physicists (includ-
ing Von Helmholtz) were invited to sit as members. The methods
employed in these comparisons and the forms of the standards are
original with the Reichsanstalt. The new forms and methods admit
of a combined accuracy and convenience not previously attained.

In addition to the work done in electrical resistance, the investiga-
tion of the silver voltameter and the electromotive force of standard
Clark and Weston cells has been highly productive of useful results
for the other two fundamental electrical measurements. Much remains
to be done in this latter direction, for the electromotive force assigned
to the Clark and the Weston cell, even in the latest report of the
Reichsanstalt, is derived from neasurements by the silver voltameter,
while the electrochemical equivalent of silver is in doubt to a greater
extent than the electromotive force of the Clark cell.

Perhaps the best indication of the valuable work of the Reichsan-
stalt is to be found in the annual *‘ Thiitigkeitsbericht.” This report
of the years’ activity is published in the *‘ Zeitschrift fiir Instru-
PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG. 41]

mentenkunde,” and the reprint for 1899 forms a pamphlet of twenty-
five large, closely printed pages. The following abstract will convey
some impression, though an imperfect one, of the extent of the work
accomplished.

First (Puysicat) Drviston.

I. Work in heat.—Determination of the density of water between 0° C. and 40° C.
Determination of the pressure of water vapor at low temperatures.
Determination of the pressure of water vapor near 50° ©.

Investigation of thermometers for temperatures between 100° and 200° C.

Investigation of the nitrogen thermometer with a platinum-iridium bulb for yery
high temperatures.

Investigation of thermometers for low temperatures.

Determination of the thermal and electrical conductivity of pure metals. (These
determinations are to .be extended down to the temperature of liquid air and up
to 1,000° C.)

Investigations with the Fizeau-Abbe dilatometer.

Investigation of the transmission of heat through metal plates.

Il. Work in electricity.—Comparison of the normal wire resistances of Divisions I
and IT.

Determination of the capacity of an air condenser.

Comparison of the standard cells of Divisions I and II.

Determination of the conductance of water solutions with a higher degree of accu-
racy than has been attained hitherto, especially with very dilute solutions.

Ill. Work in light.—Investigation with electrically heated black bodies.

Proof of Stefan’s law between 90° and 1,700° absolute temperature.

Determination of the relation between the intensity of light and the temperature.

Measurement of radiation in absolute measure.

Determination of the distribution of energy in the spectrum of black bodies.

Determination of the distribution of energy in the spectrum of polished platinum
and other substances; also their reflective power.

Seconp (TECHNICAL) Diviston.

I. Work of mechanical precision.—Investigation of the errors of length and of the
division of 300 scales, tubes, ete.

Coefficient of expansion of 18 bars, tubes, and wires.

Verification of 86 tuning forks for international pitch.

Construction of a new transverse comparator.

Study of the variations of angular velocity of rotating bodies.

Il. Electrical work.—Calibration of direct-current apparatus, 153 pieces.

Calibration of alternating-current apparatus, 58 pieces.

Examination of othergelectrical apparatus, 76 articles.

Examination of accumulators, primary elements, and switches, 37 articles.

Examination of insulating and conducting materials and carbons, 25 articles.

Installation of storage cells for a current of 10,000 amperes.

Installation of small storage cells for an electric pressure of 20,000 volts. x

Installation of alternating-current instruments for measuring potential difference
up to 500 volts and current up to 100 amperes.

Examination of 29 samples of alloys for specific resistance
coefficient.

Examination of 126 samples of insulating materials with an electric
800 volts.

and temperature

pressure up to
412 PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG.

Verification of single resistances, 123 samples.

Calibration of 33 resistance boxes, compensation apparatus, etc., containing 1,153
single resistances.

Comparison and yerification of 133 standard cells—111 Clark and 22 Weston ele-
ments.

Determination of the ratio Clark 15° C. to cadmium 20° C., and Clark 0° C. to cad-
mium 20° C., with a large number of standard cells.

Examination of 21 samples of dry and storage cells.

Calibration of 15 galvanometers to measure high and low temperatures with thermal
elements.

Magnetic examination of 25 samples of iron and steel.

Investigation of the difference between the continuous and the discontinuous mag-
netization of steel.

Investigation of the influence of repeated heating on the magnetic hardness of iron.

Ill. Work relating to heat and measurement of pressure.—Calibration of 18,777 ther-
mometers.

Examination of 4 safety appliances and benzine lamps.

Calibration of 317 thermal elements.

Verification of 9 manometers and 22 barometers.

Testing of 190 samples of apparatus for petroleum investigations.

Testing of 3,210 samples of safety rings and plugs.

Testing of 22 samples of indicator springs.

IV. Work in light.—Testing of 149 Hefner lamps for photometric purposes.

Testing of 189 incandescent lamps.

Testing of 143 gas and other lamps and adjunct appliances.

Investigation of the relation between the temperature of sugar solutions and their
rotatory power on polarized light.

Investigation of quartz plates for the examination of sugars.

Determination of 100 points in the normal Ventzke scale for sodium light.

Especially careful collection of sugars from Germany, Austria, France, Russia,
and North America for the investigation of specific rotatory power.

V. Work in chemistry.—Continuation of the study of the solubility of important salts.

Electrolysis of platinic chloride and the migration of the ions.

The quantatitive determination of metallic platinum.

Investigation of liquids for use in thermometers to measure low temperatures.

In addition to the above work attention is drawn to the fact that there
are two institutions for calibration and certification of thermometers
under the control of the Reichsanstalt, one at Ilmenau and the other at
Gehlberge. During the last ten years the institution at Ilmenau has
tested in round numbers 350,000 thermometers.

The number of persons employed in the Reichsanstalt the past year
was 87.

Vv. A LESSON FOR US.

If Germany has found it to her scientific and industrial advantage
to maintain the Reichsanstalt, and is proud of what it accomplishes,
and if Great Britain is so impressed with the success of the institu-
tion that she has decided to imitate it, it is surely the part of wisdom
for the United States to move in the same direction. It is therefore
very gratifying that at the suggestion of Secretary Gage a bill was

7 a
PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG. 413

introduced in the last Congress to establish a national standardizing
bureau, and that the Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures
reported unanimously and strongly in favor of its passage. So creat
is the importance of this movement from the point of view of science,
of national pride, and of the higher interests of industrial pursuits,
that the effort so happily begun to secure suitable legislation should
be repeated with redoubled force and enthusiasm. Some of the reasons
for making this effort one does not need to go far to seek.

In the first place, the scientific interests to be served are certainly
as great as in any other country in the world. Science is cultivated
here with increasing assiduity and success. Weare no longer content
to follow in the footsteps of European savants and modestly repeat
their investigations. Original work of a high order is now done in
many American universities, but the difficulties under which univer-
sity instructors prosecute research are even greater here than in
Germany, and we are still compelled to go to Europe for most of our
standards. As a result, inventions of an almost purely scientific char
acter originating here have been carried to perfection in the Reichsan-
stalt, and Germany gets the larger part of the credit. I need only
instance the Weston standard cell, which has been so fully investigated
at the Reichsanstalt, and the alloy ‘‘manganin,” which the same insti-
tution employs for its standard resistances after a searching inquiry
into its properties. Both of these are the invention of Mr. Edward
Weston, one of the past presidents of this institute. So long as there
is no authoritative bureau in the United States under Federal control,
and presided over by men commanding respect and confidence, we
must continue ‘‘to utilize the far superior standardizing facilities of
other governments.” It is true that science knows no nationality, but
the scientific workers of any nation can serve their own country better
if they are not compelled to obtain their standards and their best
instruments from distant parts of the globe. America has the culti-
vation in physical science, the ability on the part of her investigators,
and the inventive faculty to do work in a national institution that we
shall not be ashamed to place by the side of Germany’s best products.
The establishment of a national institution for physical and technical
purposes can not fail to foster a vigorous and healthy growth in sci-
ence, to which we already owe so much of our national prosperity and
renown.

In the second place Congress should be stimulated to take action
because of national pride. It is not creditable fora capable and self-
reliant nation to continue to depend on foreign countries for Its
standards of measurement, for the certification of its instruments,
and for the calibration of its normal apparatus for precise work.
Different departments of our Government and oflices under its con-
trol must at present appeal to foreign bureaus for the certification of
414 PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG.

their standards and instruments of precision. The first day the writer
spent at the Reichsanstalt he was consulted with reference to an
extended correspondence between the director of the technical division
and the officials of the Brooklyn Navy-Yard relative to the calibration
of a large number of incandescent electric lamps for use in our Navy
Department. The spectacle of a Government bureau going to a for-
eign imperial institution for standards in an industry whose home is
in the United States isa humilitating one. Yet the proceeding was
entirely proper and justifiable, because there is in this country no
standardizing bureau for the purpose desired. Are the representa-
tives of the American people willing to have this state of affairs con-
tinue?

Again, the higher interests of the industrial utilization of scientific
knowledge require the establishment in Washington of an institution
similar to the Reichsanstalt and in no degree inferior to it. We are
an inventive people and may justly claim renown in the prompt and
efficient utilization of the discoveries in physical science. It is highly
improbable that a practical limit has already been reached in the field
of applied physics. We are not estopped from making further dis-
coveries. Still it may be aflirmed with confidence that the most
important and promising work to be done, except in rare instances in
which genius makes a brilliant discovery, will consist in the more per-
fect adaptation of known physical laws to the production of useful
results. It is precisely this field which has not been extensively culti-
vated as yet in the United States. We have explored the surface and
presumably gathered the largest nuggets and the most brilliant gems.
To increase the output we must now delve deeper and scrutinize more
closely. To drop the metaphor, what will be required for future pre-
eminence is the more intensive and exhaustive study of the scientific
conditions in the industrial utilization of physical laws. This study
will require the best talent of our technical schools, aided and sup-
ported by an authoritative national institution, itself far removed
from patents and commercial gains, but jealous of our national renown
and eager to cooperate with manufacturers for the sake of national
prosperity.

Germany is rapidly moving toward industrial supremacy in Europe.
One of the most potent factors in this notable advance is the perfected
alliance between science and commerce existing in Germany. Science
has come to be regarded there as a commercial factor. If England is
losing her supremacy in manufactures and in commerce, as many
claim, it is because of English conservatism and the failure to utilize
to the fullest extent the lessons taught by science; while Germany,
once the country of dreamers and theorists, has now become eminently
practical. Science there no longer seeks court and cloister, but is in
open alliance with commerce and industry. ‘This is substantially the
PHYSICO-TECHNICAL INSTITUTION IN CHARLOTTENBURG. 415

view taken by Sir Charles Oppenheimer, British consul-general at
Frankfort, in a recent review of the status and prospects of the German
Empire.

The Reichsanstalt is the top stone of Germany’s scientific edifice. It
has also contributed much to her industrial renown. It is necessary
to cite only her manufactures involving high temperatures, such as
the porcelain industry, to appreciate the help afforded by the Reich-
sanstalt. The methods and instruments elaborated there for the exact
measurement of high temperatures constitute a splendid contribution
toward industrial supremacy in those lines. The German Govyern-
ment sees with great clearness that the Reichsanstalt justifies the expend-
iture made for its maintenance, not by the fees received for certifica-
tions and calibrations, but by the support it gives to the higher indus-
tries requiring the application of the greatest intelligence. In this
connection it should be thankfully acknowledged that the services of
this imperial establishment are placed at the disposal of foreign insti-
tutions of learning with the most generous liberality. The charges
for calibration are only about one-fourth the expense incurred in
making them, but the support thus given to German makers of instru-
ments of precision, by increasing their foreign orders, is deemed a
sufficient return for the services rendered.
oad

eer,
ee es
> che hee ied —

be

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Carhart. PLATE |

3
3
ae
F |
&

Cem 3

Fic. 1.—THE PRESIDENT’S HOUSE.

Fic. 2.—BUILDING FOR LARGE CURRENT
Smithsonian Report, 1900 —Carhart p
LATE Il.

Fic. 3.—MAIN BUILDING, DIVISION I.

= ffi 6666

Fic. 4.—MAIN BUILDING, DIVISION II.
«

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Carhart.

PLATE III.

Fic. 5.—MAIN BUILDING (IN PART).

|
eri WERNER-SIEMENS STRASSE |

eos oe ES SS ee 5 a

DIRECTOR’S HOUSE

MAIN BUILDING OF SECOND DIVISION

MAGNETIC BUILDING

FRAUNHOFER STRASSE
GUERICKE STRASSE

BUILDING FOR

PRESIDENT’S OFFICIALS

MAIN BUILDING OF FIRST DIVISION |
HOUSE |

Ry Bg aD po co=cecsosoSoso9 BS 9
SCALE OF FEET

} MARCH STRASSE

Fic. 6.—GENERAL PLAN OF GROUND AND BUILDINGS.
© 1" ber

SS
hd

ne po
7 : J 2 a
| A) Re = "4, LP

PLATE IV.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Carhart.

*I[ NOISIAIG “SNIGTING NIV) 3O SNV1dq HOOT4—"Z SI4

o0t os ; II NOISIAIG 40_~ DNIGTING NIVW

41334 40 31V0S

es AuVHaly
’ ae

a eaarl ais d 2 SugIENONsa oT Uy |

AYOLS GNOOSS to

sone

Dea:

LINAWaASVa

Auvuan
TVOINOLSIH

an
ae oe
* — a

”

THE GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH
CENTURY.

By GitBErT H. GrosvENor.

In 1800, the year that Jefferson was first elected President of the
United States and Napoleon won the history-making battle of Marengo,
about one-fifth of the earth’s land surface was known. The physical
features of the remaining four-fifths were partly supplied by imagina-
tive map makers or left a blank on the charts given to the public. In
1900 approximately ten-elevenths of the earth’s land surface may be
described as known and only one-eleventh as unexplored. In fact
much less than one-eleventh remains unknown, for the unknown area
is so distributed in both hemispheres that nowhere except at the North
and South poles are there remaining large unexplored tracts. This
will be readily seen by a glance at the maps that accompany this paper.

The eighteenth century had been noted for the explorers of the seas,
the nineteenth was preeminent in men who split open great continents
and laid bare to the eyes of mankind their mountains, rivers, and
lakes.

AFRICA.

One hundred years ago Africa was a gigantic black plate with a
white rim which had been tolerably well traced by Vasco de Gama, and
other bold Portuguese adventurers of the sea. Though nearer to
Europe than any of the continents, stretching as it does parallel to the
south coast of Europe for 1,000 miles, the deadliness of its climate
had averted the greedy eyes and hands of Spain, France, England, and
Portugal, who were battling for dominions in the Americas and India
thousands of miles farther away. They came to Africa for slaves to
develop the new world and that was all they sought in the Dark
Continent.

To-day hundreds of sharply defined lines of light, the routes of the
patient Livingstone, of grim Stanley, of Baker, Speke, and Mungo
Park, like the piercing beams of a searchlight have penetrated the
continent from north and south, from east and west, until there remain
black patches only here and there, and these are partly lighted by the
rays radiating from the main lines of exploration. Every square mile
of this great continent, excepting Morocco and Abyssinia, has, more-
over, been peacefully parceled out within the nineteenth century to the

417
418 GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

powers of Europe, while the possession of India and the Americas
cost thousands and tens of thousands of lives lost in battle.

The history of the exploration of Africa centers in the discovery of
the sources of the four great rivers of the continent, the Niger, the
Zambezi, the Nile, and the Kongo.

In a mighty torrent they swept into the Atlantic and Indian oceans
on the west and east and into the Mediterranean on the north, but of
the four, the Nile only was known for any considerable distance.
Bruce, in the last half of the eighteenth century, had penetrated from
the Red Sea to the head waters of the Blue Nile in Abyssinia and had
followed the latter to its junction with the Nile near Berber, and then
down the Nile to Cairo; but
he had not solved the secret
of that everflowing stream
whose waters had for thou-

sands and thousands of years
made the valley of Egypt
the granary and garden of
the world.

To-day the Nile has been
scientifically explored for its
entire length of 3,400 miles;
the Niger, with the excep-

its middle course, for 2,600
miles; the Zambezi, for 1,500

miles; and the Kongo, which
pce a in volume is exceeded only

1800. by the Amazon, for nearly
3,000 miles.

Fig. 1.—Africa as known in 1800. The darkened portions m1... » te
in this and succeeding maps show the unexplored areas. The course of the N iver

was determined early in the
nineteenth century and is the record of one man’s work and _ life.
Mungo Park, a Scottish surgeon, then but 24 years of age, but already
well-known for his discovery of several new fishes in Sumatra, in 1795
undertook to determine for the African Association of London the
course of the Niger. Starting from Gambia in December, he reached
Segu on the Niger in the summer of 1796, and succeeded in ascending
it for several hundred miles as far as Bamaku. ‘Ten years later, 1805,
he returned to Bamaku, resolved this time to follow the river which
he had been the first to reach, till it entered the sea. For nearly 2,000
miles he hugged its bank in a canoe with four companions and had all
but reached its outlet, when his canoe was upset in an attack by the
natives at Bussa and he was drowned.

-—#— tion of a small portion of
Pd

—

——— re S| CU
GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 419

During nearly fifty years after the death of Mungo Park, explora-
tion in Africa was confined to the Great Sahara Desert. Denham and
Clapperton in 1822-1824 pushed southward from Fezzan through the
burning sands and discovered Lake Tchad, then to Bornu, and thence
to Sokoto on the Niger. Several years later Clapperton ascended the
Niger from its mouth to Sokoto, where he died.

Another crossing of the desert was made by a brilliant young
Frenchman, Caillié, who succeeded in r aching Timbuktu, the myste-
rious African capital, in 1828. Nearly thirty years later Barth con-
nected the routes of Caillié and Denham, and in 1867—1874 Nachtigal
proceeded from the Niger to Lake Tchad, then eastward through Wadai
and Darfur to Egyptian Su- ;
dan. Binger, Foureau and
Lamy, and numerous ex-
plorers of later years, have
done important work in
erasing the blanks between
the routes of these great pio-
neers, while Rohlfs, farther
north, explored southern
Algeria, Fezzan, and the
edge of the Libyan Desert.

The patient, persevering
work of Livingstone made
possible the opening up of
the southern half of the
continent. For thirty-three
years he toiled in the fearful APRICS
heat of the Tropics, pausing Joe
only for two brief visits
to England. Often he was
without money and encouragement, dependent upon his scanty means
and unfailing courage for the fulfillment of his broad plans. Tis
genius laid the foundations upon which Stanley and the explorers who
followed him have worked.

Livingstone had come to Africa in 1840 as a medical missionary.
For nine years he had been penetrating farther and farther from Cape
Colony until in 1849 he was stationed at Bolobeng, 80 miles north of
Mafeking and 1,100 from Cape Colony. The chief of the people
among whom he was laboring told him of a take to the north beyond
the Kalahari Desert and of a powerful chief who ruled oyer many
tribes. Livingstone, animated with the sole purpose of extending his
religion, determined to search for the chief and the lake.

Fig, 2.,—Airica as known in 1900.
420 GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

On June 1 he set out, and after two months reached Lake Neami
which he found set in the midst of a luxurious, densely populated
country. He was not able, however, to advance farther and thus
returned to his station without seeing the chief.

Two years later he renewed his effort, passed Lake Ngami, and
finally reached the Upper Zambezi at a place called Sesheke, over 1,000
miles from its outlet. Livingstone was a Scotsman and had never seen
a real river before, and we can imagine what an effect this mighty
stream, discovered 1,000 miles from the coast, and whose origin or
outlet he knew not, must have had upon him.

He was now 750 miles from his mission post, and through his entire
march he had been continually discovering lakes, rivers, and largely
populated towns whose existence had previously been unsuspected. It
‘ame upon him that his true mission was to open up Africa, and he
therefore returned to the Cape to prepare himself for the work.

In the summer of 1852 he retraced his route to the Upper Zambezi
and followed its basin westward for some distance and then pushed
farther west until he finally reached the Atlantic Ocean at St. Paul de
Loanda. He then returned to the basin of the Zambezi. In all his
travels Livingstone never named any lake, river, or mountain that he
discovered, but he had not descended the Zambezi many miles before
he came upon a grand fall whose waters were dashed upon the rocks
300 feet below. A loyal subject, he named the falls after his Queen,
** Victoria.” He finally reached the Indian Ocean at Quilimane, thus
being the first white man to cross the continent.

In 1858 he began his second great exploration, which resulted in
tracing the course of the Shire River, a tributary of the Zambezi, and
the discovery of Lakes Nyassa and Shira, feed lakes of the Zambezi.

The problems of the Niger and Zambezi had thus been solved, but
the Nile and Kongo still remained a mystery. In 1859 Captains
Burton and Speke started from Zanzibar to discover a lake of which
rumors had fora long time been heard, and in a few months succeeded
in reaching Lake Tanganyika. Returning to the coast they separated,
Burton taking a southerly route and Speke a more northerly one.
Speke beheld in the far distance another great lake, the Victoria
Nyanza, and in 1861 returned with Grant to explore it. On circling
the lake they found a large river leading to the north, which they
followed for some distance, when they came upon Baker (afterwards
Sir Samuel), who had been following it, the White Nile, from Khartum.
Baker later continued his search westward and discovered a smaller
lake which he called ‘*Albert Nyanza.” Thus, by the discovery of
Lakes Victoria Nyanza and Albert Nyanza the feed lakes of the Nile
were definitely determined.

In 1865 Livingstone set out for the region of Lake Tanganyika and
discovered Lakes Moero and Bangweolo, and explored the Luapula
PLATE |.

100
tae

Berbera

o ~e

Donne

SCALE OF MILES
200 400 600 600
pt

iL. NVAS&A

' Sees 1h
I 3\ ( De nage

MieA E! ty i tea,

: EAN Nie i
~ IN aX =. ®,

all () ty 9 Sve, \

} : mo Sey S 4
Ges artis Bee al

ofl PA iZ# RAS SS NVuNaI0 vy

i)
ec
3
=
®
a
%
o

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Grosvenor.

% Niuve )) Bs
ill is Ato, t. S
(U\\>pem “aN xox |
lini | a sey ome Jb $2
XZ 8i 4
h 2 A
' | He 5 ae :
AY eres é
= iy fi :
Pc Pere Me 0 i
Ne Bee fhe
7) os , : (va od o :
Efe ie if :
ON a ER
att & STEEPLEPEtEr
be 3 espe! *
Doom (|

MAP OF AFRICA, SHOWING MAIN ROUTES OF EXPLORATION.

sm 1900——30
ale

Aa x : eran tind peice

er biG 2 Frere oi ae oie 2:

—— Partealie tof hy Sts‘ Ve Vea! Bette

s @

-
a
7s
i

an eae
: .
7 , ,
eo %
4
at
a
» Sg §
wy Pao § io
- -
‘.~
§ 7 b
= ° 7
. v
5 s el oe .
4 a ™,
- %, ce
_— < 5
-
f
' > a) > - d<
? « ate >
, -
j
oh f
7 e a
p= * 2
Ey y
- 7 :
2m 7
es ; > ee Pats
a —
as
th = i‘ ns
:
at pee ey “a
= 7 r
fi (0
-
Le
\ ‘ a? | : -
4 Ie
x4 == amela
/ 7 Pad
- 4
os
F -
. Y =
, a *. ape iy, ie eS
A . ~ bd
- -
ry >)
” : ¢
a 5 *! wie _— ‘y=
—- Stan ies Py
* ty D ied ot ae
Fy MPA! Face
5 wy Nee
i i. es
7 a + pepe am a en ]
= te
eT ae a
— ae
- _ ~
2 -
>. © —>
2 as Wi
- @
_ + <> ay _

GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 421

=)

River, which flows from Lake Moero and is the main head stream of
the Kongo, though he did not know it, but probably suspected it.

The world became alarmed at not hearing from him for some time,
and Stanley was dispatched to find him by James Gordon Bennett, of
the New York Herald.

Stanley cut across from Zanzibar and found him at Ujiji, on Lake
Tanganyika. He had been surrounded by Arab slavers, his supplies
destroyed, and his communication with the seacoast interrupted.
After being relieved by Stanley, Livingstone returned to Lake
Bangweolo, where he died in 1873. His faithful followers bore his
body to the seacoast and later it was carried to England and buried in
Westminster Abbey.

Stanley took up the work of Livingstone. After circling Victoria
Nyanza, he explored Albert Nyanza and Tanganyika and discovered
Albert Edward Nyanza. He then descended the Lualaba Basin, which
brought him to the Kongo, which he followed to the ocean.

Stanley was thus able to solve the last great African problem,
namely, that Tanganyika and the waters west of it belonged to the
basin of the Kongo and not to the Nile.

But of more practical value than the determination of the question
of the head waters of this river was the opening up to the commerce
of the world of the densely populated countries along the banks of the
Kongo and its tributaries.

In 1887 Stanley started to cross Africa again, this time from west
to east, to relieve Emin Pasha. After leaving the Kongo he forced
his way through a vast, almost impenetrable forest, and saw the pig-
mies, discovered by Du Chaillu twenty-five years before, and the
Mountains of the Moon.

In this brief summary it is possible to mention only a few of the
dauntless explorers who before and since the time of Livingstone and
Stanley have helped to render obsolete the term of ** Dark Conti-
nent”—the imaginative Du Chaillu, the botanist Schweinfurt; the
gallant Cameron, who was the first to cross Africa from east to west
(1873-1875); Serpa Pinto, the Portuguese political explorer; Wiss-
mann, who discovered the left affluents of the Kongo, and Donaldson
Smith, who traced Lake Rudolf in 1894-95 and in 1900 crossed the
country between that lake and the Nile, the last inhabited area of
importance that was unexplored.

The feat of young Grogan, who traversed the continent from the
Cape to Cairo, during the greater part of the way without a white
companion, was a fitting conclusion to African exploration of the
nineteenth century.
4292 GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
THE ARCTICS.

Three long-sought ambitions inspired the efforts of the Arctic
explorers of the nineteenth century—tirst, to discover a Northwest
Passage to India; second, to discover a Northeast Passage, and, third,
to reach the North Pole.

The first two objects were attained. McClure, in 1850-1853, forced
a painful passage from Bering Strait to Europe, and nearly thirty
years later Baron Nordenskjold, the Swedish scientist, succeeded in
reaching the Pacific Ocean by following the Asiatic coast. Neither of
these routes have yet proved of practical value to the world. With
the development, however, of northern Siberia, in view of the possi-
bility of the route being kept open by vessels of the type of the ice-

ric. 3.—Arctic Regions as known in 1800.

breaking )’cermak, the Northeast Passage may become a route of some
traffic in lumber, furs, ete.

The North Pole remains still unconquered, though it is not so remote.
Hall, Lockwood, Nansen, and Abruzzi have each gone farther than his
predecessor, until only 3 degrees and 27 minutes have to be overcome.

In 1800 the Arctic coast of North America was undetermined.
Mackenzie, in 1789, had descended to the mouth of the river which
bears his name, and some years before him, in 1771, Hearne had
descended the Coppermine to its mouth. Both reported an open sea
to the north. On the Asiatic coast, the outlets of the Lena, Yenisei,
and Obi were known, the Bear Islands had been visited, and Nova
Zembla discovered centuries before.
GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 493

Parry, Beechey, Franklin, and Richardson, during the earlier years of
the century, helped to define the North American coast. and Scoresby
outlined the east coast of Greenland. James Ross. in 1830 definitely

“ J » Tgonetie P « D 3 i 1 yf - Rind
located the North Magnetic Pole at Cape Adelaide, in Boothia Felix,
and three years later Back discovered the Great Fish River.

Of the many tragedies in the annals of Arctic history, none is more
terrible and heart-rending than that of Sir John Franklin and his crew
of one hundred and twenty-nine. The Hyebus and the Zerror. returned
from the Antarctics, where they had carried Sir James Ross to splen-
did achievements, were placed at the disposal of Franklin, who had
been knighted for his gallant work in the Arctic regions in his earlier
years. He set out in May, 1845, and was last spoken by a whaler
while he was waiting for the ice to open sufficiently to enter Lancaster

y
|

7

;

¥
> iP

!

\
be

Fig. 4.—Arctiec Regions as known in 1900.

Strait. The following year and the year after, his vessels were beset
by the ice near King William Land. Franklin died in June, 1847.
The crew had provisions only for one year longer, and as the vessels
were still icebound the one hundred and five survivors left their ships
in a desperate and vain attempt to fight their way over the ice to Great
Fish River. During 1848 and for many succeeding years expeditions
were dispatched both by land and sea from the east, west, and south to
search for the missing men, but it was not until 1854 that Rae met a
young Eskimo who told him that four years previously forty white
men had been seen dragging a boat to the south on the west shore of
King William Land, and a few months later he had found the bodies
of thirty of these men.
424 GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

McClure and Collinson were sent out in 1850 to attempt the search
from the west through Bering Strait. McClure started without wait-
ing for Collinson. He gradually worked his way eastward, wind-
ing back and forth through inlets and around headlands and islands,
many of which he was the first to discover, and at last emerged through
MeClures Strait into Barrow Strait. Finally, in Baffins Bay, he was
compelled to abandon his ship, the /nvestigator, and push on over the
ice. Fortunately he was met by a Franklin search expedition coming
from the east, under Sir Edward Belcher. By his feat, the first com-
pletion of the Northwest Passage, McClure gained the prize of $50,000
that had been offered by Parliament ninety-two years before.

Nine years of unceasing effort had failed to find any record of
Franklin’s terrible fate. But Lady Franklin was still undaunted. In
1857 she equipped the steam yacht /ox and sent it to the Arctics,
commanded by McClintock, the most untiring master of sledge work.
Eight hundred miles of coast line were minutely examined. In the
arly summer of 1859 McClintock stumbled upon a human skeleton in
King William Land, and about the same time his companion, Hobson,
found a record of the Franklin expedition, stating briefly its history
between 1845 and 1848.

The result of the many Franklin search expeditions was the mapping
more or less accurately of the network of islands extending along the
northern coast of North America.

Meanwhile Kane, Hall, and Nares were completing the surveys of
Smith Sound, Grinnell Land, and the adjacent shores of Greenland.
The Greely expedition proved that to the north of Greenland was an
open channel and gained what is still most northerly land, 83° 24’.
Later Peary followed this channel in his brilliant crossing of North
Greenland, and proved conclusively that Greenland was an island.

Nordenskjold had already spent twenty years adding to the maps of
Greenland, Spitzbergen, and the Kara Sea, when, in 1878, he determined
to reach Bering Strait by crawling around the headlands and islands
of Northern Asia. Without any hindrance he had arrived almost in
sight of Bering Strait when the tantalizing ice closed in before him
and for ten months his ship was held motionless. Then the ice mass
deigned to part and allow the Vega to sail the few remaining miles to
and through the strait, and thus complete the Northeast Passage.

Franz Josef Land, which has lately been a favorite base in the
‘dash for the pole,” was discovered and explored by Payer and Wey-
precht in 1872-73; later Jackson, 1895-96, Baldwin, 1899, and Abruzzi,
1900, have extended our knowledge of this region and shown that
beyond the islands is an ice-covered sea.

In the early nineties Dr. Nansen originated a new method of attack
of the North Pole, ‘‘the drift theory.” His experiment of allowing
his ship, which was specially constructed to elude rather than to resist
GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 425

ice pressure, to be carried at the will of the ice floes, proved very
successful, and he gained latitude 86° 14’, which was only eclipsed by
Abruzzi in 1900.

ANTARCTICS.

Around the South Pole there hangs an unexplored mass twice the
size of Europe. It may be a vast continent or an antarctie ocean: the
problem is yet unsolved.

The names that shine brightly in the history of South Polar work
during the century began with Captain Smith, who discovered the
South Shetland Islands in 1816. Weddell, several years later, found an
active volcano on these islands and reached as far south as 74 degrees,
but discovered there no land. Enderby Land and Graham Land were

Fig. 5.—Antarctic Regions as known in 1900.

seen first by Biscoe in 1832. Wilkes in 1840 discovered the land
med after him, and Sir James Ross, of previous Arctic fame, about
the same time discovered Victoria Land, and upon it beheld two active
volcanoes pouring forth flaming lava amidst the snow, and named them
Erebus and Terror, after his two ships. In January, 1542, he reached
farthest south—78 degrees—a record that was not eclipsed until 1899,
when Borchgrevink reached 78° 50’ by sledge. ye

No white men had ever passed the winter within the Antarctic ( ircle
until De Gerlache and his crew in 1898 wintered on board their ship,
the Belgica, which they had banked with snow. ‘The following winter
Borchgrevink with his crew lived on the antarctic ice.

4926 GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

The closing year of the nineteenth century witnessed the near com-
pletion of two well-equipped expeditions that are to set out in the
summer of 1901 for South Polar regions—one equipped by Germany
and the other by Great Britain. Both are led by competent and dar-
ing men, and great additions to our knowledge of the Antarctics may

be justly expected.

AUSTRALIA.

The last months of the nineteenth century beheld the beginning of a
new power in the South Pacific. Six millions of Englishmen, in a land
as vast as the United States, united to form a new nation, which the
twentieth century was to inaugurate. The first year of the nineteenth
century found Australia inhabited by degenerate savages, with a hand-
ful of English settlers scattered along the coast of what is now called
New South Wales. The coast line of Eastern Australia had been detin-
itely traced and enough facts of the north and west coasts ascertained
for a rough outline of their extent, but the south coast was undeter-

AUSTRALIA

=. G
.
Te.

2)

b

Fic. 6.—Australia as known in 1800. Fic. 7.—Australia as known in 1900.

mined and absolutely nothing was known of the interior. Port Phillip,
the magnificent harbor on which gaze the half a million inhabitants of
Melbourne, the wealthiest city in the Southern Hemisphere, had been
entered by no European ship. The immense lifeless mass had no
name of its own, but appeared on the maps as New Holland.

Captain King early in the century investigated the river mouths and
completed the shore line for the west, northwest, and north coast.
Sturt in 1828 and succeeding years explored New South Wales and
penetrated to the center of the continent. Eyre in 1840 traced the
south coast along the Great Australian Bight. The first crossing of the
continent was made by Stuart in 1862. He passed through the center
of Australia and planned the route which the transcontinental tele-
graph now follows. Colonel Warburton in 1873-74, starting from the
central point of the telegraph line, succeeded in reaching the west coast,
and later Giles and Forest explored the country to the southwest.
GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 427

Leichardt successfully crossed Australia diagonally from Port Essine-
ton to Moreton Bay, but on his second expedition, in 1848. he myste-
riously disappeared in the sandy ;
deserts of the northeast and
numerous search parties have
failed to find any trace of him.

Overland routes have now
been found possible between all
the widely separated colonies,
though they are scarcely con-

on ec —
venient for traffic. The explo- --—— aS
rations of more recent years => —S
have shown that wide areas of _—F-—— Ss
splendid grazing land surround [_—™ —s
Sears
the deserts. = A fa
(SSS ey

LY
aN =e

Sse EB!
NORTH AMERICA. a SS

a eee
SSeS ae Sa

Of the geographical conquests § —=———"

of the nineteenth century the
most marvelous has been the
conquest of North America,
more particularly of the west-
ern United States. It has been the work not so much of the geographer
or explorer, as of the colonist ard the miner, made possible by Yankee
inventions that economize space,
time, and money.

In 1801 the continent west of
the Mississippi was unknown,
the existence of the Rocky
Mountains unsuspected. The
atlases of the time describe
North America as ‘* chiefly com-
posed of gentle ascents or level
plains.” They knew of **no
considerable mountains except
those toward the Pole and that
long ridge which runs through
the American States and i
‘alled the Appalachian or Alle-
ehany Mountains.”  Immedi-
ately after the Louisiana Pur-
chase Lewis and Clarke were
dispatched to the new land to
explore it, and they made their
historic march up the valley of the Missouri River, across the Rocky
Mountains, and down the Columbia to the sea. Pike, the year follow-

Fic. 8.—North America as known in 1800.

op

Fic. 9.—North America as known in 1900.
428 GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
ing, commenced his explorations of the country between the Missis-
sippi and the Red River and discovered Pikes Peak in 1806. Bonne-
ville, in 1831-1838, explored sections of the Rocky Mountains and
California. Fremont, the most noted of American pioneers in the
West, in 1842 explored the South Pass of the Rocky Mountains and
in the following years the Pacific slope. Powell, in 1869, traversed
the noble and menacing gorges of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado.
Meanwhile Whitney, Wheeler, and Hayden were investigating the
mountain systems of the West.

In Alaska, Dall was the pioneer and his work revealed the extent of
the Yukon. Kotzebue, the Russian navigator, fifty years before, in
816, had coasted along the northwest coast of Alaska and discovered
the magnificent sound which now bears his name. Schwatka, Allen,
Abercrombie, Brooks, and Schrader, and others, including gold pros-
pectors, have explored the terri-
tory very rapidly until only a few
tracks remain unknown. — In Can-

=

y
|

oN

me ] aes 4
— > ada, Dawson and Ogilvie have
——— worked in the Yukon watershed;
fener ier eeey
— Bell and the Tyrrell brothers
aaa a.
_—— around Hudson Bay, and Low in
——«c 7 Labrador
zee zabrador.
et ; yi
aaa,
aaa. ee
-—————, f — SOUTH AMERICA.

Sas
SS
—— f-— Of the six continents South
Wore Bie ck
ee <4 America is now the least known,
| SE Be SI) .
———_—— -———— though one hundred years ago it
SS aaa eee ;
———— was better explored than any con-
a eee cE rs
fe a ee ee s Zs
Cae eee tinent except Europe. The Jes-
ee eee aa SS ee ee
je .
Se uits had penetrated to the heart
Beart a . .
sourn == of the continent on the rivers

AMERICA Vy 2 s » : .

IN =, which radiate in all directions
biel ;—— a

and had been able to publish
Fig. 10.—South America as known in 1900. tolerably good maps. But the
continual state of unrest and the
depleted treasuries of the South American governments, with the lack
of the incentive of trade and colonization, have kept them from keeping
pace with the geographic advance in other sections of the world.
Humboldt, in 1799-1804, traveled in the basins of the Orinoco and
Magdalena and in various sections of the Andes. He was the first to
interpret the word ‘‘ geography” in its original, truest, and broadest
sense, i. e., ‘description of the earth,” which includes meteorology,
climatology, the distribution of animals and plants, and the nature of
soils, as well as the mere mapping of rivers and mountains. Later
his interpretation of the work of the geographer and explorer was

GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 499

accepted by all the scientific explorers of the nineteenth century
His ; . . . ° 1 He
Later, pe and Martius botanized in Brazil, Schomburek explored
= . ; . ; 1 a a ae . . 7
British Guiana, Crevaux and Chandless Investigated the mighty tribu-
taries of the Amazon. Castelnau explored the Paraguay, and Hatcher
in 1898, made important discoveries in Patagonia.

ASIA.

Marco Polo was the only Kuropean who before 1800 had traversed
any considerable partof Asia. But during the nineteenth century the
continent was overrun by explorers of every nationality, who have
made the map of the continent in the larger details quite accurate,
Russia from the northeast sent numberless explorers, and Eneland yied
with her from the south. In one respect, perhaps, the geographic
conquest of Asia has been more remarkable than that of Africa.

Fic. 11.—Asia as known in 1800.

Australia, or North america, for to penetrate this giant continent the
explorer has had to contend against hundreds of millions of people
all prejudiced against his advance and of quite a different character
from the naked savages of the ‘* Dark Continent.”

Humboldt, in 1829, invaded Central Asia and the country of the
Caspian Sea. The French missionary, Huc, succeeded in traversing
Tibet in 1844-45 and lived several months at Lhasa. Palgrave, in
the early sixties, journeyed across Arabia. The adventurous Garnier,
in 1866-1868, surveyed the course of the great Mekong and traversed
over 5,000 miles in Cambodia and China, almost all of which was pre-
viously unknown to European geographers. Ney Elias at the same
time was ascending the mighty Yangtze and penetrating western
Mongolia. Fedchenko, in Pamir, and the untiring Prjewalski, In
Mongolia and western China, were rapidly mapping these regions.
430 GEOGRAPHIC CONQUESTS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

Prjewalski made four separate journeys to western China, and in the
importance and extent of his explorations in the heart of the vast
continent has been equaled by none except Sven Hedin. Richthofen
and Pumpelly in China, Rockhill in Tibet, Forsyth in East Turkestan,
and the faithful, plodding pundits of the trigonometrical survey of
India north of the Himalayas, are a few of the many men who have
contributed much to the progress of geographic knowledge of Asia.

il
Pm

qh

mal

Bs

ll

Dies

Naayseniivs

Fic. 12.—Asia as known in 1900.
CONCLUSION.

The progress of geography during the nineteenth century has thus
opened to the white man almost every corner in the immense, diverse
world of which he is a part. But the even more startling advance in
geographic sciences, or, more truly, the creation of these sciences dur-
ing the century, has nearly explained the manner of origin and the
formation of the world itself. Geology, which describes the nature
and forming of the earth’s crust, tells of glacial action, and by means
of fossils proves that the earth millions and millions of years ago
was covered with life; meteorology, which studies the conditions goy-
erning the heavy and yet light mantle of the earth; oceanography,
which is beginning to explore the lands beneath the oceans, are all
geographic conquests of the nineteenth century. The ‘* Dark Conti-
nent” at the beginning of the twentieth century is that immense land
surface buried beneath the oceans, an area thrice the area of the
exposed land surface. Maury and Murray and the soundings for
submarine cables have but scratched the surface as with a pin. To
solve the many mysteries which the oceans hide is the problem of the
explorer of the twentieth century.
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.!
By Ewart 8. Grogan.

(Read before the Royal Geographical Society, April 30, 1900. )

There is a saying in South Africa that ‘* everyone who has once drunk
dop (a brandy made in the Cape) and smoked Transvaal tobacco will,
in spite of all inducements to the contrary, in spite of all the abomin-
able discomforts inseparable from life in Africa, continually return to
the old free untrammeled life of the veldt.”

Anything more ridiculous than the possibility of my return to Africa
never occurred to me as I wearily munched my ration of everlasting
bully beef and rice during the Matabele war of 1896, and, after three
weeks of dysentery and an attack of hemaglobinuric fever, I shook
my fist at Beira from a homeward-bound steamer, happy in the thought
that never again should I set eyes on those accursed sands. Thirteen
months later I stood on those same sands with my friend, Mr. Sharp,
having made up our minds to explore the little-known country between
Tanganyika and Ruwenzori, and, if possible, to continue our journey
down the Nile. Wars and rumors of wars in many of the countries to
be traversed, and Khartoum in the clutch of the Khalifa, rendered the
success of our enterprise extremely problematical; and as failure is
unpardonable, we wisely refrained from announcing our intentions.

From the Cape to the Zambezi is perhaps better known to most
English people than many parts of England, and consequently I will
pass over this stage, confining myself to a very few remarks on the
Gorongoza country of Portuguese East Africa.

The river Pungwe, as everyone knows, flows into the channel of
Mozambique, forming with the river Busi the extensive bay on which
Beira, the port of Rhodesia, is situated. Thirty-six miles ina straight
line from Beira the railway crosses the Pungwe to a spot ealled Fon-
tesvilla, on the right bank. Four miles above this the Pungwe flows
in two channels; the left, which is the larger, is called the Ding! Ding,
the inclosed island being about 40 miles by 6. ‘Twenty miles above the
lower junction an important tributary called the Urema flows into the

1 Reprinted from The Geographical Journal, London, V

ol. XVI, No. 2, August, 1900.
431
432 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

Dingi Dingi, bringing down the drainage of the east and northeast
slopes of Gorongoza’s hills and the drainage of the vast swampy Goron-
goza plain; consequently, even in the dry season the Urema has a con-
siderable body of water. Its main feeders are a wide sandy river from
the east and a smaller stream called the Manza, also from the east, and
the Umkulumadzi, which brings the main volume of water from Goron-
goza’s hills on the west. Between the Dingi Dingi and the Urema
there is a triangular patch of forest, with a network of deep water
troughs; these, even in Mr. Mahony’s time (Mr. Mahony has been in
this country for about nine years), were lagoons with much water, and
the natives went from village to village in canoes. Now, with the
exception of a few deep water holes, they are dry, the canoes may still
be seen rotting on the dry bed, and the crocodiles, the few that have sur-
vived, lead a precarious existence in the moist grass that grows along
some of the deeper channels. This, coupled with the fact that the
swamps a few miles to the north are visibly diminishing, proves that
even in this district, remote as it is from the center of disturbance,
there is a constant and rapid process of upheaval.

The quantity of game in all this country is incredible. Crossing the
great plain just as the waters were falling and the new grass growing
up, we saw over 40,000 head of game, mainly blue wildebeest, from
one point, and during our stay of five months, besides many fine heads
of buffalo and various species of antelope, we shot 17 lions and
vaptured alive 5 cubs, 3 of which are now disporting themselves in
Regent’s Park. Another curious point about this country is that the
Urema, which was till lately navigable for about 50 miles in small
boats, is now totally blocked by a vegetable growth similar to the
famous Nile ‘*sudd,” but without the papyrus, which, I believe I am
correct in saying, is practically confined to the Nile system, though
there are a few papyrus swamps round Kivu.

We began our real forward movement when we left the Zambezi in
October, 1898; thence we traveled by the Shire River to Chiromo, the
port of British Central Africa, situated at the junction of the Ruo and
Shire. Thence by steamer on the Shire to Katunga, whence the road
leads overland via Blantyre to Matope, as about 120 miles of rapids
render the river unnavigable. From Matope to Karonga, at the north
end of Nyasa, there is an uninterrupted waterway of about 500 miles.
Thus far, it is merely a question of taking a first-class ticket with one
of the rival transport companies, of eich the African Flotilla Com-
pany, despite the heavy handicap of being late in the field, is rapidly
forging to the front.

From Chiromo, where I had to wait for some loads that had gone to
Delagoa Bay by mistake, I crossed the Ruo and spent some time in
exploring the mountain mass of Chiperoni, while Sharp hurried on to
Karonga to arrange transport to Tanganyika.
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO. 433

Chiperoni, which had previously, I believe, only been visited by
Messrs. Harrison and Kirby, the well-known big game hunters, is 6,000
feet high, and a conspicuous landmark for many miles round. The
main peak, with a broad terrace 500 feet from the summit. is situated
in the east side of a huge basin formed by surrounding peaks, the chief
of which is Makumbi on the northwest. The bottom of the basin is a
forest-clad plateau about 2,000 feet about the surrounding plains. The
mass is drained by the Ruo, Liadzi, Zitembi, Machinjiri, and Misonewe,
all of which flow into the Shire. The inhabitants, who have a supreme
contempt for the Portuguese, their nominal masters, are a branch of
the Wakunda, and are possessed of domestic swine and pigeons, and
they cultivate the pineapple and rice, besides the ordinary grains of
the country—millet and maize. They suffer much from goiter, and I
observed many albinos. ‘The results of inbreeding, inevitable from the
isolation of families in mountainous countries, such as leprosy and other
diseases, are very noticeable.

On arrival at Karonga I found that Sharp had left for Ujiji to obtain
dhows on Tanganyika. After a fortnight’s delay in obtaining porters
I followed along the Stevenson road. The march to Kituta, at the
south end of Tanganyika, is most uninteresting. However, I broke
the monotony by a short trip with Mr. Palmer, the assistant collector
at Mambwe, to the Chambezi, which is the real source of the Kongo.
This district has been recently thoroughly explored by Mr. Wallis,
who laid the results of his experience before this society. But there
was still a portion unknown—the vast swamp that lies at the junction
of the Chambezi and its main feeder, the Chosi, known to the natives
as Luwala. It is a triangular patch of territory of about 1,500 square
miles and quite uninhabited, a few natives only coming to fish as the
waters recede after the rains. Unfortunately, the rains had broken
and we were prevented from penetrating far into the interior by the
depth of water. All the streams that flow southeast from the plateau
and fall into the Luwala mingle and lose themselves in the swamp and
eventually drain out by the Mwenda.

From Kituta I went to Mtowa. the chief station of the Kongo Free
State on Tanganyika, by the smail steamer belonging to the African
Lakes Corporation, while I sent my boys and the loads to Uji on a
dhow that Sharp had sent down. On arrival at Mtowa I found Sharp
more dead than alive with fever, in the care of the late Dr. Castellote,
the medical officer of Mr. Mohun’s telegraph expedition, who had
rescued him from Ujiji, where he had been very ill. Two days later
we crossed to Ujiji and, after a few days of the lavish hospitality of
Hauptmann Bethe and his colleagues, we collected our safari of one
hundred and thirty Manyema carriers and started up the lake by land.
Sharp got a slight sunstroke and my fever became so bad that we
434 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

arrived at Usambara more dead than alive. However, Lieutenant von
Gravert obtained cattle for us anda team of boys to carry me ina
machila to the highlands of Kivu.

The Rusisi, which flows out of Kivu, empties its water into Tangan-
yika through five mouths, four of which are close together, while the
fifth is close to the northwest corner. The inclosed deltas are very
swampy and partly covered by tropical forest, and are said to be the
feeding grounds of numerous elephants, a large proportion of which
are reported as tuskless. The northern end of Tanganyika is very
shallow; we saw hippopotami walking on the bottom at a distance of
at least 2 miles from the shore. The lower end of the Rusisi Valley
for a distance of 20 miles has risen quite recently, geologically speak-
ing, deposits of shells in a semifossilized state being visible on all
sides. The valley rises very gradually till 20 miles south of Kivu,
when the increase in altitude is very abrupt; though this might be
maneuvered, for railway purposes, by making use of the winding valley
to the east. The Rusisi itself has cut a channel through the hills on
the west in a succession of rapids and cascades. There are signs of
the above-mentioned eastern valley having been the old bed of the
river. Immense walls of mountains shut the valley in on either side,
walls that continue practically unbroken to the outflow of the Nile
from the Albert Lake. The Germans have cleverly availed themselves
of the opportunity afforded by the five years’ chaos on the Belgian
frontier. They have pushed three posts forward, two on the river
itself and the third on the south point of Lake Kivu. The latter is
at least 40 miles over the treaty boundary. With the thoroughness
characteristic of German undertakings they have dispatched Dr. Kandt
to investigate the possibilities of the country.

The tail of Kivu is a network of islands which culminate toward
the north in the large island of Kwijwi. The coast line must be some-
thing enormous, rivaling, I imagine, the coast line of any other water
in the world of the same extent. On the east coast two long arms run
for several miles inland, and thousands of winding lochs radiate in
every direction, dotted with islets and broken up into countless little
bays and creeks. The lake is very deep and contains neither crocodiles
nor hippopotami. This also applies to all the small lakes and rivers in
this neighborhood; but there are enormous numbers of large otters,
and the typical bird is the demoiselle crane. Numerous fish resembling
a carp are caught and cured by the natives; but there appeared to be
no large fish such as are found in Tanganyika. The whole surrounding
country is packed with small hills, which appear to have been sprinkled
on with a pepper pot till not a single one more could find room.
The majority of them are not connected with ridges of any sort, con-
sequently it is necessary to perpetually ascend and descend; and the
valleys, which are very narrow, are often filled with papyrus swamps.
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CATRO. 435

e

The hills are covered with magnificent pasture, which affords grazing
for the large herds of cattle owned by the Watusi. The people are
known collectively as the Waruanda, and society is divided into two
classes. The Watusi, who are similar to, if not identical with, the
Wahuma, are the aristocrats. They are presumably descendants of the
great wave of invasion of Gallas that penetrated in remote ages as far as
Tanganyika. They are a purely pastoral folk, breeding a long-horned
cattle, with which they live, preferring slavery even to separation from
their beloved beasts. Two to a hundred of these gentlemen are to be
found in every village; they do not work beyond milking and butter
making, and when in need of tobacco, grain, or other necessaries,
quietly relieve the aborigines of the country, whom they call Wahutu,
of what they require. The Wahutu are abjectly servile to the Watusi,
but presumably, from the satisfaction that we gave to the inhabitants
by a slight difference of opinion that we had with Ngenzi, the satrap
of Mukinyaga, not totally in accord with their taskmasters. In the
time of the late King of Ruanda there was a very formidable and far-
reaching feudal system, the provinces being administered by satraps
(native name, ntwala), who were directly responsible to the kigeri, or
king, each village being in itself governed by an mtusi (sultani), who
was responsible to his ntwala. All the cattle belongs to the King
absolutely, but was held in trust by his satraps, who again parceled it
out among the minor Watusi. The Wahutu appear to be merely hew-
ers of wood and drawers of water, and to be allowed as a favor to
assist in the herding of the goats and cattle. A few months before
our visit the old king had died, and the kingdom was divided between
his two sons, one of whom had his headquarters at the northeast corner
of the lake, while the other lived to the east of the highest of the
volcanoes.

The civilizing influence of the northern influx is conspicuous in the
terracing of the hills for cultivation, rudimentary efforts at irrigation,
inclosing of villages and cultivated lands by hedges, and even in the
formation of artificial reservoirs with side troughs for watering cattle.
The scenery of Kivu is superb—a happy blend of Scotland, Japan, and
the South Sea Islands. The track we followed often led over hills 1,500
feet above the lake, and from some of our camps we looked down on
the vast oily expanse of water deep set in its basin of innumerable hills,
dotted with a thousand isles, stretching far away till 1t was lost in the
shimmering haze of the northern shore, where crisp and clear towered
the mighty mass of Kirunga, whose jet of smoke alone broke the steel-
blue dome of sky. At the northeast corner of the lake the hills stop,
and the country slopes gradually from the lake level to the base of the
voleanoes, broken only by scattered dead volcanic cones still perfect in
form. The eastern portion of this plain is densely populated, he
grows enormous crops of maize, hungry rice, millet, sweet potatoes,

sm 1900——31
436 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

pease, beans, and edible arum wherever there is an open space between
the endless banana plantations. The western portion, which has been
recently covered by a lava stream, is not yet sufficiently disintegrated
for cultivation, though it already supports a heavy bush growth which
bursts from every crack and cranny in the lava blocks.

The main volcanoes are six in number, two of which are active;
the other four have long been extinct. Owing to the impossibility
of obtaining representative names for them—lI have obtained as many
as thirty-six for the highest in one camp—TI have ventured to name the
most important to prevent confusion. Of the two western peaks,
which are sharply separated from the other four, the higher peak,
generally described as Kirunga, I have called Mount Gétzen, after
Count Gétzen, who discovered Kivu and made the ascent of the peak
to the main crater, which is still mildly active. The second one, which
has formed since Count Gotzen’s visit, I have called Mount Sharp,
after my fellow-traveller, Mr. A. H. Sharp. Count Goétzen mentions
considerable activity on the far point of the northwestern ridge, and,
according to the natives, two years before our arrival in the country
there had been a terrific eruption, in the course of which the volcano
formed; its crater appears to be enormous, and must be several miles
in extent. The lava flowed in two main streams toward the north,
and there was a minor overflow to the southwest. The largest
stream flowed down by the aréte between Mounts Gétzen and Sharp,
and a small overflow running, as I have mentioned, southwest, while
the main volume poured down into the south end of the Ruchuru
Valley, down which it flowed for a distance of about 30 miles, work-
ing close up to and filling the small bays of the eastern terrace.
Shortly after another wave followed over the same course, leaving
a sharply defined terrace when it cooled. Then there appears to
have been a terrific vomiting forth of huge blocks of lava and ash,
which in places are piled to a height of 30 feet on the top of the main
lava stream. The forest with which the valley was clothed was
entirely engulfed in the stream’s course, while the forest on the sides
was blown down by the attendant whirlwinds. The natives informed
me that whole herds of elephants were destroyed. I myself saw the
bones of one that had been forced up to the top by the edge of the
stream. As faras I could gather, the eruption had been very sudden,
but I found it extremely difficult to obtain much information beyond
the fact that suddenly there was darkness as the darkness of night,
when all became fire, and terrible and wonderful things happened, of
which there can be no words. As in all things that the native can not
understand, there was a distinct aversion to talking about it. All my
questions met with a similar response, and they rapidly changed the
subject. The other main stream which flowed down the northwest
slope was of enormous extent, but as I merely crossed it I had no
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO. 437

opportunity of accurately estimating the area covered. Besides a small
branch about 400 yards wide, the width at my crossing was about 2
miles, and this was well on the slope of the hill; farther down, where
it met the eastern main stream, the width of the two combined can
not have been less than 15 miles. In the plain to the north of Kivu.
in the pass between the two blocks of volcanoes, and on the slopes to
the north, owing to the porous nature of the ground, there is no water:
yet, in spite of this, there is an enormous population, the necessary
water being obtained by tapping the stems of the banana palins. The
moisture is retained by the ground, and consequently the forests that
clothe the slopes of the volcanoes are wildly luxuriant and impene-
trable to everything but the elephant. When hunting and following
close on the tracks of an elephant we had to cut our way with a native
ax, without which no one moves a yard. For hundreds of yards ata
time one never touched the ground, but was climbing along the pros-
trate tree trunks and dense growth, which, of course, the elephant
would take in its stride. More desperate work or more dangerous
hunting it would be impossible to conceive.

Although the forests were full of elephants, it was only after a week’s
terrible work that I found one; and then I had to fire at him at 2 yards,
as, if I stepped back, I could no longer see him. It was impossible to
creep to either side of him, so impenetrable was the undergrowth, and
T had perforce to take the shot as it was or lose the chance. The effect
on the sportsman of firing a double four bore at such close quarters
can be better imagined than described. As for the elephant, I believe
he is still running. The next day I followed up another, and, after
knocking him down three times, was furiously charged and either
kicked or carried by the rush on to some thorn tree 10 feet above the
ground, my gun being picked up 10 yards away in the opposite direc-
tion, full of blood. I could not see him till his head was right above
me, when I pulled off both barrels of the 0.500 magnum that I was
carrying. This evidently turned him. I was pulled down from my
spiky perch by my niggers, who, seeing me drenched with blood,
thought I must be dead, till an examination proved that it was the ele-
phant’s blood. On resuming the chase he got my wind again, but
fearing the charge, merely let off some superfluous steam in throwing
trees about—a performance that so impressed me that I have never
tackled an elephant with any degree of comfort since. After ten
minutes of this exhausting display he fell down, but pulled himself
together again and went straight away, and though | followed him
till it was too dark to see, I never found him. We had had neither
food nor water all day, and it rained all night, necessitating a hungry
and chilly vigil, during which I had ample time for calm reflection
reflection which ended in the conclusion that elephant hunting in the
scale of sports might be placed between croquet and marbles. Sharp.
438 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

after losing 2 stone in herculean efforts, never even saw one, and gave
it up in disgust.

Of the four main peaks of the eastern mass of volcanoes, all of
which are extinct, the highest I have described as Mount Eyres, after
Mrs. Eyres, of Dumbleton Hall, Evesham, Sharp’s sister, without
whose help and encouragement we should have failed to bring our trip
to a satisfactory conclusion. The other high peak I have described as
Mount Kandt, after the distinguished German scientist, who is making
a most elaborate study of the whole region. Nearly every morning
there was snow on these two peaks, and the height of Mount Eyres
must be nearly 13,000. feet (4), as during my elephant hunting, when I
explored all the northwest face, my aneroid registered on one occasion
more than 11,000 feet. Leaving the elephant, I made a rapid tour to
establish the identity of Mfumbiro, which is conspicuously marked on
most maps, with the height added, and I ascertained for certain what
I had been led by the Germans to suspect, namely, that Mfumbiro has
never existed outside the imagination of the British statesman. Mfum-
biro, it will be remembered, was accepted by us from the Germans as
a counterpoise to Kilimanjaro, which we gave to them in our usual
open-handed manner in the boundary agreement between British East
Africa and German East Africa. The forests of these volcanoes area
branch of the great Aruwimi forest, and the home of numbers of pyg-
mies, who hunt the elephant and search for bees, trading the meat and
honey with the Waruanda for grain, spear and arrowheads, and knives;
while the Waruanda buy their bows and arrows complete, the dwarfs’
work being much superior to their own.

When making the circuit of the two active volcanoes, I had an un-
pleasant experience with a tribe of cannibals called the Baleka, who
made what had lately been a delightful and thriving district most
undesirably warm. Their superfluous attentions and the absence of
food prevented me from exploring two small lakes that I saw to the
west, and from determining whether the large stream, which I could
see issuing from the southern lake, flowed into Kivu or down the other
side of the watershed direct into one of the tributaries of the Kongo.
Four days’ continual marching, during which I and my ten boys suf-
fered much from hunger, took us out of the country in time to warn
Sharp, who was coming round the south of Mount Gétzen to meet me
with the rest of the caravan. Joining forces again, we returned
through the pass once more, and started down the Ruchuru, or, as it is
here called, the Kako Valley. The Kako rises on the north slopes of
the volcanoes, and, becoming farther north the Ruchuru, flows into the
Albert Edward Lake; hence its headwaters are the true source of the
Albert Nile. Curiously enough, the source of the Victoria Nile is only
40 miles south of this, the headwaters of the Nyavalongo, which is the
main tributary of the Kagera, the main feeder of the Victoria Lake,
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO. 439

rising a few miles from Kivu. Thus within six days we passed the
two actual sources of the Nile, which, rising close together, but flowine
in different directions, inclose such a vast tract of country before ee
finally merge at the north end of the Albert Lake preparatory fouilie
long voyage via Khartoum to the Mediterranean. The height of the
crest of the pass is 7,000 feet, and the ground quickly falls away to the
north till one drops to the dead level of the vast Albert Edward plains.

When exploring with a small number of followers, I observed some
ape-like creatures leering at me from behind banana palms, and with
considerable difficulty my Ruanda guide induced one of them to come
and be inspected; he was a tall man, with the long arms, pendant
paunch, and short legs of the ape, pronouncedly microcephalous and
prognathous. At first he was terribly alarmed, but soon gained confi-
dence, and when I asked him about elephant and other game, he gave
me most realistic representations of them and of how they should be
attacked. I failed to exactly define their social status, but from the
contempt in which they were held by the Waruanda their local caste
must be very low. The stamp of the brute was so strong on them that
I should place them lower in the human scale than any other natives I
have seen in Africa. Their type is totally distinct from the other
peoples, and, judging from the twenty to thirty specimens I saw, very
consistent. Their face, body, and limbs are covered with wiry hair,
and the hang of the long powerful arms, the slight stoop of the trunk,
and the hunted, vacant expression of the face made up a tout ensemble
that was a terrible pictorial proof of Darwinism. The pygmies are of
-similar build, but have the appearance of full-grown, exceedingly
powerful men compressed, and with much more intelligent faces. The
pygmies are to these ape-like beings as the dog-faced baboons are to
the gorillas. Probably they are, like.the pygmies, survivals of former
inhabitants of the country, the difference in their type depending on
the surroundings in which they have had to struggle for existence.
The true type of pygmy is a magnificent example of nature's adapta-
bility, being a combination of immense strength, necessary for the
precarious hunting life they lead, and compactness indispensable to
rapid movement in-dense forest where the pig runs are the only means
of passage. While I was with the main caravan I never saw either a
pygmy or one of these creatures, and to study them it is necessary to go
almost unattended; this obviously entails great risk, and it is conse-
quently very difficult to find out much about them. They both have
the furtive way of looking at you characteristic of the wild animal,
and though J had one of these curious men with me for a week when
I made the circuit of the voleanoes, he would always start if I looked
at him, and he followed my every move with his Cy. SBS would a
nervous dog; he refused an offer of cloth for his services, and sud-
denly vanished into the forest without a word, though several times
440 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

afterwards I found him watching me even when I had returned to
my camp on the base of Mount Eyres.

On the last spur of the volcanoes there is a chief called Kahanga, of
some little importance, who has, to a great extent, emancipated himself
from the yoke of the Watusi; and farther down the Ruchuru Valley
the people are still more independent, till one comes to a thickly-
populated area two days from the Albert Edward, where the chiefs
deny that they owe any allegiance whatever to the Kigeri. The west
side of the valley is covered with heavy forest, while the east side is
undulating grass land, till 15 miles from the lake, when the country
settles down into one vast plain. The Ruchuru here has become
almost too salt to drink, and the vegetation changes abruptly in char-
acter, the luxuriant forest growth giving way to thorn scrub and
candelabra euphorbia, the beginning of the blighted desolation char-
acteristic of the Albert Nile Valley—scrub, mimosa trees, fan palm,
and euphorbia alternating till the region of the borassus, which begins
at the upper junction of the Bahr-el-Giraffe.

Where the Ruchuru flows into the Albert Edward there is a large
extent of reedy marsh, peopled by a race of fishermen who appear to
be identical with the curious Wanyabuga who inhabit the similar coun-
try at the entrance of the Semliki into the Albert Lake. They are both
quite distinct from their neighbors, and are now isolated. Iam inclined
to think that they, too, are survivors of past races, who are making a
last stand for existence in these impenetrable wastes, where, leading
an amphibious life that does not bring them into contact with the more
sturdy races who have supplanted them, they may yet give an impor-
tant clue to the ethnological problem of Africa. Unfortunately, the
difficulty of approaching these timid and retiring peoples, and the
thoroughness with which contiguous peoples assimilate the prevailing
tongue, the study is one of great difficulty. The lake itself is rapidly
diminishing in extent, and it will be seen that our map of the east
coast has materially modified the supposed form. ‘Two very recent
levels are clearly defined, from which it would appear that the
upheaval has taken place in fits and starts. The most recent level
would give the lake an additional 120 square miles. The insignificant
size of the euphorbia on this level compared with that on the next ter-
race argues that the last movement has taken place very recently, his-
torically speaking. The vegetation appeared to me to correspond in
age to that which I have mentioned as having grown on the great lava
heds poured out by the eruption previous to that of three years ago.

Two streams, the Sasa and the Ntungwe, flow to the Albert Edward
east of the Ruchuru, but lose themselves in an extensive marsh. The
old lake bed is rendered impassable by pits of fire, and huge jets of
smoke, shooting up from all directions, bear witness to the extent of
the volcanic activity. Even to unscientific observers like ourselves, it
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO GCATRO. 441

_was evident that the country between Kivu and the Albert Edward is
the key to the whole modern geographical and geological problem of
Africa, as probably Ruwenzori is the key to the problem of the past.
To summarize: The Rusisi Valley for 60 miles is obviously the old lake
bed of Tanganyika. Lake Kivu has been lifted up with the gradual
rise centering round and radiating north and south from the volcanoes.
The surrounding hills still inclose papyrus swamps at the lake level,
and some of these, having been pushed up by local movement, have
become dry lawns.

I can only describe the Kivu region as having the appearance of
having bubbled. The north shore of Kivu is flat and slopes gradually
up to the volcanoes, sloping down gradually again on the north side,
till the dead level of the lower Ruchuru Valley is reached—another
obvious lake bed, part of which was drained dry but yesterday. A few
small lakelets even are held still on this northern slope, and there are
many marshes and lagoons on the dead level. North of Lake Albert
Edward we find the old disturbing influence, Ruwenzori. But Lake
Ruisamba and its surrounding swamps to the east and the Semliki
Valley to the west carry on the idea. The northern half of the Semliki
Valley is a dead level with many swamps, and then comes the Albert
lake.

The lakelike reach of the Nile, narrowing at the Dufile Rapids (another
center of disturbance in remote ages), and again widening till the
swamps of the Rohl Bahr-el-Ghazal, Bahr-el-Jebel, and Bahr-el-Zaraf,
which can only be adequately described as a reed-grown sea, isa further
indication of the probability of an existence of a vast inland sea, or
arm of the sea, of which the great African lakes of to-day are but a
fragmentary survival.

The east coast of the Albert Edward lake is practically uninhabited;
a very few miserable natives live in the dense thickets of thorn bush,
and their huts are most carefully concealed. Their staple crop is the
sweet potato, and they spear fish and kill an occasional hippopotamus
in traps. They complained of having been raided by the people of
Ankoli. On arrival at the north end, Kaihura ferried us and all our
belongings across the narrow neck of Lake Ruisamba. Their canoes
are similar in make to the canoes of the Waganda, but not of
orate design, being made of ax-hewn boards, sewn together
banana-fiber cord; they are very capacious, and are so well fitte
they leak much less than would be expected from their construction.
The Sudanese officer at Katwe entertained us for two days, when, hav-
ing recovered sufficiently from the severe fever from which I had nee
suffering, we started for Toro, and six days later arrived at Fort Ger 7
the headquarters of the district. There are immense numbers ele-
phants in Toro, and we went up to the Msisi River, which flows into
the southeast corner of Lake Albert, for a fortnight’s shooting. Being

such elab-
- with
d that
449 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO GAIRO.

white men, we had the privilege of paying a £25 license, which enabled
us to shoot two elephants; but our sport was spoilt by bands of Waganda,
who had crossed the frontier and were shooting indiscriminately any-
thing with a trunk, regardles of sex or age. Needless to say they paid
nothing. Nothing could be more acceptable than game laws and game
preserves intended to restrict the indiscriminate shooting of big game;
but before the Government is capable of enforcing them or even of
knowing when they are ignored, I think they are premature. Here,
to my great regret, Sharp was forced to return home, and I had to
continue my journey alone. Thirty of our Manyema volunteered to go
on with meas far as Wadelai, and with this reduced caravan I marched
by the little voleanic lakes Vijongo and around the northern spur of
Ruwenzori to the Semliki Valley, which I crossed, climbing up again
on to the Kongo plateau. Here, on the west side of Mboga, I stayed
for three weeks hunting elephant, my best tusks being 98 pounds and
86 pounds; these, curiously enough, were obtained the same day from
two single-tusked elephants, one being a right tusk and the other a left,
and each measured 7 feet 10 inches.

In this country the prevailing type of elephant differed considerably
from the Toro and Nile type. Full-grown bulls carrying 70, 80, and
90 pounds tusks stood no higher than 9 feet at the shoulder; whereas
two of the other type I measured were a full 11 feet 6 inches, and
several over 11 feet. The ivory was also quite different—the Mboga
tusks being long, thin, and almost straight, very white,and free from
cracks; as opposed to the curly, dull white tusks, covered with small
cracks, of the heavier beast. The tusks of the Mboga elephant are
set in the skull at a different angle and hang straight down, giving the
beast the appearance of having three trunks; while the tusks of the
more general type curl out in front almost at right angles.

The Balegga who inhabit the hills of the north, and who were suffer-
ing terribly from the effects of the long drought, looked upon me as a
great institution, and swarmed down in hundreds for the meat. A
weird sight it was. Stark naked savages, with long, greased plaits of
hair hanging down to their shoulders, were perched on every available
inch of the carcass, hacking away with knives and spears, yelling,
whooping, wrestling, cursing, and munching, covered with blood and
entrails; the newcomers tearing off lumps of meat and swallowing
them raw, the earlier arrivals defending great lumps of offal and other
delicacies, while others were crawling in and out of the intestines like
so many prairie marmots. Old men, young men, prehistoric hags,
babies, one and all gorging or gorged, smearing themselves with blood,
laughing, and fighting. Pools of blood, strips of hide, vast bones,
blocks of meat, individuals who had not dined wisely but too well, lay
around in bewildering confusion, and in two short hours all was fin-
ished. Nothing remained but the great gaunt ribs like the skeleton of
a shipwreck, and a few disconsolate-looking vultures perched thereon.
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO. 443

Returning to the Semliki, I followed the valley down to the Albert
Lake, and eventually arrived at the scene of the relief of Emin. Here
it was impossible to obtain food; the natives had been raided and shot
down by the Kongo State soldiers, and had fled to the marshes and reed-
beds of the Semliki mouth. After some difficulty I persuaded them
that I was of the same tribe as Colonel Lugard, and being satisfied by
a production of his photo, their confidence in me was complete. As
this territory is British, the charge against the Belgians is a serious
one, and I am perfectly convinced that the gist of their accusations is
correct; minute inquiries and cross-questioning failed to detect a flaw,
and the tale, which was repeated to me in districts as far distant from
one another as Mboga and Kavalli’s, tallied in all respects, even in the
numbers of women and cattle driven off and men killed. At five dis-
tinct villages, three of which were Wanyabuga villages and two
Wakoba villages, I was assured that the old women were treated with
the greatest cruelty. Three distinct tribes, the Balegga, Wanyabuga,
and Wakoba, told the same story. This I considered sufliciently con-
clusive, as there is very little intertribal communication, and it could
not have been a ‘‘put-up job,” as my Balegga informants were 60
miles away from the others.

The journey up the west coast presented considerable difficulties, as
after Kahoma the hills descend abruptly into the water, rocky headlands
alternating with semicircular beaches (the deposits of the numerous
streams which flow down into the lake). In parts the lake is exceed-
ingly shallow, reeds growing at a distance of 2 miles from the shore;
and the deposit brought down by these numerous mountain torrents
must be enormous. ‘This coast is of value for the magnificent timber
that grows in all the gorges. Transporting the loads round the head-
lands in two tiny dugout canoes holding one load at a time was tedious
work, and I was exceedingly glad to arrive at Mahagi, where the hills
recede once more. From Wadelai, the British post on the Nile, I went
to Afuddu (opposite Dufile) in a dugout canoe, and thence overland to
Fort Berkeley (the old Bedden), our advance post. Inspector Chaltin,
the able administrator of the Welle district of the Kongo and the
gallant conqueror of the Dervishes at Rejaf, kindly took me down to
Kero, their advance post on parallel five and one-half, in one of their
numerous steel whaleboats. Thence I traveled to Bohr with the Com-
mandant Renier, who was sent to find news of the steamer with Captain
Gage, Dr. Milne, and Commandant Henri, which had been away three
months on a reconnoissance toward Khartoum.

Bohr had been recently evacuated by the deryishes, and the strong
fort was still in good preservation. Throwing away everything but
absolute necessaries, I started with thirteen men on my 400 miles
tramp through unknown swamp with many misgivings. The first two
days the Dinkas were quite amenable to treatment, having been in
444 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

contact with white men before. But afterwards I had a very anxious
time with the natives, as in places they were in enormous numbers,
and, having never seen a white man, were quite ignorant of his ways,
and even of the use of a gun. For some distance on the edge of the
marsh there is a clearly defined stream, which loses itself in the vast
lagoons that form near the upper junction of the Bahr-el-Zaraf. Many
winding lagoons run for miles inland. When I passed they were
stagnant, but I am inclined to think that they are really the outlets of
tributary streams. The number of elephant on the edge of the swamp
was prodigious, and they formed a serious impediment to our march,
as they refused to move out of the way. Nearly every morning we
wasted an hour or two shouting and throwing stones at solitary old
tuskers and herds of younger elephant. One old fellow resented our
terms of opprobrium and charged the caravan, but was turned with a
shot from my double .303. Banks and banks of hippopotami lay in
every direction, but other game was scarce. The mosquitoes were
appalling, and rapidly killed off two of my boys who had been sick;
and the flies by day were even worse.

The Dinkas have enormous droves of cattle, which they value very
highly; they never kill them for food, but from time to time tap the
blood, which they drink greedily. They are of colossal stature; some
of the herdmen I saw must have been very nearly 7 feet, and in every
settlement the majority of the men towered above me, while my boys
seemed the merest pygmies by their side. They smear themselves with
a paste made of wood ash to protect themselves from the bites of the
mosquitoes, and the long lines of warriors threading their way in single
file through the marsh appear like so many gray spectres. They are
absolutely nude, considering any sort of covering as effeminate. Their
invariable weapons are a long club made of bastard ebony, a fish lance,
anda broad-bladed spear, and the chiefs wear enormous ivory bracelets.
The southern Dinkas cut their hair like a cock’s comb, and the northern
Dinkas train their hair like a mop. Both bleach it with manure.

Six days from Bohr the bush recedes 40 miles from the main channel
of the Nile, and the swamp appears limitless; even from an anthill 30
feet high I could see nothing but a vast sea of reeds north, west, and
south—not even the remotest suggestion of the far bank. At the curve
of the swamp, before the dry ground again turns west toward the
junction of the Bahr-el-Zaraf, there is a tribe quite distinct from the
Dinkas, presumably the Woatcsh, of whom Sir Samuel Baker heard
rumors. They are much smaller, and are ichthyophagic, possessing
no cattle. The whole population of each village turned out in force
and accompanied me to the next village, singing a wild ear-piercing
chant, and continuously pointing to the sun. I suppose they imagined
I had just left there. Some of the villages are far inland, and the
women come long distances for water. I met many groups of them
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO. 445

filling their pitchers, and they invariably treated me to a somewhat
embarrassing dance; it was characterized by the wildest abandon, and
terminated in every one hurling themselves in a mass on the ground
and then dashing off in all directions into the bush, uttering shrieks
impossible to describe. When I showed them beads or cloth and
attempted to purchase food, they ran away, hiding their faces, and
refused to look at them, thinking they were fetich. Even at night
bands of natives would approach and chant to me, so that I was ereatly
relieved to once more enter the land of the Dinkas, who. even though
rather obstreperous, at least refrained from singing. A remarkable
thing was the extraordinary manner in which the Dinkas contrived to
conceal their enormous herds of cattle until they were quite sure of my
intentions; they kept them quiet by lighting small smoke fires under
their nostrils, and we often walked right into the middle of a cattle
village before we were aware of their proximity. A few miles north
of the upper junction of the Bahr-el-Zaraf, a considerable stream flows
from the east, which I am inclined to think flows from the marshes in
which the Pibro, the large affluent of the Sobat, rises. For 30 miles
at least it flows due east to west, and Iam sure that it can not rise in
the Gondokoro hills, as suggested by Justus Perthes’s map. Any
drainage that comes from these hills must, from the contour of the
country, flow into the Nile or into the marsh by the long lagoons that
I have already mentioned, or down the other side of the watershed
into the Sobat. Should my surmise as to the source of this affluent
prove correct, the country between the Zaraf and Sobat is an island.
The natives at Bohr assured me that there was no water for many
days east, and there was a considerable amount of water coming down
the affluent in question. This would suggest that the streams passed
by Lupton Bey in his journey east of Lado either drain into the Nile
south of Bohr, or, what is more probable, into the marshes of the
Pibro.

This Kohr is the northern boundary of the Dinkas. Shortly before
reaching it I was treacherously attacked by the inhabitants of the vil-
lage near which I had camped. They gave some trouble in camp dur-
ing the evening, but appeared quite friendly in the morning, and turned
out to the number of about 100 to accompany me on the march, as
had often happened to me before. Sometimes there were fully 1,000
natives with me; they took me as a huge jest, and wanted to see as
much of it as possible. I had noticed that they were crowding round
me, when suddenly they started, killed my best man with a spear wound
through the heart, and broke the skulls of two more; the rest threw
down their loads and bolted, my small boy with my revolver among
the rest. A quick right and left laid out the chief and his prime min-
ister, and I swung round just in time to dodge a spear and to ward a
blow at my head froma club, which felled me to my knees. I responded
446 THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

by poking my empty rifle in the pit of his stomach, and the ensuing
pause gave me time to slip in a cartridge and finish him. The rest
then drew off to about 300 yards, which they evidently considered a
safe distance. An enormous man, of about 6 feet 6 inches, who had
caused most of the trouble in camp, tried to lead them on again, and
if he is still alive he knows more about the effects of a dumdum bullet
than most men. I should much like to have given them a severe les-
son, but, as I had very few cartridges, I knocked another gentleman
off an ant-hill at long range, and, having thus given them an idea of
the uses of a gun, made forced marches out of the country, fearing
that they might return in overwhelming numbers. One of my boys,
who lagged behind for a few moments despite my repeated warnings,
vanished completely.

The Nuers are similar in appearance to the Dinkas, but rather
smaller; they wear iron earrings, some of which were a foot in diam-
eter, and cultivate their hair with the greatest care, binding it up with
rings of cowries. Their method of showing respect, as with the Dinkas,
is spitting on the object of their attentions. The last ten days of the
march were terrible. Far as the eye could reach, one vast shimmering
waste of burnt reed, sun-baked mud, and marabout storks; the Zaraf
flowing between parallel mud banks, lined with crocodiles; never a
native, never a living beast, with the exception of the dismal hoppos, ’
solemn marabouts, and screaming kites; no trees, no bushes, no grass;
nothing even to boil a cup of tea, and ‘our diet of hippo meat or pelican
steak, with no bread or even grain, was rapidly telling on our health;
so that it was a moment of intense joy when I unexpectedly met Major
Dunn, of Major Peake’s sudd-cutting expedition, who was up the Zaraf
shooting.

It was difficult to realize that it was at last over. From Sobat to
Cairo was covered in a fortnight of wild hospitality, a distance equal
to that which had necessitated eighteen months of weary toil. The
maps were worked out with a watch and prismatic compass and ane-
roid; to regulate my errors, I took Usambara, Vichumbi, and Katwe
as fixed points. We were unfortunate in having to leave our theodo-
lite behind for lack of transport, andin losing our sextant and boiling-
point thermometer in a raid that the Waruanda made on us one night
at the beginning of our trip. The exceedingly hilly nature of part
of the country traversed added to the difficulty of judging distance
covered. However, I trust that the maps will more or less serve the
purpose for which I intended them—that of clearly showing what dif-
ficulties the railway and telegraph will have to contend with—such as
physical features, labor, and supplies. The immense difficulties of
transport and the work entailed in keeping a caravan thoroughly in
hand, which is so essential when traveling without an armed force,
precluded all possibility of making collections; and our photographic
THROUGH AFRICA FROM THE CAPE TO GAIRO. 447

apparatus was spoilt by the negligence of the transport company that
undertook its delivery. We are proud to be able to say that on one
single occasion only we found it necessary to take food from the
natives; they had all fled, and I took out ten men and cut about thirty
bunches of bananas. I have always believed that more can be done with
natives by tact and firmness than by a display of force, which makes
them believe that their country is threatened; and certainly they
nowhere imagined that we, with our ten rifles, had any warlike inten-
tions. On only two occasions was I compelled to take life, and that in
self-defense when actually attacked. Attacking people in case they
may attack you, I have seen recommended, but I think it a superfluous
and questionable precaution. Even the people of whom Sir Henry
Stanley writes, ‘‘ Marching to Wadelai would only be a useless waste
of ammunition,” I found perfectly tractable, and that although they
have since his visit been subjected to the disturbing influence of the
Belgian raid on Kavalli, and of the twenty rounds that I took with me
I found it unnecessary to use one.

Before the reading of the paper, the president said: ‘‘ This evening we have the
pleasure of welcoming our yj oung friend Mr. Grogan, who has succeeded in making a
most important and interesting journey from the Cape to the Mediterranean. That
has been done by him for the first time, and so far as geographical work is concerned,
he has much here to tell us, especially in the region north of Lake Tanganyika.”

After the reading of the paper, the following discussion took place:

The Presmpenr. Mr. Grogan has mentioned to me the immense importance it was
to him to have had such a traveling companion as Mr. Sharp, and he felt it asa
great loss when Mr. Sharp had to leave him to return by way of Uganda. We can
imagine how important it must have been on such an expedition to have a good,
well-tried companion. Mr. Sharp is here this evening, and perhaps he will address
the meeting.

Very often great travelers are too modest to address meetings of this kind, but we
have present this evening the members of an international convention which, I
believe, is assembled in London at present in order to take some international meas-
ures to prevent the total extirpation of wild animals in Africa; already three, besides
the quagga, are extinct. Among other delegates we have one of the greatest of Afri-
can travelers, Major Wissmann, and I trust that he, taking so deep an interest in Mr.
Grogan’s journey, will address a few words to us.

Major Wissmann. The only fault I can find with the lecture we have just heard is
that it was too short. We should all have liked to have heard more details about
these interesting travels and observations. You can imagine how eagerly I look for-
ward to some detailed description, because Mr. Grogan touched, going from the
Zambezi to the north of Tanganyika, my tracks of 1881, 1887, and 1892. We may
all, I think, congratulate Mr. Grogan on his great ability in dealing with the natives.
The idea that first journeys are always the most dangerous, is wrong; at least, I have
always traveled more safely where no other European or Arab has been before me.
The first contact with the new civilization is not always the test for the savages. The
way in which Mr. Grogan has traveled through the countries of tribes bearing a
very bad reputation is surprising. The famous Miumbiro, which Mr. Gre ee,
tains exists only in the imagination of British statesmen, has been found by a German
448 THROUGH AFRICA. FROM THE CAPE TO CAIRO.

traveler, or rather its name was recognized, because I think Mr. Grogan saw the
mountain under another name.

The Prestpent. We have also a very illustrious French traveler present. I am
afraid he is not very conversant with our language, but if Captain Binger, who has
done so much important work on the Niger, cares to address us in French, we shall
be glad to welcome him here this evening.

We must all have listened to Mr. Grogan’s paper with great interest. He has
made a most remarkable journey. He is the first to go over that enormously long
line of country, which is eventually to carry a railroad, but I am afraid, from the diffi-
culties he has described, that it will be a long time hence. In the meanwhile Mr.
Grogan has made a most remarkable journey. Much of his work is of great interest
and new to us, including that swamp he visited on the Chambezi, and the extremely
interesting description he has given us of that previously unknown, or almost
unknown, volcanic region to the south of the Albert Edward Lake.’ He deserves the
greatest credit for the observations he has made and the care he has taken in making
notes of all he has seen of interest to geographers. So young a man—for he is only
25 years of age—may look forward to a long career as a geographical explorer. I am
sure you will wish me to express to him your thanks for his paper and the interesting
photographs; also, to express a hope that it will not be a very long time hence before
he comes to us with another paper, if possible of still greater interest and importance.
It will be a very great mistake indeed for us to suppose that there is nothing left to
discover. There are vast regions in all quarters of the globe, besides the arctic and
antarctic regions, which are entirely unknown, and I look forward to such young men
as Mr. Grogan to vie with the geographers of other countries in exploring unknown
regions.

I have great pleasure in conveying to Mr. Grogan the thanks of the meeting for his
most interesting paper.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Grogan
PLATE I.

THE VOLCANOES FROM LAKE Kivu. VIEW FROM SOUTHEAST.

Nea

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Grogan
PLATE II.

RUWENZORI, FROM THE WEST.

THE GEYSERS, ALBERT EDWARD NYANZA.
ai>

Nee Ie
io ;

its

crx,

ay

ins

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Grogan.

PLATE III.

° Fishing village

‘Plain

es

e *, Largely populated
Bp Scrub er

Lagoors

Scale of Miles

To 20 ara aan) ?
Nat-scale I: 2.000000 or 31:56 miles=linch CUTER: Fort

THE SWAMPS OF THE DINKA COUNTRY,
2 5 a

_

rau }

Wiermash.>
~
i.

= har
goatee 4

y it dd aes
‘im Pe wie,
el 7

' ‘9
"Ae

bv

hs

oe , : dy
Sauce; Oe OS

in a ae

‘! } ; 2 a is gel
eee ee

CENTRAL AFRI
BETWEEN THE REGION OF
LAKE TANGANYIKA
AND ALBERT EDWARD NYANZA
illustrating the journey of
EWART S.GROGAN
1899,
Scale of Miles é

———<—

Nat koale 14000000 or 16:78 milus-tinch
Foute Metghts in Peet

MU SMART

ae ;

pron a we
' 202

KAMER ow
|
\3

Usambara

IALTAN GAN

w MtHembea Bugogo

}
a

|

Sources of the Ne |

Ri Zambege “PEP QLShirwa

(

Rion ¥six 7S
=
fax

i

ee ap

=
=
le
=9
Ba

a
Ly

(Peat

4g

rie
~—*

ou
7 mia + a - — — ee
avoeHo Ss LuVMs”
cP fou) Suvressuy

tN ay MOTE. LAPT CINY

RRP NV SV)

NOT tra CH NAMA

AV OLIV TVELENG ii

“. . xO :
fav HOLANS  &

\

THE “* YERMAK” ICE BREAKER.?
By Vice-Admiral Maxarorr, of the Russian Imperial Navy.

The old way of traveling in the polar regions was by means of dogs
and sledges. Dr. Nansen proposed to travel with the ship, making
her so strong as to resist the pressure of the polar ice. He succeeded
in this perfectly well; his ship could stand the attacks of the polar ice,
and his defensive tactics proved to be very efficient. Just at the time
when Dr. Nansen proposed to build his ram, I had the idea of adopt-
ing offensive tactics against the polar ice. I was engaged at that time
with my service, and did not then see my way to disclose my ideas,
but I made some preliminary preparations. I wrote to Dr. Nansen a
letter, in which I stated that I was entirely of his opinion, that he
would be carried by the currents somewhere in the direction he
imagined, and advised him that help should be sent for him to Franz
Josef Land. My letter to him and his answer were duly published in
the Russian newspapers and in geographical publications. I thought
it quite possible that he would not complete his voyage in three years;
Talso thought that, if in four years nothing was heard of him, people
‘would be anxious to send help, and that would be a good pretext for
collecting money.

In my opinion the best way to penetrate into the Arctic regions is
by means of a powerful ice breaker. Certainly I did not wish to men-
tion in my letter to Dr. Nansen that I would go and help him, because
being on Government service, I could not dispose of myself. But |
asked him in my letter if he had any intention of leaving any trace of
his voyage. He replied that he intended to put on every island that
he might discover a pole with a small Norwegian flag on it, and under
that pole a letter with information about the voyage of his ship.
Fortunately for Dr. Nansen, the current carried him on very well, and
on my return from the Pacitic station I was happy to learn that he
and his Fram had safely returned home. Of course that deprived me
of my excuse for collecting the necessary money for building a large
ice breaker, but I found another motive, this time purely commercial,

1From The Geographical Journal, London, Vol. XV, No. 1, January, 1900,
449

sm 1900-——32
450 THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER.

I proposed to build an ice breaker, which in winter time might clear
the way through the ice to the port of St. Petersburg and in summer
time help the navigation to the Siberian rivers flowing into the Kara
Sea, barricaded by ice almost during the whole summer.

The ice breaker was built here in England by Sir W. G. Armstrong,
Whitworth & Co., Limited, and the name of the conqueror of Siberia,
Yermak, was given to her. Her length is 305 feet; breadth, 71 feet;
displacement, with 3,000 tons of coal, 8,000 tons; and in this condition
she draws 25 feet. Her bow is inclined 70° from the vertical, her
stern is 65°, and her sides are 20° from the vertical. In whichever
direction she moves in the ice she is bound to rise on it and break
it with her weight. She has four engines, working four independ-
ent propellers—one in front and three at the stern. Each engine
develops 2,500 horsepower, so that the total force of the ship is 10,000
horsepower. The ship has a double bottom and double sides. She is
divided into forty-eight compartments, every one of which was tried
by filling with water as high as the upper deck. One compartment in
the fore part of the ship, one at the stern, and two at both sides are
specially designed for changing the trim and heel of the ship. In the
center of the Yermak is situated a powerful pump, which can take
water from any of these compartments and pump into the other.
Each propeller is supplied with extra auxiliary engine, so that the
main engine can be disconnected if necessary and the propeller worked
from the auxiliary engine. This was meant to give economy of fuel
when the ship has to go under ordinary conditions and reduces the
number of mechanical staff. The ship has a rolling chamber to keep
her steady, and a lifting crow’s-nest, which affords facilities for direct-
ing her through the ice.

I selected a very distinguished officer, Captain Wasilieff, to com-
mand the Yermak during the experiments, but I was on board myself
on every important occasion.

Her maiden voyage was from Newcastle to St. Petersburg. We
entered the ice at the meridian of Revel,and had to force our way
through 160 miles of ice. It never occurred to any one that the ship
would go to Cronstadt in winter time, and our entering Cronstadt
harbor caused quite a sensation.

The limits of this paper does not allow me to give details of our per-
formance in the Baltic. Soon after our arrival in Cronstadt a telegram
was received that thirteen steamers were caught in the ice near Revel,
and some of them were in danger. The Yermak went at once to
Revel and opened the way for these and other steamers, the total being
forty-one, partly blocked in the ice and partly waiting in Revel Har-
bor and other ports for several weeks. This work done, the Yermak
proceeded again to Cronstadt, and helped forty steamers going to St.
Petersburg. After this was done the ship proceeded to Newcastle to
take in a supply of coal.
THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER. 451

The ship was built for the Kara Sea, where is one year’s ice, but it
was resolved to try the ship in heavy polar ice. Inthe month of June
we made our first trial in the polar ice, and found that the ship had
to be strengthened and the forward propeller taken out. Then we
returned to Newcastle, and on August 6 we entered again the polar
ice. This time we were in the ice two weeks, covering during that
period 230 miles in 87 hours.

We entered the ice to the northwest of Spitsbergen on August 6 at
noon, and in eight hours made, in the ice, about 30 miles to the north,
going always in a zigzag route. Then we stopped almost for three
days, examining the ice and the ship itself. During that period we
were drifted west-southwest at the rate of 10 miles a day, the wind
being north. Then we made again 10 miles to the north, and stopped
for a day, and in eleven hours made 30 miles to the north again, the
wind always blowing from a northerly direction. At this last place
we met an ice floe 14 feet thick; stopped to examine it for a day, and
as the pressure of the ice increased every hour considerably, without
evident reason for this, I thought that we were too much to west, and
that this was not the route for the ice breaker. After considering the
matter, I came to the conclusion that in this locality pressure of the ice
should be almost constant; the direction of the movement of the ice to
the north of Spitzbergen is west-southwest, while on the western part
of it it is southwest by south. There ought to be something that com-
pels the whole body of ice to change its direction almost suddenly as
much as three points. I presume that this change is due to the position
of the Greenland coast, which stops the westerly progress of the ice.
Owing to this a heavy pressure is accumulated on the northeastern side
of Greenland, which interferes with the drift of the ice of that locality
to the south. The ice remains there for many years, growing in thick-
ness. Is it not due to this that Nares met on the coast of Greenland
heavy ice, to which he has given the name palocrystic? Certainly
this is only my conjecture, but it looks at present rather probable. If
it is so, this locality is not a place through which one would advance
fairly ahead, even with the powerful ice breaker.

The pressure of ice was so considerable and the ice so heavy that it
took me four hours to make 2 miles to the south. After this the ice
was less thick, and we went at our usual rate, making 24 miles an hour;
later on the ice became still easier, which allowed us to go more
quickly. After we covered about 60 miles we found open water, fol-
lowed the boundary of it,and entered the ice again to the north of
Seven Islands. In this place we had much of the hummocky ice, but
that did not stop the progress of the ship.

On August 14 the weather was very clear, no clouds on the horizon,
and the air very transparent. We saw to the east of us a land which
is not marked on the map. We did not see that land directly. We
452 THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER.

saw it only by the refraction of the air, but we saw it distinctly from
6 o'clock in the evening to 11 o’clock the next morning, and took the
bearings of it. It could not be Franz Josef Land, the nearest part of
which was at that time at a distance of 260 miles from us. Neither
was it Gillies Land, which was at the distance of 160 miles. We
believe we saw undiscovered land, and if we estimate the distance to
be 100 miles, that land should be no less than 60 miles long.

On August 16 we directed our course to the south, and we saw four
complete table-shaped icebergs from 40 to 60 feet high, and many
débris of icebergs; one of them was completely covered with moraines.
We picked up some stones from it. A little piece of metal was found
between the stones, and there are signs of metal in the other stones.
It has not yet been examined by any geologist, so that I can not say
much about their nature. Neither can I state from what land they
come. Maybe they come from the land which we supposed we had
seen.

During the whole voyage we had an opportunity of studying the
nature of the polar ice, the )ermak, with her powerful cranes and
winches, offering a very efficient means for this. Our usual way was
to cut a piece of ice, or to find one of a suitable size, and to lift it on
deck. The pieces which were found in the water were liable to melt,
although the water had a temperature of 29.3° F. This melting
affected the superficial part of the block of ice, and the interior of it
was as strong as might be. <A block of ice being brought on deck,
holes were drilled into it at different depths, and the thermometer
introduced. Generally the temperature of the ice at that late season,
at the surface, isnot far from freezing point, and in the lower strata
it corresponds to the temperature of sea water.

On one oceasion we had a good chance of taking the temperature of
an ice floe 14 feet thick; a piece of it, broken by the Yermak, was found
floating on its side. We found that the temperature inside of it was
28.5° F., 1. e. 0.5° below freezing point of sea water. Jam not sure
whether it shows that such thick blocks do not lose entirely during
the summer their excess of cold received in winter.

After the temperature of the block of ice was taken we used to cut
at different depths oblong pieces of a certain size, and by submerging
them in water, study the specific gravity of the ice. Experiments
were made with 26 samples, and they have shown that the floating
part of the ice is within the limits of 6.5 per cent to 16.4 per cent,
while the average is 12 per cent.

After experiments on the floating of the ice, oblong pieces were sub-
jected to the trial of breaking. The strongest ice was found to be
glacier ice, which required 180 pounds to break the oblongs. The
weakest ice proved to be that from the floe, 14 feet thick, and required
63 pounds to break it; the average of the other ice shows that 110
THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER. 453

pounds are required to break the same oblong. After this we melted
the ice from different depths of the floe, and we tested the meltine
point. It proved to be very near to the freezing point of fresh water.

The exterior part of the ice in water is spongy, with canals and holes
in it; it looks from the top like lace. The ice of this spongy part has
the lowest melting point visible, from 31.3° to 30.6°.. We subjected
the sea ice to the influence of a current of salt water, 29.8° F., and
found that ice melts in that temperature very easily. It is rather
remarkable that ice melts in water the temperature of which is more
than 2 degrees below its melting temperature.

After the melting point of the ice was determined, we measured the
specific gravity of the liquefied ice; it was proved that this water con-
tained generally very little salt indeed. Surface ice gave almost fresh
water, but the ice at the bottom of the floe contained a little more salt,
salinity varying from 0.01 to 0.69. The latter high salinity is obtained
from the liquid ice of the spongy part of the floe.

Direct measurement of the ice floes has shown that the ice ridges
have generally the height of 10 to 14 feet. It is not unusual to meet
an ice ridge 16 feet high. One separate ice ridge was 22 feet high,
while on one occasion we saw a detached piece projecting something
about 6 fathoms. We did not reach it, and consequently could not
measure it, so that this last figure is estimated by eye.

There is no difficulty in measuring the superficial part of the ice,
but it is not so easy to obtain a proper knowledge of the depth to which
the ice ridges extend below the water line. The direct boring of the
ice gives good figures. We had an ordinary boring machine, but that
did not answer the purpose well enough, because the progress of boring
was rather slow. Then we arranged a steam jet, which melted a hole
in the ice, and answered the purpose admirably; but unfortunately we
were short of pipes, and could not reach the lowest part of the ridges.
The direct boring showed the thickness of ice and water layers, or
spaces in the direct vertical line. These are the figures:

First boring— Second boring—
12 feet ice. 21 feet ice.
2 feet water. 2 feet water.
3 feet ice. 3 feet ice.
2 feet water. —
4 feet ice. Total, 26 feet.

Total, 23 feet.

Then we tried to pass under the ice ridges a float with Thomson's
sounding tube attached to it. We put the float on one side of the ice
floe and passed the rope around it to the other side. <A little weight
was generally attached at 1 fathom distance from the float. W hen the
rope sank properly we pulled it to the other side of the floe. Some-
times all this maneuver was done with the boat and sometimes with the
454 THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER.

ship itself, her three propellers giving facility for such complicated
maneuver. The float passed under the chain of ridges, but of course
it did not get to the lowest part, which might project somewhere.
Often the sounding tube has shown 4 to 5 fathoms’ depth, but some-
times it has shown 7 fathoms. Separate pieces may project below to
the depth of 8 or 9 fathoms, so that the ice floe may touch the ground
at that depth, but probably will not properly settle itself until the
depth of 5 or 6 fathoms is reached.

Hydrological observations consisted in determining the specific grav-
ity of water at different depths. Below I give the specific gravity and
temperature of water at two stations, one being on a parallel of the
north part of Spitzbergen, another on the parallel of North Cape:

Station No. 31, August 20. | Station No. 34, August 23.
79° 41’ N., 40° 58’ B. 73° 22’ N., 10° 20’ E.
Depth. [TmPe™| 5.562 || Depth. tne. eee
Fathoms. eK Fathoms. | OK |
0 31.6 | 1.0248 || 0 | 41.6 | 1.0270
14 36.5 | 1.0265 || 27 | 40.0 | 1.0270
27 33.3 54 | 38.6 | 1.0270
33 35.6 | 1.0268 || 437 | 31.9 | 1.0270
38 36.4 | 1.0270 || S201) ))  ©80l 251)! eo276
437 | 31.6 | 1.0268 || 1,098 30.1 | 1.0271
820 30.4 | 1.0269 ||
1,093 30.1 | 1.0269 ||
1,367 | 30.1 | 1.0270 ||

I

On examining the figures of both stations, one can not fail remark-
ing that from the depth of 100 fathoms to the bottom the temperature
and specific gravity of water are almost the same. In the upper
strata of station No. 34 the water on the surface is the same as at the
bottom, visible gulf stream water; while at station No. 31 the water
of the upper strata is much influenced by fresh water from ice and
precipitations. It is remarkable that on that station the superficial
water is cold; then comes a warm layer, then again cold, then warm
and cold again.

Cold water at the lower strata at both stations has a temperature
of 30°. Such a low temperature is not met in the Atlantic to the
south of the Thomson ridge. The water acquires such a low tem-
perature somewhere in these localities; it can not be in the polar sea,
notwithstanding its excessive cold, because the upper strata there
have less density. I have discussed this question with Sir John Mur-
ray. He thinks that the cold layer of this region is supplied from
the top water being cooled during the winter somewhere close to Spitz-
bergen, or tothe south of it, where no water of less density interferes
with the upper layers descending to the bottom, when it is properly
cooled by the winter cold. I perfectly coincide with the opinion of
THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER. 455

the distinguished oceanographer, and I am of opinion that cold water
must settle down the slope of the bottom close to Spitzbergen.

There is no voyager in the polar regions who has not his own story
of bear shooting. I could not sacrifice time in that sport, but there is
such an abundance of polar bears that one can not avoid having a shot
at them. Fresh traces of the white bear are seen on almost every
other ice floe. Generally the track goes from one end of the floe to
the other, and it looks as if the bear on his way goes straight, whether
on water or a floe of ice. The bear usually makes a hole in the snow,
and then lies down in it, so that you can not see him from a short dis-
tance. When a ship passes he jumps out at once from his hole, and
were it not for this one would pass him by unnoticed.

The moment we entered the ice in June we saw two bears, but we
were very busy at that time with the study of the ice, so that we let
them go their own way. When we came next into the ice in August
we saw some bears almost every day. One bear was upon the floe
when we approached. Our sportsman wounded him, but the bear
escaped to the other end of the floe, and swam over the lane. By that
time the Yermak approached the place where the bear was, and it was
shot dead by a bullet from the forecastle of the ship. We stayed a
quarter of an hour to get him on board. On another occasion three
bears approached the ship at 4 o’clock in the morning. Afterwards
they proved to be ashe bear with her cub, and a he bear. The watch-
man roused the sportsman, who at once pursued the bears. The cub
was wounded first, in the leg, and it was most pathetic to see the
mother bear help her baby to get over the ridges. Another bullet
killed the cub. The mother bear, imagining that it was the he bear
that had killed the baby, rushed violently upon the he bear, and ripped
up his skin for more than a foot in length. This gave to our sports-
man the chance to approach and finish with both bears.

The most interesting part of the experiment is the behavior of the
ship herself in the ice; the question whether or not the steel ice breaker
ean break polar ice and stand its pressure. Experiments in the Baltic
have shown that a great deal of power is required to propel the ship
through the ice. Ice ridges in deep water, in the Baltic, never attain
any considerable height, but the ice is difficult to pass through; and it
happens that the ice field, which is no higher than 1 or 2 feet, requires
more power than the Yermak can supply. In these cases we were
obliged to move the ship astern, and charge at full speed, gaining
sometimes less than the half-length of the ship at a charge. The fact
is that the Baltic ice, being composed of pieces no more than 2 tod
feet thick, gives a very great skin resistance to the ship. 1 his was so
to such an extent that other ships following the Yermak in the canal
opened by her, on some oc ‘asions, could scarcely proceed with full

speed.
456 THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER.

It is quite another proceeding, breaking the polar ice. In some
places of the Baltic the ice field is uninterrupted from one shore to
another. In the arctic seas the ice is broken. Floes of ice might be
several miles or several fathoms in length. Between ice floes are the
lanes, which are very irregular. Sometimes ice floes are pressed
against each other and sometimes not. When the ice is not pressed,
the progress of the ship is very easy. Floes of ice even a mile long
move away and give passage to the ship. The sharp, projecting
angles of the floes break very easily, and sometimes it is preferable to
shorten the way by cutting a floe right through. Thick polar ice looks
very heavy and strong, and when walking on it one can not imagine
that such a heavy thing could be broken. But the fact is that even
ice 14 feet thick cracks when charged at by the ship, provided there
is room to remove broken parts.

The lower part of the polar floe has constantly, more or less, the
same temperature, while the temperature of the surface varies with
the temperature of the air, which sometimes produces the cracks and
sometimes prepares the ice for cracking. The moment the ship
charges the ice it cracks at the place at which it might crack in half
an hour itself with another change of temperature of a degree or so,
or with the beginning of pressure. The big floe cracks more easily
than the small floe, which sometimes is pushed by the ship and goes
in front until it manages somehow to pass on one side of the ship or
the other.

Fields of hummocky ice are liable to crack even more than fields of
plain ice. In charging that ice the ship’s bow rises to 9 feet; then
the field cracks, the ship falls down and goes ahead, moving aside the
débris of the ice field. It is a most exciting scene to see some of the
big pieces of ice falling down into the water and the others coming to
the surface from a great depth, every detached piece trying to find a
new position, while the ship itself, being always pushed ahead by her
machinery, gradually advances, maybe rises again, and gives another
crack to the field ice. We took some cinematograph pictures, which
show how much the ship lifts herself up in the ice, and that gives us
means of calculating what weight is applied to crack the floe of ice.
If the ice is in the period of pressure, progress is not so easy. On one
occasion it took me four hours to make 2 miles, while usually the ship
went, by zigzags, with a speed of 34 knots, making good 23 knots an
hour.

There is a great difference in ice-breaking in the Baltic Sea and the
polar regions. Hummocks in the Baltic Sea are never high above
the level, but sometimes they are very deep. According to our meas-
urement, they go down to as much as 20 feet. On one occasion we
measured 27 feet down and 6 feet up, the total being 33 feet. Such
hummocks are composed of pieces 1 to 3 feet thick. Many hum-
THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER. 457

mocks are formed at the time when ice is moved by the swell; the
result of this is that every piece of ice finds its best position, and
the whole hummock is very compact. When the ship charges into
it, it does not always form long cracks, but breaks under the ship,
producing no heavy effect upon her skin. When the ship passes half
of its length in such a floe, she touches so many fragments of ice that
they stop the progress of the ship by the friction and the pressure
upon the skin of the fore part of the ship. When the ship stops,
there is no other way than to go back and charge again. This time,
before the bow of the ship touches the solid ice it has to run through
100 feet or so of broken ice; that diminishes very much the speed of
the ship, which on a second charge may make a very little headway.
It happens sometimes that after the ship stops going ahead it won't
go back, and it takes half an hour, until by reversing the engines
ahead and astern one can get the ship out of this disagreeable stand-
still position. From time to time it happens that one has to get the
use of an ice anchor to move the ship astern. Nothing like this hap-
pens in the polar ice, which breaks into big pieces, and consequently
there is not so much skin resistance. The moment you stop your
engines the ship goes back herself, and there will be no fragments
left which could stop her progress when she charges the second time.
For this reason the second charge will be almost as efficient as the
first, and we never wanted an ice cage to move the ship in the polar
region.

Fresh-water ice in the Baltic is stronger than the salt-water ice in
the Arctic Sea, but, owing to the dimensions of the pieces of the ice,
the ship never receives such tremendous local blows in the Baltic Sea
as in the polar region. The general conclusion is that in the Baltic
the force of the engine is required, while in the Arctic the strength
of the construction is the main thing to pay attention to.

It is most interesting to decide the question whether my idea of
exploring the polar regions by means of ice breakers is sound or not;
whether in future explorers of the Arctic should stick to their sledges
and dogs, or trust themselves to the drifting ships of Dr. Nansen, or
embark upon the strong ice breakers. It looks as if the voyage on the
ice breaker is the most expensive of the three, but it saves time, which,
if properly calculated, is always money. If we come to the conclu-
sion that the ice breaker is to be used for the exploration of the
Arctic, then comes the question, What sort of ice breaker is good for
that purpose? Shall we repeat the Yermak, or shall we give to the
new ice breaker another feature, basing ourselves upon the lesson
given us by the experiments of the Yermah in the polar ice? Surely
the Yermak is not the last work of science in that direction. The for-
ward propeller was very much praised in America, and proved to he
“useful in the Baltic. But when we first entered the ice in June last, ]
458 THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER.

felt at once that the fore propeller had to be removed, which was done
on my returning to Newcastle. No forward propeller could stand the
charges of the ice breaker into the polar ice; and if it does so, it stops
the progress of the ship. Of course, the Yermak is meant for double
service; for the Baltic the forward propeller is useful, and for the
Arctic it is objectionable. We have either to sacrifice one or the
other; but if a special ice breaker has to be built for the Arctic it
ought to be without forward propeller.

With regard to the strength of the ship, it is not a question of the
weight of material; it is a question of knowledge and experience, and
I believe that Messrs. Armstrong, Whitworth & Co. have learned very
much since our last trial in the polar ice. One can not make a mis-
take in building a ship too strong. The Yermak had to be improved
in that respect after the first trial, and we have to do something more
now. Had it not been for this I would not have returned without
penetrating farther on, in order to study that unknown region a little
more.

The angle of the stem, 70° from the vertical line, proved to bea
good one; 20° for the sides of the ship is also not bad, but it should
run a bit higher than on board the Yermak, because the ship receives
with her sides tremendous blows; 25° would be still more profitable.
With such a shape of ship one would expect that the ship would roll
heavily at sea. I did not dare to give to the Yermak any bilge keel,
but I think it would do no harm to the ice-breaking qualities if the
ship was supplied with two short bilge keels on the last third of the
length of the ship; it would improve, somehow, her rolling quality;
also a big rolling chamber would be useful.

The proportion of the Yermak is 1 to 44; it is such because the ship
has to enter the port of St. Petersburg. For the polar ice breaker
finer lines would be better, but finer lines increase the weight of the
ship. I believe 1 to 5 would be a good proportion.

The size of the ship depends very much on the power required and
the quantity of coal supply. The bigger the ship the more powerful
will be the engines and the greater the supply of coals. During our
work inthe Arctic we seldom used our full power; the ship progressed
fairly well with the engines working slow. However, sometimes it
happened, during the pressure of the ice, that full power was required.
In such a case a ship with weak engines has to wait, but it should not
be more than a few hours. The progress of the ice breaker with
smaller engines will not be so quick; anyhow, it will be progress. I
may say, the less power you have the more patience you want in
going through the polar ices. The vam had 200 horsepower; it was
not enough fora good ice breaker; but I believe 2,500 horsepower will
be sufficient for fairly good progress through the ice.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Makaroff.

CHART

SHOWINC THE COURSE
OF THE

“YERMAK™
1899.

GOING THROUGH EASY ICE.
a il eee aay ee
ria?

pe ed

mys

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Makaroff. PLATE II.

MORENAS ON THE ICEBERG.
Smithsonian Report, 1906.—Makaroff, PLaTE Ill

YERMAK IN HEAVY ICE.

YERMAK CHARGING THE ICE.
THE YERMAK ICE BREAKER. ; 459

The distance that one can go through the ice will depend upon the
quantity of fuel, and as liquid fuel is more efficient than coal, it should
be accepted for the polar ice breaker. That fuel is easily put into
any compartment of the ship, so that on entering the ice one can have
as much of that fuel as the ice belt and the shape of the vessel allows.
Liquid fuel has another advantage particularly applicable to ice break-
ing, where the speed of the engine is changed so often. With the
liquid fuel you stop burning instantaneously, while with the coal you
burn it unnecessarily every time you unexpectedly reduce your full
speed to a dead slow. Liquid fuel is easily pumped from one part of
the ship to the other, and can be used for trimming and heeling
purposes.

All these deductions are preliminary. I have to think over them,
and maybe more detailed study of the material we collected will force
me to make a slight modification of what I have stated in this paper.
But there will be no modification in my idea that the exploration of
the Arctic and Antarctic ought to be done with the help of the polar
ice breakers.
THE GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH
CENTURY.’

Address before Congress of Scientists at Aachen, September 17, 1900,

By Oscar Hertwic,

Director of the Anatomical and Biological Institute of the University of Berlin.

The first of the series of addresses which, upon the close of the cen-
tury, are to give you a short review of the acquisitions of the natural
sciences, treated of a department in which the successes of the scientist
have been particularly prominent; for the acquaintance with the
forces of nature, which the chemist and physicist have earned by
investigation in their laboratories, is the starting point for an expert
mastery of nature that has reconstructed the life of civilized peoples
from its foundation. From unpromising chemical and physical dis-
coveries have arisen numerous giant industries, the basis of a commerce
on an even more magnificent scale, and various technical contrivances
by which men have more and more subjected space and time to their
will, flitting by the force of steam, without fatigue, over wide stretches
of land, or interchanging their ideas with the speed of lightning over
the ocean.

The honorable task which has fallen to my lot is to report upon the
development of biology during the nineteenth century. That science
has no such glittering successes to show as those I have mentioned;
yet I think I may venture to assert that the knowledge of nature which
human sagacity has won even in the realm of biology is not inferior to
the discoveries and inventions of the chemico-physical sciences In gen-
eral scientific importance and in fruitfulness for human civilization.
The insight into the complicated laws of nature that govern organisms
as well as inorganic bodies, the inquiry into their structure, their origin,
their vital processes, their relations to one another and to the cosmos,
teaches us to subject the world of living creatures also to the domination

Vortrag auf der
1900, gehalten
r Berliner Uni-

1 Translation of Die Entwicklung der Biologie im 19 Jahrhundert.
Versammlung deutscher Naturforscher zu Aachen am 17 September,
von Oscar Hertwig, Director des anatomisch-biologischen Instituts de
versitit. Jena. Verlag von Gustav Fischer, 1900. 461
462 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

of our mind, thereby to make them serviceable to our welfare in count-
less ways, or where they confront us as hostile powers to defend our-
selves from them by hygienic protective measures. But what is much
more important, biology enlightens us concerning our own human
nature, both in its corporeal and in its spiritual aspects, and conse-
quently leads to a greater mastery over ourselves; and in accordance
with the progress of that knowledge biology influences even our
religious, moral, and social ideas, and thereby arouses world-moving
forces which have a no less transforming effect on the conduct of our
life than does the expert mastery over inanimate nature, made possible
by physics and chemistry.

The endless realm of biology is much more extensive than the chem-
ico-physical sciences. . For that reason, in the brief time during which
I can venture to beg your attention I can only give a summary review
of the development of the science during the nineteenth century, and
can only refer to those particular directions in which our biological
knowledge has made its principal progress.

A short definition can scarcely express correctly what a living being
is, or what life is. It can only be said that life depends upon a special,
peculiar organization of matter, and that with this organization are
connected special functions (Verrichtungen oder Functionen) which
are never met with in lifeless nature. The particular branches of sci-
ence which relate to the study of animals and plants are, therefore,
commonly divided into two groups, the anatomical and physiological
sciences; that is to say, into those which deal with the structure or
organization of the being and those which relate to its functions and
its life processes.

In both directions our knowledge has been infinitely extended during
the century. While the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries brought
the great anatomists, an Eustachius, a Fallopia, a Vesalius, who, with
knife and scissors, opened for us a glimpse into the numerous organs
of the human body, biology in the nineteenth century has achieved its
greatest victory in the province of microscopic anatomy. Equipped
with the compound microscope, that wonderful instrument which emi-
nent opticians have brought to the highest degree of efficiency, the
anatomists were now in a position to discover a new and previously
unsuspected world of-life.

I believe, without hesitation, that I must indicate as one of the great-
est acquisitions of biology during the nineteenth century the discovery
that plants and animals are built up of cells, or, speaking in general
terms, of innumerable minute elementary organisms. By the joint
labors of famous biologists—I will name only Purkinje, Schleiden and
Schwann, Hugo von Mohl, Nigeli, Remak, Kolliker and Virchow,
Briicke, Cohn, and Max Schultze—our knowledge of the organization of
living substance has been infinitely broadened and deepened. Anatomy
GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 463

and physiology have received a solid foundation in the theory of cells
and of protoplasm, just as chemistry has in the doctrine of atoms and
molecules.

A series of very important ideas has arisen with the cell theory. If
plants and animals represent in a certain way colonies or states of
socially connected elementary living beings, vital processes are nothing
more than highly complicated resultants of numerous elementary proc-
esses which are performed in the cells. Thus it was suggested to draw
parallels and to institute instructive comparisons, on the one hand,
between the individual members of a human state and the adjustments
which a state necessitates, and, on the other hand, between the structure
and the life of the vegetable and animal body. The law of the division
of labor and of differentiation, which in human society causes separa-
tion into special professional classes and the immense diversity of social
employments, was rightly, adduced by Milne-Edwards, by Spencer,
and by many others to illustrate the building up of the vegetable and
animal body from its organs and tissues. With Lionel Beale and Max
Schultze we learned to distinguish in histology between a formative
substance, the protoplasm of the cells, and the product of their forma-
tion or work, and recognized that the various cells as they assumed in
the service of the whole organism different functions or work, accord-
ing to time and place and their relations to one another, became corre-
spondingly diversified in their intimate structure, and that in this way
the various tissues and organs came into existence.

The scientific elaboration of the theory of cells and tissues has occu-
pied many naturalists for several generations, and they have erected
the stately palace of the microscopic anatomy of plants and animals.
Yet even here many important questions await solution, especially that
of the finer structure of the cell-nucleus and of protoplasm, and the
question of the microscopic structure of the nervous system and of
the organs of sense, concerning which almost every year still brings
us new investigations and new discoveries, sometimes of great
importance. |

With the aid of the compound microscope biological research has
in the passing century opened to our inspection a second new and sov-
ereign world of life, the world of the simplest unicellular organisms,
which were introduced into classification by many investigators as
an intermediate kingdom between plants and animals—the protista.
Great was the wonder, in the middle of our century, when Ehrenberg
discovered that whole geological formations originate from (erdschich-
ten) very minute organisms, often hardly visible to the naked eye,
which grow in fresh water and in the sea in immense numbers. es
when, at death, their soft protoplasmal bodies decompose, their hard
shells and skeletons of carbonate of lime or of silica still remain, and
sinking by their weight to the bottom produce, in thousands of years,

sm 1900——33
464 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

in spite of their small size, yet in virtue of their inconceivable multi-
tude, strata many meters thick. The chalk cliffs on the coasts of
Riigen and of England are built up of the remains of foraminifera;
many islands in the South Sea, of the wonderful siliceous framework
of radiolaria, and strata, such as the diatomaceous earth of Bilina, of
the siliceous shells of diatoms.

But still more important than these highly interesting facts for our
general knowledge of nature was a second series of discoveries which
I would place by the side of the cell theory as a second capital achieve-
ment of the century in the department of biology. Minute organisms
are recognized as the cause of widely distributed processes of putre-
faction, of fermentation, and of very numerous diseases of plants and
of animals. They are unicellular algz, fungi, bacteria, and allied
micro-organisms.

Three great investigators have here been the pioneers—in the botan-
ical department, de Bary, who laid the foundation for the study of
diseases of plants by the elaboration of suitable methods of observa-
tion and processes of cultivation; in the bacteriological department,
Pasteur and Robert Koch. The great French investigator, equally
distinguished as a chemist and as a biologist, and particularly Robert
Koch, have by their experimental methods—among which pure cul-
tures, artificial nutriment (Nihrbéden), the gelatin processes, and
transfer by inoculation, stand at the head—atforded ways and means
which we must thank for an immense enrichment of our knowledge.

Again, in the short span of two or three decades, an extensive depart-
ment of science has been established—I mean bacteriology. For it is
the characteristic phenomenon of our age, with its greatly increased
interest in science, with its more perfect organization of expert work
(gelchsten arbeit), with its numerous scientific institutions, with its
enlightened and accelerated intercommunication of ideas by journals
and by the daily press, that if a new mark is set up, and if the way to
its attainment—the scientific method—is found, then everywhere the
forces of work are roused to feverish activity as in no earlier time.
How quickly were the first abortive experiments followed by a knowl-
edge of microbes. The exciting agents of anthrax, of septicemia and
pyemia, of erysipelas, of typhus, of intermittent fever and of cholera,
of tuberculosis, of malaria, and of many other infectious diseases of
men and of animals, down to insects and worms, were discovered, and
their life histories studied.

It is a grand thing to enrich our stock of knowledge by new dis-
coveries; yet it may be not less important and serviceable to refute
and eliminate errors, and especially the errors which infest science
itself. The less men knew in the past of the vital process the more
ready they were to accept as an established fact the hypothesis of spon-
taneous generation (Urzeugung)—that is to say, the assumption that
GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 465

the simplest living beings take their origin direct from lifeless nature.
Just as in the eighteenth century intestinal worms and infusoria,
also formerly called infusion-animalculse (Aufgussthierchen), were sup-
posed to arise by ‘‘equivocal generation,” so at a later date bacteria
and allied microbes, because they seemed so very small and simple,
and so suddenly invaded liquids without anybody’s knowing whence
they came, were supposed to be so formed. It was not one of the
smallest services which Pasteur rendered, that he irrefutably proved,
by scientific methods, that for microbes, too, the saying is fulfilled,
**Omne vivum e vivo,” life comes only from life. By Pasteur’s experi-
ments we know that the germs of those organisms are everywhere
more or less abundantly distributed in water, air, and earth.

In the doctrine of cells, too, in its first form, the idea of spontaneous
generation made a pernicious nest, for, according to the view of
Scheiden and Schwann, new cells arise in the bodies of animals and
plants by a sort of crystallization from a nutritive solution, either
within or without mother cells. The truth that the increase takes
place solely by propagation by division was first made out by weari-
some labor by the admirable investigations of Mohl and Niigeli, of
Remak, Kolliker, and Virchow, and many other students, and raised
to the rank of a universal biological law: *‘ Omnis cellula e cellula.”

It may be broadly said that, in spite of all the progress of science,
the chasm between living and lifeless nature, instead of gradually
closing up, has, on the contrary, become deeper and wider. More
thorough study, aided by philosophical intuition, teaches year by
year more distinctly that the cell, that elementary bed rock of living
nature, is far from being a peculiar chemical giant molecule, or living
albumen, and as such destined to become the subject of the chemistry
of the future. The cell is itself an organism, compounded from numer-
ous still smaller vital units. They are of various chemical composi-
tion, and are bound together through relations to the vital process of
the cells unknown to us. Here lies hidden a world of minute life for
the investigation of which the power of our microscopes and usual
methods of research fall short, but which, we will hope, a biology of
the future, with more perfect instruments and methods, may attain. .

A beginning has been made by the elaboration of the method of
staining, which we may expect to be extraordinarily perfected and its
powers to be greatly increased. To this we must- add the insight
which the investigations of Biitschli, Strasburger, Flemming, van
Beneden, and many others have afforded of the facts (vorgang) o1 the
division of nuclei and cells. In karyokinesis we see how, at certain
times, minute parts in the cell of diverse chemical nature, such as cen-
trosomes, spindle filaments, chromosomes, nucleoles, and protoplasm
tracts are distinguishable, and how, impelled by enigmatical forces,
466 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

they arrange themselves in a sequence of complicated figures, and so
distribute themselves to two *‘ daughter” organisms.

But the most impressive argument for the doctrine that the cell itself
must, in its turn, be a highly complex organism is, above all, the part
it plays in the developmental process of higher plants and animals,
for the cells of egg and seed, as Niigeli has explained in a philosoph-
ical manner, are the vehicles of the numberless properties by which the
different species of organisms are distinguished. They therefore
consist of hereditary masses or idioplasm, which, in order to include
the inherited properties which are destined to become manifest in
growth, must be a highly organized body.

With this, | come to the third great advance which biology has
effected in the nineteenth century. More than previous ages, our cen-
tury has been dominated by the idea of development. It has made
itself felt as a working leaven in many departments of knowledge, phi-
losophy, history, philology, sociology, and geology, but nowhere more
than in biology. Yet the living organism is the only natural object
which puts before our eyes, in a short space of time, a complete cycle
of development, from the fecundated egg to the perfect creation again
productive of new life.

On closer examination the question of the development of the
organism embraces two different questions: First, that of the develop-
ment of the individual-—that is, the cycle of phenomena through which
it runs, starting from the egg until its natural death; and, secondly,
the question as to how so extraordinarily complicated a product as we
have found the vegetable or animal organism to be arose in a natural
way in the course of the earth’s history. Ontogeny and phylogeny,
to avail ourselves of a pair of terms introduced by Haeckel, are the
two fields of research into which the doctrine of development of
organisms is divided.

Ontogeny alone is subject to direct scientific investigation. From
the fertilized egg on it is possible, by the choice of suitable plants and
animals, to follow their development step by step from one stage to
the next. Here again the microscope has been the instrument with
the help of which we have penetrated deeply into ontogeny and have
set forth the universal laws of formation. Since the days of Pander
and Carl Ernst von Baer, who has been called the *‘ father of the his-
tory of development” on account of his immortal services, thanks to
a great roll of German, French, English, Russian, and Italian embry-
ologists, there has been erected a comprehensive, excellent, lordly,
well-joined, systematic history of development. In details many proc-
esses have yet.to be examined more nicely; but, on the whole, the
essence of individual development has been explained upon its mor-
phological side, and we have a right to be proud of the insight into it
which we have gained, especially when we recall how the greatest men
GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 467

of science and philosophers of former centuries—Haller, Leibnitz,
Cuvier—were wrecked on the problem of development; how they stood
impotent before it with their methods of research. ,

That every animal, man included, is at the beginning of his life tem-
porarily a single cell; that this cell multiplies by frequently repeated
divisions; that the cells arrange themselves into germinal layers from
which again the single organs take their origin, and that it is by
the association of the cell communities, as they multiply, after many
metamorphoses, that the perfect creature is formed, are facts of the
correctness of which everybody can easily convince himself. They
are secure, permanent acquisitions of science.

With the second question, on the other hand, we pass to the sphere
of hypothesis. How did the organisms that are living to-day arise in
the course of the earth’s history? Certainly an investigator well
schooled in philosophy will consider it to be a universal truth that the
organisms which to-day people the earth did not in bygone geological
ages exist in their present forms, but they, too, must have gone through
a process of development, beginning with the simplest forms, which
Haeckel has distinguished from the ontogenetical process by terming it
phylogenetical. The investigator will come to this conclusion by con-
necting different departments of biology. He will especially rely
upon the facts of individual development, whieh actually teach a
becoming of the complicated from the simpler. He will further
appeal to comparative anatomy, upon that philosophical science whose
erection has been brought in our century to high perfection by Cuvier
and Meckel, by Johannes Miiller and Gegenbaur.

But try to fully portray in detail in what special form a species
of animals of our day lived in the hoary antiquity, and the ground of
experience vanishes beneath you, for of the innumerable milliards of
creatures which lived in former geological periods—periods whose
duration is estimated in millions of years—only scanty remains of
skeletons have in exceptional cases been preserved in a fossil con-
dition. Of course from them we can gather but a very incomplete
and hypothetical idea of the soft bodies to which they once belonged.
Furthermore, it remains in every case undecided whether the descend-
ants of the ancient creature whose sparse remains we study did not
die out altogether, so that he can not be claimed as the ancestor of any
living form whatever.

Twice in our century has the question of descent deeply stirred
both scientists and laymen and injected a powerful ferment into the
world of ideas. Brightly shine down upon us from history the oppo-
site names of Lamarck and Darwin. Lamarck, the great French
zoologist, wrote at the beginning of our century, at the time of the
German and French philosophy of nature, his famous Philosophie
Zoologique, a monument of freer philosophical consideration of the
468 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

world of organisms. In 1859 Charles Darwin published his epoch-
making work upon the origin of species, a work distinguished for the
collection and sifting of a great and previously little-noticed mass of
facts, and by being crammed with important new points of view. In
particular much light was thrown by Darwin upon the relations of
organisms to one another and to environing nature, a subject which
had previously been neglected and even now is little understood,
notwithstanding the partial insight into it which that great genius has
afforded.

More fortunate than his forerunner, whose merit was only first
recognized by posterity, Darwin saw his doctrine fall upon better pre-
pared soil, so that it produced a scientific movement sustained by
enthusiasm and adopting his name, Darwinism. He had the good luck
to be supplemented by a powerful advocate, Haeckel, who in knowl-
edge of anatomy and of the history of development far surpassed him.
Men now believed that the secret of how new organic species arise
was at last out; that the riddle of the ** true causes of forms” had been
euessed, and that the theory of selection furnished the elucidation of
the theory of descent. ‘‘Struggle for existence,” ‘‘survival of the
fittest,” ‘‘natural selection,” were the formule by which the organic
empire was to be laid open. Adherents and opponents to the new
doctrine appeared. Hither and thither waged the battle with a
vehemence which scientific hypotheses seldom inspire. Darwinists,
Ultradarwinists, Antidarwinists, Neodarwinists, Haeckelians, and
Weismannists mingled in the fray. Weismann, going beyond Dar-
win, published The Omnipotence of Natural Selection; Herbert
Spencer hurled at him with The Inadequacy of Natural Selection.

This sort of thing is comprehensible in politics, but how shall we
explain such a remarkable turmoil about a scientific question? It
seems to me that not the least of the reasons was that the formule of
explanation, ‘‘struggle for existence,” ‘survival of the fittest,”
**selection,” are very vague expressions, which only gain scientific
ralue by the mode in which they are applied in the concrete case.
Why has the term ‘‘struggle for existence” not been brought down to
application? It has become a standing and favorite form of words in
writings upon national economy and politics: and there it is excusable.
But it begins to be less so when, at the Darwinian flood tide, Du Prel
would use it as a formula to explain the motions of the heavenly
bodies. With too general terms single cases can not be explained, or
a mere shadow of an explanation is given, while the true causal connec-
tion remains as much in the dark as before. Now, the problem of sci-
entific research is to make out the precise cause of an observed effect,
or, more correctly, since nothing happens from a single cause, its dif-
ferent causes.

But surely the origin of the organic world by natural causes is an
extraordinarily intricate and difficult problem. It is as little to be

—————
GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 469

solved by a magical formula as all diseases are to be cured by one med-
icine. While Weismann was announcing the “omnipotence of nat-
ural selection,” he saw himself forced to the confession, ** We ean
usually not prove that any given adaptation is due to natural selection.”
Now, this is as much as to say: In truth, we know nothing about the
complex of causes which has produced the particular phenomenon.
**Inadequacy of natural selection” therefore opposes itself, with
Spencer.

In this scientific strife with which our century closes, the doctrine
of development is to be distinguished from the selection theory. The
two stand upon very different ground. For we may say, with Huxley,
“Tf the Darwinian hypothesis were swept away, evolution would still
stand where it was.” In it we possess a permanent acquisition of our
century; one of its greatest, and resting upon facts.

With the discussion of the doctrine of development and the theory
of selection, we have already made a step into the realm of physiology.
But every division of a science into special departments, including that
of biology into anatomy and physiology, is artificial and scarcely
capable of being strictly carried out. The construction and the action
of a part, or its structure and its function, are intimately connected;
so much so, indeed, that neither can truly be understood without
studying the other.

Observation alone will afford a very insufficient insight into the
mode of working of a particular organ, and in many cases none at all.
In order to obtain an answer to the question, What is an organ for (was
leistet ein organ)? the physiologist has to avail himself of the most
various aids, by which alone he can draw any conclusion from what he
has observed; and what the microscope is for the anatomist, that for
the physiologist is systematically conducted experimentation, scientific
investigation of vegetable and animal organisms. :

By phytophysiological experiments, Sachs, Pfeffer, and many other
trained experimenters have enlightened us concerning the geotropism
and heliotropism of plants, concerning phototaxis, chemotaxis, and sim-
ilar interesting phenomena. Especially experimental physiology has
established in how high a measure plants in all their functions, even
in their formation, are dependent upon external factors.

Animal experiments can be conducted in various ways. Against
one kind, termed vivisection, which involves slighter or more severe
surgical operations, an obstinate campaign has been conducted in gen-
eral society, and here and there not without some success. It is surely
an ill-placed sensibility. For what should all the suffering that the
investigator inflicts upon the animal world, and which he takes pains
humanely to reduce to a minimum by chloroform and morphine, sig-
nify in comparison with the infinitely greater and more numerous ben-
efits suffering humanity enjoys from the medicinal art, which the
animal experiment and the knowledge gained by it brings to greater
470 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

effectiveness? Or what should the victims of science, so trifling in
number, signify in comparison with the numberless and much more
grievous sufferings which in the unalterable order of nature one animal
often inflicts upon another, it may be in bestial cruelty, or in com-
parison with the pain which the human race endures from accidents
and diseases of all kinds, or which men inflict upon one another in
murderous wars ¢

People ought rather to be thankful that by experiments upon
animals physiology has in the nineteenth century most successfully
increased the the treasure of our knowledge. The section and excita-
tion of the spinal roots brought us Bell’s theorem. In the same way
the physiology of the most various peripheral nerves was brought into
existence, including that most important of all this series of doctrines,
that of the action of the vagus nerves. Johannes Miiller established the
law of the the specific energy of the nerves of sense. Partial sections
of the spinal cord and the study of the heightened and lowered degen-
eration thereby produced enabled us to get a view of the different
neryous paths of conduction. Acute experimenters even succeeded in
penetrating into the secrets of the functions of the brain by localized
lesions, by removal or other destruction of particular parts of the
brain, and in discovering in the spinal marrow a special center of
breathing and vascular control, in particular places of the cortex, here
a center of language, there a seeing tract, a hearing tract, or a feeling
tract, ete.

Experiments upon animals have put many other departments of
physiology within reach of the scientific understanding. The cele-
brated Harvey’s doctrine was refined to a mechanics of the circulation
of the blood when the velocity of the current, as well as its pressure
in different parts of the system of tubes, had been accurately measured
by ingenious devices. The study of the physiology of digestion and
of metabolism was well begun by making fistulas into the stomach
and intestines or by otherwise obtaining juices of the different glands,
and these, once obtained, were made the subjects of further experi-
ments to discover their functions in the process of digestion.

A still greater blessing for mankind has come from experiments
upon animals in two other directions, which in the nineteenth century
have been systematically prosecuted and which are intimately con-
nected with practical medicine, but do not require vivisection. One
direction is that of the study of the effects of chemical bodies upon the
organism into which they are absorbed. ‘The investigator ought first
to ascertain by numerous systematically conducted experiments upon
animals what effects in every part of the system chloroform and ether,
morphine, cocaine, antipyrine, or powerful poisons such as atropin,
belladonna, strychnine, curare, and numerous other chemicals which
chemical manufacturers are throwing in constantly increasing profu-

GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 471

sion upon the market, produce in stronger and in weaker doses before
he studies their application as medicines for this or that diseased con-
dition of man.

Our materia medica has been greatly enriched in this way during
the last half century, and the increase goes on yearly. I will fer
call to mind the new processes of cure first tested upon animals which
are acquisitions of the latest dates: Koch’s tuberculin. the diphtheria
serum of Behring and Ehrlich, and the other different kinds of serum
that have been proposed against lockjaw, the plague, and many dis-
eases of animals, as well as Pasteur’s peculiar method of treatment of
hydrophobia.

In the second direction I mentioned I have in mind the study of
that great host of maladies evoked by the invasion into the animal
system of alien parasitic organisms as excitants of disease. Experi-
ments upon animals have alone rendered possible that great triumphal
march which the biological research of our century has traveled over,
discovery treading on the heels of discovery. In order to acquaint
themselves with the essence of the trichina disease, Leuckart and
Virchow caused trichinous meat to be consumed by many animals
selected for experiment, and in that way gained a knowledge of the
history of development of the trichina and the mode in which, by its
introduction into the body of the infected animal, it produces the
different stages of the process of disease. Davaine and Koch cleared
up the nature of anthrax by inoculating a healthy, susceptible animal
with a tiny drop of blood from an animal suffering from anthrax, and
in this simple way infected it so as to establish the development of
the anthrax bacillus in all stages. The investigator pursues the same
method in all cases, with erysipelas and septicemia, typhus, cholera,
the plague, tuberculosis, malaria, and, in a word, all the infectious
diseases which are produced by the lowest fungi, bacteria, sporozoa,
and other kinds of parasites.

But the modern physiologist contemplates with yet greater pride
than that which the results of those animal experiments awaken, the
extraordinary success which his science has achieved in our century in
two other great fields, those of biochemistry and biophysics. —

Under the rule of the vitalistic doctrine the scientific doctrine rife
at the beginning of our century was that the organic substances of
which the bodies of plants and’ animals are built could only be pro-
duced by the peculiar vital forces of these organisms, so that destiny
refused to the chemist the power of imitating any such substances by
his insufficient methods.

One brilliant discovery by Wohler at length shattered the vitalistic
error, for he succeeded in producing artificially in his laboratory one
of the peculiar products of the vital process of animals, namely, urea.
Soon, in the rapid progress upon which organic chemistry now entered,
472 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

the like was accomplished in many other cases, until now the auda-
cious hope can be cherished that some day chemistry may perhaps
even perform the synthesis of albumen, the most complex of all
organic substances. Chemistry has, however, progressed further in the
analysis than in the synthesis of these organic bodies from which the
cells, tissues, and juices of plants and animals are built, having ana-
lytically investigated the carbohydrates, fats, albuminous bodies, and
their numberless derivatives and products of decomposition. Thus
has a physiological chemistry gradually been developed—a science rich
in results, from which still more weighty disclosures are awaited in the
future.

The chemical processes upon the normal course of which life depends
were naturally in great measure opened up to us by the increased
knowledge of organic substances. Pfliiger’s invention of the mereu-
rial gas pump and other important apparatus and the improvement of
chemico-physiological methods generally imparted a powerful upward
impulse to the physiology of respiration, of the formation of blood,
of assimilation and secretion; while extensive and laborious experi-
mental investigations by Claude Bernard, Pettenkofer and Voit, Lud-
wig, Pfliiger, Heidenhain, and many others successfully elucidated the
digestion of albuininous bodies, fats, and carbohydrates and the func-
tions performed by the salivary glands, stomach, liver, and pancreas.

Simultaneously with triumphantly raising its head in the chemical
direction, physiology did the same thing in the physical direction. In
its contest with vitalism, which held to the assumption of special vital
forces as needed for the explanation of life, thus erecting a rigid party
wall between the inorganic world and the empire of life, the highest
principle of physiology came to be that organisms are subject to the
universal laws of nature. Its guiding star was the law of the con-
servation of force, which was established by Robert Mayer and Helm-
holtz; while the highest goal of its research was the introduction of
physico-mathematical methods into physiology, by which it should
become possible, by the methods of weighing, measuring, and count-
ing, to penetrate the essence of the vital process and to render exact
account of the different modes of energy which are. distinguished as
mechanical, chemical, thermic, and electric.

Then broke the dawn of that glorious day when physiology was
enriched by apparatus of the most varied description and instruments
invented with great ingenuity. By means of the cymograph and the
myograph it succeeded in exhibiting to the eye upon the smoked plate
and in measuring with the greatest exactitude the minutest features of
motions of living organs, of the wall of the heart and those of the
blood vessels, as well as the motions of the muscles. Galvanometer,
rheostat, and slide-induction apparatus, tangent galvanometer, became
common in the armamentarium of every physiological institute in
order that the electrical phenomena of muscular action and the
GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 473

velocity of nervous transmission might be investigated. The ophthal-
moscope of Helmholtz and the laryngoscope of Czermak enabled the
investigator to aid practical medicine by giant strides into the view of
the interior of two important organs.

The improvement of the instrumental equipment of physiology has
continued without cessation to the end of the century. Every new
acquisition of physics is immediately made available to physiology
and medicine. Thus the physician is already, immediately after Ront-
gen’s epoch-making discovery, in condition to bring into clear view
upon the photographic plate, by suitable application of the so-called
X-rays, parts hidden in the depths of the human body and absolutely
invisible to the eye, such as single sections of the skeleton.

So pioneer investigations of physiologists trained in physics—a
Helmholtz and a Du Bois-Reymond, a Fechner, Weber, Ludwig,
Briicke, and Pfliiger—as upon another occasion I bave in a few words
summarily remarked, have in our century ‘*created a special physics
of the nerves and muscles, a physics of the organs of sense, a
mechanics of the skeleton and organs of locomotion, a mechanics of
respiration and circulation.

‘*The eye was explained as a camera obscura arranged according to
the laws of optics; the ear as a physical apparatus arranged to bring
the nerves to the perception of acoustic vibrations by means of suit-
able organic structures, vibrating membranes and rods, which, like
the wires of a pianoforte, are tuned to the different notes. The larynx
becamesa reed pipe, adapted to the production of tones in vibrations,
the lungs serving as the bellows. The laws of filtration and osmosis
were adduced for the explanation of absorption and secretion. By a
composition of intricate apparatus called a calorimeter the physiologist
now determined the amount of heat reckoned in calories produced in
the course of a day by an animal body, and undertook the difficult task
of striking a balance sheet of the animal transformation of energy, the
animal body being debtor to nutriment of different kinds in so many
calories of energy, while upon the credit side were summed up the
amounts of energy which the body had given in the form of heat DIOs
duced or mechanical work, and which are absorbed in the processes of
metabolisin.”

In the face of the great triumphs which physiological science cele-
brated by the introduction of chemical and physical methods, the
majority of investigators became accustomed to the view, to elie
they were led, too, by the brilliant exposition of it by Du Bois-Rey-
mond, that physiology, imagined as complete, is nothing else than bio-
physics and biochemistry, and that it has no just pretension to rank as
a true science, except so far as if is an application of chemistry and
physics, dynamics and mathematics. .

From the extreme of a “shallow vitalism,” as Du Bois-Reymond
called it, physiologists mostly went to the

”

opposite extreme of a deso-
474 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

late mechanism, and believed in the explanation of life as a purely
chemo-physical process.

The first consequence was that physiologists in the regular line of
the profession, with few exceptions, cultivated, by preference, only
such fields as were adapted to chemo-physical methods of research,
and left others, such as the physiology of development and gener-
ation, altogether untilled. But anatomists, zoologists, and botanists
only insisted upon them so much the more. They penetrated deeper
into the vital phenomena of the cell, of protoplasm, and of the
nucleus. They discovered the wonderfully complicated process of
the division of the nucleus, the spindle with its ray figures, and
the centrosomes, the chromosomes, and their longitudinal segmen-
tation, and finally they solved the old controversy which had once
divided physiologists into the two camps of the animalculists and the
ovists, for now the secret process of fertilization was happily settled
in all its phases by simple microscopical observation. The penetration
of a spermatozoon into an egg cell, the coalescence of the egg nucleus
and the sperm nucleus were successfully and directly observed. They
deepened the comprehension of the entire process by the discovery
that egg and sperm cells must be prepared, in some sort, for the fruc-
tification, by the reduction or expulsion of half the matter of their
nucleus, and finally, supported by these and other facts, they ventured
to lay the foundation for the problem of heredity by the hypothesis
that in the matter of the nucleus the vehicles of inherited characters
are found. ‘

So by the side of the chemo-physical school of physiology an anatomo-
biological bias gained strength. This endeavored to deepen our inspec-
tion of life by microscopical research. But the anatomo-biological
bias, the more it enforces itself (sich geltung verschafft) by its investi-
gation of the organization of the substratum of life, will the more lead
to the insight that the mechanical standpoint in biology is just as one-
sided as the vitalistic. Truly one of the chief champions of the mech-
anistic doctrine—Du Bois-Reymond—has himself applied the critical
probe to it and, in principle, has recognized its insufficiency. In his
address upon the limits of the knowledge of nature he has set up two
insoluble interrogation marks, which later, in his seven world riddles,
he has increased to seven, and, really, 1 do not know why he should
have restricted himself to so modest a number. Du Bois-Reymond
characterizes the impossibility on the one hand of conceiving the
essence of matter and force, and on the other hand of explaining even
the lowest degree of consciousness mechanically, as a trite truth, and
says that it is an old experience, which no discovery of natural science
has in the least modified, that one equally fails whether one adopts the
theory of atomism, of dynamism, or the opinion of plenum.

Du Bois-Reymond, it is true, has not himself drawn the conclusion
which necessarily follows from this. But the conclusion which in the
GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 475

biology of the new century will vic toriously break its way is that
the mechanistic dogma that life, with all its complex phenomena, is
nothing at all but a chemo-physical problem is as groundless as vital-
ism; groundless, at least, so long as one does not understand by physics
and Pe nistcy sciences of quite other nature than those which in their
purport and their scope from the point of view of their historical
development now present themselves. For, as I remarked upon
another oceasion, ‘‘If the problem of the chemist is to inv estigate the
numberless combinations of different kinds of atoms to form mele ules,
he can, in strictness, not touch upon the problem of life, for di
begins sche his inquiry ends. Over the structure of the chemical
molecule rises the structure of the living substance as a broader and
bigher kind of organization. Over the structure of the cell rises again
the structure of plants and animals, which exhibit the yet more com-
plicated, elaborate combinations of millions and milliards of cells coor-
dinated and differentiated in the most extremely various ways.”

What has chemical science, as it now is, to do with this entirely new
world of organizations of matter, upon which the first manifestations
of life depend? If the chemist wishes to set himself to the task of
investigating these, the first thing he has to do is to become a biologist,
and especially a morphologist. But then his methods and his aim must
be very different from what they are, and far more comprehensive.

As for physics, it stands in precisely the same relation to biology
that chemistry does. At present the physiological [physical ?| school
commonly argues with Du Bois-Reymond thus: In the living being, in
the cell, no other forces are efficient than those which the atoms of the
cell—earbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, ave dis-
played outside of the cell. ‘‘A particle of iron is and remains the very
same sort of thing whether it flies through tke solar system (Weltkreis)
in the meteorite or dashes along upon the rim of the locomotive wheel
or trickles in a blood cell through the temples of a bard. As little as
in the mechanism of the human hand is there in the last case anything
added to the properties of the particle or anything subtracted from
them. Those properties are eternal. They are inalienable, untrans-
ferable.” ‘But if the atoms have developed no new forces, every-
thing of the physico-chemical kind will happen in the cell precisely as
it would in a test tube.”

That is the way the argument runs for the st undpoint of ‘*every-
thing in the world is chemistry and physics.” But our reply is that
the word “‘atom” is merely a fiction useful for se ience in its present
condition; that we know nothing of the sum of the properties and
forces in an ‘‘atom in itself,” and still less how from the properties
and forces of different kinds of atoms we are to pass to the prom rties
and forces of their compounds. That from the properties of carbon,
combined with those of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, etc., In certain
proportions, albumen must result, is a fact as inconceivable in its

476 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

essence as that from different albuminous bodies with special organi-
zation will come a living cell.

We therefore prefer, in the question which is occupying us, to leave
out both the concept of an atom and also the extraordinarily difficult
concept of a force of which so much misuse is made, and to confine
ourselves to that by which alone a force can be known; that is to say,
to its effects. But in reference to these I think and may assert the
same thing as in reference to the organization of matter.

Just as by the joining together of atoms to make molecules, of the
molecules to make the higher material units of the living cells, of liv-
ing cells to make plants and animals, ever new, more numerous, and
higher forms of organizations are created, so it is with the effects
which proceed from them. With every one of the endless stages and
forms of organization new modes of action are produced; and when
the investigator comes to plants and animals he has to do with an
entirely new world of uncommonly manifold effects, which do not
occur in lifeless nature and which can not occur there, since the requi-
site organization is wanting. I will instance only the preservation of
the species by growth and reproduction, metabolism, the different
kinds of irritability, phototaxis, chemotaxis, geotropism, etc., con-
sciousness, faculties of sense and thought, and, finally, all the different
effects which single parts of cells exert upon each other, cell upon
cell, organ upon organ, animals and plants upon one another.

Is it the business of the physicist to concern himself with effects of
every kind which proceed from all the possible bodies in the world?

Certainly not. As the chemist concerns himself only with the sim-
plest organization of matter, the chemical, but not with biological com-
binations, so the physicist, as a man of the science as it has historically
grown to be, concerns himself only with a certain class of effects,
which may be called the elementary ones—a class of effects, in itself
considered, extraordinarily large, yet, in comparison with all the modes
of action in the world, very small. Should the physicist not choose to
impose this limitation upon himself, he would be obliged to unite in
one person the labor of the physiologist and psychologist, the sociolo-
gist and historian, and whatever other study there may be.

Finally, let it be remarked that the current opinion that the investi-
gation of life is nothing but a chemo-physical problem, and that
everything in the world is physics and chemistry, is commonly con-
nected with a gross overvaluation of chemo-physical science. It seems
to be forgotten that this science, like everything human, is but a work
of detail (ein Stiickwerk), and at every point jostles against limits of
naturai knowledge which, for the time being, seem to be insuperable,
and that chemistry and physics in this regard have no advantage over
biology.

Niigeli well said, in 1877, in his address before the Munich congress
upon the ‘* Limits of the knowledge of the natural sciences,” that

GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 4177

*‘ Nature in her simpler inorganic phenomena presented the same dif-
ficulties for research as in the question of the occurrence of sensation
and consciousness from material causes.”

The simpler is by no means always the best known, and, indeed. the
ordinary course of science is that from the study of the more complex
we come to be acquainted with the simpler. In chemistry, analysis,
for the most part, precedes synthesis. We have learned what a won-
derful sort of element carbon is by having found analytically that it is
the base of the carbohydrates, fats, albumens, and now develops in
them properties which certainly nobody would have suspected in
advance of the carbon in a piece of anthracite. What part the albu-
minous bodies play in the vital process we know, not by the chemical
study of albumen, which can teach us nothing at all about it, but by
the study of vegetable and animal cells. Thus science is built not
merely from below upward, but quite as much, or even more, from
above downward; there penetrating from the simple to the more com-
pound, here from the compound to the simpler.

We have referred above to this syllogism: ‘‘If the atoms develop
no other forces in the cell than what they have outside of it, then every-
thing of a chemo-physical kind that happens in the cell takes place as
it would in a test tube.” In the same way and with equal justice we
can contrapose this syllogism and so get something like the following:
Man feels, remembers, and is conscious; he thinks and builds a world
of thought. Since, now, man consists of cells, cells of molecules of
albumen, and these, again, of atoms; since every higher stage of organ-
ization is naturally developed from the stage next below it, and since the
conservation of energy allows no room for Thought to be introduced
at any step of the process, it follows that the cell, the molecule, and
the atom must feel, remember, be conscious, and think, each after its
kind.

Indeed, just such views have already been put forth; and according
to them, upon the most important questions, not only of the doctrine
of cells but of chemistry and physics, the psychologist would have to
be consulted for information.

But by such general reasonings, whether of the progressive or the
regressive variety, which leave the solid earth of natural science to
float, as it were, in the air, the man of science can reach no useful
result. He ought to avoid them both. .

The physicist and chemist refuse to recognize atoms that feel, have
memory, or think, because they perceive no sign of such properties
and their methods can not detect them. With the same justice the
biologist must enter a protest against his science being regarded from
the restricted standpoint of the chemist and physicist, since Its prob-
lems and methods for the most part are quite of another sort (ganz
anders geartete), and are at any rate much more comprehensive and
are not near to being exhausted by physics and chemistry.
478 GROWTH OF BIOLOGY IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

The man of science, in order to make his researches successful, must
limit them to a small part of the immeasurable world problem, quite
in contrast with the philosopher. Is it, then, any part of his task to set
forth a general conception of the world (die Welt begreiflich erschei-
nen zu lassen) according to a formula? Is not the best notion for him
to entertain that the world is capable of being investigated, but that
for us, children of the present, the empire of the uninvestigated and.
of the obscure is a thousandfold greater than the empire of the inves-
tigated, of that which has already entered into our science and into
human recognition 4

The man of science, guided by such considerations, will be conscious
that the explanation of the world as a mechanism of jostling atoms
rests upon nothing but a fiction, which may be useful for exhibiting
many relations, but yet does not correspond to the truth. So that
world, deprived of properties, supposed by Laplace, who saw in the
world process nothing but effects of atoms whirling past one another,
together with a single great sum in arithmetic to be done by knowing
the world rule, will seem to the man of science to be, in comparison
with the real world, which speaks to him with its infinite properties
through all his senses, as a nugatory shadow picture, comparable
with those shades in the under world that, like fog, eluded the arm
of Ulysses when he tried to seize them.

The scientific man who listens to reason will assent to the proposi-
tions in which Carl Ernst von Baer briefly, pertinently, and beautifully
described the essence of science: ** Science,” said he, ‘Sis, in its source,
eternal; in its operation, not limited by time and space; in its scope,
immeasureable; in its problem, endless; in its goal, unattainable.”

This last is particularly true of biology, the science of life. Its
problem is of the most difficult. Its field extends in all directions,
having the closest relations to all sorts of other sciences. In one direc-
tion, supported by chemistry and physics, it becomes biochemistry and
biophysics. In a contrary direction it forms a connection with the
psychical sciences, which relate to mere human nature, with psychol-
ogy and sociology, with ethics and religion. By it the material and
spiritual worlds are placed in connection. And so biology, in the newly
dawning century, if its cultivators, free from dogmatic fetters of every
kind, shall continue to convert the empire of the uninvestigated into
the empire of human knowledge, will be summoned to cooperate, in an
eminent way, in the inward civilization of the human race, elevating
it to a higher stage, not only of intellectual insight, but also of social
and moral conduct. It will so help to bring on the time when the won-
derful progress which the nineteenth century has brought in the chemo-
physical field by the expert mastery over the forces of nature shall
first bring to coming generations its full blessing.
THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

By Freprric A. Lucas,

Acting Curator, Section of Vertebrate Fossils, U. S. National Museum.

Many have been the attempts to recall the life of the past and set
before us the living semblance of the animals that long ago walked on
the face of the earth; and, while some of these reconstructions, such as
those that disport themselves through the columns of the Sunday
papers, have been literally creatures of the imagination, others, like
those prepared under the direction of Professor Osborn, have been the
result of long and careful studies of scientific men. The attitude of
the public toward such restorations is varied; a few there be who
accept them with implicit faith in their fidelity to nature, while others
have as little confidence in the most careful reconstructions as in those
made to order for the sensational newspaper or to fit the description
of some weird story in a popular magazine. Between these extremes
there is a golden mean. While we can not be certain that the best-made
models or drawings correctly represent the animals as they were, we
may be sure that they rest on a solid foundation of fact and do give a
fairly good idea of the creatures for which they were intended. At
the worst, they are infinitely better and vastly more correct than many
of the older pictures of then little-known animals based on imperfect
specimens, poor sketches, or highly colored descriptions of those who
had actually seen the animals they were supposed to represent. They
are even better and more true to nature than many figures drawn from
stuffed specimens to be found in text-books, or even scientific works
of the earlier part of the nineteenth century and, for aught the writer
knows, Richardson’s figure of the pocket gopher with his pockets
turned inside out may still be doing duty.

It is but natural that we should desire to know how these strange
and mighty animals, upon which man never gazed, looked in life, and
this desire is ample justification for their restoration; and as material
has accumulated and our knowledge of extinct animals has increased,
it has become more and more possible to depict them with some degree
of accuracy.

SM 1900

479

bt

480 THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

The oft-asked question, How long ago did these animals live? is one
difficult to answer, the more that the discrepancy between the various
estimates that have been made as to the age of the earth or of various
portions of its crust are so great that they seem little more than mere
guesses. The shortest estimate, that by Professor Newcomb, is ten
million years; the longest, six billion. But, following the more con-
servative figures, we may say that the Dinosaurs (terrible lizards) lived
from fifteen million to six million years ago, while since the beginning
of the Eocene, when the mammals began to gain the ascendency, some-
where between three million and four million five hundred thousand
years have elapsed.

Cuvier was probably the first to make a restoration of any extinct
animal that was more than a mere guess, as he was the first to place
such a restoration on the firm basis of scientific fact and deduction.
These restorations of Cuvier’s, figured on plate 147 of the celebrated
**Ossemens Fossiles,” were of several species of hoofed quadrupeds
whose remains were found in the quarries of Montmartre and to which
Cuvier had applied the names of Anoplotherium (weaponless beast)!
and Paleotherium (ancient beast). Since their publication they have
been, with occasional slight modifications, copied far and wide, and
to-day even no well-considered text-book of paleontology is quite
complete without them, although, curiously enough, while the figures
are duly ascribed to Cuvier, no one seems to think it worth while to
give the exact reference to the time and place of their publication.”

The deductions made by Cuvier from the bones of the Anoplother-
ium may serve as a good example of the manner in which the external
appearance of an animal may be inferred from its internal structure.
From the length of the tail and appearance of the bones of the feet he
supposed the animal to have been more or less aquatic in habit; and,
judging from its habit of swimming and diving, he went on to reason
that ‘* Anoplotherium would have the hair smooth like that of the
otter; perhaps its skin was even half naked. It is not likely that it
had long ears, which would be inconvenient in its aquatic life.” But,

1 Literally, the weaponless beast, having neither claws, horns, nor large canines;
and the ancient beast. Scientific men are often taken to task because so many ani-
mals have no common, or popular, names, the public forgetting that such can only
be applied to animals that are well or commonly known. The scientific name of
an animal is simply a tag or label attached to it by which it may be known, not
merely where English is spoken, but the world over, and that they are no more
difficult to understand or pronounce than so-called popular names is shown by the
fact that many of them, such as elephant, boa constrictor, rhinoceros, etc., have been
adopted as common names. Scientific names, it may be said, usually contain a ref-
erence to some character possessed by the animal to which they are applied.

?This reference is as follows: Recherches sur les Ossemens Fossiles of l’on retablit
jes caractéres de plusieurs animaux dont les revolutions du globe ont détruit les
espéces. Par Georges Cuvier. Atlas, Tome Premier, Planche 147. The reproduc-
tion herewith given is from the fourth edition, published in 1836.

THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS. 48]

comments Mr. Hutchinson, was it really aquatic? And this but hints
at the uncertainty attending the work of restoration, for some oe
liarities of structure may point more than one way or be subject to
more than one interpretation. [ | |
Thus the short-limbed, heavy-bodied carnivore Oxyxna from our
western country was at first considered to have had habits like those
of an otter, while on a later review it has been thought to have been
as arboreal in its mode of life asa raccoon. And while, asa general
rule, aquatic animals or those of sluggish movements have solid bones
yet the extinct toothed diver Hesperornis has hollow leg bones and a
does the huge Dinosaur Triceratops.
Cuvier’s restorations were founded on his famous law of correlation,

Fic. 1.—Cuvier’s Restorations of Mammals from the Paris Basin. Reduced about one-half.

Anoplotherium commune. Anoplotherium gracile.

Palzotherium minus. Palxotherium magnum.

or the harmony to be found between various portions of the skeleton,
between these and their investing muscles, and between the entire ani-
mal and its mode of life. For example, the retractile claws of a cat
would not be found associated with the teeth of a ruminant, but with
teeth fitted for devouring flesh and, conversely, teeth adapted for
cropping grass and chewing the cud would be found in company with
hoofs, while beasts that chew the cud and have cloven feet are the
only ones that have horns on the frontal bones, so that a horned car-
nivore would be out of the question.

These great generalizations are, in the main, true,
dealing mostly with animals of a limited region, the Paris basin, and

but Cuvier was
482 THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

with types not strikingly different in structure from those that live
to-day. Had he come upon some of the forms which have subsequently
come to light he might well have been puzzled, for since the time of
Cuvier animals have been discovered in which claws like those of a
carnivore are combined with teeth fitted for a vegetable diet. Sucha
one is the animal called Agriochcerus (plant eater), from the Miocene
of the-West, and so strikingly at variance are the parts of the skeleton
that, having been found at different times, the foreclaws were supposed
to be those of a carnivorous mammal and described under the name of
Mesonyx (middle claw), the hind foot dubbed Artionyx (straight claw),
under the supposition that the beast was related to the sloths, while
the skull with its herbivorous teeth bore the name of Agriochwrus.
Not until the discovery of a fairly complete specimen in which the
rarious parts were associated was this snarl of names disentangled.
Still the occurrence of such forms are not precisely the exceptions that
prove the rule, but expressions of the fact that the more recent ani-
mals are the more highly specialized or adapted for special modes of
life, be they devourers of flesh or feeders upon herbs. So as we go
back in the past we find the lines now sharply drawn between groups
of animals fading out, forms appearing unlike any now living, and
animals becoming more generalized, as it is termed, more like one
another in internal structure, less fitted for some particular mode of
life or kind of food, although some of these strange forms survived -
until a comparatively late date. Consequently it is more difficult to
recognize the entire form and relations of the early animals from
their scattered bones than it is those of the later arrivals upon the
earth, and thus it has happened that some of the attempts at recon-
structing the earlier and stranger forms have, in the light of more
complete knowledge, been found to be very far from the truth.

In the Dinosaurs (terrible lizards), those great and ancient reptiles
that have been the basis of many and careful restorations, we have a
group of animals with which Cuvier was practically unacquainted and
which in many ways differ from any other animals with which we are
familiar. How different they are may be inferred from the fact that no
less an authority than Owen mistook the bones of the hip for those of
the shoulder of one of these creatures and so described and figured
them. And this is not to be held to his discredit, for at the time
almost nothing was known of the Dinosaurs, and while there is a pop-
ular belief that it is quite possible to reconstruct an entire animal from
one tooth or a single bone this is, unluckily, very far from the truth.
True, much may often be done with a bone or a tooth, but this is in
cases where these fragments are unmistakably like those of creatures
which we do know and with whose more or less complete structure we
are well acquainted.

Probably the earliest restorations to be given to the general public
(those of Cuvier having been published in a scientific work of limited
THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS. 483

circulation) were those by Sir Henry Delabeche, shown on the frontis-
piece to the second series of Buckland’s Curiosities of Natural History,
depicting a number of extinct animals, including Ichthyosaurs (fish
lizard) and Plesiosaurs (a reptile). This was the first attempt at restor-
ing these marine reptiles and it is to be noted that they are drawn
with round, pointed tails. A little later Owen, noticing that in every
skeleton of Ichthyosaur the terminal portion of the backbone was
bent at an angle to the rest of the vertebral column, inferred that the
tail was high and compressed, somewhat like that of a newt, and that
the bend was caused by the sagging over of the tail as decomposition
set in. So the next lot of restorations, including those made by Water-
house Hawkins for the Crystal Palace, showed these creatures with
flattened tails.

Years passed on and the famous deposits at Holzmaden, Wurtem-
berg, yielded up some beautifully preserved examples of Ichthyosaurs,
which definitely settled the question of the shape of the tail, for; pic-
tured on the rock by the hand of Nature was a deep, forked, vertical
tail, not unlike that of some sharks in appearance, but with this strik-
ing structural difference that while in the tail of sharks the backbone
is continued along the upper edge of the tail, in the fish-lizards the
bone runs along the lower edge; the bend in the vertebral column was
not a break at all, but a perfectly natural flexure. More than this,
the specimens showed the presence, hitherto unsuspected, of a high
back fin of whose existence there is no more trace in the skeleton than
there is in modern whales of the presence of a similar fin. Behind
the well-defined fin was a series of markings apparently indicating an
irregular crest like that borne by the European Triton during the
breeding season, and thus was Ichthyosaurus depicted in the next series
of restorations. But if the first pictures had shown too little, these,
on the other hand, showed too much, for subsequent study made it
evident that the irregular markings following the back fin were acci-
dental and formed no part of the reptile, and so the fourth and last
stage of the Ichthyosaur represents an animal clearly built for speed,
with a powerful, vertical tail, four paddles and a high back fin. The
Ichthyosaur’s companion in the Liassic Sea, the Plesiosaur, has also
passed through various stages of reconstruction, first appearing with
a long neck thrown into graceful, swan-like curves, the long-accepted
version: next that of Dames, with a comparatively inflexible neck,
while somewhere between the two lies the truth. For it may be taken
for granted that any creature with a long, slender neck is capable of
bending this about in search of food, even though it may not be pos-
sible for him to throw it into a series of graceful sigmoid curves.
When, in 1852, the New Crystal Palace was erected at Sydenham,
England, it was resolved to have as one of the features of the sur-
rounding grounds a group of restorations of extinct animals, and Mr.
484 THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

B. Waterhouse Hawkins was placed in charge of the undertaking. As
it was not intended that these figures should be approached closely
they were built on a gigantic scale and located on a small wooded islet
where they formed conspicuous features in the landscape. The size
of the figures may be inferred from the materials used in constructing
the Iguanodon, for these comprised four iron columns 9 feet long and
7 inches in diameter, 600 bricks, 1,550 tiles, 38 barrels of cement, and
90 barrels of broken stone, besides bar and hoop iron. But little
was known of the Dinosaurs at that time, and this dearth of informa-
tion, coupled with the fact that Mr. Hawkins was not deeply versed in
comparative anatomy, resulted in the making of some rather singular
animals. Megalosaurus (great lizard) and Iguanodon (Iguana-toothed)
were represented as huge lizards, walking on four massive limbs, the
former with a head between that of a crocodile and a monitor, the

> @]-s

Fic. 2.—Specimen of Ichthyosaur found at Holzmaden, showing the impression of the
dorsal and caudal fins and restoration based on this specimen. After Fraas.

latter with one very obviously patterned after that of an iguana, and
with the spike-like claw of the thumb placed on the tip of the nose.
Still we should not be too severe on Mr. Hawkins for, as we have seen,
Owen himself mistook the hip bones for the shoulder blade, and the
very boldness of the attempt and the scale on which it was carried out
deserve commendation. Granting even that these restorations were
very largely erroneous, they were the first to be brought conspicuously
before the public and served a good purpose in creating popular inter-
est in the study of paleontology.

The most recent restorations are those prepared by Mr. Charles R.
Knight under the direction of Prof. Henry F. Osborn for the Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History, New York, and a few made by Mr.
PLATE I.

Lucas.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

‘solos puones ‘Ay

TH [BangeN Jo sé

TALL,

\
}

5 puel young, WOd poeorpe

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Lucas.
PLATE II.

WATERHOUSE HAWKINS’S WORKROOM AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE.

Reduced from a picture in The Illustrated London News.
il ee ES ,
'

— w=? Shinn sty Kp dud tp a> dee
we ;

A
Dh. eee
i Pe ed eee, Sn ting

a ee
—

¥

Pre
Lucas.
a PLATE III.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

YSTRANQRN UROMOULY Of, ULOd, pooupoudey

‘SSU1LdaSyYy SNOAFOVLAYD JO SNOILVHOLSSY

S

a

dOO YyoOssasoOud

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Lucas.
PLATE IV.

Copyright, S. S. MeCture Co.

TYLOSAURUS.

Drawn by J. M. Gleeson. By permission of the S. S. MeClure Company.
ee a

Yan
7

a ee

a Pyare

(ey

PLATE V.

Lucas,

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

‘OD WNOIW “Sy ‘pyOratidoy

NIMOEKDY AY SHH
NG6S3419

job!

SURG ULOD AN OO TN

‘S ‘S 049 JO UOIsstutiod Ag

SNYUNVSOLVHSD

“TLOSOOTD) “IN

“yp Aq UMRIC

eee.

«Ah Sis
a, th eee ee

:o- rue be ee ay a
> a :
- 4 ae Abt yl a _— 7
wry stink J fae i a> | S at
F = an Feat eng 8

THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS. 485

Knight and Mr. Gleeson for illustrative purposes for the 8. S. McClure
Company, two of which are, by the courtesy of the publishers, included
in this article. As an artist Mr. Knight has devoted himself to the
representation of animals, and these have all been prepared with the
greatest care and after a careful consideration of the skeletons of the
various animals represented and of their form and habits as deduced
fromthe skeleton. Hence they may be looked upon as giving as accurate
an idea as we can now form of the appearance of these extinct animals.
They well illustrate the importance of combining artistic ability with
anatomical knowledge and an acquaintance with the external appear-
ance of animals, as may be seen by comparing the plates of Tylosaurus
(ram lizard) and Ceratosaurus (nose-horned lizard), drawn by Mr. Glee-
son, with the plate of Cretaceous reptiles drawn under the direction of
Professor Cope. The marine reptile on the mght of this plate is a
Mosasaur, the animal standing on the sand bank in the foreground is
Lelaps, a Dinosaur related to if not identical with Ceratosaurus.
Professor Cope, who supervised the drawing of this plate, had anatom-
ical knowledge, but the artist who drew the figures neither understood
the animals he was endeavoring to represent nor had a good knowledge
of living animals.

Before passing to the restoration of the exterior of animals it may
be well to say something of the manner in which the skeleton of an
extinct animal may be restored and the meaning of its various parts
interpreted; for the adjustment of the muscles is dependent on the
structure of the skeleton, and putting on the muscles means blocking
out the form, details of external appearance being supplied by the skin
and its accessories of hair, scales, or horns, things which may or may
not have a direct relation to the underlying bones. For example, there
is nothing in the skeleton of the Indian rhinoceros to indicate that its
skin is put on in great folds, nor, so far as we can see, is there any
reason why they should be present in this species and lacking in all his
relations with which we are acquainted. Neither is there any internal
reason why the trunks-of the African and Indian elephants should be
so different from one another as they are.

Let us suppose that we are dealing with one of the great reptiles
known as Triceratops (three-horn face),' whose remains are among the
treasures of the National Museum, for the reconstruction of this big beast
may well illustrate not only the methods of the paleontologist, but also
the troubles by which he is beset. Moreover this is not a purely imag-
inary case, but one that is very real, for the skeleton of this animal,
which was reproduced in papier-maché for the Buffalo Exposition, was
restored in exactly the manner indicated. And then, in order to give
as vivid an idea of the animal as possible, a small model of the creature

1In allusion to the presence of the two large horns above the eyes and the third

smaller horn on the nose.
486 THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

was made by Mr. Knight, as well asa painting showing Triceratops as ~

nearly as he might be supposed to look amid his natural surroundings,
perhaps six million or more years ago.

We have a goodly number of bones, though by no means an entire
skeleton, and yet we wish to complete the skeleton and incidentally to
form some idea of the creature’s habits. Now, we can interpret the
past only by a knowledge of the present, and it is by carefully studying
the skeletons of the animals of to-day that we can learn to read the
meaning of the symbols of bone left by the animals of a million yester-
days. Thus we find that certain characters distinguish the bone of a
mammal from that of a bird, a reptile, or a fish, and these in turn from
one another, and this constitutes the A, B, C of comparative anatomy.
And, in a like manner, the bones of the various divisions of these main
groups have to a greater or less extent their own distinguishing char
acteristics, so that by first comparing the bones of extinct animals with
those of creatures that are now living we are enabled to recognize their
nearest existing relative, and then by comparing them with one another
we learn the relations they bore in the ancient world. But it must be
borne in mind that some of the early beasts were so very different from
those of to-day that until pretty much their entire structure was known
there was nothing with which to compare odd bones. Had but a single
incomplete specimen of Triceratops come to light we should be very
much in the dark concerning him, and although remains of some thirty
individuals have been discovered, these have been so imperfect that we
are very far from having all the information we need. A great part
of the head, with its formidable looking horns, is present, and although
the nose is gone we know from other specimens that it, too, was armed
with a knob or horn, and that the skull ended in a beak something like
that of a snapping turtle, though formed by a separate and extra bone.
Similarly the end of the lower jaw is lacking, but we may be pretty
certain that it ended in a beak to match that of the skull. The large
leg bones of our specimen are mostly represented, for these being
among the more solid parts of the skeleton are more frequently pre-
served than any others, and though some are from one side and some
from another this matters not. If the hind legs were disproportion-
ately long it would indicate that our animal often or habitually walked
erect, but as there is only difference enough between the fore and hind
limbs to enable Triceratops to browse comfortably from the ground, we
would naturally place him on all fours, even were the skull not so large
as to make the creature too top-heavy for any other mode of locomo-
tion. Were the limbs very small in comparison with the other bones,
it would obviously mean that their owner passed his life in the water,
fora skeleton is the solution of a problem in mechanics—given a cer-
tain amount of weight to support, and there must be limbs of a given
size if this weight is to be carried on dry land. If the animal is buoyed

————— EE ——S SC Se se he DLC! Uh
PLATE VI.

Lucas.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

VYSIUy “YW svyO Aq oPOUIWIS B ULOdy

“SdOLVYSOIN |

e
-
Ls

8 4 Rite --
ae are i
; Vy

a

ah

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Lucas. PLATE VII

i

SANDSTONE BEARING THE IMPRINT OF SKIN OF THESPESIUS
(VERY MUCH REDUCED).

DRAWING OF PORTION OF THE ABOVE SPECIMEN (NATURAL
SIZE), SHOWING THE STRUCTURE OF THE SKIN.
“yr : ‘
wr: _
NREL §; Ps
: _ ut
ve fr
i 7 4
x :
. Be
- é
2 - a
“6
a 7
yo
> e 7
re ~~. > Amy
oa < na "4 a ee
ey ; =
Tle ‘is.
« Pf ian ad
: iat mL} 2
* : San
| i>
. w » "
oe = &
a oe

PeRt, a :

&

he

en! T 6 i ens

THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS. 487

up by water the legs are not needed for locomotion, and may be very
small. ;

Something, too, may be gathered from the structure of the lee bones,
for solid bones mean either a sluggish animal or a creature of more
or less aquatic habits, while hollow bones emphatically declare a land
animal, and an active one at that, and this in the case of the Dinosaurs
hints at predatory habits, the ability to catch and eat their defenseless
and more sluggish brethren. A claw, or better yet, a tooth, may con-
firm or refute this hint, for a blunt claw could not be used in tearing
prey limb from limb, nor would a double-edged tooth, made for rend-
ing flesh, serve for champing grass.

But few bones of the feet, and especially the fore feet, are present,
these smaller parts of the skeleton having been washed away before
the ponderous frame was buried in the sand, and the best that can be
done is to follow the law of probabilities and put three toes on the
hind foot and five on the- fore, two of these last devoid of claws.
The single blurt round claw among our bones shows, like the teeth,
that Triceratops was herbivorous; it also pointed a little downward,
and this tells that in the living animal the sole of the foot was a
thick, soft pad, somewhat as it is in the elephant and rhinoceros, and
that the toes were not entirely free from one another. There are less
than a dozen vertebree, and still fewer ribs, besides half a barrelful of
pieces, from which to reconstruct a backbone 20 feet long. That the
ribs are part from one side and part from another matters no more
than it did in the case of the leg bones, but the backbone presents
a more difficult problem, since the pieces are not like so many check-
ers, all made after one pattern, but each has an individuality of its
own. The total number of vertebre must be guessed at (perhaps it
would sound better to say estimated, but it really means the same),
and knowing that some sections are from the front part of the ver-
tebral column and some from the back, fill in the gaps as best we
may. The ribs offer a little aid in this task, giving certain details
of the vertebra, while those in turn tell something about the adjoin-
ing parts of the ribs. We finish our Triceratops with a tail of mod-
erate length, as indicated by the rapid taper of the few vertebra
available, and from these we gather, too, that in life the tail was
round and not flattened, and that it neither served for swimming nor

- for a balancing pole.

So much for the manner in which, piece by piece, the framework
of an animal is put together, and what the various parts may tell
of the life and habits of some creature that long ago passed out of
existence.

The basis of all reconstruction is, of course, the skeleton, and since,
as said above, we can read the past only by the aid of the present, it
is absolutely essential to have a knowledge of the anatomy of creatures
488 THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

living to-day in order to properly interpret the bones of those that
lived a million years ago; not only that, it is equally essential to
have more than a casual acquaintance with their external appearance,
for, while there is nothing in the bones to tell how an animal is or
was covered, there are certain general rules for telling what the prob-
wbilities are.

A bird, for example, would certainly be clothed in feathers, for
these are the exclusive property of birds; no other creature possesses
feathers, no bird is without them, although they may be so modified that
at first sight their identity might be called in question. Reptiles and
mammals may go quite naked or cover themselves with a defensive
armor of bony plates or horny scales, but under the blaze of the
tropical sun or in the chill waters of arctic seas birds wear feathers
and feathers only. Going a little further, we might be pretty sure
that the feathers of a waterfowl would be thick and close; those of
strictly terrestrial birds, such as the ostrich and other flightless forms,
lax and long. These as general propositions. Of course in special
cases one might easily come to grief, as in dealing with birds like
penguins, which are particularly adapted for an aquatic life and have
the feathers highly modified. These birds depend upon their fat and
not on their feathers for warmth, and these have become a sort of
cross between scales and hairs. Hair and fur belong to mammals
only, although these creatures show much variety in their outer cover-
ing. The thoroughly marine whales have discarded furs and adopted
a smooth and slippery skin,’ well adapted to movement through the
water, relying for warmth on a thick undershirt of blubber. The
earless seals, that pass much of their time on the ice, have just enough
hair to keep them from absolute contact with it, warmth again being
provided for by blubber. The fur seals, which for several months in
the year dwell largely on land, have a coat of fur and hair, although
warmth is mostly furnished, or rather kept in, by fat.

No reptile, therefore, would be covered with feathers; neither, judg-
ing from those we know to-day, would they be clad in fur or hair; but
such coverings being barred out, there remain a great variety of plates
and scales to choose from. Folds and frills, crests and dewlaps, like
beauty, are but skin deep, and, being thus superficial, ordinarily leave
no trace of their former presence, and in respect to them the recon-
structor must trust to his imagination with the law of probabilities as
a checkrein to his fancy. This law would tell us that such ornaments

1The reader is warned that this is a mere figure of speech, for, of course, the proc-
ess of adaptation to surroundings is passive, not active, although there is a most
unfortunate tendency among writers on evolution, and particularly on mimicry, to
speak of it as active. The writer believes that no animal in the first stages of
mimicry consciously mimics or endeavors to resemble another animal or any part of
its surroundings, but a habit at first accidental may in time become more or less
conscious.
THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS. 489

© 2)

must not be so placed as to be in the way, and that while there would
be a possibility—one might even say probability—of the great, short-
headed, iguana-like Dinosaurs having dewlaps, that there would be no
great likelihood of them possessing ruffs, such as that of the Austra-
lian Chlamydosaurus (mantled lizard), to flap about their ears: eyen
Stegosaurus, with his bizarre array of great plates and spines, kept
them on his back, out of the way. Such festal ornamentation would.
however, more likely be found in small, active creatures, the larger
beasts contenting themselves with plates and folds. :

Spines and plates usually leave some trace of their existence, for
they consist of a superstructure of skin or horn built on a foundation
of bone, and, while even horn decomposes too quickly to ‘‘ petrify,”
the bone will become fossilized and changed into enduring stone.
But, while this affords a pretty sure guide to the general shape of the
investing horn, it does not give all the details, and there may have
been ridges and furrows and sculpturing that we know not of.

Knowing, then, what the probabilities are, we have some guide to the
character of the covering that should be placed on an animal, and if
we may not be sure as to what should be done we may be pretty cer-
tain what should not.

For example, to depict a Dinosaur with smooth, rubbery hide, walk-
ing about on dry land, would be to violate the probabilities, for only
such exclusively aquatic creatures as the whales among mammals and
the salamanders among batrachians are clothed in smooth, shiny
skin. There might, however, be reason to suspect that a creature
largely aquatic in its habits did occasionally venture on land; as, for
instance, when vertebre that seem illy adapted for carrying the weight
of a land animal are found in company with huge limb bones and
massive feet, we may feel reasonably certain that their owner passed
at least a portion of his time on terra firma.

So much for the probabilities as to the covering of animals known to
us only by their fossil remains, but it is often possible to go beyond
this and to state certainly how they were clad; for while the chances
are small that any trace of the covering of an extinct animal, other than
bony plates, will be preserved, nature does now and then seem to have
relented, and occasionally some animal settled to rest where it was so
quickly and quietly covered with fine mud that the impression of small
scales, feathers, or even smooth skin was preserved. Curiously enough,
there seems to be no record of the imprint of hair having been found.
Then, too, it is to be remembered that while the chances were very
much against such preservation, in the thousands or millions of times
creatures died the millionth chance might come uppermost.

The imprints of ichthyosaurs have already been mentioned, and
these are probably due to the slow carbonization of animal mation:
leaving a dark silhouette of the animal printed on the smooth rock.
490 THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

lmpressions of feathers were known long before the discovery of
Archeopteryx; a few have been found in the Green River and Floris-
sant shales of Wyoming, and a Hesperonis in the collection of the State
University of Kansas shows traces of the existence of long, soft feathers
on the tibia, and very clear imprints of the scales and reticulated skin
that covered the tarsus. From the chalk of Kansas, too, came the
example of Tylosaur, showing that the back of this animal was deco-
rated with the crest shown in Mr. Knight’s restoration, one not unlike
that of the modern iguana. From the Laramie sandstone of Montana
Mr. Hatcher and Mr. Butler have obtained the impressions of por-
tions of the skin of the great Dinosaur Thespesius, which show that
the covering of this animal consisted largely, if not entirely, of small,
irregularly hexagonal horny scutes, slightly thickened in the center.
The quarries of lithographic stone at Solenhofen have yielded a few
specimens of flying reptiles—pterodactyles—which not only verify the
correctness of the inference that these creatures possessed membranous
wings like the bats, but they show the exact shape—and it was some-
times very curious—of this membrane.

And each and all of these wonderfully preserved specimens serve
both to check and guide the restorer in his task of clothing the animal
as it was in life.

And all this help is needed, for it is an easy matter to make a wide-
sweeping deduction, apparently resting on a good basis of fact, and
yet erroneous. Remains of the mammoth and woolly rhinoceros found
in Siberia and northern Europe were thought to indicate that at the
period when these animals lived the climate was mild—a very natural
inference, since the elephants and rhinoceroses we now know are all
inhabitants of tropical climes. But the discovery of more or less com-
plete specimens makes it evident that the climate was not particularly
mild; the animals were simply adapted to it. Instead of being naked,
like their modern relatives, they were dressed for the climate in a
woolly covering. We think of the tiger as prowling through the jun-
gles of India, but he ranges so far north that in some localities this
beast preys upon reindeer, which are among the most northern of large
mammals, and there the tiger is clad in fairly thick fur.

When we come to coloring a reconstructed animal we have absolutely
no guide, unless we assume that the larger a creature the more soberly
will it be colored. The great land animals of to-day, the elephant and
rhinoceros, to say nothing of the aquatic hippopotamus, are very dully
colored, and while this somber coloration is to-day a protection, ren-
dering these animals less easily seen by man than they otherwise would
be, yet at the time this color was developing man was not, nor enemies
sufficiently formidable to menace the race of elephantine creatures,
for where mere size furnishes sufficient protection one would hardly
expect to find protective coloration as well, unless indeed a creature

THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS. 49]

preyed upon others, when it might be advantageous to enable a preda-
tory animal to steal upon its prey.

Color often exists, or is supposed to, as a sexual character, to ren-
der the male of a species attractive to or readily recognizable by the
female; but in the case of large animals mere size is quite enough to
render it conspicuous, and possibly this may be one of the factors in
the dull coloration of large animals.

So while a green and yellow Triceratops would undoubtedly have
been a conspicuous feature in the Cretaceous landscape, from what we
know of existing animals it seems but to curb our fancy and, so far as
large dinosaurs are concerned, employ the colors of a Rembrandt
rather than those of a sign painter.

Aids, or at least hints, to the coloration of extinct animals are to be
found in the coloration of the young of various living species, for as
the changes undergone by the embryo are in a measure an epitome of
the changes undergone by a species during its evolution, so the brief
color phases or markings of the young are considered to represent the
ordinary coloring of distant ancestors. Young thrushes are spotted,
young ostriches and grebes are irregularly striped, young lions are
spotted, and in restoring the early horse, or Hyracothere, Professor
Osborn had the animal represented as faintly striped, for the reason
that zebras, the wild horses of to-day, are striped, and because the ass,
which is a primitive type of horse, is also striped over the shoulders,
these being hints that the earlier horse-like forms were also striped.
Applying the principles just laid down to the model and drawing of
Triceratops, it was decided to show him in a fairly thick and smooth
skin, for from what we actually know of the covering of large dino-
saurs, as shown by Thespesius, the horny scutes of which it is com-
posed are so small that they would not show at all in a small model or
picture. A few dermal plates have been found in the Triceratops beds,
but these are not definitely known to have belonged to that animal;
in fact, there is good reason to believe that they are from another
species; and so the presence of a row of horny scutes down the center
of the back was merely hinted at, while the knee and elbow were
given callosities such as might properly have belonged there. .

The sides of the neck were depicted with folds or ridges of skin
suggested by those found in the iguana, horned toad, and other lizards,
but for reasons given these were not shown as rising into long, deco-
rative points, since such would be more likely to occur In small reptiles
than in large. And because of his size and the blackish or dull green
color of large reptiles, the color of Triceratops was made a dull green-
ish gray, lightened beneath into a yellowish hue.

ms s : ¥, Ss ae e ie p hs >
1Among the pitfalls by which the path of the restorer 1s beset is the fact that the

bones of different species of animals are often found so

: ace inate 20 Thespesi 3 is oun
have belonged together, and in the present instance Thespesius 1s louns
ceratops.

associated that they seem to
d with Tri-
492 THE RESTORATION OF EXTINCT ANIMALS.

The restoration of the common or American mastodon (JJastodon
americanus), drawn by Mr. J. M. Gleeson, to accompany this article,
may be taken as another example of the methods followed in recon-
structing extinct animals.

The mastodon is an elephant, and his general appearance is indicated,
but there are certain details some of which are purely deductive and
some of which have fortunately been proved for us. The skeleton
shows that, taking the skeleton as a whole, the mastodon and African
elephant represent two extremes of elephantine structures, the latter
being the highest or longest legged, the former being for its bulk the
lowest, most massive species, known, although low is a comparative
term, for the animal attained a height of 10 feet. Yet when the skull
and teeth are considered, these two animals have decided points of
resemblance. The skull of the African elephant is flatter than that of
the Indian species; the skull of the mastodon is even more depressed,
and, as this feature would have shown plainly in life, it should be
borne in mind in making any restorations. Many mastodon tusks have
been found, and thus we know that they were slightly heavier, more
abruptly tapering than in the mammoth or Indian elephant, and that,
while there was great variety in the curve, in the typical examples
from eastern North America they described nearly a half circle. In
supplying the mastodon with a trunk it is to be borne in mind that
there is a striking difference between the trunks of the Asiatic and
African elephants, that of the former wrinkling up when bent, as
though it were equally elastic throughout, while that of the latter
bends, as it were, in sections, suggesting the joints of a telescope. As
the skull and teeth of the mastodon are simpler in structure than
those of the Indian elephant, and in these particulars more like the
corresponding parts of the African elephant, it is a fair inference that
the trunk was similar and that it also lacked the finger-like process
of the Indian species. The northern mammoth was clad in hair and
wool, and, as the mastodon ranged well to the north, it is fair to sup-
pose that the more northern individuals were more or less completely
clad in hair. And this supposition is substantiated by the discovery
noted by Titian Peale of long, coarse, wooly hair, in one of the swamps
of Ulster County, N. Y. Thus the restoration of the mastodon repre-
sents a proportionately lower, more heavily built elephant than those
now living, with recurved tusks and jointed trunk, and clad in fairly
long hair.

Finally, it may be gathered from what has been said that, while the
restoration of extinct animals is subject to some uncertainties, and
mistakes of interpretation are liable to occur, these efforts to reproduce
the living forms of past ages are not mere guesswork, but rest upon
a solid foundation of scientific facts and careful deductions.
PLATE VIII.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Lucas.

“UOSVV0|[*) OWN Of AQ UMBICT

“NOGOLSVIN 3HL

LIFE IN THE OCEAN.!
By Kari Branpvr.

On account of the favorable situation of the University of Kiel on
the seacoast, a part of the corps of instructors of the university has,
fora long time, but especially since the creation in 1870 of the Kiel
commission for the scientific study of the German seas, directed its
labors principally toward the study of the phenomena of life in the
ocean.

The field is vast; it not only brings rich harvests to zoologists, bot-
anists, and oceanographers, but also supplies valuable data to the
chemist, the physicist, the physiologist, and hygienist. Our univer-
sity, which originally had rather the character of a provincial institu-
tion of Schleswig-Holstein, has been insensibly metamorphosed into
a special German university for the study of the things of the sea,
while a part of our instructors at the same time teach in the naval
academy. This specialization has been made known abroad by the
fact that the first great German expedition for marine exploration,
called the Plankton expedition, was carried out by members of our
university. To the work of the commission for the scientific study of
the German seas is due also the particular character of the researches
carried on at Kiel during the second half of the century now closing,
that is, since biological study of the ocean has been somewhat
extended. The commission was assigned the task especially of inves-
tigating marine phenomena from the point of view of the exploitation
of their animal resources; its labors mark the first step in a course
having for its principal aim the discovery of the general laws which
govern the phenomena of marine life, and of which the knowledge is
necessary for the best success of the fisheries.

Questions of general biology have thus been brought to the front,
and methods fare been invented for penetrating the secrets of the
deep for the profit of mankind. We are still far from our goal. For
to reach it, observations, however numerous, on the behavior of the
organisms that live in the sea, or their mutual relations, and on the

1 Translated from Revue Scientifique, 4th series, tome 12, October 21, 1899.
493
494 LIFE IN THE OCEAN.

influence of external conditions, will not suffice; it is requisite besides
to extend the conquests of science to the things of the sea, and to
apply to the special beings that live therein the fundamental principles
and approved methods of animal and vegetable physiology which have
been deduced from the terrestrial world. We may sum up all these
researches as the science of the totality of exchanges of matter in the
ocean, and I will indicate here the most important of the investiga-
tions and the facts which must form the basis for the solution of the
problem. I shall dwell especially on those points which present a
general interest.

Matter in nature follows a cycle which may be briefly described as
follows: The constituents of the air, the water, and the earth are trans-
formed by vegetation into living substances; animals directly or indi-
rectly absorbed the organic substances produced by plants, and finally
animals and plants after their death are decomposed by the influence
of certain bacteria into inorganic substances which, taken up again by
plants, are transformed anew into organic matter, and so on.

It is the corpuscles of chlorophyll which enable plants in the pres-
ence of light to form organic substances from carbonic acid, water, and
certain salts. It is on the other hand from the vegetable kingdom
that all animals have to derive all the organic matter that is to form
their bodies and support their life. It follows that in any large terri-
tory the quantity of organisms is regulated by the condition that the
total mass of consuming animals has to remain inferior to the mass of
producing plants. Unless this condition is fulfilled, a part of the ani-
mals must suffer hunger or even perish. For the same reason among
terrestrial animals the mass of carnivores must be inferior to that of
the herbivores.

But the plants can not perform the important function that devolves
upon them—the formation of organic substances—unless they find the
inorganic matter which is indispensable to them, and which presents
itself under the form of combinations of at least eleven or twelve known
chemical elements. If but a single one of these nutritive substances
is wanting the plant will not grow. In case of insufficiency the plant
just manages to exist; while if there is superabundance it grows
rank. The growth of plants depends upon the quantity of nutritive
matter they get, and there is an indispensable minimum for each species.
The discovery of this fundamental law is due to Liebig, the founder
of agricultural chemistry.

Generally speaking, the production of vegetable substances depends
upon the quantity of nitrogenous inorganic compounds in the soil.
We know that manures rich in nitrogen extraordinarily augment the
vegetable production, although this can not surpass a certain maxi-
mum characteristic of each kind of plant, beyond which all increase
of nitrogenous matter acts as a poison.
LIFE IN THE OCEAN. 495

Inorganic nitrogenous compounds appear in three forms in nature—
those of ammonia, nitrates, and nitrites. Since no plant can grow
unless it finds inorganic nitrogenous compounds in its neighborhood,
and since the life of animals depends on that of plants, it follows that

all the life on the globe depends absolutely upon the existence of these
nitrogenous compounds. It is, therefore. of the first importance to
follow closely the cycle of transformations of nitrogen in nature.

We know only three sources of the three kinds of nitrogenous
compounds which interest us. In the first place, all living beings con-
tain nitrogenous substances, notably albumen, and these are in part
eliminated during life as residuary products (urine, ete.), and for the
rest are decomposed by putrefaction after death. The albuminoid sub-
stances are then transformed into ammonia, which in its turn fur-
nishes nitrites and nitrates, so that the nitrogen is brought back to a
form in which it can be used by plants in a new production of albu-
men. All the processes of putrefaction by which animal carcasses and
vegetable remains are transformed into carbonic acid, subterranean
nitrogenized waters, and other inorganic substances, are due exclu-
sively to certain definite bacteria. If these are not present or do not
meet with the conditions of life which they require, putrefaction is
adjourned and with it the utilization of the nitrogenous matter of dead
bodies by living ones.

Nor is the decomposition of albuminoids the only process caused by
bacteria; they are equally necessary for the conversion of ammonia

into nitrous acid, and ultimately into nitric acid, and for the reverse

changes. A sort of bacterium called a nitrifying bacterium, or nitro-
bacterium, existing, it would seem, all over the globe, produces the oxi-
dation necessary to transform ammonia first into nitrous and finally into
nitric acid, provided there is enough oxygen at hand. The reverse
process of reduction is due to another kind of bacterium, called a deni-
trifying bacterium, which transforms nitric acid into nitrous acid, and
this again into ammonia, and finally sets nitrogen free. The final prod-
uct of this reduction consists of free nitrogen, which, mingling with
the air, is lost from the cycle of transformation. With one excep-
tion, nitrogen can not be utilized by plants to form albumen unless it

is in a state of combination. Thus, though the greater part of the
organic nitrogen returns to living organisms, a certain portion of it is
lost by the action of the denitrifying bacteria. The quantity of living
organisms would, therefore, be gradually diminished were there no
other source of combined nitrogen to make up for the loss.

This compensation is furnished by the free nitrogen of the atmos-
phere, which, under certain conditions, can enter Into combination
and become available for plants. Combinations of this kind are
brought about in two ways—by the action of lightning, that is, of

electrical discharges, and by the symbiosis, or mutual parasitism, of
sm 1900——35

496 LIFE IN THE OCEAN.

certain plants with certain sorts of bacteria. It is leguminous plants
alone, and of leguminous plants only those upon whose nodes certain
bacteria live, that can fix the atmospheric nitrogen and use it to make |
albumen. In the absence of the specific bacteria the leguminous plants
lose this property and behave like other plants, as can be seen by
cultivating them in sterilized soil. In respect to compensation for
losses of nitrogen, the intimate union between leguminous plants and
certain bacteria is probably of far more importance than the fixation
of nitrogen by atmospheric electricity.

As far as we know, the cycle whose essential steps have just been
sketched is performed in the seaas on the land. In water, as on land,
plants alone furnish the food; but, since they can not produce organic
matter without light, they grow only in the upper strata of the ocean,
down to a depth of some hundreds of meters. The marine plants are,
moreover, equally subject to the law of the minimum. The analysis
of the medium in which they live—that is to say, of the water with
the solid and gaseous substances that it holds in solution—will permit
the formation of conclusions analogous to those that soil analysis
suggests for terrestrial plants. Moreover, as well as we can judge
from recent observations, nitrifying and denitrifying bacteria play
important parts both in fresh water and in the ocean.

The three nitrogen compounds of which we have spoken, together
with all their salts, are particularly soluble, and, consequently, rains
carry off a part of the compounds of this kind. The water thus
charged with ammonia and nitric acid flows off by the ditches and
brooks to the ponds, lakes, and water courses, and ultimately reaches
the sea. The land is, in that way, continually being robbed of a cer-
tain quantity of nitrogen compounds, to the profit of the sea. The
loss thus sustained by the soil is made up by the formation of new
quantities of nitrogen compounds, due in small part to the action of
storms, but, probably, chiefly by the intervention of bacteria living in
the nodes of leguminous plants.

One naturally expects to find in the sea an animal and vegetable life
far more intense than on land, for the reason that the sea, in the course
of time, must have been extraordinarily enriched with nitrogenous
substances. Indeed, it seems that the incessant bringing of such sub-
stances ought, after some hundred thousands or millions of years, to
have poisoned the sea and rendered life there quite impossible. Yet,
in point of fact, we neither find that life in the ocean has been cut off,
nor do we meet there any very extraordinary wealth of living organ-
isms or of nitrogen compounds. On the contrary, the few observa-
tions made enable us to declare that sea water does not contain so
much combined nitrogen as earth does. This apparent contradiction
may, in the present imperfect state of our knowledge, be supposed to
be explicable by the action of denitrifying bacteria. From this point
LIFE IN THE OCEAN. 497

of view, the differentiation of the different kinds of bacteria which take

part in the processes of putrefaction in the sea, the study of their

modes of action, conditions of existence, and propagation will be of
great interest.

Besides a general knowledge of the cycle of transformations of mat-
ter, we need the knowledge of the composition and transformation of
the plants and animals that we have to study and of the action upon
them of their environment in order to comprehend the phenomena of
nature and to solve the practical questions to waich they give rise.
It is needful, also, to at least determine the importance of the com-
monest species.

Practical agriculture has gained great benefit from investigations of
this sort and from results obtained in regard to the relations which
exist between the many factors of the question.

Advantages have also been derived from many conquests of science
for the utilization of ponds, and it may be hoped that the same prin-
ciples applied to marine matters will lead to a more complete utili-
zation of the products of the sea. The object of cultivating the soil is
to obtain with the smallest possible expense and least work the greatest
product. Efforts tend to augment the fecundity of the soil by sucha
study of the causes of that fecundity as permits the elimination of
harmful influences. In the same way we ought to endeavor to get
from the sea the greatest possible quantity of useful products. For
that purpose, the first thing to be done is to make an exact inventory of
the real product of the ocean, or only of a particular, part of the sea,
compared with what is furnished by cultivated soil. This exact knowl-
edge of the production gives the surest point of departure not only for
a rational exploitation of sea fisheries, but also for a study of the causes

of production and of the transformations of matter in the bosom of
the ocean.

_ There are exact statistics of agriculture. Thus we know that in
Germany an acre of meadow yields on the average 1.4 short tons of
hay. In order to be able to compare this crop with the product of
the same area planted with cereals, or with that of a pond of the same
size, we must know the chemical composition of the plants in ques-
i. ion, so as to be able to compare the different plants, either directly
/according to their amount of albumen, of fatty matters, ete., or indi-
rectly according to their nutritive value, determined by special experl-
'ments. To ascertain exactly the annual production of flesh per unit
‘of surface is less easy. The most satisfactory method is a Lee
of deducing it from the number of young cattle that can be raised
annually upon a suitable area. According to the data collected by
Viebahn an acre of cultivated land in Prussia yields 75 pounds of beef

498 LIFE IN THE OCEAN.

try two different ways of ascertaining the yield. We can weigh the
fish taken from a pond, and thus determine the quantity of useful flesh
produced per acre per year, or we can find the quantity of organic
matter produced in the form of plants in a given body of water ina
year. The values found for the yield in flesh and for the production
of nutritive substances must have a certain ratio which may be ascer-
tained by chemical bacteriological and physical study of the body of
water in question from the point of view of its capacity of yield. The
product of fish in flesh can be directly determined only in ponds that
can be emptied and from which all the fish they contain can be taken.
Susta gives extended instructions for doing this in his interesting work
on feeding carp. The worst ponds give nearly 11 pounds of carp per
year to the acre; but large ponds generally give three or four times as
much, while the yield of the small ones is six times as much. Village
ponds into which flows manure liquor from farms give a yield running
up to twenty times the first number.

The observations made upon the exploitation of ponds furnish some
information concerning the causes of the variations of production.
Those ponds into which flow either the water from manured land or
the drainage of villages are always better stocked and give a better
yield. The introduction of nitrogen compounds has thus here, as in
the case of the soil, the effect of augmenting the yield very remark-
ably. It has also been found that the yield can be much increased by
giving the fish food rich in nitrogen (grains of lupine, etc.). This food
is not in all cases directly assimilated. It seems, on the contrary, that
it is first taken by larvee of gnats, worms, insects, etc., which after-
wards become the prey of the fish, or else that the food, by the inter-
vention of certain bacteria undergo a decomposition having the effect
of rendering them assimilable by the plants of the pond, these plants
being then eaten by small animals which, mixed with microscopic
plants, serve in their turn as food for the carp. In any case, experi-
ence shows that the conditions of production in a small body of water
are by no means unfavorably affected by the presence of manure, but
that on the contrary they may be greatly improved in this way.

The simple and sure process of directly ascertaining the production
of fish is, of course, no longer applicable when we come to large lakes
or to the sea, because it is then no longer possible to take out all the
fish. We have, then, to fall back on the best statistics. According to
the catch of the fishermen, Hensen has estimated the annual yield of
the Bay of Hela (meaning, presumably, the Putziger Wiek, in the
Gulf of Dantzig) at 28.2 pounds per acre (31.6 kilos de poisson pour
1 hectare de surface en eau). I have calculated in another way that
in the ‘* Haff,” at Stettin (Vanse de Stettin), the catch of fish amounts
to 90 pounds per acre per year (100 kilos par hectare et par an). On
the other hand, Heincke sets down the annual value of the products
LIFE IN THE OCEAN. 499

drawn from the German Ocean as from 100,000,000 to 150,000,000
marks, and, according to British statistics, 11 pounds (5 kilos) of fish
are worth 1 mark (23. 82 cents, or 2} cents per pound). Consequently
the total catch of the German Ocean would be from 1,100,000,000 to
1,650,000,000 pounds, or from 8 to 12 pounds per acre, worth 174 to
264 cents.’

This production is very low, as compared with that of fish ponds.

In the latter the catch may give some idea of the production, but at
sea the fishermen only keep such fish as are profitable and can gener-
ally only take a part of the fish. The real production of the German
Ocean is, therefore, quite unknown. It is true that in a fish pond or
field the greater part of the parasites can be destroyed, while in the
sea we can not prevent the concurrence of creatures which, though
they are not worth catching and transporting (if they are of any value
at all), nevertheless draw their food from the general store. Still, I
think it highly improbable that the actual catch in the German Ocean
represents more than a small fraction of the real useful production.
We can only say that if the fishermen take all that could be taken the
proportionate production of the German Ocean is not a third of that
of the worst class of fish ponds. Besides, the best statistics of fish-
eries give but rough approximations, having rather a relative than an
absolute significance, so that it is quite likely that the catch is much
greater than the statistics show. In the case of the ‘* Hafen” of Stet-
tin, careful verification showed me that the actual catch was between
two and one-half and three times as great as the statistics showed. It
may be that the statistics of the German Ocean are nearer the truth,
yet it is certain that they do not include all the products of the sea.
For example, the enormous masses of seaweed that are thrown up
upon the shores by storms and are then utilized by farmers are not
taken into account.
It would be desirable that each year all the fish should be taken from
the sea that it can naturally produce, and it would be interesting to
know how much this is, in order that we may take all that can be
taken without inconvenience to future production.

Hensen has proposed to deduce the quantity of fish from the number
of eggs deposited in the spawning season. For the majority of species
of useful fish these eggs do not sink, but float, so that the motion of
the water, whether by currents or by wind, assure their being pretty
uniformly distributed. By making dippings with a fine net it is easy
to ascertain the number of eggs and larvee contained in the vertical
column of liquid of a given base, and by operating in this way over
an important body of water a great many times every day, so as to
correct contingent errors and possible variations, one we contain

1500,000,000 4 650,000,000 Ae fea par toe oud a 13 3.6 ee représentant une
valeur de 1.8 4 2.7 marks.
500 LIFE IN THE OCEAN.

succeed in gaining a tolerably exact idea of the distribution of eggs,
and consequently in acquiring practically important knowledge con-
cerning the situation and extent of the places preferred by the fish
for laying their spawn. These experiments will also furnish valuable
data in regard to the quantities of eggs laid by each kind of fish. It is
even possible to pursue quantitative experiments, showing the loss at
each period of the development of the larve. Knowing the quantity
of eggs which each species of fish can give, we can finally deduce from
the figures furnished by these soundings the quantity of fish really
existing in the waters under study at the spawning season. The com-
parison of the figure so obtained with the statistics of the fisheries will
give the ratio between the fish taken and the annual increase.

This method is the only one hitherto proposed which permits us to
get an exact idea of the situation. It has thus far only been applied
to the fisheries of the Kieler Bucht (la rade de Kiel) in the Baltic and
of the German Ocean. These applications have shown that the method
is correct in principle and reliable in its application. New observa-
tions, however, on fish eggs and their development are yet needed to
give the process an absolutely certain basis. These observations are,
moreover, indispensable in order to elucidate a number of important,
practical, and scientific questions. A quantity of isolated experiments,
hitherto of no particular consequence in default of any general prin-
ciples by which they might be interpreted, become to-day indispensable
bases of further researches.

The animals which inhabit the sea are developed in proportion to
the quantity of their food. Now, since all this food comes directly or
indirectly from plants, it follows that we can just as well estimate the
real production of animal life in the water by means of the annual
yield of vegetation as we can estimate the product of a farm by the
quantity of grass and fodder that it affords. The vegetable produce
of the sea belongs to two forms markedly distinct. On the one hand
there are the multicellular shore plants of some size, such as fucus or
wrack, sea lettuce and green seaweed generally (algues vertes), dulse
and other florid seaweed (algues rouges), and kelp (herbe marine). On
the other hand there are unicellular organisms so small that with a
very few exceptions, they are not distinguishable by the naked eye.
The large plants are all collected into a narrow band along the shore,
while the microscopic plants are not only found on the border and
at the bottom of shallow arms of the sea, but constitute an essential
part of the plankton which floats freely in the water. Ideas of the
relative importance of the two classes as food are widely divergent
owing to the insufficiency of observations hitherto made upon the sub-
ject. But if we consider the ocean as a whole, it can hardly be doubted
that the quantity and consequently the direct importance of fucoids,
florids, and alge generally is very feeble as contrasted with that of
LIFE IN THE OCEAN. 5O1

the imperceptible plants which multiply in the free water. The shore
alone is bordered by a belt, sometimes quite a meager one, of large
plants which, beyond this belt, hardly grow except in shoal water,
for the deeper we go the more scanty we find this vegetation.

Suppose the land had no vegetation beyond a similar zone alone the
coasts. Is it not evident that it could feed but a very small number of
large animals? But to render the parallel perfect it would be neces-
sary to suppose the desert surface of the continent more than twice as
large, for the ocean covers more than two-thirds of the surface of the
globe. The comparison would be rendered still more unfavorable by
the fact that at least on German coasts the living marine plants in
question are eaten only by a relatively small number of small animals.

But it is not necessary to dwell upon the matter, for it is clear that
the food of the animal world of the sea has to be assured under another
form.

The tangles and the bottom of the shallows are covered with plants
extraordinarily small, nearly comparable to the green alge which
clothe the branches of trees, or to mosses. These small plants of
rapid growth are much more quickly devoured than the great bundles
of fucus (varech) or of laminaria (herbe marine) hard as stone. To
make the parallel good it would be necessary to imagine the whole
body of the continents to be covered with a thick carpet of verdure,
for nothing like sandy deserts or mountain solitudes where but a few
animals can maintain a precarious existence are to be found in the
ocean. There is vegetation everywhere, and Schiitt has well said that
the sailor who fancies he has pure water under him really sails every-
where, even in the blue ocean, in the midst of a rich vegetation. At
the same time, this vegetation feeds such an extraordinary number of
animals that it always appears to be scanty, because the vegetable
substances newly produced are devoured as fast as they are produced.

From the point of view of food for animals there is the same differ-
ence between the two categories of marine plants as in our latitudes
there is between trees and the soft plants of the fields. Like the trees,
the fucus (varech) and the laminaria (les herbes marines) take a great
development because they are little interfered with (génés). They
strike the eyes more, but in reality it is the meadow which provides
food for the herds, meager as it looks. In respect, however, to the con-
ditions under which they are found, the fields of the ocean differ from
the fields of the land. The former grow plants of the size of the
smallest grains of dust distributed through the upper strata of the
sea, and prospering the better for being so regularly distributed. This
regularity is assured by the incessant stirring of the ocean, and if any
irregularity were to occur it would soon disappear, for if the vege-
table organisms are relatively few at any one place they will thereby
be enabled to utilize the light and the food so much the more to their
502 LIFE IN THE OCEAN.

advantage, so that their development will become more rapid; and
besides, where there are fewer vegetable organisms animals will be
less attracted, and consequently the destruction of them will be less.

Like the microscopic vegetable organisms the animalcules that live
upon them are in general regularly distributed over the face of the
waters. This is true especially in the open sea, for inshore the wind,
the currents, and the possibility of using a different food often come
in to modify the distribution of the greater animals. These modifica-
tions are still greater at the spawning season, because the fish then
collect together. At this season certain kinds of fishing may become
profitable which at other times has to be given up on account of the
dispersal of its objects.

The regularity of the distribution of the little organisms in sea
water led Hensen to the notion of applying to the determination of
the vegetable production a process analogous to that used for producing
eggs. The method of studying plankton quantitatively which Hensen
invented and perfected for the purpose mentioned is of great impor-
tance for all biological investigations on the sea. The fundamental
idea of this method is that it is proper to bring back to a single point
of view all the observations on the influence of the conditions of the
sea and on the mutual relations of marine organisms; on the transfor-
mations of matter and the chemical constitution of marine substances;
on the quality and quantity of vegetable and animal organisms living
in the water. In the first place it is necessary to collect, as far as
possible, all the plants which are found under a definite area of the
surface of the water. To do this, Hensen proposes the use of nets
with very narrow meshes, by which a vertical column can be, so to
speak, filtered, and make a statistical statement of the organisms
so lifted. Unfortunately the finest nets now obtainable allow the
passage of the microscopic vegetations which sometimes appear in
important masses in certain regions. Hence it would be necessary
to invent for those excessively minute organisms special methods of
quantitative analysis. However, Hensen has obtained interesting
results. Each drawing of the net represents the total organisms of
the plankton down to a size of at least 0.048 mm. that at a given time
and place are contained ina vertical column of known dimensions. By
reason of the regularity of distribution of the organisms the results
can, moreover, be extended to considerable areas—hundreds of square
kilometers of open ocean—ovyer which the conditions of life are uni-
form. Near the coast and within currents the conditions are different;
so that it is proper there to take samples at lesser intervals. Further-
more, in order to gain a close acquaintance with the plankton of a
body of water, it is necessary to repeat the experiments at the shortest
intervals of time possible during at least a year.

It is not enough to measure the volume of organisms collected. It is
LIFE IN THE OCEAN. 503

necessary to estimate the number of individuals of each sort. Although
this counting involves great expenditure of time, it is quite indispen-
sable to the ascertainment of the production. It is necessary, in fact,
to separate the producers from the consumers. It is proper, also, to
take into account, at least for the principal species, the rapidity of
increase, the duration of the different stages of development under
the various conditions of life, the mode of alimentation and the needs
of the principal animals. The results of the drafts taken at the begin-
ning of the year may be regarded as a principal sum of money, of which
the interest is spent in the course of the year, the capital remaining at
the end about what it was at the beginning. The comparison of the
quantities of animals of each sort and size in the successive drafts,
together with the knowledge acquired by direct observations of their
alimentary needs, enable us to infer whether the consumption is really
sufficient to absorb the annual vegetable production. This comparison
requires a very large set of drafts, because the rate of augmentation
of the different species depends upon the conditions of life, and con-
sequently varies from one season to another. Finally, the chemical
analysis of the principal plants is necessary if we wish to compare the
productivity of the sea in organic matters with that of the land.

It has been questioned whether it is possible to acquire an exact
notion of the production of a part of the sea by observations of the
plankton alone. But the objections which have been made neglect the
fact that under natural conditions a body of sea always produces as
much as possible, and that in a small body, like the Kieler Bucht, for
example, the production in the middle of the water, and even along
the coasts out of the light—a production which is the same for the
whole surface—depends essentially upon the nutritive matters that
the plants find in solution in the water. But in consequence of the
incessant stirring up and mixing of the water, there can be no sensible
difference between the nutritive matters which are presented to the
plants in the open sea and in inshore places. Consequently the atten-
tive observation of the plankton taken up, as has been said, in a par-
ticular place during a whole year, furnishes a sufficiently accurate
scale of comparison for an estimate of the capacity of production of
the whole body considered, whether the production inshore is a little
less or a little more than that of the open sea.

Thus far, the method of the quantitive examination of the plankton
has been applied to the following marine bodies:

First. In shoal water: : re

(2) During several years: The Kieler Bucht (possibly the Kieler
Hafen is meant).

(6) During all seasons of one year: .

In the Arctic zone, the Fjord of Karajak, in Greenland, in latitude
70° N., by Vanheeffen.
504 LIFE IN THE OCEAN.

In the Mediterranean, at the Straits of Messina, by Lohmann.

In the Tropics, the Roads of Ralum in New Pomerania (formerly New
Brittania), in latitude 4- S., by Dahl.

(c) During the winter months (1888-89):

In the Bay of Naples, by Schutt.

Second. On the high seas, by a series of drafts during the course
of voyages of exploration:

In the Baltic (from Memel to Gotland); in the northern part of
the German Ocean, from Skagen to the Hebrides; in a great part of
the Atlantic during the Plankton expedition (from the middle of July
to the beginning of November, 1889); in the part of the sea between
the Lofoden Islands and the north of Spitzbergen during the Prince of
Monaco expedition, in July and August, 1898.

I shall here leave out of consideration the numerous results which
these observations have furnished in zoology, zoogeography, and
oceanography, and confine myself to two points. The first is that
shallow seas are richer in plankton than deep seas are, and that among
the latter the Saragasso Sea is particularly poor (in August). The
explanation of this is to be sought in the law of the minimum. In
soundings, the influence of the soil and of the land with its contribu-
tions is more sensible, and plants find in a less mass of water a rela-
tively great quantity of inorganic substances which, in the depths of
the ocean, are more scattered and are specially deficient in the upper
layers, where alone vegetation is possible. The substances in the
unlighted depths can not be directly used by plants. On the other
hand, as the great currents of the ocean extend along the coasts they
bring to the upper layers of the high seas new food for the plants, so
that these layers may be relatively more productive than the Saragasso
Sea, whose waters are still and in the middle of which the conditions
of alimentation appear to be altogether unfavorable.

It would be important to ascertain by chemical investigations which
of the substances susceptible of feeding vegetation exists in smallest
amounts. It is probably combined nitrogen. The results mentioned
above, as furnished by fish ponds, lead toward this conclusion. In the
same line are the experiments of Apstein on the lakes of Holstein,
experiments which I have verified, showing that lakes rich in plankton
contain much nitric and nitrous acids, while lakes poor in plankton are
also poor in nitric acid, the quantity of plankton and the percentage
of nitrates being sensibly proportional.

The second point to which I wish call attention in the results of
the quantitative study of plankton—and it is the more striking of the
two—is that tropical seas and the temperate zones are relatively poor
in plankton, while the Arctic Ocean is rich. On land it is just the
reverse. Luxuriant yegetation and superabundance of animal life are
LIFE IN THE OCEAN. 5O5

characteristic of the Tropics and mightily contrast with the meager
vegetation and sparse population of the polar solitudes: and one would
expect beforehand to find the same contrast in marine life. Plants,
for example, need light to produce organic matters. Now, tropical
seas are better lighted than glacial seas. High temperatures, too, are
favorable to the development of marine organisms. F inally, the extra-
ordinary variety of forms in tropical seas seems to argue greater
wealth. Without Hensen’s methods we should not have suspected
the remarkable fact mentioned.

First of all, we must make sure that the results of the Plankton
Expedition are correct. This expedition only drew its samples during
a part of the year, so that it might be that at other seasons the rela-
tive poverty of the tropical seas would be transformed into great
wealth. In order to ascertain how much there was in this objection,
observations were made on different coasts in very different latitudes
during a whole year, while at the same time as many additional obser-
vations as possible were made in deep water. We thus find at our
disposition numerous observations made in the three oceans at my
solicitation, by the Messrs. Schott, of Hamburg; Captain Bruhn, of
Bremerhaven, and Naval Surgeons Kriimer, von Schwab, and Frey-
madl. All these observations lead to the same conclusions: The Arctic
regions are very rich in summer, while the tropical regions are poor
in plankton the whole year round. Conditions specially unfavorable
to production appear in the Mediterranean, as in the Saragossa Sea
The single comparison of the curves of volume for the four coast ghee
tions where the results have been most accurate confirms this conclu-
sion. If we take the arithmetical means of the monthly values we
find that in New Pomerania the mean volume of plankton for the year
is double that at Messina, while for the Kieler Bucht it is ten times
that at Messina.

How shall we explain this remarkable fact, this bizarre contrast
between the production of living substances on land and in the sea?
First of all, we must get it clearly in our minds that the development
of plants, and consequently their production, depends not only on the
illumination, but also and in quite as large measure on the quantities
of nutritive substances that are brought to them. If one of these
substances, say combined nitrogen, is present only in relatively small
amount, the production will suffer from this want. Penury of nitro-
gen is suggested, not only by the considerations put forth above, but
also in a striking way by the fact that, according to the drafts of
plankton, the quantity of nutritive substance in minimum ought to
depend very much upon living organisms. Even slight differences of
temperature have great importance for the quantity of plankton col-
lected, and these differences of temperature affect chiefly the vital
506 LIFE IN THE OCEAN.

activity of the organisms—for example, of the marine bacteria—
while they are nearly without effect upon the solubilities of the inor-
ganic matters which are adapted to becoming food for the vegetation.
It thus seems that the cause of the richness of cold waters and of the
poverty of warm waters should be sought in the difference of develop-
ment of the bacteria of putrefaction in the largest sense of the term,
and in the influence of these bacteria on the proportion of nitrogenous
compounds in the water.

Among these bacteria, the nitrifying bacteria exercise their function
in arable soil only at a temperature above about 5° C. (41° F.). In all
probability there are in the sea other sorts, nitrifiers and denitrifiers,
able to accommodate themselves to other temperatures. Still, in the
present state of our knowledge, we may assume that bacteria cease to
act at the freezing point, or a little below that point. But if denitri-
fying bacteria can not perform their function in cold waters, it follows,
almost necessarily, that polar seas must be richer in nutritive substances
than tropical seas. Ina large part of the polar seas the temperature
of the whole liquid mass from surface to bottom remains even in sum-
mer, near 0-. North of a line extending from eastern Greenland to
Norway, through Iceland and the Faroe Islands, the temperature at
the bottom is generally below 0° C. South of this line the tempera-
ture of the deep waters of the Atlantic is certainly not much higher,
because the cold water of the polar seas flows into the deep regions
toward the equator. But at 1,000 meters (547 fathoms) the tempera-
ture is already 4° to 5°, and for depths of less than 100 meters, as well
as along the coasts, it is notably higher, so that the bacteria here find,
precisely as in the productive layers of tropical seas throughout the
whole year, conditions favorable to their life. In the temperate zones
the destruction of nitrogenous compounds is too limited during the
winter and it is only in summer that it becomes important. Finally,
in the Mediterranean the conditions of life of bacteria are still more
favorable than in the Tropics, because a bar across the Straits of
Gibraltar prevents the cold water from entering. Hence, even at
great depths (of about 4,000 meters), there is always a temperature
of 12° to 16°, which explains the development of bacteria in the whole
liquid column observed and the consequent striking quantitative pov-
erty in plankton of the Mediterranean Sea.

If we can not dismiss absolutely the idea of a denitrification that
can not be neglected in the ocean, it appears to me highly probable,
according to the observations hitherto made, that this decomposition
of the principal vegetable nutritive substances is preferentially accom-
plished in warm regions.
NATURE PICTURES:.!
By A. Rapctyrre DuGMore.”

While book-illustrating has changed continually since printing was
first discovered, the greatest improvement has been made in pictures
of birds and animals. It is largely to the camera that we owe this
greatimprovement. The accompanying illustration of a stormy petrel
is a somewhat grotesque but yet a good example of the earlier work
of the ornithological artist. It is reproduced from The Natural
History of Birds, by Count de Buffon, printed in England in 1793.
Until quite recently only drawings were used for illustrations, and
with subjects such as birds ‘‘the personal equation” played so promi-
nent a part that one felt a certain sense of doubt as to the accuracy
even of fairly good drawings.

For my own part I had never been satisfied with drawings of birds;
and therefore, giving up the pencil, I followed in the footsteps of
those who were experimenting with bird photography. All my earlier
attempts were with mounted specimens, at first without any accesso-
ries. But the photographs seemed hard and unlitelike. Then I tried
placing the mounted bird in natural surroundings, either out of doors
or beneath a skylight. The pictures were fairly satisfactory, but still
there was no disguising the fact that the bird was mounted. The
eyes, and usually the legs, told the story. The pictures were unsym-
pathetic; it was as though one had photographed the wax model of a
friend. The likeness was there, but the life was lacking. And there
was another objection; although to the casual observer the specimen
may appear well mounted, how rarely is shown the characteristic pose
so subtle and delicate in its infinite variety. But few taxidermists are
naturalists, and without endless study of living birds how can anyone
expect to know the attitudes assumed by the different species’ The

1Copyright, 1900, by Doubleday, Page & Co. Reprinted, by permission, from The
Worlds Work, November, 1900.

?It is hardly necessary to tell anyone who looks at Mr. Dugmore’s pictures repro-
duced here that they are all photographed from live birds. Many are wild birds
taken in the woods with ‘“‘snap shots,’’ by hard work and good luck, as explained by

the author. aoe
oui
508 NATURE PICTURES.

human eye itself is scarcely quick enough to take note of these things,
and it is to the camera that we must turn, and use it as eye, notebook,
and pencil. It was the realization of this fact that led me finally to try
the fascinating but difficult task of photographing the living bird.

To begin with, only nestlings were my models, and I was delighted
with the results—no glass eyes nor dried-up legs to mar the picture,
but expressions as varied as they were beautiful, and positions entirely
different from those seen in mounted specimens. These successes led
me, of course, to attempt photographing the adult bird, and I made
many experiments with tame birds. It was necessary to have a place
arranged so that there might be abundant light; and to avoid same-
ness in the arrangement of the lighting, the contrivance must be
movable. I made a wooden plate form (supported on two light
wooden horses) about 6 feet long, and covered it with mosquito netting
stretched on a light framework. The background was of wood,
to which could be attached paper or cloth of any desired shade.
The camera could be moved backward or forward and secured with a
tripod screw. Into this portable cage the bird was to be put, and as
there was only one perch—usually a stick or small branch of conven-
ient shape and size—I fondly imagined that the bird would sit pretty
nearly where I wished. But I was doomed to disappointment. When
I put the bird in, any place and every place suited him better than the
perch so carefully arranged for his special comfort. When a bird, no
matter how tame he may be, is placed amid new and unusual surround-
ings, he is at first greatly frightened, and therefore quite unmanage-
able. It usually requires some time to prove to him that the new cage
will not harm him. So I found my cage not altogether a success, but
by patience I managed to obtain some very satisfactory photographs.

THE SPORT OF PHOTOGRAPHING WILD BIRDS.

It was not long before I was led to attempt the task of photographing
the adult bird in its wild state and in its natural surroundings. It was
then I began to appreciate the fascination of the work. Looked at
from any one of several standpoints, the photographing of wild birds
will be found equally satisfactory. As a sport it should take a high
place, for undoubtedly the skill as well as the perseverance and the
instinct of the hunter is a necessary requirement, and a successful shot
with the camera is far more difficult to obtain than a correspondingly
fortunate (on one side only) shot from a gun. Then, too, the accom-
lishment of one’s desire leaves behind it no disagreeable taste to mar
one’s pleasure. What true sportsman is there (and I speak neither of
pot hunters nor ‘‘ game hogs”) who, hearing the death bleat of a deer,
does not at heart wish his shot had miscarried? Then, as a means of
really becoming acquainted with birds, the camera is without an equal,
for to be even a moderately successful bird photographer, one must
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dugmore

READY FOR LUNCH.

Copyright , 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.

EXPECTATION.

THE OLD METHOD OF BIRD ILLUSTRATION.

From a standard work of natural history.
OUS
tUUS.

BECOMES ANXIO\
: :

NUMBER THREE

Dugmore.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

ILOULD TT

cok

lig ‘O06L “}YOLdhidog

(SS1IOINO AYOWILIVG DONNOA) O1YL Ad3a3a1S VW

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dugmore PLATE IV.

vpyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmor
amusingly indicated by

The mother bird has brought them a huge

a few hours

nest only
» hungry youngster tries to keep his balance

‘om the

ANXIOUS FOR HIS TURN.

t
2h
=
Z
Si om
on =
SN
L

-

Vi

the

a a OG,
7)

= OS
>

a he

NATURE PICTURES. 509

have an intimate knowledge of the subject; and the camera, in teac ‘hing
us to know the birds, must of necessity stimulate our affection for these
useful and defenseless creatures. As a recorder of facts it is of great
scientific value, for it can not lie, and it records in an unmistakable
form every detail presented, whether it be the daily growth of a nest-
ling or the exquisite detail of the bird’s nest.

It is, however, to the keen pleasure that may be derived from this
new sport that I would particularly call attention. Not only is there
the delight in overcoming difficulties (and they will be found both
numerous and varied), but there is the pleasure of being placed among
surroundings that are inseparable from this pursuit. A rich harvest
of interesting facts relating to the birds’ home life may be gathered by
any observing person who “ete much time along the hedge rows or
in the woods.

He who would hunt birds with the camera will find that without
doubt the breeding season is the time best suited to his purpose, for
then the feathered housekeepers are restricted in their individual range
to a comparatively limited area. Having learned the situation of their
house, he may find them at home w hen he calls engaged in attending
to their various domestic duties. The first thing to do after the intro-
duction, i. e., learning their name, is to obtain their confidence, and,
with birds as with people, there must be confidence if we wish friend-
ship. How easily one may gain this confidence depends quite as much
upon the individuality of the bird as upon the species. The fear of
man is inherent in all birds, but by judicious management this fear can
to some extent be allayed. :

WINNING THE CONFIDENCE OF WILD BIRDS.

A great many instances have come before my notice of the change
in a bird’s behavior from extreme fear and distrust to a degree of con-
fidence which, to the inexperienced, seems almost inconceivable. The
power to tame birds or animals is thought to belong peculiarly to cer-
tain persons. This may or may not be true, but from my own obser-
vations I am inclined to believe that tameness is a quality rather of the
natural disposition of the individual, bird, or animal.

With some birds I have spent days in trying to convince them that
I intended no harm, yet they placed not the slightest confidence in me,
and would not even feed their young if I were in sight. Others of
the same species became accustomed to my presence after less than an
hour, showing their confidence by coming to their young while I stood
in plain sight, within a few feet of the nest. It is in the difficulty of
familiarizing the bird with ourselves and the camera that we exper i-
ence the greatest obstacle to photographing them.

Of ne. many delightful birds I have had the good fortune to know,
the worm-eating warbler family, whose portraits are shown in the
510 NATURE PICTURES.

accompanying pictures, have afforded me the greatest pleasure, for
they become absolutely fearless of the camera, and they place a degree
of trust in one that was as unusual as it was delightful. Being anxious
to secure photographs of the young, I paid frequent visits to the nest,
and what a wonderfully concealed nest it was, tucked away in a small
depression and hidden by the roots of an oak sapling. It would for-
ever have remained undiscovered by me had I not by lucky chance
observed one of the parent birds visiting it.

Only at first did the owners object to my intruding, and by various
methods did they try to coax me away from their home. First one
and then the other would feign broken wings, and, half rolling, half
scrambling, they would make their way down the steep hillside in the
hope of luring me away. ‘Then, finding that I was not to be taken in
even by such an artful device, they endeavored to accomplish their
object by scolding at me. In less than two hours they quieted down
and simply looked on in silence. The next time I visited the nest they
made no objection, and I imagined they recognized me and realized
that I meant no harm either to themselves or to their young, for these
had hatched since my last visit. Day by day I came to watch the little
fellows, and they grew rapidly, as all young birds do. Finally they
were ready to make their first venture into the great world that, should
no accident befall them, was to be their feeding ground for many years
to come.

SOME EXCITING EXPERIENCES.

As I looked into the nest the family of fledglings scrambled out as
though they had been scattered by some invisible hand, so nearly
simultaneous was their action, and in less time than it takes to tell it
each little mite of down and rust-colored feathers was hidden among
the dead, crackling leaves with which the ground was strewn. Though
I had tried my best to watch where each bird concealed itself, it was
some time before I collected them all preparatory to photographing
them. Of course the parents were greatly excited—birds always are
when their young first leave the nest—and when they saw the entire
brood captured by one whom they had considered a friend, they seemed
to regret having placed so much confidence in me. But only for a
very short time did their doubts continue. As soon as I placed the
youngsters on a suitable perch they both ceased to utter that lisping
note of anxious protestation, and to show that they no longer feared
me they hopped about on the camera while I was arranging it.

When young birds (before they can fly) are placed on a perch they
invariably fall off almost as fast as they are put on, and there is usually
a bad one in the lot who positively refuses to sit anywhere he may be
placed. Not only does he fall off, but if possible he grabs one or two
of his small companions, and down they go together. These young
warblers were no exception, and off they went, one after another.
NATURE PICTURES. ay a

The bad one proved to be very bad indeed, and he is shown in only
two of the many photographs I made of the family. ,

While these pictures were being taken, one of the parent. birds
stayed near by to watch over her youngsters, while the other went off
in search of food, for which they called continually, and though I was
not more than 3 or 4 feet distant, she fed them without troubling her-
self at all about my presence. Once she even perched on my hat and
used the camera as a half-way house, resting on it each time she went
back and forth to supply the fledglings with food. Unfortunately the
light was not very good for instantaneous photography, but such an
opportunity for securing pictures of this comparatively rare bird was
not to be missed, so I made many exposures on her and her young,
with fair results.

From a photographic stand point they are, of course, faulty, but the
subject is sufficiently interesting to warrant one’s overlooking these
shortcomings. The light had grown so weak by the time I had made
about fifteen exposures that I was forced to abandon any further
attempts with the camera for thatday. Sitting down on the ground,
I placed the young warblers on my lap to examine them carefully.
Imagine my surprise when both the parent birds came on my knee,
first without and then with food for the youngsters. It was quite a
novel sensation, and one that was more than enjoyable. It was posi-
tively thrilling. .

Knowing from past experience how skeptical people are when told
of anything that they themselves have not seen, I made up my mind
then and there to pay my warbler friends another visit early the fol-
lowing day, and photograph the old one on my hand. The day was
fine, and I was fortunate enough to find one of the young ones, who
could now fly a little, perched on the low branch of a small bush. One
of the old birds was hunting busily for insects. Seeing me pick up her
baby, she flew toward me, but did not object in the least to my taking
temporary possession of it. So I felt sure that she recognized her
friend of the previous day. A few moments sufficed to arrange the
camera in a place where the light was bright, and when all was ready
to my satisfaction, I took the little fellow, who had been quietly sleep-
ing in the warm sunlight, and set him on my finger.

Soon he called lustily for food, and it was strange to see how quickly
his parent heard and understood. In a minute or two she came hur-
rying along, carrying in her beak a daddy-long-legs, and, after paus-
ing on the camera to see that all was right, she flew on my hand, and
calmly fed her hungry little one. With my disengaged hand I
pressed the bulb, and a picture was secured. age

The daddy-long-legs served only to whet the appetite of my small
friend, who cried out eagerly for more. Again the industrious pro-
vider went off in search of other and larger insects. She was away

sm 1900——36
Die NATURE PICTURES.

for some time but what she brought back fully compensated for the
long wait—of perhaps four minutes. It was nothing more nor less
than a huge brown grasshopper, nearly as long as the small bird him-
self. Again was the camera used as a halting place and again did she
fly on my hand. Hungry though the little fellow may have been, he
was unable to swallow so large a mouthful, and he dropped the grass-
hopper into my partly closed hand. Unfortunately I had just pressed
the bulb and was therefore unable to take a photograph of the inter-
esting proceeding that followed.

Quite naturally the mother bird was anxious that so bountiful a sup-
ply of food should not be wasted, and she stood on my thumb and,
bending down, so that her head was inside my hand, extricated the
prize. Then she proceeded to break it into pieces of suitable size, and
with these she fed her quivering and impatient little offspring. Dur-
ing the morning I secured a few more photographs of these interesting
birds, and then returning the youngster to the bush whence I had
taken him, I left the pair in possession of their hillside estate.

SOME INTERESTING DISAPPOINTMENTS.

I then went to pay a visit to an ovenbird whose beautiful dome-
shaped nest was hidden among the dead leaves in the woods near by.
She was at home when I called, so I decided to photograph her. Unfor-
tunately the roof of the arched nest cut off the light so that under
existing circumstances « good picture could scarcely be hoped for. A
small looking-glass, however, served to alter things, by throwing the
sunlight into the nest, so that only a very short exposure was necessary.

My mind was fully made up to make the further acquaintance of
this little thrush-like warbler after the arrival of her brood, for it is
then that one can really know a bird. The day arrived, and the four
little trembling pink bodies had taken the place of the speckled eggs.
They were too small to photograph then, so I left them for two days
and then made one photograph, thinking that later on, as they grew
stronger, I should be able to photograph them at different stages of
their growth. But this was not to be. As I approached the domed
nursery I was greeted by the pitiful complaining note of the pair of
ovenbirds. That was not the way in which they usually greeted me.
I feared the worst, and my fears were realized. In place of the nest
there was only a tangled and shattered heap of weed stems and dry
leaves—the materials that but afew hours before had constituted a
beautiful example of bird architecture. In the soft earth, within 30
inches of the ruins, was the print of a cat’s foot. Sick at heart, I left
the scene of misery and desolation, vowing an awful vengeance against
cats in general.
oO

Dugmore

Smithsonian Report, 1990

wdopun y

S

rasoming “ax -¥ fig *

NAD SE [[IG oy} UDA

‘O06T ‘2ubiAdog

3

IAIO—UMOUS ATG

‘ISSN YSH NO XOOOGOOM VY

Cag,

Smithsonian Report, 19C0.—Dusmore

Copyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.
A DISREPUTABLE PAir.

Sereech owls, photographed from life.

Copyright, 1900, by A. &. D

SCREECH OWLS.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dugmore. PLATE VII.

§

S ~
> ‘=
2 =
s FS
> of
S =
= S
= a
> Ss
Fs

>

ey

a)

S

L

e mother

‘h
e, his tail being shown at the top of the cufl

tube,

was 1

air b

a

\D OF WILD CHIPPING SPARROWS.

A BRoo
himself, using

author's hand by
other parent flew just as the exposure

don the

nape

Smithsonian Report, 1900 —Dugmore
PLATE VIII.

BRINGING HOME PROVISIONS.

Female Indigo bird, on stalk of Queen’s lace
Smithsonian Report, 1900 —Dugmore.

THE SAME INDIGO BIRD (SEE PLATE VIII) AND ONE OF
HER CHILDREN, ON STALK OF BLACK COHOSH
ae

1
~ =i
$8, “Ae
‘<< *
: ad
5
s A
Te
= oi
7 : a - «
res Oe
ey ms
pe
oe See
yy wot

-
a
4
a
aM,

'
’
ean Pa
see
® vs
. iM

4
pra s

cd
es
7 ; . :
:
-
—_
a 7
ies - 2
=.
be P ut
we
=— ew p
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dugmore,
= PLATE X,

ee |
ea

Copyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.

4 SCOLDING THE INTRUDER.

A wild, worm-eating warbler, taken as she protests against the author’s proximity to her young.
ie

NATURE PICTURES. 513
PHOTOGRAPHING NESTS AND NESTLINGS.

To photograph the nest containing eges is usually a comparatively
easy matter, as a long exposure may be given. The best results are
obtained when a gray day is chosen, as the light is softer and more
diffused, so that all the details, both of nestand eves, are clearly shown.
A very different task is the photographing of the young in the nest.
and the resulting pictures are seldom what one hopes for. The rea-
sons for this are obvious. The young are never quiet even when
asleep, owing to their rapid respiration. This precludes a time expo-
sure, and this in turn prevents the use of anything but a large dia-
phragm; therefore, as the distance from the near edge of the nest to
the bird farthest away is several inches, only a small part can be in
focus, while the rest is a blurred mass. If the light is sufficiently
bright, the best results may be obtained when the nestlings raise their
heads for food, as each bird is then more clearly defined, instead of
being part of a shapeless, heaving mass. This applies more particu-
larly to the photographing of small birds, as the camera, with a lens
of ordinary focal length, has to be placed very near the nest, with the
consequent lack of depth of focus that is unfortunately inseparable
from such conditions.

To photograph the parent bird sitting is difficult or easy, according
to the disposition of the bird, which varies not only with the different
species, but with individuals of the same species. Usually the brown
thrasher, the wood thrush, or the catbird, will sit close, and allow the
camera to be placed within a few feet of them while they are on the
nest; but I have seen exceptions, which go to prove that success
depends largely upon the peculiar disposition of the bird itself. Peo-
ple think as a rule that, because a bird builds its nest in the immediate
vicinity of a house, it is necessarily tamer than one that chooses the
quiet seclusion of the woods. This has not been my experience, for
the tamest birds I have ever known were those that nested in places
comparatively remote from human habitation.

When the fledglings leave their nest, the bird photographer should
be on hand, for then it is that he can obtain the best pictures, as the
youngsters may be put on any perch that best suits his fancy, and a
place where there is sufficient light may be chosen. For the benefit
of those who might wish to try their hand at this fascinating branch of
photography I give the following suggestions:

SPECIFIC DIRECTIONS.

Select a branch or briar of suitable shape and size—and young birds
prefer a fairly thick perch. This should be arranged so that it will
not be swayed by the wind, lest the branch move and the birds be out
514 NATURE PICTURES.

of focus. Bright sunlight is necessary, as the exposure must not
exceed one-fiftieth of a second. With such a short exposure the shad-
ows are likely to be lacking in detail, so it isadvisable to place beneath
the birds a white cloth, and this should be tilted to such an angle that
the reflected light shall strike those parts of the birds that are in
shadow. Ifthe natural background is not strongly sunlit, it will be
an advantage to use a white or light-gray cloth as an artificial back-
ground, but it should be placed at a reasonable distance from the birds;
from + to 8 feet will answer. Now place the little fellows on the perch
and arrange the camera, remembering—if you wish to photograph the
parent bird with her young—to leave sufficient space between the
young birds and the edge of the plate, so that no matter on which side
the old one comes to feed them the camera will be in readiness. All
that remains to be done is to attach a long rubber tube to the shutter.
Then sit down in an inconspicuous place and wait patiently until the
old birds have fully convinced themselves that no harm is intended.
Then they will venture near the camera and feed their hungry ycung.

Any one who uses the camera as a means of studying bird life will
undoubtedly be surprised to find how marked is the individuality of
birds. Not by casual observation does one discover this, but in the
intimacy with the birds that one acquires when one watches for hours
at a time the bird upon whose nest or young one may happen to have
the instrument focused. |

A camera, to be rigid and sufficiently durable to stand several sea-
sons of field work, must be fairly heavy, though not of necessity
large. A sufficient size for most work is 5 by 7 inches, while some
even prefer one as small as 4 by 5. This latter is correct in size and
proportion for those who wish to have lantern slides made from their
negatives, and is certainly far better adapted to all whose enthusiasm
is limited, and who do not wish to overburden themselves.

For my own part I use the5 by 7 almost exclusively, and frequently
I wish it were larger, particularly when the subject to be photographed
is the parent bird feeding her young after they have left the nest.
Place four or five fiedglings on a branch, leaving sufficient space on
either side to allow the old bird to stand, and reduce all this interest-
ing material down to a 5-inch space, and you willrealize the advantage
of even the extra 2 inches allowed by the 5 by 7. How many times
has it happened to me to have the father or mother bird perch just out-
side the limits of my 5 by 7 plate, and assume some attitude that I was
most anxious to catch; and again how often has the plate through its
limited size cut off part of the adult bird. In such cases I long formy
larger camera which, on account of its weight, has been left behind.
a

NATURE PICTURES. Pyles
PHOTOGRAPHING WILD ANIMALS.

Turning now from pictures of birds to pictures of animals, we find
that, owing to the difficulty of obtaining good photographs, drawings
are still used almost exclusively. The field for camera work here =
enormous, but unfortunately the difficulties are so numerous and over-
whelming that good results are obtainable only after almost endless
labor, and but few can give the necessary time. Of course this refers
to animals in their wild state, but there is another field that has been
as yet only lightly touched, and that is photographing animals that are
in captivity. This is a task that is comparatively easy; but if really
good pictures are desired, it will not be found quite as simple as one
might believe.

The three essential things to be considered are: First, the pose of the
animal. This is extremely important, as a position should be chosen
that is characteristic of the species. Secondly, the arrangement of the
surroundings. A bad foreground will surely ruin a picture; so, also,
will the introduction of a fence or any similar object in the back-
ground, and the greatest attention should be given to the composition
asa whole. Thirdly, the light. This is important, for it will make or
mar the picture. When a very short exposure is given, the fewer
shadows there are the better will be the result; but in cases where an
ample exposure is possible, the light may be arranged entirely with
regard to the pictorial effect. It will be readily seen that the mere
snapshot has no more place here than it has in live-bird photography.
A good picture, whether made with a camera or the pencil, is the result
of study and careful arrangement, and only in very rare cases Is it the
result of chance. The several photographs of prairie dogs here shown
were made in the National Zoological Park (Washington), but, so far
as the backgrounds and surroundings are concerned, they might well
have been taken on the great prairies of the West.

Up to the present time my experience in photographing wild animals
in their native haunts has been very limited. The animal to which I
have devoted the greatest time is the Canadian porcupine. For nearly
two weeks I stayed in the Adirondacks where they are abundant, and
during that time I made photographs of these prickly fellows in nearly
every possible position—on the ground, in trees, and in the water.

The accompanying photograph of the woodchucks is a fairly lucky
shot. Unfortunately the animals’ feet are nearly hidden by the light
white sand excavated from the burrows; but one must overlook such
small defects in pictures that are so difficult to obtain. This photo-
graph was taken while I was looking for poreupines in the Adiron-
dacks. a

The picture of Mrs. Mouse (white footed) and her family is another
of the lucky shots, so few and far between.
“ad

ag!
.

On.

Smithsonian Report, 1 900.—Dugmore

Copyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.

CEDAR BIRD EATING WILD CHERRIES.

This gourmand, of course a wild bird, was caught just as he had picked a

luscious cherry, and was about to toss it in the air preparatory)
swallowing it.
PLATE XII.

Smithsonian Report. 1900.—Dugmore.

Ap

JO Ost

29 p abv

StU

WLOX

‘Kopaiqnod fq ‘gt

few

oo) pur s

WOUL
1] po

wlrahdop

I

od

ou) 7
Od LOU

Supiwoddrsrp JO AVM BOAR Ac

a

1OVFULL

M

‘Yale [BOLAO[OOZ

*s90q JIYIVYd

UT

x

=e

- ih
7 Css
OL

, nee Goa RSE Soames
Spa nia tae ind tia

Smithsonian Report, 1 900.—Dugmore,

PLATE XIII.

HESITATION. READY TO DISAPPEAR.

Photographed at the National Zoological Park, Washington.

ao

Copyright , 1900, by Doubleday, Page & Co.

A WILD PORCUPINE.

Photographed in the Adirondacks.
PLATE XIV.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dugmore,

RY] 1B UdAD Youy JO [Re

. Wen
etn Ad

[PUL STRULTUR Oty
U1 [|B a8 sBe

ydeasoyoud sia,
PATE XV

Dugmore

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

Sty Ul ASNOUL Plo vy YIM so « t ¥ 14 ad Si Ut Odt
1ood oY} puy uoTUR

‘porvoddestp A[JURISUL Joy Jour pouojysiy ou “dnoas Sunsod0} Ul STW] SSO10R OURO LOUINB OY *puodldy B qua YLBM B LOY INO OTL M

‘(3ZIS 34I7 LNOGV) DNNOA GNV ASNOW GALOOS-SLIHM V

gq ‘hopayqnog fq *

»
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Dugrore

PLATE XVI.

Copyright, 1990, by A. R. Dugmore.

THE AUTHOR PHOTOGRAPHING A WILD BIRD ON HIS HAND.

This worm-eating warbler was a wild bird which Mr. Dugmore in a few days got so
used to his presence that she would bring her young for 1d while on his hand. At
the proper moment the bulb of the rubber tube running to the camera was pressed
with the left hand.
PLATE XVII.

Dugmore

1900

Smithsonian Report

0) Pp ab

D,

C

Pac

‘S]U

JULIO

{xo JO a

UINU Boye ‘WON

oud Aq

OpRBul OAT RSOU [UISSA00NS ISI

‘ssvq MOOY

oyj—19}R

M (snoi1y) poydrssojoyd

THE OUTLAW; A CHARACTER STUDY OF A BEAVER
WHO WAS CAST OUT BY HIS COMPANIONS.

By A. RapciyFrr DueMore.

[Mr. Dugmore’s extraordinary photographs of wild birds and animals in their
daily occupations have already attracted much attention. He seems to have a
peculiar faculty, like Thoreau, of making friends of all sorts of wild creatures; in
two days in the woods, for instance, he will get such a wild bird as a worm-eating
warbler so accustomed to him that she will feed her young on his hand, having her
picture taken at the same moment! This story is the first of a series which will give
‘character studies’’ of different animals with whom he has become acquainted,
along with reproductions of the author’s surprisingly lifelike and interesting photo-
graphs. It is the most intimate and illuminating sort of natural history. The pic-
tures reproduced herewith are particularly notable, as they are perhaps the first good
photographs of beaver ever secured, the nocturnal habits and shyness of these ani-
mals making them peculiarly difficult subjects for the animal photographer.—Eyery-
body’s Magazine. ]

It would be difficult to imagine a more pathetic sight than that of
this poor old beaver, living in a land of many animals and yet so
entirely alone; within sight of his comrades, yet not among them;
unable to join in their games and their work, living his lonely life
like a prisoner, within sight and sound of his fellow-beings, but sepa-
rated by a barrier as strange as it was secure. This was the animal
that appeared after I had been watching for an hour or two in the
beaver inclosure at the Washington National Zoo. There was a
movement in front of the large burrow opening on the water, anda
head peeped cautiously out, to see that all was safe for the owner’s
regular evening exercise. The sun had long since disappeared behind
the hill, and everything had the quiet hush of evening. The deep
roaring of the lions and tigers, and the more distant barking of the
seals, alone disturbed the silence, when the beaver believing himself
to be alone, plunged noiselessly into the water, dived beneath the log
that lay partly submerged but a few feet from the entrance of the
burrow, and reappeared in the middle of the small pond.

Almost like a short piece of driftwood he lay, his dark, bead-like
eyes gazing intently at me, where I stood in the shadow of a small

1Copyright, 1900, by Doubleday, Page & Co. Reprinted, by permission, from

Everybody’s Magazine, March, 1901. ee
oOLd
518 CHARACTER STUDY OF A BEAVER.

tree. Observing no movement, and not being of a suspicious nature,
he soon swam ashore, and immediately walked, moving for all the
world like a large, smoothly coated Canadian porcupine, straight to
the corner of the fence that separated him from his relatives. Once
there, he stood on his hind legs and tail, and with front feet resting on
the horizontal bar, he gazed with a longing, wistful expression at the
lodge in which the other beavers lived. Never surely was loneliness
shown more eloquently than by this animal as he stood there, the very
picture of solitude. For ten minutes he remained thus, motionless
except when, as though no longer able to endure his misery, he would
bite the hard, cold bars of iron, as he had bitten them every evening
during three long weary months. Did he imagine that, perhaps, some
day he would find the bars had softened and would yield to his chisel-
edged teeth—teeth that, were he in his native wilds, would work
their way through anything save the stones or the cruel metal of the
steel trap 4

Wishing to examine more closely this interesting animal, I
approached quietly, hoping not to disturb him; but he felt uncer-
tain of my intentions, and before I had lessened the distance between
us by more than a few steps, he dropped on all fours, and after
regarding me curiously for a minute or two, turned and made for the
water. Once there he felt more secure. Usually at the least sign of
danger he would slap the water loudly with his large, flat tail as a
warning to his friends, and then instantly disappear from view and
retreat to the privacy of his gloomy burrow. This time, as the dan-
ger did not appear to be imminent, he contented himself with diving
silently, coming to the surface at the farther side of the pond, from
which place he watched me.

Soon, however, his curiosity got the better of his natural timidity,
and he swam back toward his regular landing place, which was as
clearly defined as an otter’s slide. He swam slowly, stopping
repeatedly as though in doubt of his visitor’s intentions. Suddenly,
and with no apparent reason, he concluded there was no cause for fear,
and immediately came forward, landing within 2 feet of where I stood.
Once on shore, he again doubted the wisdom of his course and hesi-
tated, not quite liking to pass so near a human being. Sitting half
erect on his hind legs, with his small forepaws held close beneath his
chin, he carefully watched me, while his nose moved slowly, as though
he were trying to scent an enemy.

A few minutes sufficed for this examination, by which we estab-
lished a certain degree of mutual confidence at once pleasing and use-
ful, for I hoped on the following day to take a few photographs of
this newly acquired friend, and of course it is highly desirable that
one should be on a footing of trust with one’s model, especially when
the latter has the retiring disposition of the beaver. It was rapidly
PLATE I.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.,—Outlaw Beaver.

Copyright, 1900, by Doubleday, Page & Co.

THE OUTLAW.
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Outlaw Beaver.
PLATE II.

Copyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.

THE BEAVER’S LODGE.

Copyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.

“ THE LODGE IS OUTWARDLY A MASS OF LOOSE STICKS.”
Smithson an Re port

1900

Outlaw Beaver.

Diuaqmore

A. R.

by

ght, 1900,

Copy

THE BEAVER INCLOSURE AT THE WASHINGTON NATIONAL Zoo.
‘

Line eitice eels

*
5

7 he
te (< a. Once =!
~ ae Ay, ‘ - a *,
R oe oe"

7% us, us ag ert

y pen ke

bay ae ¥
re Wis a WIS sy
he, - a

ara

v4
Ps

cad =
an ate
ae at
3 F%
ah ae 7
ij

ia ela ns

CHARACTER STUDY OF A BEAVER. 519

becoming dark—too dark, indeed, for me to distinguish much more
than the general form of the animal; so I left him to his thoughts,
intending to visit him again before the next setting of the sun.
When the beavers were brought to the Zoo, they were given for
their new home an inclosure of perhaps 2 acres. This was part of a
very small but well-wooded valley, through which ran a stream of
insignificant size. It was so small that the beavers were unable to
swim in it, so they immediately commenced building a dam. To do
this, the trees, which up to this time were unprotected, were felled by
these industrious little woodcutters and engineers and the branches cut
into convenient lengths so that they could be pushed or carried to the
scene of their operations. These branches formed the main part of
the dam, while mud and roots dredged from the bottom of the stream
were used to fill in the holes, and render the entire structure water-
tight. The upper part was carefully covered with mud which was
carried there in the animals’ hands. To realize fully how much work
this required one must see for himself this dam, which contains prob-
ably more than 30 tons of material.’ It was soon found necessary to
protect the trees still remaining uncut (no tree of ordinary size is safe
from the beaver’s teeth, stumps of trees 2 feet in diameter being fre-
quently found cut down by them), and these were covered near their
bases with heavy wire netting. But the beavers, nothing daunted, sue-
ceeded in cutting into the wood in spite of this precaution; so the net-
ting, supported by iron rods, was finally placed at a distance of several
inches from the tree trunk. In this way the trees were saved, but the
beavers still needed building material, as the dam was not yet large
enough to make their pond as they wished it. More branches were
therefore supplied, and cartful after cartful was used up before the
main dam and the three auxiliary dams were completed. It was late
summer by this time, and there was still a house to be built, and that,
too, with as little delay as possible. With the arrival of cold weather
all building operations must cease, as the mud becomes frozen and too
hard to work. The house, or lodge, as it is more properly named, is
outwardly a great mass of loose sticks, some of which from their size
might be called logs, filled in with earth and roots and plastered over
with mud. In the center there is less mud, the sticks and twigs form-
ing a partly closed flue, which serves asa ventilator. Inside the house
all is darkness: the walls are rough, but the floor, which is raised a
few inches above the level of the water, is firm and smooth, of fine
twigs beaten into the earth. The entrances—for there are usually two
or more—are several feet beneath the surface of the water. What
impresses one on seeing the lodge and dams built by the beavers in
the Zoo is the fact that in no way do they differ from those found in the
most remote parts of Canada.

‘This is but a rough guess, and is probably far short of the actual amount.
520 CHARACTER STUDY OF A BEAVER.

With the arrival of spring it was found that the beavers had increased
in numbers, very much to the delight of all concerned; but the follow-
ing year, when they were all full-grown, the rules and regulations of
beaverdom were put in force. It was decided that there was one
beaver too many, and according to their laws he must either betake
himself to some other locality or submit to an untimely death. Now,
the victim chosen—whether by ballot or by what other means, who
shall say /—was our old friend, and as it was impossible for him to
leave the colony of his own accord, death would have been his lot had
he not been saved by the keeper. For a short time he was kept in a
‘age, until a suitable place could be made ready, and the place selected
was the inclosure in which I found him leading his lonely life.

Being a solitary bachelor, he had not as yet gone in for regular house-
keeping. Perhaps he thinks it scarcely worth while building a house
until he has a mate. As it is, he has made a burrow in the bank with
the entrance at the level of the water. In this he spends his days, sel-
dom coming out at all before sunset, and frequently much later. On
leaving his underground house he invariably goes directly to the fence
corner, where he stands watching his former companions for as much
as half an hour at atime. They, on the contrary, seldom pay the least
attention to him.

On the occasion of my second visit I brought my camera, though I
was told how little chance there was of being able to secure photo-
graphs of him, and certainly the conditions were far from being
favorable. It was nearly 5 o’clock (November 1) before he made his
appearance, and then, as on the previous day, after emerging from his
underground home, he lay, log-like, on the water, taking in the situa-
tion before venturing ashore.

After satisfying himself that all was well he landed, and walking
past the camera (which had been placed in position on the chance of
his following his usual routine) took his place at the fence corner.
There he stood erect as on the previous day, watching vainly for his
old playmates, who had not yet made their appearance. From their
lodge came the sound of mufiled voices. Evidently they were holding
un animated conversation in beaver language. It is a strange-sound-
ing tongue—like a mixture of subdued children’s voices and the crying
of a very young puppy. Whether or not our beayer understood the
drift of their discussion would be difficult to say, but certain it is that
he seemed to be very much interested by it all.

While he stood there, showing no sign of movement, I was able to
make several exposures, bringing the camera nearer each time. When
within about 5 feet he turned around to examine the queer one-eyed
machine that approached so quietly on its three legs. Evidently he
was puzzled, without being frightened, for after a few seconds’ delib-

ful 5 nel al

%
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Outlaw Beaver. PLATE IV

"“ FoR ALL THE WORLD LIKE A LARGE, SMOOTHLY
COATED CANADIAN PORCUPINE.”

Copyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.

“bE WOULD BITE THE HARD, COLD BARS OF JRON.”’
eet cet
a Ge bona)
am eh

Smithsonian Repo

‘“GAZED WITH A LONGING,
: * 2. : i - f 7
4 > s +4 ’ en 4 ? .
iy v a #' : ad ; Ae ; ‘eae
» = a ‘ 1 { WF 7
» . ca 3) . * aa

‘ PA - i
! tl ‘ a)4 1 :
« Li =i » °
a ¢ ‘y 7 ‘i : aie r ; ‘ ce .
wT Path ff ¢ ¢ Pe iy r x Las
os # A » fe “ ° is : 24)
b 28 ® .
, 4 ’ 4 : : &%

°
;
2
ied

.
.
’
—
~
-

So
t

ol

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Out!law Beaver.

PLaTe VI.

J

Copyright, 1900, by A. R. Dugmore.

“HE DISCOVERED A NICE GREEN STICK ON WHICH SOME OF THE BARK STILL REMAINED.”
-

a

gil

CHARACTER STUDY OF A BEAVER. 521

Ad

eration he decided to satisfy his curiosity by coming straight for the
camera, slowly at first and hesitating slightly at each step. ~ Each leg
of the tripod was carefully scrutinized and found to be harmless: sO,
resting his hands on one of the tripod legs, he raised himself and took
a good look at the camera itself. His nose must have discovered some
new odor, for he sniffed at it, first on one side, then on the other.

Presently his attention was attracted to the rubber ball belonging to
the shutter. This was swinging at the end of the tube, and he thought
that, perhaps, it was something new in the way of food. In another
moment the bulb would have been rendered useless, as it would have
been quickly punctured with his sharp teeth. At this critical moment
T had to interfere, very much to the old chap’s disgust.

Wishing to make friends with this strange animal, I sat down near
the camera. At once he came so close that I could put my hand on
his soft, furry back, wondering at the same time what would happen
if he should take it into his head to use his teeth, for with their extra-
ordinary strength and sharpness the amputation of a finger or two
would have been the work of but an instant. There was, however, no
need of fear, as he was a very well-meaning old fellow, and contented
himself with walking slowly round me, stopping occasionally to sit on
his hind legs and take a general survey of the curious being who went
about with such a queer three-legged companion.

Satisfied that he might safely leave me for a short while, he went to
his corner, and after looking for a few minutes at his neighbors, who
were swimming about in their pond, he walked down his path to the
water’s edge and in his own peculiar, noiseless way plunged in. Very
soon he discovered a nice green stick upon which some of the bark still
remained. This he brought into shallow water, and, holding it with
his two front paws (hands they should perhaps be called), proceeded
to make a meal off the bark. This may seem a very unsatisfactory
sort of supper, yet he enjoyed it. But a few minutes were required
to strip the stick, after which, as he had no house to build, it served
no further use and was left in the water, while the animal swam round
the pond, making a tour of investigation, which resulted in his finding
nothing more that was suited to his taste. So coming ashore, near
where I stood, he commenced his evening toilet.

This was an interesting sight to watch. To begin with, instead of
sitting with his large, flat, ribbed tail protruding behind him, he tucked
it forward between his hind legs and sat upon it. Then with his hand
he carefully combed his long hair, using both hands at the same time.
There were many places, however, that could not be reached in this
way, for his arms are very short and his body very large; so he combed
these otherwise inaccessible places with his hind feet, using first one
and then the other. The entire operation was performed with the
522 CHARACTER STUDY OF A BEAVER.

utmost deliberation and care, and occupied more than a quarter of an
hour, so that by the time it was completed daylight had almost van-
ished. My presence did notappear to disturb him in the least, though
I sat on the ground within 3 feet of him, that I might the better note
his various attitudes, for it is not often one has an opportunity of
watching a beaver at such close range.

He had just completed his toilet when the night watchman, whose
duty it is to feed the nocturnal animals, arrived with a basket of stale
bread and fresh vegetables. These he threw into the inclosure, the
vegetables on the bank, and the bread into the water. Mr. Beaver
well understood the meaning of these splashes, and as soon as the
keeper had disappeared he plunged into the water, utterly regardless
of his newly dried jacket, over which he had taken so much trouble,
and seizing one of the half loaves of bread in his hands, swam to a
shallow part of the pond to eatit. He first held the loaf in his hands,
much after the manner in which a squirrel holds a nut; but the soaked
bread fell apart, so he made a bowl of his hands and lapped the wet
crumbs out of it. In this way not a particle was lost.

Piece after piece of bread was eaten in this manner, when he came
ashore and made short work of the carrots and potatoes. It was quite
dark by this time, and as it was impossible to see anything more, I
was obliged to leave him, with the hope that in the near future I might
continue the acquaintance so pleasantly begun. By that time, let us
hope, he will no longer be solitary, but will have taken to himself a
mate whose disposition will be as good as his own; then a house will
be built, and the two will live as well-regulated and happy beavers
and human beings—should.

A NOTABLE ADVANCE IN COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY:!

“It is now possible for a newspaper correspondent. in China to
take snap shots in his ordinary camera, fitted with a newly perfected
screen; to send the negative to New York, and there have the picture
reproduced in all its original colors, the printer having no previous
knowledge of the colors themselves.”

This is the somewhat startling claim made by two American invent-
ors, Mr. C. L. A. Brasseur and Mr. Sebastian P. Sampolo. A sample
of their work showing the progressive steps of the method will be found
as a special insert in this issue of The World’s Work. It opens up a
whole new world of possibilities in the field of illustration, the modern
development of which has been one of the seven wonders of our time,
though we who are in the midst of it all hardly realize the fact. In
an hour to-day anyone with eyes can learn more about the externals
of China and the Chinese, for instance, than would have been possible
by any conceivable means short of a visit to that country twenty-five
years ago. The causes are improved photographs and the consequent
extension of illustration in newspapers, magazines, and books.

But so far as color is concerned we are almost as badly off as our
forefathers. The camera is not only ineflicient, but often an astound-
ing liar in its reports of the colors upon which it looks; and the suc-
cessful accomplishment of what Messrs. Brasseur and Sampolo
believe they have done would soon work most revolutionary changes
in the matter of making pictures.

Every reader of current magazines and books is familiar with the
results of what is known as ‘‘ three-color work.”

With all its present shortcomings, this process may fairly be credited
with having done more than any other influence to give us satisfactory
colored pictures at a reasonable price. Truth of form it achieves
absolutely, photographically; and its defects are due to the mechanical
difficulti f applying an absolutely correct theory.

e-color work has limitations that have greatly hampered its
devei., went. Roughly speaking, the process consists in making three
different half-tone negatives through as many colored sereens—that is
to say, the object or painting is placed before the camera as if an
ordinary black and white half-tone (the usual sort of magazine illus-
tration nowadays) were to be made; but between the lens and the half-
tone screen is placed a piece of glass of a peculiar yellowish color;

1Reprinted, by permission, from The World’s Work, December, 1900.

523
524 A NOTABLE ADVANCE IN COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY.

and then from this negative a printed block is made by the usual
method. A second negative is made through a screen of red glass, and
a third through a blue screen, plates being similarly obtained from
each. By printing the plate made through the blue glass in yellow
ink, that made through the yellow screen in a reddish ink on top of
it, and the third in a blue ink on top of these all the original colors are
produced.

Such at least is the theory, and when proper pigments: and exact
registration are employed the results are beyond criticism.’

As can be seen, this method is most cumbersome and the picture or
object to be reproduced must be taken to the engraver’s gallery. The
exposure for the blue plate alone requires from five to Te minutes
(a year or two ago it was frequently over an hour), and the other colors

p ellie
xR EC

GEEZ.

SS SSS KK

Fic. 1.—B (A enlarged
53 times). Positive on
glass made from origi-
nal negative; successive

Fig. 2.—-The black and
white screen used to
pick out each positive;
each black line equal in

groups of colored lines, size to two colored lines.
each color repeated ey-
ery third line.

Spot marked A is the exact size of a spot on the negative, of which B is
an enlargement. That spot ison the screen occupied by 30 colored lines in
exact juxtaposition, each line transmitting certain wave-lengths of light
in definite proportions. Screens as large as 8 x 10 have been made, ruled
in this fashion.
take from thirty seconds to three minutes additional. Of course this
limits one to a very restricted range of subjects.

By this newly perfected process, however, only one negative need
be made. It requires an exposure of only from one-tenth to one-
sixtieth of a second, and the three plates into which this original is
subdivided are just as accurate as those made by the old awkward plan.
For the first time, therefore, photographic color prints of moving
objects are possible.

What these inventors have Hoge is to make a commercial possibility

1As an tenn of he dimen it may be stated that as pale igo ae which
gives approximately the luminous purple-red needed is rhodamine, one of the coal-
tar colors; but unfortunately this fades in a few hours. So the printers have to use
the next a a bluish red, which is by no means exactly right.

A NOTABLE ADVANCE IN COLOR PHOTOGRAPRY. 525

of an old theory by ruling glass screens with infinite fineness and accu-
racy and in breaking up us original negative into three, from which
plates can be made to print on ordinary paper.

All makes of ruled polychrome screens can be used to obtain the nec-
essary negatives for the Sampolo-Brasseur process. The best are those
ruled in lines in groups of threes, one line being in a reddish orange
color, one in a yellowish green, and the other in a blue-violet color.
These colors may vary somewhat, as the dry plates of different makers
are not equally sensitive to the various colors of the spectrum. In
case of a serious departure from these colors, corresponding changes
must be made in the printing inks used.

The screens made by Mr. Brasseur have 531 lines per inch, with no
mistakes in any inch of more than one fifty-thousandth of that space.

Having obtained the necessary negative, a positive on glass is made.
littl LULU Uhhh hb :

LLL ODOT MM,

ber recramrrenernstl ed ter
Witla nna LAILLZLZ SELLE
Uitte [ZZ
ZZ CEL. CLL VM Us
LLL ZZ Ullah
VEE. SELLE Witla

CL Mit WVU MITE

TOLL CLLLLLELEE

Fie. 3.—Black and
white screen placed
over positive and show-
ing only one of the pos-
itives.

Fie. 4.—First step in
making negative. Only
one-third of the plate
is covered, and prints
from this could not be
properly superposed.

Fic. 5.—Completed neg-
ative of one of the im-
ages. Entire surface is
now occupied by image
which on original only
occupied one-third.

This positive is apparently no different from ordinary positives, but if
it be examined under a microscope it will be found to consist of three
interwoven images, corresponding with the three sets of lines of the
taking screen. (See Fig. 1.)

Suitable printing plates must now be made from each one of these
interwoven images. This is done by placing a black and white screen
(fig. 2) over the positive in such a way as to hide two of the images
and leave only the third one visible, say the yellow. (Fig. 3.) <A half-
tone negative is made of this (see fig. 4), and during the exposure the
most important step occurs; the negative plate (see fig. 4) is moved
continuously until the image which occupied the one-third of the plate
occupies the entire surface. (See Fig. 5.)

This is essential, as to obtain the proper colors the prints must be
superposed and not juxtaposed, as they were in the original positive.
The screen (tig. 2) is now shifted the width of one line, cov ering up
the image of which a printing plate has been made and exposing a new

sm 1900

Sth
526 A NOTABLE ADVANCE IN COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY.

image, say the red one. A plate is made of this one and the operation —
is repeated for the third image—the blue one.

Not only does this new method give an infinitely extended range to
color photography, but the black and white prints are far superior to
ordinary ones, as the color values are reproduced with absolute fidelity.
In an ordinary photograph of the American flag, for instance, the blue
would come almost white and the red black—a falsification of values
entirely corrected by the Sampolo-Brasseur method.
SMITHSONIAN REPORT,I900. COLOR PHOTOGRAPHY

PLATE

1. THE ORIGINAL PRINT 2.THE YELLOW PLATE

6. COMBINATION OF THREE COLORS

A TIGER
Photographed at the National Zoological Park Washington,D.C

N.Y
THE BREEDING OF THE ARCTIC FOX.!
By Henry pe Varieny.

The taxonomic position of the arctic fox has been the subject of
a good deal of discussion, which perhaps is not yet closed. It appears,
however, that, for the naturalists, at least—the furriers thinking
differently—there is no doubt about the matter; the arctic fox, being
a perfectly characterized species, Vulpes lagopus, the isatis of F.
Cuvier and Gmelin. On this point authorities agree, such as St.
George Mivart, in his monograph on the canida, and our distinguished
collaborator, Truessart, in his Catalogus Mammalium.

The arctic fox inhabits the Arctic zone, Spitzbergen, Greenland,
northern Siberia, Nova Zembla, and the northern part of North
America; in short, the extreme northern parts of both the Old World
and the new.

The species is curious in several respects. Of all the canida it is
probably the only one which, in certain regions at any rate, performs
regular migrations, as Richardson’s observations show that it does.
The arctic fox is said to live in societies or communities of twenty or
thirty families, in groups inhabiting the same number of holes or bur-
rows in one neighborhood. In winter they go south, driven away by
the cold and by the consequent scarcity of food, keeping usually near
the coast. According to Parry, they begin to quit Melville Peninsula
in November. In January very few remain behind. The southern
limit of their migration varies. Along the coast they advance farther
than they do in the interior, sometimes reaching north as far as the
parallel of 65°, and they have been seen as far south as 59°, exception-
ally even at 53°. Like other foxes, they are carnivorous. But what
game can they find in winter? The birds of passage are gone. Not
oneis left. Yet the arctic fox does not hibernate. He retains all his
activity throughout the long polar night, and to sustain this activity
he must get food. Mr. Alfred Newton, who observed these foxes in
Spitzbergen in 1863, asked himself whether they did not perchance

lay up provisions during the fine season. But if so, where would these

1 Translated from Revue Scientifique, 4th series, vol. 14, September 22, 1900.
527
528 THE BREEDING OF THE ARCTIC FOX.

hidden stores be, which nobody had ever seen? One day Mr. New-
ton came across a heap of shells of fresh-water mussels, J/ya truncata,
in the moraine of a glacier, and it occurred to him that it might be
the kjékkenmédding of some fox, the leavings of his winter meals.
He thought that foxes might very likely store up in summer some
provisions, mussels for instance, which they would use in winter.

This hypothesis has been amply confirmed, at least in certain
respects. It is evident that if the arctic fox made sufficient pro-
visions, he would not have to migrate in winter. But, on the other
hand, it is certain that he gathers enough to last him for some time.
H. W. Feilden put this beyond doubt in 1875, during the Nares expe-
dition. Having shot a fox, he noticed that little lemmings came out
of their holes all about, and began nibbling leaves and blades of grass.
But there were also quantities of dead lemmings, and these had died
violent deaths, namely, from a fox’s bite in the skull. Looking
nearer, adds Feilden, he was surprised to find numerous accumu-
lations of dead lemmings; in a corner, a little way off under a
rock, he found a pile of more than 50 of them. Caches of 20
to 30 carcasses each were numerous; and the ground was pierced
with many holes, each containing several carcasses of lemmings
covered with a little earth. One hole he found to be stuffed with
the greater part of a hare. Here is an interesting case of reciprocal
action. For where the caches of lemmings were numerous the ground
was, of course, richer in fertilizing matter, so that the vegetation was
more abundant, and this relative exuberance of vegetation, of course,
attracted more lemmings. Thus, the behavior of the foxes favored
the multiplication of lemmings about their burrows; and they could
not have contrived anything more ingenious if they had acted delib-
erately.

The arctic fox is not astute. In this respect he is markedly inferior
to his cousin of the temperate zone. He can be caught in the same
trap where he had been made prisoner only a few hours before. He
does not fear man, with whom, it is true, he has but an imperfect
acquaintance, which partially explains his freedom from timidity. On
seeing a man, he retires to a little distance, stops, and scrutinizes the
newcomer long before he finally takes his leave. He is easily domes-
ticated, is not rancorous nor malicious, and is gentle and confiding.
He is free from the odor of the fox. He is most cleanly, extremely
careful of his person, and will not foul his lair.

Captain Lyon, who, in the eighteenth century, during two winters
passed on Melville Peninsula, observed the arctic fox at close quarters,
relates that when this fox is given anything to eat, his first impulse is to
hide it as soon as he can, no matter how hungry he may be, even if he
\s alone and has no companions in captivity of whose probity he might
|

THE BREEDING OF THE ARCTIC FOX. 529

be disposed to entertain some doubt. In such cases he makes great
use of snow; for nothing is easier than to heap it up over the hidden
store, and then to press it down hard with his nose. A captive fox
often used an ingenious stratagem when he had no snow at his com-
mand. He would take the whole of his chain into his mouth, and then
carefully wind it up on the ground so as to hide his meat. When he
went away, satisfied with having accomplished his object, he would, of
course, unwind his chain, and expose the meat. ‘Thereupon, he would
go at it again, as before, with the utmost patience, recommencing five
or six times in succession, until, at last, tired of this business, he would
make up his mind to swallow his prey without having rendered it
more appetizing by keeping it underground.

The Eskimos take the arctic fox in ingenious traps which, according
to Captain Parry, consist of a sort of little round hut of stone, closed
everywhere except on top, where there is a square orifice. This ori-
fice is closed by whalebone fixed only at one end, and passing across
the aperture. A little snow put on the whalebone makes the place
look like solid ground; but when the fox, attracted by bait so placed
that to get it he has to pass over the whalebone, puts his weight upon
it, it gives way, and down he goes, too deep to get out, while the whale-
bone springs back into place, all ready for another fox; and two are
often caught.

The arctic fox, like many other animals, has a fur which varies
much, both in abundance and in color, at different seasons. This fur,
which covers even the plantar side of his paws, especially in winter
(thus at once protecting them against the polar cold and facilitating
locomotion over ice), is white in winter and in summer has a grayish-
brown color, giving a slightly bluish effect. This transformation of
the hair does not appear with other members of the dog family. Nor
does it invariably take place; for there are arctic foxes that remain
“blue” all the year round, while others never cease to be white. This
led F. Cuvier to distinguish two species, the one changing color and
the other remaining white. But, in fact, the two sorts of individuals
belong to the same species; indeed, young of the two kinds may occur
in the same litter, according to Schreber. On the other hand, it seems
that in Iceland all the foxes retain their blue livery all the year round,
never donning the white.

Even in his winter costume the arctic fox is never completely white,
the nose and the end of the tail generally remaining black. Moreover,
many foxes become rather gray than white during the dark season.
Many are only relatively blue. This coloration presents numerous
differences of [chromatic] intensity. .

Seeing that the pelt of an arctic fox will sell for 520 or more, pro-
vided it be “‘blue,” and for nothing at all if it be white, It 1s not to be
wondered at that some ingenious spirits have been led to practice the
530 THE BREEDING OF THE ARCTIC FOX.

breeding of these animals. The narrative of the Harriman expedition,
recently returned from Alaska, informs us that the Alaska Commercial
Company is doing this in several islands of the region it exploits, and
in particular in the neighborhood of Kadiak, where the experiment has
succeeded to perfection and where the company has established
‘*bhlue-fox farms,” which are in a flourishing condition.

These farms are, in fact, 1s simple as possible. The breeding simply
consists in feeding the foxes during the winter, in protecting them
from their natural enemies, and in only capturing and killing them
under prescribed conditions. In order to be able to protect its wards,
the company places them where they can not get away. It captures a
number of them on the mainland and puts some couples on certain
islands where there were none before and whence they can not escape.
It provides for their needs by establishing stations on these islands
where special employees go to carry the animals food, consisting
mainly of fish, fresh or dried, or else put up in oil. No salt fish is
given to them, because it is believed that that would mar the beauty
of the fur. This food is left every day of the year in certain places,
which the foxes get to know, so that they resort there.

Very ingeniously, the company causes the food to be always placed
in traps, which, however, are not set too close. The animals thus acquire
the habit of entering traps and do so without distrust. Thus, when
it is desired to capture any, the traps are set and do their work with
certainty. Food is given to the foxes all the year round, as much as
they seem to need, judging by the haste with which they eat what they
get. They get most in May, June, and July, because it is then that
they litter, and the females consequently need a great deal of food.

When the fur is in fine condition the foxes are trapped in the manner
above explained. ‘The females are spared in order to favor multipli-
‘ation, being set at liberty after having been marked with scissors in
the caudal brush. Those males whose fur is suitable are killed; a
few of the very finest are, however, set free to improve the breed.

It is to be remarked that the foxes do not live exclusively on the
food furnished them. They eat, besides, what they find, which varies
their fare, for they prowl about the shore and pick up any dead fish
which the sea may throw up; they follow the bears and eat what they
leave, and they hunt the rodents, so that in some of the farm islands
mice have been quite exterminated. The best parts of the fish are not
given to the foxes. They are fed on salmon mainly—the heads, and,
in short, whatever is not dried or preserved for man.

It seems that not all the foxes are equally sensible of good and bad
treatment from men. In most of the islands there are individuals who
will not come to take the food that man distributes, but, avoiding the
traps, live entirely on what they can find for themselves.

The foxes on the farms are numerous enough to be remarked as one

THE BREEDING OF THE AROTIC Fox. bol

goes about. Besides, they are curious and not timid. On an island
of Prince William Straits there is a farm where 50 or 60 adults are
fed on salmon and halibut. It is useless to offer them cod; they will
not touch it. They are there accustomed to seek their food in a little
house, which acts as a trap during the short period when their fur is
the finest—that is to say, from December 20 to about January 10.

The arctic fox is abundant in the Pribyloy Islands, or, rather, it
was formerly so, and at present efforts are making to restore the
abundance. On the island of St. George an American Government
agent, Mr. Judge, has devoted several years to this question and has
ascertained interesting facts. It is a rocky island, heaved up into a
chaos, where birds flock in great numbers to breed, and is particularly
suitable to the fox, if only his subsistence is insured for the winters,
for otherwise he will not remain, but will embark on the first ice
sheet which in spring comes near enough, and that will be the last
of him, whether he reaches some distant shore or not. In summer he
will remain quietly, for, in the first place, he can not do otherwise,
and then birds are plenty, and eggs too, as well as young seals whose
mothers have been killed and who have been left to starve. The
pelagic hunting of the fur seal has been rather advantageous to the
foxes because of the number of small seals which have perished and
furnished food. There are some 2,900 foxes on the island of St.
George. They fed upon lemmings (Lemmus nigripes) until the latter
became well-nigh extinct. In winter they get their living on the
shore, and, curiously enough, live largely on sea urchins, of a species
of Strongylocentrotus, which are found on the rocks that are left
uncovered at low tide. They also eat grass in winter, and worms,
which they scratch out of the sand. They also swallow sea squirts and
carcasses of fish. But, on the whole, their living is precarious at that
season.

Attempts have been made, perhaps not persevering enough, to intro-
duce rodents allied to the rabbit. The acclimatization of the spermo-
phile found at Unalaska has also been proposed. Preserved food has
been tried, such as linseed-meal biscuits. The foxes did not like it,
though they take it eagerly when it is flavored with sealoil. Mr. Judge
gave the foxes carcasses of seals, and these not being enough, he
finally used entire bodies, salted or frozen, digging ‘‘silos,” where the
provisions were stored till they were needed. The foxes appreciated
this kindness only too much, for one day 60 or 70 of them got into the
silo, tore up and pulled out the seals, and feasted so that several of
them died of surfeit. Since the foxes do not like salt meat, the seals are
soaked in fresh water before being given to them. The seals are given
to the foxes when the time of their capture approaches by every even-
ing leaving some bodies, not more than ten, at the place where the
traps are to be placed. At the proper time the traps are set. The
532 THE BREEDING OF THE ARCTIC FOX.

females are set free, after having been marked, and some of them have
been taken so.often that their brushes have been quite spoiled. White
females are, however, always killed in order to get rid of any tendency
to the production of a breed that should turn white in winter and to
establish a stable blue breed. The traps are large enough to take 40
foxes at once in each.

The practical problem of fox farms involves a psychological prob-
lem. In order to obtain the best results it is desirable that the foxes
should practice polygamy. Now, they are naturally monogamous, but
endeavors are made to induce them to become polygamous by reduc- -
ing the number of males. The success of these efforts is still doubt-
ful, but there are some encouraging indications. For example, the
destruction of many males has had no appreciable effect upon the
births. It may be noted that the collection of all the foxes into one
place to feed makes promiscuous gatherings, which, it is hoped, may
affect their moral nature.

According to the observations at St. George Island, the foxes have
no predilection for any particular spot. They go about and only
remain in one neighborhood as long as they are satisfied with the food.
It is therefore easy to make them all come regularly to one place, and
this is done. Their food is left near the village, and for the most part
they remain thereabouts. It is easy to get sight both of the adults
and the young, both of which are very curious about man and much
given to observing him and his ways.

On this island, as elsewhere, it is stated that the arctic fox is much
less astute than his European cousin. He allows himself to be taken
in the same trap several times in succession, sometimes at intervals
of ten minutes. Yet it will not fail to be remarked that neither this —
circumstance nor the fox’s not avoiding places where man may be
scented can seriously be regarded as a mark of low intelligence, see-
ing that the foxes who are so often trapped and let go again are
thereby taught to regard the ambush as a joke. His experience
assures him there is nothing to be feared. Those who are killed never
return to tell the tale; and the arrangements are such that the others
have no reason to suspect that any tragedy has taken place, for they
are killed on a boat offshore, so that no blood may be spilled on the
ground. Perhaps this is needless caution, for foxes are not very sus-
ceptible to extreme concern about deaths in their tribe, and they
even resort to cannibalism whenever hunger presses them to it. So
that the smell of blood or sight of remains of their kindred could
hardly be very terrible to them; nor are their intellects so penetrating
that they would be likely to draw inferences in regard to their own
possible fate.

Observations at St. George Island show that the fur is in its perfec-
tion when the animal is in its first and second year.
THE BREEDING OF THE ARCTIC FOX. "533

The experience of farming is thus far encouraging. If success
crowns the efforts that are making to break down the deplorable
monogamy of the foxes, all will go well.

Some figures relative to the captures made in the season of 1898-99
may here be given. The ‘‘ season,” be it remembered, lasts but a few
days, during which the animals’ fur is in the exact state desired by
the furriers and the public. During that season, then, 334 blue male
foxes were taken and killed, 34 blue males were killed otherwise, 18
white foxes of both sexes were taken and killed, 110 blue males and
389 blue females were taken and set free.
DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.’

By Dr. Frrepricnu DELITzscH.

The traveler starting overland from the port of Alexandretta, in
northern Syria, beholds beyond the high pass of Beilan the widely
extended plain of Antioch, a view surprising in novelty and charm.
As far as the eye can reach the plain is strewn with mounds of vary-
ing height, often grass covered, their artificial origin easily discern-
ible. These mysterious elevations, called by the Arabs “Tell,” by the
Turks ‘‘ Tepe,” accompany the traveler to Aleppo and even farther to
the banks of the Euphrates and Tigris, and they constantly increase in
height, extent, and number, from Mosul down the stream and through
Babylonia, crossing into the Elamite plain and to Susa. They are the
marks of the civilization of pre-Christian millenniums. The large and
small cities of the oldest empires of western Asia, of the Hittite states
of northern Syria, of the Assyrian, Babylonian, and Elamite empires,
with their palaces and temples, walls and gates, terraces and towers, lie
buried beneath them. From these mounds of ruins of the Euphrates
and Tigris region, weather beaten, grave, and silent, rising from the
lonely and lifeless desert, French, English, and American explorers
have plucked unfading laurels. They have awakened to new life,
after the sleep of thousands of years, the buried glory of millenniums
gone, and from innumerable monuments of sculpture and writing liv-
ing knowledge reaches us of Babylon, Nineveh, and of those earlier
peoples whose civilization continues, in not a small measure, to be pre-
served in our own. The mounds of ruins in the fairyland of ‘‘ The
Thousand and One Nights” have become for France, England, and
America mounds of treasure-trove, from whose darkness they bring
to light treasures of human art and science that are the greatest orna-
ment and pride and the never-resting ambition of the great national
museums.

-

1Translation of Ex Oriente Lux. Ein Wort zur Férderung der Deutschen Orient-
Gesellschaft von Dr. Friedrich Delitzsch, ord. Professor an der Universitit zu Bres-
lau. Leipzig: F.C. Hinrichs’sche Buchhandlung, 1898. pp. 16, 8vo. Dr. Delitzsch

has also contributed other articles in this series of publications.
535
536 DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.

It was in the year 1820 that Claudius James Rich, an officer of the Eng-
lish East India Company at Bagdad, undertook, for the recovery of his
health, a trip into the Kurdish Mountains, and on his way back he
spent a few days at Mosul, the well-known commercial town on the
right bank of the Tigris. There the large mounds on the other side
of the river attracted his attention. They resembled those which he
had seen near Hilla on the Euphrates and which he correctly took for
the remains of ancient Babylon. As the southern of the two largest
mounds still has the official name of Nunia, and is crowned with a
mosque dedicated to the prophet Jonah, the hypothesis suggested itself
that there, opposite Mosul, lay the ruins of Nineveh, the ancient cap-
ital of Assyria. Rich examined the mounds. He also heard of a large
stone slab, engraved with representations of human figures and animals,
which had been found some time before, but had been broken by the
Turks because of religious prejudice. He was not, however, in a posi-
tion to continue his investigations.

Now it happened that in 1842 Emil Botta, son of the well-known
Italian historian, was appointed French consul at Mosul, and was
encouraged by the famous orientalist, Julius von Mohl—the second of
the four brothers Mohl, who are a lasting honor to their native city
Stuttgart—to follow up the path entered upon by Rich and to begin
excavations in the mounds near Mosul. But neither on the southern
mound, Nebi Yunus, nor on the northern, Kuyunjik, were his endeavors
rewarded with success. In March, 1843, a peasant of Khorsabad, a
village situated four hours north of Mosul, told him that in the mound
on which his village was built inscribed stones and similar objects had
been found in great number. Botta thereupon began, on the 20th of
March, to dig in Khorsabad, and after but three days a room was
opened, and a few days later another, the inner walls covered with
alabaster slabs, on which were represented in bas-relief the campaigns
and hunts, the gods and priests of a king. Full of joy, Botta, on the
2d of May, sent to Mohl a letter, with drawings of the inscriptions
and sculptures. The drawings caused a lively sensation, and the French
Government immediately made an appropriation for further excava-
tions. Botta had discovered, as we now know, the palace of Sargon,
the conqueror of Samaria. In May, 1844, the inhabitants of the vil-
lage were removed, with the permission of the Sublime Porte, and
thereupon the excavations continued ona larger scale. New rooms
were continually freed from the débris, new sculptures, still exhibiting
traces of color, together with long-lined inscriptions, were continually
brought to light, and the drawings of the French painter, Eugéne
Flandin, which were later published at the cost of the State, served to
raise still higher the general interest in Assyrian art and civilization,
which was believed irrevocably lost, and now, as if by magic, raised to
new life. Botta’s successor, Victor Place, found, in 1852, the walls
hai GN

ow ee ee

DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA. 537

and gates of the city of Sargon, with gigantic winged bulls, and com-
pleted the excavation of the palace, penetrating to the cellar, where the
wine jars, with a reddish sediment in the bottom, were still standing
in long rows. An Assyrian king, concerning whom until then only
a simple brief notice in the Old Testament (Isaiah XX, 1) gave infor-
mation, suddenly rose before our eyes as a live, tangible personage,
and we now know as much about his wars and victories. his buildings
and hunts, about the conditions of the civilization of the Assyrian
Empire and the contemporaneous history of the neighboring states, as
we know about any epoch of ancient Greece or Rome.

It may be readily imagined that the glorious achievements accom-
plished by French pluck, energy, and perseverance, which turned the
eyes of the whole civilized world to the Assyrian collections in the
Louvre, would not long leave the English idle spectators. Sir Austen
Henry Layard, afterwards minister of Great Britain in Madrid and
ambassador to Constantinople, had already visited those regions
in 1840, and had shown the most lively interest in the work of
Botta. It was not long before the English ambassador at Constan-
tinople, Sir Stratford Canning, succeeded in securing for Layard
the firman permitting excavations and the necessary funds. Layard
immediately began excavations on a grand scale, receiving the cordial
aid of the native population, for not only was Layard an adept in
winning the love and gratitude of the natives everywhere, but he had
also in Hormuzd Rassam the most ideal companion, who, fully familiar
with the Arabic character, could, as Layard acknowledged, secure the
good will of the most savage with whom he came in contact.

On November 28, 1845, Layard commenced his labors in Nimrud,
situated a few kilometers south of Nineveh, and the first four months
of 1846 brought to light the entire northwest palace of Shalmaneser I
(1300 B. C.), the palace of Assurnazirpal, of the Biblical Tiglathpileser
and Esarhaddon, and, especially with the palace of Assurnazirpal, a
large number of sculptures and inscriptions of various kinds. Not
less successful were the excavations at Nineveh, which Layard carried
on after 1849 at the expense of the British Museum. Like the Baby-
lonians, their masters, the Assyrian kings built their temples and pal-
aces upon raised artificial terraces, from whose airy heights they not
only enjoyed a purer and cooler atmosphere but escaped the fever, the
inundations, and the mosquito swarms of the river flats. King Sen-
nacherib erected such an elevated terrace of bricks, and his grandson,
Assurbanipal, the Greek Sardanapalus, extended it. Both of these
rulers built there magnificent palaces, surrounded by large parks,
rivulets, and ponds, on whose isles water birds nested. . And all this
splendor and glory, covered by the mighty mound of ruins of Kayan:
jik, were uncovered by the two English explorers. In the southw est
corner of the mound Layard laid open the palace of Sennacherib,
5388 DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.

the largest Assyrian palace thus far known, with seventy-one rooms,
galleries, and halls, the walls on every side covered with artistic bas-
relief, depicting the edifices, the campaigns, and the domestic life of
the king in a most vivid manner. There we see how the large terrace
was filled up, how the gigantic bulls that guard the entrance to the
hall were set in place by means of pulleys, rollers, and ropes, and a
contingent of thousands of workmen, partly slaves in chains, whom
the king superintended from his chariot, while pitiless taskmasters
with raised sticks relentlessly urged on the work (Pl. [X). In another
room the sculptures show servants carrying bunches of ripe dates and
flat wicker baskets with pomegranates, apples, and grapes, grasping
at the same time small green twigs to keep off the flies. They are
followed by others with hares, partridges, and dried locusts fastened
on staves. Farther on come servants, two abreast, carrying on their
shoulders low tables loaded with baskets of cakes and fruits, while in
the rear follow a long line of servants with flower-decorated vases. All
these representations are distinguished by vividness and truthfulness.

Splendid and admirable as were the finds in the so-called southwest
palace of Sennacherib, they were to be greatly surpassed by the treas-
ures which were brought to light from the so-called north palace of
Sardanapalus, discovered by Rassamm in 1854. There, too, one state
chamber after another was freed from débris; the long Babylonian
gallery, the smaller Arabic room, so named because their wall reliefs
represent the great deeds of the king and his armies in Babylonia,
Arabia, ete. After two and a half thousands of years of darkness
the light of the sun again burst in the halls decorated with sculptures
and in the courts artistically plastered with mosaics, exactly as when
they were deserted in the year 607 B. C., when the Median hordes,
intoxicated with the blood of foes and the triumph of victory, raged
there, burning and plundering. Light fell anew into the royal harem,
conjuring up before our eyes most vividly scenes with which an artist
of the seventh pre-Christian century decorated its walls with realistic -
truthfulness. We behold in an arbor the king comfortably stretched
upon a divan holding a full goblet in his hand, and near him, likewise
with a goblet, the queen on a high chair, attired in rich vestments.
Eunuchs fan the royal couple, while at a distance there is music. Not
far from these apartments the beautiful lions’ room was found, its
sculptured walls perpetuating the king’s adventures in the chase. Like
most of the Assyrian kings Sardanapalus was a bold, passionate hun-
ter, and the lions’ chase was his favorite sport. The lions were con-
fined in cages in a special park and on the day of the hunt were set
free. Here we see the king, now on foot, now in the chariot, taking
up the battle with the lion. Now the king calmly meets the attacking
animal, and, with a sure hand, thrusts the deadly spear into its body.
§
i
:
§
‘

SSURNAZIRPAL, KING OF ASSYRIA 884-860 B. C.

Photograph from slab in the British Musenn

sch,

Deiit

Smithsonian Report, 1900.

“TUOSTL, US

‘NSGHVS) SHL NI DNILANONVE N3AAND SIH ANV

‘

lg? oy} UL Quis Ulody YdRasojoyd

‘Od 929-899 VINASSY JO DNIM ‘IwdINVaHNssy

=)
.

ae |
ie a Ah ee oe

a

a
7

jelinisto

10 ONIM “IVdINVEeOSsy

Report

Smithsonian

DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA. 539

There the furious beasts fasten their teeth in the chariot spokes or writhe
wounded upon the ground. Especially to be noted isa relief of a dying
lioness, whose perfectly realistic character has made it famous in the
history of art. On the floor of the lion apartment and of the adjoin-
ing rooms lay in thick layers fragments of the royal library, a collee-
tion of tablet books and documents once arranged in the upper rooms,
but which at the collapse fell through, crushed into thousands of large
and small pieces. Baked clay tablets of all sizes, inscribed on both
sides with fine Assyrian cuneiform characters, which, after being freed
from dirt and dust can be as distinctly read as if they were but yes-
terday impressed into the soft clay, constituted this unique royal library.

As if presaging the approaching collapse of the Assyrian Empire,
Sardanapalus ordered that the most important books and documents
from all the libraries in Babylonia should be collected, copied, some
even in duplicate, and incorporated in his own library. Thus through
the library of Sardanapalus there came to us a great part of the older,
and indeed of the most ancient, works of Babylonian literature, and,
as might be expected, only the most important works were consid-
ered worthy of admission into the royal library. It contained histor-
ical works with information as to the relations, now peaceful, more
often warlike, of Assyria with its mother country, Babylonia; chro-
nological lists accurately fixing the reigns of all those ancient kings,
Shalmaneser, Tiglathpileser, Sardanapalus, and for a long period
recording the most important event of each year; penitential psalms
and hymns of praise, epics and myths that reveal the religious thought
as well as the poetical endowment of the Babylonian people; large
grammatico-lexicographical works that for many decades to come will
be an inexhaustible mine for Semitic philology; astronomical, astro-
logical, and magical tablets, the original works from which the wise
men of the East—the Babylonian Magi—drew their learning which
they afterwards spread over Greece and Rome; in addition a multi-
tude of letters addressed to the great king of Assyria from the kings
of Elam, from the generals abroad in hostile lands, from the court
astronomers who report to the king the happenings in the starry
heavens, eclipses of the sun and moon, from the Magi, who, on the
basis of the flight of birds, or the entrails of sacrificial animals, advise
the royal majesty what to do and what to leave undone; letters from the
royal physicians, petitions and entreaties from captives; besides copies
of the letters and proclamations of the king himself. Four royal-
octavo volumes, with 1,952 pages, are required for the catalogue of the
thousands of clay tablets and prisms or fragments thus far transferred
from Nineveh to the British Museum. And whata mass of knowledge
and multitude of new points of view for religious and profane his-
tory, for linguistics and geography, for archeology in all its branches,
540 DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.

has not the study of these ancient books revealed! Let us but recall
that memorable autumn of 1872, when George Smith, one of the offi-
cers of the Egypto-Assyrian collection of the British Museum, while
looking over the cuneiform fragments of the mythological series, read
in one of them with growing surprise: ‘‘The ship stood still on the
Mount Nizir. I took out a dove and sent it out; the dove flew hither
and thither, but as it found no resting place it turned and came back.
I took out a swallow and sent it out. The swallow flew hither and
thither, but as there was no resting place it came back. I took out a
raven and sent it out; the raven flew away and perceived the decrease
of the water * * * and did not return to the ship.” Smith had
found the original of the Babylonian-Biblical account of the deluge.
He reported his find at the meeting of the London Society for Biblical
Archeology on December 3, 1872. The discovery created the pro-
foundest sensation in England, and far beyond her borders. In press
and pulpit it was celebrated and commented upon. Babel, it was said,
confirms the Bible. *‘* Where men are silent, the stones cry out.” The
proprietors of the Daily Telegraph, almost immediately after that
lecture, hastened to give George Smith a thousand guineas for further
explorations in Nineveh. On January 20, 1873, George Smith set out
on his journey. In 1874 he was again sent—this time by the trustees
of the British Museum—to Nineveh, constantly making discoveries,
and in 1876 undertook a third expedition to the East, which was to
be for him ‘ta way without return.” His last stay in Babylonia and
Assyria—full of exertions and trials, where, at the time, pest and
cholera were raging—exhausted. the strength of the indefatigable
explorer. Accompanied by the English consul to Aleppo, he died
there on August 19, 1876, covered with glory, fallen like a hero on
the field of honor.

The traveler setting out from Bagdad in the direction of the little
town of Hilla, traversing the plain which is spread out between the
twin rivers Euphrates and Tigris where they are nearest one another,
will, after passing many other mounds of ruins, arrive at a large one
covering 2 English miles, named Abu Habba. Wall and castle are
still clearly recognizable, but the highest point of this site of ruins is
on the southwest side on the bank of a former arm of the Euphrates.
When Rassam excavated here in 1881 he struck almost at once the
walls of a building. The inclosure of a large quadrangular structure,
1,500 feet long on the southwest side, was laid bare, and further
trenches and shafts showed that the edifices were grouped around a
central court, and consisted of a line of long narrow rooms with
exceptionally thick brick walls. In the interior of this structure a
pair of interesting rooms was discovered and freed from the débris.
At the excavating of a shaft that ran along a wall in the middle of
the mound a doorway was reached which led toa large gallery 100

Se
DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA. 541

feet long and about 35 feet wide. On it stood the remnants of 2 large
sacrifical altar, made of bricks and measuring 30 feet square. Behind
the altar, in the wall of this room, a door opened leading to a smaller
room, and Rassam, as a result of experience gained in the Assyrian
mound of Balawat, at once surmised that the temple archives had been
here preserved. But though at Balawat the corner-stone documents
of the builder of the temple were found in a stone chest, nothing
similar was here discovered. On the other hand, the asphalt pavement
attracted Rassam’s attention, and he therefore sunk a shaft in the floor,
when, behold, scarcely had he broken through the cement layer when
a clay chest appeared containing a beautiful artistically inscribed
alabaster tablet, in six columns, decorated at the top with a carefully
executed bas-relief. In this holy of holies a god with a long-flowing
beard, in his hand a ring and short staff, was seated upon a throne
decorated with cherubim. A king followed by two priests approaches
the god in adoration, while two other men are raising the sun disk
with ropes upon the roof of the holy of holies. Certainly a valuable
and admirable find in itself, but much more so because this document
also revealed the name of the building and of the city which was thus
rediscovered. ‘‘Image of the sun god, the great lord, who dwells in

_ the temple Ebabbara in the city of Sippar.” Thus reads the explanatory

ee See eT ee ee ee

legend of the bas-relief. One of the oldest Babylonian cities has been
found—Sippar, in which Noah-Xisuthros, by the command of the god
Kronos, was ordered to bury the documents of untediluvian times; the
sun temple, which since its foundation in the fourth millennium until
long after the time of the last Chaldean king, Nabonaid (558 B. C.),
was the center of worship for Babylonia and the object of concern of
all Babylonian kings, was rediscovered. This sun temple in the course
of thousands of years, through revenues and donations, came in posses-
sion of untold riches in money and land.

The forty to fifty thousand inscribed tablets that since 1881 have
been flowing from Abu Habba as from an inexhaustible source into the
occidental museums, above all into the British Museum, give an insight
not only into the cult of the sun god and the deities worshiped beside
him, into the division, obligations, and prerogatives of the several
priest classes, but also into the system of the temple revenues and
their application. From the temple archives of the sun god is
derived a great mass of tablets, which, after the fashion of commer-
cial bookkeeping, record the temple revenues in money and other
commodities, the expenses in salaries, wages, etc., and the investment
and employment of the temple property in loans, real estate, rents,
etc. If to these be added the numerous so-called contract tablets from
Babylonia, Tell Sifr, and other places, with their varied contents,
purchase and sale of slaves, marriage documents, acts of lawsuits,
testaments, and the letters of the time of Hammurabi or Amraphel

sm 1900 35

549 DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.

(Genesis, xiv) which were recently found, we derive a mass of the most
important information on the commercial and judicial life as well as
the economic conditions in the Babylonian State for a period of nearly
two thousand years from the first Babylonian dynasty (2250 B. C.)
until long after the time of the Achemenian kings. ‘The excavations
at S'ppar, Babylon, and elsewhere carried us back to the time of
Hammurabi, that greatest king of the first Babylonian dynasty, who
united the north and the south in one great Babylonian State, with
Babylon as the capital. But the soil of Babylonia, inexhaustible in sur-
prises, was soon to afford us an outlook into a much higher antiquity
of the Babylonian people and to carry us to still more remote ages
in the history of humanity. From the same archives to which the
above-mentioned votive tablet belonged, which was deposited by King
Nebobaladan (882 B. C.) in the sun temple at Sippar, came also, among
other things, a remarkable clay cylinder of the last Chaldean king,
Nabonaid. In it the king relates that he has decided to reestablish
the sun temple upon its oldest foundation; for, in consequence of the
repeated rebuildings in the course of many centuries, the temple was
obviously detached from its original foundation site, from its oldest
**temen:” and that he has succeeded, after continuous and laborious
digging into the depths of the earth, in finding the ‘*temen” of the
first builder of the temple Naram-Sin, son of Sargon I, a ‘*‘temen”
which for thirty-two hundred years had not been seen by the eye of
man. This established the year 3750 before our era as the date of the
reign of Naram-Sin and about 3800 as that of Sargon I, and opened a
vista into the past of the human race on Babylonian soil which lies
fifteen hundred years beyond the time of Hammurabi-Amraphel, or,
to speak with the Old Testament, beyond the time of Abraham, a
vista never anticipated and at first hardly credible. And still, little
as was the inclination to accept so remote a date, there was as little
reason to doubt it, and, in fact, the progress of the excavations was
soon to prove it more and more indubitable.

The French consul at Bassora, Ernest de Sarzee, who has been direct-
ing the French excavations on the south Babylonian site of the ruins
of Tell Loh (Telloh) since 1875, had not long begun his work when he
found those nine diorite statues, which represented partly in standing
position, partly seated, the old priest kings (patesi) of the city of
Lagash, named Ur-Bau and Gudea (Pl. X). These statues, although
the heads of all are missing, are valuable examples of the old Baby
lonian art of sculpture, and this value is considerably increased by the
inscriptions which, on the breast, back, etc., are incised with the most
consummate artistic skill and neatness, exciting the admiration of our
modern stonecutters. While the archaism of the writing leads us back
to a time long before Hammurabi, the language in which they are com-
posed shows that those ancient priest kings belonged neither to the
Smithsonian Report, 19)0.—Delitzsch.
PLATE IV.

CAPTIVE LIONS RELEASED FROM CAGE FOR THE ROYAL SPORT.

Photograph from slab in the British Museum.
RIS Wor; (dRrso OU

“ASVHD AHL NI NIVIS SNOIF YSAO NOILVSIT V ONINNOd IWdINvaYnssy

is; . - . os
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Delitzsch.
PLATE VI

7 :
Sd Ke te Hine
Lan , ae
RRM tgs
ABR ED Albarn

Yi fe

ASSYRIAN ACCOUNT OF SENNACHERIB’S CAMPAIGN AGAINST JERUSALEM AND KING HEZEKIAH
OF JUDAH (701 B. C.).

Photograph from terra-cotta prism in the British Museum.
a

DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA. 543

Semitic nor to the Indo-Germanie stratum of the Babylonian popu-
lation, but to the so-called Sumerian people, who spoke an agglutinative
language, and who, though through the early centuries settled in Baby-
lonia contemporaneously with the Semites,and in lively intercourse
with them, must still be considered as the older native population from
whom the Semites received the art of writing and other achievements
of civilization. And since that first great discovery of De Sarzec, the
finds of Telloh have steadily carried Babylonian history to earlier
periods, as is evinced by indisputable art, historical and paleographical
criteria. They carried it back to the time when the two Semitic kings
of Agade, Sargani-shar-ali and Naram-Sin—and these, as is recognized
with ever-increasing certainty, are Nabonaid’s Sargon and Naram-Sin
(8800 and 3750 B. C., respectively)—exercised sovereignty over Lagash,
and the priest king of this city, Lagal-Ushumgal, was their vassal.
Nay, even from an earlier time—the close of the fifth milleninum—
there rises before our eyes a whole line of hoary Sumerian patesis of
Lagash—Ur-Nina, Akurgal, Eannadu, Enannatum, Entemena. And
we know not only their names but most of their heroism against
domestic and foreign foes, and of their efforts for the general welfare
of their city and its inhabitants.

As the origin of the cuneiform writing is more and more cleared up
through the inscriptions of some of these most ancient rulers—above
ail, that of Eannadu—so one ray of light after another brightens the
darkness spread over the earliest history of the great Babylonian
cities—Agade, Babel, Kish, and Lagash, Erek, and the ** city of bows.”
Nay, on some periods, especially the times of Sargon I and his son,
Naram-Sin, a flood of light is shed. For much as it may be deplored
that the archives, consisting of some 30,000 tablets, cylinders, and
large inscribed pebbles, found in 1894 in a cellar-shaped room at
Telloh, were scattered everywhere by the thievish Arabs, the docu-
ments themselves are not lost to science, whether they came to the
museums of Constantinople, Paris, Berlin, Philadelphia, or elsewhere,
and they reveal to us in a surprising and at the same time in detailed
manner the commercial, agricultural, and economic conditions, as well
as the civic and religious life of the times of Sargon I and Naram-Sin.
Even pierced lumps of clay were found with the names of Sargon or
Naram-Sin stamped upon them, inscribed with the names of the
addressee, the place of destination, and evidently attached to bales of
merchandise, to be forwarded from Agade to Lagash.

One of the oldest sanctuaries upon earth is the temple of the lord of
the universe, Bel, in the middle Babylonian city of Nippur. The ruins
of this city, now called Nuffar, and especially the gigantic remains of
this temple, were the goal of the three expeditions from Philadelphia,
which, from 1886 up to the present time, under the direction of John
P. Peters, Hermann V. Hilprecht, and J. H. Haynes, have excavated
544 DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.

and constantly made discoveries of the greatest import to science on
that vast site of ruins. Two temple archives rewarded the labors of
the American explorers within a few years. True, those of Sargon I
lay in ruins; enemies, probably the Elamites, plundered and destroyed
them. But if only the vases of the pre-Sargonic king of Erek, Lugal
Zaggisi, son of a patesi of the ‘‘city of bows,” which were pieced
together from thousands of fragments, had been found they would
be an ample reward on account of the historical and paleographical
information that they furnish. The records of the Kossean kings
were intact. They contained all the votive gifts that the kings of the
so-called third Babylonian dynasty had presented to the god Bel.

Down to 1896 there were cleared from the ruins of Nuffar, succes-
sively, 2,000, 8,000, and 21,000 clay tablets and fragments, inscribed
and stamped bricks, stone and clay vases. They were of the pre-
Sargonic period, as well as of all the later periods of Babylonian his-
tory, from Sargon I and Naram-Sin, and even from Ur-Gur and Dungi,
the two ancient kings of the city of Ur, down to Darius IT and Arta-
xerxes Mnemon. They embraced syllabaries, chronological lists, let-
ters, astronomical and religious texts, tax lists, plans of real estate,
contracts, besides images of divinities and toys of terra cotta, weap-
ons and implements of stone and metal, ornaments of gold, silver,
copper, and bronze, carved precious stones and weights. It was esti-
mated that the inscribed monuments found up to 1896 would fill 12
volumes of two to three parts each if published. What specially
distinguishes the excavations of the Americans is the systematic clear-
ing up of the single layers of the mighty temple edifice and of its super-
structure.

The colossal ruins of the tower of the temple of Bel, now called
Bint-el-Amir, rises 2 meters above the plain and 15 meters above
the mass of débris which surrounds it. The immense platform, about
2.40 meters thick, constructed of sun-dried bricks, together with
the three-story temple tower erected upon it, probably a work of
King Ur-Gur, was laid bare and the ascent to the single stages in the
southeast of the ruin was found. Close under this platform another
pavement was discovered, consisting of two layers of baked bricks
of about 50 centimeters square and 8 centimeters thick. Most of
them were stamped, some with the name of Sargani-shar-ali, the others
with that of Naram-Sin. Both kinds were intermingled in both
brick layers, so that the identity of Sargani-shar-ali with the Sargon
of Nabonaid (3800 B. C.) was made sure. Ur-Gur had, it appears,
razed the buildings of his predecessors and elevated the platform of
his temple tower over the pavement of Naram-Sin. J. H. Haynes,
however, who since 1894 has been alone at the ruins of the temple of
Bel, superintending the excavations, was not content with these chrono-
logically important revelations, but sunk shafts in several places under
DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA. 545

Naram-Sin’s platform and searched the entire earth stratum, which was
‘about 9.25 meters deep, down to the underground water, for remains of
human civilization. This great sacrifice of time, labor, and persever-
ance was to be rewarded in a way that could not have been anticipated.
For, in one place, not far below Naram-Sin’s platform, was found an
altar of sun-dried bricks, the top of which was surrounded by a rim of
asphalt and covered with a layer of white ashes 6.5 centimeters thick
and the remains of burnt sacrificial animals; still farther below there
was unearthed a large, beautifully decorated terra-cotta vase in perfect
condition, an excellent example of old Babylonian ceramic art. And
in another part of these underground excavations the oldest archi-
tectural arch of a drainage canal, and still farther down, in the deepest
layers, or, what amounts to the same, back in many centuries beyond
the fifth millennium, everywhere interesting and valuable remains of
human civilization came to light, fragments of vessels of copper,
bronze, and clay, a mass of earthenware, so beautifully lacquered in
red and black that one might consider them of Greek origin, or at least
influenced by Greek art, had they not been found 8 meters deep under
Naram-Sin’s pavement.

We could go on a long time in this way were we to enumerate
all the achievements which foreign explorers, supported by the ener-
getic interest of their governments and aided by the liberality of
their countrymen, have accomplished and are still accomplishing on
the ruined sites of Assyria, Babylonia, and Elam. We could speak
of Hormuzd Rassam’s finding of Nebuchadnezzar’s palace in the
middle mound of Babylon, called Kasr; of two beautiful wells which
reached down to the water level of the Euphrates, and of other traces
of water balances in the extreme northern mound Babil, probably
the site of the hanging gardens of Semiramis. We could describe
the successful expeditions of Jules Oppert, William Bennett Loftus,
Sir Henry Rawlinson, and, above all, tell of the great work of the
Dieulafoys on the ruins of Susa. But we must forego this here, and
will mention in passing that only recently the French Government suc-
ceeded in acquiring for 5,000 francs the right from the Shah of Persia
to excavate for all time in Susa and the surrounding province and to
transfer half of the finds to France, while for the other half it secured
the first option. The French have been active in Susa since November,
1897, under the direction of De Morgan. De Sarzec and Haynes con-
tinue their labors with undiminished and untiring zeal. Philadelphia,
it is rumored, is equipping a new expedition, and Germany—is she to
continue for another half century to be an idle and admiring onlooker
of the glorious deeds of foreign nations? Shall she longer be content
to play the part of the poet, until it is proclaimed: Too late; the world
is already divided ‘
546 DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.

Germany may justly be proud that one of her sons, the Hannoverian
Georg Friedrich Grotefend (born in 1775 at Miinden), as a young
teacher at the gymnasium of Géttingen in 1802, had the genius to
decipher the cuneiform writing, and thus placed the key in the hand
of science which was to unlock not only the old Persian monuments
but also the great Babylonian-Assyrian cuneiform literature, and in
addition to that make possible the reading of the Armenian and Elamite
cuneiform script. Germany may also glory in the fact that a scholar
of German blood, Julius von Mohl, gave the first impulse to the excaya-
tions in Nineveh; she can also note with satisfaction that the enthu-
siastic interest which is being brought to the Assyriological studies,
especially in America, and from which grew the Philadelphia expedi-
tions, was awakened in the German universities. If, then, Germany
would at last arouse herself and secure a share of the priceless art and
written monuments of the old—nay, oldest—human civilization for
German museums and German science, this great national and scientific
undertaking may count with certainty upon the sympathy and self-
sacrificing support of all men and women who are zealous for the glory
of the German name and German science. No one can deny that the
excavations in the mounds of Mesopotamia have opened and are con-
tinually opening new and rich sources of highest importance for an
entire series of sciences—Old Testament research, ancient history and
geography, the history of art and archeology, the history of religion
and comparative mythology, Semitic and general philology, compara-
tive history of jurisprudence, the history of astronomy and mathe-
matics, and many other sciences. We must refrain from entering into
details and can only briefly refer to a few facts.

For the history of art, particularly the history of sculpture and
architecture, and in a measure also of painting and some of the indus
tries, such as stonecutting and pottery, a peculiar and highly important
link was recovered through the resurrection of Assyro-Babylonian
antiquity, the more important as the history of the development of the
Babylonian art can be followed up to the fifth pre-Christian millennium.
The image of Naram-Sin found at Diarbekr, the famous vulture stele
of Eannadu, the sculpture with the representation of Ur-Nina and his
sons, will forever remain milestones in the history of the art of west-
ern Asia, and of human artistic skill in general. And as it is an estab-
lished fact that ‘tthe forms of the column, and some other ornaments of
Greek art which are much in use, are first met in Assyrian sculptures,”
light from the East may also be hoped for to illumine the darkness
in which the origin of the oldest Greek art is in many respects still
enveloped.

The light which sprang from oriental ruined mounds has with one
stroke illuminated the sphere of the ancient peoples and States of

DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA. 547

western Asia, so distant in time and space, and restored it to ancient
history. The nebulous forms of Ninus, Semiramis, and the effeminate
Sardanapalus have been replaced by clear-cut individualities. The old
great culture States—the old Babylonian, Assyrian, and Chaldean
empires, their external political history and internal development in
commerce and industry, law and religion, manners and customs —enter
into our horizon with steadily increasing completeness and vividness.
At the same time they furnish us the most valuable information on the
history of the neighboring kingdoms, from Elam to Canaan. on the
ethnic movements which during four millenniums took place in the
large quadrangle of lands between the Black and Caspian seas and the
borders of Egypt-Arabia. And how many chronological and geo-
graphical riddles have not been solved or at least brought nearer to
solution!

Assyriological research which sprung from the ruins of Babylon
and Nineveh has above all shown itself fruitful for the science of the
Old Testament, and for it promises to bear still more fruit. For not
only is the Assyrian language most akin to Hebrew, affording new
information on questions of grammar, lexicography, and phraseology,
but there is scarcely a book of the Old Testament the interpretation of
whose subject-matter has not been aided to some extent by the cunei-
form monuments. The narratives and conceptions of the Book of
Genesis of the creation of the world—the serpent as the arch enemy of
the Deity and embodiment of all sin and malice, the ten patriarchs, and
the catastrophe of the Deluge which destroyed primitive humanity, so
well known and familiar to us from childhood—appear in a new light
through the surprising parallels which the Babylonian-Assyrian clay
books furnish. The Old Testament history, especially that of Israel
from Chedorlaomer to Belshazzar and the Achaemenian kings, inter-
linked with the history of Babel and Asshur, continually receives new
light from the latter. The chronology of the kings of Judah and
Israel is, through the chronology of the Assyrian empire, placed ona
more secure basis than was possible before; and since in the annals of
the Assyrian kings mention is made of the kings Ahab and Jehu, Pekah
and Hosea, Ahaz and Hezekiah, the possibility is afforded of comparing
more than one narrative of the historical and prophetical books, as,
for instance, that of Sennacherib’s campaign against Jerusalem, with
the records of the opposing side. Hebrew antiquity is connected by
hundreds of threads with that of western Asia, particularly of Baby-
lonia and Assyria. The deeper insight which we now have into the
belief and cult of the gods, especially into the nature of the sacrifices
of the Babylonians, their conception of the winged angelic beings after
the manner of the cherubim and seraphim, their views of life after
death, their bestowing of names, the peculiarities of their psalm poetry

5AS DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA.

in form and matter, their manners and customs, their system of meas-
ures and weights, ete., directly serve the advancement of Old Testa
ment theology and archeology.

The resplendence of the starry sky over the endless expanse of the
Euphrates’ land is something wonderful; the stars sparkle with the
greatest brilliancy, and the movements of the planets, the changes of
the moon, the various meteors, enchant the attention at night. The
Babylonians learned to calculate the course of the stars; their obser-
vations constituted the foundations of the astronomical studies of the
learned Alexandrians. And when we even to-day divide the circle
into 360 degrees, the day into twelve hours of sixty minutes; when
we count seven days of the week and name them after the planets;
when we divide the apparent path of the sun according to the
signs of the zodiac, we therein directly follow those old Chaldeans,
whose great scientific accuracy, while it has left traces in some other
things, has borne imperishable fruit in the science of astronomy, which
originated with them. And just as the first chapters of the history of
astronomy can only be written with the aid of cuneiform works or
notices, we must see in the same sources the history of mathematics,
geometry, metrology. Nay, in many respects our present civilization
is still under the influence of the hoary Babylonian; the week and its
seven days and the names of so many constellations, as well as our old
square measure, the cubit, and our old weight, the pound, have their
homes in Babylonia. Jurisprudence has good reason for the assumption
that the often striking agreements between Roman and Babylonian law

> SS

will clear up the origins of Roman law, which, at least partly, are still
obscure. In the exceedingly rich Babylonian-Assyrian ‘‘ contract liter-
ature” an abundant as well as a valuable source was disclosed for the
comparative history of jurisprudence; many other functions of state
institutions receive new and instructive data of a comparative and
historical nature from the results of the excavations. We have in
mind, for instance, the economic development of those ancient culture
states, or of the history of war in its manifold branches. Do not the
bas-reliefs on the alabaster slabs and bronzes of the Assyrian palaces
furnish instructive information as to the progress in the clothing and
arming of the Assyrian army, the developing of the cavalry, the
technique of fortification, the defense and attack by means of machines
of assault and mines, on scouting and pontoon building?

A new world is opened to human knowledge and inquiry through
the Babylonian-Assyrian excavations. But while we zealously collect
books and documents in our libraries and archives as the obvious con-
dition of scientific progress, we stand idly by when the oldest docu-
ments and books and art monuments of humanity, the invaluable
original material for a large number of scientific departments, go
DISCOVERIES IN MESOPOTAMIA. 549

abroad, so that German Assyriologists, Old Testament scholars. his-
torians, all who occupy themselves with the archeology of western
Asia, with the history of art, etc., are almost entirely dependent upon
foreign publications and foreign museums.

But still another consideration peremptorily demands that a change
of conditions should as soon as possible take place. We German
scholars continue to praise the ever-extended weleome which we
receive from the directors and assistants of the British Museum, the
Louvre, the National Library at Paris. We have to acknowledge the
generosity with which the foreign collections are opened to us, the
museum publications presented to us asa gift. But the more often
we enjoy English and French hospitality the more urgent becomes
the reminder, noblesse oblige. For more than fifty years German
science has been availing itself of the fruits of foreign labor and
sacrifice, and has been making use of achievements possible not only
through enormous expenditures of money, but also by continuous
sacrifices of time and comfort, health and life, on the part of the for-
eign explorers. It is not a small thing to do excavating yonder in
Babylonia, in a climate whose temperature reaches in the shade 39°
Réaumur (119° F.), among wild, ignorant, and treacherous Arabs, in
the vicinity of widely stretching swamps, full of deadly fever germs,
attacked by day and by night by ubiquitous insects. If the explorers
of other nations are constantly ready to endure such sacrifices of
health, nay, even life (the cemeteries of Bagdad and Aleppo hear wit-
ness to it), to science, it is certainly high time that Germany, too,
imbued with a similar lofty national and scientific enthusiasm and
readiness of self-sacrifice, put her hand to the raising of those treas-
ures which are most valued by herself. There is certainly no lack of
men who are ready for any sacrifice in the service of the fatherland
and of science. As for the money, all Germany will certainly be able
to do what a few generous citizens of a single American city, Phila-
delphia, have accomplished, they having defrayed the expenses of
three expeditions from 1888 to 1816, amounting to 280,000 marks
($70,000). The self-sacrifice of generous Germans, which from 1888
to 1891 rendered possible the successful excavations of the German
Orient committee at the mound of ruins in Sendjirli, in northern
Syria, will certainly not be wanting for researches on the Babylonian-
Assyrian ruined sites, which, in all human probability, will be much
more successful, and will put the newly organized German Orient
Society in a position to energetically carry out from now on uninter-
ruptedly and in a constantly widening compass its efforts for the study
of western Asiatic as well as Egyptian antiquity for the prosperity of
Gierman museums and German science and for the glory and honor of
the German fatherland.
“

ee HN Heart

to Nal ah ee A Sa i
eek i Fa Stacie .
tee we ee Fl Rei ie
nd TaD Sie ere aes
rakes OPA oon
} Sy otek [ya = Ohta teahin
; ee AA pieet ms tate 4
: , 1Q6) wee 4 Pol
yes ¥: tier te el “ey Cf tiaany -~laga cy
 WitAall eRe ee if wee :
Ae ee Se A

7 es wee Lae yeas im \
ere ef - hit tae aa pee

‘je ea ey Oe Kf? es oop 3
* (3 ie 7

bt. Stas i 108,

“4 — mi Pe RUGS (lap
og-f Rect ses, 174 Sige ip tfers oe

») Eo Gh eso La oe Ply es eee
ae ate. ae FF “fhe oye t kis ae

inte - Se Silty Sea ee
“HT heels yt ae aaa | ieee
sees 7 - th pes Seems ae
| + osc ee Sl nae ahs oF oS ri Tie oe
‘woad2\ aS, Dio diant Sale eae
2 ia vi ed eo el ah “6 ‘
: ietin® ny an ven inks nD raged
ci
+ AAA re uf am “aaah ange re
; ‘>a vt De inane vibinas ae ‘
, * Tig tah Aen jie > ae
ons ake baie eee as

on ideal
tick irae as
ar ee
eee at
r ; a = le fie Reet hn!
Smitnsonian Report, 1900.—Delitzsch

ASSYRIAN CHERUBIC FIGURE: WINGED HUMAN-HEADED LION.

Photograph from original in the British Museum
Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Delitzsch.
PILATE VIII

ASSYRIAN ASSAULT OF A CITY (CAMPAIGN OF SENNACHERIB, KING OF ASSYRIA
705-681 B. C.).

Photograph from original slab in the British Museum.
via

i ii i

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Delitzsch. PLATE IX,

y fe

8 wae

HY f RG any
ayy a

" vi
r| Ayal 7 Ue An Ai
"a — GS

tr 7 AG VA Ohi. ARR WR

GAG 'NABRBLADWALZ A & KZ
HAH MTA AAT ANA A AAA
NUS APE PA APA INP In)

TRANSPORTATION OF COLOSSAL WINGED BULL.

From the book of Psalms, page 172, in the Polyehrome edition of the Bible, by courtesy of
Prof. Paul Haupt.

Ud. Sarat Ee -
ate aS

= Se ee =
@is i> <r)
Hist Ga eed

Am

er Donen A

TABLET FROM THE TEMPLE OF THE SUN GOD OF SIPPARA.

dition of the Bible, by courtesy of

From the book of the Prophet Isaiah, in the Polychrome e
Prof. Paul Haupt.

Smithsonian Report, 1900.—Delitzsch.
PLATE X,

STATUE OF GUDEA.

From the book of the Prophet Ezekiel, page 171,
in the Polychrome edition of the Bible, by
courtesy of Prof. Paul Haupt.

ASSYRIAN BATTLE SCENE, FROM NORTHWEST PALACE, NIMRUD.

From the book of the Prophet Ezekiel, page 141, in the Polychrome edition of the Bible, by
courtesy of Prof. Paul Haupt.
ON ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELY ARDS.'

By HerrMaNn SOKELAND.

The Anthropological Society of Berlin has occasionally received
descriptions and seen exhibitions of simple weighing instruments
which were called, in German, desen, desemer, besemer, or besen. A
discussion in the Folklore Society of Berlin resulted in deciding in
favor of the form ‘‘desemer.””

I was thus led to inquire what was known about such balances.
Two ways suggested themselves for prosecuting this inquiry—by tes-
timonies and by monuments; that is to say, by reading what is recorded
on the subject in books, and by directly comparing German desemers
with more or less similar instruments of other peoples and ages which
are to be found among the treasures of the different museums of Berlin.

Though there are many sterling works upon the construction of
every conceivable description of balance, and an extensive literature
of weights and measures, yet I have succeeded in finding nothing
worth mention concerning the development of that which might well
be suspected to have been the first device for weighing—the desemer.
So crude a contrivance could have no interest for the artificer. Besides,
the simple but imperfect instrument which is called in north Germany
a desemer has become almost unknown to the present generation, and
the consequence has been an increasingly frequent confusion between
the desemer and the Roman steelyard. What we mean by a desemer,
or. as it is called in the Altmark, an Uenzel, is something like a steel-
yard of wood or metal having its counterpoise fixedly attached to it,
while the piece upon which it rests and turns can be shifted. The
Roman balance, or what is usually understood by a steelyard, the Ger-
man Pfiinder, has. on the other hand, a fixed fulerum and movable

1Translated from Verhandlungen der Berliner Gesellschaft fur Ethnologie, ete.,

Berlin, 1900.

2Tt has been assumed that this word is the same as “besen,’
which is ‘“besom.’”’ The ‘‘steelyard’’ is so called because it was first used on the
left_bank of the Thames, at a place where the Hanse merchants sold steel. It fae
quite possible that the original form of the balance used there was the desemer.—Tr.

551

’ the English form of
jae ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS.

counterpoise, making three essentially separate pieces instead of the
two of the desemer. We are to distinguish carefully, then, between

(1) The desemer, with fixed weight and shifting fulcrum, not neces-
sarily having more than two separate pieces, and

(2) The Roman balance, or common steelyard, with shifting weight
and fixed fulcrum, necessarily having three pieces at least.

Although the desemer is the subject of the present communication,
yet in order to form some rational conjecture concerning the course
of its evolution, to comprehend the relation between the three kinds—
of historical balances (the modern spring balances, aneroid balances,
torsion balances, horizontal balances, hydrometer balances, etc., being
left out of account), and to decide whether or not the two-pan balance
can be considered as the first step toward the unequal-armed balances,
it will be necessary to begin by studying the two-pan balance.

We shall be forced to rely, as I have said, almost exclusively upon
comparisons between objects in the collections; and before going
further it behooves me to express my grateful thanks to those who

Fics. 1, 2.—From Erman’s Egypt.

have them in charge for the assistance which they have generously
extended to me,and without which I should have been unable to-day to
collect and exhibit what I have to show you.

We shall have to admit both the two-pan balance and the desemer
in its rudest form as the simplest and most primitive weighing appa-
ratus. Indeed, it is probable that both inventions are primeval and
that they were made by different peoples at different times. The
invention was easy to make. Many occupations had made it clear
that if a bar be in any way supported in the middle, both ends must
be equally loaded in order to bring it into the horizontal position.
The neck yoke or portage bar, so often seen on ancient Egyptian
walls (figs. 1 and 2), or the plank resting on a narrow support, the
delightful seesaw of children, called in America a ‘‘ tilt,” in Germany
a ‘“*wippe,” constitutes a ready-made equal-armed balance as soon as
anybody thinks of putting it to that use.

Wilkinson, in his Ancient Egyptians, gives a drawing of a goldsmith,
ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS. Dds

after the picture found at Beni-Hassan. It shows two men occupied
4 7 = - a? ro r i a LY ne

in weighing gold rings. The figure of the balance seems to represent
about the simplest possible equal-armed scales, F ig. 4, albeit a sym-
bolical representation from the classical age of Greece, appears to
corroborate the inference from fig. 3 that the primitive equal-armed

. aS S "TeC aD BY rl The pe val 4 1

balance was supported from below.' That arrangement, however, did

| om PT ome
ee F Ww {
= Es Bee nse |
: bam iw
a y )
Ee Vee )

(3 @
SS A y Wg

yf

Fic. 3.—-From Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians.

not long prevail, for soon the beam begins to be suspended from a
central axis. For a time there was no contrivance, such as a tongue,
by which the horizontal position of the beam would be directly and
unmistakably shown. On the great amphora of the Taleides (fig. 5),
dating perhaps from the sixth century before Christ, such a balance is
figured. Instead of a tongue there is a
simple crosspiece serving to limit the
motion of the beam. Equilibrium in
weighing out a predetermined amount
of goods would be shown by the beam
beginning to swing freely, for the lowest
part of the crosspiece is on the side of
the goods pan,so that the weight pan
would be prevented from sinking too
much when it overbalanced the other.
The same object was accomplished by
the Egyptians more ingeniously (fig. 6).
One arm of the balance passed loosely through a ring which hung
upon a round rod above the beam and parallel to it. This rod was
often in the form of the hind leg of a baboon that crowned the
balance as an image of Thoth, the ordainer of weights and measures,
and god of time. Below the ring hung a short plummet. When this
plummet and ring were free the beam did not touch the ring, and the

Fic. 4.—From Baumeister’s Monuments
of Classical Antiquity.

1No. 3 is prevented from upsetting by elbows in the arms, and No.
a cylinder.—Tr.
sm 1900——39

4 by rolling on
554 ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS.

weight must be correct. This ring prevented either pan from sinking
too far.

Neither of these arrangements allowed the beam more than a yery
limited play, and from this it may be inferred that they lacked one of
the prime requisites of a good balance, namely, that the equilibrium
should be stable, so that when unloaded or carrying equal loads the
beam should tend to return to the horizontal position, however far it
might have been displaced. A later improvement was to suspend the
beam by a ring attached to its upper side in the middle, as is seen in
fice. 7, from Egypt. and fig. 9, from Japan. The same mode of sus-
pension was employed in the corresponding stage of development of
the balance in ancient
Greece and Rome.

Although the tongue
is wanting, being re-
placed in Egypt by a
somewhat differently
constructed plummet,
yet a fairly complete
weighing apparatus has
now been reached, since
the two prime requi-
sites of small friction
and a position of the
axis of rotation some-
what above the line of
junction of the points
of suspension of the
pans are both present.
That both these condi-
tions must be fulfilled
in order that the scales
may work well, the
reader need not be in-
formed. But whether
these important improvements may not have been adopted in the first
instance without any clear anticipation of their advantages is at present
left undecided. The monuments show that they were in fact adopted,
and weighing could be performed very well upon such a balance, pro-
vided the weigher were able to judge when the beam was horizontal.
In those days, however, as now, many persons were unable to do that,
and therefore a further improvement was called for. This was soon
supplied by the attachment of a finger or little stick at right angles to
the beam, which, passing across a line of some kind, whether in front
of it or behind it, or both, should point out any departure from the
position of equilibrium. This is what we call the tongue. It is shown

Fic. 5.—From Baumeister’s Monuments of Classical Antiquity.
?
:

nd
g
~
5

=

ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS. 555

i 4 Ur a >» 1 rr. ee . f
in figs. (and 8.'- The Egyptian contrivance taking the place of the

tongue, which was constructed of a plumb bob and three strines
> s

; answered its purpose as perfectly as the more usual finger rigidly
attached to the beam. Only in the horizontal position all the threads
are equally taut, and the slightest tilting slackens two of them.

:
j
;
.
7
:
j
:

The introduction of the tongue was a great advance. In many cases

Fic. 6.—From Wilkinson’s Ancient Egyptians.

it showed whether the balance maker understood the theory of the

balance. Even if he paid little attention to the friction, yet if he put
the axis of rotation in the right place he could weigh pretty well with
his balance in spite of all its imperfection, as a balance from Bavaria
belonging to the Museum of Costumes shows (fig. 10). It is composed
entirely of wood. Even the axis of rotation is made, in the crudest

Fig. 8.—From Erman’s Egypt.

Fig. 7.—From Erman’s Egypt.
Yet it will weigh light objects pretty well,

way, of a round stick.
With 4 pounds in each pan

because the axis of rotation is well placed.

1§0 reads S6keland’s text, and certainly
by two strings, between which is a little tongue fixed to the beam. eee
thus accomplishes the same purpose as the spirit level on a modern balance of pre-
cision, but more directly and neatly. A third cord to a plummet would be pe
purposeless and un-Egyptian. The tongue between the two cords might be dis-
pensed with, but the arrangement would be far more sensitive with it.—Tr.

- in fig. 7 the plumb bob seems to be hung
The plummet
556 ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS.

(2 kilos) it needs fully one-third of an ounce (10 grams), or one two-_
hundredth, to turn it sensibly. The regulations of the Prussian stand-
ards office would require it to turn with 30
grains (2 grams), or one one-thousandth.

The giving of a tongue to the balance may
be regarded as marking the substantial com-
pletion of the invention, and further improye-
ments were confined to details, to diminution
of friction, and the like. These last perfected
the instrument, and we may now pass to the
origination and perfecting of the simplest of
the unequal-armed weighing machines, which
is the desemer.

Fic. 9.—From Audsley’s Orna The same familiar experiences from which
aera of Japan. Len Wwe drew a conjectural account of the first

idea of an equal-armed
balance suffice for a possible explanation of
the origin of the desemer. In seesawing, as
in using the porter’s yoke, it could not but
become well known that very unequal loads
could be balanced by shifting the point of sup-
port. The idea would also be directly sug-
gested by the use of levers to lift great loads.
A desemer which should consist simply of a
staff without any special counterpoise and

without any graduation would be made as Fic. 10.—Berlin Museum of Ger-
man Costumes,

soon as it occurred to the person concerned
to apply the otherwise familiar
principle to this new purpose. I
therefore figure the first desemer
as an ordinary stick, with some-
thing fastened to the end of it to
carry the thing to be weighed.
That only a few different weights
could be distinguished by so rude
an apparatus is evident. But an
example from Assam (fig. 11) shows
that just such simple apparatus
vas actually used.
The staff is unloaded, so that,
long as it is, but few discrimina-
( ; tions of weights could be made
me EN Onecleventh ustural ze With it. But the beginning once
made, the inventor had learned how
to weigh with no instrument but a stick and a string. In practice it
would soon be found that the stick was inconveniently long, and if

r 2

+

fey

oe

ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS. 5

~
}

2)

=
(

the object were simply to ascertain whether a mass was up to a standard
weight or not, the apparatus could be made handier by simply thick-

ening the free end of the stick, as shown
by an example (fig. 12) from Bhutan. This
instrument only shows whether a thing does
or does not weigh as much as a pound (500
grams). A balance from Assam (fig. 13)
is made in the same way. Although it is
made of nothing but a cocoanut shell, a
stick, and three strings, it is not without a
certain elegance. Such simple apparatus
could be adapted even to the weighing of
gold and silver, as a balance (fig. 14) from
the Himalayas shows. It will weigh 6 grams
(93 grains) and 3 grams (46 grains). In spite
of the unsuitable shape of the staff, we here
first find two different weights marked. The
use of such a balance would be sure to sug-
gest the making of an instrument for dis-
criminating a greater range of weights. To
do that, however, the conical shape of the
staff would have to be abandoned because of
the tendency of the suspensory thread to
slip upon it. Yet it would not do to give
up the counterpoising effect of the thickened
staff, so that a knob at the end of a cylin-

it will weigh 14

17% ounces (500
grams).

Fic. 12.—Royal Ethnological Mu-
seum of Berlin. One-sixth natu-
ral size.

drical stick would force itself upon the
maker, as in the balance of fig. 17, which
comes from Thibet and is said to be a fish
scales. By means of the notches cut upon
it to mark places for the suspensory thread

ounces (374 grams), 25

ounces (75 grams), 123 ounces (350 grams),
orams), 25 ounces (650

This is a practical instrument, for the

i ge a ee ee ee eens ee ere eres iplieig

Fic. 13.—Royal Ethnological Mu-
seum of Berlin.

weights of 2 and 3 pounds.
running to the end of the staff, show

principle of the form and dimensions of a
good desemer is followed; but the hignest
weight that can be ascertained is small.
This fault, however, could easily be rectified
by loading the knob with lead, iron, sand,
or something, as our German desemer (fig.
16) shows. This will weigh up to 30 pounds,
first at intervals of 1 pound and for higher
Simple bras’ pegs, as everybody knows,
the weights with tolerable
558 ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELY ARDS.

accuracy. With this stage of development a handy instrument, sufli-
cient for ordinary purposes, was reached. How very simple such
a balance may be is shown by an example (fig. 17) from White Russia,
the property of Mr. Bartels. It consists of a stick with a natural
knob as counterpoise, and will weigh up to 30 pounds and more in
about twenty distinct quantities.

In many places such simple contrivances are
used even in the shops. But it must soon be
found that the state of dryness or moisture of
the wooden knob affects the weight, so that the
scale is deranged. In order to meet this difficulty
desemers were made with hollow counterpoises,
which could be filled with sand or pieces of iron
(fig. 18), and thus the balance could easily be cor-
—» rected. It is also possible that this arrangement
wa “=e served the cheat. On the frontiers desemers
Pr TE Royal Emnolosical Vere in use which, like that of fig. 19, had two

fourth natural size. scales, for German and Russian units.

All the desemers so far considered are wooden. But desemers were
also made of iron, as one from the province of Brandenburg (fig. 20)
and one from Tibet prove (fig. 21). This German instrument is only
for heavy goods, while the Tibetan runs from 1 ounce (30 grams)
to 5$ pounds (24 kilos). This balance can. only have been used for
weighing gold, since its
tiny pan would not hold
such a weight of other ma-
terial.

We have now made the
acquaintance of an entire

series of desemers, and have
seen that they can be used
to weigh from 30 pounds
down to a drachm—but not
with any one example. The
German desemei's are con-
fined to large weights; the
Thibetan to small ones.
The limitations were not,
however, universal; for

the Romans had desemers Fic. 15.—Royal Ethnological Museum of Berlin. One-
per ant ne seventh natural size.

which, in addition to an 5
essential advantage which they share with those of Tibet, also
embraced a much more extended series of weights.

Three Roman balances of this description have been brought to
light, of which only two, so far as is known, still exist. The finer of
these two, shown in fig. 22, is supposed to have come from Chinsi
ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS. 559

(Chesium). Although ofa peculiar form, it is a reeular desemer,
having the distinctive characteristics of a fixed counterpoise and
movable fulerum and consisting essentially of two pieces. Shortly
after its purchase it was made the subject of communications to the
Berlin Archeological Society by Messrs. Robert and Lehmann.! This
bronze instrument is in the form of a pillar whose capital and base
are cut into steps. Springing from the under side of the base is the

Fre. 16.—Museum of German Costumes. Two-fifteenths natural size.

front half of a panther, finely worked. This is the counterpoise. At

the head of the pillar there is an eyelet from which hang three hooks,
each terminating in a swan’s head. Parallel to the pillar and above it
(when the balance is in use) is a straight bridge, flat in the vertical
plane, which carries a scale of numbers. For every number there ts

a notch in the under side of the bridge. Instead of the usual suspen-

Fic. 17.—Two-fifteenths natural size.

in which a slit or oblong hole

sory thread there is a bronze handle, |
form of a

incloses the bridges The lower part of the handle is in the '

plate, and the lower edge of the hole in it, which edge is horizontal, is

sharp enough to enter loosely in the notches in the bridge. |
In 1898, Assistant Director Pernice subjected the balance to an

°s = on »Q ‘ . reve) S. 38.
1 Archiologischer Anzeiger, 1889, 5. 117; 1891, 13
560 ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS.

exact examination and communicated his results to the Archeological
Society.’ Direct weighings showed Pernice that the three hooks must
have carried a pan weighing 14 ounces avoirdupois (400 grams, or
a Roman pound and a quarter), for this makes the weights agree
with the numbers engraved above the notches. The letter A marks
the zero, and the pan must balance when the fulcrum is placed there.
The scale begins with a Roman ounce (0.96 ounce avoirdupois, 27.288
grams; and the pound of a part of Etruria was, according to Hultsch,

Fic. 18.—Museum of German Costumes. Two-fifteenths natural size.

the same as the Roman pound). Then follow 2, 3, 4,5, 6, 7,8, 9, 10, 12
ounces, or | Roman pound. The differences now begin to be greater;
for the numbers run 1, 13, 14, 14, 1%, 2, 24, 24, 3, 34, 4, 44. 5, 6, %
8, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40 pounds.

The second Roman desemer is now, as Mr. Pernice shows, in Pa-
lermo.* Except that it is provided with a bridge, it resembles the iron
g. 20). But its scale showed that it gave

b=)

desemer of Brandenburg (fi

Fic. 19.—Museum of German Costumes. Two-fifteenths natural size.

weights even more exactly than the Clusium balance. As before let-
ter A marks the zero, placing the fulcrum at which before weighing,
equilibrium must be produced before the goods to be weighed are at-
tached. The scale then proceeds from 1 ounce by single ounces to 2
pounds, and then as follows: 24, 24, 22, 3, 34, 4, 43, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12,
15 pounds.

The third Roman desemer is known only from a figure in a Paris MS.

'Tahrbuch des Kaiserl. archiolog. Institutes, Vol. XIII, 1898, 2d part.
*A figure of this desemer is to be seen in the Annali for 1889, Tavola L.
ANCIENT LESEMERS OR STEELYARDS. 56]

It was quite similar to the other two, but weighed more exactly than
the Clusium balance and ran up to 40 pounds. But both this and the
Palermo balance are far inferior in finish. The Clusium balance prob-
ably dates from the third or fourth century before Christ. ae
Pernice’s description of this balance on the archeological and metro-
logical sides is exhaustive. But as a member of the developmental
series of those balances called desemers, it then appears that a ereat
technical advance is made over the instruments previously considered:

Fig, 20.—Museum of German Costumes, ete. Two-fifteenths
natural size,

I refer to the raising of the bridge above the staff which carries the
load and counterpoise. Nothing like this has been seen in any of the
desemers previously examined. Why did the Roman deface his ele-
gant instrument with this unbeautiful bridge? At first sight one might
be inclined to suppose that it was simply to make the numbers show
better. But that hypothesis will not answer. The bridge, with the
scale, might just as well have carried the load and counterpoise too.
There must have been some other reason, and a good reason there is.

The two prime requisites of a
good balance are, as is well
known, that the friction shall be
as small as possible and that the
equilibrium shall be stable wheth-
er the balance is loaded or not.
The center of gravity must, for
that purpose, be below the point
of support.’

Now German desemers, as we
know by experience, remain still
when in equilibrium without os-

Fic. 21.—Royal Ethnological Museum of Berlin.

cillating. They can not oscillate, oe ae ees

for the moment the departure

from equilibrium is sufficient to overcome friction they turn, with no
tendency to return, and slide down on one side or the other, because
the point of support is below the center of gravity. If a pound is In
1 one side or other is pressed down,

equilibrium on the desemer, anc

1 Tf it is too far below, the balance will not be sensitive enough; that is, its position
asmall change of the weight in one pan.

of equilibrium will be too little changed hy
joint of support, the oscillations and with

If the centerof gravity is too close below the }
them the whole operation of weighing will become slow and tedious.

as the friction remains the same the excess of weight in one pan required to overcome

In fact, as long
562 ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS.

instead of tending to restore itself (as an oscillating balance will), it
tends to go farther, so that the side pressed down appears to grow
heavier. Such behavior (called ** upsetting” in English) is a grave
fault, for, in order to weigh, it is necessary not only to shift the
fulcrum back and forth, but, all the while, to take care that the bar
is horizontal.

The Romans perfectly understood this fault. In saying this it is
assumed that the balance of Clusium does not represent the first in-
vented form. It must, surely, have had its forerunners, which doubt-

“hse i> sam UML VR
- Aas say AL Nt x KY

UE rs TTT D PLU A) " 10

4 Witte: Ly,
escrhddBidicisedd saitus Giidssssersat se istess

Fic. 22.—Antiquarium, Berlin. Reproduced from Yearbook of German Imperial Archeological
Institute, Vol. XIII, 1898. One-third natural size.

less resembled the German desemers in respect to the position of their
point of support, and therefore shared their inconvenience. In order
to use such a balance in retail trade it was necessary to have one which
would come back to the position of equilibrium. It is one thing to
weigh a given ee or collection of things, Ww Bich} is almost all that our

the friction remains just the same whatever the height of the fulcrum; for EE: the
weight acts more nearly at right angles to the radius from the center of rotation to
the center of gravity when they are closer together, yet the leverage is smaller in the
same proportion. It is, therefore, generally better to rely upon optical means, such as
avery long tongue, to show small departures from equilibrium, rather than to bring the
center of gravity so near the axis of rotation that the friction can arrest the balance
inany sensibly oblique position. But the most intolerable fault is to have the center
of gravity above the axis of rotation, so that there is a tendency to ‘‘upset.’’—Tr.
ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS. 563

German desemers are used for, and quite another to weigh out a
desired quantity of any commodity, which is the common problem of
the retailer. If it is desired to weigh a goose, or several fish in a net,
it can be done with a common desemer, with the requisite skill. But
to weigh out 5 pounds of pease with a desemer is a difficult task, indeed.
for none can be taken out or put in while the balance is in action,
because it does not oscillate at all, but simply ‘‘ upsets” as soon as the
departure from equilibrium is sufficient to overcome the friction
Now, since it was the custom in ancient Rome to use balances on the
principle of our desemers in shops, as the Clusium balance proves, it
follows that men were directly required to think out improvements
whereby the desemers, when loaded, should oscillate. Now the two-
pan balances made by the Romans were constructed essentially right.
The position of the axis of rotation was correct, which is the essential
condition for the oscillation of the balance. In order to make their
desemers oscillate, and so make them practicable for shopkeepers, the
Romans introduced the bridge above the pillar. The lower end of the
bronze handle from which the other piece hangs is quite above the
center of gravity of the latter, so that a fine oscillation and return from
every oblique position must have resulted. You can see how the
bridge works by simply attaching one made of wire to the common
German desemer, when you see how much better it works and how
well it oscillates. The ancient Romans, doubtless, attached that ugly
bridge to their beautiful balance just to cure it of that quite intoler-
able fault. It looks like an excrescence upon the original design.

If you ask why desemers so seldom are furnished with such bridges,
the answer is it is not the only requirement that a balance should oscil-
late; it must also be sensitive. It has already been remarked that
a good balance ought to have its point of support only a little above
the common center of gravity of the beam, the load (placed where
attached), and the counterpoise. The higher the point of support the
more the sensibility is lost.! For example, this German desemer
leaves the horizontal position with an overload of one-fifth or one-
sixth of an ounce (5 or 6 grams), but, with the bridge, it needs about
half an ounce (15 grams) to give a perceptible turning. So it is with
the Clusium balance; it needs a third of an ounce to turn It percepti-
bly, so that it never could have answered for tine weighing. In point
of sensibility, therefore, this balance left much to be desired.

- Whether the Romans ever improved any further upon this type of
balance, or passed directly to the steelyard with the running weight,
or to this latter through the two-pan balance with a rider, such as has
been found in Pompeii, remains undecided. The sensibility of the
Clusium balance certainly might have been greatly increased without

ig. 17 5 des thi tc ine sensibility with rapid weighing and
1 Fig. 17 shows a desemer which must combine sensibility with raj ching

which certainly would not upset, but would oscillate. —Fr.
564 ANCIENT DESEMERS OR STEELYARDS.

spoiling the oscillations. Thus the sensibility might easily have been
made four times as great, only doubling the period of oscillation.
The Thibetan desemers show this. That of fig. 15, for example, has
a general resemblance to the German desemers, except for having a
pan. But the mode of suspensior by the string is altogether different.
Our desemers are balanced on the string, which is stretched straight
by the handle, while the Thibetan string forms a sling which closes
upon the staff. This alone would suffice to raise the axis of rotation
to about the middle of the staff; but, in addition, grooves are cut in
the staff of such a form as to raise the turning axis still higher. The
result is that the Thibetan desemers oscillate; and, in fact, their sensi-
bility is quite high, considering the simplicity of their construction.
We have seen that they would show distinctly the effects of very small
weights. Even our German desemer, hung in the same way, will show
a departure from equilibrium of only one-seventh to one-tenth of an
ounce (3 or 4 grams). I hardly need say that cutting the grooves
involves the displacement of the scale. It will now be placed on the
side of the staff, where it can be read. off during the operation of
weighing. It is not necessary, as with our desemers, to turn the thing
over and look on the under side. (The desemer of fig. 17 certainly
would not upset.)

We now come to the puzzling question, how it can be that the
German desemers are so much ruder than those of Thibet. As far as
I can see there can be no mistake about the fact, though it is so
astounding as to raise doubt at first. I have examined about fifty
desemers, of which thirty were our property and were in actual use at
the time we acquired them. The mode of weighing on strings is the
same in all, and the scale is always on the under side. Indeed, the
wooden handle for the string can not be managed in any other way.
The Russian desemers were used in the same way.' Why did not we,
like the Thibetan mountaineers, discover this simple improvement?
My opinion is that it was because we were not forced to it.

In conclusion, let me call attention to one thing more about the
Clusium balance. We have seen that this weighs down to a single
ounce. Now, inthe Altmark, the desemer is called *‘uenzel.” Before
the discovery of the Clusium balance no satisfactory explanation of
this name had ever been suggested. No German desemers capable of
weighing to an ounce are known. But perhaps it is now permissible
to infer that in the Altmark, which is very rich in Roman remains,
balances were formerly in use which, like that of Clusium, weighed to
ounces, and that, as the steelyard is called in German a ‘* pfunder,” so
the name of these balances passed over to the ordinary desemers and
has been retained to this day.

‘But not that of fig. 17, which must oscillate and has a string.—Tr.
MUTUAL HELPFULNESS BETWEEN CHINA AND THE
UNITED STATES.!

By His Excellency Wu Tine-Fana,

Chinese Minister to the United States.

Trade, which lies at the foundation of international intercourse, has
an eminently selfish origin. It is a constant maneuver on the part of
men to sell dear and buy cheap. Since each party in a commercial
transaction seeks only his own advantage, it was for a long time
thought that one of them could gain only at the expense of the other.
Thus the ** mercantile system,” which for centuries heid Europe spell-
bound, made gold-getting the end and aim of all commercial activities.
The promotion of friendly relations with the object of securing an
exchange of benefits was not considered of even secondary importance.
Then came the navigation laws, which had for their avowed purpose
the crippling of all rival shipping by laying a heavy tax upon the
carrying trade of foreigners. Though such measures are no longer
considered advisable in the commercial world, their baleful effects are
still felt in the political thought of the present time.

Nations now enter into friendly relations with each other because
it is believed that both sides are benefited by such relations. Their
transactions can not be one-sided affairs, for the simple reason that it
takes two to make a bargain. If one party is dissatisfied with the
arrangement, the other party will not long have an opportunity to
enjoy its benefits.

Confucius was once asked for a single word which might serve as a
guiding principle through life. ‘‘Is not reciprocity such a word?”
answered the great sage. ‘‘ What you do not want done to yourself,
do not do to others.” This is the ‘‘ golden rule” which should govern
the relations of man to man. It is the foundation of society. It lies
at the bottom of every system of morality and every system of law.
If it holds good with respect to individuals, it ought to hold good
with respect to nations, which are but large aggregations of individ-
uals. Therefore, if permanent relations are to be established between
two nations, reciprocity must be the keynote of every arrangement
entered into between them.

1 Reprinted by permission from the North American Review, No. DXXIV, July,

1900. 569
566 CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES.

Having recognized this great principle of international intercourse,
how shall we apply it to the case of China and the United States in
such a manner as to result in mutual helpfulness? Assuredly, the
first thing to do is to take a general survey of the situation and see
what are the present needs of each country. Then we shall perceive
clearly how each may help the other to a higher plane of material
development and prosperity.

The United States now has its industrial machinery perfectly
adjusted to the production of wealth on a scale of unprecedented mag-
nitude. Of land, the first of the three agents of production enumer-
ated by economists, the United States is fortunately blessed with an
almost unlimited amount. Its territory stretches from ocean to ocean,
and from the snows of the Arctic Circle to the broiling sun of the
Tropics. Within these limits are found all the products of soil, forest,
and mine that are useful to man. With respect to labor, the second
agent of production, the United States at first naturally suffered the
disadvantage common to all new countries. But here the genius of
the people came into play to relieve the situation. That necessity,
which is ‘*the mother of invention,” substituted the sewing machine
for women’s fingers, the McCormick reaper for farm hands, the cotton
gin for slaves. The efficiency of labor was thereby multiplied, in
many cases, a hundredfold. The ingenious manner in which capital,
the third agent of production, is put to a profitable use, is equally
characteristic of America. It is well known that there is an enormous
amount of capital in this country seeking investment. Everyone
who has a little to invest wishes to obtain as large a return as possi-
ble. Since competition reduces profits, the formation of industrial
combinations, commonly called trusts, is for the capitalist the logical
solution of the difficulty. These enable the vast amount of capital
in this country to secure the best results with the greatest economy.
Whether they secure ‘tthe greatest good to the greatest number” is
another matter.

The development of the resources of the United States by the use of
machinery and by the combination of capital has now reached a point
which may be termed critical. The productive power of the country
increases so much faster than its capacity for consumption that the
demand of a population of 75,000,000 is no sooner felt than supplied.
There is constant danger of overproduction, with all its attendant con-
sequences. Under these circumstances, it is imperative for the farm-
ers and manufacturers of the United States to seek an outlet for their
products and goods in foreign markets. But whither shall they turn 4

At first sight Europe presents perhaps the most inviting field. Both
blood and association point in this direction. But here the cottons of
Lowell would have to compete with the fabrics of Manchester. The
silk manufactures of Paterson would stand small chance of supplant-
ee a

CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES. 567

ing the finished products of Lyons. The sugar of Louisiana would
encounter a formidable rival in the beet-sugar of Germany. Eneland
could probably better afford to sell her coal and iron ch aper than
Pennsylvania, and Russia could supply Kuropean markets with wheat
and petroleum as well as could Ohio and Indiana. Competition would
be keen and destructive.

Central and South America have as yet too sparse a population for
the immense territory they cover to meet the conditions of a market
for American goods. Some decades must elapse before American
farmers and manufacturers can look to that quarter for relief.

But on the other side of the Pacific lies the vast Empire of China,
which in extent of territory and density of population exceeds the
whole of Kurope.- To be more particular, the province of Szechuen
can muster more able-bodied men than the German Empire. The
province of Shantung can boast of as many native-born sonsas France.
Scatter all the inhabitants of Costa Rica or Nicaragua in Canton, and
they would be completely lost in that city’s surging throngs. Trans-
port all the people of Chile into China and they would fill only a city
of the first class. Further comparisons are needless. Suffice it to say
that China has her teeming millions to feed and to clothe. Many of
the supplies come from outside. The share furnished by the United
States was considerably larger last year than ever before, and might be
greatly increased. According to the statistics published by the United
States Government, China in 1899 took American goods to the value
of $14,437,422, of which amount $9,844,565 was paid for cotton goods.
All the European countries combined bought only $1,454,363 worth of
American cotton manufactures during that same period. The amount
of similar purchases made by the Central American States was
$737,259; by all the South American countries, $2,713,967. It thus
appears that China is the largest buyer of American cotton goods.
British America comes next in the list with purchases amounting to
$2,759,164. Cotton cloth has a wide range of uses in all parts of the
Chinese Empire, and it is almost impossible for the supply to equal
the demand.

Up to the year 1898 cotton goods and kerosene were the only articles
imported from the United States in large enough quantities to have a
value of over $1,000,000. But I notice in the statistics published by
the United States Government for the year 189) that manufactures
of iron and steel have also passed that mark. This is due to the fact
that China has now begun in real earnest the work of building rail-

1 j ic rypas 4 fy » re
roads. The demand for construction materials is great. The value
lov7 ‘ ’ ~ R799 © ‘
ar from the United States was $732,212.

Besides the articles mentioned there are many others of ge
origin which do not figure in the customs returns as such. These fin
a a 2 |= - . rAIE , Pe .
their way into China through adjacent countries, especially Hongkong.

of locomotives imported last y
568 CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES.

At least three-fourths of the imports of Hongkong, notably wheat,
flour, and canned goods, are destined for consumption in the Chinese
mainland.

Such is the present condition of trade between the United States
and China. That trade can be greatly extended. Let the products
of American farms, mills, and workshops once catch the Chinese fancy,
and America need look no farther for a market. The present popu-
larity of American kerosene illustrates the readiness of the Chinese to
accept any article that fills a long-felt want. They have recognized
in kerosene a cheap and good illuminant, much superior to their own
nut oil, and it has consequently found its way into distant and outly-
ing parts of the Empire, where the very name of America is unknown.
Stores in the interior now send their agents to the treaty ports for it.
In the same way foreign-made candles, because cheaper than those of
home make, are selling easily in China. I would suggest that Amer-
ican farmers and manufacturers might find it to their advantage to
study the wants and habits of the Chinese and the conditions of trade
in China.

Thus we see that China can give the United States a much-needed
market. What, on the other hand, can the United States do for
China? Let us consider China’s stock of the three requisites for the
production of wealth—land, labor, and capital.

The Chinese Empire embraces a continuous territory which stretches
over 60 degrees of longitude and 34 degrees of latitude. Nature has
endowed this immense region with every variety of soil and climate,
but has, however, scattered her bounties over it with an uneven hand.
That portion which comprises the eighteen provinces of China Proper,
extending from the Great Wall to the China Sea, and from the Tibetan
plateau to the Pacific Ocean, is more highly favored than the rest.
Whenever China is mentioned it is generally this particular por-
tion of the Empire that is meant. On this land hundreds of genera-
tions of men have lived and died without exhausting its richness and
fertility. There remains for generations to come untold wealth of
nature lying hidden within the bowels of the earth. The mines of
Yunnan, though they have for centuries supplied the Government
mints with copper for the coining of those pieces of money commonly
known as cash, only await the introduction of modern methods of
extraction to yield an annual output as large as that of the famous
Salumet and Hecla mines. The sands of the Yangtze, washed down
from the highlands of Tibet, contained so much gold that that part of
its course as it enters the province of Szechuen is called the River of
Golden Sand. Much more important than these, however, are the
deposits of coal which underlie the surface formation of every
province. All varieties of coal are found, from the softest lignite to
the hardest anthracite, and in such quantities that, according to the
et a

CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES. 569

careful estimate of Baron Richtofen, the famous German traveler and
geologist, the province of Shansi alone can supply the whole world, at
the present rate of consumption, for three thousand years? In ee
cases beds of iron ore lie in close proximity to those of coal and can
hence be easily worked and smelted. In short, the natural resources
of China, both in variety and quantity, are so great that she stands
second to no other nation in potential wealth. To reduce this poten-
fality to actuality is for her the most important question of the hour.
For this purpose she has an almost unlimited supply of labor at her
command.

Every village can count its thousands of laborers, every city its tens
of thousands. Experience proves that the Chinese as all-round laborers
can easily distance all competitors. They are industrious, intelligent,
and orderly. They can work under conditions that would kill a man
of a less hardy race; in heat that would suit a salamander or in cold
that would please a polar bear, sustaining their energies through long
hours of unremitting toil with only a few bowls of rice.

But have the Chinese sufficient capital to carry on their industrial
operations? They are a nation of shopkeepers. What capital they
have is usually invested in small business ventures. It is their instinct
to avoid large enterprises. Thus the capital in the country, though
undoubtedly large, may be likened to a pile of sand on the beach. It
has great extent, but is so utterly lacking in cohesion that out of it no
lofty structure can be built. Before China can be really on the high
road to prosperity it must find means of fully utilizing every economic
advantage that it has. Modern methods are its greatest need. Here
is America’s opportunity.

The Yankee is never seen to better advantage than when experi-
menting with a new idea on a colossal scale. To direct vast or novel
enterprises is a perfectly new experience to the Chinaman. Give him
a junk and he will with ease ride out the fiercest typhoon that ever
lashed the seas. But give him an ocean leviathan of the present day,
with its complicated engines, dynamos, compasses, and other modern
appliances for navigating a ship, and he will be truly ‘‘all at.sea” in
knowing how to handle it, even in a dead calm. .

Of all public works, China has most pressing need of railroads.
Only ten years ago it would have been difficult to convince one man
in ten of the immediate necessity for the introduction of railroads into
all the provinces of the Empire. To-day, at least nine out of eveny ten
believe that railroads ought to be built as fast as possible. This com-
plete change of public opinion within so short a time shows perhaps
better than anything else how fast China is getting into the swing of
the world’s forward movement. There are at present only about 400
miles of railroad open to traffic throughout the whole country, and all
the lines building and projected foot up to 5,000 or 6,000 miles more.

sm 1900——40
570 CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES.

China proper covers about as many square miles as the States east of
the Mississippi. Those States, with a population of 50,000,000, require
100,000 miles of railroad to do their business. China, with a popula-
tion eight times as large, would naturally be supposed to need at least
about an equal mileage of roads for her purposes. It would not be
strange if the activity in railroad construction in the United States soon
after the civil war should find a parallel in China in coming years.

The building of railroads in China does not partake of the specula-_
tive character which attended the building of some of the American
roads. There are no wild regions to be opened up for settlement, no
new towns to be built along the route. Here is a case of the railroad
following the population, and not that of the population following the
railroad. <A road built through populous cities and famous marts has
not long to wait for traffic. It would pay from the very beginning.

The first railroad in China was built for the transportation of coal
from the Kaiping mines to the port of Taku. I was chiefly instru-.
mental in securing its construction. The line, though in an out-of-the
way corner of the Empire, proved so profitable from the very start
that it was soon extended to Tientsin and Pekin in one direction, and
to Shanhaikwan, the eastern terminus of the Great Wall, in the other.
Not long ago it was thought advisable to build a branch beyond Shan-
haikwan to the treaty port of Newchwang. This branch has been
completed and will soon be opened to traffic. Minister Conger, in a
recent letter to the State Department, says that the road now pays a
dividend of 14 per cent on the whole capital invested, and that when
the entire line is open a dividend of 30 per cent is expected. The era
of railroad building in China may be said to have just dawned. China
desires nothing better than to have Americans lend a hand in this great
work.

It gave me great pleasure two years ago to obtain for an American
company a concession to build a railroad between Hankow, the great
distributing center of central China, and Canton, the great distributing
center of south China. The line is to connect with the Lu-Han line
on the north and with the Kowloon line on the south, and throughout
its whole length of more than 900 miles will run through opulent cities,
fertile valleys, and cultivated plains. The construction of such a line
by Americans through the heart of China can not fail to bring the
people of the two countries into closer relations.

Besides railroads, there are other public works which China must
undertake sooner or later. Among them are river and harbor improve-
ments, city water supplies, street lighting and street railways. Owing
to the traditional friendship between the two countries our people are
well disposed toward Americans. They are willing to follow their
lead in these new enterprises, where they might spurn the assistance
of other people with whom they have been on less friendly terms in
the past.
-

CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES. 571

Such being the economic interdependence of China and the United
States what policy should each country pursue toward the other in
order to gain the greatest good from that relationship? In my jude-
ment true reciprocity is impossible unless each country has perfect
confidence in the other and displays on all occasions a desire for fair
play and honest dealing.

Now, reciprocity demands the ‘open door.” China long ago
adopted that policy in her foreign intercourse. She has treaty rela-
tions with all the European powers, together with the United States,
Brazil, Peru, Mexico, Japan, and Korea, All these are equally
“favored nations” in every sense of the term. The Swede and the
Dane enjoy the same rights, privileges, immunities, and exemptions
with respect to commerce, navigation, travel, and residence throughout
the length and breadth of the Empire as are accorded to the Russian
or the Englishman. Any favor that may be granted to Japan, for
instance, at once inures to the benefit of the United States. Indeed,
China in her treatment of strangers within her gates has ina ereat
many respects gone even beyond what is required by international
usage. According to the usual practice of nations no country is
expected to accord to foreigners rights which are not enjoyed by its
own subjects or citizens. But China has been so long accustomed to
indemnify foreigners who have fallen victims to mob violence that she
is looked upon in a sense as an insurer of the lives and property of all
foreigners residing within her borders. To such an extent is this
idea current among foreigners in China that some years ago an Ameri-
can missionary in the Province of Shantung, who happened to have
some articles stolen from his house in the night, estimated his loss at
$60, and actually sent the bill through the American minister at Pekin
to the Foreign Office for payment. The Chinese tariff also favors for-
eigners resident in China much more than it does the Chinese them-
selves. Most articles imported for the use of foreigners are on the
free list. Such is the treatment which Americans, in common with
the subjects and citizens of other foreign powers, receive in China.

Justice would seem to demand equal consideration for the Chinese
on the part of the United States. China does not ask for special favors.
All she wants is enjoyment of the same privileges accorded other nation-
alities. Instead, she is singled out for discrimination and made the
subject of hostile legislation. Her door is wide open to the people of
the United States, but their door is slammed in the face of her people.
1 am not so biased as to advocaée any policy that might be detrimental
to the best interests of the people of the United States. If they
think it desirable to keep out the objectionable class of Chinese, by
all means let them do so. Let them make their immigration laws as
strict as possible, but let them be applicable to all foreigners. W ould
it not be fairer to exclude the illiterate and degenerate classes of all
572 CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES,

nations rather than to make an arbitrary ruling against the Chinese
alone? Would it not be wiser to set up some specific test of fitness,
such as ability to read intelligently the American Constitution? That
would give the Chinese a chance along with the rest of the world, and
yet effectually restrict their immigration. Such a law would be prac-
tically prohibitory as far as all except the best educated Chinese are
concerned, for the reason that the written language of the Chinese is
so entirely different from the spoken tongue that few of the immigrants
would be able to read with intelligence such a work as the American
Constitution. Nevertheless, a law of that kind would be just in spirit
and could not rouse resentment in the Chinese breast.

Since the law and the treaty forbid the coming of Chinese laborers
I must do all I can to restrict their immigration. I should, however,
like to call attention to the fact that the Chinese exclusion act, as
enforced, scarcely accomplishes the purpose for which it was passed.
It aimed to provide for the exclusion of Chinese laborers only, while
freely admitting all others. As a matter of fact, the respectable mer-
chant, who would be an irreproachable addition to the population of any
country, has been frequently turned back, whereas the Chinese high-
binders, the riffraff and scum of the nation, fugitives from justice and
adventurers of all types, have too often effected an entrance without
much difficulty. This is because the American officials at the entrance
ports are ignorant of Chinese character and dialects and can not always
discriminate between the worthy and the unworthy. Rascals succeed
in deceiving them, while the respectable but guileless Chinese are’
often unjustly suspected, inconveniently detained, or even sent back
to China. A number of such cases have been brought to my atten-
tion. It must not be supposed, however, that I blame any official. In
view of their limited knowledge of Chinese affairs, it is not strange
that the officials sometimes make mistakes. The Americans judge us
wrongly, just as we often misjudge them. This unpleasant state of
things is to be deplored, and I would suggest that difficulties might be
avoided if the regular officials, in passing on immigrant Chinamen,
could have the assistance of Chinese consuls, or people fitted by train-
ing and experience in China for the discharge of such duties.

Great misunderstanding exists in the United States in regard to
Chinese questions. There is a current fear that if all restrictions on
Chinese immigration were removed, the United States would be flooded
with my countrymen. Inasmuch as China contains some 400,000,000
inhabitants, a wholesale emigration would certainly be a serious mat- |
ter for the people of the country to which they removed. But there
is no danger of such a calamity befalling the United States. Those
who view it with alarm only show how profoundly ignorant they are
of Chinese character. One of the most striking features of the con-
servatism of the Chinese is their absolute horror of travel, especially
'

©

CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES. 5738

by sea. They regard any necessity for it as an unmitigated evil.

They do not often visit neighboring towns, much less adjoining proy-

inces or foreign countries. So pronounced is their prejudice against
travel that, until they could be educated into a different view, Chinese
railroads would for the first few years have to depend for their profits

on freight rates rather than passenger fares. To the American or

Englishman who proceeds to go abroad as soon as he bas accumulated
a little money, their state of mind may seem incomprehensible, but it
is nevertheless a fact that must be taken into account.

How, then, is the presence of so many Chinese in America explained 4
By the fact that some forty years ago, when the Pacific railway was
building, there was great scarcity of laborers. Agents went to China
and induced a considerable number of Chinese to come to this country
and assist in the construction of the railroad. After their work was
done most of them returned home, taking their earnings with them.
They told their relatives of the exceptional opportunities for making
money in this country, and they in turn decided to seek their fortunes
here. Were it not for this circumstance, there would be no more Chi-
nese in this country than there are in Europe, where wages are also
much higher than in China. As it is, all who are in the United States
are from the province of Canton, and they come from two or three
places only of that one province.

It has been said that the rules of intérnational intercourse as observed
by Western nations among themselves are not applicable to intercourse
with Eastern nations. ‘True it is that the people of the East speak dif-
ferent languages and have different customs, manners, religions, and
ways of thinking from the people of the West. But the rule of con-
traries is by no means a safe guide through the intricacies of social
observances. By disregarding the common civilities of life, which are
considered very important in China, and by assuming a lofty air of
superiority, foreigners frequently make themselves unpopular in China.
Americans have the reputation there of being abrupt, English dicta-
torial. In recent years competition in trade with people of other
nationalities has reduced their profits and forced them, for the sake of
obtaining custom, to be more suave in their manners. Foreigners are

sometimes guilty, also, of practicing all sorts of tricks upon the unsus-

pecting natives. It should be remembered that the Chinese standard
1 j fv Tas 7A9q 7? Ps ‘hi Ts] ne
of business honesty is very high. The “‘yea, yea” of a Chinese ne
i Jot a ser ' paper is necessary INC
chant is as good as gold. Not a scrap of paper is ey 16 ie
him to his word. Friendly feeling between the people of China anc
. a F a5 * . if : ayy -
those of the United States would be greatly promoted if the ae
cans would always remember, in whatever dealings they may have with
¢ . - ey)

the Chinese, that ‘‘ Honesty is the best policy.
I believe that the Western nations want to treat the people of the
Orient fairly. It is gratifying to see that Japan has been able to
574 CHINA AND THE UNITED STATES.

revise her exterritorial treaties, and it speaks well for the fairminded-
ness of England and other countries that they have thrown no obstacles
in her way. I hope that the day will soon come when China may fol-
low in her footsteps.

In the meantime China observes with interest that the planting of
the Stars and Stripes in the Philippine Islands will make the United
States her neighbor in the future, as she has been her friend in the
past. It is her earnest hope that the United States will make no
attempt to bar Asiatics from her new shores, but that she will seize
this opportunity to strengthen friendly relations of mutual helpfulness
between the two countries. No other nation has a stronger claim to
the confidence of China than has the United States. The very first
article of the first treaty concluded between the two nations provides
that there shall be peace and friendship between them and between
their people. Through a half century of intercourse no untoward
circumstance has interrupted those amicable relations. More than
once the United States Government has used its good offices to pro-
mote Chinese interests and welfare. Nations, like individuals, appre-
ciate favors, and, like them also, resent indignities. The sentiment of
good will entertained by the Government and people of China toward
the Government and people of the United States is strong and pro-
found because of the long, unblemished past, but underneath it all
there is, I am sorry to say, a natural feeling of disappointment and
irritation that the people of the United States deal now less liberally
with the Chinese than with the rest of the world. If the best guar-
antee of friendship is self-interest, surely the friendship of a nation of
400,000,000 people ought to be worth cultivating. China does not ask
for much. She has no thought of territorial aggrandizement, of self-
glorification in any form. All she wants is gentle peace, sweet friend-
ship, helpful exchange of benefits, and the generous application of
that golden rule which people of all nations and all creeds should
delight to follow.
CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

By Frepertck Weis WILLIAMS.

It is customary in the West to consider the civilization of China as
a thing by itself, without relation to the factors which have influenced
or evolved our own type of culture. The ways of men at the opposite
ends of Asia have diverged widely and long indeed, but we can no
longer deny the proofs, if not of their common origin, at least of their
frequent intermixture and of their development under substantially
similar conditions. With many of these proofs the trained scientist
must be left to deal, and it is unlikely that anything save the bare
results of his investigations will become popular reading. Almost the
only exception to the general truth of this statement is to be found in
the study of the myths and legends of these exotic peoples and their
comparison with folklore elsewhere. Here, happily, the process is as
interesting as the result desired. If we treat patiently the fantastic
brood with which primitive man surrounds himself, even humoring a
little their eccentricities, we are promised in time a key to their caba-
listic lore and an answer to the mystery of man’s origin.

Something has already been done to show the connection between
customs and superstitions, as well as between languages, in the Indo-
European race group. The ghosts and monsters of ancient India and
Persia reappearing in classical and medixval garb in Europe declare
again the essential unity of one of the world’s great families. It
remains to show the remoter but still evident aflinity between all the
races of man. Such investigations carry us far away in time as well
as space. Through the welter of fancies, characterizing the mental
processes of primitive and savage peoples seeming to live in their
imaginations rather than in a world of material matter, we may trace,
perhaps, the dimly remembered forms of antediluvian creatures that
continued their existence down to a period when man had to struggle
with them for supremacy. An inspection of the fossil remains of
mesozoic saurians suggests the familiar dragon common to the mythol-
ogy of all races alike, and the obvious inference that these cund
flights of imagination were only disordered memories of fierce contests
with actual animal enemies long since disappeared. In this sense the

contest. between Bel and Tiamat in early Babylonian myth finds its
575
576 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

analogue in the encounters with the Chinese Lung, the most popular
and persistent monster of Farther Asia. And it is at least a curious
fact that the so-called ‘* dragons’ bones” sold by apothecaries in China
are fossilized teeth. So, too, the sea serpent, the unicorn (the Ki-lin)—
adopted as a royal emblem alike by ancient Israel and Japan—the
sphinx, and the phoenix are common alike to Europe and China,
where they not only assume similar forms, but are ascribed the same
supernatural attributes.’

Such scattered fragments of information upon this topic as have been
collected for this paper serve merely to illustrate the study of Chinese
folklore. Much must be learned before it can be placed on a scientific
basis.

It will be convenient first of all to contrast the Chinese and Japan-
ese creation myths. According to the Taoist doctrine—which is of all
their speculative systems the most characteristically Chinese—in the
beginning there was nothingness; then the indefinite produced the
definite, or finite chaos, out of which came the yang principle, or
light, and following this came yin or darkness. From the alternations
of yang and yin, of day and night, were derived all things. The idea
is a simple one common to many of the earliest philosophies known.
It appears in the ancient cults of Egypt, Babylonia, India, and Persia,
and can be fairly referred to the natural promptings of primitive man
as he first watched the operations of nature. The dualistic idea thus
carried back to the beginning does not of itself imply a common origin
for the human race, nor need we consider it as other than self-evident
as soon as man begins to think. It ranges through the realm of Chi-
nese metaphysical speculations, but not, as in Persia, to the exclusion
of every other guiding principle. It is a similarity less remarkable
than that of the triad idea which is also common to Babylonia, Egypt,
and China. ‘Thus in the first two nations we have major triads Anu,
Ea, and Bel—heayen, the waters, and the earth—and Osiris, Isis, and
Horus, eternal elements of the visible universe personified and wor-
shiped; in the latter there is the same elemental division of nature
into the ** Three Powers,” heaven, earth, and man, no one of which is
fertile by itself, the union of all three embodying creative force.

The cosmic myth of Taoism which thus establishes man in this
supreme company does not, however, intimate that this element of a
primeval trinity was anything more than the prototype of the genus
homo. ‘‘His body,” says the document quoted, ‘‘ was quadrangular
in likeness, his face was round, his wisdom and intelligence of heaven’s
birth. He ever stood erect looking at the four quarters of the great
earth, even beholding all beneath to the utmost bounds of the horizon.”
To this being, thus contemplating the created universe, came down on

Compare an entertaining and suggestive study of this phase of folklore, entitled
‘*Mythical Monsters,’’ by Charles Gould, London, 1886.

——-
maar
7

F

ae a os eee ee ee eT ee | eee

|,

CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 57

“I

aray of light the Father of Taoism, a controller of all things, who
after looking upon the creature and seeing that he was good explained
the laws of nature to him. At the separation of chaos, ‘the princi-
ples of human nature had not been established. Therefore heaven
and earth through the instrumentality of the original ether of the dual
powers (Yang and Yin), and in their secret conjugal combinations,
first produced you, five in number, who are located at the five cardinal
points—that is, a being whom I have called Water Sire, the North;
the South, styled Red Sire; Wood Sire in the East, and Gold Mother
in the West. These all thoroughly understand the abstruse doctrine
of renovation. Your disposition being mild and gentle, and your
bodily constitution being less agile, you therefore happened to be last
of the five that appeared in the world. I have been waiting for you
all to enter life; as this has now taken place, I have nothing more to
do; I shall therefore depart.”

When asked whither he went, the ineffable one replied: ‘‘ Beyond
the circle of water that terminates the universe there is the pure
original water, and beyond this there is still the region of perfect
nihility, the ether of spontaneousness. When, with an immaterial
nature, I enter the region of matter, I assume bodily form; but when
I return to that endless void, I lay that form aside and return to my
natural state. Do you understand this? Now I will call your four
elders to come and assist in performing the wonderful works yet to be
done.” And saying this the Great Spirit called aloud ** with a fearful
thundering voice” to each quarter of the heavens, ‘‘ and then turning,
bounded beyond the clouds, and disappeared in a golden halo of light.”

To this genius of the earth, representing the center or fifth cardinal
point, came in turn the Red, Wood,‘ and Water sires, and while they
were conversing ‘‘a white mist was seen lying across the horizon, and
upon it was Gold Mother walking deliberately. She approached and
presented the usual compliments. Each gazed with fixed eye upon
her, and noticed the leopard’s tail, her tiger teeth, and her disheveled
hair. Her head was covered with flowers; a dress adorned with various
precious stones was thrown loosely over her shoulder; a long petti-
coat of mulberrv bark was fastened round her waist.” This remark-
able quintette, after a brief exchange of compliments, proceed at once
to the great task for which they are assembled, the creation of man. The
earth genius, called Yellow Sire,” finds in a cavern the ether pulse and

1 Wood Sire is described as tall, slender, and beautiful; his breast 1s entwined with

silken vines and his loins bound with green rattan and leaves sewn with wild hemp.
There may be some analogy between him and the Indian

nected to Dionysus. ee
2 Hwang (yellow), ‘‘means extensive, liberal, upright, clever, and intelligent.
virtue of hwang harmonizes perfectly to the principles of rectitude; his merits are

equal to those of the Great Earth. Sucha ti

Siva, who is closely con-

”?
tle well becomes such a personage.
578 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

fashions a furnace and kettle; Wood Sire on the East smelts a tripod
of the purest of the five metals—gold, silver, brass, iron, and tin; Gold
Matron from the West, taking five colored earths, moulds a crucible;
Water Sire ‘* opened a precious crystal rock and caught the fresh genii
water as it dripped down and put it in the crucible, while Red Sire,
facing the South, bored straight into the body of a mulberry tree and
obtained fresh genii fire to boil the water with.”

Thus the five elders, leaving no detail unattended, ‘‘ exercised their
whole minds and souls, laying aside every other thought, care, and
work while perfecting this one; at one time increasing the fire and
now diminishing it till the fire had attained its full measure of heat,
or nearly so; and on the eighty-first day of the process a beautiful
cloud hung over the furnace and the caldron and sweet dew fell on the
Seu Mountain. Gold Matron and Wood Sire, preceiving that the
refining process was completed, removed the cover and, lo! two little
things lay in each other’s embrace at the bottom of the dish. Gold
Matron put forth her hand and took up one at random and, behold,
it was a male child! Wood Sire raised the other and, lo! it was a
female infant. Both were exceedingly delighted.”

Never was homunculus more carefully conceived or accepted by his
creators with greater rejoicing. They all ‘‘leaped for joy and mutual
delight,” it is said, and then, returning each to his habitation, left the
children to ‘imbibe the genial influences of the sun and moon in the
grotto till they mutually understood the relations and the mysteries of
conjugal life.” In time children were born and. the earth became
peopled with their progeny.

In the Japanese account of creation, related in the sacred scripture
of Shinto, called the Kojiki, the formation of the earth—or rather of
the Japanese Islands—is immediately followed by the birth of a
number of kami, deities imagined after the manner of the gods of
Greece as only more powerful human beings. There is no difference
apparently in the process by which the divine pair, Izanagiand Izanami,
deputed to the task, produce islands and divinities. At length in giv-
ing birth to the Fire God, Izanami is burnt and dies. Her spouse
forthwith slays the hateful offspring, and then occurs one of the most
remarkable episodes in the epos, when he journeys to the underworld,
Orpheus-like, to bid his wife return.

*‘Thereupon his Augustness Izanagi, wishing to meet and see his
younger sister [his wife], followed after her to the Land of Hades. So
when from the palace she raised the door and came out to meet him,
his Augustness Izanagi spoke, saying: ‘Thine Augustness, my lovely
younger sister! The lands that I and thou made are not yet finished
making; so come back!’ Then her Augustness Izanami answered, say-
ing: ‘Lamentabie indeed that thou camest not sooner! I have eaten
of the furnace of Hades. Nevertheless, as I reverence the entry here
of thine Augustness, my lovely elder brother, I wish to return. More-
CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 579

over, I will discuss it particularly with the deities of Hades. Look
not at me.’ Having thus spoken, she went back inside the palace, and
as she tarried there very long he could not wait. So having taken and
broken off one of the end teeth of the multitudinous and close-toothed
comb stuck in the august left bunch of his hair, he lit one light and
went in and looked. Maggots were swarming and she was rotting,
and in her head dwelt the Great Thunder, and in her breast dwelt the
Fire Thunder, and in her belly dwelt the Black Thunder, and in her
private parts dwelt the Cleaving Thunder, and in her left hand dwelt
the Young Thunder, and in her right hand dwelt the Earth Thunder,
and in her left foot dwelt the Rumbling Thunder, and in her right foot
dwelt the Couchant Thunder. Altogether eight thunder deities had
been born and dwelt there. Hereupon his Augustness Izanagi, over-
awed at the sight, fled back. Whereupon his younger sister said: ‘Thou
hast put me to shame,’ and at-once sent the Ugly Female of Hades to
pursue him. So his Augustness Izanagi took his black august head-
dress and cast it down, and it instantly turned into grapes. While she
picked them up and ate them he fled on. Butas she still pursued him,
he took and broke the multitudinous and close-toothed comb in the right
bunch of his hair and cast it down, and it instantly turned into bam-
boo sprouts. While she pulled them up and ate them, he fled on.
Again, later his younger sister sent the eight thunder deities with a
thousand and five hundred warriors of Hades to pursue him. So he,
drawing the ten-grasp saber that was augustly girded on him, fled for-
ward, brandishing it in his back hand [i. e., behind him], and as they
still pursued he took, on reaching the base of the Even Pass of Hades,
three peaches that were growing at its base, and waited and smote h is
pursuers therewith, so that they all fled back. . . . Last of all his
younger sister, her Augustness Izanami, came out herself in pursuit.
So he drew a thousand-draft rock, and with it blocked up the Even
Pass of Hades, and placed the rock in the middle; and they stood oppo-
site to one another and exchanged leave-takings, and her Augustness
Izanami said: ‘My lovely elder brother, thine Augustness! If thou
do like this, I will one day strangle to death a thousand of the folks of
thy land.’ Then his Augustness Izanagi replied: ‘My lovely younger
sister, thine Augustness! If thou do this, I will in one day set up a
thousand and five hundred parturition houses. In this manner each
day a thousand people would surely die, and each day a thousand and
five hundred people would surely be born.’ So her Augustness Iza-
nami is called the Great Deity of Hades . . a etc."

Izanagi, though now forever deprived of his helpmeet, eis
very creditably by himself to continue the business of creating diy Pe
ties, who exude from his person while he washes off the ete = a
hades, and from whom in time are descended the human in aabitants

1“The Kojiki,’”’ translated by B. H. Chamberlain, in Transactions of the Asiatic
Society of Japan, Vol. X. Supplement.
580 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

of Japan. Asa cosmic myth this falls distinctly short of the high
conceptions of its Chinese prototype, being cruder, more naive and
inconsequential than the other—an imaginative effort of a ruder and
less sophisticated folk. Yet its chief value, that of the earliest genuine
document of a pure Altaic people, can hardly be exaggerated; and
herein lies the charm to Western readers of incidents that, but for
some of their grotesque details, might have been taken from the
verses of Hesiod or Ovid. Beyond resemblances of the most super-
ficial sort (as in the agency of male and female in creation, in the
existence of a Great Spirit before heaven ard earth were made) the
Chinese and Japanese myths are radically different. The former are
for the most part ‘‘impassible, passionless, uninteresting,” as com-
pared with the fancies developed upon these themes among ancient
peoples in the West. Their fundamental idea may be loftier, more
philosophical, but their imaginative genius fails in the attempt to per-
sonify the operations of nature and endow them with life.

The Japanese tales, on the other hand, abound in instances where
human traits and passions are transferred to the powers above, who
feel and act in all respects like men of flesh and blood, who are disor-
derly and irresponsible after the manner of savages, but whose
human nature renders them in some vague fashion quite engaging
to follow. It is with Greece rather than with China that Japanese
mythology must be compared. In both we have the same wayward
feeling for impersonation, characteristic alike of children and of
primitive races with artistic instincts; the same assemblage of gods
in heaven not only caring for but visiting and interfering with mortals;
the same material representations of Olympus and Hades; the same
gradual withdrawal of personal intercourse between human and divine,
as the golden age melts away into the dull prose of recorded history.
In neither set of myths is there anything properly corresponding to
a religious system, until they become coordinated by philosophers of
a later age.

Resemblances between individual episodes in these far-distant col-
lections of primitive folk-tales are less obvious than their general
similarity of type. Mention has been already made of the most
striking parallel, that of Izanagi’s descent into the lower world to
redeem his wife, and Orpheus’s expedition for the same purpose. To
find a fitting analogy to the withdrawal of Ama Terasu, the Sun God-
dess, from the heavens, we should go to an older mythology, that
of Babylonia, where, in Ishtar’s search for her lover Tammuz in hell,
all nature suffers and is dead until her return—clearly a story symbol-
izing the torpor of vegetable life in winter and its return to vigor in
spring. The Japanese tale runs as follows: A brother of the Sun
Goddess having exhausted her patience by a long career of crime and
insult, finally caps the climax of his misdeeds by breaking a hole in

CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 581

the top of her ‘‘awful weaving hall,” where she sat with her four
score maidens weaving the august garments of the deities, and throw-
ing upon the frightened group “a heavenly piebald horse, which he had
flayed with a backward flaying.” The Goddess then closed fast the
portal of her heavenly rock dwelling, and all the world became dark
and “the voices of the myriad deities were like unto the flies in the
fifth moon as they swarmed, and a myriad portents of woe all arose.”
When the crowd was assembled about the closed door, the Goddess of
Mirth performed a dance with a mirror, while eight hundred myriad
deities laughed together, and the plain of high heaven shook with the
noise. Opening the door a little, the Sun Goddess inquired why the
company rejoiced when the world was wrapped in gloom because of
her absence. ‘‘We are glad,” they answered, ‘because there is a
deity more brilliant than thine Augustness;” and when a pardonable
jealousy made her come forth to see her own fair face in the mirror,
they cleverly pushed the door to behind her, and the earth was once
more bathed in light.

It is easy to exclaim against this rather unkind reflection upon fem-
inine weakness and vanity, that the legend was fabricated when coarse
and cruel man ruled society by sheer brute strength. Yet this criti-
cism, if made, would be far from just or true. The incident really
exhibits the utter inability of the combined heavenly host to compel
one of its female members to return to their society. After their
successful ruse they concede her superiority by giving her precedence
over all other divinities of heaven, a supremacy which she has always
enjoyed in the hearts of the Japanese people. In the same manner
the authority of her sex is exhibited in Ama Terasu’s punishment of
her brother, the Moon God, by forbidding him to appear in her com-
pany because of brutal and tyrannical conduct toward earth’s inhabit-
ants on a melancholy occasion. The instinctive love of woman’s
tenderness and the idealization which goes with our appreciation of
her gentleness and grace have made their impress every where upon
the religions as well as the folk-tales of the world. The adoration of
the Virgin Mary among Christians, of Tien Hou Mang among Facists,
and of Kwan Yin, Goddess of Mercy, among the Buddhists of € hina
and Japan, are instances of the same fundamental idea devcleyeta
more complex institutions; nor will it be denied that reverence for the
Ewig Weibliche thus embodied is a true feeling, a right and natural
craving. pie I

It is proper to emphasize this nobler attitude toward the weaker sex
manifested in the earlier civilization of the Kast, because we are too
often led by the customs prevailing there to-day to conclude ae ue
Asiatic has ever been regardless of woman’s rights. A great store o
anecdotes might be adduced to establish a contrary conclusion. One
must be allowed here to typify the admiration excited by unselfish and
582 OHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

courageous acts of women—an admiration as spontaneously enkindled
in the East as among ourselves when the achievement is really desery-
ing. The heroine of this incident is supposed to have lived in China
during the reign of the Emperor Yung-loh, early in the fifteenth cen-
tury of our era, but the story seems to owe its birth to a much older
tradition. The father of Ko-ai, having been ordered to cast a huge
bell of bronze, had failed twice in the very difficult task, the metal
having ‘‘honeycombed” ineachattempt. Yung-loh, being thoroughly
enraged at the double failure, promised the founder that he would
behead him if the third trial did not prove successful. Then it was
that the girl of 16 showed the metal in her in more senses than one.
Taking counsel of a master astrologer, she learned that the only means
of averting calamity and insuring a perfect casting was that of mixing
a virgin’s blood in the molten stream as it filled the mold. To save
her father’s life, therefore, she plunged headlong into the liquid mass
as the third casting was being made, and all that remained of her was
the shoe which a workman had grasped and pulled off her foot in
frantic effort to prevent her sudden plunge. The wretched father
was carried home a raving maniac; but the astrologer must have
known his business, for was not the bell a perfect success, as anyone
may prove to-day by going to Pekin and listening to its sonorous
boom? Only every stroke is followed by a low, wailing cry that
seems to reverberate the word hsieh (shoe) in fainter and fainter tones
until all is still. That, they say, is poor Ko-ai calling for her lost shoe.

This pathetic legend might perhaps be duplicated in more than one
literature of eastern and western romancers. <A still more widely
diffused genus of folk-tale, based upon the evanescent charm of woman-
hood, is discovered in the so-called ‘‘ Swan-Maiden” group. The type
of this group appears clearly in the far north of Asia, where among
the Samoyeds the tale, shorn of its adornments, runs somewhat as
follows: A hunter coming upon an old woman chopping birch trees
stopped and helped her cut and carry the logs to her hut. Highly
gratified at this attention she bade him hide there and see what would
happen. Presently seven beautiful girls came in, asked if anyone was
about, and being told that the woman was quite alone, took their way
to a neighboring lake where they went in swimming. The man fol-
lowed them, and at the suggestion of his aged hostess, stole one of
the feather dresses left on the shore by the maidens. Of course, when
they emerged one hapless girl was unable to find her costume and
could not fly away with her companions. She begged the hunter to
restore her clothes ‘*‘ because she was freezing,” and even promised
if he did to become his wife; but he does not yield until she consents
to secure for him the hearts of some villains who have slain his mother.
She does so, and the story then rambles on in a wilderness of inven-
tions which need not concern us. Among the Tartars the swan-
CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 583

women are grim and evil-hearted creatures, sometimes darkening the
whole sky with their raven wings, and again lapping the blood of the
slain, while in the Shetland Islands a similar myth brings the women
to the bathing beach in the guise of seals.

The feather-dress motif reappears in western Asia, with abundant
adornment, in the Arabian Nights Entertainments, as a basis of the
“Story of Hasan of el-Basrah.” Here the hero, while idling in a
wonderful garden, beheld ten great birds, among them one more beau-
tiful than the rest, alight; and as he concealed himself to watch at
greater advantage ‘‘they seated themselves upon the couch, and each
of them rent open its skin with its talons and came forth from it, and
lo, it was a dress of feathers. There came from the dresses ten dam-
sels, virgins, who shamed by their beauty the luster of the moon; and
when they had divested themselves, they all descended into the pool
and washed, and proceeded to play and to jest together, the bird who
surpassed the others throwing them down and plunging them, and
they fleeing from her and unable to put forth their hands to her.”
Hasan becomes violently enamored, but is unable to detain them until,
on a subsequent visit, he is told to secure the dress of the leader. The
girl is wild with terror at first, but eventually turns into a pretty good
wife and becomes the mother of two boys. The dress of feathers is
not destroyed, however, and during her husband’s absence from home
she secures it by a ruse from his old mother and instantly flies off in
it with her children to the Islands of Wak-Wak. These islands, from
which Hasan eventually regains his wife, are supposed by commenta-
tors to be either Japan or the Sunda islands, and it has been reasonably
suggested that their name is derived from the cry ‘*Wok-Wok” of the
great Bird of Paradise which abounds there. A similar encounter with
bird-women occurs also in the Arabic romance of Seyf-Zu-l-Yezin.’

Returning now to eastern Asia we again meet, in the islands of Lew
Chew, a member of the mysterious company, who is as beautiful as her
sisters of Siberia. A respectable young man—goes the story as related
by a Chinese enovy to Lew Chew—was scandalized to find a female
bathing in his spring. After the old, old fashion, which boys the
world over know, he sought her clothes on a neighboring bush, but
was amazed to find as he confiscated them that they were of gossamer,
ruddy and gay with sunset hues, altogether unlike any dame’s dress
he had ever seen. The young woman, finishing her plunge, discovered
her loss and threw herself on the ground before him begging for her
garments; but he was obdurate and insisted upon her remaining with
him. At the end of ten years of married life, during which she bore
him two children, her fate was fulfilled and she drifted away one day
In one of the German variants of the myth most

on a fleecy cloud. ~
the huntsman who has secured his

closely approaching this version,

1Lane’s Arabian Nights, Vol. III, chap. xxv, (. Gould’s Mythical Monsters, p. 140.
584 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

swan-wife keeps her plumes in a cupboard for fifteen years, but one
day forgets to lock it, when the captive dons them in his absence and
spreads her wings never to return—a variant of the Arabian romance.

Without delaying here to dwell upon the infinite permutations of
this theme in Hindu, Persian, Arab, Greek, Celtic, Teutonic, Scan-
dinavian, and other mythologies, we can not dismiss it finally without
alluding to the guise which it assumes in Japan. Here the damsel is
called the Moon Maiden, and she is a musician as well as a dream of
beauty as she drifts down from the evening sky beyond Fuji to bathe
in the shimmering sea. A fisher boy sees her fragile feather robe
gleaming from a pine tree, takes it, and is soon confronted with the
owner who begs its return. He asks to see her dance before he grants
her request, but ‘‘I can not dance without my robe,” she says. ‘* Each
feather has been given me by the Heavenly Birds. Their love and
trust support me.” Then the lad cries forgiveness for his rudeness
and returns the robe. Her dance begins with merry step and cadence
along the shore, rustling over the grass, under the blossoming cherry,
and in and out among the trees. But gradually she floats farther and
farther away toward the distant mountain and the fisherman is left
alone by the sea. Is it too extravagant an hypothesis to see in this
idyl of floating cloud-forms that drift from heaven to dip at times in
sea and lake, that keep company with the birds but dissolve away at
touch of man, the germ of the Vedie Apsaras of our angels—‘* who
were but the fleecy clouds, supposed in the ages of man’s simplicity
to be celestial swans?” *

Since we have found ample illustration of the evident affiliation of
Aryan and Turanian myths in these instances of devotion to woman,
it will not be thought ungenerous, perhaps, to adduce a famous case
of inconstancy which exemplifies the same conformity. The story in
its Chinese version is related of a Taoist philosopher who was a con-
temporary of Alexander the Great. The elements of sheer witchcraft
and characteristic human nature commingle in a grotesque fashion
especially pleasing to followers of the doctrine of Tao, or Rationalism,
in China. The basis of the tale is thought to be an importation from
India, the fatherland of the world’s best fables and fictions, but we
will hear it first in a translation of a Chinese ballad entitled

FANNING THE GRAVE,

”

’Twas spring, the air was redolent

With many a sweet and grateful scent;
The peach and plum bloomed side by side,
Like blushing maid and pale-faced bride;
Coy willows stealthily were seen

Opening their eyes of living green,

As if to watch the sturdy strife

Of nature struggling into life.

$$$ — — ————— ——— ————————

 Baring-Gould, ‘‘Curious Myths,”’ pv. 578.
CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 585

One sunny morning Mr. Chwang

Was strolling leisurely along, c
Viewing the budding flowers and trees,

Sniffing the fragrance-laden breeze,

Staring at those who hurried by,

Each loaded with a good supply

Of imitation sycee shoes,

To burn—for friends defunct to use—

Of dainty viands, oil and rice

And wine to pour in sacrifice

On tombs of friends who ’neath them slept.

’Twas ‘‘third of the third’’ when graves are swept.

Chwang sauntered on; at length, on looking round,
He spied a cozy-looking burial ground;

“‘T’]] turn in here and rest a bit,’’? thought he,
““And muse a while on life’s uncertainty;

This quiet place just suits my pensive mood,

(ll sit and moralize in pleasant solitude.”’

So, sitting down upon a grassy knoll,

He sighed; when all at once upon him stole

A smothered sound of sorrow and distress,

As if one wept in very bitterness.

Mr. Chwang, hearing this, at once got up to see _,
Who the sorrowing mourner could possibly be,
When he saw a young woman fanning a grave.
Her three-inch gold lilies were bandaged up tight
In the deepest of mourning; her clothes, too, were white.
Of all the strange things he had read of or heard,
This one was by far the most strange and absurd;
He had never heard tell of one fanning a grave.

He stood looking on at this queer scene of woe
Unobserved, but astonished, and curious to know

The reason the woman was fanning the grave.
He thought, in this case, the best thing he could do
Was to ask her himself; so without more ado,
He hemmed once or twice, then bowing his head,
Advanced to the woman and smilingly said:

‘‘May I ask, madam, why you are fanning that graye?”’

The woman, on this, glancing up with surprise,

Looked as tho’ she could scarcely believe her own eves
When she saw a man watching her fanning the grave.

He was handsome, and might have been thirty or more;

The garb of a Taoist he tastefully wore;

His kind manner soon put her quite at her ease,

So she answered demurely, ‘ Listen, sir, if you please,
And I'll tell you the reason I’m fanning this grave.

‘“My husband, alas! whom I now (sob, sob) mourn,

A short time since (sob) to this grave (sob) was borne;
And (sob) he lies buried in this (sob, sob) grave.

(Here she bitterly wept.) Ere my (sob) husband died,

He called me (sob) once (sob, sob) to his side,

And grasping my (sob)—with his dying lips said,

‘When I’m gone (sob, sob) promise (sob) never to wed
Till the mold is (sob) dry on the top of my grave.’

sm 1900 41

586 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

‘*T come hither daily to (sob) and to weep,

For the promise I gave (sob) I'll faithfully keep,
I’ll not wed till the mold is (sob) dry on his grave.

I don’t want to marry again (sob), I’m sure,

But poverty (sob) is so hard to endure,

And, oh! I’m so lonely, that I come (sob) to try

If I can’t with my fan help the damp mold to dry,
And that is the reason I’m fanning the grave.”’

Hearing this, Chwang exclaimed, ‘‘ Madam, give me the fan.
I'll willingly help you as much as I can
In drying the mold on your poor husband’s grave.”’
She readily handed the fan up to Chwang,
(Who in magic was skilled, as he proved before long),
For he muttered some words in a low undertone,
Flicked the fan, and the grave was as dry as a bone;
‘‘There,’’ said he, ‘‘the mold’s dry on the top of the grave.”’
Joy plainly was seen on the poor woman’s face
As she hastily thanked him, ere quitting the place,
For helping her dry up the mold on the grave.
Chwang watched her go off with a cynical sigh;
Thought he, ‘‘ Now suppose I myself were to die,
How long would my wife in her weeds mourn my fate?
Would she, like this woman, have patience to wait
Till the mold was well dry on her poor husband’s grave?’’ !

The philosopher, upon his return home, relates the adventure to his
wife, and she is so violent in her denunciation of the faithless widow
that he resolves to test her. Soon he falls ill and dies; and while the
celebrated savant lies encoftined in his hall many come to do him
reverence and try to console the stricken woman. Among the num-
ber is a handsome young man, a former pupil of the master, who

makes himself so attractive as to win her heart and hand during the’

short period of his visit. While rejoicing in her rediscovered bliss,
the woman’s newly affianced falls into convulsions, the only remedy for
which is human brains, fresh, boiled in wine. The case is pressing;
there lies the unburied corpse of her former spouse, now useless to
her, unless, indeed, she can apply his brains to restore her present lover
to health and even to life. So she seizes an axe, chops open the coffin,
and, behold, her old Chwang rises alive and well! He had been playing
with his wife, and actually assumed the form of the young scholar
himself to test the constancy of her affection. Unable to conceal her
shame, the wretched woman hung herself with her own girdle, while
the disgusted Chwang, burning his house, withdrew from the world.
A Semitic story of the Wife Tested has a different setting, but
descends evidently from the same parent stock. In this the learned
and Beautiful Berurya, while reading an ancient text, comes upon the
sentence, ‘** All women are fickle,” and appends the marginal gloss,
‘*Except Berurya.” Her husband, Rabbi Meir, the Light of the Law,

1G. C. Stent, ‘The Jade Chaplet.”’

j
)
|
|

CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 587

finding the note, comments: ‘‘ You will yourself some day prove the
truth of this saying.” He introduces, in course of time, a handsome
young disciple, who courts Berurya assiduously, and finally obtains her
consent to an assignation. But when she keeps it the master appears
instead of the pupil, and Berurya, finding her infamy discovered, goes
out and hangs herself. .
Even nearer to its far-eastern original than this harsh Talmudic
legend comes the famous tale of Petronius, who lived under the
Emperor Nero. The ‘‘Matron of Ephesus” is a woman who was
so inconsolable after her husband’s death that she could not bear to
leave the grave, but watched and wept there while a trusty maid
brought her provisions. It so happened that hard by the cemetery lay
an execution ground where a young soldier was stationed. to watch the
bodies of some crucified malefactors. Hearing a sound of sobbing he
was touched to find a pretty widow in so unusual a situation, and
brought his wallet to share with her. She would none of him or
his food at first, but presently she succumbed to the fascination of
such an unusually handsome fellow, and the pair spent three days and
nights very comfortably together in the tomb. Then the soldier
discovered that the body of one of the malefactors on the cross had
disappeared, and was about to forestall the inevitable punishment due
to his remissness by committing suicide on the spot, when the widow
bade him stay his hand and hang the corpse of her husband on the
cross and thereby conceal his dereliction: ** For,” she exclaimed, *‘ 1
could not bear to have the only two men I ever loved lying dead at
once before me!” In this guise the story begins its migrations
throughout ancient and medieval Europe, appearing, with innumer-
able modifications, of course, in the literatures of France, Italy, Spain,
Russia, England, and Germany. In England, besides being the theme
of many early plays, it is charmingly told in Goldsmith’s Citizen of
the World, while in France it becomes the plot of Voltaire’s Zadig.
We are hardly prepared, after tracing the perigrinations of this
unmerited satire on woman’s constancy, to learn that in the land of its
origin a slip of a girl is the true hero of our legendary ‘‘George and
the Dragon.” In the Yung Ling Mountains of eastern China there
dwelt a dragon 80 feet long and 10 feet round. His diet consisted by
choice of likely little girls not more than 13 years old, and upon con-
dition of receiving these he consented to spare the neighborhood from
indiscriminate ravage. In the course of years the supply of virgins,
bond servants, and daughters of criminals gave out, and the governor
of the country was in sore straits, when the youngest of his six daugh-
ters offered herself asa sacrifice. She argued that a sixth girl in a
family wasn’t worth her keep, so despite all opposition she proceeded
to the fatal cavern, asking only a sword, a good dog, and plenty of
boiled rice. Mixing the food with honey she placed it in the narrow
588 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

mouth of the cave, and when the dragon was breaking his fast upon
this hors d’ceuvre, the dog attacked him with his teeth while little Ki
hacked away from behind so that the monster died. On hearing of
this mighty deed we are glad to learn that the Prince of Sueh asked
her hand in marriage and raised her to his throne. Here is an almost
perfect analogue to the Vedic Indra and Ahi, the Iranian Mithra and
Ahriman, the Greek Perseus and Andromeda, the British Beowulf and
Grendel, the Teutonic Siegfried, and a host of others.

To the student of Chinese folklore the special interest of Taoist
literature lies in the fact that, though dating from only the sixth cen-
tury B. C., as a philosophical system, this so-called religion is based
upon and includes the oldest myths and legends indigenous to eastern
Asia. The popular success of Laotsz’s doctrine and its permanence in
Chinese culture may be quite confidently ascribed to its acceptance of
folklore creations handed down from primitive man in Asia, for the
acknowledged creed of every race, even the most advanced, has ever
been influenced by assimilating more or less unconsciously the ideas
with which its adherents were most deeply imbued. To take an
instance that occurs instantly to the mind: It was not the wish of
Buddha or of Christ to countenance the worship of images; on the
contrary, both preached against their use; but the great mass of those
who profess and call themselves followers of their teachings have in
all ages bowed down to wood and stone. The head of the idol, indeed,
may be of refined gold, and its purpose in the sanctuary explained
esoterically, but its feet are of clay—the soil upon which the lowly
mass of worshipers lived and worked and wondered for centuries before
they heard the incarnate word promulgated.

With Laotsz, the philosopher of rationalism, we need therefore have
no concern here, but with the cult which has assumed the name of
Tao, though in practice utterly indifferent to the high purpose of his
abstruse doctrine, we are intimately involved as soon as we begin to
penetrate the current faiths and fancies of the Chinese people.

It is in the writings of the earlier Taoist disciples that the fairy
mythology of primitive China first takes literary shape. One of them,
Chwang-cheu, after meditating long enough on nature to think that
nature was identical with himself, gave utterance to a doubt that has
been familiar in many guises to modern Western philosophers. ‘* For
when I dream I am a butterfly,” he declared, ‘‘it is not for me to say
that the dream is my own, or whether it is a butterfly dreaming that
he is Chwang-cheu.” Another, Lie-tsz, who wrote in the middle of
the fifth century B. C., describes the fairy islands of the eastern
ocean, ‘* beyond the Pihai, at a distance of I know not how many
hundreds of thousands of li, where are five islands, each 30,000 li in
circuit, and lying 70,000 li apart. This distance is not supposed to be
too great for them to regard each other as neighbors. The towers

Pe a

eS? SS ee eee oe ae ae eT

————<—

i
od

CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 589

and len lofty buildings are of gold and jade. The birds and beasts
are ewutiful in form and color. The trees look like columns of pearl.
The fruits have a delightful taste, and those who eat of them never

a x . my . . :
grow old or die. The inhabitants are men who belong to the class of
the immortals and are all sages. In one day and night they fly to the
other isles and back again. The five islands are quite separate at their
base and float on the ocean surface as the tide and waves compel them
In unresisting movement,” ! etc. ;

‘ Seat te 2 Boe

Change the points of the compass and we have in this ancient chron-

icle a sufficient description of that group of islands across the boundless

_ ocean that occurs in every ancient literature of the West. Atlantis.

the Hesperides, remote Ogygia, and the Celtish Avalon, of Arthurian
legend,

Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,

Nor ever wind blows loudly; but lies

Deep-meadow’d, happy, fair, with orchard lawns

And bowery hollows crowned with summer sea,
are all prototypes of these far-away isles. The belief in Europe in
this mysterious land is prevalent in Norse, Teutonic, and Celtic, as
well as in Greek and Egyptian folklore, and many tales of singular
beauty are woven upon this theme. In each land these distant isles

- take color from the fancies and prejudices of the people who portray

their imaginary delights, but like pictures of heaven—with which
indeed they unwittingly blend—they are much alike in feeling if not
in detail. It became the fashion in the twelfth century to burlesque
the notion. A French poem calls it cookeryland, Cocaigne, where run
rivers of wine and roasted geese go down the street turning themselves
until they are done perfectly brown; where the ladies are always fair
and have new clothes every month; where the fountain of perpetual
youth washes off weakness and age and renews the appetite and
enthusiasm of its favored inhabitants. The Portuguese version of the
old myth, as related by Washington Irving,’ shows it adapted to the

preferences of a Christian people. Once upon a time, this story runs,

an old pilot was blown ashore near Lisbon, raving about an island far
beyond the Canaries upon which he had been driven and where he
had found a gracious company descended from certain of his country-
men who had escaped thither when Spain was conquered by the Mos-
lems. They were recognized, when he told his tale, as the hand of
Christian exiles who had indeed fled from the Moors under seven
bishops, and whose fate had hitherto remained a mystery. The ardent
young cavalier, Don Fernando de Alma, soon gathered a company to
search for the mvsterious island, and after driving about tempestuous
seas for many days his caravel found itself, when the storm lifted, in

1J, Edkins: ‘‘Steps in the Growth of Early Taoism,’’? Chin. Recorder, May, 1884.

2 Chronicles of Wolfert’s Roost, and other Papers.
590 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

a pleasant harbor, beyond which could be seen the towers and castles
of a noble city. The adventurer left his companions in the stately
barge that came out to meet him, and was entertained one evening at
the court-house of an old-time city, where everything bespoke the
fashions and manners of three centuries ago. Taken back to the har-
bor he found no caravel there, but when he awoke from the slumber
into which the rowers’ chant had lulled him he learned that he had
been picked up senseless from a drifting wreck by a passing Portu-
guese trader. Arriving at his ancestral home he found that his family
had long since departed. More fortunate in seeking the house of his
betrothed, he espied her upon a balcony, and was about to spring into
her arms when she sought protection from a young cavalier by her
side. She was not his ladylove, but the great-granddaughter of the
Serafina Alvarez whom Don Fernando had left when he set out upon
his strange voyage.

Nor are the Japanese without their islands of perpetual youth, where
time passes unnoted by the blissful inhabitants, after the fashion in
which aging humanity has essayed to portray them since the days
long ago when men first began to grow old. The land of Horaizan,
where reigns eternal spring, where ethereal blossoms ever bloom upon
the fertile slopes of Fusan, the Mountain of Immortality, where pain
and sorrow are unknown, lies far away in the eastern sea. Once, it is
said, the physician of a cruel Chinese tyrant escaped the despot’s clutches
by promising to pick for his master the herb of immortality from this
favored shore; but he never came back, and nothing would have been
known of his success had it not been for Wasobiowe, a wise man of
Japan, who was driven over the ocean by a hurricane, and found him,
heedless of his errand, and living a joyous life among the elect of the
gods in that deathless abode. _Wasobiowe lived several hundred years
agreeably enough in these delectable surroundings, but, being Japanese,
he wearied at length even of heavenly content, and was brought home
on the back of a stork to die in his beloved Nagasaki.

It seems hardly possible that mere accidental similarity can suffi-
ciently explain that prevalent fancy of a lost Atlantis in Europe, that
large island situated many days’ sail from Libya toward the west,
which, in the description of Diodorus Siculus, ‘‘abounds with gardens
stored with various trees and numerous orchards intersected by pleas-
ant streams, * * * excelling so much in felicity as to resemble the
habitations of gods rather than of men.”

No feature is perhaps more common to the folk legends of Europe
and Asia than the magical passage of time in slumber or in a visit to
some place of enchantment. The germ of this notion has been referred
with some plausibility to the long sleep of nature during winter, after

'The late Ignatius Donnelly made much of this tradition in his fanciful ‘‘Atlan-
tis,’ New York, 1882.

<

=p" tit Cael
é
A

SE Set Sra AP Ee

ce

a a a a

‘and passed away since t

CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 59]

t

which the earth seems to renew her normal functions as though uncon-
scious of her prolonged repose. Various phases of the idea present
themselves, ranging from the three hundred and sixty years’ repose of
the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus to the supposed death-like torpor of great
heroes like Charlemagne, Barbarossa, and Jengiz Khan, whose slum-
ber, though still unbroken, is some day to terminate when they arise
and lead their people to new victories. A Christianized form of the
myth occurs in the medieval legend of a moni, who, wondering how
the Psalmist’s ** thousand years of the Lord” could be as one day, went
forth into the woods to meditate upon the mystery. There he heard
a bird singing with such ineffable sweetness as to keep him spellbound
all the afternoon; but when he returned to his monastery he discovered
after some perplexing experiences that he had remained listening to
God’s tuneful messenger a thousand years, which had passed as one day.

What we may term the Rip Van Winkle type of story is closely
paralleled in the Taoist legend of Wang Chih, a patriarch of the sect.
** Wandering one day in the mountains of Kiichow to gather firewood,
he entered a grotto in which some aged men were seated intent upon
agame of chess. He laid down his ax and looked on at their game,
in the course of which one of the old men handed him a thing in shape
and size like a date stone, telling him to put it into his mouth. No
sooner had he tasted it than he became oblivious of hunger and thirst.
After some time had elapsed one of the players said: * It is long since
you came here; you should go home now.’ Whereupon Wang Chih
proceeding to pick up his ax found that its handle had moldered into
dust. On repairing to his home he discovered that centuries had passed
since the time when he had left it for the mountains, and that no vestige
of his kinsfolk remained. Retiring to a retreat among the hills, he
devoted himself to the rites of Taoism, and finally attained immor-
tality ’'—a conclusion only differing in degree from that of iip’s
adventure, whose immortality is of another sort.

Another similar legend—a favorite of Chinese story-tellers— makes
the experience befall two young men while gathering herhs mong the
hills. Here they discover a fairy bridge in charge of two maidens,
who are as charming as they subsequently prove to be complaisant.
The girls invite them to cross to the land of pure delight beyond the
summer day’s enjoyment of the enchanted land and
: ‘ations have been born

bridge, and after a
its people they return to find that seven gene
heir little holiday excursion, and that they are

centenarians. The introduction of the magic bridge In this account

reminds us of another feature familiar to Teutonic nyt
‘ide actine the celestial city with the earth, the final crossing 0
bridge connecting the celestial city

nie evecle , >
which, in the Gétterdimmerung, completes the heroic cycle of the

i .o the obvious origin of the conceit is to be
Nibelungen lay. In each case the obvious origin of the ;

1Dennys, Folk Lore of China, 98.
592 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

found in the rainbow, as in all probability is the magic arch or cause-
way joining heaven and earth, upon which the Japanese creative pair
Izanagi and Izanami stand to dip their divine wand into the ocean and
form the first island out of the drops dripping from its point.

Apropos of Japan, we discover in her fairy tales many developments
of the oft-repeated theme of the unconscious flight of time already
alluded to.. Wang Chih’s experience in watching the chess players is
repeated in that of Lu Wen, a Japanese woodcutter, with an exact-
ness that proves the Chinese origin of the story. The same motif
inspires the popular tale of the fisher boy of Urashima, an adventure
ascribed to the period of the Empress Suiko, in the seventh century of
our era. In this account Taro, the dutiful son of poor parents, after
praying to the sea god in a storm, is rewarded by the appearance of a
kindly old divinity upon a tortoise, who bids him mount up beside
him and all will be well. He is taken to a palace of magnificent pro-
portions and populous with radiant throngs, who, with the naive ego-
tism ever characterizing dreams and fairy tales, unite to do him
honor. Here the ingenuous Taro spent seven blissful days; but being
as good as he was happy, he at length asked permission to return to
his father. A box was given him, as he remounted the tortoise, with
injunctions never to open it. Arrived at the familiar seabeach, he
found the inhabitants and their dwellings entirely changed, and learned
presently that his family had been dead and buried twelve generations
before. Of course he opens the box, a purple mist arises, envelops
him, and he sinks down to die of the weight and infirmities of four
hundred years thus suddenly acquired.

A considerable group of anecdotes might be collected throughout
the East resembling the ‘‘ Judgment of Solomon.” Here are three from
China, the first introducing a bit of the supernatural element
extremely characteristic of popular stories there: A thousand years
ago or less there lived a young man and his charming bride, whose
love and happiness were enough to excite the jealousy of a white dog.
The brute therefore turned himself into a replica of the husband, and
was enjoying the success of ‘his deception when the real spouse
returned. Each began to accuse the other of fraud, and the poor wife,
being quite unable to decide between them, made both come with her
toamagistrate. The officer, with the politician’s fine sense of sorcery,
suspecting a dog in disguise, put both the fellows into the cage of a
tame tiger, whose special aversion was dogs. Of course the sagacious
animal knew which was the false husband and the real canine, and the
aifectionate couple were reunited.

The second variant of the theme relates to the wife of a man who
was so long separated from him that, believing her husband dead, she
married another. Unlike Enoch Arden, the man on his return wants
his wife back, while her second spouse denies any prior lien upon his
property which he is bound to respect. The woman herself, being
~CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 593

attached to both and unable to decide as to which has the better claim,
brings the case to the local magistrate, who orders the suppliant to be
confined in a cell over night. On the morrow the rival husbands look
into the room where she was placed, to find her body hanging from the
rafters. Suicide, it may be observed here, is so common in China as
hardly to occasion a remark in passing. The judge, after this discoy-
ery, asks who will give the poor sacrifice to their jealous loves a decent
burial. The second husband declares that he was contending for a live
mate, not a dead one; the first, however, takes it upon himself to
perform the last sad rites in honor of his beloved, when she is brought
in and given to him alive and well. A straw figure had been dressed
in her clothes and suspended in her cell by the wily magistrate to test
the real sentiments of the two men.

A third resembles the Bible story in all but its brutal Semitic
denouement. Two women had each a boy, but upon the death of one
infant his mother claims the surviving child. When the case is brought
before the justice he orders one of his domestics to take the lad and
train him for official life. As he supposed, the pretended mother
demurs, being only desirous of having the child herself; but the real
mother, glad of such an opportunity for her offspring, tearfully con-
sents to losing him provided his future is secured. There is, we must
confess, a finer sentiment about this version than pertains to either the
Hebrew rendition or its Japanese analogue, in which latter the famous
Judge Oka orders each claimant to pull an arm of the child until it
leaves its socket. Naturally only one shoulder is dislocated in the
process, and the true parent is thereby discovered. To the Chinese
belongs the credit of telling this famous old story without hurt or even
threat of mischief to the child.’

When Emerson declared that ‘‘the highest can not be spoken of in
words” he intended no allusion to Polynesia and the Far East, but his
apothegm conveys perfectly the idea embodied in their widespread
practice of euphemism and tabu. The word tabu (tapu) has become
too familiar to need explanation in any modern European language;
yet the institution with all its dread force has never perhaps been
adequately understood in the West. Doubtless in its original inception
it belongs to primitive man, and when the old Persian monarchs pun-
ished contumacious officials by condemning them to stand in the open
court by the palace gate, where it was death to feed or touch them, but
where the guard compelled them to remain until they starved, they
simply perpetuated a practice of their remote ancestors. — No custom,
indeed, is more universal. For instance, the Tahitians will never use
the house or personal belongings of the dead. In ancient Japan a new

} ¥ y ya a uel >A ry > .
1Compare also a Cambodian version ol the same theme by A. Leclére, Révue de
] : La 7 22 N 6 .e (ce Oe wR
histoire des religions (Musée Guimet) 19° annee /. 38. No. 2. Sept.-Oct. 1899, p.176.
594 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

palace had to be built for each new emperor, some distance from the
establishment of his deceased predecessor. Nor is it unlikely that
the barbaric Asiatic and African custom of killing and burying alla
dead king’s wives, servants, and horses was simply an enforcement of
the tabu that involved them all in the category of his personal effects.
In China, as in ancient western Asia, the institution applies chiefly to
expressions rather than to acts. Thus the Emperor’s proper name is
not permitted to be written or pronounced by any of his subjects, the
characters being amended and their sounds changed when his reign
begins. Confucius’s personal name, K*iu, must never be used. When
it occurs in the writings of his commentators it is pronounced mau,
and this has always been so. In time even the conventional mau
has acquired a sort of veneration that unfits it for vulgar use, so that
an acre of land—which happens to be the meaning of mau—is called
‘**yau” in South China. Now, by a whimsical coincidence, yau is the
Canton pronunciation for the unpronounceable name (K‘iu) itself. Thus
it happens that the original tabued word has replaced the one which
was first adopted to replace the original.

All this will suggest to the Bible student the sanctity that made the
name Yahweh unutterable among the Jews, whose Talmudic levends
also declare that Solomon made heaven and earth to quake when he
uttered the uncommunicable name. It must have been some naive
dread of offending their deities that led other ancient peoples, includ-
ing the Greeks, to coin attributive titles instead of calling them by
name. It is the same kind of respect that a Kirghiz woman to-day
shows her husband, whose real name she never permits herself to utter
in the presence of others. A Chinaman for the same reason will not
say his father’s or grandfather’s names whether they be alive or dead.
In this manner,and through extension of the notion of tabu, has arisen
the practice of euphemism, which is so common as to be a heritage of
all mankind. If the word or idea is offensive another must take its
place, as among the Jews, being forbidden swine’s flesh, they called
the pig **the other thing.” Death and diseases naturally come in for the
larger share of these, some of the Chinese expressions being quaintly
suggestive, as when a funeral is referred to as ‘*that white affair,” or
the chills as ** buying firewood illness.” The source of this euphemistic
habit—fear of irritating the lurking demon—must account for the pecu-
liar Chinese usage of either giving their sons girls’ names, or dubbing
them ‘* little pig” or ‘* black cur,” and similar ungentle appellations,
that the divinities may be deceived into thinking their possessors
unimportant. We may forgive them the implied reflection upon the
sex, for the hateful deity in question is supposed to have no appetite
for little girls, therefore the exchange of names does no harm. The
pathetic efforts of Asiatic parents to outwit the dread monster who
would rob them of their offspring are grotesque enough, but they
reflect a feeling that stirs the heart of all mankind. A grandmother

Lia

CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 595

in Canton with some ostentation weighs the tiny boy who has just
arrived to cheer his parents after the loss of their firsthborn—the hope
being that the waiting god may pass him by because of his insignifi-
cance. A mother in England had three daughters in succession named
Helen, and all died. When a near neighbor, whose second daughter
called Marian because she resembled her dead sister of that name, fell
dangerously ill, remembered the fate of the other family and substi-
tuted Maude for Marian, the girl recovered and few doubted that the
timely tabu had removed the spell. Is there much difference between
the pagan and the Christian episode?

The horrid sprite who feeds chiefly upon infants of tender years is
a female ogre, called in Canton Sam-ku-lok-po. She bears a strong
affinity to the Lilith of Rabbinical legends—that earthborn first spouse
of father Adam, who was turned into a demon that has vexed his prog-
eny ever since the fall—herself merely a later semitic version of the

proto Babylonian Lillal and Kiel-lillal, male and female devils of the

night. She it is who enters the children when they have long crying
spells or when their souls are wandering (as souls will always wander)
in sleep. The changeling thus engendered must be promptly dealt
with or all is lost and the child grows up an idiot. An ink of dried
banana-peel ash and water should be made and a cross marked on the
baby’s forehead the next time he is asleep. Then when Sam-ku-lok-po
swoops down again on obscene wing she will fail to recognize her
victim and the little soul can creep back once more.’ This is a less
offensive mummery than the Irish test of putting the suspected change-
ling on a shovel and holding him over a muck heap. But what shall
we say of the sign of the cross in Chinese folk-cult; is it accident or
survival ¢

While considering this phase of our subject we are irresistably led
to the matter of demonology and witchcraft, without some regard for
which no discussion of folk-lore would be complete. The air of the
Eastern world is peopled, as everyone knows, with jinns and spirits
both good and evil, while in China reliable accounts of their confed-
erates and interpreters, the wizards, go back at least as far as thirteen
centuries before Christ. The communication of human beings with
these powers is not looked upon there with the sort of horror it has
always inspired in the West. The uneducated look with some
qualms upon those versed in the magic arts, while the lettered sneer
at their pretensions, but there is no notion on the part of either
element of society to prohibit or persecute. In ancient days the office
of wizard in chief, the efficient agent of all the occult powers
that might injure or influence the realm, was as considermble aun
appointment at the court of China as of Persia. Phe love of genil
in the East resembles so closely that in the west of Asia as to
eall for no particular notice to anyone acquainted with the Arabian

1 China Review, Vol. IX, p. 204.
596 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

Nights Entertainments. Jinns can become small or large, visible
or invisible, live in air, water, or earth, without breathing or eating,
assume any shape, and control any number of assistants. Taoists
ascribe to them immortality, and consider them as the highest order of

intelligent beings, but there seems to be some uncertainty as to the

distinction between genii and shén or spirits, a lower order of imma-
terial beings recognized in their mythology. They form an indispen-
sable element in tales of all sorts, being regarded for the most part
as rather helpful and gracious powers, though often extremely dan-
gerous to deal with. In the romance entitled The Thunder Peak
Pagoda, recently paraphrased in Julian Ralph’s charming little volume
Alone in China, the heroine is a snake jinn, who transforms herself
into a beautiful woman and wins the love of an honorable man. She
procures money by the simple process of sending her serpent attend-
ant to filch it from any and every part of the empire. Yet, though
she brings trouble and disgrace upon her husband, she begets a son
who makes the family famous, and eventually obtains forgiveness and
reunion in the spirit world with the man who loved her.

Another romantic experience of a similar, though happier, kind is
related in the story of the Enchanted Peonies, wherein a gentleman
living in a monastery among the hills becomes enamoured of one of
two flower fays. After some months of pleasant companionship she
disappears, because her peony bush is uprooted. The disconsolate
lover at length learns through her companion spirit that the god of
the spirit world, in commisseration for their woes, has consented to
restore her toa flower in the monastery. She presently reappears,
and at the end of a long life together both lover and mistress are
united in the form of. flower fays.

Disembodied spirits, in Chinese folk-lore, are endowed with strange
powers when they return to earth, and are occasionally permitted to
employ them in earning freedom from repeated births, thereby becom-
ing at once angels in a state of supreme beatitude. One of these, in
the guise of a beautiful girl, meets and engages the affections of a
young man. In the course of their acquaintance she warns him
against the machinations of a sister spirit, who isa murderess and
trying to-entrap him, and insures his safety by giving him a charm.
Presently an exorcist comes to the house in search of the little coterie
to whom these stygian sprites belong, and succeeds in getting them
tightly corked in his bottles. The lover, however, upon entreaty from
his charmer, releases her and she escapes. Ten years afterwards she
reappears, but, when urged to remain, says that her conduct during this
term of probation having been pronounced satisfactory she is entitled
to-her celestial reward. Out of gratitude she tells her admirer when
he is to die and join her in a state of perennial bliss.’

’

1 Giles’s version of ‘‘Miss Quarta Hu,” in Strange Stories, p. 152.

ine
CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 597

Stories of this type suggest the characteristic element of the Undine
or Melusina group of legends in Keltic mythology. Here a nym sh
or fay desires an immortal soul or escape from puclanemene aa
can only be secured by union witha mortal. In Europe the condition
imposed upon the man is finally broken. Undine, for example, is
brought to a stream in violation of the contract with her lover, and in
a quite pardonable transport she subsequently kisses him to death.
So it is in the Hindu tales belonging to the same family group, as in
the experience of Urvaci, an apsaras, or heavenly. maiden, who
obtained the mortal Puravaras as bridegroom upon the condition that
she should never see him naked. The infraction in this case was not,

Beate: ee :
like Psyche’s, due to her own weakness, but to the jealousy of her

celestial companions, who most unfairly enticed him from bed one
dark night and then revealed his nudity to his wife by a flash of
lightning.

The wanderings of a soul while the body is still alive are not tmag-
ined alone in the East. Dreamland travels are, of course, familiar
experiences everywhere, and there is no great step from belief in
sleep-absence to belief in a longer absence during trance. In Asia
generally there is a settled conviction that the soul departs from its
mortal frame while unconscious, and the greatest care is exercised by
friends of a sleeper not to move his body lest the wandering soul fail
to discover it upon her return, and death result. Meantime the soul
in its excursions may be animating some other body, buman or animal;
hence the motive of many a strange tale like the following, which may
bear quotation in extenso as a fair example of the Chinese miirchen
typically developed. It is entitled:

THE PARROT.

A young savant of the province of Shensi had six fingers on one
of his hands: more than this, his character was one of singular naiveté.

Whenever he found himself in a social gathering where there were
ladies, he was sure to run away. If a woman came up to speak with
him, he blushed to the neck. Everyone made fun of his timidity and
gave him the name of the ** Innocent Séng.”

In the same district there dwelt a great merchant, who was richer
connected as well; he had a daughter named

She had already reached a mar-
hard to please in the choice of a

than princes and nobly
A-Pao, whose beauty was famous.
riageable age, but was extremely
spouse.

The innocent Séng had just lost his betrothed.
told him that he ought to make his addresses to Miss A-
actually did, thinking he was following good advice. But owing to
his poverty his proposal was not favorably received. The go-between

To rally him, they
Pao. This he

1 Baring-Gould, ‘‘Curious Myths,” Philadelphia, 1869, p. 455.
598 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

in leaving her father’s house met A-Pao herself and asked her pri-
vately if for her part she would consent to this union.

“If he will cut off his sixth finger,” said A-Pao, laughing, ‘‘ TH
marry him.”

This reply was brought back to Séng, who, taking things seriously,
as usual, seized a knife and rid himself by a single blow of the finger
which he believed to be the sole obstacle that lay between him and a
brilliant marriage. The pain was intense and the loss of blood so great
that for several days he lay between life and death. When he recoy-
ered, he hastened to show his hand to the go-between and beg her to
obtain for him that of A-Pao.

But the young girl, getting more and more exacting, now insisted
that Séng should rid himself of the mania of taking even the lightest
things so seriously. The artless fellow understood at length that they
had been amusing themselves at his expense, and, having no means of
himself demanding an explanation from the young girl, he soon felt
his first enthusiasm for her cooling. He consoled himself by declaring
that A-Pao could not possibly be a serious person, and that he ought
not to regret not having married her.

Upon the Féte of the Dead his friends proposed to him a stroll to the
cemetery, hoping to meet someone who would suit his fancy. Per-
chance their good luck might bring them across A-Pao.. And in fact
they did see the beauty seated under a tree, surrounded by a crowd of
youths who formed a wall of admirers round about her. Indeed, her
beauty was unequaled and worthy of all this homage. While the
others praised the young girl’s beautiful face in speeches of labored
eloquence Séng remained silent. When the people had gone away and
even the girl had left her seat, he remained alone, motionless, not
answering a word to the appeals of his friends. They slapped him on
the shoulder, saying: ‘* Has your soul gone off with A-Pao/”

It was no use. He hadn’t even sense enough left to understand
what was said to him. So they took him home. He kept his bed as
though he were drunk. From time to time he would reply to those
about him a single phrase—that he was with A-Pao.

After that meeting it seemed to him that he had gone before the
loved one, accompanying her to her home, and that since then he had
not left her side. On her part the young girl saw every night in her
dreams a young man who called himself Séng. Shame alone kept her
from telling her parents of these secret visions.

Meanwhile, the body of Séng remained to all appearances entirely
without animation as though fluttering on the edge of eternity. At
length permission was asked of the father of A-Pao to send priests to
his house to call back the soul that kept his daughter’s company. ‘* We
have nothing to do with one another,” said he, wondering; *‘ how can
his soul be detained here?”

%

po
CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES. 599

Finally, yielding to the tears and entreaties of the sick man’s family
he consented to having the Taoist ceremony performed. The ae
girl was greatly struck by this coincidence, and in the depths of her
heart was touched by the profound love she had inspired. The youth
revived, thanks to the exorcism, but was grieved no longer to see her
by whose side he had been so entirely happy. He only awaited from
that moment an opportunity to meet her again.

One day he learned that she was going to the temple. He arose in
the early morning to go and watch in a spot where the carriage would
pass. A-Pao came, toward midday, and at sight of the young man
deigned to raise the curtain a little so as to see him; she even sent a
maid to inquire his name. On reaching home Séng fell ill as before,
with this melancholy difference, that his soul could not as on the first
time go forth and dwell with A-Pao.

One afternoon, seeing one of the children of the household playing
by his pillow with a dead parrot, he thought if only his soul could
enter the parrot’s body he might in this way fly to his beloved’s cham.
ber. Hardly had this thought occurred to him than the parrot started
up alive, took its flight and reached the room of the young girl, who
eagerly caught it without its making the least resistance. When she
was going to puta ring around its leg, it cried out: ** Do not chain me;
Iam Séng!”

‘*Your great love has made a deep impression on my heart,” said the
young girl, with joyous surprise. ‘* But we are no longer of the same
species; how can we ever fulfill our vows?”

‘“The happiness of being near you is enough for me,
parrot; ‘‘I ask no more.”

He ate out of no hand but that of the girl. When she sat down, he
perched on her knee; when she went to bed, he slept by her side.
A-Pao loved him tenderly; too much, indeed, to want to have him
remain a parrot. She sent her servant to inquire after the condition
ot her lover’s body; they said that his breast was still warm.

“Tf you could become a man again,” said A-Pao, caressing the par-
rot, ‘‘I will swear to give myself to you.”

The parrot appeared to reflect a minute and suddenly took flight,
carrying off in his beak one of the young girl’s slippers. He flew
straight away in spite of his mistress’s call.

Séng’s family who were all in tears standing around the body were
surprised to see it suddenly move and sit up at the very moment when
a parrot came in by the window and fell dead on a mat In the chamber.

A-Pao seeing her dear bird disappear, sent an old serving woman
quickly to witness the changing of the soul which she knew would
take place, and to reclaim her slipper. .

‘**The slipper is a promise,” said Séng; ‘* I shall keep it until the day

when that promise is made good.

» replied the
600 CHINESE FOLKLORE AND SOME WESTERN ANALOGIES.

A-Pao’s mother, when she was made aware of these extraordinary
events, was quite willing to consent to a marriage; but the father
could not endure the idea of having a son-in-law at once poor and
demented, and he persisted in refusing. His resistance was overcome
by the threat which the young girl made of putting an end to her
life. When the youth learned the good news, he became well all at
once.

The following day the wedding was celebrated.

After three years of this happy union Séng died. A-Pao would not
survive him, and sought means to commit suicide so as to follow him
into the other world. Fortunately those about her prevented her
from carrying out this dreadful determination. At the moment when
they were putting the dear husband’s body into the tomb, what was
A-Pao’s joy to hear him groan and speak from beneath the grave-
clothes! Séng had come to life again.

Upon descending into the lower world he had seen the great god
there who had already appointed him to some subordinate position,
when the steward suddenly announced the immediate arrival of his
wife; taking pity upon a love so complete, the god allowed Séng to
return to life.

‘*That is why you see me here,” he added, pressing A-Pao to his
heart.

It must not be thought that this insufficient résumé exhausts the
category of strange resemblances between the folk-lore of the Far Kast
and West. It is evident to the most superficial student that critical
and scientific work in the field of Farther Asia has only yet been begun.
Much remains to be accomplished in the merely preliminary labor of
collection and classification; after this has been done in every locality
there remains the greater task of assimilation and comparison with
kindred conceptions found among other races. Hic labor, hie opus
est; and no-one can well comprehend the magnitude of the operation
who has not, whether by choice or by chance, been brought into con-
tact with the vast accumulations of material yet untouched. In this
research there await at every turn fascinating opportunities for com-
parison with our own familiar nursery and tap-house acquaintances.
What shall we say upon discovering in Korea the widow’s cruse of
Scripture lore—only that here the miracle is applied to a wine instead
of an oil jug? Or to a Japanese version of the medizval witch’s spell
laid upon her victim by means of a waxen image? Or to Ali Baba’s
open sesame in Tibet; or to Punchinello and all that he implies in the
Middle Kingdom? These are but samples of the rich harvest to be
gathered for the sociologist, the mythologist, the student of compara-
tive institutions of the future. Though the contribution to science
may fall short of expectation, much will be effected if we establish
thereby the intellectual community of races, the brotherhood of man-
kind,
——

ee eS ee ee eee eee

THE LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT
PEKIN’

By Count D’Hé&rtisson,

Secretary and interpreter to General Montauban.

[ Note.—W hile China is occupying so much attention it seems opportune to repub-
lish a document of great ethnological value, both for its most interesting description
of the great summer palace and the treasures it contained, its apparently fair account
of the mental processes of the Chinese ruling classes and their attitude toward for-
eigners, and the frank statement of the uncontrollableness and barbarism into which
trained European soldiers may relapse under temptation.

The Imperial Government of China was at this time (1860) under great embarrass-
ment from what was known as the Tai-ping rebellion, and the rebels were ravaging
the country in armies so powerful as to threaten the safety of the dynasty. Mean-
while an expedition of French and English troops was sent to Pekin to insist upon
the ratification of the treaty made in 1858 with the English commissioners at Tien-
tsin, with the understanding that it would be concluded at Pekin in 1859. Baron
Gros and Lord Elgin were the diplomatic representatives of France and England,
and General Montauban and Sir Hope Grant were the immediate heads of the French
and English armies.

During 1859 an armed English force started for Pekin, but was repulsed at Taku
in its attack upon the forts, and returned to Shanghai to wait for the arrival of a
larger army.

On August 1, 1860, the allied armies landed at Pei-tang, a village 12 miles north
of Taku. The forts were taken, and again the Chinese endeavored to persuade the
allies not to move in force upon Pekin, but to send diplomatic representatives with
asmall escort. The French were inclined to agree to this proposal, but the English
disapproved. Events proved the correctness of the position of the latter, since in
the course of this march they encountered a Chinese army of nearly 60,000 men,
arriving on the outskirts of the Imperial City on October 6. It was the intention of
the generals of both armies for the moment to preserve the great palace, but while
commissioners were deciding upon the disposition to be made of the treasures found
in it, and as the result of a shot fired and a panic, the French troops and some Eng-
lish troops, the coolies, and camp followers rushed past the guards, and the unau-
thorized pillage described in the article, and lasting over the 7th and 8th of October,
ensued.

The reader should note these dates in connection with the date of the quite sub-
sequent destruction of the palace authorized by Lord Elgin on October 18.

1 Extracts translated from the “Journal d’un Interpréte en Chine, par le Comte
D’ Hérisson. Nouvelle édition, Paris, 1901.”’

sm 1900

42 601
602 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

A few days after the pillage both armies were horrified by the appearance of 11

wretched men, all who had survived from a party of French and English who had
been made prisoners, while acting as envoys under an invitation from the Chinese
authorities, and tortured, accompanied by the bodies of those who had succumbed
to the dreadful tortures inflicted upon them. The bodies were buried in the Russian
cemetery near Pekin, with impressive ceremonies. On October 18 Lord Elgin ordered
the destruction of the Summer Palace (Yuenmingyuen). He says:!

‘‘T had reason to believe that it was an act which was calculated to produce a
greater effect in China and on the Emperor than persons who look on from a distance
may suppose. It was the Emperor’s favorite residence, and its destruction could
not fail to be a blow to his pride as well as to his feelings.. To this place he brought
our hapless countrymen in order that they might undergo their severest tortures
within its precincts. * * * As almost all the valuables had already been taken
from the palace, the army would go there, not to pillage, but to mark by a solemn
act of retribution the horror and indignation with which we were inspired by the
perpetration of a great crime. The punishment was one which would fall, not on
the people, who may be comparatively innocent, but exclusively on the Emperor,
whose direct personal responsibility for the crime committed is established, not only
by the treatment of the prisoners at Yuenmingyuen, but also by the edict in which
he offered a pecuniary reward for the heads of the foreigners.”’

The above, it will be noticed, is the account given by the English of the reasons
for the destruction of the palace. It will be noted that the enormous unauthorized
pillage had already taken place, before the troops had learned of the alleged ill-
treatment of the envoys, and that except the building itself there was little left for
the English army to destroy when the official order was given. ,

It is to be regretted that we have not the Chinese story of the whole transaction,
as the fairminded reader will wish to hear both sides.

The writer of the volume, from which the extracts following were made and trans-
lated, was, at the time of the events narrated, a very young officer, but extremely
intelligent, and the author since of other valuable works. He was secretary and
interpreter to General Montauban.

The disposition of the Chinese toward foreigners may be illustrated by some
extracts which are made from the narrative, before coming to its most interesting
portion, the loot of the Summer Palace.—S. P. LANGLEY. ]

* * * Colonel Schmitz and Commandant Campenon entered a

mandarin’s house, surrounded by great gardens, and were struck
dumb by this spectacle: In the principal chamber on the ground floor
there was, as is usual in northern China, a sort of great bed, taking
up all of one of the sides of the room. The bed, which is hollow, is
made of bricks and is a kind of heating apparatus containing a furnace
which opens on the outside of the house so that the *‘ bed” keeps
warm all the winter. On it are heaped mattresses covered with silk,
and cushions and hangings, and there the family passes its time.

On this bed were extended three women—an old woman simply
clad and two younger clothed in sumptuous dresses, one of whom was
remarkably pretty. The throats of all three were cut, the wounds
were gaping and the silk hangings were stained with the purple
blood from them, which was flowing and falling in a cascade on the

1Elgin’s Letters and Journals, p. 366, quoted in The Middle Kingdom, Williams,
p. 685.

é-
a

—
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 603

floor. The women were still br athing, with their members shak-
ing in the last spasm of the death agony. Beside them, two little
girls were toying with the long, black tresses of the dying women,
and playing hide and seek with each other in. the blood-stained
clothing, laughing at the singular movements of their young mothers
or their great sisters. The faces of the children were smirched with
the blood like those of babies eating jam. Opposite the bed, seated
in an arm chair of teak wood against the wall and looking at this hor-
rible spectacle, was the mandarin, the head of the family, who, to save
these unhappy beings—probably his mother and his two wives from
the outrages of the barbarians, had sacrificed them himself. His heart
or his hand had failed him when he came to the two little beings who
were still alive. He had opened his own throat with a razor. and.
superb in his robes of silk, immovable, he sat there still alive. Through
the open gash the blood flowed at every respiratory movement along
his breast and fell upon the open razor lying on the floor. In his
right hand he held his fan, which he used to drive away the ereedy
flies who were gathering on the frightful wound, and, under the fan-
ning, the blood was already hardening and becoming brown. His eye,
still hard and keen, was fixed firmly on the two terrified officers.

Schmitz and ’Campenon left, taking away the two little orphans,
whom they put in charge of the chief almoner of the army, who sent
them to Shanghai, where they were charitably cared for.

After hearing such things, the first thought that struck me was this:
**If these people,” said I to myself, ** have such a horror of us that they
do not hesitate to kill their own families and themselves, rather than
suffer any contact with us, what treatment, great Heaven! would they
have for those of us who were unfortunate enough to fall into their
hands. What treatment?”, alas, the future was to tell us!

Later, Lord Elgin came to see the General and gave him part of the
papers which were found on one of the mandarins who had cut his
own throat in the camp of Sinko. Among these papers was an edict
of the Emperor of China, ordering his subjects to kill the invading
Europeans like evil beasts. Here is the official edict:

““MANIFESTO OF THE EMPEROR OF CHINA AFTER THE CAPTURE OF THE
FORTS OF PEI-HO.

‘*Scarcely had the barbarians endeavored to force the passage of
Taku, when, in the twinkling of an eye, all their vessels were sunk,
and thousands of corpses floated on the water for more than a league
in distance. Some had succeeded in escaping and carried to their
friends the news of this terrible punishment. — |

“‘T thought that this lesson would have sufficed to make them ee
circumspect. But who would believe it! Searcely one } om ae
elapsed since the memorable victory for our arms, and here they are
back again, more numerous and more arrogant than ever.
604 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

‘* Profiting by the low tide, they disembarked at Peitang and attacked
the formidable intrenchments of Taku; but, barbarians as they are,
they attacked them by night and from behind. In this way they were
able to surprise our troops, accustomed to see themselves faced by
a courageous enemy, and unable to imagine that such perfidy and
deceit could be employed against them. Now encouraged by this sue-
cess, which should have covered them with shame, they have dared to
march upon Tientsin; but my anger will reach them there, and for
them there will be no mercy. Therefore we order all our subjects—
soldiers and laborers, residents of the town and of the country, Chi-
nese and Tartars—to destroy them like noxious animals. We order
our mandarins and officers, both military and civil, to cause the people
under their control to evacuate every city and hamlet towards which
these miserable strangers appear to be going. They must equally
destroy, by fire and water, all the food and the provisions which they
would be forced to abandon. In this manner this wretched race,
hunted by fire and by famine, will soon perish like fish in a tank that
has been drained.

‘Given at Yuenmingyuen the twenty-third day of the tenth month
of the ninth year of our reign.

Another edict issued at this time put a price upon the heads of the
barbarians. It made known to the people that for the heads of ambas-
sadors 12,000 francs would be paid, for those of generals, 8,000, and
so On.

[Immediately after this, Count D’ Hérisson gives a spirited account of the attack of
the allied armies on the Taku fort, which they captured, but with very considerable
loss. His tribute to the courage of the Chinese should be given. ]

The few men who had no time to fly before we took possession stood
massed, upright, and motionless. They had thrown their arms down
before them in a heap, and what arms, good Lord! Guns, discharged
by slow fuses, of most inoredibly ancient forms, generally quite harm-
less, and painted red; bows, crossbows, some lances, and bad sabers.
We could not but ask ourselves how, with such means, they could
have done us the harm that they did. It was not their armies which
had been so fatal to us; it was their desperate bravery. They pushed
back with their hands, as in the ancient sieges, the ladders which were
covered with our charging marines; they threw onto our men their
guns, their bullets, fragments of our own shells, and stones, and all
those who had been ordered to defend the ramparts bravely died at
their posts.

As in the camp at Sinko, we found in the mandarin’s tent the
corpses of some of these dignitaries who had stoically cut their throats.
One of them, the highest in rank, no doubt must have been a very
great personage, for his costume was not only rich, but decorated
with the peacock feather, and we learned afterwards that he was the
commandant of the forts of the left bank.

Immediately after the taking of the first fort, the Chinese hoisted a

é

ee

Ae i i ee

LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 605

white flag on the second one and sent representatives to confer with
our officers. The two parties met with courteous salutations, and after
the customary ‘*ching ching,” the mandarins asked to be introduced
to the ambassadors. The mandarin, who was the bearer of the flag of
truce and who was of an inferior rank, was informed that the ambas.
sadors were not there. ‘* It is unfortunate,” he replied, ‘‘ we have got
a letter to give them which authorizes them to enter into the Peiho,
provided that hostilities are suspended.”

The Chinese are our masters in diplomacy, and they have recently
proved it. Now, at that time they were no more stupid than they
are to-day. They had used, and they always have used, unlimited
postponements, for a Chinaman will be eighteen years in discussing the
place of a comma in a diplomatic paper. To him it is all the same:
he is never in a hurry, and time is nothing to him, and it is this indif-
ference to time which constitutes the strength of the court of Pekin.

The Chinese then began to go through their diplomatic procedures
with our officers, but fortunately Mr. Parkes, one of the most skillful
agents that England has ever had in the Celestial Empire, took charge
of the conversation, and replied that the propositions contained in
their letters were simply laughable, and that the officers for whom
he was interpreting had only to demand the surrender of the forts.
The mandarins replied that in this case they must retire; that the
fort was well armed, and that the Europeans might come and take it.
General Montauban was for an immediate attack, but his English
colleague proposed to give the Chinese two hours. The allied officers
sent to parley were received by a mandarin of elevated rank, a chief
of high stature and martial bearing, who endeavored to gain time,
but he was assured that if the forts were not surrendered in two hours
they were to be attacked. ‘‘ Well,” said he, ** try it. We have powder
and cannon and we will know how to meet you.”

At the end of the time our forces marched on the fort in a solemn
silence. We marched on, leaving our first conquest behind, expecting
that the Chinese would open fire at once, but no cannon shot came;
nothing at all happened, and this silence excited the suspicions of
our generals, who asked if the enemy was only letting us approach
nearer to bring us within the range of grape. The army halted within
gunshot; Captain Bovet, of the engineers, advanced and laid planks
over the first ditch, followed by the general and the assaulting column,
everybody followed him, and while we were asking ourselves what
infernal stratagem was hidden under this silence, and were expecting
to see the formidable artillery which we beheld before us begin to fire,
we saw all at once the general and his soldiers on the rampart. [wo
minutes later we saw the great door of the fortress open; we entered
and beheld something unexpected, for all the garrison, 3,000 men,
were massed there motionless, the Chinese prisoners having thrown

their arms in heaps before them.
606 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

The general approached, and by his order I asked some of them
where their chief was. ‘* We have none,” they said. ‘* Where, then,
are your subaltern officers?” Three mandarins of no importance came
forward and explained that the chief general had been killed in the
other fort; he was the man who had the peacock plume, and nobody,
they said, had dared to take the command afterwards without the
Emperor’s orders. The ability of a chief comes to him from
the Emperor through the orders which he transmits, and whoever is
vain enough to assume himself the responsibilities of such command
can only commit faults; and, they added, **if the mandarin invested
with supreme power could not defend the first fort, how could we
have any pretension of doing better than our commanding officer did?”
After this discourse, so full of good sense and respect for official
order, the three lower class mandarins knelt down, beat their breasts
and asked to be sent to the right bank. * * * It was evident that
the demoralization of the Chinese, to which we owed the surrender of
perfectly defendable fortresses, came from the death of the command-
ing general, who was said to be the own brother of San-Ko-Li-Tsin,
the commander in chief of the Chinese army.

[Count D’Hérisson, after giving the history of the subsequent negotiations, in
which it was arranged that the ambassadors should go to the capital to finally ratify
a new treaty there, refers to the delicate question which arose as to the number of
persons in the escort which the ambassadors should take with them to Pekin. The
Chinese insisted that this escort should be a very small one, reasoning as follows:]

** You are treating with us to secure your interests and protection
for your commerce, and it is in your own interests then not to diminish
the prestige of our sovereign. You have everything to gain on the
other hand while leaving him the moral force necessary to execute the
treaty and to guarantee the favors he has conceded. If you arrive at
Pekin with your victorious generals escorted by their armies, our
Emperor will appear in the eyes of his subjects to yield to force, and
you will have no occasion for surprise if in spite of his good will you
do not find him giving with a good grace.”

Baron Gros, the French ambassador, would have been satisfied with
an escort of a few men, but Lord Elgin did not view it at all in the
same way and would not go to Pekin except surrounded by a force
sufficient to represent properly a great nation and a great Queen. He
demanded an escort of at least 1,000 men—infantry, cavalry, and
artillery. The French General (Montauban) himself did not share this
opinion, and supported the French ambassador. He could not imag-
ine the possibility of treason on the part of the Chinese, and the gen-
eral wrote to the French minister of war, complaining that our allies
were compromising the result of so successful a campaign out of their
puerile vanity in exhibiting their forces. He wished to explain that
he was not responsible for the fatal consequences which such a show

LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 607

of force might bring about, * * * but the English were richt a
hundred times over. If we had listened to Baron Gros: if the Ciiiuaee
had only waited a fortnight longer before showing their hand, not one
of those who would have left for Pekin would have ever come away
alive, and the defeated army, deprived of its leaders, would have been
massacred at the gates of Tientsin with no one to return to Europe to
bring the news of this tremendous disaster.

On the 10th of September we left Tientsin (for Pekin) with 3.000
men and two batteries of artillery, the English being in equal force.
The twelfth day, when we were at Yangtsoun, an incident occurred.
A mandarin of low rank, but lofty stature, asked to speak to the
French general, and I was directed to interpret. He was hardly
seated when he asked the general to consent to having the troops fol-
low some other than the main road, which went through two villages
belonging to him, asking that the villages should be left on one side,
and proposing in exchange that he would bring provisions to the
army. The general replied that the route had been laid down in
advance and that the army would follow it without paying any atten-
tion to the villages, whose inhabitants need have no occasion for
alarm.

The Chinaman laid his hand on my arm and said, ** Just understand
this. There are 1,000 taels for you if you will decide your chief not
to have his troops go through these villages.” ‘* What is he saying?”
asked the general, who, while we were talking, was playing with a
great pair of spectacles which the mandarin had laid down on the
table. He had been trying them on, and gave a joyful cry to find that
they were fitted to his sight. (I ought to say that two days before the
general had lost his own spectacles. ) ‘*He says, General, that there
are 7,000 frances for me if I can induce you to proceed by a different
route than that toward these villages.” ‘* Ah, he says that, does he?”
remarked the general. ** Well, tell him that he is a rascal, but that
I pardon him this time; but as every bad action deserves a punish-
ment, I shall keep his spectacles.” While complying, I pushed the
tall mandarin toward the door, and I can not describe the astonish-
ment with which he saluted the general, whom he saw wearing his own
spectacles. As he went over the threshold, he said to me, “Tf 1,000
taels were not enough, why didn't you say so?” this being the only
moral that he drew from the interview.

When General Montauban returned to France there were persons

ate that he had only gone to China to pillage, and

jealous enough to st
of the summer palace

these insinuations were made after the affair
that I am going later to describe. .

I, who had not quitted the general a moment from his departure
from France until the last day of the expedition, would like to give
» only thing which he ever looted in China

my word of honor that the .
worth not more than thirty-nine cents.

was this pair of spectacles,
608 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

We arrived on the 13th at Hosiou and saw before us everywhere
the still fresh traces of the camps of large bodies of cavalry, and now
I understood the object of the mandarin, who wanted us to change our
route so that we should not see this for ourselves.

The general was completely cured of the confidence which had made
him object to the insistence of the demands of the English on arriving
at Pekin in force. He felt instinctively that something wrong was
going on around him, and he wanted to have all his people in hand.

Before the allies quitted Hosiou and occupied Tangtcheou, Prince Tsai
had sent two men with new dispatches which were addressed to Baron
Gros, stating, among other things, **If you consent to encamp your
ariny without advancing in the villages of Yangtsoun, Tchountchou,
and Hosiou, your excellency, according to our agreement at Tientsin,
can go with a very small suite and without any arms to Tangtcheou
and there we will come to an understanding on all the articles of the
convention, which we have agreed to and which we can sign and seal
before your excellency goes to the capital. In this way all delay will
be avoided, and the Chinese troops will be directed to procure your
excellency wagons and everything necessary for the journey, and we
beg that you will give us a statement of the number of persons who
will accompany you, so that we can prepare everything in advance.”

(Signed, ** The Imperial Ambassadors, Prince Tsai Y’tsin, etc., the
13th of September, 1860.”)

Baron Gros once more believed that everything was arranged for
the best, and again was the dupe of the Chinese, having learned
nothing by his previous experience of their tortuous diplomacy. He
stopped the army, then two leagues from Tangtcheou. Negotiatiéns
were going on, and there seemed, therefore, no danger in sending
officers with a flag of truce to Tangtcheou, and the general sent Sub-
intendant Dubut, Colonel Foulon, Captain Chanoine, and administra-
tive officers Ader and Gagey, while the Abbe Duluc, a missionary,
went with them as interpreter. They were also to collect provisions
and arrange for the material comfort of the troops conformably with
the instructions of the ambassadors.

In accordance with our understanding with them the following
English officers went along: Colonel Walker, Lieutenant Anderson,
Mr. Bowlby, correspondent of the Times, and M. de Normann, first
secretary of the embassy, with Messrs. Loch and Parkes, nineteen
Indian horsemen forming their escort. M. d’Escayrac de Lauture,
Count Bastard, Gaid Osman, and M. de Meritens accompanied and
formed a part of this little expedition to carry to Prince Tsai, Baron
Gros’s dispatches. They left Hosiou and the army was to follow in
their traces, they having gone on before to arrange for the camping
places on the road to the city.

On the 18th the army struck camp, with the English at the head of

e
4 ;
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 609

the column. They marched forward for two hours, when a captain
notified the general that there was a large Tartar army in the way.
Very uneasy, but more and more satisfied that he had broucht astrong
force with him, General Montauban went to confer with his colleague,
where he found a high mandarin accompanied by a numerous retinue.
This functionary, who was called Hang-Ki and who had a rank equal
to that of one of our generals, stated that he came to arrange with
the ambassadors the ceremonial of their entry into Pekin. The gen-
eral replied that the ambassadors had not come with the advance
guard, and that he would like to know why the place where they had
expected to stop was occupied by a Tartar army.

A Chinaman is never taken by surprise. Hang Ki, pretending to
be astonished, asked our general about these troops of whom they.
spoke, which he said they had never heard of, and took his leave, say-
ing that there must be some misunderstanding.

Ai this moment Captain Chanoine came in and informed the general
that he had in front of hima Tartar army of 30,000 men (15,000 horses,
-and as many foot), and presently clouds of dust were seen on the
horizon, due to marching troops.

The generals found themselves in a critical situation, for they had
but few troops in comparison to such a mass of the enemy as was
drawn up in battle array. General Montauban considered it debatable
whether they should take the offensive, but decided that we must fall
upon the enemy, as there was no other way to save our unhappy offi-
cers who had just been dispatched to Tangtcheou. General Grant, on
the contrary, thought that there was no evidence that our officers had
been made prisoners, since two of them had come back.

At this stage arrived M. Bastard, M. de Meritens, ‘and Gaid Osman,
and confirmed in every respect the statements made by Captains
Chanoine and Gagey. There was no room for doubt that in obeying
the proclamation of the Son of Heaven, who had enjoined them to
exterminate the Europeans by every possible means, the Chinese were
developing a traitorous plan begun at Tientsin and had drawn us into
an actual ambush, hoping to destroy us by their number.

Presently we heard the gallop of a horse in disorder and saw Colo-
nel Walker arrive, followed by two wounded horsemen; he himself was
wounded in the arm and one of the horses fell dead at the feet of
the general. He related that he had left Tangtcheou at an early: hour
and rode into the enemy’s camp, affecting to be perfectly calm, but
observing carefully what was passing about him. The C hinese cee
urged him to dismount and go into their tent; he had happily alee:
and certainly owed his life to the refusal. M. Ader had been attacked
by several Chinese, and, with his orderly, defended themselves ae
desperate courage; it was impossible to give any help to them, for he
610 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

was separated from them by an entire regiment, and had enough to
do to save himself. The Chinese no longer asked him to visit their
tent, but attacked him and his escort. He and his men took their
bridles in their teeth, their sabers in their hands, and, urging their
horses, succeeded in overturning those about them and forcing their
ray through, and in spite of the fusillade, though the riders and
horses were injured by the balls, no one was dismounted. Upon see-
ing their escape, the Chinese fired three cannon shots, the signal for
the battle.

[The author describes the fight, under these circumstances, of the French and
English armies, who had to conquer or die on the spot. They conquered, putting
the Chinese to rout. ]

Hardly was the combat over when a common thought occupied us
all—what had become of our European officers shut up in Tangtcheou %
Those who had escaped and whose return I have mentioned had told
us what they saw on the 17th in the afternoon when they arrived in
the city. The mandarins had received them most courteously, under-
taking to conduct them to lodgings prepared for them in advance.
De Lauture, his secretary, and two soldiers followed one of these man-
darins and were taken to the Yamen. The others had gone to inter-
view the Chinese functionaries who were to aid them in the supply of
food for our troops.

M. Bastard had asked an audience of Prince Tsai. The conver-
sation was cordial, but the prince was now preparing to trick our
poor secretary of embassy, playing with him as a cat plays with a
mouse. He approved all the terms of our ambassador’s dispatch, and
only objected to the demand for escort of 1,000 men, which, however,
he conceded with a faint smile. Baron Gros (our ambassador) had
asked his secretary to demand letters of credence for this Chinese pleni-
potentiary. In the face of this matter-of-course demand, the Chinese
functionary could not conceal a movement of anger, and replied that
he would agree to the request, but that he must express his lively indig-
nation at such a demand being made of him; of him, who, he said, had
never lied, whose authority was superior to that of all plenipotenti-
aries, and whose signature was as valid as that of the Emperor’s.

Tt must be remembered that while he was talking in this way to the
French representative the Chinese were massing their troops and were
charging their cannon. Do not forget, either, that the Chinese of to-
day have the same character that they had then.

After having received the official reply of the prince, M. Bastard
started early in the morning to regain the French camp, escaping
miraculously from the hands of these wretches, though at the ulti-
mate cost of his life, his experiences having developed the germ of
some cerebral malady from which he died.

As to those of our people who had not been able to get back, about

LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 611

thirty in all, we did not know what had become’ of them. We only
knew the fate of the unfortunate Ader and his heroic orderly, whom
Colonel Walker had seen killed; but Chinese spies told us that they

had seen a certain number of European prisoners taken in the direc-
tion of Pekin. The reader will see what fearful tortures were
inflicted on these unhappy beings, and in what condition they were
brought back to us, alive or dead.

The Chinese reports were true and the Chinese army was taking
them to Pekin after Palikao, of which I shall presently relate. Two of
them were beheaded on the field of battle—an English officer and the
Abbé Duluc. Afterwards when the bishop of Pekin came to Palikao
to look for the remains of the victims nothing was found, and it was
supposed that the dogs which had been feeding on the corpses had
devoured them.

After the battle of Changkiawan, which is the name of that just
described, officers were sent under a strong escort to declare to the
taotai of Tangtcheou that if our compatriots were not returned to us
we would march on to Pekin, and those who had so traitorousiy sur-
prised them would be held responsible. The taotai replied that they
were gone, and he knew nothing about it. There was nothing to do
then but go on to the immense Chinese capital to terrify its sovereign
and to obtain the surrender of the prisoners at any cost; the army
was unanimous on this point, from the general to the drummer boy;
everybody said, we must have them back if we die here!

We were about to march forward, but this time into the unknown,
without any diplomatic errand, since the negotiations were broken
and the negotiators dispersed; we were going, if I may use the expres-
sion, to hit back until the Chinese begged for mercy. The small allied
force the next day found itself in the presence of a still larger army,
and again fought for its life.

One incident of the battle may be mentioned. The Chinese were
drawn up beyond the bridge of Palikao (a very fine one in stone and
and marble). Their army numbered about 50,000 men; there was at
the entrance of the bridge a Tartar of gigantic size, a sort of flag bearer
of the generalissimo, holding an immense yellow banner with black
Beeicters, which he inclined in every direction, and on which the eyes
fixed, for it transmitted the orders to the w hole

of the generals were
Chinese army.

The enemy was in full retreat; the field of battle and the bridge,
which the flower of the army mer defended, were filled with corpses,
but this Tartar still stood there alone, abandoned by his comrades, and
bravely transmitting the orders which he had received. The shells
burst and the bullets whistled around him, but he remained immovable;
his courage was sublime, and General Montauban exclaimed, ‘* What
a brave man! Save him!” Some soldiers sprang forward to try to
612 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

take him prisoner, but at this moment the hail of grape which had
spared him, as if to give us time to fix his heroic form in our memories,
cut him down, and the great banner flew away, carrying with it attached
to its pole the arm which had sustained it.

Our losses were insignificant, amounting to but 51 men for English
and French, but the Chinese had left on the field a number of dead,
which we estimated at 1,000; but which, according to the reports of
their general, found at the summer palace, were 3,000. In the sum-
mer palace also were numberless small flags and the grand imperial flag.
Along with the papers found in the summer palace was a letter saying
we had been engaged with 60,000 men, and also another letter from
San-Ko-Li-Tsin, dated at Hosiou, stating that he had informed the
Emperor he was sure of exterminating the foreigners. This letter
was dated the very day that Prince Tsai was saying he never lied, and
giving his word of honor that peace would be made.

Certain that he could neither crush us nor resist us, the Son of
Heaven had nothing left to do but to abandon his throne, or to treat with
us, and he resigned himself to the latter decision, and this time it was
his own brother, Prince Kong, who was charged with the negotiations.

It is the Chinese system to proportion the importance of the envoys
to the importance of the difficulties which they are charged to meet.
Since our arrival in China we had been meeting dignitaries of a higher
and higher grade, and one really ought to see with what stolid faces
these diplomats disallowed one another.

Prince Tsai had declared that he was not a liar, like his predecessor
Koue Lian, and that his signature was as valid as that of the Emperor.
Prince Kong declared that Tsai, having conducted affairs ill, had been
disgraced, and that he, the brother of the Emperor, was going to put
them in the right way. Our great preoccupation was the fate of our
ofticers. The ambassadors replied that an unheard-of thing, which
had never before been registered in the annals of mankind, had occurred
at Tangtcheou; that the ambassador’s envoys had been surprised and
‘aptured, and, we had reason to fear, bound and conducted to Pekin
in carts, and that consequently negotiations would not be resumed
until the prisoners had been sent back to our respective camps.

This was very plain, and there was need for but one word in reply;
but ** Yes” is not Chinese, (any more than *‘ No,” for that matter).
He commenced an interminable statement to the effect that the pris-
oners were well, and would be returned as soon as the treaty of peace
was signed; that their presence in Pekin was a guarantee of pacific
intentions, etc., and days were spent in discussion.

It was necessary that we should finish with this Prince Kong, who
would not give us our prisoners; but how? Neither Baron Gros nor
the general had been sent to conquer the Chinese nor to overthrow the
dynasty, whose representative was in flight; to change the dynasty

7
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 613

— would have been oe aoe and it was necessary, then, to treat with
Kong, and to treat effectively we had to appear ready to fight again.
On leaving Palikoa we encountered abominable roads, but traveled on

in good spirits until the tall roofs of Pekin could be seen on the horizon.
Pekin—that mysterious and gigantic city, which had seemed in our
European dreams at such an immense distance—Pekin—at last, Pekin!
Officers, one after another, climbed the brick furnaces, and up behind
them scrambled the soldiers, stretching their eyes to catch a glimpse
of the walls said to surround so many marvels and which none of them
had ever expected to see.

The next day the march was resumed at dawn, and the ground
became more and more difficult. Finally a long halt was made by the
army at a distance of little over a mile from the northeast corner of
Pekin. A few minutes later an orderly arrived from General Grant
to inform the French commander that according to spies the Tartar
army had retired to Yuenmingyuen, the magnificient imperial resi-

dence, for the probable purpose of protecting the Emperor, who was

thought to be still in this, his autumn palace. Yuenmingyuen is in

fact the autumn palace, which all Europeans call—I can not imagine
why—the summer palace. General Grant announced that he was
going to visit it, and begged his comrade to accompany him. Mon-
tauban, interrupting the conversation held with Lord Elgin, gave the
necessary orders, and the march was resumed past Haitien, an unim-
portant town, where the palace in question is situated, which I, like
the rest of the world, shall call, if you please, the summer palace.

The guide who accompanied Grant’s orderly told us that the palace
was about two miles off, but these two miles being very much like
the ‘“‘short half hour” of our French peasants; we marched for two
hours, and did not reach the place. At last, after having made a
dozen times the ‘“‘two miles” announced by our guide, the French
army arrived at Haitien just as the day began to wane.

Just as Versailles is an appendage of the palace of the great king,
so Haitien is an annex to the palace of Yuenmingyuen. A broad
street, flagged with granite, leads directly to the palace, crossing, 600
feet before reaching it, a monumental bridge thrown over the canal.
It is then transformed into an avenue of venerable trees, bordered by
houses inhabited by the mandarins of the court when the Son of
Heaven deigns to show himself on earth in his summer palace.

The first companies to arrive halted in front of the palace, and soon
the whole army was massed on the grand open square, which served
as the court of honor, and which had very nearly the dimensions of
the Place d’Armes at Versailles, but with the additional advantage of
possessing splendid shade trees.

Before us rose the hermetically cl«
and stretching on either side beyond our vision.

ysed walls surrounding the palace,
Quartermasters were
614 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

marking the position of the tents of each company, and the order was
about to be given to separate and stand at ease, when all of a sudden a
gate opened, and a band of soldiers and servants discharged a volley
of musketry upon the army.

Nothing is so impressionable as a body of troops gathered in a tumul-
tuous group, particularly when they find themselves facing something
unexpected. In the dusk, our men saw for the first time a regal build-
ing of magnificent aspect, and heard the magic word which had already
secured an astounding prestige among them: **The Emperor!” so
that the sudden panic which broke out on hearing these inoffensive
shots was not surprising, even if it occurred in the midst of troops
which had been victorious at every point since arriving in China, never
recoiling a foot, and who did not consider that the fact of their plung-
ing in such small number into the midst of a nation of 400,000,000 souls
was an act of unheard-of heroism.

For a moment all was in disorder, confusion, and tumult; the dis-
banded soldiers ran in every direction, crying out. The general knew
that an army is a string of pearls, easy to handle so long as the thread
of discipline holds together the single elements, but helpless without
military order, for the thread being broken the pearls fall to the
ground, and he for a moment feared a disaster. He used his utmost
endeavors, giving orders, swearing, persuading, reassuring, and finally
thrust out his cane into the vacant air, as if to stop the disorganized and
affrighted individuals. He lost his cane, which was snatched from his
hands— by whom, no one ever knew.

The panic, fortunately, ceased of its own accord, no one haying been
injured by this first discharge. Only a single bullet hit anything, and
this lodged in the head of a horse that belonged to Commander de
Bouillé.

While order was being established and the army arranged its tents,
the general sent one of his aids, Naval Lieutenant de Pina, at the head
of a company of marines, to search the entrance of the palace, where
several hundreds of the Tartar force which had caused us so much
disturbance during the night might possibly be concealed.

He had been gone but a few minutes when firing was again heard,
and the general sent a positive order by Lucy not to fire, fearing that
the palace might be set on fire, or that his men might kill each other,
and wishing that all should be taken by a bayonet charge. Lucy
started, the musketry fire ceased, and this is what took place. On
arriving at the great gate after the first discharge, M. de Pina had
called the watchmen of the palace to open it; as there was no response,
he had a ladder brought and climbed the wall, followed by M. Vive-
not, a midshipman. Having reached the top of the wall, M. de Pina
observed several Tartar soldiers in the courtyard, but he bravely
jumped down, hoping to have time to open to his men the large gate,
from the inside, before he could be attacked.

7
a
i
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 615

The Tartars rushed at him, he fired his revolver once or twice, and
when in the act of taking aim ata third soldier he received a violent
blow from a saber, which inflected a deep flesh wound, while almost at
the same moment he was wounded in his left hand. M. Vivenot, who
had jumped after him, received a bullet in his side, and the Tartars
would have finished these two brave officers had not their men. who
hed scaled the wall in the meantime, come to their succor. and forced
the Chinese to retreat. The latter withdrew, carrying off their
wounded, and leaving three dead in the courtyard.

The great gate was opened, the first court was occupied by the Col-
lineau brigade, and for greater security the gates which opened into
the interior of the palace were barricaded without and guarded.

The capture of the palace had cost us the wounds of M. de Pina and
M. Vivenot, as well as those of two marines, one sheep, and the gen-
eral’s walking stick.

The next morning the gates were unfastened and opened. AJ] within
was silent and deserted. General de Montauban penetrated into the
palace accompanied by Generals Jamin and Collineau and Colonel
Schmitz. I had the honor to follow these four officers.

The generals, from a feeling of delicacy, easy to comprehend, had
wished that the first visit might be made in the presence of a delega-
tion of English officers, whose troops were marching with us. None
of these officers knew what had become of their general in chief, and
the army, and cannon were fired every five minutes for an hour on
the great square, to indicate to our allies the place where we could be
found.

We five Frenchmen were joined by Brigadier Pattle, Major Sley, of
the Queen’s dragoons, and Colonel Fowley, and were preceded by a
company of marines.

THE SUMMER PALACE.

To depict all the splendors before our astonished eyes, I should need
to dissolve specimens of all known precious stones in liquid gold for
ink, and to dip into it a diamond pen tipped with the fantasies of
an oriental poet.

What struck me at first was this: Although built in a pure and ele-
gant Chinese style, the summer palace furnished in its arrangement, ©
its architecture, and even in certain of its details, singular reminis-
cences of the palace at Versailles, modified by the peculiarities of all
Chinese constructions, which are never more than one story 1n height,
having only a ground floor, without attics or mansard windows, with
nothing to separate the roof from the rooms on the ground floor. This
distant resemblance is not inexplicable.

The Jesuits, who played so important a part in China, zave
it veritable Richelieus and Mazarins; the Jesuits, who remained tn hi

who gave to
oh
616 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

honor as semi-sovereigns at Pekin until 1773, when their order was
suppressed by Clement XIV; the Jesuits, as clever in administration
as they are great in mathematics, who had in their order men having
all talents and knowing all sciences, were in some sort the architects of
the summer palace and the designers of the beautiful gardens.

At that epoch Louis XIV had sunk so many millions in Versailles
that when he received detailed bills he ordered them to be paid and
burned, hoping to conceal from posterity as well as from himself his
royal folly. The echo of these splendors created by the Grand Mon-
arch reverberated from country to country, transmitted by word of
mouth throughout the world, and finally reached the ears of the
{mperor of China.

The Son of Heaven found it strange and inappropriate that there
should be on the earth a king who took the sacred emblem of the sun
and who allowed himself treasures which he, the true Son of Heaven,
had not secured. And what sort of a king? A mere kinglet, a man
who governed a paltry handful of human beings, 25,000,000 souls, who
was consequently only one-thirteenth of his own importance. And in
this way, strange as the thing appears, Versailles gave birth, in some
measure, on another continent, to the richness and magnificence of
Yuenmingyuen. The palace was a long time in construction, and the
Jesuits were succeeded by other missionaries, as artistic as them-
selves, who had but to embellish the original plans. But this is history
enough; let us proceed.

At the end of the first court arose on three granite steps an immense
hall, its naked walls unornamented save by a few inscriptions and hay-
ing no furniture but high-backed wooden benches. It was here that
his subjects awaited the honor of approaching His Majesty. Behind
the hall on the same level stretches a second court, which separates it
from the audience chamber; this court is furnished with vases of old
porcelain four or five feet high, which serve to hold a quantity of little
trees, each queerer than the other. * * * Take, for example, an
oak. It is 200 years old; it does not resemble a young tree; on the
contrary, it isan exact photographic reduction of a huge and venerable
oak of the forest, but it is only three feet high. It is a perfect dwarf,
and by the side of it isa group of six trees of different species, growing
a few inches apart, in a single vase, which are united at the height of
three feet into a single trunk, which branches out a little higher, pro-
ducing leaves impossible to classify—and observe—the Chinese are
not acquainted with grafting. These tricks are reproduced in all the
large pots in varying forms. Generations of learned men have devoted
their lives to the study of processes for cultivating these vegetable
monstrosities, and presently, continuing our visit, we shall find on the
shelves of ancient libraries the results of their studies, in well-labeled
volumes.

“a5

LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 617

We only gave a passing attention to the extravagant contents of these
porcelain vases, of which the smallest would be worth 100,000 franes
in Druot’s auction rooms, and we went straight into the first audience
room, which opened before us.

This hall forms one side of a quadrangle of buildings, in the midst
of which is a garden and fountains; to the right and to the left are
two other halls of audience and of ceremonies, and at the far end of
the quadrangle the throne room.

In the three halls first traversed we found most extraordinary treas-
ures. We must bear in mind that the Emperor preserved in these
palaces—transformed into a museum, or rather into a warehouse of
riches—the most exquisite products of many generations of 400,000,000
human beings, of which he is the demigod, as well as all the tributes
paid him by foreign nations, all the presents which fear or admiration
had drawn from the great as well as the humble, all which had been
confiscated from his rebellious subjects. We must bear in mind that
in this immense Empire not a superior work of art was produced which

did not naturally drift toward the Emperor, and not a treasure was

discovered that did not fall into his hands of its own accord.

There were gathered all the wealth in precious stones and fine fabrics
presented by tributary princes, and all that the kings and emperors
of Europe had sent to Hien-Fong and his predecessors, all the bric-a-
brac and curiosities, as well as all the goods which the simple-minded
merchant, wishing to obtain rights ina port, subtracted from his cargo
to propitiate the sovereign. Everything was preserved with care and
equally honored, from a cloth of gold ornamented with pearls, which
had come, perhaps, from the Sublime Porte, up to a doll that cried
“napa” and ‘* mamma,” which a Marseilles captain had taken from his
little daughter at Christmas and carried to China to “grease the palm”
of the chief mandarin.

This multitude of treasures had overflowed the private apartments
of the sovereign and his wives and spread itself into these immense
cathedral halls. The spectacle was at once extraordinary and daz-
zling—dazzling from the richness of the articles, extraordinary from
their number and variety.

At length we reached the throne room, placed on a platform ap-
proached by seven steps of beautiful granite polished like a mirror,
It is completely separated from surrounding buildings. Its raised
roof, extending at least three feet beyond the granite steps, is supported
by two rows of ironwood columns, most artistically engraved, and
resembles those bamboos or engraved ivories which we in Europe use
for tobacco jars or match boxes, but swollen to gigantic propor nace
No two pillars were alike, and the scenes which qrere oe in
spirals around their shafts, as on the column in the I lace Venc gine
were borrowed in part from national history, n part from legends,
in part from celebrated romances and mythology.

sm 1900 43

618 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

The one against which I leaned, the only one of which I have a dis-
tinct recollection, pictured the life of the god of wine, whose skull is
as high as the rest of his body. He is traveling, peacefully seated
upon a buffalo, with a curved stick in his hand, and before reaching
the top of the pillar he must pass precipices, enchanting landscapes
and caverns where monsters lie in wait, and finally go under a tri-
umphal arch surrounded by pretty women. It is a lively sort of a
journey for the good deity and a symbol of the imaginary voyages
which his followers make after too copious libations in his honor.

On the shafts of these columns all the surface of the wood not
removed by chisels is covered with lacquer of dazzling colors; on the
capitals the imperial dragon twists and rolls himself into all possible
shapes, holding in his claws eseutcheons covered with mottoes.

From these columns, where our gaze has been agreeably arrested, it
ascends to the roof, and there it meets a magnificent spectacle. The
roof is covered with those shining yellow tiles made in the little vil-
lage where we spent last night, the ridges and the eaves being of green
tiles as brilliant as the yellow ones, producing an elegant and majestic
combination of colors. At the four lower angles of the roof immense
dragons of green faience are crouching, inestimable products of the
city of Hangtchoufou; the enormous beasts appear to be climbing
up the ridges of the roof; they gaze at each other in pairs, their jaws
open and their eyes staring.

Finally, at the two ends of the coping a marine monster in green
and black faience springs at another monster facing him, and gayly
raises heavenward a three-meter long tail, ending in a pinion which
serves as a colossal double crest to the whole building, and gives to it
a swaggering air, if one can apply such a word to a house.

In the sunlight, whose golden arrows are reflected in blinding
array from these brilliant and gaudy surfaces, throwing its sparks
into the eyeballs of the monsters, and its shadows into the abysses of
their gaping jaws, the superb and magnificent building arises like an
enormously magnified jewel.

Everything is clean and clear and intact in this masterpiece, over
which the blue sky seems at the coming of night to close like a jewel
case with a blue velvet lining. And the care of its preservation and
maintenance is carried so far that wherever a wandering bird might
place its tiny feet, it would find an invisible iron wire which would
remove his desire to rest there.

The throne room is entered by a great’ opening without a door.
The interior might be seen from without were the view not inter-
cepted by a screen of teak wood, as big as the rood-screen of a cathe-
dral—carved, inlaid, cut out like lace, and representing gods, and
bounding men and horses—a room 160 yards long, 22 yards wide, and
17 yards high, such are its temple-like dimensions.
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 619

The throne faces the screen and is raised upon ten steps; it is a
mountain of cushions and silk mattresses, in a niche nearly 25 feet
wide, itself cut out of an immense lattice-work wainscoting, like an
openwork alcove in the wood of the choir of one of our old cathedrals.

The hall is well lighted throughout, for the windows are close
together, and furnished with ventilators, shades, and blinds, permitting
the passage of refreshing air no matter what the position of the sun.
On piers between the windows, frames of sculptured woodwork sur-
round pictured panels.

There is scarcely any furniture; behind the screen is a little altar fae-
ing the throne, on the right of the imperial seat a table and an armchair
of teak wood. On the table are a golden tray, some writing brushes,
a saucer of vermilion, and some paper on which is traced characters
in vermilion—it is the interrupted correspondence of His Majesty.
On the small altar rest two incense burners of jade, some porcelain
saucers, on which, in the absence of the Emperor, are placed fruits,
tea, and flowers, offerings addressed to his spirit that in Chinese belief
is always present in these places.

On either side of the throne, in the corners of the hall, are. two
doors, each leading to a kind of small saloon or oratory; that on the
right communicating with the private apartments of the sovereign; it
is called the 7%en—heaven.

The walls, the ceilings, the dressing tables, the chairs, the foot-
stools are all in gold, studded with gems. Rows of small gods in
massy gold are carved with such wonderful skill that their artistic
value is far beyond their intrinsic worth.

There, on supports of jade, are two pagodas of enameled gold, as
large as corn bins, with seven superposed roofs, and from each pear-
shaped pearls hang like so many bells. In among the gods are Kuro-
pean clocks of every description. Two of them are of the beautiful
Louis XVI style and are models of good taste, beauty, and fine work-
manship; alongside are more incense burners, torches, candlesticks,
golden boxes, snuffboxes embellished with precious stones, and enam-
eled miniatures, a jeweler’s fevered dream. |
- In the other oratory to the left, which resembles the interior of a
monstrance, are gathered all the articles for the daily use of the “Son
of Heaven,” when occupying the throne room; his tea service, his
cups; his pipes—the bowl of gold or silver—the long tubes enriched
with coral, jade, rubies, sapphires, and little tufts of many colored
silk; his ceremonial chaplets of rows of pearls as large as nuts, which
are spread across his august breast, though their whiteness is not
quite perfect. Here are his speaking trumpets of silver gilt, used
at times to swell his voice to thunder tones for the benefit of his pros-
trate subjects. On wall cabinets are a great many little silver blades,
with rounded ends, nearly half an inch thick, two inches wide and

620 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

eight long, looking a good deal like our thermometers; these bear
engraved characters, the chiseled lines being filled with gold.  Eti-
quette requires you not to speak to the sovereign, not to even lift
your eyes to his sacred person. If, however, he should ask ** What
time is it?” how can you reply without speaking or looking at him?
With bowed head one of the silver tablets on which is inscribed the
particular passing minute is presented to him; he glances at it and
learns what he needs to know. It is very ingenious, but for my part
I should prefer a good watch.

I shall not attempt to portray the wonder and admiration of the
‘*harbarians” who penetrated into these precincts. Involuntarily we
spoke in low tones, and began to walk on tiptoe on seeing before us
such a profusion of riches for the possession of which mortals fight and
die, and which their owner had abandoned in his flight as indifferently
as a citizen closes the door of his house, leaving his mahogany bureau
exposed to the chances of war. All was so natural, so familiar, so
commonplace to him that he did not even try to save these treasures.

Behind the throne room, stretched over an immense space, in the
midst of gardens, are the private apartments, likewise crowded with
objects of luxury and beauty, but on the whole less extraordinary, for
between the sleeping room of an emperor and that of a private person
there is less difference than between a throne room and a parlor.

In the rooms of the Empress, the walls of the closets of the secre-
taries are furnished from top to bottom with pigeonholes, in which,
one above another, like files of lawyers’ briefs, are red boxes of old lae-
quer of Pekin, wonderfully engraved in intaglio, containing ornaments,
necklaces, and bracelets in pearls, in jade, in precious stones, tiny rings
for feminine fingers, and huge ones of jade, worn by men when they
draw the strings of their bows.

Boxes not holding ornaments already mounted, are crowded with
artistic objects, with materials to be transformed into jewels, with
unique specimens of transparent jade, of rock crystal, of milky jade,
of moss agates, of uncut diamonds, of precious stones still in their
natural state; tea services, cups, saucers, a regular bazaar—not one
where everything is quoted at 19 cents—but rather a bazaar where
everything is worth 19,000 francs. On opening one of these boxes,
it appeared to send out sparks and sheaves of light.

Beyond, great wardrobes of old lacquer set into the walls of the
room contain the garments of the Empress, both those for daily
use and for ceremonious occasions. There was enough to dress, from
head to foot, 10,000 princesses from the ‘‘Arabian Nights,” so that it
would be impossible for the Caliph of Bagdad, a judge in such matters,
to find occasion for changing the position of a single pin or to alter
their arrangement. All is of silk, satin, damask, fur, with embroid-
eries sometimes as delicate as spiders’ webs, sometimes as heavy as
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 621

those on bishops’ copes; it is a brilliant display of birds, butterflies.
and flowers fresher than those in the sun, with diamond dewdrops in
their perfumed calixes.

Here and there footstools of strange shape allow the ladies-in-waitine
to reach the high shelves where the toilets are, and offer nea
cushions to dnete little crippled feet.

His Imperial Majesty, as everyone knows, does not content himself
with a a wife. He has concubines, whose quarters are opposite
his private apartments. These ladies, into whose rooms we throw a
passing ee e, our powers of attention being already wearied, are
apparently almost as well cared for as their sovereign, and drink their
tea from cups almost as precious as his own. When the Son of
Heaven takes a cup of tea here he must perceive no difference.

At last we have finished with this endless fairy story and find our-
selves face to face with nature, with fountains, and with foliage.
What a magnificent park! It is immense, with high walls extending
about eight and a half miles around it. Those who designed it took
special pains to arrange picturesque views, giving impressions which
were sometimes gentle and tender, sometimes savage and theatrical;
and they succeeded.

But they assisted nature by architectural effects also, and this park of
Yuenmingyuen (literally ‘‘residence of the original splendor”) con-
tains a little of everything—isolated palaces, temples, pavilions, pago-
das, pyramids, porticoes, colonnades, artificial mountains, grottoes,
lakes, rivulets, islands, groves, labyrinths, observatories, and kiosks.
The artificial rock work, so fashionable among us a few years ago in
Paris gardens, is here—immense, striking, monumental, and unique.

Here, for instance, is a mountain built up of rocks; in niches cut in
its sides are images of all sorts of infernal divinities, who grin and
squirm in the midst of unheard of vegetation. It dominates the entire
park, its summit is crowned by a little pagoda, about 25 feet by 20,
surmounted with roofs entirely of white porcelain, decorated with
stars; it is dedicated to the Chinese Virgin; Koua Him, who, from this
culminating point, seems to extend her protection over all the palaces
lying at her feet. She is represented by a statuette of gilded bronze,
peed | in the midst of a lotus flower; on each side watches a fully armed
warrior; these two sentinels are engaged in hideous contortions and in
making horrible faces.

On the right of this artificial mountain, following a labyrinth whose
tortuous paths easily lead one astray in a space of 50 square yards,
rises a large building; it is the imperial library. Its roof, with yellow
tiles, fesembles that of the throne room, and like it is peopled with a
menagerie of black faience dragons chasing other chimerical monsters.

The hall, 40 feet high, 30 ioe and 120 long, has its walls lined with
cases in pivich are most curious and ancient manuscripts. In the hall
622 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

are tables and armchairs for studious visitors, and two small altars, one
to the north and the other to the south, on which are still slowly
burning perfume incense sticks in honor of Confucius and of Lao-
Tzeu, whose portraits are reproduced on large silken banners suspended
here and there.

Here are the grottoes, deep, crooked, and full of statues of gods
and animals; some have the entrance curtained by hanging vines; in
others a crystal cascade falls from an upper basin and loses itself mur-
muring through the turf. Here are the lakes; in the center of the
largest is a small palace, which we have neither the time nor courage
to visit, but which I beg the reader to keep in mind; he will soon learn
why. This palace, Suilt on an island, whose heaped-up soil scarcely
rises above the surrounding water, seems to emerge from the bottom
of the lake.

On the border of the lake, to the left, is a large building of carved
and precious woods, entirely smothered under the vines twining around
it, climbing its top, and winding in flowery plumes about the tails of
dragons scaling its roof. It is a coach house, and contains the carriages
of gilded and carved wood, with doors covered with Vernis Martin,
interiors lined with Genoa velvet, great carriage lamps of chiseled
silver, with thick and heavy cloths like women’s dresses at the court
of Louis XIV, and ornamented with pendants of gold and of silk—
which had been sent to the Emperor of China by George ILI, through
Lord Macartney, at the end of the preceding century. In this memor-
able embassy, the English, with the object of serving the interests of
the East India Company, consented to pay tribute to the Emperor of
China. These carriages, their magnificent trappings stretched on
wooden horses, were never used; they were covered with dust and
could not have been often seen.

Alongside of the stable was the landing place of the imperial pleas-
ure boats, its roof of yellow tiles extended above the lake. There was
the bark of His Majesty, one for the Empress, others for royal princes,
and still others for high mandarins. There was the fishing boat of
the Emperor, gilded and lacquered, and still furnished with his para-
phernalia. Within this the Son of Heaven gave himself up to fishing
among the innumerable varieties of fish which the Chinese fish breed-
ers, foremost in the world, had created for him, but he can not have
abused this sport, for the fish appeared to us to be quite tame, and as
they had no patriotic spirit, they came to the edge of the lake to gaze
at the barbarians and shamelessly ate their bread. There are gold-fishes
a foot long, whose name alone describes them. Here are redfish,
cousins to those that people the basins in the Tuileries, and here are
little marine monsters, all head, with eyes as large as those of a man;
while others resemble the sea-horse, a fish venerated by the Chinese
under the name of water dragon; to us they are hideous, but to them
beautiful.
vine al

LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 623

A little farther on rises a tower, an exact reproduction of the famous
porcelain tower of Nankin, its numerous roofs marking as many
stories. To reach it one has to pass in front of a pagoda built in honor
of Buddha; and the statue of the god seated on a low pedestal, his
legs crossed in Turkish or Chinese style, is not less than 65 feet hich.
while a staircase which runs along the interior wall of the pagoda
permits climbing to the level of his head of frizzled hair, his knees
being reached at the first story, his navel at the second. and so on.
This very ancient statue is of gilded bronze, but time has impaired
the gilding; the half-closed eyes of the god are of silver, their pupils
of iron; from one knee to the other at the base the statue measures
45 feet. Two gigantic incense burners and one altar are in this
pagoda, which has been constructed solely as a shelter to the statue.

Our presentation to this enormous gentleman terminated our visit
to the summer palace. It had lasted several hours. We returned
worn-out, exhausted, our eyes burning from the sight of all this eold
and this splendor, with aching heads.

The general in chief placed sentinels at all the entrances to pre-
vent anyone from penetrating the palace before the arrival of our
allies, and he assigned two captains of artillery, MM. Schelcher and
de Brives, to see that the order was strictly carried out.

To add to the effect of our signal guns, Brigadier Pattle had sent
numerous troops of cavalry in every direction, who finally met Gen-
eral Grant with his army and brought them in at noon. On his
arrival General Grant went into the palace and saw with his own eyes
that everything was intact.

PILLAGE OF THE SUMMER PALACE.

I reach here a delicate point in the history of the campaign in China,
an episode of which the whole truth has never been told. I will relate
this episode with absolute frankness; at least. I will try to do so.

The summer palace was pillaged and partially burned. Who is
responsible for this pillage and burning? Could they have been
avoided? Was this pillage contrary to the laws of war? Who prof-
ited by it? Did either one of the allies take advantage of the other?
Here are plenty of questions, I simply state the facts and briefly dis-
cuss them, and after having read this chapter the reader may answer
them himself. a

The generals had decided in concert that a committee of six, three
from each nation, should be named and appointed to select the most
precious objects, considered in their intrinsic and artistic value, so as
to have an-equal division. The commission immediately commenced
its labors, and the removal of the most valuable articles, at least those
apparently so, was systematically begun, and the first examination of
the palace led to the discovery of treasure valued at about 800,000
624 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

francs in small ingots of gold and silver. This sum was divided
between the two armies and, when subdivided exactly, it formed for
each man a prize of about 80 francs.

It was nearly in the middle of the afternoon and the sentinels had
been continually on guard, gun in hand, before the palace within which
the commission was working. Every few minutes soldiers marched
out laden with bric-a-brac which excited the admiration of the troops
gathered before the sentinels. After laying down their burdens these
soldiers returned and showed their passes.

In the midst of the troops of all sorts who took part in this first
move, French infantry, Englishmen, unmounted cavalry, artillery-
men, Queen’s dragoons, Sikhs, Arabs, Chinese coolies, all mixed
together, a rumor circulated and spread, repeated in all the idioms
represented by the crowds assembled there, with their eager eyes and
their mouths dry with desire. They said, ‘‘ When most has been
carried out we shall enter and have our turn; why the devil should
we not have at least our own slice off the cake? We have come far
enough. Isn’t that so/” And they laughed and nudged each other.
A little disorder had already begun.

General Montauban, who began to feel anxious, was walking about
at the other side of the square, leaning on a green bamboo which
replaced the walking stick that he lost in the panic of the night before,
but things had not reached such a pass as to require interference.

Suddenly a trumpet call resounded, a company was called to arms.
What could it be? A very simple thing; the Chinese of Haitien had
entered the park by scaling the walls, and it became necessary to pro-
tect the treasures which were just being explored.

‘*It is too bad,” said the troopers; ‘* these Chinese are going to grab
everything. We must see about that.”

The peasants of the neighborhood and common people of Haitien
were slipping up to the walls of the park; they fraternized with our
coolies and chatted with them. Our coolies had ladders which they
placed against the walls and, like a great crowd of sparrows, the black-
headed pillagers filled the avenues and ran toward the palace.

It became necessary to disperse them and for this purpose a com-
pany was called to arms. It had not yet assembled when a second
trumpet call was heard; this was for another purpose; it called for
soldiers without arms, equipped as a fire brigade, for partial attempts
at firing had already begun.

In China when a fire breaks out, before thinking of protection from
the flames, it becomes necessary to seek protection from thieves who
arrive at the points threatened quicker than the firemen, and the
result is that the habitual robbers who profit by fires know how to
start them and consider the fire as a necessary ally, and an element
indispensable to a good stroke of business.
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 625

Consequently, the Chinese of Haitien and our coolies had brought
torches and bundles of straw—in fact, everything that was needed to
burn a palace—and_ had immediately undertaken to exercise their
special industry.

The trooper, on hearing these facts, which reached him magnified
and exaggerated, felt his anxiety give place to anger; awhile ago he
thought, **These Chinese will cabbage everything;” now he added,
“The rascals are going to burn everything.”

Irresistible pressure at the guarded gates carried away the sentinels,
the crowd rushed in, together with the company under arms and the
workmen who had been summoned; and immediately each one laid
hold of that which best suited him and carried it off. From the very
first moment I noticed the characteristics of the two allied nations:
the Frenchmen went each for himself; the Englishmen, more method-
ical in their ways, had instantly comprehended the business in hand
and systematized the pillage.

They arrived in squads, like gangs of workmen, with men carrying
large sacks and commanded by noncommissioned officers, who brought
with them, strange as it may seem, touchstones. I do not know where
in the world they found them, but I can state that they possessed this
primitive jeweler’s tool.

Englishmen, Frenchmen, officers, and soldiers had entered the palace
with the inhabitants of Haitien, with our coolies, who fiercely hated
the northern Chinese—pellmell with the crowds of parasites who fol-
low armies like crows, dogs, and jackals.

To ask our men to let this human torrent flow by them while they
stood still was asking something beyond human power. They were
like the dog in the fable carrying the dinner of his master, who began
by defending it, but when he saw another had got a bite he seized
his own share. Our men entered like them and along with them.
What could the General or his officers do? Absolutely nothing. If
they had tried to stem the torrent they would have been swept away
by the rush; they would have compromised their influence and reputa-
tion, and with it the future of the expedition. With us, as with the
English, the generals had only one thing to do, to shut their eyes.
It was one of those psychological moments in military life when, as
Count von Bismarck said later, the artificial regulations which serve
to bind nations as well as armies disappear, leaving primitive human
nature in all its crudity and absolute surrender to its free instincts.
Such moments occur at two points in the history of armies—in over-
whelming defeat and in supreme victory; and at such times there are
no longer regulations or authority. Men become purely selfish, either
in the depression of a disaster or in the intoxication of triumph. .

Under these conditions the commanders must be prudent and patient,
they must stand by and wait until the fear of defeat or the fatigue of

626 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

victory brings once more around them their human flock, who are soon
dismayed at not feeling upon forehead and shoulders the accustomed
yoke, and will come of their own accord to take it up again.

Montauban, with all his energy, could no more have prevented his
troops from passing through the great gate of the summer palace, than
Napoleon, with the prestige of a demigod, could have stopped his armies
flying from the field of Waterloo; accordingly he remained in his tent,
equally abandoned by his men, while General Grant remained in his
own, and both did right.

Lord! I do not wish to make myself out better than Iam. I never
set up for an angel for fear I should pass for a fool, and I admit that I
could have taken my share of the treasures of the Son of Heaven with-
out any scruples. I even think that I might have stuffed my pockets
a little fuller than most of my comrades, because I had an advantage
over them in a more perfect knowledge of the value of the articles
and in the habit of a collector, which would have assisted me in choos-
ing the most precious and the least cumbersome. It was self-interest
that held me back; for living in close relations with the General, eating
with him, leaving him scarcely more than did his shadow, I could not
hope by any device to hide from him my booty. Besides, I saw that he
was distressed at what was taking place, and I did not wish to increase
his displeasure. And why didn’t I wish to give him trouble? In the
first place, because I loved him; but, secondarily, because I knew that
there was destined for me in his hands a little thing, my cross of the
Legion of Honor, which had been promised me. Now to have the
cross at twenty seemed to me something that I would have gone
through the fire for. As to the riches of the summer palace and its
golden pagodas and diamonds, the Emperor might have them, the
others might take them.

Oh, youth! Oh, brave days when I was twenty! Ob, illusions!
Oh, dreams! How good it all is, even when you are fooled by it!

I was simply an onlooker, a disinterested but curious spectator, and
I enjoyed this strange, unforgetable vision. There was this ant-heap —
of men of every color, of every race, this entanglement of individuals
from every nation on the earth, swarming on this mound of riches,
hurrahing in all the languages of the globe, hurrying, struggling,
stumbling, falling, picking themselves up, swearing, cursing, exclaim-
ing, while each carried off something. I say it looked like an ant-
heap, crushed under one’s foot, where the terrified workers fly in every
direction, one with a grain of wheat, another with a bug, another with
anege. There were troopers, their heads buried in the boxes of red
lacquer belonging to the Empress; others, half smothered in the folds
of brocades and of pieces of silk; still others, who had placed rubies,
sapphires, pearls, and rock crystals in their pockets, in their hats, in
their cloaks, and who hung around their necks strings of great pearls.
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 627

Others carried off clocks and dials in their arms. The suppers of
the engineers had brought their axes and broke up the furniture to
secure the precious stones with which they were incrusted. ‘There
was one smashing -a lovely Louis XV clock to secure the face. on
which the hours were marked with crystal figures, which he mistook
for diamonds. Now and again the cry ‘‘fire” was heard. Everybody
rushed out, letting everything fall, and extinguished the fire, which
was already licking the precious wall, by heaping on it silks and dam-
ascenes and furs. It was like the dream of a hashish eater.

And when, after passing through the apartments given over to pil-
lage, I emerged in the park, the spectacle of nature in its eternal tran-
quillity made me shudder on coming from this furnace, like a cold
plunge as we step from a Turkish bath. Here and there in the park
were groups running toward the palaces, the pagodas, and the libraries.
Alas!

But the great lake was silent, deserted; its aquatic palace and its row
of gondolas abandoned.

‘*T am going to see what there is in there,” said I to myself, looking
at the island. I jumped disrespectfully into the imperial gondola,
lacquered on the exterior, and lined in the interior with yellow silk,
like a glove box, and I set myself to sculling energetically toward the
palace, which I shall not describe, first, because it was exactly like all
the others I had seen, and, secondly, because the reader must be wearied
with descriptions already.

I leaped ashore, fastened my boat to a carved post, and, mounting
three steps of white marble, I entered the principal room, entirely
surrounded by sofas made of large cushions covered with yellow
damask and resembling Turkish divans.

I inhaled the air, which smelled very sweet, too sweet to have been
subjected solely to the breeze from the lake for two entire days. With
my hand on my saber I listened, for I thought I heard half-smothered
sighs. I examined the yellow cushions, and they had suspicious humps.
I kicked one off; 2 sharp cry rang out, and a woman suddenly appeared,
crouching on the ground like a little rabbit, costumed in those delicate
and costly hand-embroidered silks that are made for ladies of high
rank. She stood at the foot of the bed, prostrating herself, bowing
until her forehead touched the earth, showing only her black hair,
secured by golden hairpins. ee

If vou have never seen a man in an embarrassing position, Imagine
me, standing up there, my hand on my sword, and this woman at my

feet. ay tae
To induce her to rise, I contented myself with saying in Chinese,

‘‘ Have no fear; I will do you no harm.” She rose on her two little
feet. a lovely creature, twenty years of age, dressed like an empress.

2 a Z te . . .

As no cry from the pretty child had as yet indicated that she feared
628 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

for her life, the humps of the other mattresses began to increase in
size. Heads of women began to appear, and little by little their
bodies, and a small crowd surrounded me, beating the matting with
their pretty foreheads. There were twenty-seven women.

I had lit upon the harem, or at least a portion of the harem, of His
Majesty. Oriental people are accustomed to construct the apartments
of the women on islands; and here I was with twenty-seven women
on my hands, and so beside themselves that when one emitted a sigh
or a groan all the rest fell to the ground, supposing that another bar-
barian had arrived, and wishing to show him the same marks of
respect, of fear, and of submission.

[ hada great deal of trouble to soothe them,and to prevent them
from suffocating themselves. They had had, I may venture to say,
the good luck to fall into the hands of a gentleman, but it was not to
be supposed that during the night and the day following they could
escape the investigations of our soldiers who were still occupied in
the interior of the palace, but who would not fail to emerge and rob
in every direction as soon as the principal buildings had been sacked.
The island would have been a mouse trap for them. I decided to ask
them if they would leave and seek safety in flight, no matter where.

** Yes, yes, yes,” they all cried.

And then down they went again, foreheads on the ground, as if
they wished to salute the matting.

I took nine of them and made them sit down in the imperial gon-
doka, which would carry no more, for the water trickled over its sides.
YT begged them to keep still, and I pushed my boat into the lake, not
in the direction of the landing place, but straight for the stable con-
taining the carriages already described, the roof of which hid us from
the summer palace, and consequently prevented those who filled it, and
were otherwise much occupied, from troubling themselves about us.

I led the women into the stable,and I piled them on the dusty cush-
ions of King George’s carriages, which for the first time were render-
ing some service to the Emperor of China. I cautioned them to keep
still, and returned for a second load of nine women, and afterwards
for a third. On this last trip, while steadily sculling, I commenced to
ask myself what I should do with them all, and if I should not have
better left them to their chances rather than to bring them out per-
haps into imminent danger, for I did not know how far the French, the
English, the Hindus, and the Arabs could be trusted.

Just as I landed and drove the last convoy into the stable, I saw
quietly installed in one of the immense carriages, filled with the women,
a trooper, a sergeant of the line, before whom all their terrors had
returned.

‘‘What are you doing there, comrade?” said I.

** What are you doing yourself?”
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN 629

I gave free vent to my wrath.

‘*T am the secretary of the general in chief, and if you move an
inch, or if you touch one of these women with the end of your finger,
ui ofl break your head! If you are not satisfied I will begin now.
Clear out!”

COU ought to have told me at once that you were the General’s
secretary,” replied the sergeant, leaping from the e royal carriage.

The trooper had a pleasant mien, a blue eye, light hair, well-trimmed
head, an air of discipline, and was not ugly in his bear ing.

My title of secretary to the general in chief had produced a magical
effect. I regretted having threatened him with it, and stretched out
my hand to him, saying:

“I beg your pardon, comrade, but you know I have instructions.
Orders! Orders!”

*‘T understand perfectly,” he said, with the air of a man who does
not understand anything. ‘‘ We are to save these individuals.”

‘They are the wives of the Emperor,” said I, raising my hands with
an appropriate expression.

**The devil! Can I be of any assistance to you?”

**Yes; help me to get them out of this park.”

** Where shall we take them to?”

As [had absolutely no plan, 1 answered peremptorily, ** We shall
see.”

**T was about to propose, if you please, that we should take them
to a Christian, who lives near by at Haitien. I got acquainted with
him this morning, because he came to see the paymaster, who is my
friend and countryman, and we went together to take tea with him,
He is a fine fellow.”

‘Let us go to your Christian, my friend, but Orders! Orders!”

*SAll right.”

On our left, near the carriage house, a park gate opened into the
country. There we led the women. They hobbled along on their little
mutilated feet like birds from which the large feathers of their wings
had been clipped. Most of them had covered their brilliant toilets
with long, loose wrappers, so as to look like peasant women, but
through the slits of the gowns escaped the billows of silk, and little
slippers of red satin peeped out like doves’ bills from these sumptuous
parcels. It was charming, on the green grass they seemed to me like
a cluster of living flowers.

THE NIGHT IN CAMP.

When I returned to the camp night was falling. The men came
back loaded with booty, bearing the most heterogeneous collection of
articles, from silver saucepans to astr onomical telescopes and sextants—
a Mi pitus mass of material which they certainly could never carry

home.
630 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

The English camp filled up in the same way, but there everything
was carried on in perfect order. In our camp the soldiers were mas-
querading. The artillerymen arrived enveloped in the garments of the
Empress, their breasts decorated with the collars of mandarins. Over
there the articles had been placed in piles in each tent, and they had
already begun to sell them at public auction.

Just here I must relate a little anecdote. One of our spies, my
orderly Mohammed, was extremely attached to me, both through
affection and by interest.

‘**You are the friend of the General,” he often said to me. ‘‘ You
put words into his mouth; you must get me a medal.”

When he returned from the summer palace he brought a double
handful of pearls.

**These are for you,” he said to me, simply.

And thus it happened that I, to please the General and to secure the
cross of honor, had seized nothing, while my spy, to give me pleasure
and to secure a medal, had plundered on my behalf; the same motive
had inspired both of us to quite contrary acts.

‘**Thanks, my lad,” said I to him, ** keep all that yourself; it is prob-
ably worth a great deal.” )

‘* What will you take for your pearls?” said one of my comrades,
who stood by.

‘*Give me a bottle of brandy.”

‘* Agreed.”

And Mahommed gave him his pearls.

A bottle of brandy in the camp at Yuenmingyuen was sold to us by
the sutlers for 100 francs. After the expedition to China was over the
pearls were sold for 35,000 franes.

I notice here another curious thing, and one which ten years later
was confirmed by the soldiers of Emperor William.

Nothing tempts soldiers like clocks and other objects containing
mechanism. Now, the Chinese, like all oriental people, and lke all
people with whom machinery is still in a rudimentary stage, greatly
admire mechanical articles, especially of the amusing kind. From
time immemorial our sovereigns and officers of customs have turned
this mania to good account, and have sent or taken to them all the
curious inventions of opticians, of toy makers, and of manufacturers
of automatons. It will never be known how many musical boxes, toy
organs, clocks with complicated chimes, alarm clocks, rabbits with
tambourines, panoramas, clocks turning windmills, crowing cocks,
climbing monkeys, singing birds in brass cages standing on pedestals
which are wound by turning a key, mechanical flute players, monkey
violinists, trumpeters, players on the clarionet, and even whole orches-
tras of monkeys seated on an organ, little tight-rope dancers, waltzers,
and so on, were found in the summer palace. The rooms of the
Empress and of the women were literally overflowing with them.
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. §31

if

Part of our soldiers were wide-awake and part were but overgrown
children; the latter in the majority. The clever ones had supplied
themselves with jewels, the coined money, and the dollars. bonbon-
nieres, snuffboxes, dishes of gold, and collars of pearls. The others
had been principally tempted in the midst of unheard-of riches by
these mechanical toys of European origin, all of which had been most
generously left them by the Englishmen.

Therefore, the second night that we passed near the summer palace
was exciting, insensate, head-splitting. Each trooper had his bird, his
music box, his monkey, his clock, his trumpeter, or his rabbit. The
clocks struck continuously, in every tone, at all hours, now and then
accompanied by the sad snap of a spring broken by inexperienced
hands. Multitudes of rabbits playing on their tambourines formed a
bass, accompanied by the cymbals of monkeys playing four thousand
waltzes and quadrilles, together with as many music boxes, which
dominated the cuckoo clocks, the sweet notes of the flute. the nasal
notes of the clarionets, the screeching of the cocks, the notes of horns
and cornets, as well as the hearty bursts of laughter coming from the
easily amused crowd.

It was a nightmare.

At sunrise the plundering began again. In front of the tent of the
general had been placed one of the two pagodas of massive gold found
in the Emperor’s oratory; it was destined for Napoleon III. The
other had been secured by the English. On the top of this pagoda an
enormous diamond scintillated. It was guarded by two sentinels. It
had not stood there two hours before the great diamond had disap-
peared. It was never known who had taken it.

The pillage of the summer palace lasted two days. Toward the
close of the seeond day General Montauban, to stop it, adopted an
ingenious scheme. He walked into the midst of his soldiers, who were
disguised as mandarins and imperial princesses, and said:

‘‘Boys, leave all those things alone; you can’t carry them off.
And what would you do if we should encounter the enemy, and they
should beat us? Believe me, we are going to Pekin, and there will be
things enough there for everybody. You will see.” .

Lheard him make this little speech to an artilleryman who, being
convinced, threw to the ground that which he was carrying in his
arms, tore off his fancy costume, and resumed his uniform.

The artillerymen, on this oceasion, it must be admitted, had the
largest share, for they had the use ot horses, caissons, and the wagons.
They made use of every corner of the caissons, and when they were
full they filled the buckets in which the rammers were plunged to
clean the cannon shot.

This little address of the General, however, with its pious fraud,
usually produced an effect, and nearly all the soldiers imitated the

artilleryman.
632 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

The summer palace was sacked for forty-eight hours. ¥ Now, I want,
in a philosophical parenthesis, to ask myself whether these acts, so
impossible to repress or prevent, were so extraordinary as to consti-
tute a novelty; were they consonant with international law; or were
they contrary to the laws of war?

When two workmen fight with knives, when two gentlemen face
each other on the field with their swords, when two nations put them-
selves in battle array, with cannon and bayonets, the workmen, the
gentlemen, and the nations obey a common instinct which causes man
to destroy his enemy in any way he can.

In the first case, however, the conqueror is inexorably condemned
asa murderer by the courts; in the second, he is scarcely punished,
and if he had refused the combat the same judges who would have
condemned him for having fought would find fault with him for shirk-
ing the encounter. In the third case the conquered is said to be an
unfortunate and estimable hero; the conqueror is crowned with laurel,
applauded by men, loved by women, and adored by the people.

Human life is then only to be respected in certain circumstances,
and its destruction is reprehensible only in certain cases, determined
by the judgment of the world.

The same rules apply to property. A man who takes a loaf of
bread from a baker’s shop is a thief; the nation that take five thousand
million of frances from another country is a great nation. If I, an
enthusiastic lover of objects of art, should take from the cabinets of
the Louvre a little bronze statuette, I should promptly be placed in
custody; but if I should enter Italy at the head of an army and carry
off the treasures of the museums I would immediately be hailed
emperor of the French.

Hence we see that public and private property is considered in two
different ways. It follows that in China we had the incontestable
right to seize and to carry off all the articles of great value belonging
to the nation—that is to say, to the Emperor—with whom we were at

yar, just as the Germans had the right to take from us our millions;
as Bonaparte had the right to seize in conquered Italy the works of
art. Consequently, the pillage of the summer palace was lawful, as
lawful as could well be, because it was accomplished in time of war.

The principle can not be disputed; the only error committed was one
of detail; we did not simply pillage; we wasted and squandered, and
the latter is more blameworthy than the first.

In my opinion, this is how the thing should have been carried out if
it had been possible to control our men: All the riches of the palace,
as well as those of the palace of Pekin, should have been taken out
and packed up and divided between the two victorious nations; all
things suitable for a museum should have been set aside, the rest
should have been sold, and the proceeds devoted to compensating the
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 633

soldiers of the expedition, or to lightening the taxes and appropria-
tions; we should have imitated, in fact, that which the Prussians in
France, and before them, Napoleon, had carried out in Italy.

Had we proceeded in this systematic way, no one could have made
any objections, excepting philosophers, dreamers, and people who insist
upon comparing war to an assassination and its booty to the fruit of
robbery.

But this was not done, nor was it possible. I admit that my heart
bled on seeing, for instance, the space which separated the palace from

our camp covered with silks and precious fabrics trampled in the mud—

goods worth twenty millions; on seeing a soldier light his pipe or heat
his pot with a vellum of beautiful and unique manuscript; on seeing,
at our departure, magnificent timepieces, masterpieces of the watch-
maker’s art, engraved ivories, thrown into the trodden paths over
which rolled the wheels of wagons and of caissons; on seeing the
lightly built and magnificent edifices destroyed by ruthless flames.

Speaking of carriages, here is a curious fact: On arriving at Hai-
tien the French army had: but a single wagon, belonging to the gen-
eral, carrying his tent, dinner service, and cooking utensils; when the
army left they had unearthed such a number of well-loaded army
wagons that it took them an hour to pass by. The baggage wagons
of the English stretched out in an exceedingly long line, and the fan-
tastic procession covered at least two leagues of country.

Behind us followed the Chinese, still insatiate, carrying away the
poor remains of our plunder. The unlucky fellows could not carry
them into Paradise, as the saying is. After the expedition was over
the Tartar soldiers of the Emperor returned to Haitien; and houses
and fireplaces were closely searched, all of value was carried back to
the palace, and those who stole the precious objects perished by the
sword.

I perceive that I have not made the most of one circumstance exten-
uating our excesses—the exasperation of our soldiers at the massacre
of many of their comrades who had been surprised and taken prisoners
at Tangtcheou. ya
~ At Yuenmingyuen, behind the throne room, was found the uniform
of Colonel Foulon de Grandchamp, his notebook, the saddle and
bridle of M. Ader, superintendent of hospitals, many articles which had
belonged to the English officers, and 15 complete uniforms of the
Sikhs. All these things had been brought to the Son of Heaven in
order that he might gloat over these relics of the barbarians.

On discovering these proofs of the horrible fate of our brothers in
arms, the soldiers raised eries of rage. Had they encountered ten
palaces like that of Yuenmingyuen, they would have sacked them and
burned them with pleasure.

sm 1900——44
6384 LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN.

We quitted the summer palace on the ninth—a cold, damp day. The-
buildings containing the imperial apartments, the reception hall, and
the throne room were ruined, but the palaces, pagodas, and library
were intact. We went on toward Pekin and had hardly marched an
hour when two English officers came to announce to the general that
the Chinese had sent five of our prisoners—M. de Lauture and four
soldiers—into their camp.

I was directed to follow the officers and bring our countrymen back,
and found them in a most dreadful condition—M. de Lauture particu-
larly. His height seemed to have shrunk by a foot. He was clothed
in the gown of some old Chinese woman, covered with mud. His
hands were bound up into the form of an S. They had been tied with
cords which sunk into the flesh and which had been constantly wet,
when he complained, in order to cut in more. Besides which he
had been horribly mutilated, and it was while he was suffering this
martyrdom that Prince Kong, the brother of the Emperor with
whom we were treating, wrote to Baron Gros: ‘*I have the honor
to inform your excellency that I have given orders that the interpre-
ter of your noble Emperor—M. d’Escayrac—should be treated with
respect, and that my intention, after having regulated in a pleasant
way with him everything relating to the signing of the convention,
shall be to return at once and in a proper manner your other compat-
riots.” And there are people who still say that we acted in China
with a certain want of decorum!

The companions of M. de Lauture, with the orderlies of Captain
Chanome and Subintendant Dubut, named Rosel, Bachet, Génestet,
and Pelet, were separated from each other during their tortures and
they could only speak of what they had themselves seen. They were
ignorant of the fate of their martyred colleagues, but it was established
by the statements of the prisoners who were returned to the English
that the greater part were dead of their wounds.

Mr. Norman, the first secretary of the embassy of Lord Elgin, his
head opened with a saber cut and abandoned, tied hand and foot, died
with his brains destroyed by the worms. Mr. Bowlby, the correspond-
ent of the Z/mes, was thrown from a window into the court, where he
was devoured by the pigs.

[A portion of the treatment of these people, as given by our author, is too horrible
for quotation. |

I have already said that nothing can give an idea of the Chinese
imaginations when torture is in question... Thus during this same
march on Pekin, and this same day, I saw some roving dogs disputing
bits of flesh which they were digging up with their paws and devour-
ing. We drove them away and found that their food was the remains
of tive coolies from our own forces, whose numbers were recovered
LOOT OF THE IMPERIAL SUMMER PALACE AT PEKIN. 635

from the bits of their blouses. The Chinese had buried them alive
upright, bound, but with the head alone exposed, and the dogs had
come and begun by licking their faces, then by biting, and then by
eating off their heads.

In a village 4 kilometers from the walls of Pekin, the European
prisoners were finally returned both to the English < aa tous. ‘‘We
are bringing them all back to you,” said a little mandarin who pre-
ceded the carts, and we saw these specters in the coffins together,
for they had conscientiously returned to us the remains of those who
had succumbed to their tortures. All the coffins were opened and the
identity of the putrid remains was established. In all, the Chinese
had taken at Tangtcheou 26 of the English and returned 13 alive and
13 dead; they had taken 13 French and returned 6 alive and 7 dead.

{The Comte D’ Hérisson pursues this horrible subject further and gives ample evi-
dence of the truth of what he states. It is not necessary to quote here more than we
have done, but we may add that the allied forces decided after this to return and

destroy the summer palace, though, as has been said, the immense scene of plunder
we have described took place before these aggravating circumstances were known. ]
+ 2. Moree Geer tee aie vile Sone.

= ot hd >) fa 4s wf ;
ab Tew > Pa WAR Peet <<

Sw. ats
roan Bri
~~ Lee nate 4
cb he i vhs A
> J .y 7 7 nae am eT |
» i ee yy dan ata

ntzely. aol) one eee Thy ee eee
vw three pee aX Ce Sart stint
obey oh Dee lae Ole stagheesie va
Ip + bss Se, a E Ge eae
; ab>lighstnp Leow Wella ane 'e
7 ier 4 (oie 4, i Ste oO POT hn ke
ici Inger rein rah? Agee hay eed
Pee ier? ic et Avie
P= wi es: ae Lo Ory: pbslge pur em
i? ee ides l 5 <*) h4Airt te Saree
. Ree kes a

Fs ys put AAC et tan Ret toees a

aio

>»
“Ur

~ "ii ee
~ 7 ;
¢ 2 oe ee =) : is
: ; yer oan:
a © ° a oe
- Ki

a 7 we 4 ae Pam i

an Ln

ap nie 4 oa ag

< 2,
ise * 7
7 ide =
4 , es ae -
er), Bea
90 Me
> -
> s 4 :
-
~ ry _ » ev
4 fh ci Pm (So
ca % i
ne Se 7-1 -
- = = .. > - a
>» P “ai
AS : '
oe | - 2 es aay

PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.!

By Dr. Joun S. Birtines, U. S. A.
Director New York Public Library.

The word ‘‘medicine,” as used in the title of this paper, includes
all branches of the art of prevention and treatment of disease and
injuries; all discoveries of methods of diminishing physical pain and
of prolonging life, and also that part of modern science which is con-
cerned with accurate knowledge of the structure and functions, normal
and abnormal, of the human body, and of the causes of disease. In
other words, it includes not only therapeutics, medical and surgical,
but also physiology, pathology, and hygiene.

In all these branches of medicine greater progress has been made
during the last century than had been made during the previous two
thousand years. This progress has been largely due to improvements
in methods of investigation and diagnosis, resulting from increase of
knowledge in chemistry and physics; to better microscopes and new
instruments of precision; to experimental work in laboratories, and
to the application of scientific method and system in the observation
and recording of cases of disease and of the results of different modes
of treatment. The introduction of statistical methods in the study of
cases of disease and of causes of death; the discovery of general anes-
thetics; the adoption of antiseptic and aseptic methods in surgery, and
the development of modern bacteriology, each marks a point in the
history of medicine in the nineteenth century.

The scientific demonstration that some diseases are due to the growth
and development of certain specific micro-organisms in the human
body dates from about twenty years ago, although the theory of such
causal relation is much older. Since 1880 it has been proved that
anthrax, Asiatic cholera, cerebro-spinal meningitis, diphtheria, one
form of dysentery, erysipelas, glanders, gonorrhea, influenza, certain
epidemics of meat poisoning, pyemia and suppuration in general, pneu-
monia, tetanus, relapsing fever, tuberculosis, bubonic plague, and
typhoid fever are due to minute vegetable organisms known as bacte-
ria; that malarial fevers, Texas cattle fever, and certain forms of dys-
entery are due to forms of microscopic animal organisms known as

1Copyright, 1901, by New York Evening Post Company. Reprinted from the

= : i Z 3 . a . . ‘ - ‘

Evening Post, January 12, 1901, by special permission of G. P. Putnams Sons.
637

>
688 PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY

microzoa; and for most of these diseases the mode of development and
means of introduction of the micro-organism into the body are fairly
well understood. To the information thus obtained we owe the
triumphs of antiseptic and aseptic surgery, a great increase of pre-
cision in diagnosis, the use of specific antitoxin as remedies and as
preventives, and some of the best practical work in public hygiene.
The evidence as to the increased powers of medicine to give relief
from suffering and to prolong life is most clear and direct in the rec-
ords of modern surgery—particularly in some of its special branches.
In a large proportion of certain cases in which the surgeon now oper-
ates with a fair chance of success, such as calculus in the kidney or
gall bladder, shot wounds in the abdomen, and tumors of various
kinds, there was no hope in the year 1800, and the unhappy sufferer
could only expect a certain, though often a lingering and painful, death.
In cases of cancer of the face, tongue, breast, or uterus, the persistent
pain, extreme disfigurement, and offensive odors which attended them
made death a boon to be prayed for, if not deliberately sought,
while now such cases, if brought in time to the surgeon, can often be
entirely relieved. The knowledge of this fact has become general
with the public, and patients no longer defer an operation as long
as possible, as was their custom in days of old. Instead of having to
look forward to the torture of incisions, manipulations, and stitching,
with but small hope of surviving the exhausting suppuration and
blood poisoning which were such common results, the patient now
knows that he will inhale a little sweet vapor, and sleep unconscious of
the strokes of the surgeon’s knife or the pricks of his needle. He may
dream wondrous dreams, but will soon awake to find himself in his bed
staring at his trained nurse standing by his side, and wondering vaguely
why the operation has not begun. He does not have to look forward
to weeks and even months of daily dressings. The surgeon will
glance at his temperature record and at the outside of his bandages,
but will probably not touch them for a week; and when he does
remove them there will be nothing to be seen but a narrow red line
without a trace of suppuration. These improved methods not only
preserve the mother for her children, and the bread winner for the
family, but they greatly contribute to the public good by shortening
the period of enforced idleness and unproductivity after operations.
Some of the greatest triumphs of modern surgery are obtained in
cases of disease or injury of the abdominal organs. The removal
of ovarian and uterine tumors is now so common and successful that it
is not easy to realize that a hundred years ago there was practically
no help or hope for such cases. In former days the lists of deaths
contained many cases reported as inflammation or obstruction of the
bowels, or as peritonitis. It is now well understood that most of these
vases are due to disease of a little worm-like appendix connected with

PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 639

the large intestine on the right side of the lower part of the abdomen,
inflammation of which, known as appendicitis, causes excrutiating pain
and often produces internal abscesses and death. An operation for
the removal of such a diseased appendix is now common, and, in most
cases, successful. The operation for the removal of calculus or stone
from the urinary bladder dates from over two thousand five hundred
years ago, and no one knows who first performed it. Within the last
century it has been largely superseded by an operation which crushes
the stone to powder within the bladder, and removes this powder with-
out the use of the knife. The removal of calculi from the kidney,
or from the gall bladder, and the removal of a diseased kidney are new
operations, made possible by improved means of diagnosis, anesthesia,
and antisepsis. Wounds of the intestines were formerly thought to
be almost necessarily fatal, and nothing was done for them except to
stupefy the patient with opium. Now, in such cases, the abdomen is
opened, the lacerations of the bowel are closed, the effused blood and
other matters are removed, and in many cases life has thus been pre-
served.

By increase of knowledge of the anatomy of the brain, and of the
distribution of nerves connected with it, it has become possible in a
certain number of cases to determine what part of the brain is suffer-
ing from irritation or pressure, and to operate for the removal of the
tumor or other substance causing the trouble, with considerable hope
of giving permanent relief. A branch of surgery which has devel-
oped into an important specialty during the last century is that known
as plastic and orthopedic surgery. The replacing of a lost nose by
engrafting other tissue in its place is a very old triumph of surgical
art, but operations of this kind have been greatly extended and per-
fected within the last hundred years, and much can now be done to
mitigate the deformity and weakness due to club feet, bandy lees,
contracted joints, etc., which formerly were considered to be beyond
remedy.

Many of the diseases peculiar to women have been deprived of much
of their terrors within a hundred years. In 1800 for every thousand
children born, from ten to twenty mothers died. Puerperal fever
occurred in epidemics, following certain physicians or nurses, but
nothing was known as to its causes or nature. To-day puerperal fever
is almost unknown in the hospitals or in the practice of a skilled phy-
sician. The death rate of mothers is less than five per thousand births,
and the mechanical obstructions which a century ago would have
almost certainly brought about the death of both mother and child
are now so dealt with that more than half of both mothers and children
are saved.

The study of the diseases of the eye has greatly developed another
specialty during the century, viz, ophthalmology. The investigations
640 PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

of Helmholtz in physiological optics, with his invention of the ophthal-
moscope in 1852, effected a revolution in this branch of medical science
and art and have added greatly to human comfort and happiness. A
hundred years ago, when the physician saw the eyelids of the new-
born babe redden and swell and yellow matter ooze from between
them, he knew that in a few days or weeks the child would be partially
or wholly blind, but he knew nothing of the simple means by which
the skilled physician can now prevent such a calamity. It is unfortu-
nately true that this knowledge is not even now sufficiently widely dif-
fused and that our blind asylums must, for some time to come, continue
to receive those who have been deprived of sight during the first
months of their life through the ignorance or neglect of those who
should have properly cared for them.

While it is certain that the death rates in the last century were
greater than those of the present day, it is not possible to make pre-
cise comparisons. The record of deaths in the city of New York
begins with 1804, and was necessarily very imperfect until the law of
1851, which required the registration of all deaths; but it shows a
death rate of 30.2 per 1,000 in 1805, which means that the true death
rate must have been between 35 and 40. At present, for a series of
five years, it would be about 20, having been below 19 in 1899, so that
the death rate has been diminished by at least one-third. How much
of this is due to improved methods of treatment, and how much to
improved sanitary conditions, it is impossible to say. A comparison
of the list of causes of death in 1805 with the list of causes for this
year shows great differences, but much of this is due to changes in
name and to more accurate diagnosis.

‘** Malignant sore throat” and ‘*croup” were well known to anxious
parents in 1800, but ‘* diphtheria” caused no anxiety. ‘* Inflammation
of the bowels” was common and fatal, but ‘‘appendicitis” had not
been heard of. Nervous fever, continued fever, and low fever were on
the lists, but not typhoid, which was not clearly distinguished as a
special form of disease until 1837, when Dr. Gerhard, an American
physician, pointed out the differences between it and typhus, which
also prevailed at the commencement of the century.

One hundred years ago the great topic of discussion in our cities on
the North Atlantic coast was the means of preventing yellow fever,
which had been epidemic in New York and Philadelphia for two years.
Physicians were disputing as to whether the disease was contagious
and imported, and therefore perhaps preventable by quarantine and
disinfection, or was due to some occult condition of the atmosphere
(which was the view taken by Noah Webster in his history of epidemic
and pestilential diseases, a work which appeared about the middle of
the year 1800, although it is dated 1798). The discussions remind one
~

ee
¥

ee a

i al i ln a a i tl a

PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 641

of the remark that a certain patented form of electric light was sur-
rounded by a cloud of nonluminous verbosity. For example, the com-
mittee of the Medical Society of the State of New York reported that
yellow fever may be produced in any country by pestilential effluvia;
and Webster concluded that typhus and nervous fevers were due to
a “‘conversion of the perspirable fluids of the body into septic mat-
ter ”’—all of which means that they knew nothing about it. Even now
we do not know the cause of yellow fever, or the precise mode of its
spread; but we are sufficiently certain that it is due toa specific micro-
organism to be confident that its spread can be checked by isolation
and disinfection properly applied—and Memphis and New Orleans are
witnesses of the truth of this.

In the year 1800 the majority of persons over 20 years old were
more or less pitted by smallpox, being the survivors of amuch greater
number who had suffered from this disease. Dr. Miller in New York
had just received from England a thread which had been steeped in
the newly discovered vaccine matter, and was about to begin vaccina-
tion in that city. To-day there are many physicians who have never
Seen a case of smallpox, and a face pitted with the marks of this
disease is rarety seen. During the century there have appeared in
civilized countries two strange and unfamiliar forms of epidemic
disease, namely, Asiatic cholera and the plague, the first coming from
the valley of the Ganges, the second from the valley of the Euphrates,
and each having a Jong history. A really new disease was the out-
break in Paris in 1892 of a specific contagious disease transmitted
from sick parrots, and known as psittacosis. This little epidemic
affected 49 persons and caused 16 deaths. Typhus fever has almost dis-
appeared, while some diseases have increased in relative frequency, in
part at least because of medical progress. The children who would
have died of smallpox in the eighteenth century now live to be affected
with diphtheria or scarlet fever, and the increase in the number of
deaths reported as due to cancer is partly due to the fact that a greater
proportion of people live to the age most subject to this disease.

A large part of modern progress in medicine is due to improved
methods of diagnosis and to the use of instruments of precision for
recording the results of examinations. The use of the clinical ther-
mometer has effected a revolution in medical practice. Our knowl-
edge of diseases of the heart and lungs has been greatly expanded
during the century by auscultation and percussion, and especially by
the use of the stethoscope. The test tube and the microscope warn us
of kidney troubles, which formerly would not have been suspected,
and the mysterious Roentgen rays are called in to aid the surgeon in
locating foreign bodies and in determining the precise nature of cer-
tain injuries of the bones. Bacteriological examination has become a
642 PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

necessary part of the examination in cases of suspected diphtheria,
tuberculosis, or typhoid, and a minute drop of blood under the micro-
scope may furnish data which will enable the skilled physician to pre-
dict the result in certain cases of anemia, or to make a positive
diagnosis as between malaria and other obscure forms of periodic fever.

The means at the command of the physician for the relief of pain
now include, not only the general anzsthetics—chloroform, ether, and
nitrous oxide—but also the hypodermic use of the concentrated alka-
loids of opium, belladonna, and other narcotics, and the local use of
cocaine; and restful sleep for the weary brain may be obtained by
sulphonal, chloral, etc. Some agonizing forms of neuralgic pain are
now promptly relieved by the section or excision of a portion of the
affected nerve, or it may be forcibly stretched into a condition of
innocuous desuetude. Relief to the sufferings of thousands of neurotic
women, and of their families and friends, has been produced by the
systematic scientific application of the rest cure of Dr. Weir Mitchell.

A hundred years ago the medical advertisement which was most
prominent in New York and Philadelphia newspapers was one of a
remedy for worms. Many symptoms of nervous and digestive troubles
in children were in those days wrongly attributed to worms. Never-
theless there is good reason to believe that parasitic diseases derived
from animals were much more prevalent in those days in this country
than they are to-day. Our knowledge of the mode of origin and
development of the tapeworm, the 77/china spiralis, the liver fluke,
and the itch insect has been gained during the nineteenth century.
Much the same may be said with regard to the peculiar worm known
as Anchylostwm, the cause of Egyptian chlorosis and of the St. Goth-
ard tunnel disease, although prescriptions for this parasite are found
in the Papyros Ebers, written before the time of Pharaoh.

The limits of this article permit of but a brief reference to the prog-
ress in preventive medicine during the century. The studies made in
England of the results of the cholera epidemic of 1849, and the expe-
rience gained inthe English army during the Crimean war, led to some
of the most important advances In sanitary science, more especially to
the demonstration of the importance of pure water supplies and of
proper drainage and sewerage. During our Revolutionary war and
the Napoleonic wars the losses to the armies from disease greatly
exceeded those from wounds; and hospital fever—in other words,
typhus—was dreaded by a general almost more than the opposing
forces. During the wars of the last twenty-five years typhus and
hospital gangrene have been unknown, but some extensive outbreaks
of typhoid fever have occurred, showing that our knowledge of the
‘vauses and mode of transmission of this disease has not been practi-
cally applied to the extent which it should have been. This remark
applies also to some of the most fatal diseases in civil life. In the
PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. 643

United States diphtheria and typhoid fever each causes from 20,000 to
30,000 deaths a year, while more than 100,000 deaths are annually
due to consumption. Yet for each of these diseases we know the spe-
cific germ, the channels through which it is usually conveyed, and the
means by which this conveyance can be to a great extent prevented.
The ravages of these diseases are therefore largely due to the fact
that the great mass of the people are still ignorant on these subjects.
Antitoxin is not yet used for either prevention or treatment in diph-
theria to anything like the extent which our knowledge of its powers
demands.

Our better knowledge of the causes of certain infectious and con-
tagious diseases and of the mode of their spread has been of great
importance to the world from a purely commercial point of view,
since it has led to the doing away with many unnecessary obstructions
to traffic and travel, which were connected with the old systems of
quarantine, while the security which has been gained from the modern
method of cleansing and disinfection is decidedly greater than that
secured by the old methods. <A striking illustration of the effect of
these improvements is seen in the manner in which the news of the
recent outbreak of plague in Glasgow was received in England and
throughout Europe. One hundred years ago the city would have
been almost deserted, and terror would have reigned in all England.
To-day it is well understood that the disease spreads by a bacillus
which is not conveyed through the air. No one fears a repetition of
the ghastly scenes of the Black Death in the fourteenth century. In
like manner and for the same reasons Asiatic cholera has lost most of
its terrors.

The benefits to the public of modern progress in medicine have been
greatly enlarged by the establishment of many small hospitals and by
the steady increase in the employment of specially trained nurses in
private practice, even in rural districts. The result of a case of
typhoid or of pneumonia often depends as much upon the nurse as
upon the doctor, and affection can not take the place of skill in either.
For the great mass of the people cases of severe illness or injury, or
those requiring major surgical operations, can be treated more suc-
cessfully in well-uppointed hospitals than in private houses, and as
this is becoming generally understood the old feeling against entering
a hospital for treatment is rapidly disappearing. Improvement in
hospital construction and management has kept pace with progress in
medical knowledge, and in future such institutions seem destined to
play an increasingly important part in municipal and village life. *g

All progress in civilization is attended with injury to some individ-
uals. Trained nurses have deprived some unskilled labor of employ-
s have injured the business of some physicians, pure

ment, hospital phy meg
eood sewers, food inspection, vaccination—in short,
o

water supplies,
644 PROGRESS OF MEDICINE IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.

all effective measures in public hygiene—interfere with the trade side
of medical practice; but upon the whole the public at large benefits
by all these things. In one sense they seem opposed to the general
law of evolution in that they prolong the life of the unfit; but ina
broader sense they work in accordance with this law by increasing the
power of the strong to protect and care for the weak.

All told, the most important feature in the progress of medicine
during the century has been the discovery of new methods of scien-
tific investigation, more especially in the fields of bacteriology and
pathology. These methods have been as yet only partially applied,
and great results are to be hoped from their extension in the near
future. They will not lead to the discovery of an elixir of life, and
the increasing feebleness of old age will continue to be the certain
result of living a long time, for the tissues and organs of each man
have a definitely limited term of duration peculiar to himself; but
many of the disorders which make life a burden in advancing years
can now be palliated or so dealt with as to secure comparative comfort
to the patient, so that ‘‘if by reason of strength” life can be prolonged
beyond three-score years and ten, it no longer necessarily involves
labor and sorrow.
eye

.

MALARIA.!

By GrorcE M. Srerneere, M. D., LL. D..

Surgeon-General United States Army.

In my address as president of the Biological Society, in 1896, the
subject chosen was **The malarial parasite and other pathogenic proto-
zov.” This address was published in March, 1897, in the Popular
Science Monthly, and I must refer you to this illustrated paper for a
detailed account of the morphological characters of the malarial para-
site. It is my intention at the present time to speak of ‘* malaria” in
a more general way, and of the recent experimental evidence in sup-
port of Manson’s suggestion, first made in 1894, that the mosquito
serves as an intermediate host for the parasite. The discovery of this
parasite may justly be considered one of the greatest achievements of
scientific research during the nineteenth century. Twenty-five years
ago the best-informed physicians entertained erroneous ideas with
reference to the nature of malaria and the etiology of the malarial
fevers. Observation had taught them that there was something in the
air in the vicinity of marshes in tropical regions, and during the sum-
mer and autumn in semitropical and temperate regions, which gave
rise to periodic fevers in those exposed in such localities, and the usual
inference was that this something was of gaseous form—that it was a
special kind of bad air generated in swampy localities under favorable
meteorological conditions. It was recognized at the same time that
there are other kinds of bad air, such as the offensive emanations from
sewers and the products of respiration of man and animals, but the
term malaria was reserved especially for the kind of bad air which
was supposed to give rise to the so-called malarial fevers. In the light
of our present knowledge it is evident that this term is a misnomer,
There is no good reason for believing that the air of swamps Is any
more deleterious to those who breathe it than the air of the seacoast
or that in the vicinity of inland lakes and ponds. Moreover, the stag-
nant pools which are covered with a ‘green scum,” and from which
bubbles of gas are given off, have lost all terrors for the well-informed

1Annual address of the president of the Philosophical Society of Washington.
Delivered under the auspices of the Washington Academy of Sciences, on December
8, 1900. Printed in Popular Science Monthly, February, 1901

645
646 MALARIA.

man, except in so far as they serve as breeding places for mosquitoes
of the genus Anopheles. The green scum is made up of harmless algee,
such as Spirogyra, Zygnema, Protococcus, Euglena, etc.; and the gas
which is given off from the mud at the bottom of such stagnant pools is
for the most part a well-known and comparatively harmless compound
of hydrogen and carbon—methane or ** marsh gas.” In short, we now
know that the air in the vicinity of marshes is not deleterious because of
any special kind of bad air present in such localities, but because it
contains mosquitoes infected with a parasite known to be the specific
eause of the so-called malarial fevers. This parasite was discovered in
the blood of patients suffering from intermittent fevers by Laveran, a
surgeon in the French army, whose investigations were conducted in
Algiers. This famous discovery was made toward the end of the year
1880, but it was several years later before the profession generally
began to attach much importance to the alleged discovery. It was
first confirmed by Richard in 1882; then by the Italian investigators,
Marchiafava, Celli, Golgi, and Bignami; by Councilman, Osler, and
Thayer, in this country, and by many other competent observers in
various parts of the world. The Italian investigators named not only
confirmed the presence of the parasite discovered by Laveran in the
blood of those suffering from malarial fevers, but they demonstrated
its etiological réle by inoculation experiments and added greatly to
our knowledge of its life history (1883-1898). The fact that the life
history of the parasite includes a period of existence in the body of
the mosquito as an intermediate host has recently been demonstrated
by the English army surgeons Manson and Ross, and confirmed by
numerous observers, including the famous German_ bacteriologist,
Koch.

The discoveries referred to, as is usual, have had to withstand the
criticism of conservative physicians, who, having adopted the prevailing
theories with reference to the etiology of periodic fevers, were naturally
skeptical as to the reliability of the observations made by Laveran and
those who claimed to have confirmed his discovery. The first conten-
tion was that the bodies described as present in the blood were not para-
sites, but deformed blood corpuscles. . This objection was soon set at
rest by the demonstration, repeatedly made, that the intra-corpuscular
forms underwent distinct amceboid movements. No one witnessing
these movements could doubt that he was observing a living micro-
organism. The same wastrue of theextra-corpuscular flagellate bodies,
which may be seen to undergo very active movements, as a result of
which the red blood corpuscles are violently displaced and the flagellate
body itself dashes about in the field of view.

The first confirmation in this country of Laveran’s discovery of
amceboid parasites in the blood of malarial-fever patients was made by
myself in the pathological laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University
/ Oty al

MALARIA. 647

in March, 1886. In May, 1885, I had visited Romeas a delegate to the
International Sanitary Conference, convened in that city under the aus-
pices of the Italian Government, and while there I visited the Santo
Spirito Hospital for the purpose of witnessing a demonstration, by Drs,
Marchiafava and Celli, of that city, of the presence of the plasmodium.
mialariw in the blood of persons suffering from intermittent fever.
Blood was drawn from the finger during the febrile attack and from
individuals to whom quinine had not been administered, The demon-
stration was entirely satisfactory, and no doubt was left in my mind
that I saw living parasitic micro-organisms in the interior of red blood
corpuscles obtained from the circulation of malarial-feyer patients.
The motions were quite sloy ‘, and were manifested by a gradual change
of outline rather than by visible movement. After a period of amee-
boid activity of greater or less duration, the body again assumed an
oval or spherical form and remained quiescent for a time. While in
this form it was easily recognized, as the spherical shape caused the
light passing through it to be refracted, and gave the impression of a
body having a dark contour and a central vacuole, but when it was
flattened out and undergoing amoeboid changes in form it was necessary
to focus very carefully and to have a good illumination in order to see
it. The objective used was a Zeiss’s one-twelfth inch homogeneous oil
immersion.

But, very properly, skepticism with reference to the casual relation
of these bodies to the disease with which they are associated was not
removed by the demonstration that they are in fact blood parasites, that
they are present in considerable numbers during the febrile paroxysms,
and that they disappear during the interval between these paroxysms.
These facts, however, give strong support to the inference that they are
indeed the cause of the disease. This inference is further supported by
the evident destruction of red blood corpuscles by the parasite, as shown
by the presence of grains of black pigment in the ameeba-like micro-
organisms observed in these corpuscles and the accumulation of this
insoluble blood pigment in the liver and spleen of those who have suffered
repeated attacks of intermittent fever. The enormous loss of red blood
corpuscles as a result of such attacks is shown by the anemic condition
of the patient and also by actual enumeration. According to Kelsch, au
patient of vigorous constitution in the first four days of a quotidian
intermittent fever, or a remittent of first invasion, may suffer a loss of
2,000,000 of red blood corpuscles per cubic millimeter of hlood, and in
certain cases a loss of 1,000,000 has been verified at the end of twenty-
four hours. In cases of intermittent fever having a duration of twenty
to thirty days the number of red blood cells may be reduced from the
normal, which is about 5,000,000 per cubic millimeter, to 1,000,000, or
even less. In view of this destruction of the red blood cells and the
demonstrated fact that a certain number at least are destroyed during
648 MALARIA.

the febrile paroxysms by a blood parasite which invades the cells and
grows at the expense of the continued hemoglobin, it may be thought
that the etiological rdle of the parasite should be conceded. But scien-
tific conservatism demands more than this, and the final proof has been
afforded by the experiments of Gerhardt and of Marchiafava and Celli—
since confirmed by many others. This proof consists in the experi-
mental inoculation of healthy individuals with blood containing the
parasite and the development of a typical attack of periodic fever asa
result of such inoculation. Marchiafava and Bignami, in their elab-
orate article upon ‘‘ Malaria,” published in the ‘* Twentieth Century
Practice of Medicine,” say:

The transmission of the disease occurs equally whether the blood is taken during
the apyretic period or during a febrile paroxysm, whether it contains young para-
sites or those in process of development, or whether it contains sporulation forms.
Only the crescent forms, when injected alone, do not transmit the infection, as has
been demonstrated by Bastianelli, Bignami, and Thayer, and as can be readily under-
stood when we remember the biological significance of these forms.

In order that the disease be reproduced in the inoculated subject, it is not neces-
sary to inject the malarial blood into a vein of the recipient, as has been done in
most of the experiments; a subcutaneous injection is all-sufficient. Nor is it neces-
sary to inject several cubic centimeters as was done especially in the earlier experi-
ments; a fraction of a cubic centimeter will suffice and even less than one drop, as
Bignami has shown.

After the inoculation of a healthy individual with blood containing
the parasite a period varying from four to twenty-one days elapses be-
fore the occurrence of afebrile paroxysm. Thisis the so-called period of
incubation, during which, no doubt, the parasite is undergoing multipli-
cation in the blood of the inoculated individual. The duration of this
period depends to some extent upon the quantity of blood used for the
inoculation and its richness in parasites. It also depends upon the par-
ticular variety of the parasite present, for it has been ascertained that
there are at least three distinct varieties of the malarial parasite—one
which produces the quartan type of fever, in which there is a paroxysm
every third day and in which, in experimental inoculations made, the
period of incubation has varied from eleven to eighteen days; in the ter-
tian type, or second day fever, the period of incubation noted has been
from nine to twelve days; and in the estivo-autumnal type the duration
has usually not exceeded five days. The parasite associated with each
of these types of fever may be recognized by an expert, and there is no
longer any doubt that the difference in type is due to the fact that dif-
ferent varieties or ‘* species” of the malarial parasite exist, each having
a different period of development. Blood drawn during a febrile
paroxysm shows the parasite in its different stages of intra-corpuscular
development. The final result of this development is a segmenting
body, having pigment granules at its center, which occupies the greater
part of the interior of the red corpuscle. The number of segments into
Oe 4 oe

MALARIA, 649

which this body divides differs in the different types of fever, and there
are other points of difference by which the several varieties may be dis-
tinguished one from the other, but which it is not necessarv to mention
at the present time. The important point is that the result of the see-
mentation of the adult parasites contained in the red corpuscles is the
formation of a large number of spore-like bodies, which are set free
by the disintegration of the remains of the blood corpuscles and which
constitute a new brood of reproductive elements, which in their turn
invade healthy blood corpuscles and effect their destruction. This
eycle of development, without doubt, accounts for the periodicity of
the characteristic febrile paroxysms; and, as stated, the different vari-
eties complete their cycle of development in different periods of time,
thus accounting for the recurrence of the paroxysms at intervals of
forty-eight hours in one type of fever and of three days in another
type. When a daily paroxysm occurs, this is believed to be due to
the alternate development of two groups of parasites of the tertian
variety, as it has not been possible to distinguish the parasite found in
the blood of persons suffering from a quotidian form of intermittent
fever from that of the tertian form. Very often, also, the daily par-
oxysm occurs on succeeding days at a different hour, while the parox-
ysm every alternate day is at the sume hour, a fact which sustains the
view that we have to deal, in such cases, with two broods of the ter-
tian parasite which mature on alternate days. In other cases there
may be two distinct paroxysms on the same day and none on the fol-
lowing day, indicating the presence of two broods of tertian parasites
maturing at different hours every second day.

Manson, in his work on tropical diseases, recently published, accounts
for the febrile paroxysm as follows:

In all malarial attacks this periodicity tends to become, and in most attacks actu-
ally is, quotidian, tertian, or quartan in type. If we study the parasites ass« ciated
with these various types we find that they, too, as has been fully described already,

have a corresponding periodicity. We have also seen that the commencement of
the fever in each case corresponds with the breaking up of the sporulating form of
the parasite concerned. This last is an important point; for, doubtless, when this
breaking up takes place, besides the pigment set free, other residual matters—not so
striking optically, it is true, as the pigment, but none the less real—probably are
liberated; a hemoglobin solvent, for example, as I have suggested. W hether it be
this hemoglobin solvent, or whether it be some other substance, which is the pyro-
genetic agent, I believe that some toxin, hitherto inclosed in the body of the parasite,
or in the infected corpuscle, escapes into the blood at the moment of sporulation.
The periodicity of the clinical phenomena is accounted tor by the poe of
the parasite. How are we to account for the periodicity of the parasite! It is oes
that it has a life of twenty-four hours, or of a multiple of twenty-four hours; but why
should the individual parasites of the countless swarm all conspire to mature at or
about the same time? That they do so—not perhaps exactly at the same moment,
but within a very short time of each other—is a fact, and it is one which can be
easily demonstrated. If we wish to see the sporulating forms of the plasmodius -
a pure intermittent, it is or them in the blood during the

sm 1900 45

practically useless to look f

650 MALARIA.

later stages of fever, or during the interval, or during any time but just before,
during, or soon after rigor. If we wish to see the early and unpigmentéd forms, we
must look for them during the later stage of rigor or the earlier part of the stage of
pyrexia. And so with the other stages of the parasite; each has its appropriate
relationship to the fever cycle.

There are numerous cases of malarial fever in which there is no dis-
tinct intermission and in which the course of the fever is either con-
tinued or remittent in character. Fevers of this type usually occur in
the late summer or in the autumn (:estivo-autumnal) and are believed
to be due to infection by two distinct varieties of the parasite; one, the
tertian «stivo-autumnal, causes a fever characterized by a marked rise
in the temperature every second day; the other, a fever in which there
is a daily elevation of temperature. There are certain peculiarities
relating to the intra-corpuscular development of these parasites which
enable us to differentiate them from the tertian and quartan parasites of
intermittent fever, but a more striking difference to be observed in their
life cycle of development in the blood of man is the presence of peculiar
crescentic-shaped bodies, which play an important part in their further
development in the body of an intermediate host—the mosquito. Asso-
ciated with these ** crescents” fusiform and ovoid bodies are often seen
which are no doubtsimilar in their origin and function. The crescents
are a little longer than the diameter of a red blood corpuscle and are
about three times as long as broad. They contain in the central portion
grains of pigment (melanin) derived from the hemoglobin of the
infected corpuscle, which has been changed into a crescentic body as a
result of the development of the malarial parasite in its interior.
When a fresh preparation of malarial blood containing these crescents
is observed under the microscope, while a majority of them retain the
crescentic form, others may be seen, after an interval of ten minutes
or more, to change in form, first becoming oval and then round; then,
in the interior of these round bodies an active movement of the pig-
ment granules occurs; this is followed by the thrusting forth from the
periphery of several filaments—usually four—which have flagella-like
movements. These, as a rule, become detached and continue to move
rapidly among the blood corpuscles. With reference to the function
of these motile filaments, Marchiafava says:

In these later days there is increasing belief in the theory, which we uphold, that
the crescents and the flagellata are sexual forths of the malarial parasite, and that a
reproductive act (in which the flagellum represents the male element and an adult
crescent the female cell) gives rise to the new being which begins its existence in the
tissues of the mosquito.

The crescentic bodies may be found in the blood of man long after
all febrile symptoms have disappeared, and it is generally recognized
that they are not directly concerned in the production of the phenomena
which constitute a malarial attack and that the administration of
quinine has no influence in causing them to disappear from the blood.
MALARIA. 651

On the other hand, the febrile phenomena are directly associated with
the appearance of the amceboid form of the parasite in the interior of
the red blood corpuscles, and the administration of suitable doses of
quinine has a marked effect: in ‘ausing these amceba-like micro-or
isms to disappear from the blood.

These crescentic bodies are not found in the benign tertian and quar-
tan intermittent fevers, but are characteristic of the malignant forms of
malarial infection, including the so-called wstivo-autumnal fever. In
these forms of fever they are not seen at the outset of the attack, and
they have no direct influence upon the course of the fever. A week
usually elapses between the first appearance of the amceboid form of the
parasite and that of these crescentic bodies. They are often found in
the blood some time after all symptoms of fever have disappeared, and
are associated with the malarial cachexia which follows an attack of
estivo-autumnal fever. When blood containing these crescents is in-
gested by amosquito of the genus Anopheles, the following very remark-
able transformations occur: Some of the crescents are transformed into
hyaline flagellate bodies having active movements; others are changed
into granular spheres. The flagella break away from the hyaline bedies
and, approaching the granular spheres, appear to seek energetically to
enter these bodies. A minute papilla is given off from the surface of
the sphere, seeming to be projected to meet the attacking flagellum. At
this point, one of the flagella succeeds in entering the sphere, causing an
active movement of its contents for a brief time, after which the flagellum
disappears from view and the contents become quiescent. This is no
doubt an act of impregnation. After a time the impregnated granular
sphere alters its shape, becoming oval, and later vermicular in form.
The pigment granules are now seen at the posterior part of this body,
which, after the changes mentioned, exhibits active movements. It is
believed that this motile vermicular body penetrates the wall of the mos-
quito’s stomach. Here it grows rapidly and, after a few days, may be
seen projecting from the surface asa spherical mass. In the meantime
the contents are transformed into spindle-shaped bodies (sporozoites)
which are subsequently set free by the rupture of the capsule of the
mother cell. According to Manson, these spindle-shaped bodies pass
from the body cavity of the mosquito, probably by way of the blood, to
the 3-lobed veneno-salivary glands lying on each side of the fore part
of the thorax of the insect. ‘These glands communicate with the
base of the mosquito’s proboscis by means of a long duct, along the
radicles of which the clear, plump cells of the gland are arranged. The
sporozoites can be readily recognized in many, though not in all, a i
cells, especially in those of the middle lobe, and also free in the ducts.
So numerous are they in some of the cells that the appearance they
present is suggestive of a bacillus-laden lepra-cell.”

gan-
652 _ MALARIA.

The hypothesis that malarial infection results from the bites of mos-
quitoes was advanced and ably supported by Dr. A. F. A. King, of
Washington, D. C., ina paper read before the Philosophical Society on
February 10, 1883, and published in the Popular Science -Monthly in
September of the same year. In 1894 Manson supported the same
hypothesis in a paper published in the British Medical Journal (Decem-
ber 8), and the following year (1895) Ross made the important dis-
covery that when blood containing the crescentic bodies was ingested by
the mosquito these crescents rapidly underwent changes similar to
those heretofore described, resulting in the formation of motile fila-
ments, which become detached from the parent body and continue to
exhibit active movements. In 1897 Ross ascertained further that
when blood containing crescents was fed toa particular species of mos-
quito, living pigmented parasites could be found in the stomach walls of
the insect. Continuing his researches with a parasite of the same class
which is found in birds, and in which the mosquito also serves as an
intermediate host, Ross found that this parasite enters the stomach wall
of the insect, and, as a result of its development in that locality, forms
reproductive bodies (sporozoites), which subsequently find their way to
the veneno-salivary glands of the insect which is now capable of infect-
ing other birds of the same species as that from which the blood was
obtained in the first instance. Ross further showed that the mosquito
which served as an intermediate host for this parasite could not trans-
mit the malarial parasite of man or another similar parasite of birds
(halteridium). These discoveries of Ross have been confirmed by
Grassi, Koch, and others, and it has been shown that the mosquitoes
which serve as intermediate hosts for the malarial parasites of man
belong to the genus Anopheles, and especially to the species known as
Anopheles clawiger.

The question whether mosquitoes infected with the malarial parasite
invariably become infected as a result of the ingestion of human blood
containing this parasite has not been settled in a definite manner, but
certain facts indicate that this is not the case. Thus there are localities
noted for being extremely dangerous on account of the malarial fevers
contracted by those who visit them, which on this very account are
‘arely visited by man. Yet there must be a great abundance of infected
mosquitoes in these localities, and especially in low, swampy regionsin
the Tropics. If man and the mosquitoes are alone concerned in the
propagation of this parasite, how shall we account for the abundance of
infected mosquitoes in uninhabited marshes? It appears probable that
some other vertebrate animal serves in place of man to maintain the life
cycle of the parasite, or that it may be propagated through successive
generations of mosquitoes.

It is well known that persons engaged in digging canals, railroad cuts,
etc., in malarious regions are especially liable to be attacked with one or
ji

POE ES SN, Oe CP Pee ye

en a ole

*.

MALARIA. 653

the other of the forms of malarial fever. This may be due to the fact
that the digging operations result in the formation of little pools suit-
able for the development of the egos of Anopheles; but another explana-
tion has been offered. Ross and others have found in infected mos-
quitoes certain bodies, described by Ross as ‘‘ black spores,” which resist
decomposition and which may be resting spores capable of retaining their
vitality for a long time. The suggestion is that these ‘* black poarea
or other encysted reproductive bodies may have been deposited in the
soil by mosquitoes long since defunct, ‘‘and that in moving the soil these
dormant parasites are set at liberty, and so in air, in water, or otherwise
gain access .to the workmen engaged” (Manson). This hypothesis is
not supported by recent observations, which indicate that infection in
man occurs only as a result of inoculation through the bite of an
infected mosquito. The question is whether malarial fevers can be con-
tracted in marshy localities independently of the mosquito, which has
been demonstrated to be an intermediate host of the malarial parasite 4
Is this parasite present in the air or water in such localities, as well as in
the bodies of infected mosquitoes? Its presence has never been demon-
strated by the microscope; but this fact has little value in view of the
great variety of microorganisms present in marsh water or suspended in
the air everywhere near the surface of the ground, and the difficulty of
recognizing the elementary reproductive bodies by which the various
species are maintained through successive generations. It would appear
that a crucial experiment for the determination of this question would
be to expose healthy individuals in a malarious region and to exclude the
mosquito by some appropriate means. This experiment has been made
during the past summer, and the result up to the present time has been
reported by Manson in the London Lancet of September 29. Five
healthy individuals have lived in a hut on the Roman Campagna since
early in the month of July. They have been protected against mosquito
bites by mosquito-netting screens in the doors and windows and by mos-
quito bars over the beds. They go about freely during the daytime,
but remain in their protected hut from sunset to sunrise. At the time
Manson made his report all these individuals remained in perfect health,
Tt has long been known that laborers could come from the villages in the
mountainous regions near the Roman Campagna and work during the
day, returning to their homes at night, without great danger of cont ract-
ing the fever, while those who remained on the Campagna at night ran
great risk of falling sick with fever, asa result of ‘‘exposure to the night
air.” What has already been said makes it appear extremely probable
that the ‘‘ night air,” per se, is no more dangerous than the day air, but
that the real danger consists in the presence of infected mosquitoes of
a species which seeks its food at night. As. pointed out by King, in
his paper already referred to, it has repeatedly been claimed by
travelers in malarious regions that sleeping under a mosquito bar 1s an

effectual method of prophylaxis against intermittent fevers.
654 MALARIA.

That malarial fevers may be transmitted by mosquitoes of the genus
Anopheles was first demonstrated by the Italian physician Bignami,
whose experiments were made in the Santo Spirito Hospital in Rome.
The subjects of the experiment, with their full consent, were placed in
a suitable room and exposed to the bites of mosquitoes brought from
Maccarese, ‘‘a marshy place with an evil but deserved reputation for
the intensity of its fevers.” It has been objected to these experiments
that they were made in Rome, at a season of the year when malarial
fevers prevail to a greater or less extent in that city, but Marchiafava
and Bignami say:

It is well known to all physicians here that, although there are some centers of
malaria in certain portions of the suburbs, the city proper is entirely free from
malaria, as long experience has demonstrated, and at no season of the year does one
acquire the disease in Rome.

In view of the objection made, a crucial experiment has recently
been made in the city of London. The result is reported by Manson,
as follows:

Mosquitoes infected with the parasite of benign tertian malarial fever were sent
from Rome to England, and were allowed to feed upon the blood of a perfectly
healthy individual (Dr. Manson’s son, who had never had malarial disease). Forty
mosquitoes in all were allowed to bite him between August 29 and September 12.
On September 14 he had a rise of temperature, with headache and slight chilliness,
but no organisms were found in his blood. A febrile paroxysm occurred daily
thereafter, but the parasites did not appear in the blood until September 17, when
large numbers of typical tertian parasites were found. They soon disappeared under
the influence of quinine.!

We have still to consider the question of the transmission of malarial
fevers by the ingestion of water from malarious localities. Numerous
medical authors have recorded facts which they deemed convincing as
showing that malarial fevers may be contracted in this way. I have
long been of the opinion that while the observed facts may, for the most
part, be authentic, the inference is based upon a mistake in diagnosis;
that, in truth, the fevers which can justly be ascribed to the ingestion of
a contaminated water supply are not true malarial fevers—i. e., they are
not due to the presence of the malarial parasite in the blood. This view

yas sustained by me in my work on ‘‘ Malaria and Malarial Diseases,”
published in 1883. The fevers supposed to have been contracted in
this way are, as a rule, continued or remittent in character, and they
are known under a variety of names. Thus we have ‘* Roman fever,”
‘Naples fever,” ‘‘ remittent fever,” ‘‘ mountain fever,” ‘* typho-mala-
rial fever,” etc. The leading physicians and pathologists, in regions
where these fevers prevail, are now convinced that they are not mala-
rial fevers, but are simply more or less typical varieties of typhoid
fever—a disease due to a specific bacillus and which is commonly con-
tracted as a result of the ingestion of contaminated water or food.

1 Quoted from an editorial in the New York Medical Journal of October 20, 1900.
ne

MALARIA. 655

The error in diagnosis, upon which the inference has been based that
malarial fevers may be contracted through drinking water, has been
widespread, in this country, in Europe and the British possessions in
India. It vitiated our medical statistics of the civil war and of the
recent war with Spain. In my work already referred to I say:

Probably one of the most common mistakes in diagnosis, made in all parts of the
world where malarial and enteric fevers are endemic, is that of calling an attack of
fever belonging to the last-mentioned category malarial remittent. This arises from
the difficulties attending a differential diagnosis at the outset, and from the fact that
having once made a diagnosis of malarial fever the physician, even if convinced
later that a mistake has been made, does not always feel willing to confess it. The
case, therefore, appears in the mortality returns if it prove fatal, or in the statistical
reports of disease if made by an army or navy surgeon, as at first diagnosed.

I have already mentioned the fact that Marchiafava denies that mala-
rial fevers prevail in the city of Rome, yet everyone knows how fre-
quently travelers contract the so-called ‘* Roman fever” as a result of a
temporary residence in that city. In our own cities numerous cases of
so-called ** remittent” or ** typho-malarial” fevers are reported in locali-
ties where typical malarial fevers (intermittents) are unknown, and at
seasons of the year when these fevers do not prevail even in the marshy
regions where they are of annual occurrence, during the mosquito season.
Malarial fevers may, of course, occur in cities as a result of exposure
elsewhere to the bites of infected mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles,
either as primary attacks or as a relapse, or in urban localities in the
vicinity of marshy places or pools of water suitable as breeding places
for Anopheles. But when a previously healthy individual, living in a
well-paved city, ina locality remote from all swampy places is taken sick
with a ‘“‘remittent fever,” and especially when the attack occurs during
the winter months, it is pretty safe to say that he is not suffering from
malarial infection, and the chances are greatly in favor of the view that
hehas typhoid fever. It must be remembered that a remittent or inter-
mittent course is not peculiar to malarial fevers. Typhoid commonly
presents a more or less remittent character, especially at the outset of
anattack; the hectic fever of tuberculosis is intermittent in character.
The formation of an abscess, an attack of tonsilitis, etc., are usually
attended by chills and fever, which may recur at more or less regular
intervals. — Indeed, in certain cases of pyemia the febrile phenomena
are so similar to those of a malarial attack that a mistake in diagnosis
is no unusual occurrence. Finally, I may say that it is the fashion
with many persons and with some physicians to ascribe a variety of
various causes, to ‘‘malaria” and to prescribe

symptoms, due to
Thus a gentleman who has been at the

quinine as a general panacea. |
club until 1 or 2 o’clock at night and has smoked half a dozen cigars—
not to mention beer and cheese sandwiches as possible factors—reports
to his doctor the next morning with a dull headache, a furred tongue,
and a loss of appetite which he is unable to account for except upon
656 MALARIA.

ee

the supposition that he has ‘** malaria.” Again the symptoms arising
from indigestion, from crowd poisoning, from sewer-gas poisoning,
from ptomaine poisoning (auto-infection), etc., are often ascribed to
‘‘malaria,” and quinine is prescribed, frequently with more or less
benefit, for the usefulness of this drug is not limited to its specific
action in the destruction of the malarial parasite.

As stated at the outset, it is evident, in the present state of our
knowledge, that the term ‘‘malaria” is a misnomer, either as applied
to the cause of the periodic fevers or as used to designate this class of
fevers. It would be more logical to use the name plasmodium fever
and to speak of a plasmodium intermittent or remittent, rather than
of a malarial intermittent. But it will, no doubt, be difficult to dis-
place a term which has been so long in use, which up to the present
time has had the sanction of the medical profession, and which expresses
the popular idea as to the origin of that class of fevers which we now
know to be due to a blood parasite, introduced through the agency of
mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles.
TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

By Grorce M. Sternperc, M. D., LL. D.,

Surgeon-General United States Army.

The discoveries which have been made during the past twenty-five
years with reference to the etiology of infectious diseases constitute
the greatest achievement of scientific medicine and afford a substantial
basis for the application of intelligent measures of prophylaxis. We
now know the specific cause (germ) of typhoid fever, of pulmonary con-
sumption, of cholera, of diphtheria, of erysipelas, of croupous pneu-
monia, of the malarial fevers, and of various other infectious diseases
of man and of the domestic animals; but up to the present time all
efforts to discover the germ of yellow fever have been without success.
The present writer, as a member of the Havana Yellow Fever Commis-
sion, in 1879, made the first systematic attempt to solve the unsettled
questions relating to yellow-fever etiology by modern methods of re-
search. Naturally the first and most important question to engage my
attention was that relating to the specific infectious agent, or germ,
which there was every reason to believe must be found in the bodies
of infected individuals. Was this germ present in the blood, as in the
case of relapsing fever; or was it to be found in the organs and tissues
which upon post-mortem examination give evidence of pathological
changes, as in typhoid fever, pneumonia, and diphtheria; or was it
to be found in the alimentary canal, as in cholera and dysentery? The
clinical history of the disease indicated a general blood infection. As
my equipment included the best microscopical apparatus made, I had
strong hopes that in properly stained preparations of blood taken from
the circulation of yellow-fever patients my Zeiss 1/18 oil immersion
objective would reveal to me the germ I was in search of; but I was
doomed to disappointment. Repeated examinations of blood from
patients in every stage of the disease failed to demonstrate the pres-
ence of micro-organisms of any kind. My subsequent investigations in
Havana, Vera Cruz, and Rio de Janeiro, made in 1887, 1888, and 1889,
were equally unsuccessful. And numerous competent microscopists
of various nations have since searched in vain for this elusive germ.

Another method of attacking this problem consists in introducing blood

657
658 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

from yellow-fever patients or recent cadavers into various culture
media for the purpose of cultivating any germ that might be present.
Extended researches of this kind also gave a negative result, which in
my final report I stated as follows:

The specific cause of yellow fever has not yet been demonstrated.

It is demonstrated that micro-organisms capable of development in the culture-
media usually employed by bacteriologists, are only found in the blood and tissues
of yellow-fever cadavers in exceptional cases, when cultures are made very soon after
death.

Since this report was made various investigators have attacked the
question of yellow-fever etiology, and one of them has made very
positive claims to the discovery of the specific germ. I refer to the
Italian bacteriologist, Sanarelli. His researches were made in Brazil,
and, singularly enough, he found in the blood of the first case exam-
ined by him a bacillus. It was present in large numbers, but this case
proved to be unique, for neither Sanarelli nor anyone else has since
found it in such abundance. It has been found in small numbers in
the blood and tissues of yellow-fever cadavers in a certain number of
the cases examined. But carefully conducted researches by competent
bacteriologists have failed to demonstrate its presence in a consider-
able proportion of the cases, and the recent researches of Reed, Car-
roll, and Agramonte, to which I shall shortly refer, demonstrate
conclusively that the bacillus of Sanarelli has nothing to do with the
etiology of yellow fever.

So far as I am aware, Dr. Carlos Finlay, of Havana, Cuba, was the
first to suggest the transmission of yellow fever by mosquitoes. Ina
communication made to the Academy of Sciences of Havana, in Octo-
ber, 1881, he gave an account of his first attempts to demonstrate the
truth of his theory. In a paper contributed to the Edinburg Medical
Journal, in 1894, Doctor Finlay gives a summary of his experimental
inoculations up to that date, as follows:

A summary account of the experiments performed by myself (and some also by
my friend Doctor Delgado) during the last twelve years will enable the reader to
judge for himself. The experiment has consisted in first applying a captive mosquito
to a yellow-fever patient, allowing it to introduce its lance and to fill itself with
blood; next, after the lapse of two or more days, applying the same mosquito to the
skin of a person who is considered susceptible to yellow fever, and, finally, observ-
ing the effects, not only during the first few weeks, but during periods of several
years, so as to appreciate the amount of immunity that should follow.

Between the 30th of June, 1881, and the 2d of December, 1893, 88 persons have
been so inoculated. All were white adults, uniting the conditions which justify the
assumption that they were susceptible to yellow fever. Only 3 were women. The
chronological distribution of the inoculations was as follows: Seven in 1881, 10 in
1883, 9 in 1885, 3 in 1886, 12 in 1887, 9 in 1888, 7 in 1889, 10 in 1890, 8 in 1891, 3 in
1892, and 10 in 1893. The following table will show the length of time during
which the “‘inoculated’”’ resided in Havana (as also some ten or twelve who resided

most of the time in Cienfuegos). During this time the inoculated were under obser-
vation, so far, at least, as to obtain information about any attack of yellow fever that
>.

TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 659

was suffered by them (with the excepti 6
J he exception of only one case, that of a youth w yas
lost sight of after the inoculation) ee

Cases.

Hesult unknown in ..._............. 1 Five years in. mare
Less than one year in..._........_-. 11 Six years in. sare cue ee 8
| Lie SSS ae ee rea 3 Seven to ten years in -. 1 ee Moe. 9
MPMORVCARS Ilse. 2. ee ee 12 ~~ Pate, =
PE BVCAIS I 2 2S scot oe 14 Total...----.-..--2--2.22---- 87
BEMMTMVCATSO oo 2k oe oo 2 a oe 28

The yellow-fever patients upon whom the mosquitoes were contaminated were
almost in every instance, well-marked cases of the albuminuric or melano-albumi
nuric forms, in the second, third, fourth, fifth, or sixth day of the disease. In pons,
of the susceptible subjects the inoculation was repeated when the source of the con-
tamination appeared uncertain.

ae the 87 who have been under observation, the following results have been
recorded.

1. Within a term of days, varying between five and twenty-five after the inocula-
tion, | presented a mild albuminuric attack, and 13 only ‘‘acclimation fevers.”

While Finlay’s theory appeared to be plausible and to explain many
of the facts relating to the etiology of yellow fever, his experimental
inoculations not only failed to give it substantial support, but the nega-
tive results, as reported by himself, seemed to be opposed to the view
that yellow fever is transmitted by the mosquito. It is true that he
reports one case which ‘* presented a mild albuminuric attack,” which
we may accept as an attack of yellow fever. But in view of the fact
that this case occurred in the city of Havana, where yellow fever is
endemic, and of the 86 negative results from similar inoculations, the
inference seemed justitied that in this case the disease was contracted
in some other way than as a result of the so-called ‘* mosquito inocula-
tion.” The 13 cases in which ‘‘only acclimation fevers” occurred
‘‘within a term of days varying between five and twenty-five after the
inoculation” appeared to me to have no value as giving support to
Finlay’s theory; first, because these ‘‘acclimation fevers” could not
be identified as mild cases of yellow fever; second, because the ordi-
nary period of incubation in yellow fever is less than five days, and
third, because these individuals, having recently arrived in Havana,
were liable to attacks of yellow fever or of ‘acclimation fever” asa
result of their residence in that city and quite independently of Doctor
Finlay’s mosquito inoculations. For these reasons Doctor Finlay’s
experiments failed to convince the medical profession generally of the
truth of his theory relating to the transmission of yellow fever, and
this important question remained in doubt and a subject of contro-
versy. One party regarded the disease as personally contagious and
supposed it to be communicated directly from the sick to the well, as
in the case of other contagious diseases, such as smallpox, scarlet
fever, etc. Opposed to this theory was the fact that in innumerable
persons had been known to care for yellow-

instances nonimmune
es or physicians without contracting the disease;

fever patients as nurs
660 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

also the fact that the epidemic extension of the disease depends upon
external conditions relating to temperature, altitude, rainfall, ete.
It was a well-established fact that the disease is arrested by cold
weather and does not prevail in northern latitudes or at considerable
elevations. But diseases which are directly transmitted from man to
man by personal contact have no such limitations. The alternate
theory took account of the above-mentioned facts and assumed that
the disease was indirectly transmitted from the sick to the well, as is
the case in typhoid fever and cholera, and that the germ was capable
of development external to the human body when conditions were
favorable. These conditions were believed to be a certain elevation
of temperature, the presence of moisture, and suitable organic pabu-
lum (filth). The two first-mentioned conditions were known to be
essential; the third was a subject of controversy.

Yellow-fever epidemics do not occur in the winter months in the
temperate zone, and they do not occur in arid regions. As epi-
demics have frequently prevailed in seacoast cities known to be in an
insanitary condition, it has been generally assumed that the presence
of decomposing organic material is favorable for the development of
an epidemic, and that, like typhoid fever and cholera, yellow fever is
a ‘‘filth disease.” Opposed to this view, however, was the fact that
epidemics have frequently occurred in localities (e. g¢., at military
posts) where no local insanitary conditions were to be found. More-
over, there are marked differences in regard to the transmission of the
recognized filth diseases—typhoid fever and cholera—and yellow fever.
The first-mentioned diseases are largely propagated by means of a
contaminated-water supply, whereas there is no evidence that yellow
fever is ever communicated in this way.

Typhoid fever and cholera prevail in all parts of the world and may
prevail at any season of the year, although cholera asa rule is a disease
of the summer months. On the other hand, yellow fever has a very
restricted area of prevalence, and is essentially a disease of seaboard
cities and of warm climates. Evidently neither of the theories referred
to accounts for all of the observed facts with reference to the endemic
prevalence and epidemic extension of the disease under consideration.

Having for years given much thought to this subject, I became
some time since impressed with the view that probably in yellow fever,
as in the malarial fevers, there is an intermediate host. I therefore
suggested to Doctor Reed, president of a board* appointed upon my
recommendation for the study of this disease in the island of Cuba,
that he should give special attention to the possibility of transmission
by some insect, although the experiments of Finlay seemed to show

1The members of the board were: Maj. Walter Reed, surgeon, U. 8. A.; Dr. James
Carroll, contract surgeon, U. S. A.; Dr. A. Agramonte, contract surgeon, U. S. A.,
and Dr. Jesse Lazear, contract surgeon, U.S. A.
‘

TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 661

that this insect was not a mosquito of the genus Culex, such as he had
used in his inoculation experiments. J also urged that efforts should
be made to ascertain definitely whether the disease can be communi-
cated from man to man by blood inoculations. Evidently, if this is
the case tae blood must contain the living infectious agent upon which
the propagation of the disease depends, notwithstanding the fact that
all attempts to demonstrate the presence of such a germ in the blood
by means of the microscope and culture methods had proved unayail-
ing. I had previously demonstrated by repeated experiments that
inoculations of yellow-fever blood into lower animals—-dogs, rabbits,
guinea pigs—give a negative result; but this negative result might
well be because these animals were not susceptible to the disease and
could not be accepted as showing that the germ of yellow fever was
‘not present in the blood. <A single inoculation experiment on man
had been made in my presence in the city of Vera Cruz in 1887 by
Dr. Daniel Ruiz, who was in charge of the civil hospital in that city.
But this experiment was inconclusive, for the reason that the patient
from whom the blood was obtained was in the eighth day of the
disease, and it was quite possible that the specific germ might have
been present at an earlier period and that after a certain number of
days the natural resources of the body are sufficient to effect its
destruction, or in some way to cause its disappearance from the
circulation.

This was the status of the question of yellow-fever etiology when
Doctor Reed and his associates commenced their investigations in Cuba
during the summer of 1900. In-a ** Preliminary note ”~ read at the
meeting of the American Public Health Association, October 22, 1900,
the board gave a report of three cases of yellow fever which they
believed to be the direct result of mosquito inoculations. Two of
these were members of the board, viz: Dr. Jesse W. Lazear and Dr.
James Carroll, who voluntarily submitted themselves to the experi-
ment. Doctor Carroll suffered a severe attack of the disease and re-
covered, but Doctor Lazear fell a victim to his enthusiasm in the cause
of science and humanity. His death occurred on September 25, after
an illness of six days’ duration. About the same time nine other indi-
viduals who volunteered for the experiment were bitten by infected
mosquitoes—i. e., by mosquitoes which had previously been allowed to
fill themselves with blood from yellow-fever cases—and in these “ass
the result was negative. In considering the experimental evidence
thus far obtained the attention of the members of the board was
attracted by the fact that in the nine inoculations with a negative
result ‘the time elapsing between the biting of the mosquito and the
inoculation of the healthy: subject varied in seven cases from two to
eight days and in the remaining two from ten to thirteen days, wher pe
in two of the three successtul cases the mosquito had been kept for
662 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

twelve days or longer. In the third case—that of Doctor Lazear—the
facts are stated in the report of the board as follows:

Case 8.—Dr. Jesse W. Lazear, acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, a mem-
ber of this board, was bitten on August 16, 1900 (case 3, Table IIL), by a mosquito
(Culex fasciatus), which ten days previously had been contaminated by biting a very
mild case of yellow fever (fifth day). No appreciable disturbance of health followed
this inoculation.

On September 13, 1900 (forenoon), Doctor Lazear, while on a visit to Las Animas
Hospital, and while collecting blood from yellow-fever patients for study, was bitten
by a Culex mosquito (variety undetermined). As Doctor Lazear had been previously
bitten by a contaminated insect without after effects, he deliberately allowed this
particular mosquito, which had settled on the back of his hand, to remain until it
had satisfied its hunger.

On the evening of September 18, five days after the bite, Doctor Lazear complained
of feeling ‘‘out of sorts,’’ and had a chill at 8 p. m.

On September 19, 12 o’clock noon, his temperature was 102.4°; pulse, 112. His
eyes were injected and his face suffused. At 3 p. m. temperature was 103.4°; pulse,
104; 6 p. m. temperature, 103.8°, and pulse, 106. Albumin appeared in the urine.
Jaundice appeared on the third day. The subsequent history of this case was one of
progressive and fatal yellow fever, the death of our much-lamented colleague haying
occurred on the evening of September 25, 1900.

Evidently in this case the evidence is not satisfactory as to the fatal
attack being a result of the bite by a mosquito ‘t while on a visit to
Las Animas Hospital,” although Doctor Lazear himself was thor-
oughly convinced that this was the direct cause of his attack.

The inference drawn by Doctor Reed and his associates from the
experiments thus far made was that yellow fever may be transmitted
by mosquitoes of the genus Culex, but that in order to convey the
infection to a nonimmune individual the insect must be kept for
twelve days or longer after it has filled itself with blood from a yellow
fever patient in the earlier stages of the disease. In other words, that
a certain period of incubation is required in the body of the insect
before the germ reaches its salivary glands, and consequently before
it is able to inoculate an individual with the germs of yellow fever.
This inference, based upon experimental data, received support from
other observations, which have been repeatedly made, with reference
to the introduction and spread of yellow fever in localities favorable
to its propagation. When a case is imported to one of our Southern
seaport cities from Havana, Vera Cruz, or some other endemic focus
of the disease, an interval of two weeks or more occurs before second-
ary cases are developed as a result of such importation. In the light
of our present knowledge this is readily understood. A certain num-
ber of mosquitoes, having filled themselves with blood from this first
case, after an interval of twelve days or more bite nonimmune individ-
uals living in the vicinity, and these individuals, after a brief period
of incubation, fall sick with the disease; being bitten by other mos-
quitoes they serve to transmit the disease through the *‘ intermediate
TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 668

host” to still others. Thus the epidemic extends, at first slowly, as
from house to house, then more rapidly, as by geometrical ‘pro-
gression.

It will be seen that the essential difference between the successful
experiments of the board of which Doctor Reed is president, and the
unsuccessful experiments of Finlay consist in the length of time dur-
ing which the mosquitoes were kept after filling themselves with blood
from a yellow-fever patient. In Finlay’s experiments the interval
was usually short—from two to five or six days, and it will be noted
that in the experiments of Reed and his associates the result was inva-
riably negative when the insect had been kept for less than eight days
(seven cases). /

Having obtained what they considered satisfactory evidence that yel-
low fever is transmitted by mosquitoes, Doctor Reed and his associates
proceeded to extend their experiments for the purpose of establishing
the fact in such a positive manner that the medical profession and the
scientific world generally might be convinced of the reliability of the
experimental evidence upon which their conclusions were based.
These conclusions, which have been fully justified by their subsequent
experiments, were stated in their ‘‘ Preliminary note” as follows:

1. Bacillus icteroides (Sanarelli) stands in no causative relation to yellow fever,
but, when present, should be considered as a secondary invader in this disease.

2. The mosquito serves as the intermediate host for the parasite of yellow fever.

In *‘An additional note” read at the Pan-American Medical Con-
gress, held in Havana, Cuba, February 4-7, 1901, a report is made of
the further experiments made up to that date. In order that the abso-
lute scientific value of these experiments may be fully appreciated, I
shall quote quite freely from this report with reference to the methods
adopted for the purpose of excluding all sources of infection other
than the mosquito inoculation:

In order to exercise perfect control over the moyements of those individuals who
were to be subjected to experimentation, and to avoid any other possible source of
infection, a location was selected in an open and uncultivated field, about 1 mile from
the town of Quemados, Cuba. Here an experimental sanitary station was estab-
lished under the complete control of the senior member of this board. This station
was named Camp Lazear, in honor of our late colleague, Dr. Jesse W. Lazear, acting

assistant surgeon, United States Army, who died of yellow fever while courageously
investigating the causation of this disease. The site selected was well drained, freely
exposed to sunlight and winds, and from every point of yiew satislactory for the
intended.
rnc of this camp consisted of two medical officers, Dr. Roger P: ee
acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, an immune, in immediate ae Dr.
R. P. Cooke, acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, nonimmune; one au ane
hospital steward, an immune; nine privates of the hospital corps, one of whom was
immune, and one immune ambulance driver. . i Gama
For the quartering of this detachment, and of such nonimmune int ivi uals
should be received for experimentation, hospital tents, properly floored, were pro-

as
664 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

-yided. These were placed at a distance of about 20 feet from each other, and were
numbered 1 to 7, respectively.
Camp Lazear was established November 20, 1900, and from this date was strictly

quarantined, no one being permitted to leave or enter camp except the three immune -

members of the detachment and the members of the board. Supplies were drawn
chiefly from Columbia Barracks, and for this purpose a conveyance under the con-
trol of an immune acting hospital steward, and having an immune driver, was used.

A few Spanish immigrants recently arrived at the port of Havana were received
at Camp Lazear from time to time while these observations were being carried out.
A nonimmune person, having once left this camp, was not permitted to return to it
under any circumstances whatever.

The temperature and pulse of all nonimmune residents were carefully recorded
three times a day. Under these circumstances any infected individual entering the
camp could be promptly detected and removed. As a matter of fact, only two per-
sons, not the subject of experimentation, developed any rise of temperature; one, a
Spanish immigrant with probable commencing pulmonary tuberculosis, who was
discharged at the end of three days, and the other, a Spanish immigrant who
developed a temperature of 102.6 F. on the afternoon of his fourth day in camp. He
was at once removed, with his entire bedding and baggage, and placed in the receiv-
ing ward at Columbia Barracks. His fever, which was marked by daily intermis-
sions for three days, subsided upon the administration of cathartics and enemata.
His attack was considered to be due to intestinal irritation. He was not permitted,
however, to return to the: camp.

No nonimmune resident was subjected to inoculation who had not passed in this
camp the full period of incubation of yellow fever, with one exception, to be herein-
after mentioned.

For the purpose of experimentation subjects were selected as follows: From tent
No. 2, 2 nonimmunes, and from tent No. 5, 3nonimmunes. Later, 1 nonimmune in
tent No. 6 was also designated for inoculation.

It should be borne in mind that at the time when these inoculations were begun,
there were only 12 nonimmune residents at Camp Lazear, and that 5 of these were
selected for experiment, viz, 2 in tent No. 2 and 3 in tent No. 5. Of these we suc-
ceeded in infecting 4, viz, 1 in tent No. 2 and 3 in tent No. 5, each of whom devel-
oped an attack of yellow fever within the period of incubation of this disease. The
one negative result, therefore, was in case 2—Moran—inoculated with a mosquito
on the fifteenth day after the insect had bitten a case of yellow fever on the third
day. Since this mosquito failed to infect case 4, three days after it had bitten Moran,
it follows that the result could not have been otherwise than negative in the latter
sase. We now know, as the result of our observations, that in the case of an insect
kept at room temperature during the cool weather of November fifteen or even
eighteen days would, in all probability, be too short a time to render it capable of
producing the disease.

As bearing upon the source of infection, we invite attention to the period of time
during which the subjects had been kept under rigid quarantine prior to successful
inoculation, which was as follows: Case 1, fifteen days; case 3, nine days; case 4,
nineteen days; case 5, twenty-one days. We further desire to emphasize the fact
that this epidemic of yellow fever, which affected 33.33 per cent of the nonimmune
residents of Camp Lazear, did not concern the 7 nonimmunes occupying tents Nos.
1, 4, 6, and 7, but was strictly limited to those individuals who had been bitten by
contaminated mosquitoes.

Nothing could point more forcibly to the source of this infection than the order of
the occurrence of events at this camp. The precision with which the infection of
the individual followed the bite of the mosquito left nothing to be desired in order
to fulfill the requirements of a scientific experiment.

sens. —
TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 665
In summing up their results, at th

e conclusion of this report the
following statement is made: sat"

Out of a total of 18 nonimmunes whom we have inceul
mosquitoes since we began this line of investigation
aa yellow fever. Ii we exelude those individuals bitten by mosquitoes that had

een = ) gs f S “ Bn eat > ye Dep fe ‘ . °

ept less than twelve days alter contamination, and which were therefore
probably incapable of conveying the disease, we have to record 8 positive and 2
negative results—80 per cent.

ated with contaminated
8, or 44.4 per cent, have con-

In a still later report (May, 1901) Doctor Reed says: ‘We have
thus far succeeded in conveying yellow fever to twelve individuals by
means of the bites of contaminated mosquitoes.” :

The nonimmune. individuals experimented upon were all fully
informed as to the nature of the experiment and its probable results,
and all gave their full consent. Fortunately no one of these brave
volunteers in the cause of science and humanity suffered a fatal attack
of the disease, although several were very ill and gave great anxiety
to the members of the board, who fully appreciated the graye respon-
sibility which rested upon them. That these experiments were justifi-
able under the circumstances mentioned is, I believe, beyond question.
In no other way could the fact established have been demonstrated,
and the knowledge gained is of inestimable value as a guide to reliable
measures of prevention. Already it is being applied in Cuba, and
without doubt innumerable lives will be saved as a result of these
experiments showing the precise method by which yellow fever is con-
tracted by those exposed in an ‘‘ infected locality.” Some of these
volunteers were enlisted men of the United States Army and some
were Spanish immigrants who had recently arrived in Cuba. When
taken sick, they received the best possible care, and after their recoy-
ery they had the advantage of being ‘‘immunes” who had nothing
further to fear from the disease which has caused the death of thou-
sands and tens of thousands of Spanish soldiers and immigrants who
have come to Cuba under the orders of their Government or to seek
their fortunes.

The experiments already referred to show in the most conclusive
manner that the blood of yellow fever patients contains the infectious
agent or germ to which the disease is due, and this has been further
demonstrated by direct inoculations from man to man. This experi-
ment was made by Doctor Reed, at Camp Lazear, upon four individ-
uals, who freely consented to it, and in three of the four a typical
attack of yellow fever resulted from the blood injection. The blood
was taken from a vein at the bend of the elbow on the first or second
day of sickness and was injected subcutaneously into the four non-
immune individuals, the amount being in one positive case DC. Coy M
one 1.5 c. c., and in one 0.5 c. c. In the ease attended with a negative
result, a Spanish immigrant, a mosquito inoculation also proved to be

sm 1900——+6
666 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

without effect, and Doctor Reed supposes that this individual ‘*‘ proba-
bly possesses a natural immunity from yellow fever.” Doctor Reed
says, with reference to these experiments:

It is important to note that in the three cases in which the injection of the blood
brought about an attack of yellow fever, careful cultures from the same blood, taken
immediately after injection, failed to show the presence of Sanarelli’s bacillus.

Having demonstrated the fact that yellow fever is propagated by
mosquitoes, Doctor Reed and his associates have endeavored to ascer-
tain whether it may also be propagated, as has been commonly sup-
posed, by clothing, bedding, and other articles which have been in use
by those sick with this disease. With reference to the experiments
made for the solution of this question, I can not do better than to
quote in extenso from Doctor Reed’s paper read at the Pan-American
Medical Congress in Havana. He says:

We believe that the general consensus of opinion, both of the medical profession
and of the laity, is strongly in favor of the conveyance of yellow fever by fomites.
The origin of epidemics, devastating in their course, has been frequently attributed
to the unpacking of trunks and boxes that contained supposedly infected clothing;
and hence the efforts of health authorities, both State and national, are being con-
stantly directed to the thorough disinfection of all clothing and bedding shipped
from ports where yellow fever prevails. To such extremes have efforts at disinfec-
tion been carried in order to prevent the importation of the disease into the United
States that during the epidemic season all articles of personal apparel and bedding
have been subjected to disinfection, sometimes both at the port of departure and at
the port of arrival, and this has been done whether the articles have previously been
contaminated by contact with yellow fever patients or not.- The mere fact that the
individual has resided even for a day in a city where yellow fever is present has been
sufficient cause to subject his baggage to rigid disinfection by the sanitary authorities.

To determine, therefore, whether clothing and bedding which have been contami-
nated by contact with yellow fever patients and their discharges can convey this
disease is a matter of the utmost importance. Although the literature contains
many references to the failure of such contaminated articles to cause the disease, we
haye considered it advisable to test by actual experiment on nonimmune human
beings the theory of the conveyance of yellow fever by fomites, since we know of
no other way in which this question can ever be finally determined.

For this purpose there was erected at Camp Lazear a small frame house consisting
of one room 14 by 20 feet and known as ‘‘ Building No. 1,” or the ‘ Infected cloth-
ing and bedding building.’? The cubic capacity of this house was 2,800 feet. It
was tightly ceiled within with ‘‘tongue and-grooved”’ boards and was well battened
on the outside. It faced to the south and was provided with two small windows,
each 26 by 34 inches in size. These windows were both placed on the south side of
the building, the purpose being to prevent, as much as possible, any thorough circu-
lation of the air within the house. They were closed by permanent wire screens of
0.5 mm. mesh. In addition sliding glass sash were provided within and heavy
wooden shutters without; the latter intended to prevent the entrance of sunlight
into the building, as it was not deemed desirable that the disinfecting qualities of
sunlight, direct or diffused, should at any time be exerted on the articles of clothing
contained within this room. Entrance was effected through a small vestibule, 3 by
5 feet, also placed on the southern side of the house. This vestibule was protected
without by a solid door and was divided in its middle by a wire-screen door, swung on
spring hinges. The inner entrance was also closed by a second wire-screen door. In
TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 667

this way the passage of mosquitoes into this room was effectually excluded. During
the day and until after sunset the house was kept securely closed, while by means of
a suitable heating apparatus the temperature was raised to 92° te 95° F. Precaution
was taken at the same time to maintain a sufficient humidity of the atmosphere.
The average temperature of this house was thus kept at 76.2° F. for a period of sixty-
three days.

November 30, 1900, the building now being ready for occupancy, three large boxes
filled with sheets, pillow slips, blankets, ete., contaminated by contact with cases of
yellow fever and their discharges were received and placed therein. The majority
of the articles had been taken from the beds of patients sick with yellow fever at
Las Animas Hospital, Havana, or at Columbia Barracks. Many of them had been
purposely soiled with a liberal quantity of black vomit, urine, and fecal matter. A
dirty ‘‘comfortable’’ and much-soiled pair of blankets, removed from the bed of a
patient sick with yellow fever in the town of Quemados, were contained in one of
these boxes. The same day, at 6 p. m., Dr. R. P. Cooke, acting assistant surgeon,
United States Army, and two privates of the Hospital Corps, all nonimmune young
Americans, entered this building and deliberately unpacked these boxes, which had
been tightly closed and locked for a period of two weeks. They were careful at the
same time to give each article a thorough handling and shaking, in order to dissemi-
nate through the air of the room the specific agent of yellow fever, if contained in
these fomites. These soiled sheets, pillowcases, and blankets were used in prepar-
ing the beds in which the members of the Hospital Corps slept. Various soiled
articles were hung around the room and placed about the bed occupied by Doctor
Cooke.

From this date until December 19, 1900, a period of twenty days, this room was
occupied each night by these three nonimmunes. Each morning the various soiled
articles were carefully packed in the aforesaid boxes and at night again unpacked
and distributed about the room. During the day the residents of this house were
permitted to occupy a tent pitched in the immediate vicinity, but were kept in strict
quarantine.

December 12 a fourth box of clothing and bedding was received from Las Animas
Hospital. These articles had been used on the beds of yellow fever patients, but in
addition had been purposely soiled with the bloody stools of a fatal case of this dis-
ease. As this box had been packed for a number of days, when opened and unpacked
by Doctor Cooke and his assistants, on December 12, the odor was so offensive as to
compel them to retreat from the house. They pluckily returned, however, within
a short time and spent the night as usual.

December 19 these three nonimmunes were placed in quarantine for five days and
then given the liberty of the camp. All had remained in perfect health, notwith-
standing their stay of twenty nights amid such unwholesome surroundings. ;

During the week, December 20-27, the following articles were also placed in this
house, viz, pajamas suits, 1; undershirts, 2; nightshirts, 4; pillow slips, 4; sheets, 6;
blankets, 5; pillows, 2; mattresses, 1. These articles had been removed from the
persons and beds of four patients sick with ‘yellow fever and were very much soiled,
as any change of clothing or bed linen during their attacks had been purposely
avoided, the object being to obtain articles as thoroughly contaminated as possible.

From December 21, 1900, till January 10, 1901, this building was again occupied
by two nonimmune young Americans, under the same conditions as the preceding
occupants, except that these men slept every night in the very garments worn by
yellow-fever patients throughout their entire attacks, besides making use exclusively
of their much-soiled pillow slips, sheets, and blankets. At the end of twenty-one
nights of such intimate contact with these fomites, they also went into quarantine,
from which they were released five days later in perfect health,
668 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

From January 11 till January 31, a period of twenty days, ‘‘ Building No. 1’’ con-
tinued to be occupied by two other nonimmune Americans, who, like those who
preceded them, have slept every night in the beds formerly occupied by yellow-fever
patients and in the nightshirts used by these patients throughout the attack, without
change. In addition, during the last fourteen nights of their occupancy of this house
they have slept each night with their pillows covered with towels that had been
thoroughly soiled with the blood drawn from both the general and capillary circula-
tion, on the first day of the disease, in the case of a well-marked attack of yellow
fever. Notwithstanding this trying ordeal, these men have continued to remain in
perfect health.

The attempt which we have therefore made to infect ‘‘ Building No. 1”’ and its
seven nonimmune occupants, during a period of sixty-three days, has proved an
absolute failure. We think we can not do better here than to quote from the classic
work of La Roche.' This author says: ‘‘In relation to the yellow fever, we find so
many instances establishing the fact of the nontransmissibility of the disease through
the agency of articles of the kind mentioned, and of merchandise generally, that we
can not but discredit the accounts of a contrary character assigned in medical writ-
ings, and still more to those presented on the strength of popular report solely. For
if, ina large number of well-authenticated cases, such articles have been handled
and used with perfect impunity—and that, too, often under circumstances best cal-
culated to insure the effect in question—we have every reason to conclude that a
contrary result will not be obtained in other instances of a similar kind; and that
consequently the effect said to have been produced by exposure to those articles
must, unless established beyond the possibility of doubt, be referred to some other
agency.”’

The question here naturally arises, How does a house become infected with yellow
fever? This we have attempted to solve by the erection at Camp Lazear of a second
house, known as ‘“ Building No. 2,’’ or the ‘‘ Infected Mosquito Building.’’ This was
in all respects similar to ‘‘ Building No. 1,’’ except that the door and windows were
placed on opposite sides of the building so as to give through-and-through ventilation.
It was divided, also, by a wire-screen partition, extending from floor to ceiling, into
two rooms, 12 by 14 feet and 8 by 14 feet respectively. Whereas, all articles admitted
to ‘‘ Building No. 1’’ had been soiled by contact with yellow-fever patients, all arti-
cles admitted to ‘‘ Building No. 2”’ were first carefully disinfected by steam before
being placed therein.

On December 21, 1900, at 11.45 a. m., there were set free in the larger room of this
building fifteen mosquitoes—C. fasciatus—which had previously been contaminated
by biting yellow-fever patients, as follows: 1, a severe case, on the second day,
November 27, 1900, twenty-four days; 3, a well-marked case, on the first day, Decem-
ber 9, 1900, twelve days; 4, a mild case, on the first day, December 13, 1900, eight
days; 7, a well-marked case, on the first day, December 16, 1900, five days—total, 15.

Only one of these insects was considered capable of conveying the infection, viz,
the mosquito that had bitten a severe case twenty-four days before; while three
others—the twelve-day insects—had possibly reached the dangerous stage, as they
had been kept at an average temperature of 82° F.

At 12 noon of the same day John J. Moran—already referred to as case 2 in this
report—a nonimmune American, entered the room where the mosquitoes had been
freed, and remained thirty minutes. During this time he was bitten about the face
and hands by several insects. At 4.30 p. m. the same day he again entered and
remained twenty minutes, and was again bitten. The following day at 4.30 p. m.
he, for the third time, entered the room, and was again bitten.

Case 7.—On December 25, 1900, at 6a. m., the fourth day, Moran complained of
slight dizziness and frontal headache. At 11 a.m. he went to bed, complaining of

1R. La Roche: Yellow fever, vol. ii, p. 516, Philadelphia,

—
TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 669

increased headache and malaise, with a temperature of 99.6° F., pulse 88; at noon
ee ee
‘ sed. e was removed to the yellow-fever
wards. He was seen on several occasions by the board of experts and the di
of yellow fever confirmed. .
The period of incubation in this case, dating from the first visit to “ Building No
2,”’ was three days and twenty-three hours. If reckoned from his last visit it was
two days and eighteen hours. There was no other possible source for his infection
as he had been strictly quarantined at Camp Lazear for a period of thirty-two dave
prior to his exposure in the mosquito building.

agnosis

During each of Moran’s visits two nonimmunes remained in this same building,
only protected from the mosquitoes by the wire-screen partition. From December
21, 1900, till January 8, 1901, inclusive—eighteen nights—these nonimmunes have
slept in this house, only protected by the wire-screen partition. These men have
remained in perfect health to the present time.

Thus at Camp Lazear of 7 nonimmunes whom we attempted to infect by means
of the bites of contaminated mosquitoes we have succeeded in conveying the disease
to 6, or 85.71 per cent. On the other hand, of 7 nonimmunes whom we tried to
infect by means of fomites, under particularly favorable circumstances, we did not
succeed in a single instance.

It is evident that in view of our present knowledge relating to the
mode of transmission of yellow fever, the preventive measures which
have heretofore been considered most important—1i. e., isolation of the
sick, disinfection of clothing and bedding, and municipal sanitation—
are either of no avail or of comparatively little value. It is true that
yellow-fever epidemics have resulted, as a rule, from the introduction
to a previously healthy locality of one or more persons suffering from
the disease. But we now know that its extension did not depend upon
the direct contact of the sick with nonimmune individuals and that

‘isolation of the sick from such contact is unnecessary and without
avail. On the other hand, complete isolation from the agent which is
responsible for the propagation of the disease is all-important. In
the absence of a yellow-fever patient from which to draw blood the
mosquito is harmless, and in the absence of the mosquito the yellow-
fever patient is harmless, as the experimental evidence now stands.
Yellow-fever epidemics are terminated by cold weather because then
the mosquitoes die or become torpid. The sanitary condition of our
southern seaport cities is no better in winter than in summer, and if
the infection attached to clothing and bedding it is difficult to under-
stand why the first frosts of autumn should arrest the progress of an
epidemic. But all this is explained now that the mode of transmission
has been demonstrated.

Insanitary local conditions may, however, have a certain influence
; ase, for it has been ascertained that the

in the propagation of the dise |
erves as an intermediate host for the

species of mosquito which s
yellow-fever germ may breed in cesspools and |
stagnant pools of water. If, therefore, the streets of a oats are
unpaved and ungraded, and there are open spaces where water may

sewers as well as In
670 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

accumulate in pools, as well as open cesspools to serve as breeding
places for Culex fasciatus, that city will present conditions more
favorable for the propagation of yellow fever than it would if well-
paved and drained and sewered.

The question whether yellow fever may be transmitted by any other
species of mosquito than Culex fasciatus has not been determined.
Facts relating to the propagation of the disease indicate that the mos-
quito which serves as an intermediate host for the yellow-fever germ
has a somewhat restricted geographical range and is to be found espe-
cially upon the seacoast and the margins of rivers in the so-called
‘‘vellow-fever zone.” While occasional epidemics have occurred
upon the southwest coast of the Iberian peninsula, the disease, as an
epidemic, is unknown elsewhere in Europe, and there is no evidence
that it has ever invaded the great and populous continent of Asia.
In Africa it is limited to the west coast. In North America, although
it has occasionally prevailed as an epidemic in every one of our sea-
port cities as far north as Boston, and in the Mississippi Valley as far
north as St. Louis, it has never established itself as an endemic dis-
ease within the limits of the United States. Vera Cruz, and probably
other points on the Gulf coast of Mexico, are, however, at the present
time endemic foci of the disease. In South America it has prevailed
asan epidemic at all of the seaports on the Gulf and Atlantic coasts,
as far south as Montevideo and Buenos Ayres, and on the Pacific
along the coast of Peru.

The region in which the disease has had the greatest and most fre-
quent prevalence is bounded by the shores of the Gulf of Mexico, and
includes the West India Islands. Within the past few years yellow
fever has been carried to the west coast of North America, and has
prevailed as an epidemic as far north as the Mexican port of Guaymas,
on the Gulf of California.

It must not be supposed that Culex fasciatus is only found where
yellow fever prevails. The propagation of the disease depends upon
the introduction of an infected individual to a locality where this mos-
quito is found, at a season of the year when it is active. Owing to
the short period of incubation (five days or less), the brief duration of
the disease, and especially of the period during which the infectious
agent (germ) is found in the blood, it is evident that ships sailing from
infected ports, upon which cases of yellow fever develop, are not
likely to introduce the disease to distant seaports. The continuance
of an epidemic on shipboard, as on the land, must depend upon the
presence of infected mosquitoes and of nonimmune individuals. Under
these conditions we can readily understand why the disease should not
be carried from the West Indies or from South America to the Medi-
terranean, to the east coast of Africa, or to Asiatic seaport cities. On
the other hand, if the disease could be transmitted by infected cloth-
TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 671

ing, bedding, etc., there seems no good reason why it should not have
been carried to these distant localities long ago.

The restriction as regards altitude, however, probably depends upon
the fact that the mosquito which serves as an intermediate host is a
coast species, which does not live in elevated regions. It is a well-
established fact that yellow fever has never prevailed in the City of
Mexico, although this city has constant and unrestricted intercourse
with the infected seaport, Vera Cruz. Persons who have been exposed
in Vera Cruz during the epidemic season frequently fall sick after
their arrival in the City of Mexico, but they do not communicate the
disease to those in attendance upon them or to others in the vicinity.
Evidently some factor essential for the propagation of the disease is
absent, although we have the sick man, his clothing and bedding and
the insanitary local conditions which have been supposed to constitute
an essential factor. Iam not aware that any observations have been
made with. reference to the presence or absence of Culex fasciatus in
high altitudes, but the inference that it is not to be found in such
localities as the City of Mexico seems justified by the established facts
already referred to.

As pointed out by Hirsch, ‘‘the disease stops short at many points
in the West Indies where the climate is still in the highest degree
tropical.” In the Antilles it has rarely appeared at a height of more
than 700 feet. In the United States the most elevated locality in
which the disease has prevailed as an epidemic is Chattanooga, Tenn.,
which is 745 feet above sea level.

It will be remembered that the malarial fevers are contracted as ¢
result of inoculation by mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles, and that
the malarial parasite has been demonstrated not only in the blood of
those suffering from malarial infection, but also in the stomach and
salivary glands of the mosquito. If the yellow fever parasite resem-
bled that of the malarial fevers it would no doubt have been discoy-
ered long ago, but as a matter of fact this parasite, which we now
know is present in the blood of those sick with the disease, has thus
far eluded all researches. Possibly it is ultramiscroscopic. How-
ever this may be, it is not the only infectious-disease germ which
remains to be discovered. There is without doubt a living germ in
vaccine lymph and in the virus from smallpox pustules, but it has not
been demonstrated by the microscope. ‘The same is true of foot-and-
mouth disease and of infectious pleuro-pneumonia of cattle, although
we know that a living element of some kind is present in the infec-
tious material by which these diseases are propagated. In Texas
fever of cattle, which is transmitted by infected ticks, the parasite is
very minute, but by proper staining methods and a good miscroscope
it may be detected in the interior of the red blood corpuscles. Doc- ,
tors Reed and Carroll are at present engaged in a search for the
672 TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES.

yellow fever germ in the blood and in the bodies of infected mosqui-
toes. What success may attend their efforts remains to be seen, but
at all events the fundamental facts have been demonstrated that this
germ is present in the blood, and that the disease is transmitted by a
certain species of mosquito—C. fasciatus.

The proper measures of prophylaxis, in view of this demonstration,
are given in the following circular, which was submitted for my
approval by the chief surgeon, Department of Cuba, and has recently
been published by the commanding general of that department, who,
until quite recently, was a member of the Medical Corps of the Army.

CIRCULAR, ) HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF CUBA,
No.5.  § Havana, April 27, 1901.
Upon the recommendation of the chief surgeon of the department, the following

instructions are published and will be strictly enforced at all military posts in this

department:

The recent experiments made in Havana by the Medical Department of the Army
having proved that yellow fever, like malarial fever, is conveyed chiefly, and prob-
ably exclusively, by the bite of infected mosquitoes, important changes in the meas-
ures used for the prevention and treatment of this disease have become necessary.

1. In order to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and protect officers and men
against their bites, the provisions of General Orders, No. 6, Department of Cuba,
December 21, 1900, shall be carefully carried out, especially during the summer and
fall.

So far as yellow fever is concerned, infection of a room or building simply means
that it contains infected mosquitoes; that is, mosquitoes which have fed on yellow
fever patients. Disinfection, therefore, means the employment of measures aimed at
the destruction of these mosquitoes. The most effective of these measures is fumiga-
tion, either with sulphur, formaldehyde, or insect powder. The fumes of sulphur
are the quickest and most effective insecticide, but are otherwise objectionable.
Formaldehyde gas is quite effective if the infected rooms are kept closed and sealed
for two or three hours. The smoke of insect powder has also been proved very use-
ful; it readily stupefies mosquitoes, which drop to the floor and can then be easily
destroyed.

The washing of walls, floors, ceilings, and furniture with disinfectants is unnecessary.

3. As it has been demonstrated that yellow fever can not be conveyed by fomites,
such as bedding, clothing, effects, and baggage, they need not be subjected to any
special disinfection. Care should be taken, however, not to remove them from the
infected rooms until after formaldehyde fumigation, so that they may not harbor
infected mosquitoes.

Medical officers taking care of yellow-fever patients need not be isolated; they can
attend other patients and associate with nonimmunes with perfect safety to the gar-
rison. Nurses and attendants taking care of yellow-fever patients shall remain iso-
lated, so as to avoid any possible danger of their conveying mosquitoes from patients
to nonimmunes.

4. The infection of mosquitoes is most likely to occur during the first two or three
days of the disease. Ambulant cases—that is, patients not ill enough to take to their
beds and remaining unsuspected and unprotected—are probably those most responsi-
ble for the spread of the disease. It is therefore essential that all fever cases should
be at once isolated and so protected that no mosquitoes can possibly get access to them
until the nature of the fever is positively determined.

Each post shall have a ‘‘reception ward’’ for the admission of all fever cases and
an ‘isolation ward’’ for the treatment of cases which prove to be yellow fever. Each
TRANSMISSION OF YELLOW FEVER BY MOSQUITOES. 673

ward shall be made mosquito-proof by wire netting over doors and windows, a ceiling
of wire netting at a height of 7 feet above the floor, and mosquito bars over the beds.
There should be no place in it where mosquitoes can seek refuge, not readil y accessi-
ble to the nurse. Both wards can be in the same building, provided they are sepa-
rated by a mosquito-tight partition.

5. All persons coming from an infected locality to a post shall be kept under care-
ful observation until the completion of five days from the time of possible infection,
either in a special detention camp or in their own quarters; in either case their tem-
perature should be taken twice a day during this period of observation, so that those
- who develop yellow fever may be placed under treatment at the very inception of
the disease.

6. Malarial fever, like yellow fever, is communicated by mosquito bites, and there-
fore is just as much of an infectious disease and requires the same measures of pro-
tection against mosquitoes. On the assumption that mosquitoes remain in the
vicinity of their breeding places, or never travel far, the prevalence of malarial fever
at a post would indicate want of proper care and diligence on the part of the surgeon
and commanding officer in complying with General Orders, No. 6, Department of
Cuba, 1900.

7. Surgeons are again reminded of the absolute necessity, in all fever cases, to keep,
from the very beginning, a complete chart of pulse and temperature, since such a
chart is their best guide to a correct diagnosis and the proper treatment.

By command of Major-General Wood:

H. L. Scorn, Adjutant-General,
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH OF THE CENTURY.

By ANDREW Lana.

It is difficult even to give a name to the subject of this essay. The
word ** psychical” seems to beg the question, and to insinuate that there
is such a thing asa psyche, orsoul, distinguished from the ordinary intel-
lect. Asa matter of fact, psychical research is only an inquiry as to
whether there be any faculties and phenomena to which, for lack of a
better name, the term ‘‘ psychical” may be applied. That there are
such faculties and such phenomena has been the belief of the majority
of mankind in all known ages. A singular uniformity marks the beliefs
(or superstitions) of all periods, races, and conditions of culture.
This uniformity, of course, does not, as Dr. Johnson inferred, amount
to proof. Curiosity and love of excitement, wearied with the *‘ natural”
(that is, accustomed) round of events, had only to imagine exceptions
to everything normal; and ‘‘miracles” of uniform character were at
once asserted. A dead man does not walk about; deny this—and
ghosts walk. People can not be in two places at once; deny this—and
you have ‘‘bilocation.” Men do not fly; deny this—and you have
“levitation.” The future and the remote are dark to all; deny this—
and you invent every branch of prophecy, seership, and clairvoyance.
Inanimate objects are never spontaneously volatile; affirm the oppo-
site—and you are confronted with the ‘‘physical phenomena” of
“‘spiritualism.” Fire always burns objects subjected to its action;
affirm the opposite—and you come to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-
nego. Thus the uniformity of the beliefs in such marvels is very
readily explained.

But the explanation becomes more difficult w hen you have to
deal, not with savage mythology and civilized folk-lore, but with
the attested experiences of educated modern men and women.
They have witnessed one or other of these marvels, or so they per-

ist i Their experience has been identical with that of
sist in averring. Their experience has been ide ntic ul witl t
al antiquity; with that

savages and barbarians; with that of classic
of saints, witches, and members of the Royal Society at the time
Ss,

of the Restoration. This fact is so puzzling that, at different periods

1Copyright, 1901, by New York Evening Post Company. Reprinted from The
‘ , 2 ., . ‘ . . . ‘ f Vg ‘ “4
Evening Post, January 12, 1901, by special permission of G. P. Putnam's Sons.

erat) 7 oS ey
675
676 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH OF THE CENTURY.

educated persons have investigated the evidence for the reported
marvels. In the Alexandria of the fourth Christian century, Por-
phyry; in the England of Charles Il, Glanvill, More, Baxter, and
Boyle; in the America of 1680-1720, the Mathers; in the Germany of
1760-1830, Kant and Hegel; in the France of 1780-1830, various
learned bodies, took part in these investigations. Little that can
be relied on was discovered. The researches were usually unme-
thodical, often prejudiced, often superstitious. Only in the last twenty
years has inquiry been methodical, skeptical, and persistent. The
practices of Mesmer at the end of the eighteenth century opened the
way. They interested, in the nineteenth century, the Schellings,
Hegel, and Ritter. Hegel believed in clairvoyance, in what is called
telepathy (the action of distant mind on distant mind, through no known
channel of sense), and in the divining-rod. For all these things he
found a place in his ‘* Philosophy of Spirit.” The theory which
explains what we call facts of hypnotism by ‘‘animal magnetism” was
accepted, or at least many of the marvels of this kind were accepted,
in a report of a scientific French committee in 1831. But the report
was burked, and the topic was banished to keep company with the
origin of language and the squaring of the circle. Yet the topic kept
recurring, and the ** magnetic sleep” was vouched for by Dr. Elliotson.
About 1841-1845, Braid of Manchester introduced the word ‘* hypno-
tism,” to cover the phenomena of induced somnambulism. He proved
that the old theory of a magnetic efflux from the operator was super-
fluous, and that the sleep, with all its peculiarities of hallucination
and of submission to the will, could be induced in a variety of me-
chanical ways. The patient could be made insensible to pain, and only
the introduction of chloroform checked the use of hypnotism in sur-
gical operations. It was also shown that the mind of the hypnotic
patient could be so influenced as to affect his body, and, at least in
nervous and hysterical diseases, to exercise a healing influence. These
discoveries, obviously, explain many of the stories of witchcraft, of
healing miracles, and of ** glamour,” or the induced false perceptions,
which were part of the stock in trade of conjurers in the Middle Ages
and the seventeenth century.

So far, I think, these inquiries have undeniably reached solid
ground, and have cleared up the obscure subject of witchcraft. The
only question is one of degree. How far are the stranyer phenomena
of hypnotism, such as the suggestion of sleep from a distance, based
on good evidence? In the middle of the century Drs. Gregory and
Mayo, in two interesting works, investigated the amount of truth
involved in popular superstitions. They accepted clairvoyance and
successful crystal-gazing, that world-wide practice. Meanwhile, many
physicians and others worked at the topic of hallucinations of the
senses, both in the sane and the insane. A few of them brought for-
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH OF THE CENTURY. 677

ward cases of premonitory dreams and telepathic incidents, which
they professed to be unable to explain away. The subjects of a cer-
tain Major Buckley (1840-1850) were deemed to be peculiarly clair-
voyant, and the anecdotes, in one or two cases, haye good evidence.
The case of “‘Queen Mary’s Jewels” (criticised in my **Book of
Dreams and Ghosts”) has, at all events, romantic historical interest.
In 1848 a very old set of beliefs was moved into new life. The noises
and disturbances in the family of the Foxes at Hydeyille were only
a link in an historic chain of similar alleged occurrences. They are
of rather more than dubious authenticity, but they were the beginning
of modern * Spiritualism,” with numberless impostures. The chief
thaumaturge and prophet of the movement was Daniel Dunelas Home
(his palmy years were 1855-1865), who had a singular career of social
and magical successes in the courts and literary society of Europe.
Few feats of savage, or Neoplatonic, or saintly wonder-workers were
absent from his repertoire, and living men of the highest eminence in
physical science are still wholly unable to explain what they saw of
his performances. I have known but one case in which, on first-hand
evidence, imposture was attributed to him. But a jury practically
found him guilty of cajoling a silly old woman out of her money.
That is the blot on Home’s escutcheon; for the rest, the great mass of
unpublished letters to him from many distinguished correspondents
attest his inexplicable success. He was not a clever man, and, had he
not been a ‘*medium,” would have been a reciter and musician of the
drawing-room. Other ‘‘mediums” on the same lines have been
numerous; few, if any, professionals have escaped exposure. Mean-
while, the theory of the feats, that they are caused by ‘* spirits,” is
now almost confined to the half educated.

Much, at this time, was written about ‘table turning.” This is a
form of automatism familiar to most savage races. A person, or
persons, touch a table, a stick, a pencil, or what not; the thing moves
under no conscious muscular action of theirs, and gives responses to
questions by its movements, in a variety of ways. These responses
are sometimes correct, though unknown to the operators. Dr. Car-
penter explained these things by a theory of “unconscious cerebra-
tion.” Every one will admit that many things are registered in the
mind of which the ordinary consciousness Is not aware. Many things
once present to consciousness are forgotten. Again, a ‘person pas
to you when your mind is engaged. You know nothing, conscious!) ’
of what has been said, yet it is registered in the brain. Phe theory,
then, is that the ‘‘ unconscious,” or ‘subliminal, or ‘* subconscious
edge through unconsciously exerted muscular

self expresses its knowl :
action of

movements. But the phenomena were often ascribed to the
mepirits.”~ The philosophy of the unconscious, or subconscious,
studied by Kant and brought to England by Sir William Hamilton,
678 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH OF THE CENTURY.

had not attracted attention in England. Psychical research, investigat-
ing automatic actions, has enlarged our knowledge of this obscure
topic.

After the **spiritualistic ” wave had expended itself, at least among

the educated, a society was formed in England, **The Society for
Psychical Research,” to investigate the whole mass of reported super-
normal phenomena. The founders, about 1880, were a group of
Cambridge scholars, the late Mr. Edmund Gurney, Mr. Frederick,
and Mr. Arthur Myers, the late Professor Sidgwick, Mr. Podmore,
and others. Many men of science, such as Sir William Crookes, Prof.
Balfour Stewart, Prof. Oliver Lodge, the late distinguished electrician,
Professor Hertz, with Lord Tennyson, Mr. A. J. Balfour, M. P.,
Mr. Gladstone, and a number of British and continental savants, lent
their names and a portion of their energy to the society. In the
American branch Prof. William James, with others, represents official
psychology. The object of the society was to collect and cross-
examine first-hand evidence for the ancient alleged phenomena called
‘* ghosts,” ‘* wraiths,” ** haunted houses,” clairvoyance, premonitions,
‘*spiritualistic disturbances,” and so forth. The society thought that
ideas of such old standing and wide diffusion, and reported modern
experiences in the same kind, ought to be scientifically examined.
Experiments were also to be made. The leaders were men familiar
with the science of psychology and of the brain. Mr. Myers and Mr.
Gurney especially conducted a long and careful series of experiments
in hypnotism. Mr. Gurney published a very learned essay on *‘ Hal-
lucinations of the Senses.” Meanwhile Mr. Gurney, especially, with
Mr. Myers, Mr. Podmore, and Mr. and Mrs. Sidgwick, collected all
available first-hand evidence for ** ghosts” of the dead and ‘* wraiths”
of the living or dying. The personal examination of witnesses and
of corroborative evidence was pursued with minute and conscientious
care.

Moreover, many experiments were made in ** thought transference.”
One person, say, thinks of a diagram, a picture, a card, or what not,
which another person, carefully excluded from sensible contact with
the first, endeavors to reproduce. The results often seemed highly
successful, and experience enabled the experimenters to discover and
eliminate such causes as ‘* unconscious whispering,” as well as to detect
some methods of fraud. Having convinced themselves that the trans-
ference of thought, not by any recognized channels of the senses, was
a possibility, even when the experimenters were not in the same room,
the investigators applied their discovery to their great collection of
‘*ovhosts” and ‘t wraiths.” The results were published in two large vol-
umes, called ** Phantasms of the Living.” The argument, put briefly,
was that the mind or brain of a person in a crisis, notably in the crisis

of death, could affect by visual, audible, or other hallucinations of
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH OF THE CENTURY. 679

various kinds and degrees the mind or brain of another person ata
distance. This was a mere development of the idea of voluntary and
experimental thought transference by no recognized channel of Senge
These conclusions, if accepted, account for the universal belief in death
wraiths. But of course an obvious difficulty arises. Many sane and
temperate people have had experience of the hallucination that a dis-
tant person is present, when that person turns out to have been in
perfect health and in no crisis at all. Therefore, we must ask. Do the
hallucinations which coincide with a death or other crisis coincide by
mere accident and so afford no evidence for the action of mind on dis-
tant mind? Without an enormous census, this question can not be
decided. The society, however, collected more than 17,000 answers to
a list of questions, and the committee satisfied themselves that. on this
body of testimony, the hallucinatory appearances coincided with the
death of the person who seemed to appear 440 times more often than
ought to be the case by the law of probabilities. They pronounced
that *‘ between deaths and apparitions of the dying a connection exists
which is not due to chance alone.” This position has heen attacked by

r. Parish in his ‘* Hallucinations and Illusions.”

The society, as a society, expresses no opinion, but the committee of
the society, for their part, decided that ** wraiths” are coincidental, or
veridical, hallucinations produced by some unknown mental or cerebral
process, called, provisionally, ** telepathy ”—sensation from a distance.
Whether the process is ‘* physical,” and caused by the molecular action
of one brain upon another distant and recipient brain (as in ‘*
telegraphy”), or whether the process is ** psychical,” and involves the
action of a mysterious psychical faculty, there is no means of deciding.
But if we admit that there are phantasms of the dead, not being mere
casual hallucinations, then we must conceive the process to be psychical:
the brain of the dead being dust, the ‘‘soul” must be the agent. Of
phantasms of the dead or ‘‘ ghosts,” the society has collected numer-
ous examples at first hand. On the hypothesis already explained, these
appearances would be caused by the action of the disincarnate upon
the living mind. But how can it be proved that the phantasm is no
mere empty hallucination or illusion, begotten subjectively by grief,
by association of ideas, or by a casual arrangement of light and shade?
We have in the case of the dead no coincidental crisis of their own to
appeal to, as in the case of phantasms of the living. The only possi-
ble test is the communication by the phantasm of knowledge otherwise
unattainable by the percipient. Nis 2

The modern ghost seldom speaks, and the knowledge is indirectly
communicated. One or two examples are needed. Thus, residing in
a house in Switzerland, a lady saw a phantasm exactly like the por-
traits of Voltaire. She then learned, for the first time, that she oecu-
pied what had been Voltaire’s room. But had she not known about

wireless
680 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH OF THE CENTURY.

Voltaire’s connection with the house, and forgotten? Again, a young
American, when making up his books in a hotel, sees the phantasm of
his dead sister, with a long scratch on her cheek. His mother tells
him what she had kept secret, that she herself accidentally scratched
the cheek of the corpse, as she arranged flowers in the coffin, and that
she concealed it by aid of powder. But, granting telepathy, was not
the phantasm a projection from the mind of the mother, who knew the
fact? It is plain that telepathy, if accepted, makes it almost impos-
sible for a ghost to prove his identity. He can do this only by com-
municating knowledge contained in no incarnate mind, but afterwards
discovered to exist in some long-lost document or other source of evi-
dence. The nearest approach known to me to such a thing is in the
** vision” of
these jewels, with many attendant circumstances, beheld by a hypno-
tized young man. Several years later was discovered, in a heap of old
law papers in the Scottish Register House, an inventory of Queen
Mary’s jewels. Still later the inventory was published by Dr. Joseph
Robertson. I compared the inventory with the account of the vision
and the results were, to a considerable degree, corroborative. But
corroboration of this kind, in the nature of the case, must be very rare.

Thus any knowledge contributed by a seeming phantasm of the dead
inay be explained away by a sweeping theory of telepathy. The phan-
tasm makes you aware of this or that fact, which is verified. But, if
the verifying evidence may conceivably have become known, say to a

case of Queen Mary’s secret jewels. Gregory published a

German savant working in the Sultan’s library, then it may be urged
that the German savant unconsciously ** wired on” his information
to you in the shape of an hallucination. This theory is not easily
accepted, but it may be more credible than the hypothesis of an hallu-
cination caused by a disincarnate mind.

As to “‘haunted houses,” the society has occupied many, to little
purpose. Ghosts, indeed, are seen, and astonishing noises are heard
by such members of the investigating parties as are in the way of
experiencing hallucinations wherever they go. But that proves noth-
ing. I myself stayed for a week in a ‘‘haunted house,” whence the
noises had evicted a large shooting party, but nothing beyond the nor-
mal swam into my ken. To be sure, I had asked for as quiet a room
as possible—I certainly got it. As far as the researches of the society
go, the ghosts retreat before them, whereas, on the theory that the
society are superstitious fools, they ought to see ghosts in exceeding
abundance by dint of expectation. It would appear that haunted
houses are local centers of a permanent possibility of hallucination.
Thus in an old house at St. Andrews a cheerful family last year con-
stantly met an unknown lady on the stairs. She always went into the
same room, but never was found there when pursued. The cheerful
family regarded her as a pleasing peculiaritv of the mansion. This
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH OF THE CENTURY. 681

anecdote leads to the difficult topic of ** collective hallucination.” as
when a number of persons similarly situated are similarly and simul-
taneously hallucinated. The causes remain a puzzle. Are all affected
by an external cause or does one person ‘‘ wire on” his hallucinations
to the others?

It will be observed that this theory of hallucination gets rid of the
old puzzle: ** How about the clothes of the ghost?” Clothes have no
ghosts, yet I have heard of only one ghost without clothes (on the eyi-
dence of the report of a criminal trial in 1753). The new theory
simply explains that there is neither ghost nor clothes in the case; the
hallucination merely includes clothes for the sake of decency or
because the agent, the mind which affects the percipient’s mind, thinks
of himself as dressed ‘*in his habit as he lived.”

While the society, advancing from the experimental thought trans-
ference to telepathy, has more or less explained ‘* wraiths” and has
perhaps suggested a conceivable theory of ** ghosts” in the region of
spiritualistic material phenomena, as of volatile articles of furniture,
it has found no certainty. Experiments with paid **mediums” have
invariably resulted in the detection of imposture, notably in the case
of Slade and of Eusapia Paladino. But it is fair to say that some
thinkers even now believe that Eusapia occasionally gets her effects
without cheating. In the cases of amateur mediums many things told
on evidence unimpeachable in worldly matters are certainly hard to
explain. For a number of years a Mrs. Piper, a citoyenne of the
United States, has been closely studied by the learned, as by Prof.
William James, Dr. Hodgson, and Prof. Oliver Lodge. Her specialty
is to convey, by writing or word of mouth, *‘ messages from the dead.”
Vast reports on Mrs. Piper have been edited by Dr. Hodgson, cer-
tainly a clear-headed and skeptical observer, who exposed Eusapia
Paladino an] Madame Blavatsky. As at present advised, Dr. Hodg-
son expresses his belief that the dead do communicate through Mrs.
Piper. Others hold that the ‘communicators ” are only “secondary
personalities” of the lady, and that when she does hit on facts not
normally knowable by her she owes the information to telepathy.
How is the reverse to be proved? How can she communicate matter
at once capable of verification and yet unknown to any living mind?
This is the old difficulty which besets spirits of the dead.

On the whole, psychi ‘al research has, I think, shown that there is wl
real element of obscure mental faculty involved in the ** superstitions’
of the past and present. It has also made some discoveries of practi-
cal value in hypnotism and the treatment of hysteria. It strengsous
the opinion that science has not yet exhausted all attainable knowledge
about the constitution of man.

sm 1900 47

; Hie yet af ~~

= 7 ie c. je) Pek es ee oe
. H i AT) Oy ee ae Se
d ; 4 d packe AL Se ae ‘ee WAL

mS om po Se ge Tere
a iss Sth ee a aa
“) oT ae ei #4 ED
- iS ho re Steg
7 ; =~ | (oe alae
2 ' ie) ae Pits <4
ire Crs.) wan a ‘mi path aly
ee Ee ay *
co. Oe Pee gree a ae
r ~u > Dei Ap ee gann a.
-t “hte aia a ef
pnt ee eNO oa
2 ‘a Cfn.4S Brae
raged 60 Skene
ce I ls ee aaa
nade tas ee ai Raby babel Si ;
j "4 ‘(= oe pisy, rarys ne
- pi rath oe sie? Tae
a . bar 48 Ads ei 2 pl
= (ow ree Gaere Pe aah:
to at es eh mame
+1 err oS tore ¥2 “hin Vas Ek
oe ar Le _
a ue a ae aaa
ae ote 88 yy 2b ligt Ns hice ot
4 SS las = :
a ee eS ah Vadiwn edad htt
2 cine a mae
§" 2 to
POS 2S. Le Gt Soe fT aS fig iaanane

|
|

THE NEW SPECTRUM.
By 8. P. Lanewey.!

The writer (at the concluding meeting of the National Academy of
Sciences on April 18) remarked on the disad vantages in the matter of
interest of the work of the physicist, which he was about to show them,
to that of the biologist, which was concerned with the ever absorbing
problem of life. He had, however, something which seemed to him
of interest, even in this respect, to speak of, for it included some indi-
cations he believed to be new, pointing the way to future knowledge
of the connection of terrestrial life with that physical creator of all
life, the sun.

He had to present to the academy a book embodying the labor of
twenty years, though at this late hour he could scarcely more than
show the volume with a mention of the leading captions of its subject.
What he had to say then would be understood as only a sort of intro-
ductory description of the contents of the work in question, which
was entitled ‘* Volume I of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory of the Smithsonian Institution.”

In illustration of a principal feature of this book, the academy saw
before them on the wall an extended solar spectrum, only a small por-
tion of the beginning of which, on the left, was the visible spectrum
known to Sir Isaac Newton. This was the familiar visible colored
spectrum which we all have seen and know something of, even if our
special studies are in other fields.

It is chiefly this visible part, which has been hitherto the seat of
prolonged spectroscopic investigation, from a little beyond the violet,
at a wave-length of somewhat less than 0.4" down to the extreme red,
which is generally considered to terminate at the almost invisible line
A, whose wave-length is 0.76". On the scale of the actual wave-length
of light, then, where the unit of measurement (1*) is one one-thou-
sandth of a millimeter, the length of the visible spectrum Is 0.36",

The undue importance which this visible region has assumed, not
only in the eyes of the public, but in the work of the spectre scopist, Is
easily intelligible, being due primarily to the evident fact that we all

1 Abstract of a paper read before the National Academy of Sciences at its Wash-

ington meeting April 18, 1901. 683
684 THE NEW SPECTRUM.

possess, as a gift from nature, a wonderful instrument for neue the
sun’s energy in this part, and in this part only.

While, then, this part alone can be seen by all, yet the idea of its
undue importance is also owing to the circumstance that the operation
of the ordinary prism gives an immensely extended linear depiction of
the really small amount of energy in this visible part. There is also
a region beyond the violet, most insignificant in energy and invisible
to the eye, and the association of this linear extension due to the prism,
with the accident that the salts of silver used in photography are extraor-
dinarily sensitive to these short wave-length rays, so that they can
depict them even through the most extreme enfeeblement of the energy
involved in producing them, also makes this part have undue promi-
nence. This action of the prism and of the photograph is local, then,
and peculiar to the short wave-lengths; and owing to it, all but special
students of the subject are, as a rule, under a wholly erroneous impres-
sion of the relative importance of what is visible and what is not.
The spectrum has really no positive dimension, being extended at one
end or the other according to the use of the prism or grating employed
in producing it. Perhaps the only fair measurement for displaying ¢
linear representation of the energy would be that of a special scheme,
which the writer had proposed, in which the energy is everywhere ae
same;' but this presentation is unusual and would not be generally
intelligible without explanation. '

The map before us will be intelligible when it is stated that it is, as to
the infra-red, an exact representation of that part of the spectrum
given by a rock-salt prism. The visible and ultra-violet spectrum
given here is not exact, for the reason that it would take nearly a hun-
dred feet of map to depict it on the prismatic scale, though this is caused
by but a small fraction of the sun’s energy; so monstrous is the exag-
geration due to the dispersion of the prism.

Looking, then, at the map: First, in the spectrum on the left and
beyond 0.4" is the ultra-violet region, in fact almost invisibly small, but
which in most photographs shows almost a hundred times larger than
the whole infra-red. \t really contains much less than one-hundredth
part of the total solar energy which exists. Beyond it is the visible
spectrum, containing perhaps one-fifth the solar energy.

As the writer has elsewhere said, ‘‘the amount of energy in any
region of the spectrum, such as that in any color, or between any two
specified limits, is a definite quantity, fixed by facts, which are inde-
pendent of our choice, such as the nature of the radiant body or the
absorption which the ray has undergone. Beyond this Nature has no
law which must govern us.”

Everything in tke linear presentation, then, depends on the scale
adopted. In other words, if we have the lengths Jagee tionable to the

7 paarican Journal of oe lL, XXvVii, p. 169, 1884.

THE NEW SPECTRUM. 685

energies, the familiar prismatic representation enormously exaggerates
the importance of the visible, and still more of the ultra-violet ee ee ae
similarly the grating spectrum exaggerates that of the infra-red a
Now he had given, on the map before them, and through the whole eee
red, the exact rock salt prismatic spectrum, but for the purpose of
obtaining a length which represented (though insufficiently) that of
the visible spectrum, he had laid the latter down on the a rage Qis-
persion in the infra-red, which was perhaps as fair a plan as could be
taken for showing the approximate relation of the two fields of enerey
in an intelligible way, though it gave the visible energy too small. Me

Let us recall, then, at the risk of iteration, that in spite of the
familiar extended photographic spectra of the hundreds of lines
shown in the ultra-violet, and in those of the colored spectrum, it is
not here that the real creative energy of the sun is to be studied, but
elsewhere, on the right of the drawing, in the infra-red. Looking to
the spectrum as thus delineated, next to the invisibly small and weak
ultra-violet, comes the visible or Newtonian spectrum, which is here
somewhat insufliciently shown, and on the right extends the great
invisible spectrum in which four-fifths of the solar energies are now
known to exist.

Of this immense invisible region nothing was known until the year
1800,’ when Sir William Herschel found heat there with the ther-
mometer.

After that little was done’® (except an ingenious experiment by Sir
John Herschel? to show that the heat was not continuous) till the
first drawing of the energy curve by Lamansky,* in 1871, which,
on account of its great importance in the history of the subject, is
given on the map. It consists of the energy curves of the visible
spectrum, and beyond it, on the right (and in illustration of what has
just been said it will be seen how relatively small these latter appear),
of three depressions indicating lapses of heat in the infra-red. It is
almost impossible to tell what these lapses are meant for, without a

1 Philosophical Transactions, vol. xc, p. 284, 1800.

2Tt should, however, be mentioned that an important paper by Draper (London,
Ed. Dublin Phil. Mag., May, 1843) was published in 1845, in which he appears to
claim the discovery of the group here called por and which is now known to have
a wave-length of less than I+. (Its true wave-length was not determined till much
later.) Later, Fizeau seems to have found further irregularities of this heat als long
ago as 1847, and of its location, obtaining his wave-lengths by means of interference
bands. His instrumental processes, though correct in the . t
practice; and yet it seems pretty clear that he obtained some sort of recognition
of a something indicating heat, as far down as the gre
on our present charts. Mouton (Comptes Rendus, 1 ; /
of Fizeau’s and contrived to get at least an approximate wave-length of the point
where the spectrum (to him) ended, at about 1.8".

3 Philosophical Transactions, vol. cxxx, p- 1, 1840. —

4Monatsberichte der k. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin,

orv, were not exact in

sat region immediately above
879) confirmed this observation

December, 1871.
686 THE NEW SPECTRUM.

scale of some kind (which he does not furnish), but they probably indi-
cate something, going down to near a wave-length of 1". It is obvious
that the detail is of the very crudest, and yet this drawing of Lamansky’s
was remarkable as the first drawing of the energy spectrum. It at-
tracted general attention, and was the immediate cause of the writer’s
taking up his researches in this direction.

It seems proper to state here that the true wave-lengths were at
that time most imperfectly known, but that in 1884, and later in 1885,"
they were completely determined by the writer as far as the end of
what he has called **the new spectrum” at a wave-length of 5.34.

The upper portion of the infra-red is quite accessible to photog-
raphy, and the next important publication in this direction was that
of Captain (now Sir William) Abney,* which gave the photographie
spectrum down to about 1.1", much beyond which photography has
never mapped since.

From the time of seeing Lamansky’s drawing, the writer had grown
interested in this work, but found the thermopile, the instrument of
his predecessors, and the most delicate then known to science, insufli-
cient in the feeble heat of the grating spectrum, and about 1880 he
had invented the bolometer* and was using it in that year for these
researches. This may perhaps seem the place to speak of this instru-
ment, though with the later developments which have made it what it
is to-day, it has grown to something very different from what it was
then.

It has, in fact, since found very general acceptance among physicists,
especially since it has lately reached a degree of accuracy, as well as of
delicacy, which would have appeared impossible to the inventor him-
self in its early days.

It may be considered in several relations, but notably as to three:
(1) Its sensitiveness to small amounts of heat; (2) the accuracy of
measurement of those small amounts; and (3) the accuracy of its meas-
urements of the position of the source of heat.

As to the first, it is well known that the principle of the instrument
depends on the forming of a Wheatstone bridge, by the means of two
strips of platinum or other metal, of narrow width and still more
limited thickness, one of which only is exposed to the radiation. In
some bolometers in use, for instance, the strip is a tenth of a milli-
meter, or one two-hundred-and-fiftieth of an inch in width; and yet it
is to be described as only a kind of tape, since its thickness is less than
a tenth of this.

The use of the instrument is then based on the well-known fact that
the heating of an ordinary metallic conductor increases its resistance,

1 American Journal of Science, March, 1884, and August, 1886.
? Philosophical Transactions, vol. clxxi, p. 653, 1880.
% Actinic balance, American Journal of Science, 3d series, vol. xxi, p. 187, 1881.
= =a

1880 and 1881, and in part of his expedition in the latter ye
Whitney, were given at the Southampton meeting o

)

THE NEW SPECTRUM. 6

7

and this law is found to hold good in quantities so small that they
approach the physically infinitesimal. In the actual bolometers, for
Instance, the two arms of a Wheatstone bridge are formed of two
strips of platinum, side by side, one of which is exposed to the
and the other sheltered. The warming of the exposed one incre
its resistance and causes a deflection of the galyanometer.

It was considered to be remarkable twenty years ago that a change
of temperature of one ten-thousandth of a degree Centigrade could be
registered; it is believed at present that with the consecutive improyve-
ments of the original instrument and others, including those which
Mr. Abbot, of the Smithsonian Institution Observatory, has lately
introduced into its attendant galvanometer, less than one one-hundred-
millionth of a degree in the change of temperature of the strip can
be registered. This indicates the sensitiveness of the instrument to
heat.

As to the second relation, sorme measures have been made on the
steadiest light source obtainable. With ordinary photometric meas-
ures of its intensity one might expect a probable error of about 1 per
cent. The error with the bolometer was insensible by any means that
could be applied to test it. It is at any rate less than two one-
hundredths of 1 per cent. If we imagine an absolutely invisible spec-
trum, in which there nevertheless are interruptions of energy similar
to those which the eye shows us in the visible, then the bolometer,
whose sensitive strip passes over a dark line in the spectrum, visible
or invisible (since what is darkness to the eye is cold to it), gives a
deflection on the side of cold, and in the warmer interval between two
lines a deflection on the side of heat; these deflections being propor-
tionate to the cause, within the degree of accuracy just stated.

The third quality, the accuracy of its measures of position, is better
seen by a comparison and a statement, for if we look back to the indi-
cations of the lower part of Lamansky’s drawing we may see that at
least a considerable fraction of a degree of error must exist there in
such a vague delineation. Now, in contrast with this early record, the
bolometer has been brought to grope in the dark and to thus feel the
presence of narrow Fraunhofer-like lines by their cooler temperature
alone, with an error of the order of that in refined astronomical meas-
urement; that is to say, the probable error, ina mean of Six observa-
tions of the relative position of one of these invisible lines, is less than
one second of arc: a statement which the astronomer, perhaps, who
knows what an illusive thing a second of are is, can best appreciate.

The results of the writer’s labors with the bolometer in the years
ar to Mount

f the British Asso-
During these two

heat

ases

. . . | aH < ey . 19) 1
ciation for the Advancement of Science in 1852.

ee = 1 2 Qe Ul * ee Q8
1 Report British Association, 1882. Nature xxvi, 1882.
688 THE NEW SPECTRUM.

years very many thousand galvanometer readings were taken, by a
most tryingly slow process, to give the twenty or more interruptions
shown at that time, below the limit of 1.1" of Abney’s photographs.
The bolometer has been called an eye which sees in the dark, but at
that time the ‘‘eye” was not fairly open, and having then not been
brought to its present rapidity of use, the early results were attained
only by such unlimited repetition, and almost infinite patience was
needed till what was inaccurate was eliminated.

Several hundreds at least of galvanometer readings were then taken
to establish the place of cach of the above twenty lines during the two
years when they were being hunted for, and this patience so far found
its reward that they have never required any material alteration since,
but only additions such as the writer can now give. The part below
1.1" he then presented (at the Southampton meeting of the British
association) as having been mapped for the first time. Mouton had
two years before obtained crude indications of heat as far as 1.8“, and
Abney had, as stated, obtained relatively complete photographs of
the upper infra-red extending to about this point (1.1%).

The writer had already determined for the first time by the bolometer,
at Allegheny and on Mount Whitney, the wave-lengths of some much
remoter regions, including, in part, the region then first discovered by
him and here called **the new spectrum,” and was able to state that
the terminal ray of the solar spectrum, whose presence had then been
certainly felt by the bolometer, had a wave-length of about 2.84, or
nearly two octaves below the ‘‘ great A” of Fraunhofer.

He stated in this communication of 1882 that the galvanometer then
responded readily to changes of temperature in the bolometer strip, of
much less than one ten-thousandth of a degree Centigrade, (as has just
been said, it now responds to changes of less than one one-hundred-
millionth), and he added: *‘* Since it is one and the same solar energy,
whose manifestations are called ‘light’ or ‘heat’ according to the
medium which interprets them, what is ‘light’ to the eye is ‘heat’ to
the bolometer, and what is seen as a dark line by the eye is felt as a
cold line by the sentient instrument. Accordingly, if lines analogous
to the dark * Fraunhofer’ lines exist in this invisible region, they will
appear (if I may so speak) to the bolometer as cold bands, and this
hair-like strip of platinum is moved along in the invisible part of the
spectrum till the galvanometer indicates the all but infinitesimal
change of temperature caused by its contact with such a ‘cold band.’
The whole work, it will be seen, is necessarily very slow; it 1s, in fact,
a long groping in the dark and it demands extreme patience.”

At that time it may be said to have been shown that these interrup-
tions were due to the existence of something like dark lines or bands,
resembling what are known as the Fraunhofer lines in the upper spec-
trum; but, apart from what the writer had done, no one then surmised
THE NEW SPECTRUM. 689

how far this spectrum extended nor, perhaps, what these explorations
really meant. They may be compared to actual journeys into this
dark continent, if it may be so called, which extended so oe barand
those of previous explorers that the determination of positions by the
writer, corresponding somewhat to longitudes determined by the te
trial explorer In a new country, was, by those who had not been so far
but had conceived an inadequate idea of the extent of the reoion
treated as erroneous and impossible. ag

A necessary limit to the farthest infra-red was in 1880 supposed to exist
near the wave-length 1". Doctor John Draper,' for instance, announced
in other terms that the extreme end of the invisible spectrum Bee:
from theoretical considerations, be probably estimated at Sanit ne
less than the wave-length of 1“, whence it followed that the alioga
value of 1.8" was impossible, and, still more, that of 2.8". If, in this
connection, we revert to our map, where the visible spectrum has an
extent in wave-lengths of 0.36", then, on that same seale, the leneth of
the entire possible spectrum, visible and invisible, was fixed by Draper
at the point there shown near the band por. In still other words,
according to him the very end of any spectrum at all would be less
than 3 on a scale in which the visible spectrum was 1. Doctor Draper’s
authority was deservedly respected, and this citation of his remarks is
made only to show the view then entertained by eminent men of

rres-

science.

Now, the writer had proved by actual measurement that it extended
far beyond this point, and had announced, as the result of experiment,
that it extended at any rate to about three times the utmost length then
assigned from theoretical reasons by Draper, founded on the then uni-
versally accepted formula of Cauchy, which was later discredited by
the direct experimental evidence given of its falsity by the bolometer.

The bolometer, which is wholly independent of light as a sensation
and notes it only as a manifestation of energy, first lavs down the
spectrum by curves of energy from which the linear spectrum is in
turn derived. Two such curves taken at different times are given to
show the agreement. There must now be explained, however briefly,
the way in which these energy curves, which are the basis of all, have
actually been produced here.

In making the map of the energy curves It should be remembered
that when an invisible band or line is suspected, its presence is revealed
by the change of temperature in the bolometer strips affecting the
needle of the galvanometer, causing this needle to swing this way or
that; let us suppose to the left if from cold and the right if from heat.
The writer’s first method was to have one person to note the exposure,
another to note the extent of the deflection, and a third to note the

r 7 - ’ -xrt )oo 7)
1 Proceedings of the American Academy, vol. xvi, p. 233, 1880.
690 THE NEW SPECTRUM.

part of the spectrum in which it occurred. For reasons into which he
does not enter, this old plan was tedious in the extreme and required,
as has been said, hundreds of observations to fix with appropriate
accuracy the position in wave-length of one invisible line. It has
been stated that only about twenty such lines had been mapped out
in nearly two years of assiduous work prior to 1881, and if a thousand
such lines existed, it was apparent that fifty years would be required
to denote them.

The writer then devised a second apparatus to be used in connection
with the bolometer. This apparatus was simple in theory, though it has
taken a dozen years to make it work well in practice, but it is working
at last, and with this the maps in this volume of the ‘t‘Annals” and that
before us have been chiefly made. It is almost entirely automatic, and
as it is now used, a thousand inflections can be delineated in a single
hour, much better than this could have been done in the half cen-
tury of work just referred to.

Briefly, the method is this: A great rock-salt prism (for a glass one
would not transmit these lower rays nor could they easily be detected
in the overlapping spectra of the grating) is obtained of such purity
and accuracy of figure, and so well sheltered from moisture, that its
clearness and its indications compare favorably, even in the visible
spectrum, with those of the most perfect prism of glass, with the
additional advantage that it is permeable to the extreme infra-red rays
in question. This prism rests on a large azimuth circle turned by
clockwork of the extremest precision, which causes the spectrum
to move slowly along, and in one minute of time, for example,
to move exactly one minute of are of its length before the
strip of the bolometer, bringing this successively in contact with
one invisible line and another. Since what is blackness to the
eye is cold to the bolometer, the contact of the black lines chills
the strip and increases the electric current. The bolometer is con-
nected by a cable with the galvanometer, whose consequent swing to
the right or the left is photographically registered on a plate which
the same clockwork causes to move synchronously and uniformly up
or down by exactly one centimeter of space for the corresponding
minute. By this means the energy curve of an invisible region, which
directly is wholly inaccessible to photography, is photographed upon
the plate.

Let it be noted that whatever the relation of the movement of the
spectrum to that of the plate is, (and different ones might be adopted),
it is absolutely synchronous—at least to such a degree that an error in
the position of one of these invisible lines can be determined, as has
been stated, with the order of precision of the astronomical measure-
ment of visible things.

The results were before them in the energy curves and the linear
infra-red spectrum containing over seven hundred invisible lines. This

—sS . a at
ix

THE NEW SPECTRUM. 69]

ye

is more than the number of visible ones in Kirchoft
The position of each line is fixed from a mean of at least six indepen-
dent determinations with the accuracy stated above.

The reader will perhaps gather a clearer idea of this action if he
imagines the map before him hung up at right angles to its actual posi-
tion, so that a rise in the energy curve given would be seen to corre-
spond to a deflection to the right, and a fall, to one to the left: for in
this way the deflections were written down on the moving photo-
graphic plate from which this print has been made. The writer was
now speaking of the refinements of the most recent practice; but there
was something in this retrospect of the instrument’s early use which
brought up a personal reminiscence which he asked the Academy to
indulge him in alluding to.

This was that of one day in 1881, nearly twenty years ago, when
being near the summit of Mount Whitney, in the Sierra Nevadas, at
an altitude of 12,000 feet, he there, with this newly invented instru-
ment, was working in this invisible spectrum. His previous experi-
ence had been that of most scientific men—that very few discoveries
come with a surprise, and that they are usually the summation of the
patient work of years.

In this case, almost the only one in his experience, he had the sensa-
tions of one who makes a discovery. He went down the spectrum,
noting the evidence of invisible heat die out on the scale of the instru-
ment until he came to the apparent end even of the invisible, beyond
which the most prolonged researches of investigators up to that time
had shown nothing. There he watched the indications grow
fainter and fainter until they too ceased at the point where the
French investigators believed they had found the very end of the end.
By some happy thought he pushed the indications of this delicate
instrument into the region still beyond. In the still air of this lofty
region the sunbeams passed unimpeded by the mists of the lower
earth, and the curve of heat, which had fallen to nothing, began to
rise again. There was something there. For he found, suddenly and

unexpectedly, a new spectrum of great extent, wholly unknown to
aled by the new instrument, the

& Bunsen’s charts.

science and whose presence was reve
bolometer.

This new spectrum is given on the map, where it will be observed
that while the work of the photograph (much more detailed than that
of the bolometer, where it can be used at all) has been stated to
extend, as far as regular mapping is concerned, to about 1.1*, that
everything beyond this is due to the bolometer, except that ae
French investigators had found evidence ot heat extending ie 1.8".
Still beyond that ultima thule, this region, which he has ventured be
call the ‘‘ New Spectrum,” extends. It will be found between wave-
lengths 1.8" and 5.3" on the map.
692 THE NEW SPECTRUM.

The speaker had been much indebted to others for the perfection to
which the apparatus, and especially the galvanometer, had been brought.
He was under obligations, particularly to Mr. Abbot, for assistance in
many ways, which he had tried to acknowledge in the volume; but
before closing this most inadequate account of it, he would like to
draw attention to one feature which was not represented in the spec-
trum map before them, although it would be found in the book.

During early years the impression had been made upon him that
there were changes in the spectrum at different periods of the year.
Some of these changes might be in the sun itself. The major portion
of those he was immediately speaking of, he believed, were rather
referable to absorptions in the earth’s atmosphere.

Now these early impressions had been confirmed by the work of the
observatory in recent years, and charts given in the volume would
show that, (the sun being always supposed to be at about the same alti-
tude, and its rays to traverse about the same absorbing quantity of
the earth’s atmosphere), the energy spectrum was distinctly different
in spring, in summer, in autumn, and in winter. The lateness of the
hour prevented him from enlarging on this latter profoundly interest-
ing subject. He would only briefly point out the direction of these
changes, which were not perhaps to be called conspicuous, but which
seemed to be very clearly brought out as certainly existing. With
regard to them he would only observe, what all would probably agree
to, that while it has long been known that all life upon the earth, with-
out exception, is maintained by the sun, it is only recently that we
seem to be coming by various paths, and among them by steps such as
these, to look forward to the possibility of a knowledge which has yet
been hidden to us, of the way in which the sun maintains it.. We were
hardly beginning to see yet how this could be done, but we were begin-
ning to see that it might later be known, and to see how the seasons,
which wrote their coming upon the records of the spectrum, might in
the future have their effects upon the crops prevised by means some-
what similar to those previsions made day by day by the Weather
Bureau, but in ways infinitely more far-reaching, and that these might
be made from the direct study of the sun.

Weare yet, it is true, far from able to prophesy as to coming years
of plenty and of famine, but it is hardly too much to say that recent
studies of others as well as of the writer, strongly point in the direction
of some such future power of prediction.
FED CB A
3 076

i ‘ YT T If |

ia in| il
RL hi

IONIAN OR VISIBLE SPECTRUM 4015

THE CENTURY’S GREAT MEN IN SCIENCE.!
By Cuarues S. Perce.

How shall we determine that men are great’ Who, for instance,
shall we say are the great men of science? The men who have made
the great and fruitful discoveries? Such discoveries in the nineteenth
century have mostly been made independently by two or more persons.
Darwin and Wallace simultaneously put forth the hypothesis of natural
selection. Clausius, Rankine, and Sadi-Carnot, perhaps Kelvin,
worked out the mechanical theory of heat. Kroénig, Clausius, Joule,
Herapath, Waterston, and Daniel Bernouilli independently suggested
the kinetical theory of gases. I do not know how many minds besides
Robert Mayer, Colding, Joule, and Helmholtz hit upon the doctrine
of the conservation of energy. Faraday and Joseph Henry brought
magneto-electricity to light. The pack of writers who were on the
warm scent of the periodic law of the chemical elements approached
two hundred when the discovery itself, a most difficult inference, was
partly achieved by Lothar Meyer, wholly by Mendeléef. When great
discoveries were thus in the air, shall that brain necessarily be deemed
great upon which they happened earliest to condense, or the man super-
eminent who, by the unmeaning rule of priority of publication, gets
the credit in brief statements ? No, this method of estimation, natural
as it is to make success the standard of measure, will not do.

Shall we, then, by a logical analysis, draw up an abstract definition
of greatness and call those men great who conform to it‘ If there
were no dispute about the nature of greatness, this might probably
prove the most convenient plan. It would be like a rule of grammar
adduced to decide whether a phrase is good English or not. Nor
would the circumstance that the definition could not be as explicit and
determinate as a rule of grammar constitute a serious difficulty.
Unfortunately, however, among the few writers who have seriously
studied the question, the most extreme differences prevail as to the
nature of great men. Some hold that they are fashioned of the most
ordinary clay, and that only their rearing and environment, conjoined

1Copyright, 1901, by New York Evening Post Company. Reprinted from The
Eyening Post, January 12, 1901, by special permission of G, P. Putnam’s Sons.

693
694 THE CENTURY’S GREAT MEN IN SCIENCE.

with fortunate opportunities, make them what they are. The heaviest
weight, intellectually, among these writers maintains, on the other
hand, that circumstances are as powerless to suppress the great man
as they would be to subject a human being to a nation of dogs. But
it was only the blundering Malvolio who got the notion that some are
born great. The sentence of the astute Maria was: **Some are become
great; some atcheeves greatnesse, and some have greatnesse thrust
uppon em.” Amid this difference of opinion any definition of great-
ness would be like a disputed rule of grammar. Just as a rule of
grammar does not render an expression bad English, but only general-
izes the fact that good writers do not use it, so, in order to establish a
definition of greatness, it would be necessary to begin by ascertaining
what men were and what men were not great, and that having been
done the rule might as well be dispensed with. My opinion will, I
fear, be set down by some intellectual men as foolishness, though it has:
not been lightly formed nor without long years of experimentation—
that the way to judge of whether a man was great or not is to put
aside all analysis, to contemplate attentively his life and works, and
then to look into one’s heart and estimate the impression one finds to
have been made. This is the way in which one would decide whether
a mountain were sublime or not. The great man is the impressive
personality, and the question whether he is great is a question of
impression.

The glory of the nineteenth century has been its science, and its
scientific great men are those whom I mean here to consider. Their
distinctive characteristic throughout the century, and more and more
so in each succeeding generation, has been devotion to the pursuit of
truth for truth’s sake. In this century we have not heard a Franklin
asking, ** What signifies a philosophy which does not apply itself to
some use /””—a remark that could be paralleled by utterances of Laplace,
of Rumford, of Buffon, and of many another well-qualified spokesman
of eighteenth-century science. It was in the early dawn of the nine-
teenth that Gauss (or was it Dirichlet?) gave as the reason of his pas-
sion for the Theory of Numbers that ‘‘it is a pure virgin that never
has been and never can be prostituted to any practical application
whatsoever.” It was my inestimable privilege to have felt as a boy
the warmth of the steadily burning enthusiasm of the scientific genera-
tion of Darwin, most of the leaders of which at home I knew intimately,
and some very well inalmost every country of Europe. I particularize
that generation without having any reason to suspect that that flame
has since burned dimmer or less purely, but simply because if a word
belonged to one’s mother tongue, one may be supposed to know unerr-
ingly the meaning the teachers of one’s boyhood attached to it.

The word science was one often in those men’s mouths, and I am quite
sure they did not mean by it ‘‘systematized knowledge,” as former

T ra a 7 ~ .
THE CENTURY S GREAT MEN IN SCIENCR. 695

ages had defined it, nor anything set down in a book; but, on the con-
trary, a mode of life; not knowledge, but the devoted. well-considered
life pursuit of knowledge; devotion to truth—not ‘* devotion to truth
as one sees it,” for that is no devotion to truth at all, but only to party—
no, far from that, devotion to the truth that the man is not yet able to
see but is striving to obtain. The word was thus. from the etymo-
logical point of view, alr sady a misnomer. And so it remains with
the scientists of to-day. What they meant and still mean by “science”
ought, etymologically, to be called philosophy. But during the nine-
teenth century it was only a metaphysical professor of a now obsoles-
cent type, as I hope, who could sit in his academic chair, puffed up with
his *‘systematized knowledge” —no true philosopher, but a mere philo-
doxer. Fora snap shot at the nineteenth century man of science one
may take Sir Humphrey Davy, willing, as early as 1818, seriously to
investigate the liquefaction of the blood of St. Januarius; or John
Tyndall, with scientific ingenuousness proposing that prayer test to
which no clerical Elijah has yet been found with the faith and good
faith to respond; or William Crookes, devoting years of his maeniti-
cent powers to examining the supposed evidences of the direct action
of mind upon matter in the face of the world’s scorn. Contrast these
instances with the refusal of Laplace and Biot in the closing years of
the previous century to accept the evidence that stones fall from heaven
(evidence proving that they do so daily), simply because their prepos-
sessions were the other way. One of the geologist brothers De Luc
declared that he would not believe such a thing though he saw it with
his own eyes; and a scientifically given English ecclesiastic who hap-
pened to be sojourning in Siena when a shower of aerolites were dashed
in broad daylight into an open square of that town, wrote home that
having seen the stones he had found the testimony of eyewitnesses so
unimpeachable and so trustworthy that—that he accepted the fact, you
will say? by no means—-that he knew not what to think! Such was
the bon sens that guided the eighteenth century—a pretty phrase for
ineradicable prejudice. 7

To this self-effacement before the grandeur of reason and truth is
traceable the greatness of nineteenth-century science, most obviously
in mathematics. In the minds of eighteenth-century mathematicians
their science existed for the sake of its applications. Forgetfulness
of this was in their eyes reprehensible, immoral. The question was,
what would a given piece of mathematics do‘ They liked smooth-
running and elegant machinery—there was economy in that; but they
it should have symmetry; idle admiration of

were not sedulous that
its beauty they hardly approved. If it was excessively complicated
and intricate, that was regarded rather as a feature to be proud of than
as a blemish. - Were the complete revolution that the nineteenth century
wrought upon the ideal of mathematics not notorious, one could soon
696 THE CENTURY’S GREAT MEN IN SCIENCE.

convince himself of it by looking over almost any modern treatise—~
say, Salmon on Higher Plane Curves. That volume, for example,
would be found replete with theorems hardly any of which hold good
for any curves that could really exist. Realizable curves have hardly
been studied at all, for the reason that they do not yield a beautiful
theory, such as is now exacted. Modern mathematics is highly artistic.
A simple theme is chosen, some conception pretty and charming in itself.
Then it is shown that by simply holding this idea up to one’s eye and
looking through it a whole forest that before seemed a thick and
tangled jungle of brushes and briers is seen to be in reality an orderly
garden. The word generalization really can not be fully understood
without studying modern mathematics; norcan the beauty of general-
ization be in any other way so well appreciated. There is here no
need of throwing out ‘*extreme cases.” Far from that, it is precisely
in the extreme cases that the power and beauty of the magic eyeglass
is most apparent and most marvellous. Let me take back the word
**magic,” though, for the reasonableness of it is just its crowning
charm. I must not be led away from my point, to expatiate upon
the reposefulness of the new mathematics, upon how it relieves us of
that tiresome imp, man, and from the most importunate and unsatis-
factory of the race, one’s self. Suffice it to say that it is so reasonable,
so simple, so easy to read, when the right view has once been attained,
that the student may easily forget what arduous labors were expended
in constructing the first convenient pathway to that lofty summit,
that mastery over intricacies, far beyond that of the eighteenth-century
master. ‘‘It must not be supposed,” said C. G. J. Jacobi, one of the
simplifying pioneers, *‘that it is toa gift of nature that I owe such
mathematical power as I possess. No; it has come by hard work,
hard work. Not mere industry, but brain-splitting thinking—hard
work; hard work that has often endangered my health.” Such reflec-
tions enable us to perceive that if modern mathematics is great, so also
were the men who made it great.

The science next in abstractness after mathematics is logic. The con-
tributions of the eighteenth century to this subject were enormous.
In pure logic the doctrine of chances, which has been the logical
guide of the exact sciences and is now illuminating the pathway of the
theory of evolution, and is destined to still higher uses, received at
the hands of Jacob Bernouilli and of Laplace developments of the first
importance. In the theory of cognition Berkeley and Kant laid solid
foundations; their personal greatness is incontestable. This is hardly
true of Hume. In the nineteenth century Boole created a method of
miraculous fruitfulness, which aided in the development of the logic
of relatives, and threw great light on the doctrine of probability, and
thereby upon the theory and rules of inductive reasoning. De Morgan
added an entirely new kind of syllogism, and brought the logic of
THE CENTURY’S GREAT MEN IN SCIENCE, 697

relatives into existence, which revolutionizes general conceptions of
reasoning. The works of Comte, Whewell, J. S. Mill, Jevons, and
others upon the philosophy of inductive science were less successful
or fruitful. In the more inetaphysical part of logic the philosophy of
Hegel, though it can not be accepted on the whole, was the work of a
great man. In metaphysics and general cosmology the attitude of the
century has been expectant. Herbert Spencer has been proclaimed
as a sort of scientific Messiah by a group of followers more ardent than
philosophic, which does not seem to be gathering strength.

At the head of the physical sciences stands nomological physics.
Dr. Thomas Young was here the earliest great man of the century,
whose intellect illuminated every corner to which it was directed,
taking the first difficult steps in the decipherment of the hieroglyphics,
originating the doctrine of color-mixtures, propounding the correct
theory of light, and illuminative everywhere. It gives a realizing
sense of the century’s progress that this great man in its early years
should have opined that experimentation in general had then been
pushed about far enough. On that occasion it was not his usual logic,
but the eighteenth-century watchword ‘‘le bon sens,” that was his
guide, with the sort of result it is continually turning out when used
beyond its proper sphere of every-day practical affairs. The advance
of years, with their experience, has led physicists to expend more and
vastly more effort upon extreme precision, against every protest of
good sense. What has come of it? Marconi’s wireless telegraphy,
for one thing. For it was the precision with which the velocity of
light on the one hand and the ratio of statical and dynamical constants
of electricity on the other had been determined that proved to Max-
well that the vibrating medium of light was the substance of electric-
ity, a theory that his great follower, Hertz, applied to making giant
light waves less affected by obstructions than even those of sound. I
dare say, sapient ‘‘ good sense” pooh-poohs those wonderful new sub-
stances, helium and the rest, that. seem the connecting link between
ordinary matter and the ether. So it would be useless to point out
fhat their discovery was entirely due to Lord Rayleigh’s fastidious-
ness in the determination of the density of nitrogen. But it has to be
noted as a characteristic of the great physicists of the nineteenth cen-
tury that their reverence for every feature of the phenomenon, how-
ever minute, has been in thorough disaccord with the older ** good sense.”
The greatest advances in physics during the century were made by
several men at once. Certain ideas would come somehow to be in the
air: and by the time they had crystalized fora student here and there,
he would hesitate to announce as original conceptions what he had
reason to suppose many men shared, while he knew that the larger
body would not be yet ready to accept them. Under those cireum-

stances priority of publication can signify nothing except haste.

sm 1900——48
698 THE CENTURY’S GREAT MEN IN SCIENCE.

Of all men of the century Faraday had the greatest power of draw-
ing ideas straight out of his experiments and making his physical
apparatus do his thinking, so that experimentation and inference were
not two proceedings, but one. To understand what this means, read
his ‘‘ Researches on Electricity.” His genius was thus higher than
that of Helmholtz, who fitted a phenomenon with an appropriate con-
ception out of his store, as one might fit a bottle with a stopper. The
most wonderful capacity for ‘‘catching on” to the ideas of nature
when these were of a complicated kind was shown by Mendeléef in
making out the periodic law of the chemical elements, as one might
make out the meaning of a pantomime, from data so fragmentary,
and in some cases erroneous, that the interpretation involved the cor-
rection of sundry facts, corrections since confirmed, as well as the
prediction of the very peculiar properties of the unknown gallium,
scandium, and germanium, which were soon afterwards actually met
with. Minute examination of all his utterances convinces one that
Mendeléef’s mental processes in this unparalleled induction were
largely subconscious and, as such, indicate an absorption of the man’s
whole being in his devotion to the reason in facts.

A great naturalist, as well as I can make out, is a man whose
capacious skull allows of his being on the alert to a hundred different
things at once, this same alertness being connected with a power of
seeing the relations between different complicated sets of phenomena
when they are presented in their entirety. The eighteenth century
had its Linnzeus, whose greatness even I can detect as I turn over his
pages; its Huber, discovering through others’ eyes what others could
not discern with their own; its Goethe, its Haller, its Hunter, and
mixed with practical greatness, its Pinel and its Jenner. Then, there
was Lavater, who showed how pure esthetic estimation might be
turned to the discovery of truth—a man depreciated because logicians
and philodoxers can so much more easily detect his weakness than
discern his strength. The nineteenth century, with its great thinker,
Darwin; its Pasteur (great in chemistry as well as in biology, a man
who impressed me personally, and impresses me in his works, as much
as any but two or three of the century); its Lamaroll, Weissmann,
Cuvier, Agassiz, von Baer, Bichat, Johannes Miller, Robert Brown,
and J know not whom besides, has certainly garnered a magnificent
harvest of great men from this field.

Those sciences which study individual objects and seek to explain
them upon physical principles—astronomy, geology, etc., correspond-
ing to history and biography on the psychical side—demand the great-
est assemblage of different powers. Those who pursue them have
first to be mathematicians, physicists, chemists, naturalists, all at once,
and, after that, astronomers or geologists in addition. It is almost
beyond human power. In the eighteenth century A. G. Werner broke

THE CENTURY’S GREAT MEN IN SCIENCE. 699

ae

ground in geology, William Herschel. Kant, and Laplace did great
things in astronomy. In the nineteenth century geology was first
really made a science, and among its great men one recalls at once
Lyell, Agassiz, Kelvin. This country has become its home. In astron-
omy, too, this country has been eminent, especially in the new astronomy
which has afforded the needed scope for greatness, instead of the nar-
tow rut that Bessel and Argelander had left behind them. Thus it
happens that we have a megnificent group of great astronomers living
among us to-day. We stand too close to them to take in their true
proportions. But it is certain that the names of Chandler, Langley,
Newcomb, Pickering, and several others are indelibly inscribed upon
the heavens. In England it is only this year that Sir Norman Lockyer
has brought the extraordinary research to which his life has been
devoted to completion, so far as such work can be said to be capable
of completion. It is an attribute of its greatness that it is endless.

When we compare all the men I have glanced at, with a view to
eliciting a common trait somewhat distinctive of the nineteenth cen-
tury, we can not but see that science has been animated by a new
spirit, till the very word has become a misnomer. It is the man of
science, eager to have his every opinion regenerated, his every idea
rationalized, by drinking at the fountain of fact, and devoting all the
energies of his life to the cult of truth, not as he understands it, but
as he does not yet understand it, that ought properly to be called a
philosopher. To an earlier age knowledge was power, merely that
and nothing more; to us it is life and the summum bonum. Emanci-
pation from the bonds of self, of one’s own prepossessions, Importu-
nately sought at the hands of that rational power before which all
must ultimately bow—this is the characteristic that distinguishes all
the great figures of the nineteenth-century science from those of former
periods.
beautiful original, which is worth

THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY.

By Wittiam Kerrx Brooks,

Professor of Zoology in the Johns Hopkins University.

Science seems to me to teach in the highest and strongest manner the great truth
which is embodied in the Christian conception of entire surrender to the will of God.
Sit down before fact as a little child, be prepared to give up every preconceived
notion, follow humbly wherever and to whatsoever abysses nature leads, or you shall
learn nothing. I have only begun to learn content and peace of mind since I have
resolved, at all risks, to do this.—Life and Letters of Thomas Henry Huxley, I,

. page 235.

No one can study Huxley’s works without discovering that his
whole life was devoted to a definite and clearly perceived purpose, and
he has himself told us what that purpose was.

If I may speak of the objects I have had more or less definitely in view, they are
briefly these: To promote the increase of natural knowledge, and to forward the
application of scientific methods to all the problems of life, to the best of my ability,
in the conviction, which has grown with my growth, and strengthened with my
strength, that there is no alleviation for the sufferings of mankind except veracity of
thought and action, and the resolute facing of the world as it is when the garment
of make-believe with which pious hands have hidden its uglier features has been
stripped off.

He tells us it is with this intent that he has subordinated ambition
for scientific fame to the diffusion among men of that enthusiasm for
truth, that fanaticism of veracity, which is a greater possession than
much learning, a nobier gift than the power of increasing knowledge.

The changes which science has brought about in our conceptions of
nature and our relation to the world around us have never been more
clearly or more eloquently set forth than in the address **On the
advisableness of improving natural knowledge,” to which Huxley has
given the foremost place in his volumes of collected essays. If, in
order to make clear what was the task to which his life was devoted,
I venture to give an abstract of this gem of English literature, I do
this in the hope that new readers may be led to find delight in the
y to be read in schools as an illustra-

tion of the union of scientific knowledge with literary gentus.
701
702 THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY.

This time two hundred years ago, he tells us in 1866, those of our
forefathers who inhabited this great and ancient city took breath
between the shocks of two fearful calamities; one not quite past,
although its fury had abated; the other to come.

Within a very few yards of the spot on which the address was
delivered, so tradition runs, that painful and deadly malady, the
plague, appeared and smote the people of England with a violence
unknown before, stalking through the narrow streets of old London,
and changing their busy hum into a silence broken only by the wailing
of the mourners for 50,000 dead.

About this time, in 1666, the death rate had sunk to nearly its
normal amount, and the people began to toil at the accustomed round
of duty or of pleasure, and the stream of the city life bid fair to flow
back into its old bed, with renewed and uninterrupted vigor.

The newly kindled hope was deceitful. The great plague, indeed,
returned no more; but what it had done for Londoners, the great
fire, which broke out in the autumn of 1666, did for London; and in
September of that year a heap of ashes and the indestructible energy
of the people were all that remained of the glory of five-sixths of the
city within the walls.

Our forefathers had their own way of accounting for each of these
calamities. They submitted to the plague in humility and in penitence,
for they believed it to be the judgment of God. But toward the fire
they were furiously indignant, interpreting it as the effect of the mal-
ice of man—as the work of the Republicans or of the Papists, accord-_
ing as their prepossessions ran in favor of loyalty or of Puritanism.

It would have fared but ill, says Huxley, with one who, standing
where I now stand, should have broached to our ancestors the doc-
trine which I now propound to you—that all their hypotheses were
alike wrong; that the one thing needful was that they should second
the efforts of,an insignificant corporation ‘*for improving natural
knowledge,” the establishment of which might have loomed larger than
the plague and outshone the glare of the fire to him who had the gift
of distinguishing between prominent events and important events.

If the noble first president of the Royal Society could revisit the
upper air he would find himself in the midst of a material civilization
more different from that of his day than that of the seventeenth was
from that of the first century.

And if his native sagacity had not deserted his ghost he would need
no long reflection to discover that all these great ships, these railways,
these telegraphs, these factories, these printing presses, without which
the whole fabric of modern society would collapse into a mass of
stagnant and starving pauperism—that all these pillars of our State
are but the ripples and the bubbles upon the surface of that great
spiritual stream, the springs of which only he and his fellows were
Ae)

eee
sung because they are not directly

THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY. 703

privileged to see, and seeing, to recognize as that which it behooyed
them, above all things, to keep pure and undefiled.

It may not be too great a flight of the imagination to conceive him
not forgetful of the great troubles of his own day. and anxious to
know how often London had been burned down and how often the
plague had carried off its thousands. He would have to learn that nat-
ural knowledge has furnished us with dozens of engines for throwing
water upon fires, and that except for the progress of natural kone
edge we should not be able to make even the tools by which these
machines are constructed. And it would be necessary to add that
although severe fires sometimes occur and inflict great damage, the
loss is very generally compensated by societies the operations of
which have been rendered possible only by the progress of natural
knowledge.

But the plague! His observations would not lead him to think that
we of the nineteenth century are purer of life or more fervent in
religious faith than the generation which could produce a Boyle, an
Evelyn, and a Milton. And it would be our duty to explain once
more, and this time not without shame, that we have no reason to
believe it is the improvement of our faith, nor that of our morals,
which keeps the plague from us; but again, that it is the improve-
ment of our natural knowledge. We, in later times, have learned
somewhat of nature and partly obey her. Because of this partial
improvement of our natural knowledge and of that fractional obedi-
ence we have no plague. Because that knowledge is very imperfect,
and that obedience yet incomplete, typhoid is our companion and
cholera our visitor. But it is not presumptuous to express the belief
that when our knowledge is more complete, and our obedience the
expression of our knowledge, London will count her centuries of free
dom from typhoid and cholera as she now gratefully reckons up her
two hundred years of ignorance of that plague which swooped upon
her thrice in the first half of the seventeenth century.

It is very certain that for every victim slain by the plague hundreds
of mankind exist and find a fair share of happiness in the world by
the aid of the spinning jenny. And the great fire, at its worst, could
not have burned the supply of coal, the daily working of which, in
the bowels of the earth, made possible by the steam pump, gives rise
to an amount of wealth to which the millions lost in old London are
but as an old song. |

But spinning jenny and steam pump are after all but toys, Laem
ing an accidental value, and natural knowledge creates multitudes of

more subtle contrivances, the praise of which does not happen to be
convertible into wealth.
eodmother, ready to

If natural knowledge were only a sort of fairy .
of sharpness, and

furnish her pets with shoes of swiftness, swords
704 THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY.

omnipotent Aladdin’s lamps, so that they may have telegraphs to Saturn,
and see the other side of the moon, and thank God they are better than
their benighted ancestors, 1, for one, says Huxley, should not greatly
care to toil in the service of natural knowledge. I think I would just
as soon be quietly chipping my own flint ax, after the manner of my
forefathers a few thousand years back, says he, as be troubled with
the endless malady of thought which now infests us all for such a
reward. But 1 venture to say that such views are contrary alike to
reason and to fact.

The improvement of natural knowledge, whatever direction it has
taken, and however low the aims of those who have commenced it, has
not only conferred practical benefits on men, but in so doing has
effected a revolution in their conceptions of the universe and of them-
selves, and has profoundly modified their modes of thinking and their
views of right and wrong. Natural knowledge, seeking to satisfy
natural wants, has found the ideas which can alone still spiritual cray-
ings—in desiring to ascertain the laws of comfort has been driven to
discover those of conduct and to lay the foundations of a new morality.

He who is endowed with the spirit of modern science absolutely
refuses to acknowledge authority as such. For him, scepticism is the
highest of duties; blind faith, the one unpardonable sin. And it can
not be otherwise, for every great advance in natural knowledge has
involved the absolute rejection of authority, the cherishing of the
keenest scepticism, the annihilation of the spirit of blind faith, and
the most ardent votary of science holds his firmest convictions not
because the men he most venerates hold them, not because their verity
is testified by portents and wonders, but because his experience teaches
him that whenever he chooses to test these convictions by appealing to
experiment and observation he may expect them to be confirmed. The
man of science has learned to believe in justification not by faith, but
by verification.

If these ideas are destined to be more and more firmly established
as the world grows older, if the scientific spirit be fated to extend
itself into all departments of human thought and to become coexten-
sive with the range of human knowledge, if as our race approaches
maturity it discovers that there is but one kind of knowledge and but
one method of acquiring it, then we, who are still children, may justly
feel it our highest duty to recognize the advisableness of improving
natural knowledge, and so to aid ourselves and our successors in our
course toward the noble goal which lies before mankind.

It is because of this conviction that Huxley assures us truth is bet-
ter than much profit; because of it that he turned aside from his sci-
entific researches in order to do his part in keeping pure and undefiled
the springs of natural knowledge.

No one—Huxley least of all—would dream of attributing the ‘* New
Reformation ” toany one man, and he speaks of himself asa “‘ full private
THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY. 705

who has seen a good deal of service in the ranks” of the army raneed
round the banner of science; but the object to which his life —
devoted—the diffusion among men of the scientific spirit of ‘‘organ-
ized common sense”—has made notable progress during his lifetime,
and in this assurance he tells us at its end that he ‘‘shall be content
to be remembered, or even not remembered,” as one among the many
who brought it about.

The opening paragraph of his book on ‘‘ Hume” may be taken as
a statement of the motive of all Huxley’s works. ‘‘Kant has said
that the business of philosophy is to answer three questions: What
can I know? What ought I to do? and For what may I hope? But
it is pretty plain that these three resolve themselves in the long run
into the first; for rational expectation and moral action are alike
based upon belief, and a belief is void of justification unless its sub-
ject-matter lies- within the boundaries of positive knowledge, and
unless its evidence satisfies the conditions of credibility. Fundamen-
tally, then, philsophy is the answer to the question What can I
know /”

Huxley is not drawn into this province by the fierce joy of contro-
versy, nor by any desire to join those who flit forever over dusky
meadows green with asphodel in vain search for some reality which is
not within the easy reach of all of us. His motive is the most prac-
tical and serious one we know—‘‘to learn what is true in order to do
what is right.” This, he tells us, ‘tis the summing up of the whole
duty of man, forall who are not able to satisfy their mental hunger
with the east wind of authority.”

The conclusion of the whole matter is that there is but one kind of
knowledge, and only one way to acquire it. This is the melody which
runs through all his works; now loud and clear, now hidden by the
minor interest of a scientific topic, or by the heat of controversy, or
by the charm of eloquence and literary genius; but always present,
and easy, for one who listens, to detect.

It is because scientific education helps us to acquire the method of
using our reason rightly in the search for truth that he gave so much
of his time and strength to the problems of education. It is because
the improvement of natural knowledge is conclusive proof of the
value of this method that he devoted his life to the popularization of
science. It is because his right to use this method—the right which is
also the first and highest of duties—was disputed, that he entered the
stormy waters of controversy. Site ee ae

After the publication of the Origin of Species, Huxley became ie
most alert and fearless and skiliful of its advocates—interested in ca
as a great contribution to zoology, and interested i ; pie ; re ae
to me, as a great contribution to our views of natural Knowledge

our way to acquire it.
706 THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY.

The a priori philosophers tell us we may arrive at truth by deducing
it from propositions which are incapable of proof, because they are
self-evident to the normal man; and they talk about the normal man
as if he were a prominent citizen, the personal acquaintance of all who
have any claim to be considered men of intellect, and a familiar face
even to the common herd.

The publication of the Origin of Species has made it clear to the
man of science that he knows no such person; that all men are indi-
vidual men, and the normal man a fictitious character, a statistical
average, anda mere abstraction, which does not exist in nature outside
the minds of the a priori philosophers.

Nothing can be deduced from self-evident propositions by one to
whom they are not self-evident, and as natural selection has come to
be better understood it has made it less and less possible for the man
who puts his faith in scientific methods of discovering truth, and is
accustomed to have that faith justified by daily experience, to be con-
sciously false to his principles in any matter.

To what nobler end could life be devoted than the attempt to show
us how we may ‘‘learn to distinguish truth from falsehood, in order
that we may be sure about our actions, and walk surefootedly in this
life?” No memorial to Huxley could be more appropriate than the
speedy establishment of that **intellectual liberty which is not intel-
lectual license” on a basis so firm that the struggle to obtain it shall
become a forgotten antiquity. If, as the end of his lifelong labor,
intellectual freedom is established on a basis so firm that we are no
longer willing to accept either authority or deduction from so-called
self-evident truths as a substitute for discovery and verification, this
is his best monument, even if the man should quickly be forgotten in
the accomplishment of his ends, and even if he was sometimes unsuc-
cessful in his attempts to walk by verification.

In 1868 he tells us that it is necessary to be possessed of only two
beliefs in order that we may successfully perform our plain duty and
make the little corner we can influence a little less ignorant and a little
less miserable than we found it. The first of these beliefs, he tells us,
is that the order of nature is discoverable by our faculties to an extent
which is practically unlimited; the second, that our volition counts
for something as a condition of the course of events. Each of these
beliefs may be verified, he assures us, as often as we like to try; and
common folks, no doubt, agree with him.

The progress of science, especially the progress of biological science,
during the next twenty-five years, convinced Huxley, as it has con-
vinced all thoughtful men, that we ourselves may prove to be part and
parcel of that order of nature which, in unbroken continuity, composes
the sum of all that is, and has been, and shall be, and this seems to him
to show that our volition has 10 more to do with our conduct than
Sa

THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY. 707

the whistle of the locomotive engine has to do with the movement of
the train; because he believes that proof that we never do anything
which exhaustive knowledge of our bodily machinery might not lead Bhs
to expect would show that our conduct is “predestined and inevitable
and necessary. So, he asks us, in 1892, to change his words, and in
Place of the familiar conviction, which may be verified as often as we
like to try, that our volition counts, read that it is not volition but
the physical state of which volition is the expression which counts for
something as a condition of the course of events—counting, I take it,
as a rock may be expected to count as a condition of the course of the
stream.

I fail to see why anyone should object to this amendment, considering
it in itself, even if one see reason to ask whether it can be accepted as
a substitute for the original statement. The assertion that the phys-
ical state of which volition is the sign does count as a condition of the
course of events might no doubt be verified experimentally as often as
one has the opportunity, for it may be that it is included in the decla-
ration that the order of nature is discoverable by our faculties. What
I do fail to discover is any antagonism between it and the original
statement that our volition counts; and Huxley is unable to abide
firmly and consistently by the declaration that it does not count. In
1894, only a short time before his death, he tells us that, if our convie-
tion that there lies within us a fund of energy operating intelligently,
and so far akin to that which pervades the universe that it is compe-
tent to influence and modify the cosmic process, is logically absurd,
because our conduct is part and parcel of the cosmic process, he is
sorry for logic, because the facts are so.

Huxley reminds us, and does well to remind us, that logical conse-
quences are the beacon of wise men and the bugbear of fools, and while
deductive philosophy may be expected to land its disciples in contra-
dictions which no mere human wisdom can reconcile, it is a hard thing
for one who tries to walk by verification to rest willingly in incon-
sistency.

Our well-founded conviction that there is no interference with

nature, no interruption in the cosmic process, 1s a conviction that
predetermined or

nature is orderly, but not that it is inevitable or
necessary, for order is a matter of fact and not an agent or a cause of
ab Le 5)
things.
Huxley dec
courses of evolution, but he

lares that all things are working out their * predestined”
also reminds us that evolution is not an
explanation of the cosmic process, but merely a generalized statement
of the methods and results of that process. Is it not cl var that no
statement can predestine anything, and that no amount of piece
of a process and no amount of discovery as to what 1s going on can Ut

us who or what is carrying it on, or whether the activity of which the
708 THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY.

cosmic process is the expression is predestined or spontaneous? Proe-
esses, evolutionary or otherwise, are matters of fact. There is nothing
of power or agency included in the notion of a process.

‘The tenacity of the wonderful fallacy that the laws of nature are
agents, instead of being,as they really are, a mere record of experi-
ence, upon which we base our interpretation of that which does
happen and our anticipation of what we expect to happen, is a
remarkable psychological fact,” says Huxley. ‘* If it should be worth
anybody’s while to hunt for examples of such misuse of language on
my own part,” says he, ‘* I am not at all sure he might not succeed. If
Iam guilty I do penance beforehand, and I only hope I may deter
others from committing the like fault.”

Huxley believes that proof that our conduct, or anything else, is
part and parcel of the cosmic process, and neither more nor less than
one might have expected if he had known allabout primitive nebulosity,
would show that our volition is only *‘so called,” and that it is the empty
and meaningless accompaniment of our bodily activity.

If it is misuse of language which leads him to this conclusion—if it
does not follow from the premises—it is surely worth while to point
this out, not in any spirit of criticism, but solely that others may be
deterred from committing the like fault.

‘*The necessity of any action, either of matter or of mind,” says
Hume, ‘*is not, properly speaking, a quality of the agent, but in any
thinking and intelligent being who may consider the action.” Hume
regards this obvious truth as evidence that our feeling of freedom in
willing and doing is nothing more than a singular effect of custom; but
may it not rather be the notion of necessity which is a singular effect
of custom? If necessity is not a quality of the agent, but of the spec-
tator, may it not be that the quality of freedom in willing and doing—
if there be such freedom—is not, properly speaking, in any spectator
who may consider the action, but in the free and intelligent agent?

‘*T take it for demonstrable,” says Huxley, ‘* that it is utterly impos-
sible to prove that anything whatever may not be the effect of a material
and necessary cause, and that human logic is equally incompetent to
prove that any act is really spontaneous.” But we must not forget that
he is sorry for logic if there is any antagonism between this opinion
and belief in our ability ** to influence and modify the cosmic process.”
If the opinion is well warranted, as it seems to me to be, may it not be
valid only because logic never does tell us any matter of fact? May it
not be because it is utterly impossible to prove by logic that anything
whatever is the effect of a necessary cause. that it is also impossible
thus to prove that any event is not the effect of that sort of cause? If
human logic is utterly incompetent to prove that all acts, or any acts,
are or are not really spontaneous, may it not be that some acts are
eS

MA Be al , i.
HE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY. 709

really so in the most literal meaning of the word? And if any of my
acts are really spontaneous, is not my responsibility for them complete /

If, for all we know, or can expect to know, our moral responsibility
may be complete, is not this all one for all practical and intellectuil
and_moral ends, as if it were known to be complete? If wise a

prudent, must not he who does not know whether his liability is

limited or unlimited act as if it were unlimited? Is it not practically
unlimited if he knows no limit, and may it not be actually so?

May not the eloquent words in which Huxley teaches the advisable-
ness of improving natural knowledge be more true to nature than the
ecclesiastical dogma that there is only vanity and vexation of spirit in
our attempts to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning the
things that are done under the sun; because our conduct, being part
and parcel of the cosmic process, can be nothing more than the empty
and meaningless accompaniment of the predestined activity of our
bodily machinery 4

Like all strong men of intellect, oppressed by the burden of that
endless malady of thought which infests us, Huxley devoted the best
of his powers to a search for the meaning of that natural world which
we find so full of delight and entertainment and instruction, and also

so full of pain and sorrow and evil. The problem of ethics was never
far from his thoughts, and it is, no doubt, with this in mind that he

warns us it is better to think wrongly than to think confusedly, because
he who is obscure can come to no stable conclusion, while he who is
wrong may, if his mind be clear, some day run against a fact which
may set him right.

No one who is perplexed by the awful majesty of nature, and by the
mystery of our own relation to the world around. us, can fail to find
profit in Huxley’s reflections, for they are always fearless and honest
and clear, even if they may be hard to reconcile with one another.

When, in his early manhood, death first invades his home and takes
his first-born little son, he tells us, ina letter toa sympathetic friend:
‘<The more I know intimately of the lives of other men (to say noth-
obvious to me is it that the wicked does not
flourish nor is the righteous punished. But for this to be clear we
must bear in mind what almost all forget, that the rewards of life are
contingent upon obedience to the whole law—physical as well as
moral—and that moral obedience will not atone for physical sin, or
vice versa.” eg

In his latest public utterance in his old age, he tells us: ‘If there is
a generalization from the facts of human life which has the assent of
all thoughtful men in every age and country, if 1s that the violator of
ethical rules constantly escapes the punishment which he deserves;

that the wicked flourishes like a green bay tree; that the sins of the

ing of my own) the more
710 THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY.

fathers are visited upon the children; that in the realm of nature igno-
rance is punished just as severely as willful wrong; that thousands
upon thousands of innocent beings suffer for the crime or the uninten-
tional trespass of one.”

These two efforts to find meaning in the ‘‘sum of the customs of
matter” can not both be entirely right, although both may be par-
tially right. We must also remember that one may find serious flaws
in an attempt to answer the riddle of existence, even if he have no
answer of his own. Of Huxley’s two utterances upon the ethical
problem, the latest seems to me to present, to the inquirer who
approaches the problem from the standpoint of modern biological sei-
ence, certain grave difficulties from which the first is free.

If, reflecting upon some partial view of our experience, we regard
it as a whole, forgetting that it is a part and not the whole, the results
of our reflections may seem to be the obvious conclusion of sound
reasoning, when they are no better than illustrations of the threadbare
fallacy of the undistributed middle. Our minds are so constituted
that a path which our thoughts have once followed becomes easier
with each new venture, while it grows harder at the same time for us
to consider what lies outside the borders of this path. No rational
being, whose mind is such as we find ours to be, can treat a part as a
complete and independent subject for reflection without danger of
forgetting that it is not the whole but only a part.

6

‘‘When the ancient sage looked the world, and especially human
life, in the face,” says Huxley, **he found it as hard as we do to bring
the course of evolution into harmony with even the elementary
requirements of the ethical ideal of the just and the good.”

Can we seek for meaning in any natural world except the one we
know, and are not the things we know our own knowledge? May
not the ancient sage, in his efforts to contemplate as a spectator an
experience which would not be at all if it were not his experience,
have forgotten that it is only through his own eyes that he can
look the world in the face? If I am to find any ethical lesson in
nature, must I not ask whether the universe of which I am a part
teaches me any moral lesson? Can I, with meaning in my words, ask
whether it would teach a moral lesson to an unconcerned spectator 4

‘*Brought before the tribunal of ethics, the cosmos might well seem
to stand condemned,” says Huxley. ‘*The conscience of man revolted
against the moral indifference of nature, and the microcosmic atom
should have found the macrocosm guilty. But few have ventured to
record that verdict.” Is not failure to record a verdict according to
the evidence to be regarded as doubt whether all the pertinent evi-
dence has been presented? May not the reservation of its verdict by
the microcosm be the expression of an unformulated conviction that
THE LESSON OF THE LIFE OF HUXLEY. 711

the macrocosm would not be what it is if the microcosmic - rer
not questioning it—a conviction oo ee spt a

é : vetween the atom
which considers Its verdict and the natural world which awaits sen
tence Is not a distinction which we find in nature. but one ‘ies =
make by abstraction and generalization, considering a part as if it were
the whole, and then forgetting that it is only a part and not the
whole?

Is the attempt to find out whether nature teaches a moral lesson
anything more or less than the question whether I am ar sasonable
and responsible being, able to act wisely or foolishly, and to do right
and wrong? ; :

Huxley tells us the perplexities of ethics spring from the conflict
between man as a product of the cosmic process and man as a member
of organized society. He says that while the self-assertive ape and
tiger promptings of the natural man, which the ethical man brands by
the name of sins, are the products of the survival of the fittest, life as
a member of an artificially organized polity demands self-restraint
instead of self-assertion, and is, in so far, antagonistic to natural
selection.

One may well hesitate to assert that the greatest of all the advocates
of Darwin’s work has, in any degree, failed to understand it. Yet a
moment’s thought seems to be all that is needed to discover that the
success which survives the struggle for existence is success in rearing
progeny, and not the welfare of the individual. It is because all my
ancestors in my long natural history did, on the whole, act in such a
way as to promote my interest rather than their own, whenever there
was any incompatibility between the two, that I am in existence. He
who perceives that the ferocity of the tiger and the salacity of the ape
are as altruistic in origin as the industry of the bee and the mother’s
love for her child, can no longer wonder if something in his own
nature impels him to acts which are not to his personal liking or
advantage; for the ethical nature of civilized man is nothing more
than one might have expected from his natural history. It is no more
antagonistic to the cosmic process than the fall of a stone. .

It is not as an independent whole, but as part of the universe, that
the stone illustrates the law of gravitation. If one were to consider
it a complete and unconditioned being, and then hunt within it for a
gravitative principle, would he be any more absurd than the ancient
sage who forgets that it is through his own eyes that he attempts to
look nature in the face and find out its meaning ‘

May not man’s place in nature teach to the humble-minded eric
ist something about ethics that was hidden from the ancient sage‘
REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY:.!

By Joun Fiske.

The recent publication of an admirable memoir of Huxley, by his
son Leonard,” has awakened in me old memories of some of the pl “as -
antest scenes I have ever known. The book is written in a spirit of
charming frankness, and is thickly crowded with details not one of
which could well be spared. A notable feature is the copiousness of
the extracts from familiar letters, in which everything is faithfully
reproduced, even to the genial nonsense that abounds, or the big, big
D that sometimes, though rarely, adds its pungent flavor. Huxley
was above all things a man absolutely simple and natural; he never
posed, was never starched, or prim, or on his good behavior; and he
was nothing if not playful. A biography that brings him before us,
robust and lifelike on every page, as this book does, is surely a model
biography. A brief article, like the present, can not even attempt to
do justice to it, but Iam moved to jot down some of the reminiscences
and reflections which it has awakened.

My first introduction to the fact of Huxley’s existence was in Feb-
ruary, 1861, when I was a sophomore at Harvard. The second serial
number of Herbert Spencer’s First Principles, which had just arrived
from London, and on which I was feasting my soul, contained an
interesting reference to Huxley’s views concerning a *pre-geologic
past of unknown duration.” In the next serial number a footnote
informed the reader that the phrase ‘‘persistence of force,” since
become so famous, was suggested by Huxley, as avoiding an objection
which Spencer had raised to the current expression “conservation of
force.” Further references to Huxley, as also to Tyndall, in the course
of the book, left me with a vague conception of the three friends as,
after a certain fashion, partners in the business of scientific research

and generalization.

1Copyright, 1901, by Houghton, Mifflin & Co. Reprinted from the Atlantic
Monthly for February, 1901, by special permission of the author and his publishers,
Houghton, Mifflin & Co. ;
2 Life and letters of Thomas Henry Huxley, by his son,
volumes. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 1900. es
sm 1900——49

Leonard Huxley. Intwo
714 REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

Some such vague conception was developed in the mind of the gen-
eral public into divers droll misconceptions. Evenas Spencer’s famous
phrase, ‘‘survival of the fittest,’ which he suggested as preferable to
‘*natural selection,” is by many people ascribed to Darwin, so we used
to hear wrathful allusions to Huxley’s Belfast Address, and similar
absurdities. The climax was reached in 1876, when Huxley and his
wife made a short visit to the United States. Early in that year
Tyndall had married a daughter of Lord Claud Hamilton, brother of
the Duke of Abercorn, and one fine morning in August we were
gravely informed by the newspapers that ‘‘ Huxley and his titled
bride ” had just arrived in New York. For our visitors, who had left
at home in London seven goodly children, some of them approaching
maturity, this item of news was a source of much merriment.

To return to my story: It was not long before my notion of Huxley
came to be that of a very sharply defined and powerful individuality;
for such he appeared in his lectures on the Origin of Species and in his
Evidence as to Man’s Place in Nature, both published in 1863. Not
long afterwards, in reading the lay sermon on The Advisableness of
Improving Natural Knowledge, I felt that here was a poetic soul
whom one could not help loving. In those days I fell in with Youmans,
who had come back from England bubbling and brimming over with
racy anecdotes about the philosophers and men of science. Of course
the Soapy Sam incident was not forgotten, and Youmans’s version of
it, which was purely from hearsay, could make no pretension to verbal
accuracy; nevertheless, it may be worth citing. Mr. Leonard Huxley
has carefully compared several versions from eye and ear witnesses,
together with his father’s own comments, and I do not know where one
could find a more striking illustration of the difficulty of attaining
absolute accuracy in writing even contemporary history.

As I heard the antedote from Youmans: It was at the meeting of the
British Association at Oxford in 1860, soon after the publication of
Darwin’s epoch-making book, and while people in general were wag-
ging their heads at it, that the subject came up for discussion beforea
fashionable and hostile audience. Samuel Wilberforce, the plausible
and self-complacent Bishop of Oxford, commonly known as ‘* Soapy
Sam,” launched out in a rash speech, conspicuous for its ignorant mis-
statements, and highly seasoned with appeals to the prejudices of the
audience, upon whose lack of intelligence the speaker relied. Near
him sat Huxley, already eminent as aman of science, and known to look
favorably upon Darwinism, but more or less youthful withal, only five
and thirty, so that the bishop anticipated sport in badgering him. At
the close of his speech he suddenly turned upon Huxley and begged
to be informed if the learned gentleman was really willing to be
regarded as the descendant of a monkey. Eager self-confidence had
1 Ae

REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY. 715

blinded the bishop to the tactical blunder in thus coarsely invitine a
retort. Huxley was instantly upon his feet with a speech demolishine
the bishop’s card house of mistakes: and at the close he observed that
since a question of personal preferences had been very improperly
brought into the discussion of a scientific theory he felt free to con-
fess that if the alternatives were descent, on the one hand from a
respectable monkey, or on the other from a bishop of the Enelish
Church who could stoop to such misrepresentations and sophisms as
the audience had lately listened to, he should declare in favor of the
monkey.

Now this was surely not what Huxley said, nor how he said it. His
own account is that, at Soapy Sam’s insolent taunt, he simply whis-
pered to his neighbor, Sir Benjamin Brodie, *‘ The Lord hath delivered
him into my hands,” a remark which that excellent old gentleman
received with a stolid stare. Huxley sat quiet until the chairman
called him up. His concluding retort seems to have been most eare-
fully reported by John Richard Green, then a student at Oxford, in a
letter to his friend, Boyd Dawkins: ‘*I asserted—and I repeat—that a
man has no reason to be ashamed of having an ape for his grandfather.
If there were an ancestor whom I should feel shame in recalling, it would
rather be a man—a man of restless and versatile intellect—who, not
content with an equivocal success in his own sphere of activity,
plunges into scientific questions with which he has no real acquaint-
ance, only to obscure them by an aimless rhetoric, and distract the
attention of his hearers from the real point at issue by eloquent
digressions and skilled appeals to religious prejudice.” This can
hardly be accurate; no electric effect could have been wrought by so
long-winded asentiment. I agree with a writer in Macmillan’s Maga-
zine that this version is ‘‘ much too Green,” but it doubtless gives the
purport of what Huxley probably said in half as many but far more
picturesque and fitting words. I have a feeling that the electric effect
is best preserved in the Youmans version, in spite of its manifest ver-
bal inaccuracy. It is curious to read that in the ensuing buzz ol
excitement a lady fainted and had to be carried from the room; hut
the audience were in general quite alive to the bishop's blunder in
manners and tactics, and, with the genuine English love of fair play,
they loudly applauded Huxley. From that time forth it was recog:
nized that he was not the sort of man to be browbeaten. As for
Bishop Wilberforce, he carried with him from the affray Me eng
ness, but was always afterwards most courteous to his castigator.

When Huxley had his scrimmage with Congreve, in 1869, over the
scientific aspects of positivism, I was giving lectures to post-graduate
classes at Harvard on the positive philosophy.
for Comte or his ideas, but entertained an absurd
thet ‘‘ positive” was a proper and convenient one to app

I never had any liking
notion that the epi-
ly to scientific
716 REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

methods and scientific philosophy in general. In the course of the dis-
cussion I attacked sundry statements of Huxley with quite unneces-
sary warmth, for such is the superfluous belligerency of youth. The
World reported my lectures in full, insomuch that each one filled six
or seven columns, and the editor, Manton Marble, sent copies regularly
to Huxley and others. Four years afterwards I went to London to
spend some time there in finishing Cosmic Philosophy and getting it
through the press. I had corresponded with Spencer for several years,
and soon after my arrival he gave one of his exquisite little dinners at
his own lodgings. Spencer’s omniscience extended to the kitchen, and
as composer of a menu neither Caréme nor Francatelli could have
surpassed him. The other guests were Huxley, Tyndall, Lewes, and
Hughlings Jackson. Huxley took but little notice of me, and I fan-
cied that something in those lectures must have offended him. But
two or three weeks later Spencer took me to the dinner of the « Club,
all the members of which were present except Lubbock. When the
coffee was served Huxley brought his chair around to my side and
talked with me the rest of the evening. My impression was that he
was the cosiest man I had ever met. He ended by inviting me to his
house for the next Sunday at 6, for what he called ** tall tea.”

This was the introduction to a series of experiences so delightful
that, if one could only repeat them, the living over again all the bad
quarters of an hour in one’s lifetime would not be too high a price to
pay. Lwas already at home in several London households, but nowhere
was anything so sweet as the cordial welcome in that cosy drawing-
room on Marlborough Place, where the great naturalist became sim-
ply ** Pater” (pronounced Patter), to be pulled about and tousled and
kissed by those lovely children. Nor could anything so warm the
heart of an exile (if so melancholy a term can properly be applied to
anybody sojourning in beloved London) as to have the little 7-year-old
miss climb into one’s lap and ask for fairy tales, whereof I luckily had
an ample repertoire. Nothing could be found more truly hospitable
than the long dinner table, where our beaming host used to explain,
** Because this is called a tea is no reason why a man shouldn’t pledge
his friend in a stoup of Rhenish, or even in a noggin of Glenlivet, if
he has a mind to.” At the end of our first evening I was told that a
plate would be set for me every Sunday, and I must never fail to come.
After two or three Sundays, however, I began to feel afraid of pre-
suming too much upon the cordiality of these new friends, and so, by
a superhuman effort of self-control, and at the cost of unspeakable
wretchedness, I stayed away. For this truancy I was promptly called
to account, a shamefast confession was extorted, and penalties, vague
but dire, were denounced in case of a second offense; so I never missed
another Sunday evening till the time came for leaving London.
REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY. 717

Part of the evening used to be spent in the little overcrowded library

before a blazing fire, while we discussed all manner of themes—scien-
ae A alenrer eaeeRn ce rte ao
tific or poetical, practical or philosophical, religious or wsthetic. Hux-

ley, like a true epicure, smoked the sweet little briarwood pipe, but
he seemed to take especial satisfaction in seeing me smoke very laree
full-flavored Havanas from a box which some Yankee admirer had ane
him. Whatever subject came uppermost in our talk, I was always
impressed with the fullness and accu ‘acy of his information and the
keenness of his judgments; but that is, of course, what any apprecia-
tive reader can gather from his writings. Unlike Spencer, he was an
omniverous reader. Of historical and literary knowledge, such as one
usually gets from books, Spencer had a great deal, and of an accurate
and well-digested sort. He had some incomprehensible way of absorb-
ing it through the pores of his skin—at least, he never seemed to read
books. Huxley, on the other hand, seemed to read everything worth
reading —history, politics, metaphysics, poetry, novels, even books of
science; for perhaps it may not be superfluous to point out to the gen-
eral world of readers that no great man of science owes his scientific
knowledge to books. Huxley’s colossal knowledge of the animal king-
dom was not based upon the study of Cuvier, Baer, and other prede-
cessors, but upon direct personal examination of thousands of organ-
isms, living and extinct. He cherished a wholesome contempt for
mere bookishness in matters of science, and carried on war to the
knife against the stupid methods of education in yogue forty years
ago, when students were expected to learn something of chemistry or
paleontology by reading about black oxide of manganese or the den-
tition of anoplotherium. A rash clergyman once, without further
equipment in natural history than some desultory reading, attacked
the Darwinian theory in some sundry magazine articles, in which he
made himself uncommonly merry at Huxley’s expense. This was
intended to draw the great man’s fire; and as the batteries remained
silent the author proceeded to write to Huxley, calling his attention
to the articles, and at the same time, with mock modesty, asking
advice as to the further study of these deep questions. Huxley’s
answer was brief and to the point: ‘‘Take a cockroach and dissect it!”

Too exclusive devotion, however, to scalpel and microscope may
leave a man of science narrow and one-sided, dead to some of the most
But Huxley was keenly alive in all
- all branches of knowl-
He found rest and ree-
work at

interesting aspects of human life.
directions, and would have enjoyed mastering
edge if the days had only been long enough. found res
reation in change of themes, and after a long day’s scientific
South Kensington would read Sybel’s French Revolution, or
History of Materialism, or the last new novel, until the witching hour

This reading was in various languages. Without a

:
‘ , 2
Lange’s

of midnight.
718 REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

university education, Huxley had a remarkably good knowledge of
Latin. He was fond of Spinoza, and every once in a while; in the
course of our chats, he would exclaim, ** Come, now, let’s see what old
Benedict has to say aboutit! There’s no better man.” Then he would
take the book from its shelf, and while we both looked on the page he
would give voice to his own comments in a broad liberal paraphrase
that showed his sound and scholar-like appreciation of every point in
the Latin text. A spirited and racy version it would have been had
he ever undertaken to translate Spinoza. So I remember saying once,
but he replied: **‘ We must leave it for young Fred Pollock, whom I
think you have seen; he is shy and doesn’t say much, but I can tell
you, whatever he does is sure to be amazingly good.” They who are
familiar with Sir Frederick Pollock’s noble book on Spinoza, to say
nothing of his other works, will recognize the truth of the prophecy.

Huxley had also a mastery of French, Italian, and German, and
perhaps of some other modern languages. Angelo Heilprin says that
he found him studying Russian, chiefly in order to acquire a thorough
familiarity with the work of the great anatomist, Kovalevsky. How
far he may have carried that study I know not; but his son tells us
that it was also in middle life that he began Greek, in order to read at
first hand Aristotle and the New Testament. To read Aristotle with
critical discernment requires an extremely good knowledge of Greek;
and if Huxley got so far as that, we need not be surprised at hearing
that he could enjoy the Homeric poems in the original.

I suppose there were few topics in the heavens or on earth that did
not get overhauled at that little library fireside. At one time it would
be politics, and my friend would thank God that, whatever mistakes
he might have made in life, he had never bowed the knee to either of
those intolerable humbugs, Louis Napoleon or Benjamin Disraeli.
Without admitting that the shifty Jew deserved to be placed on quite
so low a plane as Hortense Beauharnais’s feeble son, we can easily see
how distasteful he would be to a man of Huxley’s earnest and whole-
souled directness. But antipathy to Disraeli did not in this case mean
fondness for Gladstone. In later years, when Huxley was having his
great controversy with Gladstone, we find him writing: ‘* Seriously, it
is tome a grave thing that the destinies of this country should at
present be seriously influenced by a man who, whatever he may be in
the affairs of which I am no judge, is nothing but a copious shuffler in
those which I do understand.” In 1873 there occurred a brief passage
at arms between Gladstone and Herbert Spencer, in which the great
statesman’s intellect looked amusingly small and commonplace in con-
trast with the giant mind of the philosopher. The defeated party was
left with no resources except rhetorical artifice to cover his retreat,
and his general aspect was foxy, not to say jesuitical. At least so
Huxley declared, and I thoroughly agreed with him. Yet surely it
REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY. 719
would be a very inadequate and unjust estimate of Giadstone which
should-set him down as a shuffler and there leave the matter. From
the statesman’s point of view it might be contended that Gladstone
was exceptionally direct and frank. But a statesman is seldom. if
ever, called upon to ascertain and exhibit the fundamental facts of a
case without bias and in the disinterested mood which science demands
of her votaries. The statesman’s business is to accomplish sundry
concrete political purposes, and he measures statements primarily, not
by their truth, but by their availableness as means toward a practical
end. Pure science cultivates a widely different habit of mind. One
could no more expect a prime minister, as such, to understand Huxley’s
attitude in presence of a scientific problem than a deaf-mute to com-
prehend a symphony of Beethoven. Gladstone’s aim was to score a
point against his adversary, at whatever cost, whereas Huxley was as
quick to detect his own mistakes as anybody else’s; and such differ-
ences in temperament were scarcely compatible with mutual under-
standing.

If absolute loyalty to truth, involving complete self-abnegation in
face of the evidence, be the ideal aim of the scientific inquirer, there
have been few men in whom that ideal has been so perfectly realized
as in Huxley. If ever he were tempted by some fancied charm of
speculation to swerve a hair’s breadth from the strict line of fact, the
temptation was promptly slaughtered and made no sign. For intel-
lectual integrity he was a spotless Sir Galahad. I believe there was
nothing in life which he dreaded so much as the sin of allowing his
reason to be hoodwinked by personal predilections, or whatever Francis
Bacon would have called ‘‘idols of the cave.” Closely connected with
this ever present feeling was a holy horror of a priori convictions of
logical necessity and of long festoons of deductive argument suspended
from such airy supports. The prime necessity for him was to appeal
at every step to observation and experiment, and in the absence of
such verification to rest content with saying, ‘I do not know.” It is
to Huxley, I believe, that we owe the epithet ** Aonostic,” for which
all men of scientific proclivities owe him a debt of gratitude, since it
happened to please the popular fancy, and at once supplanted the
label **Positivist,” which used to be ruthlessly pasted upon all such
men, in spite of their protests and struggles. No better ro than
‘‘Aonostic” could be found to express Huxley’s mental peioa FY
but with anything like a formulated system of agnosticism he hac
little more to do than with other ‘¢isms.” He used to smile at ies
formidable parade which Lewes was making with his Objectiy : Met cn
‘and Verification, in which capital letters did duty for part of *
argument; and as for Dean Mansel’s elaborate chides aah % Em
Limits of Religious Thought, Huxley, taking a hint from I fn :
used to liken him to a (theological) innkeeper who has climbec
720 REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

upon the signbosrd of the rival (scientific) Inn, and is busily sawing
it off, quite oblivious of the gruesome fact that he is sitting upon the
unsupported end! But while he thus set little store by current agnostie
metaphysics, Huxley’s intellectual climate, if I may so speak, was
one of perfect agnosticism. In intimate converse with him, he always
seemed to me a thoroughgoing and splendid representative of Hume;
indeed, in his writings he somewhere lets fall a remark expressing
a higher regard for Hume than for Kant. It was at this point that
we used to part company in our talks; so long as it was a question of
Berkeley we were substantially agreed, but when it came to Hume we
agreed to differ.

It is this complete agnosticism of temperament, added to his abiding
dread of intellectual dishonesty, that explains Huxley’s attitude toward
belief in a future life. He was not a materialist; nobody saw more
clearly than he the philosophic flimsiness of materialism, and he looked
with strong disapproval upon the self-complacent negations of Lud-
wig Buechner. Nevertheless, with regard to the belief in an immor-
tal soul his position was avowedly agnostic, with perhaps just the
slightest possible tacit though reluctant leaning toward the negative.
This slight bias was apparently due to two causes. First, it is practi-
cally beyond the power of science to adduce evidence in support of the
soul’s survival of the body, since the whole question lies beyond the
bounds of our terrestrial experience. Huxley was the last man to
assume that the possibilities of nature are limited by our experience,
and I think he would have seen the force of the argument that, in
questions where evidence is in the nature of the case inaccessible, our
inability to produce it does not afford even the slighest prima facie
ground for a negative verdict.’ Nevertheless, he seems to have felt
as if the absence of evidence did afford some such prima facie ground,
for in a letter to Charles Kingsley, written in 1860, soon after the
sudden death of his first child, he says: ‘* Had I lived a couple of cen-
turies earlier, I could have fancied a devil scoffing at me . . .
and asking me what profit it was to have stripped myself of the hopes
and consolations of the mass of mankind; to which my only reply was,
and is, O devil! truth is better than much profit. I have searched
over the grounds of my belief, and if wife and child and name and
fame were all to be lost to me, one after the other, as the penalty,
still 1 will not lie.” This striking declaration shows that the second
‘ause of the bias was the dread of self-deception. It was a noble exhi-
bition of intellectual honesty raised to a truly Puritanie fervor of self-
abnegation. Just because life is sweet, and the love of it well-nigh
irrepressible, must ail such feelings be suspected as tempters, and
frowned out of our temple of philosophy. Rather than run any risk
of accepting a belief because it is pleasant, let us incur whatever chance

'T have explained this point at some length in The Unseen World, pp. 48-53.
REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY. yf

there may be of error in the opposite direction; thus we shall at ree
avoid the one unpardonable sin. Such, I think. was the shape hia
the case assumed in Huxley’s mind. To me it takes a very different
shape; but I can not help feeling that mankind is going failea helped
by such stanch intellectual integrity as his far more than it is eoine to
be helped by consoling doctrines of whatever sort: and therefore skis
noble self-abnegation, even though it may have been greater than was
called for, is worthy of most profound and solemn homage.

But we did not spend the whole of the evening in the little library.
Brierwood and Havana at length gave out, and the drawing-room had
its claims upon us. There was a fondness for music in the family, and
it was no unusual thing for us to gather around the piano and sing
psalms, after which there would perhaps be a Beethoven sonata, or
one of Chopin’s nocturnes, or perhaps a song. I can never forget the
rich contralto voice of one bright and charming daughter, since passed
away, or the refrain of an old-fashioned song which she sometimes
sang about ‘* My love, that loved me long ago.” From music it was
an easy transition to scraps of Browning or Goethe, leading to various
disquisitions. Of mirth and badinage there was always plenty. 1 dare
say there was not another room in London where so much exuberant
nonsense might have been heard. It is no uncommon thing for masters
of the Queen’s English to delight in torturing it, and Huxley enjoyed
that sort of pastime as much as James Russell Lowell. ** Smole” and
‘‘declone” were specimens of the preterits that used to fall from his
lips; and as for puns, the air was blue with them. I can not recall
one of them now, but the following example, from a letter of 1555
inviting Hooker to his wedding, will suflice to show the quality: “1
terminate my Baccalaureate and take my degree of M. A. trimony
(isn’t that atrocious?) on Saturday, July rH eed

One evening the conversation happened to touch upon the memor-
able murder of Dr. Parkman by Dr. Webster, and I expressed some
surprise that an expert chemist like Webster should have been so slow
in getting his victim’s remains out of the way. ‘‘ Well, quoth Huxley,
‘‘there’s a good deal of substance in a human hody. It isn t easy to
dispose of so much corpus delicti—a reflection which has frequently
deterred me when on the point of killing somebody.” At such remarks
asoft ripple of laughter would run about the room, with murmurs of
‘Oh, Pater!” It was just the same in his lectures to his apudent
In the simple old experiment illustrating reflex action a frog, whose
brain had been removed, was touched upon the right side of the back
with a slightly irritating acid, and would forthwith reach Wy with
right hind leg and rub the place. The next thing In ee be -
the right leg, whereupon the left leg would come up, eo é a 16 tts
strenuous effort reach the itching spot. One day the stretching was
fee REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

so violent as to result in a particularly elaborate and comical somer.
sault on the part of the frog, whereupon Huxley exclaimed, ** You see,
it doesn’t require much of a brain to be an acrobat!” In an examina-
tion on anatomy a very callow lad got the valves of the heart wrong,
putting the mitral on the right side; but Huxley took compassion on
him, with the remark, ** Poor little beggar! I never got them correctly
myself until I reflected that a bishop was never in the right!” On
another occasion, at the end of a lecture, he asked one of the students
if he understood it all. The student replied, **All, sir, but one part,
during which you stood between me and the blackboard.” ‘‘Ah,”
rejoined Huxley, ‘*I did my best to make myself clear, but could not
make myself transparent!” *

Probably the most tedious bore on earth is the man who feels it
incumbent on him always to be facetious and to turn everything into
a joke. Lynch law is about the right sort of thing for such persons.
Huxley bad nothing in common with them. His drollery was the
spontaneous bubbling over of the seething fountains of energy. The
world’s strongest spirits, from Shakespeare down, have been noted for
playfulness. The prim and sober creatures who know neither how to
poke fun nor to take it are apt to be the persons who are ridden by
their work—useful mortals after their fashion, mayhap, but not inter-
esting or stimulating. Huxley’s playfulness lightened the burden of
life for himself and for all with whom he came in contact. I seem to
see him now, looking up from his end of the table—for my place was
usually at Mrs. Huxley’s end—his dark eyes kindling under their
shaggy brows, and a smile of indescribable beauty spreading over the
swarthy face, as prelude to some keen and pithy but never unkind
remark. Electric in energy, formidable in his incisiveness, he smote
hard; but there was nothing cruel about him, nor did he ever inflict
pain through heedless remarks. That would have been a stupidity of
which he was incapable. His quickness and sureness of perception,
joined with his abounding kindliness, made him a man of almost infi-
nite tact. I had not known him long before I felt that the ruling
characteristic in his nature was tenderness. He reminded me of one
of Charles Reade’s heroes, Colonel Dujardin, who had the eye of a
hawk, but down somewhere in the depths of that eye of a hawk there
was the eye of a dove. It was chiefly the sympathetic quality in the
man that exerted upon me an ever-strengthening spell. My experi-
ences in visiting him had one notable feature, which I found it hard to
interpret. After leaving the house, at the close of a Sunday evening,
the outside world used to seem cold and lonely for being cut off from
that presence; yet on the next Sunday, at the moment of his cordial

Huxley’s book.
REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY. (oe

never fully taken in how lovable he was; I had never quite done him
Justice. In other words, no matter how vivid the image which I ear-
ried about in my mind, it instantly seemed dim and poor in presence
ot the reality. Such feelings are known to lovers; in other relations
ot life they are surely unusual. I was speaking about this to my dear
oe friend, the late Alexander Macmillan, when he suddenly exclaimed:
eecumay well feel so, my boy. I tell you, there is so much real
Christianity in Huxley that if it were parceled out among all the men,
women, and children in the British Islands there would be enough to
save the soul of every one of them, and plenty to spare!”

I have said that Huxley was never unkind; it is perhaps hardly
necessary to tell his readers that he could be sharp and severe, if the
occasion required. I have heard his wife say that he never would
allow himself to be preyed upon by bores, and knew well how to
getrid of them. Some years after the time of which 1] have been
writing I dined one evening at the Savile Club with Huxley, Spencer,
and James Sime. As we were chatting over our coffee, some person
unknown to us came in and sat down on a sofa near by. Presently this
man, becoming interested in the conversation, cut short one of our
party and addressed a silly remark to Spencer in reply to something
which he had been saying. Spencer’s answer was civil, but brief, and
not inviting. Nothing abashed, the stranger kept on and persisted in
forcing himself into the conversation, despite our bleak frowns and
arctic glances. It was plain that something must be done, and while
the intruder was aiming a question directly at Huxley the latter turned
his back upon him. This was intelligible even to assinine apprehen-
sion, and the remainder of our evening was unmolested.

I never knew (not being inquisitive) just when the Huxleys began
having their ‘“‘tall teas” on Sunday evenings; but during that first
winter I seldom met any visitors at their house, except once or twice
Ray Lankester and Michael Foster. Afterwards Huxley, with his wife,
on their visit to America, spent a few summer days with my family at
Petersham, where the great naturalist learned for the first time what
a tindipperis. Once, in London, in speaking about the starry heavens,
Lhad said that I never could make head or tail of any constellation
except the Dipper, and of course everybody must recognize in that
the resemblance to a dipper. To my surprise one of the young ladies
asked, ‘‘ What isadipper?” My effort at explanation went far enough
to evoke the idea of ‘‘a ladle,” but with that approximation I was fain
to let the matter rest until that August day in New England, when,
after a tramp in the woods, my friends quafted cool mountain hideeel
from a dipper, and I was told that not only the name, but the thing, is
a Yankee notion.

Some time afte
at the Royal Institution

r this I made several visits to England, giving lectures
and elsewhere, and saw the Huxleys often, and
Cas REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

on one occasion, with my wife, spent a fortnight or so at their home
in Marlborough Place. The Sunday evenings had come to be a time
for receiving friends, without any of the formality that often attaches
to ‘‘ receptions.” Half a dozen or more would drop in for the ‘*‘ high
tea.” I then noticed the change in the adjective, and observed that
the phrase and the institution were not absolutely confined to the Hux-
ley household; but their origin is still for me enshrouded in mystery,
like the ‘empire of the Toltecs.” After the informal and jolly sup-
per others would come in, until the company might number from
twenty to thirty. Among the men whom I recall to mind (the married
ones accompanied by their wives, of course), were Mark Pattison,
Lecky, and J. R. Green, Burdon Sanderson and Lauder Brunton,
Alma Tadema, Sir James Stephen and his brother Leslie, Sir Frederick
Pollock, Lord Arthur Russell, Frederic Harrison, Spencer Walpole,
Romanes, and Ralston. Some of these I met for the first time; others
were old friends. Nothing could be more charming than the graceful
simplicity with which all were entertained, nor could anything be
more evident than the affectionate veneration which everybody felt for
the host.

The last time that I saw my dear friend was early in 1883, just before
coming home to America. I found him lying on the sofa, too ill to
say much, but not too ill for a jest or two at his own expense. The
series of ailments had begun which were to follow him for the rest of
his days. I was much concerned about him, but journeys to England
had come to seem such a simple matter that the thought of its being
our last meeting never entered my mind. A few letters passed back
and forth with the lapse of years, the last one (in 1894) inquiring when
I was likely to be able to come and visit him in the pretty home which
he had made in Sussex, where he was busy with ‘* digging in the gar-
den and spoiling grandchildren.” When the news of the end came, it
was as a sudden and desolating shock.

There were few magazines or newspapers which did not contain
articles about Huxley, and in general those articles were considerably
more than the customary obituary notice. They were apt to be more
animated than usual, as if they had caught something from the blithe
spirit of the man; and they gave so many details as to show the warm
and widespread interest with which he was regarded. One thing, how-
ever, especially struck me. While the writers of these articles seemed
familiar with Huxley’s philosophical and literary writings, with his
popular lectures on scientific subjects and his controversies with sundry
clergymen, they seemed to know nothing whatever about his original
scientific work. It was really a singular spectacle, if one pauses to
think about it. Here are a score of writers engaged in paying tribute
to a man as one of the great scientific lights of the age, and yet, while
they all know something about what he would have considered his
REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY. 125

fugitive work, not one of them so much as alludes to the cardinal
achievements in virtue of which his name marks an epoch! It is ad
much as if the biographers of Newton were to enlarge upon his official
labors at the mint and his theory of light, while preserving - deka
silence as to gravitation and fluxions. A few words concerns Hux-
ley’s work will therefore not seem superfluous. A few onte we all
fe ae here be given; I can not pretend even to make a well-rounded
sketch.

In one respect there was a curious similarity between the beginnings
of Huxley’s scientific career and of Darwin’s. Both went, as young
men, on long voyages into the southern hemisphere in ships of the
royal navy, and from the study of organisms encountered on these
voyages both were led to theories of vast importance. Huxley studied
with keen interest and infinite patience the jellyfish and polyps floating
on the surface of the tropical seas through which his ship passed.
Without books or advisers, and with scant aid of any sort except his
microscope, which had to be tied to keep it steady, he scrutinized and
dissected these lowly forms of life, and made drawings and diagrams
illustrating the intricacies of their structure, until he was able, by
comparison, to attain some very interesting results. During four years,
he says, ‘SI sent home communication after communication to the
Linnean Society, with the same result as that obtained by Noah when
hesent the raven out of hisark. Tired at last of hearing nothing about
them, I determined to do or die, and in 1849 I drew up a more elabo-
rate paper, and forwarded it to the Royal Society.” This was a memoir
On the Anatomy and the Affinities of the Family of Medusie; and it
proved to be his dove, though he did not know it until his return to
England, a year later. Then he found that his paper had been pub-
lished, and in 1851, at the age of 26, he was made a Fellow of the
Royal Society. He went on writing papers giving sundry results of
his observations, and the very next year received the society’s royal
medal, a supreme distinction which he shared with Joule, Stokes, and
Humboldt. In the address upon the presentation of the medal, the
president, Lord Rosse, declared that Huxley had not only for the first
time adequately described the Meduse and laid down rational principles
for classifying them, but had inaugurated ‘‘a process of reasoning, the
results of which can scarcely yet be anticipated, but must bear ina very
important degree upon some of the most abstruse points of what may
be called transcendental physiology.”

In other words, the vouthful Huxley had made a discovery that went
to the bottom of things; and as in most if not all such cases, he had
knowledge not only of facts, but of methods. It wats os
beginning of a profound reconstruction of the elacsinnatie % nae: x
extinct and living. In the earlier half of the century the truest classi
fication was Cuvier’s. That great genius emancipated himself from the

enlarged our
726 REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

notion that groups of animals should be arranged in an ascending or
descending series, and he fully proved the existence of three divergent
types—Vertebrata, Mollusca, and Articulata. Some of the multitude
of animals lower or less specialized than these he grouped by mistake
along with Mollusca or Articulata, while all the rest he threw into a
fourth class, which he called Radiata. It was evident that this type
was far less clearly defined than the three higher types. In fact, it
was open to the same kind of objection that used to be effectively urged
against Max Muller’s so-called Turanian group of languages; it was
merely a negation. Radiata were simply animals that were neither
Articulata nor Mollusca nor Vertebrata; in short, they were a motley
multitude, about which there was a prevailing confusion of ideas at the
time when young Huxley began the study of jellyfish.

We all know how it was the work of the great Esthonian embryo-
logist, Baer, that turned Herbert Spencer toward his discovery of the
law of evolution. It is therefore doubly interesting to know that in
these early studies Huxley also profited by his knowledge of Baer’s
methods and results. It all tended toward a theory of evolution,
although Baer himself never got so far as evolution in the modern
sense; and as for Huxley, when he studied Medusee, he was not con-
cerned with any general theory whatever, but only with putting into
shape what he saw.

And what he saw was that throughout their development the Me-
dusze consist of two foundation membranes or delicate web-like tissues
of cells—one forming the outer integument,the other doing duty as stom-
ach lining—and that there was no true body cavity with blood vessels.
He showed that groups apparently quite dissimilar, such as the hydroid
and sertularian polyps, the Physophoride and sea anemones, are con-
structed upon the same plan; and so he built up his famous group of
Coelenterata, or animals with only a stomach cavity, as contrasted with
all higher organisms, which might be called Coelomata, or animals with
a true body cavity containing a stomach with other viscera and blood ves-
sels. In all Ceelomata, from the worm up to man, there is a third foun-
dation membrane. Thus the Cuvierian group of Radiata was broken up,
and the way was prepared for this far more profound and true arrange-
ment: (1) Protozoa, such as the amoeba and sponges, in which there is
no distinct separation of parts performing different functions; (2) Coe-
lenterata, in which there is a simple differentiation between the inside
which accumulates energy and the outside which expends it; and (3)
Ccelomata, in which the inside contains a more or less elaborate sys-
tem of distinct organs devoted to nutrition and reproduction, while
the outside is more or less differentiated into limbs and sense organs
for interaction with the outer world. Though not yet an evolutionist,
Huxley could not repress the prophetic thought that Ccelenterata are
ancient survivals, representing a stage through which higher animal
types must once have passed.
‘ey

REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY, 727

As further elaborated by Huxley, the development above the ccelen-
terate stage goes on in divergent lines: stopping abruptly in some
directions, in others going on to creat lengths. Thus, in the direc-
tion taken by echinoderms, the physical possibilities are speedily
exhausted, and we stop with starfishes and holothurians. But among
Annuloida, as Huxley called them, there is more flexibility, and a
keep on till we reach the true Articulata in the highly specialized
insects, arachnoids, and crustaceans. It is still more interestine to
follow the Molluscoida, through which we are Jed. on the one hand, to
the true Mollusea, reaching their culmination in the nautilus and octo-
S and on the other hand, to the Tunicata, and so on to the yerte-

rates.

In the comparative anatomy of vertebrates, also, Huxley’s achieve-
ments were ina high degree original and remarkable. First in impor-
tance, perhaps, was his classification of birds, in which their true
position and relationships were for the first time disclosed. Huxley
showed that all birds, extinct and living, must be-arranged in three
groups, of which the first is represented by the fossil archeopteryx,
with its hand-like wing and lizard-like tail; the second by the ostrich
and its congeners, and the third by all other living birds. He further
demonstrated the peculiarly close relationship between birds and rep-
tiles through the extinct dinosaurs. In all these matters his power-
ful originality was shown in the methods by which these important
results were reached. Every new investigation which he made seemed
to do something toward raising the study of biology to a higher plane,
as, for example, his celebrated controversy with Owen on the true
nature of the vertebrate skull. The mention of Owen reminds us that
it was also Huxley who overthrew Cuvier’s order of Quadrumana by
proving that apes are not four handed, but have two hands and two
feet: he showed that neither in limbs nor in brain does man present
differences from other primates that are of higher than generic value.
Indeed, there were few corners of the animal world, past or present,
which Huxley did not at some time or other overhaul, and to our
knowledge of which he did not make contributions of prime impor-
tance. The instances here cited may serve to show the kind of work
which he did, but my mention of them is necessarily meager. In the
department of classification, the significance of which has been increased
tenfold by the doctrine of evolution, his name must surely rank fore-
most among the successors of the mighty Cuvier.

Before 1860 the vastness and accuracy of Huxley’s acquireme
the soundness of his judgment were well understood by the men of
‘nsomuch that Charles Darwin, when about to publish
there were three men in England

nts and

his profession,
The Origin of Species, said that
upon whose judgment he relied;
could afford to wait for the rest.

if he could convince those three, he
The three were Lyell, Hooker, and
728 REMINISCENCES OF HUXLEY.

Huxley, and he convinced them. How sturdily Huxley fought Dar-
win’s battles is inspiring to remember. Darwin rather shrank from
controversy, and, while he welcomed candid criticism, seldom took any
notice of ill-natured attacks. On one occasion, nevertheless, a some-
what ugly assault moved Darwin to turn and rend the assailant, which
was easily and neatly done in two pages at the end of a scientific
paper. Before publishing the paper, however, Darwin sent it to Hux-
ley, authorizing him to omit the two pages if he should think it best.
Huxley promptly canceled them, and sent Darwin a delicious little
note, saying that the retort was so excellent that if it had been his own
he should hardly have had virtue enough to suppress it; but although
it was well deserved, he thought it would be better to refrain. ‘“‘If I
say a savage thing, it is only ‘pretty Fanny’s way;’ but if you do, it is
not likely to be forgotten.” There was a friend worth having.

There can be little doubt, I think, that, without a particle of rancor,
Huxley did keenly feel the gaudium certaminis. He exclaimed among
the trumpets, Ha! ha! and was sure to be in the thickest of the fight.
His family seemed to think that the **Gladstonian dose” had a tonic
effect upon him. When he felt too ill for scientific work, he was_
quite ready for a scrimmage with his friends, the bishops. Not car-
ing much for episcopophagy (as Huxley once called it), and feeling
that controversy of that sort was but a slaying of the slain, I used to
grudge the time that was given to it, and taken from other things. In
1879 he showed me the synopsis of a projected book on The Dog,
which was to be an original contribution to the phylogenetic history
of the order Carnivora. The reader who recalls his book on The
Crayfish may realize what such a book about dogs would have been.
It was interrupted and deferred and finally pushed aside by the thou-
sand and one duties and cares that were thrust upon him—work on
government commissions, educational work, parish work, everything
that a self-sacrificing and public-spirited man could be loaded with.
In the later years, whenever I opened a magazine and found one of
the controversial articles I read it with pleasure, but sighed for the
dog book.

I dare say, though, it was all for the best. ‘*'To smite all humbugs,
however big; to give a nobler tone to science; to set an example of
abstinence from petty personal controversies, and of toleration for
everything but lying; to be indifferent as to whether the work is rec-
ognized as mine or not, so long as it is done’”—such were Huxley’s
aims in life. And for these things, in the words of good Ben Jonson,
‘**T loved the man, and do honor to his memory, on this side idolatry,
as much as any.”
fd he DS ee
A.

Aaa, ©.-G., member of eclipse expedition............-------:--------- ee:
report on astrophysical observatory by .............---.--.- o . 109
Feport on solar eclipse Dy. eee oy =2 oe ee ee 101-109
Rumer etes collections by 2.20 22 2 Sa Sec sk eo eee 52
Abney, Sir William, spectrum researches by.............-.+-----+--+-+--- 686
PM UZ ZPATChICTe x LOFAWONS:DY: os cece ec Saco ane ono e Se eeeeee Cee ee eee 422, 424
maannecpandeive. Vernier: researches’ bys... 22... 25 ss. -s- cece 2 oe ee ee 137
Adams, Robert, jr., on bureau for graduate study.-....-..---------- tds Sh An XXVHI
SuuithsonianyRer en wer =a eee ee ene X; X1, 2; 4
Maleraeyrus, member of color committee. _-.-.-----.---------+-----s---- 23
Repert/On ll bTaLy, DY. os 22. see Ce Oe eee ee 110
Administration, Secretary’s report on.---.------------------------------- 4
Aérial flight, experiments in ........-.--------------------------+------- 208, 217
Merodrome, diacram Of ...--.-..------. <222--2-+=222 2-2 3- = = - = 52a 213
launching apparatus for. ......--------------------------+---+--- 209
machinery Of 2. 220.-2 22-2 22+ te toe oe ee 213
principles Of 2... 2.2.2 --2---4 22222. pach === = eect 198
fire Wansley 2 2225.2 2522. = 322 2 a= ie 197-216
Aérodromic experiments. -.------------------------- Ce PECL pte st 3
Aérodromics, Janssen on work of Langley in --.-------------------------- 191
liiorany sOf joe ee ee ee oe ee 110
Aéronautics, progress in, Janssen 07. --..-----------------+502ts00er 0 187-193
Africa, agricultural methods in...-------------++-------7--t70erett 435
Tolle 20) an ae ea eee ne i etnias rectn cs 442
Wiehe ke cole es en ee ee a 444
Pieotenn Munking: Wo. 6 ~ oe > we en oe Sa 437
ethnological objects from ----.-----------7--2 2272s nro t ooo 52
from Cape to Cairo, by Grogan...------------.-+2-cc7 ots ttreters 431 448
geographic conquest of...-.------------2++2scctrrer testers 417- se
SPE TEACOO AIL 2 oe ee = ees ne eae ae a $35
eon race iN 229-2 0- = <2 2-22 nar ee 459
miiearocs discovered IM. <.7-2.- -<5--- 7-44 ea eg ne ee 436
Werican civilizations, Frobenius on’ -—----+-----"-20->--"7rS5 oo orn 1 l4
Agassiz, Alexander, Cilia joceeesesce SSieco a3: eta” eae a0
Agassiz-Branner expedition, collections from... ----------------="-777 77" a
Agassiz, Louis, on ice as geological agente =< ---eo-o0- =a ae eee ee oF A
Age of the earth, Le Cénte Ole < <4 a-2 22 See oa ee a se.
Sta IETS) Wee REN oreo aoe hie PoC gia eee “Ag
Agnosticism, Pixley audio: 0aws5-2 2 eagceh a Gene ee 660

Agramonte, Dr. A., yellow FEV by CULL Van) ee i ce

729

sm L900 50
730 INDEX.

Page.
Agricultural colleges; petition from -. -<>-. 3 -5- aee a eee eee XV
Air: ancient ideas: about the .s2 22 ee a ee eee eee 233
molecular composition of. 2. _ ..s2-2shten Soe ee Soe so Bee 159
nature and ‘properties Of <5 85 26~ e. oe ee ee eo ee eee 18
Aircghip, Zeppelin, trial of |... 6. 22 Sec ate Se ose ee acl oes ee 217-222
Airy, Professor,-on Tiver Genas.- <=. ..2525o 222. ~ 2-5-2 one oe eee ee 276
Alaska, breeding of Aretic fox tice! 22 8 Ee ee Ree eee 527
explorabion 0 oo oS oS on oye Be ee ate ae ee 428
plants SPOme, fo soe odes tes - ok st he eee we eee ee 54
Alaskan expedition, collections: from... - ~ .<o5.i. 2 - w~ss <a e:- ase wR ee 52
Sibert Kdward Lake. exploration Of... =.=. 265-. 255-2 oe oe eee 441
Alger, Russell A., member of Smithsonian Establishment ............-.---- Ix
Tesionation Ol: 2t 20.4. 38. cel ste ee ee ee i
Algonquian Indians, researches among. 2. 2.0. obs 1 oe he eee eee 60
Albaline éarths, discovery of nature Of... ~~ 3.2 0 oats on eeen uae nee cee 235
Aljeneck, Vou Heiner, electric dynamo of... --.-- 2.20: 2105 oh 339
Altermating current transionmer | 2 .- 4.5 oc notes Sees oe ee 350
A MOMINUM. WOKS. 2b INIAPAIA —.< c= cos one tao home ee ae eee ae 352
American ethnology. (See Bureau of Ethnology.)
American Historical Association, extra reports authorized..........-.--.-.-- LXUI
IBOOK OF soo cee teeta a ee ee 117
Ames, Dr. Roger P., study of yellow fever by .-- 2.60 sae oon ee 663
Ancient desemers or steelyards, SOkeland on..-....-..-..---------------- 551-564
Agen, CX PIOTAUON Ol. <— -'.- —- 0s boos cen wee nee ee a ee 428
Andsemsn, Obaries My paper by =. .:- 2. +... 5. pee ee ee ee 117
Aparews, "Thomas, researches bys. 25:2 xges heme eo daa eee ee 318
Andrews, Wallace C., conditional bequest of .......-.-..---.----=--2---.- XII
Andrews, William Given, paper by 2.5.2 22052 .00- eae ece nec eee 117
Angell, James B., member of committee on graduate study. ...........---- XVII, 3
Smithsonian: Revents. 2222-22226... 540e See ee ee X, XI, 4
Animal pictures, by Dugmore . 2... - 5.06 2-290. Si eee eee 507-515
Antarctic explorations during 19th century... ........---.---.--2-2---2s- 425
Anthropological additions: to. Museum... 5 2 ~ 6-222. 2h ot Jo see ees 52
AMHOCK, plain Ob, THUS UW... cops eoe net sone cee ee ed ee ee 535
Appropriations and expenditures. ... <<... )-2- . =. -+--se-ss-5 5p 5 ee
Archibald, Douglas, Kite observations by 2. o--- 2-25.32. 2 5 See coe eee 224
Are lamps, experiments with. 2... 3.22 232-20 2-.Jeeccs een ee eee 334, 337
istery Of. 2-5 p 53.27 eee ee ee Pasa 342
Arctic explorations duxing 19th century. ...222 <n oe eee 422
in ihe “Y ermak.- 2.0 460362 se eo 450
explorers, Work Of. .45. 2 22h. 2! <2 eee ee 422
fox, breeding of, Varipny On 22225220552 ee eee 527-633
habits: of) "svt i. set oehe eee eee 527
ice, thickness Of 5. 222i eee st 4: Boece ee a ee ee 453
ocean, quantity of organisms Im 2. .< 2022s. <a ae eee 505
temperature of water Im... 22 2s.s2h25~25--she0en see eee 454
Arizona, ExploraWOns IM 25. =...2.-.ssceeenen nate ak aie ie a ee 60
petrified forpsts of -..:--- 222s 2 ae 2 5 ee ee 23
Azsmstrong, Sir W. G-., builder of ““Yermak” | -: 22222532 Soe see eee 450
Art: collections ‘Smithsonian 22. 2222 o5o26 45 eset oo ee eee 18
Articulate speech, moyement of air im. Js_- (2-22-52 5le ees Stee 2.10
Asia, exploration of, during 19th century... 222 22 ss 429

Assurbanipal, discovery of palace of ..--.--- cp eee ree reer tree cette reece 537

INDEX. 73]

Assyrian art and civilization, discoveries of... ___. oe
Baie study-Of ss: >. ae ee ee oe rr shied
peaighuress.. + <so Soe SS Et acces ae aaa a

Astronomical constants, investigation of................... ei

distances, measurement of..:...................... ae
instruments at Pekin Observatory ............. mie
puservatories, ‘srowth of 221.0 0-- 9.  o  ee 195
Astronomy, articles Oils ores ES ieee ete ai 113
pidestOf ithe sciences! 32-5 a oss rd Se a eee ne 123
position of, dnl 800:2 952 2-- oi. ae es a ae 193
pKopresstinvLockyer on fo 5 1 Sano Sake eee ee 123-147
Aa AaIeClpReieNpediilOnt.* =. 22s) -6 ya ee tae ee eee 46, 101-109
BReEirOseOpiG, progress ini. < |) oJ sesso ee ee ee ee 129

Staci mlOMUESs Sooke ao. So ee ee 13:
telescope Cevelopment cx... 9-7 sa ee ee eee 127
pairophysical Observatory, annals of .___2.. 2.2.0.0. --s2-2-22-secen eee 683-692
Finan GES Ol oe he See soy OS eae ee eee ee XLVI, LXI
Mr Abbot's Teport.0n: 2-22. = 45 ae aes eee 99-109
SECretany: Se pOTt OMe acne ees ae ee 45-AT
solareclipse expedition by 22_i222-0.222---.--- 101-109
3 PBEM eTGA DIG: Tallune.Ob fits! 25.65) se Sass ote ee eee eee Se 336
mumspnere, molecular composition of.-.--- 2.22. 2<.-2. - 22 seenb seks ee 160
KIEL SS Severe peeve, Caf ne ee Ae ele ac ie ee 161
Parnor,in earth’ s forma lOne = ao. kaa oe ee 292
acudy, of, wath! balloons) << oe S> Sets =e eee ee cee 190
mimospheric electricity, at various heights... .--.-..+..---.--s2s-+-tte- 230
muGuneuwerrhis. Dalton’s theory Of. 2. 20-225 ss22aqc dep s- == eee ae ee 238
determination Of 232 22) 5s 4-0 459eo see eee ase ee 239
Atoms, and molecules,-progress in study of. ...-.-..---<=---------.-----= 240
binlosieal studby: Of: 2's 2. 3... Sasori 477
CONSLM EMO FLOM. Obes s coe oe ee earls oe ee 385
- Australia, Commonwealth of ---..-.-------- re ee? ee Ne te ee 426
geographic conquest of....-.---------------------------------- 426

Automobiles, electric, historyof.--..-.--------------+--------------------- 346

Avery estate, report on .....---------------------+------+2+e-rrce errr ee XII

Ayres, James M.., live peccary from. -.-------------------------------+--- 90

B.
Babylonian and Chinese myths analogous. -- ---------------------+++-5>*> 575
arts and civilization, study of ...--.--------------------------- 537
GUD TAC Hoy LX CETTE rey
Gisepyelies |- 5.2 3 S22 == a ae eee 2.0
gardens, discovery (0) see ee eee a ee 53%
law asd OL o 22's 25-2 "Seene er oe a ee ee =
records of 3800 B. C22... 22----52-------nere- eae eee Oss
Society, Pelser Olt. 2 <= === + ae eh area as I 5S
acon, J. M., on eclipse expedition. -----.-~--<<--=2> s=s7ra-95=* sans re ae

BA cheniagimnibhG OCEAN ci a- aa5-!to =i on ee —

Bacteriological discoveries of nineteenth century --------- --------=++++--- ts

Bacteriology, development Of dist ni== Hse “renter ots Ceres ee ae ee ee aS

PROSTESS AML. Sc 4c ase PS ee a ie ie

Baker, Frank, report on Zoological Park by
732 INDEX.

Page.

Balfour, A..J., psychical research by. -=...--2..<s---2g6 2-2-2 eee eee 678

Balloon, Zeppelin’s, trial, of ...-222. 25. 2<2.2- 25.22 20 2 eee ee 217-222

Ballooning, progress im =. 22-2 Sot 2. 5-2-6 2t See ce eee eae 188-193

ACLENGHG . 2c. St st ce stews oot e ea ee ee 114

Balloons, meteorological observations with............-.------------.---- 190

Ball. Sir Robert, on Ware. ooo. ec -<2 esha cee oe ee 157-166

Banes, Outram, binds trot... - <2... S252) sss koe ee 53

Barnard, Professer, discoveries by -. > - -.k-s2 4.255 soa eee eee 142

Barus; (Carl: cited = posses ee ee er 296

TeOseaTC DOS DY, <5 24 f54 2. Sino se was ee eee eee 11

Basketry collection from Oalifornia...-.:....2-:e-2225e shee ease eee 70

Bastard, M., escapes irom, Chinese. - 2... 2.2 net nae ee eee 610

Bats: collections of... 2.2 t eee eee ee eee 53

Bauer. Carl Ernstivon:.erant to*..- tee oS ee ee 11

Beatie, J. C., on Becquerel rage .--~ 0 ee ee 382

Beaver, habits Of 2... = ere ee ee ee ee 517

im Natienal Zoological Park 0222... to Ses eee ee oe eee 517-622

the outlaw, character study of... 22... 29) 22. a ee 517

Becquerel, Henri, radiations discovered by..... -..--------------------+- 331, 380

Beeqnerel rays, experiments with *.. ...¢ 08025 2-22-42 eas wee eee eee 381

TOHOAFCHEA IN. «5-5 fol oe Uae Se eee cna ee ee 372

Bel; excavation of temple of . oo. 225.055 eevee eee St eee 543, 544

Bell, Alexander Graham... -..d.9 « 2...s's' <u ss se ee eee Se eee 215
executive committee report by ..........--.------ LVI :

exhibits telephone in 1876 .............-....----- 341

invents telephone:..9-2- 52238252 ae ee 330

member of committee on graduate study........-.- Xvi, 3

on aerodrome experiment ©2-- 52-0 2) See eee 199

on Kidder bequest. 2-254 (cb Cr ee Lees XIV

on plan for graduate study..<-- <=> -. -.2.-22 ge XXVII

Smithsonian Rerent -. sas as ee ee eee x,4

Bell's theorem, discovery Of 222-55 2~ . + 205-565. Lj eswn eee ee 470

Benitz, Alfred, live. peccary froti.: so20 244. 5 otc tee Lee eR eee 90

Bennett, James Gordon, Stanley sent to Africa by ..-.-...-.....---------- 421

Bentley, Edward M., underground conduit designed by -.....-.------.---- 347

Bequest, Kidder, expenditure Of 2. Secc.. 0.0 oe Soe a ee ee eee XIII

Wallace 0:. Andrews provisional 232... 7.22222 se ee ee XII

Berendt, Carlos H.; Maya vocabulary from) 2... 22.222) eee ee 67

Berger, Philippe, paper by 2:2. <<. e.-chScace. = hee ne eee 114

Berthelot, M:, on Brown-sequard! 22327. s54822 ae ee ee 114

Berzelius, Jacob, determination of atomic weights by...........-----.---- 239

Bethge, Lieut. D. von,..on Zeppelin balloon 22.22.25 2-25. one eee ee 221

Bevier, ‘Louis, researches by 3.2.2 <2. 52 -scsaees een ase eee 10

Bianco, Salvatore Lo, on preservation of animals -...-......-.--.--------- 58, 116

Bibliography, of chemical dissertations’. :...2.25.2.- +22 ose os-- eee 16, 112

of Mipsissippi. .24¢ -2.<S2n0.- 50 cee eae Se ee eee abi ly/

of study of history 22: -s2-e tet oe ee eee 117

Bidwell, Shelford;on curiosities of vision c222.2 2526-6 eee eee 118

Billings, John 8., on progress in medicine during nineteenth century .---- 637-644

Biological additions to. Museum. 2 2° 22322 ..22se2- 2 a eee 52

Biology, greatest discovery ati). 2.22 23.2505- oe ee ee 462

prowth.of, in nineteenth century 2222. = 2 222-25. ee ee 461-478

marine! oo 5255). 50 5550 32225 cope oe oe ee ae 493

Bird flight," Rayleigh on 2.222602 ook a oe eee 195

IN HX. Qe
cs 733

Bird photography, by Dugmore _.._.__- Rage:

Birds, added to Museum collection .. nee Rsk denne eee ae ouy

Huxley’s CMeSINCIOn Ghee er ele. ee eee ee

study of motion Girt aaah eet Pas fee rer, 727

Birt, W. R., kite observations Dy nwe Ae ie ; : lh pee oe 7

Board of Regents, Ree RERCTIGS =e Nl Ee we ee ee ae aut

Boehmer, George H., in charge of exchanges ._._..____. ai
Bromieter «description: Of -:- 2.2.0.2... 2 a ah A pn RAS 3

invented by 8. P. Langley. cance ae ene ee 39% We

Langley’s researches with, on Mount Whitney ...-......._-- ge

mnnmice accuracy. Ofc.) chen ie ele er ee Loa ae ee 687

Bolometric apparatus in solar-eclipse work............................-.. 103

researches durine solar eclipse: -4-.2-4s+-.22.§22e ee ee 150

Bolton. ©., bibliography of chemistry by .=...2<..22 1.2. 2252----2-.--- 16, 112

On-radic-activeisubstanices: s = 5.515 Le ee 9

Bonen Babylonian explorations by :-...2..2.2i--2-2.-ee2-5---ee- 536

onuoemevinike Am tarcte ex plOrablonsiD\s2=2 sesso = as ee ee ee 425

ieee ward.G, paper. DY... -260-2 2. 26echaceeer an Ge aes 117

OG went yw iy DApel Wyss i 2c2eaocc oe ae ea ee ae oe eee 117
Peeve killed: by Chinese. 22. 225.0. 5225.2 lyre cee) aoe ee 63

ei rOLe Oi TESCATCHES DY'...22 = succes sea 4- san: Sean o- een eee 37

Peeriomis< VW paper Dy....6.. 2232.4 nok ete en eee = 114

Brain, anatomy of, increase in knowledge of........-.-.------------------ 639

Paealized: finetlons Ol . 22/52 sa Soa sires seas See ee ee 470

Speier on lite in the .OCeall. 20242 2.01) Sag ee 493-506

Brauner, J. C., marine invertebrates from_..-....-...-----=-=+-----2----=--- 58

Brasseur and Sampolo process of color photography ...------------------- 523

mm oumenjamin --. 22 2c\. 2 sen. sees} 2 ane ec ge a =n 715

Brooks, William Keith, on lesson of the life of Huxley.------------------- 701-712

Brown-Séquard, life and works of....----------------------+----+--+-+----- 114
Buckham, M. H., member of graduate-study committee. ---.------------- XVI
Buffalo exposition, Smithsonian participation im... .-.-------------------- 21
Building, Museum, inadequacy of..-....-------------------+++--2-70-777+°- 28
ROPAMCIOL Pe 2 ~ = des so cee se a ee ee XLVI

Buildings, Secretary’s report on -..-----------------2----2---00rr ttre 6

Bunsen, Robert, chemical studies by-.----------------------27+27--77777" 247
Bureau of American Ethnology, appropriations for----------------------- LX

collections by --------------------------- 70

explorations by .-----------------------> 59

aN Ges: OF 22 mee ae ee eae eee XXXII

Powell’s report on--.-.-------------------- 59, 72

publications of ..--------------+-------+ 116

Secretary Langley’s report on -.---------- 350

work in philology by -------------------- 66

work in sociology by -------------------- 64

work in sophiology DY.2os-<s---5-==--->-- 68

Bureau of graduate study in Smithsonian Institution, plan for ------------- XVIII

C.

: : oe 419

Caillié’s explorations 1 Africa -.-------------- Ree ee gee ried

Campenon, commandant of French army in Ching -|.-= <= 5-<-~-s=435=25- a a

ior cron Maree oo. ess -Se er = ee ee ee eee way. =

arming Sime lravlord 2-224 28> Beis: aera Rees eo Se we

Cannon, Henry Lewin, paper by. i= .2)- sa2s= 2 osrencrene
134 INDEX.

Page.

Carhart, Henry §., on physico-technical institution. ....../........2..2... 403-415
Carroll, Dr. James, study of yellow fever by..22202 22.2. 21 es 2 ES 660
Carthage; excavationn at 422722222222 ee 114
Castillon ‘de:St: Victor; Count dé.=..4- 2: = 27. see oe eee eee 189
Catastrophic and uniformitarian theories! = 22 =. - |. 24 eee ee 289
Cathedral“avenue,, prading of -+ 2: 5222-5222 2 2 eee eee LXII
Cathode rays (see also Kathode rays) = .52..2. 2.0 oo. S2 se See: 371
Celestial photography; propress in. 5... 2. 2224. 2 22- ee eee 131
Cell theory of animals:and plants. ... <.22...222 SS ee 462
Gentury’s great men of science, Peiroe ons: ¢) 2:2 2.se Seeeres. eeee oe 693-699
Gera incandescent mantles>. = 2... ---5-2s522. 92 2552558 -- eee 391
Ceralli, Signor, stady of Mars by. 322.522 2.902 50 ee ee 148, 166, 167
Chalcedony Park in Arizona, proposed..; . = 2% -<-.s250.k2 e Reeee 23
Chandoine,; Captain, tortured by Chinese. *./5 2520542 SCP ee eRe 634
Charlottenburg Physico-Technical Institution .-..-.....-......----2.--.--- 403-415
Chase, Capt. George F:, animals from... .: 2220S eee 90
Chemical compounds, key to structure of. -22..02.22)222252 2.9292 2 249
elements, periodic arrangement of..-=..-<:..2--.2222.2.22226 222 254

enery of electric current... == -J=-2: 2222225235. eee ee 352
industries ‘at Niarara’.-. 2.0: o252-<<. 222 ee eee 352

processes of life .2s.2522 2 ss ci tccn fant ose ee eee 472

Bcience and biology, relation of: ..0:..-5225:2.< 22-22 eel see 475
Chemistry,,and commiercial supremacy -.--.2 200520 -.22 See e es He eee 256
bibliography Of ..2. -255-<-i-s.20 . a8 Sd. 58s shee ee eee eee 112

naustrial, proeress Wire. >. sos. Jas to ee ee eee 250

inorganic: ‘Stokes on: 2.<:...... [24 ee eee 114

of stars, hockyer’on 2 3202-22 ese ee ee ee 113

progress in, Ramsay on =.25.-222-2022-2-22-2 sess ee eee 233-257

researches in, at Charlottenbare 2 205 27 eee 412
Chemo-phiysical school of physiology <-:22.222--f<d252 2222 2 ee ee ee 474
Cherokee Indians, -stady of . 2220222200 So Ses cee ese ee ee ee 69
Onild,. R: G., solarechipse work Dy io 3-52 ee See ee ee 104, 149, 151
Children’s room, secretary’s report on 2 -— 22 225-4225) se ee ee ee 19
China and the United States, by Minister Wu Ting-Fang--.-.--.---.-------- 65-574
explorainone if <2. L col. scenes = eee Se cee a ee 429

labor abundant In: 22. 225: 2222 sake She.2 oot ee eee 569

loot of summer palace at: Pekin”. -2 (et 22 Ute ae eee eee 601-635
mineral resources of 27.222: Peaks Se eee: eee ee 568

public works in: <. 225 22.5. Po > eae ees eee ee eee meee 569
PAUTORGS Ines oo oe Es ee oe cae ee ee tee 569

trade of United States with’: -':20:05 2484 fase ee) eee eee 567
Chinese demonology and’ witehoraft 2.552 22-252 -2e ere ee eee 595
diplomacy, Count ‘D’ Hérsson' om: 2522222 U2 2 eee eee 605
disposition: toward foreigners’. =<). 22 f252 2-2 ee eee 602

dragon, suggested by: fossil! aningals 2222... Se eee eee 575

Einpire, extent of 20S 5-0 222s BUS ee 568

folklore and western analogies, Williams on.......--.---:-------- 575-600
immigration in Farther Asia .../.2.2-22--. 352.3. 265-5 4eneeee eee ANG
laborers in- United States_<-2.. 222 52) 2 eee 572—
merchants, honesty of ...225..2-<2s92202 2540 Sie eo eee 573
minister, gift from. 2.22222 2233552 S282: See eee XV
proclamation against foreigners: -_- 2-6. -2-22eeie 2s nonsa ees oeeeee 603
treatment-of foreign envoys: .3.<2222.. 22042 52 een ee ee 609, 634

Fin | Oe SE Cea eS Cane ee ae a Q7

‘
4
;
1

=. t.
INDEX. :
DEX m3

Cinematograph, experiments with.... Page.
Pe oniocihcation oF xules'ok. eee 3a9
Seeerarences cindy ois ee xv, 4
Clark, A. Howard, editor’s report by... : ; : ; ; s ee Ag Te a . ri
proceedings American Historical Association by...) 3 a

Glark, Alvan,-optical work by_.......2.2....-:- nas eS 9 :
Re MeN toils fom: ee ee
Meee pow and terrcsttial.. ee 54
Coaleapundant meChina: =---2-22-..5...- ; en Sk pe ai ee a ua
rate of growth Apes See ee ricinck age a ee a por
Seen aon. wes Of) ee ee ee sae
Colominbotosraphy, advance. - 2-22... 220- 2-252. -- i ‘ ; ; } : ; ; ey... = Ee
printing, thanee=ColorPLOCeSS: 2 ey. ot eet eee eee : ; ‘ : j : j . Ea

Fiend ards Ot proposed wOrksOnes- 2.0.4.0 ne aes ee 99
Cometsand=meteors, procressam Study of = 2825-2 eee see eee eee eee 148
Committees on graduate study in Washington -...........-..----.-------- yak
Condensation producing dust particles, Barus on ....--....--------------- 11
Pennimenmaecolden, Tie Ol: < o2.2 aot cae eee eee ee a ee 565
Mimeaorhiver, CKplOravlON Of... 2 222-2- 42 -oche - a= oe ee ee 418
Congressional acts and resolutions .......-.-.---------------------------- LIX
Conservation of energy, discovery of principle of ..-.--------------------- 318
Gonrments, evolution of .. .-. 2-5. - 52. ¢----2-me-- 6] 22 a= eae 270
Cooke, George H., on Faster Island .-...---.------------+-----------+---- 115
Cooke, Dr. R. P., study of yellow fever by -.-.-.----.-------------------- 663
@ooke, Thomas, optical work by -.----------.----222-2272-*2 555 --7-7--7" 128
Cooperation of Executive Departments -.-.-.--------------------7-+7+7+7- 21
Cope, Alexis, on graduate-study committee. ..-..------------------+7-+--- XVII
Cope, E. D., treatise on crocodiles and garda oop ee eee eee 17, 58
restoration of extinct animals, by --.-----------------------+ 485

Corona, sun’s, measurement of heat (0) ee ere re Ie Ber Aer tA 154
Correspondence, methods and extent Of re ee ee eee 20
@otheal, 6. H., collections from ...---+--=----------=---==-5 22-5758 52
mie Blight deat NO... ac. 5.222--< <= =~ Saas or “oer ee 72
peqplorallons Wye... 226 << toos= ooo ee ea ae 59

Coville, F. V., Alaskan plants collected. Dy i222 -- 22 = = pon ie 54, 55
Creation myths, Chinese and Japanese --------------+-+-5757 57 77trro 576
Crookes, Sir William, electrical researches 1) ee ee ert 331
Pierce.on rank Of - 22-2 -2-4-<5 == ee 695

psychical research by -.---------+------2700057777" 678

researches on kathode rays by--------------------- 371

faniah antiquities trom... .<-----=--------55-0"" >t 58> Sts men eee ae Oe 52
Paeliand Holmes. it -..:2-c-<e9<2<=-04=>- oo ae ee ee 59
zoological collections from. .--.----------2+- 75-5577 899555 55
Cullom, Shelby M., Smithsonian Regent... - <= =--=-"---9=> ee" — soo" eaaeee x,4
feontiionm tablets, discovery Ol ..--.----=---5e="7snsaeyanny en ae 539
decipherment of -*--2- --2-4> =e 7oo == <capnemn eees os

funningham, E. $., ANLMAIS SECULCO. WY eee eat re a oe lems ia cman Bis:
Curie, Picrre and Madame, discoveries DY-——- “tq seep e405 en ae eee bez voy
Curtis, Thomas E., on trial of Zeppelin aitsDp een are ee errr (oo ee ah i
Curtiss, A. H., plants from.------- sesh sr reaps ee) see
Cushing, Frank Hamilton, death) Olio sec - ee oe re ee ; on
explorations DY) c-cee comic a= Sin en Ss tale eae sb

481

Cuvier, restorations Of mamas: DY tas == sen ores ce ae ee OR4

Btudy of fossils Dy>22s>--2.2; ~<a cae a
736 INDEX.

Lu
Page.
Dall, W..H., ‘Alaskanexploration by o<- ... 2-2-2 2 eet eee 428
Alaskan mollusks collected Dy 52-23). 2 -zaceeenee i eumeee 52, 55
Hawaiian mollusks grom.. so. 5 7.2 £55 os Sane ree 53
Daltony. John, echemiealstheory Of si 2352526 25. a ee ee ee 237
Daniel). J. W349, collections irom. 2 a2 ess oe ce ee ees 53
Darwin; “Charles> biolopieal work Of) 3-2 eS oe ee ee 468
Darwin, ‘George, ‘stithy of moo tiy.oo. 03 |. See se ee 139
Darvin GH. on‘are of. the earth 22)... 22S aan eee ee 298
Darwinism, development‘Gr_es-< 2. 2S: 32 a Se ee eee 468
asley One sak 25.5 22 Se ee ee ee 469
Dasize, A>, paper by o-4 0 o.oo oe ee eee ee eee 114
Daughters of the American Revolution, report of ..........-...--..-.----- 117
Davison: Cs) ete =. 2 see ee ee eee ee eee 309
Davis, William Morris, geological studies by ......-.......-..----------=- 283
Dayy, Sir Humphry, chemical discoveries by .........----------------«-- 235
Peirce on: scientific work of. -> 2... gcc ee eee 695
researches Dy 2 ov Sent. eee eee ee ee 327
de ‘Chalmot, Marie, plantas from <2 . 22s Ae Se ee eee 53
De Gerlache, Antarctic exploration by .....2.....-/...-.3.-...- ine es | 425
Delabeche, Sir Henry, restoration of extinct animals by .......-.----.---- 483
de Leon, Perry, collections from . ..... 2. ch Late cat ase ee eee oe eee 52
Delitzsch, Friedrich, on discoveries in Mesopotamia ............---------- 535-540
Deluge, Babylonian account of the’. 2. -.- 2 3 ee = se ee ee 540
Denionglory, Chiveké.<: 5... ec ee oe ee ee 595
De Morgan, excavations at Sars bys. .< 2.1.20. es tee eee aoe 545
Deville, St. Claire, on density of garner ~~. ...25-- 2.6. a he oe ae 243
Dewar, James; medal swarded to: .. i22.5.5.48 3 ace eee ee XIV
on liquid hydrogen {= 3s5;-2.20.4-. > ie neeeeae ee ee 113, 259-264
researches bi. .<.2252 222 eo ee ee ee 319
Dewey, Adimiral,- collections from 22252542. 6... sedis. Sow a ee ee 52
D’ Hérisson, Count, on loot of summer palace at Pekin. -.........-.-..---- 601-635
Dinkas:of sAtrica “habits oto 2-7 fe ooo eee eee OE eee Rae 444
Dinosaurs, character of covering Of. 2.7. 22-2 22 ose eee eee 489
restoration Of S222. 28 Pose seer ee oe eee 480,
Dinsmore,-Hugh .A.; Smithsonian Regent 2:02... -.. 22. ses eee ee ee X, 2,4
Diphtheria, prevention Of. =. 22%. cn. eee eeet cha oe ee ee eee 643
Documentary history of Smithsonian Institution......-....-.-.--- ae LIx, 16
Dodson, W..P:, Atrican ‘objects, from’. 22-622 oa eee eee eee eee 52
Dohrn, Dr:, director of Naplesistation. <<< 222-222 ses ee eee 14
Dogs and savages, Langkavel on. 22. j5ije.cncc eee cs- eee eee eee 114
Douglass, A. E., on a message from Mars .2. 2.5223 2c52555 22. ees 169
Dow; Earl Wilbur; paper by 2.2 222524..05 52062 e8e ee ee Lay)
Dragon, Chinese, suggested by fossil animals --.:2.......---.-----.-------- 575
Dragons’ bones; fossil teeth called 2: 50.050 22 ipsa eee ee 576
Draper, Henry, first to photograph star spectra ..2:.-...----------.-22--: 132
Draper, Dr. John, spectrum ‘researches’ by’: 2.22: 52-22. e eee ee 689
Draper, J. W., makes first celestial photograph ~...-- od Loac Ogos eee 132
Draper, Mr., member of eclipse expedition..............-..-..-.--------- 149
Draper, P...A.; solar eclipse work ‘by -222...-.222-2 = ee ee eee 151
Draper’s researches in solamspectram... >< 222°¢55. 28S: eetee. ese cee ee 685
Droitde’ Banalite,. Munroson 222 22s acs 2 ee ee ee alk?

Du Bois-Reymond, researches by------ - ia ae OS Se eA 473

INDEX. 737

Dubut, Subintendant, tortured by Chinese Page.
Beene Mi. at Naples station... 2. 634
Dugmore, A, Radclyffe, animal photographs Wyse ee ; ; ; i ; : bel aii
character study of outlaw beaver bye =2- ‘< 51 7
nature pictures by_..___. Raateae
Dulong and Petit, chemical law of_.___.- Ue a Wee leer aes ee eee as 8
Binsvas Jean Baptiste Andrée, cited.........-.). =
Dust particles, study of, by iIBarusese eee Pricer di war a ; : , es See aed "4 ;
Dynamo, electric, introduction of...................................... aaa
machines and motors, development of ....-__-- , - ak

EK.

feeeenmtinebt, description of =.2-)....2... 05) 22 909
SERRE ISCO Tomiie. cee 6 oe a So ee 1k ag 480
he Conte Ome. osu oe os ee ee ee ee eee ee ee 9°77
Olas OM ko sence oo the Ota Sh Ie en ee eo ee 298
Gminicalgpeniodsrin) nistonyyO tases scenes ee ene 281
Chinese and Japanese myth of formation of ._.........---.-------. 577
SECrUS FOSclllatonyv=movements Ol.) sseeeese) =e n eee ee 275
Perey pers cune Of 3.42 = AL etc acs Sess feel eee cee: Bae ee re 295
DeOcarGWwerUsh Ol, va. Mh oo ee oe oe 2 eet eee 297
Sanivamistony Ol <Sac52 2 28 see np ence oe eae Le ee ee ee 291
Pquntoral diameter Of <>. 29.3: ce8 feces eae ae eee ne an eee 136
PerMmablon, tueOLy Oles2° <2 sage... ce eae s Se ooee pac 6 Pee a it eae 269, 274
MMEAMBGENSILY Ol = 2 oa a. wee ok eee eee oo ee 137
Waster Island images, account of-..:-=.-----.-.-----2----------t=----=:-- 115
, Eddy, William A., kite observations by -.---.--------------------------- 224
Edison, T. A., electric traction experiments by--.----.------------------- 346
Edison’s incandescent electric lamp, history of -.---.---------------------- 344
leyptnam steclyards -...+...---.--2--2-6-------- = 2 - see 5-2 2 ea eee 552
Electrical resistance, standards of......---.----------------------------7> 410
standards, bureaw of 2.22: 52 25---<2+0- +--+ =---4--"=2--==- 409
vibrations, dissociation by-.------------------------+++-->- 375
Electric alternating current transformer----------------------------77-7>- 350

Electric-arc, Davy’s experiments with ...-.----------------------7-777-7 33
furnaces at Niagara... 22 202 =~2- --22=5-5--2----= 2 <==" senor 32
Temps bison, (0 Pie. 52S" = 2  aei e  —ee e 342
automobiles, introduction of ..-.-------------------+---77--7777" 346
conductivity of salt solutions -.---.----------------"-7-++>---"7-" 253
current, chemical energy of -----------------------7--77 7777777" 352
dynamo, development of-..-------------------- 2725700777707 338, 339
Electricity, alternating currents of..-.----------------2--57777 777 339
atmospheric, at various heights ..---.---------------7777777>- 230
during the 19th century, Thomson on ---------------------==- 333-358
mechanical energy converted to. ------------------++---7-77"" 329
Mendenhall on progress in.------------------220777 77777777 "" 327
nature of, ATES COTYV SO Ws OT a a wm a shh
Electric-lighting apparatus, history oflo 255 -2-="-08=---— ee te es zt vie
developmelit) Olas Sean en eee ee 334, IS
locomotives, introduction Oloee Sean eee win ee ie eee eee a
toy, used 124800 22222-8526 m = ee ee oe
Electric-motor cars, introdUCHOUsOR=-==- = a6 =~ =~ ar oe ee eae ae sag

337, 340, 346

development of -----------------
738 INDEX.

Electric-power, station at Niagara................---- rae 5 eee
transmission, history Ob 222< fen ce ee ee ee oe Bee
resistance of metals at low temperature .._............-.....-----
spark, photograph ot Bound WEV6.OL-<2=.<20-<c-ee uae meee eae
storee ‘Datieries: - ooo be Oo ees teen oy eae eee ee
fraction, history of £35.47 0 52 OF eo Sole aie ae eee
thivd-raul Rysbee ©: oP oes sen See atl oe eee
TNCeNPrOUME TROY = Soo Se a 52 bois nae oa aie oe oe ree
waves. sesearches I oo: 0 2 ee eee oe ee
tHeGTY OP foo isn. . Soe oe See ee eee ee eee
wendine. application of. i:..~. ~<°20. geod oo ee Oe eee eee
Electro-chemical industries at Niagara .............-.+--..2------5--+-ee-
theory; Rameay oni. 0 ee ene eee
WOPK (ONION: OFs eo e  S oe  eeeee oss
Electro-magetism, researches in... 22+ 2c tse ee occ t ee ae ee
Electromotive force, investication or. 2.) ee eee ee
ephent bunting im Asrion oo. 255. oo oe ee teeta ad a ee oe ee
Elgin, Lord, on destruction of summer palace at Peki:..-......-.....------
Eliot, Sir Charles, Samoan mollusks trom... 2. ~.-22-.22---s--45e02-ese
Lneroy,. conservation’ of, ‘principle of. 2. <2 |. - <5 62 8-ceseooe ee eee
specific, of nerves of pense .. 22... hc 8 2b etce a ee eeeee
OLyOd, RLUNOANIANR PO YRIGIRG.. onc soe ob eee Oe eee
POS) CisCOVEry: OL DIANICL Wise ao. eo dw cede oe oe ee ea ee ee
Nepy’s meteorological studies... . 2-2 225.5 2-- ene et eee aoe eee eee
Establishment, Smithsonian, list of members of .-.<-5 2-22 S2.. 52.25 eseeee
Eetimates for fiscal year 1901 .. 2: owen as ance tenes ee ee ee
ther Of apace, natnre Of! .. 3222 6 2s sake oon een ee ee eee ‘
Everett, Willis E., researches in Alaska by ..:.2.-. ==: -4-J2snc-e-245s429"
Invermann, B: W., on.North Amenecan fishes =2....2.--2-425--2e-eo eee 58
Hyolutional geolopy,, Sollas:on—- 2-2. Jos. wee oe ee ee ae eee 289-314
Kvolution of animals. Hertwie on. 29-62... abe eo a oe ee ee 467
of earth forms. .2-.02.5. 32. ces4 oe kee ee ee 269
of livine world. 22. 3 Ser SES ss ee 304
of orraniams, Sollas:on = ..o. x toe see ere ee 298
OL SPeClOS..<- So. soe es eee oe eee ee ee eee 267
stellar; theory: Of-5-2¢- sees cee ee ee 139
xchange service (see International exchanges) ....-..-----.------------- 31
Executive committee, report: Of 2.0225 sas~e tae Soles XXIX—LVII
Expenditures, American ethnology... 2-2... «<=. 235-0 4e-s.+- ose eee XXXII
Astrophysical Observatory . 22 222s 2.225. 5s see eee eee XLVIII
International exchanges -.-....-.------- nce iain oe XT
National Museum. ~ 2252s. -63s 25 fenton ee ee ee XXXIV
recapliulatiOn Of: 25S eats Se eee Se eee LV
SMITHSONIAN =>. base ee ener Rens
Solar eclipse’: = <o2: S45. c2 25 So 52k ee ee eee XLIX
Zoological ‘Park: « \- S3522,252 5-3 Se Se ae ee ee LI
Keeplorations, Aircan 2. 32. -s2 So 2sce Ieee Soe ee ee 417, 431
Antaircti®.- 2. 22 2522552232 eae Se ee ee 425
Agctié. 222 Js3-- 6.0 es Ee se ee 422, 450
by Bureau of Ethnology. 22 =: 2225-922 £42 eee 59
by National, Museum: ..222...0 920-254 69 ee ee ae 55
by Smithsonian. Institution 22250-22222 225 eek eee eee ES 15

Expositions, Smithsonian participation, Ims-22-4 45 -2ae ae oe eee 21, 57

~~.” , =

Se ae
INDEX. 739

Extinct animals, coloration of.._.___. Page.
Tegborationvot ‘nics ont sco. ee ae ee ? 491
Hye, diseases of, progress in curing .____- Se ie igi Ca 479-492
SSRIS pas eae ee ee 639
F.

Fairy islands, MAU OSL OVE ee r
“plas. TIVE ee i OBI) See ead me ee A 2 589
Famines in India, relation of sun spots and... _- i ‘ ; ; j ; : het Mee aa a nes
amr the crave. Chinese story of .........-...-.. 2 5 ae
Faraday, Michael, researches ne Pa et ee ef pes mrs
Faunal evolution, Le Conte on ‘ ey es 2 aes ; ; ree eS se Be
Feyer, malarial, Sternberg on causes of ...-.......____.- : : ; ; : ; : j ; : . eis ee
mellow. stermbete Ones -s2 2.) eo cee ee OnE aa a
emete rOOTeSs im, Prevention: Of - 2. i. 4.12 sco = oe She ee oe 640
Fewkes, J. Walter, explorations by. 2.0 =: =. 22. Geen Seen a 60
researches. Dy= 2e5 5 she 0 sae Ao ee oe 62, 65
Field, Stephen D., electric traction experiments by.....--.....----------- 346
Finances, report of executive committee.on .......---.--..---------+--- XXIX-LVII
SEecretary..S Ke PORtOMas 4453-0 2 Gee ate eee ee =e 6
Finlay, Carlos, on yellow fever transmission --..-..------------+--------: 658
Fire-alarm telegraph, by Channing and Farmer ......--.-.--------------- 336
ener) mussel; paper by. s.2olt<sec 2S sence eae ee oe ee eee 17
Rishessadded towviusemmi collections s222 Ss = sess ee ee ee 53
Pealomcal age OL 5.2.0 oo. les eects Bee ee eee 297
North American, Jordan and Evermann on-.--..------------------- 58
production, by areas ..s- s=sss00 2-2: Saeoe-- 252 ee 499
Fiske, John, reminiscences of Huxley by-.-----.-.------------------------- 713-728
Fitzgerald, Professor, quoted .......----------------------------+-+++---> 265
Flammarion, on photography of Mars --.-------------------------------- 169
Fletcher, Alice C., Indian studies by -.----------------------+--+--+-------- 60, 69
Flight, Langley aérodrome in ....-.-------------------+++++-2 002-07 199, 214, 215
Bord Rayleigh: 0m - 28 = ess ete eee eee 195, 196
Flint, James M., in charge of Materia Medica---------------------------- 51
on recent foraminfera .-.------------------------------- 115
Flying machine, Langley’s (see a/so AGrOUTOMG)is-2622- ee =o2 == ee es 197-216
possibilities Of . 2.03. S0. F622 s- 3- Bee ae ee 191, 195
Riiginie: movement.ot, birds ant. - .-.--- 22 c 26 rer ee ee 204
Wolldore, Chinese, Williams on-:-...:----=---- === +25 --2-=222" sen oon eae 575-600
Hopumintera, recent, Flintion 2 22=-.- 22: <---==--/<= == 2329-5 18)
Foreign correspondents, Gmithsoniall. seo -- ee a ee ee 73
Forepaugh and Sells Brothers, rhinoceros from. ---------------+-+-------7* 53
Maasill vertebrates, ‘color Of. .= = ---=2-2-=> 29 = = a ee 491
HOsbOTAt ON OL <2a!2)-\=t cit = ete = ee 479-492
Fossils, Marsh collection of. --------------------7 7577070000900 By
progress in study Ole bs bee eee eee ee eg se ars
Foucault, Léon, mirror improvements by S0e a = Slam = ai Se on ae ee a ee park
TESCATCHES DY. tise eine ae ne eae ee a poe
Foulon, Colonel, killed! by Chinese - 9 Aan ee ee page
Fourier’s researches on heaities Sas ete ate ea eee a eae $ ol :
Bowie, Wi. Bos jr.,.solar eclipse: work by\-~-==-2- = seas a 104, 105, 149, be
Fox, Arctic, breeding of, Varlony, 002.262 2 e a oe ee ene sa ce
Franklin, Sir John, Arctic explorations. Dy- =~ -22- = 2"" > “ese 5S5 oe eae po
740 INDEX.

Page.
Pranklin’s kite:experiments: -... 220 30 28.20 ee eee 223, 333
Fraunhofer, sprectrum: researches by. --=-- 6545052. aoe ee Oe eee 129, 324
telescope Improvemients by -*..~ 2. <5 .=5-<e524-s59eeee ee 127
Frobéning,-1:,- paper: DY) 2=- <5 See son 02 ee ee 114
FruinyrRobert, by Ruths Putnam <2<. 3. ee ee oe eee 117
Frye, William P., Smithsonian Regent in place of Vice-President ~-- - - - - XI, XIL, 2p
Fuller, Melville W., Chancellor and Regent.........-....------<..-2----e Xo
member of Smithsonian Establishment ..........---- IX, 2

G.
Gage, Lyman J., member of Smithsonian Establishment. ----..----------- 1X2
(Gaiiied, Giaeoveried Dips. So 8 esd Sure So Pe ee Se ee Bs 315
Gallery: ot art, Secretary's reporton. 2-- 2. 2-222. 2se5 aces ee ee 18
Gases; expansion Of Reenault on 2... 24525. 5- 52k ae ee eee 318
molecular complessiy: Of. ... pain 5 oe Se er ae ee ee ee 243
Molecnlsr eGmposwtsion OF — 22-665. -522+ Aa See eee ee 158
Gatschet, Albert's. researches by'.: -ic-c 2. et 2s fee er 60
Gay-Lumae’s chemical discoveries <....-..2556 .<s082eni a ssl eee 240
Geikie, James, on tundras and steppes... ....s 2. ~ 5-62 cue See eee 114
Géikie, Sir Archibald; on age of the earth’ .222.- 2222222063262 0 eee 299
Geographic conquests of nineteenth century, Grosvenor on. ..--....------- 417-430
Gedlovical additions, to Nimseum) =. 22-2 oe Ss eee eee ee 29, 54
ace ‘of ‘the earth. be Conte:on <2: =): 22be ee ee 277
peniods.of time, Bolas OM. <i n 25 — ano dawinnns eo ee 298
Geology. a century of, by be’ Contes. si 2.-ces tae. se ee oe eee 265-287
catastrophism and uniformitarianism .-.---..--02--25--)2525.2- 280
evolutional, (Sollas on. 255.4265 ee eee - eee eee 289-314
fundamental idea ot.-~ 2ca =. 95. 26s ee ee 265
CODE IIOM Boe 3a edge re =e 699
the new,. Le Conte on 2. 2: 2 2. sso Ber cele ee ee ee eee 282
George Washington Memorial Association... .........--5--2--2..022-2--22- XXI
Ghosts and monsters m Chinese stories. .2-..-...-5-+...4.-.be_Speea 575
scientific. study. Of .. 22. nenbstw eel eee eee ee eee 678
Gibbs, M.. W.., rate snumnals irom, 2... = Ae eee eee ee 89
Gilbert, G. Ko... bbs a diere mas SR ROSE Eee I Sole ge ee 114, 312
Gilbert's work in electro-magnetisin'-~°..- 5.52242. ae eee eee 334
Gill, De Lancey, solar eelipse work by,2--<<-2..¢-2-s--225.225e9—" 71, 104, 105, 149
Gill, Theodore N., member of color committee .-..-....----.----------<-- 23
Ginter, Apacs ON) 2.02) 2-536 va cee tee so eee ee ee 281
Glasstord; W. -A:, (Cuban macaw from. ..-<- =--2ea-05ee nee ee eee 53
Glazebrook, R. T., member of electrical standard committee ...-.---------- 409
Gleeson, J. M., drawing: by: .-..2-- 2-5. ub sb eek eae see ee oe 492
Glover, John, acid tower invented by. -:.--.-. o-2-2 2 pees eee 256
Goding, FE: W., ‘collections irom: --=2-- 2.222.226). 22 3) =e eee 52
Goode,'G. Brown; memorial volume Of 222. -25.2---- => ee 58, 112
Goodell, H. H., on graddate study committee .ceuc- esses 2e- Sees se gees XVII
Goodfellow. collection of humming birds _.<.2222-2 20: -25 3 s5e gee =e De
Government exchanges with foreign countries.........------------------; 78
Graduate students in Washington, facilities for .......--.-..-------------- XV
Graduate:study; committee om --- 222222 - hae ee ere ae XVI, 3
plan-for buréau, of > -3-.. ..)4e2 see ee XVIII
report on, action of Regents on): s=5.2---c6se eee teak eee XXVIII

Graham, Thomas, on’dilfusion of gases .-) = cage. 4222s ee 244

INDEX. 741

Gramme dynamo, introduction of -...___. Page.
Grant, Sir Hope, of English army in China = Ck tent ae aa see
Grants from Hodgkins fund, cireular Concerene : ; - pia e eres mt e
es, researches inden: «eee neato | =
Gravitative determinations by, pendulum: oseillationaia) le) bien i:
Gray, Elisha, invents teleautograph St oti pecenck aaah cage kee og a 2a
the telephone mndh oe eeu ease ol cain eee ae
Great men of science, Peirce’s definition of. ._- eet : i ; ‘ j i a ae
Green, Darius, flying experiment of _.___. RO CIN a tacee See aeoses in
Green, John Richard, on Huxleys.to7 eo pearretacsey Gees = Slat ago 715
Gregory, J. W., on plan of the earth hed Tied both Set pee poled yi
Griggs, John W., member of Smithsonian Establishment...............___ Te
Grogan, Ewart S., through Africa from Cape toCairo. 22 See ea. 42] 431-448
Gros, Baron, French ambassador in China ............................... 601. 606
Grosvenor, Gilbert H., on geographic conquests of nineteenth century. ____- 417-430
Grotefend, Georg Friedrich, study of cuneiform writing by... .:._- je eae DAG
pamiewoiecovery: of statue of... trsei Si ee ee a eee 542
Sgametrdoierre, glass: work by ss2.6 0 a4. o= 22 ee ee Le 127
immer rom MISC R TO Ls, < i Sty SS RSA ay Bethe 5 Seen dy 398
Gurney, Edmund, psychical research by.......--.-.----------+-----<...- 678
Guzmann, Madame, bequest ofs. 02.2 s22- 2 iseesc esd 2g Ale oeoee ee eee 172
1s
Mie Pelnnet. On Of in OL Ian 1. 25222 ee ee ee ee 114
Hale, Edward Everett .......-- SS Se eas Ses oe eee cs ee ee ee ee 30, 67
Rialencreorse: l.,-om large telescopes)... -7o. Steet: a ee ee 113
. member of solar eclipse expedition ...............-..--- 104, 149
Pie PAcaiae MISCOVERES DY Las22 a= 37 2248 2 sa ee cee ae oe ae 142
EeockaNwiliam. researches by 2222.22.22 Ss2aae ss eee ee ee 9
Ric emai Ons ySuldys Ohee8 5h ose ee = pees ae eee ene 676
Hamilton: Si William! on subconsciousness=-. 5-2 =_-- 222 esseeee else eee se 677
Eien summer Palacéateeekin =o. > soe eeer ys ee ees een a ee 628
ancraveslawnence,-Kiteamyenteds Dyas aseiaes a= seo eee eee oe eee eee 226
nlanper resident, on_craGuate studiyace sss. 255s -25= == — = ee XXI, XXII
aimanwAiackam expedition ss. - . oA. in 9522s a ee 52,55
Measan olvel: bastaliy StOLy Ola. ges.s (Sse 2a anc ee So ee eee 583
iBenaeher, Jn Bb, collections. Dy, Staci os Se se= oak soe Ao es ane ee eee 52, 70
PESeanches Wypetin cee 2c. obese eee ae ee eee 60
Hatfield, Maj. C. A. P., live animals from ......------------------=------- 90
Haunted houses, investigation of ..-....----------------------------+--+-- 680
Haupt, Paul, delegate to oriental congress. ------------------------------- 2]
Havana yellow fever commission, work of ------------------------------- 657
Hawaiian Islands, birds of, collection of ..----------------------------- : 53
voOleaniGsmaterial ArOMl | s— sae aS Seer See ee D4
Hawkins, B. Waterhouse, restoration of extinct animals, D¥ec=seeeec eee ABA
Hay, John, member of Smithsonian Establishment - ---------------------- m5
on international exchanges -.-------------------------------- 3
Haynes, J. iBL Babylonian excavations by.--.---------------------------- Sieg
Heath, J. W., assistant to Dewar. ..-.-------<------>-= 07 -s-<8s<nns canons te
tert sOtestiles COLONAL <> amr a he ae oe eee are
prosress im study Of). ---~-<~-=--=+<>c 0 seaee Ao einen See aaa a ve aia
TEGAN CHES Hakata am ee ne ie nine eee Seni. 316

theories of, Mendenhall on. ..------------------++----+--+-0t00
7492 INDEX.

Page.

Hebrew antiquity, study of -..2-.2:-2- 52 2p. ee eee d47
Heiser, V. G.,.at Naples station ....2. ..¢ 2325-254 Se ee eee ee ee 14
Helium and hydrogen liquefaction. <2 2-22 sc sa ee See eS oe 113
Helmbolts, Herman -vons. cited=. 7. 2-024 bas Soe gee oe ee 321
at Reichsanstialit 2. wjns2o5c58 ane ees OR 403

Henderson, J. B., member of committee on graduate study............---- XVI, 3
; executive committee report by..........-..----..-.---- LVI
Smithsonian Regerit.../.~ asi t Se oe LE ac eee X, XI, 4

report on National University by .......-....-----.---2 XV

Henry, J. C., electric traction experiments by...-.....2..-2-212.------<.- 346
Henry, Joseph, centennial celebration of birth of.............-.-..--...-- XV
electrical discoveries by: < 36226. .c25ek DS eet ae ee 328, 693

telegraph experiments by s:t :c222 25:0. Aedes eee 399

Henshaw. HH. W.. Dawasitan birds trom:: Se 4. 2 is See eee 53
Herbarium, additiorupitow 2] 25224 ss 332 abeotetch see eee 53
Hérisson, Count D’, on loot of summer palace at Pekin. ............------- 601-635
Hermann, Binger, on petrified forests of Arizona ................-.--+-- 3 24
Herrara and Lope, memoir by. 22. o.2:-cec5s05e Sk ee eee ee eee 12
Herschel, fir John, geological studies by. 2:52. 52522 ose Se ee eee ees 275
spectrom studies by : 2 s</./sasuret se banast Jeten, 324, 685

work in photography. by». 2-5... 52: deus ees skeet 131

Herschel, Sir William, astronomical work of -2..<-- 2 -ee oe eee 123
spectrum researohes by ss22.0,- ae oe we eee ed 685

Usenus discovered: by <2 0 so Sie to eee 137

Hertwig, Oscar, on growth of biology in nineteenth century... ......------ 461-478
Herts, Professor, . psychical researehby . <>... 5-222 Seether eae 678
researches in electric waves by - 222-4. 22.0222 -- 20-0 ee 330

Hertzian waves and light phenomena... -.(2 5.2.0.2 Se eee 372
discovery of... cto oe eee 356

Heaperornis, restoration OL. ...5. 2.55 252 sscn. teueuk o> bee eee eee 481
mewitt, J. N. B., philological work by. 228. 225i oe eee 60, 66, 70
Eider, ¥. F:, collections in Philippines by_3.- 28) oee2 5. Bele eae 70
Hill Robert L.¢ woe orto ico. 5. ®t ee ee ere ee 60
Hilprecht, Herman V., Babylonian excavations by.....-.--------.-.----- 543
Hitchcock, Ethan Allen, member of Smithsonian Establishment... ......-- 1B. 74
Hitchcock,C, 31.; collections by |. =o: 0202 so Bese oe Se eee ee D4
Hitt, R. R., member of committee on graduate study ...-...---.---------- XVII, 3
mmithsonian ‘Regent... 2c2. 22. eee =e aoe ee ee eee Ki, lak

Hiorth, Soren, electrical inventions: by... 5.022 >-.4Usck eee ea eee 338
Hobart, Garret, death Of. 2.205 2545252505255 5.8 eee eee 2G ba
member of Smithsonian Establishment ..........-------- ix

portrait of 35 .2...52- 15 st teeth ee eee ee 49

resolutions in-memory OL. 2 22s eee 49

Senator Platt'on death: obe 22.3855 52 ee eee ee 49

Smithsonian reventuso ui s.. 221 ee a ee ee eee x

Hodge, F. .W., editorial, work by .225u45:2 Sess ee ((!
explorations by... 2. + 2.23-6 eS ee 59, 60, 63, 65

Indian studies by. ....<2.2.1:! 223-2 aba eee eee ee 70

Hodgking estate, Feport ON. - =. 2-3 3545 9esdoeslp BIS ee Se eee XII
Hodgkins, fund) amount of - = 2 2322226 sh ean ee XXIX
circular concerning ~~). 2s..42 022-3. e ee ee 12

researches under Ys5 cu,5 Jo bol yo ye 9

Hodgkins medals, presented to Pembroke College ...-..------------------ 12

-_
INDEX. 743

Hodgkins, Thomas George, gift of..................... : es

Reema i. death of. 2s oa eo. k) oe ee ee =

igimes, W. H., in Cubaand Jamaica .....-................. 59. BS. 59 a

member of color corminitees< ate 4 ules eee awe "98

Home, Daniel Dunelas, propheiss wee to = ee 677

eopmadians, researches among.-.-......s<.-.-0...-......-..) 60: 62

fouen, Walter, collections in Mexico by 222... ..- 22... 22-22... 52. 55

on ehalcedomy pangs. -+ pi eas Jee : on

Beene Os, translation Dy {35.028 oo eacceke ls yk 2 ee ya ee 58

Pamela, Arihur Charles: paper by <./2.2 < 28.) Sale = secet ae See 117

fate Nir;, On echipse expedition —2. 225-22 sdcecs son -sesee e 149

Pema ay, -OXDlOratlON Olio. Sex af EL pee esas 2s so eo Ne ee 428

imam responsibility, Huxley on.o.02.. 5-24- s<sk o5- 22k eles oe 708

Lummis. explorations in Asia by 22: 022s bocce dy oo scen ee 429

South American explorations Dy =52225 74-8 eee See 428

ikon ames: seoloricalestudies) Dy 22-245 -s2. ses 22 nee ae ee ee 289

usxley, Leonard; biography of his father by ..--.....-2--.---<-2-.--2225 714

uxdiey, Thomas Henry, agnosticism-and:.........-...2 222. tensesee rece 719

am alec lassiti canon ype eee 727

broadsknowledweicies === ee (AW et eLs

homierlitevois=ss. 52552 S212 Sees ee ee eee 716

kin@inessiot, 22 28 aes ee 723

lesson. of life of, by-W. K. Brooke... 2225 Sees 701-712

life punpase Of sos5= soos. A es ee 701

Lovyallsto: tictithy 3452 Se. he. ee ee 719

OTA WAM SMe ee ae rae ree 469

onthumann walla opie 55 Ses ee ee aera ee 707

on origin of species=2 2-2 --ee242—eae  e 705

On, positivism 2... =. S22 Ss 6-6 Se 715

on the plague in London... --------------------- 702

reading habits of -...-.-----+---+---+=----+----- 717

reminiscences of, by John Fiske. -----.---------- 713-728

Witloysraiore we na\ole 25 ae eS ee oe eS 714

ydropen, abundance of.-...-2-2.22 -222--==52--e 22-5225 ~ = =F ee 160

liquid:eDewar On 2 92222222 sae0-¢ = a= a9 ee ee 259-264

iy pmotism, scientific study of-.<-<--<-=-<--=-------2= <== -Sosa- arose 676

ite

Ice, Arctic, thickness and strength TY eae tte a eesti 8 he: ae

as geological agent, Agassiz on -------------------+ 777-750 281

salt and fresh: water compared <=: 2---- -=+---------===-=- 97" "97 areser ee vt

Ice-breaker ship Yermak ------- eae ih ee 483

Ichthyosaurs, Holzmaden deposits Of ----------------+----"7> 7057" aia

imprints of- ----- a SASSER a Aerie a ea a “ia

Tjcassom NestorahlOMs OW == ear Hr pe le RB : 2

Imperial Physico-Technical Institution aja s/s)o = Sek Stier eas ian ale aan ee eae
Incandescent electric lights, history Ol - -----------------5*="-""-""""-5""" Poa

mantles: history (OF j2..<2 4-2 one aner e ore

hicime amMouUntiiaVvallable =. 22: >-~---ssc sss a enya Cee se

resolution authorizing expenditure eR ela eg eek ee mi a ad

India famines, solar changes of temperature and 45 Pein F ar Rh Senne Se

Aadiancraimtall, sun spotsand:<e-<24- s2- c=ee ae ae Fs

Indian skulls from Patagonia
744 INDEX.

Page.

Intra-redradiations, Guillaume lon. 22s oe oe ee ee ee 113

solar spectrum, Langley’s researches im-. 2 --_.........2.42.222. 683-692

Fonocent Seng, Chinese story of 22 ooo ee eo ee eee eee 597

Insects adden to Museum collection 2... > - tee: toes eee eee 53

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature..-.................-.-.--- 17

international Congress ot Orientahate .- 2522206. ee ee 21

International exchanpes, agents'of.- 22-22-28 os a eee eee 74

appropriationt tors: 2/02 kA ate gs ee ete LIX

Brussels treaty on 2: . 2822s et ee eee 31

distributing arencies!Of= = 222 5-- 22) ae eee 81

AniaMCes DE. 2S. ae eee XXXI

Government documents: < 522525. ee ee 35

pecretary’s reporton 222 2-4- nat 2 ae aoe eee dl

ptate Department and *.<52-2 50-5) ee ee ee 34

With ‘Hrante-22-- 2 sake eee ee ee eee 38

witht Germany 222200 220 See ee eee 41

With Great Britain 22-25 2+ 2-2 2e-eee Shoe See 35

WORK OF. 60 2252 Po ee ee 73-84

Tong. researches in: 2... 22 eee, ee Be ee cee pe eee eee 374

ron manufacture, propress ims coe. se oo ee eee eee 256

Troquoian Indians, researches among’= 22-2 $52 35 eee 60

Isostasy, discussion of priticiple’Gi-. > 3/2 fe. 22 eee eo eee 275

Ivanami, great deity of Hades... 2-0 2:22.26 ioe ea eee eee eee 579
J.

Jackson, John: B:, letter from: sss2c: cece 1 ease ee ee eee 42

James, William, psychical research by 2.322454. 4253e2 5.55522 ee eee 678

Janssen, J.., ON progress Jn aerOnaIOLCS': aot ye ee ee 187-193

Jastrow, Morris, delegate to Oriental Congress ......-...----------------- ZA

Jenks, 5. 1B, .oncwild rice industry. 2. Soo ete 5 eee ree eee 64

Rests CHING 2/5507 es Soe Ba Se ee ioe ee 615

Johnston, W. Dawson, ‘bibliography by. Ses) acoate ee ae ete ee eee 117

Johnston, ‘William Preston, biography of = .2+:.--=-222 5.562 4e4e ee eee 47

death Of: 25-224 ee ee eee xI, 2,47

portrait of: ..-. 02. 5.03: se ae ee 47

resolutions in memory oOf=...-2-.2-<-4-2 eee 48

Smithsonian Tevent.. 255 --.<- Soe oe x

Joly, J.,on age of the earth..2. 5.2.2... 22.02 $0 ct 55 e6k eee ee 298

Jordan and Evermann, on North American fishes -.--.--.---------------- 17, 116

Jordan, David Starr, collection of fishes from.......-..------------------- 53

on. North, American fishes- <-> 2.- = eae eee 58

Joule, James Prescott, researchesim heat by-2--2----=225--2 sss —s5 =e ee 320
Lie

Kathode rays, nature of: 22 -. 2.2..55255<05-2550 5 Stee: Soe eer 375

researches i: 2-6 2< o22e- 55.560 8s oe eee 371

Kearney,,. T. H., Alaskan plants from’. : 223-4223. oie eee 54

Keller, E.\F., photographs by... =. 2- 22 oo 2 pe 3 ee eee 91

Kelyin; Lord; early work by. :-..2-s-0:552 535 Bont sees ee ee eee 320

electrical researches bY =... 325-284-220 S25een ewes 336, 354

on age ol the earth. .22 2222522. yo oe ee ee 294, 298

on age of the sum 252.2464 5 55252253) See eee ee 303
INDEX. "
(45

Kenneday, K. K., animals from Pua

Kidder bequest, resolution concerning <1 + yaa” 0 Le Peer cape aaa 0

Kincaid, Trevor, Alaskan insects collected Dyin: ee eee eee =

Kites, first use for scientific purposes _____. F = ag ee le ea 53

Hargrave, experiments with.........- =) 223

Eermiistattainedowith... cit... eee 226

Pemay experiments with \.2-2 3. <n ae ee 229

Meteorological observations with................. 225
space-telegraphy experiments with .._.__. . oo Soe cas eee 10, 223-231

Knight, Charles R., restoration of extinct animals re ah a Seana ~

Knight, Walter He; underground conduit devised be er ale ae carl pee
Knoffler and Plaissetty incandescent mantles...__. ; “Silane peeeaaees al

Koch, Robert, bacteriological discoveries by .................. ae

Kohlrausch, Professor, president of Reichsanstalt rs. Ee ea ag =

igoaemEree State, Grogan in.......................... tp pe

Siewenebiver, exploration of ......-2...-....... 33

Kong, Prince, NecOwMAalOnsswithee= = ake eee ee me Ns : ith ea ee oe

Kramer, Mr., on eclipse expedition......_._.. a ee ee 104 a

Kropotkin, Prince, on unsuspected radiations -..........-................ 971-995

Kunz, George F., on Chalcedony park -.........-.-.----------....... al A

Mis

Lamansky’s researches in solar spectrum.......-. PIE ee en et Te oe 686

aecomec. IH. kite designed by 2-2... <csi22-cece<saccceccesc-veecuceaee 227

Peewee Ol. SOllAS OM 22.52 - fu. cosh h2206-6 Noe de eee aes eee 313, 314
Lang, Andrew, on psychical research of the century ..........-.....-..--- 675-681

amenennae OME: ODA POLO YCsacc.- cc Sie s2 5 cmeace ees c acs toner eee ae 114

MBEay eo ek | ACEOOTOME Ol. so. oc 8. sa2 ok oo eee cece seb e -see eee 197-216

annual report on Smithsonian Institution by -.---...-..--- 1-117

bolometernimyentedsbyasseesses =e ee eee eee eee 326

flying-machine experiments yc .s2---0sc— 22 =see ener ees 217

Janssen on aerodromicnwork Ole -sess=se= sees eee 191

note on account of loot of Summer Palace.......---------- 601

MOsesiOn, Mare DY. la. sec. Hoe ae aa aeiee = see 157

on plan for bureau of graduate study..------------------ XXIV, XXV

on radio-active substances: --.---=---- -<2--s=-=-=----=>=== 9

on solar eclipse of 1900......-------------------------- 46, 149-155

on spectrum lines in sun spots. ..------------------------- 183, 184

on the new spectrum .....------------------+--+----------- 683-692

Peirce on scientific work of .----------------------------- 699

railway time standard system by ------------------------- 23

work of, mentioned by Lord Rayleigh -------------------- 195

Lanman, Charles R., delegate to Oriental Congress ----- pee ee ee 21

Laplace, astronomical work of.....-------------------000-rrterr ou . 24

leer joseph; quoted ....---+.--<------ses-<0-eose ern noseennnen ences 76
Lateral pressure in earth formation ----.------------------rr0ttrrrrr 27

Lauture, M. de, tortured by Chinese... -.-.------------------7rorrrrrrnrrn ue

Lavoisier, chemical researches by.-.-----------------e0r rotten ass

iaweotmatire are not agents:....------=<<5-----=----- one-star She
Layard, Sir Austen, Babylonian explorations by-------------------7777""" wee

Lazear, Dr. Jesse W., death of, by yellow fever -------------------""""""" 661

study of yellow fever by ------------------"""-"""~* oa ms

aD 20f

Le Conte, Joseph, A Century of Geology, herr

sm 1900 d1

746 INDEX.

Page.

Lendenteld; you; nesearchés) by = = ...< 22 23sec csceenee ce eee sae eee 11
Lennox, Robert, assistant to: Dewar 222... 5. 2f<5.6-- 22. sec ese aa eee 264
Lé Sage theory: of prayitaiion 222. 2222s eee eee eee ee ae eee 113
Lewes, Vivian B:, on incandescent mantles. -....--.222.-2--25 5. 3.2-2-20e2 387-401
Lewia'and Clarke expedition: 22.22.0522 ieee net Jorden ne epee ences 427
Libby -Orin-Grant; paper by 222222 -o2 <2e2- ae saene eee = ee 117
Libraries; Babylonisin 2. 2... sce 2= 2-2 sae Se Sees ae a ae eee 539
Labrary, .AGredromics . 022-226 ete eS ioee ces comes eres fate eee 110
Astrophysical Observatery .- 72.3 owners eo ree te oe eee 110

Bureau of Wilinology. 222452. 2cse os <-oeet ee ene cone oe eee 71
custodian tor Smithsonian!deposit=---2--<2e-oee eee ee ae LIX

em plovees o.)s 6 Jaen Otc e eo eee as ees ees ee eee ieee 111

National Museum :.2.243 5.20 52 -ese ee cece eee ears 58
Secretary’ s.0fiGe: 22222. sss cores eee emirce dere eee ere ee 110
Secretary's Teport ONis...ce ea soee oc eee ee a eee eee ee ence 17
Smithsonian, Peport On se2. So. se secso eee eet ae ace cee eee oes 110

Lieber, Lieut. W..A., animals front... 2 2osS<i essere secegee ss. er eee eee 90
Life: chemical procosses:of “<< 262-22 cae cn bt Comes eee ne eee 472
of the Ocean, ‘by Karl Brandt... 2. s2<- 25 = oe eeeee ee cee ent eee 493-506
Light, corpuscular theory’ Of .....2<..2.<< 2562 ceceat cess can pwaseeas somes 322
Mendenhall ontheories'of 2.2: 3. 42524252 .sseeese- see ee 321
proeréss in atudy of. . 2... 222.2. .hes inh as sous Sees eece see cee eee 321
relation of electricity to.<.<-<2 +22: <a52.2 oie. Sees ee eee 372
posearelieds IM «<2 ssc cecscdecoctcaessaheoueee eu ertee seee see 411
piorape Of. sess sonce bees ebaslebecti: seceeanee cee ues ee eee oan 379
theories of, ‘Thomson.on..bc5 2.222 te. $6 ees eee sae eee 355
undulatory theory Of. ----2..<.<eccusestctenets eee ae eee 321
welocity Of .s=spsccusesgeeasschescetehaciess<set eee see eee 136, 323
Lindsay, William, Smithsonian Repent --2-. 2. 225. -2itsor vee vee eee x,4
Linguistica, abotigimal, study of .-.--::iessscls scenes svearenee ee toe aoe 66, 67
liquefaction of pases, Mendenhall on -+.2': v2.2 22st sce eee ete eee 319
hydrogen and helium. {/-- <2. 2s. 20 eee 113

iiquid hydrogen, Dewar on. 225-5 «2 aih. 23.22 0.. -f cee eee 259
molecules, complexity Of .<22¢-2-22-ie2- == te tee eee ee eee 244

Little; Mr:,,on eclipse expedition:. =. 2 97.24.40. pee a Soe 149
Livingstone’s explorations in: Africa ........c02s-6 ose. oe eee eee eee eer 419
hizards, extinct, restoration of 2<=-.<2:22-<.2 een - ee eee ee eee eee 484
Lockyer, Sir Norman, on progress in astronomy ...........--------------- 123
on relation of sun spots to India famines. ......----- 173

Lodge, Oliver, psychical research by=~<<-~ 22-5. 22-22o S222 - eee eee we eee 678
Loewy and Puiseux, photographs of moon by -...-----.-------------------- 113
Loftus, William Bennett, Babylonian expedition by .......-..------------ 545
Logic, human, limitations to... ..20e2:+.-t2-4e2t cet eee eters 708
PFQPTCSE ID <2 i< cede ccicvee tas gteccete eee eee ee ee eee ee 696

Long, John D;, member of: Establishment....-:.<.2-:<<--c SSSone Es eee Ix, 2
Loot of Summer Palace at Pekin, Count d’Hérisson on -..--.------------- 601-635
Louisiana Purchase Exposition, act relating to...-...-.-.----------------- LXV
‘Lowell, Percival, study of Mars by... -.......<- 1322S ees 1438
Lueas, Frederic A., on restoration of extinct animals. .2/.-2.-.2.----22.-5- 479-492
Lunar surface, photographs of........-.--------- SAE Pe ages ers 5 Segoe 113
Lyellian uniformitarianism, Le Conte‘ons.2i2sb082552- Ses eee eee 270

Lyon, Marcus W., jr., collections in Venezuela by.-..:--..-.------.----<-. 5d
M.
MacLean, Mr., letter (MOLEC See ae es, ae are ue
ee ies Se ote Ba awk VE a Pe og ee eee XVI
Beaemenca sleepy bayou... 592s. ee Peete eee Ae we
Magnetism and electricity, relation of....................-............... ont
LOO TESS Ins <8 eric Se ee Ode ois ieee ge ee 397
SUNSSPOls AMG. cos Share el ee hl ee a 146
Magneto-electricity, Faraday’s discoveries in .................-.--..-..... 938
Makaroff, Admiral, on the ‘‘Yermak”’ ice breaker _....................... 449-459
Malaria, mosquito as intermediate host of.................-..---.-....... 645, 671
Surveon-General.Stermberr on... 20-2) 26) ee ee 645-656
Eransmitted qnroughsihe blodd s--ee2 oe wen ee eee ee 648
Malye archipelago, collections from /.—. 2 o82 : he =ykoags So ae aie 52
Menletevis, ballooning Dy s.- =. 50.2228 os. o4 oes Soh ee 189
nd, TESCATCHES Ii WONG DY a2 eS us ews ee ee ee 322
eam nals: peolopical age: ob ss-— 5-5. 2. se. ee a ee ee eee ee 297
Mica pace OL,-on the earthin 38 ee wc atoeoces eae eee ae ae ee 304
antquityoand: oriomrOh sas sae tee a ee eee 279
Mancain<imvention. otalloy.s.2..c..5.0 Ses ace ce See ee see eee ee 413
Manson’s investigation of malaria and mosquitoes ....-...---------------- 654
Marine invertebrates, collections received .........----.--2.22-2222-2s---- 53
Mars asmessageVirgni: 25.02 S226 su. oo Ho ee oe See eee eee oe ee 169, 171
ALIMOSPNETE-Ol-e here ce ae sees ae se ee aaa ne ree 158
GanalsiOles 5422202 bo oz Se ee eee eee eee 163, 166
CLOW SOM eae aa nce ae ee aa eee ee ee 170
discovery of satellites.of -...-.-=-------.-----2+2------<2-=<-=--40= 142
distance of; from earths <95 2252 "55. 2: 2 ae eee ee ee 163
BATE cle SUNT CON OL ora sete pare nee ete ea 143
notes on, by Sir Robert Ball ....-.-.-------------------------+---- 157-166
possibility of life on ......------------------------++-+++++-------- 165
SEASON OM sec ree re tae ara a al a 163
SACOG) cs ee a ei IE SEIS 158
NAL G OT OM ao ere ee eae ee Dele eee ome Se eens a een 161, 170
Marsh collection of fossils. ...--.---------------------------- +2700 00057" 29, 54
Marsh, George P., print collection of ----------------------------+------- 18
Marx, George, spider collection of-.----------------------------++7--7->- 53
Mascart, electrical researches by-.------------------------- 77-0077 7 000777 354
Mason, L. O., autograph letters from --.---------------------=--205-0777>" 52
Mason, Max, experiments by ------------------------s2207ercctrertrre 369
Mason, Otis T.,on Porto Rican antiquities. -....-------------------------- 113
paper by----- Se a eee chen i a
Mastodon, discovery of hair of ---.----------------------050700rr rrr pe
restoration OL 22.2 se. 2 se oie ~ 2 3 ee ne eee 92
Materia mediea, progress IN: - 2... -----2-<-- == 2 =a nes SS see ase 471
Mathematical analysis, achievements of-.---------------+------ 0770007" ni
Mathematics, progress i... .--+--=--- #- 75 =<2--e- Jean sae een cen aees sens me
Maunder, Walter, study of Mars By: 22s G sade eect ae eet ene st
Maxwell, Clerk, on nature of light -..---------+------7s-----00"s2"o57-= pes i
Maya language, dictionary of---.------------+-2-rsorrr esr en enn a
Mayer, Robert, physical researches Dye sates ame a ee ns aie ee 994
McAdie, Alexander, kite observations DY; Sie = eee ee Se ee 499
McClure’s Arctic explorations. -.---------------- 77 nr r rrr Pa 66
McGee, W J, ethnological researches: Dyas > Aaa des er ee ; “9g8
geolapical studies, Dy=-3- >= 2-5 -=—=S---25o--8 sg oe ait

ork area, OF BOCUNERtS 2.0 see em ae ae
748 INDEX.

Page,

McGuire, Joseph D., archeological gifts from....:.....-.-..--=.-.s22..2.! 26
paper: bys 22-82. ge ee eee ae eee ee 115

McKean, W., chemical researches by2s2c = essen eee ee see eae 389
McKinley, William, member of Smithsonian Establishment.............-- 1x, 2
Mechanical energy converted to electricity=.-=-22%--2222-2-cusseeeeees--e 329
flight, .podsi bilities OF =~. .c% --siaeaetee eee eee 191

precision, researches im. .: oF ee ceeas 2 Se ee ee 411
Méchanistic doctrine oflife :... ..2 2-2 -554.45 2 i ee eee 474
Medal, Smithsonian, awarded to James Dewar .....-.-......-------------<- XIV
Medical discoveries, Hertwig.on.. 2... os.2 tons Slee ee eee 471
Medicine; prevelitive, progress inz22-5422 -2slsn S225 eee ee ee 642
progresd.in, during 19th century: 3. da:<|. ses ee 637-644

Melyill, Thomas, kite observations by 2222-6. Soi aoc, tee See ee 223
Mendenhall, ©: E., bolometric work. by..2.22 222.3. 2-2 eee ee 104, 149, 151
Mendenhall; T.G., on ‘propress in physics... 5-22.22 5 S eee eee 315-331
Menach, P.C., at Naples Station ai io2 24. ee esac ee eae ee eee eee - 14
Merriam, C. Hart, on Alaskan expedition..- --.- ----2.4- se seen eee 55
Mesopotamia, discoveries in, Delitzach on... -..--2.-.66255202-0e- eee 535-549
Meteonte from: Alleran, Michie 52-2326 2 Soe ae ee ee 54
Meteoritie nature of Satum’s mines. >) =e as soe ee 143
Meteorological observations with balloons...........--------------------- 190
with) kites:,....£ 352222 ee eee 10, 223-231

Metéots, progress in;stud y Of_--cc6.2--b sce sccteces eee ee eee eee 143
México, proposed absorption:of 222... so sass eteececeeeee eee eee 117
Meyer, Victor, chemical researches by.-.-.---.--------------- wat peeves 242
Michelson, Professor, echelon spectroscope invented by......------------- 326
researches DY 2.20. 22s Seeds wiseaceei Coto eee eee 324
Micro-organisms, diseases caused. by=..-22- 22222-2252 eee ee 637
Miller, Frank Hayden, ‘paper by =..2- 2.2. 3426-3 ee eee 117
Miller, Gerrit §:,-jr.,; papers by.2- 225.5 ce cosa ee ee eee eee 58, 116
Mineral additions to National Museum... .2>..c.cc sch mest ee eee ee 55
Mississippl River, exploration off. c ecco a2 ocak 2 yee enoeneeeee eee 427
Mitehison,, J; letter groom. = eee 12
Mohr, Charles, planta from=c<.222 2s54-ccee ose ee eet ee ae eee 53
Moissan, Henri, electrie-furnace researches-by_-—. =-/22 = 225-4 eee eee 353
Molecular complexity of pases— 22.23. -225--2-Ss see 2 eee 243
theory Of gases | 22255. cose gos ee ee ee eee 158

Molecules and electrical phenomena. 2s s--c2.22 [osu Sess een ene ee ee 376
biological sitid'y of 2.2 4.6.6 24025252 ee Se eee eee 476
continnousmoslon Of! 265 es cee emee eae eee 385

ions aN ©. oe eke eer ee ee 374

liquid, complexity of -.25-.0200 S223 ece eee eee eee 244

progress in study of...2- 225.2 Soe0555 52425820) See eee eee 240

structure of, Ramsay on .52. 54.20 J22S eee ee eee 247

variation in movement Of 22. 52-22. 52-2as-n=n5-- eee ee eee 325

Mollusks added to Museum collection: |... 2.2-425242 55-22 oe eee 53
Montauban, General, in command of French army in China..-..--.-------- 601
Montmartre, vertebrate fossils fromics-.c2seosese eee eee eee eee 480
Moon, maps of .....5 2 22a as Gas Seen so ee ee eee 141
origin of ithe; Sollasions.2 232-2 e523 Ce eae eee ae 293
temperatire Offs. onen ssacleeeee tae OS Sees 107
theories. of motion of... 2.3. -c 2 sf ee eee ee 138

Mooney, James, Indian studies bys... 4255252555 se eS bee eee 68
: INDEX. 749

Moore, H. F., on Albatross expedition ...._. Page.
Moran, John des bitten by yellow-fever mosqnitces NRL mis eRe Sse oa 2, 55
Morgan, T. H., member of Naples Station congaitie eo ae 668
Morrill, lames Selettonol thanksdromel:- «oc. kl de, LOM en l4
Morrill, Senator, on new Museum palin s)he ee XII
Morse, development of telegraph by.......................... 28
Meraniincstnialarialieyers'aud’ c... o> ae ee Ale ee 320; SSD
transmission of yellow fever by- ; f EE eee poi, sd

Mouchez, Admiral, aAstrononier-- eee a4 gedaan Moe ee
Mountain ranges, geology of ...............-- a er Ge ae Soa 150
Miller, Johannes, on nerve Ae ee tt ed ae 12, OUD, wi
ieee WW -Bounethsmaper bys /..cel.. oe en eee ie
Meee iois' photomriplv of... an ew ee aes eid
Myers, Arthur, psychical research by................--..-.---....... oo
Myths, creation, Chinese and Japanese -..........-- ; ; ; : ; : ; ; . es x

I.

Nancen’s:Arctic explorations. 222...--.-2:-----+--s-<seS---0-ke 494
ttc aint Pra) enon eS ok ae 449

Naples Zoological Stations, methods at.....-.........-.--------.- ; ; : pes 58. 1 16
: Smithsonian table at......---- i a eee ee 4 j ; ; ; 14

Manerilancuaged, dictionary of... 2s. s22---- 53. = se eee ee 30
National Educational Association, committee of ..........--..------------ XXII
Watonal Museum, additionsito collections =22 +22 -=-2---e=esseeeee eas 52
APPLOPEIAGIONS LOPS 5 =. 8 ere ees ee ee ee LX

exchanges byros-t 5525 5240 - eee ee 55

explorations: DY 25 29st oa. een ee ee 5d

finanGes!Ole--e2 5 a. eee ea eee ee XXXIV

installation swOEK ns o-2 ease ee ee 56

library, Of 22-2 6 -<2sps6 222 2s8s4 es 5-4 = ee 58, 110

new building needed for ......------------------------ 28, 51

object work of . .....2---------------<==--2=00-=--28-" 26

organization and staff.....-.-------------------------- 51

publications by ----------------------------+++-+--+-- 57, 115

public benefits of. .....---------------------++-------- 57

purchase of specimens for -.-------------------------- 29

Rathbun’s report on...----------------+--+----------- 51-58

Secretary’s report on ....--------------++---++----77>- 26-30

use of, by graduate students -------------------------- xv

National standardizing bureau, proposed - -----------------------+--*-->> 23
National University, special committee report on. -------------------->>- XV-XNVII
National Zoological Park, accessions to ------------------++-++7777 7700" 85, 94
appropriations for--.-.-----------------++-7+77 LXI

change in boundary of-.-------------------++>> 87

Dr. Baker’s report on.-.--------------+----+++> S498

finances Of .<=<sss--s2--s-s-2-+-5-+--2-55=s ee" L

improvements in oo tee ee es eee eae 14, 85

list of animals in....-..----------------+--*"*" 92

list of donors of animals to- ..------------------ 4
property of. .-.2-2---<=+----==---ss-s9-serseens 85

Secretary’s report on ---------------+---7*77"""" WAS

study of beaver in-..-------------+--+7*"°""* 517
523

tiger Uae 2s <cs~ ce see wane ene see eee
750 INDEX.

Page.
Natural knowledge, ‘benelit of=2.~ = oc. = soe ace ae eee ee ee ee 704
Nature of matters Mendenhall tones. sees cee ae ee ee ee 331
Nature, pictures, ‘by A..K. Dugmore << 2.5. 23-4 eee ae cea 507-515
Needham, Jamesa:; papers DY s..2- 2. ee eee ee eee 58, 116
Neptune, discover yiOios = et Se nee eet eee eda ee 137
Nerves of ‘senke;spetitic energy. Of <2 5.2 <8 y= oe oe oa ee ee 470
Neweomb, Simon, on ape.of living world2!.- 22652. 855222) 2° us ee 480
astronomical work Of: 535 2 0e = ae ee eee ee 1388
Herrce:on work Wht ete. 2 age ee 699
New-epectram, bys. P. bangley > 02 2s 2 se a een ee eee 683-692
Newton, A. 31., study of meteors by = 2) --56co-) 5a ee 144
Newton, Alined: onvhabits ‘of Arctic foxes =e =p =e ee 527
New York Printing Exposition, act relating to.---2.:.2-..-2.-_....-2-=-e- LXIV
Nispara Falls electric. power. station. 2 (22.5225 5.28 te ee ee 351
Niepce and Daguerre, photography founded by..-...-....--..-.----..----- 131
Niewenelowski,..M., wesearches by 2.22. p<cesl o-oo oe ee cea ee ee 380
Niper River) exploration Of-...< ..--~ 25. oes ae ee 418
Nile exploration. onthe... 2... 22 -4< eee Oe ee 418
Wile floods, sunspots and o-oo oo ote ae eh ee ee ee 182
Nineyel, exenyations.at..<.....J.5.0 202-65) geese eee ok eee 537
Nippur, excavations at 7. ccs cle ce ook ee oe 543
Nordenskjold, Baron, Arctic explorations’ by = -=..--.2-<--24-2. Joes se ee 422
Norman; (Mir; ‘kaullec iby @binese= 62-22 eae see 634
North America, exploration of, during nineteenth century. -........-..----- 427
Notable adyance in color photography .. 2. - +s eee ee 523
oO:
Ocean’ basins/and continents, evolution ols. 32-22 =e eae eee eee 269
life, Brand tion=<.2<22<¢ 2c5 Vat See ee ee eee 493-506
Ogéans, ofigin of; Sollas.on=225. 025. 2-5 5. 4-.. 2 See eee 294
Oersted, Hans Christian, experiments in magnetism by -.-...-...-.------- 328, 335
Old Testament, history, chronolopy ol .2-: .. 4.4... seee ee eee ee 547
Olney, Richard, Smithsonian Regent. 22sec be eet eee Sone
Olszewski, researches by .--.------ Used coueew esa 46 Se Res aee eee aoe 319
Ontogeny, development of:... ..- 5252202225322 eee 466
Oppert,. Jules, Babylonian explorations by -3...40<2 2 seen saeee eee 545
Optical instruments, progress 2-2... =. 2-. Joe be ee eee eee 124
Ordnance and Fortification, Board of 2.2. =. 82-6, eee eee XIV
Ord; James. T., collections#rom),. 252-22 eles.) eee Sener ee ee eee 52
Organisms, evolution, of, Sollasiontss=- =. .c sees sees ee ee 298
in the O@@aMn 22.3 5.:252-0055-4s0eet Soe ee eee ee eee eee 493
Orientalists, international congress.of. ... 22.62 -seseee3 eee eee 21
Origin and.antiquity ofaman...-.. 3  3- oe  eeee 279
and. permanence of species). .4./.ee-ces ese eee eee ee See ae _ 267
of man; Haeckel on.s254 22. 25225528 Se ee eee eee 114
of species, Herting on 22.2 52.4552255.24 3% pee a eee 468
Orr; (M/A... on: the Ganalsiof Mars>.5222 4. eee ee eee 166
Osborn, Henry F., restoration of extinct animals by ---...-.--.----------- 479, 484
Outlaw beaver, study of, by Dugmore o..2.25. 5-02 sos eee ee 517-622
Owen, ‘Thomas. McAdory, bibliovpraphy by 2-25. jsseeen ee ug
Oxymna, restorationOf.. 2222 26 ee ee eee 481

Oxygen, discovery Of 220. de. 3ce boi He ee ee 234
INDEX. asl

ie
Paleontology, development of .............................. pF
Palmer, William, Collections lyr. 923) 05. pueda “BE
Pan-American Exposition, National. Museam' at’ 222. 32 57
Pipa opluidianis, study Of.2 22.22.4222... 22.21. d ee as
Parasite Oreanisms, discovery of ._..-.-2..2-co.eesd-case-ed. 471
mse xposion, act relating to... 22 << 2.22... 2822.20. eo LXi
Eanenwanga; explorations by 22-0222. 2.22 ee en eS 418
fea mCHiTicse stony Ol-theco. - 2.2. 2a S22 ee HT
Easteur, bacteriolopical discoveries by 22... 2.2 .2-2-2 .euecu. 2. ee. 44
Paonia, Indian sculls iron, 2-205. cs 22S eee Oe ees ee eee Hy
POSE ARCHES NM a. a chao oe te aes eRe See A. ee 60
Eatie, Brigadier, of Hrench army.in China::.._-._---2-2..2.) ee 6238
Pewee titlia). Stud VOL... :aa2. Oks. esau tees 2 eee eee 69
Jeane, WUimenal, Oye IMIS OMe Oe Sone Gace nose sass aoe gence sec 2 oe 492
Renae <PCUiMlOn, SWOlk Of aoa- 02226 Cotes oe. 2s ee ee 60
Peirce, Charles S§., on century’s great men of science....-...-....------.-. 693-699
ommmsloot ol summer palace at. -2) 2252.22 si 42s 3 eee ee ane eee ae 601-635
PekaimObservatory, the looting ‘of ¢: 222422222... os. - 2 eee ee eee 185
Rembproke College; medals presented’ to . 2... s.2. 222-4 2 ences aoe 12
etrananaklyitie LOY es. oc wee eee oe te eee a 205
Peters. John P:, Babylonian excavations by--.+.2----.2:----22-----2=863 543
Benined torests oF Arizona. 2.22. 2226s. 2 ee = eee 23
Petronius, tale of, compared with Chinese story ------------ eae are 587
Philippine Islands, collections from. ......------------------------------ 30, 55, 70
comimercial’value Os) -neias) oe ee ee 2 574
live animal siirOme sss se es es a ee 0)
Phosphorescent bodies, researches in ....------------------++++++------>> os
effects of low temperatures. .----------------------------- 268
Photograph, first ever taken on glass -.----------------+-------+++777-->> 131
Photographic action by metals ....-.---------------++------+rrrtttttte oe
Photography, celestial, progress in -.-----------------+-----+-050r 00007 131
development Of 2.<.2/----2+---2-==- -=2—"2- oon =n eons 331
of birds and animals, by Dugmore ---.---------------------- wi
Gf colors. 242-202 -feeca nner pope
Of Sound “Waves s22.-- 22+ <2, === 2a or =e een Soe
: > 476
Physicist and biologist, relation of ...--------------------s--7 7707507755" 607
Physicists, great, of the century ------- et an Ae as ai ek 79
Physico-mathematical methods in physiology -.-------==~2-s-Sa+<s-9sumn= ine re
Physico-Technical Institution at Charlottenburg... -------+--+-----+7-"-- a:
Physics, researches in, at (Charlgttea Wie .¢228"=>7- 4a" oo eee 915-331
progress in, Mendenhall ONE Seen ee a 469
Physiology, experimental, development Of -..---------=-----=s"""""" 14
plant, Wiesner on .----------- te cea hen 2 PS 46. 101, 150
Pickering, E. C., AairoR Ovni Cal WASPS MOR 5 conn) eee ae ; 130
Pickering’s researches in stellar spectra ------------=---"--""""""" "7" sd ; 498
Pikes Peak, discovery of ..---------- Fe Ee ae eM ea OS. at tS 691
Piper, Mrs., psychical experiments with -----------------7--077775 777777" 115
Pipes and smoking customs, McGuire attain at eels fan aS j A eeean 805
Pithecanthropus erectus, age OLS Smee rr ont, eo ee Sw i 114
Dubois O0=+ 2-22 --5-<-" "ner 5 ae kan 279
6 Opole: Obst. 2—s=sanecor ange ee ee 702
Plague, London, FURIE yPOUe 02m <3 nae ute Nanas erg HOA

Plankton, study of, by Brandt
7592 INDEX.

Page

Plant physiology, Wieser On. ss. 2.) 22.50 5 4s5- eee eee ee 114
Plants added to. Museum. collection... 22.2220. 28 ee ee 53
cell theory Of 52. 2..222202. oe ee eee eee 462

ocean, ‘Brandt on sit 22k sos be Se ee ee ee ee eee 494

Platt, Orville 21., Smithsonian Rerenti: (22 2. oo se eee ee ee X, x1,4
Polo; Marco; explorations Dy:.:..20s. 355-5352 2-2 eke ee eee 429
Polonizum, experiments with’). <2. -o2.- 2252 2h. ee eee 9
Porter, A. B., expermmerite by = 2.522322 eo eee eee 369
Porto Rico, antiquities Of (2. 2.52522 55'22.. 5. eee 17, 113
collections made tia. rs. sk t  eee eee 53, 55, 60

Postage, appropriations fors.') = 2.222.525 22 2 ee fee ae eee XLIII
Powell, 3. 0W ose cde oe oo Seen a ee eee eee a es Bee ee 30, 52
exploration of Colorado Canyon by... 22222 222 22 eae eee 428

geplopical studies by. = = 2.2222. .- 2-2 Shee eee ee 283

in ‘Cuba ‘and Jamiaies: 22222330 et ee ee eee 55, 59

researches 'inMame:by:. sv on seen eee Se eee ee eee 59

Pratt, Arehbishop, cited 2-22-53 ss2-. 2 S2see 2. ee ere 276
Predestination, Humley on. 24, 2<.22 224 e252 seb oe ee eee ee eres 707
Preece, W. H., on ‘wireless:telepraphy - 2.22 s2isseesensr eee ae ee 113
Pressure,.measurementofe< 4.22 322 2 ssh ee Se eee ee eee 412
Pribilof Islands, ‘breeding of Arctic fox on-c22s2 55455: so Sse ee ee 531
Priestley and Scheele, oxygen discovered by .......---------------------- 234
Prince, Walter F.; paper by ---S..s2 /s222sesene)s Se ee ee eee UAL?
Printing and. binding, appropriation for. 3)... = [432s eee eee XLII
Propressiim aéronautics. Janssenvon-. <2 -.. 52 ean ee ee eee ee 187-193
in astronomy... Lochyer on. .....-..-- aseae eee ee 123

in biology, Hertwig on. o>... .2 <<. . 32 Se eee eee eee ee ae 461-478

in. electricity, :. Mendenhall om..congsj is eee) ee ASE ee 327
Thomson O0)...... 22 ee Sees oe oe ee eee oo BOS

in. geology, Le Conte on...) scck. 3-22 eee) 2 aoe ee eee 265-287
insmedicine,.J. S:sBillines ont. 2242225 eee eee eee 637-644

in physics, Mendenhallont 22. 2-22 i aca. 22 dees eee tee ae 315-331

in. psychical research, Juang iom-= oe. 2222c- veces tee eo ee 671-681

Protista, study .of the:...22 twice ce nes aoe een = eee ee ae 463
Prout’s researches in. atemic weights.....-.2o<25 =-.2s5- sec es> see eee eee 239
Psychical research of the century, by Andrew Lang -..-....--..---------- 675-681
Psychical-Research, Society for: “2... 225 3eeess + Albee ese ee eee 678
Pterodactyles; flying reptiles .2-- 220, Sosa ee ot 2 ee eee 490
Publications, American Historical Association --2-- 22-2 25225225 255-- eo nz
Astrophysical Observatory. . 22 -d2=42s- Meee se Be 99

Burean.of Ethnology 25:5 .-22: 25... 222 3eess-2- Se eee 71, 116

cash sales of . . scene 22- Sn- 5 2a eee eee ee ee REX

editor's report On). 22 css 2 Ssbe aCe ee eee eee ABS

National: Museum... 32). Scs226 2-2 a ee ee ee 57, 115

Secretary's report omar 25255 Sse see eee Wosse eee 15

Putnam, G: Rs, solar/echipse works bys--- 4. =e eee eee 104, 105, 149, 151
Putnam, Herbert, on exchange service. .. 25222 42-s2=-45==-2e a eee 45
Pygmies in Africa, @hrogan on « ~ 222. 422 2562592 5-8 ae ee 439

Queen Mary’s secret jewels 2.2222 << 54:25 220. c ose ase ee eee ees 680
INDEX. 7538

‘ oe
R.

Radiations, phenomena of _..__...__. ‘ ie
at SS S8S ae niin Ga eens EE ee 371-385
Radio-active substances, experiments with _.......__. ‘9 380
Railroads, developments of, in China.......................... if ‘aa
. . . Seriya mene nomen eased ine ati TS ; 9
Railways, electric, introduction of.........__. 346
. . SA kp at ee OS cae ay oy a at cae aaa eae ; ‘
Rainfall and sunspots, relation of..........__.. 145, 173-184

= ) Me . . Ene: com Wk a igh a a = ftp
Ramsay, William, on new gases and periodic law...............-.... 113

on progress in chemistry 233-257
Rare earths, experiments with

Pee Tarheel jaccictant concotary 7. te gee ee
on Chalcedony Park : rin Nesces cee a ae Ca 06
report on international exchanges by............-.--- 73-5

report on) Museum by,0 1.2 same eae ee ee 51-58

Rawlinson, Sir Henry, Babylonian expedition of .............-.2....----- 4b
emcivh: Word) oudights a2252.— 2. |: 9s, 040 At ee ee See 195, 196
ReSeaTChOd DY. 2 aes uxe oc 2 Joe Oe ee eae ee on

Rays kathode.and other) researches ini -— 2. --....-5-ss-- eee aeeeee ee eee 371-385
heciprocity waith-China; Wu ting Pane on. ).2- 225.¢ -ccecsseceuscupessen 571
Reieiniver expedition Of 1806 2222 222 ~ 2be5 Sins sae ae oan een 428
Reed, Major Walter, study of yellow fever by.-.-.............-------.-.- 660, 666
ecdeuwalterss-, amo llusksdroms= ss so coe. ae eee ee 53
beeen appointment) Of. .css22%.v2. 40 5 ae oO eee eee Lx, 3
istOt- 8 S85 Ss sacar. 2 wen. SA ee ee x
proceedings of meeting of -... .-.-- 23652 22s-2----52-s—e=aen= XI-X XVII
Secretary Langley on meeting of .....-.-.---------------------- 2;3
Regnault, Henri Victor, experiments in heat by....---------------------- 318
Reichsanstalt, at Charlottenburg, cost and maintenance of .....----------- 406
description! Of.25 eae semen eee 403-415

organization of .....-..-----------<-=--- 404

Reiss, Philip, the telephone and ......------------------------+--+------- 330
Reminiscences of Huxley, by John Fiske ....---------------------------- 713-728
Removal of officials by the Presidents. - ...----------------------+--+----- 117
Reptiles, ancient, restoration of ...-.--------------+) ------++---000t ttt 482
flying, extinct -........------------==--+ >= --sSaneasaser anes 490
geological age of. ....----------------- 22-54-22 asensananeneneeee 297
Research, Secretary’s report on.--------------------2-222cccrtrerttette 9, 45
Restoration of extinct animals, Lucas on . .-.---------------+--+++-+770>>> 479-492
Reynaud, Captain G., paper by--..--------------------rrerera nner encns 114
Rhodes, James Ford, on history....-------------------+rtttt ttt 11 v
Rich, Claudius James, exploration in Babylon by ..---------------------- 536
Richmond, Charles W., collections byt. .s i --c- cos aen deen neon 4 55
Ridgway, Robert, on Alaskan expedition ....----------ss+-+--0-+++-225+° os, -
on standards of color..--------------=-=-+---205*"*"""" 22, as
Riley, J. H., collections by ~~. ---.-=---------->-s42>7-S- enero son es
Rip Van Winkle type of story in China....-<<-----------0=s-s-0seeesee" ic
Raver deltax formation of .}2-2:------ ++ «2: --=5=-54= sce enreees: essences 2 5
sediments, rate of deposit of ---.----------------+resstrerernnn nn a
Materwmlnime OL. .2-=-.-=---~- 45 == =7 == s— Earns SREP Sa a : a7
Rohertpelmiest W. =. 2252 -h~=-2==5 oes 5< >“ AST Arh eee 117
Robinson, James Harvey, paper by.----------------2070077 77 pre
Rockbille -W.. W., explorations in Tibet by --------------=-""=n-cns 05S" 7
Rocky Mountains, discovery 7) ag A aT le ok ileal tat laa ing 5

rss
754 INDEX.

Page.
Roman ‘Catholics in, Maryland, Steiner ons=- 22-4242) 5552s oncen eee eee La
f6Ver, CAUSES OF a 26> cc a 654
pleclyards:2.< = c- 23.42 esete cot ee ee eee See eee 560
Rontgen rays, discovery of: 05.2422 4 2) cnc ee ees ee ee eee 331, 357
medical application of 22 c5 255.7 S448. See eee ee ee 378
praperties ol 2. 2.22 52.2252 uee sk ee ee ee 372, 378
Rood, “Professor, investigations, by =... 22 Su atee ee eee ae ee 22
Root, Elihu, member of Smithsonian Establishment -......-.....-....---- ix, 152
Rose,’ J. N., Mexican "plants collected. by 252222222 432es se eee ee 54, 55
Roes; Sir James, antarctic exploration. by. . .2.--osts: 222 sas eee ee 425
Rotch, “A. Lawrence, kite researches by. -22245. s2ee):ts ee aoe eee ee 10, 190, 223-231
Royal: Institation, founding of:...225.235._ case eee2 ee see eee 317
Ruiz, Dr-Daniel, yellow fever study: by.=22. 22472002 oss seee eee eee ee 661
Rumford, Count, founder of Royal Institution... ---......2.--/..2..2-s--: 235
researches. by.-2. 2222-555 2¢325 14322 ee 316
Russell, C; H.;, Peruvian mummy from ~<622-< 252255262 4ec oor 52
Russell Wie Js, researches py..--4:e- cesses eee ee Bowes See Eee Bae 383
Ss.
Sagnac,’ M., S-rays discovered: by =< -s25222-25-eestecsese sees ae eee ee 372, 377
Saint Louis: Exposition, appropriation, for s_ ==. 422222025. 2 2S 22eeeene eee LXV
Sanarelli, yellow.fever researches by... 5.4-022i3245---- = 5-se sees eee 658
Santo-Dumont, M., balloon experiments: by. 4.- 5.222222 4.252 sec eee 189
Sardanapalus, discovery of palace of,.:..<2. 22.2: scenStbSueses Sree eee 537
Sarzec, Ernest de, excavations in Babylonia by.-...-.-.-...--------------- 542
Saturn’s rings, ishidy of: « - 55.2.5 258. SIS Se eee eee ee 142
Schiaparelli, study of Mars by 2i202 0524.20. Seek Se eee eee 148
Schilling, Baron, needle telegraph of <1 Y.222 Celie aS. ee woe eee 329
Schmidt, :Colonel,. of French:army in ‘China 202.24 2222-6 a2 esas eer 602
Schomburch, explorations, by ...54..5--2.2.5 J. 25 ote oe ee eee eee 429
Sehuchert, Charles, fossil: collected: by, .>..2-25.< 22-25-05 eet ee ee ee 55
Schumann, -V., study of. spectrum by.>..2-:..-c22 5. 22k se ee eet oe 11
Schwarz and Danielewsky, on aerial flight -...-..-..-..+-..----2.---52-2- 217
Schwarz,.E. A., coleoptera irom. .....5:22 5422.2 -]ces- asses a se eee 53
Schwatka,. Alaskan exploration by. :..-...:.-<-22-2-s92scen2es-aeeeeeeeee 428
Science, great men.of <22~ sc sis sou. as Saced sot ee oe Ree eee eee 693
systematized knowledge. . 22-22... S:Ub2 222th eee ee eee 694
Sculpture, Babylonian 2>.. 22... 2220222 222-2 see eee 542, 546
Searle, Rey. Father, on eclipse expedition — = -2- +. 256225022 5- eee eee 104, 149
Séa water, origin of salt in) =. 222 eos 52 250 ee ee eee 302
Sediments, .rate.of deposition of --.. 2... 2. =. 52) see eee eee 310
accumulation. of... 222-4... Se eee Soe Se 297
Selenology, development of ..- 22.2222.25..25 226 ees ee oe eee Be 141
Semitic story.of the Wife Tested . -..-22.2.5..%22..-0-2-5s eens Cee eee 586
Séng, Chinese story of = 2-2 22-5. 322556 see e328 ee eee 598
Sennacherib, discovery ‘of palace of .-2.-2- -22 5262-2 2- == 537
Seri Indians, study of..2<..-....22.2. ses. Sse ee eee 61, 66
Sharp, African exploration by... ~.2-- ssc. --22--5--4 5-66) eee 431
Shepard, C. U.,:minerals from: --. 02-22 2eececee see ee Se eee 55
Sidgwick, Professor, psychical research by .2- 2-2 52-25-s2- = ==ee Ee eee 678
Siemens, Werner, electrical experiments by.......-.----------+---------- 338, 339
. gift of, to Reichsanstalt ..-.. 2222-022 --- 2 ee a 403

Sigshee’s deep-sea sounding methods... =. .--2. 5. 224-2 5-eseceee = eee 226
INDEX. 755

Silk, artificial, method of making __._____.. si
Smallpox, progress in treatment iS por eam : : : i it a ane
Smillie, T. W., solar eclipse photographs by......-. ; = meee dh 104 105 149 if
Smith, Charles Emory, member of Smithsonian Festa pldiea one z pear en ok
Smith, C. W. B., solar eclipse work by ....-..-.-..-.--...-............ Wa
Smith, George, Babylonian exploration by......._.___- * ite a
Smithsonian bureau of graduate study, plan for.......................... s
Smithsonian fund, condition of............-............................ shins
ecdign TiGihaka al. ot tee ate raed
corte aga MASE oe I Pe
South, William, veological work of..........--2--------e-<- is act 967, O84 Pi
Sociology, work in, by Bureau of Ethnology ......................-.--.-- 64
SaGuimneln the seas Onewn) Ole aes han 0, oe ee ee 301
Sokeland, Herrmann, on ancient desemers or steelyards --.-.............- 551-564
Sokmanditerrestrialeweathers2:. 2 .c2co. = cioama2 se ae ee eee 144
AMOS phene My GrOeM Mile soars ee eee 160
changes of temperature and India famines, by Lockyer............-- 173-184
COLOMAyMeASUTe MeN OL hea Ole meats a ee eee ee eee 107
Solar eclipse of 1900, appropriation for expedition -....-.-....---------- XIV, XLIX
description oly bysa DNOUe ose. <a. een ae 101, 109
Inangley s\account: Ol; ems ogee ee ee 46, 149-155
photographs Ol £2. 2 2s25-.: ao see ee 105, 106
: resultsioMview Oli ce 4a. ee 6 = oe ee = eee eet 153
Solar physics, work in....-....-----2------- ce--ns 0-27 aenen eee seneansn 141
Solar spectrum, first photographs of .--.--.---------------------+--------- 132
infra-red, Langley’s research in .....--------------------- 683-692
Sollas, W. J., on evolutional geology -..---------------------------+----- 289-314
Soltan, Hugo, coleoptera from......----------------------+--2+r0r2-007" 53
Sound, progress in study of ......-2+----------------as-<022-eto-2--orane 331
researches in, by Webster...--.------------------+---+22-2-0tto rr 10
waves, photography of, by R. W. WOO ise = Bite hatte ere eerie 359-369
South America, explorations in ..-..-----------------------00scttttt 428
Southerland, Commander W. H. H., animals frOM 2s cos oa ee 90
South Shetland Islands, discovery of--.------------------------7 00007777" 425
Spectra of the stars, by Huggins and Miller ..------------------+-------->" 130
Spectroscopic astronomy -----------------=------rrcc rect r ernst 129
study of sun spots .------------------ Slated 2S ace eerie 175
Spectrum analysis, history of-..-.--------------+--2errcrrttrste 324
progress in study of --.------. ---------------- 000700" 325
Spectrum, Hertzian waves and thé ..2--2svee 202 ss<n=n-se4= nen eens 372
Sahumann’s study Of ---2= <i: ~-->--2--= ==26s-==S5h arn = aan aseS 1]
solar, first photographs (tian a ed ee eet ees ee Te 182
the new, Langley OM)s- =22< - 4: ~---=8 seman ae ee ee 68S- ova
Spimitnaliam, imposture by - ~~ 22 ---c--=-s-p sis Saaaa oe se) Se pi
Spontaneous generation, theory ------------------ Teeter aie pe ser A ip i: 4 7
Sprague, Frank J., trolley line introduced by ---------------++7777°7"77"" and
Spillgaudie,- Cited 2.2 fec0 0 --eo2--nr- esa eee ahs
Standardizing bureau, at Gharlottenburgs-<-=---<==-5=s=-S nosh i" eee it
at Washington, proposed ..-.---------------"""77"" =
Riandands-of color, proposed Work ONl---~- <7---=Sore sess 0 Os ies ome 191
Stanley’s explorations Thalge. Cage: geen meee NS Slashes. baa ip sae 135
Dire nialog ies Ob J< meee <-Ya=7oron or ke ene 136
Fanianice ion eaneet. So-~- -nc Se=-n- - ee 130

spectra of
756 INDEX.

Page
Steel manulacture, progress int. ~~ o5 sc oe oon ae eee ots ee 256
Steelyards, ancient, Sokeland om .—.:<2. 52.22. 2ce Soe eee ee ae eee ee 551-564
Steimer collection of stone-implements:..2< 2-25-22. 2 -sson 2 sa ceee eee eee 70
Steiner, Bernard C;y paper by..c225,25-2 2-1 ence eee ee ee eee 117
Steiner, Roland; stone implements from 2.32. 22-=2- Seense se eee eee se 52
Steins Robert; anche researches by s2s-52-8 sce bene nes ooo ae eee 60
Stejneger, Leonhard, in Cuba and Porto Rico ---.---.--.----..-.-.------- 55
Stellar ‘evolution, Wockyer om 2ss25 2ao-eae os eee Sees eae ee ee eee = bat)
Stembere,:George M.,on malariay( 232 32.6ee2h2 25.2 a eeeee ee oe 645-656
on transmission of yellow fever by mosquitoes. ....- 657-673
Stevenson, Matilda 'C., Indian studies by sv. 2-4. 2.5. seo eee eee eee 69
Stewart, Balfour; psychical research ‘by.i25.2-.2- cs: 2-osee noes eee eee 678
Stokes, HH. N.,; on inorganic chemistry. . 625 f- 22222 SSeenes eee eee eee 114
Storage batteries, electric.....-------------- EOE PDE re he Poy i a 354
Stratified series of earth’s crust: 2 ..5.20222 42 oo) J2eceges. Soe eee eceeeee 297
Subeonscious, philosophy of ‘the? 22.2222: 2.2.20 o ees eee eee eee 677
Summer palace at Pekin, description of treasures of ......-.-------------- 615
haréni of the’. 5-22. 2sc2oses cone er eee See 627
loot of, Count D’ Hérisson’s account of ........--- 601-635
fOOMis Of empress In: ooo. eos: oom eee 620
throne voomiin 2-52 5u 52 eee on eee eee eee 618
Sun’and: his ‘system, Lockyer Ont 2222222352 2.6 oon oe eee eee 140
distance, Offs S522 Se en on rae eae eee 136
heatiol ‘Corona oft Bf a3 ose aaa c aoe ne Soe Soe a ee 154
probable life of the 2. s2<:: 2c2. ccs 2 cba eens sees sok eee ae 303
prominences, periodicity Of 2...-.2. 05-2. .5-teesane eee ae ae 141
relation ‘of spots te <..22.2-J22s.e52s8 eee eee 177
Sun spots and. rainfall im India) S220. 232 s2ohcue eae ecee ee ee ee 173
and terrestrial weathers. 52 2222.552508 5, ine Fe eee eee 145
connectionof sum prominiences and *2..52. 22202, se ee Li.
Periodicity OF -otss020 2.6 5.25205 25-2 oe ee eee ee eee 140
Wideneéd lines on scc Sesto ones 3 th Sho See ee Se eee ee 175
Susa,; excavations ab .: 2.26 Sth 2 Sse eae eee eee een eee oe eee 545
Swinton, Az A. ‘©:, resedrehes by. 2.22055 Seton a on eee 394
Sword, Thomas, collechions from. 222-222 s-- 2 oes = ere ee eee 52
lie
Tablets, Babylonian; discovery of:-<.<.=.+ -ss2s-2555 sep eee eae ae ee 541
Table turning, experiments imo. oo 5-25-23 352 nee eee 677
Tai-ping rebellion im ‘China <2 22 feces sccse ee eee eee eee eee 601
Taku fort, capture Of:s 1222.25 32 hess Saab as ce a ee ee ee eee 604
Taoism, cosmic myth Of; san222sehacsee Seen see ee ee ee 576
mythology Ofc... Jc22ic oc Seton Saree Se se a ee ee 588
Tassin, Wirt, catalozue of minerals by 22o< as2se< a2 son eee ae 115
Teleautograph, invention of. 5: 222523322 seats oe eee oe ee ee 336
Telegraph, early experiments with ..-2:5.22-:ie225-42-5-ses5ee ooo eee 335
history of, Mendenhall on:22 222 see-s-ee=oeseee 2 a aee ae 328
needle .& osc cdc fe see Soe re ee ee 329
Telegraphy, space, experiments ini. .2422222¢52essee0 2222s eee 10, 1138
wireless, Thomson 000.2222 25 22ob Jeet aes See eee 357
Telepathy; scientifie study of... <1: 252222 .22eenn 2 eee eee 676, 679
Telephone, first exhibition of). 2222.722 2 322222 sae ee 341

great development of -.......-- Wa ac hs in ee cay ere 342
INDEX. 757
Telephone, invention of .....__.___. Page,
BUD OCAATIC Ss sos ate oO a ore ee ee ane 330, 342
Wipleacopes, increased size of.-......).... # -
progressive improvements in_________- : ; 4 : ; ; 4 RO, eer | i
Wemperature; observations with kites... 0. sr
GEERT ACHE oot eee. ak ele Sas . se
in iReopics-= eta oe Pe aan rea big te:
St eartis Crushes ads ee ee ee pe:
low, Dewar experiments in ............................... ono
lone sreseanches Git G25. ok al ath ae ea aye 319
Ded obsa ek ae ate cee eee er
terrestrial, and sun-spots.......-..-.-------e.-------...... 145
Tesla, Nikola, on message from Mars .................-----------. 2... 179
Thermodynamics, researches in .....-- rete So Ne ia
Thermometry, investigations in ion eared el 416
eomas Cyrus, incian studies Dy. -<=2:-02..002. 2). eee een enee 66, 70
@ivompeon,, Benjamin, researches by ..5-. 2-22 -< 2.2.22. Sess. ncece creme tee 235, 316
Thompson, Sylvanus, on wireless telegraphy..............-.------------- | 113
Thomson, Elihu, on electricity in the nineteenth century _................ 333-358
Thomson-Houston Company, organization of.............---.---------... 347
SHHOMISOM huis COSCATCICS DY 22s emacaencoces eae a coat ee ae ee 331, 373, 37
Mhiomsoner) Wis. chemical researches Dy esssse ss = see ae eee eee 54
Gihamcons Dhomas, chemicalstudies by’: --0-.-.--<2 -ssscsce =~ anc eea eee 238
iormamnanties: introduction Of -—.-.24---2.---2-228=—=--5sas eae eee 389
Thought transference, experiments im. .......-.------==---<--------n-2--- 678
Bae DW af)..e Paper yr a. a2 hoo es eae soos Se nes ree eee me 114
Thaunder Peak Pagoda, romance Of ...1-=-----<2 --c<~2e0s--ssees--nen=s== 596
itncr balances trom: 222. 2c6 4.2 is. sa - 2 ac> Ses eee eene= =aeee 564
explorations iM. 2-225... <0 -a002-5-se--e- 5-6 --~--~ a= 58a a== a 429
Toepler’s experiments with sound waves... .------------------------------ 359
Townsend, C. H., on Albatross expedition. -..--.-.------------------------- 42,55
Trade with China, advantages of .....--..--------------------------+----- 567
Tricerotops, method of restoration of---...-------------------+---------- 485
probable color of ...----.-------------+-----+---009 7222052" 491
Trolley cars, invented by Van Depoele--..---------------------++-+---+-->- 347
True, A. C., member of graduate study COMMIttCReee sees eee ae eee XVII
TEPOLGS DY. c 22a sas 2 ee o ese cen na oe XX, XXU
True, F. W., representative at Buffalo Exposition -....------------------- 57
studies in Newfoundland by.--.--. -------------------+++----- 55
Trumbull, James Hammond ......-----------------22e rere 67
dictionary of Natick languages [oy ee 30
@sai, Prince, treachery of -...----------------------r07ner store 610
Tyndall, John, a great man OP SCIENCOn Chae arenns Senco oe oa a= ee ae nee 695
Typhoid fever, prevention Of. =-- ee ens eaae- Seamer aoe eee 643
Ue
Underground conduit railways, introduction of----------------------""""" ae
Uniformitarianism, discussion of -.------------------r-0r rrr po ple
Unsuspected radiations, Prince Kropotkin om -.----------------7>777""7"" a a
Uranium rays, discovery Glens ddenapeen eee aol aar: ate ne eee sal
apseatehied Wh eeaees ae aa are a ea PF 37

Uranus, discovery of ---------
758 INDEX.

Me
Page.
Van Depoele, Charles A., electric traction experiments by-......---------- 346, 347
Van Name, Willard'G:, at Naples stations. ..= 2252-3) seer os eee 14
Van tretott< chemicalsworktol 222252) 2 ee oo ee eee eae ee 252
Vapors and gases, nature of 2-2-2222 S226 oe ot ee eee ee 318
Variony, Henry,.on- breeding of ‘Arctic lox = 2525 = se ee 527
Varley, A. &., dynamo designed by... 2.222222 252 252-282 eee eee 339
Vanlx Count deda, pallooning by... 25-22-6258. 8a - en eee 189
Veeetable:and animal ‘life of the oceans -=.-2 24222225 22 oop ae eee eee 493
Verner, Samuel Phullips, collections:from 2*2- >) = -o.cse eee eee 52
Vienaud, Henry, letter to... -... 2.2.2.5 -2- 2-550 doee eae pee eee 40
Virchow,.0v., 08 medicine and surgery. .5- 2: aceon eee ees ee 114
Virginia, first criminal code of <2 -.. 2... <2. =. - 42-68-35 pe eee eee ae seen 1%
Vision, COrOsthies (OF. s Sis ca ces esos Pane ee ee eh eee ee ee 113
Vitalisiie- docirine, discussion Of 2.) 222-2826 2s eee ee ee 471
Vivisection; advyantares OL. 2222-25. 22.6 ono: oa cae eee eee 469
Volcanoesn Atriea = * oo 3.2.05. ceo s ccc tse 2 ae eee ae ee 436
Von Baer, ‘Carl Ernst, definition of science Dy. -- 3... -: foc. see 478
researches DY =... $250) 2 4-4 a ose ee ee 466
Von Humboldt, Alexander, cited: --"- s2--2 2s) 8 ee Peete ease 240, 428, 429
Voweltimbre, study of ..c2- so. 2. wb eee = oe eee 10
Vroman; A. C., explorations By. :...-. 222-2. 3-2 =~ sees eee eee 59

WwW.
Wadesboro, eclipse expedition. at.......2..- 5: 5. --Beeneeaeas =e eee 46, 101, 149
Wahutapeople in. Africa, 2c ..-s2222--see--5 css eae eee ee 435
Walker, Colonel, killed, by Chimese:....<.--.---..2: Siivesee- ce eee 611
Wallace-Farmer electric-light machines |... ~-. . 22. 42cesnsu 55s cbengeeeee 340
Warburton, exploration of Australia by... .-< .. 22 cose se ee 426
Ward, Henry B:, paper by:------.: = 25 -suto sess See 114
Ward, Lester F., on Petrified Forests of Arizona...---..--.---2:---.-=---- 24
Washburn, .J. H.,.on graduate study committee ....2_2-S8-2- 2 ee 2 ees XVII
Washington Memorial Association... <i. + 42. L2= ee Ses 2 eee es XXI
Water corpuscles, study of 2... 22 2.5 52 25seccee wossew ee 2 see eee eee 11
Watkins, J. Elfreth, paper by2.-.-.++- 3... Sessa eses oe oe ee ee 114
Wave theory of lights. 2-5. 22s esoseee se Se an eo ee ee eee 321
Weather, prophecy of, Langley on .----3.-.... =. <.-- = a 692
solar and:-terresimial... - 2. s2sso 422 2. as oee to ee oe ee eee eee 144
Webster, A. G., researches in-sound by ..<22 2225 2252 fo= sees ae eee 10
Weddell, Antarctic exploration by, ....1 -..2 2225-2225. ee= = =e ee eee 425
Weigh, ancient measures of {89222 .2o2c0 5 2s see ee eee ee ee 551
Welles, Lieut. Roger, jr., animals obtained by 2--.---.------222-----) == 90
Welsbach, Auer von, incandescent mantle invented by .--.-.------------- 378
Weston, Edward, manganin invented by. ----.--2=2 2225-22 ee ee eee 413
Wheatstone, Sir Charles, electrical researches by.------------------------ 323, 329
dynamo generator constructed by.-.-------------- 309
Wheeler, Joseph, Smithsonian Regent). .--.~- 2-22-22 eee eee ee ee x
succeeded by Dinsmore..-° 22: -3- cea ee eee 2
White, Andrew D., at Prussian Academy celebration.......-.--.---------- 26
Smithsonian Recentos: 2. 2225 so. ee a eee x, 3,4
Whitney, Henry M., electric railways introduced by----..---------------- 347
Wiechert; Professor, cited ". 222. 2.225200 ne eee 293
Wiesner, Julius, on plant physiology 222. 22-20-26 e 2 eee 114

Wilberforce, Samuel, Huxley and 022... 522 as s2co5- eee 714
INDEX. 759

Wilkes, Antarctic exploration by........- ries
"17: : = See er eg We ete Re a tan eee eee 425
Williams, Frederick Wells, on Chinese Folklore.......................... 75 Bi)
on Chinese immigration in Farther Asia - 117
1 NI ee anes CY a ne OE TAT Tet mer nn ly og i
Wilson, Alexander, use of kites by ............--......... 993
Wilson, Gen. James Es animals "irom. 24, see on ee ee 90
Wilson, James, member of Smithsonian Establishment-................_. 1x, 2
: ne
Micous Phomas. paper Wyle 21.54 35-5 kee eee ee en 115
Wilson, William L., member of committee on graduate study s<- os. XVII, XXVH, 3
Smishsonian resents. aes eee oe ed
. re47° ‘ m pe, Sian Su Dk thane aoe Si Ske Sait pf face be se
MVinlode, William C., curator of exchanges :.2-...2_--...--2-- ec de- base 32
Manship, George Parker: explorations by... --<.-0-e2--22-sacccdennusuee 59
Pataiireps Jota. lectures. by... 2 lsat sco teen Naeger ee tee 316
Wireless Teleorapp ly. -ck ta Sera occ cst het cee San a ee 113, 357
Wassmanin Major son Grogan exploratlonsas. =) 6.4 = 2256s ooee se eeee eee 447
Rnnekcratt, Sclentiie study: Of. \.0-o-.~so22ssctee ayn ee eee eae eee eee 676
GHIMeses< eS 22 Ul. cee Sek Coreen SRS ee te 595
Wc llaston sy SpectrosCopi Cl wO Ku Ola steers teeter ee eee 129
Woodman, Rey. Father, member of eclipse expedition--..-.-..-..-.-- 104, 105, 149
Wood, R. W., photography of sound waves by .-..-..----.--------------. 359-369
Wiroblewskis researches) byo-4. 25.4. -cace sees toss See ee ee eee 319
Wu Ting-Fang, on mutual helpfulness between China and United States... 565-574
Wiyer., James Ingersoll, bibliography Dy 22-2-=---22=-o-=-eheb eee eee 117
Wyoming, fossil vertebrates from... ..---.------------ --<seeesese---55-5 55, 490
<
INE TVA GISCOMELY: Ole aoe eye eee are em ae 331-357
ys, y
Bendy Obs. 2228 eS. Sones 2 = oe to nee han ae eee 371
(See also Réntgen rays.)
Wee
Yellow fever, army orders regarding. -.-.-----------------------+---+---- 672
demonstration of mosquito transmission of-..------.-------- 664
epidemics, limited range of -------------------------------- 660
practical experiments with, in Havana ----.---------------- 664, 666
prevention of, Billings on ..-----------------------+-+-+--- 640
preventive measures -.---------------) ->----+-02 0222000 e* 669
proved not transmitted by Clothing:- --- <--> adap = nee 666
restricted in altitude ...----------------------+---+-+---7>>> 6 y 1
specific cause of. .....-----------------2-0 22ers " 658
Sternberg on transmission of, by mosquitoes ......---------- 657-673
‘ oO ‘ 9-459
Yermak ice breaker, by Admiral Makaroff. .-.-----------+---2++--+20%°"" a me
>, Le
Young, Professor, lens lent by ------------ fetes soaameas icici i. ie ym
member of eclipse expedition. ------------------------- 14s
re 697
Young, Thomas, a great man of science -------------------7 27000577 7>" ae ie
researches by-.=--------<-+=2=-2--<5---ss0c"cer =e: . Aes
ae ew a hee etek eee RT ora) RS
Yucatan, researches Ae ee Se eae a Ee a ne 498
Vulcon River, exploration.0f =.--2-- ~-<<---e--eenaemcs sence sO a"
Z.
Ppa ae Ce nt) ae. dee ee 420, 432
Zambezi River, exploration of-. Seale nte Beam As hs mal * : 218
Zeppelin air ship, construction (0) on et eto hee sia Te eae 917-222
trial Ol. o2a-. eae ane a> See an Oe ae ee

Zoological Park (see National Zoological Park).

O
SMITHSONIAN
INSTIT UTION

REPORT

/G 0 4

WASHINGTON
| ‘ f , yy) Ay A
| Ve oles] @ &
i | / y

ae: ‘= ~

sy
§ \\ i} By
4 \ | j
\ ji
16 |
j fees !
a= A i 5
oa a
a #
| >
i q f
4 ; 5
Hi *

Ppa
{ .
BAY
i
—_ \
Tt :
Ss \ \} =
a 3

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTIO

“MIM i i

i

op PANN

ef

~
va

A,

pa *

Pees
so 8 ss

”

