“ r i } f v vy. FF. e Le. fy H i s
ee eg 6.08 618.8,
| Ls a ‘ Vi ve. { Be WW .

‘¢ i
yw i

ee eg 6.8.86 e

oe

re

‘
i
q
(Vs

Ley AS
RTA, #Yh

ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

fre core OW Ei HN PS

or THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION

THER YEHAR 1874.

WASHINGTON: ©.
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1875.
FORTY-THIRD CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION.

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
In THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
February 27, 1875.

The following resolution, originating in the House of Representatives, February 24,
1875, has this day been concurred in by the Senate:

Resolved by the House of Representatives, (the Senate concurring,) That ten thousand
five hundred copies of the report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1874 be
printed, two thousand copies of which shall be for the use of the House of Representa-
tives, one thousand for the use of the Senate, and seven thousand five hundred for the
use of the Institution: Provided, That the aggregate number of pages of said report
shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, and that there shall be no illustrations except
those furnished by the Smithsonian Institution.

Attest:

EWD. McPHERSON, Clerk.
LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1874.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, January 26, 1875.
GENTLEMEN: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to
submit to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year 1874.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. HENRY WILSON,
President of the Senate.
Hon. J. G. BLAINE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1874.

This document contains:

1. The annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the establishment for the year 1874, with the sta-
tistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, &e.

2. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund,
the receipts and expenditures for the year 1874, and the estimates for
1875.

od. The proceedings of the Board of Regents.

4, A general appendix, consisting principally of reports of lectures,
translations from foreign journals of articles not generally accessible,
bunt of interest to meteorologists, correspondents of the Institution, teach-
ers, and others interested in the promotion of knowledge.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES S. GRANT, President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer of the
Institution.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Institu-
tion, (President of the Board of Regents.)

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary (or Director) of the Institution.

REGENTS OF DHE INSTITU LLON.

MORRISON R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States, President of the Board.
HENRY WILSON, Vice-President of the United States.

H. HAMLIN, member of the Senate of the United States.

J. W. STEVENSON, member of the Senate of the United States.
A. A. SARGENT, member of the Senate of the United States.

S. S. COX, member of the House of Representatives.

E. R. HOAR, member of the House of Representatives.

G. W. HAZELTON, member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN MACLEAN, citizen of New Jersey.

PETER PARKER, citizen of Washington.

ASA GRAY, citizen of Massachusetts.

J. D. DANA, citizen of Connecticut.

HENRY COPPEE, citizen of Pennsylvania.

GEORGE BANCROFT, citizen of Washington.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

PETER PARKER. JOHN MACLEAN. GEO. BANCROFT.

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

U. 8. GRANT, President of the United States.
HENRY WILSON, Vice-President of the United States.
M. R. WAITE, Chief-Justice of the United States.
H. FISH, Secretary of State.

b. H. BRISTOW, Secretary of the Treasury.

W. W. BELKNAP, Secretary of War.

G. M. ROBESON, Secretary of the Navy.
MARSHALL JEWELL, Postmaster-General.

C. DELANO, Secretary of the Interior.

GEO. H. WILLIAMS, Attorney-General.

J. M. THACHER, Commissioner of Patents.
OFFICERS AND ASSISTANTS OF THE INSTITUTION AND
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

JOSEPH HENRY, Secretary, Director of the Institution.
SPENCER F. BAIRD, Assistant Secretary.

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Chief Clerk.

DANIEL LEECH, Corresponding Clerk.

CLARENCE B. YOUNG, Book-keeper.

HERMANN DIEBITSCH, Exchange Clerk.

JANE A. TURNER, Exchange Clerk.

MAGGIE E. GRIFFIN, Recording Clerk.

SOLOMON G. BROWN,,. Transportation Clerk

ASSISTANTS IN THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

F. M. EnDuicu, Mineralogist.
RoBerRT RiDGway, Ornithologist.
G. B. GOoDE, Zoologist.

JOSEPH PALMER, Taxidermist.
T. W. SMILLIE, Photographer.
JOSEPH HERRON, Janiter.

RESIDENT COLLABORBRATOBS.

Dr. THEODORE GILL, General Zoology.
Prof. F. B. MEEK, Invertebrate Paleontology.
Dr. E. CovEs, Mammalogy and Ornithology.
W. H. DALL, Malacology.

Prof. O. T. Mason, Ethnology.

Prof. EDWARD FOREMAN, L£thnology.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, PROFESSOR HENRY, FOR THE
YEAR 1874. .

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: I have again the honor to present to you another an-
nual report of the operations and condition of the Institution which the
Congress of the United States has placed under your charge. During
the period embraced in this report, that of the year 1874, nothing has
happened to interfere with the prosecution of the plans which have been
adopted for ‘‘the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
The Institution, having now existed upward of twenty-five years, has
established a character and reputation in the eyes of the world, the
tradition of which will tend to perpetuate the same policy, with only
such improvements as experience may suggest, notwithstanding the
changes to which the personnel of the administration may from time to
time be subjected.

The following changes have taken place in the Board of Regents
during the year: Chiet-Justice Waite has been elected Chancellor of
the Institution, in place of Chief-Justice Chase, deceased. Prof. Asa
Gray has been elected Regent by Congress in place of Prof. L. Agassiz;
Prof. J. D. Dana, in place of Professor Woolsey; Prof. H. Coppee, in
place of William B. Astor; Hon. A. A. Sargent, in place of Hon. Mr.
Trumbull; Hon. E. R. Hoar, in place of Hon. James A. Garfield; Hon.
G. W. Hazelton, in place of Hon. L. P. Poland; and Hon. George
Bancroft, in place of General Sherman. The change in the govern-
ment of the District leaves vacant, for the present, the position of
Regent occupied by the governor of the District.

The resignation of General Sherman, on account of his change of res-
idence to Saint Louis, Mo., leaves a vacancy in the executive committee.
It gives me pleasure to present to the board, as an expression of his
feelings toward the Institution, the accompanying letter.* It is proper
to mention in this connection that during the interval between the
death of Chief-Justice Chase and the appointment of his successor,
Mr. Justice Clifford, of the Supreme Court, presided as Chancellor of the
board, and with the Secretary signed the requisition for drawing the
semi-annual interest from the Treasury of the United States on the 1st
of January, 1874.

Since the establishment of the Institution several different bequests
have been made, intended to increase its usefulness ; but from none of
these has anything as yet been realized, except from that of JAMES
HAmILton, Esq., of Carlisle, Pa., who bequeathed one thousand dollars

* See proceedings of the Board of Regents.
8 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

to the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, the interest to
be appropriated biennially for a contribution, paper, or lecture, on a
scientific or useful subject. The money from this bequest has been
received and placed in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance
with the law of Congress authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to
receive any money which the Board of Regents may obtain from gifts,
or savings of income, on the same terms as those of the original bequest.
The first instalment of interest of the Hamilton bequest has just been
received, and will be appropriated in accordance with the will of the tes-
tator at the end of next year, and so on continually at the end of every
two years. A statement of the manner of expending this income will
be given in the accounts of the operations of the Institution, with due
credit to the donor. His name will therefore appear from time to time
in the annual reports, and thus be kept in perpetual remembrance.

Wheu the public shall become more familiar with the manner in
which the income of the additional bequests to the Smithson fund is ex-
pended, with the permanence and security of the investment, and with
the means thus afforded of advancing science. and of perpetuating the
names of the testators, we doubt not that additions to the fund in this
way will be made until it reaches the limit prescribed by law of one
million dollars.

Since the establishment of the Institution great change has taken
place in the public mind as to the appreciation of the importance of ab-
Stract science as an element in the advance of modern civilization. At
the time the bequest of Smithson was made the distinction between
original research and educational instruction in science and literature
was scarcely recognized. As an evidence of this it may be stated that,
in answer to a circular-letter addressed to a number of the most dis-
tinguished writers in this country, asking what should be done with a
fund intended to increase and diffuse knowledge among men, the unan-
imous reply was, “ Establish a national university ;” the idea of a uni-
versity being at that time an institution simply intended to drill youth
in the ancient classics, in the elements of mathematics and physical and
moral science. The idea of an institution intended for the higher
object of increasing knowledge, or enlarging the bounds of human
thought by original research, had not dawned at that time upon the
mind of the general public, and the plan proposed for realizing this
idea was violently opposed by some of the most intelligent and influ-
ential men of the country. Happily, since then a great change has
been effected both in this country and in Europe, and to effect this
change the persistent policy of the Institution has contributed in no
inconsiderable degree. The plan adopted of applying the income as
far as possible to the promotion of original research and the distribu-
tion of a knowledge of the results through its publications, has received
the approval of the civilized world. The Congress of the United States
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

has fully signified its appreciation of the plan adopted, by relieving the
Institution from the support of a library and the National Museum.

Congress having made an appropriation of $20,000 for the support of
the National Museum, almost the entire income of the Smithson bequest
has been left free to carry on what is now considered the legitimate
operations of the Institution. It was thought, however, desirable to re-
tain a part of the income in order to make up the loss of last year, oc-
casioned by the failure of the First National Bank of Washington. The
whole amount of deposit in this bank at the time mentioned was
$8,224.87. On this the Institution has received 50 per cent., in two pay-
ments, leaving a balance of $4,112.43. Toward making up this loss, the
expenditure during the year has been less than the receipts by $3,683.31.
The funds of the Institution are therefore in a favorable condition, as
may be seen by the exhibit hereafter to be presented.

FINANCES.

The following is a statement of the condition of the funds at the beginning
of the year 1875:

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States in accordance with the act of Congress of

pAMnCr USGL SAG Se 2 ees LAR a tare ois Pees tie Se $515, 169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867 .........- 26,210 63

DLotal bequestior Smrthsomes. 55, 4. assess cane = . 941,379 63
Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States,
as authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1867, de-
rived from savings of income and increase in value of

LEER GCAST IONS) 11CSH SRSA aa cee) oa ea td ed AL 108, 620 37
Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of
Carlisle -Ea., Mebruary 24, 1974 «2. 22am ieee 2 nea 1, 000 00

a

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of
the United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent.,
payable semi-annually in gold. ...202.<2)2 22.552 651, 000 00
In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund ,
from savings, &¢., in Virginia bonds and certificates,
viz: consolidated bonds, $58,700; deferred certificates,
$29,375.07; fractional certificate, $50.13; total $88,125.20,

OVATE Att cietackes tio ero kA Ls MeN Lee lak a 30, 000 00
Cash balance in United States Treasury at the beginning

of the year 1875 for current expenses.........-...-.... 15, 969 99
Amount due from First National Bank, Washington,

$4,112.43, (present value unknown.) ......-:.---- i Eats

Total Smithson funds January, 1875............--. $701, 809 99
10 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

On comparing this statement with that made last January, it appears
that the total amount of the fund has been increased during the year
$6,683.31, viz:

By the Hamilton bequest.-....... SOS. SUUGK 2 SUS ee OOO 100
By the increased value of Virginia stock ..... .-.... ities 2, OOF 00
By balance of unexpended annual income ...........-....- 3, 683 31

—_$ ——

$6, 683 31

The Board of Regents and the Secretary will in future be relieved of
all anxiety as to the safety of the semi-annual interest by the arrange-
ment which has been made with the United States Treasurer to receive
it as a deposit, and to make payments from it on checks of the Secre-
tary, in the same manner as has been done heretofore in the First Na-
tional Bank.

The Institution is indebted to General Spinner for his prompt acqui-
escence in the proposition and for immediately carrying it out in all the
details necessary to facilitate its operation.

Congress, at its last session, made an appropriation of $20,000 for the
care and preservation of the specimens in the museum, and $10,000 for
fitting up apartments in which the specimens are exhibited.

The uncollected coupons on the Virginia bonds held by the Institu-
tion were sold on the 9th of May, 1874, by Riggs & Co., with the fol-

lowing result: :

$1,200 Virginia coupons at 774 ...--. Fae eee ee eaation $925 50

$2,322 Virginia coupons at 77 ...-...----. peste re oie 1, 787 94
2,713 44

Less charges. ...- eS Re ae J etenee sees Seniesa EPL

$2, 695 83
This amount was deposited with the Treasurer of the United States
to the credit of the account of the current expenses of the Institution for
the year.
PUBLICATIONS.

Since the reports of the Institution are separately distributed to many
persons who have not ready access to the whole series, it is necessary
in each succeeding one to repeat certain facts which may serve to-give
an idea of the general organization of the establishment. The following
statement is therefore repeated :

The publications of the Institution are of three classes, viz, the Con-
TRIBUTIONS to KNOWLEDGE, the MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS, and
the ANNUAL Reports. The first consist of memoirs containing positive
additions to science resting on original research, and which are gener-
ally the result of investigations to which the Institution has, in some
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. it

way, rendered assistance. The Miscellaneous Collections are composed
of works intended to facilitate the study of branches of natural history,
meteorology, &c., and are designed especially to induce individuals to
engage in these studies as specialties. The Annual Reports, besides an
account of the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institu-
tion, contain translations from works not generally accessible to Amer-
ican students, reports of lectures, extracts from correspondence, &c.

The following are the rules which have been adopted for the distribu-
tion of the several publications of the Institution:

1st. They are presented to learned societies of the first class which in
return give complete series of their publications to the Institution.

2d. To libraries of the first class which give in exchange their cata-
logues and other publications, or an equivalent from their duplicate
volumes.

od. To colleges of the first class which furnish catalogues of their
libraries and of their students, and all other publications relative to
their organization and history.

4th. To States and Territories, provided they give in return copies of
all documents published under their authority.

5th. To public libraries in this country, containing 15,000 volumes,
especially if no other copies are given in the same place; and to smaller
libraries where a large district would be otherwise unsupplied.

Gth. To institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particu-
lar branches of knowledge are given such Smithsonian publications as
. relate to their respective objects.

7th. The Annual Reports are presented to the meteorological ob-
servers, to contributors of valuable material to the library or collections,
and to persons engaged in special scientific research.

The distribution of the publications of the Institution is a matter
which requires much care and judicious selection, the great object being
to make known to the world the truths which may result from the ex-
penditure of the Smithson fund. For this purpose the principal class
of publications, namely, the Contributions, must be so distributed as to
be accessible to the greatest number of readers, and this will evidently
be to large central libraries.

The volumes of Contributions are presented on the express condition
that, while they are carefully preserved, they shall be accessible at all
times to students and others who may desire to consult them, and be
returned to the Institution in case the establishments to which they are
presented at any time cease to exist. These works, it must be recol-
lected, are not of a popular character, but require profound study to
fully understand them; they are, however, of importance to the pro-
fessional teacher and the popular expounder of science. They contain
materials from which general treatises on special subjects may be elabo-
rated.
12 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Full sets of the publications cannot be given to all who apply for them,
since this is impossible with the limited income of the Institution; and,
indeed, if care be not exercised in the distribution, so large a portion of
the income would be annually expended on the production of copies for
distribution of what has already been published, that nothing further
could be donein the way of new publications. It must be recollected that
every addition to the list of distribution not only involves the giving of
publications that have already been made, but also those which are to
be made hereafter.

At the commencement of the operations of the Institution the publi-
cations were not stereotyped, and consequently the earlier volumes have
now become scarce, especially the jirst, of which there are now no copies
for distribution, although it can occasionally be obtained at a second-
hand book-store in one of the larger cities.

No copyright has ever been secured on any of the publications of the
Institution. They are left free to be used by compilers of books, with
the understanding, however, that full credit will be given to the name
of Smithson for any extracts which may be mede from them. This
condition is especially insisted on, because the credit thus required is
important as evidence to the world of the proper management of the
Smithson fund. In many cases credit is given merely to the author
without mentioning the name of the Institution; this is not just, since,
as a general rule, the income of the establishment is applied not only to
the publication of the article but also to assist in its production.

Publications in 1874.—During the past year the nineteenth volume of
the quarto series of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has
been published. It contains the following papers:

1. Problems of Rotary Motion presented by the Gyroscope, the Pre-
cession of the Equinoxes, and the Pendulum. By Brevet Maj. Gen. J.
G. Barnard. 4to., pp. 74.

2. A Contribution to the History of the Fresh-Water Algz of North
America. By Horatio C. Wood, jr., M. D., professor of botany and
clinical lecturer on diseases of the nervous system in the University of
Pennsylvania. 4to., pp. 274, 21 colored plates.

3. An Investigation of the Orbit of Uranus, with General Tables on its
Motion. By Simon Newcomb, professor of mathematics, United States
Navy. 4to., pp. 296.

This volume, of which the several memoirs have been described in
previous reports, will not only sustain, but increase the reputation of
the Institution for its contributions to the science of the day. The me-
moirs which it contains have been received with manifest interest by
the scientific world, and recognized as positive additions to knowledge
resting on original investigation.

Besides the nineteenth volume of the Contributions to Knowledge,
the eleventh and twelfth volumes of Miscellaneous Collections have been
published during the year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ahs.

The eleventh volume of Miscellaneous Collections consists of 789
octavo pages, and contains the following articles :

1. Arrangement of the Families of Mammals, with Analytical Tables.
Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by Theodore Gill, M. D., Ph. D.,
pp. 104.

2. Arrangement of the Families of Fishes, or classes Pisces, Marsipo-
branechii, and Leptocardii. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by
Theodore Gill, M. D., Ph. D., pp. 96.

3. Monographs of the Diptera of North America; Part III, Ortalidze
Family. Prepared for the Smithsonian Institution by H. Loew; four
plates, pp. 376. _

4, Directions for collecting and preserving Insects. Prepared for the
use of the Smithsonian Institution by A. S. Packard, jr., M. D., pp. 60.

5. New Species of North American Coleoptera. Prepared for the
Smithsonian Institution by John L. LeConte, M. D.; Part I, pp. 74.

6. Classification of the Coleoptera of North America. Prepared for
the Smithsonian Institution by John L. LeConte, M. D., pp. 72.

The twelfth volume of Miscellaneous Collections consists of 767 octavo
pages, and contains the following articles :

1. Review of American Birds, in the Museum of the Smithsonian
Institution; Part I. By 8S. F. Baird, 1864-1872, pp. 484.

2. The Constants of Nature; Part I. Specific Gravities; Boiling and
Melting Points; and Chemical Formule. Compiled by F. Wigglesworth
Clarke, S. B. December, 1873, pp. 272.

3. Rules for the Telegraphic Announcements of Astronomical Discov-
eries. By Prof. Joseph Henry. April, 1875, pp. 4.

Since the publication of the 19th volume of Smithsonian Contributions,
a memoir, of 32 quarto pages, has been printed and distributed, which
will form part of the 20th volume. This is by Prof. S. Newcomb, of the
National Observatory, Washington, on the “ General Integrals of Plan-
etary Motion”—an abstruse mathematical work, of which the nature is
indicated in its title. It gives a series of suggestions and new investi-
gations relative to the methods of determining the motions of celestial
bodies as affected by interplanetary perturbations. It is in part an ex-
tension and generalization of two former papers by the same author,
the first published in Liouville’s Journal, vol. X VI, 1871, and the second
in the Comptes-Rendus, vol. LX XV. It was submitted to Prof. H. A.
Newton, of Yale College, and Mr. G. W. Hill, of Nyack, N. Y., for criti-
cal examination, and received their unqualified approval for publication
in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

Another paper, intended for the twentieth volume of Contributions,
which has been printed and distributed during the past year, is by
James G. Swan, on the Haidah Indians of Queen Charlotte Islands.
It consists of 18 quarto pages, and is illustrated with five plain and two
colored plates, to represent the carved posts or pillars raised in front of
the houses of the chiefs, and various tattoo designs copied from the
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

bodies of the Indians. This paper was described in the last report. It
may, however, be here mentioned that it is of special interest in connec-
tion with the large number of ethnological specimens received during
the past year from the northwest coast.

Another work published during the year is the third of the Toner-
lecture series. It is by Dr. J. M. DaCosta, of Philadelphia, on the strain
and over-action of the heart, and forms 32 octavo pages, illustrated by two
wood-cuts. These lectures, as has been stated in previous reports, have
been instituted at Washington by Dr. Joseph M. Toner, and are confined
to such memoirs or essays relative to medical science as contain some
new truth fully established by experiment or observation. It is proper
to remark that of this course of lectures only two have been published,
the first and the third, the author having not yet furnished the manu-
script of the second. To defray, in part at least, the cost of printing
these lectures, it has been thought advisable to charge for them 25 cents
a copy to individuals who have no special claim on the Institution by
having contributed meteorological observations or additions to the col-
lections. .

Another work printed during the year is a list of the publications of
the Institution to July, 1874, exhibiting 297 distinct articles, arranged
first numerically, and secondly in regard to the subjects as given in the
titles. It forms an octavo of 26 pages. An edition of 2,500 copies of
this work was furnished to the “ Publishers’ Trade-List Annual” for
1874, (New York, October, 1874,) and through this medium the list of
publications of the Institution will become known to all booksellers and.
librarians in the United States.

An edition of 250 copies of tables selected from the volume of Physi-
cal and Meteorological Tables, prepared and published some years since
at the expense of the Institution, has been printed for the use of the
Argentine Meteorological Observatory at Cordoba, under the direction
of our distinguished countryman, Dr. B. A. Gould.

Publications in the press: 1. The Antiquities of Tennessee, by Dr.
Joseph Jones, of which an account was given in the last report. Of
this the wood-cuts have been prepared, and it is expected that the
printing will be finished in the course of the present year.

2. A Memoir on the Harmonies of the Solar System, by Prof. Stephen
Alexander, of the College of New Jersey.

In this communication the author divides his subject into three sections.
Section I begins with the statement that Kepler’s third law is ordinarily
expressed by saying that the squares of the periodic times of the sey-
eral planets of the solar system are to one another, respectively, as the
cubes of their distances from the sun; but from this we do not learn
that there are any laws determining the ratios of the distances them-
selves, and it is one of the main objects of the present discussion to
show that such laws exist, and precisely what they are; generality and
precision being characteristics of every law of nature.
™

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

The author discusses anew the expressed values of the distances in
question, in view of the fact that Kepler’s third law is itself slightly
modified by the consideration due to the masses of the revolving bodies.
After an exhibition and discussion of the appropriate formula, the
author arranges the results in the form of a table; in which the results
thus shown are respectively consistent with two values of the solar
parallax, viz, Professor Newcomb’s value, z = 8”.848, and that which
others prefer, z = 8.78.

Section II exhibits the laws of arrangement of the distances, both of
planets and their satellites, from their respective centers of attraction,
without the introduction in the same connection of any physical hy-
pothesis on which those laws seem to be founded or of which they are
the exponents.

From a comparison of the several distances of the planets, taking five-
ninths of the distance of Neptune from the center of attraction and five-
ninths of this product, &c., he finds among the several terms of the
geometrical series thus formed, those which represent the relative dis-
tance of Saturn and Jupiter, also a position among the asteroids and
those which represent the distance of Mars, and of Mercury in aphelion.
There are, however, in the geometrical series just mentioned, terms
which do not find their correspondences in the series of distances of the
planets, but which the author very ingeniously supplies by attributing
to certain of the planets the characteristic of half planets, the term
pertaining to them being indicative of the distance between the two
planets at which their masses would be united.

Section ILL exhibits an explanation of the phenomena founded on the
nebular hypothesis of La Place, which seems to reconcile and account
for the laws in question as well as a number of other phenomena.

Approximation to these laws have, from time to time, been exhibited
by the author of this paper to the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science at several of its meetings, beginning with that at
New Haven, in 1850; but it is only within the past few months that the
entire form and consistency of the results have been quite fully made out.
The principal part of the memoir was read before the National Acad-
emy of Sciences at its meeting in April, 1873, and some additional por-
tions of the same at the meeting in April, 1874. In accordance with
usage in such cases, the work was accepted for publication in the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

3. The Winds of the Globe, by the late Prof. J. H. Coffin, prepared at
the expense of the Institution, relative to which further information. will
be given under the head of meteorology. Of this, 250 quarto pages
have been stereotyped, and the whole work, which will form an entire
volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, will be published
during the year 1875.

4, The Temperature-Tables of the North American Continent, prepared
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

at the expense of the Institution, under the direction of Mr. C. A. Schott.
Of this, 100 pages have been stereotyped.

Of the octavo publications there are in press:

i. The monograph on the American Vespide or wasps, by Professor
de Saussure, of Geneva. Of this a full account was given in the last
report. The rapidity of printing in this case is diminished by the neces-
sity of sending the proof-sheets to Switzerland. The work has been
stereotyped as far as the 236th page, and we trust will be completed in
the course of a few months.

The Botanical Index, of which a notice was given in the Report for
1870, has been commenced, and 72 pages printed. This work is a com-
plete index to all the species of plants of North America, with their
synonyms, and all descriptions and important references to them. It is
intended to facilitate the labors of working botanists, especially in the
study of our western plants, the search for what has been written in
regard to them requiring in many cases nearly as much time and labor
as all the rest of their work.

As a further contribution to the “Constants of Nature” mentioned in
the last report, Prof. F. W. Clarke has furnished an additional series of
tables of specific heat and of expansion by heat for solids and liquids.
We have also received from our collaborator, Prof. John L. LeConte, of
the University of California, a series of constants relative to the weight
of air, pressure of the atmosphere, length of seconds, pendulum-velocity
generated by gravity in a mean solar second of time at various places,
velocity of sound, &c. It is the intention of the Institution to continue
this work, and to endeavor to enlist other co-laborers in its prosecution.

RESEARCHES.

Meteorology.—It was stated in the last report that the meteorological
system of records by voluntary observers, which had been in operation
under the direction of the Institution for about twenty-five years, had
been transferred to the signal-ofifice of the War Department, under Gen-
eral A. J. Myer. This transfer was made in accordance with the general
policy of the Institution, namely, that of abandoning any field of enter-
prise as soon as the work could be done as well through other agencies,
thus reserving the energy of the establishment for labors which required
more aid in their accomplishment. We think this transfer has received
the approbation of observers generally; who also, while they are now
co-operating with the Signal-Service, still keep up their correspondence
with the Institution on subjects of general scientific interest. The
labors of the Institution in the line of meteorology are now confined
to working up the material which it has collected during the last
quarter of a century. The materials, however, are not limited to that
period, but embrace everything that could be obtained on the subject
from the records of previous observers.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 17

The first work of this class which has been published is that of the
the Rain-fall. It included all the material which had been collected
down to 1866. It is now proposed to publish a new edition of this
work, containing the additions since made, with improved maps, on a
larger scale.

The next work of the same class is that on the Winds of the Globe,
comprising the result of the discussion of not only the observations
made under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution in the United
States, but of those of every other part of the world of which the records
were attainable. This work, to which the labors of Prof. J. H. Coffin, of
Lafayette College, were for many years devoted, was nearly completed
at the time of his death, has been continued by his son, Prof. Selden
J. Coffin, and is now in the press. Very little, however, was done by
the elder Coffin in the way of stating, in general propositions, the results
contained in the large number of tables which he had elaborated. To
supply this deficiency the Institution has fortunately been enabled to
avail itself of the assistance of Dr. A. Woeikof, member of the Geo-
graphical Society of Russia, and late secretary of its meteorological
commission, who, visiting this country for the study of its climatology,
cheerfully undertook the required task.

The printing of this work is very expensive. It will occupy an entire
volume of the Smithsonian Contributions, and comprise upward of 600
quarto pages of tabular matter, besides the letter-press. It will, how-
ever, we are confident, form a contribution to knowledge which will
be a lasting monument to the industry of Professor Coffin and to the
policy of the Smithsonian Institution.

The next work of the same class is that on the Temperature of the
United States. It has been in progress at the expense of the Institu-
tion for a number of years. It includes the result of the discussion of
all the observations which have been made in this country from the
earliest times down to the present. It is illustrated by three maps of
isothermal spaces—one exhibiting the annual, another the summer, and
the third the winter distribution of temperature—and a number of
diagrams incorporated in the text. It has been from the first under
the direction of Prof. Charles A. Schott, of the Coast Survey, assisted
by a number of computors, at the expense of the Smithson fund. The
maps have been drawn and are in the hands of the engraver, and the
whole work will be printed and distributed during the present year. It
will form the first trustworthy approximation to an exhibition of the
temperature of the various portions of the United States which has ever
been published. The preparation of it has been more expensive than
any other work ever undertaken by the Institution.

Another work in progress is that relative to the geographical distri-
bution in the United States of thunder-storms, the frequency of their
occurrence in différent seasons, and effects produced by discharges of
lightning, as compiled from all the records of the Institution during

28
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

twenty-five years. The preliminary labor was the collection and arrange-
meut of a full list of stations at which thunder-storms have been recorded,
the number of observations at each place, the time of beginning and
ending of each storm, and the whole number of thunder-storms occur-
ring in each year, and during the whole time at each place. From these
data the relative frequency of thunder-storms in different parts of the
country can be determined; also their relative frequency in different
seasons and years, as well as the extent of the area over which they
occur on the same day. The attending casualties, collected from all the
observations made by several hundred observers during a period of
twenty-five years, when brought together and classified, will strikingly
illustrate the operations of one of the most energetic agents of nature.

For the preliminary arrangement of the materials preparatory to
scientific deductions from them, the Institution has employed Mr. George
H. Boehmer.

Another series of reductions relative to the meteorology of North
America which will occupy the attention of the Institution is that of
the discussion of the observations on the barometer in various parts of
the United States. This will be commenced as soon as the other series
of investigations are completed.

Comets.—The first research relative to these I have to mention is that
relative to a comet of short period or one that returns after a few years.
Of these, there are at present six known, namely, Encke’s, which has a
period of about 33 years; Winnecke’s, of between 5 and 6 years; Biela’s,
of 63 years; Faye’s, of 74 years; Tuttle’s, of 13,4, years; and Halley’s, of
about 76 years.

All the other comets which have entered the solar system have never
been known to return, their orbits having probably, in many cases,
been changed by the perturbations of planets in whose vicinity they
may have passed.

The motion of the periodical comets is an object of great interest to
the astronomer, as well as to the general pbysicist, in its relation to
the question of the existence of a retarding medium filling interplan-
etary spaces, and therefore it is considered an object of much importance,
not only to observe their successive positions at their periodic returns,
but also to calculate with great precision their orbits as affected by
planetary perturbations. At a meeting of European astronomers in
August, 1873, the work of discussing all the observations which have
been made on four of these comets was parceled out among the conti-
nental astronomers, Halley’s comet having previously received great
attention from the English and other astronomers; and the fifth, that
of Tuttle, discovered by an American astronomer, was left to be worked
out in this country. This task has been undertaken at the expense of
the Smithsonian Institution, under the direction of Prof. Ormond Stone,
late of the National Observatory, and now professor of astronomy in the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

University of Cincinnati. Professor Stone has chosen for this work a
number of assistants, and will proceed with the reduction and discussion
of the observations made on this comet at its several returns as rapidly
as his other labors will permit.

The perturbations of the first order have been calculated, and the zero
stars used in determining the place of the comet at the time of its last
return in 1871 have been re-observed with the Washington meridian
circle. An accurate determination of the orbit traversed by this comet
in 1871, as based on the corrected position of these stars, has been in
part completed.

In this connection it may be interesting to state that of the one hundred
and forty* asteroids discovered during this century, forty-two were first
observed by American astronomers. It is not enough, however, that
these bodies should be noted as planets, and their positions marked in
the heavens for a given epoch; it is also necessary that their orbits
should be accurately determined, and an ephemeris of each of them cal-
culated by which its place can be ascertained at any future time. This
work, however, is one, as it were, of approximation, and mnst be con-
tinued through,a series of revolutions of each planet. In regard to the
asteroids discovered in Europe, the investigation of them is under the
charge of European astronomers; while for the investigation of those
discovered in America, Congress has made an appropriation for the last
three years, to be expended under the direction of Professor Coffin,
director of the American Nautical Almanac.

Efficiency of steam-heaters—Another investigation, at the partial ex-
pense of the Smithsonian Institution, has been undertaken under the
direction of General W. B. Franklin, late of the United States Army,
at the Colt’s Fire-Arms Manufacturing Company, Hartford, Conn., by
Mr. C. B. Richards, of which the following is an account:

The experiments which are proposed will be in continuation of two
series already made, to ascertain the relative efficiency of the different
kinds of steam-heaters used for warming buildings, and to determine
also the laws of their operation. The first series related to what are
known as “ direct radiators,” and in these the heaters were exposed in a
large room whose temperature could be changed and regulated as desired.
In the second series the heaters were of the kind called “ indirect radi-
ators,” and were inclosed in a flue through which currents of air were
passed. The initial and final temperatures, the barometric pressure,
and the moisture of the air were noted, and the quantity passed through
the flue was measured by a Casella meter.

In both series the pressure of the steam was measured by an accurate
mereury column, and its temperature was noted, while the heating effect
of the heater was calculated from data obtained by collecting, cooling,
and weighing the water of condensation obtained from the steam which
was passed through the heater.

*Since the above was written two additional asteroids have been discovered.
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Very satisfactory and consistent results were arrived at from the first
series. But in the second series, the cost of the apparatus, the many
different cireumstanees which it was necessary to take into account,
the consequent greater care and time required in the investigation, and
alack of money with which to pursue the inquiry to the proper point,
prevented the establishment of trustworthy data.

The importance of deciding the questions which it is the specific ob-
ject of these experiments to answer need not be urged. There is, how-
ever, one interesting circumstance which, among others, was observed,
and which may be of importance outside the principal question. This
relates to the determination of the condition of the steam as regards
its dryness when it entered the heating apparatus; and, as a small
quantity of steam was occasionally allowed to escape after it had passed
through the heater, (in order to carry off air,) it was also desirable to
ascertain whether any very considerable amount of water, in the condi-
tion of mist, was carried away by this escaping steam.

Hirn’s method was employed in these determinations. Although the
apparatus for this purpose was crude, and for precise experiments would
require to be much improved, the experiments seemed to indicate clearly
that the steam was nearly if not quite as dry, after passing over the
condensing surface of the heater, as before; that is to say, its ‘ misti-
ness” was not increased by its passage over a large extent of condensing
surface. These results, if fully verified by a longer series of experi-
ments with better apparatus, would indicate that there is a fallacy in
the generally-entertained idea that “wet steam” is supplied to an
engine if the originally dry steam is led through a long pipe.

The records of the experiments are voluminous, and it is intended to
tabulate them, and to represent the results by curves when the whole
are completed. \

Hlevations.—It has been mentioned in previous reports that the In-
stitution has been at considerable expense in collecting the profiles of
canal, railroad, and other surveys, in order to the construction of a to-
pographical map of the United States. The charge of this work was
given to Mr. Nicholson, topographer to the Post-Office Department, but,
owing to the absorbing nature of his official duties, he has been unable
up to this time to complete it. In‘the mean while Mr. Gardner, of the
Hayden expedition, has rendered an important service to this investiga-
tion by settling, through critical comparison of various surveys, the actual
height of several important places in the interior, which will hereafter
serve as points of departure for other surveys.

Natural History and Ethnology.—V arious researches have been made
in natural history and ethnology, the aetual expense of which has
been defrayed by the Institution, without salary, however, to the person
in charge of the work; an account of which will be given in a subse-
quent part of the report.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

The Smithsonian system of international exchange still continues to
render an important service to the advance of civilization, and emphat-
ically to carry out the second clause of the will of Smithson for the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men—that is, mankind. It is
the medium of exchange of literary and scientific materials between the
United States and all foreign countries.

The effect of this system on the diffusion of knowledge can scarcely
be too highly estimated. Thousands of works, containing the details of
the latest inventions and discoveries, are through its means annually
brought to this country, while a knowledge through the same medium
is disseminated abroad of everything that is doing in the United States
to promote a higher civilization.

As an evidence of the high estimation in which this part of the opera-
tions of the Institution is regarded, we may again mention that the
Smithsonian packages are passed through all the custom-houses of the
world free of duty and without examination, and, moreover, that they
are transmitted free of cost by the principal transportation companies,
namely :

Pacific Mail Steamship Company.

Panama Railroad Company.

Pacific Steam Navigation Com-
pany.

New York and Mexico Steamship
Company.

New York and Brazil Steamship
Company.

North German Lloyd Steamship
Company.

Hamburg American Packet Com-
pany.

French Transatlantic Company.

North Baltic Lloyd Steamship
Company.

Inman Steamship Company.

Cunard Steamship Company.

Anchor Steamship Company.

The special thanks of the Institution are again due to the above-men-
tioned companies for their enlightened liberality.
The following are the foreign centers of reception and distribution of

the Smithsonian exchanges:

London—Agent, William Wesley, 28 Essex street, Strand.
Paris—G. Bossange, 16 rue du 4 Septembre.

Leipsic—Dr. Felix Fliigel, 12 Sidonien Strasse.

St. Petersburg—L. Watkins & Co., 10 Admiralty Place.

Amsterdam—F, Miller.

Milan—U. Hoepli, 591 Galeria Cristoforia.

Harlem—Prof. Baumhauer.

Christiana—Royal University of Norway.
Stockholm—Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.
Copenhagen—Royal Danish Society.

The following table exhibits the number of foreign establishments:
with which the Institution is at present in correspondence, or, in other
words, to which it sends publications and from which it receives others
in return :
22 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Number of Foreign Corresponding Institutions.

pemedenl | 2iei uct t sc. sees! 86.| Balen. or Soe seems ot <, plo
Ik ANA te eR Serra nals Bask <Deaeo 24 )| rane: sao - salsa saeieee etic ses. = 274
Hceland =o. ..bo-os<setotee ones eee ee 2 | Ttalyi cake esemeeeeaetec emer 169
Wenmaric.- 2. ss2z eosin cee teee eee Wi Sort lals non. 52 se ee Cee eee 20
FROGS Succes ccd seen ce etlaacueces,, GUNS Spallienc tac 4s. - eee eet 12
Holland «ss seas e ee eee oe 65 | Great Britain and Ireland...--. -. S42 1357)
Germany = ss asset bonceto st eceerks 622)\;SouthvAm erica: -- = eeeseeee a 40
Greece Bae eee eee eee eee Go WeStsIRUlOS: sc cnc oe Cee ff
Parkey-csonee eae ee eee es See e eae 1) Mexicosis-ce.2 <=... -saeeteeeeeereee = 10
Adrica sss hse S ee atees fe ee eee ss 23) CenbralvAmenica,.<«. soc foee seer oe oe 1
NEVE gee a Se ee Se See AD ABTItisheAmMerica,....-+--sSee eee ee 27
Australia: oeee soto aces oon eee Q7>|\"Generalts ste ssa 3 coco 5
New Zealand seas. Sose eye Sse es 13
Polynestaiscce -2- 4. Joc ecee nse cae ai 2 DOA ic senjo sce: wie woe eee aO
SwitzéerlandMens) so.. on eoe ones ool 69

The table in itself is interesting as indicating the relative attention
given to literature and science at the present day in the different coun-
tries of the world.

During the past year 4,326 packages, each containing several articles,
have been received from abroad for distribution to institutions and
individuals in this country.

One hundred and forty-one boxes, averaging 7 cubic feet each, with a
total weight of 29,600 pounds, were sent abroad by the Institution dur-
ing the year, viz: To Germany, 40; England, 30; Sweden, 5; Norway,
3; Denmark and Iceland, 4; France, 11; Russia, 7; Holland, 5; Bel-
gium,5; Australia, 11; Italy,3; Cuba,2; Brazil, 3; Liberia,1; Egypt,
1; Canada, 10.

The total number of separate parcels contained in these boxes was
about 10,000.

To facilitate the business of the exchanges, the following rules have
been adopted:

1. Every package, without exception, must be enveloped in strong
paper, and secured so as to bear separate transportation by express or
otherwise. :

2. The address of the institution or individual, for whom the package
is intended, must be written legibly on the cover, and the name of the
sender on one corner of the same.

3. No single package must exceed the half of a cubic foot in bulk.

4, A detailed list of addresses of all the parcels sent, with their con-
tents, must accompany them.

5. No letter or other communication can be allowed in the parcel,
excepting such as relates exclusively to the contents of the package.

6. All packages must be delivered in Washington free of freight and
other expenses.

7. Every parcel should contain a blank acknowledgment, to be signed
and returned, either through the agent of the Institution, or, what is
still better, through the mail, to the sender. Should exchanges be de-
sired for what is sent, the fact should be explicitly stated on the list of
the contents of the package. Much disappointment is frequently ex-
pressed at the absence of any return in kind for transmissions; but un-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 20

less these are specifically asked for they will fail in many instances to
be made. It will facilitate the labors of the Institution very greatly if
the number corresponding to the several addresses in the Smithsonian
printed catalogue* be marked on the face of each parcel; and for this
purpose a copy of the catalogue will be forwarded to all who apply for it.

Specimens of natural history will not be received for transmission un-
less with a previous understanding as to their character and bulk.

8. Unless all these conditions are complied with the parcels will not
be forwarded from the Institution; and, on the failure to comply with
the first and second conditions, will be returned to the sender for cor-
rection.

The operations of the system of exchange have increased from year
to year, aud notwithstanding the liberal assistance received from trans-
portation companies, it now absorbs nearly a seventh part of the entire
income of the establishment. In order to improve its efficiency and the
frequency of transmission of packages, a larger proportion of the income
will be required. In view of these facts, the Secretary at the last session
of the Board of Regents was authorized to receive aid from societies
and individuals in defraying the heavy expense of this part of the oper-
ations of the Institution.

Miss Jane Turner, sister of the late Prof. W. W. Turner, the well-
known philologist, continues to have charge of receiving and cata-
loguing the exchanges intended for the library of the Institution, and of
distributing those for other parties.

The receiving, packing, and shipping of the packages from different
parts of the United States intended for foreign countries, is under the
charge of Mr. H. Diebitsch.

LIBRARY.

In 1866, the library of the Institution was incorporated with that
of Congress. This arrangement is still continued, and is beneficial to
both establishments. The Smithson fund is relieved from the mainte-
nance of a separate library, while at the same time the Institution
has the use not only of its own books but of those of the Library of Con-
gress. On the other hand, the Library of Congress is enriched by an
entire department, that of books relating to modern science.

The following is a statement of the books, maps, and charts received
by exchange in 1874:

Volumes:
OC tA Os OF 1GSS erties siete, oc oi ois c's eye) 2 «5 lapcealats 657
Giartosor larger so. seat. ss ee! thd eretienrapaks HS ee rss es 206

* Miscellaneous Collections, No. 243.
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Parts of volumes:

Getavo, or less. ... 32 seme ot - ee mee ble sealer 1, 607
Quarto, or larger. -7see ae ssa ce oe =e oe eine ee 1, 359
2, 966
Pamphlets:
Mctavo,ior less 22-0 hee tS oe Reem Mote lem eee 1, 962
Wuarto, Or lancer. cette cjeqeieei ae eee on ee 593
1, 555
Maps ang charts. 7: = foo eer pois Be eee eta << 162
Totalreterpts 2.22. sae tes Accietels Aets ee tees Ssle ote 5, 546

Among the principal donations received in 1874, are the following:

From the Company of Public Works of the Mediterranean: “ Bassins
de Kadoub de Marseille. Notice sur ’exécution des travaux,” with an
atlas of 40 plates, (2 copies.)

From the Argentine Confederation: ‘“ Description géographique et
statistique de la Confédération Argentine, par V. de Moussy,” vols. i-iii,
with folio atlas.

From the National Hungarian Museum, Buda-Pesth: “ Monuments
épigraphiques du Musée National Hongrois, dessinés par Ernest Des-
jardins,” 1 vol., folio, Buda-Pesth, 1873.

From the Imperial Archeological Commission, St. Petersburg:
**Compte-rendu de la Commission Impériale Archéologique,” for 1870 and
1871, with folio atlas.

From the Icelandic Literary Society, “Reykjavik Skirnir,” 1874:
“Skyrsla um Forngripasafu Islands i Reykjavik,” vols. i, i1, 1863-1870.
Copenhagen, 1868, 1874. “ Fyettir fra Islandi,” 1873. Reykjavik,
1874, Svo.

From the Universities of Berlin, Bonn, Erlangen, Freiberg, Gottin-
gen, Greifswald, Halle, Jena, Leipzig, Marburg, Rostock, Wiirzburg,
Basel, Bern, and Zurich: Inaugural Dissertations for 1873.

From the Hydrographic Department of the Ministry of Marine, St.
Petersburg; 23 charts, 10 volumes, and 6 pamphlets.

From the Veterinary School, Dorpat, 48 pamphlets.

From the British Museum, London, “ Catalogue of Greek Coins,
_ Italy,” 1873, 8vo.; “ Catalogue of Roman Coins in the British Museum,
Koman Medallions,” 1874, 4to.; “Catalogue of Prints and Drawings,”
Division I. “ Political and Political Satires,” vol. ii., 1869-1873, 8vo.;
“ Wac-similes of Ancient Characters,” 1873, folio ; “* Catalogue of Birds,”
vol. i, 1874, 8vo.; “* Hand-List of Seals, Morses, Sea-Lions, ete.,” 1874, 8vo.;
‘*‘ Hemiptera, Heteroptera,” vol. viii, 1873, 8vo.; and various guide-
books.

From the Board of Admiralty, London, 28 charts published by the
Hydrographic Office, from January, 1873, to January, 1874; ‘‘ The
China Sea Directory,” vol. iv; ‘‘The Mediterranean Pilot,” vol. i;
“*Red Sea Pilot,” 1873; ‘ Tide-Tables,” 1874; ‘“ Nautical Almanac for
1878 ;” and 10 lists of lights.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

From the Overijssel Society for the Promotion of Provincial Welfare,
Zwolle, 8 volumes, 8 parts, and 5 pamphlets.

From the Royal Statistical Bureau, Copenhagen, “ Statistisk Tabel-
voerk,” vols. xx—xxvi, (2 copies ;) “‘ Sammendrug,” ete., 10 parts.

From Messrs. Robert and Alexander Stuart, New York, ‘‘ Anti-Nicene
Christian Library; Translations of the Writings of the Fathers down
to A. D. 325,” 24 volumes.

From the Ministry of Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce, Rome,
10 volumes and three pamphlets published by the department.

From the Central Bureau of Statistics, Stockholm, ‘“ Bidrug till sver-
iges officiela Statistik,” 22 parts.

From the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Modena, 27 medical pam-
phlets.

From the Norwegian Government, “ Norges Officiela Statistik,” 1873,
13 parts, 4to; and 4 volumes on Norwegian Statistics.

From the State library of Virginia, 9 volumes of State documents.

In addition to the books which fee been received, we are indebted
to Major-General J. H. Lefroy, governor of Bermuda, a special friend
of the Institution, for a series of manuscripts procured by him during
a late visit to England, and presented through him by his relative, Mrs.
Dundas, of Canon Hall, Larbert, N. B.

The following is a report on these manuscripts by Mr. Spofford, Li-
brarian of Congress:

‘¢ These original records form a collection of the highest interest and
value as materials of personal and political history at a period which
must ever remain the most important era in the annals of the United
States. One of the volumes contains twelve reports submitted to the
lords of Her Majesty’s treasury, by John Wilmot, Colonel Dundas, and
the other commissioners, upon the losses and services of the claimants
who were loyal to the British crown during the revolutionary war, and
who were afterward indemnified by act of Parliament. Six reports in
addition, signed by Colonel Dundas and Mr. J. Pemberton, commission-
ers, and extending from A. D. 1784 to 1789, are also embraced. Thirty-
four of the manuscript volumes containa large amount and variety of facts
and testimony regarding the landed possessions and per sonal property of
hundreds of British subjects in the New England States, as well as in
New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, etc. As most of these papers
have never been published, they are the more valuable and original and
unique repositories of information regarding the persons to whom they
relate, the descendants of many of whom still survive among the people
of the United States.”

The edition of the volume of the catalogue of Transactions of Learned
Societies, originally prepared by the Institution, containing a list of the
works of this branch of bibliography, deposited in the Library of Con-
gress, having been exhausted, Mr. Spofford is about to publish a new
edition containing all the late additions which have been mate to the
26 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

collection. It will also contain, in an appendix, a catalogue of scientific
periodicals, with the date of publication of each volume, compiled under
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution, by Dr. H. Carrington Bolton,
of the Columbia College School of Mines, New York.

TELEGRAPHIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF ASTRONOMICAL DISCOVERIES.

The important arrangement which was concluded between the Smith-
sonian Institution and the Atlantic cable companies in 1873, by which
free telegraphic transmission of astronomical discoveries was granted
between Europe and America, has been continued during the past year.
The number of announcements, however, has not been as great as during
the previous year.

The following list comprises the asteroids discovered in 1874:

No. Name. Discoverer. Date.

1350) -Herthaleee-)- 5 C. H. F. Peters, at Clinton, N. Y..-..:.....--| February 18, 1874.
136, AmMstriais oo = ooo. M. Palisa. at (Polas sete oe ee sete seer e = ee Lareholsen saan
137 | Meliboea-_-.-.- .-- M. Palisa,yat POM e- sae... ees asses cS) Aprile tone.

1330) Molosajcsa-s22¢ M: Perrotin;/at) Tonlouse!-=----5-5--—- == =|) Mayato eva.

139 J7 (Co Watsons: becstcaseee Hoeo eee eae Oct. 10, 1874.

P40 MN CSIW Saco == si M. Palisa, ab Polassen esas e see eee Obs lon tera.

Eight comets have been detected during the past year.

No. Discoverer. Date.

1 Winnecke, at Strasburg... 52. s522:2 <s05s-eaeveosetonsc oes | HebEuary.c0, 1874.
2 Winnecke, at. Strasburg... . <- <2. 5-=.sc0gos 2255.5 csennoee ee AP bed.

3 Cogpria, at Marseilles. —-. -- 25-22 soo c eos case meen cee aa eee eeys Ol te

A Borelly,.at Marseilles: 232. soot nascent eee eee eee Roliyaco med Ae

5 Cogota; at, Marseillés.....\-. <2 25. <= seman eee ee eee ee eee | PAU PURO. Loud.

6 Borelly, at, Marseilles: 3° .2-22. cn. ses\ne se sete EE ee noe December 6, 1874.

These comets, except No. 3, were strictly telescopic.

The number of amateur astronomers in the United States who are pro-
vided with telescopes of sufficient power to detect minute heavenly
bodies is every year increasing, and the discovery of new comets and
asteroids offers an interesting field for their cultivation. The plan
adopted by Professor Watson, of Ann Arbor, furnishes a definite
means for the discovery of asteroids. It consists in studying with great
minuteness a narrow band in the heavens, of two or three degrees in
width, extending at right angles to the ecliptic, twenty degrees or
more on eacb side. At some time in the revolution of an asteroid
around the sun it must pass through this band, and, if each fixed
star in this circumscribed space be accurately mapped and its relative
place be made familiar to the observer, any new object which presents
itself within this area may be readily detected.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 2H
NATIONAL MUSEUM.

For many years after the Institution took charge of the National
Museum only $4,000 was allowed by Congress for the annual expense on
account of this duty. In 1871 the appropriation for this purpose was
increased to $10,000, and in 1872 to $15,000, and for the last year to
$20,000; the last-mentioned sum being sufficient for the present to
defray the annual expense without encroachment on the income of the
Smithson fund, nothing being charged on account of rent of the build-
ing. In addition to this, $10,000 was appropriated for the completion
of the cases in the large room of the second story, devoted to ethnology.
This money was expended in procuring cases in the form of tables with
glass tops and sides for the exhibition of smaller articles.

The following report from Professor BAIRD gives an account of the
additions to the museum and the various operations connected with it
during the past year:

Increase of the National Museum.

As in previous years, nearly every region in North America, and a
considerable number of localities in Central and South America, as well
as in other parts of the world, have been represented in the collections
of 1874; the following summary showing, in a general way, the more
important of the acquisitions from a geographical point of view:

From Greenland has been received a collection of articles of Esqui-
maux dress and other interesting curiosities, including the skeleton of
a polar bear. :

The arctic main land of North America is represented by perfect
skins, with the skeletons complete, of adult male and female musk-oxen,
forming an acquisition that any museum would consider of great im-
portance.

Alaska has been richly represented during the year by a good series
of ethnological material of the Thlinket tribes of Sitka and the adjoin-
ing region, including a number of the stone implements wuich are now
entirely gone out of use and very rare; also, from the Maglemut Esqui-
maux of the island of Nunivak, Behring Sea, a remarkably full series of
their utensils, weapons, and carvings. This addition, with what had
previously been obtained, gives to the National Museum a finer collec-
tion of Western Esquimaux material than exists in all other ethnological
museums combined.

A series of dredgings has also been received, made in the Northern
Ocean, in the vicinity of Kotzebue Sound, and in other portions of Behring
Sea ; a large collection of birds with their eggs, among them specimens
of the Sterna aleutica and other rare species, and series of skins and
skeletons of the fur-seals, &e.

Queen Charlottes Island and Washington Territory.—From these we
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

have received ethnological objects, consisting principally of elaborate
carvings made by the Haidah Indians, a race excelling any other
aboriginal people on the continentrin the skill and variety of the designs
which they engrave on bone and wood.

Oregon is represented very satisfactorily by a series of prehistoric
remains obtained from shell-heaps. These are of extreme beauty of
finish, and constitute a highly-prized addition to the ethnological col-
lections of the Institution.

California, as usual, occupies a prominent place in the record of addi-
tions to the museum, more particularly in the line of archeology,
including prehistoric remains from the shell-heaps, some of them open-
ing a new page in American archeology in the variety and complexity
of the objects, and in their great beauty of finish. The applications and
uses of many of them constitute puzzling problems in ethnology.

From the Pacific coast we have also received specimens of the ceta-
ceans, and an interesting and valuable collection of eggs.

Arizona, Utah, and Colorado are richly illustrated by the specimens
collected by the various Government exploring expeditions, in all the
departments of natural history and ethnology. These regions may
almost be considered as more fully represented in the National Museum
than any other portion of the continent, with the exception of Alaska.
A collection of eggs from Arizona challenges competition for beauty of
preparation and variety of species; also ethnological objects of much
interest.

From Montana, specimens of the grayling fishes have been received,
among which a new species has been described by Mr. Milner, Thymallus
montaniensis ; a collection of birds, and a fine specimen of mule-deer.

New Mexico is represented principally by specimens of Navajo work-
manship, fossil remains, and minerals in much variety.

Dakota.—As in previous years, large collections, especially in natural
history, have been received from this Territory, particularly from the
officers of the Northern Boundary Survey.

Central portion of the United States.—The collections from this region
have consisted principally of crania, stone implements, pottery, worked
bones, &c., from Tennessee, Indiana, Ilinois, Ohio, Iowa; minerals and
rocks from Tennessee; skins of salmonidee of Lake Superior; specimens
of the Michigan grayling, and of the giant snapping-turtle from Louisi-
ana.

Eastern portion of the United States—We have received specimens of
bone implements and other ethnologica from New York, Pennsylvania,
and Virginia; fresh-water and land shells and Otsego bass from New
York; young California salmon from the Susquehanna River; fossil
ferns and a specimen of the Arkansas fly-catcher from Maryland; and
fishes from Virginia.

Florida is well represented by human crania, shell-heap remains, and
other ethnological objects, living alligators, fishes, shells, and reptiles ;
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

among the latter a specimen of Hlaps distans, a serpent previously un-
known excepting in Arizona.

From Newfoundland we have had a series of stuffed skins of several
species of seals of different ages.

From Mexico a collection of reptiles and fishes.

From Cuba a continuation of the complete series of species of fish,
which the Institution has received from its correspondents on that
island.

Central America, as usual, has furnished very important collections,
among them birds and reptiles from the isthmus of Tehuantepes ; speci-
mens of the musical instruments of the aborigines of Guatemala; poison-
ous serpents of Nicaragua, and, above all, a series of mammals, birds,
reptiles, fishes, shells, insects, and ethnology from Costa Rica.

South America.—The receipts from this part of the western hemi-
sphere have not been very large, consisting principally of some casts of
stone implements from ancient mines in Chili, and ethnological objects,
birds, mammals, and serpents from Brazil, as well as a specimen of sea-
lion from Patagonia.

Europe.—The additions of the year consist of marine shells, cretaceous
fossils from Sweden, and skeleton of the white porpoise from Norway ;
also models of the common form of weir used in Denmark for the capture
of fishes; minerals from Saxony; highly valuable specimens of crania
and pottery belonging to the Anglo-Saxon period of British history;
prehistoric objects from the celebrated locality of Solutré, among them
numerous bones of the horse, the remains of which, to the number of
many thousands of individuals, have been accumulated in a single de-
pository.

Other parts of the world—Among the most noteworthy of the collec-
tions received are those of fishes, crustaceans, seeds, bulbs, shells, &c.,
from the island of Mauritius; models of dwellings, articles of dress,
specimens of fishes, crustaceans, corals, &c., &c., from the Samoan
Islands; and fishes from Kamtschatka.

Not the least interesting and important of the collections of the year
are “squeezes” from Egyptian antiquities, and a perfect copy of the
Tanis or Canopus stone, from the museum at Boulak, of which a much
inferior copy was already in possession of the Institution.

Miscellaneous.—The Navy of the United States has very largely con-
tributed specimens collected during the voyages of the Portsmouth
among the Pacific Islands; of the Narragansett in the Gulf of Califor-
nia and vicinity, embracing shells, fishes, birds, and ethnology; and of
the Tuscarora in the Pacific Ocean, between the United States and the
Sandwich Islands and Japan, consisting of the soundings taken while
selecting a suitable line for a trans-Pacific telegraphic cable.

Systematic summary.—Having described the principal additions to the
National Museum in 1874 in geographical order, it may not be amiss)
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

to refer briefly to them again in their systematic sequence, as likely to
give a better idea of the actual increase in the scientific value of the col-
lections.

Of the various additions received during the year, those which are
most varied and comprehensive in their nature, and of most importance,
have been derived from the labors of Mr. W. H. Dall and Mr. H. W.
Hlliott, in Alaska; of Mr. Archibald Campbell, Major Twining, and Dr.
E. Coues, of the Northern Boundary Survey, in Dakota; of Major Pow-
ell, Lieutenant Wheeler, and Dr. Hayden, in Utah, Arizona, and Colo-
rado; of the United States steamers Portsmouth and Narragansett, in
the Pacific Ocean; of Capt. Nicholas Pike, in the Mauritius; of the
United States Fish-Commission on the eastern coast of the United
States; and of Professor Gabb, in Costa Rica.

Ethnology.—The Smithsonian Institution has been, for several years
past, especially interested in extending the ethnological collections of
the National Museum, desirous that this should embrace as full an illus-
tration of American archeology as possible. The results of its efforts in
this direction have been very satisfactory, few days elapsing without
the receipt of one or more packages of specimens. These collections are
so numerous, indeed, as to render it impossible to mention them all here ;
and we can only specify a few, referring to the list of donations for a
statement in full.

By far the most important of these collections were those received
from Alaska and the west coast of America and from Costa Rica,
already referred to in general terms. The specimens procured by Mr.
Dall furnish a full representation of the prehistoric antiquities of the
islands and the main land of Alaska, as also of many of the objects at
present in use among the Esquimaux, the Aleutians, &c. Mr. Elliott’s
collections relate more especially to Saint Lawrence Island, Behring Sea,
aregion previously unrepresented in any collection.

The collections made in Oregon by Mr. A. W. Chase and Mr. Paul
Schumacher relate to the shell-heap deposits, and are quite unique in
theircharacter. Still more so are the gatherings made by Mr. Dall and
Mr. Schumacher from the islands and main land of Southern California.
The carvings by the Haidah Indians, collected by Mr. J. G. Swan, are of
great interest and beauty.

The collections of Doctor Gabb, of both modern and prehistoric
ethnology in Costa Rica, are of very great extent and of extreme value,
and are supplemented bya collection of aboriginal musical instruments
from Guatemala, furnished by Mr. Henry Hague.

Large numbers of stone implements, pipes, pottery, &c., have been
received from the expeditions of Major Powell, Doctor Hayden, and
Lieutenant Wheeler, from Governor Arny, of New Mexico, and from
many localities in the interior and in the east, all together forming an

aggregate of very great extent. Oonspicuous among these are speci-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

- mens of bone implements obtained by Mr. Frank H. Cutting in Central
New York. Mr. J. H. Jenkins, of Northumberland, Pa., has increased
the extent of his deposits by numerous additional objects. General
M. C. Meigs, Quartermaster-General United States Army, has furnished
ethnological specimens from Arizona of much interest.

Among the articles obtained from the Mississippi Valley is a remark-
able stone pestle, or muller, from the Rev. Joshua Hailes, senior. This
is stirrup-shaped, and quite unique in North America; although similarly-
shaped objects, with the same function, are known in Central America
and the Sandwich Islands.

A noteworthy article in this department consists of a specimen of
ancient cloth from a rock-dwelling near Montezuma Wells, in Arizona,
presented by Lieut. E. B. Hubbard. Dr. J. F. Snyder, of Illinois, has
furnished a large number of disk-shaped, chipped stones, of great beauty.

Of Old World collections we have mentioned a copy of the Tanis or
Canopus stone, presented by the Khedive of Egypt, and, through General
Charles P. Stone, numerous “squeezes” of Egyptian antiquities, con-
tributed by the latter gentleman; a series of Saxon crania, and other
antiquities, from Professor Rolleston, of Oxford; specimens from the
prehistoric burial-places near Solutré, presented by Professor Lartet,
and valuable collections from the Samoan Islands, by A. B. Steinberger,
esq.

Under the head of Mammals, an important acquisition is that of a
perfect pair of skins and skeletons of musk-oxen, from Mr. Hardisty, of
the Hudson’s Bay service, in arctic North America.

Mr. P. T. Barnum, in pursuance of his liberal offer to place at the dis-
posal of the Institution, for the use of the National Museum, all such
animals from his menagerie as might die on his hands, has furnished
Specimens of the nylghau, the manatee, the dromedary, the sun-bear,
and other species. A specimen of the sea-lion of Patagonia has been
received from Doctor Burmeister, of Buenos Ayres. Henry W. Elliott
has procured for usa series of skins and skeletons of the fur-seals. Doe-
tor Gabb has furnished complete collections of nearly all the known
mammals of Costa Rica, in great number. Professor Pageustecker
presented skins of various European mammals. A series of the seals
of Newfoundland was received from Rev. M. Harvey; and Captain
Scammon has contributed additions to the series of cetaceans of the
Pacific Coast, especially that of California, it being his intention to
render the collection of the National Museum as complete as he can
make it. The objects received illustrate his important work on the
marine mammals of the western coast of the United States.

The Vienna Museum has supplied skins and skeletons of several
species of Old World mammalia. From Doctor Bessels has been received
a skeleton of the polar bear, and from Doctor Yates casts of the teeth of
the fossil elephant of California. Seftor Albuquerque, of Brazil, has
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

furnished living specimens of the coatimundi; and Doctor Nichols, of
the Washington Insane Asylum, the body of a very large grizzly bear.
Specimens of the black-tailed deer and American panther were ob-
tained for the Institution by Mr. James Stevenson, of Doctor Hayden’s
survey. One of the most important contributions of the year, as far as
the mammalia of North America are concerned, consisted of several speci-
mens of the black-footed ferret, ( Putorius nigripes,) a weasel described
by Mr. Audubon in 1843 from a single specimen, which has not been
since caught until the present year, when specimens were transmitted to
the Institution by Mr. La Munyon, Dr. Law, and Mr. L. H. Kerrick.

Especially noteworthy among the birds received during the year is a
specimen of the dodo pigeon (Didunculus strigirostris) from the Samoan
Islands, presented by Mr. A. B. Steinberger. This species is best known
from having been collected by the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, and de-
seribed nearly simultaneously by Sir William Jardine and Mr. Titian R.
Peale. It is confined to these islands, where it is nearly extinct. This
specimen is especially valuable from being presented entire in alcohol,
thus furnishing an opportunity of a thorough anatomical investigation
of its characteristics. A living specimen just received at the Zoological,
Garden in London has attracted great attention.

Mr. Lucien M. Turner, now stationed at Saint Michael’s, in Norton
Sound, as an observer in the Signal-Service, has sent a number of birds,
with their eggs, of much interest, among them specimens of the Sterna
aleutica and other rare species.

A cast of part of the skull of a remarkable fossil bird from the Shep-
pey clay, of England, (the Odontopteryx toliapicus,) has been received
from Mr. Bryce M. Wright. Mr. Barnum has supplied, from the speci-
mens that died in his menagerie, the cassowary, the emu, and the
ostrich. From Dr. Gabb has been received a very large series of the
birds of Costa Rica. Mr. J. EK. Harting, of London, has supplied some
rare specimens of the gralle. Collections of the birds of Colorado have
been furnished by Mr. C. G. Aiken and Mrs. Maxwell; of the Isthmus
of Tehuantepec, by Professor Sumichrast ; of the Prybilov Islands, from
Mr. George R. Adams. Collections of the birds of Brazil were furnished
by Senor Albuquerque, and of Buenos Ayres by Dr. Burmeister; a
series of rare species from Ecuador was also received from the Wesleyan
University, at Middletown, Conn.

A noteworthy fact is the receipt of a specimen of the Arkansas fly-
catcher, killed in Maryland, and presented by Mr. Jouy, this species
being usually confined to the western plains.

The most important of the collections of eggs received are those fur-
nished by Captain Charles Bendire, United States Cavalry, from South-
ern Arizona; those from Dr. William A. Cooper, of Santa Cruz, Cali-
fornia ; foe Florida by Professor Jenks, and from Alaska by Mr. Dall
and Mr. Elliott.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ao

The collections of reptiles received during the year have not been very
extensive, the most important being the series furnished by Mr. Gabb
from Costa Rica, and those brought in by the expedition of Lieutenant
Wheeler. Captain Bendire has furnished a specimen of the rare Helo-
derma horridum, a curious lizard from Arizona; and several living alli-
gators from Florida have been supplied by Messrs. Chandler and Boyd.
Mr. John Potts, a correspondent of many years’ standing, has again
evinced his interest in the Institution by sending a collection of reptiles
and fishes from Mexico. A living sea-turtle from Florida was presented
by the honorable Secretary of the Navy, and a giant snapping-turtle of
the Mississippi, by Mr. Boyd. Dr. Reuss has furnished collections of
reptiles from Illinois, Professor Sumichrast others from the Isthmus of
Tehuantepec, Mr. John Queseda the poisonous serpents of Nicaragua,
and a series gathered during the operations of the Northern Boundary
Survey was brought in by Dr. Coues. Mr. Meek obtained from Florida
a specimen of Hlaps distans, a serpent to which reference has already
been made, as previously known only in Arizona.

The collections of fishes embrace some of the most noteworthy addi.
tions of the year, these having been made with special reference to the
operations of Professor Baird as United States Commissioner of Fish
and Fisheries. The most important of these were gathered by himself
on the coast of New England, especially in the vicinity of Noank,
Conn., where he had his headquarters during the past summer. These
embrace full series of all the kinds known to occur in those waters, sup-
plemented by rare specimens sent by his agents and correspondents at
Wood’s Hole, Portland, and elsewhere. Large numbers, too, of the
fishes of the great lakes and of the Mississippi, &c., have been sup-
plied, among them specimens of the grayling of Michigan and of Mon-
tana, including several new species; and series of white-fish from Maine,
New Hampshire, and elsewhere, have also been received. Mr. E. G.
Blackford, the well-known dealer in fish at Fulton Market, New York,
has been especially serviceable in this connection by keeping a sharp
watch over the rare and curious fish coming into New York, and send-
ing them suitably packed in ice to Washington. By means of the vari-
ous fresh fishes thus obtained, the series of casts of the food-fishes of
the United States, commenced a few years ago, has been greatly ex-
tended during the past season, this now numbering over three hundred
specimens, painted carefully from nature, and representing fishes and
cetaceans, some of them of nearly a thousand pounds weight. This
collection of casts is unique in this country, and is only represented on
a smaller scale by that of Mr. Frank Buckland, in London, and that of
the natural history museum of Trinity College, Dublin.

Other specimens of fishes are those from the coast of Virginia, sup-
plied by Prof. H. E. Webster; skeletons of the fishes of South Carolina,
from Mr. G. E. Manigault; specimens from the Sacramento Bay, sent

38
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

by Mr. L. Stone; from the vicinity of New Bedford, by Mr. John H.
Thomson; from Florida, by Mr. G. B. Goode; from the Susquehanna
River, by Mr. T. H. Bean and Mr. Jas. Creveling ; from Montana, by Dr.
Hart; from Lake Superior, by J. T. Coleman; from Michigan, by D. H.
Fitzhugh, jr, and Fred. Mather; from Cooperstown, N. Y., &c., by
Captain Phinney,

Of fishes from regions outside of the United States, specimens have
been furnished from the fresh waters of Central Europe, by Dr. Middle-
ton Goldsmith ; from the Pacific Ocean, by the United States steamer
Portsmouth; from Kamtschatka, by Col. T. L. Lee; from Cuba, by Pro-
fessor Poey and Professor Shepard ; and from the Mauritius, by Capt,
Nicholas Pike. The last-named collection is in great variety of species
and admirable preservation, constituting one of the most important
contributions ever made in this department to the National Museum.
Professor Poey’s collection is a continuation of a systematic series, which
he has undertaken to supply, and which already embraces over a hun-
dred species.

The Zoological Museum of Copenhagen has supplied models of the
common form of weir used in Denmark for the capture of fishes.

The general collections of marine invertebrates have been from Mr.
William H. Dall, from-Capt. Nicholas Pike, and from the United States
Fish Commission, among other series. In mollusks the collections of
Captain Pike and Mr. Dall are especially rich.

A series of shells from the coast of Norway, by Mr. G. O. Sars, of
Christiania, will ve of much value for comparison with American forms.
Numerous shells of fossil mollusks have also been received from various
donors.

From the fact that the collections of insects have been transferred to
the Agricultural Department, not much can be announced in the way
of receipts in this department, all the specimens that have come to hand
having been, as usual, delivered to that establishment. It may be
worthy of mention, however, that the first collections made by the United
States astronomical expedition for the observation of the transit of
Venus, received at the Institution, consist of a series of butterflies from

Brazil, furnished by Mr. Russell.

Of plants various packages have been received from the different Gov-
ernment expeditions, among them some interesting fossil species from
Mr. Ambler and Dr. Stevens, of Virginia, and Mr. Sternberg, of Kansas.
As heretofore, all the reeent specimens have been transmitted to the
Agricultural Department.

Among the more important contributions to the museum have been
the specimens of soundings made by Commander Belknap, on the Tus-
carora, during his labors in the Pacific Ocean. These are of very great
REPORT. OF THE SECRETARY. 30

extent, and promise to furnish large numbers of new species. They are
now placed in the hands of Prof. Hamiiton L. Smith for identification.

A series of dredgings has been received from the vicinity of Kotzebue
Sound and other portions of Behring Sea, made by Captain Smith, of
the Alaska Commercial Company.

Minerals in considerable number have been received, among them a
series collected by Colonel Abert, of Tennessee, specimens deposited by
Mr. J. H. Jenkins, of Northumberland, specimens from Berlandier as
presented by General D. N. Couch, together with specimens from Saxony,
given by Dr. Endlich; these are in addition to the large gatherings of
the Government expeditions.

Dr. Endlich, in charge of the mineralogical department of the museum,
states that, during the year 1874, 250 minerals have been placed in the
cases, in addition to those mentioned in the last report, as weil as 300
lithological specimens and 150 ores.

The metallurgical collection remains about the same.

The labeling of the minerals has been finished, and exhibits a type
of what the method will be when the whole collection is completed.

A large number of minerals has been examined at the request of
correspondents of the Institution, and their qualitative character deter-
mined. Jor purposes of education the Institution furnishes qualitative
determinations of mineralogical specimens, but in no case does it un-
dertake to furnish percentages of the different components of specimens,
or give certificates, for commercial purposes, of their value.

The fossils are being arranged, and in the course of a year we hope
to have series of duplicates for distribution.

During the past summer, Dr. Endlich was engaged in the southwestern
portion of Colorado, in the San Juan mining region, in connection with
the Hayden expedition, an account of which will be given in the reports
of that establishment.

It is, of course, impossible to enumerate all the collections and speci-
mens, or to give in these cursory notes anything more than a general
idea of the nature of the receipts of: the year. The complete list of
donors, with the objects presented by them, will be found arranged
alphabetically in the appendix to the report.

Work done in connection with the National Museum.

As might reasonably be supposed, the magnitude of the receipts
during 1874 has required much time and labor to reduce them to order,
exceeding as they did by far those of any previous year. The rapid
rate of increase is evinced by a comparison with the data for 1873 and
1872, as follows:

The total number of entries for 1874 is 564, from 337 donors, and em-
braces 712 packages; for 1873 tbe numbers are 441, 241, and 680,
respectively ; and for 1872, 315, 203, and 544.
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

As regards the distribution of duplicate specimens to public estab-
lishments, &e., the records show 320 entries; these include donations of
specimens to 40 foreign museums and zoologists and to 165 home insti-
tutions, and embrace 32 sets of mammals, 18 of birds and eggs, 4 of
reptiles, (living and dead,) 4 of fishes, 3 of crania, 5 of insects, 63 of
shells, 12 of plants, 2 of fossils, 106 of minerals, rocks, and building-
stones, 7 of ethnological specimens, and 5 of diatomaceous earths; in
all, 261 lots.

A table in the appendix shows the total number of specimens dis-
tributed, including also those deposited in the care of the Department
of Agriculture and the Surgeon-General’s Office.

Of specimens submitted to specialists for examination and report
there have been 61 lots: Mammals to H. and J. A. Allen and to Di.
Sclater; birds to Geo. N. Lawrence; reptiles and fishes to EB. D. Cope;
insects to Messrs. Packard, Scudder, Edwards, Ostensacken, Uliler,
Ulke, Stretch, Cresson, Thomas, Glover, Emerton, and Holden; shells
to Messrs. Tryon, Binney, and Sandberger; crustaceans to 8. J. Smith;
marine invertebrates to A. E. Verrill; plants to Messrs. Gray, Rothrock,
Vasey, Englemann, Olney, James, and Carson; microscopic material
to Messrs. Smith and Seaman; mineral waters to Dr. Loew.

Six lots additional to the above have been lent for study.

The number of specimens sent out for investigation is approximately
estimated as follows: Mammals, 2,000; birds, 900; reptiles, 100; fishes,
100; insects, 7,000; shells, 500; marine invertebrates, 400; ethnologica,
10; packages of microscopic material, 500; plants, 9,000; in round num-
bers about 20,000. Some of these are included among the specimens
distributed.

It is no exaggeration to say that 40,000 specimens are represented by
the 320 entries in the distribution-book.

Collecting apparatus has been lent to about fifteen expeditions and
coliectors, principally from the stores of the United States Fish Com-
missioner.

GOVERNMENT EXPLORATIONS AND SURVEYS.

The following is a brief sketch of the surveys made under the au-
thority of the General Government during the year 1874, the specimens
from which are to be finally deposited in the museum under the care of
the Institution.

Explorations and surveys west of the 100th meridian, First Lieutenant
George M. Wheeler, Corps of Engineers, in charge.

Nine separate parties took the field in 1874 for operations in portions
of Nebraska, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona. The point of
departure was Pueblo, Colorado Territory, in the valley of the Arkan-
sas. The whole area entered and occupied lies south of the latitude
of the Spanish Peaks, except that included in special journeys necessary
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

to complete the triangulation commenced in 1873. This important work
was delegated to Lieut. Wm. L. Marshall, Corps of Engineers, who
brought to this task, besides professional and executive abilities, the
experience gathered in his former labors upon this work. The total area
assigned was a little less than 35,000 square miles.

Out of the nine parties, six were moving field-parties, having special
areas conjoining along latitudinal and other lines, and connecting at cer-
tain triangulation and topographical stations.

A special party, under Doctor J. T. Rothrock, U. S. A., organized
with a view to institute further investigations into the natural history
of certain areas left unfinished in 1871, 1872, and 1873, in New Mexico
and Arizona, departed from Santa Fé early in the season, and returned

‘Jaden with rich and valuable collections of the flora and fauna of that
great region ; having carried on, in connection with their examinations,
observations for altitudes of special points within the drainage area
visited, throwing further light upon the geographical distribution of ani-
mal and vegetable life.

Two main distinct astronomical parties were oceupied in establishing
the co-ordinates of points immediately adjacent to the field of survey
and others along the line of the Union Pacific Railroad, and were
successful in accomplishing all that was laid out for them.

The results in the astronomical branches are, the cenuclusions of the
observations necessary to determine the co-ordinates, and the astronomi-
cal meridian at the stations Las Vegas and Oimarroa, N. Mex., the latitude
of Pueblo, Col., the latitude and longitude of Sidney Barracks, Jules-
burgh, and North Platte Station in Nebraska, on the Union Pacific
Railroad.

At the field astronomical stations sextant observations were carried
on by the following officers in charge of the several parties: First
Lieut. Wm L. Marshall, First Lieut. P. M. Price, Corps of Engineers;
Second Lieut. C. W. Whipple, Third United States Artillery; First Lieut.
R. Birnie, jr., and First Lieut. S. E. Blunt, Thirteenth United States In-
fantry. These stations have been numerous, answering all the require-
ments made upon them for checking special positions by a method in
place of: which nothing else could be made available.

The geodetic work included the establishment of 79 main triangu-
lation stations, extending a net-work over the entire mountain-area
occupied. Base-lines were measured at Trinidad and Pueblo, Colorado;
Cimarron, Las Vegas, and Santa Fé, New Nexico. These bases control
the triangulation which connects the belts of 1873 in Colorado, New
Mexico, and Arizona, as well as those north and south from the line of
the Union Pacifie and Central Pacific Railroads.

In meteorology, except at the astronomical stations at Cimarron and
Las Vegas, N Mex., the observations were conducted solely with a view
to the deternmination of altitudes at prominent physical points within
the area surveyed.
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Though no person was actually assigned as geologist, Doctor H. C.
Yarrow, U. 8. A., and Professor E. D. Cope investigated the geology
and paleontology of the Territory of New Mexico. The results obtained
were highly interesting. The cretaceous beds yielded many fine fossil
shells and teeth of extinct fishes, and the carboniferous limestone was
found to be equally rich in specimens. A unique collection of a large
number of beautifully preserved invertebrate remains was procured from
the same formation. These are the deposits of a lake of a compara-
tively modern age, which abound in the remains of skeletons of the
animals that inhabited the surrounding land. Mastodons of species
quite different from those frequently found in the Eastern States were
in abundance, while camels and horses had evidently existed in droves.
One of the most singular discoveries was that of a deer which did not:
shed its horns; and the fossil remains further indicate that at this time
several species of wild dogs existed to keep in check the herbivorous
animals, while a large vulture, allied to the turkey-buzzard, was prepared
to act as scavenger as occasion offered. In another locality crocodiles
and turtles were very numerous. Among the large remains were those
of the genus Bathmodon, which closely resembles the elephant in the feet
and legs, but the tapir and the bear in the character of the skull. They
were armed with formidable tusks, and their crania were very thick, as
if designed to repel attacks.

In the line of archeology and ethnology were found the remains of
ancient human dwellings which stand in lines on the summits of rocky
crests, and on the more inaccessible and remote points of hills, with
precipices of several hundred feet in depth on one or more sides; from
these and burial places most interesting specimens of pottery, besides
crania and skeletons, were obtained.

The mineralogical specimens colJlected have been carefully analyzed
by Doctor Oscar Loew in the laboratory of the Smithsonian Institution.

Dr. H. C. Yarrow, in charge of the natural-history branch, with his
assistants, have added more largely than ever before to our knowledge
of the living fauna of large interior areas. Their results are soon to be
worked up by themselves and other specialists, and the specimens after-
wards deposited in the National Museum at the Smithsonian Institution.

As usual, a photographer accompanied the expedition, who this year
was successful in obtaining special photographs of ancient ruins, of
various Indian tribes, &e.

While the parties operated in the field, the office-force remained en-
gaged in working up the results for publication.

The publications during the past year of the surveys under the War
Department have been: the Progress Report of 1872, a preliminary cata-
logue of plants gathered in 1871, 1872, and 1873, and a preliminary report
upon the ornithological specimens collected in the same years; the first
in quarto, the two latter in octavo. An advance edition of the Topo-
graphical Atlas and other physical sheets was also published.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

The total working-force taking the field without escorts, for the first
time, was 86, including officers, assistants, and employés. The utmost
harmony existed among all the parties, which largely conduced to cor-
respondingly enhanced results. In regard to these surveys under the
War Department, the following paragraph appears in the Annual Re-
port of the Chief of Engineers to Congress: ‘‘ By experience and im-
provements in methods and instruments, the value of the results is
annually enhanced, and the cost of the work amply repaid.”

It cannot fail to be gratifying to all who are interested in this class of
investigations to be convinced that the proper basis for further syste-
matic endeavor has been reached.

Survey under Professor Hayden.

This survey during the season of 1874 continued the work of 1873 west
ward of the 107th meridian of longitude in Colorado Territory. The en-
tire area explored lies on the west slope of the main range of the Rocky
Mountains, forming the eastern part of the drainage of the great Colorado
River. The topographical and geological work included a carefally-sur-
veyed area of about eighteen thousand square miles, much of it com-
prising some of the most rugged and mountainous scenery on the con-
tinent. The southern portion includes an area of nearly three thousand
square miles, the greater part of which is at an elevation of 12,000 feet
and upward. The first division of the party, under Mr. A. R. Marvin,
operating in Northwestern Colorado, established 86 stations ; the second
division, under Mr. Gannett, which explored the rugged area between
the Gunnison and Grand Rivers, also established 86 stations; while the
third division, surveying the remarkably high country in the southwest,
determined 65 stations, most of them being on peaks ranging from 13,000
feet and upward, the highest being 14,500 feet.

A fourth division, under Mr. G. R. Bechler, performed the important
duty of measuring the roads, trails, passes, and carefully working up
the contiguous topography, besides meandering a distance of about nine
hundred miles. Mr. Bechler established 36 important stations, thus
rendering more accurate and complete the general work of the survey.

A fifth party, under Mr. W. H. Jackson, the photographer, passed over
the greater portion of Western Colorado, obtaining about four hundred
negatives of the most characteristic scenery. These views have proved
of great value in the topographical and geological studies; but the most
interesting result was a series of views of the wonderful ruins in the
cations of the Mancos and Montezuma Rivers. The party found here
remains of arude civilization in the form of buildings, made of hewn
stone laid in mortar. Among the ruins were various kinds of stone
implements and glazed pottery, on some of which were figures of the
sun. On the plains and mesas these ruins occupy considerable areas,
indicating the former existence of anumerous population. Inthe cafions
the stone dwellings are built high up in the caverns or crevices in the
AO REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

sides, from 800 to 1,000 feet above the bottom, in almost inaccessible
positions. From all the information that could be obtained from the
present race of Indians, these dwellings were inhabited at least eight
centuries ago by a race of sun-worshippers, which were driven south-
ward, step by step, by a persistent foe from the north.

The sixth division, under Mr. J. T. Gardner, continued the primary tri-
angulation over the mountainous region of the southwest, extending
into Utah, and connecting with some of Professor Powell’s stations.

The seventh division was under the immediate direction of Professor
Hayden, and made special studies of those porsions of Colorado that
presented rather complicated problems in geology.’ A careful survey
was made of the Elk Mountains, of the Morainal deposits in the valley
of the Upper Arkansas, and the coal-beds along the east base of the Col-
orado range of mountains from Cation City to Cheyenne. The season’s
labors were in every respect successful, and a large amount of topo-
graphical, geological, and natural-history material was secured for the
eighth annual report to the Secretary of the Interior.

The prbligabions of the survey during 1874 were the Bulletin No. 1
and No. 2, yi second series, Nos, 1, 2,3; miscellaneous publications,
Nos. 3, 4,5, 6; Cretaceous Flora, by Leo Lesquereux, 7th Annual Report,
mean

Survey under Professor Powell.

bis was the continuation of the geological and geographical explora-
tion of the basin of the Colorado of the West in Utah, prosecuted for sev-
eral yearsprevious. Jor this work two parties were organized, one under
the charge of Prof. A. H. Thompson, and the other under the immediate
direction of Professor Powell himself. Each party had a number of
assistants, and to the latter was added a photographer. The first party
was employed in carrying forward the work in Central Utah, and the
second party in Northeastern Utah.

The valley of the Sevier, near the town of Gunnison, was selected as
the proper position for the base-line from which a series of triangies
could be extended to the north, east, and south, and connected with
those which had been established in former years.

For hypsometric determinations Green River City on the Union Pacific
Railroad, Salt Lake City, Gunnison, and Pangwitch were selected, fiom
their connection with railway surveys, as known points of reference for
altitudes to be ascertained by the barometer.

The geographical determination of latitude and longitude rests pri-
marily on the base-line, the terminations of which were established by
astronomical observations. Tor latitude the zenith-telescope was ¢m-
ployed, and for longitude telegraphic methods were adopted.

The material was collected for mapping and exhibiting the resources
of a section of country heretofore but litthe known, embracing many
ranges of mountains and plateaus, with valleys drained by streams
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Al

which in places pass through deep and almost inaccessible gorges. Over
the entire region surveyed the data were collected for determining the
amount and distribution of lands which can be redeemed from sterility
by irrigation, and also that of grass and timber lands. The coal-forma-
tions, which had been discovered in previous surveys in adjoining re-
gions, were traced through the areas of the present survey, and many
new beds discovered. It was found that the coal of Southern and Cen-
tral Utah is distributed through a series of geological formations em-
bracing most of the Tertiary and Cretaceous ages. The supply of coal
of this region is, therefore, abundant, and much of it is said to be of
good quality and widely distributed. The position of many of the more
important mineral-lodes was determined, especially such as have been
worked to a sufficient extent to enable the owners to acquire permanent
titles from the Government, and these will be represented on the general
map.

The geological structure of tne region isexceedingly complex. <A series
of formations, embracing Tertiary, Mesozoic, Paleozoic, and Metamorphic
rocks, are plicated on a grand seale, and displaced by faults of immense
extent. During geological ages, and continued down to later periods,
this region must have been the scene of great voleanic activity. Exten-
sive fields of eruptive matter and large numbers of volcanic cones are
exhibited. In many places there exist great escarpments, forming cafion-
walls and lines of cliffs, exhibiting with great perfection the superposi-
tion and structure of rocks, from which interesting geological deduc-
tions can be made. ;

The great system of monoclinal folds and faults discovered in former
years, crossing the grand canon of the Colorado, was found to be extended
into the region of this year’s survey. The lithological geology wag
studied so far as the opportunities permitted, and large collections of
rocks made, especially of the volcanic formations widely distributed in
geological succession. From the sedimentary rocks fossils were obtained
abundantly sufficient to indicate the ancient flora and fauna of the
region. ‘The Territory is traversed by profound gorges, which conduct off
the small amount of rain-fall not evaporated. Although the amount of
water carried by the streams is small, the great elevation of the country
above the sea gives it the velocity of a torrent, and being mingled with
stones, its erosive action exhibits effects unequalled, perhaps, in any
other part of the globe. On the mountains and plateaus of this region,
wherever an altitude of 9,000 feet, or more, is reached, evidences of
ancient glacial action are found.

Interesting ethnological results were obtained. Two important tribes
of Indians: were again visited, the U-in-tats and Seuv-a-rits, usually
known as the Uinta Utes and She-be-riches, and much additional
knowledge of the words and grammatical construction of their language
was secured, as also a series of facts relating to the naming of tribes
and confederacies, with fresh information as to their political organiza-
42 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

tion. It so happened that while the surveyors were among these In-
dians, messengers arrived from the Go-si-Utes, of Western Utah and
Eastern Nevada, bringing information of great rains and of the gradual
rising of the Great Salt Lake, indicating, as they supposed, a great
calamity, and calling upon the tribes we have mentioned to join them
in religious ceremonies to appease the anger of the waters, lest in their
rage and coming power they should destroy all the land and the people
who lived thereon. The state of religious excitement which ensued
enabled Professor Powell to increase his knowledge of their mythology
and religion, in directions which previous to that time had been closed
to him. Onthese subjects the Indians are usually reticent. Believing in
sorcery and that a knowledge of their religion and organization can be
used by their enemies to their disadvantage, they forbear to give any
information on these subjects. But under the excitement above men-
tioned their reserve was neglected, and facts revealed which had pre-
viously been only partially understood. Previous to this no definite in-
formation had been obtained as to their religious worship, or whether
they had any system of appeasing the displeasure of their gods.

A large number of articles to illustrate the various arts among these
people, in addition to those made in previous years, was collected, so
that the specimens in the National Museum for the study of the civili-
zation of these tribes are more extensive, perhaps, than for any other on
the American continent. Attention was also given to the ancient re-
mains in the valley of the Colorado, and interesting additions have
been made to the facts already known. A number of additional ruins
were discovered, and observations made for depicting on a map scores
of ancient towns or hamlets. Copies of picture-writings and stone im-
plements of various kinds were obtained. The ethnological investiga-
tion embraces language, mythology, folk-lore, and the means of obtain-
ing subsistence.

A large number of photographs was taken, which served to assist the
draughtsman in delineating the topographical features of the country;
also another series of the Indians themselves, intended to illustrate
their dress, habits, and other characteristics.

Survey under Hon. Archibald Campbell.

This survey was for the continuation of the boundary-line along the
forty-ninth parallel of latitude, between the United States and the
British possessions. The distance remaining to be surveyed during
1874 was three hundred and fifty-eight miles, from longitude 106° 12/
to longitude 114° 05’. It was divided into two parties, the astronomical
and the topographical.

During the season of 1874 the work was executed in the same manner
as before, under the agreement made between the chief astronomers of
the United States and British commissions, to the effect that the officers
of the United States were to determine astronomical stations at inter-
vals of forty miles, and to survey a belt of territory five miles wide south
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

of the parallel, the English to determine a similar series of astronomical
stations, and to survey an equal belt of topography north of the line.

The astronomical party, in charge of Maj. W. J. Twining, was organ-
ized in Saint Paul, Minnesota, on the 1st of June, and reached the
point of operation on the 1st of July. The shortness of the season, and
the great distance to be traveled after the work should be completed.
required that it should be finished early in September. The party was.
therefore, pushed to the utmost limit of endurance, and by the Ist of
September the eight astronomical stations assigned to the United States
had been determined, and the line had been connected with the last
previous station of the boundary at the summit of the Rocky Mount-
ains. In four months, this expedition accomplished a journey of 3,700
miles, besides surveying and marking 358 miles of the boundary-line.

The topographical party remained in the field both winter and sum-
mer from the Ist of June, 1873, until the present time, with the ex-
ception of two months in the spring of 1874. They have demonstrated
that instrumental work can be done in that high latitude, even in the
most rigorous part of the winter, where the country is wooded; but on
the open plains the exposure is dangerous. That portion crossed by
the line surveyed during 1874 was found to be an open plain, entirely
destitute of timber, but easily practicable for wagon-trains, except in
the vicinity of Frenchman’s Creek and the crossing of Milk River, where
wide detours had to be made to avoid the bad-lands. From longitude
106° to the crossing of Milk River the country is unattractive, the rain-
fall is small, and water consequently scarce during the summer. The
soil is alkaline, and produces mostly sage-brush and cactus. From the
Sweet-Grass Hills to the Rocky Mountains its character is entirely
changed. The rain-fall appears to be ample. The belt along the foot
of the mountains, in addition to scenery of rare beauty, presents to the
eye of the practical man the more solid advantage of an unsurpassed
fertility. Northwestern Montana is still the range of immense herds of
buffaloes, whose numbers, according to Major Twining, contrary to the
commonly-received opinion, are constantly increasing. This region is
the country of the Blackfoot and Piegan tribes of Indians. It is also
the debatable ground of the North Assinaboines, the Gros Ventres of
the prairie, and the River Crows, while an occasional war-party of the
Sioux may be found as far northwest as the Sweet-Grass Hills. With
the exception of the Sioux, these tribes appear to be peaceably enough
disposed.

Collections and observations in natural history were made at almost
every point along the boundary-line by Dr. Elliott Coues, surgeon and
naturalist of the expedition, although it is to be regretted that he was
not supported by an adequate corps of assistants, particularly in the
departments of geology and botany. Large collections were made and
sent to the Institution, an account of which is given in the report of
Professor Baird. It is to be hoped that ample time may be allowed Dr.
Coues for the preparation of his final report, in order that the results of
‘44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

his field-work may be fully elaborated in illustration of the flora and
fauna of a portion of the United States of which comparatively little is

known.
MISCELLANEOUS.

The Institution, as informer years, has been in harmonious co-operation
with the Department of Agriculture, the Army Medical Museum, and the
Corcoran Art Gallery. With the first it has deposited plants and other
articles relating to agriculture; to the Medical Museum it has transferred
a large number of articles pertaining to comparative anatomy and mate-
ria medica, and has received in return ethnological specimens; in the
third, the Corcoran Art Gallery, it has deposited a number of paintings,
articles of statuary, engravings, &c. <A list of these several deposits
will be found in the appendix.

It may be mentioned that the present Secretary of the Institution
has been chosen one of the trustees of the Corcoran Art Gallery, and
thus the connexion between these two establishments has become more
intimate. The Gallery has been opened during the past year under very
favorable auspices, and bids fair to be an important means of improving
the intellectual and moral condition of the citizens of Washington, as
well as a perpetual monument of the beneficent liberality of its founder.
Since its first opening to the public on the 19th January, 1874, it has been
visited by 75,000 persons. It has an endowment of $900,000, and had
an income last year of upward of $62,000.

Fog-Signals.—During the last summer I devoted a considerable por-
tion of my vacation to investigations in regard to sound in its applica-
tion to fog-signals, the results of which have been published in an ap-
pendix to the Light-House Report for 1874.

These investigations, which were a continuation of those of former
years, tend to establish the fact that sound is susceptible of a kind of
refraction, due to the unequal velocity of the upper and lower current
of the air, by which the sound-ray is in some cases bent upward, and
consequently passes far above the head of the distant auditor, and in
others is refracted downward to the surface of the earth, and is thus
perceived at a much greater distance. This principle explains the pe-
culiar action of the wind on sound, as well as various abnormal phe-
nomena which have been observed from time to time in the operation
of fog signals; also the discharge of cannon during battles, of which
the sound was heard at remote points, though inaudible at those much
nearer the explosion.

Fish inquiry and propagation.—It may be remembered that an act of
Congress was passed in February, 1871, directing an inquiry to be made
into the causes of the decrease of the food-fishes of the United States,
to be prosecuted by a commissioner appointed by the President, from
the civilian employés of the Government, and to serve without salary.
Professor Baird, of this Institution, received this appointment and en-
tered upon his duties.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

In 1872 his sphere of labor was extended by instructions for the
employment of such measures as might increase the food-fishes of the
country; and reports from time to time have been made of the results of,
the work.

The growing interest in this subject, and the belief that the objects to
be accomplished were of great importance to the country ; have induced
larger and larger appropriations from Congress, and the sphere of the
labors of the commissioner has been extended accordingly. His work
is prosecuted under two distinct heads: first, that of an inquiry into
the causes of the decrease of food-fishes; secondly, that of their multi-
plication.

In prosecuting the inquiry referred to he has established himself at
points on the sea-coast where the fisheries it was desirable to investi-
gate are carried on, and, by inquiries on his own part and those of his
assistants, he satisfied himself as to the condition of the fisheries, and
the extent to which they have been diminished, and the steps to be
taken for their restoration.

He has embraced the opportunity thus offered, to carry on a thorough
survey of the natural history and physics of the ocean, thus doing for
the coast portion of the territory of the United States what the explora-
tions of Professor Hayden, Lieutenant Wheeler, and Major Powell are
accomplishing for the Territories of the West.

His operations during the summer of 1874 were carried on at Noank,
Conn., his field of investigation extending from Narragansett Bay on
the east, to the mouth of the Connecticut River on the west, and to the
eastern end of Long Island on the south.

As usual his presence, with the facilities at his command, attracted a
large number of visitors, among them some of the most eminent natur-
alists of the country, who were thus enabled to carry on important re-
searches in natural history, all of them having a more or less direct
bearing upon the objects of the commission. Professor Verrill, of Yale
College, has been associated with Professor Baird from the beginning
of this branch of investigation, and as usual labored indefatigably dur-
ing the season.

The results of the labors of 1871 at Wood’s Hole have already been
published in a volume which constitutes a work of standard excellence.
The report for 1872 is nearly ready for publication, and that for 1873 is
well advanced. The second division of his duties, that of the work of
propagation of food-fishes, was directed more especially to the multi:
plication of the shad and salmon. Owing to the late period at which
the appropriation for this purpose was available, the operations in re-
gard to the hatching of shad were not commenced until June, when
camps were successively established on the Delaware, the Hudson, and
the Connecticut; that on the Hudson in connection with the fish com-
missioners of New York, and that on the Connecticut with the commis-
sioners of that State.
A6 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Owing to the death of Dr. Slack, who was in charge of the station
on the Delaware, very little was done on that river. On the Hudson a
very considerable number of shad was obtained and distributed, apart
from those introduced into the river by the State commissioners them-
selves. The greatest amount of the work, however, was done at South
Hadley Falls, on the Connecticut River. The fish here being very
abundant, many young fish were hatched and distributed, mainly under
the direction of Mr. James W. Milner, to various localities in many
States, extending as far west as Minnesota, south to Texas, and east
to Maine, the total number thus supplied amounting to over two millions.

The operations in regard to salmon were still more satisfactory, being
carried on at two establishments; one on the McCloud River, in Cali-
fornia, under the charge of Mr. Livingston Stone, and the other on the
Penobscot River, in Maine, under Mr. Charles G. Atkins. The former
furnished six millions of eggs, of which one million were hatched and
placed in the Sacramento River, the others being transported to hatch-
ing-houses in the East, and the young subsequently placed in the waters
of the New England and Middle States, in addition to those of Mary-
land, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, Louisiana, Texas, Ohio,
Indiana, Ilinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and lowa.

The establishment at Bucksport, on the Penobscot, has also yielded
over three million eggs. These have not yet been distributed, as they
are not sufficiently far advanced, but they will be planted principally in
the waters of the New England, Middle, and more northern of the
Western States.

The importance of these measures for the artificial propagation of
fish may be readily understood from the fact that the actual results
from one pair of shad or salmon, treated artificially, fully equal those
from one hundred, and, according to some, one thousand pairs, when
left to perform this function naturally.

Deep-sea sowndings.—Professor Baird has made a series of observations
on temperatures of the sea-water at different depths, the results of which
will be published in his report as United States Fish Commissioner.

The Institution has received, for investigation, from the Bureau of
Navigation, Navy Department, under Commodore Ammen, a large
number of specimens of deep-sea soundings, collected in the Pacitie
Ocean by the officers of the United States steamship Tuscarora, Com-
mander G. E. Belknap. These specimens have been referred for micro-
scopic examination to Prof. Hamilton L. Smith, of Hobart College,
Geneva, N. Y., who has undertaken the investigation, and will report
the resuit as soon as the work is finished.

Polaris Artic Exploration.

During the past year Dr. Emil Bessels has been engaged at the Smith-
sonian Institution in working up that part of the scientific material
which was saved from the collections of the voyage of the Polaris in the
years 1571-73, The results of the investigations will be given in three
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

volumes, of which the first is nearly ready to be put in the hands of the
printer. This volume contains—

Part I. Hydrography and meteorological observations at sea.

a. Hydrographical remarks relating to Baffin’s Bay, Smith’s Sound,
and Robeson Channel.

b. Temperature of the sea and its specific gravity at different depths.

c. Ice of Smith’s Sound and its motion.

d. Tidal observations made at Polaris Bay, comprising eight luna-
tions.

Part II. Meteorology.

a. Temperature both at Polaris Bay and Polaris House, the second
winter quarters.

b. Effect of the direct heating power of the sun

ce. Effect of terrestrial radiation.

d. Hygrometrical observations.

e. Atmospheric pressure.

Jf. Winds.

g. Face of the sky.

h. Ozone.

2. Rain and snow.

Part I. Psychrometrical tables, giving the relative humidity, force
of vapor, and dew-point for each tenth of a degree from 32° to —45°,

Part 1V. Astronomical observations.

Part V. Magnetism and aurora.

Part VI. Pendulum experiments.

The second volume will be devoted to natural history, comprising
zoology, botany, geology, paleontology, mineralogy, Xe.

The third volume will comprise the ethnology of the Esquimaux.

The whole will be copiously illustrated by wood-cuts and charts, and
published under the auspices of the Navy Department.*

Chemical Laboratory.—During the past two years the laboratory of the
Institution has been in charge of Dr. Oscar Loew, the chemist and min-
eralogist of the Wheeler survey, and during this time he has made
various analyses for the Institution of minerals, mineral waters, and
other substances referred to the Institution for examination by the
Government and other parties.

In behalf of the Wheeler expedition he has investigated and analyzed
the waters of thirty-four mineral springs of New Mexico and Colorado,
many Soils of the arable lands of Arizona and New Mexico, rocks such
as basalts, rhyolites, trachytes from New Mexico, coals of various local-
ities in Colorado and New Mexico, lake and river deposits, minerals,
such as turquois, garnets, zeolites, plants used for medicinal purposes
by Mexicans, &ce., &e.

Photography.—The photographic laboratory, under the direction of Mr.
T. W. Smillie, has been in continued operation during the past year; a

* For the expense of the illustrations, Congress appropriated $15,000 in March, 1875.
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

series of photographs having been made of ethnological and natural his-
tory specimens for the use of the Institution, and a Jarge amount of
work done for others, especially for the Government surveys. The
establishment of a photographic laboratory has been of great conveni-
ence to the Institution, and has been attended with but little expense.
It affords at once the facility of photographing specimens and copying
charts and other illustrations, while the support of the artist has been
furnished by work performed for other parties.

Light-House duty—I have been a member of the Light-House Board
since its first organization, and during all this time have discharged the
duties of chairman of the committee on experiments. On the resig-
nation of Admiral Shubrick I was elected chairman of the board. I
was honored with this election not entirely on account of the services I
had rendered in the way of scientific investigations, but principally
because [ belonged neither to the Army nor the Navy, of which it was
desirable that neither should claim predominance. The duty, however,
pertaining to this office has been much more arduous than I anticipated.
Indeed, in order that I might attend to it without interfering too much
with my devotion to the affairs of the Institution, it was necessary that
the board should be recalled to a previous usage, namely, that of meet-
ing every week and transacting the principal business through its com-
mittees, instead of meeting quarterly and intrusting the operations of
the establishment almost entirely to the two secretaries and the chair-
man, under which plan the latter was obliged to be in continual attend-
ance at the Light-House office.

lam gratified to be able to state that, although some dissensions have
occurred on account of the want of definite assignment by the original
law of Congress of the relative duties of the Army and Navy while on
light-house service, yet that the whole system at present is in an effi-
cient state of activity.

It may be proper to remark that, for the labor which I have bestowed
upon the light-house service for upward of twenty years, I have received
no other remuneration than that which results from the conscious feel-
ing of having successfully labored in some degree to advance the efii-
ciency of a service which involves the protection of life and property,
and is one of the benevolent institutions tending to facilitate the rela-
tions of distant countries with our own.

CONCLUSION.

From the foregoing statement it will be evident that the Institution is
successfully prosecuting the plan adopted for realizing the benevolent
intention of its founder in the way of increasing and diffusing knowl-
edge among men; that its funds are again in a prosperous condition,
and that its reputation and usefulness are still on the increase.

Respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
WASHINGTON, January, 1875,
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Table showing the number of entries in the record-books of the United States
National Museum at the close of the years 1873 and 1874, respectively.

Class.

Mammalsi.,. s)2-2 <a VA eyais Seas <1 8 hom alps peat eee

Birds

IRS ys; AHOL Phan OMIDE NOS 5 Seo os6 ce eoes coee ce Soe aed seneor

Fishes
Skeletons and skulls

Mollmsksreoe sees ce tecl aacoetee aseeiactaa ais saan cineca oe
RCI LE Ser ey ee tee IKE ayn fo os Ria ek eycie ste) = Sees ak emotes

Invertebrate fossils

Minerals 2:2. 25: SPE a ey AS Ne etna Pere tea Vere ayn Tel Seen

Ethnological specimens

1873. 1874.

11, 625 12, 294
65, 950 68, 361
8, 222 8, 293
12,514 13, 808
13, 290 14, 408
16,710 17, 062
2,194 2,204
100 100
24,756 24, 757
3,139 3, 142
7,725 7, 727
8,108 9, 178
13, 084 16, 415
187, 417 | 197,749

Increase for 1874, 10,332.

Approximate table of the distribution of duplicate specimens to the end of

Class.
Skeletons and skulls ..----
Miami als) caso) een eee
BTR eset oasecee
We willes Peso ac seer nina
BUSHES 2 se se ae eee hoses «
Nests and eggs of birds-..--
dnsecisve. ae sec Ereemersae s
Crmsiaceaisiese- sass eee
love) eee 4 Sion Rac eeeee
Radu ateSisce coe eee ee nace

Other marine invertebrates
Plants and packages of seeds
Wossilge:: = 25 = '32 52sec
Minerals and rocks-----....
Ethnological specimens - ..

Diatomaceous earths,( pkgs)

1874.
Distribution to the} Distribution Total to the end
end of 1875. during 1874. of 1874.
’ Speci- ; Speci- F Speci-
Species. Species. Species.

mens. mens. mens.
339 1,114 40 116 429 1, 230
1, 038 27990) 1 Olli t ge9 2129 4,779
24,580! 37,885 299 322 24,879 | 38, 207
1,975 3, 220 16 42 ieee 3, 262
2,717 5, 748 54 67 25 val 5, 815
6, 676 16, 770 496 | 1,100 7,172 |, 17,870
2, 748 6, 294 900 | 2,000 3, 648 B, 294
1, 078 2AGS0 a eect te a essa 1,078 2, 650
84,637 | 187,292 | 5,152] 8,000 89, 789 | 195, 292
esata gaaGale te Sane oe se 583 778
1,844 el Oa Echt eral large neg 1, 844 5, 160
23, 370 39,705 | 5,000 | 10,000 28,370) 49,705
4,112 10,141 13 13 4,125 | 10,154
5, 453 11; 152 |. 3,414.) 5,100 | 8, 867 | 16,252
1, 886 1, 969 64 100 1, 950 2, 069
83 812 175 200 258 1,012

163,169 | 333, 680 | 16, 724 | 28,849 | 179, 883 | 362, 52!

50 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION s OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION (UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM) IN
1874.

Abert, J. T. One box of geological specimens from Nashville, Tenn.

Aiken, C. H. A collection of birds from Colorado ; a mounted specimen
of litile striped skunk, (Mephitis bicolor,) and two bottles containing
contents of the scent-bags of Mephitis americanus and Mephitis bicolor.

Albuquerque, Senor Don Frederico. Skins of humming-birds, fungi, &e.;
two living specimens of coati-mundi, (Nasua, sp.,) from Brazil.

Alden, Mr. One barrel of skulls, from an Indian mound near New
Smyrna, Fla.

Ambler Rk. C. One box of fossil plants from Virginia.

American Sardine Company, New York. Specimen boxes of American
sardines.

Anderson, Thomas C. One package of minerals from Ellison Station, Ky.

Anderson, William. Two boxes of stone implements and shells from
Indian grave, from Perry Co., Ohio.

Andrews, Dr. Robert R. Nine microscopic slides.

Arny, General W. F. M. Seeds of stone-pine and cigarita-shucks from
the Navajo Indians, New Mexico.

Ashton, I. H. One specimen of fossil fish from Green River Station,
Wyo.

Atkins, O. G. See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.

Avery, T. OC. One skiu of duck-hawk, (Falco anatum,) from Greens-
borough, Ala.

Bagster, C. B. Specimens of spiders, (prepared.)

Baird, Prof. Spencer F. One specimen of marmoset monkey, (Hapale
jacchus,) in the flesh; a collection of earthen vases, (28 pieces,) from
Peru; a collection of fur garments, miscellaneous ethnologica, and
minerals, from Greenland; a collection of plants, from the collection
of the late Major Rich. See, also, under Washington, U. S. Com-
mission of Fish and Fisheries.

Baker, Capt. John. A collection of shells from Florida.

Banks, T. C., jr. One specimen of salamander, (Notophthalmus virides-
cens,) trom Wallingford, Conn.

Barcena, Mariano. See under Mevico, Sociedad de la Historia Natural.

Barfoot, Joseph L. See under Salt Lake City, Sait Lake Museum.

Barnun, Phineas T. Specimens, in the flesh, of cassowary, (Casuarius
indicus,) nyighau, (Portax tragocamelus,) eae (oanene drome-
darius,) sun-bear, (Helarctos tibetanus,) and skeletons of emu and
ostrich,

Battle, Thomas H. Specimens of abnormal hens’ eggs from Raleigh,
NC,
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 5

Batty, J. H. Two boxes of bird-skins; mounted specimen of great
horned owl, (Bubo virginianus ;) one box of bird-sterna.

Bean, Tarleton H. A collection of fresh-water fishes from Bainbridge,
Pa.; a collection of stone implements from Wyoming, Luzerne, Brad-
ford, and Lancaster Counties, Pa. See, also, under Washington, U.S.
Commission of Fish and Fisheries.

Beardslee, Con’r L. A., U. S. N. Specimens of young of Dorosoma cepe-
dianum from the Potomac River, of Salmo fontinalis and Etheostoma,
sp., from Little Falls, N. Y.; tusk of walrus (osmarus obesus) from the
North Pacific Ocean.

Beatts, James W. Specimens of agates and opals from Lake Superior,
Texas, and Germany.

Beck, Hon. James B. Specimens of minerals from Kentucky.

Beckett, George. A collection of minerals from the vicinity of Wiliiams-
town, Vt.

Beckwith, Capt. N. W. A skeleton of “ devil-fish,” (Lophius america-
nus,) from the Bay of Fundy ; one Chinese stink-pot.

Belknap, Con’r G. E#., U. 8S, N. See under Washington, Navy Depart-
ment, Bureau of Navigation.

Bendire, Capt. Charles, U. S. Cavalry. Two boxes of birds’ eggs from Ari-
zona ; two bottles of Coleoptera from vicinity of Tucson, Ariz.; a speci-
men of Heloderma horridum in alcohol.

Bergen, Norway ; Bergen Museum. Specimen of dolphin, (Delphinus lewco-
pleurus,) from the coast of Norway.

Bessels, Dr. Emil. See under Washington, U. S. Navy Department, Po-
laris Expedition.

Billopp, John S. One specimen of black wood-pecker, (Hylotomus pile-
atus,) in the Hesh.

Binney, W. G. Two specimens of Carinifex Newberryt.

Blackford, E. G. Fresh specimens of fishes: blue-backed trout, (Salino
oquassa ;) striped bass, (Roccus lineatus ;) tautog, (Tautoga onitis ;)
cod, (Morrhua americana ;) salmon, (Salmo salar ;) white perch, (Mo-
rone americana ;) saury pike, (Scomberesox scutellatus ;) Spanish
mackerel, (Cybium maculatum ;) leather-jacket, (Oligoplites occidenta-
lis ;) drum, (Pogonias chromis ;) red snapper, eres aya ;) stux-
geon, (Acipenser brevirostris,) &e., &e.

Boardman, George A. Caudal ene of porcupine (Hrethizon dorsa-
tus) from Milltown, Me.

Boteler, Alexander R. One Indian stone implement from near Front
Royal, Warren Co., Va.

Bowers, Mr. Specimens of muscovite from Ackworth, N. H.

Boyd, OC. H. One specimen of alligator terrapin, (Gypochelys temminckii)
from New Orleans, La.

Bradford, A. A living specimen of red fox ( Vulpes fulvus) from Wash-
ington, D. C.

Breese, W. Z. One skin of crested cormorant, (Graculus dilophus.)
52 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Brewer, James D. See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.

Brinsmade, C. E. One bottle of coleoptera from Fort Sully, Dak.

British Museum. See under London.

Brown, M. R., U. 8. Revenue Marine. One specimen of Dana’s coral
(Astrangia Dane) from Lewes Beach, Pa.

Brown University. See under Providence.

Bruhin, Thos. A. Specimens of supposed new species of Vaccinium.

Bruner, C. C. One specimen of hair-worm (Gordius aquaticus) from
Oktibbeha, Miss.

Brush, Prof. G. J. A collection of minerals.

Bryan, O. N. One specimen of fossil Arca from Prince George Co., Md.

Buell, Sarah A. A specimen of asbestus from Maryland.

Buenos Ayres ; Museo Publico de B. A., Prof. H. Burmeister. A-collection
of bird-skins from South America; skull and skin of seal (Otaria
leonina) trom Patagonia.

Buie, D. M. Indian skull and ethnological specimens from Wilmington,
N. C., (on deposit.)

Burmeister, Prof. H. See under Buenos Ayres.

Byers, William N. One specimen of muscovite from Colorado.

Canygicld, K. One specimen of selenite from Kansas.

Carpenter, Capt. W. LZ. Specimens of reptiles’ and birds’ eggs from
Omaha, Nebr. See, also, under Washington, Department of State,
Northern Boundary Survey.

Carroll, Michael. Prepared specimens of the gullets and skin of unborn
cub of the harp-seal from Bonavista, Newfoundland.

Charleston, S. 0.; Mus. of the Med. Col., Dr. G. E. Manigault. Mounted
skeletons of sheepshead, (Stenotomus argyrops,) and dram, (Pogonias
chromis ;) fossils from the phosphate-beds of South Carolina.

Chandler, L. H. <A living alligator, (Alligator mississipiensis,) young,
from Florida.

Chase, A. W. Ethnological specimens from shell-heaps in Oregon;
drawings by a *‘ medicine-man ” of the Ta-ta-tin tribe, Crescent City,
Oreg.

Cheever, D. A. A bottle of orthoptera from Colorado.

Chicago, Academy of Natural Sciences ; Dr.J. W. Velie. Two mounted
skins of birds.

Jhristiania, Norway ; Zoological Museum; Prof. G. O. Sars. A collee-
tion of shells from Norway.

Clarke, Prof. F. W. Specimens of cyprinodonts from Massachusetts.

Clarke, N. W. See under Washington, U. 8S. Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.

Clitz, Gen. H. B., U. S. A. A shoulder-blade of buffalo, with Indian
paintings.

Cock, George. One specimen of aquacreptite from Chester Co., Pa.

Cockerill, J. H. Two minerals.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 53

Coffin, Charles C. Specimens of iron-ore, with fossil ferns, from Muiv-
kirk, Prince George Co., Md.

Coleman, J. T. Four salmon-skins from Ishpenning, Mich.

Collins, W. H. A mounted specimen of king-eider duck (Somateria
spectabilis) from Detroit, Mich.

Commagére, Frank Y. Ethnological specimens and tooth of narwhal
(Monodon monoceros) trom Greenland.

Cooper, George P. Specimens of insects.

Cooper, W. A. A collection of birds’ eggs and nests from Santa Cruz,
Cal.

Copenhagen; Museum of Zoology. A model of Danish fish-weir.

Cornwall, Prof. H. B. See under Princeton, Museum of the College of
New Jersey.

Oouch, Gen. D. N. The Berlandier Collection of minerals from Mexico,
eleven boxes.

Coues, Dr. Hlliott, U. S. A. See under Weshington, Department of State,
Northern Boundary Survey.

Coulon, Dr. Louis. Specimens of ancient pottery from Central Europe ;
a collection of alcoholic mammals.

Cowen, Gen. B. h., Assistant Secretary of the Interior. An Indian pipe
of peace smoked at the great council of the Grand River agency by

the Umpapa Sioux.

Creveling, J. P. Specimens of California salmon (Salmo quinnat) one
year old from the Susquehanna River.

Cushing, Frank H. A collection of bone implements from an Indian
grave near Medina, N. Y.

Dall, William H., Coast Survey, U. S. A. Thirty- -seven boxes and kegs
of general Peale sical and ethnological collections from Alaska and
California.

Davenport, Iowa; Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences. A collec-
tion of Indian crania from mounds in Lowa.

Davidson, Mr. Specimens of magnetite and of ornamental woods from
Salem, Oreg.

Davis, D. W. Specimen of a root encircling a water-pipe, from Wash-
ington, D. C.

Dererv, J. T. Specimens of minerals from Georgia.

Dickinson, H. Thirteen eggs of the marbled godwit, (Limosa fedoa.)

Dickie, J. A. Specimen of mineral from Independence, Va.

Douglas, Harry. Two steel-tipped Indian arrows from Kansas.

Douglas, James, jr. Plaster-casts of stone hammers from Campana
Serena, Coquimbo, Chili.

Dow, Capt. J. M. A living specimen of burrowing owl (Spheotyto cuni-
cularia, var. floridanus) from the Gulf Stream, 200 miles from the
coast of Georgia; a collection of fishes from Panama; two packages
of Central American minerals.

Dowell, B. F. Specimens of fossil wood from Oregon.
54 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Dury, Charles. Nests of worm-eating warbler (Helminthophaga vermi.
vorus) and Carolina wren, (Thryothorus ludovicianus.)
Dutton, Thomas H. Specimens of quartz arrow-heads from Uniontown,

18 FR OF

Edmunds, Colonel. Specimens of bowlder rocks from White Top Moun-
tain, Grayson Co.,, Va.

Bdwards, Vinal N. See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.

Elliott, Henry W., Special Agent Treasury Department U.S. Eight boxes
of general zoological and ethnological collections from the North Pa-
cific ; skins of sea-otter, (Lnhkydra marina,) and skulls of Walrus, (Jos-
marus obesus,) from Alaska; one tank of alcoholic specimens from the
Aleutian Islands; augite crystals from Saint George Island, Alaska.

Endlich, Dr. Frederic M. A collection of minerals from Saxony. See
also under Washington, Interior Department, U. S. Geological Survey.

Farrell, Norman. A skull of large turtle from the Oclocknee River, Flor-
ida.

Fay, Joseph S. A specimen of oyster (Ostrea-virginiana) from Wood's
Hole, Mass.

Ferguson, Maj. T. B., Maryland Commissioner of Fisheries. Two living
specimens of black bass, (Jicropterus salmoides.)

Field, 8S. T. Specimen of fish (Gila, sp.) and fossil fish from Green
River, Wyoming.

Finck, Hugo. An alcoholic specimen of frog (hinostomus dorsalis)
from a lagoon near Cordova, Mexico.

Fish, W. 8S. Asbestos paper and cloth from Scotland.

Fisher, Davenport. A collectiou of minerals from Ackworth, N. H.

Fitzhugh, D. F. Specimens of fishes from Bay City, Mich.

Fletcher, W. W. Specimens of white-fish (Coregonus, sp.) from New
Hampshire.

Fly, Major. Specimens of silver-ores from Chihuahua.

Forsyth, W. A. Manganese-ores from West Virginia.

Fossick, T. L. & Co. Specimen of polished marble from Ingleton, Ala.

Fraine, Thomas W. Mounted specimens of birds from Rochester, N. Y.

Gabb, Prof. William M. Two stone idols from Santo Domingo; eight
boxes of general zoological and ethnological collections from the
Talamanca expedition, Costa Rica.

Gass, A. M. Specimens of vegetable gum and galls from Campo, San
Diego Co., Cal. /

Gidney, Love and Burton, (through U. 8. Department of Agriculture.)
Specimens of minerals from Cleveland Co., N.C.

Golden, H. W., through C. G. Atkins. Specimens of Osmerus, sp., from
Belgrade, Me.

Goldsmith, Dr. Middieton, Vermont Commissioner of Fisheries. Collec-
tions of fishes and crustaceans from Central Germany and from the
river Seine.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 55

Goode, G. Brown. Specimens of menhaden (Brevoortia menhaden) and
parasites (Cymothoa pregustator) from the Potomac River; a collec-
tion of fishes from the lower Saint John’s River, Florida. See, also,
under Middletown; Museum of Wesleyan University; and Washington,
U. 3S. Commission if Fish and Fisierie,.

Gordon, Hon. John B. One specimen of coal from Alabama.

Griggs. Hon. A. S. Specimens of minerals from Washington Territory.

Griswold, C. D. See under Washington, U.S. Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.

Hague, Henry. Aboriginal musical instruments from Guatemala.

Hailes, J. Bones and pottery from an Indian mound in Tennessee.

Hardenburgh, L. R., U. 8. Surveyor-General for California. Specimens
of borax from California ; minerals from California.

Hardestie, W. L., Hudson Bay Company. Skins and skeletons of male
and female musk-oxen (Ovibos moschatus) from the Barren Grounds
of Aretic America.

Harmer, Miss Helen A. An Indian pipe from Keshena, Wis.

Harris, D. W. Specimen of stag-horn beetle from Louisiana.

Hart, Dr. Charles A., U. S.A. Specimens of Montana grayling, (Thy-
mallus montanensis, n. sp. Milner.)

Hart, James M. Specimens of brown coal from Oswego, N. Y.

Harting, Dr. J. FE. Skins of grallae from various localities.

Harvey, F. 8S. Four specimens of odlite from Des Moines, Iowa; speci-
mens of roots (Psoralea esculenta) used as food by the Indians, from
vicinity of Humboldt, Iowa.

Harvey Rev. M. Arm of squid (Architeuthis monachus) from Newfound-
land; series of mounted skins of Newfoundland seals.

Haskins, Anderson. One malformed hen’s-egg from Washington, D. C.

Hayden, Dr. F. V. See under Washington, Interior Department.

Hayes, Dr. W. W. Two stone implements from San Luis Obispo, Cal.

Haynes, Benjamin. Minerals from Bergen Hill, N. J.

Heidelberg University Museum, Professor Pagenstecher. Skins of mam-
mals from Europe; skeleton, fossil, of Halitherium Schinzi.

Hemphili, Henry. A collection of insects, marine invertebrates, &c.,
from San Diego, Cal.

Henshaw, H. W. See under Washington, War Department; Surveys west
of the one hundredth meridian.

Hereford, Dr. Thomas P. An aboriginal stone pipe from Coalburg,
W. Va.

Herron, J. P. A specimen of muscovite from Atlanta, Ga.

Hessel, Dr. Rudolph. Specimens of the cocoons of the common leech
(Hirudamedicinalis) trom Germany.

Hill, George W. Indian stone implements from Ashland, Ohio.

Hill, J. B. A living specimen of alligator, (Alligator mississippiensis,)
young, from Florida.
56 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Hitchcock, G. N. A skin of bullock’s oriole (Teterus Bullockt) from San
Diego, Cal.; eggs of unknown bird.

Holst, Christian, Secretary of the Royal University of Norway. roe
mens of chalk fossils from Gotland Island, South Sweden.

Hoope & Coit, Port Monmouth Fishery, New York. Sample boxes of sha-
dines (Brevoorta menhaden) in oil.

Homer, Charles F. Indian stone implements, &c., from Phoenix, Ariz.

Hubbard, Lieut. EB. B., U. S. Artillery. Specimens of cloth from Monte-
zuma Wells, Ariz.

Hutchins, W. D. Specimens of minerals. from Lexington, Ind.

Hyer, J. D. Specimens of darter (Pileoma caprodes) trom the Potomae
River.

Jackson, EB. E. One living specimen of soft-shell turtle (Platypeltis
ferox) from the Congaree River, South Carolina.

Jennings, S. kK. Fossil shark’s teeth and sea-urchin spines from Rienzi,
Miss.

Jenkins, J. H. Specimens of azurite from Arizona; agates from Lake
Superior, (on deposit ;) a collection of Indian stone implements from
Central Pennsylvania, (on deposit.)

Jenks, Prof. J. W. P. See under Providence, Musewm of Brown Univer-
sity.

Jenkins, Admiral Thornton N., U.S. N. Specimens of bricks from the
great wall of China.

Jones, John P. A slab with Indian carvings from Keytesville, Mo.

Jones, Dr. William H., U. 8S. N. See under Washington, Navy Depart-
ment.

Jordan, Dr. Franklin. A specimen of Voluta junona and mineral from
Jacksonville, Fla.

Jouy, P. Louis. Skin of Arkansas fly-catcher (Tyrannus verticalis) from
Maryland.

Kapena, Governor. One wooden pipe from the Sandwich Islands.

Kellogg, Dr. A., through U. S. Coast Survey Office. A collection of
mosses and lichens from Alaska.

Keenan, J. R. Mississippi State currency, one one-dollar bill.

Kelly, D. M. Specimens of clay from Little Wolf, Minn.

Kenny, William H. <A living snake (Boa, sp.) from Brazil.

Kercheval, A. W. One specimen of specular hematite from West Vir-
ginia.

Kerrick, L. H. One skin of black-footed weasel (Putorius nigripes) from
Western Kansas.

Ketcham, Dr. Ovaries and stomach of black bass (Mlieropterus sal-
moides) taken in the Potomac.River.

Kinney, Thomas W. <A east of an Indian carving from Ohio.

Krider, John. Specimens of shot.

La Munyon, J. W. One skin of black-footed weasel (Putorius nigripes)
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. Bil

from North Platte, Kansas; head of grebe; shells from the Loup
River, Missouri.

Lamb, George. Specimens of coral from Florida.

Latham, James H. A collection of fishes from Florida.

Latham, Capt. Silas B. A collection of shells from Florida.

Law, Annie E. One box of ethnological specimens from Dalton, Ga.;
ethnological specimens from a mound, Chilhowee Valley, Little Ten-
nessee River.

Law, Dr. One skin of black-footed weasel (Putorius nigripes) from
Cache La Poudre Valley, N. Colo.

Lea Isaac. One specimen of Lioplax cyclostomiformis ; two specimens
of Carinifex Newberry.

Ledyard, IL. W. One specimen of harlequin snake (Hlaps fulvius) and
insects from Orange Bluff, and one pipe-fish (Syngnathus, sp.) from
Saint Augustine, Fla.

Lee, Col. Francis L. Fishes from Kamtchatka.

Lenthall, John. Bas-relief of human head, funeral urn, and lachrymal
urn, from Baii, Italy.

Lewis, Dr. James. A collection of land and fresh-water shells from
New York; a collection of univalve shells from various localities.

Lincecum, Dr. Gideon. A cranium of negro outlaw from Long Point,
Tex.; insects from Texas.

Loew, Dr. Oscar. See under Washington, War Department, Surveys west
of the one hundredth meridian.

London, British Museum. Cast of Assyrian tablet.

Lloyd, H. H. One star-fish and a fish’s tail from Port Townsend, W. 7.

Lartet, Dr. Seeunder Lyons, France; Musée d Histoire Naturelle de Lion.

Lowry, T. W.- One specimen fossil Unio from Elizabeth City Co., Va.

Luce, M. M. Ten specimens of white-fish (Coregonus, sp.) from Indus-
try, Me.

Lynch, Judge. Indian pipe and tomahawk from Weldon, N. C., (on
deposit.) ,

Lyons, France; Musée @ Histoire Naturelle de Lyon, Dr. Lartet. A col-
lection of fossil bones and flint implements from the prehistoric sta-
tion at Solutré, near Macon, (Saone et Loire,) France.

McCook, General A. McD., U. 8S. A. One bill of a saw-fish (Pristis
antiquorum) from Santiago Harbor, Tex.; one Comanché lance, and
scalp of white child, from Fort McKavit, Tex.

Mackenzie, Dr. E. H. R. A box of dried leaves.

McLaughlin, W..B. Specimens of young herring (Clupea elongata) from
spawning-ground, southern head of Grand Manan, N. B.; one egg of
raven (Corvus carnivorus) from Grand Manan.

Mchitchie, Capt., U. 8S. N. One Eskimo dog-trace from Greenland ;
specimens of cryolite from Ivigtot, Greenland.

Manigault, Dr. G. EH. See under Charleston, 8. C., Museum of the Medi-
cal College.
i
58 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Mapes, John 8S. Specimens of mineral (Titanite?) from Warwick, = Ne

Marsh, H. J. A package of pebbles from New Jersey.

Mason, Judge Charles. Specimens of rocks from Mount Vesuvius.

Mason, Prof. O. T. One Comanche tomahawk-pipe from Fort Sill,
Idaho; specimens of betel-auts front Rangon, Burmah.

Mather, Fred. Fins of grayling (Thymallus tricolor) from Honeoye
Falls, N. ¥.; one specimen, in the flesh, of the grison (Galictis vittata ;)
specimens of grayling from Honeoye Falls.

Maxwell, Mrs. M. A. Skins of gray-crowned finch (Leucosticte tephroco-
tis) from Boulder, Colo.; a collection of land-shells from Colorado.
Meek, Prof. F. B. One specimen of harlequin snake, (Hlaps distans,)

other reptiles, and insects, from Florida.

Meigs, General M.C. Specimens of Indian pottery from Arizona; Indian
pipe from the Dog tribe; four pieces of pottery from Pueblos, Tex.; a
fresh skin of wapiti, (Cervus canadensis.)

Middletown, Conn.; Museum of Wesleyan University, G. Brown Goode,
curator. Skins of raptores from New England; skins of birds from
Ecuador.

Mexico ; Sociedad de la Historia Natural, Mariano Barcena. Specimens
of opals from Mexico.

Miller, Dr. C. A. A collection of fossils from the Cincinnati group; a
collection of stone implements from the banks of the Ohio River, be-
tween Meigs Co., Ohio, and Madison, Ind.

Mills, Clark. Casts of the heads of Eskimo Joe and Hannah.

Milner, James W. See under Washington, U. S. Commission of Fish and
Fisheries.

Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir. Specimens of Indian pottery from Michigan and
New Jersey.

Moffatt, Dr., U. S. A. Six Hoopa Indian arrows, (through U.S. Army
Medical Museum.)

Montfort, Rev. J. G. Specimens of land-shells from United States.

Moody, Elisha. Sponges and Indian stone hatchet from Florida.

Moragné, Dr. N. H. Specimens of bones, shells, &c., from a mound near
Pilatka, Fla.

Moore, L. P. Specimens of minerals from Winchester, Va.

Moore, N. B. Fossil bones, bird-skins, and eggs from Manatee, Fla.

Morrison, Ff. L. Specimens of silver-ores from Mexico.

Morrison, J. R. D. Specimens of minerals.

Miller, Prof. Rudolph. Specimens of fungi from Carthagena, Ohio;
stone implements and bones from Carthagena, Ohio.

Murray, Con’r, U. S. N. Teeth of fossil shark, and bill of a saw-fish,
(Pristis antiquorum,) from South Carolina.

Nash, Thomas H. One articulated human skeleton. (Purchased.)

New Albany, Ind. ; Academy of Sciences. Casts of bone implements from
shell-heaps, nee Albany, Ind.

Nichols, Dr. CO. H., Government Asylum for the Insane. Specimens, in
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 59

the flesh, of grizzly bear, (Ursus horribilis,) and bald eagle, (Hitiaetus
leucocephalus.)

Nickerson, George Y. One bird’s egg (Megapodius, sp.?) from the Celebes
Islands.

Ocean Trout Co., Port Monmouth, N.7. Sample boxes of * ocean trout,”
(Brevoortia menhaden,) pickled.

Oldmixon, Dr. George S., U. S. A. Specimens of grayling (Thymallus
montanensis, Milner, n. sp.,) from Montana.

Otis, Col. Harrison G. Petrological and botanical specimens from Gua-
daloupe Island, Lower Cal.

Oxford, England ; Museum of Nat. History ; Prof. George Rolleston. Four
boxes of stone implements and pottery, and crania of ancient Saxons,
from England.

Pagenstecher, Professor. See under Heidelberg, University Museum.

Palmer, Dr. Edward. Two packages of ethnological specimens from
Florida.

Papineau, FE. A. One box of pinned coleoptera from Topeka, Kans.

Parker; W. F. <A tail of black-tailed deer (Cervus macrotis) from Red
Cloud agency.

Peshall, Capt. Charles. One stone knife from Clark Co., Ark.; shells
and quartz erystals from Ouachita Valley, Ark.

Phinney, Captain. Five specimens of Otsego white-fish (Coregonus otse-
go) from Otsego Lake, N. Y.

Pierson, William L., U.S. vice-consul. One specimen of meteoric iron
from Casas Grandos, Chihuahua, Mex. See under Washington, De- -
partment of State.

Pike, Col. Nicholas, U. S. consul. Twelve packages of general zoologi-
cal collections from Mauritius and the Indian Ocean.

Poey, Prof. Felipe, University of Havana. Collections of minerals, skins,
and alcoholic specimens of fishes, from Cuba.

Pohlenz, Franz. Two iron-stone nodules from Washington, D, C.

Poor, C. R. One specimen sponge from Nantucket.

Potts, John. A collection of reptiles and fishes from Mexico.

Powell, Maj. J. W. See under Washington, Interior Department.

Pratt, W. H. Specimens of Helix multilineatus from Iowa.

Princeton, N. J.; Museum of Princeton College ; Prof H. B. Cornwall. A
collection of minerals from various localities.

Prentiss, Dr. C. A. A fresh skin of white pelican (Pelecanus erythrorhyn-
chus) from Dade Co., Mo.

Providence, R.I.; Museum of Brown University ; Prof. J. W. P.. Jenks.
Skins and eggs of birds, and Seminole leggings from Central Florida.

Putnam, Joseph Duncan. Skin of Thomomys, sp. from Camp Brown,.
Wyo.

Queredo, John, U. S. N. Specimens of venomous serpents from San
Juan River, Nicaragua.

Reid, J. W. One specimen of fossil crinoid from Urbana, Ohio.
60 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Reuss, Dr. A. Collection of serpents, fishes, and ethnological specimens
from Belleville, Ll. :

Rice, Jos. K. One wiveral from Hackettstown, N. J.

Robeson, Hon. George M. One specimen of sea-turtle from Key West,
Fla.

Roome, James H. One fish-skin.

Russell, Mr., U.S. N., (U.S. Steamer Swatara.) Specimens otf Lepidop-
tera from Brazil and the Cape of Good Hope.

Salt Lake City; Salt Lake Museum; J. L. Barfoot. One bottle of erusta-
cea (Artemia, sp.) from the Great Salt Lake.

Sandberger, Prof. Fridolin. Specimens of Helices from Germany.

Sanford, C. O. A living specimen of great horned owl, (Bubo Virgini-
anus.

Sars, Prof. G. O. See under Christiania, Norway ; Zoological Museum.

Scammon, Capt. C. M., U. S. Revenue Marine. Specimens of baleen from
three species of whales; skull of Orca; skeleton of striped porpoise,
(Lagenorhynchus obliquidens;) embryo of Baird’s porpoise, (Delphinus
Bairdii;) whale’s skeleton, &c., &c.; all from the Pacifie Ocean.

Schneider, A. P. Two specimens of common mole (Scalops aquaticus)
from Falls Church, Va.”

Schoolcraft, Mrs. H. R. A specimen of “ soap-tree” wood from Chill ;
one flint arrow-head and specimen of Indian weaving from Arizona ;
specimen of Indian matting from Durango, Mexico.

Schumacher, Paul, U.S. Coast Survey. A collection of mariue inverte-
brates from California; a collection of ethnological specimens from
San Luis Obispo, Cal.

Seely, Commander H. B., U. S. N. One specimen of poreupine fish
(Paradiodon hystrix) from Fort Jefferson, Fla.; skins of mammals from
Europe.

Seyboth, Robert, U. S. Signal-Service, through U.S. Signal Office. Two
bottles of insects from the summit of Pike’s Peak.

Shaw, James. One box of fossils from Mount Carroll, Il.

Shepard and Weston. Fresh specimen of namaycush (Salmo nemaycush)
from Bay City, Mich.”

Shepard, Prof. C. U. Two jars of fishes from Cuba.

Shepherd Bros. A box of pebbles from Warren Co., Iowa.

Silliman, Prof. Benjamin. Specimens of priceite, gold, and zircon, from
California.

Sipa, George, and Sons. One specimen of peacock-coal from Allegheny
Co., Pennsylvania.

Slack, Dr. J. H., New Jersey Commissioner of Fisheries. Specimens of
young and embryonic California salmon (Salmo quinnat) from Trout-
dale hatching-house.

Slagle, John W. One box of stone implements from Congaree River,
South Carolina.

Smith, J. Lawrence. Specimens of limestone-rock from Louisville, Ky.

.
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 61

Smith, R. K. Silver-ores from Arkansas.

Snyder, Dr. J. F. One box of leaf-shaped stone implements from Beards-
town, Cass Co., Il.

Stabill, Joseph, through Tarleton I. Bean. One tortoise-shell ear-ring
from the Fejee Islands.

Stearns, R. HE. C. Seeds of coniferous trees from California.

Steinberger, Col. A. B., Special Agent State Department U. S. Collections
of ethnological and botanical specimens and marine invertebrates,
Didunculus, sp., and other birds from the Samoan Islands.

Sternberg, Charles H. Specimens of ammonites from Ellsworth Co.
Kansas ; fossil plants from Fort Harker, Kans.

Stevens, R. P. Specimens of. Devonian plants from Rockingham Co.,
Virginia; gold-ores from Venezuela; Indian mulling-stone from Vene-
zuela.

Stevenson, Prof. J. J. Two stone chisels from West Virginia and Colo-
rado. .

Stevenson, James. One skin of mule-deer, (Cervus macrotis;) a specimen,
in the flesh, of puma (felis concolor) from Colorado.

Stilwell, H. M., Maine Commissioner of Fisheries. One specimen of cusk
(Lota maculosa) from Moosehead Lake, Maine.

Stone, Gen. C. P. Casts and squeezes of Egyptian antiquities.

Stone, Livingston. A collection of alcoholic fishes from the Sacramento
River, California; specimens of Salmo, sp., from Dublin Pond, Keene,
NE.

Stratton, [. Specimens of marine alge from Cape Flattery, Washing-
ton Territory.

Streets, Dr. T. Hale, U. 8. Steamer Portsmouth. See under Washington,
Navy Department.

Stuart, William Rk. One Indian calumet from Augusta Co., Va., (through
Hon. P. H. Hereford.)

Sumichrast, Prof. F. A collection of birds from Mexico.

Sutherland, John. One specimen of lump-fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) from
New York Harbor; one specimen of Zoarces anguillaris from New
York market.

Swan, James G. <A collection of ethnological specimens, Indian stone
implements, from Washington Territory.

Tegetmeier, W. B. Mounted specimens of poultry-skins and skulls from
England.

Thompson, John A. Vegetable pleistocine remains from Jerseyville, Jer-
sey Co., Ill.

Thomson, J. H. Specimens of fishes from New Bedford, Mass.

Thompson, J. K. Specimens of wood from Iowa.

Tisdale, H. J. One specimen of painted bunting (Cyanospiza ctris) from
Mooreville, Ala.

Turner, Lucien M., U. S. Signal-Service. Collection of birds and eggs
from Oonalashka and Saint Michael’s, Alaska.
62 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Van Fleet, Walter. One specimen of Blackburnian warbler (Dendroica
Blackburnie) and searlet tanager (Pyranga rubra) from Watsontown,
Pa.

Velie, Dr. J. W. See Chicago Academy of Natural Sciences.

Vienna, Austria; Zoological Museum; Dr. L. Reettenbacher. A collection
of skins and skeletons of mammals and birds.

Wahl, Dr. W. H. One specimen of asbestos from Philadelphia, Pa.

Wallbaum, A. One specimen of crystalline limestone from Sagetown,
Til.

Walker, Com’r J. G., U. S. N. One lot of fossil shark’s teeth from
Charleston, S. C.

Wallace, J. One specimen of snowy owl (Nyctea nivea) from New York
market.

Walton, W. F. Specimens of silver-ores from White Pine District, Nev.

Washington, D. C.:

Department of State, U. 8S. A., United States Survey of the Northern
Boundary, (Hon. Archibald Campbell, Commissioner.) Zoological,
botanical, and ethnological collections made by Dr. Elliott Coues,
naturalist of the expedition; skeletons of elk, (Cervus canadensis,)
and beaver, (Castor canadensis,) collected by Capt. W. L. Carpenter,
U. S. A. See elsewhere, under the names of Col. Nicolas Pike,
Charles Weile, and W iam L. Pierson, U. 8. Consuls, and Col. A. B.
Steinberger, Special Agent.

Treasury Department, U. S. A. See under the name of H. W. Elliott.
United States Revenue Marine. See elsewhere, under the names of

Capt. C. M. Scammon and M. R. Brown.
United States Coast Survey. See under the names of A. W. Chase,
William H. Dall, and Paul Schumacher.

War Department, U. 8. A.:

United States Army. See under the names of Gen. M. C. Meigs,
Gen. H. B. Clitz, Gen. A. McD. McCook, Capt. Charles Bendire,
Capt. W. L. Carpenter, and Lieut. G. M. Wheeler.

Surgeon-General’s Office, United States Army Medicat Museum, (Dr.
G. A. Otis in charge.) Ethnological specimens from Pembina,
Dak.; one stone hammer; one Uté necklace of human toes; one
skin bag. See, also, under the names of Drs. Plliott Coues, Peter
Moffatt, H. C. Yarrow, G. 8. Oldmixon, Charles A. Hart, and J. T.
Rothrock, medical officers United States Army.

Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian, Lieut. G. M. Wheeler in
charge. General zoological and botanical collections made by
Dr, H. C. Yarrow, Dr. J. T. Rothrock, Mr. H. W. Henshaw, and
Dr. Oscar Loew.

Signal-Service U. S. Army. See under the names of Sergeants Rob-
ert Seyboth and Lucien M. Turner.

Navy Department, U.S. A.:

U. 8S. Navy. See under the names of Com’r J. G. Walker, Com’r
ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 63

Murray, Com’r Skerritt, Con’r Seelye, Admiral Jenkins, Com’r L, A.
Beardslee, Com’r George Dewey, Con’r G. EB. Belknap, William Rus-
sell, Mr. Quevedo.

Bureau of Navigation, Commodore Daniel Ammen. Specimens of |
dredgings from the coast of California, United States Steamer
Tuscarora, Commander G. E. Belknap ; zoological and botanical
collections from the coast of Lower California, the Gulf of Cali-
fornia, and the Reviligigedo Islands, United States Steamer Nar-
rangansett, Commander George Dewey, collected by Surgeon William
Hvers; zoological, botanical, and ethnological collections, from
Palmyra and other Polynesian Islands, United States Steamer
Portsmouth, Commander J. S. Skerritt, collected by Surgeons Wil-
liam H. Jones, and T. Hale Streets; nine specimens of bottom-
soundings from the Gulf-coast of Mexico, United States Steamer
Fortune.

Polaris Expedition, Capt. C. F. Hall. One skeleton of polar bear
(Ursus maritimus) from Greenland, collected by Dr. Emil Bessels.

Interior Department, U. 8. A.:

General Land-Office. See under the names of Surveyors-General L.
Hardenburgh and John Wasson.

. United States Geological Survey of the Territories, (Prof. F. V. Hayden

in charge.) Four boxes of minerals from Colorado, collected by
Dr. F. M. Endlich.

United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries, (Prof. Spencer F.
Baird, Commissioner.) Sixty boxes general zoological collections
from Noank, Conn., and vicinity, by Prof. A. HE. Verrill, G.
Brown Goode, and Tarleton H. Bean; one barrel of zoological
specimens from Holyoke, Mass., collected by J. W. Milner and C.
D. Griswold; fishes from Waukegan, IIl., collected by J. W. Milner;
three boxes of Salmonide from Sacramento River, Cal., collected
by Livingston Stone; eggs of white-fish (Coregonus albus) from
Michigan, collected by NV. W. Clark; eggs of salmon (Salmo salar)
from Bucksport, Me., collected by C. G. Atkins; fifteen boxes of
zoological specimens from Wood’s Hole, Mass., and Cape Cod,
collected by Vinal N. Edwards ; models of dory used on the coast
of New England, and of drying-flakes, from Portland, Me.; one
model of fish-way from James D. Brewer, Muney, Pa.

Smithsonian Institution; Survey of the Colorado, (Maj. J. W. Powell
in charge.) Four boxes of fossils from Colorado.

Department of Agriculture, (Hon. Frederick Watts, Commissioner.) One
specimen of Menopoma alleghaniensis ; one bottle of reptiles.

Wasson, John, U. S. Surveyor-General for Arizona. One package of
minerals from New Mexico, and silver-ores from Santa Torreas mine ;
minerals from Keystone mine, Arizona.

Waterhouse, Dr. A. A collection of butterflies from Chautauqua Co.,

NY.
64 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Webb, John 8S. One specimen of white weasel (Putorius noveboracensis)
from Chuekatuck, Va. ;

Webster, Prof. H. 2. A collection of fishes in aleohol from Eastern
Shore of Virginia.

Weile, Charles, U. S. consul. One specimen of boa (‘“ Tigre”) in aleohol
from Guayaquil.

Wesleyan University. See under Middletown.

Whitaker, James C. One Indian vase from Baldwin Co., Georgia.

Wilkinson, A. G. A collection of fishes from British provinces.

Williams, D. H., M. D. A collection of silver-ores from Northern
Mexico.

Williams, Milo G. <A collection of plants from Ohio.

Williamson, Thomas. Specimens of fossil ferns and lepidodendra from
Tennessee.

Wilson, J. K. Collection of minerals, for examination, from Forest City,
Mo.

Wing, Melvin. One stone implement from Mount Vernon, Ohio.

Wood, August H. One skull of the Virginia deer (Cariacus virginianus)
from New York. —

Wright, Bryce M. One cast of a bird’s head (Odontopteryx toliopica) from
the London clay, Sheppey, England.

Wright, D. T. A collection of crania and Indian relies from Clarksville,
Tenn.

Yarrow, Dr. H. 0. Specimen of cod (Gadus morrhua) from New York;
seven bird-skins from the Alps, Switzerland ; Juniperus from Arizona,
and bird-trap from France. See also under Washington, War Depart-
ment, Surveys west of the one hundredth meridian.

Yates, L. G. Casts of teeth of the fossil elephant (Mastodon) from
Solano Co., Cal.

Yeager, F. M. A collection of minerals from Pennsylvania.

Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Fresh specimen of yak, (Poéphagus
grunniens.)
DEPOSITS IN CORCORAN ART—GALLERY. — 65

LIST OF ARTICLES DEPOSITED BY THE SMITHSONIAN IN-
STITUTION IN THE CORCORAN ART-GALLERY, WASH-
INGTON.

1. Portrait of the late Hon. William C. Preston, of South Carolina,
by G. P. A. Healy.

2. Portrait of the late Ex-President John Tyler, of Virginia, by G. P.
A. Healy, 1859.

3. Full-length portrait of M. Guizot, of France, by G. P. A. Healy.

4, Cast of a bas-relief of “‘ Phebus,” from a marble found in the ruins
of ancient Troy, in 1873, by Dr. Schliemann, of Athens, Greece, who
presented it to the Smithsonian Institution.

0. Marble head of Diana, (antique.)

ENGRAVINGS AND ETCHINGS.

. Lioness and Young. Engraving, by J. F. Ridinger.
. Two engravings of deer. Engraving, by J. F. Ridinger.
. Silenus. Line engraving, by Bolsevert.
. Hercules. Line engraving, by Rottsseler.
. A Centaur instructing Achilles. Line engraving, by Bervie, after
Regnault.
6. An Interior. Line engraving, by Vischer, after Ostade.
7. A Family Concert. Line engraving, by J. G. Wille, after G.
Schalken.
8. Holy Family. Line engraving. (Artist unknown.)
9. Holy Family. Line engraving, by B. Desnoyers, after Raphael.
10. Aurora. Line engraving, by Raphael Morghen, after Guido.
11. An Old Beggar. Mezzotint, by Townley, after Dance.
12. Christ Healing the Sick. Etching. (Artist unknown.)
13. Cows. Etching, by Roos.
14. Horses, (two.) Etching, by Paul Potter.
15. Eleven etchings, by Rembrandt.
16. Fireside. Etchings, by Boissieu.
17. Goats, (two.) Etchings, by Berghen.
18. Eleven etchings, by Ostade and others.
19. Twelve etchings, by Clodowiecki.
20. The Nativity and Adoration of the Kings, by Henrich Goltzius.
21. Bruggemann Album of Photographs, illustrating the altar screen
in the cathedral at Schleswig.
22. Photograph of a Memorial Tablet, executed in wood, by P. Claur-
ren, of Satrup, a plain farmer.

~

os)

Poo be

OU
66 INDIAN VOCABULARIES—CHOREA.

LIST OF INDIAN VOCABULARIES RECEIVED FROM THE
WHEELER EXPEDITION.

1. Appendix to vocabularies of} 10. Ar-i-vai-pa.

seven Indian languages. 11. Acoma Pueblo Indians.
2. Shoshone. 12. Gohun, (Tonto-Apaches.)
3. Pi-Ute. ‘13. Shoshone.
4, Pah-Ute. 14. Isletta, (Pueblo.)
5. Pah-Ute. . 15. Tehua, (Pueblo.)
6. Ute and Pah-vauts. 16. Apache.
7. Mojavé. 17. Moguis.
8. Hualapais. 18. Navajo.

9. Ute. 19. Vallatoa, (Gomez, Pueblo.)

CIRCULAR IN REGARD TO. THE DISEASE KNOWN AS
“ CHOREA.”

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, D. C., January 1, 1875.

Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, an eminent physician and physiologist of Phil-
adelphia, asks the assistance of the Smithsonian Institution in obtain-
ing any facts in regard to the disease known as chorea, or Saint Vitus’s
dance, and for this purpose has prepared the accompanying series of
questions.

The special object of the inquiry is to ascertain whether the assertion
that black children are not affected with this disease is correct.

Any data on this subject may be addressed to either the Smithsonian
Institution, Washington, D. C., or Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, 13832 Walnut
street, Philadelphia.

As early information as possible is desired.

Respectfully,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Director Smithsonian Institution.

. To what extent do you see chorea (of childhood) among whites?
. Is it found more in one locality than another?
. At what season do the attacks come?
. How often have you seen chorea in blacks of*pure breed? If pos-
sible, give cases.

5. How common is it in mulattoes?

If you can get answers from other physicians, in addition to your own,
it will be desirable.

Hm Cb

S. WEIR MITCHELL, M. D.
EXCHANGES, 67

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Table showing the statistics of the exchanges in 1874.

eae
= = 2
2 os a
Agent and country. S a a
Og lee =
2 | 4 ie
Ee] S 2
4 =
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm :
Swed eneess ss case + seen ce ee teense s Soa joan colerewiateculs laces 5 39 1, 050
Royal Danish Society of Copenhagen:
Penmarnleandyicelandweseseaersn eee assets «soe aise sae es 4 30 900
Royal University of Norway, Christiania:
IMG@IAT Si" cose Socbolbo seustesses Heecon teccas doepad Socesocesape 3 20 600°
L. Watkins & Co., St. Petersburg:
PO USS ane ae eet a a hana) sara) a eeracehieinies let = caisicciaciaeis a 50 1, 500
Frederic Miiller, Amsterdam
13el YGhhN hts SoA AO Ree DSO ESS SUDO ser eMch a= Boone eae oaaoopeas 5 35 1, 050
Prof. Von Baumhauer, Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais,
Harlem :
olan dvamdie ative yee nate t mR lotmciciseyss ae ose) eerie rsesie 5 35 1, 650
Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipzic : :
Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Greece -.-.. ......-.s..-- 40 | 280 8, 400
Gustave Bossange, Paris: ( |
France and Algiers. . Meats wainer ores Bia seteiaisy= Sere wis ete ee es 11 80 2, 400
U. Hoepli, Reale ‘Istituto Lombardi di Scienze e Lettere, “Milan:
ANIA veers tes state seg po) eh a astorisieininmiciaisiavanaiactiiee eee dese o 20 600
William Wesley, London:
Great Britain, British possessions in Asia, Africa, &c.-....-.-. 30 | 220 6, 600
Other parts of the world:
PMUBGLMA aaosco Sachs Sac Mee cee. eee eae o ocise sec cecisce. oa 5- 1 £0 2, 400
@ubatess ss2522 BS Nias = Say eee ene aw bates Sao aa esis lacs 2 14 420
Pera Ze ot eee Sore a nel oe acie sas Meet e ea ese mine cinta ae s Sere aes 3 20 600
IB Oy bie eae ee ee ns oe cise eeatine ai a ncisiai as Dsante clarence if 7 210
ah e@nisige ye aoe ceo aeecees ces StS a cis ceisler mise Bee eeemeaeee 1 a 210
otal Se ee ee Se ses tose ee eeewceeelas Sees moe eons cece iil) SEsy) Ravel

Besides these, smaller packages and live animals were sent to Ger-
many, England, &c. In all, over ten thousand parcels, addressed to
institutions and individuals, were distributed.

Government exchanges.

- Boxes
Ho;GermansEmpirey Berlimcer er tasers. sate ch oe; ceisser se Sele Soe eateic ehatee sees 32
Mos Canad apa = oe 2 eta pe ciece tiatsia 2 aes dee wars also elaptticanrniaa seas bate Se ban 9
POR ADEN = a= see e ashe etapa oh slate tei seni as a Se cralein pee eoni a csite Sees cece face: 5
PR GAC WM es apy ccgure et crea ee foes has castle ree) sclera dtc one staa ees lasiseee
68

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

PACKAGES RECEIVED BY THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FROM EUROPE,
ETC., IN 1874, FOR DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA.

ALABAMA.

Mobile :
Barton -AcaAdemiy.-===-t=e ese eee
Tuscaloosa :
Hospital for the Insane--.-.-.-......
WY ers! tye eee ease aa oe = oo aroma

ARKANSAS.

Little Rock :
Institution for Educating the Blind

.
CALIFORNIA.

Sacramento :
California State Agricultural Society
Geological Survey of California.-..--
San Francisco :
Agricultural Society ...-..-----..---
California Academy of Natural Sci-
ONCCRK cece oe Soe] sete eee ee ell
Mayor of the city of San Francisco-.
Mercantile Library Association ...-- =
Stockton :
State Lunatic Asylum. ....-...---.--.

CONNECTICUT.

Hartford :
Connecticut State Agricultural Society
Retreat for the Insane..-.-.-.--....---
lane WADLALY- Sa eee ciate ete eee
Young Men’s Institute............--
* Litchfield :
Spring Hill Institution.........-..--
Middletown :
General Hospital for the Insane..---.
New Haven:
American Journal of Science and Arts
American Oriental Society .--.-.-----
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sci-
BNCES seme Sco ete eect ene ee
Museum of Yale College...-....----.-
Sheffield Scientific School....-..-...-
Nala: COMED Orar = ween an see
Norwich :
WTS OVAL, «5.0 cm nee ere ee ele

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Georgetown :
Georgetown University...-......... -
Washington :
Agriculture, Department of......-.---
Board of Indian Commissioners.----.
Bureau of Navigation .......-.---..-
Bureaw of Ordnance. 22-2 = sfesee ene
Burean of Statistics.... .----..-.<9.-
Census Bnreat=-2. seen e resem ice ne)-seic

CoastaBurveyen a see ee cases e est ‘

Columbia Hospital for Women -.----.
Columbia Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb ee eee eee eee

Columbian University ...--..--.---+.
Commissioner of Education........-

Engineer Department...--- -..--.---

No.

1

WASHINGTON, D. C.—Continued. No.
Geological Survey of the Territories... 5
German Reading and Chess Club-.-..- il
Hospital for the Insane---.------.---- 1
Howard University.-.-..-..---...-- ee
Hydrographic Office...--..--------- 8
Interior Department -.--.--.-------- 2
Mand-Omieeea- =. <= 2. leet ein nim 3
Library of Congress...-----------.--- 35
Light-House Board..-.--------------. 1
Medical Society of the District of Co-

TRINA eect oe ee 2
National Academy of Science-..-...-.. 47
National Deaf-Mute College----.----- 2
Nautical Almanac Office....-.----.--- ra
Navy Department..--.---...--.-------- 4
ODSOIVAIOLY, © oe o-oo ae annie a 68
Patenb-Oll COcceee nein a meee eige tein 185
Rnb WCRSCNOOlS ease sep = ei=eee 2
Signal-Office -....-----.-- Saspisqnaods 22
State Department..---...------..--. 3
Surgeon-General’s Office..---..------ 136
Swedish-Norwegian legation...---.--. 1
Territorial Legislature....-..--- ope Sree
Treasury Department.-----..-.------ 5
War Departiment----.- 2-5. ~~ - nj -ene 11
Young Men’s Christian Association... 1

FLORIDA.
Tallahassee :
ING G thy feeeeiap Onion aos eacecuesacsst il
GEORGIA.
Ih Athens :
Hospital for the Insane ..--.--------- 1
Atlanta:
Atlanta Winiversityese- ser aes =e 1
Milledgeville :
Hospital for the Insane......-.------ 1
Oxford :
Emory College ...-..--------.------- 1
Savannah :
Chatham Academy, -----...---------- 1
ILLINOIS.
Bloomington :
Illinois Natural History Society.....- 3

Carbondale :
Southern Illinois Normal University... 6

Chicago :

Chicago Academy of Sciences.-.----- 82
Chicago Board of Trade..--..------- il
Chicago Public Library --.---..------ 6
Dearborn Observatory ..--...--.--s--- 5
Mayor of the city of Chicago-.-...-.- 1

Young Men’s Association Library.--. 1
Elgin:

Hospital for the Insane....---------- 1
Evanston :

Northwestern University------.----- 1
Jacksonville :

Illinois Hospital for the Insane..-.-... 1
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

InLinois—Continued.

Peoria:
Mercantile; Library ----25«2s4s-2 ==
Springfield :
Academy, of Sciences=-2-2--= o22- +. 2 -
SLaberabraly cco miac cae ea

INDIANA.

Bloomington :
Indiana, University.--.25-..2------<

Indianapolis :
Geological Survey of Indiana.-..-.--
Hospital for the Insane.-....-.-.----
Indiana Horticultural Society. ..---.-
Indiana Institution for Deaf-Mutes...
Indiana Institution for Educating the
Blind

New Albany :
Theological Seminary ..---...-...---

IOWA.

Burlington:

Burlington University-.----....-.---
Des Moines :

DUALOMUIDLALY wae c.2- ease Ses eae se eee

~ Dubuque:

German Theological Seminary..-.----
Independence :

Hospital for the Insane.-.-..-......---.
Towa City:

Geological Survey of Iowa....-..---..

Iowa State University...............
Mount Pleasant :

Hospital for the Insane....-.---.----

Wesleyany Universitiyes:-ss-4-2s-e oe

KANSAS.
Lawrence :
University
Ossawatamie :
Hospital for the Insane.----...-----.
Topeka:
Kansas Academy of Science---..-----
Kansas State Library...-.------...--

eee wn e Cee me ete eee eee eww ee

KENTUCKY.
Danville :
Theological Seminary
Frankfort :
State geologist of Kentucky....- ...-.
Stateshibrany: .- eevee oee aa estes
Third Kentucky Hospital for the In-
sane
Hobb’s Station :
Hospital for the Insane.-.-..-.....-..-
Hopkinsville :
Second Kentucky Hospital for the In-
sane
Lebanon :
Saint Mary’s College...-.....--....-

i

No.

1

KENTUCKy—Continued.

Lexington :
First Kentucky Hospital for Insane. -

Kentucky University .-2---sseessec =
Russelville :

Bethel: Collecerc2 2... 22 see
Shelbyville :

Observatory of Shelby College. ...--.

LOUISIANA.
Baton Rouge:
Academy

Clinton :
Louisiana Insane Asylum. ...........
New Orleans :
Eyceummlsibranyssesse seek eee
Mayor of the city of New Orleans:...
New Orleans Academy of Natural
Sciences

Augusta :
Hospital for the Insane-...-......--.
Stateslbibrary= isos aces eee ene ee
Bangor :
Commissioner of Fisheries...-:.-....
Brunswick :
Bowdom_Collegessess- ace seseeeeee
Historical Society of Maine......-.-.

Portland:
Commissioner of Fisheries.....-.-.-.
Portland Society of Natural History.
Waterville :
Wiaterville| College. 2222.)cs--445.2-
MARYLAND.

Annapolis :
Maryland State Library.-.--....-..-

Baltimore :
Loyola College
Maryland Historical Society...---.---
Maryland Institute...-....-...-.-.- x
Mayor of the city of Baltimore--.....
Mercantile oibrary. =o esas eee eee
Newton University... s2-2-sses55-
Odd'Hellows/ibrary~-22-52-24---2=-
Reabodiy Institutes ss. ----seees sees
Saint Mary’s College..--_..........-

Catonsville :

Maryland! Hospitallc-=- 2.2... 2. 224-4

Rockville :

Rockville Academiyja-yeaae tea ee
MASSACHUSETTS.

Amherst :

Amherst; College. -<os5 7.2552 $5. ce

Andovor:

Theological Seminary -.--..-.-----'--.

Boston :

American Academy of Arts and Sci-

GNIGES Sabet s occ 5 Brees
American Sccial Science Association -
American Statistical Association
American Unitarian Association
Board of State Charities

69

1
i

40
$
70

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

Bosron, Mass.—Continued. No.
» Boston Athenzum ........--..-..-.. 3
Boston Hospital: oeeess= = eee aban 2
Boston Hospital for the Insane ...--. 2
Boston Society of Natural History -.- 220
Bowditch Library Seen SS Reese aes 1
Bureau of Statistics of Labor.-.-..-. -- 1
Christian PXAMIMer - 2. ansaaceee l= 1
@hristian RePister -- a - aes oasis ~ Sn 2
Gynecological Society .-----.----.-- 1
House of Correction 5----.---=-- ---. 1
McClean Hospital for the Insane -.... 1
Massachusetts Historical Society .-.. 13
Massachusetts State Library ...--..-- 10
Mayor of the city of Boston..---..-.-. 1
MedicaliSo@etye sass.) ae a sae 1
MercanileWilbnar ys ces. oe ee 1
New England Historic Genealogical
SOCIBUYee ena tea eerie sarees 4
Perkins Institution for the Blind .... 3
12g hed Lhe Bee ASS es omcse tess 26
Cambridge :
ANEN SAWN i ea aie(a= claeee ieee ee il
Harvard Colleve 2.25 cae ener an ss 32
Harvard College Herbarium.......-. = 5) wel
Harvard College Observatory ..---. Si)!
Law School Library ee eee ee eteee 1
Museum of Comparative Zoology ..-. 92
Theological School Library.-.--.--.-.- il
Jamaica Plain:
BusseyeNsuitLUblON se ccee= cose eee 16
Newton Centre .
Newjon Theological Institute......-. 1

Northampton :
Clarke Institution for Deaf-Mutes.... 1

Salem:

American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science..--...2--..- 33

American Naturalist -22:-2 5-22 202.=. 2

Bssex Institute. .-2-c.t sees eee 100

Peabody Academy of Science.-....... 78
Taunton :

Hospital for the Insane..-.-.......... 1
Williamstown :

Walliams(Collevoss-/o<.cce< ccc sae 1
Worcester :

American Antiquarian Society....... 24

Free Institute of Technology-.-....-.. 2

Hospital for the Insane ..--2..-....- 1

iy orcester Academy: 22222 5 = Seu sate

MICHIGAN.

Ann Arbor:

ODSenvaOnys- fee eee cham cle cee Uf

(GMILVSrSitivae-- ceo cocks os cce meee i!
Detroit :

Michigan State Agricultural Society. 7

Publiotinhiranyg. ers csc ee ees cook 1

Review of Medicine and Pharmacy -. 3

Saint Philip’s College...-. 5 SSS oe apie!
Kalamazoo :

Hospital for the Insane ..--....2~-. -. 1

Lansing :

Michigan State Library ..........--- 2

MINNESOTA. No.
Minneapolis :
Minnesota Academy of Natural
SClONCeSs- = 2201.2 eee eee teeta eee
Saint Paul:
Chamber of Commerce -.---.--..-... 1
Minnesota Historical Society ..---.-- 10
Minnesota State Library .....-..---.. 1
Saint Peters :
Hospital for the Insane ............- il
MISSISSIPPI.
Clinton : :
Mississippi College....-.--..-2-5-5-. if
Jackson :

Hospital for the Insane...-- eccne sees 2
Oxford : :
WIVOISITY, 2 Saqscse <i 22 o ciet scoot ema i
MISSOURI.

Columbia :
University of Missouri ..-....--.-..- 1
Fulton:
Hospital for the Insane.-....-..-----. 1
Saint Louis :
County Hospital for the Insane...-... 1
Hospital for the Insane, (St. Vincent’s) 1
Haw olaibraty somite tetepisme mal
Mayor of the city of Saint Louis..... 1
Public Schooliisibrary.-s.-=-----—- =k
Saint Louis Academy of Science ---- - 92
State Board of Agriculture ......-..-. 2
State Bureau of Geology and Mines... 1
‘University of Saint Louis ---.--2----. 3
NEBRASKA.

Omaha :
Hospital for the Insane.-.....---.---- 1

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Concord :

Hospital for the Insane.--...-.----. .- il

New Hampshire Historical Society -- EA

Shate Talbrany 2 sia iche sce eee 1
Exeter :

Phillips’s Exeter Academy... ==: 3-2. 1
Hanover :

Dartmouth College ....--..:--.---.- 2

Dartmouth Observatory...-...:.--.- 1
Manchester :

City Library <.se.-tiseao en cere eek

NEW JERSEY.
Burlington :

Burlington College ..-.-.....--....- 1
Hoboken :

Stevens Institute of Technology..-... 1
New Brunswick :

Geological Survey of New Jersey --.. 7
Princeton :

College of New Jersey --...------. -- 5
Salem :

Salem Academy. 22.2225 soeeaeeee aie 1
Trenton :

State Insane Hospital......-.-.---.- 1
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

NEW YORK.

Albany :

Albany. Instutubers.)- ssoseeenas ise
Dudley Observatory .--.-..---..'-----
Insurance Department.----.-.----.--
New York State Agricultural Society -
New York State Library..-.------.---
New York State Medical Society ---.- -
New York State Museum of Natural

History
New York State University......----
State Board of Charities...-......-. r

Auburn :

Criminal Hospital for the Insane. ---.
Theological Seminary-.-...-... .-..

Blackwell’s Island :
City Hospital for the Insane-..---..-

Brooklyn :
Mercantile Library

Buffalo:
Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. -
Grosvenor ibranys sss sel- ees =e
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. --
Medical and Surgical Journal. .----.-
Young Men’s Association.--..-..--.--

Canton :
Saint Lawrence University ..--------

Clinton:
Litchfield Observatory of Hamilton
Wowllesereeaet ees ae arise

Flatbush :
Kings County Hospital for the Insane,

Hamilton :
Madison University
Ithaca:
Cornell College

Jamestown :
Jamestown Microscopical Society .-.-.
Tima:
Wesleyan Seminary <--------5 6-6
Newburgh :
Theological Seminary of the Associate
Reformed Church

New York:

American Bible Society ....-.-...----
American Bureau of Mines..-.--...-.
Americana @hemi stereos see
American Geographical and Statistical

Sociotver meee eo ate oe eaeees
American Institute
American Institute of Architects.-....
American Museum of Natural History
American Society of Civil Engineers.
Anthropological Institute of New York
Apprentices’ Library .---.--<-.---5---
Astor Library
Bavarian consulate......-.--.---+-=-
Bloomingdale Hospital for the Insane
City Hospital for the Insane.........
Columbia College
Engineering and Mining Journal..-.
Episcopal Theological Seminary... --

enw ewes cee eee oe ee wee ee

tee ere - eee eee eee

eee tee ree tee we ee eee

No.

1
1
6

54
34

4
12
20
20

1
16

RR Ree

New York, N. Y.—Continued.

Institution for the Blind........--..-..
Journal of Mining and Engineering- -

Lyceum of Natural History-....-----
Manufacturer and Builder. .---.-...-
Mayor of News VOtk i: 5222 2-- see
Medical Journal
Medical-Recorde 222 22. 20. so eee
Mercantile Library Association ......
Metropolitan Board of Health..---..
New York Academy of Medicine..--.
New York Handel-Zeitung...--.---.
New York Historical Society. -.----.--
Nowe Voronin une =a aaa eee
Observatory
Prison Association
Royal Swedish-Norwegian consulate.
Saniltamlaneyer = eeres< see oleae
Schooltof Minestecc mete sscccs- cee as
Union Theological Seminary.-....---.
United States Sanitary Commission...
University of the city of New York..
Poughkeepsie :
Hudson River Insane Hospital. .-.-.--.
Vassar College
Randalvs Island :
louse of Reta ese sacveeee sete eer
Rochester :
Theological Seminary..---.---.....-
UWimliviersibycececys caine eas ees
Schenectady :
Union College

Troy :

IMemshalllein firm anyeec ae) Sc
Utica:

State Lunatic Asylum....-..---.--.-
Wards Island :

Ward’s Island Emigrant Hospital for

bherinsan Crees eee eee n ee
NORTH CAROLINA.

Chapel Hill :

University
Davidson College :

Collegeniinbranyre conse a= eer ates
Raleigh :

Hospital for the Insane... ....-..-----
Trinity College:

MheolostealSchGOlsey ac 9 tees

ee ee er ey

Athens :
Ohio University

Carthage :
Longview Hospital for the Insane.. -

Cincinnati :
Astronomical Observatory
Hamilton County Lunatic Asylum.. -
Mayor of the city of Cincinnati
Mercantile Library Association
Ohio Mechanics’ Institute-..... .

71
72

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

CINCINNATI, OnTIO—Continued. No.
Rublicwibraly.=- sees ee ae 5
Saint Xavier College...-.. ..-.-..--. 1

Cleveland:

Wniversiby 5 2- see eee aleee aes rece =i 1

Columbus :

Geological Survey of Ohio..---.----- 4
Horticultural Society ..-..----------- 1
Hospital for the Insane---.- ---.---- -- 2
Ohio State Board of Agriculture ----.- 60
Ohio State Library .--2---=---.------ 4.

Dayton:

Hospital for the Insane..-.--.-------- 1

Delaware: ;

Ohio Wesleyan University ------..--- 1

Gambier :

Kenyon College...--.--------------- 1

Granville :

Dennison University -..-------.----- 1

New Athens:
ranklin’ Colleve.--2--------1---- >= 1

Newburgh :

North Ohio Lunatic Asylum-...----- 1

North Bend: >
Horticultural Society of Ohio..---..-- i

Oberlin :

Oberlin Collese=-:. 25 -2-- a= =e-i— =I 1

Springfield :

Wittenberg College...--..-..-.-----. 1

Tiffin:

Heidelbere College .----...---- === 1
Theological Seminary of the German
Retormed (Churches---4-----—-1=—— 1
OREGON.

Portland:

Hospital for the Insane .---..---.---- 1
PENNSYLVANIA.

Allegheny :

Allecheny Observatory .--.----------- 2

Western State Penitentiary of Penn-
Syahyeie 085 eseonseasou Ss Ssosoce i

Western Theological Seminary ------. 1

Danville:

State Hospital for the Insane..-----.. 1

Dinmont :

Western Hospital for the Insane. ---. 1

Easton :

Lafayette College.-......... ..------ 1

Gettysburgh ;

Theological Seminary --...--------.- 1

Harrisburgh :

Adjutant General ..--- dimeSceedeEesaa 1
Harrisburgh Academy -.--..----.------ 1

Medical Society of the State of Penn-

AWE eh. a 5 550 Se Sooo a SOA Sere ae
Stato Lacan vee secant setae ten <= 3

Kellyville :
Woodbrook Retreat....-.----.------- 1
Mercersburgh :
Theological Seminary of the German
Reformed Church........-.-.---.- 1

PENNSYLVANIA—Continued. No.

Philadelphia :

Academy of Natural Sciences.-.--.--.-
American Entomological Society ---- - ;
American Journal of Conchology----.
American Philosophical Society ..---.
Board of Public Education. ----...---
Central High School-.-....---. -----.
Franklin institute ..2---eeeee =m ee
American Pharmaceutical Association
Department for the Insane, Alms-

OWRGs-asecies aclsis eae SAA
Friends’ Insane Hospital.-----..----.
German Society Library.----...---..
(Guar eC ON GEO ese ao oe see eae eae
Historical Society of Pennsylvania... -
EousevotRetugesess ents sac oe
inibrary C ompanyeos-2 sae a= eee
Library of Pennsylvania Hospital - ---
Mayor of the city of Philadelphia-....
Medical Dimes 4225255 se ease ea ea
Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane
Pennsylvania Institution for the Blind
Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf

and Dumps. sesso eee
Society for Alleviating the Miseries of

JEM AVEO seas onon cases Soe
University of Pennsylvania. .---- sesiclote
Wagner Free Institute of Science-.- -.

Pittsburgh: :

Germanyinibranyer aes 22 se ie ee
Sharon :

ODSenyalOry j. .cce ode ecko =-o-c Re eee
South Bethlehem :

Lehigh University .-----.------------ 1
Washington :

Washington College.....------.----- 1

ee =
= 02 =
_ one _ We OF WME RWH Re RSwronon

RHODE ISLAND.

Providence :

PAT HONEST MNsee serie ee = cele neta ae aieteterate 2
Brown University 2------.---=-\--=-== 3
Butler Hospital for the Insane....--. 1
Rhode Island Historical Society .. ---- 1

SOUTH CAROLINA.
Charleston :

Charleston*Library Society .----.---- 2

Elliott Society of Natural History.--. 18

South Carolina Historical Society-.-. 1
Columbia :

South Carolina College .--2-2s-.--s--\
Theological Seminary-..-- ---- 56335 pepe =|
TENNESSEE.

Columbia :

Jackson College..------.------------ 1
Knoxville :

East Tennessee University -.---.------ 1
Lebanon :

Cumberland University .-.-.--------- iL
Marysville : ,

Southwest Theological Seminary ---- - 1
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

13

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, de.—Continued.

TENNESSEE—Continued.

Nashville :
Hospital for the Insane...-...----.--
Institution for the Blind..--.....---.
UWinbieritnyéa 6 haeeeeees ccac ocaodoGed

TEXAS.

Austin:
Hospital for the Insane..-....--..-.--.
Chappell Hill:
SoulGsUniversityas-seeese sa eien a

Salt Lake City:
University of Deseret.-.-.....--.---

VERMONT.
Bristol :
Orleans County Society of Natural
NGLONCES).aarsienta ster ereiie et se teiaess
Burlington :
Universityof Vermonts---s2.-- =< ==
Montpelier :
Staterkabrapyeccecs- acess cscleceae
VIRGINIA.

Charlottesville :

University of Virginia..-.-.-..---.--
Emory :

Emory and Henry College...-...-..-<
Fairfax :

‘Theological Seminary. --5 ---.)-22+-
Hampden-Sidney :

Union Theological Seminary.-....-.--
Richmond:

Medical Society of Virginia..-..-.---

highmond Colleges cn 2 sosc anaes

Doser eIDLaLycec aso see a. eee eee

University
Staunton :

Western Insane Hospital.......---.-.
Weston :

West Virginia Hospital for the Insane.
Williamsburgh :

Eastern Insane Hospital...--...---.-

WISCONSIN.

Beloit :
Beloit Collese ses ses252 -- er enciseae= <<
Janesville :
Wisconsin Institution for the Educa-
Hon oh whe Bund sceacseseee eee.
Madison :
Hospital for the Insane..-..........-.
State Historical Society of Wisconsin.
University of Wisconsin..-...-..---.
Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts,
BNC Wvetters fi 4 2c) eros atone
Wisconsin State Agricultural Society.
Milwaukee :
Catholic Seminary =ss2 2222-2 5e-eoee
Natural History Society........-...-

No.

WISCONSIN—Continued, No.
Neenah :
Scandinavian Library Association... 4
Oshkosh :

Northern Hospital for the Insane.... 2

Ttacine :
College Wibranyoss: 2-3.) -t 2-2 Saae 1

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

Steilacoom :
Iin'sanrerAlswilmin es c/seretaerscree aie See rae |

BRITISH AMERICA,
Guelph, Ontario:

Ontario School of Agriculture....-..- 2
Kingston, Ontario:

Botanical Society of Canada.....-... 1
Ottawa, Ontario :

Academy of Natural Sciences.---..-.-. 6
Toronto, Ontario :

Board of Aoriculbure ss. - 22 estan 1

Board of Arts and Manufactures..... 1

Canadian Institute. -...---..---..--. 5

Commissioners of Agriculture and Arts 1
Congregational Theological Institute. 1
Houseof Assemblysessescens-e eee 2

Knoxi@ollegessoss- secs eee ee
Literary and Historical Society-.-.-. 1
Observatory. )o tos) sols tacia asi SOO.
orontorGloberre ae 5st eee 2
irimitysC lle gem sascetes oer He:
Wniversity, of Moromtoe.s25-) 25-2 2-1 2
Halifax, Nova Scotia :
Literary and Scientific Society. --.---- 1
Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Sci-
ONGCES 2 S252. 22 42 523s as essen ae 11
Charlottetown, Prince Edward
Island :
Hospital for the Insane...--. Bt ioe ed
Chambly, Quebec:
College rEnibranyesss se ooee ee eee il
Lennoxville, Quebec:
Bishop's: Colleges. acess cctae ate if
Montreal, Quebec :
Board of Agricuiture and Arts. ...--. 1
Board of Agricultureof Lower Canada 1
Canadian Entomologist......-.-..--- it
Collevomnibranye-see ssaee as pbaote 1
Entomological Society. ...--...-----. 1
Geological Survey of Canada....---- 14
Me GalliGiniversityossse casas oe ae Le
Natural History Society-.-.-----...- 48
Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. 1
Saint Mary’s College...........-.---
Quebec, Quebec :
IDE wa! Who Gusiny coaseasecesetooasoa | Lt
Literary and Historical Society ---. -- 9

Seminary on @uebec:-.-c--- osst--osi-ee
74 LITERARY AND

SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, Ge.—Continued.

INDIVIDUALS.

No.
Abbe, .Dr. Cleveland. ss32 445-20 eee 59
Arassiz, Prote Ato eee see =e é 16
Allen, Prof.. J. A.c oe son occeaseteee ek. oA
‘Alpine, Wee st ae e cena. eee 2
Alvord, brie.-Genw Sen) 2-5 sa-—ee— 1
An gverer AW spa enee aes oceee 8
Anthony, JOWU Gites seis os ceie sees. oe 2
Babcock, IProfertes= sa ice ssrcemieca= = 1
Babing tons broi Cesena eee ciate ote 1
Baird erotic Mase yes ee ero 1
Baird eoleSe bee oak ee eee eee 58
Baker Drewoseph 2---csnce-se scene 1
Baneroth bons Georpe) saca= eae ae 1
Bannister sD rblemmy Me ee ere er 1
Barker) Dror ordyceke. ee seas 1
Barlow, Hone Pranciss@rescs.-saceee = 1
Barnard, General J. G 2222.55 222s-- 2
Barnard) Prot, PsA Pice ssrereceac eee 1
Bebb, M.S. AR ee Se eS 2
Bessels, Dr phil oae e ceeseaeaecteese 1
Hetinume device «9 esate eto cet eeaaioe 3
BALM VG Wiel Guess ase oats a emer aiare 5
Blake e role wits ee seca oreo see 2
Bland) NOM AS ee aces cow amie saat 2
LOO Get. Mi See Sos Se even ere ate 1
Boardman. Georee Ave. cess ose tee 1
Bolander, Brot. He ON scat ccormastecetere hres
Borges, A. P. De Carvalho .-...--.-.. 1
IBOW ELS ARE Veo ee ten peer ae eaeese 1
Brendel rsh sce cee se scene seuss 2
Brewer Dry La Ms fac- steeneeee ase 1
Brnsh PLO te Gd soc caser eerie eee 8
Buckland Geqree os aces ee ieee 1
IBUCKOV MUD esc .c oe ac ee eee se renee 1
PUTA erot, is otesewecrace eee. Hl
Campbell, Prof Johnto2----+s-- <2 1
Canby, Wie. 2 2c.ct bccn sane smmces 4
@arey, denny: © sases2 Sooo esse see 2
Carpenter yDrvibsby.--- esas eee 3
Chain, J Aves. 4-32 sarees eeal= i
Chandler; Prof.iC eee see oss setae 2
Ghase, Phinypblarles see pee cacti eee it
Chickerino Protec Wi eae 2 see eee 1
Clarke a) Slice lee a ote aoe ie eee 1
Clarke: /Profib Wess s cen Seen cles 1
CofimyProt. J. Hs Oapenseseeenes see 3
Wonrad. Ts. Aye ee en ees ees 1
Waol.Prof.Georvethsenssee eeeaeeee 5
Cooper yr Wo Gisonsce semen eee eee 1
Copenerot, B.D. sce ee sec 8
@oues,*Dr. Plhott....c0005+-- cess eee LO

(Clap: Oy aera Ae ee ee ene)

Curtis, Dr. Josiah... ane Saree eee 1
CULMS PROVE Avs nin csc cqeecetsoce sone 1
Wuantiss Or. iB). seis ee oc ces. eee eee 1
Cutting, 13 Wife) voll oth ESP eee epee) ul
Cutts, kh DE Sas SSR ene eee 2
Dall, Woe et a eee As Sant) 9G
Dana, Prof. J. D.. ee ask soe ths
Daniels, Drea ee hess abe ae. Sacre 1
Dart; General Wis. .csceeeene -eescous 1
Davids, eos ee etiam Sete te <7 ol

Dawson, Prof. slp Ww SAAS Sencar 5
Dodge, Charles 2 eee eee 1
Draper, Dr. Blaury cette 4

INDI VIDUALS—Continued.

A
°

Hastman, Prof... eae eee ee oe eee
Baton;e ri, Damiel Mites see eee
Bd wards) Els Witesoaccos emcee seas eaten en
ieee aaa SP ss preheat CS. SS 2 ae
Elliott, E. B-.- Beet ces he ort
Ellis, J. Bi. Be cisc cs oe
Emory, Goneral W. El_.a2t) oboe. sel
Mndilvehs Dr,..2. Meee eet ee eos 2
Engelmann, Dr: Geo. 22a esse oe vi
Emiesson;, Capt. John) = sjassaseee see 1
Hisher;.DriGe) 2 3-ccnsceeseeee a eee 2
Horeman OTe se antennae 2
Frémont, General J. C..2.)--2.5 2. Sen 5
Erich, Rev. Jobin -g-\.sncte cee eee 2
Gabb, William... - s(tecoeene 1
Graham Coleetere = sas + so eeiseee 1
Gales Dr Tig eee ane See 1
Gardiner JasVAl ete csca csce eee eee 1
Geelmuyden ROVicec hemes eee 2
Genth,-Dr. iE. A. Sock ease See Sen Bech
Gerard, Wi. JRest a 5 ee eee ee 1
Gilbent#G ie la- soccer eo ees
Gill rof Theos. ose sn sa see ee eee 14
Glover, Profil :.22.552=2 ke eee 1
Goodall, Guo enaecins cote cere 1
Goode, :G: Browns eee ee asoee cease 4
Gould; Droghs Acco ct eee eee eee 1
Grant, Gen. U. 8., President U. S-.--., 2
Gray Prob Asie see sere eee 28°
Greve, (Dee. 3 atten a eeeee age. Se
Griffin, G. WwW. a cmcveeersccle. eee ee
Grinnell, IL@N YY, soe sie nee a co et
Gross, Dr. SSW ia nace eee eee 1
Grote tA WRU ace coren emesis comes 1
Guyot Prot Ato. se. <2 case ese ee eae
Bacen Albert Den .. qa ae eee 1
Haven: Proce asem aie eee een eats a
Haldeman, :Profi Sires seeeecee cee: 1
Halls Brig se case acecioe sees eel osets il
Hal RroterAsapiricc=a0c teeter |
HallsvProtyJass.<---.-o-=.-6ceeoeeees 19
iailivorsen whens eis. 2 2".. seer eeeeeee 2
Harper dé: Brothers... - 2-2-5 seoeceee 1
Hart rot. ohniSaessne sess eee 1
Hayden) Dri BV ssc cece aicisie =. sem oer 61
Hedrick, BuoSetregeeae wees os ee oes 1
Henny Prot 0s=seasee eee nee saci 26
Milvard Prot. MesWrescne soc eee sae
Hilgard, Teale Bi aoeeae ae ae ae walecas
Hill, Boe eee on eee
Hinrichs jProte Ges Seeieebe oeee
HigehcocksProf.-. ceca. se seseoe eee
Hitchcock! Prof, (hi2esincseeean se eeee
db Ds Oe es ie Se Pa

Hort, Rev. Oud societies
Hoar, Judge E. R-
Hodge, Rev. Prof... 5 ae eee
Holden, Prof. Wi Gg eee aoe
Holden, ) William sce pcseh eh ciee scrcetae

Horm yDreG, see eee Shee eta

Howe, Dr. S. G.-.. -- 2
Howell; S'Bs-teteeee ate cece eee

2
AL
1
29
1
1
1
2
J
3
2
1
3
2
1
2
Humphreys, General A.A.-..-...---. 3
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &e.—Continued.

InpivipuaLs—Continued.

z No.
bunt, Ae SuOLnyeecseers =< yore 5
Hlivatte Prot. Are ois nates -e 1
PRACO DSO ROG VecAtes ac b< Sh ene ececie ae Me
ARVs rad vard’s 22 25 Saeee eee 30
ewettnColbiesss so. sc cee eae ee eee 4
KennedyaJduiGs C e224 A naeeeesiens see ek
Kerr /profiw : C.<2%- 2s seats oie «ll
Keine; Clarence.? =). eee eace se sencm o 4
Kinoston, Prot. .Gs Casasaasessam sae 3
Kirchley, ObtO eS eget serosa
iMirchot -lheodoreseeeereeereuo ssce se 1
Klippart, loins eer ee ee i
HOLE; HeVid Vicia Sato ae Sees eciee 2
Korohon ews Jissae eerie eee sce 1
Eancley: Protest acc ases. <s0ceeaece sc 1
arson wieroten lines ss see css cece sera 2
A WRONCOn Gai Nise A ceeciaciciscicis ose ce 3
Mica On USA Chaco So sieisaee oe See 18
Jue Baron, William...-... eee cheese 1
iweuConterDr, Johnelinso.ceonseeces 18
Heid y;,,D rs; JOSeph sec ece ween ie 14
HHCOMAKG Lots Levine cocoate aie eer 1
MesieyeRnOie ky ssc oceans ta seess 2
Wes jmereus, rote Wj ciecis sent ance 3
LHR Dyn eels iis Soe eS Aan ero eecemert 1
Lae as tsyhe Wile See ee eee eos FO SaeCOOe 4
HAO OMNIS S ENOte Hupeeeececcce meee eee ee ne,
MOVETING YP rots Nscaccss oss. sc sss tance 3
iyman: Dheodore.2-sc2.----ssss5ees 2 3
WDB Ye) eA Dr Ge ae eee eee il
Macintyrey tessa jse cece cae se Baila
MacelsenjheveC. Hones ,o5ec2 ssc ss 4
Macelson,, Rev. Chas eae. ss2o=. - 2
Wariony otObsdiectas cer cennnerenoeces 12
MarshyPnoty Ons fe newsoen eaceeceas 7
ViniilenGeeAy. oe ce cae se enee eee i
Mc Chesneyed yp bbivcascucnarc chee wetter 2
MeMasters;, Aimeas).2s2e3-cce6 s2ses 1
MeMuninie DEW) soscehs.sceSneeee oe, OL
DVIS @ ke ES nye oa ss strc ata reise s 29
levis 9 9 D eked [hale Sere eee ee eB ee 2
NIM ERy eeWircese sae ssee eee ae il
Mintel eller Mami ai eaic.c ic erste vestere cows aes 1
Min tart Cham esieets a 3yciaise eaten eee 1
Mion o ami Way Elie cys oaeaeicimiwiel oom isionre 3
MOTSe} roto Sirs cncarasscks oer one iH
Worse shrot.sbiggh 152% Sen seeimascecee
Minn Ep MROVisnd plo temieciimctemce chao aee=) ee
Myer General Alrdi see secccee voces 10
ING WD ORT V5 da asieiareieremeioieferiereiel- oe 8
MenyiCOMD, Ee ROla Sea aeseme scence ees = ‘ai
INGwitOn Erol HARE cece eee nines Po
INGEDISag li: 2). ccocenicwse tee cree ee aes 1
INGUISOs PLO ls dis cctycecceceace citar cre 1
IN VCs OMe SASS. Whatewoncias eee ase 2
Oiicen son) Wino cris saree etae = nee
Olmstead Revs lus scctess cette en ed
OxfongeP rota a= so .c atc sete 1
ORDOLNE se OTM UWi-foom..c cima ees 1
@stenisacken, barons. co s-s-es2e=6 55 8
OmesenrahG vee eAs- 5 crac cee eee 2
CAN DES Aca Sosy [Da . <.qocsincaetn ai 4
Lee ey Dey WY (eS Se eee eee 1
TE eevee 1 Da DY cise Saas ernie aes, SE ei 2
WALKOL gL IECUCE scciclacicerseeecseee cls 2

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Peale, Mrs. Franklin
Peirce, Prof. B..
RennockeMErss Gt s2ss..c22 Sse Soe eee
Peters, Dr. C. H. I..
Post, J
Pourtales, Count a F. ‘de.-
Preuss, Rev. H. A
Putnam, IB SWeeee ser ey kee See eas
Ransom C Ole dp sss asme s seec aioe
IVASMMUSSEMWROVa bye Ate as ce cele ae evs craters
Raiys OG eSAaC ea ce sae Saar ee
Raymond Wy rasky) Wee sys ale
Reeque phe visas ascaiseers ==
Md Cena, MODEL bees asm eeeee eee
alleyey Chass Wessee ses
btek, rede.
Robertson, Dr.
Rockwell, A. P
Rockwell, Dr.
Rogers, Prof. W. B bias awe: aoe ak nm
Ross, Dr. Alex. Milton
Rothwell, Dr.
Saltford Mb SE Alaa Se See = isos
Satlord SRrotq dn sssas a eee eee
Salisburyen rors Eivil ss sens eee
Sandton), J Ohm) Hesse tere
Sands, Rear-Admiral B. F
Saunders) Winteel ote see sk acee cence.
Schié¢tieling Hip Me-- ass eeec =
Schott... CArveas sao eres Seats
Schuster Mauricenes 25 eo essa one
Schwarz-Senborn, Baron
Scudder Gublieeece cecene see encase.
Silliman we rotsebese ses soos aeaoe
Smith, Brot. Hamilton) Ives sees see
Smith, Prof. J. Wawrence:.---.--- --'
Smith, Prof. J. J
Snow, Dr.’ E

Se ee |

We sentesrewacte sc ace aneese

Shaler: jProf Ng Scere ssececcssicer
Spinner, Hon. F. E
Squier, E.G
HLCATNG vas Coe Se cen eisai oe
SteindachnerpProten sos so ose see
Stein, F. R.-
Stenersen., Hon, Olak 22 2.2. s-4+ 4-5
Sterling, Clarence ee. = ss —
Stevenson, James’... 2-- sien asnos
Stoney Ormond=.s.a5ssss semen seen
Strecker, Hermann
Stub, Rev. H. @
Swallow, G. C
Thomas, Prof. Cyrus
Thomson, J. H

Drew Dre Nw eae tects cas ecee ccs
Tryon, Dr. G. W., jr
Muickerman weroh@insss<.e5- 5 2-5 555 a
Valdeland, Rev. O
Vandewond, John
Vasey, Prof. George
WernllProtcAlsiiecns ce seecaceeaets
Von Raumbach, Maurice
Wintemeribrotls smears elatalelsclaat ae08

ewe e cee eee - ew ewe we

15
76

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution, &c.—Continued.

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

INDIVIDUALS—Continued.

Waterhouse, DrvAveecee cose asians = 1. | Wilkes, Admirali@has-s:-c------<--= 9
Watson; Prot iCessemee eee e ass 1) SWillimeon;serotnelcers sec a= = oe eee 1
Watson; Serenozsse-2 2-0 -scsccn ese i 4) Wanchell> Prot Ass 2 eees oe ee a
WW eimuthy eaters ee alec ee i Winchell (Prof: “Ne Heteacs 7-5. --,-525 1
Wells; HontDavid At e225 ss icoerece = } ) Wanlock, (Prof. \Jisssseewce esos Se 2
Wrells,*W alters ners ett a-seeeeee 1 Wood, Dr: Horatio\@ tert 52. te 1
Wester &iCoseec cases souee ceeniasiee 3) Wioadbridse,) WC 2e-eren sesece 25 eee 1
Wheatley,;@has, Mee. <2 52 222 2 eso a MWoodwards Dr. J. Jeene seeeeers seme 6
Wiheeleriieut.(G. Mos -- cece. 1 | Woodworth, Dr. John M.... .-.-.-. PS ea |
White Wri! Ate. tec Sees Ay Worthen Prof, AC El ceeee sss eas 9
Whitney Pro. Desc ss sss see ase U3) | Waltsbere; Rev. 2222 se se0--e eee 2
Wihitney-Prot. We Dist Sseeet soos. 14" | Narrower, TEL. So. = Jatooee ke oe i
Wihtymper, Wl So. Sscceseescieamaycsee iL) NWounpe Clarence +B... sec eee 9
Williams, Duanes=22 t2sh2-s2 2--e ee | Mount Hons) 25. c 1. oo See ee 1
Williamsony ds Acs So5cccc cc ereeaee 25.) 1 |) Mourte eProfe@ 3A: 2s a5 3sc. soso eee if
RECAPITULATION.

‘Lotal addresses ofinstitubions: == 2 222 Acces soem cocci fees cscs cate ee ceiaeeiosie 462
Motaliaddresses:of individualses: -2.2s-co cere ese ooo aoe wes cose ee nese eee ee 283
750

Total namber of, parcels to institutions=995 222 5-ee ees see ee ee ee ee ee eee
Total number of parcels to individuals...-..--.-..---.-- Oe omereeoa ce susie eiseiees 1, 105
4, 326
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. ral

CLASSIFIED RECORD OF MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOG-
ICAL MATERIAL PRESERVED IN THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION.

[For list of regular monthly reports see report for 1873.]
AURORAS.

Auroral observations made at Ogdensburgh, New York, 185254.

Aurora observed at Bangor, Me., December, 1851.

Aurora observed at Boston August 20, 1851.

Aurora observed at Camden, Me., September 10, 1854.

Auroras observed at Dartmouth College, N. H., July 12, 1853-Mareh
16, 1854.

Auroras observed at sea 1848-53,

Auroral records, 1849-53.

Notices of auroras, 1847-59.

Sketch of aurora observed at Washington July 22, 1868.

Alexander, Prof. S.—Sketch of aurora observed at Princeton, N. J. a

Andrews, Luman.—Account of aurora observed October 14, 1870, at
Southington, Conn.

Ashby, M. V.—Notice of aurora observed August 8, 1872, at Afton,
Iowa.

Astrop, Rk. F.—Aurora observed in Brunswick County, April 7, 1847;
auroral display September 29, 1851.

Averbeck, A.—Aurora observed July 9, 1872, at Saint Louis, Mo.

Babcock, H.—Account of aurora observed August 8, 1872, at Boons-
borough, Iowa.

Bache, Prof—Aurora observed at Bath, Me., September 29, 1852.

Barnard, A. D.—Aurora observed at San Buenaventura, Cal., June
17, 1870.

Bassnet, Thomas.—Auroras seen at Ottawa May 24 and 25, 1853, May
29, 1840.

Bessey, Charles H.— Auroras observed at Ames, Lowa, in June, 1871.

Bidwell, Dr. EH. C_—Auroras observed at Keene, Ohio, February 19,
March 1, 1852.

Birney, J. G.—Auroras observed at Lower Saginaw, Mich., in April,
1849.

Blodgett, Lorin.—Aurora observed at Sugar Grove, Pa., September
29, 1851.

Bowman, John.—Auroras observed at Baldwinsville October 4, 1855.

Brewer, W. H.—Auroras observed at Ovid, N. Y., from December,
1852, to May, 1854.

Brewster, Alfred.—Notice of aurora observed at Tamworth, N. H.,
July 17, 1872.

Brown, H. H.—Aurora observed at Dakota City, Nebr., July 10, 1868.

Buckland, D.—Aurora observed at Brandon, Vt., May 2, 1855.
78 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Campbell, C.—Auroras observed at Moose Factory, June, 1850.

Clarke, John.—Auroras observed at Bowling Green, Ohio, in 1872.

Clift, Henry A—Harbor Grace, N. F., account of February aurora;
auroral notes for July, 1872; aurora observed August 25, 1872.

Cobb, W. H.—Aurora observed at Wellsborough, Pa., April 15, 1869 ;
display of auroras observed in Philadelphia August 3, 1872.

Couch, H. D.—Auroras observed at Newfield, N. J., in 1840.

Curtis, W. W.—Auroras observed at Rocky Run, Wis., in 1872.

Dayton, EH. A.—Auroras observed at Madrid, N. Y., March, 1849.

De Haven, Lieutenant.—Auroras observed during Arctic expedition
1850-51.

Dewey, C.—Auroras observed at Rochester, N. Y., September, 1851,
February, 1852.

Dolan.—Account of aurora observed in New York April 15, 1869.

Edwards, J—Aurora observed at Lima, Pa, March, 1849, September,
1851.

Fairbanks, G. W.—Auroras observed at Washington, D. C., Septem-
ber 29, 1851.

Fairchild, Jno. P—Auroras observed at Seneca Falls, N. Y., Sep-
tember, 1851.

Favel, P. F.—Notes relative 4 la formation des aurore boreales.

Foster, Wm., jr—Aurora observed at Providence, R. I., April 15,
. 1869.

Garland, J. G.—Aurora observed at Biddeford, Me., February 19,
1852.

Gibbes, Lewis R.—Aurora observed at Charleston, 8S. C., September
29, 1851.

Gibbon, Lardner.—Account of aurora of August 7, 1872.

Grant, Benjamin.—Aurora observed at Erie, Pa., August 11, 1869.

Groneweg, L.—Auroras observed at Germantown, Ohio, April, 1852.

Guest, W. 4.—Auroras observed at Ogdensburgh, N. Y., February,
1850-September, 1851.

Haas, Henry.—Register of all the auroras observed at Depauville, N.
Y., from 1866 to 1872.

Hall, Joel S.—Auroras observed at Athens, IIl., September 29, 1851.

Haywood, John.— Westerville, Ohio, auroras seen in August and Octo-
ber, 1872.

Herrick; EF, C.—Aurora observed at New Haven, Conn., June 11, 1852.

Herrick, J.—Auroras observed at Hampden, Me., November 18, 1848,

Hoadley, C. J—Auroras observed at Hartford, Conn., May 12, 1349.

Holcomb, Amasa.—Auroras observed at Southwick, Mass., 1837-1853;
auroras observed at Southwick, Mass., March and April, 1850.

Horr, Asa.—Auroras observed at Dubuque, Iowa, September 29,
1851.

Hotchkiss, J—Auroras observed at Mossy Creek, Va., February 19,
1852.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. ri,

Hough, Dr. F. B.— Auroras observed at Somerville, N. Y., 1837-1851.

Hyde, Thos. C. P.—Aurora observed at East Windsor Hill, Conn.,
June 11, 1852.

Jennings, S. K.—Auroras observed at Erie, Ala., September 29, 1851.

Johnson, H. W.—Aurora observed November 17, 1849, at Grand
Rapids, Mich.

Jones, C. P.—Auroras observed at Valley Forge, Pa., January 19,
1852.

Joslyn, H.—Auroras observed at Waukegan, Il, April 13, 1849.

Kidder, L. D.—Aurora observed at Whitfield, N. H., October 13,
1869.

Lapham, I. A.—Auroras observed at Milwaukee, Wis., February 15,
1852.

Lefferts, John.—Auroras observed at Lodi, N. Y., February 19, 1852.

Lefroy, J. H—Abstracts of auroral observations ; auroral notes ;
auroras observed at Toronto, August, 1849; general register of appear-
ances of auroras borealis, &c., from January 1, 1848, to May 31, 1853.
Second report of auroral observations, 1850~51.

Lewis, B. B.—Theory of auroras.

Loomis, Elias.—The aurora borealis, or polar light, its phenomena
and laws. :

MeClintock.—Auroras observed May 19, 1870.

Major, J.—List of books and ships’ logs examined for auroras,

Marks, Corrydon.—Auroras observed at Manchester, Pa., September
1849-February, 1851.

Marsh, C. C.—Auroras observed at Oswego, N. Y., February 19, 1852,

Mead, S. B.—Auroras observed at Augusta, Ill., February 18 and
September, 1851; January 19, 1852; May 24, 1853.

Mitchell, Hon. W.—Auroras observed at Nantucket, Mass., 1844-1853.

Moss, C. S.—Aurora observed at Amboy, Ill., April 2, 1869.

Mudge, B. F.—Aurora observed at Manhattan, Kans., August 8, 1872,

Newkirk, B. M.—Auroras observed at Laperte, Ind.

Osborne, Capt. Sherard.—Remarks on auroral light in Arctic Zone.

Peelor, David.—Auroras observed at Johnstown, Pa., October 26,
1870.

Phelps, R. H.—Auroras observed at Windsor, Conn., February 19,
1852.

Pinkham, M. S—Aurova observed at Millbridge, Me., February 4,
1872.

Poole, Henry.— Auroras observed at Albion Mines, N.S., in 1850; re-
semblance of reflected light to aurora.

Prescott, W.—Auroras observed at Concord, N. H.

Prince, Geo.—Auroras observed at Thomaston, Me., March, April,
1850.

Redding, Thos. B.—Auroral display at Neweastle, Ind., June 18, 1871.

Rejusar, Thomas.—Aurora observed at Newton, N. J., April 15, 1869.
80 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Rice, H.— Auroras observed at Attleborough, Mass., January, 1551.

Robertson, Thos —Auroras observed April, 1850.

Roulston, Andree —Auroras observed at Freeport, Pa., in 1849, 1850.

Salisbury, O. H.—Auroras observed at Buffalo, N. Y., in 1853.

Shields, Robert.—Auroras observed at Belle Centre, Ohio, September,
1853.

Simmons, G.—Auroras observed at Lachine in September, 1850.

Sisson, Rodman.—Aurora observed at Factoryville, Pa., March 19,
1868 ; auroras observed at Scranton, Pa., October, 1871; show of auro-
ras August 3, 1872.

Smallwood, Doctor.—Auroras observed at Saint Martin’s, February
19, 1852. ;

Steele, G. E.—Aurora observed at Homestead, Mich., August 4, 1865.

Steiner, Dr. Lewis H.—Auroras observed at Frederick, Md., Septem-
ber 29, 1851.

Stevens, Dr. R. P.—Auroras observed at Ceres, Pa., April 6 and 8,
1870. ;

Stewart, A. P.—Aurora observed at Lebanon, Tenn., September 29,
1851.

Swift, Lewis.—Aurora observed at Asean, N. Y., April 16, 1869.

Warne, Geo.—Auroras observed at Fanependents: Iowa, ‘Avena
1872; auroras observed in 1872.

Whitcomb, Thomas M.—Auroral display of July 21, 1871, Union Ridge,

Wes tD:

Winchell, A~—Auroras observed in Eutaw, Ala., sep teniiat 29, 1851.

Wing, M. 2.—Auroras observed January 31 and February 7, 1872.

Withrow, Thomas F.—Auroras observed at Station Horner, Ohio,
February 17, 1852.

Young, J. A.—Account of aurora observed September 29, 1857, at
Camden, 8. C.

INSTRUMENTS.

Apparatus for recording earthquakes.

Comparative value of certain varieties of cloth for covering the wet
bulb of the hygrometer.

Diagram of rain-gauge used at Snowville, Va.

Lippincott’s vapor index, a psychrometrical calculator.

Remarks upon the barometer and rules for its observation.
~ Rules to be observed in management of typo-barograph.

Woodruff’s portable barometer.

Storm rain-gauge designed by G. J. Symons for observing rate of fall.

Beck.—Description of recording barographs, thermographs, and ane-
mograplhs.

Craig, B. F.—Comparison of ten of Green’s barometers.

Fenton, Elisha.—Description of hygrometer.

Hough, G. W.—Deseription of automatic registry and printing ba-
rometer.

a
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 81

’ Roedel, W. D.—Sketch of self-registering thermometer.
Stephenson, W. J.—Account of electro-magnetic indicator.
Sternberg, George M.—Improved anemometer.
Wait, S. H.—Sketch of proposed snow gauge.
Williams, Rk. Gi—Comparison of Mason’s hygrometer with Boehlen

and Staehlon’s.
METEORS.

Alaska.—Account of meteors at Sitka, 1868, Dwight Hurlbut, and J.
J. Blakemore.

Aubier, J. M.—Meteors observed from Saint Xavier’s College, New
York, November 14, 1864. .

Barnard, A. D.—Meteor observed October 20, 1873, at Ventura, Cal.

Beckwith, W.—Meteors observed at Olathe, Kans., November, 1866.

Betts, Henry.—Account of meteors observed at Weston, Conn., 1867.

Boehmer, George H.—August meteors observed in Colorado Springs,
Colo., 1873.

Boerner, Charles G.—Meteors observed at Vevay, Ind., October 24,
November 10, 12, 1870.

Meteoric observations at Vevay, Ind., 1868.

Observations of August shower of meteors, 1871.

Brewer, F. P.—Meteors observed at Raleigh, N. C., November, 1866.

Carleton, General J. H.—Account of meteorites in Mexico.

Chappelsmith, John.—Meteors observed at New Harmony, Ind., No-
vember, 1866-67.

Chase, Milton.—Meteors observed at Kalamazoo, Mich., November,
1866.

Clingman, T. L.—Account of meteor observed at Washington, August
2, 1860.

Coles, Isaac.—Meteors observed at Glen Cove, November, 1866.

Deckner, Fred.—Meteors observed at Atlanta, Ga., November, 1866.

Delaney, John.—Account of meteorite observed at Saint John’s, N. F.

Edi, James.— Meteors observed at Vienna, Wis., November, 1866.

Fendler, A.—Meteors observed at Allenton, Mo., November, 1566.

Fergus, Thomas H.—Meteors observed at West Chester, Pa., Novem-
ber, 1866.

Forshey, C. G.—Meteors observed at Galveston, Tex., November, 1866.

Gantt, Dr. W. H.—Meteors observed at Chapel Hill, Tex,, November,
1866.
Gardiner, J. H.—Meteors observed at Newburgh, N. Y., November,
1866.

Gibbs, George.—Meteors observed at Richfield Springs, N. Y., August
24, 1869.

Grinnan, A. G.— Meteors observed at Orange, Va., November 10, 1866.

Hance, H.—Meteors observed ta Falsington, Pa., November, 1566.

Holmes, HE. D.—Meteors observed at Grand Raipds, Mich., November
13, 1866.

68
82 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Hopkins, A.—Meteors observed at Williamstown, Mass., November 12,
13, 1866.

Horr, Dr. Asa.—Meteors at observed, Dubuque, lowa, November,
1866.

Hudson, A. T.—Meteors observed at Lyons, Iowa, November, 1866.

Hyatt, AA—Meteors observed at Salem, Mass., September 29, 1868.

Ingram, J.—Meteors observed at Vineland, N. J., August 24, 1869.

Johnson, Professor J.—Meteors observed at Middletown, Conn., No-
vember, 1866.

Keenan, T. J. R.—Account of meteors observed at Bahala, Miss.

Knight, R. T.—Account of meteors observed at Philadelphia, August
24, 1869.

Lapham, I. A.—Meteors observed at Milwaukee, Wis., November, 1866,
1867.

McClune, James.—Meteoric shower at Philadelphia, November 14, 1867.

Major, J.—List of books and ship’s logs examined for meteors.

Martin, Samuel D.—Meteors observed in Clarke County, Kentucky,
November, 1866.

Moore, Albert.-—Meteors observed at Grenada, Miss., November, 1866.

Morris, O. W.—Meteors observed in New York, November 13, 1866.

Mudge, B. F.—Meteors observed at Manhattan, Kans., November, 1866.

Nason, Elias.—Meteors observed at North Billerica, Mass., November,
1866.

Newton, Professor.—November meteors.

Parker, J. D—meteorie display at Steuben, Me., November, 1864,
1866, 1867.

Parkhurst, H. M.—Meteors observed at Brooklyn, Mo., 1866.

Pratt, W. H.—Meteors observed November 14, 1868, at Davenport,
Towa.

Raser, John Heyl.—Meteors observed at Reading, Pa., November, 1866.

Redding, Thomas B.—Meteors observed at Neweastle, Ind., November,
1864.

Richards, W. M.—Meteors observed at Berlin, Wis., November, 1866.

Robinson, A.—Meteors observed at Androscoggin, Me., November,
1866.

Rogers, F. M.—Meteors observed at Throg’s Neck, N. Y., November
27, 1864.

Smith, HE. A.—Meteors observed at Moriches, N. Y., November, 1866.

Smith, Hliim—Meteors observed at Emmittsburg, Md., November, 1866.

Snow, I’. H.—Meteoric shower at Lawrence, Kans., November 14, 1867.

Spaulding, A.—-Meteors observed at Aurora, Ill., November, 1866.

Spencer, W. C.—Meteors observed at Dubois, Ill., November, 1566.

Spera, W. H.—Meteors observed at Ephrata, Pa., November, 1567.

Stephenson, Rev. James.—Meteors observed at Saint Inigoes, Md., No-
vember, 1876.

Trembly, J. B.—Meteors observed at Toledo, Ohio, November, 1866.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 83

True, H. A——Meteors observed at Marion, Ohio, November, 1566.

Turner, Hrnest.—Account of meteor observed at Point Pleasant, La.,
June 29, 1872.

Tutwiler, H.—Account of meteoric shower observed at Green Springs,
Ala., November 14, 1868.

Washington, D. C.—Account of meteors observed at the United States
Naval Observatory, 1868.

West, Silas —Meteors observed at Cornish, Me., November, 1866.

Wheeler, John T.—Meteors observed at Concord, N. H., November,
1866.

Wilbur, B. F.—Meteors observed at West Waterville, November, 1866.

Williams, M. G.—Meteors observed at Urbana, Ohio, November,
1866.

Winger, Martin.—Meteors observed at Wooster, Ohio, November,
1866.

RAIN.

Depth of rain collected in several rain-gauges during the storm of
October, 1869.

Extract from the meteorological registers of the Surgeon-General’s
Office from January, 1860, to January, 1867, giving summaries of
amount of rain and melted snow at meteorological stations in the west-
ern part of the United States.

Influence of the weather in the production of rain.

Adams, J. F.—Account of extraordinary rain-storm at Macon, Ga.,
October 2, 1868.

Bache, D.—Account of hail-storm at San Antonio, Tex., May, 1868.

Bartlett, Jefferson.—Snow-fal! in West Lebanon, Ind., winter of 1869.

Berlandier, J. Louis.—-Rain-fall at Matamoras, Mex., 1843-1.

Bermuda.— Quantity of rain-fall at Ireland Island 1860~62.

Blackwell, Thos —Return showing percentage of rain due to winds
bearing rain from surrounding regions. Observations made at Mont-
real 185960.

Branley, HL. H.—Rain-fall at Amesville, Ohio, January, 1869.

Cambridge, Mass.—Rain-fall 1855-67.

Canton, Mo.—Rain-fall in 1870.

Chase, Pliny E.—Cyclical rain-fall at San Francisco. Rain-curves.
Recent monthly rain-fall in the United States. Remarks on the fall of
rain as affected by the moon.

Clark, Dr. Jas. F.—Effect of battles on rain, observed during the war.

Cockburn, S.—Rain-fall in Balize, Honduras, 1862-68.

Cocke, T. k.—Amount of rain-fall October, 1871, in Victoria County,
Texas.

Crosier, Adam.—Mean monthly rain-fall at Laconia, Ind., 1866-69.

Cunningham, Geo. A.—Rain-table 184168, at Lunenburgh, Mass.

Curle, T. J—Observations showing that anvil-shaped clouds indicate
rain.
§4 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Davidson, S—Rain-fall at Sitka, Alaska, May, 1866, April, 1867.

Draper Jos.—Rain-fall at Worcester, 1860.

Ewing, Chas. G.—Quantities of rain that fell in each month, 1855 70.

Foote, H. S—Report of rain-fall, January—June, 1869.

Gibbs, Geo.—Account of deluge in Patapsco and Monocacy.

baie N. H.—Record of snow, rain, &e., 1838-64.

Grant, W. T.—Report of rain-fall at Maning Gan September and Octo-
ber, 1872.

Gregory, J. M.—Heavy rain in Champaign, Ill.

Huntington, T. C. T.—Record of fall of rain in Phillipsburgh, Saint
Martin’s, July-December, 1869.

Hurlin, W. .—Rain-fall at Antrim, N. H., November, 1866.

Jackson, Geo. L.—Account of heavy fall of snow at Vandalia, Til.,
February, 1872.

Lake Village, N. H.—Depth of rain and melted snow collected in rain-
gauges at Laconia and Lake Village, 1865-69.

Langguth, J. G.— Account of hail-storm at Chicago, July, 1871.

Lewisburgh, Va.—Rain-fall in 1859.

Logan, T, M.—Rain-table for Stockton, Cal., 1849-70.

Loomis, H.—Fall of rain at New Haven, Conn., 180429, 6468.

Lupton, N. T.—Rain-fall at Greensborough, 1855-68.

McKinny, John C.—Account of snow-storm at Vincennes, Ind.

Milwaukee.—Table showing amount of rain and melted snow 184159,
measured by Dr. E. S. Marsh, I. A. Lapham, and Dr. Charles Winkler.

Neill, Thos.—Rain in Sandusky, Ohio, 1859~67.

Newark, N. J.—Great rains,

New York.—Rain-fall in North Hammond, Gouverneur, and House-
ville, July, 1866-June, 1867.

Pennsylvania.—Rain, 1859-41.

Pitman, Chas. H.—Amount of rain-fall at West Barnstead, N. H., Au-
gust and September, 1869.

Rogers, O. P.—Rain-fall at Marengo, Ill., 1850-71.

Saint Louis —Monthly amounts of rain at Saint Louis, 1853-57, 6067,

Schott, Chas. AA—Account of proposed rain-gauges.

Seltz, Charles.—Account of heavy rain-storm at De Soto, August, 1871.

Sitka.—Rain-fall, 1857-’64.

Smith, Edward A.—Account of rain and snow registered at the State
lunatic hospital, Worcester, Mass., for fourteen years.

Smith, Patrick H.—Method of determining rain-fall by weight. |

Spera, N. H.—Rain-fall at Ephrata, Pa. |

Steineman, M.—Rain-gauge observations at Eckhart Mine, Md., 1864
~68.

Talbot, R. £.—Account of snow-storm, February 3, 1868, at George-
town, Texas.

Tayloe, #, T.—Nain-fall observed at Powhatan Hill, 1850-66.

Tennent, Thomas.—Rain-fall in San Francisco, Cal., 1849-70.

MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 85

Valentine, John.—Table showing depth of water which fell at Rich-
mond in each month and year from 1852 to 1865.

Washington, D. C.—Rain measured at the Smithsonian Institution, 1862
~66. Rain-fall at the United States Naval Observatory, 1852-1867.

Whitefield—Curious snow-storm observed at Whitefield, March 19,
1869.

Wilbur, Benjamin F.—Account of heavy rain at Waterville, Maine,
August 18, 1871.

WIND.

Account of tornado from New York to Maine, October 8, 1797. Dia-
gram of veering March and April, 1863.

Babcock, A. J—Charts comprising direction of wind at Aurora, Ill,
with course of clouds September, 1857-January, 1858.

Baddeley, P. F. H.—Dust whirlwinds and cyclones.

Barringer, W.—Account of tornado in Logan county, Ohio, June 7,
1872.

Bierce, R. C.—Account of tornado at Veroquas, Wis., June 25, 1865.

Boehmer, G. H.—Atmospherie currents and their effects upon pres-
sure, temperature and moisture, from observations made in 1871—72.

Brooks, Chas.—Tornado of 1851 in Middlesex county, Mass.

Chappellsmith, John.—Account of tornado, April, 1852.

Chase, Pliny E,—Tidal wave curves.

Connell, D.— Account of tornado at Buckingham, lowa, September
12, 1865.

Henson, Stephen.—Account of tornado at Oxford, Minn., September
12, 1865.

Hill, Thomas.—List of books on tornados in Harvard college library.

Hudson, A. S—Effects of tornado of 1860, at Sterling, Ill.

Keenan, T. J. k.—Account of storm in Mississippi, with photograph
of effect of same.

McLeran, A.—Account of tornado in Hil, June 3, 1860.

Mulford, Anson M.—Account of tornado at New Providence, June 3,
1860.

Nicholson, W. L.—The great tornado of 1860.

Simmons, A. H.—Photograph of efiects of Chinooh wind.

Taylor, M. K.—Observations on the Camanche tornado.

Webb, John G—Notes on two cyclones at Little Oarasta, Fla., August,
1871.

Young, Geo. D.—Account of tornado of June 3, 1860, at Camanche,
Towa.

GENERAL METEOROLOGY.
Account of halo observed in 1630.

Circulars relative to earthquakes by the earthquake committee, San
Francisco, Cal.
86 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Curves of equal annual change of magnetic declination, United Bates
Coast Survey.

Extracts from the regulations in regard to entries to be made and
method of keeping the log-book.

Invitation a VYassemblée des meteorologists d Leipzig pour le 14
Aout 1872

Lists of elevations and distances in that portion of the United States
west of the Mississippi River.

Maritime meteorology.

Meteorological observations in balloon ascents, 1852.

Open polar sea and glacial formations.

Persine’s system of meteorology.

Speculations on cause of cold winters, A. H. Dunlevy.

Statistical nomenclature of causes of death.

Table of magnetic determinations observed in connection with survey
of northwestern lakes.

Telegraphic meteorology.

Ames, Mrs. M. E. P.—Parhelia observed at Big Meadow, California,
April 12, 1872.

Astrop, k. F.—War comet observed at Crichton’s store, Virginia, July,
1861.

Boehmer, George H.—Distribution of heat over the United States, from
official sources, 1825-1872.

Campbell, John IL.—Account of halo observed from Wabash College,
Crawiordsville, Indiana, May 26, 1865.

Capen, F. L.—Circular of American Meteorological Society.

Cobb, W. H.—Account of parhelia observed February 4, 1867.

Doran, G. C.—Profile of route of Yellowstone avpaeines:

Danbury, A. H.— Effect of the moon on the weather.

Hann, T.—Storms and predictions, translated by Dr. Endlich.

Hubana, J.—Map of Mexico and California.

King, Thomas D.—Meteorology and its professors.

Le Verrier.—Memorandum in regard to general meteorological obser-
vations.

Lincoln, T.—Account of severe storm in Maine.

Logan, Dr. Thomas M.—Cireular relative to meteorological observa-
tions.

McAllister, H. Jr.—Sketch of parhelia observ ed at Colorado Springs,
Colorado.

Marey, Capt. R. B.—Map of country upon Upper Red River.

Moss, G. B.—Parhelion observed February 16, 1872, at Belvidere, Ill.

Phitlips, W. H.—Solar phenomena observed at Elmira, N. Y., Febru-
ary 2, 1867.

Poey, A.—Law of the similar evolution of meteorological phenomena.

Smith, J. S—Table of rise and fall of Lake Erie, 1835-1849.
_ MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 87

Stearns, R. LE. C_—Economic value of certain Australian forest-trees
and their cultivation in California.

Steele, Augustus.—Rainbow observed at night at Cedar Keys, Fla.

Turner, Prof. J. B.—Edueation of American farmers.

White, W. £., Tampa, Fla.—Yogs in Florida.

Whitney, H. M.—Eruption of the great summit volcano of Mauna
Loa.

Wilbur, B. F.—Lightning observed during snow-storm.

Wing, M. H.—-Effect of lightning on telegraph wires.

LOCAL METEOROLOGY.
AFRICA.

Meteorological notes of a journey to Musardu, B. Anderson.
ASIA.
CHINA.

Memorandum explanatory of a plan for the eastern seas for recording
meteorological observations and transmitting weather news, Robert
Hart.

INDIA.

Madras.—Mean height of barometer and thermometer for each month
of the years 18434445,

SIBERIA.

Table of thermometric observations during the exploration of the
country between Stikolajefsk and Okhotsk, 1865.
Olhotsk.—Report of thermometric observations in 1866, Richard J.
Bush.
Yakoutsk.—Temperature curves from fifteen years’ observations, 1829
AA,
SINGAPORE.

Annual abstract of meteorological observations for 1870, H. L. Ran-
dell.

Meteorological observations, May—December, 1869, H. L. Randell.

Meteorological observations for April, 1872, (Straits Settlement Gov-
ernment Gazette.)

Meteorological observations, September, 187

Temperature and rain-fall on Quop estate, 1866-70.

Ze

TURKEY.
Jcrusalem.—Thermometric observations, 1851-1854.
Mosul—Temperature and rain-fall, January, 1852- February, 1856;
Rev. W. F. Williams.
88 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

AUSTRALIA.

New South Wales—Summary of meteorological observations at Mor-
peth, 1865, Dr. Thornton.

Queensland, Brisbane—Summary of meteorological observations, April,
1869, J. MacDonnell.

Meteorological observations and summaries of rain-fall, 1872.

CENTRAL AMERICA.
COSTA RICA.

Heredia.—Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la ciudad de
Heredia durante el ao 1865; do. 1868.

Limon.—Register of meteorological observations, port of Limon, Octo-
ber, 1865— August, 1866, Felipe Valentin.

San José.—Ubservaciones meteorologicas hechas en la ciudad de San
José durante el primer semestre de 1868.

Observaciones meteorologicas hechasen la ciudad de San José durante
el alo de 1868; do. 1869, 1870, 1871, 1872, 1873, 1874.

GUATEMALA.

Meteorological diary for the quarter ending June and December,
1859.

Observacicnes meteorologicas, 1857.

Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en el colegio seminario de
Guatemala, 1859.

Observaciones meteorologicas en la mina de las Cirueltas, 1750, de
Paris sobre el mare, durante el primer semestre del afio’ 1865, H. Reck.

Resumen de las observaciones hechas en el colegio seminario 4 cargo
de los PP. de la Compania de Jesus de Guatemala el ano 1857; do.
1858, 1859.

HONDURAS.

Meteorological notes taken on a flying visit to the norcnern district of
British Honduras, 8. Cockburn.

Meteorological phenomena in 1863, 8. Cockburn.

Meteorological scraps, Dr. Berendt.

Report on the river Belize.

PANAMA.

Temperature observations, March—May, 1849.
Aspinwall.—Meteorological report for 1868—69, J. P. Kluge.

SAN JUAN.

Observaciones meteorologicas di Ottubre, 1871, M. M. Chazaro,
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 89

SAN SALVADOR.

Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en el laboratorio de la faculdad
de medecina de San Salvador, 1871.

EUROPE.
ENGLAND.

Greenwich.—Rain-fall observations, 1849-1853.

London.—Anemographic, barographic, and thermographie curves,
April 27, 1868.

Rain-fall observations, 1841-1853, J. Higginbottom.

Macclesfield.—Meteorological observations taken at the Useful Knowl-
edge Society’s rooms, 1860—69.

Newcastle—Neweastle Chronicle, September, 1863.

Tickhill— Meteorological observations in 1863-64,

FRANCE.

Météorologie, (Le Moniteur de la Flotte, Février, 1867.)

Paris.—Carte représentant la mortalité et Pétat météorologique de
Paris en 1865.

GERMANY.

Frankfort—Account of earthquakes in the vicinity of Frankfort,
W. Prentiss Webster.

Meissen.—Zusammenstellung der Monats- und Jahresmittel aus den |
zu Meissen im Jahre 1871 angestellten dreimaligen meteorologischen
Beobachtungen.

IRELAND.

Comparative view of meteorological observations made in Ireland
since 1788, with hints toward forming prognostics of the weather.
Rtichard Kirwan, Dublin, 1794.

ITALY.

Naples.— ‘11 Salvatore,” Anno 1, No. 5, 1868.
Palermo.—Meteorological bulletin of the Royal Observatory of Paler-
mo, January, 1865.
NORWAY.

Bergen.— Meteorological Review for 1864, O. J. Dreutzer.

PORTUGAL.
Insbon.—Diagrams of rain, 1855-1870.
SPAIN.

Cordoba.—Observaciones meteorologicas de Cordoba, aio de 1859.
Valencia.—Estacion meteorologica de la Universidad de Valencia.
Resumen de las observaciones hechas en el mes de Abril de 1872.

‘
90 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

TURKEY.

Constantinople.—Observations météorologiques, A. Coumbary, 1868.

Observations météorologiques représentées par des courbes, 186768.
A. Coumbary.

Meteorological items, (Journal de Constantinople, L’Etoile @Orient.
Levant Herald, 1865-66-67.)

NORTH AMERICA.
BRITISH AMERICA.

Magnetical and meteorological observations at Lake Athabasca and
Tort Simpson, by Capt. J. H. Lefroy, and at Fort Confidence, on Great
Bear Lake, by Sir John Richardson, London, 1855.

Fort Nascopee.—Meteorological observations, October, 1864— June,
1865, H. Connolly.

Fort Simpson.—Meteorological Journal, October, 1849— January, 1850.

Observations at Fort Simpson, Mackenzie River, November 1, 1837-
May 24, 1839; and April, 1545- August, 1859.

Fort Yournon.—Meteorological observations January—July, 1861, R.
Kennicott.

Moose Factory.—W eather notes, September, 1858-September, 1859.

Repulse Bay.—Meteorological observations by Dr. John Rae, from
September, 1853, to July, 1854.

Rigolet.— Meteorological observations, 185759, H. Connolly.

Vancouver's Island.—Meteorological observations, December, 1863-
June, 1564.

CANADA.

Comparison of meteorological observations made at Cape Diamond,
Montreal, and during an expedition for exploring Canada Last, between
rivers Saint Maurice and Ottawa:

NEWFOUNDLAND.

Harbor Grace.—Abstract of meteorological notes, February, 1863, H.
A. Clift. Anomalous gale and rain, H. A. Clift. Atmosphere and leaves,
H. A. Clift. Diagram of the directions of the wind, H. A. Clift. Meteoro-
logical notes, Harbor Grace Standard, December 4, 1872.

Saint Johv’s.—General meteorological register for 1872, J. Delaney.
General meteorological register, December, 1873, J. Delaney. Meteoro-
logical observations, 1859-60, John Delaney. Meteorological register,
January, February, 1857, E. M. Delaney. Meteorological registers, 1848—
00, Royal Artillery. Table showing mean temperature and height of
barometer in each month from 18354 to 1838, Joseph Templeman. _ Ve-
locity of the wintl by anemometer, J. Delaney.

NOVA SCOTIA.

Albion Mines.—Meteorological observations, 1844; meteorological ob-
servations for 1850 and comparison with 1849,
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. bi

Caledonia Mine.—Meteorological registers at the Caledonia Mine, 1867-
1871. Henry Poole.

Halifax.—Account of storm, September 18-19, 1870, Frederick Al-
lison.

Horion.—Thermometric record, 1856, A. P. S. Stuart.

Windsor.—Mean temperatures, 1794-1811.

ONTARIO.

Amherstburgh.—Meteorological observations from January, 1840, to
March, 1852, with continuation by Peter Munzies, from September,
1853, to May, 1856.

Bruce Mines.—Meteorological observations, September, 1850.

Hamilton.—Mean results of meteorological observations for 1854 ; do.
185556, 59. Results of meteorological observations, 1846-1853, W.
Craigie.

Kingston.—Abstract of meteorological register kept at Queen’s Col-
ege University, 1858-69.

Thousand Isles.—Barometrical readings, 1858, J. F. Mayer.

Toronto.—Abstracts of meteorological observations at the magnetical
observatory, 1854~64. Daily curves of temperature at Toronto. General
meteorological registers, 185657, Professor Kingston. General meteoro-
logical registers, 1864~69. Provincial Magnetical Observatory. Mean
meteorological results, 1854, J. B. Cherriman. Mean meteorological re-
sults, 185964, ’70, Professor Kingston. Meteorological observations,
October, 1847-January, 1848. Meteorological summary for November,
1869, derived from tbe records of the Magnetical Observatory, Toronto.
Monthly metecrological register at the Provincial Magnetical Observa-
tory, 1859-1872. Resuits of meteorological observations made at the
Magnetical Observatory, Toronto, during the years 1860-61-62; To-
ronto, 1864. Summary of rain and melted snow for the winter quarter
1870-71, from observations at forty-one stations ; compiled at the Mag-
netic Observatory, Toronto.

v
QUEBEC.

Daily means of observed temperatures at two adjacent.stations, Vic-
toria Bridge and Point Saint Charles, February, 1861.

Montreal.—Meteorological observations at Montreal, September—No-
vember, 1855, Dr. A. Hall. Observations relative to tables prepared
and compiled by 8. A. Huguet. Register of thermometer and babar
eter kept by T. D. King, February—July, 1872.

Saint Martinv’s.—C faite of barometric pressure, humidity, temperature,
and rain-fall, 1856, C. Smallwood. Contributions to meteorology, from
observations at St. Martin’s, 1857, C. Smallwood. Monthly meteorolog-
ical register, October-November, 1858, C. Smallwood.
92 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

MEXICO.

Notes of a voyage to Vera Cruz, Minititlan, &c., R. W. Foster.

Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la escuela nacional prepara-
toria de México en el mes de Noviembre, 1868, (Diario Oficial.)

Observations at Santa Fé and Nueva Gerona, 1864.

Observations météorologiques, 1840-742, T. Louis Berlandier.

Limonar.—Quantity of rain-fall in 1842.

Matamoras.—Notices of rain, 184047, Berlandier.

Mazatlan.—Account of weather in 1868, Grayson.

Minititlan.—Meteorological observations, April, 1858, to January, 1859,
Charles Laszlo.

Mirador.—Meteorological observations, 185457, January, 1858. Sur-
vey of the meteorological materials made in 1858 and 1868, by C. Sarto-
rius.

Trojes.—Meteorological observations, 1869~70, T. Graef.

Vera Cruz.—Barometrical observations, August, 1856, to September,
1859, Dr. Berendt.

UNITED STATES.

Chart of comparative fluctuations of barometer, February and March,
1845.

Daily charts illustrating weather, 1843.

Diagram showing extraordinary barometrical movements, January
21-28, 1853.

Espy’s weather charts, 1845.

Meteorological correspondence of the Smithsonian Institution, thirty-
five bound volumes of letters from observers, &e.

Meteorological notes during march of Colonel Morrison’s command
from Fort Gibson, Creek Nation, to Big Timber, Upper Arkansas, June
22 to October 25, Capt. Henry Little.

Meteorological observations, northwestern boundary survey.

Meteorology on Central Pacific Railroad, 1867, J. R. Gilliss.

Robertson’s diaries, Mississippi, Virginia, &e.

Serap-books containing newspaper items on weather, &c., prepared at
the Smithsonian Institution.

Telegraphic reports of weather at various points in the United States,
September and October, 1858.

Weather bulletins and maps from the chief signal officer, 187173.

ALABAMA.

Erie.—Meteorological observations in 1824, Dr. 8. K. Jennings.

Greensborough.—Abstract from meteorological register for 1868, N. T.
Lupton. Account of hail-storm, May, 1857, Thomas M. Fitz.

Green Springs.—Meteorological tables, 1867, J. W. A. Wright.

Mobile.—Barometrical and thermometrical curves at Fort Morgan,
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 93

Mobile Point, July-December, 1850. Meteorological curves, June, 1848,
Meteorological observations at Fort Morgan, 1848-1850.
Selma.—Account of rain, March 17, 1872, G. H. Lenoir.
Union Springs.—Rain-fall, 186874, J. S. Moultrie.

ALASKA.

Observations at Fort Saint Michael, 1842; Ikogmint Depot, Nulato,
and Fort Kolmakon, 1843, W. H. Dall. Fort Saint Michael meteor-
olegical observations, 1865—66, H. M. Bannister.

Nulato.—Meteorological observations, 1866-67, F. Westdahl.

Sitka.—Meteorological statement for 1868. Record of temperature
observations, (Reaumur,) 1847-1864. Extracted from the Annales de
Yobservatoire physique central de Russie.

Unalakleet—Meteorological observations, 186667, F. Westdahl.

Unalaska Island.—Mean monthly temperature observed at Hlolook,
1867-68.

ARIZONA.

Saint Thomas.—Thermometric record, 1865.
ARKANSAS.

Meteorological observations for February and March, 1861, and Feb-
ruary, 1871, at Micco Creek Nation, H. F. Buckner.

Little Rock.—Meteorological observations, 1851-56, 186470.

Mount Ida.—Abstract of meteorelogical observations, May, Novem-
ber, 1874, G. Whittington. .

Washington.—Meteorological observations, 1840-59, N. D. Smith,
Meteorological returns, January. February, 185¢

CALIFORNIA.

Curves of horary variations of atmospheric pressure.

Benicia Barracks.—Ozone observations, W. W. Hays.

El Monte.—Rain-fall in December, 1873, George H. Peck.

fort Yuma.—Meteorological observations, 186667.

Los Angeles—Meteorological notes, April, 1851, and May, 1854, Sher-
burne.

Nevada City.—Thermometric observations, July, August, 1865, Charles
F. Dunz.

Sacramento.—Hourly observations, June 21, 1856, T. M. Logan.
Monthly means barometer and thermometer, 1854, Doctor Hatch.
Rain-fall, 1850-73. Report of the curator of the Agassiz Institute on
Meteorology.

San Diego.—Observations made on a trip to the mountains, G. W.
Barnes.

San Francisco.—Blank forms for meteorological observations, Colonel
Williamson. Monthly meteorological observations, 1870-73, C. G.
94 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Ewing. Rain-fall table, October, 1849-April, 1850, 1861~68, Thomas
Tennent. The climate of San Bramcisess R. M. Bacnel

San Joaquin Valley—Rain-table and remarks on climate, J. W. A.
Wright.

Santa Barbara.—Range of the thermometer from July 1, 1872, to June
30, 1873. Santa Barbara as a sanitarium, Santa Barbara Press.

Santa Crus.—Meteorological observations for 1873, J. H. Hoadley.

Santa Yues Valley.—Meteorological observations, 1572.

Vacaville—Meteorological report, February—April, 1869, J. C. Sim-
mons. Observations, January 22-lebruary 1, 1869, J. C. Simmons.

-COLORADO.

A Year’s Progress; Colorado in 1872, W. N. Byers. Climate of
Colorado, (circular by W. N. Byers.) Colorado; published by the
Denver Board of Trade, 1868. Geology, description, and resources of
Central and Southern Colorado, Pueblo, 1869.

Fort Collins.—Meteorological reports, March-September, 1872, Rh. Q.
Tenney.

Fort Garland.—Temperature-table, 1855~69, C. Thomas.

Golden City.—Register of periodical phenomena, 1867, EK. L. Berthoud.

CONNECTICUT

Columbia.—Account of storm July, 1857, W. H. Yeomans. Weather
reports January, December, 1857, June, 1859, W. H. Yeomans.

Hartford.—Meteorological observations 1816-1852.

New Haven.—Meteorological observations, EX. Loomis.

Norwalk.—Account of storm January, 1856, M. Scholfield.

Pomfret.—Account of storm October 24, 1853, D. Hunt.

Salisbury.—Meteorological Journal, 184440, Dr. Ovid Plumb.

Stamford.—F all of water at the Stillwater Rolling-mill January 1,
1869, to January 1, 1874, J. N. Ayers.

DAKOTA.

Meteorological table 1869~70, A. Barnaud.

Ponka Agency.—Atmospherical phenomena November 22, 1871.

Yankton.—Meteorological record for the summer quarter of 1865, M.
K. Armstrong.

DELAWARE.

Georgetown.—Meteorological observations during part of 1852. Rain-
fall, July, 1857-December, 1859. D. W. Maull.

Milford.—Sums and means for 1873; RK. H. Gilman.

DISTRICT. OF COLUMBIA.

Washington.—Account of thunder-storm June 27,1869, W. Q. Force.
Memorandum of storm of November 4, 1856. Meteorological observa-

ol
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL, 95

tions 1828~29, Jonathan Elliott. Meteorological observations at the
observatory, Capitol Hill, April-June, 1872. Meteorological observa-
tions at the Patent-Office 184657. Meteorological observations A pril-
June, 1855, W. J. Rhees. Meteorological observations September-—
December, 1854. Meteorological register, 1821, Jonathan Meigs.
Monthly means of dry thermometer; monthly mean of maximum and
minimum thermometer; maximum and minimum temperature for 1870,
at the Naval Observatory. Monthly means of the bi-hourly observations
of the barometer and thermometer made at the Naval Observatory dur-
ing 1841. Notes on vegetation, 186264, James Watts. Observations
in the observatory of the Smithsonian Institution, April 18, 1860-—No-
vember 29, 1863. Projection showing the regular increase and decrease
of atmospherie heat in the city of Washington for the year 1826, Rob-
ert Little. Psychrometric observations, July, 1854. Registers trom Re-
cording Barograph. Snow-fall observed at the Smithsonian Institution
April 1858-1874.
FLORIDA.

Comparison of the winds on the coast of Florida. Minutes of gale
September 8, 1854, A. S. Baldwin.

Jacksonville—Range of the thermometer at Jacksonville, 184546, A.
S. Baldwin. Table showing the temperature of February for sixteen
years, A. 8. Baldwin.

Key West.—Barometrical and thermometrical curves June, August,
and October, 1851. Details of storm August 27, 28, 1856, W.C. Dennis.
Meteorological observations for 1844-45, Adain Gordon. Mceteorologi- .
cal observations at the garrison, 1843. Meteorological register kept at
Key West barracks, March-April, 1845. Barometrical variations, 1853.

Newport.—Account of storm, Charles Beecher.

New Smyrna.—Report of rain-fall, 1873, George J. Alden.

Saint Augustine.—W eather Meeor 186970

Saint John River—Temperature observations, January-April, 1869,
G. A. Boardman.

Tallahassec.—Observations with rain-gauge, Truman 8. Betts.

GEORGTA.

Berne.—Weather report, April, 1869, H. L. Hillyer.

Cabaniss.—Estimate of rain, May, 1872, A. Colvard.

Gainesville—Diagram of thermometric observations, February and
March, 1872, Dr. W. T. Grant. Rain-fall for August, 1872. Meteoro-
logical ee October, 1872, M. IF. Stephenson. Weather notes, No-
vember, 1872, M. F. Stephenson.

Milledgeville.—List of plants observed in the vicinity, N. G. McAdoo.

Savannah.—Meteorological observations, May, 1858, September, 1559,
John F. Posey.

Trader's Hill.—Meteorological report, September, 1871, F. M. Smith.

Waldo.—Meteorological record, March, 1866, Dr. R. C. Garvin.
96 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Warrington.—Meteorological register at United States naval ss
tal, January, 1859.

Wilsonville.— Meteorological observations, October, 1873, W. B.
Somerville.

ILLINOIS.

Account of tornado in Northern Illinois, 1855, John Wentworth.

Meteorology of Illinois, B. Whitaker.

Athens.—Meteorological record, 1851, and errata, J. Hall.

Augusta.—Mean temperature, 1833-1852.

Aurora.—Meteorological observations for 1859, George Sutton.
Thermometric record, 1859, A. J. Babcock. Chart of temperature,
1859, A. J. Babcock. ,

Batavia.—Meteorological report, March and April, 1857, Thompson
Mead.

Belvidere.—Abstract of registers, 1868-71, G. B. Moss. Comparison
of monthly temperatures, 1867-1870, G. B. Moss. Record of thermome-
ter, March—October, 1867. Summaries of meteorological records, 1868-
Aee

Brighton.—Meteorological abstracts, 1869, W. V. Eldredge. Meteor-
ological table, April, 1855-April, 1856, W. V. Eldredge.

Carthage.— Register of meteorological observations, August, 1858-
September, 1859, Mrs. E. M. A. Bell.

Charleston.—Temperature report, March, 1870, Charles Gramesly.

Chicago.—Diagrams showing effect of meteorological influences on
mortality, 1867~69. Meteorological record, January—September, 1844,
Silas Meacham.

Coopersville—Temperature notes, January, 1869, S. Hazleton.

Danvers.—Meteorological report, May to December, 1872, Ira Rowell.

Decatur.—Double parhelia, February, 1870, Timothy Dudley.

LE ffingham.—W eather notes, March, 1869, H. Gruenewald.

Ligin.—Kesults of meteorological observations, 1858-59, J. B. New-
comb.

Galesburg.—Maximum and minimum temperature, February—Decem-
ber, 1873, B. F. Kemp.

Hennepin.—A bstracts of thermometric record, 1865-72, Smiley Shep-
herd.

Weather notes, 1870, Smiley Shepherd.

Highland.—Record of temperature, 1841-52, Ryhiner.

Hopedale.-—Meteorological items for 1871, A. G. Crispé.

Marengo.—W eather notes, July, 1854—May, 1855, January, 1856, O. P.
Rogers.

Northfield.—Account of tornado, 1855, John A. Kennicott.. Account
of tornado, 1855, Allen W. Phillips.

Pekin.—Summary of meteorological observations, 1855-56, 1859, J. H.
Riblet.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 97

Peoria.—Meteorological observations, December, 1855-February, 1865,
Fred. Brendel.

Phenixville—Meteorological report, May, 1869, Isaac Coffman.

Ridge Farm.—Reports of the weather, December, 1867, January-April,
1868, B. C. Williams.

Riley—Summary of meteorological observations, 1872. Summaries
of meteorological observations, 1861-73, J. W. James.

Sadonis.—Weather notes, June, 1866, A. Catron.

Sandwich.—Annual abstract for 1871, and conditions for July, 1871,
N. E. Ballou.

South Pass—Meteorological reports, December, 1862-October, 1865,
S. C. Spaulding.

Vandalia.—Weather notes, February, 1872, Geo. L. Jackson.

Warsaw.—Account of tornado, June, 1858, B. Whitaker. Account
of storms of August 18, 28, 29; B. Whitaker. Mean temperature and
rain-fall, May, 1872, B. Whitaker. Meteorological observations, 1840-
55, B. Whitaker. Weather reports, September—December, 1856, B. Whi-
taker. York Neck meteorological record, 1864-65, V. P. Gray.

INDIANA.

Bloomington.—Report of Robinson’s anemometer, November, 1869,
C. M. Dodd.

Cannelton.—Abstract of meteorological journal, November 26-Decem-
ber 3, 1856, Hamilton Smith.

Fort Gibson.—Re port of temperature October, 1854—April, 1857, Hen-
ry Little.
_ _Indianapolis.—Meteorological report of Indianapolis Academy of Medi-
cine. Summary of observations for the quarter ending November 30,
1870, Dr. KX. Hadley. Monthly mean range of thermometer, 1861-63,
Royal Mayhew. Temperature report and account of hail-storm, W. J.
Elstun.

Knightstown.—Condensed maps of atmosphere, 1869-70, D. Deems.

Logansport.—Abstract of meteorological tables, 1856-67, January and
February, 1868, Chas. B. Lasselle.

Manchester.—November, 1871 compared with November, 1872, Peter
Murray.

Mount Hope.—Diagram of rain-fall, November, 1869, D. Deem.

hichmond.—Meteorological observations, March, 1856, Joseph Moore.

Rockville—Mean temperature, 186266, W. H. Anderson.

Peru.— Weather report, September, 1869, W. W. Austin. Weather
report, June, 1870, William Daniells.

Saint Peter’s—Weather notes, January, 1869, Francis A. Bauer.

Vevay.—W eather notes, November, 1868—November 1873, C. G. Boerner.

INDIAN TERRITORY.
Meteorological notes obtained from conversations with Creek chiets.
Fort Washita.—Comparison of Julys, 1844749.
7s
oe ot MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.
IOWA.

Bellevue.—Synopsis of meteorological register, November, 1855-No-
vember, 1856, John C. Forg.

Bloomington.—Meteorological table, 1848, T. S. Parvin.

Boonsborough.—Account of storm, April 25, 1872, E. Babcock.

Border Plains.—Meteorological observations, March, 1855-March,
1866, George C. Goss.

Cannelton.—Rain-fall, May 1-November 8, 1857, H. Smith.

Cresco.—Meteorological notes, December, 1571, H. D. Noble.

Dubuque.—Humidity, June, 1853, Asa Horr.

Fairfield.—Meteorological notes, June—November, 1856, J. M. Shaffer.
Meteorological notes, 1857-58.

Fontanelle.—Weather report, December, 1868.

Fort Madison.—Temperature and precipitation, 1848~’52, Daniel Mc-
Cready. Weather notes, June-December, 1873, Miss L. A. McCready.
Guttenberg.—Meteorological report, March, 1865, Philip Dorweiler.

Lowa City.—Meteorological observations, 1866, Theo. S. Parvin.

Maqueta.—Meteorological observations, February, 1857, E. F. Hobart.

Marble Rock.—Weather report, March, 1867.

Mount Vernon.—Thermometrical observations, September, 1856-
March, 1857, B. W. Smith.

Muscatine—Condensed report for 1871, J.P. Walton. Range of ther-.
mometer, 1871, J. P. Walton. Meteorological journal, 1853, ’55, ’56.

Pacquettes Ferry.—Table of meteorological observations, by A. L.
Barraud, March, April, 1871.

Pella.—Abstract of meteorological observations, 1855, E. H. A.
Scheerer.

Poulteney.— Meteorological journal, 1853, Benjamin F. O'Neill.

Ked Oak.—Report for August, 1872, E. A. Harris.

West Union.—List of corrections in meteorological record, F. Me-
Clintock.

Woodbine.— Weather notes, July, 1868, March, 1869, August, 1870,
DK Witter.

KANSAS.

Abstracts of the meteorology of 1874, condensed from the records of
the Kansas State Agricultural College by William K. Kedzil.

Highest and lowest temperatures observed in Kansas, George H.
Boehmer. Weather notes, April, 1873, George Wigg.

Baxter Springs.—Report for April, 1871, W. Hyland.

Belleville——Meteorological report, August, 1872, J. W. Raynolds.

Weather notes, 1873, J. W. Raynolds.

Beloit.—Rain-fall in February, 1872, T. McGrath.

Burlington.—Chart of appearance of sky, February 5, 1870, Allen
Crocker.

Crarw/fordsville.—Meteorological observations, May, 1867.
"MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 8,

Emporia.—Rain-fall in October, 1872, G. W. Cass.

Holton.—Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, Dr. James Watters.

Lawrence.— Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, E. J. Rice. Amount
of rain and melted snow, January, 1861—December, 1867, A. N. Fuller.
Meteorological notes, February, 1867, George W. Hollingworth. Mete-
orological summary for 1873, F. H. Snow. Temperature observations,
1861~67, Arthur N. Fuller.

Leaveneorth.—Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, H. D. Me-
Carty.

Neosho Falls—Meteorological observations, March, 1859, B. F. Goss.

Olatha.—Account of weather, 1868, W. Beckwith.

Osawatomie.—Meteorological report, March, 1868, W. H. Berkey.

Sycamore Springs.—Rain-fall, May—December, 1873.

Topeka.—Account of earthquake, April 24, 1867, J. D. Parker.

Tashington County.—Temperature report, April, 1873, George Wigg.
Williamsburgh.—Meteorological report, April, 1871, D. Fogle.

KENTUCKY.

Arcadia.—Meteorological observations, July, 1840-February, 1841.

Ashland.—Meteorological observations, November, 1872, J. B. Bow-
man.

Clinton.—Report of rain-fall for April, 1868, Rev. T. H. Cleland.

Danvilie.—Meteorological register, July, 1843.

Temperature and rain observations, 1860, O. Beatty.

Harodsburgh.—Meteorological register, March, 1871-January, 1872, ©
J. KE. Letton.

Lebanon.—Meteorological observations at Saint Mary’s College, April-
November, 1843.

Lexington.—Range of temperature, January, 1868—March, 1869, at the
Sayre Institute, 8S. K. Williams. Register of thermometer and barome-
ter at Sayre Institute, 1867, 8S. K. Williams.

Moscow.—W eather report, September—October, 1872; J. B. Morris.

Pine Grove.—Meteorological notes, May, 1874, Samuel D. Martin.

Salem.—Memorandum of the weather, May, 1868, Randolph Noe. °

Springdale-—Meteorological reports, April-December, 1843. Means
for 1860, Mrs. Lawrence Young. ;

Winchester—Hourly observations of s,ermometer, June-September,
1872, James M. Ogden.

LOUISIANA.

Alexandria.—Thermometric record, October, 1868—March, 1869, John
P. McAuley.

Baton Rouge.—Meteorological reports, July-September, 1872, May,
1873, R. H. Day. Rain-fall notes, November—December, 1872, Richard
H. Day.

Delhi.—Rain-fall table, 1867-72, Lewis Campbell.
100 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Fort Jesup —Thermometric register, 182345.

Franklin.—Meteorological observations, June, 1843.

Greenville—Meteorological notes, November, 1869, RK. W. Foster.
Meteorological reports, 1869, R. W. Foster.

New Orleans.—Hourly meteorological observations, 180910, Lafour.
Meteorological and mortuary chart, 1849, Dr. E. H. Barton. Meteoroilogi-
cal journal, 184144, D. T. Lillie. Meteorological notes in annual report
of board of health, 1849. Meteorological register, July, 1853, N. B.

3enedict. Report of self-registering thermometer at the office of the
board of health, September, 1872, March—December, 1873. I. Stathem.
Thermometric observations, 1820-1548, E. H. Barton.

Petite Coquille.—Topographical, geological, and medical report, June,
1820, with chart, Dr. E. H. Bell.

Point Pleasant.—Meteorological report February, 1869, March, April,
1872, Ernest Turner.

MAINE.

Ice in Kennebec River, Rev. Francis Gardiner.

Belfast—Summary of meteorological observations made at Belfast,
July-September, 1872, January, 1873, Geo. E. Brackett.

Brunswick.—Meteorological observations, 1807-1852, Parker Cleve-
land.

Castine.—Abstract of meteorological register, showing maximum and ~
minimum temperature of every month, 1810-1850, Judge Nelson.

Cornish.—Effects of lightning in storm of July, 1867, Silas West.

Gardiner.—Amount of rain and melted snow, 1837-1852. Meteorologi-
cal notes, 1837-1852, R. H. Gardiner. Weather notes, April, May, 1866,
R. H. Gardiner. Weather report, November, 1873, BR. H. Gardiner.
Weather report, winter, 1853-54, R. H. Gardiner.

Hiram.—Table and diagram of mean temperature for 35 years, 1831-
1864, Geo. Wadsworth.

Lisbon Lactory.—Meteorological observations, August, September,
1867.

Mitltown.—Notes on the great storm of October 4, Geo. A. Boardman.

Portland.—Hourly meteorological report, August 2, 1572, W. H.
Ohler. Maximum temperature, 1816-1852. Meteorological register,
February, 1851, and June, 1852, Chas. B. Merrill. Meteorological sum-
maries for May, October, December, 1860, January, 1861. Meteorologi-
cal tables for the year ending December 31, 1860, Henry Willis.

Prospect.—Periodical phenomena, 1864-65, V. G. Eaton.

Saco.—Rain-fall, 184446.

Siandish.—Periodical phenomena, May, June, 1867, J. P. Moulton.

Union.—W eather notes, July, 1871, Wm. Gleason.

Vinal Haven.—Weather record, October, 1869; W. Irving Vinal.

West Watcrville—Weather report, June, 1871.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL 101
MARYLAND.

Annapolis—Maximum and minimum temperature, 1856, W. R. Good-
man. Record of maximum and minimum thermometer, December,
1858, Wm. R. Goodman.

Baltimore.—Meteorological observations, 1829, ’36,’37. Meteorological
observations made in the vicinity of Baltimore, 181819, ’22~23, Lewis
Brantz.

Chantiily— Account of storm, June 21, 1857, 8. T. Stuart.

Cumberland.—Temperature observations, January, 1859-May, 1871.
Meteorological observations for December, 1873, (Cumberland Daily
News, January 5, 1874.)

Emmittsburgh.—Motion of clouds and force of wind, 1868, 1872, C. H.
Jourdan.

Newcastle—Weather notes, August, 1871, Lewis H. Smith.

Pikesville—Temperature and rain-fall observations, 1871.

Saint Inigoes.—Notes for June, 1866, James Stephenson.

Sam’s Oreek.—Account of snow-storm, January 11, 1857. Weather
notes, February, 1855, D. W. Naill.

Schellman Hall.—Meteorological tables, 1846-49,

MASSACHUSETTS.

Amherst College—Mean temperature observations, 1839, Professor
Snell.

Birds Island Lighthouse.—Meteorological observations, August, 1543-
November, 1844, John Clark.

Lawrence.—Summary of meteorological report, 1856, John Fallon.

Lunenburgh.—Means of the thermometer, 1858-1868, George A. Cun-
ningham.

New Bedford.—Barometrical means and extremes, 1812-1848, Samuel
Rodman. Meteorological summaries, 1818-1833, Samuel Rodman.
Rain-fall observations, August, 1871, Samuel Rodman.

North Billerica.—W eather notes, Elias Nason.

Piainfield—Thermometrie observations, January-March, 1857, S. F.
Shaw.

Salem.—Temperature observations, 1814-1816, Dr. W. Bentley.

Somerset.—Meteorological observatious and quarterly sammaries,
1871—72,. Elisha Slade. Meteorological report, March, April, 1872,
Elisha Slade. Mean temperature, 1871-72, Elisha Slade. Weather
notes, February, 1871, Elisha Slade.

Springfield.—Meteorological observations, 1865-66, J. Weatherhead.
Meteorological tables, 1848-53, Lucius C. Allen. Amount of rain, and
maximum and minumum temperatures, for summers of 18575859, F.
A. Brewer.

Williamstown.—Plants found in the vicinity of Williams College, P.
O. Chadbourne. Results of meteorological observations for the year
102 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

ending July, 1856, L. Wilson. Thermometric tables deduced from
observations from 1816-1838, reduced and arranged by E. W. Morley.
Woods Hole.—Observed temperature of the water in June, 1873, J.
Edwards. Rain-fall during summer 1855; B. R. Gifford.
Worcester.—F lowering seasons on Hospital Hill, 1839-1855. Meteor-
ological observations at the State Lunatic Asylum, 1855, 1859-61.

MICHIGAN.

Plants of Michigan, Dr. Dennis Cooley.

Adrian.—Maximum and minimum temperature and rain, February,
1869, Lemay Heline.

Alpena.—Mean temperature in 1872, J. W. Paxton.

Ann Arbor.—Abstract of meteorological observations, January—March,
1855, A. Winchell. Abstract of meteorological observations, 1849-
02, L. Woodruff. Meteorological table for 1849, L. Woodraff.

Cold Water.—Rain-fall in April and May, 1872, Harvey Haynes.

Copper Falls.—Abstract of meteorological observations, December,
1855-October, 1856, Charles S. Whittlesey. Meteorological register,
winter 1855~56, Charles S. Whittlesey.

Detroit.—Meteorological observations December, 1848, W. A. Ray-
mond. Climate of Detroit, Bela Hubbard.

Eagle River.—Transcript of meteorological register, November, 1855-
April, 1856, James 8. Morgan. Transcript of meteorological register, |
December, 1854—-October, 1855, Charles Whittlesey.

Flint.—Abstract of meteorological record Flint Scientific Institute,
1855, Dr. D. Clark.

Fort Wilkins.—Monthly means, 184446.

Kalamazoo.—Weather notes, January-April, 1873, Henry H. Mapes.
Weather report, May-June, 1868, Frank Little.

Lake Superior.—Transcript of readings of detached thermometer, sum-
mer of 1849, C. Whittlesey.

. Muskegon.—Meteorological observations, August 7-13, H. A. Pat-
tison.

Ontonagon.—Transcript of meteorological register, November, De-
cember, 1854, Dr. H. S. Taft. Transcript of meteorological register,
December, 1853-January, 1854, A. Stockley.

Oshtemo.—Weather notes, 186671, Henry H. Mapes.

Port Huron.—Weather report, February, 1868.

Portage Lake——Transcript of meteorological reports, December, 1853
—June, 1854, C. H. Palmer.

Saint James.—Beaver Island meteorological dhieiebiGonet September,
1852-August, 1853, James J. Strong.

Saugatuck.—Meteorological observations, February, 1855, L. H,
Streng.

Sault Ste. Marie.—Diary of the weather, September, 1823- June 1825,
Colonel Cutter.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 103

Sugar Isle-—Weather notes, August, 1865, J. W. Paxton.

Thunder Bay Island.—Weather report, March-May, 1866, J. W.
Paxton.

Traverse City.—Quarterly meteorological register for 1873, S. E. Wait.

Upper Peninsula.—Transcript of meteorological register, July—Sep-
tember, 1850, A. Merry weather.

MINNESOTA.

Afton.—Meteorological report, January, 1865, B. F. Babcock.

Beower Bay.—Description of instruments, method of observing, &c.,
Thomas Clark.

Burlington.—Meteorological observations, 1857, 58, A. A. Hibbard.

Chippewa Agency.—Thermometric record, January, 1871, Dr. H. Me-
Mahon.

Enterprise.—W eather report, March, 1871, John Greethurst.

Hennepin.—Profile of barometric curves, December, 1874—January,
1856, J. B. Clough.

Itasca.—Weather record, March, 1865.

Latchfield.—Diagram of halo around moon, H. L. Wadsworth.

New Ulm.—Report for October, 1867, John Kauba.

Waterville—Meteorological reports, April-August, 1866, Lewis Sane

/ MISSISSIPPI.

Brookhaven.—Weather notes, 1867, T. J. R. Keenan.

Columbus.—Meteorological observations, 1855, 5859, James S. Lull. -

Fayette.—List of early and late frosts, 1834-1863, G. C. Armstrong.
Appearance of birds, 1873.

Mount Carmel.—Range of thermometer, January, February, 1870, BE.
H. Newton.

Natchez.—Meteorological notes, 1871, Thomas J. Cockrell. Remarks
on the weather, March, 1868, Robert McCary.

Pass Christian.— Meteorological observations, May—July, 1860,S. Shep-
herd.

MISSOURI.

Charleston.—Meteorological observations, 1868.

Corning.—Weather notes, November, 1872, Horace Martin.

Hast Prairie-—Meteorological report for 1869, A. Miller.

Edina.—Tabular statement of fall of rain, May, 1859-January, 1867,
J. C. Agnew.

Enterprise.—W eather notes, June, 1871, J. Greethurst.

Hannibal.—Meteorological report, April.

High Hill_—Thermometric record, December, 1872, W. S. Chapin.

Lexington.—Memorandum of weather, 1855, W. T. Davis.

Richland.—Records of thermometer, 1869-72, Spencer S. Goodwin.

Rolla.—Registry of periodical phenomena, 1868, Homer Ruggles.
104 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Table showing range of thermometer, April, 1866-March, 1867, H. Rug-
gles.
‘Saint Louis —Maxinum, minimum, and mean temperatures, 1849-1852,
Dr. Engelmann. Mean temperature of every month 1836-1853, G.
Engelmann. Meteorological condition and mortality of Saint Louis,
1855, Dr. Geo. Engelman. Meteorological observations, 184144, Dr.
B. B. Brown. Meteorological observations, 1856, ’70. Meteorological
observations, 1861, ’69, Dr. A. Wislizenus. Meteorology for 1867, Dr.
Geo. Engelmann. Weekly meteorological records, 1872~73, B. D. Krib-
ben. Chart, November, Decernber, 1872; daily means, October, 1872.
Stoutville—Weather report, December, 1871, A. Y. Carlton.
Washburn.—Weather record, spring season of 1871, J. W. Hannah.

MONTANA.
Meteorology for 1859, W. W. Johnson.
NEBRASKA.

Barometrical observations at Fort Kearney, South Pass, and Honey
Lake Wagon-Road, 1857-58, W. H. Wagner. Meteorological observa-
tions at Fort Kearney, Laramie, &c., 1860—64.

De Soto.—Temperature observations, January-March, 1867, Charles
Seltz.

Fontanelle-—Range of thermometer, July, 1868, H. Gibson.

Peru.—Account of earthquake April 24, 1867; J. W. McKenzie.

Plattsmouth—Meteorological observations, January, 1872—January,
1873, A. L. Child.

Santee-Sioux Agency.—Statement of weather, December, 1870-April,
1871, Geo. S. Truman. View of parhelia, November 22, 1871. Account
of dust-storm.

NEVADA.

Aurora.—W eather report for September, 1868, Samuel Young.
NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Depth of rain and melted snow collected in rain-gauges kept by the
W. iL. C. and W. M. Company, in 1870.

Claremont.—Report of rain-fall November, 1867, and April, 1863,
Lewis Stevens.

Concord.— Weather notes, January—March, 1856, W. Prescott.
Hanover.—Barometric and thermometric monthly curves, Dartmouth
Coilege. List of plants growing in vicinity. .

Manchester.—Meteorological observations, 1845-51, S. N. Bell.

New Ipswich.—Weather notes for August, 1865, W. D. Locke.

North Barnstead.—Meteorological abstract, September, 1866, C. H.
Pitman.

Pitts field.—Meteorology of 1872, Geo. R. Drake.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 105

Portsmouth.—Meteorological observations made at the navy-yard,
183942.

Shelburne.—Selected memorandums, relative to the weather, from
1868~72, John Collin.

Whitefield Meteorological observations for the last twenty-two days
of May, 1869, L. D. Kidder.

NEW JERSEY.

Atco.—Register of temperature, 1869-71, H. A. Green. Weather
record, 1870, H. A. Green.

Bloomfield.—Diagram of wind’s variation, January-June, 1855, R. L.
Cooke. ;

Burlington.—Meteorological register, 1819~58.

Freehold.—Register of thermometer in the open air for the year 1860.

Jersey City.——Monthly means of temperature observations, 1871-
73, Thomas T. Howard, jr. Quarterly reports, 1871, Thomas T. How-
ard, jr. Record of observations with maximum thermometers, the bulb
of one touching painted tin and the other bright tin, simultaneously ex-
posed to the direct rays of the sun, Thomas T. Howard, jr. Thermo-
metric record, December, 1870; Thomas T. Howard, jr.

Lambertville—Monthly mean temperatures, 1857~59.

Moorestown.—Summary for August 1868, T. J. Eeans.

Newark.—Maxinun, minimum, and mean temperatures, 1854, 6062,
W. A. Whitehead.

New Germantown.—Monthly reports of range of barometer, 187172,
A.B. Noll. Height of barometer, July, August, 1869-October 1870,
A. B. Noll. Temperature curves, May, July, 1869.

NEW MEXICO.

History, Wealth, and Resources of New Mexico, Hon. S. B. Elkins.
Observations made by James M. Reade, during Pope’s expedition.

Bosque Redondo Reservation.—Climate at Indian farm in 1867.

Hl Paso.—Curve of daily temperature.

Fort Union.—Thermometrie record, 185354.

NEW YORK.

Account of weather at New York Fort, winter of 1746~47. Flow of
the west branch of the Croton River, J. J. R. Croes.

Babylon.—Thermometer observations, May, June, 1872, F. Miller.

Brooklyn.—Diagrams of cycles of cold during winter 184849, E. Mer-
riam.

Buffalo.—Climatology of Buffalo, 1867, W. Ives. Meteorological
memoranda for March, 1865, W. Ives.

Canandaigua.—Taylor’s weather table, 1869.

Chatham.—Meteorological observations, November, 1839-November,
1845, William EH. Oliver.
106 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Depauville—Register of thermometer for January, 1865, Henry Haas.

Hast Henrietta.—Diagram of meteorological monthly means, 1859,
A. S. Wadsworth. Meteorological tables, 1859, A. S. Wadsworth.

Farmingdale—Wind record January-July, 1866, 1867, January—Feb-
ruary, 1868, John C. Merritt, jr.

Fishkill Landing.—Abstract of meteorological register, 1854, W. Hark-
ness.

Flatbush.—Book of meteorological remarks, 1850, Erasmus Hall.

Geneva.—Meteorological observations, 1850-65, Prof. W. D. Wilson.

Glasco.—Weather notes, April, 1873, D. B. Hindricks.

Gouverneur. sre ele OTe ate observations at high-school, 1837-49,
Stephen Allen.

Lake.—Extremes of tomneeesnire observed December, 1856, January,

1857, Peter Reid.

ameaegbureh. —Rain-fall, May, 1827-67, J. W. Heimstreet.

Leyden.—Meteorological report, sean and PEPE ie 1869, C. C.
Merriam.

Little Genessee.—Weather notes, February.

Lockport.—Meteorological observations, 1849-50, J. G. Trevor.

Locust Grove.—Meteorological report, 1868, C. C. Merriam.

Lowville.—Direction of the wind for each hour, day and night, from
October, 1850-June, 1851, David P. Mayhew. Synopsis of meteorolog-
ical register, 1857, J. Carroll House.

Madrid.— Meteorological observations, 185253.

Mohawk—Diagram of relative temperature for each month of 1867,
Dr. James Lewis. Diagram hourly mean temperature, 1867, Dr. James
Lewis. Meteorological record, Dr. James Lewis. Register of self-re-
cording instruments, Dr. James Lewis. Temperature observations,
1867, Dr. James Lewis.

Newburgh.—Thunder-showers, periodical phenomena, &c., in 1866,
George Kimball.

New York.—Abstracts of New York Academy Register, 1852. Account
of solar phenomena and sketch of same, H. P. Smith. Chart showing
influence of impure air and overcrowding, on health of New York, Dr.
W. F. Thoms. Comparative view of temperature of July, 1854~65, and
of weather for first six months of 185565. Course of the epidemic
in New York, 1866. Diagram of thermometrie and barometric observa-
tions at Cooper Union, May, June, 1870, Oran W. Morris. Map show-
ing localities of cholera in New York, May, 1866-December, 1867, Dr.
I’. J. Randall. Mean temperature of seasons, 186970; O. W. Morris.
Meteorological Journal at College Place, May 24, 185 7-June 4, 1862,
A.K.Thatcher. Meteorological remarks to accompany register fe 1875,
O. W. Morris. Notes on the meteorology of penitentiary hospital,
Blackwell’s Island, 1856, Dr. W. Sanger. Probabilities for each moon,
1871. Summary of meteorological observations, 1868, Oran W. Mor-
ris. Weather chart showing effects of meteorological influences on mor-
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 107

tality in New York, Dr. W.F. Thoms. Weather notes, January, 1856,
J.S. Gibbons. Weekly reports of meteorological observations at Cen-
tral Park Observatory, 1867~’73.

Nichols—Weather notes, periodical phenomena, &c., 1857, 1858, R.
Howell.

North Hammond.—Account of earthquake December 18, 1868, C.
A. Wooster. Observations of the weather, January-April, 1866, C. A.
Wooster.

North Volney.—Meteorological report February, 1868, February, 1869,
June, 1869, J. M. Partrick.

Ogdensburgh.—Daily weather observations, January, March, 1855, W.
E. Guest. Measurements of Saint Lawrence, W. E. Guest. Meteorologi-
cal remarks October, 1849-September, 1850.

Ovid.—Register of rain-fall April-July, 1856, J. W. Chickering.

Palisades.—Observations of weather for the year 1868, W.S. Gil-
man, jr.

Penn Yan.—Diagram of daily mean temperature, February, 1855, H.
P. Sartwell. Diagram of fluctuations of barometer December, 1855,
Dr. H. P.Sartwell. Meteorological registers, January, 1857—A pril, 1858,
Dr. H. P. Sartwell. Meteorological registers, 1853 and 1859, Dr. H. P.
Sartwell. Summary of observations for 1873, George R. Youngs.

Rochester.—Meteorology of Rochester, 1829~33. Meteorological ob-
servations 183133, Doctor Main. Meteorological observations, 1856,
W.C. Pratt. Rise of water in Lake Ontario, 1845-1852, C. Dewey.

touse’s Point.—Meteorological journal, 1845-1853, John Bratt.

Saugerties.—Thermometric observations by Rev. R. G. Williams, Jan-
uary, 1863-June, 1865.

Sing Sing.—Rain-fall observations June, 1873-January, 1875, and
comparison of same with records of Croton Aqueduct.

South Hartford.—Periodical phenomena, 1860-65, G. M. Ingalsbe.

Spencertown.—Meteorological abstracts, 1855, C. A. W. Morehoase.

Staten Island.—Meteorological report, 1871, 73, C. Keutgen, jr.

Troy.— Weather notes, 1868-72. Meteorological report January-
February, 1873, J. W. Heimstreet.

Waterford.—Thermometric record, 1856, J. C. House.

West Day.—Weather notes, 1858, Jude M. Young.

Willet’s Point.—Results of hourly observations by the battalion of
engineers, 1868-1872.

NORTH CAROLINA.

Western North Carolina, its agricultural resources, mineral wealth,
climate, salubrity, and scenery, Dr. H. P. Gatchell, Milwaukee, 1870.
Extract from letter to Raleigh Standard, T. L. Clingman.

Clinton.— Meteorological observations, B. F. Grady, jr.

Lenoir.—Meteorological report from the Davenport female college,
May-September, 1869; July-September, 1870. Meteorological report,
October, 1869-June 1870, Lenoir female college.
108 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Murfreesborough.—Record of meteorological observations, A. MeDow-
ell, 185661.

Scuppernong.—List of trees growing in and near Scuppernong, J.
Avery Shepherd.

Westminster.— Meteorological diary June-August 1843, Joel Watkins.

Wilson.—Meteorological observations, 154344, Rev. A. A. Benton.

OHIO.

Amesville.—W eather report, December, 1872, E. H. Branly.

Austinburgh.—Meteorological observations, June—December, 1857,
James D. Herrick.

Belle Centre.—List of flowering plants in the vicinity of Geneva Hall,
Robert Shields.

Bowling Green.—Current weather, February, December, 1866, John
Clarke. Barometrical and thermometrical observations, July—Decet-
ber, 1857, January-March, 1858, W. R. Peck.

Carthagena.— Appendix to meteorological register, casual phenomena,
September, 1870-December, 1873, R. Miiller. Barometric and _ ther-
mometric charts, 1870~73, R. Miiller. Meteorological curves, 1870-73,
R. Miiller.

Cheviot.—Miscellaneous data, winter 185556, E. Hannaford. Reg-
ister of meteorological observations, January-July, 1856; Edward
Kohler.

Cincinnati—Account of weather for April, J. H. Shields. Maximum
and minimum temperature, 1835-1853, Dr. Joseph Ray. Meteorolog-
ical observations, 1860, at Woodward High School, George W. Harper.
Meteorological observations at College Hill, 1814-1848, Jackson.

Cleveland.—Meteorological journal, 1857, G. A. Hyde. Meteorolog-
ical register, 1866,G. A. Hyde. Meteorological report for 1867. Mete-
orological summary, 1858, Edward Colburn.

Dayton.—Report of deaths, June—November, 1873.

Haton.—Summary of observations, January, 1865, Miss O. Larsh.

Hilisborough.—Rain-fall in 1857, J. McD. Matthews. Temperature
and rain-fall observations, 1860, J. McD. Matthews.

Island Creek.—Thermometric record, 1868, Robert Mackey.

Keene.—Account of snow-storm, March 24, 1852.

Kelly’s Island.—Meteorological observations, 1860, George C. Hunt-
ington. Meteorological tables, 1859-1866, George C. Huntington.

Lancaster.—Range of thermometer, May, 1866, J. W. Towson.

Lima.—Weather notes, 1862-1870, Timothy Shroyer.

Mariettaa—Mean temperature of each month from 1868 to 1871, Dr.
George O. Hildreth.

Mount Avburn.—Summary of meteorological observations at the Mount
Auburn Young Ladies’ Institute for 1871.

New Lisbon.—Meteorological reports, 1855, 1856, J. F. Benner.

Newton Falls—Thermometric observations, March, 1871, with dia-
gram, W. King.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROGICALAL MATERIAL. 109

North Lewisburgh.—Meteorological record, 1868.

Portsmouth.—Abstract of thermometric observations, 1824-1831, Dr.
G. B. Hempstead.

Saint Clairsville—Geometrical exemplification of weather, 1819, 1820,
compared with Cincinnati and Washington.

Steubenville-—Meteorological observations for 1865, Joseph B. Doyle,
Thermometric report, 1868, Roswell Marsh. Weather notes, 1563-
1869, Roswell Marsh.

JYoledo.—Annual meteorological synopses for 1865-1569, Dr. J. B.
Trembly.

Urbana.—Meteorological summary for 1859, 1864, M. G. Williams,

OREGON.

Climate of Western Oregon, comparison of differences between
meteorological observations taken at 6 a. m., 12 m., 6, 7, 2 and 9 p. m.,
Louis Wilson.

Astoria.—Monthly means of meteorological observations, 1856-1869,
Louis Wilson.

Columbia River.—Meteorological register, 1851, A. M. Harrison.

Corvallis.—W eather report for the winter of 1865, A. D. Barnard.

Hola.—W eather record, September, 1869, T. Pearce.

Hood River.—Meteorological observ Wins: 186568, 187273, Chas. ©.
Coe. Weather notes September, 1872, Thomas M. Whitcomb.

Mount Hood Station.—Yemperature observations, December, 1872,
Thomas M. Whitcomb.

Oregon City.—Diagram of weather, December, 1851, Rev. George M.
Atkinson. Meteorological observations, 1849, 1850; Rev. George M.
Atkinson. |

Portland.—Meteorological observations, December, 1858—April, 1859,
G. H. Stebbins.

Salem.—Meteorological report, July, 1857, W. Hamilton.

PENNSYLVANIA.
.

Abington.—Mean temperature observations, 1864-1870, Rodman Sis-
son.

Ashland.—Thermometrie record, 1869, A. Custis.

Blooming Grove.—Weather report, March, 1865, J. Grathwohl.

Carlisle-—Meteorological table, 184649.

Ceres.—Meteorological observations, 1835-1852, Mrs. King.

Chester.—Report of a committee of the Delaware County Institute of
Sciences on the great rain storm and flood of August 5, 1843.

Delaware County.—Plants growing in Delaware County, Geo. Smith.

Ephrata.—Periodical phenomena, 1871, 1873, W. H. Spera.

Factoryville—Mean temperature of seasons, 1864—66, R. Sisson.

Fleming.—Abstract of meteorological registers, 1856, E. Brugger.

Germantown.—Abstract from journal, January 8- Ventas 11, 1856,
Chas. J. Wister.
110 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL,

Harvisburgh.—Mean temperature, 1842-1849.

Johnstown.—Registers from self-recording barometer, D. Peelor.

Lancaster Colliery — Annual meteorological reports, 1856, 1858, 1859,
P. Friel.

Lansford.—Height of barometer, December, 1872, C. B. Burch.

Lima.—Meteorological observations, 1857, Marshall Painter.

Manchester.—W eather report, March, 1850, E. Marks.

Meadville—Meteorology for April, 1872,C. M. Burkhalter.

Morrisville—Minimum temperature, 1790-1852.

Nazareth.—Meteorological journal, 1787-1792.

Philadelphia.—Abstract of Girard College observations, 1842~45. An-
nual report on meteorology and epidemics for 1858, Dr. Wilson Jewell.
Barometric and thermometric curves, 1844. Barometical curves from
three and a half years’ hourly observations, 1842-45, at Girard College.
Weather log, 1870-72, F. Horner.

Pittsburgh.—Weather signs, G- Albree.

Reading.—Meteorological observations, 185763, John Heyl Raser.

Shamokin.—Condensed meteorological report, 1855-59, P. Friel.

Shirleysburgh.—Meteorological report, December 25-February 2, James
Caruthers.

Somerset.—Mean temperature at Somerset, Pa., 1844-1859.

Tamaqua.—Barometrical record, January, 1875.

Wellsborough.—Notes of storm of September, 1869, W. H. Cobb.

Westchester.—Meteorological observations, 1855-1873, J. C. Green.

Whitehouse-—Meteorological observations, July, 1856, Edward Kohler.

Williamsport.— Weather notes, April, 1873, J. Emery.

Worthington.—Meteorological observations, January—June, 1859.

York.—Temperature report, July, 1866.

RHODE ISLAND.

Table showing amountof rain and melted snow for each month, 187073.

Providence.—Mean height of the barometrical column at Providence,
A. Caswell. Meteorological diary, July, 1854. Meteorological observa-
tions, 1850, 1852, 1855, 1858, A. Caswell.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Camden.—Account of the meteorology of the great storm, January
18, 1857, Dr. Young.

Charleston.—Abstract of meteorological report, 1855~58, Dr. J. L.
Dawson. Extreme and mean monthly temperature within doors, 1842-
06. Rain-fall, 1738-1759.

Evergreen.—Meteorological report, September, 1858, BH. J. Earle.

Fulton.—Precipitation and cloudiness, 1818-1824, J. Dyson.

CGreenville—Meteorological observations, 1839-1845, Elias Earle.

Pendleton.— Account of mountainous region of South Carolina, Thomas
G. Clemson.
MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 111

-Pomaria.—Meteorological report, November, 1871—-Janvary, 1872, D.
Benjamin Busby.

Saint Helena Island.—A daily journal of the temperature and changes
of the weather, January 6—April 6, 1826, found by Dr. Walker.

Saint John.—A meteorological journal for the year 1860, (Black Oak
Agricultural Society, T. P. Ravenel, secretary, Charleston, 186i.) Meteor-
ological journal, 1851, 1852, 1855, 1857, kept for Black Oak Agricultural
Society, by H. W. Ravenel, secretary.

Waccaman.—Diagrams of mean meteorological elements, 1856, Alex.
Glennie. Meteorological notes, 1855.

Wilkinsville—W eather report, March, April, 1867, Cearles Petty.

TENNESSEE.

Beech Grove.—Weather notes, February and March, 1867.

Dover.— Meteorological observations, 184649, Dr. Farel.

Hlizabethton.—Temperature observations, February, 1868, Charles H.
Lewis. .

Glenwood.—Diagram of annual quantity of rain, 185168, William
Stewart.

Knoxville.—Curves of horary variations of atmospheric presstre,
June, 1854. Meteorological observations at East Tennessee University,
184345.

Memphis.—Abstract of meteorological observations, July, 1869, Id-
ward Goldsmith. Meteorological and nosological report for the tirst six
months of 1857, Dr. Daniel F. Wright.

TEXAS.

Climate of Texas, (Texas the Home for the Emigrant, Austin, 1873.)
Total monthly rain-fall in Victoria County, October, 1872-October, 1873.
Thomas B. Cocke.

Austin.— Meteorological observations, 1857-’70, J. Van Nostrand.

Belmont Farm—Temperature tables, March, April, 1872, T. M. Scott.

Burkeville—TYable of the weather, August, 1850-December, 1859,

N. P. West.

_ Boerne.—Meteorological register, January, February, 1872, J. G.
O’Grady.

Clarksville—Temperatare notes, Cctober and December, 1869, John
Anderson.

Clear Lake——Meteorological observations, July, 1871, George N.
Leoni.

Columbia.—Meteorological observations, Cedar Grove plantation, Jan-
uary, 1867.

Dallas.—Meteorological report, June, 1851-August, 1852, W. A. Ferris.

Galvesion.—Curves of barometer and thermometer, October-Decem-
ber, 1851, February, 1853.

Houston.—Meteorological observations, December, 1869, April-Octo-
112 MISCKLLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

ber, 1870, J. H. Stanley. Meteorological observations, 186266, Dr. A.
M. Potter. Meteorological reports, May, 1869-March, 1870, J. H. Stan-
ley. Meteorological tables, September, 1862—January, 1863. Weather
notes, March, 1867, Miss E. Baxter. .

Kaufman.—Meteorological report, September, November, 1866, James
Brown.

Lavaca.—Meteorological report, December, 1868, January, 1869, L. D.
Heaton.

New Ulm.—Meteorological reports, July, 1872-July, 1873, C. Runge.

Oakland.—W eather notes, February, March, 1871, F. Simpson.

Pin Oak.—Meteorological table, 1856, W. H. Gantt.

Red River County.—Meteorological observations, July, 1871, Allen
Martin.

Reoundtop.—Meteorological table, 1859. .

San Antonio.—Chart showing rate of mortality, mean temperature,
and relative humidity of air, 1873, F. Pettersen. Mean temperature and
rain, 1868S~71, F. Pettersen. Mean temperature, humidity, and rain,’
1873. Table of mean temperature, humidity, and rain-fall, 1873, Dr. F.
Pettersen. Table showing number of times wind blew from each direc-
tion in 1873, F. Pettersen. Temperature, humidity, and rain-fall, 186869,
Frederick Pettersen. Wind’s progress represented by a polygon, Dr.
I. Pettersen.

Washington—Memorandum for 1856.

UTAH.

Meteorological journal of a journey from Fort Leavenworth to Salt
Lake City, 1855, David A. Burr.

Coalville—Meteorological observations, 1865, 1870, Thomas Bullock.
Register of maximum and minimum temperature, 1869 , september, Ae
January, 1872, T. Bullock.

ore —Weather report, February, March, 1872, James Lewis.

Mount Carmel.Weather report, December, Ios SR 1872, C.
Ei. Bolton. Weather report, October, 1873, W. J. Earl. Weather report,
February, 1873, D. B. Fackrell.

Saint Mary’s—Register of maximum and minimum temperature, June,
1865-August, 1867, Thomas Bullock.

Salt Lake City——Meteorological observations, 1850, Captain Stans-
bury. Weather report, 1868, William Fuller.

VERMONT.

Brandon.—W eather notes for January, 1865, R. V. Marsh.

Burlington.—Meteorological observations, 1828-1855.

Bast Montpelier steorologweal observations, 1855, B. I. Wheeler.

Fayetteville—Record of meteorological observations by Gen. Martin
Field, 1826-1834.

Avillington.—Sketch of mountains around Killington, Hosea Doten.

MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. Bd ae

Lunenburgh.—Meteorological table, observations from 1848-1872, H.
A. Cutting.

Middlebury.—Account of earthquake, December 18, 1867, H. A. Shel-
don. .

Norwich.—Meteorological report, April-May, 1856, A. Jackman,
Weather notes, January, 1872, S. B. Phelps.

Stanstead.—Account of storm, December, 1856, January, 1857, Moses
S. Field.

West Charlotte——Observations on clouds, March, 1870, M. E. Wing.
Periodical phenomena, record of snow-storms, phenomena of dew, &c.,
M. E. Wing. Weather notes and meteorological phenomena, 1869-71,
M. KE. Wing.

Woodstock.—Meteorological observations, December, 1873, Hosea
Doten. Record of maximum and minimum temperature for November,
1867, L. A. Miller. Measurements of rain and melted snow, 1857, Charles
Marsh.

VIRGINIA.

Account of destructive storm, September 6, 1769.

Animals found in Madison County.

Diaries, 1844-1860.

Capeville.—Statement of temperature, 1870, Emma C. Townsend.

Culpepper.—Temperature, 1869-1872, A. Taliaferro.

Fort Monroe.—Yemperature observations, 1825-1554,

Garysville—Meteorological table, 1856, Dr. T. I’. Beckwith.

Glade Creek.—Account of storm of January, 1857, Dr. Henry M. Price.

Glasgow Station Temperature observations, 1866~68, R. J. Davis.

Gosport.—Meteorological table kept at navy-yard dispensary, 1846.

Piedmont.—Notes of observations, August, 1871, Franklin Williams.

Portsmouth. Wind diagrams, February, 1852, N. B. Webster.

Powhatan Hill.—KRains of 1867, E. T. Tayloe. Weather notes, August,
1866, May, 1867, May, October, December, 1868, 1869-1873, E, T.
Tayloe.

Rose Hill.—Meteorological statement, 1859, Geo. W. Upshaw.

Rougemont.—Account of snow-storm January 18, 1857, thermome-
tric observations, December, 1855-December, 1856, Geo. C. Dickinson.

Salem.—W eather-log, 186871, 'T. Horner, jr.

Smithfield.—Meteorological journal, 1855, Dr. John R. Purdie.

Surry.—Tabular view of meteorological phenomena in the winter of
1867, B. W. Jones.

Tribrook Farm.—Weather notes, 186768, W. H. Ruffner.

Washington College—Barometrical observations, March, 1869, W. H.
Rufiner ; temperature reports, April-May, 1869, Professor Campbell.

Wytheville—Meteorological observations, October 31, 1872, J. A.
Brown.

Barometer and thermometer curves 1868-1872.

88
114 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL..MATERIAL.

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

Cape Disappointment.—Meteorological observations, 1864~68.
Cathlamet.—Notes for December, 1873, Chas. McCall. Weather notes,
September, 1868-September, 1869, December, 1873, Chas. McCall.
Union Ridge.—Weather notes, January-March, 1871, Thos. M. Whit-
comb.
WEST VIRGINIA.

Temperature observations, January-July, 1868, 8. J. Stump.

Weather notes, March, April, 1866, W. H. McDowell.

Kanawha Salines.—Depths of rain, April, 1857—April, 1858, W. C.
Reynolds. Meteorological observations, 1828-1842, 1856 L. D. S. Ruff-
ner.

Sheets’ Mills —Table showing highest and lowest range of thermome-
ter, 1856-1865, Hendricks Clark.

Weston.—Meteorological reports, 1869-73, Benjamin Owen. Meteor-
ological report, December, 1873. Temperature observations, May, June,
1870,

WISCONSIN. ;

Map of Wisconsin, with lines showing effect of Lake Michigan on
temperature, I. A. Lapham.

On the climate of the country bordering on the great North American
lakes, with map, I. A. Lapham.

Baysfield.—Meteorological observations, March, 1866, Andrew Tate.

Beaver Dam.—Account of hail-storm, May, 1855, Reuben Smith.

Beloit—Abstract of meteorological observations, 1873, A. A. Blais-
dell.

Detroit—Annual summary of weather record for 1873, F.W. Higgins.

Hartford. gical observations, 185962, Hopewell Cox. .

Hingham.— Meteorological reports, 1867, John de Lyser.

La Pointe—Thermometric record, July-September, 1856, Edwin Ellis.

Le Roy.—Remarks on the weather, August, 1873, E. H. Benton.

Manitowoc.—Amount of rain and melted snow, 1863-72, Jacob Liips.
Das Gedeihen der Pflanzen, Jacob Lups. Meteorological table showing
the temperature from 1852-1871 inclusive, Jacob Lups. Meteorological
observations, October, 1851-December, 1856, Jacob Lups. Meteorologi-
cal tables, 1852-1866, Jacob Lups.

Milwaukee. bate Sentence tide deduced from hourly observations i in
October, November, and December, 1868, and January and February,
1869, I. A. Lapham. Table showing mean temperature, 1537-1864, I. A.
Lapham.

New Danemora.—Meteorological observations, 1858, Emil Haenser.

Odanah.—Register of thermometric observations, November, 1855-
March, 1856, Dr. Myron ‘Tompkins.

Platteville— Meteorological abstracts, January and June, 1855, J. L.
Pickard.

MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 115

Racine.—Meteorological observations, November, 1855-August, 1856,
HE. Seymour.

Summit.—Meteorological observations, Tease Sentenhien 1850, E.
Spencer.

Wautoma.—Meteorological notes, April, 1870, Jonathan Spaulding.
Statement of weather, April, 1866-March, 1870, J. Spaulding.

WYOMING TERRITORY.

Meteorological notes, January, February, 1871.

Atlantic City——Meteorological observations, 187172, Geo. H. Lewis.

Fort Laranie-—Hourly observations of thermometer, January 4—Jan-
uary 7, 1864, Colonel Collins.

Laramie City.—Account of climate, Dr. H. L. Latham.

POLYNESIA.
SANDWICH ISLANDS.

Meteorological observations, 1846~47, Dr. W. Hildebrand. Account
of voleanic disturbances, Dr. W. Hildebrand.

Hilo.—Thermometrie record, June, 1852-1853, Dr. H. M. Lyman.

Honolulu.—Meteorological observations, 1868-72, apt. Daniel Smith.
Meteorological observations, 186972, Mrs. Dr. E. Hofman.

Lahainaluna.—Meteorological observations, April-June, 1844.

SOUTH AMERICA.
BOLIVIA.

San Luis Potosi.—Diagram of temperature observations at 6 a. m. and

2 and 10 p. m.
ECUADOR.

Guayaquil_—Meteorological observations, October, 1868, A. Destruze.

GUIANA.
British Guiana.
Georgetown.—Daily mean of meteorological elements at Georgetown
observatory, January—June, 1854, February, 1864, P. Sandeman.
Dutch Guiana.

Paramaribo.—Maximum and minimum temperature, August, 1859, C.
J. Hering. Temperature and rain-fall observations, June 6-December
15, 1867, January-July, 1869. Werkundige warmemingen te Paramaribo,
1868—69.

PARAGUAY.

Asuncion.—Meteorologieal observations, November, December, 1833,
Klem. E. Hopkins.
116 MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

PERU.

Arica.—Meteorological observations, 1854-’55, W. W. Evans.
Yquitos—Meteorological records, 1871-74, V. Galt. Summary of ob-
servations, 1871-72,
VENEZUELA.

Caracas.—Register of meteorological observations.

Colonia Tovar.—Diagrams and tables of meteorological observations,
1854-1856.

La Guayra.—Temperature at the port of La Guayra, October, 1872.
Meteorology and statistics, September 16-30, November 1-16, 1869, C. H.
Loehr.

Barometrical observations taken on journey to interior, Dr. A. Ernst.

WEST INDIES, ETC.
AZORES.
Meteorological observations at Saint Michael in 1874, Thos. Hickling.
BAHAMAS.
Meteorological tables, January, 1841—-August, 1845, J. C. Lee.
Meteorological journal at public library, Bahamas, 1858-59.
Turl’s Island.—Meteorological observations taken in January, 1865,

at United States consulate. Meteorological observations, July—October,
1867. Observations taken at Turk’s Island, 1860.

BARBADOS.

Meteorological observations taken at Little Island, Saint Joseph, 1873.

Rain-fall in Barbados, 1872~73.

Rain-fall and meteorological observations, 1873.

BERMUDA.

Abstract of the Royal Engineers’ meteorological observations at Ber-
muda, 1859.

Extract from the meteorological report of observations taken at Cen-
tral Signal-Station, 1860-64.

CUBA.

Havana.—Observaciones meteorologicas, 1842, L. R. Gibbes.

HAY TI.

Port au Prince.—Extrait des registres de la station météorologique
sur la quantité de pluie annuelle qui tombe au Port au Prince, 1867,
(Moniteur, 15 aotitt, 1868.) Sur la pluie tombée au Port au Prince en
1868, et sur la temperature, (Le Moniteur, février, 1869.) Sur la tem-
pérature du Port au Prince, (Moniteur, samedi, 14 novembre, 1865.)

MISCELLANEOUS METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 11%

JAMAICA.

Up Paak Camp, meteorological observations, January—March, 1856.
ST. CROIx.

Notice of earthquake, March 19, 1868, E. H. Perkins.

ST. MARTIN.
Notice of earthquakes, January, 1869.
MISCELLANEOUS AND UNKNOWN LOCALITIES.

Abstract of logs and observations taken at sea.

Account of meteorological observations in New Granada, Central
America, Mexico, and Alabama, A. Cornette.

Curvas correspondientes, de Abril de 1866.

Map of Polar Sea, illustrative of acquired facts, M.S. Fields.

Maximum, minimum, and mean temperature, 1871.

Meteorological observations, 1829.

Meteorological observations, 1870, G. C. Doane.

Meteorological observations, April, 1855-March, 1857.

Meteorological observations at sea, 1807-1812.

Meteorological observations, June, 1847-April, 1849.

Meteorological observations, registered on board yacht Fox, June,
1857-September, 1859, F. L. McClintock.

Meteorological observations, October, 1867.

Meteorological record, July-September, 1822.

Meteorological record, December.

Meteorological report of United States frigate United States, April-
July, 1844.

Meteorological report of United States revenue steamer Wyanda,
May-October, 1868.

Periodical phenomena, 1866.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. :

The executive committee of the Board of Regents respectfully sub-
mit the following report in relation to the funds of the Institution, the
receipts and expenditures for the year 1874, and the estimates for the
year 1875:

Statement of the fund at the beginning of the year 1875.

The amount originally received as the bequest of James

Smithson, of England, deposited in the Treasury of the

United States, in accordance with the act of Congress of

Areust LOOT BE6 2 es 2 Se eR ee eee eee $515, 169 00
The residuary legacy of Smithson, received in 1865, depos-

ited in the Treasury of the United States, in accordance

with the act of Congress of February 8, 1867.......... 26, 210 63
Total bequestor Smmihsow F424 eee ee ee 541,379 63

Amount deposited in the Treasury of the United States, as
authorized by act of Congress of February 8, 1567, de-
rived from savings of income and increase in value of

INVESHMENTS:-- 425 <1s ese te ee eee eae cee ee ane 108, 620 37
Amount received as the bequest of James Hamilton, of
Garlisles Pas 5 fF tte i ee ese eos eee ee eee 1,000 00

Total permanent Smithson fund in the Treasury of the
United States, bearing interest at 6 per cent., payable
semi-annually inveold .- 32242 een eee see pe sciseee 651, 000 00
In addition to the above there remains of the extra fund
from savings, &¢., in Virginia bonds and certificates,
viz: Consolidated bonds, $58,700 ; deferred certificates,
$29,575.07; fractional certificate, $50.13: total, $88,125.20;

TAM AOC EG << ss stk Ve Hie eee re oe Rie 39, 000 60
Cash balance in the United States Treasury at the begin-

ing of the year 1875, for current expenses .......--...- 15,909 99
Amount due from First National Bank, Washington,

$4,112.43, (present value. unknown)... 2. 2-. 2.04 {26 6% eee eee

Total Smithson funds 15th January, 1875 ......-.. $701, 909 99
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 119

The coupons on the Virginia bonds held by the Institution were sold
on the 19th May, 1874, by Riggs & Co., with the following result :

Pe ZOO) Vir ointar COUPONS, At, hie tacet- 2 siaisielere' 2 22 so ee ose ae $925 50
$2,322 Virginia coupons, at 77 ..-.-.-.---. mee: Sse, 1,787 94

2,713 44
Mess char @es anc sk oxiccs os sakes sees = ch we 17 G1

ee

$2, 695. 83

This amount was deposited with the Treasurer of the United States
on account of the current expenses of the Institution for the year.

The value of the Virginia bonds held by the Institution has increased
during the year about $2,000.

Coupons due July 1, 1874, and January 1, 1875, are still uncollected,
and will form part of the income for the year 1875.

It was stated in the last report that at the time of the suspension of
the First National Bank of Washington, (19th September, 1873,) where
the current funds of the Smithsonian had been deposited, there were
$8, 224.87 to the credit of the Institution; and that on the 11th of No-
vember, 1873, a dividend of 30 per cent., or $2,467.46, had been received,
leaving a balance of $5,757.41 due. A second dividend on this deposit
was made on the 7th of April, of 1874, of $1,644.97, still leaving
$4,112.43 due the Institution, which it is hoped will be received at least
in part during the coming year.

Statement of the receipts and expenditures in 1874:

RECEIPTS.

Interest on $650,000 from the United States, 6 per cent.,

C6) UR a a a Fea ee tog Sars $39, 000 60
Interest on $1,000 from the Hamilton bequest, from 24th

February, 1874, to 3lst December, 1874 .......---..--- 50 88
Premium on gold 30th June, 1874, 110j,; and 3lst Decem-

ber, 1874, 1124, (less commission) ......:-.-----.------ 4,308 30
Interest on Virginia stock, coupons sold, (9th May, 1874). 2,695 83

Twenty per cent. dividend from First National Bank, (7th.

JEN ga Wie) mae gc anaes ae a ay eS, Crip eae 1, 644 97

Metalerecerpyisiit ats see ee oe aot Nea 2s Ss « 47, 700 03
EXPENDITURE.

Total expenditure from the Smithson income in 1874...... 44, 016 72

Balance unexpended of the annual income which is includ-
ed in the cash balance in the Treasury, ($15,909.99) ..-. 3,683 31
120 REPORT OF THE EXECUL{VE COsMIITEE.

Statement of expenditure in detail from the Smitison income, 1874.

Building.
epairsof the building ~~ essec: ste se $3, 507 66

Barniture and fimhires as ise w=) ae hs
—-—-—— $4, 225 39
General expenses.

Meetings of the dboard e256 be ge oes ee ee 312 87
Lighting thé balding»... -5 2 6 nce sees a eho 523 15
Heating the! Duulding ....<..6--2.-- inopineeotee 305 47
POStaS Gee yee anata eels pals set SL 07
NlahlOBenyedies weet cca bag See sine) AR 492 64
ANCIGENGUS as wise. =e te sa eon ae meee 817 17
palanies and Clerlkehire: 2. e2 seiseu = =e hinrs se eee 12,730 00
PUTCHASE OF DOOKS 5 ..> sieictae'm <jsne 25 spe steer 457 43

——-——-— 15,719 80
Publications and researches.

SMipisonian Oontribevions,....-.- >.<. 5 tam eieel- 7, 022 98

Miscellaneous collections .... .-...:........-. 7, 363 67

BepULts oc en. ERs ee ee sae 664 92

Other publications........ Peas ee) ea Sea a 93 40

Meteorology and researches ......-....-.....<- 881. 97

AD PATAUUG sn < - o<.-/<0 <i op poe ee resis Sti as teat) py Ly kt BO

DaMOPAbOLry, W..\~ .:- << +a 2 Fey or ye 9 10

PCCD EIDE SP tons 5 REZ arete otons, Aeroes Rie Marne aie 600 00

——-——-— 17,778 64

Exchanges.

Literary and scientific exchanges, & .........--- Rael eae 5, 589 89
Museum.

Incidentals in addition to Government appropriation... .--. 703 00

$44, 016 72

As usual, the Institution has during the past year made temporary

advances for the payment of freight on Government collections, pur-

chase of instruments for exploring parties, &e., the repayments of

which, together with the amount received from sales of publications,

have been deducted from the several items of the foregoing expendi-
tures, as follows:

Repayments.
From exchanges, repayments for freight, &c.............-. $1,205 14
Pio apesnase, PEDAVINGIGS 2.2 neces wipe ete esl o pe iw ae eee 45 45
WTON TESEATCUCS, TEP Ay MICUUS). 5 occ foes hen ok « aoe pie ae 95 76
From Smithsonian Contributions, sales..................-. 115 60
From miscellaneous collections, sales...... ...-.. .-2s---.+, 157 67
From salaries, repayment of advance...........-..---..--- 40 00
From incidentals, sales of old material...............0-.--- 7 27

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. Lt

The following are the estimates of receipts and appropriations of the
Smithson fund for the year 1875:

Estimated receipts.

Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 30th

IE LS TOs IN, POM. so. Aehatevars Seas ehs si « $19, 500
Interest on the permanent fund, receivable 31st De-
eComber, S707 10) Olds. 4. 6/5 se Salasyeinsae ee ee: 19, 500
Interest on the Hamilton fund.............-.-...- 60
Probable premium on gold, tO per cent...-..-...--- 3, 906
IMGeEresl OnMViLeMiayPONGS- ~ ./ 2s =~ - = -i- oe ot - = - 2, 000
——_—— $44,966
Provisional appropriations.
OCR TeR LUV CHIT Cats yack o, Pore ty nis. c/s?» aise = epee =) 16S 2, 000
For general expenses. .....- Sha Set UAE SERS LNG eS 14, 000
For publications and researches ...........-.---- 20, 000
DEA OXCHAD SES tarp sac eas Sor tiatcreraconasign see eo as J Bee 7, 000
Bor bOOkSs ANG apparatus... s22<1- 2. ects se cee 1, 000
oe CCOMtIMPONCIOS(S |. scjomin $a vei. Adie aes eho tata 966
—-—— _ $44, 966

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The annual appropriation of Congress for the preservation of the
Government collections intrusted to the care of the Institution has
been continued during the past year, and an additional sum of
810,000 has been granted for the fitting up and completing the cases in
the new halls required for these collections.

The latter appropriation has been expended in the construction of wal-
nut table-cases with glass tops and sides, for the exhibition of the smaller
ethnological specimens in the upper hall, and for large cases for mam-
mals and fishes in the lower hall. The latter cases have also been so
constructed as to serve as bases or platforms for restorations of the
megatherium, hadrosaurus, glyptodon, &c., thus utilizing a large space,
and forming a very striking and imposing feature of the collections.

The following is a tabular statement of the condition of the Museum
funds:

For preservation of the Government collections.
Balance unexpended of appropriation for the

fiscal year ending June 30, 1874. (Statutes at
Large, vol. 17, p. 518) See Report for 1873,

PEA MUD) or Slope OSE SA SACS Soe $7, 500 00
Amount expended to December 31, 1874. (See
MI SCUEIs OUTTA: Al, Ps) ete) m2 ans aye x5 <= 52 7,500 00

reer nee eeeee Fake ests 9 eT RLC SI eM FU SA ls OG oe ess Nothing.
122 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTE2.

Appropriation for fiscal year ending June 30,

1875:': (Statutes, 1874, sp "216) Ve SOF $20, 000 00
Expenditure from July 1, 1874, to January 11,
1875. (See Museum Journal A, p.106)...... 12,011 38
Balancesnempentied es. Hea eee ea ase ee ene $7, 983 62

For fitting up halls for Government collections.

Balance unexpended of appropriation for fiscal
year ending June 30, 1874. (Museum Journal

ADs OLD) pets. amas ose oe nese oe ee eee $5, 550 92
Expenditure on this account in 1874. (Museum
Jeurnal eA, ADA) cscs Reka «oes eens 5, 500 92
Biatbances.t: 8 cei et Se Se ee Sree renee ea oie eee Nothing.

For steam-heating apparatus for Museum.

Balance unexpended of appropriation for fiscal
year ending June 30, 1874. (Museum Journal

VINEE VE Ti3 701) ge ee ees Aaa os OOo 3, 462 03
Expenditure on this account in 1874. (Museum
ou pe nee eae eA SP Rees een ease esa. 3, 462 03
WS RIANCE) ae ence ae DOE cect Ree Se tees fetter cre ohcts ae Nothing.

For fitting up and completing cases for collections.

Appropriation for fiscal year ending June 30,

187. (Statutes, 1874, p. 216)... Gases 10, 000 00
Expended on this account in 1874. (Museum
JournaleAs p- 106) 2-2 -:13g 21k eo see sees 10, 000 00
BSlanCe cose meee 2 eet chaps gover the ih ois ede eee ‘. Nathing.

Fram the above statement it appears that of the congressional appro-
priations for the National Museum, the only amount unexpended and
now available for the collections is $7,982.62. The estimates submitted
by the Iustitution to Congress for the fiscal year ending 30th June,
1876, were as follows:

For the preservation of the collections......-. $25, 000 00
For fitting up and completing the cases.....-. 10,000 00
Total amount required 7-02-62 ei wise.ncett woRepee: $35, 000 00

We have no reason to doubt that this sum, or the greater part of it,
will be appropriated by Congress during the present session.
All the payments on account of the National Museum have been made
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 123

bud

during the past year, directly by the disbursing officer of the Depart-
ment of the Interior, on the presentation of vouchers approved by the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

The executive committee have examined five hundred and seventeen
receipted vouchers for payments made from the Smithson income
during the year 1874, and four hundred and seventy similar vouchers
for payments made from the congressional appropriations for the Na-
tional Museum, making a total number of vouchers of nine hundied and
eighty-seven.

All of the vouchers have the approval of the Seeretary of the Institu-
tion, and a certificate setting forth that the materials and property and
services rendered were for the institution, and to be applied to the pur-
poses specified.

As authorized by a resolution of the board 26th May, 1874, the com-
mittee have also examined the account-books of the National Museum
and find the balance of $7,988.62 to the credit of the appropriation for
the “preservation of the collections” remaining on the 11th January,
1875, to correspond with the certificate of the disbursing clerk of the
Department of the Interior.

The quarterly accounts current, bank-book, check-book, and ledger,
have also been examined and found to be correct, showing a balance in
the care of the Treasurer of the United States 15th January, 1875, of
$15,909.99.

Respectfully submitted.

PETER PARKER,
GEO. BANCROFT,

Executive Committee.
WA*HINGTON, January 23, 1875.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, D. C., January 20, 1875.

In accordance with a resolution of the Board of Regents, fixing the
third Wednesday of January as the time for the commencement of the
annual session, a meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Wedunes-
day, 20th of January, 1875, at 7 o’clock p. m., at the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. /

Present, the Chancellor, Chief-Justice Waite; Hon. Henry- Wilson,
Vice-President of the United States; Senators H. Hamlin and A. A.
Sargent; Representive Hon. E. R. Hoar; Hon. Peter Parker, Prof.
Asa Gray, L. L. D., Prof. H. Coppée, L. L. D., Hon. George Bancroft,
and Professor Henry, the Secretary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Excuses for non-attendance were received from Prof. Dana, Doctor
Maclean, Hon. Mr. Stevenson, and Hon. Mr. Cox.

The Secretary presented the following letter from General Sherman,
which was read:

HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE UNITED SPATES,
Saint Louis, Mo., November 12, 1874.

My DEAR PROFESSOR: Having removed my headquarters and resi-
dence from Washington to Saint Louis, it is proper that I should resign
the post I have held for a few years as a Regent of your most honored
Institution. I beg, therefore, that you will construe this letter as a
tender of my resignation to the Board of Regents, or to such official as
can accept the same.

In thus severing my official connection with the Smithsonian, I beg
leave to express to you and your associates my sense of the noble task in
which you are engaged, and of my earnest prayer that the Institution
under your management will continue to fulfil its magnificent design.

A knowledge of science, that is of the laws of nature, is so intimately
connected with the advance of higher civilization, that Mr. Smithson
displayed unusual wisdom in so endowing his institution that it should
give its principal labor to the increase of knowledge, to accumulating
and securing new knowledge to be added to the old, which should be
a special province of the universities of the whole earth. I therefore
coincide with you perfectly in your special construction of the will, and
hope that the Regents will continue to construe it literally, as a legacy
sacred in its nature and beneficial in the highest degree.

I beg you will assure your associates that among the many causes of

eS es ee
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. 125

regret at leaving Washington, none impresses me more than that which
forces me to sever my relations with the Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution.
With great respect, your friend and servant,
W. T. SHERMAN,

General.
Prof. JOSEPH HENRY,

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

On motion of Dr. Parker, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary or the Institution acknowledge the
receipt of the letter from General Sherman, and express to him the
high appreciation of the members of the board of his services as a
Regent, and their regret at the termination of his official connection
with the Institution.

The Secretary stated that Congress had passed a joint resolution
electing Hon. George Bancroft, who had recently become a permanent
resident of Washington, as Regent to fill the vacancy occasioned by the
resignation of General Sherman.

On motion of Mr. Wilson, it was

Resolved, That the vacancy in the EXECUTIVE COMMITTER, occasivaed
by the resignation of General Sherman, be filled by the appointment of
Hon. GEORGE BANCROFT.

The Secretary presented his annual report of the operations and con-
dition of the Institution, which was read in part. He also presented
exhibits of the finances, which were referred to the Executive Com-
mittee.

The Secretary stated that the annual accounts had been made up to
the 15th of January, the date at which the semi-annual interest was
received from the Treasury Department.

Dr. Parker, from the Hxecutive Committee, presented a preliminary
report on the condition of the Smithson fund, and the receipts and
expenditures for the past year, and stated that all the vouchers for pay-
ments had been carefully examined by the committee, who would sub-
mit a full report at the next meeting.

The Secretary explained several features of the appropriations and
expenditures of the year, the deposits made with the Corcoran Art
Gallery, Army Museum, Department of Agriculture, Se.

A statement of the circumstances attending a theft of $154.50 from
the office of the Secretary of the Institution, was made by Prof. Henry,
and, on motion of Mr. Sargent, it was

Resolved, That the amount of the loss ($154.50) be charged in the
account to “ incidental expenses.”

The reading of the report of the Secretary was then resumed.

At the suggestion of the Secretary, it was

Kesolved, That a committee, consisting of Professors Gray and
126 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Coppée, be appointed to examine and. report on the present condition
of the museum, especially the ethnological department.

The board then adjourned to meet on Saturday evening, January 23,
at 7 o’clock.

WASHINGTON, January 23, 1875.

A meeting of the Board of Regents was held this day, at 7 o’clock
p.m.

Present, the Chancellor, Chief-Justice Waite. Senators H. Hanlin, J.
W. Stevenson, and A. A. Sargent; Representatives 8S. 8S. Cox, E. R.
Hoar, G. W. Hazelton; Hon. Peter Parker, Prof. Asa Gray, Prof. H.
Coppée, Hon. George Bancroft, and the Secretary, Professor Henry.

The minutes of the last meeting were approved.

Dr. Parker presented the annual report of the Executive Committee,
which was read and, on motion of Mr. Hamlin, adopted.

Dr. Gray, from the special committee to examine the museum, pre-
sented the following report, which, on motion of Mr. Sargent, was ac-
cepted and ordered to be printed in the proceedings of the board:

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE MUSEUM.

Your committee appointed to examine the museum has devoted as
much time to the examination as the members of it could secure during
the past two or three days, and would respectfully offer a few remarks
upon its condition. It is not supposed that any full or detailed report
is expected. We will confine our observations to the ethnological
museum, the only one we have found time to inspect with any care.

At the previous session of the board, about nine months ago, the
large upper hall had barely been made ready to receive the ethnological
and archeological collections, and a portion of the wall-cases only were
in place. The progress that has been made in the interval is very grati-
fying. The hall, although not filled, bas been well supplied with glazed
cases, for the most part excellent in plan and construction ; and the very
large and varied collection of objects is arranged in them and dis-
played to public view. There is still much to be done in perfecting the
the arrangement and the labeling, and there are recent accessions to be
added. But even now, it is a great pleasure to see how well cared for
and how important this museum is, and how much it interests a numer-
ous throng of visitors. In this respect it seems likely to be even
more attractive than the museum of natural history underneath. It is
only when an ethnological collection is brought together upon a com-
prehensive scale, and is well arranged upon some intelligible principle,
that any one realizes its interest and importance.

The arrangement which is, as we may say, technological rather than
geographical, appears to be the one best adapted for such a museum —
most useful to the serious student as well as most instructive and
curious to the general visitor. Objects of the same class or subservient
JOULNAL OF PROCEEDINGS. a yar

to the same purpose are brought together from whatever country, and
of whatever age. Articles of dress, ornament, or food, implements for
their preparation, utensils for domestic use, nets, weapons, and the like
thus illustrate each other.

Among the special collections, newly put together, we were much in-

terested in the very full one of the food, especially the vegetable food
of the different tribes of the North American Indians; in the collection
of their cradles or analogous appliances for the care of infants; in the
collection of musical instruments, or what was intended to answer the
purpose of music; and in the fine pottery of the Arizonian and other
tribes.
- The museum is especially rich in stone implements of the North
American continent, mainly prehistoric; also in specimens of the sur-
vival of the art of working stone weapons of the finest kind, in some of
our native tribes.

In the further development of the museum it may be thought best to
arrange the archeological specimens in a separate series, but, as to
America, it is not easy to draw a line between what is prehistoric, and
' what belongs essentially to the present era.

A great number of duplicates will soon be ready for exchange. Be-
sides proper duplicates, freely available for exchange, there is, wherever
the materials and the subject admit of it, a selected series carefully
packed away in the lower part of the cases, or directly underneath the
typical specimens or specimens selected for exhibition. For publie in-
spection in very large museums it is now a recognized principle that -
the half is better than the whole; that typical specimens, those that
best exemplify the leading forms or plans, should be exhibited in prefer-
ence to full series of gradations and modifications. But the serious in-
vestigator needs all the forms, and this selected students’ series, which
is mostly out of sight, is carefully preserved for, and is accessible to,
his use.

A great deal of important ethnological matter has of late years been
collected in the form of photographs, and it seems obviously important
that such collections should be systematically made and preserved, is
not on the large scale, yet in the compact and effective form of stereo-
scopic views. If the figures, the costumes, and the dwellings of our
various tribes still remaining are not perpetuated in this way very
_ promptly, much which is now easy to preserve will be irretrievably lost
to the future.

In this connection we would suggest that it might be well to provide
a series of figures characteristic of the races of men, and especially of
the North American races and tribes. This would require considerable
room for exhibition and a great deal of judgment as to the mode of
getting up the material to be employed, and the extent to which this
kind of illustration should be introduced.

This museum is very rapidly increasing, and it is remarkable that the
128 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

accessions are made almost without pecuniary cost. Hardly any have
been purchased. They came from scientific or curious explorers, whom
the Smithsonian Institution is everywhere exciting and furthering, and
from Government expeditions commissioned mainly for other important
objects; and the facilities in the way of transportation controlled by
the Institution are such that even the cost of their delivery in Wash-
ington is trifling.

It will be interesting to know to what extent the museums which
the Smithsonian Institution has in charge are visited by the public.
The committee would suggest the use of a recording turnstile at the
entrance, by which the number of visitors might be indicated and pre-
served with very little trouble.

Respectfully submitted.

ASA GRAY.
HENRY COPPEE.

Doctor Parker, in behalf of the Executive Committee, stated that the
heating-apparatus now employed was found insufficient in extremely cold
weather to warm the building, particularly the new ethnological hall,
and suggested the propriety of asking Congress to appropriate $2,500
to increase the means for heating the building.

Mr. Bancroft remarked that this was not asking anything for the
benefit of the Smithsonian Institution, but for the comfort of the people
of the United States who come here to see the great collections of the
Government, and who should certainly be provided with the means of
doing this without the danger of taking cold.

On motion of Mr. Bancroft it was—

Resolved, That Congress be requested to make an appropriation of
$2,500 to increase the heating capacity of the apparatus used to warm
the rooms occupied by the Government collections.

The reading of the report of the Secretary was then continued.

On motion of Mr. Cox, it was—

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be accepted and transmitted
to Congress as usual.

The board then adjourned sine die.
LAPLACE.

EULOGY BY ARAGO BEFORE THE FRENCH ACADEMY.
TRANSLATED BY PROF. BADEN POWELL.

Having been appointed to draw up the report of a committee of the
Chamber of Deputies, which was nominated in 1842, for the purpose of
taking into consideration the expediency of a proposal submitted to the
chamber by the minister of public instruction, relative to the publica-
tion of a new edition of the works of Laplace at the public expense, I
deemed it to be my duty to embody in the report a concise analysis of
the works of our illustrious countryman. Several persons, influenced,
perhaps, by too indulgent a feeling toward me, having expressed a wish
that this analysis should not remain buried amid a heap of legislative
documents, but that it should be published in the Annuaire du Bureau
des Longitudes, I took advantage of this circumstance to develop it
more fully, so as to render it less unworthy of public attention. The
scientific part of the report presented to the Chamber of Deputies will
be found here entire. It has been considered desirable to suppress the
remainder. I shall merely retain a few sentences containing an expla-
nation of the object of the proposed law, and an announcement of the
resolutions which were adopted by the three powers of the state.

Laplace has endowed France, Europe, the scientific world, with three
magnificent compositions, the Traité de Mécanique Céleste, the Exposi-
tion du Systeme du Monde, and the Théorie Analytique des Probabili-
tés. In the present day (1842) there is no longer to be found a single
copy of this last work at any book-seller’s establishment in Paris. The
edition of the Mécanique Céleste itself will soon be exhausted. It was
painful, then, to reflect that the time was close at hand when persons
engaged in the study of the higher mathematics would be compelled,
for want of the original work, to inquire at Philadelphia, at New York,
or at Boston for the English translation of the chef Wevre of our coun-
tryman by the excellent geometer, Bowditch. These fears, let us hasten
to state, were not well founded. To republish the Mécanique Céleste
was, on the part of the family of the illustrious geometer, to perform a
pious duty. Accordingly, Madame de Laplace, who is so justly, so pro-
eee nitive to every circumstance calculated to enhance the re-
130 LAPLACE.

nown of the name which she bears, did not hesitate about pecuniary
considerations. A small property near Pont PEvéque was about to
change hands, and the proceeds were to have been applied so that
Frenchmen should not be deprived of the satisfaction of exploring the
treasures of the Mécanique Céleste through the medium of the vernaca-
lar tongue.

‘¢The republication of the complete works of Laplace rested upon an
equally sure guarantee. Yielding at once to filial affection, to a noble
feeling of patriotism, and to the enthusiasm for brilliant discoveries
which a course of severe study inspired, General Laplace had long since
qualified himself for becoming the editor of the seven volumes which
are destined to immortalize his father.

‘There are glorious achievements of a character too elevated, of a
luster too splendid, that they should continue to exist as objects of pri-
vate property. Upon the state devolves the duty of preserving them
from indifference and oblivion, of continually holding them up to atten-
tion, of diffusing a knowledge of them through a thousand channels ;
in a word, of rendering them subservient to the public interests.

‘ Doubtless the minister of public instruction was influenced by these
considerations when, upon the occasion of a new edition of the works of
Laplace having become necessary, he demanded of you to substitute the
great French family for the personal family of the illustrious geometer.
We give our full and unreserved adhesion to this proposition. It springs
from a feeling of patriotism, which will not be gainsaid by any one in
this assembly.”

In fact, the Chamber of Deputies had only to examine and solve this
single question : ‘Are the works of Laplace of such transcendent, such
exceptional merit that their republication ought to form the subject of
deliberation of the great powers of the state? An opinion prevailed
that if was not enough merely to appeal to public notoriety, but that it
was necessary to give an exact analysis of the brilliant discoveries of
Laplace in order to exhibit more fully the importance of the resolution
about to be adopted. Whocould hereafter propose on any similar occa-
sion that the chamber should declare itself without discussion when a
desire was felt, previous to voting in favor of a resolution so honorable
to the memory of a great man, to fathom, to measure, to examine mi-
nutely and from every point of view monuments such as the Mécanique

Céleste and the Exposition du Systeme du Monde? It has appeared to -

me that the report drawn up in the name of a committee of one of the
three great powers of the state might worthily close this series of bio-
graphical notices of eminent astronomers.”*

The Marquis de Laplace, peer of France, one of the forty of the French
Academy, member of the Academy of Sciences and of the Bureau des
Longitudes, an associate of all the great academies or scientifie societies

* The author here refers to the series of biographies contained in tome III of the Notices
Biographiques.—TRANSLATOR,
LAPLACE. ia

of Europe, was born at Beaumonten-Ange, of parents belonging to the
class of small farmers, on the 28th day of March, 1749. He died on the
5th of March, 1827.

The first and second volumes of the Mécanique Céleste were pub-
lished in 1799; the third volume appeared in 1502; the fourth volume
in 1805. As regards the fifth volume, books XI and XII were pub-
lished in 1823; books XII, XIV, and XV in 1824, and book XVI in
1825. The Théorie des Probabilités was published in 1812. We shall
now present the reader with the history of the principal astronomical
discoveries contained in these immortal works.

Astronomy is the science of which the human mind may most justly
boast. It owes this indisputable pre-eminence to the elevated nature of
its object, to the grandeur of its means of investigation, to the certainty,
the utility, and the unparalleled magnificence of its results.

From the earliest period of the social existence of mankind, the study
of the movements of the heavenly bodies has attracted the attention of
governments and peoples. To several great captains, illustrious states-
men, philosophers, and eminent orators of Greece and Rome it formed
a subject of delight. Yet, let us be permitted to state, astronomy truly
worthy of the name is quite a modern science. It dates only from the
sixteenth century. Three great, three brilliant phases have marked its
progress. In 1543, Copernicus overthrew, with a firm and bold hand,
the greater part of the antique and venerable scaffolding with which
the illusions of the senses and the pride of successive generations had
filled the universe. The earth ceased to be the center, the pivot of the —
celestial movements. It henceforward modestly ranged itself among
the planets; its material importance, amid the totality of the bodies of
which our solar system is composed, found itself reduced almost to that
of a grain of sand.

Twenty-eight years had elapsed from the day when the Canon of
Thorn expired, while holding in his faltering hands the first copy of the
work which was to diffuse so bright and pure a flood of glory upon
Poland, when Wiirtemberg witnessed the birth of a man who was des-
tined to achieve a revolution in science not less fertile in consequences,
and still more difficult of execution, This man was Kepler. Endowed
with two qualities which seemed incompatible with each other, a vol-
canic imagination and a pertinacity of intellect which the most tedious
numerical calculations could not daunt, Kepler conjectured that the
movements of the celestial bodies must be connected together by simple
laws, or, to use his own expression, by harmonic laws. These laws he
undertook to discover. A thousand fruitless attempts, errors of calcu-
lation inseparable from a colossal undertaking, did not prevent him a
single instant from advancing resolutely toward the goal of which he
imagined he had obtained a glimpse. Twenty-two years were employed
by him in this investigation, and still he was not weary of it! What,
132 LAPLACE.

in reality, are twenty-two years of labor to him who is about to become
the legislator of worlds; who shall inscribe his name in ineffaceable
characters upon the frontispiece of an immortal code; who shall be
able to exclaim in dithyrambie language, and without incurring the
reproach of any one, *‘ The die is cast; I have written my book; it will
be read either in the present age or by posterity, if matters not which ;
it may well await a reader, since God has waited six thousand years for
an interpreter of his works!”* To investigate a physical cause capable
of making the planets revolve in closed curves; to place the principle
of the stability of the universe in mechanical forces, and not in solid
supports, such as the spheres of crystal which our ancestors had dreamed
of; to extend to the revolutions of the heavenly bodies the general
principles of the mechanics of terrestrial bodies, such were the ques-
tions which remained to be solved after Kepler had announced his dis-
coveries to the world.

Very distinct traces of these great problems are perceived here and
there among the ancients as well as the moderns, from Lucretius and
Plutarch down to Kepler, Bouillaud, and Borelli. It is to Newton,
however, that we must award the merit of their solution. This great
man, like several of his predecessors, conceived the celestial bodies to
have a tendency to approach toward each other in virtue of an attract-
ive force, deduced the mathematical characteristics of this force from
the laws of Kepler, extended it to all the material molecules of the solar
system, and developed his brilliant discovery in a work which, even in
the present day, is regarded as the most eminent production of the
human intellect.

The heart aches when, studying the history of the sciences, we per-
ceive so magnificent an intellectual movement effected without the
co-operation of France. Practical astronomy increased our inferiority
The means of investigation were at first inconsiderately intrusted to
foreigners, to the prejudice of Frenchmen abounding in intelligence and
zeal. Subsequently intellects of a superior order struggled with courage,
but in vain, against the unskillfulness of our artists. During this period
Bradley, more fortunate, on the other side of the Channel, immortalized
himself by the discovery of aberration and nutation.

The contribution of France to these admirable revolutions in astro-
nomical science consisted, in 1740, of the experimental determination of

* These celebrated laws, known in astronomy as the laws of Kepler, are three in number.
The first law is, that the planets describe ellipses around the sun in their common focus;
the second, that a line joining the planet and the sun sweeps over equal areas in equal times;
the third, that the squares of the periodic times of the planets are proportional to the cubes
of their mean distances from the sun. ‘The first two laws were discovered by Kepler in the
course of a laborious examination of the theory of the planet Mars; a full account of this
inquiry is contained in his famous work De Stella Martis, published in 1609. The discovery
of the third law was not effected until several years afterward. Kepler announced it to the
world in his treatise on Harmonies, (1628.) The passage quoted below is extracted from
that work.—TRANSLATOR,
LAPLACE. Bie

the spheroidal figure of the earth, and of the discovery of the variation
of gravity upon the surface of our planet. These were two great results;
our country, however, had a right to demand more: when France is not
in the first rank she has lost her place.*

This rank, which was lost for a moment, was brilliantly regained, an
achievement for which we are indebted to four geometers. When
Newton, giving to his discoveries a generality which the laws of Kepler
did not imply, imagined that the different planets were not only at-
tracted by the sun, but that they also attract each other, he introduced
into the heavens a cause of universal disturbance. Astronomers could
then see at the first glance that in no part of the universe, whether near
or distant, would the Keplerian laws suflice for the exact representation
of the phenomena; that the simple, regular movements with which the
imaginations of the ancients were pleased to endue the heavenly bodies
would experience numerous, considerable, perpetually changing pertur-
bations. .

To discover several of these perturbations, to assign their nature, and
in a few rare cases their numerical values, such was the object which
Newton proposed to himself in writing the Principia Mathematica Phi-
losophiz Naturalis.

Notwithstanding the incomparable sagacity of its author, the Prin-
cipia contained merely a rough outline of the planetary perturbations.
If this sublime sketch did not become a complete portrait, we must not
attribute the circumstance to any want of ardor or perseverance ; the
efforts of the great philosopher were always superhuman; the questions
which he did not solve were incapable of solution in his time. When
the mathematicians of the Continent entered upon the same career,
when they wished to establish the Newtonian system upon an incon-
trovertible basis, and to improve the tables of astronomy, they actually
found in their way difficulties which the genius of Newton had failed to
surmount.

Five geometers, Clairaut, Euler, D’Alembert, Lagrange, and Laplace,
shared between them the world of which Newton had disclosed the
existence. They explored it in all directions, penetrated into regions
which had been supposed inaccessible, pointed out there a multitude of

* The spheroidal figure of the earth was established by the comparison of an arc of the
meridian that had been measured, in France, with a similar are measured in Lapland, from
which it appeared that the length of a degrce of the meridian increases from the equator
toward the poles, conformably to what ought to result upon the supposition of the earth
having the figure of an oblate spheroid. The length of the Lapland are was determined
by means of an expedition which the French government had dispatched to the north of
Europe for that purpose. A similar expedition had been dispatched from France about the
same time to Peru, in South America, for the purpose of measuring an arc of the meridian
under the equator, but the results had not been ascertained at the time to which the author
alludes in the text. The variation of gravity at the surface of the earth was established by
Richer’s experiments with the pendulum at Cayenne, in South America, (1673-’74,) from
which it appeared that the pendulum oscillates more slowly, and consequently the force of
gravity is less intense, under the equator than in the latitude of Paris.—TRANSLATOR,
134 LAPLACE.

phenomena which observation had not yet detected—finally—and it is
this which constitutes their imperishable glory—they reduced under
the domain of a single principle, a single law, everything that was most
refined and mysterious in the celestial movements. Geometry had thus
the boldness to dispose of the future. The evolutions of ages are
scrupulously ratifying the decisions of science.

We shall not occupy our attention with the magnificent labors of
Euler. We shall, on the contrary, present the reader with a rapid
analysis of the discoveries of his four rivals, our countrymen.* Ifa
celestial body—the moon, for example—gravitated solely toward the
center of the earth, it would describe a mathematical ellipse. It would
Strictly obey the laws of Kepler, or, which is the same thing, the
principles of mechanics expounded by Newton in the first sections of
his immortal work.

Let us now consider the action of a second force. Let us take into
account the attraction which the sun exercises upon the moon. In other
words, instead of two bodies, let us suppose three to operate on each
other. The Keplerian ellipse will now furnish merely a rough indication
of the motion of our satellite. In some parts the attraction of the sun
will tend to enlarge the orbit, and will in reality do so. In other parts,
the effect will be the reverse of this. In a word, by the introduction of
a third attractive body, the greatest complication will succeed to a simple,
regular movement upon which the mind reposed with complacency.

If Newton gave a complete solution of the question of the celestial
movements in the case wherein two bodies attract each other, he did
not even attempt an analytical investigation of the infinitely more
difficult problem of three bodies. The problem of three bodies, (this is
the name by which it has become celebrated,) the problem for deter-
mining the movement of a body subjected to the attractive influence of
two other bodies, was solved for the first time by our countryman
Clairaut.t From this solution we may date the important improve-
ments of the lunar tables effected in the last century.

The most beautiful astronomical discovery of antiquity is that of the
precession of, the equinoxes. Hipparchus, to whom the honor of it is
due, gave a complete and precise statement of all the consequences

*Tt may, perhaps, be asked why we place Lagrange among the French geometers. This
is our reply: It appears to us that the individual who was named Lagrange Tournier—two
of the most characteristic French names which it is possible to imagine—whose maternal grand-
father was M. Gros; whose paternal great grandfather was a French officer, a native of Paris,
who never wrote except in French, and who was invested in our country with high honors
during a period of nearly thirty years, ought to be regarded as a Frenchman, although born at
Turin.—AUTHOR,

+The problem of three bodies was solved independently about the same time by Euler,
D’Alembert, and Clairaut. The two last-mentioned geometers communicated their solutions
to the Academy of Sciences on the same day—November 15, 1747. Euler had already, in
1746, published tables of the moon, founded on his solution of the same problem, the details
of which h subsequently published, in 1753.—TRaNSLATOR.
LAPLACE. 135

which flow from this movement. Two of these have more especially
attracted attention.

By reason of the precession of the equinoxes, it is not always the same
groups of stars, the same constellations, which are perceived in the
heavens at the same season of the year. In the lapse of ages the con-
stellations of winter will become those of summer, and reciprocally.

By reason of the precession of the equinoxes, the pole does not always
occupy the same place in the starry vault. The moderately bright star
which is very justly named in the present day the pole star, was far
removed from the pole in the time of Hipparchus; in the course of a
few centuries it will again appear removed from it. The designation
of pole-star has been and will be applied to stars very distant from
each other.

When the inquirer, in attempting to explain natural phenomena, has
the misfortune to enter upon a wrong path, each precise observation
throws him into new complications. Seven spheres of crystal did not
suffice for representing the phenomena as soon as the illustrious astron-
omer of Rhodes discovered precession. An eighth sphere was then
wanted to account for a movement in which all the stars participated
at the same time.

Copernicus having deprived the earth of its alleged immobility, gave
a very simple explanation of the most minute circumstances of preces-
sion. He supposed that the axis of rotation does not remain exactly
parallel to itself; that in the course of each complete revolution of the
earth around the sun the axis deviates from its position by a small
quantity ; in a word, instead of supposing the circumpolar stars to ad-
vance in a certain way toward the pole, he makes the pole advance
toward the stars. his hypothesis divested the mechanism of the
universe of the greatest complication which the love of theorizing had
introduced into it. A new Alphonse would have then wanted a pre-
text to address to his astronomical synod the profound remark, so
erroneously interpreted, which history ascribes to the King of Castile.

If the conception of Copernicus improved by Kepler had, as we have
just seen, introduced a striking improvement into the mechanism of the
heavens, it still remained to discover the motive force which, by alter-
ing the position of the terrestrial axis during each successive year,
would cause it to describe an entire circle, of nearly 50° in diameter, in
a period of about 26,000 years.

Newton conjectured that this force arose from the action of the sun
and moon upon the redundant matter accumulated in the equatorial

‘regions of the earth; thus he made the precession of the equinoxes
depend upon the spheroidal figure of the earth ; he declared that upon
a round planet no precession would exist.

All this was quite true, but Newton did not succeed in establishing it
by a mathematical process. Now this great man had introduced into
philosophy the severe and just rule: Consider as certain only what has
136 LAPLACE.

been demonstrated. The demonstration of the Newtonian conception
of the precession of the equinoxes was, then, a great discovery, and it
is to D’Alembert that the glory of it is due.* The illustrious geometer
gave a complete explanation of the general movement in virtue of
which the terrestrial axis returns to the same stars in a period of about
26,000 years. He also connected with the theory of gravitation the
perturbation of precession discovered by Bradley, that remarkable
oscillation which the earth’s axis experiences continually during its
movement of progression, and the period of which, amounting to about
eighteen years, is exactly equal to the time which the intersection of the
moon’s orbit with the ecliptic employs in describing the 360° of the
entire circumference.

Geometers and astronomers are justly occupied as much with the
figure and physical constitution which the earth might have had in
remote ages as with its present figure and constitution.

As soon as our countryman Richer discovered that a body, whatever
be its nature, weighs less when it is transported nearer the equatorial
regions, everybody perceived that the earth, if it was originally fluid,
ought to bulge out at the equator. Huyghens and Newton did more;
they calculated the difference between the greatest and least axes, the
excess of the equatorial diameter over the line of the poles.t

The calculation of Huyghens was founded upon hypothetic properties
of the attractive force which were wholly inadmissible; that of Newton
upon a theorem which he ought to have demonstrated. The theory of

* Tt must be admitted that M. Arago has here imperfectly represented Newton’s labors
on the great problem of the precession of the equinoxes. The immortal author of the
Principia did not merely conjecture that the conical motion of the earth’s axis is due to the
disturbing action of the sun and moon upon the matter accumulated around the earth’s
equator; he demonstrated by a very beautiful and satisfactory process that the movement
must necessarily arise from that cause; and although the meaus of investigation, in his
time, were inadequate to a rigorous computation of the quantitative effect, still his researches
on the subject have been always regarded as affording one of the most striking proofs of
sagacity which is to be found in all his works.—TRANSLATOR.

+ It would appear that Hooke had conjectured that the figure of the earth might be spher-
oidal before Newton or Huyghens turned their attention to the subject. Ata meeting of the
Royal Society on the 28th of February, 1673, a discussion arose respecting the figure of Mer-
eury, which M. Gallet, of Avignon, had remarked to be oval on the occasion of the planet’s
transit across the sun's disk on the 7ta of November, 1677. Hooke was inclined to suppose
that the phenomenon was real, and that it was due to the whirling of the planet on an axis
‘‘which made it somewhat of the shape of a turnip, or of a solid made by an ellipsis turned
round upon its shorter diameter.” At the meeting of the society on the 7th of March, the
subject was again discussed. In reply to the objection offered to his hypothesis on the ground
of the planet being a solid body, Hooke remarked that ‘‘ although it might now be solid, yet
that at the beginning it might have been fluid enough to receive that shape; and that al-
though this supposition should not be granted, it would be probable enough that it would
really run into that shape and make the same appearance ; and that it is not improbable but
that the water here upon the earth might do it in some measure by the influence of the diur-
nal motion, which, compounded with that of the moon, he conceived to be the cause of the
tides.” (Journal Book of the Royal Society, vol. vi, p. 60.) Richer returned from Cayenne
LAPLACE. La

the latter was characterized by a defect of a still more serious nature; it
supposed the density of the earth, during the original state of fluidity,
to be homogeneous.*

When in attempting the solution of great problems we have recourse
to such simplifications; when in order to elude difficulties of calculation
we depart so widely from natural and physical conditions, the results
relate to an ideal world, they are in reality nothing more than flights of
the imagination. In order to apply mathematical analysis usefully to
the determination of the figure of the earth, it was necessary to aban-
don all idea of homogeneity, all constrained resemblance between the
forms of the superposed and unequally dense strata; it was necessary
also to examine the case of a central solid nucleus. This generality in-
creased tenfold the difficulties of the problem; neither Clairaut nor
D’Alembert was, however, arrested by them. Thanks to the efforts of
these two eminent geometers, thanks to some essential developments
due to their immediate successors, and especially to the illustrious Le-
gendre, the theoretical determination of the figure of the earth has
attained all desirable perfection. There now reigns the most satisfae-
tory accordance between the results of calculation and those of direct
measurement. The earth, then, was originally fluid; analysis has
enabled us to ascend to the earliest ages of our planet.t

In the time of Alexander, comets were supposed by the majority of
the Greek philosophers to be merely meteors generated in our atmos-
phere. During the Middle Ages, persons, without giving themselves much
concern about the nature of those bodies, supposed them to prognosti-

in the year 1674, but the account of his observations with the pendulum during his residence
there was not published until 1679, nor is there to be found any allusion to them during the
intermediate interval, either in the volumes of the Academy of Sciences or any other pub-
lication. We have no means of ascertaining how Newton was first induced to suppose that
the figure of the earth is spheroidal, but we know, upon his own authority, that as early as
the year 1667 or 1668, he was led to consider the effects of the centrifugal force in diminish-
ing the weight of bodies at the equator. With respect to Huyghens, he appears to have
formed a conjecture respecting the spheroidal figure of the earth independently of Newton;
but his method for computing the ellipticity is founded upon that given in the Principia.—
TRANSLATOR,

*Newton assumed that a homogeneous fluid mass of a spheroidal form would be in
equilibrium if it were endued with an adequate rotatory motion and its constituent par-
ticles attracted each other in the inverse proportion of the square of the distance. Maclaurin
first demonstrated the truth of this theorem by a rigorous application of the ancient geome-
try.—TRANSLATOR.

t The results of Clairaut’s researches on the figure of the earth are mainly embodied in a
remarkable theorem discovered by that geometer, and which may be enunciated thus: The
sum of the fractions expressing the ellipticity and the increase of gravity at the pole is
equal to two and a half times the fraction expressing the centrifugal force at the equator,
the unit of force being represented by the force of gravity at the equator. This theorem is
independent of any hypothesis with respect to the law of the densities of the successive
strata of the earth. Now the increase of gravity at ‘he pole may be ascertained by means
of observations with the pendulum in different latitudes. Hence it is plain that Clairaut’s
theorem furnishes a practical method for determining the value of the earth’s ellipticity.—
TRANSLATOR,
138 LAPLACE.

cate sinister events. Regiomontanus and Tycho Brahé proved by their
observations that they are situate beyond the moon; Hevelius, Dorfel,
&c., made them revolve around the sun; Newton established that they
move under the immediate influence of the attractive force of that body ;
that they do not describe right lines ; that, in fact, they obey the laws of
Kepler. It was necessary, then, to prove that the orbits of comets are
curves which return into themselves, or that the same comet has been
seen on several distinct occasions. This discovery was reserved for
Halley ; by a minute investigation of the circumstances connected with
the apparitions of all the comets to be met with in the records of history,
in ancient chronicles, and in astronomical annals, this eminent philoso-
pher was enabled to prove that the comets of 1682, of 1607, and of 1531
were in reality so many successive apparitions of one and the same body.

This identity involved a conclusion before which more than one as-
tronomer shrank. It was necessary to admit that the time of a complete
revolution of the comet was subject to a great variation, amounting to
as much as two years in seventy-six.

Were such great discordances due to the disturbing action of the plan-
ets ?

The answer to this question would introduce comets into the category
of ordinary planets, or would exclude them forever. The calculation
was difficult ; Clairaut discovered the means of effecting it. While success
was still uncertain, the illustrious geometer gave proof of the greatest
boldness, for, in the course of the year 1758, he undertook to determine
the time of the following year when the comet of 1682 would re-appear.
He designated the constellations, nay, the stars, which it would encoun-
ter in its progress.

This was not one of those remote predictions which astrologers and
others formerly combined very skillfully with the tables of mortality, so
that they might not be falsified during their life-time: the event was
close at hand. The question at issue was nothing less than the creation
of a new erain cometary astronomy, or the casting of a reproach upon
science, the consequences of which it would long continue to feel.

Clairaut found by a long process of calculation, conducted with great
skill, that the action of Jupiter and Saturn ought to have retarded the
movement of the comet ; that the time of revolution, compared with that
immediately preceding, would be increased 518 days by the disturbing
action of Jupiter, and 100 days by the action of Saturn, forming a total
of 618 days, or more than a year and eight months.

Never did aquestion of astronomy excite a more intense, a more legit-
imate curiosity. All classes of society awaited with equal interest the
announced apparition. A Saxon peasant, Palitzch, first perceived the
comet. Henceforward, from one extremity of Europe to the other, a
thousand telescopes traced each night the path of the body through the
constellations. The route was always, within the limits of precision of
the calculations, that which Clairaut had indicated beforehand. The
LAPLACE. 139

prediction of the illustrious geometer was verified, in regard both to time
and space. Astronomy had just achieved a great and important triumph,
and, as usual, had destroyed at one blow a disgraceful and inveterate pre-
judice. As soon as it was established that the returns of comets might
be calculated beforehand, those bodies lost forever their ancient prestige.
The most timid minds troubled themselves quite as little about them as
about eclipses of the sun and moon, which are equally subject to caleu-
lation. In fine, the labors of Clairaut had produced a deeper impres-
sion on the public mind than the learned, ingenious, and acute reasoning
of Bayle. The heavens offer to reflecting minds nothing more curious
or more strange than the equality which subsists between the movements
of rotation and revolution of our satellite. By reason of this perfect
equality the moon always presents the same side to the earth. The hem-
isphere which we see in the present day is precisely that which our an-
cestors saw in the most remote ages; it isexactly the hemisphere which
future generations will perceive.

The doctrine of final causes which certain philosophers have so abun-
dantly made use of in endeavoring to account for a great number of
natural phenomena was in this particular case totally inapplicable. In
fact, how could it be pretended that mankind could have any interest in
perceiving incessantly the same hemisphere of the moon, in never ob-
taining a glimpse of the opposite hemisphere? On the other hand, the
existence ofa perfect, mathematical equality between elements having
no necessary connection—such as the movements of translation and ro-
tation of a given celestial body—was not less repugnant to all ideas of
probability. There were, besides, two other numerical coincidences quite
as extraordinary: an identity of direction, relative to the stars, of the
equator and orbit of the moon ; exactly the same precessional movements
of these two planes. This group of singular phenomena, discovered by
J. D. Cassini, constituted the mathematical code of what is called the
libration of the moon. The libration of the moon formed a very imper-
fect part of physical astronomy when Lagrange made it depend on a eir-
cumstance connected with the figure of our satellite which was not
observable from the earth, and thereby connected it completely with the
principles of universal gravitation.

At the time when the moon was converted into a solid body, the ac-
tion of the earth compelled it to assume a less regular figure than if no
attracting body had been situated in its vicinity. The action of our
globe rendered elliptical an equator which otherwise would have been
circular. This disturbing action did not prevent the lunar equator from
bulging out in every direction, but the prominence of the equatorial
diameter directed toward the earth became four times greater than that
of the diameter which we see perpendicularly.

The moon would appear then, to an observer situate in space and ex-
amining it transversely, to be elongated toward the earth, to be a sort of
pendulum without a point of suspension. When a pendulum deviates
140 LAPLACE.

from the vertical, the action of gravity brings it back; when the princi-
pal axis of the moon recedes from its usual direction, the earth in
like manner compels it to return.

We have here, then, a complete explanation of a singular phenome-
non, without the necessity of having recourse to the existence of an al-
most miraculous equality between two movements of translation and
rotation, entirely independent of each other. Mankind will never see
but one face ofthe moon. Observation had informed us of this fact;
now we know further that this is due to aphysical cause which may be
calculated, and which is visible only to the mind’s eye; that it is attrib-
utable to the elongation which the diameter of the moon experienced
when it passed from the liquid to the solid state under the attractive
influence of the earth.

If there had existed originally a slight difference between the move-
ments of rotation and revolution of the moon, the attraction of the earth
would have reduced these movements to a rigorous equality. This at-
traction would have even sufliced to cause the disappearance of a slight
want of coincidence in the intersections of the equator and orbit of the
moon with the plane of the ecliptic.

The memoir in which Lagrange has so successfully connected the laws
of libration with the principles of gravitation, is no less remarkable for
intrinsic excellence than style of execution. After having perused this
production, the reader will have no difficulty in admitting that the word
“elegance” may be appropriately applied to mathematical researches.

In this analysis we have merely glanced at the astronomical discov-
eries of Clairaut, D’Alembert, and Lagrange. We shall be somewhat
less concise in noticing the labors of Laplace.

After having enumerated the various forces which must result from
the mutual action of the planets and satellites of our system, even the
great Newton did not venture to investigate the general nature of the
effects produced by them. In the midst of the labyrinth formed by in-
creases and diminutions of velocity, variations in the forms of the
orbits, changes of distances and inclinations, which these forces must
evidently produce, the most learned geometer would fail to discover a
trustworthy guide. This extreme complication gave birth to a dis-
couraging reflection. Forces so numerous, so variable in position, so
different in intensity, seemed to be incapable of maintaining a condition
of equilibrium except by a sort of miracle. Newton even went so far as
to suppose that the planetary system did not contain within itself the
elements of indefinite stability ; he was of opinion that a powerful hand
must intervene from time to time to repair the derangements occasioned
by the mutual action of the various bodies. Euler, although farther
advanced than Newton in a knowledge of the planetary perturbations,
refused also to admit that the solar system was constituted so as to
endure forever. Never did a greater philosophical question offer itself
to the inquiries of mankind. Laplace attacked it with boldness, perse-
LAPLACE. 141

verance, and success. The profound and long-continued researches of
the illustrious geometer established with complete evidence that the
planetary ellipses are perpetually variable ; that the extremities of their
mnajor axes make the tour of the heavens; that, independently of an
oscillatory motion, the planes of their orbits experience a displacement
in virtue of which their intersections with the plane of the terrestrial
orbit are each year directed toward different stars. In the midst of
this apparent chaos there is one element which remains constant, or is
merely subject to small periodic changes, namely, the major axis of each
orbit, and consequently the time of revolution of each planet. This is
the element which ought to have chiefly varied according to the learned
speculations of Newton and Euler.

The principle of universal gravitation suffices for preserving the
stability of the solar system. It maintains the forms and inclinations
of the orbits in a mean condition which is subject to slight oscillations ;
variety does not entail disorder; the universe offers the example of
harmonious relations, of a state of perfection which Newton himself
doubted. This depends on circumstances which calculation disclosed
to Laplace, and which, upon a superficial view of the subject, would
not seem to be capable of exercising so great an influence. Instead of
planets revolving all in the same direction, in slightly eccentrie orbits,
and in planes inclined at small angles toward each other, substitute
different conditions, and the stability of the universe will again be put
in jeopardy, and, according to all probability, there will result a fright-
ful chaos.*

* The researches on the secular variations of the eccentricities and inclinations of the
planetary orbits depend upon the solution of an algebraic equation equal in degree to the
number of planets whose mutual action is considered, and the co-efficients of which involve
the values of the masses of those bodies. It may be shown that if the roots of this equa-
tion be equal or imaginary, tle corresponding element, whether the eccentricity or the in-
clination, will increase indefinitely with the time in the case of each planet; but that if the
roots, on the other hand, be real and unequal, the value of the element will oscillate in
every instance within fixed limits. Laplace proved by a general analysis that the roots of
the equation are real and unequal; whence it followed that neither the eccentricity nor the
inclination will vary in any case to an indefinite extent. But it still remained uncertain
whether the limits of oscillation were not in any instance so far apart that the variation of
the element (whether the eccentricity or the inclination) might lead to a complete destruc-
tion of the existing physical condition of the planet. Laplace, indeed, attempted to prove,
by means of two well-known theorems relative to the eccentricities and inclinations of the
planetary: orbits, that if those elements were once small they would always remain so, pro-
vided the planets all revolved around the sun in one common direction, and their masses
were inconsiderable. It is to these theorems that M. Arago manifestly alludes in the text.
Le Verrier and others have, however, remarked that they are inadequate to assure the per-
manence of the existing physical condition of several of the planets. In order to arrive at
a definite conclusion on this subject, it is indispensable to have recourse to the actual solu-
tion of the algebraic question above referred to. This was the course adopted by the illus-
trious Lagrange in his researches on the secular variations of the planetary orbits. (Mem.
Acad. Berlin, 1783-’84.) Having investigated the values of the masses of the planets, he
then determined, by an approximate solution, the values of the several roots of the algebraic
equation upon which the variations of the eccentricities and inclinations cif the orbits de-
142 LAPLACE.

Although the invariability of the mean distances of the planetary
orbits has been more completely demonstrated since the appearance of
the memoir above referred to, that is to say, by pushing the analytical
approximations to a greater extent, it will, notwithstanding, always
constitute one of the admirable discoveries of the author of the Méca-
nique Céleste. Dates, in the case of such subjects, are no luxury of eru-
dition. The memoir in which Laplace communicated his results on the
invariability of the mean motions or mean distances is dated 1773.* It
was in 1784 only that he established the stability of the other elements
of the system from the smallness of the planetary masses, the incon-
siderable eccentricity of the orbits, and the revolution of the planets
in one common direction around the sun.

The discovery of which I have just given an account to the reader
excluded, at least from the solar system, the idea of the Newtonian
attraction being a cause of disorder; but might not other forces, by
combining with attraction, produce gradually-increasing perturbations,
as Newton and Euler dreaded? Facts of a positive nature seemed to
justify these fears.

A comparison of ancient with modern observations revealed the ex-
istence of a continued acceleration of the mean motions of the moon
and the planet Jupiter, and an equally striking diminution of the mean
motion of Saturn. These variations led to conclusions of the most
singular nature.

In accordance with the presumed cause of these perturbations, to say
that the velocity of a body increased from century to century, was equiv-
alent to asserting that the body continually approached the center of _
motion. On the other hand, when the velocity diminished the body
must be receding from the center.

Thus, by a strange arrangement of nature, our planetary system
seemed destined to lose Saturn, its most mysterious ornament, to see
the planet, accompanied by its ring and seven satellites, plunge gradually

pended. In this way he found the limiting values of the eccentricity and inclination for
the orbit of each of the principal planets of the system. The results obtained by that great
geometer have been mainly confirmed by the recent researches of Le Verrier on the same
subject. (Connaissance des Temps, 1843.)—TRANSLATOR.

* Laplace was originally led to consider the subject of the perturbations of the mean mo-
tions of the planets by his researches on the theory of Jupiter andSaturn. Having computed
the numerical value of the secular inequality affecting the mean motion of each of those
plants, neglecting the terms of the fourth and higher orders relative to the eccentricities and
inclinations, he found it to be so small that it might be regarded as totally insensible.
Justly suspecting that this circumstance was not attributable to the particular values of the
elements of Jupiter and Saturn, he investigated the expression for the secular perturbation
of the mean motion by a general analysis, neglecting, as before, the fourth and higher .
powers of the eccentricities and inclinations, and he found in this case that the terms which
were retained in the investigation absolutely destroyed each other, so that the expression
was reduced to zero. In a memoir which he communicated to the Berlin Academy of Sci-
ences, in 1776, Lagrange first showed that the mean distance (and consequently the mean
motion) was not affected by any secular inequalities, no matter what were the eccentricities
or inclinations of the disturbing and disturbed planets. TRANSLATOR.
LAPLACE. 143

into unknown regions, whither the eye; armed with the most powerful
telescope, has never penetrated. Jupiter, on the other hand, the planet
compared with which the earth is so insignificant, appeared to be mov-
ing in the opposite direction, so as to be ultimately absorbed in the in-
candescent matter of the sun. Finally, the moon seemed asif it would
one day precipitate itself upon the earth.

There was nothing doubtful or speculative in these sinister fore-
bodings. The precise dates of the approaching catastrophes were alone
uncertain. It was known, however, that they were very distant. Ac-
cordingly, neither the learned dissertations of men of science nor the
animated descriptions of certain poets produced any impression upon the
public mind.

It was not so with our scientific societies, the members of which re-
garded with regret the approaching destruction of our planetary system.
The Academy of Sciences called the attention of geometers of all coun-
tries to these menacing perturbations. Euler and Lagrange descended
into the arena. Never did their mathematical genius shine with a
brighter luster. Still the question remained undecided. The inutility of
such efforts seemed to suggest only a feeling of resignation on the sub-
ject, when from two disdained corners of the theories of analysis the
author of the Mécanique Céleste caused the laws of these great phenom-
ena clearly to emerge. The variations of velocity of Jupiter, Saturn,
and the moon flowed, then, from evident physical causes, and entered
into the category of ordinary periodic perturbations, depending upon
the principle of attraction.

The variations in the dimensions of the orbits, which were so much
dreaded, resolved themselves into simple oscillations, included within
narrow limits. Finally, by the powerful instrumentality of mathemati-
cal analysis, the physical universe was again established on a firm foun-
dation.

Teannot quit this subject without at least alluding to the circumstances
in the solar system upon which depend the so long unexplained varia-
tions of velocity of the moon, Jupiter, and Saturn.

The motion of the earth around the sun is mainly effected in an ellipse,
the form of which is liable to vary from the effects of planetary pertur-
bation. These alterations of form are periodic ; sometimes the curve,
without ceasing to be elliptic, approaches the form of a circle, while at
other times it deviates more and more from that form. From the epoch
of the earliest recorded observations, the eccentricity of the terrestrial
orbit has been diminishing from year to year; at some future epoch the
orbit, on the contrary, will begin to deviate from the form of a circle, and
the eccentricity will increase to the same extent as it previously dimin-
ished, and according to the same laws.

Now Laplace has shown that the mean motion of the moon around
the earth is connected with the form of the ellipse which the earth de-
144 LAPLACE.

seribes around the sun; that a diminution of the eccentricity of the
ellipse inevitably induces an increase in the velocity of our satellite, and
vice versa; finally, that this cause suffices to explain the numerical value
of the acceleration which the mean motion of the moon has experienced
from the earliest ages down to the present time.*

The origin of the inequalities in the mean motions of Jupiter and
Saturn will be, I hope, as easy to conceive.

Mathematical analysis has not served to represent in finite terms the
values of the derangements which each planet experiences in its move-
ment from the action of all the other planets. In the present state of
science, this value is exhibited in the form of an indefinite series of terms
diminishing rapidly in magnitude. In calculation it is usual to neglect
such of those terms as correspond in the order of magnitude to quantities
beneath the errors of observation. But there are cases in which the
order of the term in the series does not decide whether it be small or
great. Certain numerical relations between the primitive elements of
the disturbing and disturbed planets may impart sensible values to terms
which usually admit of being neglected. This case occurs in the per-
turbations of Saturn produced by Jupiter, and in those of Jupiter pro-
duced by Saturn. There exists between the mean motions of these two
great planets a simple relation of commensurability, five times the mean
motion of Saturn being, in fact, very nearly equal to twice the mean
motion of Jupiter. It happens in consequence that certain terms, which
would otherwise be very small, acquire from this circumstance consider-
able values. Hence arise, in the movements of these two planets, ine-
qualities of long duration, which require more than 900 years for their
complete development, and which represent with marvelous accuracy all
the irregularities disclosed by observation. Is it not astonishing to find
in the commensurability of the mean motions of two planets a cause of
perturbation of so influential a nature; to discover that the definitive
solution of an immense difficulty, which baffled the genius of Euler, and
which even led persons to doubt whether the theory of gravitation was
capable of accounting for all the phenomena of the heavens, should de-
pend upon the fortuitous circumstance of five times the mean motion of
Saturn being equal to twice the mean motion of Jupiter? The beauty

* Mr. Adams has recently detected a remarkable oversight committed by Laplace and his
successors in the analytical investigation of the expression for this inequality. The effect of
the rectification rendered necessary by the researches of Mr. Adams will be to diminish by
about one-sixth the co-efficient of the principal term of the secular inequality. This co-effi-
cient has for its multiplier the square of the number of centuries which have elapsed from a
given epoch; its value was found by Laplace to be 10’’.18. Mr. Adams has ascertained
that it must be diminished by 1/’.66. This result has recently been verified by the researches
of M. Plana. Its effect will be to alter in some degree the calculations of ancient eclipses.
The astronomer royal has stated, in his last annual report to the board of visitors of the
Royal Observatory, (June, 1856,) that steps have recently been taken at the observatory for
calculating the various circumstances of those phenomena, upon the basis of the more correct
data furnished by the researches of Mr. Adams.—TRANSLATOR,.
LAPLACE.- 145

of the conception and the ultimate result are here equally worthy of
admiration. *

* The origin of this famous inequality may be best understood by reference to the mode
in which the disturbing forces operate. Let P Q R, P’ Q’ R’ represent the orbits of Jupiter
and Saturn and let us suppose, for the sake of illus-
tration, that they are both situate in the same plane.
Let the planets be in conjunction at P, P’, and let
them both be revolving around the sun S, in the
direction represented by the arrows. Assuming that
the mean motion of Jupiter is to that of Saturn ex-
actly in the proportion of five to two, it follows that
when Jupiter has completed one revolution, Saturn
will have advanced through two-fifths of a revolu-
tion. Similarly, when Jupiter has completed a revo-
lution anda half, Saturn will have effected three-
fifths of a revolution. Hence, when Jupiter arrives
at T, Saturn will be a little in advance of T’. Let
us suppose that the two planets come again into con-
junction at Q,Q’. It is plain that while Jupiter has completed one revolution, and advanced
through the angle PS Q, (measured in the direction of the arrow, ) Saturn has simply described
around § the angle P’ S’ Q’. Hence the excess of the angle described around §, by Jupiter,
over the angle similarly described by Saturn, will amount to one complete revolution, or
360°. But since the mean motions of the two planets are in the proportion of five to two,
the angles described by them around S in any given time will be in the same proportion, and
therefore the excess of the angle described by Jupiter over that described by Saturn will be
to the angle described by Saturn in the proportion of three to two. But we have just found
that the excess of these two angles in the present case amounts to 360°, and the angle de-.
scribed by Saturn is represented by P’ S’ Q’; consequently 360° is to the angle P’ S/ Q’ in.
the proportion of three to two ; in other words, P’ S’ Q’ is equal to two-thirds of the cireum
ference, or 240°. Inu the same way it may be shown that the two planets will come into con:
junction again at R, when Saturn has described another are of 240°. Finally, when Saturn
has advanced through a third are of 240°, the two planets will come into conjunction at P, P’,
the points whence they originally set out; and tke two succeeding conjunctions will also mani-
festly occur at Q, Q’and R, R’. Thus we see that the conjunctions will always oceur in three
given points of the orbit of each planet situate at angular distances of 120° from each other.
It is also obvious that, during the interval which elapses between the occurrence of two con-
junctions in the same points of the orbits, and which includes three synodic revolutions of the:
planets, Jupiter will have accomplished five revolutions around the sun, and Saturn will have
accomplished two revolutions. Now, if the orbits of both planets were perfectly circular, the:
retarding and accelerating effects of the disturbing force of either planet would neutralize each
other in the course of asynodic revolution, and therefore both planets would return to the same:
condition at each successive conjunction. But in consequence of the ellipticity of the orbits, the
retarding effect of the disturbing force is manifestly no longer exactly compensated by the
accelerative effect, and hence, at the close of each synodic revolution, there remains a min-
ute outstanding alteration in the movement of each planet. A similar effect will be pro-
duced at each of the three points of conjunction, and as the perturbations which thus ensue:
do not generally compensate each other, there will remain a minute outstanding perturbation
as the result of every three conjunctions. The effect produced being of the same kind (whether
tending to accelerate or retard the movement of the planet) for every such triple conjunction, it
is plain that the action of the disturbing forces would ultimately lead toa serious derangement
of the movements of both planets. All this is founded on the supposition that the mean
motions of the two planets are to each other as two to five, but in reality this relation does
not exactly hold. In fact while Jupiter requires 21,663 days to accomplish five revolutions,
Saturn effects two revolutions:in 21,518 days. Hence when Jupiter after completing his
fifth revolution arrives at P, Saturn will have advanced a little beyond P’, and the con-

108

146 LAPLACE. —

We have just explained how Laplace demonstrated that the solar sys-
tem can experience only small periodic oscillations around a certain
mean state. Let us now see in what way he succeeded in determining
the absolute dimensions of the orbits.

What is the distance of the sun from the earth? No scientific ques-
tion has occupied, in a greater degree, the attention of mankind ; mathe-
matically speaking, nothing is more simple. It suffices, as in common
operations of surveying, to draw visual lines from the two extremities of
a known base to an inaccessible object. The remainder is a process of
elementary caleulation. Unfortunately, in the case of the sun, the dis-
tance is great, and the bases which can be measured upon the earth are
comparatively very small. In such a case the slightest errors in the di-
rection of the visual lines exercise an enormous influence upon the
results.

In the beginning of the last century, Halley remarked that certain in-
terpositions of Venus between the earth and the sun, or, to use an ex-
pression applied to such conjunctions, that the transits of the planet
across the sun’s disk, would furnish at each observatory an indirect
means of fixing the position of the visual ray very superior in accuracy
to the most perfect direct methods.*

Such was the object of the scientific expeditions undertaken in 1761

junction of the two planets will occur at P, P’ when they have both described around S an
additional are of about 8°. In the same way it may be shown that the two succeeding con-
junctions will take place at the points q, q' 7, r’ respectively 8° in advance of Q, Q’, R, R’.
Thus we see that the points of conjunction will travel with extreme slowness in the same
direction as that in which the planets revolve. Now,since the angular distance between P
and R is 120°, and since in a period of three synodic revolutions, or 21,758 days, the line
of conjunction travels through an arc of 8°, it follows that in 892 years the conjunction of
the two planets will have advanced from P, P’ to R, R’. In reality the time of traveling
from P, P’ to R, R’ is somewhat longer from the indirect effects of planetary perturbation,
amcunting to 920 years. In an equal period of time, the coniunction of the two planets
will advance from Q, Q’ to R, R’ and from R, R’ to P, P’.. During the half of this period
the perturbative effect resulting from every triple conjunction will lie constantly in one di-
rection, and during the other half it will lie in the contrary directicn; that is to say,
during a period of 460 years, the mean motion of the disturbed planet will be con-
tinually accelerated, and,in like manner, during an equal period it will be continually
retarded. In the case of Jupiter disturbed by Saturn, the inequality in longitude
amounts at its maximum to 21’; in the converse case of Saturn disturbed by Jupiter, the
inequality is more considerable in consequence of the greater mass of the disturbing planet,
amounting at its maximum to 49’. In accordance with the mechanical principle of the
equality of action and reaction, it happens that while the mean motion of one planet is in-
creasing, that of the other is diminishing, and vice versa. We have supposed that the or-
bits of both planets are situate in the same plane. In reality, however, they are inclined
to each other, and this circumstance will produce an effect exactly analogous to that de-
pending on the eccentricities of the orbits. It is plain that the more nearly the mean motions
of the two planets approach a relation of commensurability, the smaller will be the displace-
ment of every third conjunction, and consequently the longer will be the duration, and the
rreater the ultimate accumulation, of the inequality. —TRANSLATOR.

* The utility of observations of the transits of the inferior planets for determining the
rolay parallax was first pointed out by James Gregery. (Optica Promota, 1663.)—TRans-
LATOR,
LAPLACE. TAT

and 1769, on which occasions France—not to speak of stations in Eu-
rope—was represented at the isle of Rodrigo by Pingré; at the isle of
San Domingo by Fleurin; at California by the Abbé Chappe; at Pon-
dicherry by Legentil. At the same epochs England sent Maskelyne to
St. Helena; Wales to Hudson’s Bay; Mason to the Cape of Good
Hope; Captain Cooke to Otaheite, &c. The observations of the south-
ern hemisphere, compared with those of Europe, and especially with the
observations made by an Austrian astronomer, Father Hell, at Ward-
hus, in Lapland, gave, for the distance of the sun, the result which has
since figured in all treatises on astronomy and navigation.

No government hesitated in furnishing academies with the means,
however expensive they might be, of conveniently establishing their ob-
servers in the most distant regions. We have already remarked that
the determination of the contemplated distance appeared to demand
imperiously an extensive base; for small bases would have been totally
inadequate to the purpose. Well, Laplace has solved the problem nu-
merically, without a base of any kind whatever. He has deduced the
distance of the sun from observations of the moon made in one and the
same place!

The sun is, with respect to our satellite, the cause of perturbations which
evidently depend on the distance of the immense luminous globe from the
earth. Who does not see that these perturbations would diminish if the
distance increased; that they would increase, on the contrary, if the dis-
tance diminished ; that the distance finally determines the magnitude
of the perturbations ?

Observation assigns the numerical value of these perturbations ,
theory, on the other hand, unfolds the general mathematical relation,
which connects them with the solar parallax, and with other known ele-
ments. The determination of the mean radius of the terrestrial orbit
then becomes one of the most simple operations of algebra. Such is the
happy combination by the aid of which Laplace has solved the great, the
celebrated problem of parallax. It is thus that the illustrious geometer
found for the mean distance of the sun from the earth, expressed in
radii of the terrestrial orbit, a value differing only in a slight degree from
that which was the fruit of so many troublesome and expensive voyages.
According to the opinion of very competent judges, the result of the in-
direct method might not impossibly merit the preference.*

The movements of the moon proved a fertile mine of research to our
great geometer. His penetrating intellect discovered in them unknown
treasures. Ie disentangled them from everything which concealed them
from vulgar eyes with an ability and a perseverance equally worthy of

*Mayer, from the principles of gravitation, (Theoria Lune, 1767,) computed the value of

| the solar parallax tobe 7’’.8. He remarked that the error of this determination did not

/ amount to one-twentieth of the whole, whence it followed that the true value of the parallax

)

could not exceed 8.2. Laplace, by an analogous process, determined the parallax to be

) 8.45. Encke, by a profound discussion of the observations of the transits of Venus in 1761

and 1769, found the value of the same element to be 8’’.5776.— TRANSLATOR.
148 LAPLACE.

admiration. The reader will excuse me for citing another of such ex-—
amples.

The earth governs the movements of the moon. The earth is flattened;
jn other words, its figure is spheroidal. A spheroidal body does not at- —
tract like a sphere. There ought, then, to exist in the movement, I had
almost said in the countenance, of the moon a sort of impression of the
spheroidal figure of the earth. Such was the idea as it originally oe-
curred to Laplace.

It still remained to ascertain (and here consisted the chief difficulty)
whether the effects attributable to the spheroidal figure of the earth
were sufliciently sensible not to be confounded with the errors of obser-
vation. It was accordingly necessary to find the general formula of per-
turbations of this nature, in order to be able, as in the case of the solar
parallax, to eliminate the unknown quantity.

The ardor of Laplace, combined with his power of analytical research,
surmounted all obstacles. By means of an investigation which de-
manded the most minute attention, the great geometer discovered in
the theory of the moon’s movements two well-defined perturbations de-—
pending on the spheroidal figure of the earth. The first affected the —
resolved element of the motion of our satellite, which is chiefly measured
with the instrument known in observatories by the name of the transit
instrument; the second, which operated in the direction north and south,
could only be effected by observations with a second instrument, termed —
the mural circle. These two inequalities, of very different magnitudes,
connected with the cause which produces them, by analytical combina-
tions of totally different kinds, have, however, both conducted to the
same value of the ellipticity. It must be borne in mind, however, that
the ellipticity, thus deduced from the movements of the moon, is not .
the ellipticity corresponding to such or such a country, the ellipticity
observed in France, in England, in Italy, in Lapland, in North America, —
jn India, or in the region of the Cape of Good Hope, for the earth’s ma- _
terials having undergone considerable upheavings at different times,
and in different places, the primitive regularity of its curvature has been
sensibly disturbed by this cause. The moon—and it is this circumstance
which renders the result of such inestimable value—ought to assign,
and has in reality assigned, the general ellipticity of the earth ; in other
words, it has indicated a sort of mean value of the various determina-
tions obtained at enormous expense, and with infinite labor, as the
result of long voyages undertaken by astronomers of all the countries
of Europe.

I shall add a few brief remarks, for which I am mainly indebted to
the author of the Mécanique Céleste. They seem to be eminently
adapted for illustrating the profound, the unexpected, and almost par-
adoxical character of the methods which I have just attempted to-
sketch.

What are the elements which it has been found necessary to confront

LAPLACE. 149

with each other in order to arrive at results expressed even to the pre-
cision of the smallest decimals ?

On the one hand, mathematical formulz deduced from the principle
of universal attraction; on the other hand, certain irregularities ob-
served in the returns of the moon to the meridian.

An observing geometer who, from his infancy, had never quitted his
chamber of study, and who had never viewed the heavens except
through a narrow aperture directed north and south, in the vertica
plane of which the principal astronomical instruments are made to move—
to whom nothing had ever been revealed respecting the bodies revolving
above his head, except that they attract each other according to the
Newtonian law of gravitation—would, however, be enabled to ascertain
that his narrow abode was situated upon the surface of a spheroidal
‘body, the equatorial axis of which surpassed the polar axis by a three
hundred and sixth part; he would have also found, in his isolated, im.
movable position, his true distance from the sun.

I have stated at the commencement of this notice that it is to
D’Alembert we owe the first satisfactory mathematical explanation of
the phenomenon of the precession of the equinoxes. But our illustrious
countryman, as well as Euler, whose solution appeared subsequently to
that of D’Alembert, omitted all consideration of certain physical cir-
cumstances, which, however, did not seem to be of a nature to be neg-
lected without examination. Laplace has supplied this deficiency. He
has shown that the sea, notwithstanding its fluidity, and that the at-
mosphere, notwithstanding its currents, exercise the same influence on
the movements of the terrestrial axis as if they formed solid masses ad-
hering to the terrestrial spheroid.

Do the extremities of the axis around which the earth performs an
entire revolution once in every twenty-four hours correspond always to
the same material points of the terrestrial spheroid? in other words,
do the poles of rotation, which from year to year correspond to different
stars, undergo also a displacement at the surface of the earth ?

In the case of the affirmative, the equator is movable as well as the
poles; the terrestrial latitudes are variable ; no country during the lapse
of ages will evjoy, even on an average, a constant climate; regious the
most different will, in their turn, become circumpolar. Adopt the con-
trary supposition, and everything assumes the character of an admi-
rable permanence.
| The question which I have just suggested, one of the most important
in astronomy, cannot be solved by the aid of mere observation, on ac-
count of the uncertainty of the early determinations of terrestrial lati-
tude. Laplace has supplied this defect by analysis. The great geome-
ter has demonstrated that no circumstance depending on universal gravi-
tation can sensibly displace the poles of the earth’s axis relatively to
the surface of the terrestrial spheroid. The sea, far from being an ob-
Stacle to the invariable rotation of the earth upon its axis, would, on the

150 LAPLACE.

contrary, reduce the axis to a permanent condition in cceisequence of
the mobility of the waters and the resistance which their oscillations
experience.

The remarks which I have just made with respect to the position of
the terrestrial axis are equally applicable to the time of the earth’s ro-
tation, which is the unit, the true standard of time. The importance of
this element induced Laplace to exatiine whether its numerical value
might not be lable to vary from internal causes, such as earthquakes
and volcanoes. It is hardly necessary for me to state that the result
obtained was negative.

The admirable memoir of Lagrange upon the libration of the moon
seemed to have exhausted the subject. This, however, was not the
case.

The motion of revolution of our satellite around the earth is subject
to perturbations, technically termed secular, which were either unknown
to Lagrange or which he negiected. These inequalities eventually place
qhe body, not to speak of entire circumlerences, at angular distances of
a semicircle, a circle and a half, &e., from the position which it would
otherwise occupy. if the movement of rotation did not participate in
such perturbations, the moon in the lapse of ages would preseut in suc-
cession all the parts of its surface to the earth.

This event will not occur. The hemisphere of the moon which is
actually invisible will remain invisible forever. Laplace, in fact, has
shown that the attraction of the earth introduces into the rotatory mo-
tion of the lunar spheroid the secular inequalities which exist in the
movement of revolution.

nesearches of this nature exhibit in full relief the power of inathemat-
ical analysis. It would have been very diflicult to have discovered by
synthesis truths so profoundly enveloped in the complex action of a
wultitude of forces.

We should be inexcusable if we omitted to notice the high impor-
tance of the labors of Laplace on the improvement of the lunar tables.
The immediate object of this improvement was, in effect, the promo
tion of maritime intercourse between distant countries; and, what was
indeed far superior to all considerations of mercantile interest, the pres-
ervation of the lives of mariners.

Thanks to a sagacity without parallel, to a perseverance which knew
no limits, to an ardor always youthful, and which communicated itself
to able co-adjutors, Laplace solved the celebrated problem of the longi-
tude more completely than could have been hoped for in a scientilic
point of view, with greater precision than the art of navigation, in its
utmost refinement, demanded. The ship, the sport of the winds and
tempests, has no occasion, in the present day, to be afraid of losing
itself in the immensity of the ocean. An intelligent glance at the starry
vault indicates to the pilot, in every place and at every time, his dis-
tance trom the meridian of Paris. The extreme perfection of the ex-
LAPLACE, 151

isting tables of the moon entitles Laplace to be ranked among the bene-
factors of humanity.*

In the beginning of the year 1611, Galileo supposed that he found in
the eclipses of Jupiter’s satellites a simple and rigorous solution of the
famous problem of the longitude, and active negotiations were imme-
diately commenced with the view of introducing the new method on
board the numerous vessels of Spain and Holland. These negotiations
failed. From the discussion, it plainly appeared that the accurate ob-
servation of the eclipses of the satellites would requise powerful tele-
scopes; but such telescopes could not be employed on board a ship
tossed about by the waves.

The method of Galileo seemed, at any rate, to retain all its advan-
tages when applied on land, and to promise immense improvements to
geography. These expectations were found to be premature. The
movements of the satellites of Jupiter are not by any means so simple
as the immortal inventor of the method of longitudes supposed them to
be. It was necessary that three generations of astronomers and mathe-
maticians should labor with perseverance in unfolding their most con-
siderable perturbations. It was necessary, in fine, that the tables of
those bodies should acquire all desirable and necessary precision, that
Laplace should introduce into the midst of them the torch of mathemati-
cal analysis.

In the present day, the nautical ephemerides contain, several years in
advance, the indication of the times of the eclipses and re-appearances
of Jupiter’s satellites. Calculation does not yield in precision to direct
observation. In this group of satellites, considered as an independent
system of bodies, Laplace found a series of perturbations analogous to
those which the planets experience. The rapidity of the revolutions un-
folds, in a sufliciently short space of time, changes in this system which
require centuries for their complete development in the solar system.

Although the satellites exhibit hardly au appreciable diameter even
when viewed in the best telescopes, our illustrious countryman was en-
abled to determine their masses. Finally, he discovered certain simple
relations of an extremely remarkable character between the movements
of those bodies, which have been called the laws of Laplace. Posterity
will not obliterate this designation ; it will acknowledge the propriety
of inscribing in the heavens the name of so great an astronomer beside
that of Kepler. .

* The theoretical researches of Laplace formed the basis of Burekhardt’s Lunar Tables,
which are chiefly employed in computing the places of the moon for the Nautical Almanac
and other ephemerides. These tables were defaced by an empiric equation, suggested for
the purpose of representing an inequality of long pericd which seemed to affect the mean
longitude of the moon. No satisfactory explanation of the origin of this inequality could
be discovered by any geometer, although it formed the subject of much toilsome investiga--
tion throughout the present century, until at length M. Hanson found it to arise from a
combination of two inequalities due to the disturbing action of Venus. The peiiod of one
of these inequalities is 273 years, and that of the other is 239 years. The maximum value of

the former is 27.4, and that of the latter is 23/’.2,—--TRANSLATOR.
152 LAPLACE.

Let us cite two or three of the laws of Laplace:

If we add to the mean longitude of the first satellite twice that of the
third, and subtract from the sum three times the mean longitude of the
second, the result will be exactly equal to 180°. Would it not be very
extraordinary if the three satellites had been placed originally at the
distances from Jupiter, and in the positions, with respect to each other,
adapted for constantly and rigorously maintaining the foregoing rela-
tion? Laplace has replied to this question by showing that it is not
necessary that this relation should have been rigorously true at the ori-
gin. The mutual action of the satellites would necessarily have reduced
it to its present mathematical condition, if once the distances and the
positions satisfied the law approximately.

This first law is equally true when we employ the synodical elements.
It hence plainly results that the three first satellites of Jupiter can never
be all eclipsed at the same time. Bearing this in mind, we shall bave
no difiiculty in apprehending the import of a celebrated observation of
recent times, during which certain astronomers perceived the planet for
a short time without any of his four satellites. This would not by any
mneans authorize us in supposing the satellites to be eclipsed. A satel-
lite disappears when it is projected upon the central part of the lumi-
nous disk of Jupiter, and also when it passes behind the opaque body
of the planet.

The following is another very simple law to which the mean motions
of the same satellites of Jupiter are subject:

If we add to the mean motion of the first satellite twice the mean
motion of the third, the sum is exactly equal to three times the mean
motion of the second. *

This numerical co-incidence, which is perfectly accurate, would be one
of the most mysterious phenomena in the system of the universe if

* This law is necessarily included in the law already enunciated by the author relative to
the mean longitudes. The following is the most usual mode of expressing these curious rela-
tions : Ist, the mean motion of the first satellite, plus twice the mean motion of the third,
minus three times the mean motion of the second, is rigorously equal to zero; 2d, the mean
longitude of the first satellite, plus twice the mean longitude of the third, minus three times
the mean longitude of the second, is equal to J80°. It is plain that if we only consider
the mean longitude here to refer to a given epoch, the combination of the two laws will as-
sure the existence of an analogous relation between the mean longitudes for any instant of
time whatever, whether past or future. Laplace has shown, as the author has stated in the
text, that if these relations had only been approximately true at the origin, the mutual
attraction of the three satellites would have ultimately rendered them rigorously so: under
such circumstances the mean longitude of the first satellite, plus twice the mean longitude
of the third, minus three times the mean longitude of the second, would ecntinually oscil-
late about 180° as a mean value. The three satellites would participate in this libratory
movement, the extent of oscillation depending in each case on the mass of the satellite and
its distance from the primary, but the period of libration is the same for all the satellites,
amounting to 2,270 days 18 hours, or rather more than six years. Observations of the
eclipses of the satellites have not afforded any indications of the actual existence of such a
libratory motion, so that the relations between the mean motions and mean longitudes may
‘be presumed to be always rigorously true. —TRANSLATOR,
LAPLACE. 153

Laplace had not proved that the law need only have been approximate
at the origin, and that the mutual action of the satellites has sufficed
to render it rigorous.

The illustrious geometer who always pursued his researches to their
most remote ramifications arrived at the following result: The action
of Jupiter regulates the movements of rotation of the satellites, so
that, without taking into account the secular perturbations, the time of
rotation of the first satellite, plus twice the time of rotation of the third,
forms a sum which is constantly equal to three times the time of rota-
tion of the second. Influenced by a deference, a modesty, a timidity,
without any plausible motive, our artists in the last century surren-
dered to the English the exclusive privilege of constructing instrnments
of astronomy. Thus, let us frankly acknowledge the fact, at the time
when Herschel was prosecuting his beautiful observations on the other
side of the Channel, there existed in France no instruments adapted
for developing them; we had not even the means of verifying them.
Fortunately for the scientific honor of our country, mathematical analy-
sis is also a powerful instrument. Laplace gave ampie proof of this
on a memorable occasion when, from the retirement of bis chamber, he
predicted, he minutely announced, what the excellent astronomer of
Windsor would see with the largest telescopes which were ever con-
structed by the hand of man.

When Galileo, in the beginning of the year 1610, directed toward
Saturn a telescope of very low power, which he had just executed with
his own hands, he perceived that the planet was not an ordinary globe,,
without, however, being able to ascertain its real form. The expression
“‘tri-corporate,” by which the illustrious Florentine designated the appear-
ance of the planet, implied even a totally erroneous idea of its strue-
ture. Our countryman Roberval entertained much sounder views on
the subject, but from not having instituted a detailed comparison be-
tween his hypothesis and the results of observation, he abandoned to
Huyghens the honor of being regarded as the author of the true theory
of the phenomena presented by the wonderful planet. Every person
knows in the present day that Saturn consists of a globe about 900
times greater than the earth, and aring. This ring does not touch
the ball of the planet, being everywhere removed from it at a distance
of 20,000 (English) miles. Observation indicates the breadth of the
ring to be 54,000. miles. The thickness certainly does not exceed 250
miles. With the exception of a black streak, which divides the ring
throughout its whole contour into two parts of unequal breadth and
of different brightness, this strange, colossal bridge without piles had
never offered to the most experienced or skillful observer either spot
or protuberance adapted for deciding whether it was immovable or
endued with a movement of rotation.

Laplace considered it to be very improbable, if the ring was immov-
able, that its constituent parts should be capable of resisting by their
154 LAPLACE.

mere cohesion the continual attraction of the planet. A movement of
rotation occurred to his mind as constituting the principle of stability,
and he hence deduced the necessary velocity. The velocity thas found
Was exactly equal to that which Herschel subsequently deduced from
a course of extremely delicate observations.

The two parts of the ring being placed at different distances from the
planet, could not fail to experience, from the action of the sun, different
movements ef rotation. It would hence seem that the planes of both
rings ought to be generally inclined toward each other, whereas they
appear from observation always to coincide. It was necessary, then,
that some physical cause should exist which would be capable of neutral-
izing the action of the sun. In a memoir published in February, 1789,
Laplace found that this cause must reside in the ellipticity of Saturn,
produced by a rapid movement of rotation of the planet, a movement
the existence of which Herschel announced in November, 1789.

The reader cannot fail to remark how, on certain occasions, the eyes
of the mind can supply the want of the most powerful telescopes, and
lead to astronomical discoveries of the highest importance. Let us de-
scend from the heavens upon the earth. The discoveries of Laplace will
appear not less important, not less worthy of his genius.

The phenomena of the tides, which an ancient philosopher designated
in despair the tomb of human curiosity, were connected by Laplace
with an analytical theory in which the physical conditions of the ques-
tion figure for the first time. Accordingly calculators, to the immense
advantage of the navigation of our maritine coasts, venture in the
present day to predict several years in advance the details of the time
and height of the full tides without more anxiety respecting the result
than if the question related to the phases of an eclipse.

There exists between the different phenomena of the ebb and flow of
the tides and the attractive forces which the sun and moon exercise
upon the fluid sheet which covers three-fourths of the globe, an intimate
and necessary connection, from which Laplace, by the aid of a series of
twenty years of observations, executed at Brest, deduced the value of
the mass of our satellite. Science knows in the present day that seventy-
five moons would be necessary to form a weight equivalent to that of
the terrestrial globe, and it is indebted for this result to an attentive
and minute study of the oscillations of the ocean. We know only one
means of enhancing the admiration which every thoughtiul mind will
entertain for theories capable of leading to such conclusions. An his-
torical statement will supply it. In the year 1631, the illustrious Gali-
leo, as appears from his Dialogues, was so far from perceiving the mathe-
matical relations from which Laplace deduced results so beautiful, so
unequivocal, and so useful, that he taxed with frivolousness the vague
idea which Kepler entertained of attributing to the moon’s attraction a
certain share in the production of the diurnal and periodical movements
of the waters of the ocean. —
LAPLACE. 155

Lapiace did not confine himself to extending so considerably, and im-
proving so essentially, the mathematical theory of the tides ; he consid-
ered the phenomenon from an entirely new point of view; it was he who
first treated of the stability of the ocean. Systems of bodies, whether
solid or fluid, are subject to two kinds of equilibrium, which we must
caretully distinguish from each other. In the case of stable equilibrium,
the system, when slightly disturbed, tends always to return to its origi-
nal condition. Ontbe other hand, when the system isin unstable equilib-
lium, a very insignificant derangement might occasion an enormous
dislocation in the relative positious of its constituent parts.

If the equlibriam of waves is of the latter kind, the waves engendered
by the action of winds, by earthquakes, and by sudden movements
from the bottom of the ocean, have perhaps risen in past times, and
nay rise in the future, to the height of the highest mountains. The
geologist wili have the satisfaction of deducing from these prodigious
oscillations a rational explanation of a great multitude of phenomena,
but the public will thereby be exposed to new and terrible catastro-
phes.

Mankind may rest assured ; Laplace has proved, that the equilibrium
of the ocean is stable, but upon the express condition (which, however,
has been amply verified by established facts) that the mean density of
the fluid mass is less than the mean density of the earth. Everything
else remaining the same, let us substitute an ocean of mercury for the
actual ocean, and the stability will disappear, and the fluid will fre-
quently surpass its boundaries, to ravage continents even to the height.
ot the snowy regions which lose themselves in the clouds.

Does not the reader remark how each of the analytical investigations
ot Laplace serves to disclose the harmony and duraticen of the universe
and of our globe?

It was impossible that the great geometer, who had succeeded so
well in the study of the tides of the ocean, should not have occupied
his attention with the tides of the atmosphere; that he should net have
submitted to the delicate and definitive tests of a rigorous calculus the
generally-diflused opinions respecting the influence of the moon upon the
height of the barometer and other meteorological phengmena.

Laplace, in effect, has devoted a chapter of his splendid work to an
examination of the oscillations which the attractive force of the moon
is capable of producing in our atmosphere. It results from these re-
Searches that, at Paris, the lunar tide produces no sensible effect upon
the barometer. The height of the tide, obtained by the discussion of a
long series of observations, has not exceeded two-hundredths of a milli-
meter, a quantity which, in the present state of meteorological science,
is Jess than the probable error of observation.

The calculation to which I have just alluded may be cited in support
of considerations to which [ had recourse when I wished to establish,
that if the moon alters more or less the height of the barometer, accord-
ing to its different phases, the ettect is not attributable to attraction.
156 LAPLACE.

No person was more sagacious than Laplace in discovering intimate
relations between phenomena apparently very dissimilar; no person
showed himself more skillful in deducing important conclusions from
those unexpected affinities.

Toward the close of his days, for example, he overthrew with a stroke
of the pen, by the aid of certain observations of the moon, the cosmo-
gonic theories of Buffon and Bailly, which were so long in favor. <Ac-
cording to these theories, the earth was inevitably advancing to astate
of congelation which was close at hand. Laplace, who never contented
himself with a vague statement, sought to determine in numbers the
rapid cooling of our globe which Buffon had so eloquently but so gra-
tuitously announced. Nothing could be more simple, better connected,
or more demonstrative than the chain of deductions of the celebrated
geometer.

A body diminishes in volume when it cools. According to the most
elementary principles of mechanics, a rotating body which contracts in
dimensions ought inevitably to turn upon its axis with greater and
greater rapidity. The Jength of the day has been determined in all
ages by the time of the earth’s rotation; if the earth is cooling, the
length of the day must be continually shortening. Now, there exists a
means of ascertaining whether the length of the day has undergone any
variation ; this consists in examining, for each century, the are of the
celestial sphere described by the moon during the interval of time which
the astronomers of the existing epoch called a day; in other words, the
time required by the earth to effect a complete rotation on its axis, the
velocity of the moon being, in fact, independent of the time of the earth’s
rotation.

Let usnow, after theexample of Laplace, take from the standard tables
the least considerable values, if you choose, of the expansions or con-
tractions which solid bodies experience from changes of temperature ;
search then the annals of Grecian, Arabian, and modern astronomy for
the purpose of finding in them the angular velocity of the moon, and
the great geometer will prove, by incontrovertible evidence, founded
upon these data, that during a period of 2,000 years the mean tempera-
ture of the earth has not varied to the extent of the hundredth part of
a degree of the centigrade thermometer. No eloquent declamation is
rapable of resisting such a process of reasoning, or withstanding the
force of such numbers. The mathematics have been in all ages the im-
placabie adversaries of scientific romances.

The fall of bodies, if it was not a phenomenon of perpetual occurrence,
would justly excite in the highest degree the astonishment of mankind.
What, in effect, is more extraordinary than to see an inert mass—that is
to say, a mass deprived of will, a mass which ought not to have any
propensity to advance in one direction more than in another, precipitate
itself toward the earth as soon as it ceased to be supported ?

Nature engenders the gravity of bodies by a process so recondite, so
LAPLACE. 157

completely beyond the reach of our senses and the ordinary resources
of human intelligence, that the philosophers of antiquity, who supposed
that they could explain everything mechanically according to the simple
evolutions of atoms, excepted gravity from their speculations.

Descartes attempted what Leucippus, Democritus, Epicurus, and their
followers thought to be impossible. He made the fall of terrestrial
bodies depend upon the action of a vortex of very subtle matter circu-
lating around the earth. The real improvements which the illustrious
Huyghens applied to the ingenious conception of our countryman were
far, however, from imparting to it clearness and precision, those charac-
teristic attributes of truth.

Those persons form a very imperfect estimate of the meaning of one
of the greatest questions which have occupied the attention of modern
inquirers, who regard Newton as having issued victorious from a strug-
gle in which his two immortal predecessors had failed. Newton did not
discover the cause of gravity any more than Galileo did. Two bodies
placed in juxtaposition approach each other. Newton does not inquire
into the nature of the force which produces this effect. The force ex-
ists. He designates it by the term attraction; but, at the same time,
he warns the reader that the term, as thus used by him, does not imply
any definite idea of the physical process by which gravity is brought
into existence and operates.

The force of attraction being once admitted as a fact, Newton studies
it in all terrestrial phenomena, :4 the revolutions of the moon, the plan-
ets, satellites, and comets ; and, as we have already stated, he deduced.
from this incomparable study the simple, universal, mathematical char-
acteristics of the forces which preside over the movements of all the
bodies of which our solar system is composed.

The applause of the scientific world did not prevent the immortal au-
thor of the Principia from hearing some persons refer the principle of
gravitation to the class of occult qualities. This circumstance induced
Newton and his most devoted followers to abandon the reserve which
they had hitherto considered it their duty to maintain. Those persons
were then charged with ignorance who regarded attraction as an essen-
tial property of matter, as the mysterious indication of a sort of charm ;
who supposed that two bodies may act upon each other without the in-
tervention of a third body. This force was then either the result of the
tendency of an ethereal fluid to move from the free regions of space,
where its density is a maximum, toward the planetary bodies, around
which there exists a greater degree of rarefaction, or the consequence
ot the impulsive force of some fluid medium.

Newton never expressed a definitive opinion respecting the origin of
the impulse which occasioned the attractive force of matter—at least in
our solar system. But we have strong reasons for supposing, in the
present day, that, in using the word impulse the great geometer was
thinking of the systematic ideas of Varignon and Fatio de Duillier, sub-
158 LAPLACE,

sequently re-invented and perfected by Lesage. These ideas, in effect,
had been communicated to him before they were published to the world.

According to Lesage, there are in the regions of space bodies moving
in every possible direction, and with excessive rapidity. The author
applied to these the name of ultramundane corpuscules. Their totality
constituted the gravitative fluid, if indeed the designation of a fluid be
applicable to an assemblage of particles having no mutual connection.

A single body placed in the midst of such an ocean of movable par-
ticles would remain at rest althongh it were impelled equally in every
direction. On the other hand, two bodies ought to advance toward each
other, since they would serve the purpose of mutual screens, since the
surfaces facing each other would no longer be hit in the direction of their
line of junction by the ultra-mundane particles, since there would then
exist currents, the effect of which would no longer be neutralized by
opposite currents. It will be easily seen, besides, that two bodies
plunged into the gravitative fluid would tend to approach each other
with an intensity which would vary in the inverse proportion of the
square of the distance.

If attraction is the result of the impulse of a fluid, its action ought
to employ a finite time in traversing the immense spaces which separate
the celestial bodies. If the sun, then, were suddenly extinguished, the
earth, after the catastrophe, would, mathematically speaking, still con-
tinue for some time to experience its attractive influence. The contrary
would happen on the occasion of the sudden birth of a planet: a cer-
tain time would elapse before the attractive force of the new body would
make itself felt on the earth.

Several geometers of the last century were of opinion that the force
of attraction is not transmitted instantaneously from one body to
another; they even assigned to it a comparatively inconsiderable veloce-
ity of propagation. Daniel Bernoulli, for example, in attempting to
explain how the spring-tide arrives upon our coasts a day and a half
after the syzygies, that is to say, a day and a half after the epochs when
the sun and moon are most favorably situated for the production of this
magnificent phenomenon, assumed that the disturbing force required all
this time (a day and a half) for its propagation from the moon to the
ocean. So feeble a velocity was inconsistent with the mechanical ex-
planation of attraction, of which we have just spoken. The explanation,
In effect, necessarily supposes that the proper motions of the celestial
bodies are insensible, compared with the motion of the gravitative fluid.
After having discovered that the diminution of the eccentricity of the
terrestrial orbit is the real cause of the observed acceleration of the
motion of the moon, Laplace, on his part, endeavored to ascertain
whether this mysterious acceleration did not depend on the gradual
propagation of attraction.

The result of calculation was at first favorable to the plausibility of
the hypothesis. It showed that the gradual propagation of the attract-
LAPLACE. 159

ive force would introduce into the movement of our satellite a pertur-
bation proportional to the square of the time which elapsed from the
commencement of any epoch ; that in order to represent numerically the
results of astronomical observations, it would not be necessary to assign
a feeble velocity to attraction; that a propagation eight millions of
times more rapid than that of light would satisfy all the phenomena.

Although the true cause of the acceleration of the moon is now well
known, the ingenious calculation of which I have just spoken does not
the less on that account maintain its place in scienee. In a mathe-
matical point of view, the perturbation depending on the gradual propa-
gation of the attractive force which this caleulation indicates has a cer-
tain existence. The connection between the velocity of perturbation
and the resulting inequality is such that one of the two quantities leads
to a knowledge of the numerical value of the other. Now, upon assign-
ing to the inequality the greatest value which is consistent with the
observations after they have been corrected for the effect due to the
variation of the eccentricity of the terrestrial orbit, we find the velocity
of the attractive force to be fifty millions of times the velocity of light.

If it be borne in mind that this number is an inferior limit, and that
the velocity of the rays of light amounts to 77,000 leagues (192,000
English miles) per second, the philosophers who profess to explain the
force of attraction by the impulsive energy of a fluid, will see what pro-
digious velocities they must satisfy.

The reader cannot fail again to remark the sagacity with which La-
place singled out the phenomena which were best adapted for throwing
light upon the most obscure points of celestial physics ; nor the success”
with which he explored their various parts. and deduced from them
numerical conclusions in presence of which the mind remains con-
founded.

The author of the Mécanique Céleste supposed, like Newton, that
light consists of material molecules of excessive tenuity and endued in
empty space with a velocity of 77,000 leagues ina second. However,
it is right to warn those who would be inclined to avail themselves of
this imposing authority that the principal argument of Laplace in favor
of the system of emission consisted in the advantage which it afforded
of submitting every question to a process of simple and rigorous calcu-
lation; whereas, on the other hand, the theory of undulations has always
offered immense difficulties to analysts. It was natural that a geometer
who had so elegantly connected the laws of simple refraction which light
uudergoes in its passage through the atmosphere, and the laws of double
refraction which it is subject to in the course of its passage through
certain crystals, with the action of attractive and repulsive forces, should
not have abandoned this route, before he recognized the impossibility of
arriving by the same path at plausible explanations of the phenomena
of diffraction and polarization. In other respects, the care which Laplace
always employed in pursuing his researches, as far as possible, to their
160 LAPLACE.

numerical results will enable those who are disposed to institute a com-
plete comparison between the two rival theories of light to derive from
the Mécanique Céleste the materials of several interesting relations.

Is light an emanation from the sun? Does this body launch out ineces-
santly in every direction a part of its own substance? Is it gradually
diminishing in volume and mass? The attraction exercised by the sun
upon the earth will, in that case, gradually become less and less consid-
erable. The radius of the terrestrial orbit, on the other hand, cannot
fail to increase, and a corresponding effect will be produced on the length
of the year.

This is the conclusion which suggests itself to every person upon a
first glance at the subject. By applying analysis to the question, and
then proceeding to numerical computations, founded upon the most trust-
worthy results of observation relative to the length of the year in dif-
ferent ages, Laplace has proved that an incessant emission of light, go-
ing on for a period of two thousand years, has not diminished the mass
of the sun by the two-millionth part of its original value.

Our illustrious countryman never proposed to himself anything vague
or indefinite. His constant object was the explanation of the great
phenomena of nature, according to the inflexible principles of mathemat-
ical analysis. No philosopher, no mathematician, could have main-
tained himself more cautiously on his guard against a propensity to

hasty speculation. No person dreaded more the scientific errors which.

the imagination gives birth to, when it ceases to remain within the limits
of facts, of calculation, and of analogy. Once, and once only, did
Laplace launch forward, like Kepler, like Descartes, like Leibnitz, like
Buffon, into the region of conjectures. His conception was not then less
than a cosmogony.

All the planets revolve around the sun, from west to east, and in planes
which inelude angles of inconsiderable magnitude. The satellites revolve
around their respective primaries in the same direction as that in which
the planets revolve around the sun, that is to say, from west to east.

The planets and satellites which have been found to have a rotatory
motion, turn also upon their axes from west to east. Finally, the rota-
tion of the sun is also directed from west to east. We have here, then,
an assemblage of forty-three movements, all operating in the same di-
rection. By the calculus of probabilities, the odds are four thousand
millions to one that this co-incidence in the direction of so many move-
ments is not the effect of accident.

It was Buffon, I think, who first attempted to explain this singular
feature of our solar system. Having wished in the explanation of phe-
nomena to avoid all recourse to causes which were not warranted by na-
ture, the celebrated academician investigated a physical origin of the
system in what was common to the movements of so many bodies differ-
ing in magnitude, in form, and in distance from the principal center of
attraction. He imagined that he discovered such an origin by making
LAPLACE. Lét

this triple supposition: A comet fell obliquely upon the sun ; it pushed
before it a torrent of fluid matter; this substance transported to a
greater or less distance from the sun, according to its mass, formed by
concentration all the known planets.

The bold hypothesis of Buffon is liab!e to unsurmountable difficulties.
I proceed to indicate, in a few words, the cosmogonic system which
Laplace substituted for that of the illustrious author of the Histoire
Naturelle.

According to Laplace, the sun was at a remote epoch the central
nucleus of an immense nebula, which possessed a very high temperature,
and extended far beyond the region in which Uranus revelves in the
present day. No planet was then in existence.

The solar nebula was endued with a general movement of revolution
directed from west to east. At it cooled it could not fail to experienze
a gradual condensation, and, in consequence, to rotate with greater and
greater rapidity. If the nebulous matter extended originally in the
plane of the equator as far as the limit at which the centrifugal force
exactly counterbalanced the attraction of the nucleus, the molecules
situate at this limit ought, during the process of condensation, to sepa-
rate from the rest of the atmospheric matter, and form an equatorial
zone, a ring revolving separately and with its primitive velocity.

We may conceive that analogous separations were effected in the
higher strata of the nebula at different epochs, that is to say, at differ-
ent distances from the nucleus, and that they give rise to a succession
of distinct rings, included almost in the same plane and endued with dif-
ferent velocities.

This being once admitted, it is easy to see that the indefinite stability
of the rings would have required a regularity of structure throughout
their whole contour which is very improbable. Each of them accord-
ingly broke in its turn into several masses, which were piainly endued
with a movement of rotation, coinciding in direction with the common
movement of revolution, and which in consequence of their fluidity as-
sumed spheroidal forms.

In order, then, that one of those spheroids might absorb all the others
belonging to the same ring, it will be sufficient to assign to it a mass
greater than that of any other spheroid.

Each of the planets, while in the vaporous condition to which we have
just alluded, would manifestly have a central nucleus gradually increas-
ing in magnitude and mass, and an atmosphere offering, at its succes-
Sive limits, phenomena entirely similar to those which the solar atmos-
phere, properly so called, had exhibited. We here witness the birth of
Satellites, and that of the ring of Saturn.

The system of which I have just given an imperfect sketch has for
| its object to show how a nebula endued with a general movement of
| rotation must eventually transform itself into a very luminous central

nueleus (a sun) and into a series of distinct spheroidal planets, situate
| lls

)
(
162 LAPLACE.

at considerable distances from each other, revolving all around the cen-
tral sun in the direction of the original movement of the nebula; how
these planets ought also to have movements of rotation operating in
similar directions ; how, finally, the satellites, when any of such are
formed, cannot fail to revolve upon their axes and around their respect-
ive primaries, in the direction of rotation of the planets and of their
movement of revolution around the sun.

We have just found, conformably to the principles of mechanies, the
forces with which the particles of the nebula were originally endued, in
the movements of rotation and revolution of the compact and distinet
masses which these particles have brought into existence by their con-
densation. But we have thereby achieved only a single step. The
primitive movement of rotation of the nebula is not connected with the
simple attraction of the particles. This movement seems to imply the
action of a primordial impulsive force.

Laplace is far from adopting, in this respect, the almost universal
opinion of philosophers and mathematicians. He does not suppose that
the mutual attractions of originally immovable bodies must ultimately
reduce all the bodies to a state of rest around their common center of
gravity. He maintains, on the contrary, that three bodies, in a state of
rest, two of which have a much greater mass than the third, would con-
centrate into a single mass only in certain exceptional cases. In gen-
eral, the two most considerable bodies would unite together, while the
third would revolve around their common center of gravity. Attraction
would thus become the cause of a sort of movement which would seem
to be explicable solely by an impulsive force.

It might be supposed, indeed, that in explaining this part ef his sys-
tem Laplace had before his eyes the words which Rousseau has placed
in the mouth of the Vicar of Savoy, and tbat he wished to refute them.
‘‘ Newton has discovered the law of attraction,” says the author of
Emile; “ but attraction alone would soon reduce the universe to an im-
movable mass. With this law we must combine a projectile force in
order to make the celestial bodies describe curve-lines. Let Descartes
reveal to us the physical law which causes his vortices to revolve; and
let Newton show us the hand which launched the planets along the
tangents of their orbits.”

According to the cosmogonic ideas of Laplace, comets did not origi-
nally form part of the solar system. They are not formed at the expense
of the matter of the immense solar nebula. We must consider them as
small wandering nebula, which the attractive force of the sun has
caused to deviate from their original route. Such of those comets as
penetrated into the great nebula at the epoch of condensation and of
the formation of planets fell into the sun, describing spiral curves, and
must by their action have caused the planetary orbits to deviate more
or less from the plane of the solar equator, with which they would
otherwise have exactly coincided.
LAPLACE.  SEGS

With respect to the zodiacal light, that rock against which so many
reveries have been wrecked, it consists of the most volatile parts of the
primitive nebula. These molecules, not baving united with the equa-
torial zones, successively abandoned in the plane of the solar equator,
continue to revolve at their original distances, and with their original
velocities. The circumstance of this extremely rare substance being
included wholly within the earth’s orbit, and even within that of Venus,
seemed irreconcilable with the principles of mechanics; but this diffi-
culty occurred only when the zodiacal substance being conceived to be
in a state of direct and intimate dependence on the solar photosphere,
properly so called, an angular movement of rotation was impressed on
it equal to that of the photosphere, a movement in virtue of which it
effected an entire revolution in twenty-five days and a half. Laplace
presented his conjectures on the formation of the solar system with the
diffidence inspired by a result which was not founded upon calculation
and observation.*

Perhaps it is to be regretted that they did not receive a more complete
development, especially in so far as it concerns the division of the mat-
ter into distinct rings; perhaps it would have been desirable if the illus-
trious author had expressed himself more fully respecting the primitive
physical condition, the molecular condition of the nebula at the expense
of which the sun, planets, and satellites of our system were formed. It
is perhaps especially to be regretted that Laplace should have only
briefly alluded to what he considered the obvious possibility of move-
ments of revolution having their origin in the action of simple attractive
forces, and to other questions of a similar nature.

Notwithstanding these defects, the ideas of the author of the JJéca-
nique Céleste are still the only speculations of the kind which, by their
magnitude, their coherence, and their mathematical character, may be
justly considered as forming a physical cosmogony ; those alone which
in the present day derive a powerful support from the results of the re-
cent researches of astronomers on the nebule of every form and magni-
tude which are scattered throughout the celestial vault.

In this analysis, we have deemed it right to concentrate all our atten-
tion upon the Mécanique Céleste. The Systeme du Monde and the
Théorie Analytique des Probabilités would also require detailed notices.

The Exposition du Systéme du Monde is the Mécanique Céleste divested
of the great apparatus of analytical formula which ought to be atten-
tively perused by every astronomer who, to use an expression of Plato,
is desirous of knowing the numbers which govern the physical universe.
It is in the Exposition du Systéme du Monde that persons unacquainted
with mathematical studies will obtain an exact and competent knowl-
edge of the methods to which physical astronomy is indebted for its as-
tonishing progress. This work, written with a noble simplicity of style,

*Laplace has explained this theory in his Exposition du Systéme du Monde, (liv. 4, note
7.)—TRANSLATOR,
164 LAPLACE.

an exquisite propriety of expression, and a scrupulous accuracy, is termi-
nated by a sketch of the history of astronomy, universally ranked in the
present day among the finest monuments of the French language. —

A regret has been often expressed that Caesar, in his immortal Com-
mentaries, should have confined himself to a narration of his own cam-
paigns; the astronomical commentaries of Laplace ascend to the origin
of communities. The labors undertaken in all ages for the purpose of
extracting new truths from the heavens are there justly, clearly, and
profoundly analyzed; it is genius presiding as the impartial judge of
genius. Laplace has always remained at the height of his great mis-
sion; his work will be read with respect so long as the torch of science
shall continue to throw any light.
~ The caleulus of probabilities, when confined within just limits, ought
to interest, in an equal degree, the mathematician, the experimentalist,
and the statesman. Trom the time when Pascal and Fermat established
its first principles, it has rendered, and continues daily to render, services
of the most eminent kind. It is the caleulus of probabilities, which,
after having suggested the best arrangements of the tables of popula-
tion and mortality, teaches us todeduce from those numbers, in general
so erroneously interpreted, conclusions of a precise and useful character ;
it is the calculus of probabilities which alone ean regulate justly the
premiums to be paid for assurances; the reserve fands for the disburse-
ment of pensions, annuities, discounts, &c. Itis under its influence that
lotteries and other shameful snares cunningly laid for avarice and igno-
rance have definitively disappeared. Laplace has treated these questions,
and others of a much more complicated nature, with his accustomed
superiority. In short, the Théorie Analytique des Probabilités is worthy
of the author of the Mécanique Céleste.

A philosopher, whose name is associated with immortal discoveries,
said to his audience, who had allowed themselves to be influenced by
ancient and consecrated anthorities, ‘* Bear in mind, gentlemen, that in
questions of science the authority of a thousand is not worth the humble
reasoning of a singleindividual.” Two centuries have passed over their
words of Galileo, without depreciating their value or obliterating these
truthful character. Thus, instead of displaying a long list of illustrious
admirers of the three beautiful works of Laplace, we have preferred
glancing briefly at some of the sublime truths which geometry has there
deposited. Let us not, however, apply this principle in its utmost rigor,
and since chance has put into our hands some unpublished letters of one
of those men of genius, whom nature has endowed with the rare faculty
of seizing at a glance the salient points of an object, we may be permitted
to extract from them two or three brief and characteristic appreciations
of the Mécanique Céleste and the Traité des Probabitités.

On the 27th Vendémiaire, in the year X, General Bonaparte, after
having received a volume of the Mécanique Céleste, wrote to Laplace
in the following terms: ‘*The first siz months which I shall have at my
LAPLACE. 165

disposal will be employed in reading your beautiful work.” It would
appear that the words, * the first six months,” deprive the phrase of the
character of a common-place expression of thanks, and convey a just
appreciation of the importance and difficulty of the subject-matter.

On the 5th Frimaire, in the year XI, the reading of some chapters of
the volume which Laplace had dedicated to him was to the general * a
new ocvasion for regretting that the force of circumstances had directed
him into a career which removed him from the pursuit of science.”

“ At all events,” added he, “I have a strong desire that future gen-
erations, upon reading the Mécanique Céleste, shall not forget the es-
teem and friendship which I have entertained toward its author.”

On the 17th Prairial, in the year XIII, the general, now become Em-
peror, wrote from Milan: “The IMécanique Céleste appears to me des-
tined to shed new luster on the age in which we live.”

Finally, on the 12th of August, 1812, Napoleon, who had juct received
the Traité du Calcul des Probabilités wrote from Witepask the letter
which we transcribe textually :

‘There was a time when I would have read with interest your Traité

du Calcul des Probabilités. For the present, I must confine myself to
expressing to you the satisfaction which I experience every time that I
see you give to the world new works which serve to improve and ex-
tend the most important of the sciences and contribute to the glory
of the nation. The advancement and the improvement of mathemati-
ical science are connected with the prosperity of the state.”

I bave now arrived at the conclusion of the task which I had im-
posed upon myself. I shall be pardoned for having given so detailed
an exposition of the principal discoveries for which philosophy, astron-
omy, and navigation are indebted to our geometers.

It has appeared to me that in thus tracing the glorious past, I have
shown our contemporaries the full extent of their duty towards the
country. In fact,it is for nations especially to bear in remembrance
the ancient adage, noblesse oblige.

APPENDIX A.

The following is a brief notice of some other interesting results of the
researches of Laplace which have not been mentioned in the text:

Method for determining the orbits of comets —Since comets are gen-
erally visible only during a few days or weeks at the utmost, the
determination of their orbits is attended with peculiar difficulties.
The method devised by Newton for effecting this object was in every
respect worthy of his genius. Its practical value was illustrated by the
brilliant researches of Halley on cometary orbits. It necessitated, how-
ever, a long train of tedious calculations, and, in consequence, was not
much used, astronomers generally preferring to attain the’same end by
a tentative process. In the year 1780, Laplace communicated to the
166 LAPLACE. 4

,
Academy of Sciences an analytical method for determining the elements
of a comet’s orbit. This method has been extensively employed in
France. Indeed, previously to the appearance of Olbers’s method, about
the close of the last century, it furnished the easiest and most expedi-
tious process hitherto devised for calculating the parabolic elements of
a comet’s orbit. ;

Invariable plane of the solar system.—In consequence of the mutual
perturbations of the different bodies of the planetary system, the planes —
of the orbits in which they revolve are perpetually varying in position.
It becomes, therefore, desirable to ascertain some fixed plane to which
the movements of the planets in all ages may be referred, so that the
observations of one epoch might be rendered readily comparable with
those of another. This object was accomplished by Laplace, who dis-
covered that notwithstanding the perpetual fluctuations of the planetary
orbits, there exists a fixed plane, to which the positions of the various
bodies may at any instant be easily referred. This plane passes through
the center of gravity of the solar system, and its position is such that
if the movements of the planets be projected upon it, and if the mass of -
each planet be multiplied by the area which it describes in a given time,
the sum of such products will be amaximum. The position of the plane
for the year 1750 has been calculated by referring it to the ecliptic of
that year. In this way it has been found that the inclination of the
plane is 1° 35’ 31”, and that the longitude of the ascending node is 102°
57/ 30”. The position of the plane when calculated for the year 1950,
with respect to the ecliptic of 1759, gives 1° 35/ 31” for the inelination,
and 102° 57/ 15” for the longitude of the ascending node. It will be
seen that a very satisfactory accordance exists between the elements of —
the position of the invariable plane for the two epochs. |

Diminution of the obliquity of the ecliptic.—The astronomers of the —
eighteenth century had found, by a comparison of ancient with modern |
observations, that the obliquity of the ecliptic is slowly diminishing from
century to century. The researches of geometers on the theory of gravi-
tation had shown that an effect of this kind must be produced by the
disturbing action of the planets on the earth. Laplace determined the —
secular displacement of the plane of the earth’s orbit due to each of the —
planets, and in this way ascertained the whole effect of perturbation upon —
the obliquity of the ecliptic. A comparison which he instituted between —
the results of his formula and an ancient observation recorded in the
Chinese Annals exhibited a most satisfactory accordance. The obser-
vation in question indicated the obliquity of the ecliptic for the year 1100
before the Christian era to be 23° 54/2/-5. According tothe principles
of the theory of gravitation, the obliquity for the same epoch would be
23° 51’ 30".

Limits of the obliquity of the ecliptic modified by the action of the sun—
and moon upon the terrestrial spheroid.—The ecliptic will not continue .
indefinitely to approach the equator. After attaining a certain limit, it
LAPLACE. 167

will then vary in the opposite direction, and the obliquity will continually
increase in like manner as it previously diminished. Finally, the in.
clination of the equator and the ecliptic will attain a certain maximum
value, and then the obliquity will again diminish. Thus the angle con-
tained between the two planes will perpetually oscillate within certain
limits. The extent of variation is inconsiderable. Laplace found that,
in consequence of the spheroidal figure of the earth, it is even less than
it would otherwise have been. This will be readily understood, when
we state that the disturbing action of the sun and moon upon the ter-
restrial spheroid produces an oscillation of the earth’s axis which ocea-
sions a periodic variation of the obliquity of the ecliptic. Now, as the
plane of the ecliptic approaches the equator, the mean disturbing action
of the sum and moon upon the redundant matter accumulated around
the latter will undergo a corresponding variation, and hence will arise
an inconceivably slow movement of the plane of the equator, which will
necessarily affect the obliquity of the ecliptic. Laplace found that if it
were not for this cause, the obliquity of the ecliptic would oscillate to
the extent of 4° 53/ 33” on each side of a mean value, but that when the
movements of both planes are taken into acccunt, the extent of oscilla-
tion is reduced to 1° 33/ 45”, ‘

Variation of the length of the tropical year.—The disturbing action
of the sun and moon upon the terrestrial spheroid occasions a continual
regression of the equinoctial points, and hence arises the distinction
between the sidereal and tropical year. The effect is modified in a small
degree by the variation of the plane of the ecliptic, which tends to produce .
a progression of the equinoxes. Ifthe movement of the equinoctial points
arising from these combined causes was uniform, the length of the tropi-
eal year would be manifestly invariable. Theory, however, indicates
' that for ages past the rate of regression has been slowly increasing, and
consequently the length of the tropical year has been gradually dimin-
ishing. The rate of diminution is exceedingly small. Laplace found
that it amounts to somewhat less than half a second in a century. Con-
sequently the length of the tropical year is now about ten seconds less
than it was in the time of Hipparchus.

_ Limits of variation of the tropical year modified by the dissurbing
action of the sun and moon upon the terrestrial spheroid.—The tropical
year will not continue indefinitely to diminish in length. When it has
once attained a certain minimum value, it will then increase, until finally
having attained an extreme value in the opposite direction, it will again
begin to diminish, and thus it will perpetually oscillate between certain
fixed limits. Laplace found that the extent to which the tropical year
is liable to vary from this cause amounts to 38 seconds. If it were not
for the effect produced upon the inclination of the equator to the eclip-
tic by the mean disturbing action of the sun and moon upon the ter-
restrial spheroid, the extent of variation would amount to 162 seconds.
Motion of the perihelion of the terrestrial orbit—The major axis of
168 LLAPLACE.

the orbit of each planet is in a state of continual movement from the
disturbing action of the other planets. In some cases it makes the com-
plete tour of the heavens; in others it merely oscillates around a mean
position. In the case of the earth’s orbit, the perihelion is slowly ad-
vancing in the same direction as that in which all the planets are re-
volving around the sun. The alteration of its position with respect to
the stars amounts to about 11” in a year, but since the equinox is re-
eressing in the opposite direction at the rate of 50” in a year, the whole
annual variation of the longitude of the terrestrial perihelion amounts
to 61’. Laplace has considered two remarkable epochs in connection
with this fact, viz, the epoch at which the major axis of the earth’s orbit
co-incided with the line of the equinoxes, and the epoch at which it stood
perpendicular to that line. By calculation he found the former of these
epochs to be referable to the year 4107 B. C., and the latter to the
year 1245 A. D. He accordingly suggested that the latter should be
nsed as a universal epoch for the regulation of chronological oceurrences.
EULOGY ON QUETELET.

ABSTRACT OF AN ESSAY UPON HIS LIFE AND WorkKS, BY ED. Matni.y.

{Translated for the Smithsonian Institution from the Annuaire del’ Academie royale of Belgium for 1875.]

Lambert Adolphe Quetelet was born at Ghent on the 22d of February,
1796. He was educated at the lyceum of his native town, and early
showed that nature had endowed him, not only with a vivid imagina-
tion and a mind of power, but also with the precious gift of indomitable
perseverance. He carried away all the prizes of his school, and at the
same time wrote poetry which attracted considerable attention. He
also manifested a talent for art, and a drawing of his gained the first
prize at the lyceum of Ghent in 1812.

Having lost his father when only seven years of age, and his family
not being able to support him, he was obliged, as soon as he had com-
pleted his course at the lyceum, to enter, as a teacher, the institution
for public instruction at Audenarde. Here he remained a year, teach-
ing mathematics, drawing, and grammar; he was then given a master-
ship in his native town. In 1815 the lyceum at Ghent, by order of the
municipal council, was converted into a university, and Quetelet was ap-
pointed professor of mathematics. He received his nomination on his
nineteenth birthday. There was nothing brilliant in the lot which had
thus far fallen to him, but it secured the means of existence, and left
him at liberty to devote himself to art, literature, and science.

His most intimate companion, with whom he shared all Fis tastes,
was G. Dandelin, who had been his fellow-pupil at the lyceum. The
two friends at one time appear to have been seized with a dramatic
furor, and, with the assistance of a distinguished musician, composed a
grand prose opera in one act, called “John the Second, or Charles the
Fifth, in the walls of Ghent.” It was represented in the theater of Ghent,
on the 18th of December, 1816. Its success appears to have been moder-
ate, since it was only played twice, and was withdrawn on the plea that it
excited the galleries too much. Be this as it may, with it ended the
dramatic career of the authors. They had, however, in preparation,
two other pieces, The Two Troubadours and The Jester, but before the com-
pletion of these Dandelin was appointed second lieutenant of engineers,
and ordered to Namur, while Quetelet was won back to the pursuit of
science through the influence of his associate, Professor Garnier.

In 1819 he passed his examination and received the degree of Doctor
of Science, the first conferred by the new university. In honor of the
event he gave a banquet, which was attended by many of the public
functionaries, as well as the professors and pupils of the university.
170 EULOGY ON QUETELET.

His inaugural address gave brilliant promise of his future success. It
was divided into two parts: In the first he showed that the locus of the
centers of a series of circles, tangents to two given circles of position,
is always a conic section; in the second he exhibited a new curve
of the third degree, the focale, the locus of the foci of all the conic sec-
tions, determined by a transversal plane, revolving around a certain
point, upon the surface of a vertical cone. The discovery of this curve
was an important addition to mathematics, and the term /ocale is as
inseparably connected with the name of Quetelet, as cycloid with that of
his favorite author Pascal. Among the themes he submitted to the
university in addition to his address, was a Latin essay upon the ques-
tion whether aerolites are projected from the moon. |
On the occasion of the laying of the corner-stone of the aniversity
buildings, a banquet was given, preceded by a literary meeting, at —
which was read a poem by Quetelet upon the death of Grétry. This
production, fall of beautifui versification and expressions of exquisite
sensibility, procured for him an introduction to M. Falk, minister of —
public instruction, who, with the interest excited by a young man at
once a poet and a geometer, a man of letters and of science, caused him —
to be nominated to a professorship at the Athenzeum of Brussels. |
His first act on arriving at Brussels was to pay his respects to Com- |
mandant Nieuport, then in his seventy-third year, and who might be —
said to be the only representative of the exact sciences in Belgium. He |
had read the inaugural address of the young doctor, and appreciated, —
as it deserved, the discovery of the focale. Stimulated by the encour- |
agement he received, Quetelet continued his labors in this direction, —
aud published in 1819, in the Annales Belgique, an article under the |
title of Some new properties of the focale and of some other curves. This
was favorably noticed by Garnier, his former preceptor at Ghent, and |
procured his election as a member of .the Belgian Academy oun the Ist |
of February, 1520. He was then twenty-four years of age.
He soon won the high regard of his associates in the academy, among

|
|
|

whom were the talented Cornelissen and the renowned chemist Van
Mons, whose niece he afterward married. The first use he made of his
influence was to procure the cleetion of his friend Dandelin and of
Baron Reiffenberg, third regent of the athenzum, afterward professor
of philosophy at the university of Louvain. The latter lodged in the
same house with Quetelet, and soon became aide :tly attached to him.
He was in intimate intercourse and a great fivevite with the French
refugees then in Brussels, and introduced to them his new friend.
Among them were such men as David, Arnault, Bory de Saint Vincent,
Berlier, Merlin, &c., who, if they had been won by the ready and bril-
liant wit of Reiffeuberg, were equally attracted by the more solid quali-
ties of Quetelet. His relations with the refugees did not, however, pre-
vent him from forming other associations; he sought out and made
friends of the artists of the city, joined a literary society which had just
.

oe

EULOGY ON QUETELET. 171

been formed, and became a member of the reading committee for the
royal theaters. In the latter capacity he had free access to a stage
which was favored each year by Talma, Mile. Mars, and the principal

French comedians of the day.

The literary society published annually a poetical almanac, the twen-
tieth and last volume of which appeared in 1825, when the society quietly
ceased to exist. Quetelet was a contributor, and, as his poetical life
seems also to have ended about this time, it may be well to notice here
some of the pieces published by him since the Eulogy on Gréiry. The
article entitled **The last moments” resembles somewhat, but is inferior
to, the *“‘Farevell of the poet to his lamp,” one of his best pieces. “Zhe 19th
of January, or the night-iratch of the ladies,” contains some charming
lines. An ode to Tollens is in the style of Horace, the favorite poet
of Quetelet. An ode to Odevare, a painter, greatly admired in 1821,
although now but little known, is much more elevated in character. The
investiture of the principality ef Orange, given by Charlemagne to William
the Cornet, was also ably treated in verse by ourassociate. Works of the
imagination, whether in prose or verse, greatly interested Quetelet. His
“Essay upon Romance,” published in 1823 in Belgic Annals, has lost none
of its interest, and, with bis poetry, ought to be reprinted. He studied
the romances of different nations, translated into verse Schiiler’s tale
ealled “ The Knight of Toggenburg,” and into prose various Spanish
and English ballads.

He had no predilection for the classical, in literature or art, and says,
of modern painting, ‘“‘ The pictures of antiquity, full of life and genius
as they are, can never produce in our minds the illusive effect they had

upon the Greeks and the Romans. Flora, Zephyr, Venus, so charming

in their pictures, are seldom so in ours. It is no doubt good to be the
echo of antiquity, but only those can understand the sounds repeated
who can go back to past ages and assume for the moment their religion
and national character. Let us imitate the Greeks in their simplicity
and in their admirable portraiture of nature, but let us have, as they did,
our own heroes, our groves, and our religion. What would the age of
Pericles have said if Euripides and Sophocles had represented only
Osirus or the mysterious fétes of the Egyptians ?”

‘The Lords of the Castle” and **The Gountess Ida,” (fables) **My Lii-
tle Boat,” an allegorical ballad, dedicated to M. Falk, an elegy upon the
death of Adolph Delemer, an ode to Orion, translated from the Dutch
of Nieuland, a translation of a portion of Byron’s “Siege of Corinth,”
and the “Scald and Lysis,” a romance, are among others of his poetical

pieces worthy of mention. The latter was commended by the classie

Raoul in the **Belgie Mercury.” He says, in reference to it, * Quetelet,
with whom poetry is only a relaxation, writes verse with great facility.
He is of the number of those who illustrate the truth that the muses are

sisters.”

We have endeavored to give some idea of Quetelet as a poet, a man

4
172 EULOGY ON QUETELET.

of letters, and a geometer, and before proceeding to consider him as a
physicist, astronomer, and statistician we shall see how he filled the
office of professor. When first appointed to the Athenzeum of Brussels,
he occupied only a very subordinate position, as professor of elementary
mathematics, but he was soon promoted, and his duties much extended.
In 1824 we find him teaching at the athenzum the descriptive geometry
of Menge, the theory of shades and perspective, the calculation of prob-
abilities of La Croix, higher algebra, and analytical geometry ; while he
was also giving a public course of lectures at the museum upon experi-
mental physics, the elements of astronomy, and of differential and
integral calculus.

He was very highly esteemed by his pupils. There was something
about him at once imposing and amiable, while there was a complete
absence of anything like pedantry or haughtiness. Although marked
with small-pox, his physiognomy was refined and impressive ; it was only
necessary to fix his large dark eyes, surmounted with heavy black brows,
upon the refractory, to insure at once silence and submission. On ae-
count of the inefficiency of his assistants, he was obliged each year to
commence arithmetic, algebra, and geometry. He separated his pupils,
according to their ability, into two classes, occupying adjoining rooms,
and he would pass from one to the other apartment, experiencing no
difficulty in preserving silence in both. He was as simple and natural
in his teaching as in everything else. He reduced arithmetic to a few
general principles, and, as soon as he had initiated his pupils in the
notation of algebra, showed how this admirable instrument could be
used to resolve all ordinary questions relating to numbers. His talent
for drawing was displayed by the geometrical figures he formed with
chalk upon the blackboard to illustrate his teachings. At the Athe-
neum his courses attracted numerous auditors from all classes of so-
ciety. He had a special talent for exposition, and knew how to use to
advantage the few instruments he had at command. He disliked to
make experiments with complicated apparatus, which he said was apt
to divert the attention from the results exhibited; he considered that
only indispensable articles, such as the scales, an electric machine, a
voltaic pile, and a few other simple imstruments need be provided.

For the use of his public courses he published several elementary
works. The first, upon astronomy, appeared in Paris in 1826. It has
been reprinted many times in France and Belgivm and translated into
several languages. It was followed by one upon natural philosophy,
which was intended to enable his pupils at the museum to correct the
notes hurriedly taken at the time of the lecture and often erroneous. We
have said that he disliked complicated apparatus in teaching the ele-
ments of physics, and he accordingly prepared a small volume, the object
of which was to describe observations and experiments which could be
easily made by any one. This was published in 1832, and the author
intended to follow it with other works of the same kind upon magne-
EULOGY ON QUETELET. Mie

tism, electricity, light, &c. In 1828 he published a review of the lectures
given at the museum upon the calculus of probabilities, as an introduc-
tion to his course of physics and astronomy.

The public lectures of Quetelet were such a success that the govern-
ment considered it advisable to institute other courses of the same kind,
and on the third of March, 1827, was installed the Museum of Science
and Letters, with a corps of efficient professors in the various branches
of science and literature. In the review of the lecture with which, three
days later, Quetelet opened his course, we find one of his favorite ideas:
“The more progress physical sciences make, the more they tend to
enter the domain of mathematics, which is a kind of centre to which
they all converge. We may even judge of the degree of perfection to
which a science has arrived by the facility with which it may be sub-

‘mitted to calculation.” The museum continued to exist for eight years.
After suffering with all the other educational establishments of the
country from the effects of the revolution, it was absorbed into the free
university in 1834, and Quetelet ceased his public instruction after
twenty years of service. He soon commenced again, however, having
been appointed professor of astronomy and geodesy to the. military
school, by a royal decree, on the 6th of January, 1856. Among his pu-
pils at the Atheneum were the Duke of Saxe Coburg Gotha and the
late Prince Consort of England, who always retained a warm affection
for his preceptor.

We have said that Quetelet was only twenty-four years of age when
made a member of the Brussels Academy. His first contribution,
“4 memoir upon a general formula for determining the surface of a polygon,
formed on a sphere, by the ares of great or little circles, disposed in any man-
ner whatever,” was an admirable production. Garnier said of it, that
its elegant simplicity and the symmetry of the formula lent interest to
a subject which would otherwise have appeared very dry. His second
memoir, ‘‘A new theory of conic sections considered in the solid,” did him
great honor. His third paper was upon the paths followed by light
and elastic bodies. We have now come to a subject which occupied much
of his attention, to which he devoted ‘three memoirs presented to the
academy, and numerous articles in the Correspondance Mathématique et
Physique—that is, caustic curves. In one of those articles he gives the
following theorem, which in importance is worthy to be ranked with the
discovery of the focale: ‘The caustic by reflexion, or by refraction for
any curve whatever, illuminated by a radiant point, is the development
of another curve, which has the property of being the envelope of all
the circles, which have their centers upon the reflecting or directing
curve, and of which the radii are equal to the distances of the centers
from the radiant point in the first case, and proportional to these same
distances in the second case; the constant relation being that of the
Sine of incidence to the sine of refraction.” It was easy to extend this
theorem to surfaces, considering spheres enveloped instead of circles,
174 EULOGY ON QUETELET.

The memoirs presented to the academy were, February 3, 1823, “Upon
circular conchoids;” November 3, 1825, “Review of a new theory of. caus-
tics followed by different applications to the theory of stereographic projec-
tions.” These researches attracted the attention of Gergonne and other
distinguished geometers, and were particularly noticed by the illustrious
French mathematician, Chasles, after the Correspondence Mat. and Phys.
had given them notoriety. We mention two other papers read before
the Academy. One, “A memoir upon some graphical constructions of the
planetary orbits,” and the other ‘upon different subjects of geometry of
three dimensions,” presented October 28, 1826.

In 1823 commenced the efforts to found ar observatory in Belgium.
The especial aptitudes of Quetelet pointed him out as the best person
to complete the enterprise, and, thanks to M. Falk, then minister of the
interior, he was commissioned to go to Paris to study the practice of
astronomy. His own account of his first visit to the observatory may
not be uninteresting: ‘I arrived at Paris near the close of the year
1823, with the prospect of founding an observatory in Belgium, but at
the same time with a thorough conviction of my want of knowledge of
practical astronomy. I went immediately to the royal observatory, but
on entering this building, distinguished by historical associations, I was
more than ever oppressed with a sense of my deficiencies. I had not
even a letter of introduction to relieve the embarrassment of a first visit.
I mounted with sufficient assurance the grand staircase, but when |
found myself before the doors of Arago and Bouvard I stood for some
time irresolute. I was about to knock at the first, when Bouvard
opened his and came out, on his way to the observing-halls. He asked
me what I wanted. I at once told him my history, to which the excel-
lent man seemed to listen with interest. He then introduced me to the
observing-rooms, into the presence of the great astronomical instruments,
to me a novel and wonderful sight. With great kindness he explained
their purpose and use, and gave me permission to observe whenever I
chose to do so. I availed myself of this permission that very evening,
and to my surprise was allowed access, freely and alone, to the instru-
ments and records of the observatory. I came day after day, and always
with the same confidence accorded! From time to time the kind Bouvard
examined my observations and always with encouraging words. He
gradually manifested more and more affection for me, offered to initiate
me into the practical calculus of astronomy, and from that time directed
all my studies, with a care truly paternal. Not content with these man-
ifestations of kindness, he invited me to his house, presented me to his
friends, among others to La Place and Poisson, admitted me to his
Friday dinners, and I became in some sort a member of his household.”
Quetelet remained in Paris several months, and had the honor of being
presented to the institute by Alexander von Humboldt. He returned to
Brussels on the first of March, 1824.

To fit himself still further for the office of director of the new obser-

[
a
EULOGY ON QUETELET. 175

_ vatory, he was sent to the principal establishments of the kind in Europe,
and on this tour he was accompanied by his- wife. He had marvied on
the 20th of September, 1825, the daughter of a French physician, and
the niece of the chemist Van Mons. To an intimate acquaintance with
the usages of polite society this lady united a ready wit and not in-
considerable literary attainments. She was also an excellent musician.
Obliged at an early age to preside in the house of her father, where
was congregated the best society of Brussels, she acquired ease and
grace of manner, and was well prepared to assist her husband when, in
after years, he had arrived at distinction, and exercised a generous hos-
pitality toward the distinguished strangers of every country who visited
the observatory. During his journey, Quetelet made the acquaintance
ot some of the most distinguished men of the age, of Herschel, Schu-
macher, Grauss, Olders, and others, and at Weimar he had the pleasure
of assisting in the celebration of the eightieth birthday of Goethe, with
whom he remained eight days. The great poet showed him his experi-
ments in optics, and entertained him with his theory of colors. He was
also present at the conference of German naturalists, held at Heidel-
berg on the 18th of September. !

While waiting the completion of his plansin regard to the observa-
tory, he, in conjunction with M. Garnier, established the periodical La
Correspondance Mathématique et Physique, to which the most eminent
men of the age were willing contributors. This publication continued
without intermission till 1839, when Quetelet was obliged to resign its
Supervision on account of the pressing nature of his engagements as
permanent secretary to the academy, to which office he had been elected
in 1834.

The erection of the observatory was decided upon on the 8th of June,
1826. It was constructed according to the plans of Quetelet, but was
not finished till after many vicissitudes, occasioned principally by the
political events of 1830. He had been appointed to the directorship in
1818, but the observatory was not completed until 1832. He then im-
mediately commenced his labors, of which it would occupy too much
Space to give evenalist. They included meteorology, terrestrial physics,
astronomy, the collection of materials for the Annales Annuaires of the
observatory, and the other special works in which he has brought together
the results of his researches. In the early days of the observatory, all
the attention of Quetelet was directed toward meteorology and terres-
trial physics. The elements of these two sciences had been almost totally
neglected in Belgium, and his first desire was to correct this grave error,
a task in which he perfectly succeeded. He has given the vesults of his
persevering observations in his works Upon the climate of Belgium, and
Upon the physics of the Globe, and thus the basis of the meteorology of
Belgium was established. The meteorological observations were com-
menced in 1833, and also the observations for the determination of the
latitude and longitude of the establishment. At that time Quetelet pos-
176 . EULOGY ON QUETELET.

sessed only very few and very inferior astronomical instruments. In the
month of July, 1835, the meridian telescope and the mural circle were
putin position, but the equatorial was not mounted until June of the fol-
lowing year. Quetelet was anxious to have the turning-dome for the
equatorial ready in time to observe Halley’s comet, the return of which
was looked for with great interest by all Europe, but in spite of all his
efforts, and the good-will of the government, he was. disappointed, and
was obliged to follow the course of this eccentric wanderer with only his
telescope.

_ The determination of the difference of longitude between the observato-
ries of Brussels and Greenwich was later a source of great anxiety as well
as interest to him, when, in 1853, a trial was made of the new electrical
telegraph for this purpose. Two successful attempts of the kind had
been made in America, but the distance between the two places, the in-
tervention of the sea, the great reputation of the director of the obser-
vatory of Greenwich, and the responsibility assumed before the world,
rendered Queteiet very solicitous as to the result of his co-operation, and
his anxiety did not cease until the two sealed packets, containing the ob-
servations made simultaneously at Greenwich and Brussels, which were
by common consent opened on the same day in both places, proved the
result to be entirely satisfactory. A similar attempt was made in 1868
between Brussels and Leyden.

At the time the observatory was erected, clocks and watches through-
out the country were regulated only by sun-dials, and as these were often
defective and liable to get out of order, it frequently happened that there
would be a difference in time of from 20 to 25 minutes between the
clocks of different towns, and even between those of the same city. The
establishment of railroads necessitated more precision, and on the 22d
of February, 1836, a royal decree enacted thata meridian should be traced
and an instrument of observation be established in forty-one of the prin-
cipal cities of the kingdom. The execution of this work was intrusted
to Quetelet.

From 1841 to 1845 the observatory of Brussels was the center of a
vast meteorological net-work, which comprised more than eighty stations
in Europe and in the north of Asia. Its director published the results
of this great enterprise, with a large number of plates, showing the
course and rapidity of the movements of the atmospheric waves. He also
made many observations upon the temperature of the earth, and an un-
interrupted series of observations of the elements of terrestrial magnet-
ism. But, perhaps, the most remarkable works of Quetelet were the
papers he published on his observations of the periodical phenomena of
plants and animals. These gave an impulse to similar studies through-
out the whole of Europe, and he may on this account be considered as
the founder of a new science.

As a class for the study of the fine arts had been added to the
academy, and other changes made, it was deemed advisable to form a
EULOGY ON QUETELET. Nee

new institution, and on the 16th of December, 1845, was established The
Royal Academy of Scicice, Letters, and Fine Arts of Brussels. The first com-
munication made by Quetelet to the new establishment was upon the
history of art in Belgium; the manners and customs of the people at
different ages; their habitations, ornaments, furniture, the instruments
they used to supply the needs of life, &c. He recommended the forma-
tion of an ethnological museum to assist in the study of various types
of the human race as well as of their habits, and in 1847, through his
instrumentality, was formed the Museum of Antiquities of Belgium.

In 1853 Quetelet was appointed president of the maritime conference
held at Brussels on the suggestions of Lieutenant (afterward Captain)
Maury. Its purpose was to establish a system of uniform observations
at sea.

The regular astronomical observations of the Brussels Observatory
commenced in 1836, although the small corps of the establishment, and
the attention given to meteorological observations, did not permit of a
great field of work. The observations made from 1837 to 1839 furnish
in the Annals of the Observatory a catalogue of 666 stars. From 1548
these observations were carried on with renewed ardor; but all the
regularity Quetelet desired could not be secured until 1857. T'rom this
year a great work has been continued up to the present day. We refer
to the catalogue of 10,000 stars, still in preparation, but which will soon
be published, completing the monument raised to astronomical science
by Adolphe Quetelet, and his son M. Earnest Quetelet, who during
nearly eighteen years has shared the work of the observatory, and whose
labors have not been interrupted by his father’s death.

Adolphe Quetelet contributed greatly to the progress of the study of
shooting-stars, about the nature of which little was then known. His
attention was first turned to them in 1819, when he wrote his thesis upon
the orign of uerolites, and a few years later, he gave, in the first number
of the Correspondance, a method for determining the height of a meteor
from two observations in different places. In 1826 simultaneous obser-
vatious were organized by his efforts at Brussels, Gand, and Liege. He
then abandoned the subject, and did not take if up again until ten years
later, when he resumed his observations, and continued them for the
rest of his life. He first called attention to the periodicity of the star-
showers of the 10th of August, and stimulated astronomers of his own and
other countries to make numerous observations, which, taken together,
have prepared the way for the remarkable theories now formed as to
the character of these interesting meteors. We are indebted to him for
very valuable catalogues of their appearances, and also for conscientious
and precise researches on their frequency and on the several peculiari-
ties they present.

The direction of the establishment confided to his care did not hinder
him from devoting himself to studies of another order, which show the
variety of his powers and the habitual industry of his life. We refer
to the statistical works, which obtained for him a high place in the world

12s
178 EULOGY ON QUETELET.

of science. His first memoir upon this sebject, The laws of birth and
mortality in Brussels, was read before the academy on the 4th of June,
1825. “The establishment of life-insurance companies in our prov-
inces,” says the author, “and the desire to see these laudable and, if
well conducted, benevolent institutions continued among us has induced
me to make some researches into the laws of birth and of mortality.”
After showing that during the preceding year the births and the
deaths had followed almost exactly in the same proportion the varia-
tions of the thermometer, only in contrary directions, he gives some
tables of mortality and population, with distinction of sex, and shows
how they might be made of use in the speculations of the life-insurance
companies. Two important remarks appear ia the memoir. One, that
the annual number of births and of deaths corresponds to a sinusoid, of
which the abscissas represent the different times of the year, and the
ordinates the number of births or of deaths at these seasons. The
other verifies the observation of Malthus, that the number of births
increases when through any accidental cause an unusual loss of life has
been sustained by a population. Another memoir, in 1827, upon the
births, deaths, prisons, and poor-houses of the Pays-Bas, was intended
to complete and develop the preceding. It contained another table of
mortality for the lower provinces, but without distinction of sex.
Researches upon population next appeared, and in 1828 Statistical re-
searches in the kingdom of the Netherlands. In the importance of the facts
given, in breadth of view and novelty of deduction, this memoir is
superior to the two preceding. <A short introduction gives the origin,
aim, resources, and use of statistics, the degree of probability which
may be obtained in deductions from them, the uncertainty, which can
never be entirely overcome, and the objections of ignorance and false
knowledge. The author divides the subject as follows: Extent of the
kingdom of the Netherlands; population; imposts and commerce;
libraries and daily papers; educational and benevolent institutions ;
crimes and delinquencies; comparative examination of the different

parts of the kingdom. Some of the results obtained are very striking. |

Thus, in comparing the fecundity of marriage with us and with the
English, he says: ‘Great Britain produces less than our country, but
her fruit is more durable. She gives birth to fewer citizens, but she pre-
serves them better. If her fecundity is less, her useful men are more
numerous, and generations are not as often renewed to the detriment of
the nation. Man during his early years lives at the expense of society.
He contracts a debt which he ought some time to pay, and if he fails to do
so, his existence has been a loss instead of a gain to his fellow-citizens.”

Speaking of criminals and delinquents, he says: ‘‘The proportion
condemned to the number accused in the criminal and police courts is
the same in Belgium and in France; but in the courts of assize the
proportion of the condemned to the accused in Belgium is 84 to 100,
while in France and England it is only 65; a fact due to the want of

the jury in Belgium at the time the observations were made. When that
: EULOGY ON QUETELET. 179

institution was restored, the number of the condemned was reduced to
that of France. The author then gives a table indicating the number
of crimes committed at different ages, and also giving the amount of
what he calls the tendency to crime.

‘¢ What is very remarkable,” he observes, ‘is the frightful regularity
with which crimes are repeated. Year after year are recorded the same
crimes, in the same order, with the same punishments; in the same pro-
portions. Sorrowful condition of the human race! The number con-
demned to the prison, irons, and the scaffold is as certain as the revenue
of the state. We can tell in advance how many individuals will poison
their fellows, how many will stain their hands with human blood, how
many will be forgers, as surely as we can predict the number of births
and of deaths.

During the years 1831 and 1832 Quetelet devoted most of his time to
statistical researches, and the five following memoirs were the fruit of.
his labors: Upon the law of the growth of man; Upon the tendency to-
crime at different ages; Upon the weight of man at different ages; Upon
reproduction and mortality; and Statistics of the courts of justice of Belgium
from the years 1826 to 1831. The researches in regard to the size and.
weight of man were new at the time. Quetelet found that the law of’
growth, at least from birth until the thirteenth year, could be repre-.
sented by a hyperbola. Twenty years later MM. Bravais and Martins
adopted a hyperbola as the curve of the diametrical increase of the.
Norway pine, which is at least a singular coincidence. In the memoir:
upon the tendency to crime, be enlarges upon the ideas already given,
passes in review the different causes which lead to the development or
suppression of this tendency, and denies the favorable influence ordi-
narily attributed to education. ‘*We too often,” he says, ‘‘ confound
moral instruction with the merely learning to read and write, which in
mInany instances only provides new instruments tor the commission of’ ~
crime. On the other hand, as to the injurious moral effects of poverty,
some of the provinces of France reputed to be poorest are also the
most virtuous.

In connection with these two memoirs he says: ‘‘ Man, without know-.
ing it, and supposing that he acts of his own free will, is governed by
certain laws from which he cannot escape. We may say that the human
species, considered as a whole, belongs to the order of physical phenom-
ena. The greater the number, the more the individual will is subordi-
nated to the series of general results which. proceed from general causes.
that control the social condition. These-causes ought to be sought out,.

‘and only observation can discover them.” Man, as the author considers
him, is analogous to the center of gravity in a body. ‘If the average.
nan were determined for a nation, he would represent the type of that;
‘Ration ; if he could be determined for an assembly of all men, he would
‘Tepresent the type of an entire human species. Although his will is
‘Testrained within very narrow limits, man contains within him moral
forces which distinguish him from the animal, and by. which he can, to
180 EULOGY ON QUETELET. :

some extent, modify the laws of nature. These perturbing forces act so
slowly that the modifications they produce may be called secular per-
turbations, since they are analogous to those astronomical variations in
the systems of the world which require centuries for their investiga-
tion. The study of the natural and perturbing forces of man, in other
words, social mechanics, would develop laws as admirable as those which
govern celestial and inanimate bodies. As to the accusation of materi-
alism, to which these results are said to lead, it has been made so often
whenever science has essayed a new step into the unknown regions of
nature, that it is not worth while to answer it; especially at the pres-
ent day, when it can no longer be followed by the rack or imprison-
ment. Who can justly accuse us of insulting the Divinity, when we
exercise the most noble faculties He has given us in meditating upon
the sublime laws of the universe, or in endeavoring to make manifest
the admirable economy and infinite wisdom which presided over their
formation? Or who can regard with indifference the sciences which
have substituted for the narrow, insignificant world of the ancients, our
magnificent solar system, and so extended our starry vault that we can-
not attempt to fathom its depths without a feeling of religious awe?
Certainly a knowledge of the marvelous laws which govern the universe |
gives a much grander idea of the power of the Divinity than that which
blind superstition would impose upon us. Ifthe material pride of man —
is humbled by the thought of the small space he occupies even upon
the grain of dust he calls his world, how much he should rejoice in his
intelligence, which allows him to penetrate so far into the secrets of the
heavens. If science has advanced thus in the study of worlds, may we
not look for equal progress in the study of man? Is it not absurd to
suppose that, while all else is controlled by admirable laws, the human —
race alone is abandoned to blind chance, and possesses no principle of
conservation? Such a belief is surely more injurious to the Divinity
than the research we propose.

In 1832~33 appeared an article “Upon the possibility of measuring the
influence of the causes which modify social elements,” and one ‘Upon the
influence of the seasons upon the faculties of man.” As soon as Quetelet
obtained a new result he hastened to make it known, often betore his
idea was sufficiently matured or the fact at all certain, which accounts
for the repetition in his articles. This mode of working has some ad-
vantages ; it excites interest and parallel efforts, but it occasions loss of
time, and renders the co-ordination of the researches more difficult. In
1835 appeared the admirable work, “Man and the developmeit of .his
faculties;” or, “An essay upon social physics.” It is a review of all his
previous works on statistics; ‘‘a sketch,” he calls it, “‘ of a vast picture,
the details of which can only be supplied by patient investigation.” It
is divided into four volumes: the first two are devoted to the physical
qualities of man, the third to his moral and intellectual qualities, and
the fourth treats of the properties of the average man, and of the social
system. The author considers, first, the determination of the average
EULOGY ON QUETELET. 181

man in general; second, with respect to physical qualities. He then
proceeds to examine all that relates to the life of man; his birth, death,
strength, height, agility, &c. We give some extracts: ‘The apprecia-
tion of the physical qualities of the average man is by no means difficult,
either when measured directly or through their effects ; it is quite other-
wise with the moral and intellectual qualities, though they also, to some
extent, may be judged of through the effects they produce.” ‘‘ Man pos-
sesses at his birth the germ of all the qualities which are successively
developed, to a greater or less degree; prudence predominates in one,
imagination in another, avarice in a third. Wesometimes observe great
Size in proportion to age, or a precocious imagination, or unusual vigor in
old age, and the fact alone that we notice these exceptional cases proves
that we are conscious of a general law of development, and even make
use of it to form our judgment.” The author successively considers the
average man, first, with reference to letters and the fine arts; second, in
relation to the medical or natural sciences. ‘‘The consideration of the
average man,” he says, “issoimportant in medical science that it is almost
impossible to judge of the condition of an individual without comparing
it with that of a fictitious being, supposed to be in the normal state;
in fact, the average man we have been considering.” Third, in relation to
philosophy and morals; and, fourth, in relation to politics. It is quite
curious to see how he regards political systems. He is opposed to
the system which consists, when there are two dominant ideas in a
country, in taking a kind of mean between the two, but would found
a system upon the elements common to all parties ; or, where there was
divergence, upon the ideas held by the largest number. ‘ Govern-
ments,” he says, ‘ have their states of equilibrium, which may be either
stable or unstable. The stable equilibrium exists when, after action
and reaction of every kind, a government constantly returns to its nor-
mal condition. If, on the contrary, from any cause whatever, a govern-
ment tends to diverge more and more from its normal condition, chang-
ing constantly, without sufficient motive, its form and institutions, its
end is near. Revolutions are only the reactions of the people, or a
party, against abuses, real or supposed, and would not take place if the
provocation did not exist. The liberty of the press, singularly enough,
by facilitating these reactions, renders great revolutions almost impos-
sible, for it does not allow forces to accumulate. The reaction is mani-
_ fested immediately after the action, sometimes almost before the action
has time to propagate itself.” This essay gave its author a high place
in the scientific world. It was translated into both English and German.
We have not space to notice other papers upon statistics, which appeared
in 1845-46-48. He was happy in his application of mathematics to sta-
tistical questions. He formulated the now well-known binomial theorem,
and insisted, more especially in his last years, on its remarkable gener-
ality. He organized the first statistical congress, which was held in Brus-
Sels in 1853, and was appointed its president. He was also president of
the commission of statistics of the kingdom of Belgium. On account
182 EULOGY ON QUETELET.

of his works on social statistics he was made, in 1872, an associate of the
section of moral and political sciences of the Institute of France. He
had long been a corresponding member of this academy.

He was a member of the Royal Academy of Belgium, as we have said,
from 1820, and held the presidency of this learned body from 1832 to
1835, and then succeeded M. Dewez as perpetual secretary of its three
divisions, science, literature, and the fine arts. We have been able to
notice only a few of the memoirs inserted in the publications of the
academy. The bulletins of each séance are, so to speak, crowded with his
articles. One can see, by their inspection, with what care he registered
all the remarkable phenomena which presented themselves during his

jong career. Thanks especially to him, they, as wellas the Annuaires and ~

Annales of the Observatory, will always be consulted with profit by those
who wish closely to study the aurora borealis, shooting-stars, bolides,
storms, earthquakes, and such phenomena, upon which attention is
drawn so strongly at the present time, and of which, for the most part,
a complete theory has not yet been formed. The correspondence which
Quetelet had with the official heads of science in different countries
contributed greatly to extend the relations of the academy, and to enrich
its bulletins.

The revolution of 1848 was not asurprise to Quetelet; he foresaw that
the opposition of Louis Philippe to reforms, not in themselves to be feared,
would cause some such catastrophe, but he did not anticipate the effect
it would produce all over Europe. His attention, of course, at such a
time was turned to politics, and in the month of March he presented to
the academy a paper upon the nature of constitutional states, and some
principles which may be derived from the consideration of them. Sey-
eral other articles were also written by him on political subjects. We
know that while other governments were falling, Belgium remained
intact, and while distress and terror were reigning elsewhere, she pre-
pared to celebrate the anniversary of her independence. The féte in
honor of the occasion was organized by Quetelet as head of the artistic
and literary circle, and never was a more brilliant entertainment given
in Brussels. It evinced not only the good taste of Quetelet, but the
extent of his influence.

As to the private life of Quetelet, we have said that in 1825 he mar-
ried Mademoiselle Crulet, niece of Professor Van Mons. Two children,
a boy and a girl, were the fruit of this union. His mother and a young
half-sister, who married an artist, M. Madou, formed the rest of his
household. The children were educated at home. Madame Quetelet
herself taught them to read, and they had a master for writing. Every
Sunday a few friends were invited to dinner, and in the evening the
house was open to visitors. There were conversation, music, and cha-
rades. The latter were in great favor, and Quetelet himself often took
part in them. Those who knew Quetelet only through his works, or
when enfeebled by age and disease, can have no idea of his gayety,
wit, and cordiality. He thoroughly enjoyed a laugh, and Rabelais was
EULOGY ON QUETELET. 183

almost as much of a favorite with him as Pascal. His conversation was
admirable, bright, merry, witty, condescending to the most trivial as
_ well as embracing the most extended subjects in letters, science, and
art. It was marked occasionally by a vein of severity, which, however,
never wounded any one, and only served to bring into stronger relief
the amiable traits of his character. He possessed the very rare faculty
of knowing when to listen, and always managed to make his guests feel
at ease. <As the years passed, he attained more and more a position of
distinction. The husband of his sister became a painter of eminence ;
his daughter married a promising young artist, and his son, one of the
best pupils of the military school, quitted the engineer corps of the
army, when he had attained the rank of lieutenant, to enter the observ-
atory. Death soon deprived him of his mother, whom he loved tenderly,
but his wife remained his companion for thirty years.

In the last years of his life, when his age warned him in vain to take
repose, he undertook a series of works which he intended to be an
epitome of the labor of his life. In 1864 appeared “The History of
Mathematical and Physical Science in Belgium ;” in 1866, ‘Mathematical
and Physical Science in Belgium, from the Commencement of the Nineteenth
Century ;” in 1867, ** The Meteorology of Belgium, compared with that of
the World ; ” in 1869, ** Social Physics, or an Essay upon the Development of
the Faculties of Man ;” in 1870, “Anthropometry, or Measure of the Fac-
ulties of Man.” If death had not overtaken him he would have com-
pleted the series by a new edition of his “Physics of the Globe,” pub-
lished in 1861, and by a treatise on astronomy.

We will not attempt to enumerate the learned societies of which
Quetelet was a member; the list would be too long. He was elected
an associate of the Royal Astronomical Society on January 11, 1828.

Notwithstanding the numerous occupations which claimed every mo-
ment of his time, Quetelet always gave the kindest reception to those
who wished to speak with him on subjects connected with his studies.
He could discern and would encourage merit, and many learned men
will remember the support they received from him, in the commence-
ment of their career, with feelings of profound gratitude.

Eighteen months before his death he undertook the fatiguing journey
to St. Petersburg, at the pressing invitation of the Grand Duke Constan-
tine, under whose auspices the statistical congress had been called.
Neither the fear of cholera nor the entreaties of his friends deterred
him. He was much gratified by the reception given him, and appeared
to have been benefited in health by the journey. On Monday, the 2d of
February, he fulfilled exactly his duties as seeretary of the academy,
although sufiering from the disease of the lungs of which he died fifteen
days later. And he also assisted at the session of the class of letters.
He died on the 17th of February, 1874, and Belgium deplored her great-
est scientific luminary. The “academy” was the last word on his lips as
he sank into unconsciousness.

RULOGY. ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

By M. Dumas, Permanent Secretary.

Pronounced before the Academy of Sciences of the French Institute on the 28th of
December, 1874.

GENTLEMEN: One year ago the Academy of Sciences received with
profound sorrow the unexpected announcement of the death of one of
its eight foreign associates, M. Auguste De La Rive. The rare talents
of this eminent physicist, his warm heart, and high moral character,
won for him in his native city universal affection. Geneva mourned for
him with deep and sincere regret, for she lost in him an eminent philoso-
pher and professor, who added to the renown of her justly-celebrated
academy ; a citizen whose loyalty had frequently been tested in times
of trouble; and a useful member of society, whose generous hospitality
delighted in gathering around his fireside representatives of the science,
art, letters, and politics of all nations.

But Geneva was not alone in her grief. The services of M. Auguste
De La Rive were such as the whole world recognizes, and of which
posterity cherishes the memory. France, at least, cannot forget that
if in time of prosperity she found in him always a faithful and provident
friend, whose solicitude for her reputation seemed sometimes almost chi-
merical, she was none the less sure of his active sympathy in days of
misfortune. When Switzerland opened her heart to our soldiers, who,
betrayed by fortune and decimated by the sword, cold and hunger, had
retreated to the snows of the Jura, Auguste De La Rive and his associates
brought to them succorand consolation ; not unmindful that our two races,
united by an old friendship, had often mingled their blood under the
same flag.

It was not only to the illustrious physicist that his native city rendered
the homage in which we this day unite. To the happy gifts bestowed by
nature was added the prestige of an ancient and honorable name. . The
family of De La Rive may be traced back to Ripa de Mondovi, and is, in
fact, one of those in which is personified the history of Geneva. From
the twelfth century, for more than four hundred years, it is found in the
first rank of the government archives of the city; from the fourteenth
century, it includes a judge of Piedmont; a lieutenant of police, op-
posed to the Reformation, and exiled from Geneva for having advocated
in secret the Catholic religion; a plenipotentiary, charged with demand-
ing of Henry IV, in favor of the Genevese, certain privileges which were
only granted by royal patents; an envoy of the canton, sent to Louis
XIV, when asylum was given by the small republic to the refugees who

—
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 185

had been driven out of France by the revocation of the edict of Nantes;
and, in the last century, three generals, one in the service of the Turks,
another in Holland, and a third in Sardinia. Up to this time there is
no appearance of a scientific tendency among the members of this fam-
ily, so rich in every other line of personal distinction, probably because
the public mind was not turned in that direction ; but toward the end of
the last century, we see them attaining in science the same high po-
sition they held in public affairs. The mother of the illustrious historian
of the Alps, De Saussure, belonged to the family of La Rive, and also
the wife of the learned philosopher, Charles Bonnet; both of whom,
tradition says, exercised great influence, the one over her son, the other
over her husband. In fact, the history of the family from the beginning
of the present century would give not only that of the country, but
also the most interesting chapters in contemporary science.

Charles Gaspard De La Rive, father of our lamented associate, was
the first savant of the name. His works form, with those of his son, an
indivisible whole. Destined for the magistracy, he pursued his law-
studies until, in 1794, Geneva suffered a deplorable repetition of the
French revolution. He took an active part in resisting the insurgents,
and was imprisoned and condemned to death by the revolutionary
tribunal. Thanks to the exertions of his friends, he escaped, took refuge
in England, and went to Edinburgh to study medicine. His mother was
very much opposed to his adopting this profession, as she considered it
beneath the dignity of the family. She refused to pardon him for pur-
suing a course contrary to her wishes, and, as she forbade his return to -
his native land, he remained in exile long after the decree of amnesty
allowed his appearance in Geneva. That he should have regarded such
an unjust prohibition, caused by what seems to us a strange and unrea-
sonable prejudice against an honorable profession, is very remarkable ;
but it must be remembered that in Geneva, at that time, aristocratic
feelings largely prevailed, and public and private education, in spite of
Rousseau, was based upon the inculcation of entire submission on the
part of a child to the absolute authority of the parent.

On his return to his country, Gaspard De La Rive devoted himself
with diligence to such studies as were necessary to fit him for the chair
of chemistry, and through the liberal character of his mind, which was
open to the widest generalizations cf science, was led to the investiga-
tion of the electrical forces, to take part in the grand reform in natural
philosophy then occupying the attention of France, and to lay the
foundation for the future course of his illustrious son. If, in the history
of science, the De La Rives may not be placed in exactly the same rank
as Oersted, Ampere, Arago, and Faraday, whose labors they shared,
certainly they cannot be widely separated from them. The united
efforts of this brilliant pleiad of physicists, which includes M. Becquerel
as a later and none the less distinguished representative, have added
to civilization a knowledge of forces which are now indispensable to
186 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

industry and commerce, and of which, alas, the fury of war has
increased the importance. How the applications of these agents, the
discoveries of peace-loving men, have been perverted! How the rapid
telegram from the cabinet of the statesman inflames at will the passions
of the people! How electricity, at the command of a distant engineer,
explodes the torpedo which violently disturbs the sea, or fires the mine
which rends the earth like a volcano, extending on every side devasta-
tion and death!

Gaspard De La Rive was a successful expounder of chemistry, and
taught its principles with clearness and simplicity. His numerous and
choice experiments rendered his instruction interesting and valuable
not only to the students who desired merely a theoretical knowledge of
the subject, but also to the industrial classes, who sought to make prac-
tical application of the information obtained. He proposed to make
chemistry a part of the curriculum of a liberal education, and he suce-
ceeded in attracting, by the eclat of his experiments, students of all
classes, whom he afterward retained by directing their minds from
these lower objects to the beauty and precision of the higher concep-
tions of natural philosophy. No one contributed more to popularizing
the atomic theory of Dalton, which he considered a most happy hypoth-
esis. Having studied in England, he retained a taste for large appara-
tus, in which his fortune allowed him to indulge; his voltaic batteries
were without a rival on the continent. But while his laboratory was
English, the constitution of his mind, on the contrary, led him to adopt
the ideas of Lavoisier and the doctrines of the French Academy.

His countryman and friend, Dr. Marcet, a chemist of distinction, liv-
ing in London, came to pass a winter in Switzerland. He could not
endure this preference for the school of Paris, and endeavored to cor-
vert the select audience Gaspard De La Rive collected about him to the
ideas of the London scliool, especially to those of Davy, whose renown
at that time was world-wide. The pupils of the chemical course had,
therefore, the singular good fortune of having two professors, each of
whom discoursed in turn upon the same subject, explaining the views to
which he gavethe preference. Thetwo teachers, stimulated by opposition,
gradually advanced from the ordinary conventional and classic grounds
of instruction to heights where definite thought commences to waver
into nebulous speculation. These lectures, which amounted to academic
sessions, awakened the curiosity and excited the enthusiasm of the audi-
ence, who, while divided in opinion, were always united in praise of the
ardor and mental activity of the two friends.

Gaspard De La Rive was affable, benevolent, paternal, and good-
humored. His joy in the success of a well-conducted experiment, his
satisfaction when he felt himself understood, was indicated in every
lineament of his expressive countenance; and, after listening to the good
man, his auditors were surprised to find that, although his discourse
had been entirely of chemistry, they felt themselves better, as well as
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 187

knew themselves wiser, from the sympathy awakened by the glow of his
lecture. Besides, no one could be indifferent to the moral example dis-
played by this, the first syndic, the chief of state, the possessor of a
large patrimonial fortune, who was thus laborious in the discharge of a
daily duty, without other motive than the love of science—for no other
recompense than the respect accorded to noble and unselfish conduct.
Those favorites of fortune who pass their days in the pursuit of idle
pleasure, have no idea of the rational enjoyment to be derived from the
pursuit of knowledge or the disinterested instruction of youth. Were
an entire aristocracy similarly disposed, leading its followers through
the learning of ancient times and the science of the present, what con-
quests would be made in the domains of intelligence; conquests which
would necessitate no violation of right nor infliction of wrong, would
bring loss or distress to none, but benefit to all.

During the long wars of the revolution and of the empire, Geneva
rendered great service to the scientific world by the publication of a
review which her extended commercial relations and the cosmopolitan
habits of her people supplied with abundant information upon all sub-
jects, and which was edited by a distinguished physicist, M. Pictet,
under the title Bibliotheque Britannique. It was by means of this period-
ical that the works of the English scientists became known over the
continent; and through the personal influence of the eminent men who
assisted in its compilation, it retained long after peace was established
the monopoly of the earliest foreign intelligence. In its pages Arago,
who was on a visit to Geneva, in 1829, first learned of the great discovery
of Oersted, the action exerted by the electric current of the voltaic pile
upon the magnetic needle. At that time it was known that two sub-
Stances could act upon each other, combining and producing changes in
their properties, exhibiting phenomena which constitute an essential part
of chemistry, but no one had ever seen what was then called an impon-
derable fluid act upon another. Light produced no effect upon heat, and
neither acted upon electricity. Oersted, however, announced that elec-
tricity could be made to act upon magnetism. A new science, with the
most remarkable practical applications, of which the electric telegraph
is only one example, was developed from this fruitful germ. <All who
assisted in establishing the genuineness of this wonderful discovery
were greatly impressed by it, and no one felt inclined to contradict the
grave comment of Pierre Prévost, the author of the theory of the un-
stable equilibrium of radiant heat : Novus rerum nascitur ordo.

Arago, on his return to Paris, thus speaks of the event: ‘“ Professor
De La Rive, of Geneva, who has himself diseovered many curious phe-
nomena with the powerful battery in his possession, allowed me to wit-
ness his verification of the experiments of M. Oersted before MM.
Prévost, Pictet, Th. de Saussure, Marcet, de Candolle, &¢., and I was
entirely convinced of the accuracy of the principal facts stated by the
Danish philosopher.” Iam, I believe, the sole survivor of this histor-
188 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

ical scene, in which I took part as one of the et cetera of Arago, and I
shall never forget the powerful impression produced upon those who
were present. Nearly all came with the conviction that Oersted was
the dupe of some illusion; but they saw the magnetic needle obey the
action of the electric current, move in one direction when the conduct-
ing-wire of the battery was placed above it, and in the contrary direc-
tion when placed below it, and were convinced that these effects could
be attributed to no external agitation, since they were produced in the
vacuum of the air-pump, as well as in the open air, and ceased when a
Slip of wood was substituted for the magnetic needle.

Ampere, in Paris, entered upon the investigation of this phenomenon
with great enthusiasm, and having, by dint of earnest and persevering
thought, arrived at general conceptions, he deduced from these infer-
ences, which he immediately proceeded to verify by actual experiments,
employing for the purpose all the resources of practical mechanics. The
discoveries that followed week after week in rapid succession excited
the unbounded admiration of Gaspard De La Rive, and no sooner had
the Academy of Sciences of Paris announced some new inference of
Ampere than the watch-making establishments of Geneva, under the
direction of De La Rive, constructed the delicate apparatus conceived
by the illustrious French physicist to verify his deductions, and varied
the form so as to bring it within the means of the smallest laboratory.

If in this De La Rive was animated solely by a love of science, he was
amply rewarded.

Auguste De La Rive, excited first by sympathy with his father, and
afterward by individual interest in the new facts brought to light, deter-
mined to devote his life to the study of electricity. Born on the 9th of
October, 1501, he was at the time of these researches a student in the uni-
versity, but shortly after prepared resolutely and with success to compete
for the chair of general physics left vacant by Pierre Prévost. Only twen-
ty-one years of age, and aspiring to take the place of a professor well known
throughout Europe, he was obliged to face a jury composed of sixty-six
judges, that is to say, of all the professors of theacademy, and all the mem-
bers of the venerable company intrusted with the direction of the ecclesias-
tical affairs of Geneva. The academy was at that time a powerful cor-
poration. Closely united with the church, it was considered the first
educational establishment, and held control over-all the other schools
of the canton. It constituted a state within tlie state, and extended
its jurisdiction even to politics and the affairs of the republic. The
authority with which it was invested was founded upon traditional laws,
and its functions were highly respected. Its professors, select men,
vere all capable of serious work and prolonged application. Very
poorly remunerated for their services, their expenses far exceeded their
emoluments, but they valued the prestige of a professorship, a truly
magisterial office, much more than its material profits. The high
character of the political instruction attracted to the academy the rich
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 189

and noble families of the country, and the taste for letters and science
it promoted, with the habit of devotion to their culture, was transmitted
from generation to generation, enabling the school of Geneva to main-
tain a high position amorg the most renowned universities of Europe.
It was a source of intellectual activity, and a center of light, such as
is supported only by great effort in countries of much larger extent than
Switzerland.

As soon as the discovery of Oersted was announced, Ampere offered
the following explanation: The frictional electricity, or that developed
by rubbing glass, long known, is a fluid in repose, and constitutes stat-
ical electricity. The electricity of the voltaic pile is this same fluid in
motion in the direction of the axis of the conductors, and this is dynam-
ical electricity. Again, this same fluid circulating around the molecules
of a bar of iron or steel, in a plane perpendicular to the axis which
united the two extremities, is magnetism. To give a material illustration
of these forces, the water which moistens the surface of a solid body
may represent statical electricity, the water which flows through an
aqueduct dynamical electricity, and that which passes in the turns of
an Archimedian screw, magnetism.

On the 4th of September, 1820, Arago announced to the French
Academy the facts whose confirmation he had witnessed at Geneva,
and on the 25th of the same month Ampere read his valuable memoir,
which alone would have given his name one of the highest places in the
history of science. His theory of the principles of electro-magnetism
was founded upon his fundamental experiment that two voltaic currents:
in the same Girection attract each other, and, on the contrary, repel each
other when they are in opposite directions—a phenomenon he had fore-
seen and predicted as a result of hisa priori conception. To this strik
ing proof of the truth of his theory he soon added another. He imitated
a magnet by passing a voltaic current through a metal wire coiled into
© spiral, and suspended freely in a vertical plane. This spiral was
affected by the action of the earth like the magnetic needle, which
Ampere explained by supposing that the lower parts of the wire, that
is, those nearest the earth, controlled the whole. This experiment was
also exhibited in its simplest form by suspending a rectangular wire so
that it could move freely. When a voltaic current was passed through
this, it arranged itself at right angles to the direction of the magnetic
needle. Now Gaspard De La Rive removed the lower horizontal part,
and the remainder of the wire was as much affected by the terrestria
influence as when the rectangle was complete.

The explanation of Ampére was thus shown to be incorrect, and his
theory for a time lost its best support. His state of mind under the
influence of this disappointment bordered on derangement. When alone,
he passed hour after hour in profound meditation ; and when with his
family, pursued the avocations of life in a sort of somnambulism, obliv-
ious of everything around him. At length, however, in a moment of
190 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

inspiration, the truth dawned upon him, and delivered him from this state
of distraction. He caught sight of the proper solution of the problem,
and in the experimental verification of this, Auguste De La Rive came to
his aid, and by his ready invention reduced the phenomenon to its
simplest elements. He removed one by one the sides of the rectangle,
and reduced it at last to a single vertical wire, freely suspended, which,
when the voltaic current passed through it, was as sensible to the action
of the earth as the entire rectangle. ‘hese delicate experiments so in-
terested Ampére that he came from Paris to Présinge, the country res-
idence of De La Rive, to witness them, and to perfect the explanation to
which he had given so much thought.

The memoir of the young physicist on the subject contains not only
the new results he had obtained, but also the learned and decisive
formula by which Ampere connected them with his theory, now com-
plete and triumphant.

Thus in the very commencement of his career the name of Auguste
De La Rive was associated with one of the most interesting episodes in
the developmentofthetheory of Ampere, and his firstinvestigations placed
him at once in the focus to which all the intelligence of the age was
directed. They not only brought him into relation with Ampére, but
prepared the way for the life-long friendship which afterward united
him with Faraday, who already, grateful to his father for early recog-
nition and encouragement under peculiar circumstances, was predis-
posed to regard him with favor. When Davy was making his admirable
investigations in regard to the voltaic battery, Great Britain and
France were engaged in a desperate contest. The first class of the
Institute, however, considering the field of science and the pursuit of
truth above the prejudices occasioned by national quarrels, awarded to
the English philosopher the prize offered in the department of electricity
by Napoleon. Although the countries were then at open war, Davy
shortly after received permission to visit Auvergne, in order to study
the extinct volcanoes of that province, and was also allowed to go to
Italy and continue his researches on volcanoes in action. In this court-
eous exception, France set an example eminently worthy to be followed
by all civilized nations. The passport Davy received included himself,
his wife, and one servant. Faraday, eager to acquire knowledge, did
not hesitate to accept the latter position. The young savant was unob-
served in his new capacity while in Paris, as he did not speak a word
of French, but it was quite otherwise at Présinge, where Davy remained
some time. Gaspard De La Rive, observing his isolation, addressed
some kind words to him during a hunting excursion. Discovering
immediately that he was by no means an ordinary servant, an explana-
tion followed, and he was’ requested to take the place in the family, at
the table of his host, which his true position and talent deserved.
Davy, however, while he did not object to this arrangement when he
was absent, insisted that in his presence the subordinate position

aan
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 191

assumed should be maintained. This simple incident might have
made but little impression upon Faraday, had it not brought into strong
contrast the pride of Davy and the affable cordiality of Gaspard De
La Rive.

Even genius does not excuse pride or pardon exclusiveness. Davy,
satiated with praise and loaded with honors, but lacking the sympathy
of his countrymen, passed the last years of his life on the continent,
and came to Geneva, to terminate sorrowfully, in a foreign country, his
days of lassitude and ennwi ; while, on the other hand, when Faraday,
endowed with the modesty which charms and the kindness which
attracts, approached his end, the savants of the entire world evinced
their affection for him; the most eminent personages of England testi-
fied their respect; his death was a source of universal regret, and his
memory, cherished in all hearts, is still honored at the Royal Institution
of London, in the amphitheater, the scene of iis triumphs, by an annual
and imposing ceremony presided over by the Prince of Wales. What
a contrast is this!

As the scientific career of Gaspard De La Rive ended and that of his
son commenced, a new era commenced, fraught with ideas to enlighten,
agitate, and even trouble the world. The father had witnessed only
the prelude to the great changes which were to take place, but wel-
comed with joy the new dawn. The son, after laboring with ardor and
success in the unveiling of truth, at the close of his life contemplated,
with sadness as well as pleasure, the unexpected consequences of the
discoveries in which he had taken an active part.

A half a century ago science, although full of promise to those who
sought to penetrate its mysteries, did not appeal to the common mind.
Its language was little understood even by those who held the destinies
of nations in their hands. Its demonstrations and discoveries were
regarded by the public with a careless eye and considered of no impor-
tance. Soon, however, under its influence, rapid vessels, impelled by
steam, traversed the sea; railroads crossed the continents ; thought cir-
culated from one hemisphere to another through the electric telegraph ;
the beet-root of the frozen regions rivaled the sugar-cane of the south;
gas lighted the streets; fossil remains fertilized arid ground, and the
colors from coal-oil vied with the fresh tints of the flowers ; while the sail-
ing-vessels lying idle in the ports, the forsaken stage-coach, the deserted
roads, the laborer deprived of employment, were other but equally forci-
ble witnesses to the irresistible power of the practical application of the
principles which govern the universe. At the same time iron and steel
were perfected and produced in abundance; powder and other fulmi-
nating substances were rendered manageable; rude and inefficient
weapons of’ war were converted into large and powerful engines of
destruction ; and in view of houses in ruins, crops destroyed, and the
multiplied graves of the dead, it was impossible longer to question the
192 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

importance of those investigations and discoveries which had once been
despised.

Again, a new conception of the universe, based upon the existence of
atoms, the latest representatives of matter, and upon the vibrations of
the ethereal medium, the latest symbols of force, induced a certain
school to revive doctrines which, originating in Greece, were translated
by Lucretius into harmonious verse in order to convert the voluptuous
aristocracy of Rome to the philosophy of Epicurus. The Latin poet ex-
claims in his antique materialism, ‘‘ He wakes not again who sleeps
with the dead ; we are only the temporary proprietors of life and not its
owners. When the body perishes, the soul also is decomposed ; it dis-
solves as the limbs crumble into dust. The soul dies entirely with the
body, and in vain might the earth be mingled with the sea, and the sea
with the sky, in one frightful tumult—nothing can ever awaken it.”

Modern materialism, content with reviving the doctrines of Epicurus
and Lucretius, considers the world as the fortuitous production of the
arrangement of atoms; man as the highest development of the natural
evolution of organic forms; life as a spontaneous modification of force ;
birth as the commencement of a phenomenon, death asitsend. When,
in the light of this philosophy, justice is only a social convention, con-
science the fruit of education; charity, friendship, love, only varied
forms of selfishness, those intrasted with the care of human souls should
acknowledge the terrible power of this contemned science.

The scientific conceptions of the human mind, of great importance as
expressions of generalizations, are the result of ideas derived from our
present understanding of the phenomena of matter and force, but cannot
be considered as absolute truths. Lavoisier, studying chemical actions,
the balance in hand, proved, it is true, that in each of these, the weight of
the substances produced is equal to that of the substances employed. Let
us accept, then, this discovery as a philosophical truth: that matter has
weight; that man has never created nor destroyed anything that has
weight ; in nature, since the universe received its present form, noth-
ing has been lost, nothing created that has weight; matter changes its
place, its aspect, and condition, but it does not perish. Is it the same in
regard to force?) While always remaining imponderable, will it also be
variable in its manifestations, perpetual in its activity ? Man powerless
to create matter, is he equally unable to produce force? Auguste De La
Rive has largely assisted in proving that this is the case, and, in so doing,
has traced to its highest philosophical consequences one of the most huin-
ble experiments of the laboratory, that of Galvani. Two plates, one of
zine the other of copper, produce a sensation when an organ is touched
with their two free extremities ; the tongue is sensible of a taste; the eye
perceives a light; the ear is conscious of sound. By inereasing the
number of these metallic couples, extending their surface, and plunging
them into a saline or acid liquid, Volta constructed his celebrated bat-
tery, by which be produced light and heat comparable with those of the
eT

EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 193:
sun, a chemical power superior to that of the voleano, a magnetism
equal to that of the earth, and physiological phenomena previously con-
sidered as belonging only to manifestations of life. Can it be supposed
that all these forces spring from nothing, and that the two metals which

' produce them remain unchanged in their nature, weight, and other

qualities ?

German science, still involved in the obscurities of the philosophy of
nature, was of this opinion, notwithstanding the experiments of M.
Becquerel, sr. -Auguste De La Rive thought otherwise; he did not so
readily accord to man the faculty of deriving, from nothing, either mat-
ter or motion. His mind revolted against such an assumption. He
proved, in fact, that no electricity was manifested if one of the two
metals was not oxidized; that is to say,if it had not undergone chemi-
cal change. The electric current is slight when the chemical action is
feeble ; intense when it is powerful. The electric circuit starts from
the metal attacked and passes over to the other. If both metals are
affected at once, the electric circuit begins in the one in which the

- chemical action is strongest. Change the nature of the medium, and

you may reverse at will the action and consequently the direction of
the current. The latter experiment is decisive. If the contact of two
different metals is sufficient to create the electric current, this ought
always to proceed in the same direction. If this current is the result of
chemical action, it should, on the contrary, move sometimes in one
direction, sometimes in the other, starting from the metal attacked and
proceeding toward the one not affected, as was proved by Auguste De’
La Rive. If we measure the electricity obtained, we ought also to note
the chemical force expended. We create nothing; we only transform.
Such is the theory of the pile. Faraday devoted much time to the con-
sideration of these truths, but we can do honor to the Genevese physi-
cist while acknowledging our indebtedness to the great English phil-
philosopher.

If the burning of the coal develops the force of the steam-engine,
the zinc consumed produces the power of the Voltaic pile. The battery
no more creates the electricity that it utilizes than Watt’s engine pro-
duces the heat that it employs; that electricity comes entirely from the
metal burned by the acids. Pursuing this idea, Auguste De La Rive
measured the heat which was manifested in the different elements of a
battery, in full activity, and found that it did not exceed that produced
by the chemical action exerted upon the metal attacked—a conclusion
confirmed by the learned dean of the faculty of Marseilles. It is, then,
evident that man creates neither electricity, magnetism, heat, nor light ;
he draws these forces from the reservoirs in which they are hidden and
in which they were stored without his aid.

We insist that in nature, as she appears to us, nothing is lost, and
nothing is created of that which has weight; we dispose of matter as
we choose in order to produce chemical combinations ad infinitum ;

138
194 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

forces are only the causes of movements, which we transform, one into
the other at will. Well, is this to say that the world has no other soy-
ereign than man, and that he rules as master? Let us see if this is so.

Newton considered light, heat, electricity, and magnetism as so many

distinct imponderable fluids. This opinion served as a guide to all the ©

investigations of the eighteenth century and of the commencement of
the nineteenth. It was the expression of the truth of the time—was, so
to say, the fashion—and it had its fanatical followers, in the first rank of
whom was Voltaire. It is now superseded by a theory indicated by
Descartes and Huyghens, and which Newton undertook to develop, but
abandoned, perhaps because of the difficulties it offered to calculation.
This supposes the existence throughout the universe of an elastic,
ethereal medium, that is to say, an exceedingly subtile substance, in
which float the atoms of ponderable matter. Acting one upon the other,
or through internal agitation, these atoms determine, in the ether by
which they are surrounded and penetrated, undulations more or Jess
extended, more or less rapid. These vibrations of the ethereal medium
constitute light and heat, while electricity and magnetism are the man-
ifestations of the medium itself. Ponderable atoms, an elastic ethereal
medium, aud the vibrations produced in the latter by the atoms; such
is the present conception of the universe. It is simple, true, perhaps,
said Auguste De La Rive, but who knows what will be thought of it a
hundred years from now? How is it possible to believe that afier
remaining in ignorance and error in regard to these great subjects from
the commencement of the world, man, in less than a century, could
acquire complete knowledge of all that concerns them and leave noth-
ing to be discovered by future ages? It behooves us to be more modest,
lest our descendants laugh at our audacity.

Among all the different manifestations of the ethereal medium, elec-
tricity is the most constant, not only in the reactions of inanimate
bodies, but also in the material phenomena we observe in Jiving organ-
isms. It was hastily inferred by some that electricity was life, but
Auguste De La Rive would not admit that life could result from this
unconscious action of atoms upon ether. He had never seen it mani-
fested spontaneously, and believed that since its first appearance upon
earth it had constantly been transmitted from parent to offspring.
He considered, moreover, that human personality does not exist in the
dust of which our bodies are composed. Is matter that obeys eternal,
and the spirit which commands perishable? I would rather, he says,
believe that the intelligent soul is immortal and brute matter perishable.
He believed the world to have been created and demonstrated as a fact
of a scientific order, and, by arguments that M. Clausius afterward
developed, that it had not always existed; that it had a beginning, and
would have an end.

Ampere, Faraday, and Auguste De La Rive made electricity the sub-
ject of profound study, and it was the instrument of their greatest dis-
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 195-

coveries. They were all three very religious, and delighted in meditat-
ing upon subjects of a metaphysical character. The first sought to
explain universal attraction by magnetism ; the second denied even the
existence of matter, and considered each atom as a center of force
whose vibrations are felt throughout the universe; they endeavored to
defend, against the encroachments of the partisans of physical forces
the domain of the spirit, that something which thinks, affirms, denies,
wills, imagines, feels, and which, free to follow its inclinations, should
render an account of its liberty. They were convinced that by such
meditations the soul approached the supreme power, whose direct
intervention appears like a continued creation.

Belonging to the same school of philosophy, they enjoyed discussing
together such questions as the following: Attraction, which sustains
the stars in space, who knows its nature? Affinity, which connects
the molecules of bodies, is it not a word whose sense escapes us?
We represent matter as composed of atoms; are we sure that these
atoms exist? The physiologist describes the phenomena of life; does
he know in what life consists? The geologist, who writes the history
of the globe of which he has only penetrated the epidermis, does he
know its origin and end? If man is proud of the knowledge he has
acquired, should he not be humble in view of what he has yet to learn ?

The publications of our associate are numerous, and attest the activity
of his mind as well as the extent and accuracy of his information. But
an eminent physicist, M. Soret, is preparing a complete history of
them in his native land, and in this article I can only notice a few of
their principal features, and, in particular, his beautiful theory of the
aurora borealis.

The chronicle of Louis XI reperts that, en the 23d of July, 1461, a
meteor appeared ‘“‘ of such color and brilliancy that it seemed as if all
Paris was in flames ;” it adds, in consternation, ‘‘May God preserve us!”
On the 18th of November, 1465, a similar appearance produced like
terror. Theking, Louis XI, mounted his horse and rushed to the walls,
and the city guard were assembled and posted. The country at that
time was in revolt against the government, and it was supposed that
the enemy before Paris were attempting to fire the city.

We ourselves witnessed a similar excitement, caused by the appearance
of the aurora, during the siege of Paris by the Prussian army. From
the beginning of the night until the first actual appearance of the phe-
nomenon, a glow was observed in the north, which gradually deepened
into a rose-tint, and spread over half the sky. From time to time col-
ored rays shot forth, of a deep bleod-red, while spots of the same
Sanguinary hue appeared here and there above the city. When the
phenomenon had reached its height, and the sky commenced to darken,
suddenly the red color shone out again with frightful brilliancy. The
next evening the appearance was repeated with somewhat less intensity,
but accompanied by luminous white radiations toward a center near the
196 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

constellation Pegasus. The inhabitants of Paris were greatly alarmed.
They supposed that some great incendiary machine bad been put in
play, to force the walls or demoralize their defenders. A few of them,
seeing that it was a remarkable example of the aurora borealis, sought
in it such omens, happy or otherwise, as their excited patriotism sug-
gested.

The Aurora of the North, as Gregory of Tours ealled it thirteen hun-
dred years ago, varies somewhat in aspect with the latitude. In the
polar regions it is so common that it ceases to excite remark, and is
often confounded with the twilight. In the center of Europe it is less
frequent, and almost always characterized by the deep bloody hue of
the sky, and the rays that dart like lances across it. Its appearance
justifies the description that it seems as if two great armies, enveloped
in fiery vapor, were engaged in mortal combat. In Calabria, where it is
still more rare, the imagination finds in it areades and porticoes, while
Greece, always poetical, and very seldom honored by this celestial vis-
itation, sees in the illuminated sky the assembly of the gods in council
upon Olympus in the presence of Jupiter.

How are we to account for these appearances? Auguste De La Rive
considered that they were produced by electrical conflicts, silent and
Inysterious, converging toward the magnetic pole of the earth. Every
one is familiar with the electric light, whose power is exhibited in the
light-house, on the stage, and in public illuminations. This brilliant
phenomenon, discovered by Davy, was especially noticed by Arago,
who declared, a priori, that it would offer the then strange spectacle of a
flame obeying the action of a magnetic bar. Experiment confirmed his
prediction. When this luminous arch is approached by the poles of a
strong magnet, it is attracted or repulsed ; its curvature increases, the
brilliancy of the flame diminishes; it is varied by jerks and by flashes
of colored light when silk is rubbed near it, and the arch at last breaks,
when the curvature is so great that it extends too much the surface
passed over by the electrical discharge. A magnetic needle placed in
the vicinity manifests, by its incessant agitation, that it is affected by a
strong magnetic influence. Is not this the image of the aurora polaris ?

Arago devoted many years to the study of the influence of the aurora
borealis upon the magnetic needle; and often announced the appear-
ance of the phenomenon in the north of Europe, even before it was
manifested in France. He was too cautious, however, to hazard an
opinion in regard to its nature. Auguste De La Rive took up the sub-
ject—we should rather say, devoted himself to it—and among the many
reasons for regretting the death of this illustrious savant is the loss to
science of a work he was preparing upon the polar lights, the materials
for which he had spared no pains in collecting. The apparatus is well
known, at least in the lecture-room, by means of which he reproduced
the fundamental conditions of the phenomenon, which he considered
due to the formation of 2 luminous ring in the upper regions of the
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. ESF

atmosphere, having for center the magnetic pole. By transmitting
through a rarified gas an electrical discharge around the pole of a
strong magnet, he caused a luminous ring to appear, animated with a
movement of rotation around this same pole. This experiment is so
beautiful that it must be admired even by those physicists, now few in
number, who consider that the aurora is derived from a source far beyond
the terrestrial atmosphere, and attribute to it a cosmical origin. He
writes thus to me, only a short time before the attack of illness which
caused his death: ‘Assist me in defending a theory, which I believe to
be founded upon incontestable facts, and which was advocated by Frank-
lin and Arago when there was less evidence in its favor. The investi-
gators who study only the brilliant and occasional auroras of our lati-
tudes, should also take into consideration those less radiant that appear
almost every day in the polar regions. I do not know a single observer,
placed in our extreme northern countries, who does not support the
views I have adopted. Surely it is much in their favor that they are
advocated by men who live in the midst of the phenomena; and shall
we abandon them because they are opposed by those who witness these
remarkable appearances only occasionally, and under the influence of
surprise and astonishment which must more or less affect the judgment
concerning them?”

At the equator, the silent magnetic agitations are replaced by electri-
eal storms, accompanied by thunder and rain, marking, so to say, the
course of the sun; and if there is a constant manifestation of auroral
phenomena, more or less distinct at each pole, there is always an orange —
tint, of greater or less intensity, at some point of the equator. What
purpose do they serve, these electric manifestations, continually exhib-
ited throughout the atmosphere of the earth? We are not yet in a con-
dition to say, but De La Rive has thrown much light upon the question.

When, a hundred years ago, Priestley discovered oxygen, the agent
of combustion and respiration, medicine found a valuable auxiliary, and
enthusiasts saw in it a means of prolonging life. The experiments of
M. Bert, however, proved that this vital air, if inhaled into the lungs in
a pure state, was a mortal poison. This same oxygen, as soon as it is
electrized, shows that it is accompanied by a very odorous substance,
blackening colored bodies, irritating violently the respiratory organs,
and converting animal products into saltpeter. This is the ozone M
Schonbein, the celebrated professor of Basle, found at times in the
atmosphere, particularly when the latter was electrized by thunder-
clouds. Auguste De La Rive and his learned friend M. de Marignac
maintainéd that ozone is a modification of oxygen, a conclusion ren-
dered incontestable by our two eminent associates, MM. Frémy and
Becquerel, jr.

If pure oxygen is deadly in its effects, mingled with the air that sur-
rounds us, it supports life; and if oxygen, ozenized, is a poison, in mod-
198 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

erate doses, it purifies the air and fertilizes the soil broken by the plow,
giving to its products their agricultural significance.

If itis chance that provides the atmosphere with only just enough
of this useful yet dangerous oxygen to support respiration; that brings
into being ozone to destroy the deleterious influences which threaten our
lives, and to prepare the nourishment necessary for the plants which
supply us with food ; if it is this same chance which fixes the limits to
the concentration of oxygen, rendéring almost immutable the quantity
of inert gas mingled in the air that we breathe; which renders possible
and durable for centuries the existence of man upon the earth, then we
must conclude, with Auguste De La Rive, that chance is very intelligent;
indeed, so intelligent as to deserve another name.

A flourishing industry, which was commenced about thirty-five years
ago, under the auspices of the Academy of Sciences—that is, electro-
plating—originated in the experiments and practical applications of our
respected associate. Up to that time the only mode known of gilding
bronze was by the use of mercury. This process produced a good and
solid surface, but was fatal to the workmen, as their hands were brought
in contact with the dangerous metal, and their lungs exposed to the
action of the mercurial vapors during the heating of the articles to be
gilded. The old academy offered a prize to any one who would obviate
the danger attached to this industry, but it was unclaimed. The pres-
ent academy was more fortunate. But, if the industry is indebted for
its stimulation to the galvanic process, we should not forget that the
first pieces gilded by electricity came from the hands of the sagacious
and disinterested physicist whose labors we are contemplating. Thanks
especially to him, we are spared the distressing spectacle formerly pre-
sented by hundreds of unfortunate workmen, involuntary witnesses of
the deleterious effects of mercury, who, trembling in every limb, were
diseased alike in mind and body.

Auguste De La Rive was a lover and patron of the fine arts, and it was
in some sort under his direction that the celebrated painter of Alpine
scenery, Calame, executed his chef-d’ceuvre, Mount Rose, the most beauti-
ful ornament of the parlor of the scientist. It represents a rugged, lonely
scene, a high plateau in the mountains, without verdure or any trace of
the presence of man. In the background is the Alps, in the foreground
a small, dark lake and some rocks; that is all. But it is nature in her
majesty, flooded with the light and enveloped in the pure transparent
atmosphere of the mountains—an unadorned exhibition of her grandeur,
affecting powerfully the imagination.

Our philosopher was never tired of the beautiful spectacle presented
by the effect of the setting sun upon Mont Blanc, and was led to some
interesting scientific observations of the phenomenon through his ad-
miration of its picturesque aspect. At the moment when the sun dis-
appears from the horizon, the valley is covered with shade, and the
mountain is gradually obscured from the base to near the summit. This
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 199

alone, for some time, remains illuminated, and, suddenly, while the rest
of earth sinks into deeper shadow, takes a bright orange tint, sometimes
a bloody or fiery red, and appears like an immense meteor, fixed, incandes-
cent, not belonging to earth, but suspended in the sky. Soon the ever-
increasing Shade invades even this icy pinnacle. Its outlines grow indis-
tinct, and its color fades to a cadaverous hue. Like the change from
life to death in the human face is this rapid transformation from the
brilliant tints of departing day to the livid tone which follows upon the
forehead of this giant of rock and snow. No one can witness the
solemn spectacle for the first time without profound emotion; and the
instinctive silence that falls upon the spectator is like the prelude to a
prayer. As heturns sorrowfully away, and asks if allis over, suddenly,
as if in answer, the mountain is colored anew with a pale rose tint,
the reflection of its former splendor. Is the colossus about to revive?
No; this fugitive tint is soon effaced, and darkness covers the scene.

The rosy glow, the day’s farewell to the snow-clad peaks of these high
mountains, is only the reproduction in a particular form of the general
effects of the setting sun upon clouds. But what is the cause of the second
coloration ? Our associate, aftermany observations of the summit of Mont
Blanc, most frequently subjected to the phenomenon, attributed it to the
reflection of the last red rays from vaporous strata accumulated in the up-
per regions of the atmosphere. He studied the nature of these vapors, and
invented an apparatus for measuring the variations in the transparency
of the atmosphere, which are closely observed by the mountaineers, as they
judge from them what weather to expect. Ifthe air is perfectly clear, and °
distant objects plainly visible,the mountains seeming close to the observer,
and the sky of a deep-blue color, they will tell you that rain is near,
though there may be no other sign of its approach. If the weather is
decidedly fine, the airis not perfectly clear, but is pervaded by a bluish
vapor, the sky is moderately blue, and mountains seem far away.

Auguste De La Rive supposed that these vapors, characteristic of
fine weather, were composed of mineral and organic particles, which
float in the air as long as they are dry, but fall to the ground when sur-
charged with moisture. They are so abundant, that they take from the
air its transparency, which is restored when they disappear. The in-
sects which buzz about us are governed by the same law. If the swal-
lows fly close to the ground at the approach of rain, and high up in the
air in fine weather, it is because in the first case the insects upon which
they feed are weighed down by moisture, while, in the second, relieved
of this burden, they mount higher into space.

The ardor of Auguste De La Rive for the study of electricity could not
be satisfied with only the labors of the laboratory. He conceived the plan
of a work which would make known all the results obtained in every
branch of this department of physics. Familiar with every science,
and speaking all languages, he hoped, by uniting and tracing to their
source the materials scattered through the periodicals of different coun-
200 — EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

tries, to furnish geometers the means for the basis for a new and better
theory of electricity. The three volumes of his Treatise upon Theoretical
and Practical Electricity contain a statement of all the facts observed,
with the comment of savans and his own opinion in regard to each one
of them. There never was a more impartial compiler nor disinterested
narrator. The work shows throughout with what perseverance each
individual question was examined, and the care with which they were
all subordinated to a general and high order of ideas. “I construct,”
said he, ‘¢a ladder to the top of which I shall never climb, but, as a con-
scientious workman, I wish those who shall mount it to find every round
of good material, solid, and without defect.”

The Bibliotheque Universelle de Genéve numbered Auguste De La Rive
among its most faithful contributors for nearly half a century. He for
a long time directed with indefatigable zeal not only the scientific divis-
ion considered as his natural domain, but also the literary department, in
which he was at first regarded as a usurper. The public acknowledged
that, in assuming the control of the periodical, he insured for it an impor-
tant scientific value, but questioned the wisdom of intrusting the literary
part to the direction of a savant, considering that the study of science
tends to lessened sensibility to the delicate charm of letters. But never
had this portion of the review been as replete with matter of an inter-
esting and entertaining character. Many of the charming productions
ot TOppfer first saw in it the light of day, and if this amiable artist man-
ifested great vigor in his humorous sketches, Auguste De La Rive also
showed his good taste in selecting and appreciating the merit of these
effusions.

It was not without reflection that Auguste De La Rive partially aban-
dened hislaboratory and favorite studies, to devote aportion of his time,
talents, and fortune to the support of a scientific and literary publica-
tion which, from the beginning of the century, sustained the moral and
intellectual authority of Geneva. He was convinced that the Biblio-
théeque Universelle exercised, like the Edinburgh Review, a salutary infir-
ence. The articles selected gave full information on all the important
questions of the day, although regarding them from a national point of
view, and thus, whileimparting knowledge, kept patriotism alive. His
comments upon literature and art, full of elevated sentiment and respect
for human understanding, left a very pleasing impression upon the mind
of the reader. Nothing was admitted into the journal which could not be
read aloud in the parlor, or could cause uneasiness to the mother of a fam-
ily. Somewhat of puritanism in ideas, and a certain austerity in conduct,
was not displeasing to De La Rive. He admitted that, ifcarried to excess,
these qualities became ridiculous; but their absence he thought led to dis-
order. A small country, he said, can exist only under the double condition
of having a fixed faith in certain principles, and in conforming the life to
them; it must havea physiognomy of its own, and keep it intact; must be
itself, and not everybody else; must preserve its own identity, a very diffi-

—_
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 201

cult matter when reilroads tend to mingle all the world into one commu-
nity—im possible, unless from time to time some voice of authority brings
into harmony the discordant elements of society.

In 1815, when Switzerland regained her ancient liberty, Geneva be-
came the temporary abode of many illustrious persons politically dis-
tinguished. Some came to enjoy the natural beauty of the shores of Lake
Léman, or to rest for a few days in this celebrated city, placed at the
confluence of the routes from the north of Europe, from France, and
from Italy; others, banished from their native land, sought an asylum
among its hospitable inhabitants. Never was there a more singular ming-
ling of the people of every nation, of the representatives of all the conti-
neutal countries, many of whom had met before on the field of battle,
and of England, which had been separated from the rest of Europe for
more than thirty years, with the sons of the East, unmistakable in
their peculiar type of humanity. In the streets every kind of costume
appeared, every language was spoken; in the social assemblies every
nationality fraternized.

Meanwhile the Genevese legislators, intrusted with the formation of
a constitution for the canton, and anxious to obliterate all traces of the
long alliance with the forms of the French administration, found, in the
Parliament ef England and its controlling aristocracy, the beau-ideal of
government. Political party-spirit soon attained as great a degree of
intensity in this as in countries of much larger extent. Everybody was
in favor of a constitutional government; but while with some, veritable —
tories, the principle of authority was supreme, with others, true whigs,
the idea of liberty was uppermost, and, as usual in such cases, neither
side was willing to make concessions. Gaspard De La Rive, first syndic
of the republic, was at the head of the conservative division, while his
son, in common with most of the young men, belenged to the liberal
party, prominent among whom was a former member of the French
Academy, Simond de Sismondi.

Auguste De La Rive was too ardent in temperament and too truly pa-
triotic in feeling to be indifferent to the political events which later
threatened the tranquillity of his country. Still professing liberal prin-
_ ciples, as in the days of his youth, he determined to resist the eneroach-
ments of a turbulent and oppressive democracy, and became in his turn
the leader of a new conservative party.

After the revolution in Geneva, and at the time of the Sondeibund
war, he resigned his professorship and retired from public life. Still,
when, on the annexation of Savoy to France, some uneasiness was feit
by the Helvetic government, he was sent to London, as minister pleni-
potentiary and envoy extraordinary, to guard the interests of the Con-
federation. He was treated by the Queen with the highest distinction,
and on his return to his native land received a new mark of confidence ;
he was made a member of the select assembly for the revision of the
202 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

constitution of Geneva. And when his term of office was completed,
he resigned entirely all share in the government of his country.

He could not forgive a revolution which could tempt from the culture
of intelligence the vigorous offspring of noble and opulent families, to
immerse them in business affairs. The recognized superiority of his
native city over many others greater in extent and population, he ex-
plained, not by its position upon the shores of Lake Léman, nor by the
beauty of its surroundings, nor yet by its great trade in watches. He
attributed all its importance to the brilliant assembly of thinkers, phi-
losophers, writers, and savants who had rendered it illustrious. Vol-
taire, Rousseau, Madame de Staél, for instance, would never be forgot-
ten; and the beautiful investigations of Charles Bonnet in natural phi-
losophy; the discoveries of Tremblay in regard to polyps; of the blind
Huber concerning bees, and his son in respect to the habits of the ant;
the Alpine journeys of Horace Benedict de Saussure, one of the found-
ers of geological science; the works of Senebier and of Theodore de
Saussure upon the physiology of plants, could not be effaced from the
great book of human knowledge without injuring the intellectual pros-
pects of future ages. The academy and the venerable ecclesiastic com-
pany had been the soul of Geneva, and he could not see without un-
easiness their influence diminish. He wasright. Alexander victorious
did not save Macedonia from forgetfulness ; Athens, so often invaded,
has survived her misfortunes, and will always live in the memory of
man. War may make slaves and reduce to impotency the limbs of the
vanquished, but she cannot touch the human mind nor the imprint it
leaves upon the religion, philosophy, letters, science, and art of its
masters.

Geneva, like Florence, considered that her real existence lay in the
noble minds that made her famous, but the fears of De La Rive for her
future were without foundation. To the wise generation of the last
century and the commencement of the present, to which he belonged,
has succeeded a people full of vigor and worthy to occupy the palace
raised by the provident city in honor of science. In this privileged
country, thanks to the example of our associate and of his assistant
laborers, as well as to the liberal institutions inspired by him, the youth-
ful representatives of noble and ancient families are more ready to look
upon fortune as a means of advancing knowledge than to value learning
as an assistance in the acquirement of material prosperity.

The interests of Auguste De La Rive were not all centered in Geneva.
A large share of his thoughts and affections were reserved for Présinge,
an estate of considerable extent, ancient tenure of the dukes of Savoy.
The family of La Rive had been in possession of this patriarchal domain
for several centuries, and for generations the surrounding agricultural
population were benefited by the influence of its amiable representa-
tives. Gaspard De La Rive and his son no doubt did much to foster the
EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE. 203

hatred of display, the active benevolence, absence of pride, and aversion
to pedantry, which are characteristic in Savoy of the habits and manners
of the gentleman.

His quiet life in this peaceful retreat was troubled by the material
speculations of the age, which he regarded with more solicitude than
most of his countrymen. Attached to the truths of the Christian reli-
gion, he was a member of the Protestant Church of Geneva, but his
respect was great for the Roman Catholic faith, which was professed by
many of his relations and friends, and by the larger part of the resi-
dent population in the neighborhood of Présinge, among whom he lived,
loving and beloved, sharing all their interests, moral and religious, even
to the building of their church. In what times of religious disorder we
live, he said, and how science is implicated. In our youth, full of enthu-
siasm for her, we little thought a day would come when she would deny
the assertion of Bossuet, ‘‘Were man openly to declare himself God,
his pride would revolt at such presumption; but to call himself God,
and yet feel himself to be mortal, is to shame even the blindest arro-
gance.”

The spirit of tolerance, so natural to our associate, led him to avoid
everything that would wound the convictions of others; but there came
a time when to keep silent was to deny his faith, and he did not wish
the world to think that those who advocated materialism in the name of
science were sure of the approbation and complicity of all savants. It
is by no means the case, he said, with decision, and it is our duty to say .
so. Science is great; her role is glorious; but her domain is circum-
scribed. She commands matter, but has no control over mind. Wecan
better explain the course of the stars than the astronomers of the time of
Homer, but have added nothing to our knowledge of the human pas-
sions he so vividly portrayed. Our ideas in regard to heat are more
certain than those of Eschylus, but concerning oppression and wrong
they have not changed since the protestations against tyranny and brutal
force of the author of Prometheus Bound. We are better acquainted
than Virgil with the action of the heart in the circulation of the blood,
but Lave discovered no new sentiment of pity or tenderness. Man does
‘not need science to sound the depths of the human soul, and the study
of the physical forces shows that between them and the moral attributes
there is nothing in common.

Many associations connected De La Rive with England, formed during
his residence as minister in that country, and with France he was united
by friendship with many of its distinguished men, among whom were M.
de Tocqueville and M.de Montalembert. With Savoy and Italy ancient
family relations had been revived and strengthened by an affectionate
and close intimacy with his relative, the count of Cavour, who was,
from his earliest infancy, accustomed to spend every year several weeks
at Présinge. In early life the young savant and the future statesman
204 EULOGY ON ARTHUR AUGUSTE DE LA RIVE.

who was to exercise so great an influence upon the destimes of Italy,
were for a long time in perfect accord upon the ground of liberal ideas.
Surrounded by influences unfavorable to their convictions, they enjoyed
together the forbidden fruit; and sometimes in the evening, in the par-
lor of Présinge, while their elders slept by the fireside, would scandalize
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IUL VILL LUSLURG, WLLL ULLISCIL CLUTLD Sicpu Wy LUT NLCD1U, WUOULE SUaAUUALILZE
the feminine portion of the family circle by exaggerated expression of
their opinions, which their troubled audience dared not oppose for fear

IL UL CLeSLIIVC. WLLILLC LUGIL CIUTLD DLOVU VY UO Drcpiue,. WUUIU BSUALUUALIZO
