ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION
OF THE INSTITUTION

FOR THE

YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899.

Je DN ee Ox rb

OF THE

U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
19:01):
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLIC PRINTING AND BINDING, AND THE
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS.

Approved January 12, 1895.

‘Of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution, ten thousand copies; one thousand
copies for the Senate, two thousand for the House, five thousand for distribution by
the Smithsonian Institution, and two thousand for distribution by the National
Museum.”’

ul
Is, OP

OF THE

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

UNDER THE DIRECTION OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

FOR THE

YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1899.

IIL
REPORT OF THE U.S. NATIONAL MUSEUM FOR THE YEAR
ENDING JUNE 30, 1899.

SU BIE eG LS.

I. Report of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
with Appendices.
II. Papers describing and illustrating Collections in the U. 5.

National Museum.
‘3
iS

UnITep States Nationa Museum,
UNDER DIRECTION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, October 1, 1899.
Str: I have the honor to submit herewith a report upon the present
condition of the United States National Museum, and upon the work
accomplished in its various departments during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1899.
Very respectfully,
RIcHARD RATHBUN,
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. S. P. Lane ey,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Wil
~
°

*

CON SNOT 3

ST ETO eeeres rer tr  eata ene et Rete ein Gre Simtel lm ialelatsiate Sains seieisie cia «seine
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL...------------- + +22 222-22 nee enter r eens
DORA nS OR 2 See 2 ee er
TTR LOM ELT UST ATIONG cece etre eerie le Sree tele le a= le tee selete tale tel= fa =taiem /awintwtatormlnlelz ==

PART Te
Bgrorr OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

uildanes hast ee te nessa esoteric em = ale Ae ale ee aie
MHGICOMeCHON SMe ot estes ae oer cls Sa ae ccna 6 Seo elelelae Seine. nleeeieieine io retin oe

INGGUHONB: oo oer. 8 2 soa a ees ose Sess see eno eo ee eee ee
Tiel whlonts aco aoe Gok ee eeSoccsecse GeeoS Saucon SUe eRe bebOoeoge mon ocs.

Explorations and researches --.-- ata Saye Sere hale Ste cS ce Sse eer
Public benefits of the Museum ......---------------------- +--+ +22 2-2 eee
Aron yas oe eee a crate ae = ie i= Posie ee ellen elnino sem EI ee sine
Pihlieations ..0o-seca.-c sec ee eben ce ce sres+-fer mere scor ese - seis t6Ss5

Reports oF HEAD CURATORS.

Report on the department of anthropology for the year 1898-99. ......-------
MPldiwotk coc chs ose h awe eee eaten ie searing omen < Saen eee eel
Collections received ....-..-------------------- ee 2 eee ener ernest etree
installaiieaneworkes i... ccecell fesse cesses a eee ae see seem ae cee mea

Division of ethnology..-.-.-----------------+-<---2- reer ernest
Mivisionol history: 22-24-2005 0: 2-6-2 - 22 os Me ae oe ee een
Division of mechanical technology. ..---------------------------+-+----->
Section, of graphi¢ arts .c.....122----2--.-2- 22-02 soa anaes cca =>
Division of religions..-.-..-------- ioe -- (222+ - 22-0 -c eso r ns eee n=
Division of prehistoric archeology --.-.---------------+---+---+--20000777+

Research and publications -.....-----------------------ece rete r crt r tree
Report on the department of biology for the year 1898-99 .......------------
Improvements in the exhibition halls. .-....---------------++--++++-+5+052-07>
DRT OEP Res ae ne cs ee Se nes ce cccieig a oe nm pecs meee aciminla ne
Work on the study series -.---.------------------- 2-2 -- cece ere er entre
Tarp Teen e oe i a ew ic ciara cit ee ws cieics a tee eer etelemin tinge ele ie iain oie
reriipsnOns ee sateen aie os = See set oie ie ces 22
econ er tS oe Be ke Salat nw eam tenes moses esis, Hci
Report on the department of geology for the year i Stoo 08 a haga aoe oe a RES
Diraniizat Omer ee aie = on wala Soe eine Sn ae acne re nach aes
(one raikt yt Goeg De as ee ee ee ee eer ec aero Atty ci
Present condition of collections. ...----------------+----- 22 eee reer
Sand oe ee eee eon Stor eee
Sources of new material..........------------ eee eee erent errr reer
Assistance afforded students and investigators ..------------------+---+-------
Storage and workrooms........----------e2-eeceeree cert restr rere

oo go & OD
“I Ot bo bo
x CONTENTS.

SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR.

Accessions and registration... .2.2..<-.-. 2-21.23 3 Sseese oe ee
Distribution“and-exchange =. 22. Soci... Bad ssa ee
Wisitors. 22.22 0o ls. oo. teen song case ee eer
Students and investigators --..... ..2.2is05.-p540ss0s eee
Cooperation of the Executive Departments of the Government .....--..-.---
Information furnished -..- 2.22.22 -/ss=eeens os 25 eee =e eee
Publications -...-.-..-- - 2 0-G-seeesep see tee
Library... .-s---+-------2-sscks Base e eee eee eee
Pxplorations... 2.2... -..\+ 20 ssceuseee eee ee
Taxidermy and: osteology. -\..2.25..5sseeenheos see eee ee ee
Photography - .-. - . - .\- < << 2 sess se ee a
RSE POSUGONS SL ...- . --/. SSS se eee eee 2.2.2 2a
Necrology ..---.---2¢:0- =< s@s8045s0nuet cee eee ees eee

APPENDICES.

L.. The Museum, stathesus5 262 22 bases oSoesosac steed oseccssks
II. List of accessions during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1899.........---
III. Statement of the distribution of specimens during the fiscal year ending
June 80,1899 3. 52k. cecss ons cb tececlnscacs clea

IV. Bibliography of the U. 8. National Museum for the fiscal year ending
JUNE SOMS99 6 oo ass Hsc)ss sos 2 os 35 Foe eee eee

V. Papers published in separate form during the year ending June 30, 1899...

PART Ut.

125
151

Papers DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

1. Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Division of Applied Geology.
The Nonmetallic Minerals. By George P. Merrill ......:...../...-----
. A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics. By Otis Tufton Mason-.-
. An Early West Virginia Pottery. By Walter Hough .....-.....-...----:-
. Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur. By Otis T. Mason....-.--
. Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial
Deposited in the U. 8. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat.
By Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz......--=-.=-+:.s+e<05-seeee=eeeee

Ove O bo

155
485
511
523
pelt) Oi

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

PLATES.

GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF THE COLLECTIONS IN THE SECTION OF APPLIED GEOLOGY:

oo

Tuer NoNMETALLIC MINERALS.

By GerorGcE P. MERRILL.

Facing page.

. View showing wall and rail cases and installation of nonmetallic minerals

on gallery of southwest court, U.S. National Museum. Looking west- -

. View showing rail case and installation of nonmetallic minerals in gallery

of southwest court of U.S. National Museum. Looking north -...-.-..-

. Views in graphite mine near Hague, Warren County, New York. From

pootorraphs by @.D.Walcott —.- 2-22-32 - cen = - einen z

. Section of the salt deposits at Stassfurt. From the Transactions of the

Edinburg Geological Society, V, 1884, p. 111..------------------------

. Views of brine-evaporating tanks at Syracuse, New York. From photo-

PEARS PSA en BISDOD = 22 ese = Soon. cn meee meni os Sane eee

. View of Tripoli mines in Carthage, Missouri. -.-...-..--------------------
. Deposit of diatomaceous earth, Great Bend of Pitt River, Shasta County,

California. From a photograph by J. 8. Diller .....-.-.--------------

. Map showing distribution of corundum and peridotite in the eastern

United States. After J. V. Lewis, Bulletin II, North Carolina Geolog-
CES Tt iy) Eee § OO Ore Pr EE IS ho See Pe 2 eee ee

. Microstructure of emery. After Tschermak, Mineralogische und Petro-

graphische Mittheilungen XIV, Part 4.....-.------------------------

. Section showing the formation of manganese deposits from decay of lime-

stone. After Penrose, Annual Report Geological Survey of Arkansas,
Tc Si ake sere aa gh NEF Ree DL Ge PLS Hem Seem See

. Botryoidal psilomelane, Crimora, Virginia. Specimen No. 66722, U.S.N.M.
. Views showing occurrence of Calcite in Iceland. After Thoroddsen. -.---
. View in a cement quarry near Whitehall, Ulster County, New York.

From a photograph by N. H. Darton...--..--------------------------

. View in a soapstone quarry, Lafayette, Pennsylvania.....-----.---------
. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) kaolinite and (2) washed

Therein wee hha thet oD wi ree pia 22 “aa? ES 2 RA aS ee oe eee a ey en

. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) halloysite and (2) leda clay.
. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Albany County, Wyoming,

clay and (2) fuller’s earth. ......... 222. -002 cee eens nee eee e eee eres

155
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Facing page.
18. Leda clays, Lewiston, Maine. From a photograph by L. H. Merrill ----- 333
19. View in a kaolin pit, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. ----.-.------------ 339
20. Map showing phosphate regions of Florida. After G. H. Eldridge... ..--- _ 366
21. Borax mine near Daggett, California. Interior and exterior views. ------ 398

22. View of a gypsum quarry. From a photograph by the Iowa Geological
SURVEY. cc5--s2rcs bin csonccace cc eeee eee sa eles oe ee eee 408

23. Peat beds overlying gold-bearing gravels, Mias, Russia. From a photo-
graph by A. M. Miller ...........------------22----- = 22-22 00-2------ 424

24. Map showing the developed coal fields of the United States. From the
Report of the Eleventh Census ......-------------------------------- 426

25. Map showing areas where bitumen occurs in the United States and
Canada. From the Report of the Tenth Census......-.--..---------- 429
26. Plan of Pitch Lake, Trinidad. After §. F. Peckham.-_.-.....-......--.-- 442

27. Nodule of gum copal from Congo River region, Africa. Specimen No.

62717, U.S.N.M ....22e2l5s tenes: soe ses oeee cee 457

. Microsection of mica schist used in making whetstone. Fig. 1, cut across

foliation. * Fig. 2, cut parallel to foliation... .--.-.---------------2-25= 467

. View of novaculite quarry, Arkansas. After Griswold, Annual Report of

the Geological Survey of Arkansas, ITI, 1890 ...--.--..--------------- 468

. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Arkansas noyaculite and (2)

Ratisbon razor hone. The dark bodies in (2) are garnets -..---.----.- 470

A PriwitivE FRAME FoR Weravinc Narrow Fasrics.

By Oris Turron Mason.

1. Zuni woman weaving ceremonial belt ....--..-<-22-sc0~-smennse----=-- 510
2. Patterns of garters and belts made in heddle frames in Helsingfors. ----- - 510
3. Loom with heddle frame for weaving silk braid..-..- Sie seesaw ee eee 510
4. Patent: heddiletinamerNonaato20 see eases he eee ee 510
5. Belt and garter patterns from Pueblos. -...----..-.------0- se <esee---- 510
6. Construction of Pueblo heddle frame... .2:-..-..-.---- 2 ese 510
7.-Types' of Pueblo heddle frames): 3222242229222 - 22. 92-22 ee 510
8. Types of Pueblo heddle frames... -- 2. =... --=--<- << -2-5-nij= = See ee 510
9. Pueblo batten knives for beating home the weft ......------------------ 510

An Earty West VIRGINIA POTTERY.

By Watter Hovueu.

1. Ware of the first, period... ... 02... ..+-- 0 5-b sacs nee eee 522
2. Ware of the first period .- 22.2 [22 soo 2-4). soo oe 522
3: Ware of the-first period... 2.022 2222. LS se ee ee 522
4. Ware of the first period ...... i. J5- 2 - = 2 son seencc sa aee == eee eee 522
5. Waré of the first period: ... 2222 2 ae= 5c pees oe os a oe ee ee 522
6. Ware of the second period’. -2.2. 22.52 a5-45eeee ose eee 522
7.. Wareof the second period 2. 2225222 eeeeoqs ss <n5 =a eee eee 522
8. Tools of the potter 2... 2. 22 2222-05 cee ae ee ae ee 522
9. Tools of the potter... 2... 255.0..nccse ase cbacen sees aoe eee ee 522
10. Tools of the potter 5.22. -222 22 Sse2 seat a= = ee ee ee 522
11. Handle. dies’of the potter:- 22.22 0.a:taemeoo ce eee eee eee 522
12. Bottles for slip painting =. 2.25.6. aeeees se ee eee ee eee 522
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XIII

Facing page.

13. Roulette wheels for ornamenting pottery..................2------------ 522
eS ATG OMe enG ae at eee ias cine: Wiis at ace auiiesonoesesctuelece 522
15. Button molds, buttons and figure stamps for ware .-....-.-------------- 522
DE ec sn ee ee ee ah as ok isn Sek ais bad vleeaset sees Seis 522
iA. TEnysyev iro Oe eR et SI eae SSN oe sae te Dan eng pe RO ate See ele pag ae 522
18. Separators for ware and rest for ware in the kiln. .......-.-.-..--.------ 522
Porntep BARK CANOES OF THE KUTENAI AND AMUR.
By Orts T. Mason.
Renera TORI CONGEEY MOO. Seo. akties aiceee eases ke oe ede oe doer ete 538
ei OLN CAMO 2a some oon fois Soak n eee cscs se -esee= ersten 538
Pome MRLeC IS Po USU CAN OC beta ratte eet Soke an ain ki eka s eb cinceuesis cen 538
HEV RU OUNLCULCANOG sar ae moa yee Sam asi A eR Won toutes aa numiesSiecec.. ae 538
FIRM EKO LOG OUNUC On GAMO Hse apes rete Sepa n Net ieee! aioe ye iee alee ee nie eee aie 538

DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF A COLLECTION OF OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL DEPOS-

ITED IN THE U.S. Nationa Mustum By Hapst Eroraim BENGUIAT.

By Cyrus Apier and I. M. Casanowicz.

Facing page.

“Ls, SL STEEN sla) 6 CHESS gS ea ne ge 546
PE itappern torine, Lori Seroll 2.2” cote bene e kl Son- emeces Sees 546
Pemcll or the Lely Atk. (eAOCMCUN = 30 ccc ced wien aecs oie sie deesceecad 546
ey Cll en bner Om ATK ParOCMOUW er wen Soc sen pac io wn oom dace cane cece enone 546
Peele Gale Lr Olyeam ik (Paro Met ns an scotia ee OS a ee a oe wo oh 546
Pam ger Or Mie MEAMENO CER x. 5 7s. cee ee aa we sels as oa se eases 546
fatorim scrollcanrolled om the reading Geske.- 2... 2.2.2. -5.: eee ee ones 546
Saeullesaihhe Is00k,OlMSth ete meee a seer a: cowie orn Hoe eee 548
Pee hamacgshorn and ani kane lam prec: sce =< cmaste nc acc aiaacc Sere see 548
Ey CbeLies An WpEA Ver, DOOK << - sn Seine as oc Sim Dbine meee oe ee ee 550
Pe AVISELCEICS ANG DAG. foie. fen Soe coe nee nen e sss sebepacsognledneaes 550
12. Manuscript containing Psalms and various Prayers...-.--.--------------- 550
Hpepboraverdiaw (allthis) secre ic 2 = inc. cccceni-e nice clce Solemn mise Siecle as cise es 552
le iLensl sore kaddushiandsrHabdalalns-=-ss22 sococ eee nee eee eee ae 552
15. Two embroidered cushions used at the Passover Meal --..-.------------- 554
165 Hwerand basin used at the: Passover Meal...-:.-...5----2----2---5------ 504
ee MOishisedeat the bassover! Meals ser. 2. S22. oes ee eee see eee Sale ole 554
18. Cover for the unleavened bread at the Passover Meal....-..-------------- 556
Meebrassdish usedvat thelbassover: Mealy. 72! oc acee coe eeeeetns see sees a 556
ikecover for green herbs at the Passover Meal: _...252-.252-2---—-------5-- 556
MibeNesseismisedsatine assover Meals a 222 252s Se oe ee ee ne ae nese ose 556
22. Glass and plate used at the Passover Meal -:-....-.-..-.-...---..------- 556
23. Piece of brocade used at the Passover Meal ...........------------------ 556
24. Linen table center used at the Passover Meal.-..--......-..------------- 596
Zo SerwieLteused-at tne: Passover Meal os... ose eee esse 556
26. Curtain for Booth (Sukkah) of the Feast of Tabernacles. .......--------- 558
Eifion CLONE UOT TICE, & esc ae a Pe pee ea eh ea ay Se am 558
20m Wrapper for carrying child to synagogue ....-..:-2.----2------ss-eeeee 598
Pome Mezza Near ORAM IEe bee aie emis cis oat Sok es Nee Seem inethesie seein saees ee 558
ey itpestries\ ihnstratine Biblical narratives 0222.2 22s '2=--5- ---2-+ 5-000 560
XIV LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Facing page.
31. i iaoeeuph representing the passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea. 560
32. Embroidery representing the story of the golden calf............22222222 560
33. Tapestry representing the Judgment of Solomon -.................2..--- 560
34. Embroidery representing the Prophet Elijah fed by ravens............-- 560
30. Tapestry representing the story of Susanna-.........-...-.-..-.-.-- Reacts 560
36. Tapestry representing the story of Judith and Holofernes................ 560

TEXT FIGURES.

GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF THE COLLECTIONS IN THE SECTION oF APPLIED GEOLOGY—

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS.

By GrorGce P. MERRILL.

Page.
1. Block of limestone with alternating bands of sulphur. Sicily, Italy. Spec- '
imen No, 60932, U.S. NOMS. oo 22 cece cee see ae a oe yi)
2. Cluster of halite crystals. Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40222,
<0. SNM 2 RE ee eS eee 195
3. Geological section of Petite Anse Island, Louisiana...............------- 201
4. Cluster of sylvite crystals. Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40223,
U.S.N. M oo. neces oe Se ee ee 203
5. Pisolitic bauxite. Bartow County, Georgia. Specimen No. 63335,U.S.N.M. 229
6. Map showing geological relations of Georgia and Alabama bauxite deposits.
After ©: W: Hayes. -2 257.2 cae ie eee 235
7. Section showing relation of bauxite to mantle of residual clay in Georgia.
After:GOW. Hayes. 2... [0025-0 os eee Bee oe eee 236
8. Section across paint mine at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania. After C.E. Hesse. 242
9. Section of mica veins in Yancey County, North Carolina. After W. C.
Kerr 2. 22%- Baigee ceetesccse eu can ot Se ae ee 288
10. Asbestos fibers. After G. P. Merrill, Proceedings of the U. §. National
Museum, X VEEL (pr 28ss ae Soe ne i be eee 297
11. Serpentine asbestos in massive serpentine. Specimen No. 72836, U.S.N.M. 302
12. Map of Nitrate region, Chile. After Fuchs and De Launay...-........-- 393
13, Section through Sulphur Mountain, California. After S.F.Peckham.... 482
A PrimitivE FRAME ror Weavinc Narrow Fasrics.
By Oris Turron Mason.
1. Chippewa heddle frame, carved from a single piece of wood ....-..------ 488
2,3: Masquakie beddle frame and'shotile:..0-...42 so2c -<.. cae 491
4. Heddle from Helsingfors, Finland... -<-<- 223-22... ose ce 493
5. Heddle from Helsingfors, Finland, with shuttle ..................-.-.-- 494
6. Heddle and shuttle from Saalfeld, East Prussia...............-..------- 495
7. Heddle and shuttle, set up for weaving; also warp holder. Saalfeld, East
Proseia’- 22. tance ccicaicetcuat coals eee ee 496
8,9. Heddles from Stettin, North Germany ..~...2:...2.-24--,csseeeueeees 497
10, 11. Heddles from Siena, Italy, and Lancaster, Pennsylvania...-...---.--- 499
12. Heddle frame from Bristol, Connecticut..........-.....------------«--- 500
13. Heddle frame from Bantel Connecticut. On solid base connected by an
oumamrentad Jem —- Doo i2' os eae ised eee re igh eee aah a eee 502
14. Heddle from Maine, with healds disconnected at the WOpsss soso eee 503
(Re RON Op aY Us

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. XV

Page.

15. Sketches showing methods of attaching the healds to the crossbars in
Fragile Inenclles = eet Ses eS oe = (See Soe Sean ROA Sen Crean eee terse ese 505

16. Pueblo woman sitting on the ground and working heddle in weaving a
Inelhts ie Se ee ae eS oe ole seo COR ne Me SSSR CCS te eile ter eter or 505
ijenude Zuni heddle frame for narrow garter --....-----)...-..-.---.-ce--e 506
LS. THhaclollsaraciin Monit Soe oo ok ees he SE ROr ESS ane es eo ee Sees Srp aemne 507
19. Batten from Guadalajara, Mexico, on the plan of the Pueblo heddles .... 508

PornteD Bark CANOES OF THE KUTENAI AND AMUR.
By Oris T. Mason.

1. Outline of Kalispel pointed canoe, showing curved bottom ......-.------- 529
2. Pointed canoe of the Lake Indians, Washington ...........-.------------ 530
3. Detail of the Lake Indian canoe, Washington ...........---------------- 530
4-6. Tuneus paddle, Yakut paddle, Goldi paddle. .--..-...-.-..---.--..-.--- 536
eit eg ia ee a4
os cis ae a ce is) Re ne

eA see TE.

bh BP Okt

UPON THE

CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM

DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899.

BY

RICHARD RATHBUN,

ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

NAT Mus 99——1
be ee)
UPON

THE CONDITION AND PROGRESS OF THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM
DURING THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899,

BY

RicHArRD RATHBUN,

Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

Mr. Charles D. Walcott, who, following upon the death of Doctor
Goode, had agreed to add to his duties as Director of the Geological
Survey those of Acting Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in charge of the National Museum, felt obliged to relinquish
the latter position with the year ending June 30, 1898. During his
incumbency there was a modification in the administration of the
Museum, which consisted in gathering the different departments under
three heads and placing three scientific men in charge of them as head
curators. One, the Head Curator of Biology, Dr. F. W. True, by virtue
of his appointment as Executive Curator, took charge of the executive
office immediately following the retirement of Mr. Walcott, and admin-
istered it with zeal and fidelity. The Secretary, who is by law Keeper
of the Museum, has always retained the direction of its policy and
attended personally to many of the important acts connected with its
administration. His numerous and exacting duties made him feel the
necessity of further aid in this direction, and in accordance with a reso-
lution of the Board of Regents removing the restrictions placed upon
the appointment of the writer as Assistant Secretary, in 1897, the latter
has given a certain oversight to the affairs of the Museum, without,
however, being able to spare sufficient time to supervise all of its
details.

The Secretary in his own report has expressed his appreciation of
the value and efficiency of the services rendered by Mr. Walcott to the
Museum during the year and a half in which he was connected with
it in an administrative capacity. It should be added that the Museum
still has the benefit of Mr. Walcott’s services as Honorary Curator of
the Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology, and, beyond this, that his
advice and his valuable aid have been given to the Museum on many
occasions since his official administrative connection with it ceased.

3
4 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The present National Museum is an integral part and the direct out-

erowth of the Smithsonian Institution. In the fundamental law crea-
ting the Institution, Congress provided for the erection of a building —
suitable for natural history collections, including a geological and
mineralogical cabinet, and further ordered that—
Whenever suitable arrangements can be made from time to time for their receptior,
all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural
history, plants, and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to the United
States, which may be in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody they may
be, shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents
to receive them, and shall be so arranged and classified in the building erected for
the Institution as best to facilitate the examination and study of them; and when-
ever new specimens in natural history, geology, or mineralogy are obtained for the
Museum of the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate specimens, which the Regents
may in their discretion make, or by donation, which they may receive, or other-
wise, the Regents shall cause such new specimens to be appropriately classed and
arranged.

From the results of this legislation sprang the Museum, yet several
propositions and institutions antecedent to the establishment of the
Smithsonian Institution contributed to the origin and development of
the present collections.

To Doctor Goode’s careful researches into the history of American
scientific institutions the reader desiring to know the history of the
National Museum in detail is referred.’ As far back as 1806 Joel Bar-
low, the well-known author of Zhe Columbiad, put forward a plan for
the establishment of a national institution in which a general museum
had a prominent part. The early students and public men of the United
States fully recognized the importance, at least for natural history
studies, of the gathering and preservation of collections, and many
such turned toward Philadelphia, which, even after it ceased to be the
national capital, continued for a time the scientific and literary center
of the country.

The first real scientific collection, both as regards material and
arrangement, which came into the possession of the United States
Government was the mineralogical cabinet of James Smithson (since
unfortunately destroyed by fire), and this, with the results of the policy
initiated in furtherance of the act incorporating the Smithsonian
Institution, formed the basis of the present national collections.

It is anticipating somewhat, however, to make this statement, since
collections began to be brought together in Washington before the
Smithsonian Institution was actually founded, although they were
directly traceable to the Smithson bequest. Not long after its
announcement there was formed in Washington, chiefly through the
exertions of the Hon. Joel R. Poinsett, an organization under the title

1The Genesis of the National Museum. By G. Brown Goode. Report of the U.S.
National Museum for 1891, pp. 273-380,
ALO Hy,

» pe ety te

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 5

of ‘‘ National Institution,” later changed to ‘* National Institute,”
which had for its avowed purpose the direction of the Smithson
bequest and the pursuit of objects in consonance with the terms of that
foundation. This organization, ten years before the Smithsonian
Institution was prepared to receive collections, gathered together quite
a quantity of historical and natural history material, which was kept
in the Patent Office, and which in 1862, upon the expiration of the
charter of the Institute, was delivered to the National Museum,
although a portion of the historical collection was retained at the
Patent Office until as late as 1883.

The first exploring expedition affording important collections was
that under Lieutenant Wilkes, which started out in 1838. The
material from this source was turned over to what was known as the
National Cabinet of Curiosities, being a part of the National Institute
and located in the Patent Office. Serious conflicts of authority arose,
however, between the curator of the collection, the Commissioner of
Patents, and the authorities of the National Institute, and in 1857 these
collections were transferred to the Smithsonian Institution. As Doc-
tor Goode has aptly put it: ‘‘ From the marriage of the National Cabi-
net of Curiosities with the Smithsonian Institution the National
Museum of the United States was born.”

In 1850 Prof. Spencer F. Baird was appointed Assistant Secretary
of the Institution, and, with the approval of Secretary Henry, he at
once entered into relations with the numerous surveying parties then
exploring throughout the western country to secure through them
natural history and ethnological collections. Added to these were the
exertions of officers of the Army engaged in similar work, some of
whom were themselves experts in natural history or ethnology.

In 1871 new important avenue for increasing the collections of the
National Museum was opened by the establishment of the Fish Com-
mission, under the direction of Professor Baird. Many explorations
have been carried on by the Commission with a view to increasing sci-
entific knowledge, in order that results useful to the people might flow
therefrom. One of the chief factors in this work has been the steamer
Albatross, especially built for dredging and for making collections of
the fauna of the deep sea.

These and numerous other agencies, whether through surveys or
departments of the Government, through industrial and commercial
enterprises pushing their way into the little-known regions of the west
and north or through the zeal of private individuals, brought together
a great mass of valuable, if heterogeneous, material, to which was
added at the close of the exposition in 1876, partly by gift of foreign
countries and partly from private exhibitors, so great a quantity of
specimens as to render imperative the erection of a separate building
for the national collections.
6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

This structure, though built at a time when the conditions required
for the proper care and display of large collections of natural history
were by no means well understood, is yet admirably adapted to
museum exhibition purposes, lending itself readily both to arrange-
ment and adjustment, and giving ample light. But though the plan
was good, the realization was unworthy. The building is cheap and
unenduring, and is, besides, without storage or laboratory facilities.
For the area covered, its cost was less than that of any other building
ever erected by the Government, and the result is commensurate with
that fact. Of its general plan many museum experts have only words
of praise; of its unworthiness as the home of the national collections
of this great nation there can be no question.

The Museum building was ready for occupancy in 1881, and it was
then deemed adequate for years to come. Yet such has not been the
‘ase. The additions to the collections have so far exceeded expecta-
tions that more than ten years ago it was already overcrowded, although
more than three-fourths of the Smithsonian building is still devoted to
the same purposes, and houses some of the most important collections.

The number of specimens in the Museum is now nearly four and
one-half millions, covering every department of knowledge, although
strongest in the fields of natural science and ethnology. It is not
possible here to name even the most important collections nor the
sources from which they have been derived; nor would such a state-
ment in any way give an adequate picture of the Museum. It is not
the possession of collections, but their availability to the public at large
and to students which really does credit to an establishment of this kind.
Of this fact no one had a keener perception than Doctor Goode, who
was associated with Professor Baird directly in the management of
the Museum from 1878 to 1887, and from that year, upon his appoint-
ment as Assistant Secretary, had complete oversight of all the details
of its management. He had the most profound desire to make the
collections available to the people, to have them arranged so that they
might be seen, and to have them labeled so that they might be instruct-
ive. Himself a scientific man and in sympathy with scientific work, he
yet regarded the public use of the Museum as its primary object, and
well was this policy rewarded by accessions and gifts from this very
public, which have gone to enrich not only the exhibition, but the
duplicate collections, thus benefiting both classes for which the
Museum was intended. So skillful was his handling of this delicate
problem that neither interest ever clashed, and the one but served the
other. :

The writer has presented these few brief statements, not with the
idea of giving a history of the Museum, nor any sort of adequate
recognition to the men who have had it in charge, but simply to show
in outline what the purposes of the Museum have been; how the devo-
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 7

tion of its officers has made it grow; how the other Departments of the
Government have strengthened it; how private persons all over the
country have aided in building up and increasing the importance of
the national collections commensurate with the growth of intelligence
and the development of research in a country so preéminently devoted
to the arts of peace as the United States.

BUILDINGS.

Through the construction of four new galleries and the leasing of
three small buildings south of B street, some additional space has been
gained during the year, but not more than was required to meet the
urgent current demands caused by recent increases in the collections
and the needs of the mechanical work. All of the galleries in
question were designed for storage purposes, two to receive mainly
the Geological Survey collections elsewhere referred to, one in
part for the Division of Plants, and one for the overflow from the
Library. In this connection it is interesting to note that the ten gal-
leries erected during the past three years have added to the Museum
building, which contained originally 140,625 square feet on the ground
floor, an area of only about 22,600 feet, equivalent to about 16 per
cent, while the collections have increased over twenty-fold since the
first occupancy of the building in 1881.

The renting of additional outside quarters has made it possible to
remove from the Museum building or from its immediate vicinity all
of the shops in which the heavier or more noisy kinds of work are
carried on or whose contents constitute an element of danger from
fire, such as the carpenter and paint shops, as well as the laboratories
for several branches of specimen preparation.

It becomes necessary, unfortunately, to call attention to certain
structural weaknesses in the roof of the Museum building, disclosed by
the great storm of February, 1899, which caused a number of the main
iron girders to buckle badly and gave warning of more serious trouble
in the near future unless ample precautions be promptly taken. The
small size of the appropriation available for the purpose rendered it
impossible to do more at the time than repair the immediate damage,
but a thorough inspection will be made to determine what further
action may be required. This roof was built some twenty years ago,
before the extensive use of iron or steel in such constructions and
when the conditions of their use in buildings of so great a width were
but imperfectly understood.

THE COLLECTIONS.
Additions. —The scientific collections have been increased during the
year to the extent of over 210,000 specimens, comprised in 1,497
accessions. The total number of specimens now in the Museum is
8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

recorded at above 4,355,000, without fully taking into account many
hundreds of bottles of small organisms, which, were it possible to
enumerate their contents, would swell the total almost incredibly.

As the custodian of all specimens obtained by Government. scien-
tific expeditions, both at home and abroad, as the recipient of innu-
merable gifts and exchanges from private sources, many of which
have been of very large size, and by purchase, the National Museum
has acquired a greater fund of material than any other similar estab-
lishment in this country, while but few in Europe can equal or surpass
it in this regard. With adequate and appropriate quarters it would
soon take rank with the oldest and best museums of the world.

Among the more important accessions of the year in anthropology
have been a collection of about 1,000 pieces representing the costumes,
implements, and ceremonial objects of the Plains and Rocky Mountain
Indians, brought together a number of years ago by M. E. Granier,
now of Paris, France; a second installment of the Steiner collection
of prehistoric stone implements and other objects from the Indian
mounds near Grovetown, Georgia; and a part of the celebrated bas-
ketry collection of Dr. W. J. Hudson, illustrating in much detail the
exquisite workmanship of the Pomo Indians of California. The above
were acquired by purchase.

In biology the Museum is deeply indebted to Mr. W. H. Ashmead,
one of its assistant curators, for the generous gift of his valuable pri-
vate collection of insects, consisting of over 60,000 specimens and
containing a very large number of types. The Division of Insects has
now nearly 1,000,000 specimens, of which 125,000 were received the
past year. This is the largest numerical showing made by any branch
of the Museum, the Division of Mollusks coming next, followed by
the Division of Marine Invertebrates.

In geology mention may be made of the large collection of verte-
brate fossils acquired by the U. S. Geological Survey, which had been
in the custody of Prof. O. C. Marsh, at Yale College. Since the death
of this distinguished paleontologist the transfer of this collection to
the National Museum has been arranged for by the Director of the
Survey, and the work of bringing it to Washington was in progress at
the close of the fiscal year. A very large amount of space will be
required for its installation.

The Government bureaus to which the Museum has been chiefly
indebted for material are the Geological Survey, the Fish Commission,
and several divisions of the Department of Agriculture. In addition
to the Marsh collection, already referred to, the Geological Survey has
turned over during the year several important series of invertebrate
and plant fossils described in its recent reports, besides a number of
rock specimens and rare minerals. The Fish Commission has con-
tributed a very extensive and valuable collection from the island of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 9

Porto Rico and its vicinity, comprising fishes, marine invertebrates,
and land animals, and also much material from other regions. From
the Department of Agriculture mammals, insects, and plants have been
received.

Exchanges have been extensively carried on with scientific institu-
tions in all parts of the world, and, as the returns have consisted mainly
of specimens identified by competent authorities, making them imme-
diately useful for comparison in the study of new material, the
Museum has been greatly benefited by these transactions.

Installation.—The display collections in anthropology now occupy
9 halls and 4 galleries, though all of these have not yet been made
ready for the public. Much has been accomplished during the year in
the way of adding to these exhibits and improving them in every
branch of the department and with most effective results. The
changes are most conspicuous in the North Hall, or Hall of American
History, from which all the cases of small size and odd pattern have
been removed, to give place to 30 large cases of uniform and pleasing
design, arranged in 4 rows, with roomy aisles between. The most
important additions to the historical collections have related to the war
with Spain, and these, owing to their number and the large size of
some objects, have made it necessary to extend this exhibit into the
central rotunda. The Boat Hall, occupying the North East Range,
has also been entirely rehabilitated, a terrazzo pavement replacing the
old wooden floor, and a very capacious case having been built around
the four sides of the room. The boat collection, which has been
assembled at the cost of much time and effort, is a very large and com
prehensive one, representing by models and actual examples the
primitive and modern crafts of all parts of the world, and its rear-
rangement has been carried out in a systematic and instructive
manner.

Although chiefly occupied with the duties of Executive Curator,
Doctor True has still been able to make some progress in the rein-
stallation of the exhibition collections which come under his immediate
charge as Head Curator of Biology. The plans for this work, as
described in the report for 1898, contemplate a faunal basis for the
new arrangement, in which the fauna of North America shall have
special prominence. The mounted specimens of mammals have been
replaced in the South Hall, though only temporarily, pending the con-
struction of new cases. The American species remain on the ground
floor, while those of the Old World have been transferred to the
recently constructed gallery above.

The number of birds on display has been greatly reduced, though
the space occupied remains the same, thus remedying the overcrowded
condition of the cases, improving their appearance, and bringing the
exhibit more within the comprehension of the public. Experiments
10 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

are also being made to secure an effective lighting of the large central
part of the Bird Hall, which the absence of windows has rendered
practically valueless for exhibition purposes. A series of the game.
birds and game fishes of North America has been placed in the entrance
hall of the Smithsonian Building, and the exhibition collection of
marine invertebrates has been rearranged and relabeled.

In the Department of Geology the reinstallation in new quarters
of the systematic series of nonmetallic products, the geographic series,
and the building and ornamental stones has been nearly completed.
The collection of meteorites has now become very extensive, and that
of gems is not surpassed either in numbers or varieties by any public
collection in this country.

SXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

Though having insufficient funds for making field explorations on
an extensive scale, some work of this character, to fill in gaps in the
collections, has been carried on nearly every year, the direction given
it being along lines or into regions not covered by other Government
bureaus. Realizing the practical utility of early researches into the
natural history of the recently acquired possessions, an appropriation
for that purpose was asked of Congress, and its failure of passage at
the last session will, it is hoped, only defer the project for a short time.
Soon after the close of hostilities an agent was dispatched to Cuba and
Porto Rico to obtain material illustrative of the historical phases of
the war with Spain. Much success was met both in securing collec-
tions and in interesting persons on the ground to add to them.

Important researches in California and Mexico, with reference to
prehistoric man as well as the modern Indians, were conducted by Dr.
W. H. Holmes, who brought back a large and interesting collection.
Mr. J. B. Hatcher is carrying on extensive inquiries in Patagonia for
both Princeton University and the National Museum, and one impor-
tant lot of specimens has already been received from him. Dr. J. N.
Rose and Dr. Walter Hough spent some time in Mexico in botanical
and ethnological investigations, and a number of other small expedi-
tions were in the field at one time or another during the year, their
activities relating to several different subjects.

As before explained, the explorations by which the Museum is mainly
benefited are those conducted by the Geological Survey, the Fish Com-
mission, and certain scientific divisions of the Department of Agricul-
ture. Mention should also be made of the numerous contributions
received from officers of the Army and Navy, whose opportunities for
collecting have been greatly increased by the present activities in the
military service. There have been many accessions from these various
sources during the year, and references to the field work in connection
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. jt

with which the specimens were obtained will be found elsewhere in
this report.

While the scientific staff is constantly occupied with the routine
duties involved in the care and installation of the collections, a num-
ber of its members have found time for research work and the prepara-
tion of important scientific papers. Persons not belonging to the
staff and in part attached to other bureaus of the Government have
been given facilities for study, and specimens in many groups have
been sent away to specialists, both in this country and abroad, for
examination and report. In this way the collections are being worked
up and made known through the medium of the Museum publications,
though not nearly so fast as they are added to.

PUBLIC BENEFITS OF THE MUSEUM.

The primary object of the Museum is to store and safeguard the
Government and other collections confided to its care and to arrange
and classify these collections so as to facilitate their study. This has
been interpreted to include the display of such parts of the collections
as may instruct the general public, the granting to properly qualified
students of facilities for working up materials, and the preparation of
sets of duplicate specimens for distribution to the educational institu-
tions of higher grade throughout the country.

A public museum is, of course, chiefly known through its accessi-
bility to the visiting public, and a very large part of the work of the
National Museum consists in the proper arrangement of carefully
selected specimens in attractive cases with suitable labels attached.
The force necessary to guard the collections and to keep the building
open and in presentable condition uses up a large share of its energy
and funds, and the American public is not slow to take advantage of
the opportunity offered. During the past year 192,471 persons visited
the Museum building and 116,912 the Smithsonian building. It is not
possible to fairly institute a comparison between the number of visit-
ors to the National Museum at Washington and to great public museums
elsewhere, whether national or municipal, since the latter are usually
situated in the very largest cities in each State or country, with vast
populations whence visitors may be drawn, while in Washington there
is a comparatively small population, and it can be safely estimated that
a very large percentage of the visitors to the Museum are from places
other than the Capital, so that the influence of the Museum extends to
every part of the country.

Of almost equal importance as to results, though restricted to a
small number, is the policy of rendering the collections accessible to
properly accredited investigators and students. The Smithsonian
Institution from the outset never engaged directly in teaching in any
form, assuming that the many educational institutions throughout the
12 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

country afforded ample facilities for this purpose, but its collections
and to a certain extent even the time of the members of its scientific
staff have been at the service of students and scholars whose training
warranted the expectation that their researches here would be fruitful
in the advancement of knowledge. An ever-increasing number of
such persons have resorted to the Museum from time to time or have
been sent material for examination, no less than 110 having been
engaged in studies upon the collections during the past year. Their
names and the special studies in which they were engaged will be
found recorded elsewhere in this report.

Yet another class of persons have made demands upon the Museum—
those who, being unable to come to Washington, ask for information
by letter. These are sometimes scientific men engaged in special work;
more often the general public desiring answers to some question,
wishing to have some specimen which they have picked up identi-
fied, or other matters of this sort. All subjects with which the
Museum has to deal and, indeed, many which in no way come within
its scope have been included in this correspondence. Whenever the
requests for information have been at all reasonable or have come
within the province of the Museum or the knowledge of any member of
its staff, such letters have been answered, although they entail an ever-
increasing amount of research and time.

In the collections which reach the Museum there are naturally many
duplicates, and these are used for two purposes—first, for exchanges
with other museums, thereby furnishing a means for filling gaps in
the collections, and secondly, in furtherance of the general plan for
the diffusion of knowledge, being prepared in small sets, labeled, and
sent to educational institutions of the higher grades throughout the
United States.

Since the first international exposition in the United States, held at
Philadelphia in 1876, there have been many such, either international
in scope or of sufficient importance to receive recognition from Con-
gress. All Congressional acts authorizing and aiding expositions in
this country have directed participation by the Smithsonian Institution
and its bureaus, and the collections which have been sent to them have
invariably been drawn, in the main, from the National Museum. ‘This
participation of the Museum has recognized advantages to the country,
in rendering public-spirited persons in different localities familiar with
museum benefits and methods, and to it are directly traceable the
founding of several museums. It has also at times resulted in con-
siderable accessions to the National Museum, although of later years
these have been less valuable than formerly.

There are, however, on the other hand, certain disadvantages of which
mention should be made. Expositions have followed each other so
closely that there is hardly a time when a portion of the Museum staff
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 13

is not engaged in planning for or taking part in one or unpacking and
replacing the specimens which have been returned. The collections
which are sent out necessarily suffer to some extent, and while it has
been the policy of the Museum not to exhibit in the perishable struc-
tures usually built for such purposes any unique object or one which
could not be replaced, many excellent specimens have been displayed at
every exposition in which the Museum has been represented, and these
have unquestionably deteriorated. Should the holding of expositions
in the country continue at such brief intervals as during the past ten
years, and the Museum be expected to participate in all of them, it
would seem almost necessary that a special duplicate collection for
these purposes be kept on hand, since it is not only the injury to the
specimens which is to be deplored, but the constant interference with
the arrangement of the collections and the great amount of labor
expended in removing specimens from their cases and in properly
replacing them.

At the Trans-Mississippi and International Exposition held at Omaha
during the summer and early autumn of 1898 the several scientific
departments of the Museum were extensively represented in connection
with the Government display.

The participation of the Government Departments and bureaus in
two other expositions has been authorized by Congress during the past
year. The first of these, the Pan-American, will be held at Buffalo in
1901, and the second, the Ohio Centennial, at Toledo in 1902 or 1903.
Tn each case $500,000 has been appropriated, $200,000 being for the
buildings and $300,000 for the exhibits. The preliminary arrange-
ments for the Pan-American Exposition had so far progressed before
the close of the year as to call for the appointment of representatives
composing the Government board of management. Dr. Frederick W.
True has been designated to act for the Museum in this capacity.

LIBRARY.

Through the purchase, by special act of Congress, of the scientific
library of the late Doctor Goode, the Museum has secured a very note-
worthy addition. This collection comprises 2,900 bound volumes,
18,000 pamphlets, and 1,800 portraits, autographs, etc., and contains
many rare and valuable publications, being especially rich in the liter-
ature of museums and of fishes. Its acquisition increases the size of
the working library belonging to the Museum to some 15,000 books
and 26,500 pamphlets, but besides this, in order to meet the require-
ments of the scientific work, the Smithsonian collection has at all times
to be largely drawn upon, and the accommodations assigned the library
have long since been outgrown. A gallery has recently been built
across one end of the West North Range to afford relief, but it can
only be regarded as a temporary expedient.
14 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

PUBLICATIONS.

The publications issued during the year comprise five volumes,
namely: The Annual Report for 1896; volume 20 of the Proceedings
in bound form, and the separate papers of volume 21; and parts 2 and
3 of the important bulletin entitled ‘‘The Fishes of North and Middle
America,” by Doctors David S. Jordan and Barton W. Evermann.
The number of scientific papers based upon Museum collections which
have been printed, chiefly in the above volumes though to some extent
in outside journals, is 318, representing 75 authors.
aE ee eC

nie OrtS OF HhAD CURATORS:

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY...........-..-. By WILLIAM H. HOLMEs.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY ...-.-....-.... AUwonin eens . By FREDERICK W. TRUE.
eB OR ON mE B,D AUR MUE Nill (OBS Gi OO GY. Sees sew eles seta) =e t= By GEORGE P. MERRILL.
15
~
es

REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
FOR THE YEAR 1898-99.

By Wiutiam H. Houmes
ry ’
Head Curator.

During the year a number of important changes have been made in
the manner of transacting the business of the Department of Anthro-
pology. Some of the changes relate to the abbreviation of the routine,
but the most important ones result from the introduction of the card-
catalogue system into the work of the Department staff, and the keep-
ing of all the catalogue books by a recording clerk in the office of the
head curator. Formerly, separate books were assigned to the several
divisions and independent sections. This work is now conducted by a
single expert assistant, and the curators and other keepers of the col-
lections make card catalogues for their own use.

FIELD WORK.

No systematic field work is provided for by the Museum, but limited
funds are available for use when especially important results are
promised. The work for the year has been as follows:

The head curator spent September and part of October in California
visiting various Indian tribes and giving particular attention to the
question of man’s antiquity in the Sierra region. Interesting ethno-
logical collections were made representing the Digger, the Pomo, and
the Tulare tribes, and much archeological material was secured in the
auriferous-gravel region, in the San Joaquin Valley, in the vicinity
of Los Angeles, and on the island of Santa Catalina. A visit to the
Indian tribes of New Mexico and Arizona was planned, but was aban-
doned because of the epidemic of smallpox which was discovered to
be raging among many of the pueblos.

On the breaking otit of the war with Spain it was recognized that
an important epoch in our national history had been initiated, and
measures were taken to secure for the Museum such relics and memen-
tos of the campaign as would be of interest to the people. The War
Department and the Navy Department were appealed to, and Mr. Paul
Beckwith, assistant in the Section of American History, was sent to
Cuba and Porto Rico to act as agent for the Institution. Mr. Beck-
with’s visit to Cuba was cut short by the breaking out of yellow fever,
but in Porto Rico between four and five months were spent, chiefly at
Ponce, and many valuable additions were made to the historical series,
and, besides, a number of archzological objects were secured. Unfor-
- tunately, a considerable portion of the collections, delivered to trans-
portation agents at San Juan, never reached the Museum.

NAT MUS 99 2 17

18 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

After returning from Porto Rico, Mr. Beckwith paid visits to Nor-
folk, Brooklyn, Philadelphia, and other points, for the purpose of
examining and securing such objects of interest as had reached the
navy-yards from various points, and more especially from the war
vessels destroyed by our fleet at Santiago de Cuba.

In April the head curator was invited to be the guest of Mr. George
Brackenridge, of San Antonio, Texas, on a trip to various points in
Mexico. The journey afforded him an opportunity of revisiting sey-
eral points of interest, including the valley of Mexico, San Juan
Teotihuacan, and Orizaba, and of examining for the first time two of
the most interesting archeological sites in Mexico, namely, the ruins
of Xochicalco, near Cuernavaca, state of Morelos, and the obsidian
mines of Hidalgo. At the latter place valuable observations were
made and many minor relics illustrative of the quarrying and shaping
of the obsidian by the ancient Nahuatl tribes were obtained.

Toward the latter part of May, Dr. Walter Hough, assistant curator
of the Division of Ethnology, joined Dr. J. N. Rose, of the Division
of Botany, in an extended excursion into Mexico. Three months
were spent in the field and Doctor Hough was enabled to make the
acquaintance of the native peoples at many points and to secure col-
lections of interest in ethnology, ethnobotany, and archeology.

COLLECTIONS RECEIVED.

The more important collections received through gift, purchase,
and exchange during the year may be briefly mentioned:

1. A collection of 121 specimens of Polynesian ethnological objects,
brought together mainly by Mr. Henry Adams and acquired through
the bequest of Mr. W. H. Phillips, of which the archeological por-
tions were recorded during the preceding year.

2. Two hundred and thirty-four objects illustrating the potter’s
art as practiced in early days in Morgantown, West Virginia, pre-
sented by Miss Jennie Thompson through Dr. Walter Hough. The
period covered extends from 1790-1888.

3. A collection of considerable importance embodying archeological
and ethnological materials from Mexico and Central America, pur-
chased from Mr. E. W. Nelson, who spent a number of years travel-
ing and collecting in these countries.

4, A large number of well-preserved specimens of ancient mound
pottery, acquired by purchase from Mr. G. F. Morris, of Memphis,
Tennessee.

5. A collection of 18 ancient Peruvian trephined skulls, brought
together by Dr. M. A. Munfiz and acquired through the Bureau of
American Ethnology.

6. The most important collection received by the Division of Eth-
nology during the year was purchased from M. Emil Granier, of
Tats Ne it Rk

ji
z
§
.
<

cet

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 19

Paris. It consists mainly of ethnological materials collected from the
Indian tribes of the middle-western section of the United States.

INSTALLATION WORK.

Division of Ethnology.—The installation work of the Division of
Ethnology is under the direct supervision of Prof. O. T. Mason,
curator, who has been ably supported by Dr. Walter Hough, assistant
curator, and T. W. Sweeny, preparator. Dr. J. Walter Fewkes and
Mrs. M. ©. Stevenson have most generously lent their aid in the
Pueblo section, and the head curator has taken an active part in plan-

‘ning and promoting the work. The following halls and galleries are

occupied by the division: West North Range, North West Range,
North West Court Gallery, West Hall, and West Hall Gallery, north
side.

Collections illustrating many of the Indian tribes of the United
States and Canada have been assembled in the West North Range
whose walls are occupied by the great series of Catlin paintings, an
appropriate association, considering that the peoples represented in
the collections are in large part those among whom Catlin worked.
The principal series of cases have been arranged to form two sets of
alcoves, eight on the south side and eight on the north, each alcove
devoted to a single ethnographic province.

Although the exhibits are not yet as complete as could be desired,
they form undoubtedly the most complete exposition of the great
group of tribes represented ever brought together.

Within the alcoves the collections are grouped as to subject-matter,
first by tribes and second by industrial or other cultural concepts,
such as costume, weapons, and basketry. The installation unit is the
case, the half case, and the unit box. The labels are carefully drawn
up to serve asa key to the classification and grouping. The alcove
labels, standing for ethnic provinces are of generous dimensions and
are placed at the back of the alcoves, above the wall cases. The case
or section labels, standing for ethnic and industrial subdivisions, are
smaller and are placed against the upper edge of the cases or at other
points in close connection with the exhibits to which they pertain.

Brief individual labels are employed in connection with the speci-
mens. The system of labeling is carried out, so far as it happens to
be applicable, in the other halls of the Department.

The wide aisle extending lengthwise of the hall accommodates a
series of large cases occupied mainly by lay-figure groups. It is
intended that the floor space in each alcove shall, in time, contain a
family group illustrating some typical tribe of the province repre-
sented by the alcove; but as this is not practicable at present, house
groups on a small scale, showing how the people of the province live,

are used, or otherwise miscellaneous exhibits are introduced to fill the

spaces.
20 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

This hall was until recently occupied for lecture purposes. Its
permanent assignment to the Division of Ethnology has enabled the
curators to place on exhibition a large body of material not heretofore
shown.

The North West Range contains exhibits from the northwest coast
Indian tribes and the Eskimo. The only change made during the year
had to do with the reinstallation of collections, especially the larger
objects, the aim being to enhance the general effect of the hall. The
removal of the long-coiled radiators which formerly occupied the
floor along the entire west side, and the substitution of a continuous
line of cases, was accomplished during the previous year and added
greatly to the capacity and effect of the hall.

The geographical order of the exhibits and the peoples represented
are kept in mind. In passing from Alcove VIII of the West North
Range, where the Yukon-Mackenzie province is shown, are encountered
at the north end of the hall a large group of exhibits illustrating the
Northwest Coast peoples. These oceupy the north and west walls,
parts of the east and south walls, and a number of floor cases. Eskimo
collections fill most of the floor cases toward the south, and the wall
cases and wall spaces in the east and south. In the window spaces are
a line of transparencies, the views relating mainly to the peoples
represented in the collections of the hall.

The North West Court, which contains the series of exhibits from
the Pueblo tribes of the arid region of the Southwest, has received
much attention during the year. Doctor Fewkes has arranged an
extensive series of Tusayan vases on the west side and Mrs. Steven-
son has installed a case illustrating the use of prayer sticks by the
Pueblo tribes. The collection of modern pottery has been overhauled
and a series of unit boxes containing baskets, textile products, cere-
monial objects, etc., has been placed on top of the wall case surrounding
the hall.

The Gallery of the North West Court has not yet been opened to the
public. The new wall case was finished about the close of the year
and the installation of collections from Mexico and Central and South
America has been commenced. The case on the west and north sides
of the gallery is temporarily occupied by the very extensive collection
of basketry which Professor Mason is engaged in studying.

West Hall is occupied mainly by collections illustrating the various
peoples of Europe, Asia, and Africa. - These have been partially rein-
stalled during the year. The gallery on the north side has been fur-
nished with aleoved wall cases, and collections from the Indo-Pacific
have been placed in them. The work of installation is not yet com-
plete. Professor Mason has prepared a great number of labels during
the year and many of these have been typewritten and placed with the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. yal

exhibits. Many labels for alcoves, cases, and groups prepared during
the year have been submitted to the printer.

Division of History.—In no other section of the Department has such
decided advance been made as in that of American history. This
branch is under the custodianship of Mr. A. Howard Clark, but as he
is necessarily much preoccupied with editorial duties, a great deal of
the work has fallen to the share of his assistant, Mr. Paul Beckwith;
and the head curator has from the start given all possible aid and
encouragement to the work, which he regards as of first importance
in the national collection.

At the beginning of the preceding fiscal year the exhibits of the
section were confined to a few cases in the North Hall. The floor
space then accommodated the collections of ceramics, lacquers, coins,
and metal work, besides many things of minor importance. Now, the
historic collections occupy the floor space almost exclusively and the
Rotunda also is utilized by this section. Mr. Clark’s report for the
year contains the following paragraphs:

During the last decade general interest in American history has rapidly increased,
and to keep pace with this popular demand the Section of American History in the
National Museum has been gradually developed until it has become one of the most
instructive branches of the Museum.

The year ending June 30, 1899, was an eventful one in American history, and the
war with Spain caused public attention to be centered on the military as well as the
political history of the country. To illustrate and perpetuate the history of events
of the year, the head curator of the Department of Anthropology permitted an
extension of the space heretofore allotted to historical relics and encouraged the col-
lection of as many objects as possible that pertained to the war, and in making this
special increase in the collection it was found possible to add considerably to the
series of objects illustrating earlier events in the nation’s history.

The actual number of accessions during the year was 165, which included about
1,027 individual specimens. Among the most important may be mentioned a large
number of objects gathered by Mr. Beckwith during a trip to Porto Rico and Cuba,
including a very exhaustive series of swords of Toledo steel, representing the various
arms of the service, flags, uniforms, and the paraphernalia of military life.

Other very interesting accessions were received from the Navy Department, melud-
ing numerous relics recovered from the battle ship Maine, destroyed in Havana Har-
bor, bronze cannon captured from the Spanish in Manila by Admiral Dewey, relics
from Oervera’s fleet destroyed off Santiago, and numerous relics of various battles
and events of the war with Spain. The War Department also contributed some
Spanish rifles and other objects. Many individuals, particularly Gen. G. H. Harries,
Capt. H. C. Wilson, Lieut. J. C. Ord, Capt. Richard P. Leary, Admiral Charles
O'Neil, Capt. Robley D. Evans, contributed objects of special interest.

There has been installed in the section a special case devoted to historical objects,
loaned by the National Society of the Colonial Dames of America, including personal
relics of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Patrick Henry, James Madison, Lord
Fairfax, and others eminent in American history.

The collection of the Daughters of the American Revolution has been made of
added interest by the exhibition of personal relics of Charles Carroll, of Carrollton,

. and some interesting objects pertaining to the colonial history of Maryland.
22 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Perhaps the most interesting single objects received during the year were the John
Paul Jones flag, with a musket and boarding sword, used in the battle between the
Bon Homme Richard and the Serapis, presented to the Smithsonian Institution by
Mrs. Harriet Perry Stafford.

The most striking improvement in the installation of these exhibits
has resulted from the removal of all cases of small size and odd patterns
from the hall and the assembling of some thirty large cases of the best
design. These are arranged in four rows, extending lengthwise of the
hall, having roomy aisles between, the whole effect being simplified
so that the groupings of furniture and objects conform properly with
the architectural lines and proportions of the hall. The exhibits are
arranged chronologically. Beginning at the left of the north entrance
with the period of discovery the visitor passes down through illustra-
tions of colonial and Revolutionary times to the opening of the civil
war in 1861. Returning to the north end of the hall on the east side
we have, first, collections relating to the civil war, including seven cases
devoted to the relics of General Grant, one case to the meager series
pertaining to Lincoln, and six cases to miscellaneous relics. These are
followed by cases containing exhibits relating to great American invent-
ors, and at the south end and overflowing into the Rotunda are collec-
tions illustrating the late war with Spain.

Division of Mechanical Technology.—TVhis division is in charge of
Mr. J. E. Watkins, curator, with Mr. George C. Maynard as aid. The
notable feature of the year was the rehabilitation of the North East
Range, called also Boat Hall. The east side is devoted to a series of
models illustrating the water craft of the world, beginning at the
north with the simple raft, and passing step by step through the suc-
cessive grades of elaboration in hull, propelling devices, and steering
apparatus to the modern steamship. This series is continued in the
floor cases at the south end of the hall in a very important group of
exhibits illustrating the introduction of steam power and the specializa-
tion of modern steam navigation. A number of floor cases toward the
north end contain models of boats of various semicivilized countries.

The wall case of the west side displays an extensive series of models
of fishing craft, mainly those in use in American waters, and the ceil-
ing is hung with primitive boats from many parts of America.

This division occupies also the east half of East Hall, the principal
exhibits relating to land transportation and electricity. Much prog-
ress has been made, but the work of installation has not yet reached
such a degree of completion as to warrant the publication of details.

Section of Graphic Arts.—The Section of Graphic Arts occupies the
Northeast Court, and is in charge of the head curator, with Mr. Paul
Brockett as assistant. The very complete series of exhibits was
brought together by Dr. S. R. Koehler, curator, who retired from
active supervision of the work on account of ill health. The cases
..
‘

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 23

have been rebuilt and are arranged in alcoves, six on the east and six
on the west side. On the east side exhibits are presented in contin-
uous order, illustrating the technology of the engraver’s art; on the
west are illustrations of the pictorial product, beginning at the south
with early prints and closing at the north with the color printing of
to-day. In the aisle which extends from north to south are exhibits
illustrating the history of painting.

Division of Religions.—The Division of Religions, Dr. Cyrus Adler,
custodian, and I. M. Casanowiez, aid, has been assigned to the South
Gallery of the West Hall, where a handsome alcoved wall case has
been built. The series of exhibits begin at the east with illustrations
of the Jewish religion, and these are followed by Greek, Roman, Mo-
hammedan, and Buddhistie groups. Collections of the Division of
Historic Archeology, also in charge of Doctor Adler, are placed in
the east end of West Hall and remain about as installed the previous
year.

Division of Prehistoric Archwology.—The exhibits of this division,
which are in charge of Dr. Thomas Wilson, assisted by Mr. E. P.
Upham, have not undergone any radical change during the year,
although the work of installing new material and perfecting the
arrangement of the old has gone steadily forward.

RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS.

The usual activity has been shown by the anthropological staff in
€onducting researches germane to the work of the department. Pro-
fessor Mason, curator of the Division of Ethnology, has prepared and
completed a paper on the curved steel knife among the Eskimo and
Canadian tribes, in which an attempt is made to show that carving and
etching and fine netting for snowshoes are contemporaneous with this
knife. Before the steel knife the Eskimo did little creditable carving.
Also a paper on a peculiar heddle frame for belt weaving was traced
from the Pueblo country to its source in Europe.

The Indians of the Kootenai use a bark canoe, pointed at the water
line like a modern ram. It is unique in the Western Hemisphere, but
photographs and descriptions have been gathered by Professor Mason
to show its nearest congeners on the Amur.

For some time Professor Mason has been gathering material for the
study of zootechny among the American aborigines. This has enabled
him to divide the continent into certain marked zootechnic areas, in
which even the language, social institutions, and beliefs of the peoples
are modified. Following up this idea of areas of characterization, he
has pursued the subject of geographic distribution of hunting devices
associated with the capture of certain species.

It happened during the year that the Spanish-American war sud-
denly brought into conspicuous attention the ancient history of Porto
24 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Rico, and the Smithsonian Institution has found it advisable to repub-
lish Professor Mason’s papers on the Jeb and Guesde collections
of West Indian antiquities.

Dr. Walter Hough, assistant curator, completed his monograph on
Eskimo lamps, and continued his investigation of the utilization of fire
and the manufacture of bark textiles.

Mr. J. D. McGuire has been engaged in making an exhaustive study
of primitive technology.

Dr. Thomas Wilson has carried on various researches relating in the
main to prehistoric archeology.

In connection with a paper treating of Museum buildings he has
conducted studies regarding the amount of light admitted through
glass of various kinds, and an extended article on the use of poisoned
arrows by primitive peoples has been prepared. Doctor Wilson has
also elaborated a paper on the subject of prehistoric trephining, and
has continued his investigation relating to arrow points, spear heads,
and knives of prehistoric times.

The head curator has been so fully occupied with administrative duties
in the Museum that little time has been at his disposal for research work.
The trip to California in the interest of the Museum collections gave
him the opportunity of visiting the auriferous gravel region, from
which a considerable body of testimony has been obtained relating to
the antiquity of man. This evidence he has carefully examined, and a
paper reviewing the general subject will appear in the American
Anthropologist for the year 1899. e
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
FOR THE YEAR 1898-99.

By Frepertck W. TRUp,
Head Curator.

The year covered by the last report was one of great changes, due
to reorganization of the scientific staff of the Museum and the erec-
tion of galleries in the Museum building. A new plan for the exhi-
bition series in biology was decided upon and a beginning made in
carrying it into effect. This plan contemplates the arrangement of
the exhibition series on a faunal basis, the fauna of North America
being given special prominence. Good progress in this line was made
in several divisions during the year covered by the present report.

IMPROVEMENTS IN THE EXHIBITION HALLS.

In the Division of Mammals the old wall cases, which were no longer
suitable on the floor, were transferred to the gallery and added to, so
as to oceupy the whole length of the hall on both sides. In these were
installed the series representing the mammal faunas of the Old World,
Africa being on the east side, and Eurasia and Australia on the west
side. The cases were refitted throughout, the backs being covered
with plain burlap and the floor with linoleum. Such shelves as were
needed were made of pine and covered with burlap to correspond with
the back. This style of fitting is comparatively inexpensive, is pleas-
ing in effect, and has the excellent quality of extreme durability. All
the Old World mammals were placed in these cases, but for the small
forms—squirrels, mice, bats, ete. —temporary floor cases were brought
into use, pending the construction of cases especially adapted for this
purpose. The whole series received temporary labels. On the screen
at the south end of the gallery, which separates the exhibition space
from the paleontological laboratories, the beautiful illustrations of the
eat family from Elliot’s Monograph were displayed. There is not
sufficient space at this end of the gallery for mounted specimens.

The floor of the South Hall, as stated in last year’s report, is given
up exclusively to American mammals. The cases on hand were
arranged to give as good an effect as possible, but on account of the
galleries some new cases will doubtless have to be erected for the large
forms. The seals, sea lions, and walruses, especially, are not satisfac-

torily installed.
25
26 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The great progress made in the study of North American mammals
during the last decade has rendered it necessary to thoroughly revise
the exhibition series representing this fauna, and the taxidermic work
was almost entirely restricted to North American species during the
past year. The object aimed at is to have on exhibition a perfect
specimen of every known species and subspecies inhabiting North
America.

The exhibition series of North American fishes, reptiles, and batra-
chians was considerably improved and completely labeled. It can
not, however, be extended, nor can the faunas of other parts of the
world be represented without additional space. The present quarters
are far from ideal, either as regards lighting or arrangement of space.

The most radical change of the year was in the Division of Birds.
On account of the large number of specimens mounted for various
expositions, and for other reasons, the exhibition series had become
entirely overcrowded, so that nothing could be seen satisfactorily.
After long consideration of the matter it seemed impossible to apply
any other remedy than to withdraw a large proportion of the birds.
This was done under the supervision of the curator and assistant
curator, and the result has proved most satisfactory. Although the
lighting of the hall is not of the best, the whole exhibition series of
single-mounted specimens can now be seen to good advantage, except
in the quadrangular space in the center of the hall. No improvement
of the lighting is possible at that point without artificial means.
Experiments were made in that direction at the close of the year which
promise to solve the difficulty.

The groups of birds, which are among the most attractive features

of the series, are still poorly provided for. They are chiefly installed
in cases made for use in temporary expositions, and are neither dust-
tight nor sufficiently uniform in pattern.
- The exhibition series of invertebrates (other than mollusks and
insects) was very thoroughly revised. The main series, as in other
branches, is now North American. A new system of installation was
devised for the dry specimens, which are exhibited in flat table cases.
The specimens representing each species are placed in a separate shal-
low tray. All the trays are of equal depth and uniform in size (or
a multiple of the unit). When a case has its full complement of
trays it has the appearance of being divided into compartments, with
a single species in each compartment. The effect is very satisfactory.
Temporary typewritten labels were made for the larger part of the
series during the year. Certain parts of the series, such as worms,
entomostraca, ete., are still incomplete, as the Museum collections do
not at present contain specimens in these classes suitable for exhibi-
tion purposes.

The synoptic series of invertebrates, formeriy in the Division of
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 27
Comparative Anatomy, has been placed in the same hall with the other
invertebrates, at the west end of the Smithsonian building, in cases
specially constructed to receive it. It needs revision and the addition
of numerous types.

Nothing of special moment was accomplished toward improving the
exhibition series of insects and of mollusks.

Owing to the erection of a gallery in the East-South Range, the
whale skeletons suspended from the ceiling near the side walls had to
be removed to a position nearer the center of the hall. To protect
the roof from collapse and to sustain the skeletons, specially con-
structed wrought-iron slings were devised by the Chief of Buildings.
The hall was necessarily in confusion while these large specimens
were being readjusted, but at the close of the year it had been brought
again to an orderly condition. The exhibition series of osteological
specimens is very full and can not be much expanded in the present
quarters.

A special series, comprising the principal North American game
birds and game fishes, was placed on exhibition in the hallway of the
Smithsonian building, together with a number of mounted heads of
large game—the moose, caribou, antelope, ete.

ACCESSIONS.

The accessions of the year, though not equaling those of 1898 in
number of specimens, were of at least equal scientific interest and
importance.

The U. S. Fish Commission transmitted an extensive zoological
collection made during its recent exploration of the island of Porto
Rico. It comprised not less than 5,000 mollusks, representing some
400 species (including a number of new forms and other rare and
interesting material) and a large series of invertebrates of other
classes.

While associated with the representatives of the U. 8S. Fish Com-
mission in the zoological exploration of Porto Rico, Mr. A. B. Baker
collected an extensive series of bats, about 200 reptiles and batrachians
(including several undescribed species), and over 100 bird skins.

In the Division of Mammals, on account of the fact that the mate-
rial was largely collected to supply deficiencies, the additions were of
much interest. Some 900 small mammals were collected for the
Museum by Mr. Loring in Norway, Germany, and Italy. These were
chiefly from localities from which the types of the earlier European
mammalogists were derived, and hence of importance in determining
the identity of described species. A collection of European bats and
an additional lot of small mammals from Norway were also purchased.
These are the first collections of Kuropean mammals of any moment
which have found their way into the Museum. Baron de Selys-
28 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

. Longchamps, well known as an authority upon the rodentia, presented
25 specimens of small mammals, identified by himself.

A collection of 13 Alaska moose and wild sheep was obtained for the
Museum by Mr. Dall DeWeese. One of these specimens has been
made the type of a new species of moose— Alces gigas Miller.

Among the mammals received from the National Zoological Park
were an elephant and a lion.

The additions to the collections of birds, though less in extent than
in some previous years, included much important material, among
which should be mentioned a collection of 58 specimens of Colombian
birds, presented by Mr. Outram Bangs, of Boston, Massachusetts, and
5 skins of the Californian Condor, purchased from Mr. F. H. Holmes,
of Berryessa, California.

Doctor Ralph, custodian of the Section of Birds’ Eggs, as in past
years, made a valuable contribution to the collection under his charge,
consisting in this instance of some 200 eggs from various sections of
North America. Mr. C. F. Baker, of Alabama, presented 127 eggs
from the Western United States.

The U. 5. Fish Commission transferred to the Museum a large col-
lection of reptiles and batrachians which had been assembled from time
to time by its field agents. This contained many specimens of impor-
tance, including unique specimens of a discoglossoid toad, the only
representative of this suborder of batrachians which has been found
inthe Western Hemisphere. It has been described by Doctor Stejneger
under the name of Ascaphus truet.

A small but interesting collection of reptiles from Java, made by
Prof. D. G. Fairchild, was transmitted to the Museum by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture.

A series of fishes of North and Central Asia, collected by M. Chaf-
fanjon, was received from the Musée d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris. The
U.S. Fish Commission transmitted fishes from Florida, Lake Superior,
Alaska, and Kamchatka, together with the types of Paraliparis rosa-
ceus, and Bathylagus milleri and Ulocentra meadie. Two rare fishes
were received from the Pacific coast, a specimen of a Rhamphocottus,
presented by Mr. O. E. Shaffer, Port Townsend, Washington, and a
specimen of /costeus wnigmaticus, presented by Mr. John Chapman,
of San Diego, California.

Mr. William B. Moss, of Ashton- under-Lyne, England, a valued cor-
respondent and contributor to the Museum, donated two lots of small
shells, comprising some 3,000 specimens, collected by Rey. and Mrs.
James Hadfield at Lifou Island, Loyalty Group. They belong for
the most part to species recently described and hitberto unrepre-
sented in the Museum.

Mr. B. H. Wright, of Penn Yan, New York, continued his donations
of river mussels (Unionide), including types of species described by
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 29

him. Rey. E. H. Ashmun, Mr. T. S. Oldroyd, and Dr. E. A. Mearns,
U.S. A., should also be mentioned as contributors of valuble speci-
mens. Miss Mary J. Rathbun collected some 800 mollusks in the
waters about Grand Manan, New Brunswick.

Regarding accessions to the Division of Insects, Dr. L. O. Howard,
honorary curator, reports as follows:

The last fiscal year was an extraordinary one in the history of the Division of Insects,
and it was not expected that such another one would occur again for some time to
come. Notwithstanding this, however, the present fiscal year surpasses it not only
in the number of accessions, but, it is believed, also in scientific value.

In 1897 the accessions numbered only 139, a large increase over previous years.
In 1898 they numbered 246, while this year they reached 285, an increase of 39 over
last year.

On account of the vast number of duplicates in the Hubbard and Schwarz collec-
tion, it was estimated that over 226,000 specimens were received, while this yearthey
amount to only 125,000. The number of specimens received this year is therefore
less than last year, although the number of species is several thousand greater.

This is due principally to the extensive collection of Hemiptera, Hymenoptera,
Siphonaptera, and Mallophaga, presented by Prof. Carl F. Baker, and to the addition
of the Ashmead collection, both being exceedingly rich in species and containing
types and co-types of species described by these entomologists, as well as those of
many other authorities. With these two collections the Museum is now well rep-
resented in the orders mentioned above and without doubt surpasses all other col-
lections in America.

The gift by Mr. W. H. Ashmead, assistant curator, of his private collection, is a
most notable one and deserves especial mention. It was largely made by this inde-
fatigable worker in the State of Florida, and has been greatly added to by a syste-
matic series of exchanges carried on for many years with entomologists in different
foreign countries; but perhaps its chief value lies in the large number of types which
it contains. Mr. Ashmead’s broad entomological knowledge and interest have led
him to undertake systematic work in a number of different groups, and the great
value of the gift thus becomes apparent.

Numerous invertebrates of other classes were received during the
year, among which should be mentioned 40 lots, chiefly crustacea
(including a number of type specimens), donated by Mr. W. P. Hay,
of Washington, D. C.; a collection of amphipod crustaceans from the
New England coast, donated by Dr. S$. D. Judd, of Washington, D. C.;
27 species of crustaceans, corals, and echinoderms, donated by Rey.
W. A. Stanton, of Balize, British Honduras, and 20 species of crabs,
shrimps, and worms, donated by Mr. H. W. Henshaw, of Hilo, Hawaii.

The accessions to the herbarium during the past ten years have
been as follows:

i GPS Te IIR ec a B70 | LS9d-Ob: AU eee eee erm 670
‘LSE eR ee a ea GBI) 1805-06... Vee? eet eres ee 236
Bee Pe ON Ag ANE Boye BALl'| PS06-07 leh Mires Wee ea Crees 370
iCEEACE SM. Seaae eee eee ene BO is|s 180708 id cre ee eon 307
ESP 20 TREN OS Se ee ee G95 | BO8=00 ase en ee gern 264

Among the important additions of the past year was a portion of
Rugel’s Florida collection, comprising 1,049 specimens, donated by
the British Museum.
30 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Mr. J. G. Baker, of London, England, presented a large part of
his private herbarium. Mr. Louis A. Kengla, of San Francisco,
California, presented a hundred specimens of alge suitable for
exhibition. From Maj. H. E. Hasse was received the gift of 233
specimens of California lichens.

A large number of important specimens from Samoa, Mexico, Costa
Rica, and from various parts of the United States were purchased dur-
ing the year.

WORK ON THE STUDY SERIES.

The principal work accomplished in the Division of Mammals, in
addition to the usual routine operations and the rearrangement of the
exhibition series (already referred to), was the improvement of the
collection of small skins and a rearrangement of the study series. A
large proportion of the skins of rodents and other small mammals which
have been accumulating from year to year have long needed making
over on a uniform model, in order to be thoroughly available for pur-
poses of comparison. During the past year it was found possible to
assign a taxidermist to this work for about six months, during which
time some 800 skins were remodeled. A rearrangement of the whole
study series of small skins, based on Troussart’s recently published
catalogue of mammals, was begun, and the greater part of the rodents
were put in order during the year. The collection of skulls of small
mammals was also rearranged.

In the Division of Birds the large amount of work done on the exhi-
bition series left little opportunity for other than current routine work.
The determination of type specimens was continued, and some 20 were
located and separated out from the general collection.

The study collection of birds’ eggs is in good condition, but the exhi-
bition series is much in need of revision and renovation. The honorary
curator of this section has not only been the largest contributor to the
growth of the collection, but has devoted much of his time personally
to the current work.

The study series of reptiles and batrachians is much in need of
revision, but up to the present time it has not been found possible to
supply the large amount of new shelves needed before a rearrange-
ment can be commenced. The curator has devoted his time chiefly to
the improvement of the exhibition series and to investigations.

Work was continued on the exhibition series of casts of American
fishes under the supervision of the assistant curator.

Much time was occupied in the Division of Mollusks in cleaning,
assorting, and naming the very extensive collection of shells presented
last year by Prof. R. E. Call. The shells of the family Helicide and
the Pyramidellide of the west coast of America were thoroughly
studied and rearranged and many species identified. The important
—

e

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 31

collection made by the Fish Commission in Porto Rico was also assorted
and identified. The whole study series is in excellent condition.

The same remark applies to the collections of insects, which are now
almost entirely free from pests. More standard insect drawers are,
however, needed. Many thousand insects were pinned and labeled by
the preparators during the year, but much of this material is still
unidentified. The collections of all orders of insects are now arranged
tentatively and are available for study and comparison. Special men-
tion should be made of the Lepidoptera, which has been brought into
excellent condition through the unremunerated labor of Dr. H. G.
Dyar, custodian. The division has not only had the benefit of the
gratuitous services of the honorary curator, Dr. L. O. Howard, but of
several other members of the entomological staff of the Department
of Agriculture and also of Mr. E. A. Schwarz.

Mr. W. H. Ashmead, assistant curator, arranged and identified most
of the African and Asiatic Hymenoptera during the year, together
with some material from Central and South America. The dragon
flies and Neuropterous insects were rearranged by Mr. Currie, aid.

In the Division of Marine Invertebrates the card catalogue of
Brachyuran crustaceans, comprising about 5,000 titles, was revised
and transferred to standard library-bureau cards. The collection of
Hexactinellid sponges, which has been for some time in the hands
of Professor Shulz for study, was catalogued. Dr. J. E. Benedict and
Miss Rathbun, assistant curators, identified the crabs collected in Porto
Rico by the U. S. Fish Commission.

The rearrangement of the exhibition series, necessitated by the
erection of galleries, occupied a large share of the time of the staif of
the Department of Comparative Anatomy. In connection with that
work, the skeleton of the extinct Arctic sea cow, Rhytina, and of the
finback whale, were cleaned and remounted. The time of the curator
and assistants was divided between this division and that of Vertebrate
Paleontology.

The following passage from the report of the honorary curator of
the Division of Plants, Mr. F. V. Coville, gives a condensed statement
of the work accomplished in that division during the year:

The collection of plants formerly stored on the south balcony of the Museum, which
was referred to in the report of last year as having been transferred to the National
Herbarium, has greatly taxed the present capacity of our cases, and it is doubtful
whether the accumulation of mounted material, Mexican and otherwise, now on
hand can be distributed until the new adjoining balcony is fitted up. This collec-
tion, when finally arranged, listed, and stamped, numbered over 30,000 specimens,
being particularly rich in European material. The work of stamping the general
series, with a view to ascertaining the total number of specimens in the herbarium,
has been carried forward at intervals. Thus far 21,618 sheets have been stamped.

Three preparators have been engaged in mounting, labeling, and repairing speci-
mens during the year. The total number of specimens is 22,559, of which 13,314
have been stamped and distributed. The large collection presented by Prof. W. Hi.
32 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Brewer, representing the types described in the Botany of the California Survey, has
been most carefully prepared with all the original data mounted with the specimens,
which will be determined and distributed as rapidly as possible.

The selection, verification, and marking of type specimens has been delayed,
owing to the resignation last December of the preparator employed on this work.
The total number of types thus far indicated is 1,619. It is important that this work
be continued, both for the advantage it affords to consulting botanists and for the
desirability of ascertaining definitely the exact number of types in the collection.

In the rearrangement of and research work on the collection considerable progress
has been made. We have introduced genus covers printed in colors to correspond
with the larger continental areas, the North American being black, the West Indian,
Mexican, and South American red, and the Old World blue. An extension of this
scheme is now under consideration.

The herbarium is now in orderly arrangement as far as the Ericaceze, and the work
on it will be pushed during the coming year.

The south tower room has been fitted up for the accommodation of the crypto-
gamic collections by the addition of an iron balcony supporting cases on three sides,
with a stairway leading to an attie room provided with cases suitable for storage
purposes. For several months Mr. O. F. Cook, now honorary assistant curator in
charge of Cryptogamic Botany, very kindly gave his services and those of his two
assistants in caring for these collections. Mr. Cook was commissioned to prepare an
exhibit of algee for the Trans-Mississippi Exposition at Omaha, and this work was
brought to completion in the early part of last summer. A supplementary series has
been placed on the exhibition front of the east balcony. It soon became evident
that an officer would shortly be required to devote his entire attention to the valua-
ble cryptogamic collections, many of which still remain inaccessible for study.
Early in January Mr. William R. Maxon was employed on a six months’ contract
to put these collections in order, and he is now, after most faithful and painstaking
labor, able to report the practical completion of his task. In the three main groups
of the lower cryptogams, the mosses, fungi, and lichens, all undetermined material
has been sorted out and will be sent to specialists in those groups for identification
and return; while the large accumulations of unmounted material have been prop-
erly placed in pockets and labeled, ready for distribution on the shelves. Mr. Maxon
has also distributed several thousand mounted sheets of ferns and fern allies, read-
justing the covers and identifying dubious specimens. During the past few weeks
he has been engaged in caring for the large collection of alcoholic material sent in by
Messrs. Swingle and Fairchild.

FIELD WORK.

Several members of the scientific staff of the department engaged in
field work during the year. The fishes of the State of New York were
studied by Dr. T. H. Bean and Mr. B. A. Bean, on Long Island.

Mr. W. H. Dall, Mr. Robert Ridgway, and Mr. F. V. Coville joined
the Harriman Alaska expedition and made investigations of the mol-
lusks, birds, and plants of that Territory. Miss M. J. Rathbun spent
a month at Grand Manan Island, New Brunswick, studying the shore
invertebrates and dredging in sballow water.

INVESTIGATIONS.

A large number of scientific investigations were in progress, the
results of some of which were published during the year. Mr. G. S.
Miller, jr., published several short papers on mammals and partially
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. oe

completed a revision of the free-tailed bats. He began also a revision
of European mammals and a correlation of the life zones of Europe
and North America.

Mr. Robert Ridgway continued work on his extensive manual of
North and Middle American birds, completing the family Fringillide,
and entering upon the families Corvide and Tanagride. It is antici-
pated that the first part of this work will be ready for publication
next year. Considerable progress was made by Dr. C. W. Richmond
in the preparation of a card catalogue of described genera and species
of birds.

Mr. Barton A. Bean and Dr. Hugh M. Smith, of the U.S. Fish
Commission, prepared a preliminary catalogue of the fishes of the
District of Columbia.

Mr. William H. Dall presents the following statement regarding
his work on mollusks:

During the year the greater portion of my time given to investigation has been
specially occupied by a revision of the species and the classification of bivalve mol-
lusks belonging to the Tertiary beds of the United States, and incidentally of the
marine fauna of its shores. Many of our living species are found also in several
Tertiary strata, and therefore in studying species which are found in the Tertiary
beds it is necessary to compare them with the living species as well as with other
fossils in order to make sure that they are undescribed or identify them with already
described species. For this reason the investigation of the Tertiary fauna which I
have been carrying on for a number of years, and which is now nearly finished, has
practically included in nearly all the groups a revision of the classification of the

living animals of the same groups common to our coast. During the past year

especial attention was given to some of these groups, among which may be men-
tioned the Leptonacea, the Solens, and some groups of the Lucinidze. Nearly all the
time available for special researches has been devoted to this subject, and such other
researches as I may have made are comparatively unimportant.

Mr. C. T. Simpson continued his study of the river mussels, or
Naiades, and reports that he has completed a classification of the
group and will soon be prepared to publish the results of his work.

Mr. J. E. Benedict has continued his work on the crustaceans of the
family Galatheide. Miss M. J. Rathbun prepared an article on the
Decapod Crustaceans of West Africa for the New York State Colo-
nization Society.

Mr. F. A. Lucas has completed his study of the fossil bisons of
North America and continued his investigations on the anatomy of the
swifts and the development of the skull of the cormorant. .

In addition to his scientific labors as Botanist of the Department of
Agriculture, Mr. F. V. Coville entered upon a comprehensive study of
the genus Ribes. Mr. Rose has continued his monograph of the
Agaves, and visited Mexico for the purpose of studying and collecting
specimens of the more obscure forms. Mr. Pollard has progressed
with his work on the violets, and in that connection has prepared sets
of authentic specimens of the various species of Vola for distribution,

NAT MUS 99 3

34 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

USE OF THE COLLECTIONS.

The zoological and botanical collections have been made use of to a
very large extent during the year by naturalists from all sections of
the United States. Some investigators have visited Washington for
this purpose, and in other cases collections have been sent out of the
Museum temporarily to investigators both at home and abroad.

Among those who made use of the ornithological collections should
be mentioned Mr. E. W. Nelson, Mr. H. C. Oberholser, and Mr.
W. H. Osgood, of the Department of Agriculture; Mr. Outram Bangs,
of Boston, Massachusetts, and Miss Florence Merriam, of Washing-
ton, District of Columbia.

Mr. Oberholser, at the request of the Museum, determined the col-
lections of birds recently received from Liberia, the Kameruns,
Madagascar, and Kashmir. The committee on nomenclature of the
American Ornithologists’ Union spent a week in studying new sub-
species for the purpose of determining their claims to recognition.

Frequent use was made of the collections of fishes by the officers of
the U.S. Fish Commission, especially by Doctors Evermann, Smith,
and Kendall.

Sir Charles Elliot, British commissioner to Samoa, prosecuted inves-
tigations on the Nudibranch mollusks. Mr. G. A. Drew, of Johns
Hopkins University, studied and published on the mollusks of the
family Ledide.

The collections of insects have been very largely consulted by ento-

mologists throughout the country.

' Miss Harriet Richardson continued her study of the isopod crusta-
ceans during the greater part of the year, and prepared a special
report on the isopods of the Pacific coast of North America, which has
recently been published in the Proceedings of the Museum. Mr. T.
Wayland Vaughan, of the U. S. Geological Survey, began an inyesti-
gation of the West Indian corals, and Dr. H. F. Moore, of the U.S.
Fish Commission, studied the isopod crustaceans collected by the Com-
mission in Porto Rico. Mr. W. P. Hay assisted in determining the
crayfishes recently received, and described a new form of isopod from
a well in Irvington, Ind.

The herbarium has received a good share of attention from bota-
nists. Special mention should be made of the services of Prof. E. L.
Greene in determining various specimens for the Museum.

The practice of lending material for study to recognized experts not
residing in Washington was continued as heretofore. A large amount
of material was sent out, but only the principal loans can be noticed here.

Dr. Howard Ayers, of the University of Missouri, obtained the
myxinoid fishes in the collection for use in connection with a mono-
graph of that group which he has in preparation.

Specimens of Dinolestes, Atherinopsis, Apogon, and Hzxocetus were
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. oD

sent to Mr. E. C. Starks for dissection. Mr. Starks afterwards
returned excellently prepared skeletons of these fishes.

A series of specimens of mice was sent to Mr. Barrett-Hamilton,
London, England, who is engaged ina revision of the European species
of the genus J/us.

A series of 76 small shrikes was sent to Mr. R. M. Strong, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, to assist him in the determination of the
percentage of variation in that group. Dr. Jonathan Dwight, jr.,
obtained the loan of some 60 specimens for use in his study of the
molting of birds. A collection of house wrens was sent to Mr. W. E.
Loucks, Peoria, Illinois, for examination. Messrs. Outram Bangs
and Arthur Stone obtained the use of Colombian birds. A series of
specimens of wrens and sparrows was lent to Mr. William Brewster,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Mr. F. W. Gamble, of Owens College, Manchester, England, who
is monographing certain families of annelids, was furnished the speci-
mens of several genera.

Dr. J. Percy Moore received additional installments of leeches.
The Museum collection of gephyreans was sent to Prof. Henry B.
Ward, University of Nebraska, who is monographing the group.

The Caprellide in the Museum were placed in the hands of Doctor
Mayer, of the Naples Biological Station, to assist him in preparing a
supplement to his monograph.

Dr. F. Meinert, Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark, was
accorded the use of the collection of Pyenogonida for a monograph of
that group.

Loans of insects were made to 12 experts during the year, among
whom were the following: Dr. Philip P. Calvert, of the Philadel-
phia Academy of Sciences, received all the unworked dragon-flies
(Odonata), partly for naming and partly in connection with his work
on the Biologia Centrali-America. In the interest also of this great
faunal publication, the Mexican and Central American Acridide were
sent to Professor Lawrence, University of Nebraska, for study. The
specimens of the family Pyralide were placed in the hands of Prof.
C. H. Fernald, of the Agricultural College, Amherst, Massachusetts,
for monographic purposes.

Loans of about 1,800 herbarium specimens were made during the
year, chiefly in small lots for purposes of identification.

PERSONNEL.

Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., received a temporary appointment as
assistant curator, Division of Mammals, July 13, 1898, and on October
15, 1898, was regularly added to the staff. Mr. J. H. Riley was
appointed aid August 8, 1898, and Mr. M. W. Lyon, jr., August 15,
1898. Mr. Riley was assigned to the Section of Birds’ Eggs, and Mr.
Lyon to the Division of Mammals.
REPORT ON THE DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY
FOR THE YEAR 1898-99.

By Grorce P. MERRILL,
Head Curator.

Although the year just closed compares favorably with its predeces-
sors, so far as relates to the acquisition of materials, it has not been
possible to advance the work of installation to the extent hoped for in
the beginning.

ORGANIZATION.

The department as now organized consists of the following divi-
sions: (1) Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied),
(2) Mineralogy, and (3) Stratigraphic Paleontology, including the sec-
tions of Vertebrate Fossils, Invertebrate Fossils, and Paleobotany.

ACCESSIONS.

In the order given, the number of accessions is as follows:

Total.

rears , Tem- |
Divisions. Regular. —

| Porary- | 1898-99. | 1897-98.

(GH Oye\ = anoc be eae a HsoeOs Hosen Spe S SSB Dep Se Seen ro cooComeCoaoac 147 132 279 141
Whaat KY =A\7 oe Ce nae dooee See GaSe DeOenD eae oecese ose sooreRocrt 41. 75 116 166
Vertebrate Paleontology-.-.-..----...------------------++--+---- 27 Dilkwassesmnsl seine econ
Invertebrate Paleontology....--.----------------+-----s02---- 82 17 99 116
PANO Io) Chit: nagnetctcle co 06 ae D anoe oo SREDOSSeC ene ODOobS oHaabc 37 2 89 |....----.-
TO ee Re arco edna nee OCOD ORO E Ero Aap OeSOnco ace riot 3384 231 033 423

In the Division of Geology a very considerable amount of the
material received is in itself of slight commercial value. It consists
in large part of specimens designed to show the mineral resources
of the United States or to fill existing gaps in the systematic series of
economic products. Especial mention should, perhaps, be made of a
small collection of monazite sands from Brazil; asbestos from Italy;
silver-lead-antimony ore from Zancudo mines in Colombia, South
America; a large and miscellaneous assortment of ores and economic
products from the Central and Western States, received from the
Omaha International Exposition; three fine slabs of onyx marble from
Colorado, and a series of 19 specimens of polished spheres of Japanese
breccia, the gift of the late Prof. O. C. Marsh.

In the Section of Systematic Geology mention should be mde of a

37
38 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

series of rocks illustrating the Upper Cambrian formations of the
Lake Superior region, collected by Mr. C. R. Van Hise, of the U. 8.
Geological Survey; a series of clastic rocks illustrating the geology
of the slate regions of eastern New York and western Vermont, col-
lected by Prof. T. N. Dale, of the Geological Survey; a fine series
of jointed sandstones from the Black Hills of South Dakota, collected
by Mr. N. H. Darton, of the Geological Survey; and a series of vol-
canic products from Vesuvius and other parts of Italy, collected by
Mr. F. W. Crosby.

The Division of Mineralogy has been enriched by the acquisition of
samples of 4 new minerals—erionite, wellsite, bixbyite, and clinohe-
drite—as well as of 11 other species new to the collection; and of 3
new meteorites from Polk County, Minnesota; Adams County, Penn-
sylvania, and Mount Oscuro, New Mexico, respectively.

Mention should be made of 6 specimens of roscoelite on auriferous
quartz from Eldorado County, California, and 5 specimens of crystal-
lized arsenic from Japan,

The gem collection has received, through the liberality of Dr. L. T.
Chamberlain, a fine cut citrine quartz, weighing 139} carats; 21 cut
Montana sapphires, selected to show colors, and 2 cut sapphires,
weighing 3% carats, all from Yogo Gulch, Montana; 1 opal from
Mexico, and 2 garnets of the variety rhodolite, from North Carolina.
Four opals from Mexico were also obtained by purchase.

In the Section of Vertebrate Fossils the accessions especially
worthy of note are a series of mammal skulls from a new locality in
the White River Miocene, from the Geological Survey; a fine skull
of Hyracodon nebrascensis, the gift of Mr. A. W. Barber, and the fossil
skull of a new species of bear and a small series of fish remains from
the chalk formations of Kansas, collected by Mr. A. B. Baker.

An account of the large series of fossil vertebrates forming the
Marsh collection at Yale University, which is in progress of removal
from New Haven, will be deferred for the report for next year.

The collection of vertebrate fossils from the Cope estate, mentioned
in the last report, was received early in the year. This collection, it
will be remembered, was made under the auspices of the Hayden
Survey, and comprises over 175 specimens, including many of the types
of fishes and reptiles described by Professor Cope in his volume on
the Vertebrates of the Tertiary formation of the West and in the
Bulletins of the Survey.

The accessions in the section of Invertebrate Fossils are reported by
Mr. Schuchert as being neither so large nor so valuable as last year.
A large portion of the material received was deposited by the U. 8.
Geological Survey, and consists of 6,534 Paleozoic fossils, 214 Meso-
zoic, and 16 Tertiary. Among these the most valuable is a series of
3,990 specimens of Cambrian brachiopods, determined by Prof. Charles

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 39

D. Walcott, and the figured specimens, 158 in number, of Lower Cre-
taceous grypheeas, described by Messrs. Hill and Vaughan in Bulletin
No. 151 of the Geological Survey. A collection comprising some
4,000 specimens of Cincinnati fossils was purchased from Mr. H. E.
Dickhaut, of the Survey. This collection is particularly rich in
pelecypods.

Three valuable collections of post-Paleozoic fossils were received in
exchange from the Geological Museum at Leyden, the University
Museum of Natural History at Turin, Italy, and the British Museum
of Natural History, London.

Asa matter of historical interest, it may be noted that the Troost
collection of crinoidea, which, together with the manuscript describing
them and drawings for 107 species, was sent by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution to Prof. James Hall in 1853, was returned last November by
the administrator of the Hall estate.

The Section of Paleobotany, until the opening of the present fiscal
year, has been in charge of honorary curators. In order to relieve
them of the detailed routine work Dr. A. C. Peale was appointed aid
and placed in charge of the collections. Much of the work which he
has had to do has been upon material which has been in the Museum
collections for many years. The comparatively small number of
accessions, therefore, furnishes by no means a measure of the work
performed. Among the principal collections which have been received
by this section during the fiscal year were: Lower Carboniferous
plants from Henry County, Missouri, described in Monograph 387 of
the Geological Survey; a series of 900 Carboniferous plants from
Indian Territory, described by Mr. David White in the Nineteenth
Annual Report of the Survey, and 26 boxes of Carboniferous plants,
comprising the Armstrong collection, purchased for the Museum by
Mr. R. D. Lacoe.

PRESENT CONDITION OF COLLECTIONS

The progress made in caring for the collections has been all that the
circumstances permitted. In the Section of Applied Geology the
work of installing the systematic series of nonmetallic products in
the new rail cases has been nearly completed. The rearrangement of
the geographic series on the ground floor of the Southwest Court is
also completed, although several thousand labels yet remain to be pre-
pared. The entire collection of building and ornamental stones,
comprising between 3,000 and 4,000 specimens, has been moved and
installed in the wall cases of the same court.

The collections in systematic geology, occupying the West South
Range, are not yet fully arranged, though the series illustrating the
materials of the earth’s crust is in order, as is also that illustrating
folding and faulting and volcanic products. A magnificent group of
40) REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

basaltic columns, collected for the Museum by Mr. F. W. Crosby, has
lately been added to this series. Manuscript for upward of 2,500
labels has been prepared and is ready for the printer. The actual
work of arranging these collections, it should be stated, has fallen
upon Mr. W. H. Newhall, with such assistance as could be given by
Museum laborers.

I might add that in all the work of this department steps are being
taken toward a reduction of the number of specimens exhibited and an
improvement in the quality. The reduction in number in certain of
the collections is necessitated by lack of space, but it is believed that
on the whole a careful selection of the specimens exhibited will cause
the collections to have more educational value than will an increase in
number.

The collections in the Division of Mineralogy, as stated in my last
report, have been as well arranged as possible with the present exhibi-
tion cases. New cases are needed along the west wall. As the collec-
tions in this division are now well systematized, I submit Mr. Tassin’s
report upon them in full.

The exhibition series is arranged under the following heads: System-
atic series; comparative series; gem collection; meteorite collection.

The systematic series is divided into two general classes—native ele-
ments and compounds of the elements. The compounds of the
elements are further divided and grouped under certain heads accord-
ing to their more negative constituents, as follows:

Compounds of the halogens, fluorides, chlorides, bromides, and
iodides. Compounds of sulphur, selenium, tellurium, arsenic, and
antimony, including sulphides, selenides and tellurides, arsenides,
antimonides, sulpharsenides, and sulphantimonides; also sulphosalts.
Oxygen compounds, including oxides and the oxygen salts, borates,
aluminates, chromites, ferrites, manganites, plumbates, arsenites and
antimonites, selenites and tellurites, carbonates, silicates, titanates,
columbates and tantalates, nitrates, vanadates, phosphates, arsenates
and antomonates, sulphates, selenates and tellurates, chromates, molyb-
dates and tungstates, iodates, and uranates. Compounds of organic
origin, including salts of organic acids and carbon compounds.

Each of these classes is further separated into groups according to
their chemical relationships. Each group is preceded by a general
group label stating the class to which it belongs, the group name, a
list of the minerals composing that group, together with their chemical
formule, system of crystallization, and a short descriptién of the
occurrence, association, and characteristic form of each member of the
group. Following the group label, arranged in order from left to
right, are the several members of the group selected to illustrate, as
completely as the conditions will permit, their occurrences, associations,
color, habit, ete.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 41

Each specimen is mounted on a standard block, in front of which is
a small label giving the name, locality, etc., of the individual.

The comparative series. —Here the properties of minerals are defined,
illustrated, and compared. In each case the label containing a defini-
tion of the property under consideration precedes a series of specimens
and, wherever they can be used advantageously, a series of models
illustrating that property.

The meteorite collection, including the Shepard and Museum col-
lections, now contains several hundred specimens representing 336 falls.
As in the other series, the collections are preceded by introductory
labels, on which are noted the more prominent physical and chemical
characters of meteorites, together with the classification here adopted.
The arrangement of the two collections is somewhat different, that
of the Museum being geographic, while the Shepard collection is
chronologic.

The gem collection now compares favorably with any other public
collection of this kind in the country, both in number and kinds of
stones exhibited. It is especially rich in those gems and ornamental
stones which occur in the United States, as is shown by the following
tabulated statement:

Name. Locality. ae ek Color. Remarks.
Aragonite:..:.:-... Colusa County, Califor- AEST OW Iles aletate esr Cut cabochon.
nia.
BOTY soenes cases: Avondale, Pennsylva- DNC Vellowiesccs.<=s5- 2 and 3 carat stones.
nia.
Beryl aquamarine.| Paris, Maine.........--.- I”) (Colorlesss=. -2- ===. Small brilliant.
WOR eee eistasss = Stoneham, Maine....--. 2} Bluish green....-. Good bprilliants, 1 and 2
carats.
DOssscsss55255% Royalston, Massachu- i eer GG) ees cere Fine 8-carat brilliant.
setts. |
WOmeehesane she Fitchburg, Massachu- 3 | Yellowish green..| Small stones.
setts.
WO soe as Seats Litchfield, Connecticut. Htlesase OO! 2 aeceneeoae Good 1-carat brilliants.
OP ates cecasucet Portland, Connecticut. - 1 | Bluish green -....- Fine 14-earat brilliant.
1D (eee d te ene Asheyille, North Caro- ae eee Olona e eters 23-carat step-brilliant; good.
lina.
MO sccgses sase sa Mitchells Peak, North IEE ooe 6 (oe AERTS Fine 92-carat brilliant.
Carolina.
ID Oltotese Gace oe Mitchell County, North Wit Blues ceccessseee 7-carat Opaque cabochon.
Carolina.
DOree-= + -s-2|) Near Ray Mine, North 11 | Bluish green ..... Fine brilliants.
Carolina.
DO esis sas0s 5552 Ray Mine, North Car- OH eer Go acasceoccers Do.
olina.
Beryl emerald..... Stony Point, North Car- 26 | Emerald green ...| Small brilliants; color fair.
olina.
MOMs seh an semisalzeces (Oke Ane es eee eee 1 oct GO. neces voseee Largest example found in
America.
Beryllonite.......-. Stoneham, Maine.....-- 3) | Colorless... .222-- Weight, 3} to 5 carats.

42

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

No. of

Remarks.

Name. Locality. Sines. Color.
Cassiterite ......... Chesterfield, South Car- 1 Mellow ee eeseers
olina.
Chrysolite. +. =25- ATTZONE ote eno: bea ecae 1 | Bottle green.-.-.-..
DOSktissae eee Fort Wingate, New ou eater: GO ose osceree
Mexico. ©
Catliniteses = acess Pipestone County, Min- Do eddight sassss ae
nesota.
Coral (fossil) -.--.. TOW AN o Ses oe eens Velie sree tea So see
DOees sacs sheen Petowsky, Michigan... .- Lil aS oe Ro eee ee
Cyaniters:cse.co- Mitchell County, North Mele Anos esse ee
Carolina.
Corundum ruby ..-| Corundum Hill, North | Bloodiredis 222-25
Carolina.
Corundum sap- |...-- GO ccsecten ates sees 8 | Blue and green...
phire.
DOs 22.2 centse: Montana 2 s22s8sssc- ces 27 | Various colors ....
DOs. Serco ea Yogo Gulch, Montana ..| , 2 | Royal blue ......-
Corundum asteria.| Elijay, North Carolina. . 3 | Bronze’ 22-0: --55-
DInmond esses. sae Cabin Fork Creek, Ken- 1 |) Mellowiashss: a2-cee
tucky.
WON tees eeeee ee Amelia Court-House, ‘|| Brow las.-< sce"
Virginia.
Gadolinite......... Llano County, Texas --.- “Blake ss ease?
Garnet yar.alman-| Delaware County, Penn- 9 Dark-redyss se cee=
dite. sylvania.
DOs occ eee Macon County, North 3 | Cherry red .....--
Carolina.
DOv=. 5! eee Fort Defiance, Arizona - 5 |. Violet red -..:...-
DOs soecteeeese New Mexico..-.--- Eas all yoreae GO. es stizst aes
Garnet pyrope..... Macon County, North D7) Rie dee esas ae
Carolina. |
Garnet rhodolite ..) North Carolina .......-- 2" | Violet ted! s22-.-..
Garnet spessartite.| Amelia Court-House, 9 | Orange red .......
Virginia.
WAOGoe ss es oats Soe Aldekoes-- eee eee oe 2 | Olive:green.---.---
Malachite ......... AMIZONE Sees e = Cm aeeee Gb eeeateme cote cee ister
Microclime: 2222 cosa ecccs we Samoa ae Seen ell itera er | setae eee ae tar ee
Microcline ama- | Delaware County, Penn- DM "Green 20-sas<ne see
zonstone. sylvania.
1D Yost oes ak ea Amelia Court - House, lan eee (CKO om ing aa
Virginia.
Dae ees ces al ese te GO shea Ak eeeeco ores Ds ema Oi Sek eee Sse
DO) et osteo OO ise. See toce eee a) Bean oko ee eee ao
DOS Ata ee Pikes Peak; Colorado. -- Deeg (Ol eee
Obsidian <2. cease Yellowstone Park -...-- 11 | Brown to black...
Oligoclase ......... | Mitchell County, North Dal (Colonless=sceremen=
Carolina.
Oligoclase moon- | Delaware County, Penn- oh eae EOlnccsseaasece
stone. sylvania.
DOw oat emecce Hanover County, Vir- UE eo G0 acencncees
ginia.
WOssse seem Amelia Court- House, 10 | White and color-
Virginia. less.
Oligoclase sunstone| Delaware County, Penn- Ory eee eas eee eter

sylvania.

Mounted as a scarf pin.

2-carat brilliant.
+-earat brilliants.

1 earring and 1 pipe.
Paper weights.
Do.
34 carat, step-cut.
Do.

Small stones.

Good stones, showing com-
plete range of color.

32-carat stones.

Cut cabochon, good stars.

3-carat polished pebble.

5-carat stone.

8-carat brilliant.
4-earat cabochons.

1 to 5 carat brilliants, good.
1 to 2 carat brilliants, good.
1-carat brilliants.

Do.

Good brilliants.
Good stones, one 39 carats.

Labrets or belt buckles.
Slabs and polished pieces.

Cabochon cut.
Do.

1 dish and a paper weight.
Balls.
Cabochon cut.
Do.
23 to 6 carat brilliants.

Cabochon cut.
Do.
Polished pieces and cabo-

chon cut.
Do.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

‘

43

No. of

Locality. Stores: Color. Remarks.
Garfleld County, Wash- Gli I epee RNs het cieeciacw = Sr Massive.
ington.
Douglas City, Washing- 1 eco rer toc meee toc Do.
ton.
Here MLC ase «jane =inl Paterson, New Jersey. - - 8 | Light green.....-- Cabochon cut.
Prehnite chloro- | Isle Royale, Lake Su- 10) |Ped nodes. cack eS-e Do.
strolite. perior.
Pyroxene--...:---- Davidson County, 1H | eee ea ae tae Polished slab.
North Carolina.
Pyroxene dropside| Dekalb, New York... --- Greene eee aatss Cut brilliant and cabochon,
QYartZ &- oe.--'so~ 5 Paris Maines soo. -.. a= - Opalescent ...-.-- Cabochon.
IYO ,Sanaceegerce Fairfax Court-House, Green banded....
Virginia.
Quartz, agate...-.- Lake Superior. ...------ S| See Sees tte oe eras Polished piece.
Quartz, agatized | Arizona .........------- Li eee exes Ome eee Slabs and ornaments,
wood.
a Quartz, amethyst-.| Stow, Maine........---- 2) Amethystine..... 13 and 23 carat stones.
u en Ooea neers ewes Upper Providence, Deep amethystine} 35-carat gem.
3 Pennsylvania.
4 Worse. Hasan Warlick, North Carolina 1 | Lightamethystine} 14:-carat gem.
I Bio Reh ee See ee ae Macon County, North 2 | Amethystine ..... One cut and one massive.
Carolina.
WO ee asea cae Alexander County, 111 beg GOS: fosce ease All cut from same mass,
North Carolina. weights from 24 to 197
carats.
Quartz, cat’s-eye ..| Cumberland, Rhode 1 | Dark green.....-- Cabochon.
Island.
Quartz, chaleedony| Yellowstone Park --..-- AN Grevishsss20 2-5 <2
Quartz, chryso- | Tulare County, Califor- in|; GRECN! == socses~ =e Do.
prase. nia.
Quartz, citrine.___.| Alexander County, 1 | Citrine yellow
North Carolina.
WW OS ostiacnsee8 Florissant, Colorado.... | eee dG.z seen: 1392-carat top brilliant.
Quartz, moss agate.| Yellowstone Park ..-..-- D/H LS Ee ee rte ee tes Cabochon and _ polished
pieces.
Quartz rock erys- | Chestnut Hill, North 3h \Colorlessia. oceseer Fine stones.
F Carolina.
Tha oe eal aeSee ClO A SSeena oneness alee Oss er ae Ball 11 em. in diameter.
ICS See eneere Red Hill, North Caro- Salers Om See Arrowheads.
lina.
Quartz, rose -...-.-. Parisu Maines <2 225-1 iL ||, Rose ypinke 7 -e- Opalescent cabochon.
1D OLS a toe Stoneham, Maine-...--.--. dG eae doe eee Do.
Dos: ee oe eee McDowell County, 4 | Light rose’.....-.- Stick-pin heads.
North Carolina.
Quartz, smoky..... Mount Mica, Paris, 1 | Smoke brown Step brilliant, large.
Maine.
1h} Serene Stoneham, Maine..-.---- i Ua tS estes 02a Do.
10.00 Sree ee Fairfax County, Vir- Bit canes (VON aE e ee Small brilliants.
ginia. die
Gee ee shoe Mount Pisgah, North Hl pee OO ae nee eee Large rose, cut.
Carolina.
100) See Gae Sees Tredell County, North 1G AO ke rosesaceen Do.
Carolina.
De cine Magnet Cave, Arkansas. Teil sense Gloeacoote emacs Do.
Ut a eee Pikes Peak, Colorado... 1 Ue ec (clojesesceerace Large top brilliant.
PU en feis ar 5 Florissant, Colorado ..-. 5S ee ce fo Co eae Ie Do.

44

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

No. of

Name. Locality. Tignes. Color. Remarks.
Quartz, with inclu-
SIONS ata sae Rhode Island.....-.-- f,'| Soccmmascne ae eeaee With actinolite inclusions.
Dorlenwyeasseee Fairfax County, Vir- se | OS Rane oe cate me With (?) inclusions.
ginia.
iD (Oar ROCeR Eee Alexander County, Dl eae A oe ee ee Witn rutile inclusions.
North Carolina.
DOl2earec vase Tredell County, North Do | kee aee ne cee eae Do.
Carolina. —
DOC ae Burke County, North Tel stesec hee beet ee Crystal, with tourmaline in-
Carolina. clusions.
Wow ssasese sees Hot Springs, Arkansas. -| Bi bac eeitias cee weaes With chlorite inclusions.
DOR  seeeanmes Coloradoits-2o--e es: Di lle eats eles tasers With Goéthite inclusions.
Moi sancdenstons ATIZ OU Green sees | QIN Aas Jatcee sie eee eae With Dumortierite inclu-
| sions.
DO cacao see ece Califorminiessesssas-- Ral ee me Became With gold inclusions.
Rhodonite.....-..- Cummington, Massa- | 1 | Plesh. meds. .% 232° Polished ellipsoid.
chusetts.
DOs sh22 Sees en Franklin, New Jersey -. il oss doe stsseasse Cabochon cut.
Rutiles sscceccenese Hiddenite, North Caro- b) | PRedublacketeeeee- Small }-carat brilliants.
lings)
Samarskite .......- Mitchell County, North | ABA Okesee cesta 62-carat brilliant.
Carolina.
Serpentine ......--. Massachusetts .......---| Hh Eee Ba sae eect ake Necklace and ornaments.
DOteteseaeeeene United States......-.- OA are Senne EE! Slabs and ornaments.
DOs ssaececeeaee California jeas4 555" Me tistoe tse hocrtobate Flower-shaped ornament.
Serpentine yar. | Smithfield, Rhode Is- Qilescasennsse svoscsoeee Polished pieces.
bowensite. land.
Serpentine yar. | Lancaster, Pennsylva- Oi Seema oosaocemer cae Do.
williamsite. nia.
Smithsonite .....-- Marion County, Arkan- 2 | Lemon yellow. Cabochon cut.
sas,
Sodalites-s2s2---- Litchfield, Maine .-.. di|| Blue. cea5.< tee see 4,3,-carat cabochon.
Spodumene, hid- | Stony Point, North Car- 7 | Emerald green Small brilliants, } carat and
denite. olina. less.
Thompsonite ...--- Grand Marais; Minne- Hd )||\crta mere =o Ae See
sota.
Titamite = .s36c- <5 Brewster, New York .... 2 | Honey yellow -...| Step brilliants.
Ito SeneRcorsecse Bridgewater, Pennsyl- 1 | Greenish brown ..| 4-carat stone.
vania.
POPRW2A =. 2 = 2en3ss5= Stoneham, Maine i, |*Colorlesss2s3ee. =e. 8-carat brilliant.
MOP ce eetosee Chatham, New Hamp- lid eersae GO= tesa see 12-carat brilliant.
shire.
Don -cetesetnoasc Pikes Peak, Colorado... 1 ssa Gos siusscessce 17}-carat step brilliant.
DOsa des asee eres Sete Goysh Sa eee | Te eWaine cedierss-n ee 141-carat step brilliant.
DOs pan sautreens Wite essere oe Sa MCOLOTLESS yee e arenes 1-carat brilliant.
Tourmaline .....-. Paris Maime ae ssa iL) Dark green 22 -2=- 57-carat gem.
DOva.c cote de sae eeetee GO. 228 tere seeeee 1) | Wane. red= Sei c=-22 18-carat gem.
DOSsc sasesseees| Sacer Oc: Aree eee | | -Shertys. caste = ae 16}-carat gem.
DOL ree acele eee (OL Oe eet ere fi @olorless=-ceeeeee Small brilliants.
DOs ic Sain cae nelle (0 Koy Roe eyes See ae 2 | Smokyand green.|} Both cut from same crystal.
DO’ nssa5sc2-ees esse A641 22 a ee | 5 | Green shades..-.. 4 to 7 carat stones.
DOs 8s) aes eee (Cope ese te ABCs | ee (ClO Eee SEES 1 to 3 carat stones.
DOM sete seer ae |Saeee GOletetrs- tees | Utero Opes 2h See Less than 1-carat stones.
Doe. ssos550 eccllaonee OR es eras eee 15) | MBIWes Sa acas ee eer 1 to 4 carat stones.
DOR S4-2 see eee GO sete ses ce Gri ARed. 4 o 2s aaa ees Do.
DOM aes e wes scaaeeee One Rees ess ees Lol MB Te Cheers 8 tec eee +-carat stone,

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 45

Name. Locality. Bengt, Color. Remarks.
Tourmaline ....... Paris Main eraser case ace 3 | Particolored...... |
{Dyce ene Auburn; Maine -.--2 3. LOM Colored..." 2.254
LNT a esas eee Middlesex County, Con- Oi Green oo. cones Brilliants.
necticut. |
1D TO ee eee Dekalb, New York...... 1 | Pale yellow ...... | 54-carat stone.
Ose s.ceesessse Macomb, New York .... Doh ATOM see eceeeree = 1-carat stones.
MPurquoise s2s2<-. = Los Cerillos, New Mex- UD ae Sete ee eco k eee ete = Cabochon and ornamental
ico. pieces.
Wariscite’.. 2.22. Candelaria, Nevada -... i Green ceeue-esece
DOs see eos seas Lewiston, Utah ........- al tee at Gop ee eeee ae Polished pieces.
Willemite ......... Franklin, New Jersey -. 3 | Greenish yellow..| Small brilliants.

The study series contains the material which appeals exclusively to
the specialist. It comprises those specimens which serve to illustrate
the occurrence and associations of a mineral in any one locality and
which are not needed for the exhibition series, or which are not
unnecessary duplicates of material already on hand. Each specimen
in this series is numbered, labeled, and contained in a paper tray.
The several specimens are then arranged geographically by species;
the species are arranged in groups, as in the systematic series, and
placed in drawers. This series also includes all the original and type
material belonging to the division which is not needed for exhibition.
Those types used in the exhibition series are here represented by cards
giving the position of the type specimens in the cases.

Little has as yet been done in the way of permanently installing
the exhibition series of vertebrate fossils,-owing to the construction
of new cases and the absence of Mr. F. A. Lucas, the Curator, for
several weeks in New Haven. The death of Professor Marsh involved
the immediate withdrawal and turning over to the Museum of the
vertebrate fossils collected under the direction of the Geological Sur-
vey, which work has naturally taken a large share of the time and
attention of the Curator since March. This collection will be referred
to again in the next report.

The final arrangement of the collection of invertebrate fossils has
been delayed by the need of cases. The’entire Paleozoic portion has
been removed from the floor of the southwest court and placed on the
gallery in the same court. This installation is not, however, final.
With the completion of the rail cases, it is hoped to remove from the
floor of this court the Mesozoic and more recent invertebrate fossils,
thereby making room for the collections in vertebrate paleontology.
At present, the mounted exhibition series in this section consists only
of Cambrian, Upper Carboniferous, and Tertiary forms. Mr. Charles
Schuchert has labored most industriously, and reports that, with the
- assistance of Mr. Williard, he has during the year placed in final
Museum form upward of 20,000 specimens and prepared 2,900 cata-
46 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

logue cards, as well as manuscript for 1,319 labels. With the present
force, however, it will not be possible to complete the installation of
the exhibition series for at least two years.

In the Section of Paleobotany I have to report the installation of
an exhibition series comprising some 1,000 specimens in the wall cases
occupying the south and west galleries of the Southeast Court. Some
1,300 specimens were received and catalogued during the year, and
four volumes, comprising 2,000 entries in the old catalogues, have
been copied. At least 12,000 entries yet remain to be made of mate-
rials now in the Museum. There is need of another assistant in this
section.

RESEARCH.

But little opportunity has been offered for special investigation by
officers of the Museum. Dr. E. C. E. Lord has occupied a desk in the
laboratory of the Division of Geology and has been engaged upon the
study of the rocks collected by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. 5. A., of the
Mexican Boundary Survey and other rocks collected by himself on
the coast of Maine and by Messrs. Schuchert and White in Greenland.

The head curator has partially revised for publication the manuscript
for a handbook of the collection of nonmetallic minerals which was
begun some three yearsago. He has also written sundry other papers,
the titles of which, so far as they have yet been published, are given
in the Bibliography (Appendix IV). Mr. Wirt Tassin, assistant curator
in charge of the mineral collections, has now in press a handbook of the
exhibition series, illustrating the characters of minerals, and also a
paper showing the classification adopted in the arrangement of the
mineral collections under his charge. He announces having in prepar-
ation a catalogue of the mineral collections and a handbook of the
collection of meteorites. Mr. Schuchert has been engaged, when
opportunity offered, in reworking the Lower Helderberg and Oriskany
collections, and has prepared two papers for publication. He has
practically completed a paper on the Lower Devonian Aspect of the
Lower Helderberg and Oriskany, and one on the Lower Silurian Fauna
of Baffin Land. He isalso continuing his work, begun more than three
years ago, on the fossil starfishes of America. Mr. Lucas has com-
pleted a study of the fossil bison; identified a series of vertebrates from
the White River Miocene, submitted by the Geological Survey, and
described a hitherto unknown fossil saake from the Eocene of Alabama.

SOURCES OF NEW MATERIAL.

With the exception of the collections of Kinderhook fossils made by
Mr. Pau! Bartsch, of the Division of Mollusks, while at his home in
Burlington, Iowa, no geological explorations of consequence have
been undertaken by members of the Museum staff, Mr, F, W. Crosby,
>

+

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 47

of this city, while traveling in Europe, collected many objects of
value, including a fine series of Italian asbestos and an exceptionally
large cluster of basaltic columns from near Bonn, in Prussia. In like
manner, Prof. C. H. Hitchcock, of Hanover, New Hampshire, while
in the Hawaiian Islands, made important geological collections.
Inasmuch as the materials have not yetarrived at the Museum, further
notice concerning them is left for the next report.

Through the kindness of the Geological Survey the Museum was
enabled to detail Mr. H. E. Dickhaut, of that bureau, to collect an
extensive series of Upper Silurian fossils in the vicinity of Lockport,
New York. !

Mr. R. D. Lacoe has, by two important donations, continued to
exhibit his interest in science and in the National Museum. Through
the kindly interest of Mr. Harry Lee, the State Commissioner of
Mines, a fine series of telluride ores and other desirable materials from
Colorado has been procured.

As in the past, the chief source of accumulation is the Geological
Survey, particularly for paleontological, stratigraphical, and litholog-
ical material. Dr. L. T. Chamberlain has on three occasions manifested
his interest in the gem collection, as noted elsewhere.

ASSISTANCE AFFORDED STUDENTS AND INVESTIGATORS.

The custom of lending collections to workers outside of the Museum
has been adhered to. A small collection of Japanese marbles was lent
to Prof. O. C. Marsh, and 116 thin sections of granites to Prof. B. K.
Emerson. From the Division of Mineralogy a series of silicates and
several specimens of chalcedony were turned over to Messrs. Clark
and Diller, of the Geological Survey, to be used in special investigations
being conducted by them. In like manner teeth of Paleozoic sharks
have been lent to Prof. C. R. Eastman, of Cambridge. Invertebrate
Paleozoic material has been lent to Mr. J. W. Beede, of the University
of Kansas; to Dr. G. F. Girty, of the Geological Survey; to M. M.
Cossman, of Paris; and Dr. Anton Fritsch, of Prague.

The study of the collections has not been limited wholly to members
of the Museum staff. As already noted, Dr. E. C. E. Lord has con-
tinued his studies in the Division of Geology, while Doctor Fritsch, of
Bohemia, and Doctor Matthews, of the American Museum of Natural
History, have briefly studied methods of installation, and, in the case
of Doctor Fritsch, the fossil Myriapoda and Arachnida in the Lacoe
collection.

Prof. F. W. Cragin, graduate student of Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, has passed several weeks in the Museum, working on the
collection of Texas Jurassic fossils. In the Section of Vertebrate Pale-
ontology, Dr. O. P. Hay has described two new species of fossil tur-
tles and Mr. Gerrit 8. Miller, jr., one new species of Pleistocene bear.
48 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Prof. Atreus Wanner, superintendent of the public schools of York,
Pennsylvania, has twice visited the Museum to utilize the Triassic
materials in the collections in connection with his work on the Triassie
plants from near York, Pennsylvania.

Twenty-six papers bearing upon subjects in the department collec-
tions have been prepared during the year, either by the staff of the
Museum or by those having access to the collections. These titles are
given in the Bibliography and need not be repeated here.

STORAGE AND WORKROOMS.

Much material (several hundred boxes) belonging to the Paleonto-
logical collections is still in storage. It is hoped that some time in
the near future this, too, may be made available to students.

With the renting of the Emery Building, on Tenth street southwest,
the workrooms and all machinery used in preparatory work were
removed to that building, thus affording a much-needed space for
packing and unpacking material, and such incidental work as could
not properly be carried on in the offices and exhibition halls.

In the Section of Systematic Geology there are several special series
of exhibits that could be prepared to advantage, such as collections
illustrating the geology of special areas, to include maps, sections,
and other drawings and photographs, besides the actual specimens.
A very attractive exhibit illustrating the geology and physical geog-
‘aphy of the Yellowstone Park has also been projected, but not yet
carried out.

In the Section of Applied Geology there is need of special exhibits
illustrative of various phases of the science. Models of one or more
important mines, or relief maps and sections of mining regions,
together with samples of the ore and wall rocks, form desirable
exhibits, as do also collections showing the origin and derivation of
ore, the geological distribution of useful minerals of various kinds,
the qualifying conditions for artesian wells, ete.

Several such exhibits have been projected, but are still far from
complete.

In my report as curator for 1892 I announced the preparation of
200 sets of rocks and ores, ranging in number from 66 to 104 specimens
each. The last of these was sent out during the spring of 1899. Since
1892 other materials have been gradually accumulated, in the line of
both geology and invertebrate paleontology, for other sets, but no
opportunity has been found to put them in order. The interest at
present manifested in the study of soils and the problems connected
therewith led the curator to begin, a year or more ago, the prepara-
tion of 100 sets of rocks and their decomposition products, as described
in his work on rockweathering. This work, too, is still unfinished.

The death of Prof. O. C. Marsh, which occurred on March 18, 1899,
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 49

has precipitated the work of transferring to the Museum the collec-
tions of vertebrate fossils made by him under the authority of the
Geological Survey during the years 1882 to 1893, referred to in the
last report. Representatives of the department have been at New
Haven since April 10, engaged in the work of packing. The labor of
bringing the material here and installing it, together with the inci-
dental work of cataloguing and looking after the records, will tax to
the utmost the resources of the section for many months to come. As
much of the material is still in the matrix, the services of another
preparator are essential. With this additional help, it might be pos-
sible to prepare one or more restorations of some of the more striking
forms, like Zriceratops, which would add greatly to the interest and
educational value of the display collections.
NAT MUS 99 4

SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR.

THE MUSEUM STAFF.

Dr. O. C. Marsh, professor of paleontology in Yale University and
for many years connected with the staff of the National Museum as
honorary curator of Vertebrate Fossils, died on March 18, 1899.

Dr. Frederick W. True has been appointed the Representative of
the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum on the Goyern-
ment Board for the Pan-American Exposition to be held in Buffalo in
1901, and Mr. W. V. Cox has been designated as chief special agent
in the same connection.

Mr. J. L. Willige continued to act as chief clerk until December 12,
when he was relieved by Mr. W. V. Cox, who had then completed his
duties away from Washington in connection with the Trans-Missis-
sippi and International Exposition.

Mr. George C. Maynard, custodian of the Electrical Collections,
was on August 1, 1898, also designated as aid in the Division of
Mechanical Technology.

Mr. J. H. Riley and Mr. Marcus W. Lyon, jr., were appointed aids
in the Department of Biology on August 8 and August 15, respec-
tively, and on January 1, 1899, Miss Carrie Harrison, aid in the Divi-
sion of Plants, was transferred to the Department of Agriculture.

Mr. E. A. Schwarz has been placed in charge of the entire collec-
tion of Coleoptera, as custodian, and Mr. Nathan Banks has been made
custodian of the Collection of Arachnida.

Prof. O. F. Cook, for some time an assistant curator in the Division
of Plants, having accepted a position in the Department of Agricul-
ture, was in March, 1899, made honorary assistant curator in charge
of the Cryptogamic collections.

Dr. A. C. Peale was appointed aid in the Section of Paleobotany on
July 25, 1898.

Dr. George H. Girty, of the U. 5S. Geological Survey, was made
custodian of the Carboniferous collections in the Section of Inverte-
brate Fossils on July 29, 1898.

A complete list of the members of the scientific and administrative
staffs will be found in Appendix I.

APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES.
The appropriations by Congress for the past fiscal year aggregated
$257,000, an increase of $24,000 over the total for the preceding year.

There was an increase of $5,000 in the item for preservation of collec-
51
52 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

tions, which also contained an added provision for the making of illus-
trations to an extent not exceeding $5,500 in cost. For furniture and
fixtures, including the furnishing of new galleries, $35,000 were given,
being $5,000 more than the year before. The purchase of books was
provided for in a separate appropriation of $2,000. The amount
allowed for the rent of workshops was increased from $2,000 to $4,500,
and for continuing the construction of galleries, etc., from $8,000 to
$10,000. For the purchase of the library of the late Dr. G. Brown
Goode, $5,000 were granted, and the appropriation for printing and
binding was increased from $12,000 to $17,000.

The total expenditures from these appropriations during the year
ageregated $244,368, leaving a balance, subject to outstanding liabili-
ties, of $12,632. From the appropriation for 1897-98 disbursements
amounting to $5,385.41 were made, leaving a balance of $118.18,
exclusive of small balances from the printing allotment and the appro-
priation for the rent of workshops. Expenditures to the amount of
$378.69 were made from the appropriation for 1896-97, under the titles
of preservation of collections, and heating and lighting.

The following tables show the expenditures during 1898-99 from the
appropriations for the past two fiscal years and the balances on hand
June 30, 1899:

Appropriations and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1899.

Onject. Appropria- | Expendi- | tind June
F i 30, 1899.

Preservationioncollectionss -45-22 eee ee ee oe eee eee eee $165,000 | $160,388. 06 #4, 661. 94
Murnitwure ang snxtores'si 22 2. ce seeeecee pee ee ee Serie ere 39, 000 34, 004. 72 995. 28
Heating, lighting, and electrical service.-.--.----..--.-------- 14, 000 12, 219. 98 1, 780. 02
R310 %0\ Cs es ee r eor eree Ae eee eee See CMA Sr SOEs se ac 5ci4l| 2, 000 1,300. 43 699. 57
DELO a Voge eee SA PSS Soe MSPS See ne neee atic Seeteaso be a2 500 DOOR OU [trees seca
JeQoniKobbakeasxeyo hue: Meter ee sees Se Sse he arate ese scasecs Se 4, 000 3, 918. 92 81.08
PROM OT AVIONIESINO PS (eters mse ote etal ate alee a eS ce eet 4,500 4, 389. 92 110. 08
(EPI RSakeC Hos ost omer Mbne tues ane Sade soUaroos@ar soasemmenSunee se 10, 000 5, 698. 34 4,301. 66
Library of the late G. Brown Goode. .....-..--...-..-.-------- 5, 000 5000008): Zan neeeeaee
Printing esse see aa ee ee eae ee eae ee eee Se eee eee eee 17, 000 16, 997. 63 2.37
HoH SS os Sysco acoomcbos es hbesr aU ORE OaD or ooaoR sen IeSdoe5 257, 000 244, 368. 00 12, 632. 00

Disbursements from unexpended balances of appropriations for the fiscal year ending June

80, 1898.

Balance

Balances

: = Expendi- P
Object. June 30, ae June 30,

1898. Manat 1899.
Preservation of collections: cnemccccn a0 = eee ee eee eae $2, 363. 51 $2, 266. 23 $97. 28
Murnitureand fixtures - wan amie ee orn eee ase eater eer 1, 710. 46 1, 709. 23 1. 23
IS(eynabavectshavollbtedoynhetee ee eee Sea eee ae ee ae tS 816. 87 811.38 5.49
BULGE we PAIS ee eyelet eee ae ere eet te eee 31.98 27.45 4,53
Gallleriess Agios. sacs ~ seen} See wincteseoeinee nee semen eee eer 551. 87 543. 00 8. 87
Fle b UGS SHEGS is qatar wee teeta ee ote ole mene elmore 28. 90 28. 12 -78
Mo tele soe cams oe here oie tee ae ee aie emntleeae etateate teeter 5, 5038, 59 5, 885, 41 118.18

—_——__—_—— ——————— ——— ——
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 53

The appropriations for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, are as
follows:

Biker nom Orr QO CnONels « sans. 5 SES ose pon DO Oe ee er eee ite $170, 000
Furniture and fixtures (including $10,000 for furnishing new galleries) ...-. 25, 000
Heating, lighting, and electrical service. .-..-..--.-------------------+----- 14, 000
ese ees Se eens ip eee <a ae eee ni tie - cana ee ene FS e 500
Books, pamphlets, and periodicals. - - - - ee ee en Sg ons as 2, 000
Repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds... ..---.---------------------------- 6, 000
Rent of workshops and temporary storage quarters --.---------------- £2c.4 145040
Ppa (nite: bee Bl gy bs 08 1.0) 2a aR Son eee eS eee 17, 000

Thatta: "= oe ye Sa A Ge ee Se ee AA SE a neato See 238, 540

BUILDINGS.

Iron galleries have been erected in the West North Range, the West
South Range, the East South Range, and the South East Range under
the item of $10,000 appropriated for that purpose. The great snow
storm of February, 1899, disclosed certain weak places in the roof of the
Museum building and caused the buckling of several of the large iron
girders. The damaged parts have been repaired and strengthened so
far as the appropriation permitted. Two of the old wooden floors
have been replaced by terrazzo pavement, and many minor repairs and
improvements have been made.

Three additional small buildings have been leased for workshop and
storage purposes, thus supplying much-needed space and allowing for
the removal of the long frame shed which adjoined the Museum build-
ing on the east side.

ACCESSIONS AND REGISTRATION.

The total number of accessions during the year was 1,497, a slight
increase over that for the preceding year. The number of specimens
embraced in these accessions was 210,323, raising the grand total in
the possession of the Museum to 4,355,463. The details are shown in
the following table:

Number of specimens received in 1898-99, and total number in the several divisions on
A ?
June 80, 1899.

Division. | Eaernae | Total.
Anthropology:
EHO LO Diane see eee me eee eae Seite s aisle mays ci meine nies ies slaloinnnm ean == | 2, 253 453, 908
HUSTORIC ATOM OLOR Vee ee meas see iat amr waren eam aisles == BS Se Ree AD AOE | 104 1,976
Prehistoric archeology. ----- 352558 SONS a) SESS OP ena ese eaena cena sae toe se 3,429 278, 018
_ En bees ee ee Te Bret oN renee | 207 30, 628
Crp hicnanisesseaecceeee eae act ak aceon se sls tee= scene etere ss SR hie cet 121 | 7,355
het Oi See on Se ode ee Se ROS ee See me ee Ieee OCs 19 | 6, 800
ESO OUI Sere setae ere ome a ieters = ae ate wala <leis) <lele aon mwiniwn = ln nieleislsaieie nines = 508 | 2,366

UISCOR VE eG DIOS TADMY tot = a) = ae = cro SS eed Mae SS SARS oe Ce | 1, 027 37, 183
54 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Nuinber of specimens received in 1898-99, and total number in the several divisions on
June 80, 1899—Continued.

Division. ee Total.

Biology:
Mammal sage Sac oka ce bec ote ee Ss Sa ee ee omen nee See eee REE Ree ise 5, O31 «27,016
Binds. Sess eheding 2 ee tn re ie eee ee RENE Re en eee 2,785 | 06115,059
Birds’ ep py. = tise e et Meck Oe ae ee So eee ee ee eee Se See ere a eee ates 389 64, 661
Repilesiand:batrachians!o- 222s =< s see oes cee ee ee eee ee te er 855 38, 977
1 C1 0) 1c ee a a a ee AR Bd PIS Reet. on Ae ES ee yt 701 151, 301
NMEOTIUSIES) Se 5 eS em ere ee ere ai cee eh e Pne n e Leen 14, 981 740, 017
Wns cts 4.22. ROA eo de oe So ee oR Se ae Re ae SEE eR ae ee eto eee 125, 000 994, 236
Marineun vertebrates. 63522 bos 24 ee ee ee ese eer iaeene ec eeec See eeSse {REPL 509, 331
Helmintholopgical collection =. cass cee set ee elem ese ae serene eet ere e199 4, 945
Com parativeranatomiyec s.s 2. doens cee ee nee ee eee nae eee eee 94 15, 585
1A Eh 6) ce ae eT eee eC ee Re 8 et ate te a tt Ree eS Sag, 23, 000 391, 241
ROLOSGEY: asco se joan ee SE a at See re SS re RSS re See ne ee | eee 749

Geology:
Physical andichemicaliseolosyuss..cac. paceman selec eee eee eee 638 77, 863
Mim Gralopy -c2-e asses acres ce cee ect Sone eee cee eae ESSE rotoeee 219 29, 527
SLPS Ta DICH pa LC OMLOLG Ly eve arace are tee aati ee te ret eters 21, 536 376, 721
Tobe)! Sconces chert: 2 See Rae eee eee ee cee ores 210, 323 | 4,355, 463

aIncluding the specimens added to the Department of Agriculture series during this and the pre-
ceding year.

b Including material recently added to the Department of Agriculture series.

c Number of catalogue entries.

The number of entries made in the catalogues of the different divi-
sions was 26,442. In Appendix II will be found a complete list of the
accessions for the year.

The following table shows the number of accessions annually since
1881:

| Number of

Year. numbers *¢gessions
(inclusive). | the year.
TRGL 2 Sak ree Ae aE AS Shee Phe ee eee SARE oes eee 9890-11000 | Teil
DOSD.5 vim een a Gah ere oa Eo: ee Pe 9s Pee Oi are aes ies 11001-12500 | 1,500
BSR... ce Thee hn a ee ee ety eS k ee ee 12501-13900 | 1, 400
LRQA is. So heat ale See CR Non RS Pera eee ies ae | Soar nce eter a 13901-15550 1, 650
1885! (antiany toJuine) eee ae een eee ee eee ee eae eee eee eee 15551-16208 658
TORE SoS Ao Ce et eae ee ee en ee hee ee ee a eR 16209-17704 1,496
1 cy en ie i ee a Ce ne Nae et TU ge oe mematueauectcds 17705-19350 1, 646
1BRSh ones see sci be Be eS SES ee EC se OE ee ae 19351-20831 1, 481
VBBO Fs as a ee eee eee ee One 20832-22178 1,347
LRO0 ia 2 Sde ene tesd sea eee pe a Ne 22179-23340 1, 162
1 ee ene ee eee a Nae ee rE Oe tno tone soguaseseos 93341-24527 1, 187
POD aos ckcBes ee cw Sas SS a ae I ee pee ne ee 24528-25884 1, 357
WSO oncicic. oo Vitec tee ies cle cee a ce ere ee eC ee 25885-27150 1, 266
ic) a Soy ee re my me ech mE) Sal Mh 27151-28311 1,161
PROB sia Scr Sarce eke pe ee SE Sd I Ee aan ER FO) LC SEED Sea ae OY 98312-29534 1, 228
TROBE fecic o ccciatus Streator ra ee a 29535-30833 1, 299
Tee Se a re ed ek ted A Peano eS ea 30834-32300 1, 467
PSO RGAE. elec 5 wil ae erin RES IIc ee ORO Cn ee a 32301-33741 1,441
ROO oe tO a ye alee en AOS PO VEL eh a a tea. 33742-35238 1,497

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 55

Thirteen thousand seven hundred and twenty-nine packages of
various kinds have been received by the registrar, besides 29,628 vol-
umes of publications. Five hundred and fifty-seven of these packages
contained specimens for the Museum collections. Three thousand
one hundred and seventy-seven packages have been sent out.

DISTRIBUTION AND EXCHANGE,

Twenty-four thousand seven hundred and forty-five specimens were
sent out as gifts or in exchange, and 9,850 specimens were lent for
study during the year. The gifts have consisted largely of collections
of marine invertebrates, rocks, and casts of prehistoric implements,
which have been presented to educational institutions in all parts of
the country. The distributions are given in detail in Appendix III.
The following statement shows the number of ‘‘lots” of specimens
sent to each State and foreign country:

TREnmMessee a a os es ae eee

ING ORTTOGT. 32 = ieee ene ee eee race 6 1
J GSR ERIN Oe ee ee eel escalG reese sr4e Ss aloes ee epee ey
(Clitoris oe eee ee tees IS cele Sligt eal Oe: Nagra PS a nek, 2, hp id ere Se eee 2 1
OL hiievc be ei sa a a ee Dealp NEEM rots ce oP a ee Ree 1
Wammnectiowties:.625 4.24.2 56h 5.5 Si Washington Geiss: 2 toca. seo eee ee 2
Welawwanewe soe sseee Seo eaiys he: ao Sa WWiesty Viren 22. aso e A eee 1
Disthchoh@olumbia=e se. sa—4- eee IGHIAWoSseOnSIMe #2 = eee saa eee eee 6
Monch yah alk OSes ee ee err 1 | Foreign countries

TENS nat ay Sg pane Rye Sete eae Ae 14 TASETELGE ata eet Aer orl a ae Z
VVC NEN OES Aes Le) Mla eet on eee 3 ys ifs 2) 0 HU See a epee oo 8 ey
NG o£ ee ee ee 9 AtiStralignate ests aoe a eee 1
TRAYS ICT gai ae ee ee 5 PANS ELIAS tos teen race cg ee 3
TRG. bee BS ooe ates Saae eee 1 ‘Belowomatered 2 te eS teeta. 2,
IN balingy ps Se Ss Ee ee ee 2 (@amad aes eae cee ee 6
Th LIE i one le ee ee 1 (QUO ne eee ae, See see ne sens 2
Wassaechusetis= 25.0 22-52 -c-5- oc 38 Denmankges cons tocereee eee 2,
iene et ee So StS Sees. 2 2 Poland Ae eee, sees oo 24
IMiimiMeso tai See ee ae Soe He 11 IiraniCey es ee ee oars eee Zs
UU SETESING) cp oe a eee 1 Germany pete task ose ae 3
INES obi SS ee oS ee ee eee 8 JGAVCbin Se Ra eA ae Serer 4
MGMT a ee dads Aaa aaa 3 ialig ae Se etee e 8 Soe ater. 5 ers t= 3
INGIOTIEIR he 4 os Seen ree 6 IM [GS a0jr aa es ea ane Sere ae 1
INeweblampsinre 2.2 2 co.cc esc 1 iINetinerlamdss S22 Se sqee see oo. 2
ING RUGESON ian aa eee a eae 3 SUE hae emer eis Sythe pcs, eats 1
INES CGT = Sie eee ae 35 SCOUAmURs wae oe ee RNS ae 1
North Garolina 45 5222.56. 22.2.c2256 4 Swwedentawsessae ts See an urate il
INO TOMO AKO bas ere oe were a aleetoe 1 Shiau navel = Se ee eee me
(OVS TOY ates eee eS Oe 7 Wiest IbnvehiesL, = soe Re ee 2
RenMsyiVamlay sss 2 a5 sek ecclncia so 16

Rinoderlslandss e252 ssa asses ete cae 1 Total -..-.-------------- 294

Among the more important exchange receipts from foreign estab-
lishments and individuals the following may be mentioned: From the
British Museum of Natural History, London, England, Set No. 4 of
Rugel’s Florida plants, and 190 specimens representing 63 species of
56 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

fossil corals, in exchange for plants, Tertiary corals, bryozoans, skins
and skulls of mammals from Patagonia, and mollusks from the United
States and other localities. From the Museum of Natural History,
Paris, France, alcoholic fishes from northern and central Asia. From
the Geological Survey of Canada, 24 specimens of Trenton fossils in
exchange for fossils from Baffin Land. From the Rijks Ethnographic
Museum, Leyden, Holland, a collection of ethnological objects in
exchange for material of the same character. From the Public Gar-
dens and Plantations, Kingston, Jamaica, 112 plants in exchange for
botanical specimens. From the Museum Michoacano, Morelia, Mexico,
birds’ skins and insects in exchange for publications. From the Albany
Museum, Grahamstown, South Africa, 44 birds’ skins. From the
Riksmuseum, Stockholm, Sweden, 29 species of Actinians in exchange
for a similar collection. From Mr. G. Van Roon, Rotterdam, Holland,
a collection of beetles from Java and South Africa in exchange for
Coleoptera. From Mr. Jean Miguel, Barrubio, Hérault, France, a
large collection of fossils from the Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic
horizons of Europe in exchange for 272 specimens, representing 147
species, of Paleozoic fossils. From Rey. Paul D. Bergen, Chefoo,
China, 48 birds’ skins and 2 mammals’ skins. From Baron R. de
Vriére, Zedelghem, Belgium, a collection of Belgian insects in exchange
for 112 specimens of Coleoptera. From Mr. G. Ruscheweyh, Buenos
Aires, Argentina, a collection of Argentine Lepidoptera in exchange
for material of the same character. From Mr. E. Y. Connell, St.
Kitts and Nevis, British West Indies, Carib implements and pieces of
pottery in exchange for stone implements. From Mr. C. fF. Pavona,
Museum of Natural History, University of Turin, 167 specimens of
fossil corals, representing 95 species, from the Italian Tertiary deposits,
in exchange for fossils. From Prof. M. ¥. Colunga, Lima, Peru, 24
birds’ skins. From Mr. L. Y. Ayson, Masterton, Wellington, New
Zealand, 17 birds’ skins in exchange for material of the same kind.

Seventy-six specimens of Cambrian fossils have been forwarded to
the Geographical-Paleontological Institute, Munich, Germany.
:

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

VISITORS.

Or
~I

The number of persons visiting the Museum building was 192,471,
and the Smithsonian building, 116,912. The following tables show,
respectively, the number of visitors during each month of the past

year, and the totals for each year since 1881:

Number of visitors during the fiscal year 1898-99.

Year and month.

SE LCI CN ee ae ee erat ate oe ene atta ne el= See mie eae ein lea meie = ee tonne cee ae
OB EO DG Tree eee erste Ses Roe a ete omic eee ee loale seseweisionis icin steatnadmere cick

Smith-

Museum :
building. building.
24, 489 14, 879
14,314 8,066
14, 357 7, 964
19, 510 11,411
12, 932 7, 365
10, 822 10, 281
Ta yes} 7,191
10, 894 6,071
20, 005 10, 495
16, 273 12, 761
26, 417 14, 396
11, 235 6, 041
192,471 |. 116,912
615 373

Number of visitors to the Museum and Smithsonian buildings since the opening of the

former in 1881.

Smithson-| ‘

= area salou

nuilding. | buildings.

EE ee dade ea ey Ble cn 150, 000 100, 000 250, 000
ie eee eR arene eee ema ee te kT ee bree one ...| °167,455 | 152, 744 320, 199
[SER Se ani tae ee as Ae Ie pemeek Cobo eel any €or el) BODIES 104, 823 307, 011
TERE) (LOGUE: eRe) eee a to al I ret 97, 661 45, 565 143, 226
RSE Gane Saale Nias Seas cee Oe a ee hPa | 205, 026 105, 998 311, 019
WIPES eb a oe ee ERE ee Sah ede eae ere ee es 7/222 88, 960 268, 185
USIUB EI ends clears eg Oe 216, 562 98, 552 315, 114
UMP oot 2 at Bea Be a a eee en ee | 249, 665 102, 863 352, 528
[SIE Ge Se Gece OS Os ha eee a | 374,843 | 149, 618 24,461
RS 0" CK) eee ele ees eee wrens Oey Jy Sl cee ESS ace | 274,324| 120,894 395, 218
TUS YI ie So CO te eee re ee das eS 3 Soe 286,426 | 111, 669 398, 095
RTS oes eho ug = Ea SI BS ype ea 269, 825 114, 817 | 384, 642
SOUS RE ee ae nek re geen er et Ry he es 319,930 | 174,188 | 494, 118
HG GREW ss Serger ee ee ee ah OE Oe 195, 748 | 103,910 | 299, 658
TUS EETD S eea AEs ce fe an lle 201,744 | 105, 658 | 307, 402
ry FS toeeSs ES Sse 9d ae eee a? 180,505! 103,650 284, 155
UME PAY Oadkolseciise tio stad SELLE aE SEE A Bee ee ee Ree 229,606 | 115, 709 | 345, 315
URE OR cg slr Bae ee 177, 254 | 99, 278 | 276, 527
TEM hee ae Eel Oe Te ek Peet ee ge ee ee a 192, 471 116, 912 | 309, 383
TROON ee ee Ee ee Sees eee sd | 4,165,458 | 2,115,798 | 6,281, 256

a Year of Presidential inaugurations.
58 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

STUDENTS AND INVESTIGATORS.

Investigations upon collections in the Museum by persons not
employed upon its staff have been carried on extensively. The Chinese
kites were examined by Mr. A. Lawrence Rotch, of Hyde Park,
Massachusetts, with reference to the principles of aerial flotation
involved in their construction. The extensive collection of aboriginal
tobacco pipes has been studied by Mr. J. D. McGuire, of Ellicott City,
Maryland, in connection with the preparation of his monograph on that
subject published in the Report of the Museum for 1897. Mr. Stewart
Culin, of the University of Pennsylvania, has continued his studies on
aboriginal and modern games, as illustrated by specimens in the Division
of Ethnology.

The collections in the Division of Mammals have been constantly
consulted by the members of the staff of the Biological Survey of the
Department of Agriculture. The specimens of Dermochelys, a genus
of turtles, have been studied by Dr. O. P. Hay, with regard to the
systematic position of the genus. In the Division of Marine Inver-
tebrates, Miss Harriet Richardson has been engaged in studying cer-
tain Isopoda, and in the preparation of a report upon the Isopods of
the Pacific coast of North America, which has recently been published
in the Proceedings of the Museum. Dr. H. F. Moore, of the U.S.
Fish Commission, spent several weeks at the Museum in working up
the Isopoda collected by the steamer /%sh Hawk on the coast of Porto
Rico. A study of the very extensive collection of West Indian corals
belonging to the Museum has been begun by Mr. T. Wayland Vaughan,
of the U. 8. Geological Survey, whose previous researches in this field
especially qualify him for the work. Prof. W. P. Hay, of the Central
High School, has at intervals given attention to the crayfishes in the
collection, naming those recently obtained. He has also described a
new form of Isopod in a paper printed in the Proceedings of the
Museum.

In the Division of Insects the following persons, among others, have
consulted the collections: Miss Ella Weeks, of Manhattan, Kansas;
Messrs. Snyder and McDade, of the Chicago Entomological Society;
Prof. O. S. Westcott, of Chicago, Illinois; Miss Harriet B. Merrill,
of Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Mr. O. Reinecke, of Buffalo, New York;
Dr. J. Branchont, of the Bergen Museum, Bergen, Norway; Mr.
Henry Bird, of Rye, New York; Prof. John B. Smith, of Rutgers Col-
lege, New Brunswick, New Jersey; Dr. S. C. Shumucker, of West-
chester, Pennsylvania; Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell, of Mesilla Park,
New Mexico; Prof. James Hine, of Columbus, Ohio; Dr. Herman
Strecker, of Reading, Pennsylvania; Mr. Charles E. Burden, of
Washington, District of Columbia; Prof. E. Dwight Sanderson, of
College Park, Maryland; Dr. W. J. Holland, of Pittsburg, Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. W. H. Wenzel, of Philade.phia, Pennsylvania.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 59

' In the Division of Fishes Dr. B. W. Evermann, Dr. H. M. Smith,
and Mr. W. C. Kendall, of the U. S. Fish Commission, have made use
of the collections. Mr. E. C. Starks, of the University of Washington,
examined certain fishes in working up the osteology of several aber-
rant forms.

The committee on nomenclature of the American Ornithologists’
Union spent several days in the Division of Birds inquiring into the
validity of, various subspecies described during the previous year.
Mr. E. W. Nelson, of the Department of Agriculture, was engaged
for some time in a study of Mexican birds in connection with the
determination of material collected by him. Mr. H. C. Oberholser
named several collections of birds at the request of the curator. Mr.
William Palmer studied the small shrikes of North America and the
eastern species of Geothlypis. Mr. W. B. Osgood, of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, examined the wren-tits. Miss Florence Merriam,
of Washington, studied various Western birds. Mr. Outram Bangs,
of Boston, Massachusetts, gave attention to the rails, meadow larks, ete.,
for the purpose of ascertaining the status of certain new forms which
he was about to describe.

Sir Charles Elliot, second secretary of the British embassy and British
Commissioner to Samoa, prosecuted investigations on the Nudibranchs
represented in the Division of Mollusks. Mr. G. A. Drew, of Johns
Hopkins University, made a study of the family Ledide, and has
published the results of his work.

In the Division of Plants, Mr. A. M. Ferguson, of St. Louis, Mis-
sourl, gave some time to researches on the genus Cyvoton,; Miss
Lewanna Wilkins, of Washington, was engaged during the winter in
determining a set of California plants; Mr. J. J. Smith, of Washing-
ton, studied the genus Lopthocarpus and its allies, and Mr. Elmer I.
Applegate, of Klamath Falls, Oregon, spent about two months in
working up a set of Oregon plants. Mr. J. B. Leiberg, of Hope,
Idaho, was occupied during a part of January and February with
plants collected in the Western timber reserves. Prof. W. L. Bray
has recently carried on extensive studies in the herbarium. Prof.
E. L. Greene, of the Catholic University, Washington, has consulted
material in various genera and has made determinations for the Mu-
seum. Prof. L. M. Underwood, of Columbia University, New York
City, visited the herbarium early in the spring for the purpose of
examining certain fern groups.

Prof. A. Wanner, who has discovered Triassic plants near York,
Pennsylvania, where he resides, has visited the Museum on two occa-
sions for the purpose of comparing his collections with those from the
Richmond coal fields of Virginia. Researches on vertebrate fossils
have been carried on by Dr. O. P. Hay, of Washington, who has
described a new species of fossil turtle. Dr. Anton Fritsch, director
60 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

of the National Museum at Prague, Bohemia, studied the fossil Myria-
poda and Arachnida in the Lacoe collection, and material has been
transmitted to him for further examination. Prof. F. W. Cragin, of
Johns Hopkins University, spent considerable time at the Museum in
working up a collection of Jurassic fossils from Texas.

Dr. E. C. E. Lord, of Washington, studied the rocks collected on
the Mexican border by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U. 8. A. The results of
Doctor Lord’s studies were embodied in a paper which has been pub-
lished in the Proceedings.

Material has been sent out for examination as follows:

To Mr. F. H. Cushing, of the Bureau of Ethnology, a collection of
pipes, gorgets, ceremonial objects, ete. To Mr. Stewart Culin, of the
University of Pennsylvania, specimens of Indian gambling implements.
To Mr. V. K. Chesnut, of the Department of Agriculture, 27 speci-
mens of Mexican drugs.

From the Division of Mammals the type of Wictomys innuitus was
lent to Mr. E. A. Preble, of the Department of Agriculture, for use in
connection with the determination of species from New Hampshire,
and he was also supplied with several specimens belonging to the genus
Zapus. Ten squirrels and more than 100 mice were furnished to
Mr. G. E. H. Barrett-Hamilton, London, England; representatives of
the genus Microtus to Mr. Vernon Bailey, of the Department of Agri-
culture, for use in a revision of the genus; about 50 small mammals to
Mr. E. W. Nelson, of the Department of Agriculture; 5 pocket mice
and 1 gray fox to Mr. W. H. Osgood, of the same Department. The
skull of a deer was sent to Mr. Outram Bangs, Boston, Massachusetts.

A specimen of Desmognathus was forwarded by the Division of Rep-
tiles and Batrachians to Dr. J. Perey Moore, of the University of Penn-
sylvania, for comparison; and a specimen of Amphystoma to Dr. J. D.
Lindahl, of Cincinnati, Ohio. Three double-headed snakes were sent
to the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

From the Division of Fishes a specimen of Vemichthys scolopaceus and
one of Chirostoma estor were sent to Dr. David S. Jordan, of Leland
Stanford Junior University; several Myxinoid fishes to Prof. Howard
Ayres, of the University of Missouri, and a number of specimens to
Mr. E. C. Starks, for use in determining the range of certain genera.

The following sendings were made by the Division of Birds: Thirty-
five specimens to Mr. Outram Bangs, Boston, Massachusetts, for use in
connection with the determination of material from Colombia; 67 spec-
imens of wrens, sparrows, ete., to Mr. William Brewster, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, who was studying the status of these groups in the
western part of the United States; 76 specimens of small shrikes to
Mr. R. M. Strong, Cambridge, Massachusetts, for study in determining
the percentage of variation in that group; 13 specimens of thrushes to
Mr. Reginald Heber Howe, jr., Longwood, Massachusetts; 60 bird skins
to Dr. Jonathan Dwight, jr., New York City; 62 specimens of House
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 61

Wrens to Mr. W. E. Loucks, Peoria, Illinois; 41 specimens of wrens to
Mr. Witmer Stone, of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia.

The transmissions from the Division of Insects were as follows: A
collection of Mexican and Central American Acridide to Prof. Law-
rence Bruner, of the University of Nebraska; the unworked material
in the Odonata to Dr. Philip P. Calvert, of the Academy of Natural
Sciences, Philadelphia; miscellaneous material to Prof. F. H. Chitten-
den, of the U. 5S. Department of Agriculture, for illustrating work in
progress in the Department; specimens of the family Pyralidee to Prof.
C. H. Fernald, of the Agricultural College, Amherst, Massachusetts,
for monographic purposes; some wasps and bees to Mr. W. J.
Fox, of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, for mono-
graphic work; acollection of moths to Sir George F. Hampson, of the
British Museum of Natural History, for monographie work; material
in the family Chrysomelide to Prof. E. Dwight, College Park, Mary-
land; 15 species of Acridide to Prof. Jerome MeNeill, of Fayetteville,
Arkansas, for use in connection with a synopsis of the species inhab-
iting Arkansas; a specimen of Stenopelmatus fasciatus to Dr. 8. H.
Scudder, of Cambridge, Massachusetts; and 56 specimens of the genus
Argynnis to Prof. A. J. Snyder, of Belvidere, Ilinois.

From the Division of Marine Invertebrates, annelids of the genera
Ammotrypane, Trophonia, Ophelia, ete., were transmitted to Mr.
F. W. Gamble, of Owens College, Manchester, England; the collec-
tion of leeches was sent to Dr. J. Percy Moore, of the University of
Pennsylvania; the collection of Gephyreans to Prof. H. B. Ward, of
the University of Nebraska; and the collection of Caprellide to Dr.
F. Meinert, of the Zoological Museum, Copenhagen, Denmark, all of
these having been supplied under arrangement for monographing the
several groups.

A small number of specimens were sent from the Division of Mol-
lusks to Dr. V. Sterki, New Philadelphia, Ohio, for examination, and
a few slugs to Mr. H. A. Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia.

Material has been supplied by the Division of Plants for special
systematic or morphological study to the following: Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew, England, 22 specimens; Dr. T. Maxwell Masters,
London, England, 18 specimens; C. De Candolle, Geneva, Switzer-
land, 23 specimens; Prof. B. L. Robinson, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
537 specimens; Mr. C. 8S. Sargent, Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts, 59
specimens; Dr. George Davenport, Medford, Massachusetts, 3 speci-
mens; Dr. J. K. Small, Botanical Garden, New York City, 15 speci-
mens; Prof. L. M. Underwood, Columbia University, New York City,
10 specimens; Mr. B. D. Gilbert, Clayville, New York, 88 specimens;
Mr. W. Miller, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, 25 specimens;
‘Mr. F. W. Waugh, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont, 5
specimens; Prof. William Trelease, St. Louis, Missouri, 252 speci-
62 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

mens; Dr. N. M. Glatfelter, St. Louis, Missouri, 8 specimens; Mr.
H. C. Irish, St. Louis, Missouri, 2 specimens; Mr. D. T. MacDougal,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, 9 specimens; Prof. E. L. Greene, Catholic
University, Washington, District of Columbia, 57 specimens; Mr.
H. O. Hall, Army Medical Museum, Washington, District of Colum-
bia, 14 specimens; Mr. Theodor Holm, Washington, District of
Solumbia, 263 specimens; Mrs. M. R. McConnell, Washington, Dis-
trict of Columbia, 6 specimens.

Several specimens of chalcedony have been sent to Mr. J. 5S. Diller,
of the U. S. Geological Survey, for use in connection with his investi-
gations, and thin sections of rocks have been supplied to Prof. B. K.
Emerson, of Amherst College.

Specimens of the teeth of Paleozoic sharks have been lent to Dr.
C. R. Eastman, of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and a number of fossils to Prof. J. W. Beede, of the
University of Kansas, for use in connection with the preparation of
a monograph on the fossils of the Upper Carboniferous strata of
Nebraska and Kansas.

COOPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT.

As in past years, much valuable material has been received from
several departments and bureaus of the Government, notably the
Department of Agriculture, the U. 8. Geological Survey, and the U.S.
Fish Commission, under all of which extensive explorations into the
resources of this country are continuously in progress. The collec-
tions derived from this source are enumerated in the List of Accessions
(Appendix II), and those of special interest are also discussed in the
reports of the head curators. ;

In this connection reference should be made to the services rendered
by those curators and custodians who receive no compensation from
the Museum. There are now about thirty of these honorary officers,
the majority of whom are in the employ of other branches of the Gov-
ernment, and the assumption of the additional duties which they vol-
untarily perform in this connection is only rendered possible through
the courtesy of the heads of the several departments and bureaus. In
accepting the care and development of the collections placed in their
charge, they are called upon in most cases to undertake a large amount
of arduous routine work for which the Museum has not the means for
engaging paid assistants.

INFORMATION FURNISHED.

Temporary accessions, consisting almost entirely of material sent
to the Museum for identification, have been received to the number of
518 (numbers 5070 to 5587). Such specimens are usually returned to
the senders unless used up in analysis or found desirable for addition
to the collections. The amount of time consumed by members of the
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 63

scientific staff in making these identifications is necessarily very great,
and has proved especially so in the Divisions of Insects and Geology.
Many requests for technical information are received daily. When
these relate to subjects coming within the scope of the activities of the
Museum, as is very generally the case, they are promptly complied
with, though the public little realizes the amount of work which this
involves.
PUBLICATIONS.

_ The publications of the Museum issued and distributed during the
year were the Annual Report for 1896, together with the separates of
the several papers composing the appendix to the same; completed
volume 20 of the Proceedings (issued in August, 1898); the separate
editions of papers numbered from 1140 to 1178, inclusive, constituting
volume 21 of the Proceedings; and parts 2 and 3 of Bulletin 47, entitled
The Fishes of North and Middle America, by Drs. David Starr Jor-
dan and Barton Warren Evermann. Part 4 of this Bulletin, an atlas
of plates of fishes, is well under way.

The Annual Report for 1897 will be in two volumes, the second
volume being in the nature of a memorial to the late assistant secre-
tary, Dr. George Brown Goode. The proof reading of the first vol-
ume has been finished. The second volume and the Annual Report
for 1898 are both in the printer’s hands.

The Bibliography, forming Appendix IV of this volume, contains
a list of all papers based upon Museum material which have been
published during the year. The number of authors represented is 75
and the total number of titles given 318. The following table classi-
fies these papers in accordance with the subjects treated:

Papers by

Subject. ‘ihseun ee Total.
~ | gators.

INGUTINIS LUA TON seer eae er ee a ae Reece meee cee cle 2 sis aewlne's coals s ine eile o= = Oe Bec ear er 3
PATE COLOR YY seme ee see aa eistelelale ners = wie iw =iaasaln’e sinie =je!s)e.e wins cide cise iain sieeieeisi~'s 6! | Se aacs
PBI Ly pe sate sei ein ieee a mia sre etele aetnie oa ne Imicib wo a w/nlelsjsieivie\owieia\= <inialsis rie nimivie eins Us eeeicocsee 1
EDU ULSI Tee ee cree ls irate ieee ayaa arena isin ioral om pes wintala sis iwiniviers eleteimaiesie 25 21 46
SO CHIN Warmers eats = eisaiete re oe a actnisinrs eleicietsiein'= w)srnlo eieleiaiminiwis/= sein i/o scieiwsiewiniaiaininine 7 3 10
Comparative anatomy....---...- hcine by ROS poe Ee OER ee EA eS at 1 2
SEFITO LOD Vice cece ee ieeen meraelaa ame sinieeiewecls Setac eis ainnecicrin sims aisiscinine 5 1 6
PHS LOS pepe eee tee tere Re rete ae eet tnneime eretaae state «cls (e) sib Iai is iciniste.w o/s =:siwlsve @sis)s\eleceleinlals 7 3 10
THESGHE othe aot aS RD ECS cE DEC ET CEOS As Gee eee IRC ESAS Ar cits 14 4 18
GOVT Lr ate StON Vs eee eee See ae access Ciareidials slo cite aries oe wecn we eve ceelnls PAA Bere spee 2
re OlOMVRem Een ree ne eee eee nie aa ceise ia ciel ioe cenmsciviare sels wia[S nin wisi inlay areas 5 3 8
STEERS OES ye ees rare ere ae eee renters Seal eats folorele oialsisn ale oo wiSininiele|als'oin\e erarainie’are 122 31 153
AVUSTENTYS 31S See oe eereie See te State sie ele Rene ce ialce oie ime eiciniaere ons winie wwieleia/clninine Calalelme 16 1 17
ARIPO RI INVERLCDRELES ee tee mcreiciee = eictelsiets siste c'-= wis [arcs eewiec ewmielelaw eimetieaeieciels 3 7 10
LiiGie iE st Qboccee nddness. CoctoeocoSde Ter ee BOSSE BES nBe co espe coecdaces Horestosor 1 1
FIV blared Ler arte oy eee aly AINE cclaic neta lalwicic o wis.wi sine ojsje vin/e Gln wivieie eleee ieee UBS esnasewae 13
Thro ndkesy Sime ok neriGl NEG CES So cedoge Sen eenaAt Hepa eOOO OCMC USS eccrine Beaeee 7 3 10
IMESCE IAM COUS me eeniee tee oe er eee caer cle cence cige'ss nclnosicelnan sane Dee Senses 2

BEC et ee eee ars SS tet ctarelcfareic ivi etek ene cere o cis sfe\sic. cise memes miata calejet! 239 79 318

64 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Twenty-two papers by members of the staff, based upon Museum
material, have with the approval of the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution been printed during the year in publications other than
those of the Museum. Their titles will be found in the Bibliography.
The names of the authors are as follows: Mr. Robert Ridgway, Dr.
C. W. Richmond, Mr. G. 8. Miller, jr., Mr. F. A. Lucas, Dr. J. N. Rose,
Mr. C. L. Pollard, Mr. Charles Schuchert, and Mr. B. A. Bean.

LIBRARY.

During the past year the Museum library acquired through pur-
chase, under a special act of Congress, the very important scientific
library of the late Dr. G. Brown Goode, consisting of about 2,900
bound volumes, 18,000 pamphlets, and 1,800 portraits, autographs,
and engravings. This collection, brought together at the expense of
much time and labor on the part of Doctor Goode, contains many rare
and valuable publications, and is especially rich in the literature of
museums and of fishes.

The overcrowded condition of the library has been somewhat,
though only temporarily, relieved by building for its use a gallery
in the West North Range.

Six hundred and forty books, 965 pamphlets, and 5,196 parts of
periodicals, including the regular Museum accessions and a small part
of the Goode library, have been catalogued, and progress has been
made in the transfer of titles to the new catalogue cards. From the
accessions to the Smithsonian library 231 books, 649 pamphlets, and
8,616 parts of periodicals have been temporarily installed in the
Museum. About 16,000 books and pamphlets were borrowed during
the year, about one-third for the use of the sectional libraries. Among
the purchases for the year have been a large number of works relating
to the natural history of Cuba, Porto Rico, and the Philippine Islands.
The number of books bound at the Government Printing Office was 441.

Three additional sectional libraries have been authorized, the list
now standing as follows:

Administration. Marine invertebrates.
Anthropology. Medicine.

Biology. Mesozoic fossils.

Birds. Mineralogy.

Botany. Mollusks.

Comparative anatomy. Oriental antiquities.
Editorial. Paleobotany
Ethnology. Parasites.

Fishes. Photography.

Geology. Prehistoric archeology.
History. Reptiles.

Insects. Stratigraphic paleontology.

Mammals, Technology.
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 65

EXPLORATIONS.

Explorations yielding materials of much value have been conducted
by members of tbe scientific staff of the Museum and by others. The
importance of giving early attention to the investigation of the eth-
nology and natural history of the territories recently acquired by the
United States was fully realized, but the lack of means has prevented
any considerable inquiries in that direction.

In the interest of the Department of Anthropology, Mr. W. H.
Holmes, head curator, visited California in September, 1898, and
secured a valuable series of objects illustrating the ethnology and
archeology of that State. The auriferous gravel region of Calaveras
and Tuolumne counties was studied, and many stone implements, sup-
posed to have a bearing upon the occupation of that area by Tertiary
man, were obtained. The ancient soapstone quarries and two prehis-
toric burial places in Santa Catalina Island were examined, and a num-
ber of relics were taken from the latter. The ethnological collection
brought home by Mr. Holmes consisted in greater part of examples of
the basketry, implements, ete., of the Pomo, Digger, and Tulare
Indians.

Mr. Holmes also spent the month of April, 1899, in Mexico, where
he obtained an important collection from the site of the ancient Aztec
obsidian mines in the State of Hidalgo, besides a number of relics from
the ancient cities of San Juan Teotihuacan and Xochicalco.

The autumn of 1898 and a part of the following winter were spent
in Cuba by Mr. Paul Beckwith, of the Division of History, with the
object of gathering material of historical interest relating to the war
with Spain. He was successful in obtaining many valuable objects
and also in enlisting the cooperation of military men and others in con-
tinuing the collecting.

Dr. George F. Becker, of the United States Geological Survey, for
which he has been carrying on investigations in the Philippine Islands,
has kindly agreed to look after the interests of the Museum in the
same region.

Mr. J. B. Hatcher, sent to Patagonia on an extensive scientific mis-
sion by Princeton University, has also entered into an arrangement
to supply ethnological material to the National Museum, and one
important lot has been received from him.

In May, 1899, Dr. Walter Hough was detailed to carry on ethno-
botanical researches in Mexico in connection with certain explorations
by the Division of Botany in charge of Dr. J. N. Rose. Earlier in
the year Doctor Hough had made a collection of potters’ tools and sev-
eral hundred pieces of pottery in West Virginia.

Mr. E. W. Nelson, while on a botanical expedition to Mexico, under

‘the Department of Agriculture, secured a large number of archzeologi-

NAT MUS 99 5

66 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

‘al and ethnological objects, which were purchased by the Museum.
Dr. Edward Palmer, also exploring in Mexico for the same depart-
ment, made collections for the Museum. Dr. Roland Steiner, of
Grovetown, Georgia, conducted extensive explorations in aboriginal
quarries, workshops, and village sites near the mouth of the Little
Kiokee River, Georgia, where he obtained many thousands of speci-
mens, which will be included in the collection now being acquired by
the Museum.

Among the explorations which yielded important results to the
Department of Biology, those carried on in connection with the cruise
of the steamer /7sh /lawk to Porto Rico by the naturalists of the U.S.
Fish Commission and by Mr. A. B. Baker, of the National Zoological
Park, are especially worthy of mention. Of mollusks the Museum
received some 5,000 specimens, representing about 400 species, many
of which were rare and some undescribed. ‘There were also large
series of other marine and fresh-water invertebrates, about 180 birds,
200 reptiles and batrachians, and 200 bats.

A large and important series of mammals was collected for the
Museum in Sweden, Germany, Belgium, and Switzerland by Mr. J. A.
Loring, of Owego, New York. Mr. Dall De Weese, who visited
Alaska during the summer of 1898, obtained for the Museum several
specimens of the Alaska moose and a large number of the wild white
sheep of that Territory.

Ornithological collections received at the Museum were made as
follows: by Dr. E. A. Mearns, U.S. A., in Texas; by Mr. Paul D.
Bergen and Mr. George D. Wilder, in China; by Mr. Outram Bangs,
in Colombia; by Mr. J. Hornung, in the Western United States; by
Mr. R. C. MeGregor, in California; by Mr. Eugene Coubeaux, in the
Northwest Territory, Canada.

A large series of reptiles and batrachians collected by field parties
of the U. S. Fish Commission has been turned over to the Museum.
This collection embraces a great deal of valuable material for the
study of geographic distribution and individual variation, and includes
a unique specimen of a discoglossoid toad,’ the first member of this
suborder which has been discovered in the Western Hemisphere. Col-
lections of fishes resulting from explorations in the Northern Pacific
Ocean, Alaska, Kamchatka, Lake Superior, and Florida have also been
transferred by the Fish Commission. Fishes obtained by Mr. Chaf-
fanjon in northern and central Asia were received from the Museum
of Natural History at Paris.

The Division of Marine Invertebrates has been enriched by material
collected by Dr. T. H. Bean and Mr. B. A. Bean, on Long Island;.
by Miss Mary J. Rathbun, at Grand Manan, New Brunswick; by Mr.

1 Described in Proceedings paper No. 1178, by Dr. Leonhard Stejneger.
49%,

ef.

“A”

~ ee ES BG

$e. 4

REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 67

William Palmer and Mr. Paul Bartsch, in the Dismal Swamp, Virginia;
by Mr. Haroid Heath, in Monterey Bay, California, and by the Bio-
logical Laboratory, at Cold Spring Harbor, New York.

Mr. August Buseck, of the Department of Agriculture, who accompa-
nied the Fish Commission expedition to Porto Rico, obtained there a val-
uable collection of insects, which has been transferred to the Museum.
Agents of the Department of Agriculture, collecting in Mexico, have
contributed small numbers of mollusks, some of which are valuable in
character.

At the close of the year Dr. J. N. Rose was engaged in botanical
work in Mexico. Mr. Walter Evans, who visited Alaska for the
Department of Agriculture, brought back with him a fine series of
plants, which has been transferred to the Museum. The explorations
by members of the Biological Survey of the same department, chiefly
in the far West, have added much valuable material to the Herbarium.
Important collections in botany have been made in Europe by Mr. W.
T. Swingle and Mr. D. G. Fairchild. A number of Mexican plants
collected by Mr. E. W. Nelson have been obtained by purchase.

The Department of Geology acquired an extensive series of Upper
Silurian fossils, collected in the vicinity of Lockport, New York, for
the Museum by Mr. H. E. Dickhaut, of the U. S. Geological Survey;
and a large lot of Hamilton corals from near lowa City, and Kinder-
hook corals from the vicinity of Burlington, in the State of Iowa, col-
lected by Mr. Paul Bartsch.

Explorations by the Geological Survey have been illustrated by two
collections of fossil plants, one representing the Lower Coal Measure,
of Henry County, Missouri; the other the Carboniferous formation in
the vicinity of McAlester, Indian Territory. Both of these lots have
been described by Mr. David White, whose papers will be published
by the Survey.

Geological material obtained in Europe by Mr. F. W. Crosby has
been added to the collection. |

Collectors’ outfits.—Outtits have been furnished to the following
persons, who have undertaken to collect material for the Museum:
Mr. J. S. Holmes, Bowmans Bluff, North Carolina; Mr. D. W.
Prentiss, jr., Washington, District of Columbia; Dr. E. A. Mearns,
U. S. A.; Lieut. J. W. Daniel, Lynchburg, Virginia; Mr. Milton
Whitney, Department of Agriculture; Mr. M. C. Long, Kansas City,
Missouri; Dr. B. W. Evermann, U. 8. Fish Commission; Rey. Paul D.
Bergen, Chefoo, China; Mr. A. B. Baker, National Zoological Park;
Lieut. H. E. Wetherill, Manila, Philippine Islands; Commander
George E. Ide, U. S. N., Brooklyn Navy-Yard, New York; Sir Charles
Eliot, British commissioner to Samoa; Commander J. C. Cantwell,
U. S. N., Seattle, Washington; Mr. Leon J. Guthrie, Willemstad,
68 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Curacao, West Indies; Capt. A. C. Hansard, Lonquillo, Porto Rico;
Mr. F. J. Tingley, Kingston, Jamaica; Mr. W. B. Stockman, Havana,
Cuba; Mr. James H. Kimball, Roseau, Dominica, West Indies; Mr.
E. T. Giers, Port of Spain, Trinidad; Mr. P. McDonough, Bridge-
town, Barbados; Mr. W. Randall, Santiago, Cuba; Mr. George Kings-
bury, Basse-Terre, St. Kitts, West Indies; Mr. Robert Stein, Sydney,
Nova Scotia. Outfits were also furnished to the following members
of the Museum staff: Dr. F. W. True, Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr., Miss
M. J. Rathbun, Mr. William Palmer, Mr. Paul Bartsch, Mr. D. G.
Fairchild, and Dr. J. N. Rose.

TAXIDERMY AND OSTEOLOGY.

Eighty specimens in the flesh, consisting of 54 mammals, 15 birds,
and 1i reptiles, have been received during the year, a large portion
having come from the National Zoological Park. The skins of most
of these were prepared for the study series, and skeletons were saved
of an elephant, a sea lion, a beaver, and several of the birds and
reptiles. The accessions also included 94 mammal skins, which came
either dry, fresh, or salted. The number of mammal skins mounted
for exhibition purposes was 36.

Besides the above the taxidermic work has included the renovation
of a large number of specimens in the divisions of mammals, birds,
and reptiles, with reference more especially to the exhibition series,
which are being rearranged and placed in more acceptable condition
for the public use. The collections in these and other divisions of
zoology which were displayed at the Trans-Mississippi Exposition,
have been unpacked, renovated, and added to the exhibition series.

The total number of osteological specimens prepared was 1,528,
consisting of 1,504 mammal skulls and skeletons, the skeletons of 14
birds, 3 reptiles, 3 fishes, and 4 miscellaneous objects.

PHOTOGRAPHY.

Mr. T. W. Smillie, photographer, reports that 473 negatives, 582
platinum prints, 123 silver prints, and 18 cyanotypes have been made
during the year. Several collectors have received instruction in the
photographic laboratory, and outfits for field work have been fur-
nished them. Mr. Smillie has continued to act as chairman of the
United States Civil Service Board on Photography.

EXPOSITIONS.

Trans- Mississippi and International Faxposition.—The Exposition
opened at Omaha on June 1, 1898, and continued for five months.
I ,
The Annual Report for 1898 contains a brief reference to the exhibits
REPORT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 69

displayed by the Museum, while a more extended account will appear
in the Smithsonian Report for 1899.

Pan-American Exposition, Buffalo.—By act of Congress approved
March 3, 1899, the sum of $300,000 has been appropriated for a Grov-
ernment exhibit at the Pan-American Exposition to be held at Buffalo
in 1901, besides an additional sum of $200,000 for the erection of a
building. ,.Dr. F. W. True, executive curator, has been designated
as the representative of the Smithsonian Institution and National
Museum on the Government board of management, and Mr. W. V.
Cox as chief special agent.

Ohio Centennial Exposition.—An appropriation similar to that for
the Pan-American Exposition has also been made by Congress for a
Government exhibit and building at the Ohio Centennial Exposition,
to be held at Toledo in 1902 or 1903, as may be determined upon here-
after. This appropriation is contingent, however, upon a grant of
$500,000 to the Exposition by the Ohio State legislature and the rais-
ing of the same amount by subscription.

Mention may here be made of the National Electric Light Exposi-
tion in New York City in 1899, where the Museum was represented
by a number of models of electrical apparatus belonging to the Henry
collection.

NECROLOGY.

Dr. Othniel Charles Marsh, Honorary Curator of the collection of
Vertebrate Fossils in the National Museum, died at his home in New
Haven, Connecticut, on March 18, 1899. Dr. Marsh had held the
position of professor of paleontology in Yale University since 1866.
He was born in Lockport, New York, in 1831. After being gradu-
ated from Yale in 1860 he spent five years in further study in the
Sheffield Scientific School and in Germany. His explorations of the
extensive fossil deposits of the West were begun in 1868. These led
him into wholly unknown fields, and the record of his work from the
time of his first connection as a professor with Yale University until
his death forms a most important part of the history of recent
progress in paleontological research.

Many valuable works embodying the results of his investigations
have been published, and others were left in an advanced stage.

In 1876 Doctor Marsh was elected president of the American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science, and in 1883 he became presi-
dent of the National Academy of Sciences, a position which he held
during two terms, or until 1895. He was connected with the U. 5.
Geological Survey, as paleontologist, for many years. In 18/7 a
medal was granted him by the Geological Society of London for
most distinguished researches in geology and paleontology. He was

v
70 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

a member of many scientific societies both in this country and abroad.
The University of Heidelberg conferred upon him in 1886 the
degree of Doctor of Philosophy, and Harvard University about the
same time gave him the degree of Doctor of Laws. He became a
correspondent of the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of France
in 1898, and as winner of the Cuvier prize he was the recipient of
one of the greatest honors ever conferred upon an American scientific
man.

Through the influence of Doctor Marsh, his uncle, George Peabody,
made gifts to Yale University which resulted in the establishment of
the Peabody Museum.
APPENDIX I.

THe MusEuM STAFF.
[June 30, 1899. ]

8. P. Langley, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Keeper Ex-Officio.
Richard Rathbun, Assistant Secretary.
Frederick W. True, Executive Curator.

SCIENTIFIC STAFF.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
W. H. Holmes, Head Curator.
(a) Division of Ethnology: O.T. Mason, Curator; Walter Hough, Assistant Cura-
tor; F. H. Cushing, Collaborator; J. W. Fewkes, Collaborator.
(b) Division of Historic Archxology: Paul Haupt, Honorary Curator; Cyrus
Adler, Honorary Assistant Curator; I. M. Casanowiez, Aid.
(c) Division of Prehistoric Archxology: Thomas Wilson, Curator.
(d) Division of Technology (Mechanical phases): J. E. Watkins, Curator; George
C. Maynard, Aid.
Section of Electricity: G. C. Maynard, Custodian.
(e) Division of Graphic Arts: S. R. Koehler, Honorary Curator,
Section of Photography: T. W. Smillie, Custodian.
(f) Division of Medicine: J.M. Flint, U.S. N., Honorary Curator.
(g) Division of Religions:
Section of Historic Religious Ceremonials; Cyrus Adler, Custodian.
(h) Division of History and Biography:
Section of American History, A. H. Clark, Custodian; Paul Beckwith,
Aid.
DrePARTMENT OF BroLoGy:
Frederick W. True, Head Curator.
(a) Division of Mammals: Frederick W. True, Acting Curator; G. 8. Miller, jr.,
Assistant Curator; Marcus W. Lyon, jr., Aid.
(b) Division of Birds: Robert Ridgway, Curator; Charles W. Richmond, Assist-
ant Curator; J. H. Riley, Aid.
Section of Birds’ Eggs: William L. Ralph, Custodian.
(c) Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Leonhard Stejneger, Curator.
(d) Division of Fishes: Tarleton H. Bean, Honorary Curator; Barton A. Bean,
Assistant Curator.
(e) Division of Mollusks: William H. Dall, Honorary Curator; C.T. Simpson, Aid;
Paul Bartsch, Aid.
(f) Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, Honorary Curator; W. H. Ashmead,
Assistant Curator; R. P. Currie, Aid.
Section of Hymenoptera: W.H. Ashmead, in charge.
Section of Myriapeda: O. F. Cook, Custodian.
Section of Diptera: D. W. Coquillett, Custodian.
Section of Coleoptera: E. A. Schwarz, Custodian.
Section of Lepidoptera: Harrison G. Dyar, Custodian.
Section of Arachnida: Nathan Banks, Custodian.
72 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

DEPARTMENT OF BroLocy—Continued.

(y) Division of Marine Invertebrates: Richard Rathbun, Honorary Curator; J. E.
Benedict, First Assistant Curator; Miss M. J. Rathbun, Second Assist-
ant Curator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: C. W. Stiles, Custodian.

(h) Division of Comparative Anatomy: Frederic A. Lucas, Curator.

(i) Division of Plants (National Herbarium): Frederick V. Coville, Honorary Cura- —
tor; J. N. Rose, Assistant Curator; C. L. Pollard, Assistant Curator.

Section of Forestry: B. E. Fernow, Honorary Curator.

Section of Cryptogamic Collections: O. F. Cook, Honorary Assistant
Curator.

Section of Algze: W. T. Swingle, Custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, Custodian.

Associates in Zoology (Honorary): Theodore N. Gill, C. Hart Merriam,
R. E. C. Stearns.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY:

George P. Merrill, Head Curator.

(a) Division of Physical and Chemical Geology (Systematic and Applied): George P.
Merrill, Curator; W. H. Newhall, Aid.

(b) Division of Mineralogy: F. W. Clarke, Honorary Curator; Wirt Tassin, Assist-
ant Curator; L. T. Chamberlain, Honorary Custodian of Gems and Pre-
cious Stones.

(c) Division of Stratigraphic Paleontology: Charles D. Walcott, Honorary Curator;

Charles Schuchert, Assistant Curator.

Section of Vertebrate Fossils: F. A. Lucas, Acting Assistant Curator.

Section of Invertebrate Fossils: Paleozoic, Charles Schuchert, Custodian;
Carboniferous, George H. Girty, Custodian; Mesozoic, T. W. Stanton,
Custodian; Cenozoic, W. H. Dall, Associate Curator.

Section of Paleobotany: Lester F. Ward, Associate Curator; A. C. Peale,
Aid; F. H. Knowlton, Custodian of Mesozoic Plants: David White,
Custodian of Paleozoic Plants.

Associate in Paleontology (Honorary): Charles A. White.

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.

Chief Clerk, W. V. Cox.

Chief of Buildings and Superintendence, J. KE. Watkins.
Chief of Correspondence and Documents, R. I. Geare.
Photographer, T. W. Smillie.

Registrar, 8. C. Brown.

Disbursing Clerk, W. W. Karr.

Property Clerk, W. A. Knowles (Acting).

Librarian, Cyrus Adler.

Assistant Librarian, N. P. Scudder.

Editor, Marcus Benjamin.
APPENDIX II.

List or ACCESSIONS DURING THE FIscAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899.

[All accessions marked

“OQ” indicate material obtained primarily for exhibition at the Omaha

Exposition. |

Aspsorr, Miss Mri, Vineland, N. J.:
Small collection of medicinal plants.
34270.

ABEL, J. C., Lancaster, Pa.: Collection of
rude chipped implements from the
Conestoga Hills near Lancaster (34256 ) ;
33 archeological objects from the same
locality (34949).

Apams, Harry, Mason City, W. Va.:
Eighty-seven archeological objects
from Mason County. 33752.

Apser, Dr. Cyrus, Smithsonian Institu-
tion: Engraved portraits of Ben Jon-
son, Ernest Mach, and Ernest Haeckel
(34328); pictures of Ramsgate, Eng-
land, containing views of churches and
synagogues (34627).

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT oF, Hon.

James Wilson, Secretary: Two thou-
sand two hundred and twenty-six

Mexican insects collected by Prof. |

Herbert Osborn (33999); 6 speci-
mens of slugs found on tobacco
plants (34277); South American in-
sects collected by Prof. L. Bruner
(34348); 9 specimens of Gelechia sol-
anella (34416); large collection of
Odonata, representing many species
new to the Museum collection
(34572); land shells from Mexico
(34950); 1,878 specimens of Diptera
(35025).

Deposited in the National Herbarium:
Three specimens of a rare fungus
from Arizona (34152); 130 plants
collected by F. V. Coville in Wash-
ington (34259); plant from the
grounds of the Department of Agri-
culture (34275); dried plants from
Oregon and Washington collected by
FE. P. Sheldon (84298); 3 specimens
of moss from California and Mary-

AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT oF—Cont’d.
Deposited in the National Herbarium—
Continued.
land (34450); 2 type specimens of
plants collected by A.B. Eaton in
Newburyport, Mass. (84526); 2
plants from Bering Sea and Florida
(34877); plants obtained by Dr. A.
Koenig, Plum Township, Pa.
(34915); 398 plants (34981); speci-
men of Ribes divaricatum collected
by W.F. Hebert (35009); received
through A. B. Eaton, 2 plants from
the conservatory of the Department
of Agriculture (35138). (See under
G. M. Bradford, B. H. Brodnax, L.
Bruner, C. B. Bryan, Frank Burton,
F. V. Coville, F. W. Cusack, Dr. W.
G. Deitz, Anthony Dignowitz, A. B.
Eaton, W. H. Evans, W. W. Harring-
ton, W. F. Heathman, W. F. He-
bert, G. Hogan, A. J. Johnson, A.
Koenig, N. B. Lukenty, W. W. Nor-
man, Herbert Osborn, J. C. Parlin,
C. C. Plitt, E. N. Plank, W. Rosalsky,
W.W. Rowles, J. Ford Sempers, C. L.
Shear, E. P. Sheldon, Aug. Steinman,
F. W. Thurow, 8. M. Tracy.
Akron Porrery Company, Akron, Ohio:
Clay. 34174.
ALBANY Museum. (See under Grahams-
town, South Africa.)

| ALEXANDER, E. P., Greytown, Nicaragua:

Four bats in alcohol, from Greytown
(purchase) (33781); snake (gift) (83782) ;
seeds of Contre-veneno, supposed to be
an antidote for snake bites (gift)
(34631) .

ATMEN, C: He, Hon.
Department. )

ALLEN, Dr. J. A. (See under American
Museum of Natural History. )

(See under Navy

73
74

ALLEN, J. E., Orlando, Fla.: Specimen of
Lycosa carolina Hentz. 34265.

ALLEN, O. D., Ashford, Wash.: One hun-
dred and fifteen plants from Washing-
ton. Purchase. 34563.

AMERICAN Museum or Natura History,
New York City, received through J. H.
Winser: Six photographs of Eskimos
obtained by Lieutenant Peary in 1896
(gift) (84040) ; received through Dr. J.
A. Allen, 15 mammals from Trinidad
(exchange) (34444) ; collection of eth-
nological objects obtained from the
Northern Eskimos, Port Clarence
(exchange) (35098).

AnpERSON, SAMUEL, White Sulphur
Springs, Mont.: Ores, coal, and other
material. 34656. (O.)

Anprus, F. J., Elkton, Oreg.: Two species

of Anodonta from Oregon (33927); 4 |
species of fresh-water bivalves from |

Oregon (34135). z
ANGELL, J. P., Pine Bluff, Ark.: Tachinid

fly (34022); specimens of Cherocampa |

tersa Land Arctia nais Say (34163).

ANGELL, Miss Linum, Orange, N. J.:
Thirty-five specimens of violets from
New Jersey. 35147.

ANGELL, M., Pine Bluff, Ark.: Cicindel- |

lid, Tetracha carolina Linné. 33922.

Antuony, A. W., Portland, Oreg.: Eight
specimens of Peromyscus austerus.
34349.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL Socrery OF W ASHING-
ton, Washington, D. C., received
through F. W. Hodge, Curator: Bronze
medal presented to the Society by the

Numismatic and Antiquarian Society |

of Montreal. 33798.
Armstrona, F. B., Corpus Christi, Tex.:
Birdskin, and skin and skull ofaskunk,

representing the genus Spilogale. Pur-_
chase. 935111.

Armstronc, L. K., Spokane, Wash.:
Building stones, slate, and tale. 384663.
(O.)

Army Mepican Museum. (See under |

War Department. )
Arno.p, E., Battle Creek, Mich.: Seven
birdy’ skins from northwestern Canada.
33821.

ArnoLtp, Ropert, Mathias Point, Va.: |
Larva or caterpillar of Citheronia regalis |

Fabr. 33961.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

ARNOLD, W., St. Simons Mills, Ga.: Pho-
tograph of the skeleton of a whale
( Mesoplodon bidens). 33971.

AsumMEap, W. H., U. S. National Mu-
seum: One hundred and two species
of Algee from England, Scotland, and
Florida (33834); Ashmead collection of
insects, consisting of 60,000 specimens.
(35236. )

Asumun, Rey. E. H., Albuquerque, N.
Mex.: Land shells from New Mexico.
34217, 34646, 35020.

AVONDALE LIME AND SronE CoMPANY,
Philadelphia, Pa.: Limestone used for
making quicklime. 34144.

Ayres, Dr., San Juan, Porto Rico: Span-
ish hand-press. (See under Porto Rico

| Collection.). 35201,

| Ayres, Mrs. F. D., Peacock, N. C.: Sad-

dle-back caterpillar, Empretia stimulea

Clemens. 34036.

| Ayson, L. T., Wellington, New Zealand:
Seventeen birds’ skins. Exchange.
34453.

Azrec Cius, New York City, received
through De Lancey Floyd-Jones: Aztec
Club medal, in commemoration of the
fiftieth anniversary of the Aztec Club.
34598.

Bacur, Ren&, Washington, D. C.: Six

| photographs of Lapp reindeer people,

Alaska. 34967.
_ Backus, CLeo, Port Townsend, Wash.,
‘received through O. E. Shaffer: Speci-
men of Rhamphocottus richardsoni from
Port Townsend Bay. 34947.
| Baawet1,G.D., Fort Assinniboine, Mont. :
Collection of objects used during the
Spanish-American war. 34068.
Baker, A. B., National Zoological Park:
Vertebrate fossils (34542) ; collection of
natural history specimens, rocks, ores,
and a rope slipper from Porto Rico
(34779).
| Baxer, Prof. C. F., Auburn, Ala.: Six
| specimens of Umbelliferee (338817);
large collection of insects containing
| many type specimens (33963); 6 plants
| from Colorado (34008); large collection
| of Hymenoptera, consisting of about
|
|

24,000 specimens and including many
new species (34091); crabs from the
| Gulf of Mexico (34047); specimen of
| Uca mina (34132); collection of insects
LIST OF

Baker, Prof. C, F.—Continued.
representing about 13,000 specimens
(34187); a large collection of Siphon-
aptera, consisting of about 284 glass
slides mounted in balsam (34228) ; col-
lection of about 16,000 specimens of
Homoptera, birds, and birds’ eggs ob-
tained principally from Colorado, and a
skin of Spermophile (Spermophilus ele-
gans) (34272).

Baker, Prof. C. F., St. Croix Falls, Wis. :
Crustaceans, mollusks, sea-urchins,
and a fish from Santa Marta, Colom-
bia and Haiti. Exchange. 34570.

Baker, Dr. Frep., San Diego, Cal.: Two
species of land and marine shells from
South Coronado Island, Lower Cali-
fornia (34630); 13 specimens of mol-
lusks belonging to the genus Vitrinella
from California (34720).

Baker, J. G., Royal Gardens,
England, received through Dr. W. T.
Thiselton-Dyer, director: A large and
valuable collection of plants, containing
about 5,000 specimens and constituting

Kew,

a part of Mr. Baker’s private collec-

tion. 34652.
Baker, Dr. J. W., U.S. Navy, Erie, Pa.:
Imago and pupa cases of May-fly, Hex-

agenia limbata Pictet (383771); Coccin- |

ellid beetle, Anatis 15-punctata Oliy.
(33873).

Baker University, Baldwin, Kans., re-
ceived through C. 8. Parmenter: Forty
specimens of insects. 35028.

Batpwin, H. O., New Brighton, Pa.:
Unfinished arrowhead and a Carbonif-
erous plant found near the junction of
Beaver River with the Ohio River.
395013.

Batpwin, Water, Mount Vernon, Ind. :
Badge of the First Brigade, Second
Division, Seventh Army Corps, U. 8.
Volunteers worn by the donor during
the Cuban campaign of the Spanish-
American war. 34968.

Bart Brorners, Cocoanut Grove, Fla.:
Photograph ofa specimen of Lady-fish,
Albula vulpes, from Biscayne Bay.
34804.

Bawurncer, R. H., Seattle, Wash.: Sam-
ple of diatomaceous earth. 34261.

ACCESSIONS.

75

Bauzer, S. M., New York City: Auto-
mobile carriage made in 1894 (gift);
extra engine accompanying the carriage
(deposit). 35051.

Banas, OurraM, Boston, Mass.: Four

parrot skins from South Americ:

(gift) (34014); specimen of Oryzomys

obscurior (gift) (34078); 54 birds’ skins

from South America (gift) (84098);

14 small mammals from Colombia (ex-

change) (34477); 18 mammals (gift)

(34784).

anaes & Gaynor, Fayetteville, N. Y.:

Cement rock. 34248.

Banks, NarHan, Department of Agricul-
ture: Four named species of Myrme-
leonids, new to the Museum collection.

34043.

Bannine, Hancock, Los Angeles, Cal.:

Soapstone vessels from Avalon, Santa

Catalina Island, coast of California.

34715. (O.)

anninGc & Co., Los Angeles, Cal.: Soap-

stone and tale. 34536.

Barser, Mrs. A. A., Washington, D. C.:
Part of a weatherworn skull of a buf-

I

-_

Exchange.

B

oe

falo. 34079.
Barser, A. W., Washington, D. C.:
Leg bones of Hippotherium (84197);

large chipped implement of quartzite
from the shore of White River, South
Dakota, skull from near the Bad Lands,
and 6 fragments of a peculiar concre-
tion from Rosebud Indian Reservation
(34910).

Barper, E. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Col-
lection of pottery and porcelains
(34791); collection of early American
pottery (34926). Purchase.

Barer, C. M., Rudioso, N. Mex.: Nine-
teen specimens of reptiles and batra-
chians from New Mexico. Purchase.
34617.

Barser, Hersert, Washington, D. C.:
Eight species of Odonata. 34577.

Barsour, E. H., University of Nebraska,
Lincoln, Nebr.: Concretions and min-
erals. 34785.

Bartow, Hon. A. D., City of Mexico,
Mexico, received through Department
of State: Mexican musical instrument,
34889,
76

Barwow, Cuestrer, Santa Clara, Cal.: Nine |

birds’ skins from California. 34004.
Barnuart, Dr. J. H., Tarrytown, N. Y.:
Plant, representing a new species of
Utricularia. 34888.
Barnum, Rev. FRaAncis,
University, Washington, D. C.:
mens of Dallia pectoralis and the Arctic

Georgetown
Speci-

form of Ten-spined Stickleback, Pygos- |

leus pungitius brachypoda. 34038.
Barr, J. A. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )
3arRETT, O. W., Museo de Tacubaya,
Tacubaya, D. F., Mexico: One hun-
dred and forty insects. (53897, 3

34334. )
Barrerr-Hamitron, G. EE. H., and O. H.

vot.

Jones: Collection of invertebrates, in- |

sects, and other specimens from Petro-
paulovski and Karaga Village, Kam-
chatka, and from the island of Karag-
hinsky, Bering Sea. 34286.
BaRRETT-StTRAIT, Miss C., Lancaster, 8. C.:

Unfinished banner-stone or butterfly

ornament from South Carolina. 35230.
Barrscu, Paut, U. 8. National Museum:
Two specimens of bat ( Lasiurus borealis)
from Missouri (34071); amphipods and
isopods from Iowa (54106); 72 speci-
mens of mammals from Burlington,
Towa (34154); mink (Putorius vison)
from Burlington, Iowa (34281); 4 tur-

tles and 2 frogs from Iowa (34413); |

natural history specimens and fossils
from Burlington and Iowa City (34699) ;
natural history specimens (54756) ;
turtle from Eastern Branch, District of
Columbia (35029) ; collection of isopods,
sponges, shells, fishes, and plants from
Virginia (35186).
3artTLerT, C. H., South
scribed wooden tablet. Deposit. 33980.

Baw, H. E., Washington, D. C.: Krag-
Jorgensen rifle cartridge issued during
Spanish-American war, Santiago de
Cuba. 33996.

Beacn, Sumner, Denton, Mont.: Four
arrow points and a shell bead found in
the Judith Basin, Fergus County,
Mont. Exchange. 34707.

Brave, C. D., Biltmore, N. C.: Two hun-
dred and ninety-five plants (84412); 4
specimens of violets (384451). Ex-
change.

Bend, Ind.: In-

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Beaut, Miss Fannin, Washington, D. C.:
Saddle once owned by General Grant
and deposited in the National Museum in
1867 by Gen. A.H.Markland. 34665.1

3nAM, C. C., Bluffton, Ind.: Two lizards,
representing the species Anolis copei and
Sceloporus siniferus trom Mexico. 34798.

3naAN, B. A., U. S. National Museum:
Collection of fishes, mammals, reptiles,
crustaceans, and insects from Long
Island, New York (33975); beetle
(34117); Purple Grackle (34213).

3EAN, Dr. T. H., Washington, D. C.:
Amphipods from Caledonia, N. Y.,
and Carolina, R. I. (83754); shells and
cases of caddis-fly larva (33759); col-
lection of lichens from Alaska and
Siberia obtained in 1880 (34470); 3
specimens of leeches, representing the
genus Branchellion taken from a Ray at
Southampton, N. Y. (34495). (See
under E. D. Merrill. )

Bean, Dr. T. H., and B. A. Bean, U.S.
National Museum: Collection of nat-
ural history specimens from Long Is-
land, obtained during the summer and
fall of 1898. 34283.

3earry, H. L., Bainbridge, N. Y.: Cuban
fractional currency used during Wey-
ler’s régime, 50 centavos, issued in
Habana, Cuba, May 15, 1896. 34783.

Beaupre, Epwinx, Portsmouth, Ontario,
Canada: Two specimens of Yellow-
throat, Geothlypis trichas, from Canada.
35195.

Becerra-MuNXoz, Dreco, Aibonito, P. R.:
Largeidol. (See under Porto Rico Col-
lection, 35201.)

3nckeR, G. F., Manila, P. I.: Skeleton of
a male Nigrito; skeleton of a female
Nigrito; skull of a Filipino, collected
near Nariveles. 34441.

3EcKWiTH, C. H., Omaha, Nebr.: Six
souvenir medals of the Trans-Missis-
sippi and International Exposition.
34310. (0.)

BeckwirtH, Pau, U.S. National Museum:
Regulation army canteen used during
the civil war, 1861-1865 (33853); 10
crabs, representing 2 species from San
Juan Bay, Porto Rico, and 20 bats from
Porto Rico (34792). (See under Nor-
folk Collection; Porto Rico Collection. )

1In view of certain satisfactory evidence submitted by Miss Beall in January, 1899, the ownership

vf the saddle is now vested in her name,
LIST OF

Brecuer, Dr. Coarues E., Yale Univer-
sity, New Haven, Conn.: Model of
specimen of Triarthrus becki; cast of
specimen of Arthrolycosa antiqua; 2
specimens of Llymocaris siliqua Beecher;
4 specimens of Tropidocaris bicarinata
Beecher, and 5 specimens of Lchinocaris

socialis Beecher. 34342.
Brrcner, W. L., Reading, Pa.: Specimen
of Actias luna Linnaeus. 34092.

Brepr, Prof. J. W., University of Kan-
sas, Lawrence, Kans.: Eight specimens
of Myalina swallowi from Turner, Kans.
(exchange), (34164); 10 specimens of
Pseudomonotis from the upper coal
measures of Kansas (gift) (84932).

Breer, Witiram. New Orleans, La.: En-
graved portrait of Pierre Margry. 34527.

Betty, Col. James, U. 8. A., War Depart-
ment, Washington, D. C.: Mounted
head of Alces Deposit.
34549.

Benepict, J. E., U.S. National Museum:
Bat (Lasiurus borealis) from Omaha,
Nebr. 34584.

BensaAmin, Mrs. Marcus, Washington, D.
C.: Ribbon badge of the Grand Com-
mandery, South Dakota, at the grand
encampment of the Knights of Pythias,
Pittsburg, Pa., October 11-14, 1898;
badge of jurors at the Trans-Mississippi
and International Exposition; medal
worn at the Peace Jubilee, Philadel-
phia, October 26, 1898, and badge and
gilt medal of the Peace Jubilee, Span-
ish-American war, Philadelphia, 1898
(34721); 3 specimens, in stone, of ani-
mals manufactured by the Union Stone-
ware Company, of Red Wing, Minn.
(84973).

Bennet, Gen. W. T., Ponce, P. R.: Span-
ish buttons, insignia worn on Spanish
summer helmets, and a ditty-bag dis-
tributed by the Red Cross Society to
the soldiers of the Porto Rican cam-
paign. (See under Porto Rico collec-
tion 35201. )

Brenton LEAD AND Zinc MINING ComPANy,
Benton, Wis.: Lead and zine ore. 34250.

Bercen, Rey. P. D., Chefoo, China:
Forty-eight birds’ skins and 2 mammal
skins from China. Exchange. 34573.

BerKELEY Sanp Company, Berkeley
Springs, W. Va.: Sand. 34222.

americanus.

ACCESSIONS.

(a

SERNADOU, Lieut. J.B. (See under Lieut.

H. C. Poundstone. )
3nrHEL, 1., Denver, Colo.: Ten plants.
33788.

Berne, §., Lewiston, Idaho: Toad (Bufo
columbiensis) (33852); specimen of
Japyx americana (34768).

3mymMER, A. R., Rocky Ford, Colo.: Two
rude arrow points and a small stone
pendant from near the Apiskapaw
River, Colorado. 34946.
310KMoRB, Prof. A. 8., American Museum
of Natural History, New York City:
Two mounted photographs of a mam-
moth skeleton in the Museum at St.
Petersburg, Russia. 34511.
3IEDERMAN, C. R., Gold Hill, Oreg.:
Grooved implement of sandstone
(33751); collection of insects (33772);
lizard (33825).
3IGNELL, G. C., Saltash, Cornwall, Eng-
land: Pupze of Pieres rape infested with
hymenopterous and dipterous para-
sites. 34888.

BiegnoLtp, L. B., Montesano, Wash.:
Specimen of Lpeira trifolium Hentz.
34303.

Bittmore Herparium, Biltmore, N.
Sixty-four specimens of violets.
change. 35134.

Binney, W. G., Burlington, N. J.: Ten
specimens of Polygyra columbiana from
San Mateo County, Cal. 34517.

BrotocicaL Lasorarory, Cold Spring, N.
Y.: Crustaceans. Exchange. 34016.

Brrp, Henry, Rye, N. Y.: Thirty-four
moths with pupze. 34637.

BisHop, Mrs. JosepHine, Albany, N. Y.:
Three photographs of the Cohoes mas-
todon. 34754.

BisHop, Dr. L. B., New Haven, Conn.:
Song Sparrow from North Dakota.
34033.

Brack Diamonp Mrinina Company, San
Francisco, Cal.: Sample of coal. 34220.

Buarr, R. A., Sedalia, Mo., received
through Charles Schuchert: Three
hundred specimens of Choteau fossils.
33745.

BuakE, W. P., Tucson, Ariz.: Rose-
colored tuft from Tucson Mountains,
Arizona. 35983.

Buss, E. W., Childersburg, Ala.: Moth
( Telea polyphemuez). 34991.

Cus

Ex-
78 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Buss, Mrs. 8., Bigbug, Ariz.: Specimen
of Plusiotis gloria Leconte. 34978.

Biur, A., Bureau of Mines, Toronto,
Canada: Corundum in granite from
eastern Ontario. 34893.

Borppte, J. F., Muscatine, Iowa: Speci-
mens of Unionidze (gift) (34273); 24
polished valves of shells of Unionidee, |
and iron concretions (exchange)
(34550); buttons manufactured from
fresh-water mussels (gift) (84750).

Boerraer, Dr.O. (See under Frankfurt-
am-Main, Museum  Senckenbergi-
anum. )

Bonnett, W. B., Macon, Ga.: Bauxite
from Demorest. 35014.

Boston Frrxnt Paper Company, Hallow-
ell, Me.: Garnets used for abrasive
purposes. 34331. |

Boucuner, A. V., Greensboro, Pa.: Salt |
glaze jar made in 1860 at the Boughner |
Pottery Works, and obtained by Dr. |
Walter Hough. 34054.

BouGHNER, CLAUDE, Greensboro, Pa.:
Glass bottle manufactured at the Albert |
Gallatin Glass Factory about the year
1803. Purchase. 34208.

BouGHNer, WILiIAM, Greensboro, Pa.:
Brown glaze jug made at the Boughner
Pottery Works in 1849, optained by Dr.
Walter Hough. 34055.

Bounps, J. M., Chepultepec, Ala.: Fos-
sils and fragments of soapstone. 34495.

Bouvier, E.L. (See under Paris, France,
Museé d’ Histoire Naturelle.)

Bowman, N. W., Massanetta Springs, |
Va.: Specimen of Dynastes tityus Lin- |
naeus. 33826.

Boyz, W. J., Brooklyn, N. Y.: Sample
of diatomaceous earth from Ireland.
34600.

Braprorp, Commander R. B., U.S. N.
(See under Navy Department. )

Braprorp, G. M., Bay City, Mich., re- |
ceived through Department of Agricul- |
ture: Plant. 33864.

BrRAENDLE, F. J., Washington, D. C.:
Eleven plants (84082); Yellow-bellied
Sapsucker, Sphyrapicus varius (34850).

BRAInarD, Lieut. F. R., U.S. N.: Car-
tridge case of shot fired from the

J.8.8. Uncas off Maya Point, Matanzas
Bay (gift) (384089); received through
Mrs. Ellen Brainerd Van Arsdale, flag |

BRiston, One (On ak.

Brarnarp, Lieut. F. R.—Continued.
of truce carried by Lieutenant Brain-
ard into Havana on May 15, 1898 (de-
posit) (34122).

BRANDEGEE, T. 8., San Diego, Cal.: Type
specimen of a plant (exchange ) (34087);
plant from lower California (gift)
(34528); plant from lower California
(exchange) (34587); 3 plants (ex-
change) (34675). :

| Branpt, E. 8., Navy Department: Mau-

ser rifle cartridge complete; from El
Caney, Santiago de Cuba. 33920.
BrRELSFoRD, W. H., U.S. National Mu-
seum: Brass number worn on the collar
of Spanish uniforms to designate the
regiments numerically. 34185.
Breton, Miss A. C., Mexico, Mexico:
Specimen of pottery, human bones, etc.,
from a burial place in Mexico (34171);
16 obsidian implements from Cerro de
Nabajas, Mexico (34487); small carved
stone frog from Mexico (35151).
Briees, Dr. A. A., East Andover, N. H.:
Five plants. 33914.
Briaes, C. F. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )
Brimitey, H. H. & C.S., Raleigh, N. C.:
Reptiles from New Mexico. 34383.
(See under New
York University. )
British Musreum. (See under London,
England. )

| Brirrs, Dr. J. H:, Clinton, Mo.: Unio,

representing a new species. 34360.

Brockett, Paut, U.S. National Museum:
““Green’s Arctic Lamp,’’ patent.
33978.

Bropnax, Dr. B. H., Brodnax, La.: Me-
dicinal plants (33809); specimen of Vel-
vet Ant or False Ant, Mutilla occidentalis
(34062); received through Department
of Agriculture, plant (35159).

Brower, J. V., St. Paul, Minn.: One hun-
dred and seventy-five chipped flint ob-
jectsfrom Kansas; also 2 bound volumes
containing descriptions of the same.
Exchange. 34670.

Brown, A. T., North Bend, Pa.: Rustic
cane carried by the donor through the
campaign of Santiago de Cuba, and
carved and lettered to illustrate events
connected with the campaign. 33912.
Returned.
LIST OF

Brown, H. E., Mendocino, Cal.: Thirteen
plants (gift) (84513); 175 plants (pur-
chase) (34761).

Brown, Mrs. J. C., New York City: Pho-
tograph of a New Guinea shield, and
photograph of an African shield. 35117.

Brown, Mrs. N. M., Ashtabula, Ohio: |
One thousand six hundred and eighty-
one plants collected by EK. W. Nelson
in Mexico. (83787, 33929, 34031, 34237).
Purchase.

Brown, W. L., Corona, Cal.: Four species
of insects. 34580.

Browne, H. H. (no address given): Speci-
men of Hydrometra lineata Say. 33747.

Browne, Mrs. William Henry. (See un- |
der National Society of the Colonial
Dames of America. )

Bruner, Prof. L., Lincoln, Nebr., received
through Dr. L. O. Howard: Collection |
of South American Orthoptera and Hy- |
menoptera from Argentina. Purchase. |
34229. (See under Agriculture, Depart- |
ment of. )

Brunerti, E., London, England: Two
hundred and ninety-six specimens of |

Diptera. Exchange. 34578.
Bruson, C. B., Fort McPherson, Ga.:
Moth. 33969.

Bryan, Rev. C. B., Hampton, Va., re-
ceived through Department of Agricul-
ture: Specimen of Myosurus sp. 35031.

Bryant, F.W., Ramona, Cal.: Specimens
of mollusks belonging to the genus
Truncatella. 34463.

Bryant, F. W., Ramona, Cal.: Shell from
New Mexico. 35017.

Buck, W. T., Freehold, N. J.: Grooved
axes, arrow points, and other objects.
34497.

BuLKiey, E. W., Brooklyn, N. Y.:
dicinal plants. 33810.

Burpen, C. E., Mount Pleasant, D. C.:
Nineteen specimens of Hymenoptera,
etc., including 5 species new to the
Museum collection (83774); 19 speci-
mens of Hymenoptera and Odonata
(33855); 7 dragon flies (33888); 2 speci-
mens of JLibellula plumbea Ulk and
Fronscolombia vinosa Say (34552).

Me-

Burtcu, Verpi, Penn Yan, N. Y.: Song
Sparrow (partial albino) from New York

ACCESSIONS.

(84215); 3 species of Unionidee (34475). |

79

Burron, Frank, Berwyn, Md., received
through the Department of Agricul-
ture: Two specimens of Silene dicho-
toma. 33790.

Busu, Mrs. A. E., San Jose, Cal.: Shells,
representing the genera Anodonta and

39071.

Busu, B. F., Courtney, Mo.: One hun-
dred and twenty-four plants. Pur-
chase. 35179.

Burrerwortn, JOHN, Shaw, nearOldham,
England: Sections of coal plants from

Sigarelus.

the Lancashire and Yorkshire coal
fields. 34248.

| Burrs, Epwarp, Kansas City, Mo.:
Twenty-seven specimens of Upper

Carboniferous fossils, representing 9
species. 34411.

CATRANS elie ten Cy Gre uWire Nee amt
Francisco, Cal.: Lacquered case con-
taining several hundred playing-cards
from Japan and 2 joints containing
gambling sticks from China. Purchase.
30141.

Cauuis, J. M., Pendleton, Ky., received
through Mrs. N. J. Whitesides: Crossed
guns: hat ornament of the regulation
pattern of the United States Army,
worn by the donor during the Santiago
campaign and at the assault on the
San Juan redoubts, July 1, 1898. 33896.

Cautmorg, ©. A., Santa Monica, Cal.:
Fifty-one specimens of Mucalyptus from

California. 34704.
CAMBRIDGE TILE MANUFACTURING Com-
PANY, Covington, Ky.: Thirty-five

specimens of art tiles. 35090.

CamMaAnn, Dr. D. M., New York City:
Specimen of Agrinoid, representing the
species Anomalagrion hastatum. 34864.

Camp, J. H., Lima, Ohio: Specimen of
Corydalis cornutus Linné (33800); speci-
mens of
(34961).

CAMPBELL, M. R. (See under Interior
Department, United States Geological
Survey. )

Cansy, W. M., Wilmington, N. C.:
Ninety-nine plants (34410); type speci-
men of a plant from Georgia (34941).
Exchange.

CARDENAS, AMADOR, received through
Prof. F. W. Clarke: Onyx from Jim-
ulco, Coahuila, Mexico. 34657. (O.)

Scalops aquaticus machrinus
80

CarintoiA, Austria: Freie Vereinigung
Tiroler Botaniker, Dillach im Ober-
drauthale, received through Hans Sim-
mer: 1,132 plants collected in Europe.
Exchange. 954515.

CARLGREN, Dr. Oscar.
holm, Sweden, Riksmuseum. )

(See underStock- |

|
CarMICHAEL, R. D., Meadow, Ala.: Two |

hundred rude chipped implements,
arrow points and other objects (34433) ;
77 chipped objects, principally rude
arrowheads (34669).

CARNEGIE Museum, Pittsburg, Pa., re-
ceived through E. B. Williamson: Two
specimens of Anodonta, 34404.

Carson, Maj. J. M., San Juan, P. R.: |

Pair of shoulder straps. (See under
Porto Rico Collection. 35201.)
Carter, W. A.
Phillips. )
Carre.ti, W.H., Buffalo, N. Y.: Centavo,
Spanish copper coin, recovered from
the wreck of the Spanish steamer Al-
phonso XII, sunk in Mariel Harbor,
Cuba. 34901.
CHAFFrANJON, M. (See under Paris, France,
Musée d’ Histoire Naturelle. )
CHANDLEE, W. E., Washington, D. C.:
One hundred and twelve South Amer-
ican photographs and pictures. 35099.

men of Rag-fish, Icosteus w#nigmaticus.
35119.

Cuapman, N. A., Portsmouth, Ohio: Teeth
of mammal found in an old Indian
village. 34786.

CHAPPELL, 8. B., Northport, N. Y.: Three
arrowheads. 34440.

Cueney, A. N. (See under Sportsman’s

(See under Dr. W. A. |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

CLAIBORNE, R. S.—Continued.
during the Cuban campaign (34848);
regulation army belt with three Spanish
cartridge boxes; letter head and illus-
trated card of the San Quentin Regi-
ment of Spanish Infantry, commemo-
rating the action in which the Cuban
general Maceo was killed (34861).

Ciapp, G. H., Pittsburg, Pa.: Thirty-six
species of land and fresh-water shells
from Java (34326); specimen of Poly-
gyra christyi from Tennessee (34585);
specimen of Gastrodonta clappi from
Tennessee (34616); 2 species of North
American land shells (34645); 3 land
shells from Indian Territory (34767).

CriarK, G. W., Wyandale, N. Y.: Speci-
men of ‘‘Vital ore.’? 34836.

CLARKE, Prof. F.W. (See under Amador
Cardenas and Interior Department,
U. 8. Geological Survey. )

CLARKE, R. E., Spokane, Wash.: Speci-
men of mispickel from Idaho. 35003.

CuaypoLr, Prof. E. W., Akron, Ohio:
Specimens of Carboniferous nodules
from Lancashire, England. 33921.

CLENDANIEL, G., Dover, Del.: Official
badge, Grand Army of the Republic,
Thirty-fifth Encampment. 33998.

Coss, J. L., Lincolnton, N. C.: Specimen
Cuapman, Jonn, San Diego, Cal.: Speci- |
_ Coss Live Company, Rockland, Me.:

Exposition, New York; Quebec ex- |

hibit. )

Cuitton, Dr. CHartes, Edinburg, Scot-
land: Five species of Amphipods from
New Zealand. Exchange. 34757.

CuissELL, E. T., Bluefields, Nicaragua:
Seven insects. 34504.

CuirreNnDEN, F. H., Department of Agri- |
culture: Specimen of Xylophilus ater

Lee. 33990.

Curisty Frre Ciray Company, St. Louis,
Mo.: Fire clay. 34240.

Cuarporneg, R. §., Washington, D. C.:
Badge of the First Division, Second

of Misuwmene americana Keys, 35150.
Limestone used for making quicklime.
34246.

CocKERELL, M. D., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.:
Three specimens of Porcellio levis.
34957.

CocKERELL, Prof. T. D. A. (See under
New Mexico Agricultural Experiment
Station. )

CockRELL, Ernest, Madison, Kans.:
Cecropia moth, Attacus cecropia Lin-
neus. 35072.

Conutra Tatc Company, Spring Place,

Army Corps, U. 8. Volunteers, worn |

Ga.: Specimens of tale. 34339.

Cotpirz, M., Allardt, Tenn.: Thirty-four
arrow-points and spear-heads. 85075.

Coir, W. D., Bryn Mawr, Cal.: Fossil
vertebrve of a whale found on the foot-
hills south of Pomona, southern Cali-
fornia. 34892.

Coteman, Mrs. CHARLES WASHINGTON.
(See under National Society Colonial
Dames of America.)
—

LIST OF

Couuins, F. 8., Malden, Mass.: Fascicle
No. 9 (50 specimens) of Phycotheca

Boreali-Americana (33789); 50 plants _ Cousraux, Evcens, St. Louis, Saskatche-

comprising a collection of miscellaneous

ACCESSIONS.

algee (34403); 50 specimens of North —

American seaweeds (34624); 50 plants
(34988). Purchase.

Couurns, G. N., Department of Agricul-
ture: Collection of insects from central
New York (34201); black snake from
Washington, D. C. (34960).

Cours, J. FRANKLIN, Providence, R. I.:
Twenty-two plants. Exchange. 34323.

Coins, Capt. J. W. (See under Hon.
Chris Michelsen. )

Co.tumBra CoLLEGe, New York City. (See
under Senff Zoological Expedition.)
CoLtuMBIAN TALG Company, Gouverneur,
N. Y.: Six specimens of crude and

ground tale. 35047.

@ovonca, Prof. Mrs F!, Lima; ‘Peru’:
Twenty-four birds’ skins from Peru.
34909. Exchange.

ComMMONWEALTH IRoN ComMPaANy, Com-
monwealth, Wis.: Iron ore. 34500.
Comstock, F. M., Cleveland, Ohio: Three

plants. Exchange. 34828.

ConneLt, E. Y., St. Kitts and Nevis, Brit-

ish West Indies: Collection of Carib
implements from Barbados and West
Indies; also a few pieces of pottery.
Exchange. 33870.

Cook, Capt. C. C., U.S. Volunteers, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Collection of swords used
during the Cuban campaign, Spanish-
American war. Deposit. 54741.

Ie Comenius

Cook, Dr. E. P., Jr., Chicago, Ill.: Dip-

terous larva. 335991.

Cook, Prof. O. F., U. S. National Museum:
Specimen of Polyspilota validissima
Gerst, from Clay Ashland, Siberia, ob-
tained by Mrs. J. E. D. Sharp (83775) ;
collection of insects from central New
York (84201).

CoquittEeTt, D. W., U.S. National Mu-
seum: One hundred and nineteen spec-
imens of Diptera, including types of 6
species. 34745.

Coram, G. M., Utica, N. Y.: Egg cluster
of Cliseocampa americana. 33814.

Corperra, Joun, New Bedford, Mass., re-

ceived through A. C. Hawes: Specimen |

of Squilla from Acushnet River, Massa-
chusetts. 34862.
NAT MUS 99-——6

CorNELL University, Ithaca, N. Y. (See
under E. C. Townsend. )

wan, Northwest Territory, Canada:
Thirteen birds’ skins; 1 nest and eggs
representing the genus Sturnella from
Northwest Territory. Exchange.
34749.

Covitir, F. V. (See under Agriculture,
Department of.)

Cowart, 8., Cowart, Va.: Set of false
teeth with a growing oyster attached.
34347.

U. S. National Museum:
Peace Jubilee badge and medal of the
Trans-Mississippi and International
Exposition, Omaha, 1898 (34718) ; New
York Herald, dated February 10, 1887,
containing a facsimile of the Herald’s
account of the funeral of Alexander
Hamilton; Daily Graphic, dated Sep-
tember 22, 1886, containing a facsimile
of the Constitution of the Confederate
States of America, and a picture of the
officers of the Cabinet taken at Mont-
gomery, Ala. (35015).

CRANDALL, Prof. C. 8., Fort Collins, Colo. :
Three plants. 34564.

CrawrorD, Dr. Joseru, Philadelphia, Pa.:
One hundred and twenty-five plants.

Exchange. 34399.
Four speciments of Viola. Exchange.
30054.

Crawrorp, LAMAR, New York City: Hu-
man skull and fragments of pottery
found ina mound near New River, Vir-
ginia. 34074.

Cripier, Hon. T. W.
Department of.)

(See under State,

Crockett, JAMES, Irish Lane, Pa., re-
ceived through Bureau of Ethnology:
Two stone hoes, 2 celt-shaped pebbles,
3 fragments of hammer stones, 4 arrow-
heads, and 12 pebbles and_ spalls.
33900.

Crossy, F. W., Washington, D. C.: Three
photographs of Mount Etna (exchange)
(34619); two cases of geological mate-
rial from Somma and Vesuvius (pur-
chase) (34840). (See under J. B. Me-
Carthy. )

Cross, C. W. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. )
82

Crossas, ANDRES, San Juan, P. R.: Span-
ish flag from San Cristobal Castle, San
Juan. (See under Porto Rico Collec-
tion 35201. )

Curcuer, Purr, Vicksburg, Miss.: One
hundred and sixty-two fossils from the
Vicksburg Eocene. 34112.

Cummines, Miss C. E., Wellesley, Mass.: |

Thirty lichens from North America.
Exchange. 34705.
Curtice, Cooper. (See under Interior
Department, U.S. Geological Survey. )
Curtis, C. J., Davidsonville, Md.: Birds’

skins, mammal skins, turtles, skull of |

a bird, and a crustacean. 39057.
Cusack, F. W., Westcliff, Colo.: Speci-

men of Gentiana barbellata Engelm.

(34086); through Department of Agri- |
culture, specimen of Gentiana humilis |

(35183).

Cusick, W. C., Union, Oreg::
plants. 34512.

Daur, T. Newson. (See under Interior
Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )

Twenty

Datu, Mrs. C. H., Washington, D. C.: |

Piece of calico printed in 1872 with
certain designs relating to the life of
Horace Greeley.
Dati, W. H., U. 8S. Geological Survey:

90e">

Ooldd.

Forty-two lots of marine shells from |

California. 35045.

DatryMpLeE, C. H., Gold Hill, Oreg.:
Photograph of interlocked deer antlers.
33938.

DaniEL, Lieut. J. W., U. S. V., Lynch-

burg, Va.: Collection of mammals. —

34356.

Dantes, L. E., Brookston, Ind.: Speci-
mens of Polygyra profunda (34114); 3
species of unios (34337); 4 species of
shells from Florida (34900); erab ( Uca
pugilator) (35002).

Dann, Raymonpn, Rochester, N. Y.: Rel-
ics from an old Indian cemetery at
Honeoye Falls, N. Y. 34897.

Darton, N. H. (See under Interior
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. )

Davis, Miss C. L., Leesburg, Va.: Cater-
pillar of a black butterfly (Papilio
troilus Linneeus). 34015.

Davis, Homer Spencer, Rosa, Idaho:
Black sand and gold. 35131.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Davis, Jonn (U.S. 8S. Teras): Aclip con-
taining five Mauser rifle cartridges
recovered from the wreck of the Span-
ish ship Cristobal Colon. 34103.

Davis, N.. Ina, Mich.: Limestone used
for making quicklime. 34251.

Davis, W. T., New Brighton, Staten
Island, N. Y.: Twenty-two insects.
34826.

| Day, A. E., Beirut, Syria: One hundred

and forty-five specimens of Lepidoptera
from Syria. Exchange. 34118.

Day, Dr. Davrp T. (See under Interior
Department, U. 8. Geological Survey;
Raleigh Scott; W. F. Young. )

Dream, C. C., Bluffton, Ind.: Two lizards
from Mexico. 34798.

DEANE, WattTerR, Cambridge, Mass.:
Twenty-five plants. Exchange. 35180.

Deirz, Dr. W. G., Hazleton, Pa., received
through the Department of Agriculture:
Nine specimens of Tineina. 34727.

Dr Nyseg, W.I., Gravesend Beach, Brook-
lyn Borough, N. Y.: Two leeches,
representing the genus Branchellion.
35130.

Derpy, Prof. O. A., Rio de Janeiro, Bra-
zil: Monazite sand and minerals from
Brazil. 33757.

Derr, H. B., Chicago, Ill.: Specimen of

34123.

Desua, Miss M., Washington,
Two-headed snake. 34484.

Derrorr GRAPHITE MANUFACTURING Com-
pany, Detroit, Mich.: Graphite. 34176.

Dre WeeskE, Datu, Canyon, Colo.: Five
skins and 4 skulls of moose; 8 skins

Fusus marmoratus.

Deas

and 8 skulls of sheep. Purchase.
34402.
Dewey, Admiral Grorcr. (See under

Navy Department. )

Dewey, L. H., Department of Agricul-
ture: Plant (34677); three violets from
Michigan (35152).

Dra, Mrs. M. B., San Luis Obispo, Cal.:
Eight species of marine and_fresh-
water shells. 34782.

Draz-Hewir, Manvet, Bayamon, P. R.:
Carrying bag used in place of a knap-
sack. (See under Porto Rico Collec-
tion 35201. )

DickHavt, H. E., U.S. National Museum:
Private collection of Cincinnati group
fossils (purchase) (33859); fossils from
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

DickHaut, H. E.—Continued.
Middleport and Lockport, N. Y. (col-
lected) (83949); collection of Cincin-
nati group fossils, consisting of crinoids,
brachiopods, and mollusks (purchase )
(34574).

Dicnowrrz, ANTHONY (no address given):

Received through the Department of |

Agriculture: Plant from San Juan,
P. R. 34944.

Ditier, Dr. J. S. Bh under Interior
Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )

Dincus, H. H., Nasbie, Va.: Fossil plant.
34390.

Disrricr oF CoLUMBIA VOLUNTEERS, re-
ceived through Brigadier-General Har-
‘ries: Spanish bronze cannon, dated
1794, taken from a Spanish trench on
San Juan Hill, Santiago de Cuba.
34896.

Doner, B. E., Richfield, Mich. :
stone needle, 2 flint drills, and an arrow-

head found in Genesee County.  De-
posit. 34694.

Doaeerr, J. O., Piedmont, S. C.: Speci-
mens of damourite. 34046.

Dour, J. M., Port Jervis, N. Y.: Stone |

gouge from the building grounds of the
Lenni-Lenape Indians, Orange County,

New York. 34394.
Doveuass, A. E., Flagstaff, Ariz.: Four
astronomical and surveying instru-

ments and a bromide copy of a letter
written by Gen. George Washington to

Andrew Ellicott, dated October 20,
1792. Deposit. 34395.
Drake, C. M., Gorda, Cal.: Four species

of Jand shells. 34959.

Drakg, E. L., Winchester, Tenn.; Sphinx |

Moth, tersa Lainneeus.
33936.

DricGs-Srasury GuN AND AMMUNITION

Cheerocampa

Company, Washington, D. C., received |
through Ordnance Department, War De- |

partment: Driggs-Seabury 1-pounder
steel shell. 34254.

Du Bors, E., Bluffton, S. C.:
Lycosa carolina Hentz. 34285

Du Bossr, J. H., Huguenot, Ga.:
tion of hammer stones and
implements. 35058.

Ducks, Dr. A., Guanajuato, Mexico: Two
photographs of birds and a photograph
of amammal (gift) (33838); fishes, rep-

Collec-
chipped

Polished

Specimen of |

| Eaton,

53

Ducks, Dr. A.—Continued.
tiles and batrachians from Mexico (ex-
change) (33976); 7 specimens of inver-

tebrates (gift) (84018); specimen of
Vespertilio fuscus miradorensis (gift)

(34153).

Durrpen, J. E., Institute of Jamaica,
Kingston, Jamaica: Four specimens of
Spartocera batatas Fabr, and 7 speci-
mens of Cylas formicarius Fab. 34009.

DumsueE, Prof. E. T., Houston, Tex.:
Twelve specimens, representing 3 spe-
cies, of corals from either the Silurian or
Devonian formation, near Cascite, So-
nora, Mexico (33851); specimens of
hubnerite and mesolite (34833); 2

specimens of Devonian fossils and 2

specimens of Upper Carboniferous fos-

sils from the southeastern part of Ari-

zona (34358).

Duniap, Ropert, & Co., Jamesville, N.

Y.: Specimens of gypsum. 34221.
Dusrow, G. W., Salton, Cal.: Specimen
of Rasahus bigultatus Say. 35050.

Dyan y Drs Ge: USS: National Museum:
Insects (34417, 34554) (gift;) 125 moths
from Venezuela (purchase) (34868).

HAKLE, A. E., Cambridge, Mass.: Speci-
men of erinite from Durkee, Oreg.
34755.

Ear.e, J. W., Holland, 8. C.: Two speci-
mens of Melanolestes picipes H. Scht.
34992.

Ear.e, F.8., Auburn, Ala.: Six hundred
and seventy-four plants from the Rocky
Mountain region (34691); 134 plants
(34759). Purchase.

Eastman, Dr. C. R. (See under Museum
of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge,
Mass. )

A. A., Seabrook, N. H::
plants. Exchange. 35231.

Eaton, A. B. (See under Agriculture,
Department of. )

Epwarps, Dr. J. J., Charleston, S. C.:
Insect laryee from a cistern in Charles-
ton. 33833.

Epmonps, WALTER,

Danais archippus. 33970.

Exper, J. H. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

Evior, Sir CHarves, British Embassy,
Washington, D. C.: Specimens of in-
vertebrates from Key West, Florida.
35107.

Three

Norfolk, Va.: Pupa of
84

Euus, J. E., San Francisco, Cal.: Lime-
stone used for making quicklime.
34292.

Exmer, A. D. E., Pullman, Wash.: Five
hundred plants from Idaho and Wash-
ington (33795) ; 225 plants from Wash-
ington (34931). Purchase. (See under
C. V. Piper. ) ;

Exrop, M. J., Missoula, Mont.: Land and
fresh-water shells and mollusks from
Montana, representing 9 species.
33926.

Ene, D. H., Wympsgap, Pa.: Fire clay.
34195.

Emmons, 8. F., U. 8. Geological Survey:
Fifty specimens of fossils from Payte,
Peru. 35072.

Enauisu, G. L., & Co., New York City,
N. Y.: Three specimens of jeffersonite
with garnet, willemite, franklinite, and
calcite, from Franklin, Sussex County,
N. J. (34590); 2 specimens of triplite
and 1 specimen of lepidolite from Had-
dam, Conn. (34816).

Enrwiste, W. B., U. 8. National Museum:
Regulation belt and buckle of the U.S.
Army, 1861-1865; 2 Minie rifle bullets,
from the battlefield of Winchester, Va.
35091.

Errrncer, CHARLESS., Jersey City, N. J.:
Kaolin from Texas. 34540. (See under
Frio Kaolin Mining and Improvement
Company, Dallas, Tex. )

Eustis, G. H., Boston, Mass.: A remark-
able oyster from Charles River, Massa-
chusetts. 34504.

Evans, Capt. R. D., U. S. Navy: Section
of plate, chain lockers, from the U. 8.8.
Towa, perforated by a Spanish shell.
34076.

Evans, W. H., Tusiloff, Alaska, received
through Department of Agriculture:
Small collection of insects, consisting of
about 75 specimens from  Tusiloff
(34182); 2 plants from Alaska (34584).

Everert, WestEy. (See under Leslie
Copper Mining Company. )

EverMANN, Prof. B. W.
Commission, U.S. )

(See under Fish

EveRMANN, T. B., Washington, D. C.:
Thirty dragon flies and butterflies.
34434.

Faper, JoHNn, Dallas, Tex.: Insect. 33918.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Faircuiip, D. G., Department of Agri-
culture: Five hundred specimens of
Algze in alcohol and subtropical plants
from the Mediterranean region (33764) ;
collection of Javanese insects, a few
lizards and snakes from Buitenzorg,
Java, and the skin of a fruit-eating bat
from the botanical gardens at Buiten-
zorg (34830).

Fai, H. C., Pasadena, Cal.: Three spe-
cies of Aemxodera, new to the Museum
collection. Exchange. 34692.

Fannin, Jonn, curator Provincial Mu-
seum, Victoria, British Columbia:
Eleven birds’ skins. 340938.

Farmer, Miss8. J., Eliot, Me.: Collection
of electrical apparatus. Deposit. 34585.

Faxon, Dr. Watrer. (See under Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoology, Cam-
bridge, Mass. )

FEATHERSTONHAUGH, THomAS, Washing-
ton, D. C.: John Brown pike and a
Sharp’s rifle. Deposit. 35097.

Ferriss, J. H., Joliet, Ill.: Eight species
of land shells from Tennessee and other
localities (exchange) (34446); 15 spe-
cies of land shells from Arkansas, Ten-
nessee, and Indian Territory (gift)
(34833).

Fewkes, Dr. Watter. (SeeunderSmith-
sonian Institution, Bureau of Ethnol-
ogy.)

Frre DEPARTMENT, Frre-ALARM BRANCH,
Boston, Mass., received through H. 8.
Russell, Fire Commissioner: Channing
& Farmer fire-alarm telegraph signal
box used in Boston in 1852; improved
fire-alarm telegraph signal box used in
Boston in 1867; fire-alarm telegraph
repeater used in Boston in 1852. 34714.

Fiscuer, C. F. Hermann, New Braunfels,
Tex.: Specimen of glauconitic marl.
35124.

Fish Commission, U. 8., Hon. George M.
Bowers, Commissioner of Fish and
Fisheries: Pipe-fish, Fistularia tabac-
caria (33951); seaweeds (33993); mol-
lusks and marine invertebrates col-
lected on the Pacific coast of North
America in 1897 and 1898 (34060);
Tile-fish (34128); type specimens of
fishes, consisting of Paraliparis rosaceus,
Bathylagus milleri, and Ulocentra meadiz
(34148); fishes from Lake Superior,
:

LIST OF

Fisa Commission, U. 8.—Continued.

Alaska, Kamchatka, and Florida
(34287); aquatic animals, including

|
crawfishes, crabs, shrimps, and other |
crustaceans, snakes, frogs, lizards, sala- |

manders, turtles, mollusks, insects, and
mammals (34316); alcoholic specimens
of crustaceans, principally crayfishes,

from different sections of the United |

States (34603); insects and larvee of
beetles from Unalaska (34635); 6 plants
from Porto Rico, collected by Prof. B.
W. Evermann (34772);
batrachians, collected in Porto Rico by
the steamer Fish Hawk (34778); natural
history specimens obtained during the

expedition of the Fish Hawk to Porto |
Rico (34801); 20 alcoholic reptiles and —

a batfrom Porto Rico and the Bahamas,
collected by the Fish Hawk (34824);
collection of shells, gorgonians, bar-

nacles, bryozoans, sponges, geological |

specimens, and plants, collected by the

Fish Commission steamer Albatross in |

1887, 1888, 1889, and 1896 (34837); 9

plants collected by B. W. Evermann |

in Porto Rico (34969); collection of
mollusks, brachyurans, anomurans,
crustaceans, macrurans, and _ tecti-

branchs obtained during the expedi- |
tion of the Fish Hawk to Porto Rico |

(34984) ; reptiles and batrachians from

the Bahamas and Porto Rico, collected |

by the Fish Hawk (35095).

Fisoer, Dr. A. K., Department of Agri-
culture: Two birds’ skins from Louisi-
ana, including the type of Ammodra-
mus m. fisheri Chapman (33959) ; plant
(35136). (See under H. H. Hindshaw,
C. W. Nash.)

FLeiscHMAN, 8. F. (no address given):
Badge of the Second Army Corps, U.
S. Army. 34746.

Fiowers, E. P., Bolling, Ala.: Specimen
of Lagoa opercularis Abbott and Smith.
34090.

Fioyp-Jones, De LANcry.
Aztec Club. )

Frioripa Iron Mrnina and MANUFACTUR-
InG Company, Orlando, Fla.: Sample
of ocher. 34296.

Foau, H. P., Roslyn, Wash.: Copper ore
from Dutch Miller Mine, King County,
Wash. 34773.

(See under

ACCESSIONS.

reptiles and |

85

“Fotsom, J. W., North Cambridge, Mass. :
Collection of Japanese Thysanura, in-
cluding types of eight species described
by Mr. Folsom, all new tothe Museum
collection. 34509.

| Foors, Dr. A. E., Philadelphia, Pa.: Four

specimensof minerals. Purchase. 34191.
Forney, A. H., U. S. National Museum:
Adult skull of Odocoileus americanus.
34582.
Foster, Davis, Ono, Wyo.: Six speci-

mens of phosphate nodules from Ono.
34985.

Foster, L. N., Strickland, Ga.: Specimen
of Citheronia regalis Fab. 34101. Re-
turned.

Fowurr, Dr. $8. M., Miami, Fla.: Speci-
mens of Amisomorpha buprestoides De
Geer. 34199.

FRANKFuURT-AM-MArtn, Germany, Museum
Senckenbergianum, received through
Dr. O. Boettger: Two specimens of Sily-
bura pulneyensis from India and 2 spec-
imens of Phyllodactylus stumpffi from
Madagascar. 34025.

FREIE VPREINIGUNG TIROLER BoTANIKER.

(See under Carinthia, Austria. )

| FrencH, Capt. F. H., U. 8. Army, Wash-
ington, D. C.: Clasp knife and a Span-
ish flag. (See under Porto Rico Collec-
tion 35201.)

Frierson, L. S., Frierson, La.: Unios
from the Southern States (83803); 3
species of Unionidee trom the Southern

| States (34799).

Frio Kaoiin Minina anp IMpRovEMENT
Company, Dallas, Tex. , received through
C. 8. Ettinger: Kaolin from Edwards
County, Tex. 34309.

Frissif, W. R., Washington, D. C.: Pair
of regulation sandals issued to the
Spanish soldiers in Cuba, obtained in
Santiago on the day of the surrender.
34312.

GANE, Henry 8. (See under Smithson-
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.)

GARLAND, C. C., Baltimore, Md.: Speci-
mens of graphite from Shelby, Cleve-
land County, N. C. 35041.

GARNER, E., Quincy, Cal.: Skin and skull
of badger and skin and skull of mole.
34466.

GARNER, R. L.
Ross.)

(See under Hon. M. L.

86

GAYLE AND SEMPLE, Montgomery, Ala.:
Sample of ocher. 34295.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF CANADA.
under Ottawa, Canada. )

Grorceson, C. C., Washington, D. C.:

(See

Five nuggets of Alaskan and Klondike |

gold. Purchase. 34634.

Gipson, J. H., Coney Island, N. Y.: |

Photograph of a whale. 33843.
Gipson, Tuomas J., Scottsburg,

an old saw. 35194.
Gitpert, G. K. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. S. Geological Survey. )

GruwArTin, Mr., gunner, U. 8S. Navy: |
Dummy cartridge used in target prac- |

tice by the U. 8. Navy. 34108.

Gitmon, W. J. (no address given): Iden-
tification medal. (See under Porto Rico
Collection 35201.)

Girty, Dr. G. H., U. 8. Geological Sur-
vey: Fern from Indian Territory. 34622.
(See under Interior Department, U. 8.
Geological Survey. )

GLATFELTER, Dr. N. M., St. Louis, Mo.:
Nine plants. 33955.

GoERME, Luis (no address given): Three
photographs of the vertebra of a fossil
elephant. 34564.

GotpMaNn, E. A. (no address given):
Five hundred and sixty-eight plants
from Mexico. Purchase. 34796.

Goopman, R. D., Washington, D. C.: |
Springfield rifle found in the trenches |

before Santiago; Spanish belt and car-

tridge case captured atSantiago; Mauser |
2 Remington cartridges;
Mauser cartridge; Mauser shell struck |
by a bullet, and uniform hat belong- |
ing to a volunteer from the District of |

rifle clip;

34039.

Gorpvon, R. H., Cumberland, Md.: Six
specimens of Clinton and Niagara lime-
stone with Ostracoda. 33816.

GRAHAM, J. G., Anthony, Fla.: Moth.
34693.

GRAHAMSTOWN, SoutH Arrica: Albany
Museum, received through Dr. §.
Schénland, director: Forty-four birds’
skins from South Africa. Exchange.
34088.

GRANIER, Emite. (See under Smithson-
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

Columbia. Loan.

Vias: |
‘‘Moffet bell punch,”’ Alamo knife, and |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Grant, Gen. Freperick, U. 8. V., War
Department, Washington, D. C.: Large
idol. (See under Porto Rico Collection
35201).

Gray Hersarium, Cambridge, Mass.:
Twenty-four plants (34474); plant from
Mexico (34762); 300 plants (35122).
Exchange. ‘

Gray, Mr. and Mrs. J. D., Washington,
D. C.: Three hundred and thirty-five
pearls from fresh-water mussels. 34049.

| GREEN, J. D., Seaside, Fla.: Specimen of

Dynastes tityus Linneeus. 33801.

GRIFFIN, W., Somerset, Ky.: Ninety
stone implements, fossils, and a speci-
men of mineral (fossils returned)
(33844); 23 archzeological objects from
Pulaski County (33886); 25 specimens
of Lower Carboniferous brachiopods
(33903); 18 fossils from the Lower Car-
boniferous rocks of Somerset (34500).

GriFFiTH, Beryt, Clay City, Ind.: Pot-
tery clay. 34293.

GrirritH, Dr. H. G., Manayunk, Pa.:
Parasitic Hymenoptera from Arizona.
34636.

GuERDRUM, Miss 8. C., Anacostia, D. C.:
Two young box turtles. 35177.

GuILp, CHARLES, & Sons, Piedmont,
Wyo.: Asphaltum. 34196.

HaFrerRLANDT and Pippow, Berlin, Ger-
many: Skull of Ursus arctos. Exchange.
34820.

Hacans, Hon. J. Marsnauu, Morgan-
town, W. Va.: Brown glazed jar from
an early pottery in Morgantown, ob-
tained by Dr. Walter Hough. 34053.

Hacoop, J. E., Pickens, 8. C.: Mica.
34204.

Haut, J. A., Morotock, Va.: Specimen
of slate-colored silicified wood. 34596.

Hau, J. S., Westport Point, Mass.:
Specimen of Botrychium linerioidesshow-
ing a peculiar division of the fertile
frond. 34051.

Hay, WiniiAmM, Greensboro, Pa.: Glass
dish made in Washington about the
year 1833. 34209.

Haus, E. A., Dalton, Mass.: Specimen
of Platyrostera  sabalinus Seudder.
34533.

Hauiock, C. H., Fayetteville, N. C.:
Guitar. 34639.

LIST OF

Hamirron, JAmes M., Marathon, Tex.:
Species of -Hthus belonging to the fam-
ily Cynidx. 33773.

Hamu, Homer, Los Angeles, Cal.: Fos-
sils, probably from the Miocene forma-
tion, Santa Monica Mountains. 34158.

Hammers, J. E., Luray, Va.: Specimen
of Benacus griseus Say. 34970.

Hammonp, E. W., Wimer, Oreg.:
hundred and thirty-four plants from
Oregon. Purchase. 34561.

Hannam, A. W., Winnipeg, Manitoba:
Thirty-four specimens of Lepidoptera
(gift) (84302); 12 specimens of Lepi-
doptera (gift) (84376); 17 specimens of
Lepidoptera (exchange) (34535).

Hansen, GrorGe, Berkeley, Cal.: Plants.
(34430, 34527). Purchase.

Harpirson & WALKER Company, Bland-
burg, Pa.: Fire clay. 34165.

Harpen, J. H., Phoenixville, Pa.: Hindu
stone image from Mopani, Central
provinces of India, and a photograph
of the same. Purchase. 33780.

Harper, THomas, Bellevue, Pa.: Natural

white oil from Holden Run, Armstrong

County, Pa. 34827.

Harries, Brig. Gen. GrorceE H. (See
under District of Columbia Volunteers. )

Harrinaton, M. W., Washington, D. C.:
Paper money.
Collection 35201. )

Harrineton, N. R.:
Zoological Expedition
College. )

Harrineton, W. W., Ottawa, Canada,

(See under Senff
of

received through Department of Agri- |

culture: Sixty-two specimens of Dip-
tera, representing 50 species. 34726.

Harris, E. D., New York City: Eighteen
specimens of Cicindelas. 34664.

Harris, I. F., Nashua, N. H.: Pewter
lamp in use about one hundred years
ago. 934315.

Harris, J. C., Debeque, Colo.: Sphinx-
moth, Protoparce celeus Hiibner. 34063.

Harrison, Capt. E. B., Ponce, P. R.:
Celt. (See under Porto Rico Collec-
tion 35001. )

Harrison, Mrs. J. T., Pontiac, Mich.:
Pupa of a dipterous insect representing

the species Frastalis tenax Linnzeus.
34865.

ACCESSIONS.

Four |

(See under Porto Rico |

Columbia |
|

87

Harruey, J. Scorr, New York City: Plas-
ter cast of the death mask of Cyrus W.
Field. Deposit. 35061.

Harvarp Unrversiry, Hersarium
Cambridge, Mass.: Violets. 33954.

Hasse, Maj. H. E., U. S.. Army, Los
Angeles, Cal.: Two hundredand thirty-

| three plants. 35232.

| Harcner, J. B., Princeton University,

| Princeton, N. J.: Specimens, in alco-

| hol, of flying-fishes from South America;
specimen of Isopod ( Glossobius linearis
Dana) from the mouth of a flying-fish.

| 34764. (See under Smithsonian Insti-

tution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

| Havens, C. B., & Co., Omaha, Nebr.:
Specimen of bituminous coal from In-
dian Territory. 34662. (O.)

Hawes, A. C. (See under John Cor-
deira. )

Hay, W. P., Washington, D. C.: Snakes
from Virginia and Maryland (33750,
33940); jelly-fishes, crustaceans, and
worms from Chesapeake Bay (34219);
crustaceans (34271); 2 type specimens
of Haplophthalmus puteus Hay, from a
well at Irvington, Ind. (34886).

Haypen, Mrs. F. V., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Medals presented to Dr. Hayden, con-
sisting of a grand medal of the first
class, Société de Topographie, Congrés
de Paris en 1875; medal of honor, So-

| ciété de Topographie, Congrés de Paris

en 1875. Deposit. 34885.

| Haymonp, Mrs. Dorcas, Morgantown,

W. Va.: Specimen of glazed ware from

the Thompson pottery and a glass from

the Albert Gallatin Glass Works, at

Greensboro, Pa., obtained through Dr.

Walter Hough. 34056.

| Hays, T. R., Wickham, New South Wales,

received through L. O. Howard: Col-

lection of Australian insects. 34922.

| HeatH, E. F., Cartwright, Manitoba,

Canada: The type specimen of Astero-

scopus borealis Smith, new to the Mu-

seum collection. 34555.

Heatn, Haroxp, Pacific Grove, Cal.: Iso-

| pods from California (gift) (34216);

100 specimens of crustaceans (purchase )

(34872); 15 specimens of crustaceans,

representing 3 species (gift) (35016);

crustacean (gift) (35185).

OF,

88

Heatuman, W. F., Santa Anna, Cal.,
received through the Department of
Agriculture: Plant. 34530.

Heaton, L. D., Victoria, Tex.: Luna
Moth, Actias luna Linneeus. 34842.
Hesert, V. F. (See under Agriculture,

Department of. )

Heckman, P. Y., Issaquah, Wash.: Fos-
sil turtle. Exchange. 34819.

HEIDEMANN, Otto, Department of Agri-
culture: Six specimens of Aradus niger

Stil, representing a rare species, new to |

the Museum collection. 35035.

Herpman, Mrs. Mica, Washington, D. C.:
Bust of Charles Darwin. 34263.

Heianway, A. E. (See under Interior
Department, U. 8. Geological Survey;
Old Abe Company. )

Hewter, A. A., Lancaster, Pa.: Four hun-
dred and seventy plants from Washing-
ton and Texas. Purchase. 34853.

Henverson, A., & Co., Dundee, Scotland:
Abnormal tooth of a Sperm whale.
Purchase. 34732.

Henperson, L. F., University of Idaho,

Moscow, Idaho: Six specimens of Um- |

belliferze. 34340.

Hennina, A. H., Silver Cliff, Colo.: Four
fossil teeth of a mammal. 34427.

Hennina, C. F., Boone, Iowa: Sennett’s
Nighthawk, Chordeiles virginianus sen-

34252.

Henry, Miss M. A., Washington, D. C.:
Doll made by Mrs. Alexander Hamil-
ton and by her presented to Mrs. Joseph
Henry. 34548.

Hensuaw, H. W., Hilo, Hawaii: Crabs
and shrimps from Sandwich Islands
(34019); 2 skins of a Flycatcher from
Hawaii (34467); 3 specimens of Leiolo-
pisma noctua from Hawaii (34653);
Weaver-bird from Hawaii (34702);
fishes, shells, crabs, shrimps, and worms
from Hilo, Hawaii (34843).

Herman, W. W., Boston, Mass.: Twelve
specimens of marine shells from the
Pacific Ocean and other localities.
34425,

Herop, Mrs. JAmrs, Washington, D. C.:
Two pieces of gun carriage from the
U. §. §. Media, a participant in the
bombardment of Fort Jackson, La.,
April 23, 1862. 34717.

netti.

“REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Herr, Jonn, Lebanon, Ind.: Specimen
of waterbug (Belostoma americana).
35088.

Hersey, Capt. A. H., Ponce, P. R.: Grape-
shot. (See under Porto Rico collec-
tion 35201. )

Hiewirr, J. Yi.
Company. )

Hriesarp, D. R., Sturgis, Mich.: Shells,
principally from Florida. 34979.

Hicweorn, Paiute, Chief Naval Con-
structor. (See under Navy Depart-
ment. )

Hiupesranpt, J. J., Logansport, Ind.:
Mexican playing cards. 34551.

Hivper, F. F., Washington, D. C.: Knife
obtained from the Icaiche branch of
the Chichenas Indians of Yucatan.
34468.

Jshusien Jako, JOY peo) af
Department of. )

(See under Old Abe

(See under State,

| His, Lieut: Col: ah. 2A. -Poncey ghee

Spanish revolver and four cartridges.
(See under Porto Rico collection 35201. )

Huu, F. D., U.S. Consul, Santos, Brazil:
Specimen of Walking-stick, an orthop-
terous insect. 34927.

Hitt, Dr. R. T., U. S. Geological Sur-
vey: Two species of land shells from
San Juan Hill, Cuba (34648); collec-
tion of flint chips from Indian work-
shops in Travis County, Tex. (34831).

Hits, R. C., Denver, Colo.: Meteoric
iron from Mount Oscura, New Mexico.
Exchange. 34518.

Hinpsuaw, H. H., Baltimore, Md., re-
ceived through Dr. A. K. Fisher:
Skin of Point Barrow Gull, Larus bar-
rovianus, from the State of Washing-
ton. 34424.

Hing, Prof. J. 8., Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio: Twenty-three speci-
mens of Bittacus and 70 specimens of
Odonata, representing 25 — species
(34264); fly (34505).

Hircncock, A. 8., Agricultural College,
Manhattan, Kans.: Thirteen hundred
plants. Exchange. 34379.

Hircucock, C. H., Hanover, N. H.: Phos-
phate rocks from Redonda and vol-
canic ashes from the Hawaiian Islands.
Exchange. 33937.

Hirt, J. E., Augusta, Ga.: Wheelbug
( Prionidus cristatus Linneeus), 33924.
LIST OF

Hover, F. W., Bureau of Ethnology, |

Washington, D. C.: Mexican notice of
church services. 34134. (See under
Anthropological Society of Washing-
ton, D. C.)

HoGan, Gerorcr, Ennis, Tex., received
through Department of Agriculture:
Specimen of Pentstemon murravanus
from Texas. 34999.

Hoim, Tueo., Brookland, D. C.: Plant
from Colorado. 34238.

Houtman, C. H., Willard, Ill.: Beetle
(Plectodera scalator Fab.). 33876.

Houmes, F. H., Berryessa, Cal.: Five
skins of California vultures. Purchase.
34469.

Homes, Prof. J. A., Chapelhill, N. C.:
Twenty-six specimens, representing 9
species, Cretaceous invertebrates
from Wilmington, N.C. 34958.

Homes, Prof. W.H. (See under Smith-
sonian Institution, Bureau of Eth-
nology. )

of

Houway, E. W. D., Decorah, Iowa: Type
specimen of Sida holwayi Rose. 34683.

Houzrcer, J. M., Winona, Minn.: Forty-
five plants from northwestern Montana.
Exchange. 34760.

Hornune, Dr. J., San Francisco, Cal.:
Fifty-nine birds’ skins from the west-
ern United States (exchange) (33890) ;
67 birds’ skins from California (gift)
(34258); 24 birds’ skins from Califor-
nia (exchange) (34524).

Hoves, Dr. G. DeN., New Bedford,
Mass.: Forty-five specimens of Diptera.
34536.

Houeu, Dr. Waurer, U. 8. National Mu-
seum: Eight lanterns and lamps pur-
chased for the Museum. 34034. (See
under A. V. Boughner; William Bough-
ner; Hon. J. Marshall Hagans; Mrs.
Dorcas Haymond; Mayer Pottery Com-
pany; Miss Jennie Thompson.)

Housm. HH. DF Oneida: IN. Y-:
Exchange. 35234.

Howarp, E. E., Edgar, Nebr.: Specimen
of Mus musculus. 35123.

Howarp, Dr. L. O. (See under Prof.
Lawrence Bruner; T. R. Hays; G. W.
Kirkaldy; Prof...) LL, Rice;¥. W.
Urich. )

Plant.

ACCESSIONS.

89

Howarp, O. W., Los Angeles, Cal.: Egg
of Olivaceous Flycatcher, Myiarchus law-
rencei olivascens, from Virginia. 34524.

Howe ti, Arrnur, Washington, D. C.:
Plant from Alexandria. 34139.

Howe.i, E. E., Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of opal in the matrix from
Barcoo River, Queensland, Australia
(purchase) (84042); meteoric iron
from Mount Joy Township, Adams
County, Pa. (gift) (34317).

Hunpson, Dr. A. §., Stockton, Cal.: Speci-
men in alcohol of Heterakis perspicil-
lum (Rudolphi, 1803), taken from a
fresh egg. 34996.

Hunpson, J. W. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )
Hucues, Epwarp. (See under Smith-
sonian Institution, Bureau Eth-

nology. )

Husert, Prof. H. E., Mount Vernon,
N. Y.: Suit of armor worn bya Korean
general in 1592. Purchase. 35228.

Humpurey, CHArves, Mount Catharine
mine, Yerilla, West Australia: Twenty-
eight specimens of Australian insects.
35006.

Hunt, Mrs. E. G., Providence, R. I.:
Seale insects infesting the English haw-
thorn. 33989.

Husrep, J. D., New York City: Onyx
marble from Colorado. 34939.

Hype, L. H., Joliet, Ill.: Two hundred
and eighty-seven specimens of Niagara
fossils from the Chicago Drainage
Canal. 33957.

TneErinG, Dr. H. yon, Museu Paulista, Sao
Paulo, Brazil: Collection of Tertiary
fossils from Patagonia and Parana
(33883); 15 species of shells from
Argentina and Patagonia (54143).

of

Tuurois Borantcan Sration, Urbana, II1.,
received through Dr. C. A. Kofoid:
Microscopic slide of type specimens of
Pleodorina illinoisensis belonging to the
family Volvociner. 34003.

IncERSOLL, Mrs. M. W., Point Pleasant,
N. J.: Six specimens of Schizoneurinz.
33858.

InreR1IoR DEPARTMENT, Hon. Ethan A.
Hitchcock, Secretary: Received
through Prof. F. W. Clarke: Chip-
pewa canoe. 34567,
90

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

InreRIOR DEPpARTMENT—Continued.
United Statess Geological Survey, Mr. |

Charles D. Walcott, Director: Chipped
and partly polished hatchet, arrow,
and spearheads, etc., from Scioto

County, collected by Wilbur Stout |
(33799); rocks illustrating the Pre- |

Cambrian geology of the Lake Supe-
rior region, obtained by Prof. C. Van
Hise (33815) ; 599 specimens of clastic

rocks illustrating the structure, pe- |

trography, and economic geology of
the slate belt of eastern New York,
western Vermont, and adjacent ter-
ritory, collected by Prof. T. Nelson
Dale (33820) ; collection of fossil ver-
tebrates obtained by N. H. Darton
(33823); collection of vertebrate fos-
sils (returned from the estate of Prof.
E. D. Cope) (33828); 1,150 specimens
of Ordovician, Silurian, and Carbon-
iferous fossils from Oklahoma Terri-
tory, collected by J. A. Taff (33840);
60 specimens of Devonian fossils from
eastern Kentucky, collected by M. R.
Campbell (33841); specimens show-
ing contact of granite and gneiss from
Stoll’s quarry, Groton, Conn. (33860) ;
6specimensof Tertiary fossils (33952) ;
chrome ore and corundum in horn-
blende transmitted by A. E. Heigh-
way (33977); specimen of Platycrinus
and a specimen of Poteriocrinus from
near Livingston, Mont. (34299) ; col-
lection of rocks, concretions, etc.,
from Colorado, and fossils from Ni-
agara County, N. Y., collected by
G. K. Gilbert (34843); through O. C.
Marsh, collection of fossil vertebrates
(34346); fossiliferous silt from under
gravel, from White River Valley,
Northwest Territory, British Colum-
bia, collected July 1, 1898, by the
Peters-Brooks party of the Survey
(34361); 2 specimens of sandstone
containing markings of aborigines
(34443); 3,990 specimens of Cam-
brian brachiopods (34481); fossil fish
(34488); 18 specimens of Permian
fossils from the Black Hills of South
Dakota (34499); 13 specimens of
either Devonian or Carboniferous fos-
sils from the Tanana Basin, Alaska
(34507 ); specimen of melanteritefrom

| Inter1IoR DEPARTMENT—Continued.

United States Geological Survey—Cont d.

Hayward, 8. Dak., collected by N. H.
Darton (34518); 2 specimens of price-
ite coated with aragonite and one
specimen of priceite from Lone Ranch,
Curry County, Oreg. (34519); 450
specimens of Chemung fossils col-
lected by Dr. G. H. Girty in 1894 in
the eastern portion of the Buckhan-
non quadrangle (34532); 99 speci-
mens of minerals from various locali-
ties (34544) (0); specimens of jointed
sandstones and cale tufa from Black
Hills, S. Dak. (34546); 33 specimens
of Devonian fossils from the Upper
Kuskokwim River, Alaska (34547);
47 specimens of Upper Cretaceous
Ammonites, Scaphites, Inoceramus,
and other fossils from near Fairburn,
S. Dak.; 9 specimens of Ammonites,
Nautilus, Scaphites, and other fossils
from the mouth of Elk Creek, Chey-
enne River, collected by N. H. Dar-
ton (34559); 400 plants from Califor-
nia collected by J. B. Leiberg (34560) ;
large collection of Carboniferous plant
remains obtained by J. A. Taff and
an assistant of the Geological Survey
in the McAlester (Ind. T.) coal field
(34565); 95 specimens of fossil in-
vertebrates from eastern Tennessee,
collected by Cooper Curtice; 75 speci-
mens of Medina, Clinton, and Niag-
ara fossils (34576); specimen of ros-
coelite with native gold obtained by
W. Lindgren from Stocklages Mine,
El Dorado County, Cal. (34592); 70
specimens of Oriskany fossils from
Cumberland, Md. (34604); 3 bowl-
ders collected by G. K. Gilbert in
Wilson, N. Y. (34612); about 10 spe-
cies of fossil corals from 4 miles west
of Lares, Porto Rico (34668); fossils
collected by N. H. Darton in the
White River beds southeast of Oel-
rich, 8. Dak. (34672); rocks and ores
from Tintic, Utah, collected in 1897
by George W. Tower and G. O. Smith
(34708) ; sand in form of stalactites
from a black sand mine in Cook
County, Oreg., collected by J. 8. Dil-
ler (34744); 3 species of land shells
from McAlester, Ind. T. (34775);
LIST OF

Interior DEPARTMENT—Continued.
Inited States Geological Survey—Cont’ d.
black sand from the Pacific Ocean
Beach, at the mouth of Pistol River,
Oreg. (34797); specimen of albertite
collected by David T. Day in Nova
Scotia (34802); 130 specimens of
Lower Silurian fossils, 63 specimens
of Upper Silurian fossils, and 5 speci-
mens of Devonian fossils collected by
M. R. Campbell (34822); sand from
Burnett and Johnson’s Mine, Gilbert
Creek, Smith River, Del Norte
County, Cal., collected by David T.

Day (34847); tooth of a mastodon |
(34867); rocks from Coon Butte and —

San Francisco Mountain, Arizona,
collected by G. K. Gilbert (34891) ;

sample of beach sand containing gold |

and platinum from Crescent City,
Cal. (34920); 10 specimens of fish
remains from Silver Peak Range, Es-
meralda County, Nev. (34986); 3

skulls, 3 geological specimens from |
White Mountain, New Mexico; 5

small specimens of zonochrolite from
the northern shore of Lake Superior,
and a geological specimen from Ga-
lena, Ill, collected by F. X. Shulak
(34971); specimens of asphaltic min-
eral from the southern part of the
McAlester quadrangle, Choctaw Na-
tion, Ind. T., collected by J. A. Taff

(35018); a series of 158 specimens of |

Lower Cretaceous Grypheeas (35059) ;
75 specimens of fossils from the Cin-
cinnati group of central Kentucky;
69 specimens of fossils from the Up-
per Carboniferous of Shasta County,
Cal. (35064); 4 fossil plants from the
coal measures of Sciotoville, Ohio
(35079); 3 specimens of garnets col-

lected by C. W. Cross in Ophir Loop, |

Telluride Quadrangle, Colo. (35084).
(See under M. R. Campbell, Cooper
Curtice, T. Nelson Dale, N. H. Dar-
ton, David T. Day, J.S. Diller, G. K.
Gilbert, G. H. Girty, A. E. Heigh-
way, J. B. Leiberg, Ig. Lucas, G. O.
Smith, Wilbur Stout, G. W. Tower,

J. A. Taff, J. A. Udden.)
Iowa, STaTE Untversity or, Lowa City,
Iowa, received through Prof. C. C.

ACCESSIONS.

91

| Iowa, Stare Unrversrry or—Continued.
Nutting: Five species of crabs. Ex-
change. 34407.

Jackson, Miss Vicrorta, Bowling Green,
Ky.: Sixty specimens, representing 7
species of land and fresh-water mol-
lusks (33899); 8 species of shells
(34647).

Jacoss, W. H., Lonaconing, Md.: Pea-
cock. 34723.

Jacopson, C. A., Northfield, Minn.: Com-
pacted mycelium of a wood-inhabiting
fungus. 35030.

James, G. Wuarton, Pasadena, Cal.:
Photograph of baskets made by the
Cahuilla Indians, and photograph of a
Navajo blanket weaver. 35168.

JARBOE, Miss Leonora, Baltimore, Md.:
Cane used by Capt. James Jarboe, a
soldier of the war of 1812; original let-
ter written by Captain Jarboe, dated

| September 15, 1814. 34038.

JELLICORSE, R., Carthage, Tenn.: Seven
pottery bowls. 33946.

Jennines, J. H., Henderson, Tenn.:

| Three specimens of Myrmeleonids.
33857.

JmNSEN, A. S., Universitetets Museum,
Copenhagen, Denmark: Six specimens
of Montacuta molleri (Holb6ll) Morch,
from Greenland. 34846.

Jermy, Jutius, San Antonio, Tex.: One
thousand plants (34516); 325 plants
from Hungary (34945). Purchase.

JoHANSEN, O. A., Chicago, Ill.: Small
collection of Acrididee. 34607.

Jounson, A. J., Chetco, Oreg., received
through Department of Agriculture:
Seven plants from Oregon. 34964.

Jounson, A. R., Whitesboro, N. Y.:
Clasp knife, flint, 2 pieces of a military
buckle, 2 buttons probably of British
manufacture, picked up on the battle-
field of Crown Point. 33763.

Jounson, Hon. Bensamin. (See under
State, Department of. )

Jounson, C. F., Freeport, Ill.: One hun-
dred specimens of violets (35067) ;
22 plants from Illinois (35148).
Exchange.

Jounson, Prof. C. W., Wagner Free
Institute of Science, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Specimen of Celiodes schwarzi (34024) ;

92 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

JouHnson, Prof. C. W.—Continued.
35 specimens of Diptera (34537); speci-
men of Ptynx appendiculatus Fab.
(34640) ; 45 specimens of Hymenoptera
(34881).

JoHnson, Capt. M. L., U. S. N.
under Navy Department. )

Jounston, Mrs. H. D., San Pedro, Cal.:
Ten species of marine shells. 34551.

Jones, Rev. D. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

(See

Kenioce, Prof. V. L., Leland Stanford
Junior University, Stanford Univer-
sity, Cal.: Sixty slides representing
cotypes of Mallophaga. 35089.

Kesey, F. W., San Diego, Cal.: Shells
from San Diego Harbor, California.
34142.

Keneia, L. A., San Francisco, Cal.: Col-
lection of sea algze from Pigeon Point,
San Mateo County, Cal. 34684.

| Kenner, B., Manti, Utah: Fossil bones

Jones, M. E., Salt Lake City, Utah: |
| Kenr Screntiric Instrrure, Grand Rap-

Plant. 338984.

Jones, O. H. (See
Barrett-Hamilton. )

Jones, R. L., Burlington, Vt.: Five speci-
mens of violets. Exchange. 34589.

Jupp, S. D., Biological Survey, Depart-
ment of Agriculture: Amphipods from
New England. 34225.

Juprex, Mrs. Amaset, New Orleans, La.:
Twenty specimens of Cretaceous H.xo-
gyra and Anomia, from Jamestown, Ga.
34127.

under G. E. H. |

ofa turtle. 35174.
ids, Mich., received through L. §. Liy-
ingston: Thirty-two specimens of South
American Lepidoptera. 34405.

Kentucky Frre Brick Company, Ports-
mouth, Ohio: Fire clay. 34226.

Kersey, J. O., Cocoanut Grove, Fla.:
Plant. 34586.

Kerr Broruegrs, Wrightsville, Pa.: Lime-
stone used for making quicklime.
34159.

| Kew, ENGLAND, Roya Borantc GARDENS,

JuNGEN, Lieut. C. W., U. 8. N.: Marine |

telegraph cable cut by the U. 8. S.

Wampatuck June 1, 1898; marine tele-
graph cable cut by the same steamer on |

May 18, 1898; cartridge case fired from
the Wampatuck June 30, 1898.

Jounson, C. F., Freeport, Ill.: Specimens
of violets. (385067, 35148.)

KarsHner, H. I., Burnett, Wash.: Six
Miocene nodules or concretions con-
taining fossil crabs, from Washington.
34308.

Karo, Kaisuxa, Imperial Department of
State for Agriculture and Commerce,

34075. |

Exchange. |

Tokio, Japan: Specimens of twinned |

native quartz, native arsenic, and other

deposits from Japan. 34571.

KavanauGH, E. G. (See under Smith-
sonian Institution, Bureau of Eth-
nology.)

Kerarrort, W. D., New York City, N. Y.: |

Fifteen specimens of Lepidoptera; 2
larvee, 3 of pupee, and a Tachinid-fly
with case. 35152.

Kearney, T. H., jr., Washington, D. C.:
Nine plants. Exchange. 33765.

Ketcuer, THomas, Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of Zabanus  trimaculatus.
33791.

received through Dr. W. T. Thiselton-
Dyer, director: Plants. 34651.

Kiumer, F. B., New Brunswick, N. J.:
Six plants. 35069.

Kimsie, G. W., Placerville, Cal., received
through H. W. Turner: Seven speci-
mens of roscoelite from Stocklages
mine, Eldorado County, Cal. 34593.

Krnaston, JAMAICA: Public Gardens and
Plantations, Botanical Department:
One hundred and twelve plants from
Jamaica. Exchange. 34137.

| KirKAupy, G. W., Wimbledon, Surrey,

England, received through Dr. L. O.
Howard: Ten species of exotic Hemip-
tera. 34993.

| Kizer, Dr. D. T., Chillicothe, Mo.: Fresh-

water shells from Missouri and Kansas.
33904.

| Kniaut, W. C., Laramie, Wyo.: Eight

30048.

KNowLEs, TAYLOR & KNOWLES COMPANY,
East Liverpool, Ohio: Eleven pieces of
pottery. 34492.

Know ton, F. H., U. 8. Geological Sur-
vey: Specimen of Linnxa borealis from
Washington, D. C. (34111); 500 plants
(84253); 5 specimens of Mus musculus
(34455); white jasper scraper blade

species of fresh-water shells.

as

LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Knowuron, F. H.—Continued.
from Carbonado, State of Washington
(34491); plant from the District of Co-
lumbia (34679).

Kosrer, Dr. G. M., Washington, D. C.:
Headdress made of an otter skin ob-
tained from the Bannock Indians of
North Idaho, anda basket obtained from
the Piute Indians of Southern Utah.
Exchange. 34548.

Kornia, Apotr, Pittsburg, Pa.: Twenty-
three plants. 35182. (See under Agri-
culture, Department of. )

Kororp, Dr. C. A.:
Botanical Station. )

(See under Illinois

Koons, B. F., Storrs, Conn.: Three pieces |

of brick clay in curious forms. 33910.

Krantz, Dr. F.. Bonn, Germany: Cast of |

an Archaeopteryx. Purchase. 34344.

SCO ty

Krerre, R., Kansas City, Mo.: Twelve
Upper Carboniferous crinoids.
chase. 34109.

Kunz, G. F., New York City: Specimen
of prosopite from Dugnay district,
Utah; prosopite from near Park City,
Summit County, Utah, and awarnite

from the western coast of South Island, |

New Zealand. 34591.
ders (33893), specimen of Argyroepeira
hortorum Hentz (34266).

Lacog, R. D., Pittston, Pa.: Two speci-
mens of Belinuwrus lacoei and 2 speci-

mens of Huprodps danae from Mazou |

Creek, Illinois (34541); 26 boxes con-

taining Carboniferous plants from the |

vicinity of Morris, Il. (35093).
Larpecker, N. E., Greencastle, Ind.: Cu-

ban cockade. (See under Porto Rico
collection 35201.)

Pur- |

Lama, R. W., Norfolk, Va.: Mauser clip |
recovered from the wreck of the Span- |

ish ship Reina Mercedes.
Norfolk collection 35187.)

Lamprey, J. P., Kensington, N. H.: Plow
made by Henry Lamprey in 1782.
34769.

(See under

|

Lamson, C. H., Portland, Me.: Lilienthal |

air-sailer. 34952.

- Lane, J. G., New Market, Tenn.: Zinc |

ore. 343811.

|
|
|

; . | Lerpere, J. B.
LACKLAND, SAMUEL, Bowie, La.: Twospi- | :

93

LANGDALE, J. W., Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of mesolite from Ireland
(gift) (34556); rutile and actinolite in
quartz (exchange) (34940).

L’ Ancuatsp, Rey. L. H., Paincourtville,
La.: Larva of an insect. 33881.

LAuRRAUZI, Capt. Jutio M., Coamo, P. R.:
Shrapnellshell. (See under Porto Rico
collection 35201. )

Leary, Capt. R. P., U. 8. N.: Piece of a
settee from the cabin of the San Fran-
cisco; knife made from the armor shot
of the ship; cartridge case belonging to
a Hotchkiss rapid-firing machine gun
(33994); ceiling fixture of an electric
lamp in the cabin of the San Francisco,
wrecked by a shell fired from Morro
Castle; 2 cartridge cases from the San
Francisco (34121).

| Ler, H. A., Denver, Colo.: Cast of asilver

nugget from Mollie Gibson Mine (pur-
chase) (34803); photograph of a nug-
get of native silver from Smuggler
Mine, Aspen, Colo. (gift) (35060).

Leecu, J. F., Washington, D. C.: Speci-
men of Cyrba teniola Hentz. 35199.

LeumMan, W. V., Tremont, Pa.: Twelve
specimens of Carboniferous fossil plants
from the southern anthracite field,
Schuylkill County, Pa. 34642.

(See under Interior De-
partment, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
Leven, Hotianp: Rijks Ethnographisch
Museum, received through Dr. L. Ser-
rurier, director: Collection of ethnolog-
ical objects from the East Indies. Ex-

change. 33997.

Lemon, Dr. J. H., New Albany, Ind.:
Plaster cast of stone carvings; metal
cast of stone carvings (34503); fluted
brick from a mound in Washington
County, Miss. (34618).

Leon, P. M. Ds, U. S. Consul-General,
Guayaquil, Ecuador, received through
Alexandro Santos, Consul-General of
Bolivia, New York City: Stuffed snake.
33761,

Lestige Copper Mintnc Company, re-
ceived through Wesley Everett, Wal-
lace, Idaho: Specimen of hematite iron
ore from Montana. 35235.

Lesueur, ALEx., San Juan, P. R.: Dutch
copper coin. (See under Porto Rico
Collection 35201).
94

LeutzE, Commander E. H. C., U. S. N. |
"(See under Navy Department. )
Lrncotn, H. D., Cottage Grove, Oreg.: |
Larval form of a female Lampyrid rep- |
resenting the genus Zarhipis. 33877.
LrnpGren, W. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. 8. Geological Survey. ) |
Linpsay, Mrs. Wruitram. (See under Na-
tional Society of the Daughters of the
American Revolution. ) |
LINNEMEYER, D. F., Brooklyn, N.Y.: Blue-

checked homer pigeon with four legs. |
30871.

Lisack, Major, U. 8. V., Jewell, Ind.:
Mauser clip. (See under Porto Rico |
Collection. 35201.) |

Liste, Dr. J. D., Philadelphia, Pa., re-
ceived through T. W. Stanton: Cast of
a gold nugget from Reid Mine, North |
Carolina. 34479.

LitrLEBRANT, Lieut. W. T., U. S. A., Fort
Bayard, N. Mex.: Four photographs of
a cliff dwelling on Gila River, N. Mex.
33845.

Livinaston, L. 8S.
entific Institute. )

Lioyp, D. P. & Co., Fostoria, Ohio:
Limestone used for making quicklime.
34278.

Lioyp, H. W., Charleston, 8. C.: Tineid
case bearer. 33758.

Lonpon, ENGLAND: British Museum (Nat-
ural History), South Kensington: One
hundred and ninety specimens, repre-
senting 63 species, of fossil corals, prin- —
cipally Post-Paleozoic, from England
(34510); received through George Mur-
ray, 1,049 plants, consisting of Set No.
4 of F. Rugel’s Florida plants, collected |
in 1842-1849 (34771); received through
Dr. Henry Woodward, 3 casts of skulls
(34839); Exchange.

Lone, M. E. (See under Museum Public
Library, Kansas City. )

Rev. H., Yokohama, Japan:
Twenty-two specimens, representing 22
species of marine, fresh water, and land
shells from Japan (33908); shells and
barnacles (34179); land and marine
shells from Japan (34610); collection of
Japanese Lepidoptera (34873).

Lopez, E. Marrines, Bayamon, P. I.:
Cartridge box, belt, and buckle. (See
under Porto Rico Collection 35201. )

(See under Kent Sci-

Loomis,

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Lorine, J. AtpEN, London, England:
One hundred and seventy-eight mam-
mals and a bird skin from Upsala,
Sweden (34073); 230 mammals from
Braunschweig, Germany (34155); 451
European mammals and 3 birds’ skins
(34422). These specimens were pur-
chased by Mr. Loring from a special
allotment furnished by the National
Museum.

_ Lovett, J. H., Waldoboro, Me.: Twenty-

five specimens of aculeate Hymenop-
tera. 34688.

Lovert, Epwarp, Croydon, England:
Eight specimens of tallies and lighting
apparatus. Exchange. 34368.

Lower, H. N., Long Beach, Cal.: Nine
specimens of shells, representing 4 spe-
cies (33854); 7 species of marine shells
from California (34186); 7 species of
marine shells (34709).

Lucas, Ie., Passaic, N. J., through the
Interior Department, U. 8. Geological
Survey: Four specimens of fossil corals.
34245.

Lucas, F. A., U. S. National Museum:
Skull of a crocodile. 34125.

Luptow, Capt. Nicoll, U. S. N.
under Navy Department. )

Luxenty, N. B., Portland, Oreg., received
through Department of Agriculture:
Plant. 34621.

Lyon, M. W., Jr., U.S. National Museum:
Thirty-seven mammals and 2 birds
from Washington, D. C. (844385); 2
frogs from Virginia (35103); toad from
Bay Ridge, Md. (35142).

McCann, J. J., Punta Gorda, Fla.: Io
moth, Saturnia io. 34230.

McComp, G. T., Lockport, N. Y.: Two
specimens of Niagara fossils. 34072.
McCarrny, J. B., Washington, D. C.:
Geological material from Italy (33842) ;
specimens of asbestos and sulphur from
Italy and hematite from England
(34241). Collected by F. W. Crosby.
McCirnpen, Dr. E. F., Trinity, Tex.:
Drinking horn, Krag shells, and the
fragment of a shell. (See under Porto

Rico collection, 35201.)

McCrrrry, J. Hi, Oceanport, SNe:
Pounding bowl more than 150 years
old. 34899.

(See

LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

McDovucat, D. T., Minneapolis, Minn. :
Three hundred and ninety-five plants
from Arizona. Purchase. 34401.

McEtrresn, F. M., Illinois Biological
Station, Urbana, Ill.: Eggs of Katydid,
representing the species Antigaster mira-
bilis Walsh, with parasites. 34396.

McFappen, J. E., Sterling, N. Y.: Sphinx
moth. 33767.

McFaruanp, Dantet, Los Angeles, Cal.:
Four specimens of Conorhinus protractus.
33915.

McGuiutvreay, Prof. ALEx., Ithaca, N. Y.:
Two species of Cynipids
fulvicollis Fiteh and Philonix nigricollis
Fitch). 34579.

McGrecor, R. C., Palo Alto, Cal.: One
hundred and sixteen birds’ skins (gift)
(33866); 34 birds’ skins (deposit)
(35085 ).

McGuire, F. B., Washington, D. C.: Pot-
tery vase from Peru, South America.
34894.

McKany, Mr. (no address given): Coal,
petroleum, and other deposits. 34608.
(O.)

McKratey, Hon. Witi1aM, President of
the United States: A copy of a mem-
orial, transmitted to the President of
the United States by Emperor William
of Germany, commemorative of the
consecration on October 31, 1898, of
the Church of the Savior in Jerusalem.
34935.

McKniaut, A. J., San Francisco, Cal.:
Specimen of Sirex areolatus Cresson.
34183.

McManat, J. E., Diamond, Ariz.: Two

(Philonia |

95

Macraw, A. R., Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of Upper Devonian sandstone
containing casts of shells, from Bay
Ridge, Va. 34458.

MawHoop, F. W., Washington, D. C.:
Siliceous sand for glass making from
near Stapleton Mills, Va. 34406.

Manton, H. B., Akron, Ohio: Kaolite
slip used as a glaze in the manufacture

of pottery. 35065.
MAREAN, , Washington, D. C.: Two
barn owls. 35196.

Marsu, Prof. 0. C., New Haven, Conn.
Nineteen polished spheres of Japanese
breccia. 34643. (See under Interior
Department, U. S. Geological Survey. )

- MarsyHaryi Brick Company, Rapid City,

specimens of Cottonwood Beetle, Lina |

scripte Fab. 35074.

McNutt, Frances, Rockbridge Baths,
Va.: Five specimens of Thyriopteryx
ephemereformis Hall. 33964.

Macoun, J. M., Geological Survey, Otta-
wa, Canada: Ninety-eight plants from
Canada (34673); 22 plants from Pribilof
Islands (34770). Exchange.

Maainnis, Judge W. L., Ogden, Utah:
Specimen of mica from Latah County,
Idaho. 35076.

Maerane, R. W., New York City: Rem-
ington (Spanish) rifle captured at the sur-
render of Ponce de Porto Rico; also 12
Remington cartridges. Deposit. 34102.

S. Dak.: Specimens of raw and burnt

clay. 34496.
MarsHati, Ernest, Laurel, Md.: Fishes
and leeches. 34911. (See under

George Marshall. )

MarsHaLt, GeorGkE, U.S. National Mu-
seum: Maynard revolver manufactured
by the Massachusetts Arms Company
(34026); Pine Mouse, Microtus pineto-
rum, from Washington, D. C. (34382);
specimen of Microtus pennsylvanicus
(34736); fishes and leeches obtained in
Laurel, Md., by Henry and Ernest
Marshall (34911); Jumping Mouse,
Zapus hudsonius, trom Laurel (35027).

MarsHatu, H., U. S. National Museum:
Nest of a wasp. 34181. (See under
George Marshall. )

Martin, Prof. K., Director des Geologi-
schen Museums, Leyden, Holland: Fos-
sil corals representing 25 localities on
the island of Curagao.
34194.

Mason, Grorce E., London, England:
Eleven frogs from England. Exchange.
35238.

Mason, Mrs. Lucy Orp, Washington,
D. C.: Sword of Lieut. J. Garesché
Ord, Sixth United States Infantry,
killed at the battle of San Juan Hill,
Santiago de Cuba, July 1, 1898.
Deposit. 34126.

Maxon, Mrs. 8S. A., Oneida, N. Y.: One
hundred plants (35052); 150 plants
from New York (35104).

Exchange.
96

Maxon, W. R., U. S. National Museum:
Three ferns from Jamesville, N. Y.

(34380); plants (34681); fern (34685); |

12 plants (34954); collection of insects
(35140).

Maxson, H. B., Reno, Nev.: Ores, mar-
bles, and petrified wood. 34659. (O.)

Mayer Potrery Company, Beaver Falls,
Pa.: received through Dr. Walter
Hough: Eight specimens of colored
glassware. 34052.

Meapows, E. W., Pamplin, Va.: Moth,
Cherocampus tersa Linneeus. 34130.
Means, T. H., Department of Agricul-
ture: Specimen of fuller’s earth from

Quincy, Fla. 34554.

Mearns, Dr. E. A., U. S. A.: Collections
of natural history specimens and eth-
nological objects (383829, 33874) ; fishes,

insects, and shells from Fort Clark, |

Tex. (34429); 5 beetles and 39 skulls of
mammals from Lexington, Ky. (54461);
birds’ skins from Lexington, Ky., and
plants from Chickamauga National

Park, Georgia (34482); natural history |
specimens from Texas and Georgia |

(34611, 34676); mollusks from New-
port, R. I. (385062).

Mearns, Louris pt Zereca, Fort Clark,
Tex.: Fifty-six birds’ skins from Texas
(deposit) (83880); 3 plants from Texas
(gift) (84083); skin and skull of Gray
Squirrel, Sciwrus carolinensis (deposit)
(34483); 28 mammal skins and 30 mam-
mal skulls (deposit) (84706).

Meek, A. K., Washington, D. C.: Twelve
specimens of fungi. 34874.

Me trorp, Miss A. I., Washington, D. C.:
Three plants from New Mexico. 34145.

MELvILLE, W. P., Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.:
Four birds’ skins from Angola. Ex-
change. 34907.

Mercer, W. J. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

MerepitH, H. C. (See under Smithson-
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

MertvaLe, WALTER, Bridgeton, Barbados,
West Indies: Specimen of Merivale
manjak, or mineral bitumen, from Bar-
bados, West Indies. 34897.

Merriam, Dr. C. Hart, Department of
Agriculture: Yellow Rail, Porzana
noveboracensis Audubon. 34415.

| Minter, E. E., Canton, Ohio:

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Merriam, FE. D., Conneaut, Ohio: Skull
of a Catfish, Ameirus lacustris. 33981.
Merritt, E. D., Orono, Me.: received
through Dr. T. H. Bean: Three speci-
mensof Stickleback, Gasterosteusatkinsi.

34925.

Merrit, Dr. G. P., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Drift bowlder from Lincoln,
NSHE) wasee:

Mercatr, J. K., Silver City, N. Mex.:
Seven plants. 34452.

Meyers, Max, Sheridan, Mont.: Speci-
men of wad. 35108.

Mexican Amoua Soap Company, Peoria,
Ill.: Collection of yucca roots. 33887.

MicHetsen, Hon. Curis., received
through Capt. J. W. Collins, U.S. Fish
Jommission: Model of the steamship
Merrimac, sunk by Lieutenant Hobson
at Santiago. 34490.

Mrppieron, Mrs. J. J., Washington,
D. C.: Shell representing the genus
Anomia. 34462.

MicuEL, JEAN, Barroubio, Hérault,
France: Seven hundred and _ninety-
eight specimens of European fossils
from the Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Ceno-
zoic horizons. Exchange. 34712.

| Mititer, A. W., Portland, Oreg.: Ores,

building stones, ochers, and petrified
wood. 34654. (0O.)

Miuter, B. D., Peterboro, N. Y.: Speci-
men of albinistic Red Squirrel, Sciwrus
hudsonicus, from Peterboro, N. Y.
35160.

Mruter, ©. L. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.)

Plant.
34116.

Miuuer, Gerrit §., jr., U. S. National
Museum: Plant (33742); 14 plants from
the District of Columbia (33913);
spiders (33923) ; skin of Coccyzus bairdi
from Jamaica (33931); small collection
of fishes from North Truro, Mass., and
from the Shenandoah River (33974);
snake from Maryland (33985); 2 plants
from Maryland (34085); 2 specimens of
bats (Pipistullus subflavus and Lasiurus
borealis) (34095); 2 specimens of Mus
musculus and a specimen of Scalops
aquaticus from Forest Glen, Md. (34189) ;
11 mammals (34290); snake from Mary-
land (34538); specimen of Night Hawk,
LIST OF
Mitier, Gerrit 8., jr. —Continued.
Chordeiles (85056 ) ;
(Scalops aquaticus) and Flying Squirrel,

Sciuropterus volucella (35092).

Miuurr, Dr. J., U. S. National Museum:
Spider (Epeira Hentz).
34553.

Mitts, Gen. Anson, U. 8. Army: Tent
made from buffalo skin. Loan. 34880.

Miuis, R. A., Orlando, Fla.: Hammer-
stone from Mammoth Cave, Kentucky.
34895.

Mitis, R.
spider,
34506.

MINNESOTA,
Minneapolis, Minn., received through
Prof. W. H. Winchell: Sixty speci-
mens of Lower Helderberg fossils from
New York. Exchange. 35096. |

Minnesota, Untversity or, Minneapolis,
Minn.: One hundred and_ thirteen
plants. Exchange. 35022.

Miricx, Miss Newuiz, Oneida, N. Y.:
Twenty plants. Exchange. 35233.
MircHE LL, Dr. C. T., Canandaigua, N. Y.:
Three specimens of mollusks represent-

ing the genus Goniobasis. 34962.

MitcuHeit, G. E., Washington, D. C.:
Four specimens of Carpodectes nitidus |
from Nicaragua. 34202.

MircuHett, Hon. J. D., Victoria, Tex.:
Specimen of Callinectes sapidus trom near
Dupuy Lake, Texas (34017); 2 species of
fresh-water shells from Texas (34392) ;

rays |
VIPGUanus mole

domiciliana

P., St. Petersburg, Fla.: Crab-
Sp

Gasteracantha cancer Hentz.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF,

6 specimens of Callinectes sapidus with
parasites from Old Indianola, Tex.
(34729); 8 species of marine shells |

(34735); marine and land shells from
Texas (34833); 20 crabs (13 with para- |
sites) from Texas (34871).

Moak, ©. C., Corning, Iowa: Brass pipe-

hatchet. Purchase. 34641.
Monr, Dr. Cuarues, Mobile, Ala.: Speci-
men of Viola carolina Greene (ex- |

change) (34449); plant from Lockout
Mountain, Mentone, Tenn. (gift) |
(34529); 7 plants (exchange) (34623). |

Monreiru, Miss Ciara, New Orleans,
La.: Caterpillar of Empretia stimulea
Clemens. 34010.

Monrreau River Iron MIntnG Company,
Hurley, Wis.: Iron ore. 34173. |

NAT MUS 99 7

ACCESSIONS.

| 1
| Murray, GEORGE.

97

Moon, E. P., Palmer, Colo., received
through Isaac Winston: Specimen of
sandstone. 33884.

Moors, B. B., Washington, D. C.: Flying
Squirrel, Sciwropterus volucella. 35161.

Moores, C. B., Philadelphia, Pa.: Six
counterfeit ceremonial crooks. 33824.

Moorr, Dr. H. D., New Lexington, Pa.:
Specimen of Clintonia umbellata, 35146,

Moors, J. E., Seattle, Wash.: Specimen
of molybdenum. 33846.

Moornerap, JAMES, Pecos High Bridge
(Lozier post-office), Tex.: Five plants.
34161.

MoorEHEAD, WARREN
Thomas Wilson. )

K. (See under

Morera, Mexico, Musso MicHoacano,
received through Dr. Manuel Martinez
Solérzano: Seven birds’ skins and 90
specimens of insects from Mexico. Ex-
change. 34305.

Morean, Dr. E. L., Washington, D. C.:
Specimens of Flying Squirrel, Sciwrop-
terus volucella (34280, 34644).

Morris, G. F. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

Morrison, E. H. (See under Walker

Electric Company. )

Morron, Mrs. A. E., Olney, Colo.: Speci-
| ’ >] .

men of Mantis, Stagmomantis carolina
Linneus; 2 tarantulas, and a specimen
of Holbrook’s Lizard, Holbrookia macu-

lata. 34129.
Moss, Wittram, Ashton-under-Lyne,

England: Shells from Lifu, Loyalty
Islands, Oceanica (34887); 3,000 speci-
mens of minute marine and land shells
from the same locality (35113).
Mu.rorp, Miss A. I., Washington, D. C.:
Three plants from New Mexico. 34145,
Muniz, Dr. M. A. (See under Smithson-
ian Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

Murpaun, Mrs. H. I., Luray, S.. C.:
Crab Spider,  Gasteracantha cancer
Hentz. 934100.

Murreupt, Miss Mary, Kirkwood, Mo.:
Fourteen specimens of insects. 35007.

(See under London,
England, British Museum. )

Muser pb’ Hisroire NATURELLE.
der Paris, France. )

(See un-
a

Museo MICHOACANO.

8 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

(See under More-
lia, Mexico. )

Museum or CoMPARATIVE ZooLtoGy, Cam-

bridge, Mass. Received through Dr.
C. R. Eastman: Cast of an egg of a
fossilostrich (Struthiolithus chersonensis ) ;
teeth of fossil fishes (Ceratodonts) (gift)
(33755).

taceans, representing 21 species (ex-
change) (34156); 90 specimens, repre-
senting 26 species of crabs (exchange)
(34789).

Museum Pusiic Liprary, Kansas City,

Mo., received through M. C. Long:
Electrotype of the Washington Peace
Medal, bearing date 1793. 34980.

Musrum SENCKENBERGIANUM. (See under

N

N

Frankfurt-am-Main. )
aso, C. W., Toronto, Canada, received

through Dr. A. K. Fisher: Snake
(Storeria dekayi) from Toronto. 34284.

ATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE CoLONIAL

Dames or America, Miss Elizabeth |

Bird Nicholas, Treasurer-General. Re-
ceived through Mrs. William Henry

Browne and Gen. Joseph Wheeler, |
chair used by William Henry Harri- |

son, President of the United States;
coat worn by Lord Fairfax of Green-
way Court, Va.; bellows owned by
Elizabeth Bradford; silver candlestick
owned by the Delancey family; silver
spoon owned by the Cooper family;
silver teaspoon owned by Elizabeth
Langdon; silver salt-cellar without the
glass, 1745; 2 silver spoons owned by
William Byrd; china tea caddy owned

by Robert Carter; silver tablespoon, |

1745, owned by William Byrd, and a
soup plate also owned by William Byrd
(34972). Received through Mrs. Wil-
liam Henry Browne, hand embroidery
on home-made linen woven by Mrs.
L. W. Knowlton; pastel portrait, on
vellum, of Hon. Oliver Wolcott, Paris,
1783 (35040). Received through Mrs.
Lucy Carter Trent, in behalf of the
Richmond branch of the society, col-
lection of historical relics consisting of
letter, glassware, silverware, ete.
(85082). Received through Mrs.Charles
Washington Coleman, autograph let-
ters and papers of 13 signers of the

NATIONAL SOCIETY

OF THE COLONIAL

Dames oF AmMERICA—Continued.
Declaration of Independence (35087).
Received through Mrs. Elizabeth Byrd
Nicholas, collection of historical relics
(35162).

| NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF
Received through Dr. Walter |
Faxon: 77 specimens of decapod crus- |

THE AMERICAN Revouvution. Received
through Mrs. William Lindsay: Piece
of the British ship Somerset; 3  let-
ters from daughters of Revolutionary
soldiers; order for payment of money
to General Lafayette; 3 dinner plates,
a frame and photograph (33792); coat
worn by Charles Carroll, of Carrollton,
on the occasion of his signing the Dec-
laration of Independence (34307); buff
silk embroidered waistcoat worn by
Copeland Parker, a descendant of the
Earls of Macclesfield, surveyor and in-
spector of the customs of the port of
Norfolk, Va., by appointment of Presi-
dent George Washington; wood from
home of John Hancock, Boston, Mass.,
built in 1737 and destroyed in 1863;
letters, viz, from Anna Morse, Emily
Allen, A. I. H. Dyer, and members of
Old South Chapter, Boston, daughters
of soldiers of the war of the Revolu-
tion (34613); snuffbox used in the
Jones family, silver loving cup of Cap-
tain Parker, 2 cut-glass wine glasses
brought from England in 1750; colonial
miniature gilt portrait frame, pewter
tankard brought from England in 1639,
a pair of epaulettes owned by Gen.
Weir Smallwood, Revolutionary War,
pewter candlestick brought from Eng-
land in 1750, colonial lantern brought
from England in 1750, oil portrait of
Susan Coates Jones (34731); 2 engrav-
ings, small gilded shield, block of wood
with 2 bullets embedded, found on
Cowpens battlefield, plate, cup, and
saucer (34743); collection of historical
relics (34851); blue and white china
platter with strainer (35137).

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHICAL Socrery, Wash-

ington, D. C.: Harpoon head, taken
from a whale in Bering Sea. Deposit.
34838.

Navy Department, Hon. John D. Long,

Received from Admiral
brass trophy guns

Secretary:
George Dewey, 2
LIST OF ACCESSIONS. . 99

Navy DerartmMent—Continued.

captured from the Spanish arsenal at
Cavite, P.I., on May 1, 1898 (34752).
Received through Bureau of Ordnance,
from the battleship Maine, arms and
munitions, also sample of powder ob-
tained from the wreck of the Maine
(33948). Received through Capt. Nicoll
Ludlow, U. 8. S. Massachusetts, electric
fan used for driving smoke from the
bores of heavy guns, piece of a Spanish
shell (34192), soup tureen with cover
and 2 vegetable dishes with covers
presented to the Maine by the citizens
of the State of Maine in 1895, also a
silver loving cup presented to the ship
by natives of the State of Maine resid-
ing in New Orleans March 10, 1897

(34345). Received from Capt. M. L. |
Johnson, commanding United States |
Navy-Yard, Boston, Mass., binnacleand —
compass from the captured Spanish |

gunboat Sandoval (34423); received
through Hon. Charles H. Allen, As-

sistant Secretary of the Navy, shield, |

crown, and scrolls comprising the
stern ornament of the Christobal Colon
(34521). Received from Commander R.
B. Bradford, small steering binnacleand
compass from the conning tower of the
torpedo boat Winslow (34671). Received
through Rear-Admiral Charles O’ Neill,
two 38-inch cartridge cases (34753).

Received from Chief Naval Con- |
structor Philip Hichborn, steering |

wheels of the Maine (34860); collection
of historical relics incident to the
battle of Manila, collected by Com-
mander E. H. C. Leutze (35081). De-
posit.

Nenrine, H., Milwaukee, Wis.: Three
photographs of the skull of a Hump-
back Whale. 33972.

Nerrzy, W. M., Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of Astroscopus y-grecum.
34291.

Netron, Avon, Laramie, Wyo.: Ninety-
two plantsfrom Wyoming. Exchange.
34690.

Netson, Curis, Fort Hamilton, N. Y.:

One hundred and twenty-three arrow |

points of flint and obsidian, pendants
and ornaments of shell and turquoise,
and fragments of painted pottery from

Newtson, Curts—Continued.
near Fort Grant, Arizona (34930); 5
grooved stone axes and an arrow-shaft
polisher from near Fort Grant (35038 ).

Neison, E. W. (See under Mrs. N. M.
Brown; Smithsonian Institution, Bu-
reau of Ethnology. )

Newcoms, Capt. F. H., U. S. R. C. S.,
New York City: Rope bolt from the
wreck of the Spanish cruiser Viscaya;
4-inch cartridge case from the U. 8. 8.
Suwanee; cartridge case of a 6-pound
shot fired from the U. 8. 8. Hudson at
the time of the rescue of the Winslow,
on May 11,1898. 33995.

New Encuanp Tatc Company, Stock-
bridge, Vt.: Tale. 34294.>

New Mexico AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT
Sratron, Mesilla Park, N. Mex., re-
ceived through Prof. T. D. A. Cockerell:
Eighteen plants (33804); specimen of
Eremopedes scudderi Ckll., from viridis
Ckll. (2 topotypes) (33895); 2 speci-
mens of Helix miorhyssa Dall from
White Mountain, New Mexico (84170) ;
12 specimens of Hymenoptera, includ-
ing one type specimen (34355); New
Mexican Hymenoptera, Hemiptera,
and other specimens (34904) ; specimen
of Zonites representing a new species
(35023) .

New York University, University

| Heights, New York City, received

through Dr. C. L. Bristol: Polyps and
other specimens from the Bermudas.
Exchange. 34478.

Nrsxack, Lieut. A. P., U. 8. Navy. (See
under Winslow, U. S. torpedo boat.)

| Nicnouas, Miss ExizasetH Byrp. (See

under National Society of the Colonial
Dames of America.)

NorroLk CoLuection, obtained through
Paul Beckwith: Collection of war relics
from Porto Rico and Cuba. 35187.
The names of persons who contributed
to this collection occur alphabetically

| in this list.

| Norman, W. W., Austin, Tex., received
through the Department of Agriculture:
Three specimens of Panorpa rufa Gray,
and 2 specimens of Lipolexis rapx Cur-
tis. 34728.

Norra River GARNET Company, North
River, N. Y.: Garnet rock. 34969.

100

NorTHWESTERN IRoN Company, Milwau-
kee, Wis.: Specimen of iron ore. 34175.

Norton, Miss M. L., Marine, Il.: Speci-
men of Cecropia Moth, Attacus cecropia
Linneeus. 35127.

)

Noyes, Miss C. E., U. 8. National Mu- |

seum: Two unsigned ten-dollar notes
of the Commercial Bank of Florida

(34887); 6 envelopes with historical |

designs used during the civil war, 1861—

1865 (35229) .
Nurtine, Prof. C. C.

State University of.)
Nye, Wiiuarp, jr., New Bedford, Mass. :

(See under Iowa,

Six specimens of mantis shrimp from |

Acushnet River. 34705.
Nynanper,’*O., Caribou, Me.: Specimens
of Margaritanas (33831); amphipods

from Maine (384862); 20 specimens of
Cambrian fossils from near Newport, |
R. I., and 4 specimens of Monograptus |

clintonensis from Aroostook County, Me.
(34725).

O’Connor, J.

J., Washington, D. C.: |

Peat from near the Lakes of Killarney, |

County Kerry, Ireland. 34436.

O’ Neri, Rear-Admiral CHarugs, U.S. N.,
3ureau of Ordance, Navy Department:
Model of the new 4.7-inch shrapnel,
U.S. A. 34000.

O’ RourKE, BERNADov, Paterson, N. J.:
Schenk] shell (patented October 10,

1861), found in Virginia about 4+ miles |

from Dumfrie, in dividing the line
between Stafford and Prince William
counties. 34951.

Orrer, WILLIAM, Miami, Fla.: Fifty-five
species of shells from Florida.

Cement rock. 34168.

35021. |
Onto CEMENT Company, Lisbon, Ohio: |

Oup ABE Company, White Oaks, N. Mex., |
received through J. Y. Hewitt, and |

A. E. Heighway: Three specimens of
gold in selenite from Old Abe mine,
White Oaks, N. Mex. 34701.

Otp Dominion Mintnac Company, Spo-
kane, Wash.: Silver ore. 34247.

Ouproyp, Mrs. T. 8., Los Angeles, Cal.:
Five species of marine shells from
Cuba. 34649.

Oups, H. W., Woodside, Md.: Thirty-
nine plants from Brookside, W. Va.
(34084); 22 plants (34140); plant from
the District of Columbia (35121).

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Orp, J. T., Monterey, Mexico: Relics of
the Spanish-American war. Deposit.
34080.

Orr, H. D., Washington, D. C.: One-
pound cartridge case and a one-pound
shell. (See under Porto Rico collec-
tion 35201. )

OsporN, Prof. Henry. (See under Agri-
culture, Department of. )

Orrawa, CANADA: GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
oF CANADA, received through Prof. J.
F. Whiteaves: Twenty-four specimens
of Trenton fossils from Akpatok Island,
Hudson Bay. Exchange. 34989.

Orrotencur, Dr. R., New York City:
Forty-five specimens of Lepidoptera.
34107.

Owen, W. O., Washington, D. C.: Four-
teen pieces of ancient pottery, a stone
slab; a portion of a shell bracelet found
among the ruins at Fort Bayard, N.
Mex. 34522.

Owens, M. J., Mathias Point, Va.: Snake
(33979); 2 vertebrae of a fossil whale
(34871).

Packarpb, A.S., Providence, R. I.: Fossil,
genus Astacus, from Idaho. 33756.

Paine, R. G., Washington, D. C.: Seaside
Sparrow from South Carolina. 54955.

PatmMER, Epwarp, Washington, D. C.:
Specimens of Bulimus from Salteo,
Mexico; crustaceans and worms from
Mexico (34602); 550 plants from Mex-
ico (purchase) (34853). (See under
Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of
Ethnology.)

Pautmer, Dr. T.S., Department of Agricul-
ture: Skull of Razor-billed Auk. 33935.

PautmMer, WiiuiAM, U. S. National Mu-
seum: Pine-mouse, Microtus pinetorum,
from Hampstead, Md. (33778); 17
birds’ skins from the western section of
the United States (33941); 14 birds’
skins from various localities (54180) ;
crabs, worms, jelly-fish, and holothu-
rian from Smiths Island, Virginia
(34486) ; 6skinsand skulls of mammals
from Smiths Island, Virginia (34597) ;
2 skins of Microtus pennsyluanicus nigrans
(34633); plant from the District of
Columbia (34983); 15 bats from Mary-
land (35184); collection of isopods,
sponges, shells, fishes, and plants from
Virginia (35186).
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Pan-AMERICAN MeEpicat Conaress, 1896:
A miscellaneous collection of medicinal
plants received in response to a circu-
lar issued by the Smithsonian Institu-
tion at the request of the promoters of
the meeting of the Pan-American Med-
ical Congress held in the City of Mex-
ico in November, 1896. 35178.

Parker, L. C., Saltpetre Cave, Va.: Black
marble. 34609.

Paris, FRANCE, Musre pb’ Historre Na-

TURELLE. Received through Léon Vail-
lant. Collection of fishes in alcohol
from north and central Asia, obtained
by M. Chaffanjon (34863). Received
through E. L. Bouvier, crustaceans, rep-
resenting 80 species obtained from the
dredgings of the Travailleur and Talis-
man (35078). Exchange.

Paruin, J. C., North Berwick, «Me., re-
ceived through Department of Agri-
culture: Twelve plants from Maine.
34943.

PARMENTER, C. S.
stitute. )

Parrata-Dorta, Miaguet pr, Ponce, P.
R.: Rough idol and a storm collar, leg
shackles, pistol holsters, and a revol-
ver. (See under Porto Rico collection

(See under Baker In-

39201); copper ore, lead ore, aurifer-

ous quartz, graphite, and phosphate
(34884).

Parrirr, H. W., London, England: Sey-
enteen specimens of marine inverte-
brates. Exchange. 35010.

Parsons, Dr. W. B., Missoula, Mont.:
Specimen of substance, apparently a
form of carbon, found on the edge of a
stream in Missouri. 33944.

Parsons, W. D. (See under Treasury
Department, U.S. Life-Saving Service. )

Pavona, Prof. C. F., Museum of Natural
History, University of Turin, Turin,
Italy: One hundred and sixty-seven
specimens, representing 95 species, of
fossil corals from the Italian Tertiary
deposits. Exchange. 34448.

Payne, E. J., Olympia, Wash.: Mineral
from Index, Wash. 34058.

Peasopy, Mrs. H. M., Bluff, Utah: Eighty-
four specimens of Lepidoptera and Neu-
roptera. 34375.

.: Prarson, A. Y., Omaha, Nebr.: Ostrich

skin. Purchase. 34133.

|

LOL

Peary, Lieut. R. E. (See under American
Museum of Natural History. )

Prcx, C. H., Albany, N. Y.: Five speci-
mens of plants, representing the genus
Houstonia, 34852.

PrckHAM, Prof. G. W., Hartland, Wis.:
Insect, representing the genus Crabro
(33813); 2 wasps (33892).

PENNSYLVANIA, University or, DrEpart-
MENT OF HTHNOLOGY AND PALEONTOL-
ocy, Philadelphia, Pa.: Skull of a fossil
bison. Deposit. (Returned.) 33847.

Perkins, A. F., Catatonk, N. Y.: Speci-
men of Walking Stick, Diapheromera
Ffermorata Say. 34059.

Prrers-Brooxks Party. (See under In-
terior Department, U. 8S. Geological
Survey. )

Puevps, Miss Eten, Nitta Yuma, Miss.:
Wings of a Seventeen-year Locust, Ci-
cada septendecim Linnaeus. 34203.

PHILADELPHIA CoMMERCI1AL Museum, Phil-
adelphia, Pa.: Forty specimens of vio-
lets. Exchange. 35166.

Puitiirs, Dr. W. A., Evanston, IIl., re-
ceived through W. A. Carter, Brandon,
England: Collection of flint implements
from England. Exchange. 33933.

Piussry, H. A., Philadelphia, Pa.: Speci-
mens of Somatogyrus from Alabama and
Paludestrina from California. 34595.

Ping, Georce, Aripeka, Fla.: Fifteen
specimens of shells, representing 4
species (33885); 12 specimens of Am-
pullaria trom the Homosassa River,
Florida, representing a new species
(34169).

Preer, C. V., Pullman, Wash.: Plant
(34408); 2 specimens of Umbelliferze,
collected by A. D. E. Elmer in Wash-
ington (34601); 15 moths (84923); 295
specimens of Lepidoptera, including 2
specimens of Arctonotus lucidus, a rare
species (35049).

PircuEer, J. E., Custer City, S. Dak.:
Skull of mammal, representing the
genus Oreodon (purchase) (34459);
ores, mica, clays, and other geological
specimens (gift) (34460).

Pirtier, H. F., Director del Instituto

. Fisico-Geografico Nacional, San José,
Costa Rica: Two hundred plants (33930,
34006); 102 piants from Central Amer-
ica (34686). Purchase.
102

Puank, E. N., Kansas City, Mo., received
through Department of Agriculture:
Three plants. 34966.

Puasxert, R. A., Gorda, Cal.: One hun-
dred and sixty-seven plants from Cali-
fornia. Purchase. 34955.

PLecKeR, W. A., Hampden, Va.: Speci- |

men of Lagoa opercularis Ashd. 34070.

Purr, C. C., Baltimore, Md., received |

through Department of Agriculture:
Three plants from near Baltimore.
34029.

Pouuarp, C. L., U.S. National Museum:
Violet (33743); 50 plants from Mary-
land and the District of Columbia, and
300 plants from Florida (33835) ; speci-
mens of Vespertilio fuscus (83836); 9
plants from Long Island (83953); 13
plants from near Boston, Mass. (33983) ;
26 specimens of Lepidoptera (34994) .

Potitarp, Epwarp, Washington, D. C.:
Japanese dagger. Exchange. 35100.

Porr, ©. A., Trenton, N. J., received
through Bureau of Ethnology: Speci-
mens of ‘‘Inca’’ pottery. 35145.

Porto Rico Collection, obtained by Paul |
Beckwith: Collection of Spanish war |

relics. A collection of natural speci-

mens was also obtained by Mr. Beck- |

with in Porto Rico. 35201. Thenames

of persons who contributed to this col- |

lection occur in alphabetical order in
the accession list.

Post, E. J., Tampa, Fla.: Nine species of
shells from
(34136) ; 5 species of marine shells from
Florida (34975); 6 species of marine
shells (35042).

Postet, Henry. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

PounpsTong, Lieut. H.C., U. S. N.,

Florida and Honduras |

Ee= 5)

ceived through Lieut. J. B. Bernadou: |

Specimens of powder from the Spanish

ships Oquendo and Maria Theresa.
34195.

PowEL., J. B.
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

Powe, W. F. (See under State, De-
partment of. )

Pratt, F. C., Department of Agriculture:

Seventeen specimens of miscellaneous |

insects. 35154.

Pratt, J. H., Chapel Hill, N. C.: Two |
specimens of wellsite from a mine near |

(See under Smithsonian |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Pratt, J. H.—Continued.
Buck Creek, and two specimens of an-
thophyllite from near  Bakersville
(34666); anorthite in forrelenstone from
Buck Creek (34733); kyanite and anor-
thite in forrelenstone (34734).

Presse, E. A., Department of Agricul-
ture: Three plants (33865); 5 specimens
of Mus musculus (384850) ; 6 frogs (34956 ).

Prentiss, D. W., Jr., Washington, D. C.:
Mammals, snakes and batrachians, and
shells. 34012.

Preston, J. W., Baxter, Iowa: Hawk
from Manitoba. 35128.

Price, Miss S. F., Bowling Green, Ky.:
Two species of fresh-water shells
(34113); plant from Warren County,
Ky. (34224); species of Goniobasis from
Kentucky (34485) ; 7 specimens of vio-
lets (35135). (See under J. K. Small. )

PRINGLE, C. G., Charlotte, Vt.: Two hun-
dred and fifty plants from Mexico
(34030); type specimens of Polianthes
pringlet (34234).

Pritcuerr, H. 8. (See under Treasury
Department, U. 8S. Coast and Geodetic
Survey. )

Pusiic GARDENS AND PLANTATIONS, Bo-
TANICAL DEPARTMENT.. (See under
Kingston, Jamaica. )

Purpus, C. A., San Diego, Cal.: Plants.

(35080, 35106, 35181.) Purchase.

QUAINTANCE, A. L., and P. H. Rolfs, Lake
City, Fla.: Specimens of Coccidx ameri-
can, representing 20 species of North
American scale insects. 34377.

Ramirez, Dr. Jost, Instituto Medico
Nacional, City of Mexico, Mexico:
Thirty water-lily bulbs from Mexico.
Exchange. 34562.

Ramsay, T. R., Dublin, Ga.: Moth (Atta-
cus cecropia Linngzeus). 34933.

RANDALL, F. A., Warren, Pa.: Specimens
|

of Echinocaris socialis; 2 specimens of
Tropidocaris bicarinata; 1 specimen of
Elymocaris siliqua, and 7 specimens of
Lingula from the Chemung formation,
Warren, Pa. Exchange. 934480.

RANDLEMAN, Mrs. A. B., Lewis, Iowa.:
Tooth of a mastodon found in Chey-
enne County, Nebr. Purchase. 34442.

Ranpo.pn, P. B., Seattle, Wash.: Shells
from Alaska (33889, 34398).
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

RankIN, E. W.
Troost, estate of. )

Ratuesun, Miss M. J., U.S. National Mu-
seum: Collection oe marine invertc-
brates, mullusks, fishes, millepores, and |
algxe from Grand Manan, New Bruns-
wick. 34048.

Reapine, H. G., Franklin, Pa.: Two |
specimens of stone-flies, representing
the species Acraneuria arida Hagan.
35118

Reesk, Hammonp & Co., Bolivar,
Sample of fire clay. 35055.

Reeves, J. A., Joplin, Mo.: Specimen of
calamine after calcite from Aurora,
Mo. (34605); fire clay from St. Louis,
Mo., and mineral water from Bowling
Green, Mo. (34695) ‘fO”’’.

Rermecke, Dr. F., Breslau, Germany: |
Five hundred plants from the Samoan
Islands. Purchase. 34276.

Reynotps, A. J., Connersville, Ind.: Sixty |
specimens of quarry rejects (exchange ).
33839.

Ruoaps, Dr. Thomas Leidy, U. 8. N.,
Washington, D. C.: Skull transfixed
with an arrow point. 343806.

Rice, Prof. E. L., Delaware, Ohio; re- |
ceived through Dr. L. O. Howard:
Three specimens of amphipods. 34730.

Ricuarps, W. A., Cheyenne, Wyo.: Ores,

(See under Gerard |
|

Pa.: |

clays, coals, petroleum, and _ silicified
palm trunk. 34655. ‘O.”
RicHarpson, Dr. D. A., Denver, Colo.:

Two plants from Washington. 34115
(Returned. )

Ricnarpson, H., Trail, Oreg.:
ocher. 34262.

Ricumonp, C. W., U.S. National Museum:
Five birds’ skins from Smiths Island,
Va. (34105); skeleton of Black Skimmer
(34315); skin of Snowy Owl (exchange)_ |
(34626). |

Ricker, Prof. Maurice, Burlington, Iowa: |
Butterfly ( Agraulis vanille L.); bumble-
bee (Bombus americanorum Fab). 34581.

Sample of

Ripenour, W. B., Scranton, Pa.: Speci- |
men of Dynastes tityus Linneeus. 33973.
Riuxs ErnnoGrapnisch Museum. (See

under Leiden, Holland. )

RiksmuseumM. (See under Stockholm,
Sweden. )

Ritry, J. H., U. S. National Museum: |
Specimen of Nycticejus humeralis from |

108

Rixtey, J. H.—Continued.
Falls Church, Va. (33879); set of eggs
of Broad-winged Hawk (35011); 29
batrachians, representing the species
Plethiodon from ‘Virginia
(35109); mole (Scalops aquaticus), and
a red squirrel (Sciurus hudsonicus); 2
birds’ skins and 5 eggs of Henslow’s
Bunting (35115); 7 birds’ eggs (35129);
bat ( Vespertilio fuscus) (85144) ; 6 birds’
skins from North Carolina (exchange)
(35169).

cinereus

Rizer, Mrs. H. C., Washington, D. C.:
Twenty-five plants from Florida.
34830.

Roperts, C. H., Paris, Ontario, Canada:
Plaster cast of a bird amulet. Ex-
change. 34502.

Roperts, W. G., Middletown, Ohio: Fos-
sil skull of a bear. Purchase. 34866.

Ropserts, W. J., Harrisville, Pa.: Speci-

33856

Dr. B. L., Cambridge, Mass. :
Three specimens of violets from Massa-
chusetts. 34081.

Rogprnson, 8S. A., Orlando, Cal.: Two
teeth of Bison latifrons and a tooth of
Procamelus. 33830.

Ropinson, W. Russett, Wingina, Va.:
Nest, 5 eggs, and a specimen of Migra-
tory Shrike (Larius ludovicianusmigrans)
(34937, 34948).

RoeEsiina’s, J. A., Sons & Co., Trenton,
N. J.: Twenty-one specimens of elec-
trical cables and wires. 34724.

Rogers, Maj. E. J., Michigan National
Guard, Port Huron, Mich.: Copy of the
first newspaper published in Santiago.
as ‘‘Company F Enterprise.’’ 33950.

Rours, Prof. P.H., and A, L. Quaintance,
Lake City, Fla.:

american,

men of Corydalis cornutus.
Rosrnson,

Specimens of Coccide
representing 20 species of
North American scale insects. 34377.
Roon, VAN, G., Rotterdam, Holland: Col-
lection of beetles from Jaya and South
Africa. Exchange. 34881.
Rosausky, W., Clackamas, Oreg., re-
ceived through Department of Agri-
culture: Plant from Oregon. 34982.
Rose, J. N., U. S. National Museum:
Plants (33762, 33818, 34035, 34223).

Ross, Hon. M. L., Keowee Tenn., re-
ceived through R. L. Garner: Fossil

tooth of amammal. 33942.
104

Rosser, L. K., Luray, Va.: Two speci-
mens of Dynastes tityus Linneeus. 34765.

|

Rornrock, Dr. THomas, Howard, Pa.: |

German fat-lamp, piece of fossil rock,

and stone implements. 34974.
Row.es, W. W., Cornell University,

Ithaca, N.. Y., received through De-
partment of Agriculture:
plants from the northwestern part of
the United States. 35034.
Roya Boranic GARDENS.
Kew, England. )
Rurr, Mrs. T. B., Laurel, Md.: Three
specimens of Mus musculus. 34566.
Rust, J. W., Covington, Ohio:
used for

(See under

stone making quicklime.

34205.

RuscHEWEYH, G., Buenos Ayres, Argen-
tina: Collections of Lepidoptera (34267,
35155). Exchange.

Rusn, R. C., Hudson, Ohio: Specimens | _
| SANFORD, J.

of Spherium. 33807.

RussE.1, H. 8.
ment, Fire
Mass. )

RussEti, Mrs. M. E., Pomeroy, Pa.: Spec-

Alarm Branch, Boston,

See under Fire Depart- | b
(s I | Santos, ALEXANDRO. (See under P. M. de

Fifty-eight |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

SaFForD, Prof. J. M., Vanderbilt Uni-
versity, Nashville, Tenn.: Ninety-six
specimens of fossils from the Calcifer-
ous formation; 143 specimens from the
Lower Helderberg, and 51 miscella-
neous specimens from the Wells Creek
Basin of Tennessee. 34878.

Satine River Parnr Company, Saline
River, Kans.: Sample of ocher. 34332.

| SanpERs, W. C., jr., Luverne, Ala.: Lime-

Lime- |

stone used for making quicklime.
34297.
SANDERSON, Prof. E. Dwiaut, College-

park, Md.: Twelve specimens of neu-
ropteroid insects. 35198.

| SANDUSKY PorRTLAND CEMENT CoMPANy,

imen of Corydalis cornutus Linnzeus, and |

a specimen of Desmocerus palliatus Fors-
ter. 33802.

RussEtit, SAMuEL, U. S. volunteer, Tel-
ford, Tenn.: Mauser clip with fixed
ammunition complete, captured near
Coama, P. R.; brass bullet, fixed am-
munition, used by the Spanish troops,
and captured at Santiago de Cuba during

the campaign. 34149.
Rust, H. N. (See under Smithsonian

Institution, Bureau of Ethnology.)
Rurn, Prof. A., West Knoxville, Tenn.:

Six hundred plants from East Tennes-

see and Alabama. Purchase. 35105.

Rypine, H. W., Thorsby, Ala.: Larval

specimen of Papilio troilus Linnzeus.

33960.

Ryerson, Harry, Larchmont Manor, N.
Y.: Specimen of 100-pound rail, 5
inches long, used by the New York
and New Haven Railroad Company,
with standard angle splice-bars and
bolt attached. 34157.

Sarcer, C. M., Coplay, Pa.: Cement rock
and products. 34919.

Cleveland, Ohio: marl.
34242.

SanrorD, Mrs. Ek. L., Watertown, Conn.:
Specimen of

33766.

Sample of

Citheronia regalis- Fabr.

A., Stockton,
34162.

Cal.: Two

plants.

Leon.)

SarpeEson, F. W., Minneapolis, Minn.,
received through Hon. C. D. Walcott:
Eighty-five specimens of Middle Cam-
brian brachiopoda. Exchange. 34763.

Saunpgrs, M. B., East Norwalk, Conn.:
Hemipterous eggs belonging to the
family Coreidze. 34011.

SavaGk Mounrarn Fire Brick Works,
Frostburg, Md.: Fire-clay. 34178.
Sawyer, E. L., Winchendon, Mass.:
Fifty specimens of Australian Lepidop-

tera. Exchange. 344388.

| Scnaum & Unuinerr, Philadelphia, Pa.:

Six shuttles for textile machinery.
33805.

Scnaupp, F. G., Shovel Mount, Tex.:
Plant from Texas. 34942.

| SCHLARBAUM, Pau, Loveland, Colo.: Two

specimens of Huhagena nebraske.
change. 34419.

Ex-

_Scumip, E. 8., Washington, D. C.: Mar-

moset. 34787.
Scuneck, Dr. J., Mount Carmel, III:
Old-squaw duck. 34722.
SCHOENEMANN, W. C., Philadelphia, Pa.:
Collection of shells for the exhibit in
the Children’s Hall. Purchase. 34674.
ScHoENRICH, Orro, Baltimore, Md.: Span-
ish flag carried through the battle at
LIST OF ACCESSIONS.

Scnornricn, Orro—Continued.
Guayama, P. R.; 2 maracas, or native
rattles, used as a musical instrument;
native pottery and a vase from Porto
Rico. 34869.

ScHONLAND, Dr. S. (See under Grahams-
town, South Africa, Albany Museum. )

Scnooty, I. P., Herndon, Va.: Specimen

33822.

ScHucHERT, CHARLES, U. 8.
Museum: Three hundred specimens of
Choteau fossils (33744); 100 specimens
of Lower Oriskany fossils from Be-
erafts Mountain, near Hudson, New
York (34606). (See under R. A.
Blair. )

Scuuy.er, CoLrax, South Amboy, N. J.:
Wingless parasitic moth or mutillid,

of Strix pratincola.

National

representing the species Mutilla occi-
dentalis Linnzeus. 33967.
Scuwarz, E. A., Department of Agricul-
ture, Washington, D. C.: Collection of
beetles from Java, Borneo,
Africa, and other localities. 34689.
Scuwarz, H., Washington, D. C., and
St. Mo.: One hundred and
ninety-five specimens of Lepidoptera
from Texas and Mexico (exchange)
(34119); 45 moths and butterflies (ex-
change) (34232); 33 specimens of Mex-
ican Hesperidee (gift) (84289); 2 speci-
mens of Hymenoptera (gift) (34393).

exotic

Louis,

Scorr, Capt. L. A., San Juan, P. R.:
Ship’s plate, and a poem, ‘‘ Remember
the Maine.’’ (See under Porto Rico
Collection 35201. )

Scorr, RaLterau, Mountain Ranch, Irma,
Oreg.: Specimen of priceite from Curry
County, obtained by Dr. David T. Day.
34569.

Seat, W. P., Delair, N. J.: Specimen of
Callichthys fasciatus from Argentina
(34391); specimens of Mesogonistins
chetodon; Aphredoderus sayanus; Boleo-
soma; Erimyzon sucetta; Callichthys fas-
ciatus (34719); collection of
reptiles, and a shrimp from Wilming-
ton, N. C. (34997).

Sraman, Dr. L. L., New York City:
Insignia of the Engineer Corps of the
United States Army. (See under Porto

2ico Collection 35201.)

fishes,

105

Sears, J. H., Salem, Mass.: Specimens
of fayalite from Rockport, Mass.
(34041, 34557).

SreLys-LonecnAmps, Baron EpMonp pp,
Liege, Belgium: Twenty-four mam-
mals. 34421, .

Sempers, J. F., Aikin, Md.,
through Department of Agriculture:
Plant. 34680.

SENFF ZOOLOGICAL Co-
LUMBIA COLLEGE, through
N. R. Harrington: Specimen of Poly-

Exchange. 34898.

Srrrurier, Dr. L. (See under Leiden,
Holland, Rijks Ethnographisch Mu-
seum. )

Seymour, Henry, Norfolk, Va.: Three-
pound eartridge and a metal label re-
covered from the wrecks of the Spanish
ships Reina Mercedes and Maria Teresa.
(See under Norfolk Collection 35187. )

Suarrer, O. EK. (See under Gus Wycoff
and Cleo Backus. )

SHaren, J. M., Rocky Ridge, Md.: Barn
Owl (Strix pratincola). 34428.

Suarp, Mrs. J. E. D. (See under Prof.

F. Cook. )
SHaw, R. E., Alberene, Va.:

received

EXPEDITION
received

OF

terus bichir.

Snake.

QOQO
oo 27 .

SHEAR, C. L., Washington, D. C., re-
ceived through Department of Agricul-
ture: Seven plants from Colorado.
34965.

Surets, Henry, Norfolk, Va.: Articles
recovered from the wrecks of the Span-
ish ships Cristobal Colon, Reina Mer-

Maria Teresa, and Almirante

(See under Norfolk Collec-

cedes,
Oquendo.
tion 35187. )

Suetpon, EK. P. (See under Agriculture,
Department of. )

Snort, 8S. H. (See under Walker FElec-
tric Company. )

Suriver, Howarp, Cumberland,
Plant. 34028.

SHULAK, Frank X. (See under Interior
Department, U. 8. Geological Survey.)

Somer, Hans. (See under Freie Ver-
einigung Tiroler Botaniker, Carinthia,
Austria. )

Simpson, J.

Mad.:

A., Manatee, Fla.: Seven
hundred and three plants fron: Florida
(33749, 33982, 34110, 34124, 34236,
34274, 34321, 34482). Exchange.
- SS <>

«
rood a

ei

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Stvetey, J. A., Giddings, Tex.: Marine Sure, Jomy Boxxet, rea 5

shellsfrom the Gulfof California. 33779. Plant from Costa’Rica. 34678. - =
Ssora, Jarep G., Department of super: a

Sxrxver, Dr. H., Philadelphia, Pa.: Four |
specimens of Alaskan Arctiidae. 34288.
Szuack, Rev. W. S., Musson, La.: Larva
of moth (Empretia stimulea), OH.

Suoctu, A. W., Milwaukee, Wis.: Post-
Pliocene mari and fossils. 33850.

Suossox, Mrs. A. T., New York City,
N. ¥.: Two specimens of Anthonoms
brertresiris Linell. 35024.

Swatt, J. K., New York City, N. Y-:
Plant obtained by Miss Sadie F. Price,
of Bowling Green, Ky. 34545.

Surre,. Mrs. Avonza, Carthage, N. Y.

ture: Specimen of alliuam from New |
Mexico (33770); plant from Wyoming __
(34625); 28 plants (35120). =

Surrg, L. E., Buffalo, N. ¥.: Corps badge
of the First Division, Third ArmyCorpe.

34902.

_ Swrrssoytan Iestrtvtron, Mr. S. P. Lang-

Three specimens of minerals from St. |

Lawrence County, N. Y. 34929.

Svrra, C. E., Philadelphia, Pa.: Speci- _
mens of Cismicifuga racemosa dissecta

34146.

Swurra, Prof. F. D., University of Mon-_

tana, Missoula, Mont.: Parasite from
Florence, Mont. 3520

Sarre, G. O-
partment, U.S. Geological Survey.)

Serra, Hewry, clerk of supreme court,
Henoluala, Hawaiian Islands: Silver
dollar of the issve of 1883, used during
the reign of Kalakaua I, King of Ha-

(See under Intenor De

wail (33908) ; 3 Hawaiian coins (34620). |
Swrrs, H. F_, Washington, D.C_: Bronze |

medal given to Gen. John Anderson by
the city of New York in recognition of
his defense of Fort Sumter. Deposit.
sre

phipeds (34588); invertebrates, mol-
lusks, and fishes from Fort Rapert,
Buitich Columbia (34711)-

Sanrs, Dr. H. M., U.S. Fish Commission:
Five species of land and fresh-water
shells 3125.

Sworn, Mrs J. 4. Menaniville, Tex_-
Unis (34751, 34938)-

Sucre, Prof. J. B., New Branewick, N_J_-
Four plaster casts of burrows made by
Dycora arcnariva (33898); 23 moths, in-
clodirg 3) type specimens (34638); 35
specimens of Hymenoptera (34777); 219
ters of the Noctuids, Acranycta, Hy-
dreea, Cucallia, ete. (34885); 2 type

Sanrs, H. 1, New York City, N. Y.: Am- |

ley, Secretary:
Bronze reproduction of the Bruce gold

medal. Deposit. 34255.
Specimen of citrine quartz (cut stone)

from Florissant.Colo. Received from

Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, New York ~

City, for addition to the Lea Collec-
tien. 34279.

Specimens of ores from the Zancudo
mines, near Medellin, Colombia,
Hon. Charlies Burdett Hart, United
States minister. 34574.

Ninety-seven birds’ eggs from various
parts of the United States. Received
through Dr. W. L. Ralph, Utica,
N.Y. 34698.

Starry flag of the Bon Homme Richard
and letter of James Meyler, dated De
cember 13, 1754, presenting the fiaz
from the Marine Committee to Lieu-
tenant Stafford. Received through
Mrs. H.R. P_ Stafford, Cotiaze Gity,
Mass. 3460

Boarding sword of the Bon Homme Rich-
ard and musket captured from the
Serapis by John Psul Jones Re
ceived through Mrs. H. R. P_ Staié-
ford. 34599.

Pocket telegraph instrument i an oval
mahogany case; Morse telegraph re-
lay; Morse telegraph sounder. Re |
ceived through Mr. D. WilmotSmith,
Breckinridge, Minn. 34790.

Twenty-one gems (sapphires) from
Montama, and 2 gems (rhodolites)
from North Carolina. Received from
Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, New York
City, forthe “Lea collection.” 35077-_

Specimen of Buieo brachyurus from

Specimens of Cempometra minor Smith Flondsa. Received from Dr. W. L.

(35005 ).

Ralph, Utica, N.Y. 35088.

ae gin ae

‘ea 2a. 7 all

LIST OF ACCESSIONS. 107

| @Serrasostas Iserrrcnos—Continved
; Seventy-nine birds’ eggs from Califor-
nia and Arizona, and 31 birds’ eggs
L. Ralph, Utiea, N. Y. (3110,
35114.)
Two specimens of Crotophaga ani from
Florida. Received from Dr. W- L.
Ralph, Utica, N.Y. 35170.
Transmitted from the Bureau of Ethnol-
ogy, Maj. J. W. Powell, Director :
Cirriped taken from the French-Ameri- |
ean cable by the steamship Mimia;

; also a piece of the cable, received
1 through Dr. J. Walter Fewkes
; (33753) ; collection of potsherds from

the talus of Katzimo, or the En-
chanted Mesa, near the pueblo of
Acoma, in Western-Central New
Mexico (33794): stone ceremonial
spear, also fibers, corncobe, ete. , from
Cebollita Valley, New Mexico
(33806); collection of mound pottery
and other objects obtained through
G. F. Morris (33919); necklace made
of greenstone beads, panther made
of greenstone beads, and 2 mirrors
made of pyrites of iron, obtained
through G. F. Morris (33928) ; double
frog pipe carved in sandstone, found |
in a mound in Crittenden County,
and a pottery vessel from a mound in
Mississippi County, Ark., obtained
throtgh G. F. Morris (3393+); collec-
tion of Indian relics, obtained through
Rey. D. Jones (33939); saddles, horse
trappings, skins used for bedcloth-
ing, cradles, obtained through J. B.
Hatcher from the Tueltches Indians
of Patagonia (33958); blanket wrap-
ping for Kiowa shield and a calendar
painted on buckskin by the Kiowa
Indians of Oklahoma (34001); collec-
tion of pottery vessels, bone imple-
ments, wooden tray, basketwork, and |
other objects from Cliff Ruins in San
Juan County, Utah, obtained through
Henry S. Gane (34002); ethnological
objects from the Indians of the plains |
and Rocky Mountains and 2 skulls of |
Antilocapra and a pair of antlers, ob- |
tained through Emile Granier |
(34005); 18 trephined skulls from |
Peru, obtained through Dr. M. A.

ee a ee eae ae

Ssormsosnas Ibsstrrcmes—Continmed_

Muniz (3408+): collection of ameient
pottery from Sam Juan region (Mon-
tezmma Walley). obtaimed from Mrs
W_L_Stafford (34306 ) - ethnographicsl
collection from Mexico, obtained by
E. W. Nelson (34907); ethnological
objects from Mexico, obtained from
Edward Palmer (34508): anthropo-
logical objects from California, ob-
tained through W. H. Holmes
(34809); stome implements, objects
of burned clay, bone, shell, ete.. ob-
tained through Edward Huzhes,
Stockton, Cal. (34310); mound relies
of shell, bone, and stone, obtained
through H. C. Meredith, Stockton,
Cal. (34311); stone implements and
objects of baked clay, obtained
through J. A. Barr, Stockton, Cal-
(34312); human bones and fossil
bones of mammals, obtained through
W. J. Mercer, Murphy, Cal. (34813):
net and headband used for carrying
baskets, used by the Pomo Indians,
obtained through W. H. Holmes from
J. W. Hudson, Ukiah, Cal. (34814);
set of gambling bones from the same
tribe, obtained from C. F_ Briggs,
San Francisco, Cal. (34815); stone
mortar from California, obtained
from E. G. Kavanaugh, Forest Hill,
Cal. (34816); 4 stone implements, ob-
tained through J. B. Pownall, Colum-
bia, Cal. (34817); stone implements
and utensils from Pasadena, Cal., ob-
tained from H. N. Rust, South Pasa-
dena, Cal. (34818); costume of an
Ojibwa warrior, Kway gway ye way
be nung, from Minnesota (34912);
mug from a pueblo in Cebollita
(34908); Shawnee wampum belt, re-
ceived through Willis N. Tobias, Mo-
raviantown, Ontario, Canada (34924);
discoidal stone found in Cherokee
County, Ga., received from C. L.
Miller, Coulterville, Tenn. (35068);
antiquities from Mexico and Texas,
collected by Mr. Holmes (35101); ob-
tained through Henry Postel, New
York City, collection of Mexican and
Peruvian relics (35172); obtained
through J. H. Elder, Rutledge, Ga.,
a carved stone pipe (35176).
108

SMITHSONIAN InstrrutTion—Continued.

(See under James Crockett; C. A. Pope;
Rey. I. P. Whittemore. )

Transmitted from the National Zoological
Park, Dr. Frank Baker, swperinten-
dent:

Skeletons of parrot and water snakes
(33748); specimen of Hrethizon dorsa-
tus (33776); Owl Monkey and a Loon
(33783); specimen of Nasua narica
and a Porcupine (Hrethizon dorsatus)
(33867); Ostrich in the flesh (33868) ;
iguana from the Bay of Honduras
(33966); Black Buck
capra) (33965); Gila monster and Ot-
ter (33966); California Sea-lion, Zalo-
phus californianus (34104); specimen
of Canis lupus griseo-albus (34218); 5
mammals in the flesh (34366); speci-
men of Oreortyx pictus (34373); Wolf
(Canis lupus griseo-albus) iS 3
mammals in the flesh (34445); Sea-
lion, Beaver, California Jay, Plumed
Partridge, Snake bird, Rattlesnake,
and Pine Snake (34454); peccary
(Dicotyles) (34614);
Mephitus mephitica, Zalophus califor-

specimens

of |

(Antilope cervi- |

nianus, and Lynx rufus maculatus |
(34738) ; 2 kangaroos (34788); par-
tridge Worcomye pictus) (34855); par-
tridge (Oreortyx pictus) (34856);
Mandarin Duck, Aix galericulata
(34858); Sand-hill Crane, Grus meai-

cana (34857); specimens of Felis leo,
Macacus cynomolgus, and Canis lupus
griseo-albus (35004); specimen of Pit-
uophis melanoleucus from Florida
(35012); Wood Ibis, Tantalusloculator
(35087); specimen of Caica xantho-
mera from the
(35171); specimen of Halizeetus leuco-
cephalus and specimen of Geococcyx

Upper Amazons |

| Stanton, T. W.,

californianus (35175); Antelope
(35172); Spoonbill, Ajaja — ajaja
(35197 )
Snyper, Prof. A. J., Belvidere, Ill.: Four- |
teen specimens of butterflies. 35153.

Snyper, Dr. Exvizasern, Philadelphia,
Pa.: Thirty-four photographs of Haya-
supais, Navaho, Moki, and Laguna In-
dians. 34697.

Sot6rzAno, Dr. Manurt MARTINEZ. (See
under Morelia, Mexico, Museo Michdéa-
cano. )

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. 2

Sottan, Huao, Louisville, Ky.: Insects,
myriapods, and spiders. 34013.

SouTHERN Ice Excnanae, Apalachicola,
Fla., received through George H.
Whiteside: Original letters of patent
and specification of Dr. John Gorrie;
also bound volume of the ‘‘Commer-
cial Advertiser’’ of Apalachicola issued
during the year 1844, containing the
original articles written and published
by Dr. Gorrie on the ice machine.
33784.

Spence, R. S., Paris, Idaho: Ten speci-
mens of Triassic fossils. 34834.

Spencer, Mrs. GERTRUDE, Hooper, Colo.:
Specimen of Epeira sylvatica. 34061.

SportsMAN’s Expostrion Nrw York
(QuEBEC Exntreir), Glens Falls, N. Y.,
received through A. N. Cheney: Speci-
men of brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis )
from Lake Edward, Canada. 34870.

Spotrswoop, H. N., U. S. National Mu-
seum: Two bobolinks. 35048.

STasBLer, J. P., Sandy Spring,
Sharp-shinned Hawk, Accipiter
34908.

Srarrorp, Mrs. W. L.
sonian Institution,
nology. )

Md.:

velour.

(See under Smith-
Bureau of Eth-

Minn.:
33786) ;
Say and

SranpisH, B. H., Minneapolis,
Collections of ants (33746,

specimens of Tapinoma sessile S

Messor andrei Mayr (33917).

U.S. Geological Survey:
Four plants from Texas (34007); spec-
-imens of Holospiras from Texas
(33925). (See under J. D. Lisle.)

Sranron, Rey. W. A., St. John’s College,
Belize, British Honduras: Crustaceans
and a lizard from British Honduras
(35700); collection of natural history
specimens (34976).

Sranron, Mr., Central Mine, Houghton
County, Mich.: Copper bowlder with
native silver (34456); crystallized cop-
per silver nugget (34457). Purchase.

| Srar Cray Company, Mertztown, Pa.:
Clay for chinaware and paper manu-

facture. 34391.

Srarr, DEPARTMENT oF, received through
Hon. David J. Hill: Two specimens
of ores from Haiti obtained by Hon.

. F. Powell, United States minister
(34967); received through Hon. T. W.
LIST OF

Sratr, DepARTMENT oF—Continued.
Cridler, piece of a 6-inch shell fired at
Cavite; letter from Consul Wildman;
Spanish shell captured at Cavite arse-
nal and a small Spanish shell from Ca-
vite (deposit)
pottery from Honduras obtained by

ACCESSIONS.

| Strong, R.

(33906); fragments of |

Hon. Benjamin Johnson, United States

consul (35158). (See under Hon. A. D.
Barlow; Marquis Visuddha.)

Srearns, FRrepErRIcK, Detroit, Mich.:
Kighty-three casts of Oriental seals.
34188.

Stearns, Dr. R. E. C., Los Angeles, Cal.:

Four specimens of Crepidula glauca Say

from beds of oysters transplanted from
the Atlantic

coast to San Francisco |

Bay (34776); insects and 8 specimens |

of Gemma purpurea from Alameda,

Cal. (34905).

STEELE, E. §., Washington, D. C.: Plant |

(gift) (84400); 244 plants from West

Virginia (purchase) (34514); plant
(exchange) (34682); violet (gift)
(35133).

SrermaANn, AuG., Swiss Alps, Tex., receiv- |

ed through Department of Agriculture:
Plant from Texas. 34938.

STEINER, RonLanp, Grovetown,
Weapon used by runaway slaves to
protect themselves from bloodhounds
(34917); double-barreled flint-lock gun,
and 6 flints (35158).

Ga.:

Sreirz, A., Baltimore, Md.: Eight pho- |

tographs of orchids. 34235.
STEJNEGER, Dr. LEONHARD, U.S. National
Museum: Four Bergen,
Norway (34023); mouse (Mus musculus )
from Brookland, D.C. (34190).
SreJNEGER, Miss THora, Department of

frogs from

Agriculture: Fifty-three mammal skins

and skulls from Norway. Purchase.
33901.

SrerKi, Dr. V., New Philadelphia, Ohio:
Amphipods. 34206.

STEVENSON, J. A., Miami, Fla.: Five speci-
mens of marine shells (34774) ; 9 species
of land and marine shells (34845).

Srirr, E. E., Columbus, Ohio: Limestone
used for making quicklime. 34160.

SrockHoOLM, SWEDEN, RiksMUSEUM, re-
ceived through Dr. Osear Carlgren:
Twenty-nine species of Actinians. Ex-

change. 34020.

109)

L., U. S. National Museum:
Seven photographic prints of pictures
of ostriches and a large photograph of
an ostrich. 34372.

Srout, Witpur. (See under Interior
Department, U. 8. Geological Survey. )

Srrecker, Dr. Herman, Reading, Pa.:
Specimens of Lepidoptera (34781, 34795,
35156). Exchange.

SrrospripGE, Mrs. I. M., Humboldt, Nev.;
Thirteen specimens of petrified wood
from Humboldt County (34147); 11
mounted photographs (blue prints),
representing views in the ‘‘ Virgin Val-
ley Forest,’’ showing fossil tree-trunks
in position (34172).

Strusss, A. P., Ware, Mass.: Fossil shells
from Winterport, Massachusetts.
34821.

Sune, Kin B., U. 8. National Museum:
Korean flute. 33894.

Suxsporr, W. N., Bingen, Wash.: Forty-
three plants. 35052.

Sumpter, I. W., Elliston, Va.: American
Silk-moth Altacus Linné.
34990.

SuTHERLAND, Dr. L.
N. Y.: Specimen of Hpeira domiciliana
Hentz. 34231.

Surron, W. H., Philadelphia, Pa.: Pro-
gram of concerts given by the Young
Men’s Christian Association to the sol-
diers in camp at Chickamauga in 1898;
also newspapers. (See under Porto
Rico Collection 35201.)

Swain, C. O., Roslyn, Wash.: Fossils
from Washington. 34852.

Swain, THomas, Paradox, Colo.: Speci-
mens of uranium ore from ‘‘ Yellow
Bay,’’ La Sal Creek, and from ‘‘ Copper
Prince,’’ Roe Creek. 34823.

Swan, Eruetyn, Dallas City, Pa.: Speci-
men of Diapheromera femorata Say.
34064.

SWARTA STONE AND LIME CoMPANY, Swarta
Station, Pa.: Specimen of limestone
used for making quicklime. 34420.

Sweet, C. J., Fisher, Minn.: Meteorite.

cecropia

D., Canandaigua,

Purchase. 34244.
SWEETWATER Coan Muintna Company,

Rock Springs, Wyo.: Coal. 34558.
SyRAcusE CoaL AND SAur Company, Syra-

cuse, Ohio: Specimen of common fine

salt made from Syracuse brines. 34914.
110

Szoip, Miss Henrierra, Baltimore, Md.:
Photograph of a synagogue of the Ohel
Shalom Congregation in Baltimore.
34628.

Taser, JoHN, Dallas, Tex.: Specimen of
Spherophthalma occidentalis. 33918.
Tarr, J. A. (See under Interior De-
partment, U. 8. Geological Survey. )
Tarr od. Ay; Floral City, “Ela: Pian.

34050.

Taxsot, D. H., Sioux City, lowa: Speci-
men of wolfram from near Lead City,
S. Dak. 34963.

Tasstn, Mrs. Mary, Washington, D. C.:
Sword, sword knot, and belt presented
to the late Col. A. S. Tassin, U.S. A.
(sword case and packing box). 33986.

Tassin, Wirt, U. S. National Museum:
Diamond crystal from De Beers Mine,
South Africa. 34987.

Tate, W. B., U. S. National
Specimen of Vespertilio fuscus.

Taytor, J. G., Owensboro, Ky.:
a Passenger Pigeon. 33875.

TayLor, WriuiiAmM, Rockcreek, Wyo.:
Specimens of bentonite or taylorite.
34370.

TEHAMA CONSOLIDATED CHROME Com-
pany, Red Bluff, Cal.: Sample of ocher.
34210.

TENNESSEE CENTENNIAL EXPOSITION,
Nashville, Tenn.: One hundred and

Museum:
33878.
Skin of

thirteen photographs from negatives |

of views of buildings and grounds of
the Exposition in 1897. 35287.
TENNESSEE CoAL, IRON AND RAILROAD Com-
pany, Birmingham, Ala.: Coal. 34177.
Terry, C. A. (See under Westinghouse
Electric and Manufacturing Company. )

Texas Coat AND FuEL Company, Weath- |

erford, Tex.: Coal. 34212.

TuHIsELTON-Dyrr, Dr. W. T. (See under
J. B. Baker: Kew, England, Royal Bo-
tanie Gardens. )

Tuompson, E. S., New York City, N. Y.:
Two specimens of Cervus canadensis; 2
specimens of Odocoileus hemionus; 3
specimens of Ovis carvina, and 1 speci-
men of Antilocapra. Purchase.

34977. |

THompson, Miss JENNIE, Morgantown, |
W. Va.: Collection of molding tools, |
molds and dies, ete., obtained by Dr. |

Walter Hough from the Thompson
Pottery, at Morgantown. 34057.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

THompson, Capt. WiLuram, Norfolk, Va.,
received through W. A. Wilcox: Three
deformed claws of Callinectes sapidus.
33768.

Tuursron, G. P., Nashville, Tenn.: Fif-
teen skulls of Stone grave Indians.
34696.

Tuurow, F. W., Harvester, Tex.: Medic-
inal plants (33808); received through
Department of Agriculture, 10 plants
(34876); 19 plants (35033).

Trrrany & Co., New York City, N. Y.:
Four cut opals. Purchase. 35168.
Titpen, Miss JosepHine, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.: One
hundred specimens of American algee.

Purchase. 34238.

TineueE, G. R., Snug Harbor, Cook Inlet,
Alaska: Hair worm, representing the
genus Gordius. 30149.

TinsLEy, J. D., Mesilla Park, N. Mex.:
Myriapod. 33916.

Topras, W.N. (See under Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology. )

Tonaur, Miss Amy, Washington, D. C.:
Specimen of Psorophora ciliata Fabr.
33891.

Torres y Tores, Guayanillo, Porto Rico:
Sword, or hanger. (See under Porto
Rico collection, 35201. )

| Totren, W. K. D., jr., Cincinnati, Ohio:

Fish-moth, Lepisma saccharina. 34200.
Tower, G. W. (See under Interior De-
partment, U.S. Geological Survey.)
Townsenb, C. H. Tyter, Mesilla Park,
N. Mex.: Land shells and mollusks
(34120); 2 species of Polygyra from
Sierra Blanca (34214); 10 specimens of

Hymenoptera (34903).

TownsenD, E. C., Columbus, N. C., re-
ceived through Cornell University:
Fourhundred plants. Tu-chase. 351665.

Tracy, Prof. S. M., Biloxi, Miss., re-
ceived through Department of Agricul-
ture: Plants (34568, 34740, 34793, 34875 )
(exchange); 700 plants from the Gulf
coast (35063) (purchase).

Trask, Mrs. Buancnsr, Avalon, Santa
Catalina Island, Cal.: One hundred and
two plants. Purchase. 35000.

TreasurY DepartMEeNT, Hon. Lyman 8.

Gage, Secretary:
U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, received
through Henry 8. Pritchett, superin-
LIST OF

Treasury DreparrmMent—Continued.
tendent: Specimen of the first trans
Atlantic cable laid in 1858 from
Ireland to Newfoundland (34198); 4
plaster medallions struck in com-
memoration of Prof. John E. Watson

(35200).
U. S. Life-Saving Service, received
through W. D. Parsons, keeper,

Hither Plain Station, N. Y.: Piece of
whalebone from a finback whale that
floated ashore at Montauk. 34841.

TrRELEASE, Prof. WiLitaM, Missouri Bo-
tanical Garden, St. Louis, Mo.: Agave
leaves from Mexico. 34389.

Trent, Mrs. Lucy Carrer. (See under
National Society of the Colonial Dames
of America.)

Troost, GERARD, estate of, received
through E. W. Rankin, acting admin-
istrator of the estate of James Hall,
Albany, N. Y.: ‘‘Troost collection of
crinoids,’’ consisting of 294 specimens;
also manuscript and drawings of 107
species. 34282.

True, J. M., Branch, Pa.: Beetle (Cas-
sida guttata Oliv.) 34998.

TRUESDELL & FREAREY, West Stockbridge,
Mass.: Limestone used in making quick-
lime. 34207.

Turner, 8. H., White Sulphur Springs,
W. Va.: Photograph of a mirror struck
by lightning. 33992.

Turner, H.W. (Seeunder G. W. Kimble. )

Turner, W. D., Ferguson’s Wharf, Va.:
Specimen of Hartford Fern, Lygodium
palmatum (34314); specimen of phos-
phatic marl (34464).

TuRRILL, C. B., San Francisco, Cal.:
Marine and fresh-water shells from
Lower California and western North
America (84257, 34359).

Uppen, Prof. J. A., Rock Island, IIl.:
Three specimens of Cardiocaris, 1 speci-
men of Orthoceres, 1 bryozoan, and a
sponge (34498); received through U. 8.
Geological Survey, two cut specimens
of a structure obtained from Cedar
Valley limestone. 35001.

Umpacu, L. M., Naperville, Ill.: Plants
(34822, 34758, 34794, 34829, 35094).
Exchange.

ACCESSIONS.

5

Union Sanp AND Emery WueeL Com-
pany, Boston, Mass.: Garnets used for
abrasive purposes. 34418.

Union Soapstone Company, Chester De-
pot, Vt.: Specimen of soapstone. 34431.

Uricn, F. W., Port of Spain, Trinidad,
British West Indies: Collection of Ven-
ezuelan Lepidoptera and Diptera
(35008); received through Dr. L. O.
Howard, fishes from Trinidad (35102).

VAILLANT,- LEON. (See under Paris,
France, Museé d’ Histoire Naturelle. )

Van ArspaLe, Mrs. ELLEN BRAINARD
(See under Lieut. F. R. Brainard.)

Van HeckEREN, Baron, Sinagar, Java:
One large Scoliid. 34385.

Van Hiss, Prof. C., Madison, Wis. (See
under Interior Department, U. 8. Geo-
logical Survey. )

Van Kirk, J. W., Pottsgrove, Pa.: Four
stone implements; mammal skulls;
beaded money purse, wooden chair,
and a specimen of lime deposit from a
teakettle. 34067.

Van Pett, J. C., Woodstock, Va.: Con-
federate paper money. 33862.

VANNEMAN, WiuuiAM, U. S. National
Museum: Miniature ship’s anchor,
manufactured at the Washington Navy
Yard from sights and sight boxes recoy-
ered from the wreck of the ‘‘Maine’’.
34805. A

VasEy, Miss Frora, U. 8. National Mu-
seum: Plant. 34739.

VAUGHAN, T. WAYLAND, U.S. Geological
Survey: Set of negatives! of Duchas-
saing and Michelotti’s types of Sym-
phyllioid corals in the Museum of Turin
(33848, 33849); 2 species of land shells
from Texas (35819); 50 specimens of
shells, representing 12 species from
Texas; 2 beetles and 6 specimens of
Homoptera from the same locality
(33861).

Verp ANTIQUE MARBLE Company, Chi-
cago, Ill.: Slab and cubes of verd
antique marble from Holly Springs,
Ga. 34934.

VeRRILL, Prof. A. E., Yale University ,
Museum, New Haven, Conn.: Four-
teen specimens of Gorgonians and
corals. Purchase. 34472. ‘‘O.”’

'These negatives were presented to Mr. Vaughan by Count Peracca, and trans-
ferred by Mr. Vaughan to the National Museum.
112

Very, C. F., New Albany, Ind.: Two
Horn-tailed Sawflies, representing the
species Tremex columba Linneeus. 33872.

VINEYARD OcHER Company, Boston,
Mass.: Ocher. 34151.

VisuppHA, Marquis, Siamese legation,
London, England, received through De-
partment of State: Model of the monas-
tery of Wat Chang at Bangkok. 34650.

Vorn, Dr. H. R., Field Columbian
Museum, Chicago, Ill.: Six dozen
small arrow points from Arizona.
39143.

Vrikre, Baron Raout R. pr, Chateau dé

Baes-Veld, Zedelghem, Belgium: Col- |

lection of Belgian Coleoptera. Ex-

change. 35026.
Vroman, A. C., Pasadena, Cal.: One

hundred and twenty photographs of
California missions. Exchange. 33932.
WapswortH, Miss Marris, Hallowell,

Me.: Ninety-two dragon flies. Ix-
change. 34439.

Wacuorng, Rey. A. C., Bay of Islands,
Newfoundland: Plants from Labrador.
Purchase. 33796.

Watcorr, Hon. C. D., Director, U. 8S.
Geological Survey: Photograph of an
elk from Yellowstone National Park

(gift) (34437); 10 rugs made of
mammal skins (deposit) (85044.) (See

under F, W. Sardeson.)

WALKER, Bryant, Detroit, Mich.: Speci-
mens of Unio superiorensis from Mich-
igan. 34141.

Wacker, ©. H., Galion, Ohio: Specimen
of Argiope riparia. 33962.

Waker Evecrric Company, Cleveland,
Ohio, received through 8. H. Short
and E. H. Morrison: Bound volume
containing photographs of the Short
electric railway motors and other ob-
jects. Deposit. 34608.

Wattiacr, WriiiAM, Ansonia, Conn.:
Three Wallace arc lights, a pair of elec-
tric connecting rods, and a facsimile of
a letter of Benjamin Franklin to Mr.
Strahan, dated July 5, 1775. 35164.

» WALLINGsFoRD, W. W., U. 8. National
Museum: Hand looking-glass and a
copy of the New Testament, issued and
used during the Cuban campaign in the
volunteer service of the United States.
34747.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Wams ey, F. W., Bridgeton, N. J.: Forty-
eight specimens of coral polyps ete.
Purchase. 34473. ‘O.”’

War DerpartTMEeNT, Hon. R. A. Alger,
Secretary: Received through Ordnance
Office, 2 Mauser rifles, bayonet, and
scabbard captured at the surrender of
Santiago (34096) ; received through the
Army Medical Museum, reptiles in al-
cohol (34465). (See under Driggs-
Seabury Gun and Ammunition Com-
pany.)

Warp, Prof. Lester F., U. 8S. Geological
Survey: Plants from Kansas and other
localities (33947, 34027, 35139).

Warp, M. J., Unadilla, N. Y.: Water
bug. Belostoma americanum. 35116.
Warp’s Naturan Science EsraBuisH-
MENT, Rochester, N. Y.: Nine Indian
and African mammals (purchase)

(83793) ; 160 specimens of Carbonifer-
ous cephalopods (exchange) (33863) ;
924 specimens of fossils of the Trenton
and Silurian formation from Tennessee
and of the Carboniferous formation
from Texas (exchange) (383945); cast of
askull of Castoroides ohioensis (purchase )
(384166); 14 specimens of Gorgonians
and 16 casts of Protozoans (purchase )

(34471). (0.)

Warine, G. W., Tyrone, Pa.: Specimen
of Epeira domiliciana Hentz. 2t184.
Warner, Miss A. P., Maywood, Nebr.:

Fragments of pottery. 34501.

WasLeKAR, N. N., Washington, D. C.:
Scarf of Nana Sahib from India; turban
worn by the Mohammedans; turban of
Brahim from the Deceam; turban of
Parsee and a skirt of muslin (34819);
silk and gold turban belonging to a

Rajah; 11 photographs of Hindoos
(34879). Purchase.

Warrerson, R. I., Kings Mountain, N.
C.: Specimen of Mantis, Stagmomantis
carolina lL. 34830.

Weaver, J. M., Oakshade, Va.: Moth
(Cherocampa tersa L.). 34150.

Weaver, W. B., Lakeland, Fla.: Speci-
men of Cassida guttata Oliv. 34447.

Weser, L. R., Eureka Springs, Ark.:
Specimens of Arkansas fossils (34716);
2 specimens of siliceous limestone con-
taining fossils of the Calciferous age
(34915).
LIST OF

M., Wooster, Ohio:
Hymenoptera.

Wesster, Prof. F.
Eight specimens
34921.

Weep, W. H., U. 8. Geological Survey:
Sapphire in lamprophyre dike rock
from Yogo sapphire mines, Little Belt
Mountains, Montana. 34882.

of

ACCESSIONS.

Wrepen, W. C., U.S. National Museum: |

Bat ( Vespertilio fuscus). 34667.

Weeks, A. J., Akron, Ohio: Slip clay.
35066.

Weirn, R.J., Elkhart, Ind.: Wasp (Pele-
cinus polyturator Drury), new to the
Museum collection. 33812.

Weutis, R. L., Humeston, Iowa: Star, or
headquarters badge of the Seventh
Army Corps, United States Volunteers,
1898-99, used as the official badge of the
Seventh Corps Association and worn
by the donor during the Cuban cam-
paign. 35059.

Wes.ey, Wiiu1AM, & Sons, London, Eng-
land: Prints of synagogues, print por-
trait of a rabbi, leather manuscript of
prayers on Purim, 4 photographs of syn-
agogues, 7 souvenirs of the Zionists Con-
gress, and a leather manuscript of the
Book of Esther (34414); print of Ger-
man synagogue at Amsterdam and a
print of a Portuguese synagogue at
Amsterdam (34508). Purchase.

WestTINGHOUSE ELEcTRIC AND MANUFAC-
TURING Company, New York City, re-
ceived through C. A. Terry, secretary:
Collection of electric motors, carmodels,
and other objects. Deposit. 34632.

WueeLer, Gen. JosepH. (See under

|

National Society of the Colonial Dames |

of America. )

Wuee er, J. A., Milford, N. H.: Medici-
nal plants. 34269.

Wuiraker, 8. F., Ogden, Utah: Ores,

clays, hydrocarbons, and other mate- |

rial from Utah. 34661. ‘‘O.”
Wuite, Dr. C. A., Washington, D. C.:

Framed specimen of a rose showing the |
transformation of the flower parts into |

leaves (33869); sun-glassused by Daniel
Corey, of Dighton, Bristol County,
Mass., in 1790-1800 (35112).

Wuire, Davrp, U.S. Geological Survey: |

Eight specimens of violets. 35053.

NAT MUS 99 8

1138

Wurrr, EK. H., Clearwater Harbor, Va.;
Larva of Lagoa opercularis S. & A.
34354.

Wuirr, James, Norfolk, Va.: Articles
recovered from the wrecks of the Span-
ish ships Reina Mercedes, Viscaya, Cris-
tobal Colon, Maria Teresa, and Almi-
rante Oquendo, (See under Norfolk
collection 35187. )

Wuitr, J. J., Rockledge, Fla.: Five
speciesof land and marine shells. 34489.

| White, Marx, Winfield, Kans.: Plants.

34525.
Wuiteaves, J. F. (See under Ottawa,
Canada, Geological Survey of.)
Wuirep, Kirk, Ellensburg, Wash.: Me-
dicinal plants. 33811.

| Wurre Pine Zinc Company, Louisville,

Ky.: Lead and zine ore. 34211.
Wuiresipg, G. H. (See under Southern
Ice Exchange. )

Wuirtesipes, Mrs.
Joseph M. Callis. )

Wuirrna, Dr. C. A., University of Utah,
Salt Lake City, Utah: Fresh-water in-
vertebrates from Utah. 33760.

Wuirremore, Rey. Isaac T., Florence,
Ariz., received through Smithsonian
Institution, Bureau of Ethnology: Col-
lection of cliff dwellers’ objects from
Arizona (34065); plaster cast of a foot-
print in the Casa Grande ruin, made
by Mr. Whittemore, the finder of the
impression (35167).

WickersHAM, Prof. H. F., Iowa City,
Iowa: Specimens of Termites. 34539.

WICKERSHAM, JAMES, Tacoma, Wash.:
Six plaster casts of carved stone and
bone clubs. 34525.

Wiizer, E. P., Titusville, Fla.: Speci-
men of Hpitragus iomentosus. 33911.
Wiicox, W. A. (See under William

Thompson. )

Wixp, A., Loveland, Colo.: Specimen of
gypsum. 934594.

Wip, Epwarp, Aschaffenburg, Bavaria,
Germany: Photograph of the Tower of
Babel. 34037.

Wites, GeEoRGE, Stratford, N. C.:
men of mineral. 33968.

Witry, Mrs. J. M., Atkinson, Kans.:

N. J. (See under

Speci-

Specimen of Stagmomantis carolina
Linnzeus, belonging to the family Man-
tide. 34069.
114

Witey, Roy, Palestine, Tex.: Skin of
Ruby-throated Hummingbird, Trochi-
lus colubris. 34167.

Wiuucox, JosepH, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Eocene fossils from Santiago de Cuba.
34849.

Wiutams, ©. K., & Co., Easton, Pa.:
Ocher. 34820.

Wituams, F. H., Bristol, Conn.: Three
specimens of beetle, representing the
species Odontata rubra Web. 33988.

Wiuuiamson, E. B., Carnegie Museum,
Pittsburg, Pa.: Two specimens of
dragon flies, representing the species
Ischnura kellicotti Williamson (cotypes).
35036. (See under Carnegie Museum. )

Wiuuramson, Mrs. M. B., Los Angeles,
Cal.: Four species of marine shells from
California (34710); specimen of Callios-
toma candaleculatum (34863); shell, rep-
resenting a species of the genus Ano-
donta (35070).

Witutston, Prof. 8. W., Lawrence, Kans.: |

Two specimens of Estheria from Okla-

homa (34260); photograph of White |

River Miocene, Bad Lands, South Da-
kota (34266).

Wittman, Arret, South Berlin, N. Y.: |

Water beetle, Dysticus verticalis Say. | abe a ;
aaa! ; Wotrtz, Miss Sapre, Washington, D. C.:

34227.

Wutson, Compton, U.S. V.: Medal.
under Porto Rico collection 35201).

Witson, Capt. H. C., U. S. V., Washing-
ton, D. C.: Collection of relics of the
Porto Rican campaign (34742); part of
a metal shoulder knot belonging to the
uniform of a Spanish staff officer
(34936). Deposit.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Winser, J. H. (See under American
Museum of Natural History. )

Winstow, U. 8. torpedo boat, received
through Lieut. A. P. Niblack, U. 8.
Navy: Wire hand-railing from the
Winslow, and a section of boiler plate
perforated by a Spanish shell. 34077.

| Wrysron, Isaac. (See under E. P. Moon. )

(See |

Wuson, K. D., Industry, Pa.: Six eggs

(one set) of Sharp-shinned Hawk,
Accipiter velox, 34859.

Witson, Tuomas, U. 8. National Museum:
Archeological objects from Egypt
(34329); 111 flint scrapers from various
localities along the Ohio River, col-
lected by W. K. Moorehead (34384); 2

terra-cotta figuresof Watcombe Torquay |

pottery (34476). Deposit.

Wuson & Bro., Hanoverville, Md.: |
| Wortnen, C. K., Warsaw, Ill.: Four
Wan, L. E., Schenectady, N. Y.: Cat-

Sample of ocher. 34249.
erpillar (Hmpretia stimulea.) 34099.
WixcHeLt, Prof. W. H. (See under
Minnesota Geological Survey. )

|

Winrer’s Merariic Paint Company,
Iron Mountain, Wis.: Mineral paint.
35046.

Woxcort, R. H., University of Nebraska,
Lincoln, Nebr.: Co-types of Acarina.

34825.

Wourz, GrorGcE, U. 8. National Museum:
Brewer’s candlestick (gift) (33837);
soldier’s combination folding spoon
and fork (deposit) (33882); 2 Krag-
Jorgensen rifle cartridges, a Remington
45-caliber revolver used during the
Spanish-American War in Santiago de
Cuba (gift) (33905) ; badge of the Third
U.S. Cavalry worn by the soldiers of
the Santiago campaign (gift) (33907) ;
metal tag of the American Army Reg-
istry of New York, in use during
the Spanish-American War (gift)
(33987).

Specimen of hard-tack furnished the
United States Army in Santiago de
Cuba during the Spanish-American
War; crossed cannon of the Fifth U.S.
Artillery, and crossed swords of the
First Cavalry. 34021.

Woop, ©. F., Boston, Mass.: Documents
relating to the early history of the
electro-magnetic telegraph. 34865.

Woop, N. R., U. 8. National Museum:
Eighty-three dragon flies. 35126.

Woopstrock Iron Works, Rock Springs,
Ala.: Limestone used for making quick-
lime. 34386.

Woopwarp, Dr. H. W.~ (See under Lon-
don (England) British Museum.)

Wooton, E. O., New York City: Five
hundred and eighty-seven plants from
New Mexico. Purchase. 33797. ‘‘O.”

skins and skulls of moles, representing

the species Scapanus orarius. 34040.
Wricut, B. H., Penn Yan, N. Y.: Four

species of Southern unios (34131); 2
LIST OF

Wriacur, B. H.—Continued.
species of Unionidee (3482
of Unionidie (34426);

5); 3 species
6 species of Un-

ionidse from the Southeastern States
(34494); unio (34629); 12 species of
shells from the Southern States
(348382); 3 species of unios (34906;
unios from the Southern States
(35019. )

Wriagat, J. O., & Co., New York City:

Lithograph of Louis Agassiz.  Pur-
chase. 34541.
Wycorr, Gus, Port Townsend, Wash.,

received through O. E. Shaffer: Speci-
men of Rhamphocottus richardsoni from
Port Townsend Bay. 34947.

YAKELEY, Frank, Gebo, Mont.: Speci-
men of Anabrus purpuratus Uhbler.
33785.

‘Youn, Cursrer, Ellenville, N. Y.: Three
species of saw-fly larvee, new to the
Museum collection, 34687.

ACCESSIONS.

115
Youna, E. E., Wickford, R. I.: Speci-
men of Sea Hare, representing a species
of ae Rens
Youne, R. T., Ann Arbor, Mich.:
mice, sshrevsaachipmnk 347138
Youna, W. F., Fairview City, Utah, re-
ceived faroueh Dr; David ZT. Day:
Crude magnesian silicate. 54766.
Younes, Enenonzo, Washington, D. C.;
Specimen of Canis familiaris. 34737.
ZELLER, Prof. R., Paris, France: Three
Carboniferous plants. 35943.
ZELEDON, José C., San José, Costa Rice
Two birdy’ skinsfrom Costa Rica. 34052.
ZELEDON, Mrs. Josh, San José, Costa Rica:

Three

Cast of a crab-shaped mortar. 34493.
ZevL, Mrs. L. D., Lancaster, Pa.: Plant.

34138.

ZOLLIKOFER, Ernst, St. Gallen, Switzer-
land: Collection of skins and specimens
in alcohol from Switzerland and Sar-
dinia. Purchase. 33902.
APPENDIX III.

STATEMENT OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF SPECIMENS DURING THE FIscAL
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899.

AFRICA.

Albany Museum, Grahamstown, South
Africa: Alaskan moose (1 specimen ).
Exchange. (D. 12720.)

Wood, J. Medley, Port Durban, Natal:
Plants (209 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12063. )

AMERICA.
Nortu AMERICA.

CANADA.

Canadian Geological Survey, Ottawa: Fos-
sils (5specimens). Gift. Plants (254
specimens); fossils (17 specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12278, 12534, 12646. )

Cox, Philip, Chatham: Frog (1 speci-
men). Exchange. (D. 12313.)

Roberts, C. H., Paris, Ontario: Casts of
stone objects (3 specimens); casts of
amulets. Exchange. (D. 12419,
12712.)

MEXICO.

National Medical Institute, Mexico: Mex-
ican plants (659 specimens). Ex-
change. (D. 12514.)

UNITED STATES.
Alabama.

Baker, Carl F., Auburn: Isopods and
Amphipods. Exchange. (D. 12229.)

Farle, F. S., Auburn: Plants (14 spec-
imens). Exchange. (D. 12602.)

Mell, P. H., Auburn: Plants (3 speci-

mens). Exchange. (D. 12065.)
Mohr, Charles, Mobile: Plants (41
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12045,
12671.)

Museum of the University of Alabama,

Tuscaloosa: Alcoholic fishes (64 spec-
imens). Gift. (D. 12414.)

Arkansas.

MeNeill, Jerome, Fayetteville: Orthop-
tera (15 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12426.)

California.

Brandegee, T. S., San Diego: Plants (5
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12066.)

Hornung, J., San Francisco: Bird skins
(107 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12128, 12437. )

Jordan, D. S., Stanford University:
Fishes (2 specimens). Lent for
study. (D. 12173, 12554.)

Leland Stanford Junior University,
Palo Alto: Plants (111 specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12044.)

Stearns, R. E. C., Los Angeles: Small
shells (about 1,000 specimens). Lent
for study. (D. 12739.)

University of California, Berkeley:
Plants (50 specimens). Exchange.
Annelids (71 specimens, 21 species. )
Gift. (D. 12048, 11967.)

Colorado.

Hills, R. C., Denver: Meteorites (2
specimens). Exchange. (D. 11984.)

Schlarbaum, Paul, Loveland: Moths (2
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12339.)

Connecticut.

Gulliver, F. P., Norwich: Salts (5 speci-
mens). Exchange. (D. 12033.)

Marsh, O. C., New Haven: Potomac
breccia (1 specimen); Japanese mar-
bles (15 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12400, 12401.)

Wesleyan University Museum, Middle-
town: Pueblo pottery (20specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12431.)

Yale University Museum, New Haven:
Crinoids (14 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12212.)

ay
118

Delaware.

Canby, William M., Wilmington: Plants
(117 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12087, 12299, 12639. )

District of Columbia.

Catholic University, | Washington:
Plants (93 specimens). Exchange.

(D. 12050.)

Central High School, Washington: Pen-
tacrinus decorus (1 specimen). Gilt.
(D. 12329.)

Chesnut, V. K., Washington: Medicinal
plants. Lent for study. (D. 12778.)

Crosby, W.O., Washington: Geological
and natural history material. Ex-
change. (D. 12666.)

Greene, E. L., Washington: Plants (2
specimens). Exchange. Plants (5
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12428, 12627. )

Holm, T., Brookland: Plants (60 speci-

6
7

mens). Lent for study. Plants (92
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12112,

12575. )

Kober, George M., Washington: Zuni
pottery vase. Exchange. (D. 12395.)

McGee, W. J., Washington: Ethno-
logical specimens. Lent for study.
(D. 12140.)

Richmond, C. W., Washington: Snowy
owl (1 specimen). Exchange. (D.
12453. )

Tweedy, Frank, Washington: Plants
(44 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12427. )

U. S. Fish Commission, Washington:
Marine invertebrates (309 specimens,
series vi, set 54); alcoholic fish (1
specimen); shells (2 specimens);

crustaceans (16 specimens). (D.
11973, 12146, 12175, 12622. )
Florida.

Simpson, J. H., Manatee: Minerals.
Exchange. (D. 12548.)
Tlilinois.
Carthage College, Carthage: Marine in-
vertebrates (303 specimens, series
vi, set 61). Gift. (D. 12103.)
Coulter, John M., Lake Forest: Plants
(3 specimens). (D.
12064.)
Elliot, D. G., Chicago: Mammals (3
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12587,
12590. )

Exchange.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Iilinois—Continued.

Ferriss, James H., Joliet: Shells (41
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12360. )

Field Columbian Museum, Chicago:
Plants (142 specimens).
(D. 12051.)

Illinois Female College, Jacksonville:
Marine invertebrates (303 specimens,

Exchange.

series vi, set 78). Gift. (D. 12436.)
Loucks, W. E., Peoria: Bird skins
(62 specimens). Lent for study.

(D. 12683. )
Millspaugh, C. F., Chicago: Plants (161
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12675.)
Northwest Division High School, Chi-
cago: Marine invertebrates (306 spec-

imens, series v1, set 71). Gift. (D.
12371. )

Phillips, W. A., Evanston: Flints (120
specimens). (D. 123871.)

Snyder, A. J., Belvidere: Butterflies.
Lent for study. (D. 12710.)

Udden, J. A., Rock Island: Samples of
sea bottom (84 vials). Exchange.
(D. 12570.)

University of Chicago, Chicago: Plants.
Exchange. (D. 12032.)

Indiana.

Bartlett, Charles H., South Bend:
Cast of inscribed tablet. Gift. (D.
12258. )

High school, Jeffersonville: Marine in-
vertebrates (312 specimens,. series
vi, set 67). Gift. (D. 12233.)

Indiana University, Bloomington:
Plants (64 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12046.)

Towa.

Agricultural Experiment Station, Ames:
Plants (300 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12059. )

Boepple, J. E., Muscatine: Quartz
crystal (1 specimen). (D. 12434.)
Charles City College, Charles City:
Marine invertebrates (103 specimens,
series v1, set 63); casts of stone im-
plements (98 specimens, set 62).

Gift. (D. 12133.)

High school, Early: Rocks and ores
(104 specimens, set 11). Gift. (D.
12495. )

High school, Lake Mills: Rocks and
ores (104 specimens, set 17). Gift.
(D. 12336. )
SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED, 1899.

Towa—Continued.

High school, Manchester: Marine in-

vertebrates (303 specimens, series VI,

set 76); rocks and ores (104 speci-
mens). Gift. (D. 12404.)

High school, Sac City: Rocks and ores
(104 specimens, set 22). Gift. (D.
12138. )

Miller, Benjamin L., Oskaloosa: Sam-
ples of sea bottom (10 vials).

study. (D. 12591.)

Putnam, Mrs. M. D., Davenport: Es-
kimo costume. Exchange.  (D.
12632. )

Kansas.

Beede, J. W., Lawrence: Fossils (5
specimens). Exchange. Fossils (8
specimens). Lent for study. (D.

12222, 12445.)

Hitchcock, A. S., Manhattan: Plants
(921 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12545. )

University of Kansas, Lawrence: Cam-
brian fossils (51 specimens). Ex-
change. Corals (4 specimens). Gift.
(D. 11986, 12094. )

Kentucky.

Williamsburg Institute, Williamsburg:

Rocks and ores (104 specimens, set

20).- Gift.. (D. 12248.)
Maine.

Bowdoin College, Brunswick: Crabs
(60 specimens). Gift. (D. 12287).
Wadsworth, Miss Nettie,
Dragon flies (19 specimens).
change. (D. 12452.)
Maryland.

Western Maryland College, Westmin-
ster: Marine invertebrates (306 spec-
imens, series v1, set 69); rocks and
ores (104 specimens, set 18). Gift.
(D. 12267.)

Massachusetts.

Bangs, Outram, Boston: Bird skins (385

specimens); one specimen belonging

Ex-

to the genus Sciurus. Lent forstudy.

For |

Hallowell: |

Mammal skins and skulls (14 speci- |

mens). Exchange. - Deer skull (1
specimen). Lent for study. (D.
12179, 12182, 12239, 12314, 12369,
12392, 12442, 12565. )

3otanie garden, Cambridge:
(553 specimens).
12056. )

Exchange.

Plants |
(De

|

119

Massachusetts—Continued.
Brewster, William, Cambridge: Bird
skins (94specimens). Lent for study.

(D. 12361, 12368, 12611. )

Cummings, Miss Clara E., Wellesley:
Plants (15 specimens).
(D. 12661).

Davenport, George E., Medford: Plants
(38 specimens). Lent for study.
Plants (84 specimens).
(D. 12381, 12535. )

Eastman, C. R., Cambridge:
(10 specimens). Lent
(D. 12380. )

Emerson, B. K., Amherst: Thin sec-
tions of rocks (116 specimens). Lent
for study. (D. 12595).

Fernald, M. L., Cambridge:
(104 specimens).
(D. 12386. )

Harvard University, Cambridge: Rocks
and ores. Exchange. (D. 12615.)

Howe, Reginald Heber, jr., Brookline:
Bird skins (13 specimens).

Exchange.

Exchange.

Fossils
for study.

Plants
Lent for study.

Lent for

study. (D. 12628.)
Johnson, Roswell H., Cambridge:

Double-headed snakes (38specimens).
Lent for study. (D. 12531.)

Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cam-
bridge: Crustacea (39 specimens;
crabs (21 specimens); photographs of
type specimens in foreign museums.
Exchange. (D.12296, 12609, 12754.)

Peabody Museum, Cambridge: Collec-
tion of stone implements, fragments
of pottery, ete. Gift. (D. 12451.)

Peck, James I., Woods Hole: speci-
mens of foraminiferal sand and infu-
sorial earth. Gift. (D. 12024.)

Robinson, B. L., Cambridge: Plants
(447 specimens). Lent for study.
Plants (55 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12208, 12231, 12282, 12460, 12550,
12598, 12623, 12660. )

Sargent, C. 8., Jamaica Plain: Plants
(59 specimens). Lent for study.
Plants (2 specimens).
(D. 12636.)

Sawyer, E. L., Winchendon: Lepidop-
tera (54 specimens).
(D. 12358.)

State Normal School, Westfield: Marine
invertebrates (806 specimens, series

Gift. (D. 12187.)

Exchange.

Exchange.

vi, set 65).
120

Massachusetts—Continued.

Strong, R. M., Cambridge: Shrikes (76
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12566. )

Michigan.

Melville, W. P., Sault Ste Marie: Bird |

skins (6
(D. 12701.)

Mulliken, W.
Bird skin (1 specimen).
study. (D. 12501.)

Minnesota.

Brower, J. V., St. Paul: Stone imple-
ments and pottery (146 specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12556.)

specimens). Exchange.

Gustavus Adolphus College, St. Peter: |

Rocks and ores (104 specimens, set
12). Gift. (D. 12508.)

Heatwole, Joel P., Northfield: Zuni
and Chiriqui pottery (35 specimens) .
Exchange. (D. 11970.)

High School, Worthington: Casts of |

stone implements (98 specimens, set
64). Gift. (D. 12176.)
Holzinger, J. M., Winona: Plants (72
specimens). Exchange.
Hyde, Louis H., Lake Benton: Fossils

(218 specimens). Exchange. (D. |
12197.)

McDougal, D. T., Minneapolis: Plants
(9specimens). Lentforstudy. (D.
12144. )

Sardeson, F. W., Minneapolis: Fossils

(2specimens). Exchange. (12543.) |

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis:
Cambrian fossils (48 specimens);
plants (274 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 11985, 12061, 12180. )

Mississippi.

Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical
College, Agricultural College: Marine
invertebrates (303 specimens, series
vi, set 80). Gift. (D. 12511.)

Missouri.

Ayres, Howard, Columbia: Alcoholic
fishes (22 specimens). Lent for
study. (D. 12439.)

Glatfelter, N. M., St. Louis: Plants
(8 specimens). Lent for study.
Plants (50 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 11999, 12041.)

Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis:
Plant (living specimen). Exchange.
(D. 12098. )

Earle, Grand Rapids: |
Lent for |

(D. 12546).

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Missouri—Continued.
Plattsburg Public School, Plattsburg:
Marine invertebrates (306 specimens,
| series v1, set 72). Gift. (D. 12372.)
| Public Schools, Macon: Marine inver-
tebrates (309 specimens, series VI,
set 74). Gift. (D. 12370.)
Schwarz, H., St. Louis: Butterflies (99
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12214.)
Trelease, William, St. Louis: Plants
(252 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12224. )
Montana.
Helena High School, Helena: Marine
invertebrates (312 specimens, series
Vi, set 52)5~ "Gilt! (4D! 119747)
| State Historical Library, Helena: Ma-
rine invertebrates (306 specimens,
series vi, set 79); alcoholic fishes

(75 specimens). Gift. (D. 12455.)
| University of Montana, Missoula:
Shells (409 specimens). Gift. (D.
12230. )
| Nebraska.

Bruner, Lawrence, Lincoln: Mexican
and Central American Orthoptera (176
specimens); insects (5 specimens).
Lent for study. (D. 12408, 12486. )

Gates College, Neligh: Lamprey, eel,

and skate (1 specimen each). (D.
12525. )
Public School, Fort Calhoun: Bird

skins (31 specimens); insects (531
specimens); marine invertebrates
(55 specimens); mollusks (98 speci-
mens); minerals (4 specimens); fos-
sils (8 specimens); archeological

objects (64 specimens). Gift. (D.
12417.)

University of Nebraska, Lincoln:
Plants (402 specimens). Exchange.

(D. 11969. )
Ward, Henry B., Lincoln: Gephyreans
(570 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12422.)
New Hampshire.
| Literary Institution, New Hampton:
Marine invertebrates (309 specimens,
series v1, set 68); minerals (57 speci-
mens, set 194). Gift. (D. 12247.)
New Jersey.
Edwards, Arthur M., Newark: Infuso-
rial earth (7 specimens). Lent for
study. (D. 12462.)

SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED, 1899.

New Jersey—Continued.

Smith, John B., New Brunswick:
Moths (2 specimens). Lent for
study. (D. 12478.)

Kilmer, F. B., New Brunswick: Plants
(14 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12558. )

New York.

Allen, J. A., New York: Small mam-
mal skins and skulls (14 specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12301.)

American Museum of Natural History,
New York: Ethnological material
(13 specimens). Gift. (D. 12770.)

Bicknell, E. P., New York: Plants (202
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12321.)

Bird, Henry, Rye: Larvee of Hydracia.
Exchange. (D. 12177.)

Britton, Mrs. E. G., New York: Mosses
(20 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12562. )

Britton, N. L., New York: Plants (435
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12060.)

Colgate University, Hamilton: Marine
invertebrates (306 specimens, series
vi, set 62). Gift. (D. 12160.)

Cornell University, Ithaca: Plants (140

specimens). Exchange. Granite (7
specimens). Gift. (D. 12042, 12058,
12474. )

Brown, Mrs. John Crosby, New York:
Facsimile of musical instrument (1
specimen). Exchange. (D. 12680.)

Dwight, Jonathan, jr., New York:
Bird skins (60 specimens).
study. (D. 12667, 12714, 12777.)

Ely’s School, The Misses, New York:
Marine invertebrates (303 specimens,
series v1, set 64). Gift. (D. 12169.)

Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn: |

Marine invertebrates (303 specimens,

series v1, set 77); casts of stone im- |

plements (98 specimens). Gift.
12416, 12454. )

Gilbert, B. D., Clayville: Plants (88
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12490, 12513.)

High School, Hancock: Marine inver-
tebrates (306 specimens, series VI,
set 75); rocks and ores (104 speci-
mens, set 15). Gift. (D. 12394.)

Holland Purchase Historical Society,
Batavia: Casts of prehistoric stone

(D.

Lent for |

121

New York—Continued.
implements (90 specimens, set 67).
Gift. (D. 12744.)

Hulst, George D.,
(157 specimens).
(D. 12202. )

Miller, Gerrit 8., jr., New York: Skins
with skulls of Hvotomys alascensis (6
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12461.)

Mirrick, Miss Nellie, Oneida: Plants
(20 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12784. )

Osborn, H. F., New York: Skull of
Oredon (1 specimen). Lent for
study. (D. 12576.)

Porter, George F., New York: Electri-
cal apparatus (5 pieces). Lent for
study. (D. 12647.)

Putnam, F. W., New York: Left scap-
ula of male and female musk ox (1
specimen each). Lent for study.
(D. 12642. )

Small, J. K., New York: Mounted
specimens of plants (17 specimens).
Lent for study. (D. 12262, 12663,
12772.)

Underwood, L. M., New York: Plants
(2 mounted specimens); plants (24
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12208, 12507. )

Ward’s Natural Science Establishment,
Rochester: Two collections of fossils.
Exchange. (D. 12130, 12398. )

Waugh, F. H., Ithaca: Plants (3 speci-
mens). Lentforstudy. (D. 12382).

Webster Free Library, New York:
Jasts of stone implements (98 speci-
mens, set 66). Gift. (D. 12620.)

North Carolina.

Ash, W. W., Raleigh: Plants (319
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12049.)

Beadle, C. D., Biltmore: Plants (707
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12542.)

Biltmore Herbarium, Asheville: Plants
(378 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12096. )

Trinity College, Durham: Marine in-
vertebrates (306 specimens, series

3rooklyn: Moths
Lent for study.

vi, set 81). Gift. (D. 12567.)
North Dakota.
Mager, Miss Ernestine, Walhalla:
-Plant (1 specimen). Exchange.

(D. 12266. )
122

Ohio.

Case School of Applied Science, Cleve-

land: Plants (15 specimens). Ex-
change. (D. 12053.)

High School, Logan: Casts of stone
implements (98 specimens, set 63).
Gift. (D. 12162.)

Lindahl, Joshua, Cincinnati: Salaman-
der (1 specimen).
(D. 12488. )

Piwonka, Thomas, Cleveland: Foram-
inifera (3 lots). Lent for study.
(D. 12228. )

Ricker, Maurice, Burlington: Insect (1
specimen). For study.

Lent for study. |

(D. 12432.) |

Western College, Oxford: Marineinver- |
tebrates (306 specimens, series VI, set |
66) ; marine invertebrates (306 speci-

mens, series v1, set 70). Gift. (D._
12207, 12281.)
Pennsylvania.
Calvert, Philip P., Philadelphia:
Dragon flies (1072 specimens). Lent
for study. (D. 12489.)

Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg: Ethno-_

material (29
(D. 12166. )

logical
Exchange.

specimens). |

Clarion State Normal School, Clarion: |

Marine invertebrates (309 speci-
mens, series v1, set 3). Gift. (D. |
12014. )

Crawford, Joseph, Philadelphia: Plants
(97 specimens). Exchange. Plants
(19 specimens). Lent forstudy. (D.
12672, 12780. )

Culin, Stewart, Philadelphia: Collec-
tion of games. Lent forstudy. (D.
12456. )

Fox, William J., Philadelphia: Insects

(322 specimens) .
(D. 11987.)

High School, Harrisburg: Rocks and
ores (104 specimens, set 13). Gift.
(D. 12413. )

High School, York: Marine inverte-
brates (306 specimens, series v1, set
73). “Gilt. (Di 12510;

Moore, J. Percy, Philadelphia: Leeches
(54 specimens); Desmognathus brim-
leyorum (1 specimen). Lent for study.
(D. 12174, 12359.)

Pilsbry, H. A., Philadelphia: Slugs (2
specimens). Lent for study. .(D.

12729. )

Lent for study. |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Pennsylvania —Continued.

State Normal School, Mansfield: Ma-
rine invertebrates (303 specimens,
series v1, set 82). Gift. (D. 12592.)

Stone, Witmer, Philadelphia: Bird
skins (41 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12456. )

Strecker, Hermann, Reading: Lepidop-
tera (60specimens). Exchange. Lep-
idoptera (2 specimens). Lent for
study. (D. 12569, 12776. )

Rhode Island.

Collins, J. Franklin,
Plants (28 specimens).
(D. 12052. )

Tennessee.

Library and Reading Room, Erin:

Rocks and ores (104 specimens, set

Providence:
Exchange.

D1). 9 (Gili, SED AEZIR6 5)
Texas.
Price, R. H., College Station: Plants
(62 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12673.)

San Antonio Female College, San Anto-
nio: Rocks and ores (104 specimens,
set 16). Gift. (D. 12373.)

Utah.

Jones, Marcus E., Salt Lake City:
Plants (250 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12040. )

Virginia.

Hampden-Sidney College, Hampden-
Sidney: Rocks and ores (104 speci-
mens, set 19). (D. 12266.)

Washington.

Heckman, P. Y., Issaquah: Fossil
plants and crinoids (36 specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12573.)

Wickersham, James, Tacoma: Plaster
east of stone club. For examination.
(D. 12374. )

West Virginia.

Pollock, W.M., Buckhannon: Plants (50

specimens). Exchange. (D. 12057.)
Wisconsin.

Adams, C. K., Madison: Plants (162
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12523, 12544. )

High School, Janesville: Rocks and
ores (104 specimens, set 26). Gift.
(D. 12085. )

High School, Kenosha: Rocks and ores
(104 specimens, set 23). Gift. (D.
12106. )
SPECIMENS DISTRIBUTED, 1899.

Wisconsin—Continued.

High School, Monroe: Rocks and ores
(104 specimens, set 25). Gift. (D.
12108. )

High School, Racine: Rocks and ores
(104 specimens, set 24). Gift. (D.
12107. )

WEST

Connell, E. Y., Basse Terre, St. Kitt’s,
and Nevis: Stone implements (62
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12139.)

Public Gardens and Plantations, Kings-
ton, Jamaica: Plants (78 specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12553. )

INDIES.

SoutH AMERICA.
ARGENTINA.

Ruscheweyh, G., Buenos Ayres: _Lepi-
doptera (113 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12280.)

Silvestri, Filippo., Buenos Ayres: Argulus
(10 specimens). For examination.
(D. 12711.)

PERU.

Colunga, M. F., Lima: Bird skins (26
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12696. )

ASIA.
CHINA.

Bergen, Paul D., Chefoo: Bird skins (48
specimens); mammal skins (2 speci-
mens). Exchange. (D. 12475.)

Chinanfu Museum, Chinanfu: Minerals
(57 specimens, set 195); rocks and
ores (113 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12738.)

INDIA.

Indian Museum, Calcutta: Decapod crus-
taceans (171 specimens); bird skins
(4 specimens). Exchange. Decapod
crustaceans (124 specimens). Gift.
(D. 12334, 12653, 12765.)

Royal Botanic Garden, Bengal: Plants

(240 specimens). Exchange.
(12689. )
EUROPE.
AUSTRIA.

. Simmer, Hans, Carinthia:
specimens). Exchange.

Plants (296
(12688. )

BAVARIA.

Geological-Paleontological Institute, Mu-

nich: Cambrian fossils (76 speci-
mens). Hkxchange. (D. 12000.)
BELGIUM.

Selys-Longchamps, Baron Edmund de,
Liege: Skins and skulls of Microtine
rodents. For examination. (D.
12724. )

Vriére, Baron R. de, Zedelghem: Coleop-
tera (112 specimens).
(D. 12753.)

BOHEMIA.

Exchange.

Fritsch, Anton, Prague: Fossils (6 speci-
mens). Lent for study. (D. 12184,
12630.)

DENMARK.

Meinert, F., Copenhagen: Pyenogonida
(120 specimens). Lent for study.
CDE 125362)

Warming, Eugenius, Copenhagen: Plants
(500 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12084. )

FRANCE.

Miguel, Jean, Barroubio, Hérault: Fos-
sils (272 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12613. )

Trocadero Museum, Paris: Thirteen casts

of ethnological specimens.  (D.
12446. )
GERMANY.

Haferlandt and Pippow, Berlin: Skull of
Bison (1 specimen). Exchange.
(D. 12619.)

GREAT BRITAIN.

ENGLAND.

Baker, E. G., London: Collection of
plants. Exchange. (D. 12650.)
Barrett-Hamilton, G. E. H., London:
Mammals, mice, and squirrels (112
specimens). Lent for study.  (D.

12502. )

British Museum, London: Plants (246

specimens). Exchange. Plants (12
specimens). Lent for study. Ter-

tiary Corals (229 specimens); creta-
ceous bryozoa (5 vials); skins and
skulls of mammals (19 specimens) ;
mollusks (27 specimens); inverte-
brates (9 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 11992, 12209, 12320, 12343, 12504.)
124

Brunetti, E., London: Diptera (278 speci-
mens). Exchange. (D. 12494.)
Gamble, T. W., Manchester: Collection
of Annelids. Lent for study. (D.

12005. )

Hampson, Sir George F., London: Moths
(12 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12418.)

Masters, T. Maxwell, London: Plants (18
specimens). Lent for study. (D.
12069. )

Parritt, H. W., London: Echinoderms
and crustaceans (28 specimens). Ex-
change. (D. 12726.)

Royal Gardens, Kew, London: Plants (3

sets). Lent for study. Plants and
seeds (5 sets). Exchange. Living
plants (Agave) (2 specimens). Gift.

(D. 12148, 12251, 12363, 12529, 12574,
12649, 12664. )

Rudler, F. W., London: Onyx marble (1
specimen). Exchange. (D. 12105.)

Thomas, Oldfield, London: Skins and
skulls of African rodents (17 speci-
mens). Lentforstudy. (D. 12168.)

University College, Liverpool: Marine in-
vertebrates (series v, set 97, 475 speci-
mens); invertebrates (5 specimens
and 1 vial). Exchange. (D. 12006,
12210. )

Woodward, Henry, London: Cranium
and cast of cranium of Castoroides.
Exchange. (D. 12279.)

SCOTLAND.

Chilton, Charles, Edinburgh: Blind crus-
taceans (15 specimens). Exchange.
(D. 12232.)

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

ITALY.

Gestro, R., Genoa: Fish (1 specimen).
Exchange. (D. 12743.)

Mayer, P., Naples: Small crustaceans
(1,154 specimens). Lent for study.
(D. 12493. )

University of Turin, Turin: Fossils (77
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12612.)

NETHERLANDS.

Royal Ethnographic Museum, Leyden:
Ethnological objects (195 specimens).

Exchange. (D. 12741.)

Von Roon, G., Rotterdam: Coleoptera
(100 specimens). Exchange. (D.
12553. )

SWEDEN.

Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences,
Stockholm: Plants (361 specimens) .
Exchange. (D. 12086.)

SWITZERLAND.

Autran, Eugene, Geneva: Plants (663
specimens). Exchange. (D. 12533. )

Candolle, M. Casimir de, Geneva: Plants
(23 specimens). Lent forstudy. (D.
12433. )

OCEANICA.

AUSTRALIA.

Grant, F. H. McK., Melbourne, Victoria:
Casts of stone pipes (3 specimens).
Exchange. (D. 12393.)
APPENDIX IV.

BrBLIOGRAPHY oF THE U. S. Nationa MuskumM For THE IF IscAL
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1899.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE MUSEUM.!

ANNUAL REPORT.

Annual Report | of the | Board of Re- | 30, 1896. | — | Report | of the | U.S.
gents | of the | Smithsonian Institu- | National Museum. | — | Washington:
tion, | Showing | the Operations, Ex- | | Government Printing Office. | 1898.
penditures, and Condition | of the In- 8V0, pp. I-XXIV, 1-1107, 198 pls., 555 figs.

stitution | for the | year ending June |

PROCEEDINGS.

Smithsonian Institution. | United States lished under the direction of the Smith-
National Museum. | — | Proceedings | sonian Institution. | — | Washington:
of the | United States National Mu- | Government Printing Office. | 1898.
seum. | — | Volume XX. | — | Pub- 8vO, pp. I-X11, 1-932, pls. I-xcvit, figs. 1-149.

BULLETINS.

Smithsonian Institution. | United States | Smithsonian Institution. | United States
National Museum. | — | Bulletin | of | National Museum. | — | Bulletin | of
the | United States National Museum. | the | United States National Museum. |
| No. 47. | — | The Fishes | of | North | No. 47. | — | The Fishes | of | North
and Middle America: | A descriptive and Middle America: | A descriptive

catalogue of the species of fish-like ver- catalogue of the species of fish-like ver-
tebrates found in | the waters of North tebrates found in | the waters of North
America, north of the Isthmus of Pan- | America, north of the Isthmus of Pan-
ama. | By | David Starr Jordan, Ph.D., ama. | By | David Starr Jordan, Ph.

| President of the Leland Stanford D., | President of the Leland Stanford

|
|
|

Junior University and of the | Califor- Junior University and of the | Califor-
nia Academy of Sciences, | and | Bar- nia Academy of Sciences, | and | Barton
ton Warren Evermann, Ph. D., | Ich- Warren Evermann, Ph.D., | Ichthyolo-
thyologist of the United States Fish gist of the United States Fish Commis-
Commission. | Part II. | Washington: sion. | Part III. | Washington: | Gov-
| Government Printing Office. | 1898. ernment Printing Office. | 1898.

8vo, pp. I-X XX, 1241-2188. | 8vo, pp. I-X XIV, 2184-3136.

PAPERS BY OFFICERS OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM AND OTHERS, BASED UPON MUSEUM

MATERIAL.
ADLER, Cyrus, and CASANOWICZ, | American OrnitHoLocists’ Unron—Con.
I. M. Biblical antiquities. can Ornithologists’ Union Check-list of
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.), North American Birds.
1896 (1899), pp. 943-1023, pls. 1-46. Auk, Xvt, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 97-133.

AMERICAN ORNITHOLOGISTS’ UNION (Com- More than 150 additions, changes in nomen-
clature, ete., are here made. A list of pro-

mittee on Classification and Nomencla- posed changes and additions not acted upon
ture). Ninth Supplement to the Ameri- at this session of the committee is included.

* 1The titles of the papers from bie ae and Pecos Se hienG were aubiehed in caste form
during the year are given in Appendix V,
125
126

ASHMEAD, Witiiam H. A
synopsis of the Blennocampide.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., v1, No.2, July, 1898,
pp. 126-129.
Twenty-two genera «are characterized, 4
of which are new, viz, Jsodyctiwm, Parazarca,
Erythraspides, and Calozarca.

generic

Classification of the Horn-tails and
Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga.
Paper No. 2.
Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 7, July,
1898, pp. 177-183. :

Gives generic tables of the Orysside, Siric-
ide, Xiphydriide, and Cephide. Twenty-
four genera and 3 new species are charac-
terized.

—— Classification of the Horn-tails and
Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga.
Paper No. 3.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 8, Aug.,
1898, pp. 205-213.

Gives generic tables of the Xyelide, Lydi-
dz, and Hylotomidz. Forty genera are tab-
ulated, 7 of which are new, viz, Liolyda,
Pseudocyphona, Caloptilia, Acanthoptenos, Ne-
optilia, Gymniopterus, and Micrarge.

—— Thynnide in the United States.

Psyche, vit, No. 268, Aug., 1898, p. 251.
Describes 1 new genus (Glyptometopa) and
2 new species: Telephoromyia anthracina and
Glyptometopa americana.

— Classification of the Horn-tails and
Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga.
Paper No. 4.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No.9, Sept.,
1898, pp. 225-232.

Gives generic tables of tne Lophyride, Per-
reyiide, Pterygophoride, and Pergide.
Thirty genera are tabulated, of which 7
are new, viz, Lophyridea, Lophyrotoma, Ptery-
gophorinus, Syzygonidea, Paraperga, Pseudo-
perga, and Neoperga.

— Classification of the Horn-tails and
Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga.
Paper No. 5.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 10, Oct.,
1898, pp. 249-257.

This paper treats of the family Selandri-
ide, which is divided into 4 subfamilies.
Generic tables of all the genera are given.
Thirty-seven genera have been recognized,
of which 9 are new, viz, Monophadnoides,
Paraselandria, Periclistoptera, Endelomyia,
Ericampoidea, Tetraneura, Pecilostomidea,
Zaschizonyx, and Macgillivraya.

— Two new genera of Sand Wasps.

Entomological News, 1X, No. 8, Oct., 1898,
pp. 187-189,

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

ASHMEAD, Wiuiiam H.—Continued.
Describes 2 new genera and 4 new species
of Sand Wasps, viz, Foxia pacifiea, Micophi-
nus laticeps, M. californicus, and M. texanus.

—— Classification of the Horn-tails and
Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga.
Paper No. 6.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 11, Novy.,
1898, pp. 281-287.

Treats of the family Nematide, which is
divided into 2 subfamilies, (1) Cladinz: and
(2) Nematinze; and of the family Dineuride,
which is also divided into 2 subfamilies, (1)
Hemichroine and (2) Dineurinze. In all 28
genera are tabulated, of which 2 are new,
Opisthoneura and Marlattia.

—— Some new genera of bees.
Psyche, vil, No. 271, Noy., 1898, pp. 282-
285.

Gives a generic table of the Stelidide, in
which 5 genera are tabulated. In this paper
8 new bee genera and 1 new species are
described, viz, Zacosmia, Melanostelis betheli,
Neopasites, Hoplopasites, Hylxosoma, Cocker-

ellia, Philozanthus, and Nomadopsis.

Classification of the Horn-tails and

Saw-flies, or the suborder Phytophaga.
Paper No. 7.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 12, Dec.,
1898, pp. 305-316.

This paper, which is the last of the series,
treats of the families Tenthredinide and
Cimbicide. The first is divided into 4 sub-
families, the last into 2. In all, 48 genera
are tabulated, 11 genera being new, viz,
Pseudosiobla, Strongylogastroidea, Dimorphop-
teryx, Parasiobla, Aomodyctiwm, Aphilodyc-
tiwm, Polystichophagus, Hypotaxonus, Hemitax-
onus, and Homeoneura.

— Reports upon the insects, spiders,
mites, and myriapods collected by Dr.
L. Stejneger and G. E. H. Barrett-
Hamilton on the Commander Islands.

Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897,
Part rv, 1898, Appendix I, pp. 328-351.

This report is edited by Mr. Ashmead, and
is the joint work of several of the specialists
eonnected with the National Museum (vide
Banks, Cook, Coquillett, Dyar, Linell, and
Schwarz.)

Mr. Ashmead contributed the report upon
the Hymenoptera and Rhynchota. In the
former, 11 species are recorded, 8 being new;
in the latter, 3 species are noted, only 1 being
new.

— Four new entomophilous wasps.

Entomological News, x, No.1, Jan., ‘1899,
pp. 9, 10.

Describes Pisonopsis triangularis, Niteliopsis

striatipes, Harpactus howardi, and H, cockerelli.

BIBLIOGRAPHY. Ci

ASHMEAD, Wituram H.—Continued.

— Three new species in the genus Di-
plectron Fox.
Entomological News, X, No. 3, Mar., 1899,
pp. 5d, 56.
Gives a table of the known species and de-
scribes as new Diplectron ferrugineus, D. bi-
dentatus, and D. foviti.

—— Superfamilies in the Hymenoptera,
and generic synopses of the families
Thynnidee, Myrmosidee, and Mutillidee.

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., vu, No. 1,
1899, pp. 45-60.

In this paper Mr. Ashmead has divided the
Hymenoptera into ten superfamilies: (1) Apoi-
dea, (IL) Sphegoidea, (IIL) Vespoidea, (IV)
Formicoidea, (V) Proctotrypoidea, (VI) Cy-
nipoidea, (VII) Chalcidoidea, (VIII) Ichneu-
monoidea, (IX) Siricoidea, and (X) Tenthre-
dinoidea. Generic tables are given for the
families Thynnidee, Myrmoside, and Mutil-
lidee.

Fifty-three genera are tabulated. Sixteen
new genera are defined: Iswaroides, Ephu-
tomma, Typhoctes, Odontomutilla, Dolichomu-
tilla, Bothriomutilla, Nomixphagus, Pyrrhomu-
tila, Eurymutilla, Hoplomutilla, Dasymuctilla,
Allomutilla, Trogaspidia, Alloneurion, and Mi-
cromutilla.

Mar.,

—— Four new species belonging to the
genus Plenoculus Fox.

Psyche, vu, No. 275, Mar., 1899, pp. 837-839.
Gives a synoptic table for recognizing the
known species of Plenoculus and describes
4 new species: P. punctatus, P. abdominatis,
P. niger, and P. albipes.

— On the genera of the Cleonymide.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., tv, No.3 (issued May
24, 1899), pp. 200-206.

Mr. Ashmead separates this family into 4
subfamilies (1) Chalcedectine, (2) Cleony-
min, (3) Pelecinelline, and (4) Colotrech-
nine. Thirty-six genera are tabulated, of
which 3 are new: Chalcidiscelis, Tomicobia,
and Eutrichosoma.

—— On the genera of the Eucharide.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., tv, No.3 (issued May
24, 1899), pp. 235-242.
Tabulates all the known genera, 23 in num-
ber. Two genera are new: Pseudometagea
and Dicelothorax.

— Classification of the old family Chal-
cididee.
Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash.,1v, No.3 (issued May
24, 1899), pp. 242-249.

In this paper Mr. Ashmead treats the old
family as a superfamily, Chalcidoidea, and
then divides it into 14 distinct minor families,
as already proposed by him in a previous
paper. Tables for recognizing these families,

ASHMEAD, WitirAm H.—Continued.
and the subfamilies into which they are
again divided, are given: Agaonidie, Tory-
mide with 5 subfamilies, Chalcididie with 2
subfamilies, Eurytomidee, Perilampide, Hu-
charidze, Miscogasteridx with 4 subfamilies,
Cleonymide with 4 subfamilies, Encyrtidie
with 3 subfamilies, Pteromalidee with 5 sub-
families, Elasmide, Eulophidee with 4 sub-
families, Trichogrammid with 2 subfamlies,
and Mymaride with 2 subfamilies.

— Classification of the entomophilous
wasps, or the superfamily Sphegoidea.
Paper No. 1.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx1, No. 6, June,
1899, pp. 145-155.

Mr. Ashmead gives an introduction on the
arrangement of these wasps by previous au-
thors, exhibits the scheme of arrangement
proposed by Dr. Franz Kohl, and divides the
superfamily into 12 families, giving a table
for their recognition. The families are: Oxy-
belide, Crabronide, Pamphredonide, Bem-
becide, Larridee, Philanthidee, Trypoxylide,
Mellinidee, Nyssonide, Stizide, Sphegide,
and Ampulicide.

A generic table of the family Panur-
gidee; areply to Mr. Cockerell’s critique
on the segregation of Perdita Cockerell.

Psyche, vit, No. 278, June, 1899, pp. 372-
376.

In this paper Mr. Ashmead points out par-
ticularly the differences between Cockerellia
and Perdita; shows that four of Mr. Cocker-
ell’s recent new bee genera belonging in this
group are synonyms, and concludes by tabu-
lating the genera of the Panurgide. Nine-
teen genera are thus tabulated.

.—— Classification of the bees, or the
superfamily Apoidea.

Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., Phila., xxv1, May-
June, 1899, pp. 49-100.

Divides the Apoidea into 14 families, some
of which are again divided into subfamilies.
Dichotomous tables for recognizing the fami-
lies, subfamilies, and the bee genera of the
world are given. In all, 216 genera are tabu-
lated, of which 19 are new.

BANGS, Ourram. On some birds from
Pueblo Viejo, Colombia.
Proc. Biol. Soe. Wash., x11, Aug. 10, 1898,
pp. 157-160.

An account of 28 species of birds collected
by W. W. Brown, jr., in Colombia. Elenia
browni, Automolus rufipectus, Buarremon basi-
licus, and Thryothorus letus are described as
new. Based partly upon Museum material.

—— On some birds from the Sierra Ne-
vada de Santa Marta, Colombia.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X11, Oct. 31, 1898,
pp. 171-182,
128

BANGS, Ourram—Continued.
Notes on 66 species of birds collected by W.
W. Brown, jr., in Colombia, of which the fol-
lowing are diagnosed as new: Neocrex colom-
bianus, Aulacorhamphus lautus, Leucuria (new
genus), Leucuria phalerata, Elenia sororia,
Grallaria spatiator, Spinus spinescens capitane-
us, Diglossa nocticolor, Merula phxopyga mi-
nuscula, and Merula gigas cacozela. Based
partly upon Museum material. ~

— On the subspecies of Manacus mana-
cus (Linn.).
Proc. New England Zool. Club, 1, Mar. 31,
1899, pp. 33-37.

This species is divided into four forms, viz:
Manacus manacus manacus (Linn.), M. M. ab-
ditivus (new subspecies), M. M. purus (new
sub-species), and M. M. guttwrosus (Desm.).
Based partly upon Museum material.

—— A new Rail from Southern California.

Proc. New England Zool. Club, 1, June 5,
1899, pp. 45, 46.
Rallus levipes is described as new.
partly upon Museum material.

BANKS, NATHAN.
Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 7, July,
1898, pp. 185-188.
Descriptions of 7 new species from various
parts of the United States.

Based

Some new spiders.

— Some Mexican Phalangida.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soec., vi, No. 3, Sept., 1898,
pp. 181, 182.
Descriptions of 5 new species from Mexico.

— Three myrmecophilous mites.

Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No. 10, Oct.,
1898, pp. 265, 266.
Descriptions of 3 new mites associated with
ants.

Descriptions of new North Ameri-
can neuropteroid insects.
Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., XXv, No.3, Dec., 1898,
(Jan., 1899), pp. 199-218.
Descriptions of 5 new genera and 44 new
species; synopses of 1 family and 3 genera.

[ Plecoptera, Trichoptera, and Arach-
nida. |

Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-
1897, Part Iv, 1898, Appendix I, pp. 346-
390, pl. A.

These notes are included in ‘‘ Reports on the
insects, spiders, mites, and myriapods col-
lected by Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E. H.
Barrett-Hamilton on the Commander
Islands,’ edited by W. H. Ashmead. Seven
new species are described.

— A classification of the North Ameri-
can Myrmeleonidee.

Canadian Entomologist, XXxX1, No. 3, Mar.,
1899, pp. 67-71.
Synopses of the genera; descriptions of 2
new genera and 1 species.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

BANKS, Narnan—Continued.
— Some spiders from northern Louisi-
ana.
Proc. Ent. Soe. Wash., tv., No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 188-193.
A list of 127 species. Seven new species are
described.
— A new species of the genus Hala-
rachne.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 1v, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 212-214, fig. 15.
A new species found in a West Indian seal.

An American species of the genus
Creculus.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 1v, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 221, 222, fig. 16.
A new species from Southern California.

—— Tarsonemus in America.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., tv, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 294-296, fig. 17.
A new species injurious to chrysanthe-
mums.

—— A new solpugid from California.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Iv, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 314, 315.
A new species of Cleobis.

— New Myrmeleonide.

Entomological News, x, No. 6, June, 1899,
pp. 170-172.
Descriptions of three new species.
BARTSCH, Pau. First record of the
Turnstone, Arenaria interpres (Linn. ),
in Iowa (May 21, 1892).
Iowa Ornithologist, 1v, No. 3. July, 1898, p.3.

The paper records the capture of 2 speci-
mens at Burlington, Iowa.

—— Primitive nesting sites of the Cliff
Swallow.
Osprey, 111, No.1, Sept., 1898, p. 6,1 fig.

This paper mentions two colonies noted on
the Oneota River in northern Iowa, and in-
cludes a figure showing their nesting site.

— An afternoon amongst old scenes.

Wilson Bull., No. 22, 1898, pp. 63-65.
This paper gives an account of the birds
observed on an afternoon ramble in Hender-
son County, Il.

—— A piscivorous Yellow-leg.

Wilson Bull., No. 24, Jan., 1899, p. 8.
This paper records the Yellow-leg feeding
upon Top minnows.

Xema sabinii and Chordeiles virgin-
ianus sennetti: Two additions to the

Towa avifauna.
Auk, XVI, Jan., 1899, p. 86.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

BARTSCH, Paut—Continued.

Sabine’s Gull and Sennett’s Nighthawk
are added to the list of Iowa birds. The
record of the Nighthawk is based upon a
specimen now in the National Museum col-
lection.

— A primitive Swift colony.
Wilson Bull., No. 25, Mar., 1899, pp. 21, 22.
This paper deals with the Chimney Swifts,
nesting in hollow eypress trees, at Lake
Drummond, Dismal Swamp, Virginia.
BEAN, Barton A. Notesonacollection
of fishes from Mexico, with description
of a new species of Platypocilus.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX1, No. 1159, Nov. 21,
1898, pp. 539-542, 1 fig.
— Notes on the capture of rare fishes.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1165, Dec.
20, 1898, pp. 639, 640.
_—— Myoxocephalus mednius, new species.

Bull. U.S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, Pt. 11, 1898, pp.
1983, 1984.

A diagnosis of Myoxocephalus mednius, in-
cluded in Jordan and Evermann’s “ Fishes
of North and Middle America,”’ published as
Bulletin 47 of the National Museum.

— Porocottus quadratus, new species.

Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, Pt. 11, 1898,
p. 1998.

A diagnosis of Porocottus quadratus, includ-
ed in Jordan and Evermann’s “ Fishes of
North and Middle Ameriea,’’ published as
Bulletin 47 of the National Museum.

BEAN, Tarteton H., and Barton A.
Note on Oxycottus acuticeps (Gilbert)
from Sitka and Kadiak, Alaska.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xx1, No. 1167, Dee.
20, 1898, pp. 655, 656.

BREWSTER, Wiuiiam. An undescribed
Clapper Rail from Georgia and East
Florida.

Proc. New England Zool. Club, 1, June 9,
1899, pp. 49-51.
Rallus crepitans waynei is described as new.
Based partly upon Museum material.

CASANOWICZ, I. M.
the Jews in Palestine.

Some customs of

American Hebrew, LXIV, pp. 641, 642.
(See also under Cyrus Adler. )

CHAPMAN, Frank M. Kirtland’s War-
bler (Dendroica kirtlandi) .

Auk, XV, No.4, Oct., 1898, pp. 289-2938, pl. Iv.

An account of this rare bird is given,

together with a list of the known specimens,

- and published records of the same. Based
partly upon Museum material.

NAT MUS 99 9

129

CHAPMAN, Franz M.—Continued.
The distribution and relationships
of Ammodramus maritimus and its allies.

Auk, Xvi, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 1-12, pl. I.

A review of the forms of Ammodramus mar-

itimus, giving the distinctive characters and

geographical distribution of each. Ammo-

dramus maritimus fisheri is described as new.
Based partly upon Museum material,

CHESNUT, Victor Kine. Thirty poi-
sonous plants of the United States.
Farmers’ Bull., U. S. Dept. Agric., No. 86,

Jan. 19, 1899, pp. 1-82, figs. 1-24.

—— Principal poisonous plants of the

United States.

Bull, Div. Bot., U.S. Dept. Agric., No. 20, pp.
1-60, figs. 1-34.

CHITTENDEN, Franx H.
Apple-tree Borers.

The Larger

Cire. Div, Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric. (second
series), No. 32, July 1 (5), 1898, pp. 1-12,
figs. 1-3.

A general consideration of Saperda candida,
S. cretata and Chrysobothris femorata, with
particular attention to remedial treatment.
Three original illustrations are given.

— A new Squash Bue.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No.9, Sept.,
1898, pp. 239, 240.
A preliminary article on Anasa armigera

— Insect injury to millet.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 17, Dec. 1, 1898, pp. 84-86.
Notes on injury to Panicum miliaceum and
other species by Chxtocnema denticulata,
Monocrepidius bellus, Diabrotica 12-punctata,
Lachnosterna sp., and Chlorops assimilis.

Insects injurious to beans and peas.

Yearbook U.S. Dept. Agric., 1898, pp. 233-
260, figs. 66-82.

Popular economic accounts of 12 species of
bean and pea-destroying Coleoptera, with
notices of 15 other insects.

Author’s extras of this paper were issued

May 15, 1899.

—— Twig pruners and allied species.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 35-43, 4
figs.

A general popular account of Elaphidion
villosum, with shorter notes on EF. inerme, E. .
subpubescens, E. mucrondtum, and 5 other
species of the genus. Three of the figures are
original.
130 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

CHITTENDEN, Franx H.—Continued.
A destructive borer enemy of birch
trees with notes on related species.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 44-51, 3
figs.

A general consideration of Agrilus anxius
and its injuries to birch at Buffalo, N. Y.

The portion of this article having reference
to other forms of Agrilus was excluded for
lack of space, but the corresponding change
was unfortunately not made in the title.

Author’s extras were published January
12, 1899.

—— A Leaf-tyer on grape and elderberry.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 82, 83.
Notes on Philyctxnia tertialis.

—— A Flea-beetle living on purslane.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 83-85.

Biologic notes on Disonycha caroliniana
with descriptions of the larva and pupa.

— Biologic note on Conotrachelus ele-
gans Say.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, pp. 94, 95.

—— Recent injury by Bark-beetles: A
correction.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, p. 96.
Note on injury by Dendroctonus to conifer-
ous forest trees in the Northern States.

—— A Leaf-beetle injurious to cultivated
sunflower.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series) , No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899, p. 96.
Note on Chrysomela (Zygogramma) exclama-
tionis.

—— A new Sugar-beet beetle.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 6, 1899.
Occurrence of Monoxia puncticollis on sugar
beet at Hagerman, New Mexico, and on sea
blight in the East.

—— The Squash Ladybird; its literature
and biology.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 11-20,
figs. 1,2.
A general consideration of Epilachna
borealis.

Life history of the common Squash

Bug (Anasa tristis De G. ).

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 20-28,
figs, 3-6,

CHITTENDEN, Frank H.—Continued.
The Horned Squash Bug (Anasa
armigera Say ).
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 28-34,
fig. 6.

Some observations on the life history
of the Squash-vine Borer (Melittia saty-
riniformis Hbn.).

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 34-40,
figs. 7,8.

Notes on the Pickle Worm and
Melon Caterpillar.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19; April 12, 1899, pp. 41-44.
Notes on Margaronia nitidalis and M.
hyalinata.

Leaf-footed plant-bugs which attack
Cucurbits. ;
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 44-48,
figs. 9, 10.
Notes on Leptoglossus oppositus and L.
phyllopus.

Notes on the Striped Cucumber
Beetle (Diabrotica vittata Fab.).
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 48-51,
fig. 11.
Description of the egg and oviposition;
notes on methods of control; note on D. tri-
viattata.

A new webworm enemy of cabbage
and other cruciferous plants.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 51-57,
fig. 12.
A general consideration of Hellula undalis,
a recently discovered imported enemy of eru-
ciferous crops in Georgia.

—— Notes on the Garden Flea-hopper
(Halticus uhleri Giard).
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 57-62,
fig. 13.
A general account of this species.

—— The Imbricated Snout-beetle (Zpi-
crus imbricatus Say ).
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 62-67,
fig. 14.
_—_ The Brown Fruit-chafer (Euphoria
inda Linn. ). '

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 67-74,
fig. 15,
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

CHITTENDEN, Frank H.—Continued.
~ —— Biologic notes on the May Beetle
(Lachnosterna arcuata Smith) .
Bull Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 74-80,
figs. 16-18.

A somewhat general consideration of Lach-
nosterna arcuata and a note on insect enemies

of white grubs in general.

—— The Spinach Flea-beetle (Disonycha
xanthomelena Dalm. ).

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 80-85,
fig. 19.

Biologic and other notes on the flea-
beetles which attack solanaceous plants.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 85-90,
fig. 20.
Notes on the North American species of
Epitrix.
—The Cherry Leaf-beetle (Galeru-
cella cavicollis Lee. ).
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 90-93.

—— Notes on the Plum and the Rose
Leaf-beetles.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 93-95.
Notes on Nodonota tristis and N. puncticollis
and a short note on N. clypealis.

Notes on the Fruit-tree Bark-beetle
and other borers affecting fruit-trees.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new

series), No. 19, April 12, 1899, pp. 96-99.

Notes on Scolytus rugulosus, Chion cinctus,
Amphicerus bicaudatus, and Oberea ocellata.

The Squash-vine Borer  (WMelittia
satyriniformis Hpn. ).

Circ. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 38, April 22, 1899, pp. 1-6,
figs: 1.2.
A compilation of the article on the same
insect in Bulletin 19 (new series), pp. 34-40,
with elaboration of remedial treatment.

—— The Squash Bug (Anasa tristis Deg. ).

Cire. Div. Ent., U. 8. Dept. Agric. (second
series), No. 39, May 11, 1899, pp. 1-5,

figs. 1-3.
A similar adaptation of an article on this in-
sect in Bulletin No. 19 (new series),pp. 20-28.

CLARK, Husert Lyman. The feather-
tracts of North American Grouse and
Quail.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX1, No. 1166, Jan. 4,
1899, pp. 641-653, pls. 47-49, figs. 1-4.

131

COOK, 0. F. American Oniscoid Diplo-
poda of the order Merocheta.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1154, Nov. 19,
1898, pp. 451-468, pls. 29-32.
— [Myriapoda. ]

Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897,

Part Iv, 1898, Appendix 1, pp. 350, 351.
Included in ‘‘ Reports upon the insects, spi-
ders, mites, and myriapods collected by Dr. L.
Stejneger and Mr.G. E. Barrett-Hamilton on

the Commander Islands,’’ edited by W. H.
Ashmead.

African Diplopoda of the genus
Pachybolus.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XXt, No. 1168, Mar. 17,
1899, pp. 657-666, pls. 50-52.
— The Diplopod family Striariide.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., x x1, No. 1169, March
30, 1899, pp. 667-676, pls. 53, 54.

African Diplopoda of the family
Gomphodesmidee.
Proce. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX1, No.1170, Mar. 30,
1899, pp. 677-739, pls. 55-61.
COQUILLETT, Dante, W. On the Dip-
terous family Scatophagide.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., VI, No.3, Sept., 1898,
pp. 160-165.
Gives a synoptic table of the genera of this

family occurring in this country, and de-
scribes 3 new genera and 7 new species.

Additions to my synopsis of the

Tachinide.
Canadian Entomologist, xxx, No.9, Sept.,
1898, pp. 233-237.
Describes 9 new species, belonging to 6 dif-
ferent genera.

— Report on a collection of Japanese
Diptera presented to the U.S. National
Museum by the Imperial University of
Tokyo.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xx1, No. 1146, Noy. 4,
1898, pp. 801-340.

New species of Sapromyzide.
Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 11, Nov.,
1898, pp. 277-280.
Describes 14 new species belonging to 4 dif
ferent genera.

—— [Diptera and Siphonaptera. ]
Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897,
Part rv, 1898, Appendix I, pp. 341-346.
Included in ‘‘Reports upon the insects,
spiders, mites, and myriapods collected by
Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E. H. Barrett-
Hamilton on the Commander Islands,’’ ed-
ited by W. H. Ashmead.
A list of 29 species is given, with descrip-
tions of 1 new genus and 8 new species.
132 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

COQUILLETT, Danre, W.—Continued.
— Description of a new Psilopa.
Canadian Entomologist, Xxx1, No. 1, Jan.,
1899, p. 8.
Describes Psilopa petrolet from California,
the larva of which lives in earth saturated
with crude petroleum.

A Cecidomyiid injurious to seeds of
sorghum.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, Jan. 7, 1899, pp. 81, 82.
Describes Diplosis sorghicola, with notes on
the early stages of the larva, which infests
the seeds of sorghum, causing them to shrivel
up and die.

—— A new Trypetid from Hawaii.

Entomological News, No. 5, May, 1899, pp.
129, 180.
Describes Dacus cucurbite, the larva of
which lives in green cucumbers.

COULTER, J. M., and ROSE, JosEepa
Newson. Hesperogenia, a new genus of
Umbelliferze from Mount Rainier.

Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herbarium, vy, No. 4,
Oct., 1899, p. 203.

COVILLE, Freprertck VERNON, and
ROSE, JoserH Netson. List of plants
collected by Dr. and Mrs. Leonhard
Stejneger on the Commander Islands,
1895 and 1897.

Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897,
Part Iv, 1898, Appendix II, pp. 352-361.

CULIN, Srewarr. Chess and playing
cards.
Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),

1896 (1899), pp. 665-942, pls. 1-50, figs.
1-226,

CURRIE, Rotta P. New species of
North American Myrmeleonidee. III.
Canadian Entomologist, XXx, No. 9, Sept.,

1898, pp. 241-243.
Describes Brachynemurus hubbardit.

— New species of North American
Myrmeleonide. IV.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 11, Nov.,
1898, pp. 273-276.
Describes Brachynemurus brunneus.

DALL, Witiram Hearty. Note on the
anatomy of Resania Gray and Zenatia
Gray. ;

Proc. Malacological Soc., 111, part 2, July,
1898, pp. 85, 86.

This is a note on the anatomy of 2 rare

bivalves from New Zealand, which were ob-

tained by the Museum from Mr. Suter, of

DALL, Witiram Heatry—Continued.

Christchurch. Some interesting anatomical
features are described in which these mol-
lusks seem to differ from any hitherto known.

—— A new species of Ceres from Mexico.

Nautilus, x11, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 27, 28.
A new species of Ceres from Mexico, Ceres
nelsoni, which is especially interesting for the
reason that hitherto only two species of this
remarkable genus have been known, and the
present one, collected in Mexico by Mr. E. W.
Nelson, is larger and finer than either of the
earlier known species.

— On anew species of Myllita.

Nautilus, x11, No. 4, Aug., 1898, pp. 40, 41.
This paper discusses the nomenclature of
the genus, enumerates the species which are
already known, and describes Myllita inx-
qualis, a new species from South Australia.

—— Anew species of Terebra from Texas.

Nautilus, x11, No. 4, Aug., 1898, pp. 44, 45.
This note describes the first typical Terebra
known from the tropical waters of eastern
America. It was collected by Hon. J. D.
Mitchell, of Victoria, Texas. The type, which
has been named Terebra texana, is in the Na-
tional Museum.

— Anew Polygyra from New Mexico.

Nautilus, x11, No. 7, Noy., 1898, p. 75.
Polygyra miorhyssa, from the Sierra Blanea,
Lincoln County, New Mexico.

—— Description of a new Ampullaria
from Florida.

Nautilus, x11, No. 7, Novy., 1898, pp. 75, 76.

This note describes Ampullaria pinei, col-

lected on the Homosassa River, Florida, by
Mr. George Pine.

—— A table of the North American Ter-
tiary horizons correlated with one an-
other and with those of western Europe,
with annotations.

18th Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., part 2,
1898, pp. 325-348.

This paper gives a synopsis of the main divi-
sions of the Tertiary, defining their limits,
and shows in a table, so far as our present
knowledge extends, the succession of these
beds, and correlates those of the eastern, cen-
tral, and western portions of the country ina
manner to show the equivalent beds in the
same horizontal line. This table includes the
entire Tertiary series. A series of notes upon
names used in the table is given, indicating
the origin of the name, mentioning any ques-
tion which has arisen in regard to the division
of this or some other name, giving references
to the literature in which each name was
defined or fully deseribed, and mentioning
the chief synonyms,

eS eS
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

DALL, WittrAm Hratry—Continued.
On the proposed University of the
United States and its possible relations
to the scientific bureaus of the Govern-
ment.

Am. Naturalist, xx111, No. 386, Feb., 1899,
pp. 97-107.

This essay discusses the practical methods
by which the opportunities offered by the
scientific bureaus of the Government could
be utilized for the instruction of students,
and points out the difficulties in the realiza-
tion of any plan in which the presence of the
students in those laboratories forms a part.
Although this is a feature of most of the propo-
sitions for a National University, on the prac-
ticability of which the success of those pro-
jects depends absolutely, it has been almost
universally ignored by those persons who
have endeavored to promote®the establish-
ment of such a university.

On a new species of Drillia from
California.
Nautilus, x11, No. 11, Mar., 1899, p. 127.
A new species of Drillia, collected by Mr.
and Mrs. T. 8. Oldroyd, off San Pedro, Cal.,
is deseribed under the name of Drillia empy-
rosia.

—— A new Pteronotus from California.

Nautilus, x11, No. 12, Apr., 1899, pp. 138, 139.

This note describes Pteronotus carpenteri,

obtained from several localities on the coast
of California.

— How long a whale may carry a har-
poon.

Nat. Geograph. Mag., x, No. 4. Apr., 1899,
pp. 186, 137.

This paper gives some data in relation to a
harpoon deposited in the National Museum by
the National Geographic Society, and found
ina whale taken in Bering Sea in August, 1890,
which it appears must have been carried in
the animal’s body for thirty-six years.

— The Calaveras skull.

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., Apr., 1899,
pp. 2+4.

This note places on record the observations
of witnesses in regard to this skull, about
which so much controversy has gathered and
in regard to which, recently, some new ex-
pressions of incredulity have been published.

—— Synopsis of the American species of
the family Diplodontidee.

Journ. Conchology, 1X, No. 8, Oct., 1899,
pp. 244-246.

This synopsis exhibits the groups into which
this family is divided, the genera already de-
scribed, and their synonyms. Section Felani-
ella, based on Felania usta Gould, and section
Phiyctiderma Dall, based on Diplodonta semi-

138

DALL, Wiitt1AM Hratey—Continued.
aspera Phil., are deseribed as new; Diplodonta
verrilli is proposed as a new name for Diplo-
donta turgida Verrill and Smith, not Conrad;
Diplodonta semirugosa Dall is proposed as a
new name for Diplodonta semiaspera of Car-
penter, not of Philippi; Diplodonta platensis
from Argentina is described as new.

—— Synopsis of the recent and Tertiary
Leptonacea of North America and the
West Indies.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1177, June
29, 1899, pp. 873-897, pls. 87, 88.

This paper gives the results of a revision of
the groups belonging to the Leptonacea, a
table of the revised classification and lists (A)
of the species of the east coast of North Amer-
ica; (B) of the west coast of North America,
and (C) of the Tertiary American species.

The genus Galeomma is divided into see-
tions, of which two, Amphilepida and Para-
lepida, are new; Spaniorinus and Scintillorbis
are new subgenera of Solecardia Conrad; Vas-
coniella is proposed as a new generic name for
Vasconia, which is preoccupied. In the Len-
tonide, Epilepton (subgenus of Lepton) is
proposed for Lepton clarkixv; Ceratobornia, a
section of Bornia, Mancikellia and Kelliola,
sections of Kellia, Serridensand Dicranodesma,
subgenera of Thecodonta, and Pythinella, sub-
genus of Mysella angas, are new.

The following new species and varieties are
described: Sportella pilsbryi, S. californica, S.
stearnsii, Anisodonta corbuloidea, Erycina lin-
ella, E. emmonsi, E. periscopiana, E. fernan-
dina, E. compressa, Bornia barbadensis, B.
retifera, Mysella tumidutla, var. verrilli, Mysella
barbadensis, M. aleutica, M. pedroana, Monta-
cuta floridana, M. minuscula, M. limpida, M.
percompressa.

The following new names are applied to
species of which the names in use are preoc-
cupied or erroneous: Solecardia morchit for S.
eburnea Morch, not Conrad.

The new species are figured, the method in
which Pseudopythina attaches itself to ecrus-
tacea, and the animal of Ceratobornia are
illustrated.

DILLER, J. 8. Origin of Paleotrochis.

Am. Journ. Sci., VII, May, 1889, pp. 337-342.
The author shows that these supposed fos-
sils are derived from an ancient eruptive
rock. These bodies are of the nature of
spherulites and are therefore not organic.

DYAR, Harrison G. Notes on some
Saw-fly larvee, especially the Xyelide.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 7, July,
1898, pp. 173-176.
Describes 4 larve.

— Concerning Xanthorhoe
Hulst.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 8, Aug.,
1898, p. 203.

glacialis
134

DYAR, Harrison G.—Continued.
—— Six new or little-known larve of
Pterophoride.
Psyche, Vit, No. 268, Aug., 1898, pp. 249, 250.
One new species is described, Pterophorus
rhynchosix.
Life histories of New York Slug
Caterpillars, XVI.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., v1, No.3, Sept., 1898,
pp. 151-158, pl. vt, figs. 1-11.

—— Life history of Calybia slossonizx.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., v1, No.3, Sept., 1898,
pp. 158-160.
—— Life history of Pamphila ethlius.
Entomological News, 1x, No. 7, Sept., 1898,
pp. 163-165.
Note on the larva of Melanomma au-
ricinctarium Grote.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 10, Oct.,
1898; p. 257.
Description of larva.

—— A new Parasa, with a preliminary
table of the species of the genus.
Psyche, vit, No. 270, Oct., 1898, pp. 2738-
276.
Describes Parasa prasina.
— Inguromorpha slossonii Hy. Edw.
Entomological News, 1x, No. 9, Noy., 1898,
pp. 213, 214.

—— A new Hypopta.
Entomological News, 1x, No. 9, Nov., 1898,
p. 214.
Describes Hypopta anna from a specimen
collected at Miami, Fla., by Mrs. A. T. Slos-
son.

— Notes on certain South American
Cochlidiidze and allied families.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., vi, No. 4, Dec.,
1898, pp. 231-239.

Contains descriptions of the following new
genera: Dalcerina, Epipinconia, Brach ycodilla,
Episibine, Protalima, Epiperola, Paleophobe-
tron, Pseudovipsania, and of one new species,
Euclea viridogrisea.

Life history of New York Slug Cat-
erpillars. XVII.

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., vi, No. 4, Dec.,
1898, pp. 241-246, pl. XI, figs. 1-12.

—— [Lepidoptera. ]
Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897,
Part Iv, 1898, Appendix I, pp. 335, 336.
Included in ‘‘Reports upon the insects,
spiders, mites, and myriapods collected by
Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E, H. Barrett-

Hamilton on the Commander Islands’’, ed-

ited by W.H. Ashmead. A list of 5 species.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

DYAR, Harrison G.—Continued.
Life histories of North American
Geometride. 1.

Psyche, vit, No. 273, Jan., 1899, pp. 310,

dll.
Descriptive of Aplodes mimosaria Guence.

— A suggestion for the Pterophoride.
Entomologist’s Record and Journal of Va-
riation, XI, No. 2, Feb. 15,1899, pp. 39, 40,
pl. 1, figs. 1-6.
Points out the principal characters to be
noted in describing the larvee.

— Description of larva of Ingura de-
lineata Guen.
Canadian Entomologist, Xx xt, No. 2, Feb.,
1899, pp. 27, 28.
Description of all stages.
On the larve of North American
Nolidee, with descriptions of new spe-
cies.
Canadian Entomologist, XX XI, No.3, Mar.,
1899, pp. 61-64.
Three new species are described, viz: Nola
clethrx, Meganola minor, and M. dentata.

Life histories of New York Slug
Caterpillars. Xvmit.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., vit, No. 1, Mar.,
1899, pl. 1, figs. 1-10, pp. 61-68.
Life history of Dipthera fallax H.-S.

Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., vit, No. 1, Mar.,
1899, p. 68.

Description of the larva of Calocampa
curvimacula.
Psyche, vit, No. 275, Mar., 1899, pp. 336,337.

— West African moths.
Canadian Entomologist, Xx x1, No. 4, April,
1899, p. 88.
Corrective note of some previous descrip-
tions.

On the smallest Pyromorphid and
its larva.

Entomological News, X, No. 4, April, 1899,
pp. 99, 100.
Describes the Cuban genus Setiodes H.-S.,
and the new species, S. bahamensis, adult and
larva.

—— Spathulate Head Setze on the larva
of Chamyris cerintha Treits.
Journ. N. Y. Ent. Soc., vit, No. 276, April,
1899, p. 349.

Some structural points in Saw-fly
larvee.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Iv, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 218-220.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

DYAR, Harrison G.—Continued.
Note on an external feeding Hy-

menopterous parasite.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 1v, No. 8 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 233, 234.
—— A new Saw-fly.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Iv,
May 24, 1899), pp. 262, 263.
Describes larva and adult Lophyrus pratti.

No. 3 (issued

Indentification of the eucleid larvee
figured in Gloyer’s ‘‘Tllustrations of
North American Entomology.”’

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 1v, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 300-302.

— Descriptions of the larve of fifty
North American Noctuidee.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Iv, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 315-332.
Contains also a synoptic table for the forms
described in this paper.

— Larve of Xyelide.
Canadian Entomologist, Xxx1, No. 5, May,
1899, p. 127.
Note in reply to F. W. Konow.
— A new Cossid from Texas.
Entomological News, xX, No.5, May, 1899,
p. 129.
Describes Inguromorpha arbeloides.
—— Notes on Alaskan Arctiide.

Entomological News, xX, No. 5, May, 1899,
pp. 130, 131.
Contains a description of a new species,
Hyphoraia subnebulosa.

— A new Lithosian.

Psyche, vu, No. 277, May, 1899, pp. 359,
360.
Describes Ozodania schwarziorum, new ge-
nus and species.

— The phylogeny of the Lasiocampids.
Entomologist's Record and Journal of Va-
riation, XI, No. 6, June 1, 1899, pp. 141,

142, pl. 1.

—— Spilosoma congrua Walker.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx1, No.6, June,
1899, pp. 155, 156.
Note in reply to Rey. T. W. Fyles.

DY ARH: Gi:
SMITH.)

(See also under Joun B.

EAKLE, Arraur 8. Topaz crystals in
the mineral collection of the U. S. Na-
tional Museum.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., x x1, No. 1148, Nov.
10, 1898, pp. 361-369, figs. 1-22.

135

EVERMANN, Barron W.
Davin 8. JorpDan. )

(See under

GILBERT, Cuartes H. On the occur-
rence of Caulolepis longidens Gill, on
the coast of California.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1161, Nov.
21, 1898, pp. 565, 566.

GILL, THroporr N. The determinants
for the major classification of fish-like
vertebrates.

Rep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1897 (1898), p.
696, 697.

Nine classes of vertebrates are recognized,
of which five have been confounded under
the designation of ‘‘fishes’’—the Leptocar-
dians, Marsipobranchs, Ostracophores, Sela-
chians, and Teleostomes. ‘‘ The gaps between
the lower classes are very great. The least
differences between the Selachians and Teleo-
stomes are manifestin the Xenacanthini and
Dipnoi of the Paleozoic; the least differences
between the Teleostomes and Amphibians
in the Crossopterygians and Stegocephals.”’

— On the derivation of the pectoral
member in terrestrial vertebrates.

Rep. Brit. Assoc. Adv. Sci., 1897 (1898), p.
697.

The most important hint respecting the
origin of the chiropterygium is furnished by
Polypterus. ‘‘The chief objection to the
derivation of the chiropterygium from the
pectoral member of such a form as Polypterus
is that at present no extinct representatives
are known. Probably future research will
reveal such, as the genus belongs to a very
archaic type.”

Some questions of nomenclature.

Ann. Rep. Smithsonian Inst.,1896 (Nov. 19,
1898) , pp. 457-483.

A republication, with corrections of former
typographical errors, of the address as vice-
president of section F (Zoology) at the Buffalo
meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, August, 1896. It also
contains an additional note on Lang’s ‘‘Meth-
odus nova Testacea—distribuendi,”’ 1722.

After an ‘‘introduction”’ (p. 457), the author
treats of the “‘commencement of binomial
nomenclature’”’ (p. 459), ‘‘trivial names”
(p. 461), ‘‘draconian laws’ (p. 462), ‘‘mis-
applied names”’ (p. 465), ‘‘double names”’ or
tautonyms (p. 468), ‘‘ variants and similarity
of names” (p. 469), ‘‘making of names”’
(p. 471), ‘‘typonyms”’ (p. 474), ‘*choice of
names simultaneously published’ (p. 475),
“major groups and their nomenclature”
(p. 475), ‘‘family’’ (p. 478), ‘‘superfamily”’
(p. 481), ‘‘other groups’’ (p. 482), and ‘‘ com-
plaints of instability of nomenclature”
(p. 482).
136 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

GILL, THroporr N.—Continued.

— The tailless batrachians of Europe.
Science (new series), VIII, Dee. 30, 1898,
pp. 9382-938, with 13 figs.

A review of ‘‘The Tailless Batrachians of
Europe, by G. A. Boulenger, F. R. S.’’ The
work is highly commended and the illustra-
tions borrowed from it.

A comparison is instituted between the
European and North American batrachians.
Dissent is expressed from previous inyesti-
gators respecting the affinities of Scaphiopus.
The families Pelobatidz and Scaphiopide of
Cope are declared to be inseparable.

“Further, examination of the skeletons of
Pelodytes, Pelobates, and Scaphiopus should
conyince a competent observer that the dif-
ferences between Pelobates and Pelodytes are
much less than those between Pelobates and
Scaphiopus,”’ in fine, ‘‘if the family is to be
divided, the two European genera should be
combined and contrasted with the Amer-
ican.’ It is further urged that an arrange-
ment of the phaneroglossate forms into three
superfamilies of which the arciferous family
of Discoglossids is the most generalized, may
Be more acceptable to some; the superfami-
lies are Discoglossoidea, Bufonoidea, and
Ranoidea.

The generic names Pediocextes and
Poocetes.
Auk, XVI, Jan., 1899, pp. 20-23.

Pediocxtes and Poocextes are formed on the
model of Ammocextes, a misspelling of Ammo-
cetes by Baird. The same author, however,
substituted for them and first published Pedi-
ecetes and Powcetes, and those should be
adopted. Powcetes graminea affinis is a new
combination.

Suggestions for a new history of
North American birds.
Osprey, III, Feb., 1899, pp. 88-94.

The suggestions are arranged under the fol-
lowing headings: Our predecessors; deficien-
cies [of previous works]; a new work timely;
desirability of generized biographies; pro-
posals for publication; classification to be
adopted; avine orders; natural selection
among birds; oscine families; subspecies;
extra-limital species; synonymy; sequence
of data; general; historical; who shall write?

Concerning Dr. Gill’s proposed his-
tory. :
Osprey, III, Mar., 1899, p. 137.
A letter to the editor of the Osprey, inclos-
ing letters to the writer, with comments.

Relative value of the different groups
of animals from the faunistic stand-

point.
Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., TV, May 24, 1899, p.
194.
Report of remarks at meeting of May 13,
1897.

1Died September 6, 1896.

GILL, THroporr N.—Continued.
—— Larval stage of the eel.

Science (new series) , IX, June 9, 1899, p. 820.
It is deduced that ‘‘Inasmuch as (1) the
seagoing eels do not mature their ova till
the winter season, (2) the leptocephalus
young are found from February to September,
or later, and (3) the transitional form be-
tween the leptocephalus stage and the cylin-
drical stage has been found in January, it
appears tolerably certain tbat the elyers
which ascend the rivers in the early spring
are the progeny of eels that descended there-
from not later than winter of the penultimate
(and not last) season.’’

The longevity of birds and other
vertebrates.

Osprey, III, June, 1899, pp. 157-160.
Comments on Mr. J. H. Gurney’s article
““On the comparative ages to which birds
live,’ with remarks on the conclusions of
previous writers, and generalizations respect-
ing relation of growth to duration of life in
mammals, birds, and fishes.

—— (Editor) Report, in part, of Samuel
Mitchill, M. D., professor of natural
history, etc., on the fishes of New
York. Washington: Printed for the
editor.

8vo, pp. i-x, 1-30.—Published Dec. 7, 1898.
The editor remarks: ‘One of the rarest of
American contributions to ichthyology is a
little work published in 1814—to be very pre-
cise, published ‘January 1, 1814’—on the
fishes of New York; in brief, the ‘Report, in
part, of Samuel L. Mitchill, M. D., professor
of natural history, ete., on the fishes of New
York.’ The only copies of whose existence
in the United States the editor was able to
learn are three. It contains original and de-
tailed descriptions of 49 species, with a simple
catalogue of 21 more.’’ Thirty-eight are
described or designated as new and 12
were really so at the time. Four genera also
aredesignated as new and 8 have been
adopted by recent authors.

A small edition has been published with a
historical and critical introduction and iden-
tification of the species, as well as a concord-
ance of names with those by which the
species are known at the present day.

GOODE, G. Brown.' Report upon the
condition and progress of the U.S. Na-
tional Museum during the year ending
June 30, 1896.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. S. Nat. Mus.),
1896 (1899), pp. 1-284, pls. 1+4.

GRINNELL, JosepH. Geographical
races of Harporhynchus redivivus.

Auk, xv, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 236, 237.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

* GRINNELL, Josepn—Continued.

Harporhynchus redivivus pasadenensis is de-
scribed as new. Based partly upon Museum
material.

— The San Nicolas Rock Wren.
Auk, Xv, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 237-239.
Salpinctes obsoletus pulverius is described as
new. Based partly upon Museum material.

HAY, Outver P. On Protostega, the sys-
tematic position of Dermochelys, and
the morphogeny of the Chelonian cara-
pace and plastron.

Am. Naturalist, 1898,

929-948.
Observations on a young specimen of Der-
mochelys in the National Museum.

xxx,  Dee:, pp.

HAY, W. P. Description of a new spe-
cies of subterranean isopod.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xx1, No. 1176, June
1, 1899, pp. 871, 872, pl. LXXXVI.

This species, Haplophthalmus puteus, was
obtained from an old well in Irvington, Ind.
It is related to H. mengii (Zaddach) and
H. danicus Budde-Lund.

HENDERSON, L. F. Two new species
of plants from the Northwestern States.

Contrib. U. S. Nat. Herbarium, v, No. 4,
Oct., 1899, pp. 201, 202,

tit. nh. t.,and VAUGHAN, T. Way-
LAND. The Lower Cretaceous Gry-
pheeas of the Texas region.

Bull. U. S. Geol. Swrv., No. 151, 1898, pp.
1-139, pls. 1-35.

This work treats in great detail the Texan
Grypheeas and the very intricate synonymy.
The material is nearly all in the U.S. Na-
tional Museum.

HOUGH, Watrter.
ization.

Korean clan organ-

Am. Anthropologist (new series), I, No. 1,
Jan., 1899, pp. 150-154.

An account of the interesting clan or family
organization of Korea which has survived to
the present day, paralleling the present goy-
ernmental system. This paper grew out of
the labeling of Korean specimens in the
Museum by Mr. Kiu Beung Surh.

— The lamp of the Eskimo.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U.S. Nat. Mus.),
1896 (1899), pp. 1025-1057, pls. 1-24, figs.
144.

A monograph of the lamps of the Eskimo
area, showing distribution of forms, local
modifications, effect of latitude, uses, and
illuminants: also the bearing of the lamp on
the social life, art, and religion of the Eskimo.

137

HOWARD, Letann O. Remedial work
against the Mexican Cotton - boll
Weevil.

Circ. Div. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric. (second
series), No. 33, July 15, 1898, pp. 1-6.
An account of the latest and best measures
to be used against Anthonomus grandis.

— House flies (Musca domestica et al.).
Cire. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (second
series), No. 35, July 18, J898, pp. 1-8,
figs. 1-6.
An account of the habits and life histories
and the remedies to be used against several
dipterous insects found in houses.

International relations disturbed by
an insect.
Forum, July,.1898, pp. 569-573.

An account of international restrictions to
prevent the spread of the San Jose scale, with
a plea for scientific representation of the
United States at foreign capitals.

— On some new parasitic insects of the
family Encyrtine.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX1, No. 1142, Oct. 4,
1898, pp. 231-248.
Descriptions of ten new genera and thirty-
four new species, together with a synoptic
table of the species of the genus Aphycus.

Two beneficial insects introduced

from Europe.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 17, Dee. 1, 1898, pp. 13-16,
fies! 1,2:
Notes on Scutellista cyanea Mots., and Habro-
lepis dalmanni Westw.

Notes on house flies and mosquitoes.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series) , No. 17, Dec. 1, 1898, pp. 55, “5.
Author’s abstract, treating especially of the
use of permanganate of potash against mos-
quitoes, indicating its uselessness in spite of
frequent recommendations.

—— Pulvinaria acericola (W. & R.) and
P. innumerabilis Rathy.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 17, Dec. 1, 1898, pp. 57, 58,
1 fig.

Giving evidence that these species, of which
the first was considered a synonym of the
second, are in reality distinct, and that the
name Pulvinaria acericola (W. & R.) must hold.

—— (Editor) Proceedings of the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement
of Science, forty-seventh meeting and
fiftieth anniversary, held at Boston,
1898.

Salem, Dee. 18, 1898, pp. 1-658, 7
18 figs.

pls. and
188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

HOWARD, Leann O.—Continued.
Report of the Entomologist for 1898.

Rep. Secy. Agric., 1898, pp. 17-25.

An executive report of the work of* the
Division of Entomology of the U. 8. Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Published also in sepa-
rate form.

— The San José scale on dried fruit.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new se-
ries), No. 18, 1898 (Jan. 6, 1899), pp. 7-18.
An account of aseries of experiments made
upon different varieties of fruit dried by dif-
ferent commercial methods. It was found
that these methods invariably result in the
death of the scale, and that therefore Euro-
pean restrictions on the importation of
American dried fruit are uncalled for.

The work of Icerya purchasi in Por-
tugal, with an account of the introduc-
tion from America of Novius cardinalis.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new se-
ries), No. 18, 1898 (Jan. 6, 1899), pp. 30-85.
An account of the introduction of Icerya
purchasi into Portugal, with a statement of its
damage and of the result of the sending Novius
cardinalis from America, which at the time of
writing appeared to promise the almost en-
tire extermination of the Icerya.

— Cotton-field insects.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new se-
ries), No. 18,1898 (Jan. 6, 1899) , pp. 85-89.
A list of insects collected in a cotton field at
Victoria, Texas, by the Hon. J. D. Mitchell.
The specimens were obtained by means of a
trap lantern on a single night in October.

General notes and notes from cor-
respondence.
Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new se-
ries) , No. 18, 1898 (Jan. 6, 1899), pp. 89-101.
A number of unsigned notes.

An insect breeding in crude petro-
leum.

Sci. Amer., LXXX, No. 5, Feb. 4, 1899, pp. 75,
76,1 fig.

An account of Psilopa petrolet Coq., which
breeds in crude petroleum pools in the yviecin-
ity of Los Angeles, California.

Reprinted in the Pharmaceutical Era, Mar.
2, 1899.

The economic status of insects as a
class.

Science, 1X, No. 216 (new series), Feb. 17,
1899, pp. 233-247.

Address of the retiring president of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington, delivered Jan.
18, 1899.

Reprinted in the Scientific American Supple-
ment, Nos. 1209, 1210, Mar., 1899.

HOWARD, Letanp O.—Continued.
—— Allorhina as a fruit pest.
Entomological News, No.3, Mar., 1899, p. 71.

— The odor of Coccide.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx1, No.4, April,
1899, p. 96.

— The principal insects affecting the
tobacco plant.

Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agric., 1898 (issued
May 15, 1899), pp. 121-150, figs. 7-31.

An account of the life histories and habits
of the principal tobacco insects of the United
States, with data concerning the remedies
used.

Author’s extras of this paper were issued
May 20, 1899.

A dipterous parasite of Lachnosterna.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 1v, No. 3, May 24,
1899, pp. 198, 199.

An account of undescribed dipterous eggs”

found upon the thorax of Lachnosterna in
Greene County, N. Y.

—— The Thomson-Mayr priority ques-
tion settled.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Iv, No. 3, May 24,
1899, pp. 207, 208.
Showing that the encyrtine genera of Gus-
tay Mayr take priority over those of C. G.
Thomson.

—— Butterflies attracted to light at night.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Iv, No. 3, May 24,
1899, pp. 333, 334.
An account of instances on record. Pholi-
sora catullus is added to the list of species pre-
viously recorded.

Notes on Rasahus thoracicus, Xylo-
copa cubscola, and Dichelonycha fulgida.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., iv, No. 3, May 24,
1899, p. 339.

— The extermination of the mosquito.

Sci. Am. Suppl., XLX1II, No, 1222, June 3,
1899, p. 19593.
Exposes the so-called permanganate of
potash remedy.

— Pests of the hop crop.

The Hop, its Culture, Care, Marketing, and
Manufacture. By WUerbert Myrick.
Orange Judd Co., 1899, pp. 113-141, figs.
55-72.

An account of the habits and life histories
of and remedies to be used against the in-
sects which affect the hop plant in the United
States.

Author’s extras of this article were dis-
tributed June 21, 1899.

JORDAN, Davip Srarr, and EVER-
MANN, Barron W. Smithsonian In-
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

JORDAN, Davip Srarr, and EVER-
MANN, Barron W.—Continued.
stitution. | United States National Mu-
seum. | — | Bulletin | of the | United
States National Museum. | No. 47. |
— | The Fishes | of | North and Mid-
dle America: | A descriptive catalogue
of the species of fish-like vertebrates
found in | the waters of North America
north of the Isthmus of Panama.
By | David Starr Jordan, Ph. D., |
President of the Leland Stanford Junior
University and of the | California
Academy of Sciences, | and | Barton
Warren Evermann, Ph. D.,-| Ichthy-
ologist of the United States Fish Com-
mission. | Parti. | Washington: | Goy-
ernment Printing Office. | 1898.

8vo., pp. I-XXX, 1241-2183.

Smithsonian Institution. | United
States National Museum. | — | Bulletin
| of the | United States National Mu-
seum. | No. 47. | — | The Fishes | of |
Northand Middle America: | A descrip-
tive catalogue of the species of fish-like
vertebrates found in | the waters of
North America north of the Isthmus
of Panama. | By | David Starr Jordan,
Ph. D., | President of the Leland Stan-
ford Junior University and of the |
California Academy of Sciences, | and |
Barton Warren Eyermann, Ph. D., |
Ichthyologist of the United States
Fish Commission. | Partur. | Washing-
ton: | Government Printing Office. |
1898.

8yo., pp. I-XXIV, 2184-3136.

KNOWLTON, Frank HALt.
swamp.
Plant World, 111, Nov., 1898, pp. 21-23, 1 pl.
This paper contains a general account of
the production of coal.
The fossil plants of the Payette for-
mation.

In a coal

18th Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., 1896-97
(1898), Part 11, pp. 721-744, 4pls. —

In this paper, which is based upon material
eventually to be transmitted to the U.S. Na-
tional Museum, 32 forms are enumerated, of
which 17 are described as new. They are
from five localities in Boise County, Idaho,
and are said to be of Upper Miocene age.
The relationship of the flora to that of Bridge

Creek and John Day Valley, Oregon, ispointed |

out;

1 Mr. Linell died May 3, 1897, and the papers here cited are posthumous.

159

KNOWLTON, Frank Hati—Cont’d.
A catalogue of the Cretaceous and
Tertiary plants of North America.
Buil. U.S.
1-247.
This catalogue is arranged in alphabetical
sequence. <A bibliography, consisting of a list
of the works and papers used in preparing the
catalogue, is included.

LINELL, Martin L.! On the coleopter-
ous insects of the Galapagos Islands.

Geol. Surv., No. 152, 1898, pp.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX1, Oct. 4, 1898, No.
1143, pp. 249-268.

Gives a list of the insects found on the
Galapagos Islands and describes one genus
and 14 species as new. Descriptions of two
allied species from Brazil are included.

Descriptions of some new species of
North American heteromerous Coleop-
tera.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Tv, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 180-185.
Describes 8 new species.

LINELL, Marrin L., and SCHWARZ,
EvGenre A. [Coleoptera. ]
Report of Fur Seal Investigations 1896-1897,
Part Iv, 1898, Appendix I, pp. 328-336.

Ineluded in ‘“‘Reports upon the insects,
spiders, mites, and myriapods collected by
Dr. L. Stejneger and Mr. G. E. H. Barrett-
Hamilton on the Commander Islands,”’ edited
by W. H. Ashmead. Gives a list, with notes,

of 48 Coleoptera.

LORD, Epwin C. E. On the dikes in the
vicinity of Portland, Me.
Am. Geologist, XXII, Dec., 1898, pp. 335,
336, 1 map.

Describes the petrographic nature of the
rocks in the region noted. The work was
done in the laboratory of the Division of
Geology, anda type series of the rocks studied
remains in the Museum.

— Petrographic report on rocks from
the United States-Mexico boundary.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., x X1, No. 1178, May 22,
1899, pp. 773-782, pl. 85.

Gives a description of the rocks collected
by Dr. E. A. Mearns, while connected with the
International Boundary Commission, and de-
posited by him in the National Museum.

LUCAS, Freperic Aveustus. Contribu-

tions to Paleontology.

Am. Journ. Sci., VI, Nov., 1898 (article
XXXIX), pp. 399, 400.

(1) A new crocodile from the Trias of
southern Utah, to which the name Tetero-
dontosuchus ganeiis given. (2) A new species
of Dinictis (D. major). The types are in the
U.S. National Museum.

140 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

LUCAS, Frepertc AvuGustus—Cont’d.

— A new snake from the Eocene of
Alabama.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., X x1, No. 1164, Dee. 20,
1898, pp. 637, 638, pls. XLV, XLVI.
Describes a large snake found associated
with remains of Zeuglodon for which the
name Pterosphenus schucherti is proposed.

— Theragra Lucas, a new genus.
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 47, Part 111, 1898,
Pp. 2535.

Gives a diagnosis of the genus of which the
Alaskan Pollack, Theragra chalcogramma, is
the type. The description is included in Jor-
dan and Evermann’s ‘‘Fishes of North and
Middle America,’ published as Bulletin 47
of the National Museum.

— The characters of Bison occidentalis,
the Fossil Bison of Kansas and Alaska.
Kansas Univ. Quarterly, vi11, No.1, Jan.,
1899 (Series A), pp.17,18, pls. VIII, Ix.
Describes this new species and contrasts it
with Bison antiquus.
— The nomenclature of the hyoid in
birds.
Science (new series), Ix, No. 218, Mar. 3,
1899, pp. 223-234, 1 fig.
Calls attention to the discrepancies in nam-

ing the component parts of the hyoid and
suggests the correct names for them.

— The Fossil Bison of North America.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1172, May
18, 1899, pp. 755-771, pls. LXV-LXXXIV,
figs. 1, 2.

Describes and figures the various species of
North American fossil bison and gives syn-
onomy.

The species recognized are Bison alleni,
antiquus, bison, crassicornis, ferox, latifrons,
and occidentalis. This paper is based largely
upon material belonging to other institutions.

McGREGOR, Ricuarp C. Description of
anew Ammodramus from Lower Cali-
fornia.

Auk, xv, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 265-267.

Ammodramus halophilus is here described.
Based partly upon Museum material.

MARK, E. L. Reports on the dredging
operations off the west coast of Central
America to the Galapagos, to the west
coast of Mexico, and in the Gulf of
California, in charge of Alexander
Agassiz, carried on by the U.S. Fish
Commission steamer Albatross during
1891, Lieut. Commander Z. L. Tanner,
U.S. N., commanding. XXIV.—Pre-

MARK, FE. L.—Continued.
liminary report on Branchiocerianthus
urceolus, a new type of actinian.

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. Coll., XX X11,
No. 8, Aug., 1898, pp. 147-154, pls. 1-3.
In general appearance this form resembles
Cerianthus, but differs from it in important
points and may be the type of a new family.
It exhibits a pronounced bilateral symmetry
and an incomplete circle of branching gill-
like organs.
The specimens were taken in the Gulf of
Panama in 286 and 210 fathoms.

MARLATT, CHaruies L. House ants.

Cire. Div. Ent., U.S. Dept. Agric. (second
series), No. 34, July, 1898, p. 4, 3 figs.
Gives the life habits and remedies for three
common species.

—— The true Clothes Moth.

Cire. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (second.
series), No. 36, Aug., 1898, pp. 1-8, 3 fi2 2.
A full account of three species.

—— Japanese Hymenoptera of the family
Tenthredinide.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1157, Nov.
21, 1898, pp. 493-506.

Includes the description of 26 new species
of sawflies, with a list of additional species
based on material presented to the National
Museum by Dr. K. Mitsukuri, of the Imperial
University, Tokyo, Japan.

— Notes on insecticides.

Bull. Ent. Div., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 17, Nov., 1898, pp. 94-98.
Presents the result of experimental work
with kerosene, fish-oil soaps, and arsenicals.
In the case of the latter particular attention
is called to the superior value of arsenite of
copper over paris green.

— Some new Nematids.

Canadian Entomologist, Xxx, No. 12, Dec.,
1898, pp. 302-304.

Describes the following new species: Pro-
tania consors, P. borealis, and Pteronus carpini;
describes also the male of the two following
species: Pteronus quercus and Nematus
chloreus.

— A new nomenclature of the broods
of the Periodical Cicada.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18, 1898, pp. 52-88.

Gives a review of the nomenclature adopted
at different times for the Periodical Cicada,
and points out the inappropriateness of the
system in common use; suggests a renumber-
ing of the broods, to show the relationship of
the broods to each other, in both the seven-
teen and the thirteen-yearrace. The relation-
ship sustained between the different broods
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

MARLATT, Craries L.—Continued.
of both races is indicated, and three new
seyenteen-year and three new thirteen-year
broods are designated.

— A consideration of the validity of
the old records bearing on the distribu-
tion of the broods of the Periodical
Cicada, with particular reference to the
occurrence of broods yr and xxi in
1898.

Bull. Div. Ent., U. S. Dept. Agric. (new
series), No. 18; 1898, pp. 59-78.

Points out the sources of error in the old
records, describes the work undertaken in
the case of broods xx1II and vi in 1898, and
concludes with a list, by States and Counties,
of the occurrence of these broods in the year
named. The author also gives a list of the
persons reporting on these broods, with an
indication of the nature of the report received.

An investigation of applied ento-
mology in the Old World.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., tv, No.3 (issued May
24, 1899), pp. 265-291.

Summarizes the writer’s experience in the
course of several months’ investigation of the
practical work in entomology in various Euro-
pean States.

Fitch’s Cotton Scale Insect.

Entomological News, X, No. 5, May, 1899,
p. 146.

Discusses the scale insect described by Dr.
Fitch as Aspidiotus gossypii, and shows from
examination of the original specimen received
from China that it is not an Aspidiotus at all,
but an Alewrodes. The literature of the sub-
ject is discussed.

— — Some sources of error in recent work
on Coccide.

Science (mew series), X, June 16, 1899,
p. 835.

Points out various characters in scale in-
sects, particularly the Diaspine, which have
mistakenly been made the basis of new
species and varieties.

MASON, Otis Turron.
American zootechny.

Aboriginal

Am. Anthropologist (new series), I, No. 1,
Jan., 1899, pp. 45-81, pls. 4.

A study of the aboriginal industries associ-
ated with the animal kingdom on the Amer-
ican continent before its discovery by the
whites. In a word, aboriginal American
zootechny embraces every phase of Indian

life growing out of the connection between |

man and the beasts of the Western Hemi-
sphere in pre-Columbian times.

141

MEARNS, Enaar A. Descriptions of two
new birds from the Santa Barbara
Islands, Southern California.

Auk, xv, No.3, July, 1898, pp. 258-264.
Carpodacus clementis and Lanius ludovicia-
nus anthonyi are described.

— Notes on the mammals of the Cats-
kill Mountains, New York, with gen-
eral remarks on the fauna and flora of
the region.

Proc. U. 8S. Nat. Mus., xx1, No. 1147, Nov.
4, 1898, pp. 341-360, figs. 1-6.

MERRILL, GrorGr PERKINS.
across Lower California.

A tri p

Osprey, 111, Oct., 1898, pp. 20-25, pls. 1-5.

A popular review of an article on the
“Geology and natural history of Lower Cali-
fornia,’ published in the Annual Report of
the U. S. National Museum for 1895.

Some little-known American orna-
mental stones.

Am. Architect and Building News, LXI,
Dec. 10, 1898.

A paper read before the thirty-second an-
nual convention of the American Institute
of Architects, Washington, October, 1898.
The paper was also printed in abstract in
other journals.

— Description of residual rocks and
desert varnish. (Educational series of
rocks. )

Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv., No. 150, 1898, pp.
376-385 and 389-391.

Describes, microscopically and chemically,
residual sand from granite (District of Colum-
bia), and from diabase (Medford, Mass.);
residual clay from feldspathie rock (Hockes-
sin, Del:), and from limestone (Virginia).
The brown coating on quartzite pebbles,
called ‘‘ desert varnish,’’ from the Tooele Val-
ley, Utah, is also described.

The physical, chemical, and eco-
nomic properties of building stones.

Rep. Geol. Surv. of Maryland, 11, Part 1,
1898, pp. 39-123.

The article forms the introductory chapter
to a general report on the ‘Building and
decorative stones of Maryland, containing an
account of their properties and distribu-
tion,’ by George P. Merrill and Edward B.
Matthews.

— Marbles and granites."
Nature and Art Mag., 1, No.4, May, 1898,
pp. 125-129.
A popular article for general readers.

1 Omitted from the bibliography of the last fiscal year,

142

MILLER, GernirtS., Jr. List of bats col-
lected by Dr. W. L. Abbott in Siam.

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., July 25, 1898,
pp. 316-325.

Enumeration of 9 species from the province
of Trong. Cynopterus angulatus, Kerivoula
minuta, and Emballonura peninsularis are new
to science.

Descriptionsof fivenew Phyllostome
bats.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., July 25, 1898,
pp. 326-337, figs. 1-5.

Based in part on material belonging to the
Institute of Jamaica and to Mr. Outram
Bangs. Chilonatalus, subgen. Nov.; Reithro-
nycteris, gen. NOV.; Natalus brevimanus, sp.
noy.; Micronycteris microtis, sp. noy.; Glos-
sophaga longirostris, sp. TOV.; Reithronycteris
aphylla, sp. noy., and Micronyteris megalotis
mexicanus, subsp. noy., are described.

— A new chipmunk from Northeastern
China.

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Aug. 1, 1898,
pp. 348-350.
Based in part on material belonging to the
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia.
Eutamias senescens, sp. noy., is described.

— Description of a new bat from Lower
California.
Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (7), u, Aug.,
1898, pp. 124, 125.
Based chiefly on material belonging to the
British Museum. Myotis peninsularis, sp. Nov.,
is described.

Notes on the Arctic Red-backed
Mice.
Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Oct. 11, 1898,
pp. 358-867, figs. 1, 2.
Evotomys wosnessenskii (Polyakoff) and E.
alascensis, sp. Noy., are recognized as distinct
from EL. rutilus.

Description of a new genus and
species of Microtine rodent
Siberia.

from

Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Oct. 11, 1898,
pp. 368-371, figs. 1-4.
Aschizomys lemminus, gen. et. sp. Nov., is
described.

Notes on the Naked-tailed Arma-
dillos.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X111, Jan. 31, 1899,
pp. 1-8, figs. 1, 2.
Based in part on material belonging to the
Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel-
phia, the American Museum of Natural His- |

tory, and Mr. Outram Bangs.
The name Tatoua is substituted for Xenurus |

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

MILLER, Gerrir S., Jr.—Continued.

(preoccupied); Gray’s genus Ziphila is recog-
nized as a subgenus, and Tatoua centralis, sp.
noy., is described.

—— Description of a new vole from
Eastern Siberia.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X111, Jan. 31, 1899,
pp. 11, 12:
Microtus tshuktshorum, sp. noy., is described.

— A new vole from Hall Island, Ber-
ing Sea.
Proc. Biol. Soe. Wash., XIII, Jan. 31, 1899,

pp. 18, 14.
Microtus abbreviatus, sp. noy., is described.

Two new Glossaphagine bats from
the West Indies.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X11, May 29, 1899,
pp. 33-37.

Based in part on material belonging to the
American Museum of Natural History. Phil-
lonycteris planifrons, sp. noy., and P. bombi-
frons, sp. noy., are described.

—— A new polar hare from Labrador.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X11, May 29, 1899,
pp. 39, 40.
Based in part on material belonging to Mr.
Outram Bangs. Lepus labradorius, sp. noy.,
is described.

— A new fossil bear from Ohio.

Proc. Biol. Soe. Wash., X11, May 29, 1899,
pp. 53-56. »
Ursus procerus, sp. noy., is described.

—— A new moose from Alaska.

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X11, May 29, 1899,
pp. 57-59.
Alces gigas, sp. nov., is described.

MONTGOMERY, Tuomas H. The Gor-
diacea of certain American collections,
with particular reference to the North
American fauna.

Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harv. Coll., XXX,
No.3, April, 1898, pp. 23-59, pls. 1-15.

A historical review of previous researches
on American species is followed by the sys-
tematic portion of the paper. Seventeen
forms are described, among which are 1 new
genus, 10 new species, and 1 new subspecies.
Tn an appendix, additions to the bibliography
are given. :

MOORE, J. Percy. The leeches of the
U.S. National Museum.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1160, Nov. 21,
1898, pp. 543-563, pl. XL.

The systematic portion of the paper is pref-
aced by a discussion of the annulation of the
somite.

Twenty-nine species (6 of them new) are
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

MOORE, J. Percy—Continued.

enumerated. They are referred to 15 genera,
1 of which isnew. The material comes from
different parts of the world.

MURDOCH, Jonny. A _ historical notice
of Ross’s Rosy Gull ( Rhodostethia rosea) .

Auk, xvi, No.2, Apr., 1899, pp. 146-155.
An exhaustive history of the species.

NELSON, E. W. Descriptions of new
birds from Mexico.

Auk, Xvi, No.1, Jan., 1899, p. 25.
The following species and subspecies are
described as new: Colinus virginianus macula-
tus, Callipepla gambeli fulvipectus, Aphelocoma
sieberi colimx, A. s. potosina, Pachyrhamphus
major uropygialis, Melospiza adusta, Melospiza
goldmani, Spizella socialis mexicana, Vireo no-
veboracensis micrus, and Geothypis flaviceps.
birds

— Descriptions of new from

northwestern Mexico.

Proce. Biol. Soe. Wash., x111, May 29, 1899.
pp. 25-31.

Twelve species and subspecies of birds are
described as new, viz: Amazona albifrons sal-
tuensis, Antrostomus goldmani, Aphelocoma
grisea, Pipilo fuscus intermedius, Cardinatlis
cardinalis affinis, C. c. sinaloensis, Arremonops
superciliosa sinalox, Basileuterus rufifrons cau-
datus, Thryothorus felix pallidus, Heleodytes
stridulus, Myadestes obscurus cinereus, and
Catharus olivascens.

NEWBERRY, Joun Strona. The later
extinct floras of North America. A
posthumous work edited by Arthur
Hollick.

Monograph U. S. Geol. Surv., XXxXv, 1898,
pp. 1-17, 1-295, pls. 1-68.

This is mainly a description of specimens
originally illustrated and published without
text, in 1876, under the title ‘‘ Illustrations of
Cretaceous and Tertiary plants of the Western
Territories of the United States,’’ a revised
edition of which (with 43 additional plates)
was published subsequently, but withheld
from distribution.

NUTTING, CHartEs CLEVELAND. Hy-
droida from Alaska and Puget Sound.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1171, Apr.
29, 1899, pp. 741-753, pls. LXII-LXIv.

A considerable proportion of the material
upon which this paper is based was collected
by the Young Naturalists’ Society in connec-
tion with the University of Washington,
which organized a dredging expedition in
Puget Sound in the summer of 1895.

A table of the distribution of the 17 species

in the collection previously described is fol- |

lowed by descriptions of 5 new species, and
notes on 2 known species,

143

OBERHOLSER, Harry C. Description
of anew North American thrush.

Auk, Xv, No. 4, Oct., 1898, pp. 303-306.
Hylocichla ustulata almx, a new subspecies,
is described.

A revision of the wrens of the genus
Thryomanes Sclater.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxt, No. 1153, Nov.
19, 1898, pp. 421-450.
— Description of a new Hylocichla.

Auk, xvi, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 23-25.
Hylocichla ustulata adica is described as
new.

— A synopsis of the Blue Honey-
Creepers of Tropical America.
Auk, xvi, No. 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 31-35.

A list of the forms of Blue Honey-creepers
is given, together with their synonymy and
correct names.

Cyanerpes is proposed as a new term in
place of Arbelorhina.

OSGOOD, Witrrep H.
and its subspecies.

Chamea fasciata

Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., X111, May 29, 1899,
pp. 41, 42.

The Wren-tits are found to belong to two
forms, one of which is here named Chama
Jasciata phexa.

The form formerly described as C. f. hen-
shawi is here shown to be true fasciata, or so
near it as to be inseparable.

PALMER, WILLIAM.
shrikes.

Our small eastern

Auk, Xv, No. 3, July, 1898, pp. 244-258.
A review of the small shrikes of eastern
North America. Lanius ludovicianus migrans

is described as a new subspecies. Based
largely upon Museum material.
POLLARD, Cuartes Louts. Further ob-

servations on the eastern acaulescent
violets.

Botan. Gazette (v), Xxvi, No. 5, Nov., 1898,
pp. 325-342, 1 fig.

A synopsis of the various species of this
group, With a key and full bibliography One
new species, Viola insignis, is described and
figured with a text cut, also a new variety of
V. primulefolia (var. australis) V communis is
proposed as a new name for the plant vari-
ously known as V. obliqua and V. cucullata,
which are known to be distinct species.

RANKIN, W. M. The Northrop collec-
tion of Crustacea from the Bahamas.
Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., Xt, No. 12, Aug.,
1898, pp. 225-254, pls. XXIX, XXX.
One new species, Uca leptodactyla (Guérin
MS.), included by Mr. Rankin in his list, was
144 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

RANKIN, W. M.—Continued.
described by Miss M. J. Rathbun, and the type
specimens are in the National Museum.

RATHBUN, MaryJ. A contribution to
a knowledge of the fresh-water crabs of
America. The Pseudothelphusine.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1158, Nov. 21,
1898, pp. 507-537, text figs. 1-18.

The first part of this paper is devoted to a |

description of the subfamily, genera, and new
species, with analytical keys. Four genera
and 52 species are recognized, of which 17
speciesare new. The second part deals with
the distribution of genera and species.

— The Brachyura collected by the U.S.
Fish Commission steamer Albatross on
the voyage from Norfolk, Va., to San
Francisco, Cal., 1887-88.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxXI, No. 1162, Nov.
22, 1898, pp. 567-616, pls. XLI-XLIV.

The collections made on this cruise were
obtained in the West Indies, on the coast of
South America, and the west coast of Mexico.

The Brachyura number 151 species, of which
31 arenew. The new forms are chiefly from
the shores of Lower California. Nearly all of
them are figured.

Notes on the Crustacea of the Tres
Marias Islands.

North Am. Fauna (U.S. Dept. Agric.), No.
14, Apr. 29, 1899, pp. 73-75.

These notes are part of a report on the nat- |
ural history of the Tres Marias Islands, based |

on explorations made by E. W. Nelson and E.
A. Goldman.

Four species of Crustacea were taken, viz:
Gecarcinus digueti Bouvier, Ocypode occiden-
talis Stimpson, Grapsus grapsus (Linneus),
and Bithynis jamaicensis (Herbst).

RICHARDSON, Harrier. Key to the
isopods of the Pacific coast of North
America, with descriptions of 22 new
species.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1175, June 5,
1899, pp. 815-869, figs. 1-34.
The isopods of the Pacific coast of North

America are distributed into 16 families, 44
genera, and 97 species. Keys are given to the

families, genera, and species. Twenty-two
new species are described and figured.

RICHMOND, Cuartes W. Description
ofa new species of Gymnostinops.
Auk, Xv, No. 4, Oct., 1898, pp. 326, 327.
Gymnostinops cassini is described.
—— New name for the genus Tetragonops.

Auk, xvi, No. 1, Jan., 1898, p. 77.
Tetragonops is found to be preoccupied and
Pan is proposed in its place,

RICHMOND, CHartes W.—Continued.

Thalassidroma castro, of Harcourt.
Auk, xvi, No. 2, Apr., 1899, pp. 177, 178.

A reproduction of the original deseription

of this species.

| —— Pelecanus occidentalis versus P. fuscus.

Auk, Xvi, No. 2, Apr., 1899, p. 178.
A note calling attention to the fact that the
name P. occidentalis antedates P. fuscus.

— On the name NXenocichla.

Auk, Xvi, Apr. 2, 1899, pp. 183, 184.
The name Xenocichla is shown to be preoc-
cupied by Bleda, of Bonaparte.

— Four preoccupied names.

Auk, xvi, No. 2, Apr., 1899, pp. 186, 187.

The following names are shown to be pre-
occupied: Amazona augusta, Pachyrhamphus
similis, Blax,and Bocagia. They are renamed
Amazona imperialis, Pachyrhamphus salvini,
Blacops, and Antichromus, respectively.

—— Tyrannus magnirostris @Orb.  (Re-
named. )

Auk, xv, No.4, Oct., 1899, p. 330.

Tyrannus magnirostris A Orb., 1839, is found
to be antedated by T. magnirostris Sw., 1881,
and is accordingly given a new name, 7.
cubensis.

| RIDGWAY, Roserr. Descriptions of sup-
posed new genera, species, and subspe-
cies of American birds. I—Fringillidee.

Auk, xv, No.3, July, 1898, pp. 223-230.

The author’s edition of this paper was pub-
lished May 13, 1898.

The following genera, etc., are described as
new: Melanospiza, Brachyspiza, Myospiza,
Plagiospiza, Incaspiza, Rhynchospiza, Psellio-
phorus, Lysurus, Serinopsis, Heterospingus,
Mitrospingus, Rhodothraupis, Hemithraupis,
Stelgidostomus, Aimophila ruficeps sororia, At-
mophila sartorii, Atlapetes pileatus dilutus, Arre-
monops venezuelensis, Arremonops richmondi,
Cyanocompsa concreta cyanescens, Amphispiza
bilineata deserticola, Amphispiza belli clementex.

— Description of supposed new genera,
species, and subspecies of American
birds. II—Fringillidee (continued).

Auk, xv, No.4, Oct., 1898, pp. 3:9-324.

The following new forms are described:
Pinicola enucleator alascensis, P. e. montana,
Astragalinus mexicanus jouyi, Calearius lappo-
nicus alascensis, C. 1. coloratus, Junco monta-
nus, Brachyspiza capensis insularis, Euetheia
coryi, E. bryanti, Pyrrhulagra affinis, P. do-
minicana, P. crissalis, and P. coryi. Brachy-
spiza capensis peruviana (Lesson) is found to
be the earliest name for the bird named Zono-
trichia capensis costaricensis Allen, and Gui-
raca cerulea lazula (Lesson) for the species
now known as Gc. eurhyncha (Coues).

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

RIDGWAY, Rosert—Continued.
The generie name Passerina is transferred
from the painted buntings to the snowflakes,
and Cyanospiza Baird is revived for the former.

Descriptions of supposed new genera,
species, and subspecies of American
birds. IlT—Fringillidee (continued).
Auk, xvi, No.1, Jan., 1899, pp. 35-37.
The following forms are described as new:
Melospiza fasciata cooperti, M. f. pusillula, M. f.
caurina, Passerella iliaca fuliginosa, Zonotrichia
leucophrys nuttalli, Sicalis chapmani, and
Spinus alleni.
Description of a new species of Hum-
mingbird from Arizona.

Auk, xv, No.4, Oct., 1898, pp. 325, 326.
Atthis morcomi is described as new.

— Hemithraupis—a correction.

Auk, xv, No.4, Oct., 1898, 330, 331.
Hemithraupis is found to be preoccupied
and is renamed Sporathraunis.

— On the genus Astragalinus Cabanis.

Auk, xvi, No.1, Jan., 1899, pp. 79, 80.
Astragalinus is recognized as a genus dis-
tinet from Spinus. A list of the North Amer-
ican forms is added.

—— On the generic name Aimophila ver-

sus Peucea.
Auk, xvi, No.1, Jan., 1899, pp. 80, 81.
Aimophila is considered distinct from Peu-
cxa, and a list of the United States forms is
given.
ROSE, JosepH Nrtson. [ Bunchosia costa-
ricensis and Bunchosia macrophylla. }
Primitix Flore Costaricensis, Instituto Fis-
ico-Geographico Nacional, San Jose,
Costa Rica, 2, fase. 1, 1898, pp. 63, 64.
—— Plants of the Tres Marias Islands.
North Am. Fauna (U.S. Dept. Agric.), No.
14, 1898, pp. 77-91.
—— Agave expatriata and other Agaves.
Ann. Rep. Missouri Botan. Garden, 1, June
3, 1899, 1-5.
—— The genus Agave.

Cyclopedia North American Horticulture, 1,
1899, pp. 33-86.

ROSE, J.N. (See also under J. M. Cout-
TER and F. V. Covitxe. )

SAFFORD, James, and SCHUCHERT,
CHarLes. The Camden Chert of Ten-
nessee and its Lower Oriskany fauna.

Am. Journ. Sci., June, 1899, pp.
429-432.
Professor Safford deseribes the rocks and

NAT MUS 99-——10

VI,

145

SAFFORD, James, and SCHUCHERT,
CHARLES—Continued.
areal distribution, and Mr. Schuchert lists the
fossils found by him in 1897 and shows their
Lower Oriskany age. The fossils are in the
U.S. National Museum.

SCHUCHERT, Cuartes. under
JAMES SArrorD and Davin Wuire.)

SCHWARZ, EuGcene A.
Linell.

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 1v, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 117-180.
Gives a brief biography of Mr. Martin Lars-
son Linell and records the titles of 18 papers
published by him.

(See

Martin Larsson

Note on the Cedrela Psyllids (genus
Freysuila Aleman).

Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Iv, No. 3 (issued
May 24, 1899), pp. 195-197.
Gives a history of this Mexican genus, with
a full diagnosis, and describes 2 new varie-
ties from Venezuela and Trinidad.
—— Descriptions of new species of Cole-
optera.
Psyche, Vit, No. 277, May, 1899 (Supple-
ment), pp. 8-13.
An appendix to an article by H. G. Hub-
bard on the Insect fauna of the Giant Cactus.

5

Describes 1 new genus and 7 new species of
beetles from Arizona.
— Classified list of species observed by
H. G. Hubbard on the Giant Cactus.
Psyche, Vil, No. 277, May, 1899 (Supple-
ment), pp. 13, 14.

Gives a list of Hymenoptera, Coleoptera,
Lepidoptera, Diptera, Orthoptera, Neurop-
tera, Heteroptera, Acari, and Pseudoscor-
pionida found on the Giant Cactus.

(See also under Martin L. Linell.)

SMITH, Hueu M. On the occurrence
of Amphiuma, the so-called Congo
Snake, in Virginia.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xx1, No. 1150, Nov.
10, 1898, pp. 379, 380.

SMITH, Joun B., and DYAR, Harrison
G. Contributions toward a monograph
of the Lepidopterous family Noctuidee
of Boreal North America. <A revision
of the species of Acronycta (Ochsen-
heimer) and of certain allied genera.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xX1, No. 1140, Nov.
17, 1898, pp. 1-194, pls. I-xx.

STARKS, Epwryn C. The osteology and

relationships of the family Zeidee.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., X x1, No. 1155, Nov. 21,
1898, pp. 469-476, pls. XXXIII-XX XVIII.
146 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

STEARNS, R. E. C. Description of a
species of Actxon from the Quaternary
bluffs at Spanish Bight, San Diego,
Cal.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., X xt, No. 1145, Nov. 2,
1898, pp. 297-299, 1 fig.

A preliminary description of this species
appeared in the Nautilus, x1, No. 1, Philadel-
phia, May, 1897.

Actxon traskii oceurs in the above region
both in a living and fossil state, together with
Actxon (Rictaxis) punctocelatus, and a variety
of the latter—var. coronadoensis.

Notes on the Cytherea ( Tivela) cras-
satelloides Conrad, with descriptions of
many varieties.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1149, Nov.
10, 1898, pp. 371-378, pls. XXITI-XXV.

In this paper the author gives the range of
this species and a description. He divides
the variations of color pattern into 6 groups
and 16 different named varieties. The three
plates illustrate the general characters of
the shell variations in outline, and the anat-
omy.

Preliminary description of a new
variety of Haliotis.

Nautilus, x11, No. 9, Jan., 1899, pp. 106, 107.

Haliotis fulgens Phil., variety wallalensis,

occurring on the coast of Mendocino County,
Cal., is described.

— Urosalpinx cinereus Say, in San Fran-
cisco Bay.

Nautilus, X11, No. 10, Feb., 1899, p. 112.
The oceurrence of the so-called oyster-drill
of the Atlantic coast, heretofore detected on
the western shore of San Francisco Bay, has
later been found on the eastern side at a dis-
tance of several miles from the first-discoy-
ered locality.

— Crepidula convexa Say, variety glauca
Say, in San Francisco Bay.
Nautilus, x111, No. 1, May, 1899, p. 8.

The foregoing molluscan form is another
incidental introduction from the Atlantic
seaboard, as well as Urosalpina cinereus pre-
viously mentioned. Both of these Eastern
species have been introduced with the East-
ern oyster, Ostrea virginica, by the oyster
dealers of San Francisco.

— Natural history of the Tres Marias
Islands of Mexico.

Nautilus, x11, No. 2, June, 1899, pp. 19, 20.

The above paper refers to an article pub-

lished in North American Fauna, No. 14 (Bio-

logical Survey, U.S. Department of Agricul- |

ture), in which the author, Mr. E. W. Nelson

states that himself and companion were the |

only naturalists who visited the islands sub-

STEARNS, R. E. C.—Continued.

sequent to the visits of Grayson and Farrer,
until May, 1897, whereas Mr. W. J. Fisher
made an extensive collection in the group in
1876. The molluscan species collected by
Fisher at that time are now a part of the na-
tional collection and are listed in the Pro-
ceedings of the U. 8. National Museum, vol.
xvu, No. 996, pp. 189-204. Eighty-nine spe-
cies are enumerated.

| STEJNEGER, Leonnarp. The birds of

the Kuril Islands.
Proc. U. 8. Nat. Mus., x x1, No. 1144, Oct. 4,
1898, pp. 269-296.

A complete list of the birds observed by the
author, and others, in the Kuril Islands.
— Description of a new species of
Spiny-tailed Iguana from Guatemala.

x Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., x x1, No. 1151, Nov.
10, 1898, pp. 381-388.
Ctenosaura palearis, new species (Type speci-
men No. 22703, U.S.N.M.).
— The | Asiatic Fur Seal Islands | and
| Fur Seal Industry. | By | Leonhard
Stejneger | of the U. 8S. National Mu-
seum. |— | With one hundred and
thirteen plates and maps. | — | (Part rv
of the Fur Seals and Fur Seal Islands
of the North Pacific Ocean) | — |
Washington | 1898.

Royal 8 vo., pp. 1-384, pls. 1-113.
The author’s final report as member of the
Fur Seal Investigation Commission.

Report on the Russian Fur Seal Is-
lands.
Seal and Salmon Fisheries and General Re-
sources of Alaska, 1V, 1898, pp. 618-754,
74 plates and 14 maps.
Essentially a reprint of ‘‘The Russian Fur-
seal Islands’’ (1896), by the same author.

— [Review of] The birds of Indiana.
By A. Butler.

Am. Naturalist, XX XIII, Jan., 1899, pp. 65~
69.
— A curious malformation on a snake’s
head.

Am. Naturalist, XXxitI, March, 1899, pp.
251, 252, 2 figs.

The malformation consists chiefly in the
absence of a frontal plate, and is supposed to:
be due to a wound. The specimen belongs.
to the Museum of the Cincinnati Natural
History Society.

Relationships of North American
Grouse and Quail.
| Am. Naturalist, XxxttI, March, 1899, pp.
| 259-263.

A review of ‘The Feather-tracts of North
American Grouse and Quail,’”’ by H. L. Clark.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

STEJNEGER, Leoni arp—Continued.
Reptiles of the Tres Marias and Isa-
bel Islands.
North. Am. Fauna (U.S. Dept. Agric.), No.
14, April 29, 1899, pp. 63-71.

The collection on which this paper is based
was made by Mr. E. W. Nelson for the Biolog-
ical Survey, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
and is now in the National Museum.

The land reptiles of the Hawaiian
Islands.
Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1174, June 5,
1899, pp. 783-818, figs. 1-13.

A list, with full synonomies and descrip-
tions, of all the species occurring in the
Archipelago. >

One new species is described: Hemiphyllo-
dactylus leucostictus (Type specimen 23500,
U.S.N.M.). All the species are represented
in the National Museum collection.

Description of a new genus and
species of Discoglossoid Toad from
North America.
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., Xx1, No. 1178, June
20, 1899, pp. 899-901, pl. LXX XIX, figs. 1-4.
Ascaphus truei, new species and genus, from
Humptulips, Washington, is described (Type
specimen No. 25979 U.S.N.M.). This is the
first member of the batrachian suborder Cos-
tata known -with certainty to have been dis-
covered in the Western Hemisphere.

—— Evans’s birds.
Am. Naturalist, Xxx, June, 1899, pp.
523-526.
A review of volume 1x of ‘‘The Cambridge
Natural History—Birds,”’ by A. H. Evans.

— Blind Cave Salamanders.
Popular Science, XXXII, June, 1899, pp.
121, 122, with text figs.

A popular account of Proteus anguineus, Ty-
phlotriton speleus, and Typhlomolge rathbuni,
with illustrations of the latter from photo-
graphs.

On a collection of batrachians and
reptiles from Formosa and adjacent
islands.

Journ. Science College Mus. Univ. Tokyo

(Japan), XII, part III, pp. 215-225,

The collection which was made for the
Japanese Government was submitted to the
author to be worked up. The first set of speci-
mens belongs to the Science College Museum,
Tokyo; the second has been presented to the
National Museum. Rana longicrus, Japalura
nitsukurti, Emydocephalus ijimex are described
os new species.

TEST, FREDERICK CLEVELAND. <A contri-
bution to the knowledge of the varia-
tions of the Tree Frog, [Tyla regilla.

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, No. 1156, Nov.
19, 1898, pp. 477-492, pl. 39,

147

TRUE, Frepertck W. On the nomencla-
ture of the Whalebone Whales of the
tenth edition of Linnzeus’s ‘‘ Systema
Nature.’

Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XxX1, No. 1163, Nov.
4, 1898, pp. 617-635.

—— An account of the United States Na-
tional Museum.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. 8. Nat. Mus.),
1896 (1899), pp. 287-324.

U2 EEAUVIGS Ee
SON. )

VAUGHAN, T. WayLAnp.
Jets JOR TE lives)

WALCOTT, Cuartes Doouirrie. Cam-
brian Brachiopoda: Obolus and Lingu-
lella, with descriptions of new species.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., xxt, No. 1152, Nov.
19, 1898, pp. 385-420, pls. 26-28.
In this paper the author describes 10
American species of Obolus, and 59 species
and varieties of Lingulella.

(See under THomas WIL-

(See under

—— Fossil Meduse.

Monograph U.S. Geol. Surv., XXX, 1898, pp.
1-201, pls. 1-47.

In this extensive, detailed, and finely illus-
trated work by the Director of the U.S. Geo-
logical Survey, all the species of fossil me-
dusz are described and figured. The chief
localities for Paleozoic species are in America,
and in Coosa Valley, Alabama, they are abun-
dant. The material is now in the U.S.
National Museum.

Pre-Cambrian fossiliferous forma-

tions.
Bull. Geol. Soe. Am., X, April, 1899, pp.
199-244, pls, 22-28.

In this paper the writer brings together all
that is known regarding the American fossil-
iferous formations beneath the Cambrian,
and describes and figures the fossils, of which
there are 9 species.

WARD, Lester F. Descriptions of the
species of Cucadeoidea or fossil cycadean
trunks, thus far determined from the
Lower Cretaceous rim of the Black
Hills.

Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., XX1, No. 1141, Oct. 29,
1898, pp. 195-229.

This paper is based on a study of 155 speci-
mens, 25 of which belong to the Mational
Museum. Twenty-one species are described,
allof which, with one exception, are new to
science.

WATSON, Tuomas L. Weathering of
Diabase near Chatham, Va.

Am. Geologist, X11, Aug., 1898, pp. 85-101.

148

WATSON, Tuomas L.—Continued.

Gives results of studies of fresh and decom-
posed material along lines laid down by Dr.
Merrill, in his work on ‘‘ Rocks, rock-weath-
ering, and soils.”’

The investigations were carried on in the
National Museum laboratories, and the speci-
mens described remain among the Museum

collections.
WHITE, Davip, and SCHUCHERT,
CHARLES. Cretaceous series of the

West Coast of Greenland.

Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., 1X, June, 1898, pp.
343-368, pls. 24-26.

The writers were sent to North Greenland
by this Museum in 1897. An account of their
geological investigations is here published.
The lists of fossil plants are based entirely on
material collected by them.

The Cretaceous and Tertiary formations of
Noursoak peninsula are described. Of sedi-
mentary deposits the thickness is not less
than 3,500 feet, capped by Tertiary basalts
attaining a maximum thickness of 4,000 feet.
The various localities and horizons for fossils
are described.

WHITEAVES, J. F. On some additional
or imperfectly understood fossils from
the Hamilton formation of Ontario,
with a revised list of the species there-
from.

Contributions to Canadian Paleontology,
Geological Survey of Canada, 1, No. 7,
Noy., 1898, pp. 361-436, pls. XLVIII-L.

Based partly on material collected in the
vicinity of Thedford, Ontario, forthe National
Museum, by Charles Schuchert.

WILSON, THomas. Prehistoric art, or
the origin of art as manifested in the
works of prehistoric man.

Rep. Smithsonian Inst. (U. 8. Nat. Mus.),
1896 (1899), pp. 325-664, pls. 1-74, figs.
1-325.

This paper deals with art in prehistoric

times. It approaches the subject from the
eesthetic rather than the utilitarian point of
view, although the two are necessarily inter-
related.

The introduction contains remarks on the
theory of art.

The first and second chapters deal with all
kinds of artin the Paleolithic and Neolithic
periods, and with the differences in art be-
tween the two periods and the geometric or-
naments employed in both.

The third chapter treats of prehistoric mu-
sical instruments, describing the gold and
bronze horns of northern Europe. This por-
tion of the work was prosecuted in collabora-
tion with Mr. E. P. Upham, whose musical

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

WILSON, THomas—Continned.
knowledge made its successful accomplish-
ment possible and to whom the credit of this
chapter largely belongs.

—— Art in prehistoric times.

Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv, Sci., XLVI, 1898, pp.
456-459.
A summary of the author’s work on ‘“ Pre-
historic Art.”
This article was reprinted in The American
Archeologist (formerly The Antiquarian), 0,
Pt. 2, Nov., 1898, pp. 281-283.

— Classification of arrowpoints, spear-
heads, and knives.

Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., XLVI, 1898, pp.
464-470.
Summary of the author’s work on ‘“‘ Arrow-
points, spearheads, and knives of prehistoric
times.”

— Archzeological museums. Modes of
lighting.—Effect of glass upon light.

Sci. Am. Suppl., No. 1203, New York, Jan.
21, 1899, p. 19288.

This paper was read before the mid-winter
meeting of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, Dec., 1898, held at
Columbia University, New York City.

Glass may affect the transmission of light
by reflection, by refraction, or by absorption.
The question discussed in this article is the
amount or proportion of light lost in passing
through glass of different kinds. Various
mechanical applances were used to deter-
mine loss: (1) a camera obscura, (2) compar-
ative photographs, (3) photometer.

— (Translator and editor). Quater-
nary deposits at Abbeville, France,
wherein Paleolithic implements were
first discovered. By G. D’Ault Du
Mesnil.

Am. Antiq. and Orient. Journ., XX1, No. 3,
May and June, 1899, pp. 137-145.

Describes the deposits and shows the differ-

ent strata in which appear the bones of fossil

animals and artefacts of flint associated there-
with.

WILSON, THomas, and UPHAM, E. P.
Prehistoric musical instruments.

Proc. Am. Assoc. Adv. Sci., XLV, 1898, pp.

459-464.
This article was reprinted in The American
Archxologist (formerly The Antiquarian),

III, Part 1, Jan., 1899, pp. 9-14.
Summary of the third chapter of Mr, Wil-
son’s work on ‘‘ Prehistoric Art.”
LIST OF AUTHORS.

Apter, Dr. Cyrus, Smithsonian Institution.

AMERICAN OrniTHOLOGISTS’ Unton, New York City.

AsuMeap, WiiirAm H., U. 8. National Museum.

Banas, Outram, Boston, Mass.

Banks, NarHan, Falls Church, Va.

Barrscu, Pau, U. 8. National Museum.

Bean, Barron A., U. 8. National Museum.

Bean, Dr. Tarteton H., U. 8. National Museum.

Brewster, WILLIAM, Cambridge, Mass.

Casanowicz, Dr. I. M., U. 8S. National Museum.

CHAPMAN, FRANK M., American Museum of Natural History, New York City.

Cuesnut, Victor K., U. S. Department of Agriculture.

CHITTENDEN, FranK H., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

Cuark, Prof. Huserr Lyman, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

Cook, Prof. O. F., U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Coaurtterr, Dante W., U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.

CovitLe, FrepericK VEerRNoN, U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Cutry, Stewart, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

Currikz, Rouia P., U. S. National Museum.

Daut, WitiiAm H., U. 8. Geological Survey.

Ditier, J. S., U. 8S. Geological Survey.

Dyar, Dr. Harrison G., U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Eakte, Arruur S8., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

Gipert, Dr. Cuarues H., Leland Stanford Junior University, Stanford University,

Cal.

Gitt, Dr. THEODORE N., Smithsonian Institution.

GRINNELL, JOSEPH, Pasadena, Cal.

Goopr, Dr. G. Brown. (Deceased.)

Hay, Dr. Outver P., Washington, D. C.

Hay, Prof. W. P., Washington, D. C.

Hit, R. T., U. 8. Geological Survey.

Hoven, Dr. Waurer, U.S. National Museum.

Howarp, Dr. Letanp O., U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Kyowtton, F. H., U.S. Geological Survey.

Lineti, Martin L. (Deceased. )

Lorp, Dr. E.C. E., Washington, D. C.

Lucas, Freperic A., U. 8. National Museum.

McGrecor, Ricuarp C., Palo Alto, Cal.

Marx, E. L., Cambridge, Mass.

Marvart, Cuarues L., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.

Mason, Prof. Orts T., U.S. National Museum.

Mearns, Dr. Epcar A., U.S. A., Fort Adams, Newport, R. I.

Merriti, Dr. Grorce P., U. S. National Museum.

-Miuter, Gerrit 8., Jr., U. S. National Museum.

Montcomery, THomas L., Wagner Free Institute of Science, Philadelphia, Pa.

Moors, Dr. J. Percy, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
149
150 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Mvrpocn, Jonny, Public Library, Boston, Mass.

Ne.son, E. W., U. 8S. Department of Agriculture.

Newserry, Dr. Jonny Strona. (Deceased. )

Norrine, Prof. C. C., State University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.
OperHorser, Harry C., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
Osaoop, WILFRED H., U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Pater, Wiuuiam, U. S. National Museum.

PoLiarb, CHARLES Louis, U. 8. National Museum.

Rankin, W. M., Princeton University, Princeton, N. J:
Rarnsun, Mary J., U. S. National Museum.
RicHarpson, Harriet, Washington, D. C.
Ricumonp, Dr. CHarues W., U. 8S. National Museum.
Ripaway, Roper, U. 8. National Museum.

Rosr, Dr. J. N., U. 8. National Museum.

SarrorD, JAMes, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.
Scnucnert, CHarues, U. S. National Museum.

Scuwarz, Eugene A., U. 8. Department of Agriculture.
Smirn, Dr. Huan M., U.S. Fish Commission.

Smirn, Prof. Joun B., Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J.
Srarks, Epwin C., University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.
Srearns, Dr. R. E. C., Los Angeles, Cal.

STEJNEGER, Dr. LeonHarp, U. S. National Museum.

Test, Dr. FrepEricK C., Chicago, Ill.

True, Dr. Freperick W., U.S. National Museum.

VauGuan, T. Wayxanp, U. 8. Geological Survey.

Waite, Davin, U. 8. Geological Survey.

Warp, Prof. Lester F., U. S. Geological Survey.

Witson, Dr. THomas, U. 8. National Museum.

Waxcorr, Hon. Cartes D., Director U. 8. Geological Survey.
Watson, Toomas L., Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.

.
APPENDIX V.

Parers PUBLISHED IN SEPARATE FORM DURING THE YEAR ENDING
JUNE 30, 1899.

FROM THE REPORT FOR 1896.

Report uvon the condition and progress of the U.S. National Museum during the
year ending June 30, 1896. By G. Brown Goode. pp. 1-284, pls. 1-4.

An account of the United States National Museum. By Frederick W. True. pp.
287-324.

Prehistoric art; or the origin of art as manifested in the works of prehistoric man.
3y Thomas Wilson. pp. 325-664, pls. 1-74, figs. 1-325.

Chess and playing cards. By Stewart Culin. pp. 665-942, pls. 1-50, figs. 1-226.

Biblical antiquities. By Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowicz. pp. 948-1023, pls. 1-46.

The lamp of the Eskimo. By Walter Hough. pp. 1025-1057, pls. 1-24, figs. 1-4.

FROM VOLUME 21 OF THE PROCEEDINGS.

No. 1140. Contributions toward a monograph of the Lepidopterous family Noctuidee
of Boreal North America. A revision of the species of Acronycta (Och-
senheimer) and of certain allied genera. By John B. Smith and Har-
rison G. Dyar. pp. 1-194, pls. 1-22.

No. 1141. Descriptions of the species of Cycadeoidea, or fossil cyeadean trunks, thus
far determined from the Lower Cretaceous rim of the Black Hills. By
Lester F. Ward. pp. 195-229.

No. 1142. On some new parasitic insects of the subfamily Encyrtine. By L. O.

Howard. pp. 231-248.

No. 1148. On the Coleopterous insects of Galapagos Islands. By Martin L. Linell.

pp. 249-268.

No. 1144. The birds of the Kuril Islands. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 269-296.

No. 1145. Description of a species of Acteeon from the Quaternary Bluffs at Spanish

Bight, San Diego, Cal. By Robert E. C. Stearns. pp. 297-299.

No. 1146. Report on a collection of Japanese Diptera, presented to the U.S. National
Museum by the Imperial University of Tokyo. By D. W. Coquillett.
pp. 301-340.

No. 1147. Notes on the mammals of the Catskill Mountains, New York, with general
remarks on the fauna and flora of the region. By Edgar A. Mearns.
pp. 341-360, figs. 1-6.

No, 1148. Topaz crystals in the mineral collection of the U. 8. National Museum. By
Arthur 8. Eakle. pp. 361-369, figs. 1-22.

No. 1149. Notes on Cytherea ( Tivela) crassatelloides Conrad, with descriptions of many
varieties. By Robert E. C. Stearns. pp. 371-378, pls. 23-25.

No. 1150. On the occurrence of Amphiuma, the so-called Congo Snake, in Virginia.
By Hugh M. Smith. pp. 379, 380.

No. 1151. Description of a new species of Spiny-tailed Iguana from Guatemala. By
Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 381-383.

No. 1152. Cambrian Brachiopoda: Obolus and Lingulella, with descriptions of new
species. By Charles D. Walcott. pp. 385-420, pls. 26-28.

1651
152

No.

No.

1153.
. 1154.
). 16.
. 1156.
a lari
. 1158.
Selig.
. 1160.
SGI:

. 1162.

o. 1163.
elise

. 1165.
. 1166.

5 Kav
9. 1168.

5 TCE
- 1170:

ep loliZGs
Dey file

1178.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

A revision of the wrens of the genus Thryomanes Sclater. By Harry C.
Oberholser. pp. 421-450.

American Oniscoid Diplopoda of the order Merocheta. By O. F. Cook.
pp. 451-468, pls. 29-32.

The osteology and relationships of the family Zeide. By Edwin Chapin
Starks. pp. 469-476, pls. 33-38.

A contribution to a knowledge of the variations of the Tree Frog, Hyla
regilla. By Frederick Cleveland Test. pp. 477-492, pl. 39.

Japanese Hymenoptera of the family Tenthredinide. By C. L. Marlatt.
pp. 493-506.

A contribution to a knowledge of the fresh-water crabs of America—The
Pseudothelphusinee. By Mary J. Rathbun. pp. 507-537, figs. 1-17.
Notes on a collection of fishes from Mexico, with description of a new

species of Platypecilus. By Barton A. Bean. pp. 539-542, 1 fig.

The leeches of the U.S. National Museum. By J. Percy Moore. pp.
543-563, pl. 40.

On the occurrence of Caulolepis longidens Gill on the coast of California.
By Charles Henry Gilbert. pp. 565, 566.

The Brachyura collected by the U. S. Fish Commission steamer Albatross
on the voyage from Norfolk, Va., to San Francisco, Cal., 1887-88. By
Mary J. Rathbun. pp. 567-616, pls. 41-44.

On the nomenclature of the Whalebone whales of the Tenth Edition of
Linneeus’s ‘‘ Systema Nature.’’ By Frederick W. True. pp. 617-635.
A new snake from the Eocene of Alabama. By Frederic A. Lucas. pp.

637, 638, pls. 45, 46.

Notes on the capture of rare fishes. By Barton A. Bean. pp. 639, 640.

The feather-tracts of North American Grouse and Quail. By Hubert
Lyman Clark. pp. 641-653, pls. 47-49, figs. 1-4.

Notes on Oxycottus acuticeps (Gilbert) from Sitka and Kadiak, Alaska. By
Tarleton H. Bean and Barton A. Bean. pp. 655, 656.

African Diplopoda of the genus Pachybolus. By O. F. Cook. pp. 667-676,
pls. 50-52.

The Diplopod family Striariide. By O. F. Cook. pp. 667-676, pls. 53, 54.

African Diplopoda of the family Gomphodesmidee. By O. F. Cook. pp.
677-739, pls. 55-61.

. Hydroida from Alaska and Puget Sound. By Charles Cleveland Nutting.

pp. 741-753, pls. 62-64.

2. The fossil Bison of North America. By Frederic A. Lucas. pp. 755-771,

pls. 65-84, figs. 1, 2.

3.’ Petrographic report on rocks from the United States-Mexico boundary.

By Edwin C. E. Lord. pp. 773-782, pl. 85.

. The land reptiles of the Hawaiian Islands. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp.

783-813, figs. 1-13.

5. Key to the isopods of the Pacific Coast of North America, with descrip-

tions of 22 new species. By Harriet Richardson. pp. 815-869, figs.
1-34.

Description of a new species of subterranean isopod. By W. P. Hay. pp.
871, 872, pl. 86.

Synopsis of the recent and Tertiary Leptonacea of North America and the
West Indies. By William H. Dall. pp, 873-897, pis. 87, 88.

Description of anew genus and species of Discoglossoid Toad from North
America. By Leonhard Stejneger. pp. 899-901, pl. 89.
a 22 ld Chega il fe

PAPERS DESCRIBING AND ILLUSTRATING COLLECTIONS IN THE
U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Page.

Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied Geology: The ;
Nonmetallic’ Mineralss “By(George:. Merrill -22-222525.. 5-22 i22225258- 155
A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics. By Otis T. Mason.-......- 485
An Early West Virginia Pottery. By Walter Hough..-..........-...------- 511
Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur. By Otis T. Mason ..---.--. 523

Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited
in the U. S. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat. By Cyrus
GIR ALC NG NL aOuRaMOWICL. -. Sic. 5 octk ace d se she ee cee ae se eee See 539
es:

i

PLATE 1.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill.

‘1LSAM ONIMOO7 “WNASNI IVNOILVN “S ‘M 4O LYNOD
ISAMHLNOS 4O AY3TIVS NO SIVYANII OIVLAWNON 4O NOILVIIVISN] GNV S3SV9 TIVY GNV T1VM\ DNIMOHS MAlA

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—.Merrill. PLATE 2.

VIEW SHOWING RAIL CASE AND INSTALLATION OF NONMETALLIC MINERALS IN GALLERY
OF SOUTHWEST CoOurRT OF U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM. LOOKING NORTH.
GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF THE COLLECTIONS IN
THE SECTION OF APPLIED GEOLOGY.

BY

GEORGE P. MERRILL,

Curator, Division of Physical and Chemical Geology,
and Head Curator of the Department.

PREFATORY NOTE.

The accompanying handbook and guide is an outgrowth of the work
of installing and labeling the collections of the economic section of the
Division of Physical and Chemical Geology. The term nonmetallic,
as used, includes those minerals which, as here exhibited, are utilized
in other than metallic forms. The collections, comprising as now
arranged, some 2,500 specimens, include therefore some materials
which—like the iron oxides—may be utilized as ores of metals. As
such they have already been considered in Bulletin No. 42, under the
title A Preliminary Descriptive Catalogue of the Systematic Collec-
tions in Economic Geology and Metallurgy, by F. P. Dewey. The
collection of building and ornamental stones which might perhaps be
included herewith has been also the subject of a special handbook
published in the Annual Report of the National Museum for 1886,
and entitled The Collection of Building and Ornamental Stones in the
United States National Museum: A Handbook and Catalogue. By
George P. Merrill.

It is scarcely necessary to remark that in the preparation of this
work the curator has been hampered by a great dearth of information
on certain subjects and burdened with a superabundance on others.
Certain materials, such as the coals, phosphates, limes, and cements,
would each require a volume, and necessarily must be very imper-
fectly treated here. In such cases the curator has aimed to give as
brief and concise an abstract as the requirements of a handbook
would permit, and make up for the deficiencies in the bibliography.
In other cases the subjects are treated as fully as the knowledge at
hand will allow. In describing occurrences the aim has heen to give
in detail one or two fairly typical deposits, referring to others more
briefly. Naturally the preference has been given to American mate-
rials. Statements as to prices and annual production are quite unsatis-
factory and of very temporary value at best. But little space has
therefore been devoted to this branch of the subject. Technical,
chemical, and crystallographic points have been but lightly touched
upon, such being already covered by existing literature. Only such
statements as to hardness, color, etc., are given as it is thought may
be of value in rough preliminary determinations.

The satisfactory installation and classification of collections of this
nature are matters of no inconsiderable difficulty. As the materials

157

158 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

are utilized for industrial purposes, it might at first thought appear
that they should be grouped according to the uses to which they
are put, as is commonly done at expositions. Such a plan, however,
involves a great amount of repetition, since many of the materials, as
diatomaceous earths, the clays, steatite, etc., are used for a variety of
purposes. On this account the method of installation, or grouping,
adopted is somewhat loose, the materials being grouped (1) by kinds,
and under kinds so far as possible (2) by uses. Further than this the
character of the material has in many instances rendered it necessary
to install those closely related and used, it may be, for quite similar
purposes in cases of quite different type as is shown in the hydrocar-
bon series, the coals, asphalts, etc., being in the deep-wall cases while
the petroleums, in bottles, are exhibited in the upright portion of the
rail cases.
TABLE OF CONTENTS AND SCHEME OF CLASSIFICATION,

I. Elements:

U1 4( OF ial 00) 0 eaea ae AN Se SO ge Bote ee ee ee
DVO TL © oesroeks ccc he So Se ee eee Sears oe
Grate: -ooc Shen AG seen elg = Se i- =

CAEASIT 3 010) ey 9 en es Tears 9 eee ee ae

OF INSP Conan ee ee a Se OS ee ee ae

ae AN erry CLI) eee os ee ee ww re ee ee ee ores teres

II. Sulphides and arsenides:

Ie OAI Ne! on AE ei het ete eres hoe Ree ae aa
2 2Orpiment: auripisment... -..--2-5--------- -seeeeeaee a= = 3 ==

La]

or

Til. Halides:

1. Halite; sodium chloride; or common salt. -..------------------
Dh URIS TEI Woh SR Oe ee ee Oe ee Aes ere ite ei eaten
SROTVOUTO me coe eee once tee Sas Soe ee wae Sse Pee eee See ons

TV. Oxides:

MS Sia ee es ce ee ae hk Ae lg Sle eA cee EN Io
Chapt Ob oa = Pee pee Bee ete ee ca
lara ee han oe yee ee aay Comme a Fe hes

SONG oer eS one oe en a ee eet ieee lo
Diatomaceous Om IntisoOnial eat ls = eee ee ee ere a=
© (GloralunVehbunneshivol, imei eyes in So a tee Sa a aot Qe
O21 oleh an ee ae See BOS RAE Neer SS aes Sls epee ea

“IO Ol ® O bo
ep ils!
=
=
tA
S
fe)
eB
©

—
o oO
22
56
mOC+«S
© 6
==
2 &
4
i4°)
©
y
a
Qu
iq)
2

3. Cobalt minerals .-----------------------------2--2-2+-2+-----
Gishaltite: Ss. tats cao sh oe ep cote nec Ney Boe Soe Ee eee
Syacthll nie hme eee eee ees Sete SA nee ee te ae
Secret dite aes etee eee aya re ene escheat eee eee
(Gilnmn@oe OitseRs Secs Se seeee see teat eaee. Sams beuse yeeSen
TofS aye ee SS Se hoes Soe eam nes He na osh ao
Syenmed ye. 2 oa He ne ee Se eee d=
Erythrite or cobalt bloom -.......---------+++--------:-
INGTON eh oe ow SE oe aE Sasa ae ee a San aCmorinea a

. Arsenopyrite; mispickel or arsenical pyrites ----..--.---------

Eollmente: lencopyrite:..-- 5.2. -.4-4-<-'45---sreepa- 28-37

Guyribes ©. 222. 2a ek ook 1 o/Ses Ss) eoee Ses eee best CB- - 252

jo Moly bdentte. 2. .3%12- 2 -<2<e ei sd ees adie! sosteeen ates aoe

PLD sites emamen ther. Wee oe Ae a Se eh eee =
ROOIGHGinee aie se ee ia ete Se eceer metas Soman. SiS oo oes
‘ Wimenite menaceanite> er titamiciron . - 2-22 22h = =2-2--5--
FoR Woe) Barrh rll Ves Sha cess 7 re ee oe ge eg ee ene
160 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

TV. Oxides—Continued.

10. Manganese oxides—Continued. Page.
IBY AINE Rod soo cis ass! eve se ee ees Sf ae Seo e eC oee 254
Poliamitey=s- ---— be bodies ale oe a See 254
Pyrolusites: 22 2).0.. 5: ds eee eee 254
Mansanite ss «+2. 52sec ress es ee 254
Psilotvelane \.22ie 2225s Sek ie ae ee Bee ee 255
Wad or bog manganese 25. of... <cee eae on eee 255

V. Carbonates:

fee Calcmmicarbondite =saem sees seaee art Be Eat ARS oe Chee 258

Calcite; cale spar; iceland span Jess. 2 Gh es. eee ee 258

Cla ke x 5a ee ro, a ee atta 262

Limestones; amortars--andicements =o5= ese es eee 264

Portlandscement essen ss =n eeee oe oes - See Soe ee 266

Roman cémentees..2 52.2. ese Sodas BONS eee ee eee 268

Playing marbles: yo. 22 oe an ee ee eee 270

Lithographic limestones). -- =... 2280 ee eae ee ee 270
9. ‘Dolomite ss: S22 sock oe ele Bee Bee ee eee ee 274
8. Magnesite ¢.<.. 55.2 txd net ae ee eee eta dN, oS tte re 275
4. Witheritiere 2a ces edkces cee ee Gee Se 6 eee ee ee eee 279
5. Strontianite 22 eae a ee ee ee ee ee 279
6.-Rhodochrosite? dialogite-.c 4.22. 2s Se eee 280
7. Natron. the situ of tie am Clem tsi eer er 280
8 rona-turde. 22 aco Seen pe Oacp ae ae eee ae 281

VI. Silicates:

1, Reldsparsa 2s: 225 ee Se Se oe ere eae ee. silt
De MCAS > sx 22 nan c3 os ee ee Ee BS Ss ee vanes “= 283
3. MSDORBOR. ae a ee 296
4. Garnet onc 2A Se hs ae ee eee 307
Bye ZAR COM eta. ae epee re ac a eee 308
6x Spodumene-and. petalite*>. 22 os se anne ce one eee 308
7. Lazurite; lapis lazuli; or native ultramarine --.....-.---------- 309
8 “Allamite:>orthite) 220.5: 22 hes ae oe cee. eee Sell
9, Gadolinite:s- 22 wer 228 Tie a er ere 313

10: iGerites.o 223 4228 Das ee ee 314

1; “Rhodonitew. 2c eS S55 Se eee eee 314

2. (Steatite: tale; andisoapstone asa. 5-e5 oo aaa oe oe eee 315

13. Pyrophyllite; agalmatolite; and pagodite .....--.-----.-------- 322

14, ‘Sepiolite; meerschaum... ¢:. <2 222202 oss eee eee ee See 323

16; Clays: ..06 = f22 Sed eksr een, oe ose oa eee ere ee 325

VII. Niobates and tantalates:
i. “Columbite and tantalitess 555 Sans sae eee eee eee 393
D> Ntsc beta ten tse 2 = Se ea ete ee eee cre ere 354
3. wamMmarskite<t 2622 sane eee ee ne REN Eee phe EMRE PN Ba eee 354
4. Wolframite and -Ehulbnentessosee= see sae: ae. ee eee 355
Be Scheelité =< 2.2. 22 eee teeee ee wee eee oe Cee ee 356
VIII. Phosphates:
1. Apatite; rock phosphates; guano, etc......-.----------------- 306
9 - Miomazite 28 ne 0S Sete ee ete eee 383
3. Vanadinite" 2 ee eee eee 387
4: Wescloizites 2 2c. a aE pe erate 388
5. Amblygonite 2c Soe ee ee ere ee 390
6. Triphylite and iithiophilite ...... 2... ..2.-d.-Jss 2228-22 esse 391
CONTENTS. 161

IX. Nitrates: Page.
1. Niter, potassium nitrate. ....-.-------------+----+-2500trrtree 391
NCE ate ot ee ene nel eam oie = alee = ai nnn oes oe 392
3. Nitro-calcite ...---- SR Re i eee 394

X. Borates:
1. Borax or tineal; borate of soda ....-----------+--++--)---77-7> 396
2. Ulexite; boronatrocalcite -- --- Sry os 2 Ae es eee 397
Pee nianiber 26.5 ac ca eae eee eta eR =e 5° 397
4. Boracite or stassfurtite; borate of magnesia ...--.-------------- 397

XI. Uranates:

1. Uraninite; pitchblende ......---:---------------+---+---+---> 402

XII. Sulphates:
lebanite-sheawy Spar. . 6+... 5~5-s2~ 55> saqeeoee ee oe ee = 405
DUNG PRN se oa pein sense = eo ene sn 406
Beta cleninieese. eee tee Sock SES WP Nett ine Pt Cos os, Se eae es 411
4. Mirabilite;: or Glauber’salt .....---+----------+-----+--------- 412
eRe Vas peritGe on as coe cetirs So gees Hos Aaa eee eee ee eer 415
Pam henertiters occ nee 2 oe = Lech Asse eee eee ea ei 415
7s Wpsomite:, Epsom: salts. ¢-2-- 02---.-.-2 225 2Se 2 =F arses 415
Ruma byhinlitiess feos. e week as sne@ a a2 s ee nei aa tea 416
RMR Tann ia en ers ce won ales Sas pe fe ee 416
TQ). IKHSaaWA < oho one eeree coe ae mere ano re roeee Re ae eee RS 416—
11. Alums:

TEIN ATR Se ste eRe See Merete ae OS Bete coe oi 416
MeeheEmiaite = 2 f= s.= J. So5 east Sesh san ee eee 416
MRT te Lees Gers os a Mee ae saa sae meted bd ee 419

. Nia VS ae Oe Oe ee Oe oats icra Sc 419
PAtiiumvalate Olsiial Gee eps tae ee ee 421

XIII. Hydrocarbon compounds:

PEW alese rion ete <tr e ee le an ae en tne ernie 423
Fea Ge ee eee NR en er 424

Inenite or brow! coal... 22. 22-- <022=2 2-2 == Se oo 425
aU US (COMIS Sateen ice = sie eS oe yma ne er 426
MimGhTaGlie CUB os,./b aos yale Ui lisa. tes She seme eee gees 427

Dra intnem Seles n= 5al oases yaaa =o eee eee Se eee 429
Marsh gas; natural gas... ----/---------------5-- 077 s7"-== 433
Peraleuie le 22k oa SE See ae een eee 434
Asphaltum; mineral pitch.....-..-.-----+--------7-++-7> 441

Dianiakee2 ee ceils eee eee be sete tie es 445
Elaterite; mineral caoutchouc. .--.----------------------- 446

Wrirori lite te oe eee eee es See Sete SS: 446
MTREEIne te Lie Ret Ge ae ae IE Sate foetal me eA 446

CePA ATH oe a ee Ir tae et aly Se PSS 447
Carbonite or natural coke....-.--.----------------------- 449
Uintalte; sileonites-ee--- 2- = "25-2 227 b= SEs -- 450

3. Ozokerite; mineral wax; native paraffin --...----------------- 451
Het Peers eee Bee ae ee See Sa er serene s Bhs Se- SRE e A455
Secmmite wntaUer Sass see eee ee a fe Seine - 455
ehianiee eee ae ees Pe ase Sh he e+e 456
Charuamantess 22 ser eee oe te Dew os tee eee es 456

eh coped eee se eae oe ee il eis 2 =i 457

NAT Mus 99 Ub

162

XIV. Miscellaneous:

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Page.
1: Gnindstones=swihetstones*sand hones)... 222-22 o2 see 463
26 PUT CSS eee eee tone aa 470
3° Rottenstone 22. ss Sea ee ee eee 473
Ay Mia StOMES Sess aus et SSF oe, Ae ae ae a ge 474
Oo» Melding sand 2.202. Sea seen eke ee 474
6: Mineral waters © <i s.1 b aetna ee ee 477
(. oad-making materials S27 =U cee ee eee ee 482
bo

Ne}

10.

ite

12.
13.

. View in a soapstone quarry, Lafayette, Pennsylvania
. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) kaolinite and (2) washed

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

PLATES.

Facing page

_ View showing wall and rail cases and installation of nonmetallic minerals

on gallery of southwest court, U. S. National Museum. Looking
WSU oo ease ee Seo ee eae ee eee Seer oressdacGotmn Se or pment

. View showing rail case and installation of nonmetallic minerals in gallery

of southwest court of U.S. National Museum. Looking north .....----

. Views in graphite mine near Hague, Warren County, New York. From

photographs by C. D. Walcott.....-.-----------------------+--+--+-----

_ Section of the salt deposits at Stassfurt. From the Transactions of the

Edinburgh Geological Society, V, 1884, p. 111 .--.--------------------

. Views of brine-evaporating tanks at Syracuse, New York. From photo-

praphs/by 1. P. Bishop. .-=--2+------+------+2+-+----------- 45-2225

. View of Tripoli mines in Carthage, Missouri. -.-------------------------
. Deposit of diatomaceous earth, Great Bend of Pitt River, Shasta County,

@abforma. From a photograph by J..S. Diller ._--..-..-.+--.+5..2.--

. Map showing distribution of corundum and _ peridotite in the eastern

United States. After J. V. Lewis, Bulletin II, North Carolina Geo-
SIA SULVCY esc 24 - eos) ecinon = ey a

. Microstructure of emery. After Tschermak, Mineralogische und Petro-

graphische Mittheilungen XIV, Part 4 .....--------------------------
Section showing the formation of manganese deposits from decay otf
limestone. After Penrose, Annual Report Geological Survey of Arkan-
RI SMD eee oats ec oa eas os Wiel Soin, Seon he ole aati eee
Botryoidal psilomelane, Crimora, Virginia. Specimen No. 66722,
1 fel Le Be (Na ea ae a AD ae ears ne OS Cay een RAE Ce eL re ey ee
Views showing occurrence Calcite in Iceland. After Thoroddsen-.------
View in a cement quarry near Whitehall, Ulster County, New York.
From a photograph by N. H. Darton

Teele Sit ek 2 ae eae Ne Re AO ee ed 5 ee aS

. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) halloysite and (2) leda clay -
. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Albany County, Wyoming,

clay and (2) fuller’s earth

. Leda clays, Lewiston, Maine. From a photograph by L. H. Merrill -----
. View in a Kaolin pit, Delaware County, Pennsylvania E
. Map showing phosphate regions of Florida. After G. H. Eldridge
. Borax mine near Daggett, California. Interior and exterior views .-----
. View of a gypsum quarry. From a photograph by the Iowa Geological

Re oe gees oe erst on ohn a loa os'> a

. Peat beds overlying gold-bearing gravels, Mias, Russia. From a photo-

eranhe byNe Mie Willer see seete ccimc cin n- pe neat on hesese ens te

155

155

170
164 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

24.

25.

Facing page.

Map showing the developed coal fields of the United States. From
the-Report ofthe Bleventh Census- <2 22. - 22 see eee eee
Map showing areas where bitumen occurs in the United States and
Canada. From the Report of the Tenth Census -< 2222 22-22------=-==

» Planvot Pitch take. Trinidad. “Aiter:S:2b Peckham a2 5 sess
. Nodule of gum copal from Congo River region, Africa. Specimen No.

6277 AU SY NGM. 2 = oie ee eee ee ee eee a ee

. Microsection of mica schist used in making whetstone. Fig. 1, cut

across foliation. . Pig: 2)scut parallelstomolation' = = s2s. esse see ee

. View of Novaculite Quarry, Arkansas. After Griswold, Annual Report of

the Geological Survey-of Arkansas, WU 1890) 222222222 sense eee eee

. Microsections showing the appearance of (1) Arkansas Novaculite and (2)

Ratisbon razor hone. The dark bodies in (2) are garnets ....-.------

TEXT FIGURES.

. Block of limestone with alternating bands of sulphur. Sicily, Italy. Spec-

men Nor 60932" USN Mes 2 one eo ee ee

2. Cluster of halite crystals, Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40222,

WS ANIM oon oc Se os Se Rie Re 2 ee ae ee
3. Geological section of Petite Anse Island, Louisiana ......-.....----..---
4. Cluster of sylvite crystals, Stassfurt, Germany. Specimen No. 40223,

=I

ULSAN sMew a 2 S255 Sieh Se cece ocoee cheese Sa enan So eetne aa eee eee

. Pisolitic bauxite. Bartow County, Georgia. Specimen No. 63335,U.S.N.M-
. Map showing geological relations of Georgia and Alabama bauxite

deposits:- -After'C..W. Hayes... $22 22222 250- tc eee oe ee

. Section showing relation of bauxite to mantle of residual clay in Georgia.

After: ©. Wis Ela yieSice, 2256 cies ces Ss Ee sie ane eee erate ear

. Section across paint mine at Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania. After C. E. Hesse-
. Section of mica veins in Yancey County, North Carolina. After W. C.

. Asbestos fibers. After G. P. Merrill, Proceedings of the U. 8. National

Museum, 2X VU p2882= se nc asec. eo eee eres eae ee eee

. Serpentine asbestos in massive serpentine. Specimen No. 72836 ....-.---
. Map of Nitrate region, Chile. After Fuchs and De Launay..........-.--
. Section through Sulphur Mountain, California. After 8. F. Peckham ----

426
GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF THE COLLECTIONS IN THE
SECTION OF APPLIED GEOLOGY.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS.

By GrorGE P. MERRILL,

Curator, Division of Physical and Chemical Geology and Head Curator of the Department.

I. ELEMENTS.
1. CARBON.

The numerous compounds of which carbon forms the chief constit-
uent are widely variable in their physical properties and origin. As
occurring in nature few of its members possess a definite chemical
composition such as would constitute a true mineral species, and they
must for the most part be looked upon as indefinite admixtures in
which carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen play the more important roles.
For present purposes the entire group may be best considered under
the heads of (1) The Pure Carbon series; (2) The Coal series, and (3)
The Bitumen series, the distinctions being based mainly on the gradu-
ally increasing amounts of volatile hydrocarbons, a change which is
accompanied by a variation in physical condition from the hardest of
known substances through plastic and liquid to gaseous forms. Here
will be considered only the members of the pure carbon series, the
others being discussed under the head of hydrocarbon compounds.

Dramonv.—This mineral crystallizes in the isometric system, with
a tendency toward octahedral forms, the crystals showing curved and
striated surfaces. (Specimen No. 53558, U.S.N.M.) The hardness is
ereat, 10 of Dana’s scale; the specific gravity varies from 3.1 in the
earbonados to 3.5 in good clear crystals. The luster is adamantine;
the colors, white or colorless, through yellow, red, orange, green,
brown to black. The transparent and highly refractive forms are of
value as gems, and can best be discussed in works upon this subject.
We have to do here rather with the rough, confused crystalline aggre-
gates or rounded forms, translucent to opaque, which, though of
no value as gems, are of the greatest utility in the arts. To such

165
166 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

forms the name black diamond, bort, and carbonado are applied. (Speci-
mens Nos. 53668-53671, U.S.N.M.)

Origin and Occurrence.—The origin of the diamond has long been a
matter of discussion. A small proportion of the diamonds of the
world are found in alluvial deposits of gravel or sand. In the South
African fields they occur in a so-called blue gravel, formed, according
to Lewis, along the line of contact between an eruptive rock (perido
tite) and highly carbonaceous shales. They were regarded by Lewis
as originating through the crystallization of the carbon of the shales
by the heat of the molten rock. De Launay states, however, that
there is no necessary connection between the shales and the diamond,
and shows with apparent conclusiveness that the latter occur often in
a broken and fragmental condition, such as to indicate beyond doubt
that they originated at greater depths and were brought upward as
phenocrysts in the molten magma at the time of its intrusion. The
primary origin of the diamonds he regards as through the crystalliza-
tion, under great pressure, of the carbon contained in the basic magma
in the form of metallic carbides.

The diamond-bearing rock as above noted is a peridotite often brec-
ciated and more or less serpentinized (Specimen No. 62108, U.S.N.M.).
The blue and green gravel formed by the decomposition of this rock is
shown in Specimen No. 73188, U.S.N.M. With these are others of the
associated, eruptive, and metamorphic rocks, as melaphyr (Specimen
No. 73184, U.S.N.M.), quartzite (Specimen No. 73185, U.S.N.M.),
shale (Specimen No. 73186, U.S.N.M.), and basalt (Specimen No. 73187,
U.S.N.M).

Whether or not a similar origin to that outlined above can be attrib-
uted to the Brazilian diamonds is as yet unproven. ‘Their occurrence
and association with detrital materials resulting from the breaking
down of older rocks, with which they may or may not have been
originally associated, renders the problem obscure and difficult of
solution.

According to Kunz,' 95 per cent of all diamonds at present obtained
come from the Kimberly Mines, Griqua Land, west South Africa; of
these, some 47 per cent are bort. The remainder come from Brazil,
India, and Borneo. A few have been found in North America, the
Ural Mountains, and New South Wales, but these countries are not
recognized as regular and constant sources of supply.

Uses.—The material, aside from its use as a gem, owes its chief value
to its great hardness,.and is used as an abrading and cutting medium
in cutting diamonds and other gems, glass, and hard materials in gen-
eral, such as can not be worked by softer and cheaper substances.

With the introduction of machinery into mining and quarrying there

1Gems and Precious Stones. New York, 1890.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 167

has arisen a constant and growing demand for black diamonds, or bort,
for the cutting edges of diamond drills, and to a less extent for teeth
to diamond saws. (Specimens Nos. 53668 to 53670, U.S.N.M.)

According to a writer in the Iron Age’ the crystallized diamond is
not suitable for these purposes owing to its cleavage property. The best
bort or ‘‘carbonado” comes, it is said, from Bahia, Brazil, where it is
found as small, black pebbles in river gravels. The ordinary sizes
used for drills weigh but from one-half to 1 carat, but in special cases
pieces weighing from 4 to 6 carats are used. It is stated that the
crowns of large drills, 10 inches in diameter, armed with the best
grade of carbonado, are sometimes valued as high as $10,000.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

M. Basryer. The Diamond and other precious stones.

Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1870, p. 333.

A Daupree. Annales des Mines, 7th ser., IX, 1876, p. 130.

Remarking on the occurrence of platinum associated with peridotites, he calls
attention to the fact that Maskelyne had shown the diamonds of South Africa
and Borneo to occur in a decomposed peridotite.

ORVILLE A. DerRBy. Geology of the Diamantiferous Region of the Province of Parana,
Brazil.

American Journal of Science, X VIII, 1879, p. 310.

Geology of the Diamond.

American Journal of Science, X XIII, 1882, p. 97.

R. Conen. Igneous origin of the Diamond.
Proceedings, Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, 1884, p. 5.
H. Carvitt Lewis. The Genesis of the Diamond.
Science, VIII, 1886, p. 345.
GARDNER F. Wriuiams. The Diamond Mines of South Africa.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X V, 1886, p. 392.
OrvitLE A. Dersy. The Genesis of the Diamond.
Science, IX, 1887, p. 57.
Discovery of Diamonds in a Meteoric Stone.
Nature, XX X VII, 1887, p. 110.
Diamond Mining in Ceylon.
Engineering and Mining Journal, X LIX, 1890, p. 678.
A. Mervyn Smita. The Diamond Fields of India.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LILI, 1892, p. 454.
Ouiver WHIPPLE Huntineton. Diamonds in Meteorites.
Science, XX, 1892, p. 15.
Diamonds in Meteoric Stones.

The American Geologist, XI, 1893, p. 282. (Abstract of paper by H. Moissan,
Comptes Rendus 1893, pp. 116 and 228. )

Henrr Morssan. Study of the Diamantiferous Sands of Brazil.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LXII, 1896, p. 222.

Henry Carvitt Lewis. I. Papers and Notes on the Genesis and Matrix of the
Diamond, edited by Prof. T. G. Bonney.
The Geological Magazine, IV, 1897, p. 366.
Sir Wriyt1aAM Crookes. Diamonds.

we

168 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

L. pe Launay. Les Diamants du Cap.
Paris, 1897.
OrvitLe A. Dersy. Brazilian Evidence on the Genesis of the Diamond.
The Journal of Geology, VI, 1898, p. 121.
H. W. Furniss. Carbons in Brazil. U.S. Consular Reports, 1898, p. 604. See also
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 608.
M. J. Kurncxr. Gites Diamantiféres de la République sud-Africaine.
Annales des Mines, XITV,.1898, p. 563.

Grapuitre.—Graphite, plumbago, or black lead, as it is variously
called, is a dark steel gray to black lustrous mineral with a black
streak; hardness of but 1.2, and a specific gravity of from 2.25 to 2.27.
The prevailing form of the mineral is scaly or broadly foliated (Speci-
men No. 51007, U.S. N. M.), with a bright luster, but it is sometimes
quite massive (Specimen No. 61138, U.S. N. M.) and columnar (Speci-
men No. 59976, U.S.N.M.) or earthy, with a dull coal-like luster
(Specimens Nos. 64795 and 63133, U.S.N.M.).

Its most characteristic features are its softness, greasy feeling, and

property of soiling everything with which it comes in contact.
Molybdenite, the sulphide of molybdenum, is the only mineral with
which it is likely to become confounded. This last, however, though
very similar in general appearance, gives a streak with a slight green-
ish tinge, and when fused with soda before the blowpipe yields a sul-
phur reaction. Chemically, graphite is nearly pare carbon. The
name black lead is therefore erroneous and misleading, but has become
too firmly established to be easily eradicated.

The analyses given below show the composition of some of the purest
natural eraphites.

| Volatile |

Locality. Carbon. Ash. | matter. |
| ah
| COW O Int ee cone eae er gee eee See Se eae eee 98.817 | 0.280 | 0.90 |
| DOs ee ee eee ee ee eee 99.792 405A 2168 |

Buckingham Canadas. o-p - oae eee ee 97.626 | 1.78 | 594 |
DOs Re a DN 99. 815 076 | -109 |

As mined the material is almost invariably contaminated by mechan-
ically admixed impurities. Thus the Canadian material (Specimens
Nos. 59977, 62153, U.S.N.M.) as mined yields from 22.38 to 30.51
per cent of graphite; the best Bavarian, 53.80 per cent (Specimen No.
52050, U.S.N.M.). The grade of ore that can be economically workec
naturally depends upon the character of the impurities and the extent
and accessibility of the deposit. It is said’ that deposits at Ticonde-
roga, New York, have been worked in which there was but 6 per cent
of graphite (Specimen No. 37825, U.S. N. M.).

Occurrence and origin.—Graphite occurs mainly in the older erystal-

' Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 256.

ae ree
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 169

line metamorphic rocks, both siliceous and calcareous, sometimes in
the form of disseminated scales, as in the cry 7stalline limestone of Essex
County, New York (Specimen No. 37825, U.S S.N.M), or in embedded
masses, streaks, and lumps, often of such dimensions that single blocks
of several hundred pounds weight are obtainable. (Specimen No.
59976, U.S.N.M.) It is also found in the form of veins.

The fact that the mineral is carbon, one of the constituents of animal
and vegetable life, has led many authorities to regard it, like coal, as
of vegetable origin. While this view is v ery plausible it can not, how-
ever, be regs med as in all cases proven.

That graphite may be formed independently of organic life is shown
by its presence in cast iron, where it has crystalized out, on cooling,
in the form of bright metallic scales. See Specimens Nos. 51298 and
51312 in the metallurgical series of the manufacture of iron.

Carbon is also found in meteorites which are plainly of igneous
origin, and which have thus far yielded no certain traces of either
plant or animal organisms. It is, however, a well-known fact that
coal—itself of organic origin—has in some cases been converted into
graphite through metamorphic agencies, and intermediate stages like
the graphitic anthracite of Newport, Rhode Island, afford good illus-
trations of such transitions. (Specimen No. 59099, U.S.N.M.) Certain
European authorities’ have shown that amorphous carbonaceous par-
ticles in clay slates have been converted into graphite by the metamor-
phosing influence of intruded igneous rocks. Prof. J. 5. Newberry
described an occurrence of this nature in the coal fields of Sonora,
Mexico.” He says:

All the western portion of this coal field seems to be much broken by trap dikes
which have everywhere metamorphosed the coal and converted it into anthracite.
At the locality examined the metamorphic action has been extreme, converting
most of the coal into a brilliant but somewhat friable anthracite, containing 3 or 4
per cent of volatile matter. At an outcrop of one of the beds, however, the coal was
found conyerted into graphite, which has a laminated structure, but is unctuous to
the touch and marks paper like a lead pencil. The Hes Dh is much more

complete than at Newport (Rhode Island) [Specimen No. 59099, U.S.N.M.], furnishing
the best example yet known to me of the conversion of a bed of coal into graphite.

In New York State, and in Canada, graphite occurs in Laurentian
rocks, both in beds and in veins, a portion of the latter being appar-
ently true fissure veins and others shrinkage cracks or segregation veins
which traverse in countless numbers the containing rocks. It 1s said*
that in the Canadian regions (Specimens Nos. 51007, 59976, U.S.N.M.),
the deposits occur generally in limestone or in their immediate vicinity,
and that granular varieties of the rock often contain large er yetatline

1 Beck and Luzi, Berichte Ae etiachen C Roden hen Guveline hatft, 1891, p. 24.

2School of Mines Quarterly, VIII, 1887, p. 334.

’ See On the Graphite of the Laurentian of Canada, by J. W. Dawson, Proceedings
of the Geological Society of London, XXV, 1870, p. 112, and an article on Graphite
by Prof. J. F. Kemp in The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 335.

170 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

plates of plumbago. At other times the mineral is so finely dissemi-
nated as to give a bluish-gray color to the limestone, and the distribu-
tion of the bands thus colored seems to mark the stratification of the
rock. Further, the plumbago is not confined to the limestones; large
crystalline scales of it are occasionally disseminated in pyroxene rock
or pyrallolite, and sometimes in quartzite and in feldspathic rocks, or
even in magnetic oxide of iron. In addition to these bedded forms,
there are also true veins in which graphite occurs associated with cal-
cite, quartz, orthoclase, or pyroxene, and either in disseminated scales,
in detached masses, or in bands or layers separated from each other
and from the wall rock by feldspar, pyroxene, and quartz. Kemp
describes! the graphite deposit near Ticonderoga, New York (Specimens
Nos. 37825, 66759, U.S.N.M.), as in the form of a true fissure vein,
cutting the lamination of the gneissic walls at nearly right angles.
The wall rock is a garnetiferous gneiss, with an east and west strike,
and the vein runs at the ‘‘ big mine” north 12° west, and dips 55° west.
The vein filling, he says, was evidently orthoclase (or microcline) with
quartz and biotite and pockets of calcite. Besides graphite, it con-
tained tourmaline, apatite, pyrite, and sphene.

Walcott? describes the graphite at the mines 4 miles west of Hague,
on Lake George, New York, as occurring in Algonkian rocks, and as
probably of organic origin.

At the mines the alternating layers of graphite shale or schist form a bed varying
from 3 to 13 feet in thickness. The outcrop may be traced for a mile or more. The
garnetiferous sandstones form a strong ledge above and below the graphite bed. The
appearance is that of a fossil coal bed, the alteration having changed the coal to
graphite and the sandstone to indurated, garnetiferous, almost quartzitic sandstones.
The character of the graphite bed is well shown in the accompanying plate, from a
photograph taken by me in 1890. It is here a little over 9 feet in thickness and is
formed of alternating layers of highly graphitic sandy shale and schist. [See Plate 3.]

According to J. Walther® the Ceylonese graphite (Specimens Nos.
66857, 62073, U.S.N.M.) occurs in coarsely foliated or stalky masses in
veins in gneiss which, where mined, is decomposed to the condition of
laterite. The veins are regarded as true fissures, and vary from 12 to
29 cm. (about 4$ to 8? inches) in width.

The graphite of Northern Moravia occurs in gray to black crystal-
line granular Archean limestone interbedded with amphibolites and
muscovite gneiss, the limestone itself being often serpentinous, in this
respect apparently resembling the graphitic portions of the ophical-
cites of Essex County, New York. (Specimen No. 70084, U.S.N.M.).
The material is quite impure, showing on the average but 53 per cent
of carbon and 44 per cent of ash, the latter being made up largely of

' Preliminary Report on the Geology of Essex County, Contributions from the Geo-
logical Department of Columbia College, 1898, pp. 452, 453.

> Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, X, 1898, p. 227.

* Records of the Geological Survey of India, XXIV, 1891, p. 42.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill. PLATE 3.

ViEWS IN GRAPHITE MINE NEAR HAGUE, WARREN COUNTY, NEW YORK.
From photographs by Charles D. Walcott.
-. i

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. aes

silica and iron oxide, with a little sulphur, magnesia, and alumina.
This graphite is regarded as originating through the metamorphism
of vegetable matter included in the original sediments, the agencies of
metamorphism being both igneous intrusions and the heat and pressure
incidental to the folding of the beds. !

As to so much of the graphite as occurs in beds there seems, then,
little doubt as to its origin from plant remains which may be imagined
to have existed in the form of seaweeds or to have been derived from
diffused bituminous matter. The origin of the vein material is not so
evident, though it seems probable that it is due to the metamorphism
of bituminous matter segregated into veins, like those of albertite in
New Brunswick or of gilsonite, etc., in Utah. Kemp states that the
Ticonderoga graphite must have reached the fissure as some volatile or
liquid hydrocarbon, such as petroleum, and become metamorphosed in
time to its present state. Walther believes the Ceylon material to have
originated by the reduction of carburetted vapors. (See also under
origin of diamonds, p. 166.)

The total quantity of carbon in the form of graphite in the Lauren-
tian rocks of Canada has been estimated by Dawson as equal to that in
any similar areas of the Carboniferous system of Pennsylvania.

Sources. —The chief sources of the graphite of commerce are Austria
and Ceylon. Other sources of commercial importance are Germany,
Italy, Siberia (Specimen No. 61138, U.S.N.M.), the United States, and
Canada. The chief deposits of commercial value in the United States
are at Ticonderoga, New York, where the graphite occurs in a granu-
lar quartz rock, or, according to J. F. Kemp, in ‘‘ Elliptical Chimneys
in Gneiss which are filled with Calcite and Graphite.” An earthy,
impure graphite, said to be suitable for foundry facings, is mined near
Newport, Rhode Island (Specimen No. 53797, U.S.N.M.). About one
hundred years ago the material was mined in Bucks County, Pennsyl-
vania. Other American localities represented in the collections are
Bloomingdale, New Jersey (Specimen No. 56272, U.S.N.M.); Clinton-
ville, New York (Specimen No. 31597, U.S.N.M.); Hague, Warren
County, New York (Specimen No. 63132, U.S.N.M.); Raleigh, Wake
County, North Carolina (Specimen No. 63133, U.S.N.M.); Lehigh and
Berks counties, Pennsylvania (Specimens Nos. 66952, 66953, U.S.N.M.);
Salt Sulphur Springs, West Virginia (Specimen No. 63423, U.S.N.M.);
St. Johns, Tooele County, Utah (Specimen No. 62721, U.S.N.M.).

Graphite is a very common mineral in the Laurentian rocks of
Canada. The most important known localities are north of the Ottaw:
River, in the townships of Buckingham, Lochaber, and Grenville
(Specimens Nos. 59976, 51007, U.S.N.M.). At Buckingham it is stated
masses of graphite have been obtained weighing nearly 5,000 pounds.

‘Jahrbuch k. k. Geologische Reichsanstalt, 1897, XLVII, p. 21.
je. REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

At Grenville the graphite occurs in a gangue consisting mainly of
pyroxene, wollastonite, feldspar, and quartz, while the country rock
is limestone. Blocks of graphite have been obtained weighing from
700 to 1,500 pounds.'

Graphite is also found in Japan (Specimen No. 34359, U.S.N.M.),
Australia (Specimen No. 62177, U.S.N.M.), New Zealand (Specimens
Nos. 17796 and 64795, U.S.N.M.), Greenland (Specimen No. 65374,
U.S.N.M.), Guatemala (Specimen No. 33990, U.S.N.M.), Germany,
and in almost all the Austrian provinces, the most important and best
known deposits being those of Kaiserberg at St. Michel, where there
are five parallel beds occurring in a grayish black graphite schist, the
beds varying from a few inches to 6 yards. The only workable
deposit in Germany is stated to be at Passau in Bavaria. The material
occurs in a feldspathic gneiss, seeming to take the place of the mica
(Specimen No. 52050, U.S.N.M.). The beds have been worked chiefly
by peasants for centuries, and the output used mainly for crucibles.”

Uses. —Graphite is used in the manufacture of ‘‘lead” pencils,
lubricants, stove blacking, paints, refractory crucibles, and for foun-
dry facings. In the manufacture of pencils only the purest and best
varieties are used, and high grades only can be utilized for lubricants
(Specimens Nos. 51608-51619, U.S.N.M.). For the other purposes
mentioned impure materials can be made to answer. In the manufac-
ture of the Dixon crucibles (Specimens Nos. 51598-51600, U.S.N.M.) a
mixture of 50 per cent graphite, 33 per cent of clay, and 17 per cent
of sand is used.

Preparation.—In nature graphite is usually associated with harder
and heavier materials, which it is necessary to get rid of before the
material is of value. In New York it is the custom to crush the rock
in a battery of stamps, such as are used in gold mining, and then
separate the graphite by washing, its lighter specific gravity permit-
ting it to be floated off on water, while the heavy, injurious constitu-
ents are left behind. Mica, owing to its scaly form, can not be
separated in this manner, and hence micaceous ores of the mineral are
of little if any value.

An improvement in the manufacture of plumbago or graphite has
been described in a recent patent specification. Graphite, crushed and
passed through a sieve of from 120 to 150 meshes per inch, is stirred
into asaturated solution of alum or aluminum sulphate at a temperature
of 212° F.; steatite is then added, and more water, if required. After
mixing, excess of water is evaporated until a consistency suited to
ervinding in a chilled steel or other mixer is obtained. More graphite
may here be added; then, after thorough grinding, the material may
be compressed into cakes for household use, or is ready for the manu-

! Descriptive Catalogue of Economic Minerals of Canada, 1876, p. 122.
2 The Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1890, p. 739.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 173

facture of pencils or crucibles. The average formula of the mixture
is: Graphite, 80 parts; steatite, soapstone, or talc, 14 parts; alum, 6
parts; but this varies with the purpose to which the material is to be
applied. Whenseveral different kinds of graphite have to be employed,
the richest in carbon is first mixed into the alum solution. By this
process graphites previously regarded as incapable of being compacted
are utilized, and are improved in polishing power. For pencils the
material may be hard without being brittle, and black without being
soft, while crucibles made from the treated graphite are at once harder,
more durable, and lighter.’

Prices.—The value of the mineral varies with its quality. In 1899
the crude lump was reported as worth $8 a ton and the pulverized $30.

The annual output as given’ for the principal countries is as follows:

World’s production of graphite.

| - :
Austria. | Canada. | Ceylon. | Germany. | India. | Italy. Dated

| States.
Metric Metric Metric Metric Metric | Metric | Metric
tons. | tons. tons. tons. tons. tons. tons. |
20,978 | 151 21, 300 4, 036 (a) 1, 645 707 |
23, 807 Nil. 21, 900 3,140] (a) 1,465 | 634 |
24,121 63 10, 718 3, 1383 1, 623 1,575 349 |
28, 443 199 13, 711 3, 751 (a) 2,657 171
35, 972 126 10, 463 5, 248 (a) 3, 148 184
38, 504 396 | 619,275 3, 861 61 5, 650 450
33, 062 | 1,107 | 678,509 4,593 22] 6,435 824. |

i a Not reported in the Government statistics. ; 0 Exports. ;
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

J. W. Dawson. On the Graphite of the Laurentian of Canada.
Quarterly Journal Geological Society of London, XX VI, 1870, p. 112.
M. Bonneroy. Mémoire sur la Géologie et Exploitation des Gites de Graphite de
la Bohéme Méridionale.
Annales des Mines. 7th Ser., XV. 1879, p. 157.
Joun 8S. Newserry. The Origin of Graphite.
School of Mines Quarterly, VIII, 1887, p. 334.
Der Graphitbergbau auf Ceylon.
Berg- und Huttenmannische Zeitung, XLVIT, 1888, p. 322.
J. Watrner. Ueber Graphitgiinge in zersetztem Gneiss (Laterit) von Ceylon.
Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft, XLI, 1889, p. 359.
A. Patutauscn. Die Graphitbergbaue im siidlichen B6hmen.
Berg- und Hittenminnisches Jahrbuch, XX XVII, p. 95, 1889.
T. ANpREE. Graphite Mining in Austria and Bavaria. (Abstract. )
Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1890, p. 738.

"Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 440.
* The Mineral Industry, VI, 1897; VIII, 1899.

174 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

J. Postterawatrre. The Borrowdale Plumbago; its Mode of Occurrence and Probable
Origin.
Proceedings of the Geological Society of London, Session, 1889-1890, p. 124.
On the formation of Graphite in contact-metamorphism.

American Journal of Science, XLII, 1891, p. 514. Review of article in
Berichte der Deutschen chemischen Gesellschaft, XXIV, p. 1884, 1891.

W. Luz. Zur Kenntniss des Graphitkohlenstoffes. (Berichte der Deutschen Chem-
ischen Gesellschaft, X XIV, pp. 4085-4095. 1891.)

Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Paleontologie. 1893. II, Part
2, p. 241. (Abstract. )

E. Wersscuenk. Zur Kenntniss der Graphitlagerstiitten. Chemisch-geologische
Studien yon Dr. Ernst Weinschenk.

1. Die Graphitlagerstiitten des bayerischen Grenzgebirges. Habilitations-
schrift zur Erlangung der venia legendi an der K. technischen Hochschule.
Miinchen, 1897.

Franz Krerscumer. The Graphite Deposits of Northern Moravia.

Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical

Engineer, XLVII, 1898, p. 87.

2. SULPHUR.

Color of the mineral when pure yellow, sometimes brownish, red-
dish, or gray through impurities. Hardness, 1.5 to 2.5. Specific
gravity, 2.05. Insoluble in water or acids. Luster resinous. Occurs
native in beautiful crystals (Specimens Nos. 53115, 53116, and 60669,
U.S.N.M.) or in massive (Specimens Nos. 16092, 60849, U.S.N.M.),
stalactitic and spheriodal forms (Specimens Nos. 57137 and 60864,
U.S.N.M.). Once seen the mineral is as a rule readily recognized,
and all possible doubts are set at rest by its ready inflammability,
burning with a faint bluish flame and giving the irritating odors of
sulphurous anhydride. In nature often impure through the presence
of clay and bituminous matters; sometimes contains traces of selenium
or tellurium (Specimens Nos. 60856 and 60864, U.S.N.M.).

Origin and mode of occurrence.—Sulphur deposits of such extent as
to be of economic importance occur as a product of volcanic activity,
or result from the alteration of beds of gypsum. Ona smaller scale,
and of interest from a purely mineralogical standpoint, are the occur-
rences of sulphur through the alteration of pyrite and other metallic
sulphides.

Asa product of volcanic action sulphur is formed through the oxida-
tion of hydrogen disulphide (H,S), which, together with steam and
other vapors, is a common exhalation from volcanic vents and solfataras.
Such deposits on a small scale may be seen incrusting fumaroles in the
Roaring Mountain (Specimen No. 72872, U.S.N.M.) or associated with
the sinter deposits of the Mammoth Hot Springs in the Yellowstone
Park (Specimen No. 72877, U.S.N.M.). It may also be produced
through the mutual reaction of hydrogen disulphide (H,S) on sulphuric
anhydride (SO,), the product being sulphur (S) and water (H,O) as

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. RTD

before. To these types belong the sulphur deposits of Utah, Cali-
fornia, Nevada, and Alaska in the United States, as well as those of
Mexico, Japan, Iceland, and other volcanic regions. Sulphur is derived
from the sulphate of lime (gypsum or anhydrite) through the reducing
action of organic matter. The sulphate, through the loss of its oxygen,
becomes converted into a sulphide, which, through the carbonic acid
in the air and water, becomes finally reduced to hydrogen disulphide
with the formation of calcium carbonate.

According to Fuchs and De Launay’ there is formed at the same
time with the hydrogen disulphide a polysutphide, which in its turn
yields a precipitate of sulphur and carbonate of lime. The maximum
amount of sulphur which would thus result from the decomposition of
a given amount of gypsum is stated to be 24 per cent. This method
of origin is illustrated in the celebrated deposit of Sicily, where we
have the sulphur partially disseminated through and partly interbedded
with a blue-gray limestone. (See Specimen No. 60932, U.S.N.M.).
Beneath the sulphur beds as they sow exist are found the older gyp-
seous beds, which through decomposition have yielded the materials
for the lime and sulphur beds now overlying.

With these Sicilian sulphurs occur a number of beautiful secondary
minerals, as celestite (Specimens Nos. 60866, 60869, 60877, U.S.N.M.),
calcite (Specimens Nos. 60854, 60865, 60871, U.S.N.M.), aragonite
(Specimen No. 60859, U.S.N. M. ), and selenite (Specimen No. 60857,
U.S.N:M.).

Sulphur derived directly from metallic sulphides is of little economic
interest. Kemp states” that masses of pyrite in the calciferous strata
on Lake Champlain may yield crusts of sulphur an inch or so thick,
and it is not uncommon to find small crystals of the mineral resulting
from the alteration of galena, as described by George H. Williams?
at the Mountain View (Maryland) lead mine.

The minute quantities of sulphur found in marine muds are regarded
by J. Y. Buchanan* as due to the oxidation of metallic sulphides,
which are themselves produced by the action of animal digestive secre-
tions on preexisting sulphates, mainly of iron and manganese.

Localities.—Vhe principal localities of sulphur known in the United
States are, in alphabetical order: Alaska, California, Idaho, Louisi-
ana, Nevada, Texas, Utah, and Wyoming. With the possible excep-
tion of those of Idaho and Texas, and that of Louisiana, these may
all be traced to a solfataric origin. The Alaskan deposit,’ according
to Dall, are best dey eloped on the islands of Kadiak and Akutan,

TT raité des Gites Mince et Métalliféres, I, p. 259.

*The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 585.

* Johns Hopkins University Circulars, X, 1891, p. 74.

* Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, X VIIT, 1890-91, p. 17.
° Alaska and its Resources, Boston, 1870,

176 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

California deposits have in times past been worked at Clear Lake, in
Modoe County, in Colusa County, in Tehama County (Specimen No.

30118,U.S.N.M.), and in Napa County (Specimen No. 67697,U.5.N.M.).
The Louisiana deposits lie in strata of Quaternary age, and are derived
from gypsum. The following facts relative to this deposit are from
Professor Kemp’s paper. already alluded to:

Probably the richest and geographically the most accessible of the American
localities is in southwestern Louisiana, 230 miles west of New Orleans and 12 miles
from Lake Charles. The first hole which revealed this sulphur was sunk in search
of petroleum, of which the presence of oil and tarry matter on the surface were
regarded, quite justly, as an indication. While more or less of these bituminous
substances were revealed by the drill, the great bed of sulphur is the main object of
interest. A number of holes have since been put down with the results recorded
below, and they leave no doubt that there is a very large body which awaits exploi-
tation. The first explorations were made by the Louisiana Petroleum and Coal Oil
Company. It was succeeded by the Caleasieu Sulphur and Mining Company. The
Louisiana Sulphur Mining Company followed, and now the owners are the American
Sulphur Company. The records of four holes are appended. Nos. 1 and 2 were the
first sunk, and were about 150 feet apart. Nos. 2, 3, and 4 were put down in 1886.
No. 3 is northwest of No. 1.

Records of several of the bore holes that have penetrated the sulphur bed.

|

|| eons 4 SAA TTS Van |American Sulphur
Original Granet’s Wells. “i A Company.
Strata. yao 9 it Le ae soee pe nee Reres as
No.1. | No.2, | No.3. | No.4. | No.5. |No.6.|No.7.|No.8.

Clay, quicksand, and gravel ...... 333. | 344 | 426 | 332 | 345 | 350] 370] 499
aust todo Nahin le eee eee | 110 | 84 | 70 | 138 | o1| 95| 72| 44
Sulphur bed, 70 to 80 per cent-..-. 108 112 119 | 45 110 | 125} 196 | 52

Gypsum and sulphur.......-...--- 680 12) 6 (a) 57 32° | (301) (Ga)

———— | i=
Depth Of hole ee ssn. ncea=- | 1, 231 552 621 | 525 603 602 | 598 596
| !

a Stopped in sulphur.

‘

Analyses from the large bed in holes No. 2 and No. 3 gave the
following:

Depth. Sulphur. | Depth. | Sulphur.
=— = Sal ee

Hole No. 2. Per cent. Hole No. 3. Per cent.
AOS TECES oa auare oat == eet = eee | 62 || BOB TeCtes ec ener ase eee eames 70
441 feet.....- SEELEY, IgA feito eae 90''|| 588 Meet ose se ee oe anes See eee ele 60
ABO feet. ana eae eee eerie oe eee ae SO 549 Teetio= 4. 2820. me Seas ee ee ees $1
AGGiTeCT Lo. eens eee eee pee BBP SOO DHEEL cis sem cae oe oie we eet eo 91
486 fCCtac. cc ~ an 1 Sec ss aaa ee eee See O00} 604 Teet os 20s 5 oe ee eee 98
SAKE Sere tic SE SNe cote aeiae 80 |
See TOChec! jc sco ao eee eee eee eee | 75 |
=F OCG ae a actae oo icte sa ae eee meet 80)
DAG TRS soo bee. cstk. eee | 68

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. £LT

The difficulties in development lie in the quicksands and eravel,
which are wet and soft, and in the soft rock (hole 1), which yields sul-
phurous waters under a head, at the surface, of about 15 feet.

The Nevada deposits occupy the craters of extinct hot springs near
Humboldt House. These craters are described by Russell" as situated
on the open desert, above the surface of which they rise to a height of
from 20 to 50 feet.

Nearly all of the cones are weathered and broken down, and are all extinct, the water
now rising to the surface for miles around. The outer surface of the cones is composed
of calcareous tufa and siliceous sinter, forming irregular imbricated sheets that slope
away at a low angle from the orifice at the top. The interiors of these structures are
filled with crystalline gypsum, that in at least two instances is impregnated with sul-
phur. One of the cones has been opened by a cut from the side in such a manner as
to expose a good section of the material filling the interior, and a few tons of the sul-
phur and gypsum removed. The percentage of sulphur is small, and the economic
importance of the deposit, as shown by the excavation already made, will not war-
rant the further expenditure of capital. The cone that has been opened is surrounded
on all sides by a large deposit of calcareous and siliceous material, thus forming alow
dome or crater, with a base many times as great in diameter as the height of the
deposit. These cones correspond in all their essential features with the structures
that surround hot springs that are still active in various parts of the Great Basin,
thus leaving no question as to their origin. They are situated within the basin of
Lake Lahontan, and must have been formed and become extinct since the old lake
evaporated away.

Sulphur is reported as: occurring in the chemically formed deposits
that surrounded Steamboat Springs, situated midway between Carson
and Reno, Nevada. The conditions at these springs must be very simi-
lar to those that existed near. Humboldt House at the time the cones
containing the sulphur were formed. Sulphur is also said to occur in
the Sweetwater Mountains, situated on the boundary between Cali-
fornia and Nevada, in latitude 38° 30’. The extent and geological
relations of these deposits are unknown.

Another illustration of sulphur deposits of the volcanic type is that
furnished by the Rabbit-Hole Sulphur Mines (Specimen No. 16092,
U.S.N.M.). These are located in northwestern Nevada, on the eastern
border of the Black Rock Desert, and derive their name from the Rab-
bit-Hole Springs, a few miles to the southward. The hills bordering
the Black Rock Desert on the east are mainly of rhyolite, with a narrow
band of volcanic tufa along the immediate edge of the desert. These
beds of tufa are stratified and evidently water-lain, and are identical with
tufa deposits that occur over an immense area in Oregon and Nevada.
At the sulphur mines the tufas contain angular fragments of volcanic
rock, and have been cemented by opal and other siliceous infiltrations
since their deposition, so that they now form brittle siliceous rocks,

-with pebbles and fragments of older rocks scattered through the mass.

‘Transactions of the New York Academy of Sciences, I, 1881-1882, p. 172.
NAT MUS 99 12

178 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

In many places these porous tufas and breccias are richly charged with
sulphur, which fills all the interstices of the rock and sometimes lines
large cavities with layers of crystals 5 or 6 feet in thickness. In the
Rabbit-Hole District sulphur has been found in paying quantities for
a distance of several miles along the border of the desert, but the dis-
tribution is irregular and uncertain, and is always superficial, so far
as can be judged by the present openings. The sulphur has undoubt-
edly been derived from a deeply seated source, from which it has been
expelled by heat, and escaping upward along the lines of faulting has
been deposited in the cooler and higher rocks in which it is now fcuinid,
though whether the deposition took place by direct sublimation or
through the decomposition of hydrogen disulphide can not now be told
with certainty. Judging from the siliceous material that cements the
tufas, it is evident that the porous rocks in which the sulphur is now
found were penetrated by heated waters bearing silica in solution pre-
vious to the deposition of the sulphur. The mines occur in a narrow
north-and-south belt along a line of ancient faulting which is one of
the great structural features of the region. The association of faults
with sulphur-bearing strata of tufa is here essentially the same as at
the Cove Creek Mines, yet to be noted. At the Rabbit-Hole Mines,
however, no very recent movement of the ancient fault could be deter-
mined. This absence of a recent fault-scarp, together with the fact
that the mines are now cold and do not give off exhalations of gas or
vapor, shows that the solfataric action at this locality has long been
extinct, though at the Cove Creek Mines, mentioned below, the depo-
sition is still in progress.

According to A. F. Du Faur' this Cove Creek (Utah) deposit is in
Beaver County, near Millard County line. It was first discovered in
1869, but owing to lack of railroad communications remained undevel-
oped until 1883. The region is one of comparatively recent volcanic
activity. The sulphur occurs impregnating limestone and slate to such
a degree that very pure pieces as ores as one foot in diameter are
obtainable. It also occurs impregnating a decomposed andesite (Speci-
men No. 14921, U.S.N.M.). The Cove Creek mines are situated about
2 miles southeast of Cove Creek fort and to the east of the Beaver road
inasmall basin near the foot of the Sulphur Mountains, surrounded by
low hills, with a narrow ravine opening in the west-northwest direction
uate the plain. The basin is about 6,000 feet above the level of the

ea, While the Sulphur Mountains to the east rise about 2,000 feet
ise. The hills surrounding the basin consist mainly of andesite,
partly also of a very light white trachyte.

As far as explored, the sulphur bed extends at least 1,800 feet by
Lt 000 feet, and the quantity of sulphur contained pera was estimated

u Tene aee of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XV L 1888, p- 33.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 179

by Professor vom Rath, at a time when the bed was not as fully exposed
as it now is, to be at least 1,300,000 tons.

A curved cut has been made through the sulphur bed near the west-
ern end, exposing a vertical wall 34 feet high of rich yellow sulphur.
The sulphur extends up to the surface over part of the basin, but is
mostly covered with sand or rather decomposed andesite. The sur-
face of the deposit is wavy, giving the impression of an agitated mass
gradually cooled. The sulphur is partly mixed with sand or gypsum.
Most of it is yellow color, while some of it is dark gray, and is called
‘*black sulphur.” The deposits of pure sulphur partly resemble the
so-called ** virgin rock,” which is formed as a product of distillation in
the sulphur-flower chambers, particularly when distillation goes on too
rapidly. Some also resemble the delicate crystals formed on the walls
of such chambers; others are like the crystals formed in slowly cooled
masses of sulphur. Gases escape in many places in the cut and in the
prospect holes, together with
water holding salts in solution.
At some points also a consider-
ably elevated temperature is
observed.

Of the foreign localities of
sulphur, the most noted at
present are those of Sicily
and Japan. The first-named
deposits are described as occur-
ring in Miocene strata involy-
ing, from below up, sandy
marls with beds of salt, limey

: : Fig. 1.
marls and lignite, gvpsum and BLOCK OF LIMESTONE WITH ALTERNATING BANDS OF

: : pies - SULPHUR.
limestone impregnated with Sicily, Italy.

sulphur, black shales, and Spor mcadioc tne SN
micaceous sands. Overlying all these is a white, marly Pleocene lime-
stone, while below the Miocene is the Eocene nummulitic limestone.
The sulphur is found in veinlets and sometimes in larger masses,
which ramify through the cellular limestone, as shown in fig. 1 and
Specimens Nos. 60932, 60862, 60852, U.S.N.M.

The yield in sulphur varies from 8 to 25 per cent, rarely running as
high as 40 per cent. Below 8 per cent the rock can not be worked.
More or less petroleum and bitumen are found in the mines. Barite
and celestite sometimes accompany the sulphur.

The mining regions are in the southern central portion of the island
Girgenti and Larcara are the chief centers, The mines are distributed
_ over an area 160 to 170 kilometers (about 100 miles) from east to west,
and 85 to 90 kilometers (55 miles) from north to south. They occur
in groups around centers, partly because the sulphur-bearing stratum
180 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

is not continuous, and partly because the sulphur indications are con-
cealed by later deposits. The region, moreover, is much faulted.

According to Professor Kemp, the common methods of mining are
of the erudest description. In most cases the deposits are reached by
steep slopes or circular stairways (** scala”), with wide steps, up which
boys laboriously bring the crude rock in baskets or sacks. No mine
maps are made, and no precautions taken to work beds on a systematic
scale. Timbering or any supports for the roof are not generally
thought of. A feeling of distrust prevails between the owners of the
land and the operators, and between the latter and the miners.

These objectionable features arise partly from the irregular nature
and uncertainty of the deposits, partly from excessive subdivision of
ownership and ill-adapted property laws, and partly from the local
prejudices against innovations. Even in one case where an American
and an Englishman in partnership secured the right to work a mine,
and set about installing suitable hoisting machinery, they were ham-
pered by a lawsuit with the owner because of this innovation, and
had a long legal contention to establish their undoubted rights. It is
a striking fact that in the new developments in Japan, on a remote
island and against great natural difficulties, the most modern methods
and management prevail, while in Sicily, in the center of the oldest
civilization, these are to a great extent of the crudest.

The Japanese sulphur deposits are all of volcanic origin, and the
Abosanobori mine (Specimen No. 61941, U.S.N.M.), in Kushiro village,
Kawakami-gori, Kushiro Province, Hokkaido, may be taken as fairly
typical. The mine is on a conical-shaped mountain of augite andesite
which, on its northern side is open, and looks down upon a plain coy-
ered with lava and shut in by the walls of the old crater on the other
sides. Sulphur is found in different parts of these walls in massive
heaps and sulphur fumes still issue nearly everywhere about the mines.
The ore as taken from the mines carries from 35 per cent to 90 per
cent of sulphur, which is extracted by steam refining works at Hyocha,
some 35 miles north of the mine."

Other Japanese localities represented in the collection are the
Aroya mines, at Onikobe village, Rikuzen Province (Specimen No.
61945, U.S.N.M.), refined sulphur from the Mitsui Production Com-
pany at Tokio (Specimen No. 61944, U.S.N.M.), and the active vol-
cano of Ievo-San, in Yezo (Specimen No. 72801, U.S.N.M.).

In addition to these localities may be mentioned the following, in
alphabetical order: Austria, Celebes, Egypt, France, Greece, Hawail,
Iceland, Italy, Mexico (Specimens Nos. 57136 and 57137 from Popo-
catepetl), New South Wales, New Zealand, Peru, Russia, Spain, and
the West Indies (Specimen No. 33309, U.S.N.M.).

1The Mining Industry of Japan, by Wada Tsunashiro, 1893.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 181

Exctraction and preparation.—Sulphbur rarely occurs in nature in any
quantity sufficiently pure for commercial purposes. In freeing it from
its impurities three methods are employed: (1) Melting, (2) distillation,
and (3) solution. In the first the ore is simply dry washed at a low
temperature or treated with superheated steam until the sulphur melts
and runs off. Specimen No. 60861 shows the rock after being subjected
to this treatment. The first process is extremely wasteful; the second
much more economical in the end, but demanding a more expensive
plant. A process of fusion in a calcium chloride solution has come into
use of late years, and bids fair to yield better results than either of
the above. In the distillation process the ore is heated in iron retorts
until the sulphur distills off and is condensed in chambers prepared
forit. Specimen No. 60860 shows the rock after removal of the sulphur
by this process. The product is mostly in the form of ‘‘flower of
sulphur.” The method is expensive, but the resultant sulphur very
pure. In the third process mentioned the ore is treated with carbon
disulphide, which dissolves out the sulphur and from which it is recoy-
ered by evaporation. This method, while giving good results, is expen-
sive and somewhat dangerous, owing to the explosive nature of the
gases formed."

Uses. Sulphur is used mainly for making of sulphuric acid—though
small amounts are utilized in the manufacture of matches—for medici-
nal purposes, and in the making of gunpowder, fireworks, insecticides,
for vulcanizing india rubber, etc. In the manufacture of sulphuric
acid the sulphur is burned to sulphurous anhydride (SO,) on a grate
and then conducted with a slight excess of air into large lead-lined
chambers and mixed with steam and nitrous fumes, where the SO, is
oxidized to the condition of SO, (sulphuric anhydride) and takes up
water from the steam forming H,SO, (sulphuric acid). Ordinary roll
sulphur is quoted in the current price lists at from 14 to 24 cents per
pound. (See also under iron pyrites, p. 190.)

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

R. Pumpetity.—Sulphur in Japan.
Geological Researches in China, Mongolia, and Japan. Smithsonian Contri-
butions, XV, 1867, p. 11.
I. C. Russetyt.—Sulphur Deposits of Utah and Nevada.
Transactions of the New York Academy of Science, I, 1882, p. 168.
A. Faser pu Faur.—The Sulphur Deposits of Southern Utah.
Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X VI, 1887, p. 33.
The Sulphur Mines of Sicily.
Engineering and Mining Journal, XLVI, 1888, p. 174.
V. Lamantra. Sulphur Mines of Sicily.
U. 8. Consular Report No. 108, 1889, pp. 146-155.

1The Mineral Industry, IJ, 1893, p. 600.
182 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

3. ARSENIC.

This substance occurs native in the form of a brittle, tin-white metal,
with a specific gravity of 5.6 to 5.7 and a hardness equal to 3.5 of the
scale. On exposure it becomes dull black on the immediate surface.
It is found, as a rule, in veins in the older crystalline rocks associated
with antimony and ores of gold and silver. Some of the more cele-
brated localities for the mineral, as given by Dana, are the silver mines
of Freiberg (Specimens Nos. 60924 and 67730, U.S.N.M.), Annaberg,
Marienberg, and Schneeberg in Saxony; Joachimsthal in Bohemia;
Andreasberg in the Harz; Kapnik and Orawitza in Hungary; Kongs-
berg in Norway; Zmeoy in Siberia; St. Maria aux Mines, Alsace;
Mount Corna dei Darden, Italy; Chafarcillo, Chili; San Augustin,
Hidalgo, Mexico, and New Zealand. In the United States it has been
found at Haverhill, New Hampshire; Greenwood, Maine; near Lead-
ville, Colorado; and on Watson Creek, Frozen River in British
Columbia.

The arsenic of commerce is, however, rarely obtained from the
native mineral, but is prepared by the ignition of arsenical pyrites
(FeAs,) or arsenical iron pyrites (FeS,,FeAs,). The white arsenic of
commerce (arsenious acid, As,O,), though occurring sometimes native
as arsenolite in the form of botryoidal and stalactitic crusts of a white
or yellowish color, is, as a rule, obtained as a by-product in the metal-
lurgical operations of extracting certain metals, particularly cobalt
and nickel, from their ores. Such ores as niccolite, a nickel arsenide
(NiAs), gersdorffite (NiAsS), Rammelsbergite (NiAs,), Smaltite
(CoAs,), Skutterudite (CoAs,), Proustite (Ag,AsS,), and other arsen-
ides and sulpharsenides on roasting give up their arsenic in the form
of fumes, which are condensed in chambers prepared for this purpose.

ses.—Arsenic is utilized in the form of arsenious acid (As,O,) in
dyeing, calico printing, in the manufacture of various pigments, in
arsenical soaps, in the preparation of other salts of arsenic, and as a
preservative in museums, particularly for the skins of animals and
birds.
4, ALLEMONTITE.

Allemontite, or arsenical antimony of the formula SbAs,, =arsenic
65.2; antimony 34.8, occurs somewhat sparsely at Allemont in France,
Pribram, Bohemia, and other European localities associated with
sphalerite, antimony, etc. (Specimen No. 67728, U.S.N.M.). So far
as the writer has information the mineral has not as yet been found
in sufficient quantity to be of economic value.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 183

II. SULPHIDES AND ARSENIDES.

1. REALGAR.

This is a monosulphide of arsenic, AsS, = sulphur 29.9 per cent;
arsenic, 70.1 per cent; hardness, 1.5 to 2; specific gravity, 3.55; color,
aurora red or orange yellow, streak the same.

2. ORPIMENT; AURIPIGMENT.

A trisulphide of arsenic, of the formula As,S,, = sulphur 39 per cent,
arsenic, 61; hardness, 1.5; specific gravity, 3.4 to 3.5. Color, lemon
yellow. This mineral occurs usually associated with realgar at the
localities mentioned below.

Occurrences. —Realgar and orpiment are very beautiful, though not
abundant minerals which occur associated with ores of silver and lead
in various European mining regions and also those of Japan (Specimen
No. 11864, U.S.N.M.), Hungary (Specimen No. 66813, U.S.N.M.),
Bohemia, Transylvania, and Saxony. They have been reported in
the United States in beds of sandy clay beneath lava in Iron County,
Utah, and form the so-called ‘* Arsenical gold ore” of the Golden Gate
Mine, Mercur, Tooele County, this same State (Specimen No. 53363,
U.S.N.M.); also in San Bernardino County, California; Douglas
County, Oregon (Specimen No. 62101, U.S.N.M.), and in minute
quantities in the geyser waters of the Yellowstone National Park.

The realgar and orpiment of the Coyote mining district, Iron County,
Utah, occur in a compact, sandy clay, occupying a horizontal seam or
layer about 2 inches thick, not distinctly separated from the clay,
but lying in its midst in lenticular and nodular masses. The bulk of
the layer consists of realgar in divergent, bladed crystals, closely and
confusedly aggregated, sometimes forming groups of brilliant crystal-
line facets in small cavities toward the center of the mass. The orpi-
ment is closely associated with the realgar in the form of small and
delicately fibrous crystalline rosettes, and small spherical aggregations
made up of fine radial crystals, and also in bright yellow, amorphous
crusts in and around the mass of the realgar. Fine parallel seams of
gypsum occur both above and below the layer, and the strata of arena-
ceous clays above for 30 feet or more are charged with soluble salts
which exude and efHloresce upon the surface of the bank, forming hard
crusts. The whole appearance and association of the minerals indi-
‘ates that they have been formed by aqueous infiltration since the
deposition of the beds.’

Orpiment is said’ to occur at Tajowa, near Neusohl, Hungary, as
_nodular masses and isolated crystals in clay or calcareous marl.

1W.P. Blake, American Journal of Science, X XI, 1881, p. 219.
> H. A. Miers, Mineralogical Magazine, July, 1892, p. 24.
184 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Uses. —Realgar is used mainly in pyrotechny, yielding a very bril-
liant white light when mixed with saltpeter and ignited. It is now
artificially prepared by fusing together sulphur and arsenious acid.’
Orpiment is used in dyeing and in preparation of a paste for removing
hair from skins. According to the British consular reports there were
exported from Baghdan, in 1897, some 55,600 pounds of the mineral
for use as a pigment. As with realgar, the mineral is now largely
prepared artificially. The name ‘‘orpiment” is stated by Dana to be
a corruption of auripigment, golden paint, in allusion to the color.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

W. P. Buake. Occurrence of Realgar and Orpiiment in Utah Territory.
American Jourual of Science, X XI, 1881, p. 219.
H. B. Futron. Arsenic in Spanish Pyrites, and its elimination in the local treat-
ment for production of copper precipitate.
Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, V, 1886, p. 296.
Production of Arsenic in Cornwall and Devon.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LIT, 1891, p. 96.
WiturAM THomAs. Arsenic.
The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 25.

3. CoBaLT MINERALS.

Several minerals contain cobalt as one of their essential constituents
in sufficient quantity to make them of value as ores. In other cases
the cobalt exists in too small quantities to pay for working for this
substance alone, and it is obtained as a by-product during the process
of extraction of other metals, notably of nickel. The common cobalt-
bearing minerals, together with their chemical composition, mode of
occurrence, and other characteristics are given below:

JOBALTITE. —Cobaltine, or cobalt glance. (Specimens Nos. 60922,
34266, U.S.N.M.) This is a sulpharsenide of cobalt of the formula Co
AsS, =Sulphur 19.3 per cent; arsenic, 45.2 per cent; cobalt, 35.5 per
cent; hardness 5.5, and specific gravity 6 to 6.8. The luster is metallic
and color silver white to reddish. When in erystals, commonly in
cubes or pyritohedrons. Analysis of a massive variety from I, Siegen,
Westphalia; II, Skutterud, Norway, and III and IV, Daschkessan, in
the government of Elizavetpol, Caucasus, as given by various author-
ities, yielded results as below:

Constituents. | Tog ue III. IV.

ATS@DIC 225242205. 2506 = Seen ote | 45.31] 43.46 | 39.97 | 31.73
Sulphur sts. so.c2e sees eee eee lhe S836 1!" OK OS" | eee teen | eee
Cobalitia--5 << 22e-- = Sc /Ee SEO EEe 33.71 | 338.10 | 17.90 | 17.55
[ET OD eacsece cok eee eee eee a 1. 63 3.23 1.44 9. 85
INIG ROI Saran cee ten eo see eer Ea va Sere mo soeae. 0.22 | 0.26
Undetermined)... -* ss5-0- =e enna | Scenes |eoeeeees | 44.26 | 40.71
ea a ea Re Z Nee ae Lhasa LANA BEE

1 Wagner’s Chemical Technology, p. 87.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 185

In Saxony the mineral (Specimens Nos. 60922 and 67736, U.S.N.M.)
occurs in lodes in gneiss and in which heavy spar (baryte) forms the
characteristic gangue. It is associated with other metallic sulphides,
notably those of lead and copper. At Skutterud and Snarum, Nor-
way, the cobaltiferous fahlbands, according to Phillips'—

Occur in crystalline rocks varying in character between gneiss and mica schists, but
from the presence of hornblende they sometimes pass into hornblende schists; among
the accessory minerals are garnet, tourmaline, and graphite. These schists, of which
the strike is north and south, and which have an almost perpendicular dip, contain fahl-
bands very similar in character to those of Kongsberg. They differ from those of that
locality, however, inasmuch as while here the fahlbands are often sufficiently impreg-
nated with ore to pay for working, those of Kongsberg, although to some extent contain-
ing disseminated sulphides, are only of importance as zones of enrichment for ores
occurring in veins. The ore zones usually follow the strike and dip of the surround-
ing rocks, and vary in breadth from 23 to 6 fathoms. The distribution of the ores is
by no means equal, since richer and poorer layers have received special names and
are easily recognized. The Erzbander, or ore bands, are distinguished from the
Reicherzbander, or rich ore bands, while the bands of unproductive rock are known
as Felsbander. The predominant rock of the fahlbands is a quartzose granular mica
schist, which gradually passes into quartzite, ordinary mica schist, or gneiss. The
ores worked are cobalt glance, arsenical, and ordinary pyrites containing cobalt,
skutterudite, magnetic iron pyrites, copper pyrites, molybdenite, and galena. It is
remarkable that in these mines nickel ores do not accompany the ores of cobalt in
any appreciable quantity. The principal fahlband is known to extend for a distance
of about 6 miles, and is bounded on the east by a mass of diorite which protrudes
into the fahlband, while extending from the diorite are small dikes or branches
traversing it in a zigzag course. It is also intersected by dikes of coarse-grained
granite which contain no ore, but which penetrate the diorite.

The Skutterud mine in 1879 produced 7,700 tons of cobalt ore, which yielded 108
tons of cobalt schlich (concentrates), containing from 10 to 11 per cent of cobalt,
and worth about £11,000.

At Dacshkessan the ore occurs under a sheet of diabase, the cobaltite
being in the wall rock of this sheet, and which carries also garnets and
copper pyrites. In 1887, 1,216 kilograms of the mineral were extracted;
in 1888, 928 kilograms, and in 1889, 12,960 kilograms, besides some
3,000 kilograms of cobaltiferous matter obtained in treating the cobal-
tiferous copper ores.” }

SMALTITE.—(Specimen No. 66757, U.S.N.M.) This is essentially
a cobalt diarsenide of the formula CoAs,, = arsenic, 71.8 per cent;
cobalt, 28.2 per cent; hardness, 5.5 to 6; specific gravity, 6.4 to 6.6.
Color, white to steel gray. Through the assumption of nickel the min-
eral passes by gradations into chloanthite.

‘Ore Deposits, by J. A. Phillips, p. 889. * Annales des Mines, II, 1892, p. 503.
186 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Analyses of samples from (1) Schneeberg, Saxony, and (IT) Gunnison
County, Colorado, as given by Dana, yielded results as below:

Constituents. ui Naf
= Ire = a a =|

ATSONIO Ss 1c. chon eo ee eee eelata eee OnE Eens | 71.53 | 63.82

SITs At eet eine em wt iy ag ale 9 ots ies 8 ae st
| Cobalt. 5.25. 22.200 Set nS ee ee Ee ee eee 18.07 | 11.59

Tron, 2.2.2: 2. sy Se eee eee eee eee eee 7.31 | 15.99

Nickel... <2)0.2) Sash ee Sea eee ra ete 1.02 | Trace.

Copper 26; 2S385 265.25 ce poe Ome eae ee 0.01 | 0.16
= = |

The mineral occurs like cobaltite in veins associated with other
metallic arsenides and sulphides.

SKUTTERUDITE is the name given to a cobaltic arsenide of the
formula CoAs,, = arsenic, 79.3; cobalt. 20.7. It is of a tin- white color,
varying to lead-gray, has a hardness of 6, and specific gravity of 6.72 to
6.86. It occurs associated with cobaltite, titanite, and hornblende in
a vein in gneiss at Skutterud, Norway, The name safforite is given
to a cobalt diarsenide closely resembling smaltite but differing in being
orthorhombic, rather than isometric in crystallization. The composi-
tion as given by Dana is quite variable, running from 61 per cent to 70
per cent arsenic, and 10 to 23 per cent cobalt, with 4 to 18 per cent of
iron and smaller amounts of sulphur, copper, nickel, and bismuth. It
is found associated with smaltite in various localities.

GLAucopoT is a sulpharsenide of cobalt and iron of the formula
(Co, Fe) AsS, = sulphur, 19.4 per cent; arsenic, 45.5 per cent; cobalt,
23.8 per cent; iron, 11.3 per cent. Color, grayish; hardness, 5; specific
gravity, 5.9to6. Actual analysis of a Chilean variety yielded (accord-
ing to Dana) As 48.2, S 20.21, Co 24.77, Fe 11.90. It is therefore essen-
tially a ferriferous cobaltite, that is, a cobaltite in which a part of the
cobalt has been replaced by iron. The mineral is found at Huasco,
Chile, associated with cobaltite in a chloritic schist. The name a//o-
Clasite is given to a variety of glaucodot containing bismuth and
answering to the formula Co (As, Bi) S. The composition as given is
somewhat variable. Arsenic, 28 to 33 per cent; bismuth, 23 to 32 per
cent; sulphur, 16 to 18 per cent; cobalt, 20 to 24 per cent; iron, 2.7
to 3.8 per cent.. It is reported only from Orawitza, Hungary.

LINN #ITE (Specimens Nos. 56159, 65309, U.S.N.M.) is a sulphide of
cobalt with the formula Co,S,, =sulphur, 42.1per cent; cobalt, 57.9
per cent; a part of its cobalt is commonly replaced by nickel, giving
rise to its variety szegenite. The mineral is brittle, of a pale steel-
gray color, tarnishing red. Hardness, 5.5 and specific gravity 4.8
to 5. When crystallized it is commonly in octahedrons. The fol-
lowing analyses of a nickel-bearing variety (s¢egenzte) are quoted from
Dana:
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 187

| Constituents. eoss 2 le" CO! Ni. | Fe. Cu.

| ae
Misen; Prussia. on) wcs-.seceed (AsO! |! 2459286)|0 2... 5.31 1.10
Mineral Hill, Maryland............... 39.70 | 25.69 |} 29.56 | 1.96 2.23

Mine La Motte, Missouri .............- 41.54 OTe 340! $8059 | 3.37 | Trace. |

|

The mineral occurs in gneiss in Sweden; with barite and siderite at
Miisen; in limestone with galena and dolomite at Mine La Motte,
Missouri, and with sulphides of iron and copper in chloritic schists in
Maryland.

SYCHNODYMITE has the formula (Co, Cu), 5,, and yields sulphur,
40.64 per cent; copper, 18.98 per cent; cobalt, 35.79 per cent; nickel,
3.66 per cent; iron, 0.93 per cent. It is of a steel-gray color, metallic
luster, and has a specific gravity of 4.75.

ERYTHRITE Or COBALT BLOOM (Specimens Nos. 17698, 51909, 56463,
58096, and 67759, U.S.N.M.) is the name given to a hydrous cobalt
arsenate of the formula Co,As,O,+8H,O, = arsenic pentoxide, 38.4
per cent; cobalt protoxide, 37.5 per cent, and water, 24.1 per cent.
It occurs in globular and reniform shapes and earthy masses of a
crimson to peach-red color associated with the arsenides and sulphar-
senides mentioned above and from which it is derived by a process of
oxidation. In Churchill County, Nevada, it occurs as a decomposition
product of a cobalt bearing niccolite. It is also found at the Kelsey
mine, Compton, in Los Angeles County, California; associated with
cobaltite at Tambillo and at Huasco, Chile, and under similar con-
ditions in various ports of Europe.

ASBOLITE, or earthy cobalt (Specimen No. 60993, U.S.N.M.), is a
black and earthy ore of manganese (wad) which sometimes carries as
high as 30 per cent of cobaltic oxide. It takes its name from the Greek
aofpoiaive, to soil like soot. RosELire is an arsenate of lime, mag-
nesia and cobalt with the formula (Ca, Co, Mg),As,O,, 2H, O, =arsenic
pentoxide, 51.4 per cent; lime, 28.1 per cent; cobalt protoxide, 12.5 per
cent; water, 8 percent. Itis of a light to dark rose-red color, hardness
3.5; specific gravity 3.5 to 3.6, and vitreous luster. SpHa:ROCOBALTITE
is a cobalt protocarbonate of the formula CoCO,, =carbon dioxide, 37.1
per cent; cobalt protoxide, 62.9 per cent. It is also of a rose-red color,
varying to velvet black. Hardness 4, and specific gravity 4.02 to 4.13.
It occurs but sparing, associated with roselite at Schneeberg in Saxony.
REMINGTONITE is a hydrous carbonate the exact composition of which
has not been ascertained. CoBALTOMENITE is a supposed selenide of
cobalt. Breserirr, or cobalt vitriol, is a sulphate of the formula
CoSO,+7H,O. The color is flesh to rose red. It is soluble in water,
has an astringent taste, and occurs in secondary stalactitie form.
Pateraite is a possible molybdate of cobalt.

Aside from the possible sources mentioned above, cobalt occurs
188 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

very constantly associated with the ores of nickel (niccolite, millerite,
chloanthite, etc.), and is obtained as a by-product in smelting. Con-
siderable quantities have thus from time to time been obtained from
the Gap mines of Pennsylvania, Mine La Motte, Missouri, and Love-
lock, Nevada. (Specimen No. 61324, U.S.N.M.) The nickel mines of
New Caledonia are perhaps the most productive. The ore here (a sili-
cate), carries some 3 per cent of cobalt protoxide. (Specimen No.
61027, U.S.N.M.)

A vein of cobalt ore near Gothic, Gunnison County, Colorado, is
described as lying in granite, the gangue material being mainly cal-
cite, throughout which was disseminated the ore in the form of
smaltite. With it were associated erythrite, a small amount of iron
pyrites, and native silver. An analysis of this ore yielded as below:

Wopallits =. t2e eo eeee S 1:59: |S Bismuth: S25 te eae ee ee ete
Dera pce tan Ba a ea ere WERE, | Copper: 33223961 5 oe ee 0. 16
ATSENIG sc San Gost ee oe eee 63. 82 | Nickell) 25.2. eee Trace.
SUC) A Sats ene eens eee eee 2.60 | Silyer=s Sto se eee eee Trace.
edd. 2 332 eee 2.05 |

Sulphur; 222g ee ae ee 1.55 oo

A cobalt ore, consisting of a mixture of glaucodot and erythrite,
occurring near Carcoar Railway Station, New South Wales, has the
composition given below:

Constituents. Ie | Ee
z Sa | nt
NGIstInG {Ae Beam net eed) teen ears | . 120 | 2.180
Metallic arsenic .....-. Bo ena aneeee aces Sees | 51.810 29.010
Metallic? cOaly wees see een ae | 10.447 | 13.830
Motalliciminkele 0s 2 sce.555 2.5 eer leo SBO0dt, 806
Metalli¢ item. :..000) ee. oot eee ee 11.860 | 15.78
AMIN. eee Se oe ee eo eae Sheen bestest | Trace. |
Metallic:manganese2':.2e2 5 s8_2 eas eee | Nil. Nil. |
Metallic: callciima 2. 334 ss. -e eee cee ee eee Nil. ff
Magnesium ssso9 -cacecacts thee aoe eRer ee nee = 1.480 | solo
Gold 22.6.5. see pe cea eRe CEES ee ae Dee Traces||'. 2 sa.neeee
Silvers .d ni ccSSs ese e eee ne eae eee eee Trace|teesseeeses
Sulphur... eee chee eee kee eee eee 1. 520 11.24
Gangue (insoluble in acids) ..................--- 22.078 | 26.31
99. 905 99. 67
Specifie pravity s- a: sceteee cess coe onee eee 5. 43 |

According to the Annual Report, Department of Mines, for 1888,
this ore occurs concentrated in irregular hollows and bunches, often
intimately mixed with diorite in a line of fissure between an intrusive
diorite and slate, the fissure running for some distance following the
line of junction between the two rocks, and being presumably formed
at the time of the extrusion of the diorite.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 189

Other cobalt ores, carrying from 13 to 15 per cent of cobalt oxide,
occur near Nina.!

Uses.—Cobalt is produced and sold in the form of oxide and used
mainly as a coloring constituent in glass and earthen wares. Only
some 200 tons are produced annually the world over. The market
value of the material is variable, but averages about $2 a pound.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Fuchs et De Launay, Traité des Gites Minéraux, II, pp. 75-91.
4+. ARSENOPYRITE; MISPICKEL; OR ARSENICAL PyYRITES.

Composition. —Somewhat variable. Essentially a sulpharsenide of
iron of the formula FeAsS, or FeS,, FeAs,,=arsenic, 46 per cent;
sulphur, 19.7 per cent, and iron, 34.3 per cent. The name danaite is
given to a cobaltiferous variety. The specific gravity of the min-
eral varies from 5.9 to 6.2. Hardness, 5.5 to 6. Colors, silver white
to steel gray, streak dark gray to black; luster, metallic. Brittle.
The mineral occurs principally in crystalline rocks, and
is a common associate of ores of silver, gold, tin, and lead. It is at
times highly auriferous, forming a valuable ore of gold, as in New
South Wales and more rarely in California and Alaska. It is found
in nearly all the States bordering along the Appelachian Mountain
system, but in no instance is regularly mined excepting incidentally
in the process of working other metals. Concerning its occurrence
abroad Dana states that it is ‘‘abundant at Freiberg and Munzig, where
it occurs in veins (Specimens Nos. 62803, 66809, 66810, 73104,U.S.N.M.);
at Reichenstein in Silesia in serpentine; at Auerbach in Baden; in beds
at Breitenbrunn and Raschau, Andreasberg and Joachimsthal; at
Tunaberg in Sweden; at Skutterud in Norway; at Wheal Mawdlin
and Unanimity, Cornwall, and at the Tamar mines in Devonshire,
England (Specimens Nos. 67456, 67457, U.S.N.M.) and in Bolivia.

Uses.—The only use of the mineral is as an ore of arsenic.

Occurrence.

5. LOLLINGITE; LEUCOPYRITE.

The prismatic arsenical pyrites, or /eucopyrite, is essentially a diar-
senide of iron, with the formula FeAs,, though usually contaminated
with a little sulphur and not infrequently cobalt, bismuth, or antimony.
It has a specific gravity of 7 to 7.4, hardness of 5 to 5.5, metallic luster
and silver-white to steel-gray color.

The mineral has been found at Edenville, New York (Specimen No.
67744, U.S.N.M.); Roxbury, Connecticut, and other places in the
United States and associated with other arsenides and sulpharsenides
in the gold and silver mines of Europe.

‘Complete analyses of these are given in Catalogue of the New South Wales
Exhibit, World’s Columbian Exposition, Chicago, 1893, p. 330.
190 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

6. PYRITES.

Two forms of the disulphide of iron are common in nature. The
first, known simply as pyrite or iron pyrites, occurs in sharply defined
cubes and their crystallographic modifications (Specimen No. 51740,
U.S.N.M.), or in granular masses of a brassy-yellow color (Specimen
No. 62152, U.S.N.M.).

The second, identical in composition, crystallizes in the othorhombic
system (Specimens Nos. 17124, 55206, and 73613,U.S.N.M.), but is more
common in concretionary (Specimen No. 62976, U.S.N.M.), botryoidal
(Specimen No. 30772, U.S.N.M.), and stalactitic (Specimens Nos. 62800
and 67761, U.S.N.M.) forms, which are of a dull grayish-yellow color.
This form is known as the gray iron pyrites. Both forms have the
chemical composition, FeS,,—iron 46.6 per cent and sulphur 53.4 per
cent.

The ore as mined is, however, never chemically pure, but contains
admixtures of other metallic sulphides, besides, at times, considerable
quantities of the precious metals. The following analyses’ of materials
from well-known sources will serve to show the general variation:

Constituents. I. Veh), SAB lf TiN Wey awl VIL.
Sulphur ............- 48.0| 48.0| 48.02 | 40.00| 47.76 | 46.40] 45.60
[On tao eee ee ee 43.0 | 44.0 42,01 | 35.0 | 48.99] 39:00 | 38.52
Capnemicc teenies 1.6 VG alsaetea te A O0s(- 8.60.19 5p Ne eee
ZATION Set Seee eee ee 1.5 iil ae a leeeaeee (POs 24a seer 6. 00

[seilica! xt esau: 6.0) 3.7] 7.60} 20.00} 1.99| 9.25 li S090
Alani ei = te oo le eae Pep ier ce PaRAese Sore ore [price /ioi erase merase
IATSEIC. eee eee Traces leis yee Trace. | 0.83 0.10 | Trace.
Silver and gold......}. ats at eee oer ee bs eae ae. | Trace. |'Trace. |...-...- | ao ee
Reh dhets be... eee telte hot lacy’ IPs ee Peete |< Osstosle oes lone

I. Milan, Coos County, New Hampshire; IL. Rowe, Massachusetts;
III. Louisa County, Virginia; IV. Sherbrooke, Canada; V. Rio Tinto,
Spain; VI. near Lyons, France; VII. Westphalia, Germany.

Pyrite is sufficiently hard to scratch glass, and this, together with its
color, crystalline form, and irregular fracture, is sufficient for its ready
determination in most cases. Once known, it is thereafter readily rec-
ognized. Owing to its yellow color, the mineral has by ignorant per-
sons been mistaken not infrequently for gold—which, however, it does
not at all resemble—and has hence earned the not very flattering but
quite appropriate name of ‘*fool’s gold.” In certain cases, however,
it carries the precious metals, and in many regions is sufficiently rich
in gold to form a valuable ore.

Pyrite is one of the most widely disseminated
of minerals, both geologically and geographically, occurring in rocks of
all kinds and of all ages the world over. It is found in the form of

Mode of occurrence.

‘Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-1884, p. 877,
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 191

disseminated grains throughout the mass of a rock, or along the line
of contact between basic eruptives and sedimentaries; as irregular and
sporadic and concretionary masses in sedimentary rocks and modern
sands and gravels; in the form of true fissure veins, and as interbedded,
often lenticular masses, sometimes of immense size, lying conformably
with the stratification (or foliation) of the inclosing rock. On the
immediate surface the mineral is in most cases considerably altered by
oxidation and hydration, forming the caps of gossan or limonite.

The origin of the mineral in the older crystalline rocks, as that of
the rocks themselves, is not infrequently somewhat obscure. In sedi-
mentary rocks it is undoubtedly due to the precipitation of the included
ferruginous matter by sulphureted and deoxidizing solutions from
‘decomposing animal and vegetable matter.

Some of the pyritiferous deposits, as those of Louisa County, Virginia
(Specimens Nos. 54239, 54241, and 54249, U.S.N.M.), and Huelva, Spain,
are of enormous proportions. The first named is described! as over
2 miles in length, and to have been exploited to upwards of 600 feet in
depth and in width, from foot to hanging rock, as high as 60 feet of
pure ore (see large Specimen No. 54242, U.S.N.M.). The average
width of the two worked beds is upward of 18 feet. The rocks
inclosing the deposits consist principally of taleose and hydromica
slates. At Rio Tinto the ore is described’ as occurring in immense
masses several thousand feet in length and from 300 to 800 feet in
width, extending in depth to an unknown distance. The ore (Specimen
No. 11427, U.S.N.M.) is very clean and massive, containing besides
sulphur and iron only some 2 to 4 per cent of copper and traces of
silver and gold. The material is mined wholly from open cuts and
to a depth of some 400 feet. The country rock is described as of
Silurian and Devonian schists near contact with diorites.

Uses. —With the exception of the small amount utilized in the prep-
aration of vermilion paints and the still smaller amount used for
jewelry, almost the sole value of the mineral is for the manufacture of
sulphuric acid and the sulphate of iron, known as green vitriol or cop-
peras. In the process of making sulphuric acid the ore is roasted or
burnt in specially designed ovens and furnaces until the mineral is
decomposed, the sulphur fumes being caught and condensed in cham-
bers prepared for the purpose. By the Glover and Gay-Lussac method
from 280 to 290 parts of sulphuric acid of a density of 66° Baumé may
be obtained for each 100 parts of sulphur in the ore or about 2,565
pounds of acid to 1 ton (2,000 pounds) of average ore.

In the manufacture of copperas the ore is broken into small pieces
and thrown into piles over which water is allowed to drip slowly. A

- ‘Origin of the Iron Pyrites Deposits in Louisa County, Virginia, by F. L. Nason,
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVII, 1894, p. 414.
* A Visit to the Pyrite Mines of Spain, Eng. and Min. Jour., LVI, 1893, p. 498.
192 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

natural oxidation takes place, whereby the sulphide is transformed
into a hydrated sulphate. The latter being soluble runs off in solution
in the water, which must be collected and evaporated in order to obtain
the salt. Thus prepared the sulphate is used in dyeing, in the manu-
facture of writing ink, asa preservative for wood, and as a disinfectant.
It has also been used in the manufacture of certain brands of fertilizers.
The method of manufacture as formerly carried on at Strafford,
Vermont, is given below:

The process consists in first raising the ore from the bed, which is principally done
with the help of gunpowder. The blocks of ore are then broken up into small pieces,
to facilitate the decomposition, by suffering the oxygen contained in water and the
atmosphere to come more directly in contact with the material composing the ore.
Large heaps of these pieces, called leaches, are made upon a tight plank bottom or
upon a sloping ledge of solid rock, where the liquor or lye that subsequently runs from
them may be saved.

In dry weather a small stream of water is made to flow upon and penetrate these
leaches in order to produce a spontaneous combustion, which in warm weather com-
mences in a few days, and if properly managed will continue several weeks. When
combustion is taking place great care is requisite in order to have the work go on suc-
cessfully, for if too much water is suffered to penetrate the leach or heap the decom-
position is checked by the reduction of temperature and the lye or liquor issuing from
it is too weak to be valuable, and if there is not water enough put on the leach the
decomposition is also arrested by the absence of the oxygen found in the water,
which is necessary to convert the sulphurous acid into the sulphuric, that sulphate
of iron or copperas may be produced.

The liquor that runs from the leaches is collected in reservoirs, from which it can
be taken at pleasure. Below the reservoirs upon the hillside buildings are erected,
called evaporators, to which liquor is conducted in troughs from the reservoirs in
small streams that are divided and subdivided by means of perforated troughs,
brush, etc. Several tiers of brush are arranged in the building, through which the
liquor is made to pass to facilitate the process of evaporation. In dry, windy weather
the evaporation is oftentimes so rapid that the brush and other substances with
which the liquor comes in contact during the latter part of its journey often have an
incrustation of copperas formed upon them; but upon the return of rainy weather the
humid atmosphere checks the evaporation, and the crust of copperas is dissolved and
passes with the liquor into reservoirs prepared to receive it.

The liquor, which is now very strongly impregnated with copperas, is conducted
into leaden boilers, where heat is applied and the liquor redvced to a strength indi-
cated by the acidimeter to be right for the production of copperas. The liquor is
then placed in vats of lead or of brick and water cement, called crystallizers, and
after remaining from eight to ten days a crust of copperas is formed upon the bottom
and sides of the vats, composed of nicely formed crystals. The water remaining in
the crystallizers is then pumped back into the boilers, the crust of copperas removed,
and, after being sufficiently drained, it is packed in casks ready for market.’ [See
also under Alum shale and vitriol stone, p. 421. ]

The analyses given below show (1) the composition of fresh pyrite
from the Coal Measures of Mercer County, Pennsylvania, and (2) and
(3) that of two varieties of paint produced from it by calcination.”

1 Geology of Vermont, IT, 1861, p. 830.
2 Report M. M. Second Report of Progress in the Laboratory of the Survey at Har-
risburg, Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1879, p. 374.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 193

Constituents. dip

Bisnl phideoLiron.<3 222s cases 96.161
Bisulphide of copper ................-- Trace.
Sesquioxide of iwoOn.. =: .. cesennwe snateeiee | aie scree ivi
SASELTINITIS «aids fons aes.ce oe Bk eee c oS . 653
Protoxide Of ivOMn 222.54. 5k. st cesteiaeeae aseeemeaee
TORING tise se ese Se oan oe cee meee eee 450
MES PTI CSIS Boose an scat s soe een ee . 140
STUINGE We Be eo he oe Peas A ee . 680
UU AUTIC BClGsn saci cies x ck oe sae ee Meee eee
Water and carbonaceous matter ......|........-.
Undetermined -<ca2--- seeks sancce ce 1.916

Potaleease sae ees eee 100, 000

Pyrite on decomposing in the presence of moisture in the ground
sometimes gives rise to an acid sulphate of iron. This may attack
aluminous minerals when such are present, giving rise thus to solutions
of sulphate of iron and alumina, which come to the surface as ‘‘alum
springs,” or, if no alumina is present, merely as iron or chalybeate
springs, which are of more or less medicinal value. The presence of
such sulphates in a soil is readily detected by the well-known astrin-
gent taste of green vitriol and alum, even where the quantity is not
sufficient to appear as a distinct efflorescence. Impregnation of these
salts in soils are by ignorant persons sometimes assumed to be of great
medicinal value, and the writer has in mind a case in one of the Southern
States, in which the aqueous leachings of such a soil were regularly
bottled and sold as a specific for nearly all the ills to which the flesh is
heir, though prescribed especially for flux, wounds, and ulcers. (See
also under Alum, p. 416.)

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

W. H. Apams. The Pyrites Deposits of Louisa County, Virginia.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XII, 1883, p. 527.
Wituram Martyn. Pyrites.
Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-84, p. 877.
J. H. Couns. The Great Spanish Pyrites Deposits.
Engineering and Mining Journal, XL, 1885, p. 79.
E. D. Perers. A Visit to the Pyrites Mines of Spain.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVI, 1893, p. 498.
Frank L. Nason. Origin of the Iron Pyrites Deposits in Louisa County, Virginia.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVII, 1894, p. 414.
M. Drititon. The Pyrites Mines of Sain-Bel.
Minutes of Proceedings of the Institute of Civil Engineers, CXIX, 1894-95, p-
470.

7. MoLyBpEnITE.

A disulphide of molybdenum having the formula MoS,, = sulphur
40 per cent, molybdenum 60 per cent.

NAT MUS 99——13
194 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

This mineral, like graphite, occurs, as a rule, in small, black, shining
scales, sometimes hexagonal in outline and with a bright metallic
luster. It is soft enough to be readily impressed with the thumb nail,
and leaves a bluish-gray trace on paper. On porcelain it leaves a lead
gray, slightly greenish streak. This faint greenish tinge, together with
its property of giving a sulphur reaction when fused with soda, furnish
a ready means of distinguishing it from graphite, which it so closely
resembles. Through alteration it sometimes passes over into molybdite
or molybdic ocher, a straw-yellow to white ocherous mineral of the
formula MoO,, = oxygen 33.3 per cent, molybdenum 66.7 per cent.

Occurrence.—The mineral has a wide distribution, occurring in
embedded masses and disseminated scales in granite (Specimen No.
62169, U.S.N.M.), gneiss, syenite, crystalline schists, quartz (Specimen
No. 60995, U.S.N.M.), and granular limestone. It is found in Nor-
way, Sweden, Russia, Saxony, Bohemia, Austria, France, Peru, Brazil,
England, and Scotland, throughout the Appalachian region in the
United States and Canada (Specimen No. 53046, U.S.N.M.), and in
various parts of the Rocky and Sierra Nevada mountains. In Okan-
ogan County, Washington, the mineral occurs in beautiful large flakes
in an auriferous quartz vein traversing slates. (Specimen No. 53126,
U.S.N.M.)

On Quetachoo-Manicouagan Bay, on the north side of the Gulf of
St. Lawrence, the mineral is reported’ as occurring disseminated in a
bed of quartz 6 inches thick, in the form of nodules from 1 to 3
inches in diameter and in flakes which are sometimes 12 inches broad
by 4 inch in thickness.

Molybdenite is also found in the form of finely disseminated scales
or small bunches among the iron ores of the Hude mine at Stanhope,
New Jersey, sometimes constituting as high as 2 per cent of the ore.

Molybdenum is also a constituent of the mineral wulfenite, or
molybdate of lead.

Uses.—The principal use to which molybdenite has as yet been put
is in the preparation of molybdates for the chemical laboratory. It
is stated that a fine blue pigment can be prepared from it, which
ithas been proposed to use as a substitute for indigo in dyeing silk,
cotton, and linen. The metal molybdenum is produced but rarely and
only as a curiosity, and has a purely fictitious value. Up to the present
time there has been no constant demand for the mineral nor regular
source of supply.

1 Geology of Canada, 1863, p. 754.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS, 195

Il. HALIDES.

1. Harte; Soprum CHLORIDE; oR ComMMON SaLt.

Composition Na Cl,—sodium 60.6 per cent; chlorine 39.4 per cent.
The natural substance is nearly always more or less impure, as noted
later. Hardness, 2.5; specific gravity, 2.1 to 2.6 per cent. Colorless
or white when pure, but often yellowish or red or purplish by the
presence of metallic oxides and organic matter. Readily soluble in
cold water, and hasa saline taste. Crystallizes in the isometric system,

Fig. 2.

CLUSTER OF HALITE CRYSTALS.
Stassfurt, Germany.
Specimen No, 40222, U.S.N.M.

usually in cubes (fig. 2, Specimen No. 40222, U.S.N.M.), but some-
times in octahedrons, the faces of the crystals (particularly when pre-
pared artificially) being often cavernous or hopper shaped. Sometimes
occurs in fibrous forms, which it has been suggested are pseudomor-
phous after fibrous gypsum (Specimen No. 64733, U.S.N.M.). Often
found in the form of massive, crystalline granular aggregates com-
monly known as rock salt (Specimens Nos. 67558, 64736, 62946,
U.S.N.M.).

Sylvite, the chloride of potassium, sometimes occurs associated with
halite, where it has formed under similar conditions. From halite
196 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

it can be distinguished by its crystalline form, that of a combination
of cube and octahedron (Specimen No. 40223, U.S.N.M. See fig. 4,
p- 203), and more biting taste. Owing to its ready solubility it is
rarely found in a state of nature. Bischofite, the chloride of mag-
nesium (Specimen No. 62428, U.S.N.M.) is still more soluble and
practically unknown except in crystals artificially produced.

Origin and occurrences.—Sodium in the form of chloride, to which
is commonly given the simple name of salt, is one of the most widely
disseminated of natural substances, and not infrequently occurs in
large masses interstratified with other rocks of the earth’s crust in
such a manner as to constitute a true rock mass.

The geological history of these beds of rock salt is as follows:

No terrestrial waters are absolutely pure, but all hold in solution
more or less mineral matter which has been taken up from the rocks
and soils with which they have come in contact. The nature of these
impurities depends on the nature of the formations permeated and
their relative solubility. Numerous analyses of river waters have
shown that the substances mentioned below, though sometimes exist-
ing as mere traces, are almost invariably present; these are sodium,
potassium, magnesium, silicon, aluminum, and iron, which exist mostly
in the form of carbonates, oxides, sulphates, and chlorides.

When a stream bearing these substances in solution flows into a lake
with no outlet, as the Great Salt Lake or the Dead Sea, the water is
returned to the atmosphere by evaporation, while the impurities
remain. In this way the water gradually becomes charged more and
more heavily with mineral matter, until the point of saturation is
reached and further concentration is impossible without precipitation.
When such precipitation of mineral matters takes place, it is in the
inverse order of their solubilities; that is, those substances which are
least soluble will, under like conditions of temperature, be first precipi- -
tated. Hence a water containing the ingredients before mentioned on
being subjected to complete evaporation would deposit its load in the
following order: (1) Carbonates of lime and magnesia in the form of
limestones, marls, and dolomites; (2) sulphate of lime in the form of
anhydrite and gypsum; (3) chloride of sodium, or common salt; and
these followed in regular order by the sulphates of magnesia and soda
(Epsom salt and Glauber’s salt) and the chlorides of potassium and
magnesium. ‘These last are, however, so readily deliquescent that they
are rarely found crystallized out in a state of nature as above noted.

It rarely happens, however, that nature’s processes are sufficiently
regular and uninterrupted to allow a complete precipitation of the
pure salts as above outlined. During periods of flood suspended silt
may be poured into the inclosed basin to finally settle, forming thus
alternating beds of saliferous clay or marl.

Such having been the method of formation, it is scarcely necessary
spree «

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 197

to state that salt beds are not confined to strata of any one geological
horizon, but are to be found wherever suitable circumstances have
existed for their formation and preservation. The beds of New York
State and of Canada and a part of those of Michigan lie among rocks
of the Upper Silurian Age. They are regarded by Professor New-
berry as the deposits of a great salt lake that formerly occupied central
and western New York, northern Pennsylvania, northeastern Ohio,
and southern Ontario, and which he assumes to have been as large as
Lake Huron, or possibly Lake Superior. A part of the Michigan
beds, on the other hand, were laid down near the base of the Carbon-
iferous series, as were also those of the Ohio Valley, and presumably
those of Virginia, while those of Petite Anse, Louisiana, are of
Cretaceous, or possibly Tertiary Age. The beds of the Western States
and Territories are likewise of recent origin, many of them being still
in process of formation.

The English beds at Cheshire, the source of the so-called ‘‘ Liver-
pool” salt, are of Triassic Age, as are also those of Vic and Dieuze in
France, Wurtemburg in Germany, and Salzburg in Austria, while
those of Wieliczka in Austrian Poland, and of Parajd in Transylvania
are Tertiary.

Salt is now manufactured from brines or mined as rock salt in
fifteen States of the American Union. These, in the order of their
apparent importance, are Michigan, New York, Kansas, California,
Louisiana, Illinois, Utah, Ohio, West Virginia, Nevada, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, Kentucky, Texas, and Wyoming. Atone time Massachusetts
was an important producer of salt from sea waters. The industry has,
however, been gradually languishing and may ere now be wholly
extinct. In California salt is obtained largely from sea water, but also
from salt lakes and salines. In Michigan, Ohio, the Virginias, Penn-
sylvania, and Kentucky salt is obtained from brines obtained from
springs or by sinking wells into the salt-bearing strata, while in New
York, Kansas, Louisiana, and the remaining States it is obtained both
from brines and by mining as rock salt.

Of the foreign sources of rock salt the following districts are the
most important: (1) The Carpathian Mountains, (2) the Austrian and
Bavarian Alps, (3) western Germany, (4) the Vosges, (5) Jura, (6) Spain,
(7) the Pyrenees and the Celtiberian Mountains, and (8) Great Britain,
while sea salt is an important product of Turks Island in the Bahamas,
of the island of Sicily, and of Cadiz, Spain.

We have space here for details concerning but a few of these beds,
preference naturally being given to those of the United States.

The beds of New York State, of Ontario, northern Pennsylvania,
northeastern Ohio, and eastern Michigan all belong to the same geo-

logic group—are the product of similar agencies. They have been

penetrated in many places by wells, and from the results obtained we
198 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

are enabled to form some idea of their extent and thickness. Below
is given a summary of results obtained in boring one of these wells to
a depth of 1,517 feet at Goderich, Canada. Beginning at the top, the
rocks were passed through in the following order:

Ft. In.

I. Clay, gravel, marls, limestone, dolomite, and gypsum variously
imberstwatiGed 22. 22-. SSeS es a ee eee eee 290
11) C22 Dares rel ofeve Wray en cove) eee Nine a en ae OAS A oe See oka ce 30) ik
Tdhie “Dolomite with mans: - 555 eee ee serene eee ee ae eee Bye ll
iVeeSecondsbed of rock sali see a2. os sere sae eee ee eee eee 25 4
Vi Dolomite: =. 528 Sao SaaS a ae are are oe 6 10
Wale Third“ bed of rock:salt<5230 G2 Sees ae ee oe ee ea eee eee 34 10
VIL. Marl, dolomite, and anbydrites_: 2225 2-2224-p2er seeeet eee 80) ane
VALI Botnth: bed) of 0 Ck: salle seer aes ae 15 «5
1X... Dolomite and anhydrite: 22-222) 22 = 3 a Coa
XG Eiithsbedsof rocktsalit) ss sse == =e een eee ee eee 13,56
Mi. Marland anhydrite sic... 25222 ase2ee- = ee oe ee 135 6
XIL Sixth: bed.of rock salt. .2-22 2522. 22s tases Se ee 60
X ILL.‘ Marl,'dolomitéand anhydrite.22-22-- -=2022242->- see ee ee 132 0
Total thickness of formations passed through. ..--.-.------------- 1,517 feet.
Total thickness oimbeas on salts a= ae = ees 126 feet.

The above section shows that the ancient sea or lagoon underwent
at least six successive periods of desiccation, and especial attention
is called to the remarkable regularity of the deposits. On the oldest
sea bottom (XIII) the carbonates and sulphates of lime and magnesia
were deposited first, being least soluble. Then followed the salt, and
this order is repeated invariably. The other constituents mentioned
as occurring in the waters of lakes and seas are not sufficiently abun-
dant to show in the section, or owing to their ready solubility they
have been in large part removed since the beds were laid down.
Chemical tests, however, reveal their presence.

Although salt was manufactured from the brine of springs, near
Onondaga Lake, in New York, as early as 1788, and has been regu-
larly manufactured from the brine of wells since 1798, it was not until
subsequent to the discovery of extensive beds of rock salt in the
Wyoming Valley, while boring for petroleum, that the mining of the
material in this form became an established industry. In June, 1878,
a bed of rock salt 70 feet in thickness was found in the valley above
mentioned, at a depth of 1,270 feet. Subsequently other borings in
Wyoming, Genesee, and Livingston counties disclosed beds at vary-
ing depths. In 1885 the first shaft was sunk at Pifford by the Retsof
Mining Company, the salt bed being found at a depth of 1,018 feet.
Three other shafts have since been sunk, the first about a mile west of
the Retsof, the second about 2 miles south of Leroy, and the third
at Livonia, in Livingston County. The salt when taken from the
bed is stated to be of a gray color, due to the presence of clay, which
renders solution and recrystallization necessary when designed for
culinary purposes. The thickness of the salt beds and their depth
are somewhat variable. The following figures are quoted from
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 199

Dr. Engelhardt’s report. At Morrisville, in Madison County, it is
12 feet thick and at a depth of 1,259 feet; at Tully, in Onondaga
County, it varies from 25 to 318 feet, at depths of from 974 to 1,465
feet. The seven beds found at Ithaca have a total thickness of 248 feet,
the uppermost lying at a depth of 2,244 feet. In the Genesee Valley
the beds vary in depth from 750 to 2,100 feet and in thickness from 40
to 93 feet. In the Wyoming Valley the depth varies from 610 to 2,370
feet below the surface and in thickness from 12 to 85 feet.”

Michigan.—The salt-producing areas of this State are, so far as
now known, limited to the counties of Tosco, Bay, Midland, Gratiot,
Saginaw, Huron, St. Clair, Manistee, and Mason, the beds of the
Saginaw Valley lying in the so-called Napoleon sandstone, at the base
of the Carboniferous. Professor Winchell has estimated this forma-
tion to cover an area of some 17,000 square miles within the State
limits. The beds of the St. Clair Valley, on the other hand, are in
Upper Silurian strata, being presumably continuous with those of
Canada. The manufacture of salt from brines procured from these
beds began in the Saginaw Valley in 1860 and has since extended to
the other regions mentioned. According to F. E. Engelhardt the
rock salt deposits in the Upper Silurian beds, with a thickness of 115
feet, were reached at Marine City, in St. Clair County, at a depth of
1,633 feet; at St. Clair, St. Clair County, at a depth of 1,635 feet and
with a thickness of 35 feet. At Caseville, in Huron County, the beds
lie at a depth of 1,164 feet, and at Bay City, Saginaw Bay, at 2,085
feet, the salt beds being 115 feet in thickness. At Manistee the bed
is 34 feet thick, lying 2,000 feet below the surface, while at Muskegon,
in the Mason well, it was 50 feet thick at a depth of 2,200 feet.
Although of so recent development, Michigan is rapidly becoming one
of the leading salt-producing regions of the world, the estimated manu-
facturing capavity being now upward of 5,000,000 barrels annually.
The total product of all the years since 1868 is given as 60,614,464
barrels of 280 pounds each.

In Kansas the rock salt occurs in beds regarded as of Permian age,
and has been reached by means of shafts in several counties in the
southern and central part of the State. The following is a section of
a shaft sunk at Kingman in 1888-89:

‘‘Red-beds,’’ red arenaceous, limestones, ferruginous clays, and clay shales al
with thin streaks of gray shales and bands of gypsum as satin spar--------- 450
Gray or bluish ‘‘slate,’’ with 2 feet of limestone at 500 feet-....-.----------- 140
ieomiotan Male. £3.20.) 52s ee ee ees iismalee okat < saciew 4
Gray ‘‘slate,’’ with occasional streaks of limestone, 2 to 8 inches thick, and some
salt partings and satin spar with ferruginous stain.............------------ 78

1The Mineral Industry, its Statistics and Trade for 1892, by R. P. Rothwell.

2For a very complete historical and geological account of these salt beds and the
method of manufacture, see Bulletin No. 11, of the New York State Museum, 1893,
by F. J. H. Merrill.
200 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Feet.

Hirst rock galt, pure white ...0 22. ~2-05- p> d--¢ one ee ene 5---6-- === 9 eee 2
Shale and “‘slate,”’ bluish, with vertical and other seams of salt, from 1 to 3

mmclres thick. es eo eee ee ea as a oe eee ee saa ae Seo oo ee 26
RRO e ket sates as ee Oe Se eerste Seis ae mn shinee +
Shales “with sali 2: 22123 .---<5-32-Gi5-0c> sce Seep eae anise 22-2 sees 11
Rochkeasaltece ooo om eos Seals ae ee eee i ee aie hae ete 7
Shale Soe ie de cee cise aos Saas 6 Se ee ee ee oe ert a icta 3
ROG ciel scp ce eas rE kl = ne) i 3
Salt and shale, alternate thin seams -..--..-------------------------------- 62
Rockssalt oo. fo ban See oe Mes an 2 Se ee a eee ala

Shales o.oo to A 4 eee = See ns Se a re etal ee ree 1
Rockisalt-so.05- G02 6 cose ee See ee ea ee 5
Shalesiand limestone: 2-2 nee ee 8
Rock salt, bottom of it not reached.-.--.---------------------------------- 5
Total <8 ws. oes oc See eens ae ee eee ee 820

Borings and shafts have also proven the existence of beds of salt in
other parts of the State, as at Kanopolis, Lyons, Caldwell, Rago, Pratt,
and Wilson. According to Dr. Robert Hays’ it is safe to assume that
beds of rock salt from 50 to 150 feet in thickness underlie fully half
the area from the south line of the State to north of the Smoky River,
an area from 20 to 50 miles in width. Although the mining of rock
salt began in this region only in 1888, the annual output has already
reached over £,000,000 barrels.

Louisiana.—Salt in this State is derived from Petite Anse, a small
island rising from the marshes on the southern coast and connected
with the mainland by a causeway some 2 miles in length. According
to E. W. Hilgard? the deposit is probably of Cretaceous age, and is
presumably but a comparatively small residual mass of beds once
extending over a much larger area, but now lost through erosion.
(See fig. 3.) Exploration has shown the area occupied by the beds to
be some 150 acres, but the full thickness, though known to be upward
of 165 feet, has never been fully determined.

Salt in Kentucky is obtained from the brine of springs and wells in
Carboniferous limestone. In Meade County brine accompanies the
natural gas, the latter in some cases being utilized as fuel for its evap-
oration. Springs in Webster County furnished salt for Indians long
anterior to the occupancy of the county by whites, and fragments of
their clay kettles and other utensils used in the work of evaporation
are still occasionally found.

Texas.—The occurrences of salt are numerous and widespread. Along
the coast are many lagoons and salt lakes, from which considerable
quantities are taken annually. ‘‘ Besides the lakes along the shores
many others occur through western Texas, reaching to the New Mexico

1Geological and Mineral Resources of Kansas, 1893, p. 44.
2Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, XXIII. On the Geology of Lower
Louisiana and the Salt Deposit on Petite Anse Island.
201

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS.

A ry ares
V)a1q aun 4ving
8.

(dogg apanbyi an a Soar orf pardon) :
*YNVISINOT ‘GNV1S!I ASNV 3LIL3ad 30 NOILOAS 1V9!1501039

NvJCHVH

wpaa WwuCEyN wo
ew
iy

“43 ORT IITH J00ds0rg

AV19 dWNLS SS3YdAD

93 08 DOUpysoy L10ay"

202 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

line, while northeast of these, in the Permian region, the constant
recurrence of such names as Salt Fork, Salt Creek, etc., tell of the
prevalence of similar conditions.” In addition to the brines there are
extensive beds of rock salt. That which is at present best developed
is located in the vicinity of Colorado City, in Mitchell County. The
bed of salt was found at a depth of 850 feet, with a thickness of 140
feet. In eastern Texas there are many low pieces of ground called
salines, where salt has been manufactured by evaporation of the brines
obtained from shallow wells. At the ‘‘Grand Saline,” in Van Zandt
County, a bed of rock salt over 300 feet in thickness was found at a
depth of 225 feet.

In England the salt occurs at Cheshire in two beds interstratified
with marls and clays. The upper, with a thickness varying from 80
to 90 feet, lies at a depth of some 120 feet below the surface, and the
second at a depth of 226 feet has a thickness varying between 96 and
117 feet. The accompanying general sections are from Davies’ Earthy
and Other Economic Minerals.

Detailed section of strata sunk through at Witton, near Northwich, to the lower bed of salt.

Ft. In.
12 @alcarcoussmanl st se. oper eee eee eee eee ee ee eee eee wie oo See 15 0
2. Indurated wed.clay c= 2a. 22522 eee eee Si ILE Sk sot BES See 4 6
3. Indurated blue clay and marl -.----.----.--- oF eee ae he a 7 0
4, Argillageotis marl. 52.2222. -2 42446: + ace ee ne fei
5. Induratedablue clay): 2.262422) 202282 spencer alae)
6. Red clay with sulphate of lime in irregular branches. -..-.------------- 4 0
7. Indurated red clay with grains of sulphate of lime interspersed. ------- 4 0
8. Indurated brown clay with sulphate of lime crystallized in irregular masses
and in large proportions.......-.+---------------3-+-s--25-<------5- 12 0
9. Indurated blue clay with laminz of sulphate of lime--.----------------- 4 6
10. Argillaceousamarl 2. . 2.5.5 22-. 253-— se sop oe 4 0
11. Indurated brown clay laminated with sulphate of lime. .--..------------ 3 0
12. Indurated blue clay laminated with sulphate of lime. -.-.-.-------------- 3 0
3. indurated medvand plieiclaiy= a= ser = ae a eer 12 0
14. Indurated brown clay with sand and sulphate of lime irregularly inter-
spersed through it. The fresh water, at the rate of 360 gallons a
minute, forced its way through this stratum.......------------------ 13.0)
15.. Argillaceous marl... ..5./eisch2eBenee =e ee 5 0
16. Indurated blue clay with sand and grains of sulphate of lime------.----- 3} 8
17. Indurated brown clay as next above -.-.-...-.-------------------------- 15 0
18. Blue clay as strata next/abovels2e22 c= 22s toe es ee 1 %6
19. Brown. clay as strata next above.-- 22-----.2------- 2. 222 gate 7 0
20. The top bed of rock salts. .£24 1202+ fee ena oe ee ore eee 7D 0
21. Layers of indurated clay with veins of rock salt running through them... 31 6
oD hower bed of rock salitaseeten tees een === — eee ee eee 115 0
MG tale 6 sen Sc se ee he re ee ee ee 341 9

At Wieliezka, in Austrian Poland, the salt occurs in massive beds
stated to extend over an area some 20 by 500 miles, with a maximum
thickness of 1,200 feet. At Parajd, in Transylvania, beds belonging
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 2038

to the same geological horizon are estimated to contain upward of
10,000,000,000,000 cubic feet of salt.

One of the most remarkable deposits of the world, remarkable for
its extent as well as for the variety of its products, is that of Stass-
furt, in Prussian Saxony. On account of its unique character, as

Fig. 4.
CLUSTER OF SYLVITE CRYSTALS,
Stassfurt, Germany.
Specimen No. 40223, U.S.N.M.

well as its commercial importance, being to-day the chief source of
natural potash salts of the world, a little space may well be given here
to a detailed description.’

Stassfurt is a small town of some 12, 000 inhabitants, about 25 miles southwest of
the city and fortress of Magdeburg, in Prussia. It lies in a plain, and the river
Bode, which takes its rise in the Harz Mountains, flows through it. The history of
the salt industry in Stassfurt isa very old one, and dates back as far as the year
806. Previous to the year 1839 the salt was produced from brine pumped from wells
sunk about 200 feet into the rock. The brine, in the course of time, became so weak,

1 Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, II, 1883, pp. 146, 147.
204 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

as regards the common salt it contained, that it was impossible to carry on the
manufacture from this source without loss. In 1839 the Prussian Government, who
were the owners of these saline springs, commenced boring with the object of dis-
covering the whereabouts of the bed of rock salt from which the brine had been
obtained, and in the year 1843, seven years after the commencement of the borings,
the top of the rock salt was reached at a depth of 256 metres. ‘The boring was con-
tinued through another 325 metres into the rock salt without reaching the bottom of
the layer. At this total depth of 581 metres the boring was suspended. On ana-
lysing the brine obtained from the bore-hole, it was found to consist, in 100 parts by
weight, of—

Sulphate ‘of calcium).2 2-2-2 Sees see eee 4,01
Chloride of potassium <:-- {eee 2. 24
Chloride of magnesium. 2 22.2 se5 ee 19. 43
Chioride‘of jsodiumyes 2 o-- saeee 5. 61

A result not only unexpected but disappointing, since the presence of chloride of
magnesium in such quantities dispelled for the time all hopes of striking on the pure
rock salt. The Government, however, guided by the opinions expressed by Dr.
Karsten and Professor Marchand,namely, that the presence of chloride of magnesiumin
such quantities was probably due to a deposit lying above the rock salt, determined
to further investigate the matter, and in the year 1852 the first shaft was commenced,
which after five years had penetrated, ata depth of 330 metres, into a bed of rock
salt, passing on its way, at a depth of 256 metres, a bed of potash and magnesia salts
of a thickness of 25 metres.

On referring to the section of the mines [Plate 4], it will be seen that the lowest
deposit of all consists of rock salt. The bore-hole was driven 381 metres into it
without reaching the bottom of the layer. Its depth is therefore unknown. The
black lines drawn across the rock salt deposit represent thin layers of sulphate of cal- _
cium 7 millimetres thick, and almost equidistant. The lines at the top of the rock
salt represent thin layers of the trisulphate of potash, magnesia, and lime as the
mineral Polyhallite [Specimen No. 67754, U.S.N.M.]. The deposit lying immediately
on the bed of rock salt consists chiefly of sulphate of magnesia as the mineral Kie-
serite [Specimen No. 62417, U.S.N.M.]. Still farther toward the surface the deposit
consists of the double chloride of potassium and magnesium, known as the mineral
Carnallite, [Specimens Nos. 40225, 62416, U.S.N.M.] mixed with sulphate of magnesia
and rock salt. The deposit to the right, on the rise of the strata, consists of the
double sulphate of potash and magnesia combined with one equivalent of chloride
of magnesium, and intermingled with common salt to the extent of 40 per cent.
This double sulphate is known as the mineral Kainite [Specimen No. 64735, U.S. N.M.]
and is a secondary formation, resulting from the action of a limited quantity of water
on a mixture of sulphate of magnesia and the double chloride of potassium and
magnesium, as contained in the uppermost deposit previously spoken of.

The upper bed of the rock salt, resting on a thick bank of Anhydrite [Specimen
No. 64740, U.S.N.M.], is also a later formation. Almost imperceptible layers of Poly-
hallite are present in this deposit and at greater intervals than in the lower and
older deposit. It has therefore probably originated from the action of water on the
older deposit. This upper bed of rock salt varies in thickness from 40 to 90 metres,
and its extent is comparatively limited. It is worked in preference to the older
deposit, where both exist in the same mine, it being of much purer quality, aver-
aging about 98 per cent in the mines of the New Stassfurt Mining Company and in
the Royal Prussian mines.

Sixteen different minerals have as yet been discovered in the Stassfurt deposits.
They may be divided into primary and secondary formations. Those of primary
formation are rock salt, Anhydrite [Specimen No. 64740, U.S.N.M.], Polyhallite
(K,S80,, MgSO,, 2CaSO,, 2H,O) [Specimen No. 67754, U.S.N.M.], Kieserite (MgSO,,
PLATE 4.

Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899, . Mernill.

Prussian Shafts.

ANN
AY:

\

-—— —-S}- SN

— ee oe LD)

0

te

‘prayection,.

1

THE ROCK SALT.

PILLAR & ROOM VIORKINGS IN

SECTIONS 27;
OF THE \’

ALT DEPOSITS

SECTION OF THE SALT DEPOSITS AT STASSFURT.
From the Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, V, 1884, joy Ibe
je Ye
- <} area ie 4
Aa ae

>

es

w=

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 205

HO) (Specimen No. 62417, U.S.N. ML], Camallite (KO, MgO,, 6H,0) [Specimen No.
MDH, C.S.N_M.], Boracite (2(Mz,B,0,,), MgCl, ) (Specimen No. 64742,U_8.N- ML], and
Donglasite (2KCI, FeCl, 2H,0). Those of secondary formation, resulting from the
decomposition of the primary minerals are, nine in number, namely: Kainite (K,50,
MgSO, MgA6H,0); Sylvin (KCl) [Specimen No. 62419, U.S.N.M]; Tachydrite
(CaCl, 2MgCl, +12H,0) [Specimen No. 0230, U.S.N.M.]; Bischofite (MgCl, 6H,0)
[Specimen No. 62428, U.S.N.MLJ; Krugite (K80, MgSO, 4Ca80, 2H,0) [Specimen
No. 62426, U.S.N.M_]; Reichardtite (MgSO, 7H,O); Glauberite (CaSO, NaS0,)
(Specimen No. 40229, U.S.N.M_]; Schonite (K,S0, MgSO, 6H,0) [Specimen No.
62418, U.S.N.M.], and Astrakanite (MgSO, 4H,O) [Specimen No. 64728, U.S.N.M.].
Only four of these minerals have any commercial value, namely: Carnallite, Kainite,
Kieserite, and rock salt. The yield of boracite, which is found in neste in the carnallite
region of the mine, is too insignificant to be classed among those just mentioned.

The mine may be divided chemically into four regions: (1) The rock ealt, (2) the
Kieserite, (3) the Carnallite, (4) the Kainite region.

The rock galt region has almost the same composition throughout. Ite character
is crystalline, though ia this region well-defined crystals are never met with In
other parts of the mine, especially in the Carnallite region, it is found crystallised in
the form of the cube [Specimen No. 40222, U.S.N.M_] and the octahedron, sometimes
coloured different shades of red and blue [Specimen No. 64731, U-S.N-ML]. Specimens
have also been found of varied structure, laminated, granular, and fibrous [Specimen
No. 64733, US.N.M.].

The deposit lying on the top of the rock constitutes the so-called Kieserite region.
The thickness of this deposit is about 56 metres, and ite average composition as
follows:

Per cent.

Meet rite sa ee Sb es ese 17
PE ae OD oy ee eee 66
ARAN 8 soe e oot ecb oe oo ss as 13
oe ee a Se eee eer eee 3
1 ENS eit ees ite Sn Oe eee meee 2
100

In the pure state Kieserite is amorphous and translucent, possessing a specific
gravity of 2.517. It contains $7.1 per cent sulphate of magnesia and 12.9 per cent
water, corresponding to the formula MgSO,, H,O. Exposed to the air it becomes
opaque from the absorption of moisture, and is converted into Epsom salts; 100 parts
of water dissolve 40.9 parts of this mineral at 18° C. The solution, however, takes
place very slowly at this temperature.

This deposit has not been worked to any great extent. Its composition is interest-
ing as showing the gradual decrease of the proportion of common salt and the com-
mencement of the separation of the more soluble salts.

Each of the two divisions of the mine just described contains only one mineral of
importance. The third division, called the Carnallite region, contains a variety
of minerals, and to this deposit Stassfurt owes its world-wide fame. The average
thickness of this deposit is about 25 metres, and its composition is as follows:

Per cent.
"ELE IS Oe ae ae oe eee 60
COTA Oe es ee eee 16
PT Bel ee eee ee ae 20
CNNSI. Bocacte vines os ac tbces chee aeesae 4

besides small quantities of magnesium bromide. These minerals are deposited in
the order given above, in successive layers, varying in thickness from z4, to 1 metre,
the different colours of these min®rals giving the deposit a remarkable appearance.
206 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The predominating mineral in this region is Carnallite [Specimen No. 40225,
U.S.N.M.], a double chloride of potassium and magnesium, containing 26.76 per cent
chloride of potassium, 34.50 per cent chloride of magnesium, and 38.74 per cent water,
corresponding to the formula KCl, MgCl,, 6H,0. In the pure state it is colorless and
transparent, and possesses a specific gravity of 1.618. It is very hygroscopic, and is
easily soluble in water, 100 parts of which dissolve 64.5 parts of the mineral. It may
be artificially formed from a solution of chloride of potassium, containing not less
than 26 per cent of chloride of magnesium. The deposit which figures to the right
of the Carnallite region is, as before mentioned, a secondary formation, and consists
principally of the mineral Kainite [Specimen No. 64735, U.S.N.M.].. This deposit,
though limited as compared to the other salt deposits, is yet of vast extent. The
average composition of this deposit is:

Sulphate ofjpotashieee= eee esa see eee eee 23. 0
Salphate of magnesia 2-25. et eee eee 15.6
Chloride of magnesium. 5-2-2 2. 222222222 13.0
Chioriderof soduummss see ase e eee eee 34. 8
Water 222-25 tte soso soe ona eae 13.6

100. 0

In the pure state it is colorless and almost transparent, and possesses a specific
gravity of 2.13; 100 parts of water dissolve 79.5 parts of it. Cold water does not
decompose it, but from its saturated hot solution the double sulphate of potash and
magnesia separates, and chloride of magnesium remains in solution.

Methods of mining and manufacture.—In the manufacture of salt
three principal methods are employed. The first, if, indeed, it can be
called manufacture, consists in mining the dry salt from an open
quarry, as in the Rio Virgen and Barcelona deposits, or by means of
subterranean galleries, the methods employed at Petite Anse and in
Galicia,

At Petite Anse the method of mining and preparation, as given by
Mr. R. A. Pomeroy," is as follows:

Mining is done by means of galleries on two levels. There are 16
to 25 feet of earth above the salt deposit. The contour of the latter
conforms nearly with that of the surface. The working shaft is 168
feet deep. The depth to the first level or floor is 90 feet; to the sec-
ond, 70 feet farther. The remaining 8 feet are used for a dump.
The galleries of the first level were run, on an average, 40 feet in
width and 25 feet and upwards in height, leaving supporting pillars 40
feet in diameter. .

The galleries of the second level are run 80 feet in width and 45 feet
in height, leaving supporting pillars 60 feet in diameter. The lower
pillars are so left that the weight of the upper ones rests upon them
in part, if not wholly, with a thickness of at least 25 feet of salt rock
between.

Galleries aggregating nearly 1 mile in length have been run on the
upper level and some 700 feet on the lower.

In running a gallery the first work is the ‘‘undercutting” on the
level of the floor, of sufficient height tg enable the miners to work

1Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X VII, 1888-89, pp. 111.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 207

with ease. The salt is then blasted down from the overhanging body.
The yearly output is about 50,000 tons.

The salt as it comes from the mine is dumped into corrugated cast-
iron rolls, which crush it. Next it goes into revolving screens, which
take out the coarser lumps for ‘‘ crushed salt” and let the fine stuff
pass to the buhrstones. These grind the salt, and from them it goes
to the pneumatic separators, which take out the dust and separate the
market salt into various grades. Taking the dust out is essential to
the production of a salt that will not harden, since the fine particles of
dust deliquesce readily and on drying cement the coarse particles
together. The drill used in the mine is what is known as the “* Russian
auger.” It is turned by hand and forced by a screw of 12 threads per
inch. The holes take cartridges 14 inches diameter. Two men will
bore 75 feet of hole each working-day of eight hours. Three-quarters
of a pound of 18 per cent dynamite is used to the ton of salt mined.

On the Colorado Desert the salt occurs in the form of a crust a foot
or more in thickness, resting on a lake of shallow brine. This crust,
which is covered with a thin layer of dust and sand blown over it from
the surrounding desert, is cut away longitudinally, much as ice is cut
in the North. When loosened, the block, falling into the water beneath,
is cleaned of its impurities, and is then thrown out on a platform to
dry, after which it is ground and packed for market. In many parts of
the arid West the salt is obtained merely by shoveling up the impure
material deposited by the evaporation of salt lakes and marshes during
seasons of drought. In this way is obtained a large share of the
material used in chloridizing ores.

In the preparation of salt from sea water, solar evaporation alone
is relied upon nearly altogether. This method, like the next to be
mentioned, depends for its efficiency upon the fact already noted—that
sea water holds in solution besides salt various other ingredients,
which, owing to their varying degrees of solubility, are deposited at
different stages of the concentration. In Barnstable County, Massa-
chusetts, it was as follows: A series of wooden vats or tanks, with
nearly vertical sides and about a foot in depth, is made from planks.
These are set upon posts at different levels above the ground, and so
arranged that the brine can be drawn from one to another by means
of pipes. Into the first and highest of these tanks, known as the
‘“‘long water room,” the water is pumped directly from the bay or
artificial pond by means of windmills, and there allowed to stand for
a period of about ten days, or until all the sediment it may carry is
deposited. Thence it is run through pipes to the second tank, or
‘‘short water room,” where it remains exposed to evaporation for
_ two or three days longer, when it is drawn off into the third vat, or
‘“‘nickle room,” where it stands until concentration has gone so far
that the lime is deposited and a thin pellicle of salt begins to form on
208 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

the surface. It is then run into the fourth and last vat, where the
final evaporation takes place and the salt itself crystallizes out. Care
must be exercised, however, lest the evaporation proceed too far, in
which case sulphate of soda (Glauber’s salt) and other injurious sub-
stances will also be deposited, and the quality of the sodium chloride
thereby be greatly deteriorated.

As to the capabilities of works constructed as above, it may be said
that during a dry season vats covering an area of 3,000 square feet
would evaporate about 32,500 gallons of water, thus producing some
100 bushels of salt and 400 pounds of Glauber’s salt. The moist
climate of the Atlantic States, however, necessitates the roofing of
the vats in such a manner that they can be protected or exposed as
desired, thereby greatly increasing the cost of the plant. Sundry
parts of the Pacifie coast, on the other hand, owing to their almost
entire freedom from rains during a large part of the year, are pecu-
liarly adapted for the manufacture by solar evaporation. Hence,
while the works on the Atlantic coast have nearly all been discon-
tinued, there has been a corresponding growth in the West, and par-
ticularly in the region about San Francisco Bay.

The methods of procedure in the California works do not differ
materially from that already given, excepting that no roofs are required
over the vats; which are therefore made much larger. One of the
principal establishments in Alameda County may be described as fol-
lows: The works are situated upon a low marsh, naturally covered by
high tides. This has been divided, by means of piles driven into the
mud and by earth embankments, into a series of seven vats or reser-
voirs, all but the last of which are upon the natural surface of the
ground—that is, without wooden or other artificial bottoms. The entire
area inclosed in the seven vats is about 600 acres, necessitating some
15 miles of levees. The season of manufacture lasts from May to
October. At the beginning of the spring tides, which rise some 12 to
15 inches above the marsh level, the fifteen gates of reservoir No. 1, com-
prising some 300 acres, are opened and the waters of the bay allowed
to flowin. In this great artifical salt lake the water is allowed to stand
until all the mud and filth has become precipitated, which usually
requires some two weeks. Then, by means of pumps driven by wind-
mills, the water is driven from reservoir to reservoir as concentration
continues, till finally the salt crystallizes out in No. 7, and the bittern is
pumped back into the bay. The annual product of the works above
described is about 2,000 tons.

A somewhat similar process is pursued in the manufacture of salt
from inland lakes as the Great Salt Lake, Utah. The following account
of the method here employed is by Dr. J. E. Talmage:

The Inland Salt Company’s gardens are situated near Garfield Beach, the most
popular pleasure resort.on the lake. In the method employed the water is pumped
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 209

from the lake into ponds prepared for its reception and situated above the level of
the lake surface. The mother liquors flow off—are returned to the lake, in fact—
when the evaporation has reached the proper stage. From the establishment of the
works until 1883 the lake was close to the ponds; but, owing to the unusually high
rate of evaporation attending the dry seasons of the immediate past, the water has
receded, so that at present it has to be conveyed over 2,500 feet to the evaporating
receptacles. This is effected by the aid of two centrifugal pumps, raising together
14,000 gallons of water per minute. The pumps throw the water to a height of 14
feet into a flume, through which it flows to the ponds. These are nine in number,
and are arranged in series. In the first pond the mechanically suspended matters
are left as sediment or scum, and the water passes into the second in a clear condi-
tion. The ponds cover upward of a thousand acres, and the drain channels leading
from them aggregate 9 miles in length. The pumping continues through May, June,
and July. A fair idea of the rate of evaporation in the thirsty atmosphere of the
Great Basin may be gained from contemplating the fact that to supply the volume
cf water disappearing from the ponds by evaporation requires the action of the pumps
ten hours daily in June and July. This is equal to the carrying away of 8,400,000
gallons per day from the surface of the ponds.

The ‘‘salt harvest’’ begins in August, soon after the cessation of pumping, and con-
tinues till all is gathered, frequently extending into the spring months of the succeed-
ing year. An average season yields a layer of salt 7 inches deep, which amount
would be deposited from 49 inches of lake water. The density at which salt begins
to deposit, as observed at the ponds and confirmed by laboratory experiments, is
1.2121, and that of the escaping mother liquors is 1.2345. The yield of salt is at the
rate of 150 tons per inch depth per acre. The crop is gathered on horse cars, which
run on movable tracks into the ponds. At the works the operations are simple and
effective. A link-belt conveyor carries the coarse salt to the crusher; thence to the
dryer, after which a sifting process is employed by which the salt is separated into
table salt and dairy salt.1 [See Specimens Nos. 53630-53634, U.S.N.M.]

Owing to the depth below the surface of the salt beds in Ohio,
Michigan, and other inland States, the material is never mined as in
the cases first mentioned, but is pumped to the surface as a brine and
there evaporated by artificial heat. In the Warsaw Valley region
the beds lie from 800 to 2,500 feet below the surface, and are reached
by wells. These are bored from 5% to 8 inches in diameter and are
cased with iron pipes down to the salt. Inside the first pipe is then
introduced a second, 2 inches in diameter, with perforations for a few
feet at its lower end, and which extends nearly if not quite to the bot-
tom. Fresh water is then allowed to run from the surface down
between the two pipes. This dissolves the salt, and forms a strong
brine which, being heavier, sinks to the bottom of the well and is
pumped up through the smaller or inner tube. At Syracuse the wells
are not sunk into the salt bed itself, but into an ancient gravel deposit
which is saturated with the brine. Here the introduction of water
from the surface is done away with. In those cases, not at all
uncommon, where the brine flows naturally to the surface in the form
of a spring, pumping is of course dispensed with.

The methods of evaporation vary somewhat in detail. In New

1Science, XIV, 1889, p. 445.

NAT MUS 99 14

210 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

York the brine is run in a continuous stream in large pans some 130
feet long by 20 feet wide and 18 inches deep. As it evaporates the salt
is deposited on the bottom and, by means of long-handled scrapers,
is drawn on the sloping sides of the pan. Here it is allowed to drain,
and is afterwards taken to the storage bins for packing or grinding.’
Salt thus produced, it should be noticed, is never so coarse as the
so-called rock salt, or that which has formed by natural evaporation.
In Michigan the brine from the wells is first stored in cisterns, whence
it is drawn off into large shallow pans, known technically as ‘‘ settlers,”
where it is heated by means of steam pipes to a temperature of 175°,
until the point of saturation is reached. It is then drawn into a second
series of pans, called ‘‘grainers,” where it is heated to a temperature
of 185°, until crystallization takes place.

The strength of brines, and therefore the quantity of water that
must be evaporated to produce a given quantity of salt, varies greatly
in different localities. At Syracuse the brine contains 15.35 per cent
of salt; at the Saginaw Valley, 17.91 per cent; at Saltville, Virginia,
25.97 per cent; while Salt Lake contains 11.86 per cent, and the waters
of San Francisco Bay but 2.37 cent. The amount of impurities
depends on the care exercised in process of manufacture, rapid boil-
ing giving less satisfactory results than slower methods. The Syra-
cuse salt has been found to contain 98.52 per cent sodium chloride;
California Bay salt 98.43 per cent and 99.44 per cent; and Petite
Anse 99.88 per cent. The impurities in these cases are nearly alto-
gether chlorides and sulphates of lime and magnesia.

The Cheshire (England) salt beds are worked both by mining as rock
salt and by pumping the brine. Formerly both upper and lower beds
were mined, but flooding and falling in of the roofs caused the work
to be discontinued on the upper beds. That now mined as rock salt
comes wholly from the lower bed, and being impure is used mainly for
agricultural purposes.

At Wieliczka the salt is likewise mined from galleries resembling in
a general way those of a coal mine. These, according to Brehm,’
begin at a depth of about 95 meters, forming several levels connected
by stairways, the lowermost gallery being at a depth of 312 meters, or
some 50 meters below sea level. These galleries have a total length of
some 680 kilometers. They are connected with one another by means
of ‘‘onze puits,” of which seven are utilized for hoisting purposes.
The work goes on continually night and day the year through. The
salt is cut out in the form of blocks, leaving huge chambers, the roof
being sustained by means of large columns of salt left standing. The

For details, see Salt and Gypsum Industries of New York, by Dr. F. J. H. Mer-
rill, Bulletin No. 11, New York State Museum, 1893.
*Merveilles De La Nature. La Terre, etc., p. 315.
Report of U.S, National Museum, 1899.-- Merrill. PLATE 5.

VIEWS OF BRINE-EVAPORATING TANKS AT SYRACUSE, NEW YORK.

From photographs by I. P. Bishop.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. Pit

temperature within these chambers is very uniform, varying only
between 10° and15°C. The air isdry and healthful. The miners hew
out of the salt statues of the saints, pyramids, and chandeliers, where
they can place 300 lights. One chamber, called the Chapel of St.
Antoine, with its altar, statues, columns, etc., is still ina condition of
perfect preservation after a lapse of two centuries. The statements
to the effect that the workmen, and indeed entire families, pass a good
share of their lives in these mines, almost never coming to the surface,
is stated by Brehm to be wholly erroneous. In reality, all the workers
leave daily, only the horse remaining below.

The following statistics relative to the salt industry in the United
States, are taken from Rothwell’s Mineral Industry, 1892, page 419:

1890. 1891. 1892.
State. = =
Barrels. Value. Barrels. Value. Barrels. Value.

MOCHA es. cam = 3, 837, 632 | $2,302,579 3, 927, 671 | $2, 136, 653 3, 812, 054 | $1, 906, 027
INGWr MOEK 4-66 5- cesar 2, 582, 036 1, 266, 018 3, 532, 600 1, 942, 930 4, 400, 000 2, 200, 000
ORIOS- cs ocnek sete 231, 303 136, 617 397, 000 264, 000 460, 000 276, 000
West Virginia ....--- 229, 938 134, 688 275, 000 192, 500 278, 000 166, 800
Louisiana......------ 2738, 553 132, 000 221, 430 93, 000 192, 850 81, 000
California) .--..:.-<)- 62, 363 57, 085 200, 000 100, 000 250, 000 125, 000
Withee 427, 500 126, 100 465, 000 150, 000 700, 000 295, 000
iGO Ge aS Se SSe8 Sel bsabeseeaood tscosacetrck et 15, 000 10, 000 10, 000 6, 000
GHSSS 2 ceo ect eet 882.666 397, 199 1, 000, 000 650, 000 1, 282, 850 698, 395
FATISOUNEL@s cto cicisaraicie = 300, 000 200, 000 200, 000 100, 000 250, 000 125, 000

Total barrels ..| 8,776,991 4,752, 286 | 10, 238, 701 5, 639, 083 | 11,585, 754 5, 879, 222

Total tons ..... 12887708 eee eee lac BENT He neeeaacess 1622) 00Gs| be seeseeeeeee

The total production of salt in the United States for 1899 amounted
to 19,861,948 barrels, or 2,780,677 short tons.

Uses.—The principal uses of salt have always been for culinary and
preservative purposes. Aside from these, it is also used in certain
metallurgical processes and in chemical manufacture, as in the prep-
aration of the so-called soda ash (sodium carbonate), used in glass
making, soap making, bleaching, etc., and in the preparation of sodium
salts in general. Clear, transparent salt has been utilized in a few
instances in optical and other research work. Secretary 5. P. Lang-
ley of the Smithsonian Institution, in his astrophysical work made use
of a salt prism some 19 centimetres in length and with faces 15 centi-
metres in breadth.
212 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Composition of salt from various localities.

SE |, |2 | | 8s Gels 38
e (* /¢.|8.| als .| 28 [s4) 2 om
Varieties of salt. S [OB o8 38 6 ee ay |Se = bo | Authorities.
3 (alc5|e2| 2 ie5| 25 (Sa) 81s]. | se
B le 1S 1S ete) ae eal se) eee
rat te es a oil = Wah eta Shel lcse |
SB 1S: |oulS ties pale Glo eee ea es
Rock salt.
Wieliczka, white ...... HO Wood eose Tit 532-3 Sana |/seecoal ewes seas lseealcess| ses ese Bischof.
Berchtesgaden, yellow | 99. 928)....|-..-- (E07 eee] Saad basase Boob Baca Seas] Sab Sachae Do.
BallFin) Lyrolls.-teen- 995,43) [ose -| Ol25)1012)-5. 210: 20/5. c2=5 35 eos ets) pSocl lento Do.
Schwiibire, Hall......-. 95635 lena 5](0s09|N0s28] csc etal aes cine 86 Bomalasel Sd baceac
Stassiurtu-c--Ss5ensecen OEE BY/ posallaboac OSH Sona) Wht lsaaose Seen Le 2125231022) e eee Heine.
Hallstadt in Up. Aus- | 98.14 | Tr.|.....|-....|-.-- SG) Seems cee cloemellecwel eee |emrciace Bischof.
tria.
Wilhelmsgliick........ 98536 a8 2<| a0 52/55] =0 5 (0.55) 0.03 |0.65/0. 53|....}....]..----
Vie in’ German: Lo- |'99530 |. <2 .)- 2. 22|--2c-|ncne 0: 50|Jaeee eae 0520) sé. \scee|sesone Berthier.
raine.
Jeb-el-Melah, Algeria. .| 97 Fl Pe |= 5 cee ee St] ese ae meee Se Ses raed) Meee eee Fournet. (?)
Quled' Kebbah, Algeria |'98:53) [2 ---| (0: 93|(O057|oo. 2 |< 2-2 Senne n| ce ne|eeee|am et sene|amemae Do.
Cheshire, England ....| 99.32 |..--|..... OF02/ Pes |0F4aG been se oaee Sas ete base aads= G. H. Cook.
Carrickfergus, Ireland.| 96.28 |....|.....|.---- ESS 0 (O808) la sleeve sees |Osd also eoee Do.
Holston, Virginia...... 996551 Bama lien eee eee SP eet On4b sees le ealee selene C. B. Hayden.
Petite Anse, Louisiana.| 98.88 |....| Tr. | Tr. |....|0.79|...---].... awe | soe s|0783) sce si Goessman.
Santo Domingo........ SASS a bee be ek Os04 2 SA eAS See eee See OS OLOS Oi lesaeee Do.
Cardona, Spain ......-.. QSSOD MI ESee OS OO MOsOAb ee Os4si acer ee lesee ae ee en asic
Sea salt.
Punksislandisseeceose 96276) |mec| scare 0.14). 56] OSG4.5 | eerlincies 0:90) cceee G. H. Cook.
St, Martins:jcccceeseeee FR DASI areal ee ae 0. 26). OS54 20> 24a) eee ee eels NSE essaa3 Do
St. Katis’s.scaseseacoas 99N77 lSsecleeaes OFOL Fe |ON08 aos lester Sel cemslO MIA eae Do
Curacoa,-s-.es5-—--55- 995854 ecse|cecas (080031 ee (0s bene eel Bees bree Sees Nossae Do
Cadiz ise2cescesaces eee GhemGllesme lees 0.57|....|0. 75). 0. 48 We ltre h2 rad ae peor Do
ISHONE Sa. eeoeeeeaetocs 94 AG, |e eoulsecere 1.11)..../0. 49} 1.39 Slt Bias oer 2h OH ereseia are Do
(Mrapanis Sicilyases aces O6N78ial Naceleecas 0. 49)....|0.41) 0.68 |.. scstlsG4l sews Do
Marthas Vineyard..... O4e Tid eae alee sate 0. 24 1. 42) 0.19 Bs 2Al. waa Do
POKES ce ieee et ae eee 9946 Ess. |cs ee leccee ae OMLO}ZO230)| 225 sea e| ae | Oke emanate Do
Pacific coast (Union | 98. 435|....|.....|----- sod Gee. |OSS6D Eteele cel esas la20leaeoae Falkenan
Pacific Salt Co.). Reese.
Salt from springs and
lakes.
Cheshire, England ....| 96.36 |....| 0.01] 0.02|....|1.17]...-.- Sei al Miles ss 2: 4d) 2 cee Do.
Dienze, German Lo- | 97.39 |....|..-.-|----- Beenie 021" O80 ul eate ere ears (had bases Do.
raine.
Droitwich, England ...| 96.93 |....|....- ON021E ee S805 eeeeee fete haa a TS Seles 2 5 Do.
Goderich, Ontario ..... 97.03 |..--| 0.01} 0.03]....|1.43]...... AE A 2 2 15 O|S- trees Goessman.
Onondaga, New York..| 97.41 |....| 0.15} 0.18]....|1.26].-.-.- Eaelasee |e ce (OO eso G. H. Cook.
Pittsburg, Pennsylva- | 96.70 |....| 0.33] 0.07|....|....]..-..- eee alstedl come 25710|= <2 Do.
nia.
Kanawha, West Vir- | 91.31) }2.<-| 1.26) 0)43iecec|eoesle eee oc|seee|ciceele sini 7200p tees Do.
ginia.
Holston, Virginia ..... QO et4 ee al eee eee ec lOKGl hOB alel aaa Goad baae (hal) epee Do
Saginaw, Michigan....| 92.97 |....| 1.09] 0.50]..../0.33]......|....]...- 0. 01}5. 10]....-- Do.
Hocking Valley, Ohio.| 93.07 |....| 0.61] 0.04)....|0.10)....../....]----].--- Bee ee oe Goessman.
Pomeroy, Ohio ........ 96:.423|5en| 0808 | ROSES heme ame eeeeee ~ «2 10505/0.16]2:,66)>-<--- E.8. Wayne.
Nebraskayo-snecmsstc=< i O81 D8 eSeclseese ONO7 ane On 240s Son sees aeeel aes (0: 80/soess5 Goessman,
LGR So oSceciococcsosar Sa UH ogdlincacs OF 2455.11.02) 0.185 e cele Sood est eeSSs- Do,

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS.

Composition of salt from various localities—Continued.

213

ei ig l2 laie |6. lfel 2 i
ey leet et ad |Ag| & uD
2 © 13 [a .| Sls.) 2s feels ie
Varieties of salt. 6 °E ma SE ie 28 zy ae . ! fog Authorities,
S 2/25 og @ $i3°| 3s ae aI = PE ao
BB io (Be lei paeieg| 91s) 8) 8a
= 6 ia le |o6 |S7 tesl2/8l2\5
a8 lo lla Va ie.) 4 le |e he
Salt from springs and
lakes.—Cont’d.
Onondaga ‘‘factory | 98.28 |....].....|...--|---- ONO OSO9M| Seren sore O10 60) Re aee- Goessman.
filled.”
Great Salt Lake ......- G75 G15 eee | Sears] aetelas| ere oe 108) Oh08s| Boas | cemalete ste 128 )encemo G. H. Cook
Elton Lake, Russia ....] 98.95 |....|....- 6. 19)e 22. OSL O35: eam) eee once |enins| => -s—= Gobel
Solid residue of brines
and sea water.
Halle, in Prussia and | 94.48 |0. 21} 1,03) 1.69)... ./2.23).----. OSB) ssealiesmcl oes 12.28 | Meissner.
Saxony.
Stassiuttiees = ssees ssc =< 94,49! |S50-|- cen = 0. 99)0. 34/2. 80) 1.20 0.18 Tr \-.2.|07.16))) Heine:
Schénebeck ......----- 95.71 |0.08)....- 1. 09/0. 08}1. 61] 1.37 0. 06}..-.]....]...- 2.00 | Herman.
DOcscrce eee eons om OBT2e eae) ele = 0. 67/1. 34/2. 55] 1.18 |0. 49/0. 03}....]..../11.10 | Watts Dict. of
Chem., Vol. V,
p. 334.
Artern, from bore in | 95,35 |0.45)....- Tp Be) ie Mea pee Ral Een aeeae|sece ....|26.50 | Heine.
rock salt.
Dunenberg -.-..--.------ 89. 88 |.--.|----- 1. 49\0. 99,0. 04) 0.63 |0.17)/6. 77,0. 02). 8.39 Do.
Moambhenm>ceno.---5<=-- 82.23 |1. 83] 6.74] 1.18)... .|0.18]...... 7. 63|----|0.07 2.87 | Bromeis.
Soden sc-coes ces soon 86.01 |1.81)..... 2.942... |0: 65). 5- <= 8.7 0.50}. 1.27 | Figuer and Mi-
alho.
GHESDITC (henson --5=-- 97.40 |. S25 RON 2ol aoa o0 pee 0. 20 26.00 | Wm. Henry.
IEWZE! Mesecene es case = CU Et Y(e Becrllooded| | Sacoc ..|1. 83) 3.30 #e|b2.-|15. 20) | GaEeCook.
CS Ory SoG aeSteeSenppone TPR? |BacalltZeee4! GStihlseseleecalbasns= BAC 21.20 | Boussingault.
Qnondaga-..:=-5---..- 95. 42 |. 0. 84! 0. 64)..../3.09).....-. .|0. 01 18.54 | G. H. Cook.
PIGS PULE ===. = sn BaD 7a ere reitioa3| (480 eeia| ee rass| rae 3) je bee 2.80 Do.
inna WiM ave aasce asc = 79.45 |....|16.48) 4.07 oie calaetteee Bere 9. 20 Do.
HO IS LOM eine = sear URES) |lseeelosocel Seece| leas 1. 22) 0.39 Alas 26. 40 Do.
Salt Lake, Texas ...-.- Oral st) eer ease Sees eee O82 ies On eee 24.90 Do.
Sea WALD cee cesar TexOla esd eae = 8. 56|....|3.47] 6.42 |0.27 3.74 | Usiglio.
iton hake: 5... ---- UBeL5) |OM79\- ee 67. 80)....|----|18. 26 = 29.13 | Rose.
IDCAGISEN scence a aa=e 29.86 '2. 51/11. 81/55. 45]..-./0.37)..-..-].--- ..|----|26.42 | Booth and
Muckle.
Great Salt Lake ......- (OM yal aoee| Gaeee V2) e~ ee os omlss Bec ee ..|22.42 | L. D. Gale.
Sea water (San Fran- |.......|...-|----.|-----|----]- Boe ea ee Seal eeenlssee ..-| 3.038] F. Gutzkow.
cisco Bay).

2. FLUORITE.

This is a calcium fluoride, CaF,— fluorine 48.9 per cent, cal-

cium 51.1 per cent.

The most striking features of this mineral are its
cubic crystallization (Specimens Nos. 51226, 66831, 66832, U.S.N.M.),
octahedral cleavage (Specimen No. 48270, U.S.N.M.), and fine green
(Specimen No. 48270, U.S.N.M.), yellow (Specimen No. 49160,
U.S.N.M.), purple (Specimen No. 51226, U.S.N.M.), violet, and
sky blue colors. White (Specimen No. 36091, U.S.N.M.) and red-
214 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

brown varieties are also known. The mineral is translucent to trans-
parent, and of a hardness somewhat greater than calcite (4 of Dana’s
scale).

Occurrence.—The mineral occurs as a rule in veins, though some-
times in beds in gneiss, the schists, limestones, and sandstones. It is
also a common gangue of metallic ores, particularly those of lead
and tin.

At Rosiclare, in southern Illinois, the fluorspar veins, according to
Emmons,’ are true fissure veins, varying from 4 to 20 feet in width in
limestones immediately underlying the coal measures. He regards
the original crevice as formed by dynamic action, as probably com-
paratively small and subsequently enlarged by solution by percolat-
ing waters. The source of the fluorspar of the veins would seem to
be the surrounding limestones.

The associated minerals are galena and calcite, with smaller quanti-
ties of sphalerite and iron and copper pyrites.

Uses.—The material is used mainly as a flux for iron, in the manu-
facture of opalescent glass and for the production of hydrofluoric
acid. The chief source of supply in the United States is Rosiclare,
Illinois, the annual output being some 6,000 to 10,000 tons, valued at
about $5 a ton.

3. CRYOLITE.

Composition.—Na,AIF,,=aluminum 12.8 per cent; sodium 32.8 per
cent; fluorine 54.4 per cent. The mineral is as a rule of snow-white
color, though sometimes reddish or brownish, rarely black, and
coarsely crystalline granular, translucent to subtransparent. It has
a hardness of 2.5; specific gravity of 2.9 to 3, and in thin splinters
may be melted in the flame of a candle.

The name is from the Greek word «pvos, ice, in allusion to its trans-
lucency and ice-like appearance (Specimen No. 17571, U.S.N.M.).

Mode of occurrence.—Cryolite occurs, as a secondary product, in the
form of veins. It is rarely found in sufficient abundance to be of
commercial value, the supply at present coming almost wholly from
Evigtok in South Greenland. The country rock here is said to be
granite and the vein as described in 1866” was 150 feet in greatest
breadth and was exposed for a distance of 600 feet. The principal
mineral of the vein was cryolite, but quartz, siderite, galena, and chal-
copyrite were constant accompaniments, irregularly distributed
through the mass. In 1890 the mine as worked was described as a
hole in the ground elliptical in shape, 450 feet long by 150 feet wide,
the pit being some 100 feet deep. The drills had penetrated 150 feet

1Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XJ, 1893, p. 31.
?Paul Quale, Report of Smithsonian Institution, 1866, p. 398.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 215

deeper and found cryolite all the way. Johnstrup, as quoted by Dana,?
describes the cryolite as:

Limited to the granite; he distinguishes a central and a peripheral part; the former
has an extent of 500 feet in length and 1,000 feet in breadth and consists of eryolite
chiefly, with quartz, siderite, galena, sphalerite, pyrite, chalcopyrite, and wolframite
irregularly scattered through it. The peripheral portion forms a zone about the cen-
tral mass of cryolite; the chief minerals are quartz, feldspar, and ivigtite, also fluor-
ite, cassiterite, molybdenite, arsenopyrite, columbite. Its inner limit is rather sharply
defined, though there intervenes a breccia-like portion consisting of the minerals of
the outer zone enclosed in cryolite; beyond this it passes into the surrounding granite
without distinct boundary.

Cryolite in limited quantity occurs at the southern base of Pike’s
Peak, in Colorado, and north and west of St. Peter’s Dome (Specimen
No. 48220, U.S.N.M.). It is found in vein-like masses of quartz and
microcline embedded in granite.

Uses.—Until within a few years the material has been utilized only
in the manufacture of soda, and sodium and aluminum salts, and to a
small extent in the manufacture of glass and porcelain ware. It is also
used in the electrolytic processes of extracting aluminum from its ores,
as now practiced.

The principal works utilizing the Greenland cryolite in chemical
manufacture are, at time of writing, those of the Pennsylvania Salt
Manufacturing Company at Natrona, Pennsylvania (see series of
crude and manufactured products Nos. 63327 to 63334, U.S.N.M).

IV. OXIDES.

1. SIica.

Quartz.—The mineral quartz, easily recognized by its insolubility
in acids, glassy appearance (Specimen No. 67985, U.S.N.M.), lack of
cleavage, and hardness, which is such that it readily scratches glass,
is one of the most common and widely disseminated of minerals.
Chemically it is pure silica, of the formula SiO,. It crystallizes in
the hexagonal system with beautiful terminations, and is one of the
most attractive of minerals for the amateur collector (Specimen No.
61768, U.S.N.M.). The common form is, however, massive, occurring
in veins in the older crystalline rocks (Specimen No. 55244, U.S.N.M.).
Common sand is usually composed mainly of quartzose grains which,
owing to their hardness and resistance to atmospheric chemical agen-
cies, have withstood disintegration to the very last.

The terms rose, milky (Specimen No. 62381, U.S.N.M.), and smoky
(‘Specimen No. 67986, U.S.N.M.) are applied to quartzes which differ
from the ordinary type only in tint, as indicated. Chalcedony is the name
given to a somewhat hornlike, translucent or transparent form of silica
occurring only as a secondary constituent in veins, or isolated con-
cretionary masses, and in cavities in other rocks. Agate is a banded

"System of Mineralogy, 1892, p. 167.
216 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

variety of chalcedony. The true onyx is similar to agate, except that
the bands or layers of different colors lie in even planes. Jasper is a
ferruginous, opaque chalcedony, sometimes used for ornamental pur-
poses. Opal is an amorphous form of silica, containing somewhat
variable amounts of water.

Quartz occurs as an essential constituent of granite, gneiss, mica
schist, quartz porphyry, and liparite, and also as a secondary constitu-
ent in the form of veins, filling joints and cavities in rocks of all kinds
and all ages.

Uses.—The finer clear grades of quartz are used to some extent for
spectacle lenses and optical work, as well as in cheap jewelry (Specimen
No. 11893, U.S.N.M.). Its main value is, however, for abrading pur-
poses, either as quartz sand or as sandpaper (Series Nos. 55877-55884,
U.S.N.M.), and in the manufacture of pottery (Specimens Nos. 62123,
63035-63038, U.S.N.M.). For abrading purposes it is crushed and
bolted, like emery and corundum, and brings a price barely sufficient
to cover cost of handling and transportation. Pure quartz sand is also
of value for glass making (Specimens Nos. 53188, 60683, 63128, 63123,
63122, U.S.N.M.), and ground quartz to some extent as a ‘‘filler” in
paints (Specimen No. 63119, U.S.N.M.), and as a scouring material in
soaps. The following analyses show the composition of some glass
sands from (I) Clearfield and (II) Lewistown, Pennsylvania:

Constituents. 1f- int
Silica Wes. <2 hee thos aes n oen wee tence 99. 79 98. 84
ATUMINA, --ccose sees omc asia aloe’ oe Sead 0.12 0.17
TroniOxiGes:...-ssseaseensastenneasake 0.014 0.34

TAME. oo rec arcane mesic «beaten acc seece 0.8 Traces.
TOWMVGLON so vesese dnc soce cee ceee Sea eee see coeeaes 0. 23
100. 724 99. 58

Frint is a chalcedonic variety of silica found in irregular nodular
forms in beds of Cretaceous chalk. These nodules break with a con-
choidal fracture and interiorly are brownish to black in color (Speci-
men No. 62120, U.S.N.M.). By the aboriginal races the flints were
utilized for the manufacture of knives and general cutting imple-
ments. Later they were used in the manufacture of gun flints and
the ‘‘flint and steel” for producing fire. At present they are used
to some extent in the manufacture of porcelain, being calcined (Speci-
men No. 62061, U.S.N.M.) and ground (Specimen No. 62122, U.S.N.M.)
to mix with the clay and give body to the ware. In this country the
same purpose is accomplished by the use of quartz. Small round
nodules of flint from Dieppe, France, are said to be used in the Tren-
ton (New Jersey) pottery works for grinding clay by being placed in
revolving vats of water and kaolin. All the flint now used in this
country is imported either as ballast or as an accidental constituent
of chalk.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 217

As the material is worth but from $1 to $2 a ton delivered at
Trenton, it may be readily understood that transportation is a rather
serious item to be considered in developing home resources.

According to Mr. R. T. Hill, nodules of black flint occur in enormous
quantities in the chalky limestones—the Caprina limestones—of Texas.
Numerous localities are mentioned, the most accessible being near
Austin, on the banks of the Colorado River.

Buurstonr, or burrstone, is the name given to a variety of
chalcedonie silica, quite cavernous, and of a white to gray or slightly
yellowish color. The cavernous structure is frequently due to the
dissolving out of calcareous fossils. The rock is of chemical origin—
that is, results from the precipitation of silica from solution, and pre-
sumably through the action of organic matter. In France the material
occurs alternating with other unaltered Tertiary strata in the Paris
basin (Specimen No. 36140, U.S.N.M.). It is also reported in Eocene
strata in South America, and in Burke and Screven counties along the
Savannah River in southern Georgia in the United States (Specimen
No. 36051, U.S.N.M.). The toughness of the rock, together with the
numerous cavities, impart a sharp cutting power such as renders them
admirably adapted for millstones, and in years past material for this
purpose has been sent out from French sources all over the civilized
world.

Trirot is the commercial name given to a peculiar porous rock
regarded as a decomposed chert associated with the Lower Car-
boniferous limestones of southwest Missouri (Specimen No. 55028,
U.S.N.M.). The rock is of a white cream or slight pink cast, fine
grained and homogeneous, with a distinct gritty feel, and, though soft,
sufficiently tenacious to permit of its being used in the form of thin
disks of considerable size for filtering purposes (Specimen No. 62044,
U.S.N.M.). According to Hovey’ the deposit is known to underlie
between 80 and 100 acres of land, in the form of a rude ellipse, with its
longer diameter approximately north and south. From numerous
prospect holes and borings it has been shown to have an average thick-
ness of 15 feet, the main quarry of the present company showing a
thickness of 8 feet. The following section is given from a well sunk
in the northern part of the area:

Feet.
IRE H Oh AE RS eg ree ele eae ee gy EE ree 5 9 ee Ee ee ee 0 to 4
SETH OY Tg eae kates net otal ny Pl ped eg a She 4 20
FSU EG WCE es eect ene eo DE es ts a ae A ee ee eee ee ee 20 214
PRES eteienty ClL Vn ALC OCMTG& Lee aae ae ee ase oe Se eet ee casa a Mieke 213 40
Ghertyslimestone seats Aes ee ee ee et nye ea eS eM Sets Sd 40 93
Chessy limestone bearine calena\ 222525222225. 6 kok se goes ese cscs las 93% 103
NOES TOM Cr py eae ea Mn Mee, SRR cia FONE he SR cise 103 128
Limestone bearing sphalerite and galena............-.------:--------- 128 136
Soli macmesian, limestone mess eeeee ae eee eee eons sueteck ao aces Ibiasl:

1Scientific American Supplement, July 28, 1894, p. 15487.
218 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The tripoli is everywhere underlain by a relatively thin bed of
stiff red clay, and also traversed in every direction by seams of the
same material from 1 to 2 inches thick. These seams and other joints
divide the rock into masses which vary in size up to 30 inches or more
in diameter. Microscopic examinations as given by Hovey show the
rock to contain no traces of organic remains, but to be made up of
faintly doubly refracting chalcedonic particles from 0.01 to 0.03 milli-
metre in diameter. The chemical composition, as shown from analysis
by Prof. W. H. Seaman, is as follows:

Silica (Si:O,) . 2/232 e 2 ee eee 98. 100
Aluminas (All, @)) 22 see eee 0. 240
Iron oxide (Fe O and Fe,O,) ..-.--...---- 0. 270
Lime; (CaO). ..36.-5 52.) eo ee 0. 184
Soda.(Na.0)... as ees eee 0. 230
Water: (ignition): 62.2225 eee 1. 160
Organic matter. 53.520 Sete ees 0. 008

100. 192

Silica soluble in a 10 per cent solution of caustic soda on boiling three hours, 7.28
per cent. ‘

Aside from its use as a filter (Specimens Nos. 62044 and 62045,
U.S.N.M.) the rock is crushed between burr stones, bolted, and used
as a polishing powder (Specimens Nos. 51231 and 55029, U.S.N.M.).
To a small extent it has been used in the form of thin slabs for blotting
purposes, for which it answers admirably owing to its high absorptive
property, but is somewhat objectionable on account of its dusty char-
acter. The view (Plate 6) shows the character of a quarry of this
material as now worked by the American Tripoli Company at Seneca,
in Newton County.

DIATOMACEOUS OR INFUSORIAL EARTH, as it is sometimes called,
is, when pure, a soft, pulverulent material, somewhat resembling
chalk or kaolin in its physical properties, and of a white or yellow-
ish or gray color. Chemically it is a variety of opal (see analyses
on page 220).

Origin and occurrence of deposits.—Certain aquatic forms of plant
life known as diatoms, which are of microscopic dimensions only, have
the power of secreting silica, in the same manner as mollusks secrete
carbonate of lime, forming thus their tests or shells. On the death of
the plant the siliceous tests are left to accumulate on the bottom of
the lakes, ponds, and pools in which they lived, forming in time beds
of very considerable thickness, which, however, when compared with
other rocks of the earth’s crust are really of very insignificant propor-
tions. Like many other low organisms the diatoms can adapt them-
selves to a wide range of conditions. They are wholly aquatic, but
live in salt and fresh water and under widely varying conditions of
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill.

PLATE 6.

a

4
y

oy
?
&
&

VIEW OF TRIPOLI MINES IN CARTHAGE, MISSOURI.
Report of U. S. National Musetm, 1899.—Merrill PLATE 7.

DEPOSIT OF DIATOMACEOUS EARTH, GREAT BEND OF PITT RIVER, SHASTA COUNTY,
CALIFORNIA.

From a photograph by J. S. Diller.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 219

depth and temperature. They may be found in living forms in almost
any body of comparatively quiet water in the United States. The
exploring steamer Challenger dredged them up in the Atlantic from
depths varying from 1,260 to 1,975 fathoms and from latitudes well
toward the Antarctic Circle. Mr. Walter Weed, of the U.S. Geolog-
ical Survey, has recently reported them as living in abundance in the
warm marshes of the Yellowstone National Park, while: Dr. Blake
reported finding over 50 species in a spring in the Pueblo Valley,
Nevada, which showed a temperature of 163° F.

Although beds of diatomaceous earth are still in process of forma-
tion, and in times past have been formed at various epochs, the Tertiary
period appears for some reason to have been peculiarly fitted for the
growth of these organisms, and all of the known beds of any impor-
tance, both in America and foreign countries, are of Tertiary age. The
best known of the foreign deposits is that of Bilin, in Bohemia. This
is some 14 feet in thickness. When it is borne in mind that, according
to the calculations of Ehrenberg, every cubic inch of this contains not
less than 40,000,000 independent shells, one stands aghast at the mere
thought of the myriads of these little forms which such a bed repre-
sents. . Some of the deposits in the United States are, however, con-
siderably larger than this. What is commonly known as the Richmond
bed extends from Herring Bay, on the Chesapeake, Maryland, to
Petersburg, Virginia, and perhaps beyond. ‘This is in some places not
less than 30 feet thick in thickness, though very impure (Specimen
No. 67984, U.S.N.M., from Calvert County, Maryland, is fairly repre-
sentative). Near Drakesville, in New Jersey, there occurs a smaller
deposit, covering only some 3 acres of territory to a depth of from 1 to
3 feet. Some of the largest deposits known are in the West. Near
Socorro, in New Mexico, there is stated to be a deposit of fine quality
which crops out ina single section for a distance of 1,500 feet and
some 6 feet in thickness.

Geologists of the fortieth parallel survey reported abundant deposits
in Nevada, one of which showed in the railroad cutting west of Reno
a thickness not less than 200 feet, and of a pure white, pale buff, or
canary yellow color (Specimen No. 67916, U.S.N.M.). Along the Pitt
River, in California, there is stated to be a bed extending not less than
16 miles and in some places over 300 feet thick (see Plate 7). Near
Linkville, Klamath County, Oregon (Specimens Nos. 53402, 53093,
U.S.N.M.), there occurs a deposit which has been traced for a dis-
tance of 10 miles, and shows along the Lost River a thickness of 40
feet. Beds are known also to occur in Idaho (Specimens Nos. 63843,
66950, U.S.N.M.), near Seattle, in Washington (Specimen No. 53200,

_U.S.N.M.), and doubtless many more yet remain to be discovered. A
deposit of unknown extent, pure white color, and almost pulp-like
consistency has been worked in South Beddington, Maine (Specimens
220 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Nos. 73253, 73254, U.S.N.M.). Others of less purity occur near
South Framingham, Massachusetts (Specimens Nos. 62767, 62768,
U.S.N.M.), Lake Umbagog, New Hampshire (Specimen No. 29322,
U.S.N.M.), at White Head Lake, Herkimer County, New York (Spec-
imen No. 62913, U.S.N.M.), and at Grand Manan, New Brunswick
(Specimen No. 57339, U.S.N.M.).

Chemical Composition.—As already intimated, this earth is of a
siliceous nature, and samples from widely separated localities show
remarkable uniformity in composition. Of the following analyses,
No. I is from Lake Umbagog, New Hampshire, No. II, from Morris
County, New Jersey, and No. II, from Popes Creek, in Maryland. As
will be noted, the silica percentage is nearly the same in all.

Constituents. I II Iil
Silica ws 2ee he ee. Sey een ates 80.53 | 80.66 | 81.53

WAV TIIATIN GB ao bee © cri ereeiatne See 5. 89 3. 84 3.43
TON OXIDES sc/222so eee ete cesta ae BRS Resse 3. 34
DD 01 (= eee ee ee ee eee eR 0.35 0.58 | 2.61

S100 Cake REE Ae Spee En cea SERS ee ea Sea Sao paces oo 1.48
Potashts. focce sense aeee eae ee a ee sets ee eatetatee 1.16
Water and organic matter ...-.-.-. 12.03 | 14.01 | 6.04

The substance may therefore be regarded as a variety of opal.

Uses.—The main use of infusorial earth is for a polishing powder.
It is, however, an excellent absorbent, and has been utilized to mix
with nitroglycerine in the manufacture of dynamite. It has also been
used to some extent in the preparation of the soluble silicate known
as water glass. The demand for the material is therefore quite smal’,
not nearly equal to the supply. The Maryland and Nevada deposits
are said to be the principal ones now worked. During the year 1897
the entire output was about 3,000 tons, valued at some $30,400.

2. CORUNDUM AND EMERY.

Corunpum.—Composition, sesquioxide of aluminum A1,O,,=oxygen,
47.1 per cent; aluminum, 52.9 per cent. In erystals often quite pure,
but frequently occurring associated in crystalline granular masses with
magnetic iron, and often more or less altered into a series of hydrated
aluminous compounds, as damourite (Specimen No. 82492, U.S.N.M.).
The crystalline form of the mineral is hexagonal, or sixsided in out-
line, and often with curved sides and square terminations, giving rise
to roughly barrel-shaped forms, as shown in specimen No. 81450 from
Bengal, India.

A prominent basal cleavage causes the crystals to break readily with
smooth flat surfaces at right angles with the axis of elongation. The
massive forms often show a nearly rectangular parting or pseudo-
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 991

cleavage (Specimen No. 63480, U.S.N.M., from Pine Mountain,
Georgia).

The most striking physical property of the mineral is its hardness,
which is 9 of Dana’s scale. In this respect it ranks then next to the
diamond. The color of the mineral varies from white through gray
(Specimen No. 46283, U.S.N.M), brown, yellow, blue (Specimens Nos.
73531 and 48182, U.S.N.M.), pink (Specimen No. 81922, U.S.N.M.),
and red; luster adamantine to vitreous; specific gravity, 3.95 to 4.1.
The highly colored transparent red and blue forms are valuable as
gems, and are known under the names of ruby and sapphire. The
consideration of these forms is beyond the limits of this work. (See
Mineral and Gem Collections. )

Occurrences. —Athough widespread as a mineral, corundum, unmixed
with a large proportion of magnetite (forming emery), has been found
in but few localities in sufficient abundance to be of commercial value.
The most important deposits in the United States are in southwestern
North Carolina and in the Laurel Creek region of northern Georgia.
The country rock in both these regions is hornblendic gneiss, through
which has been intruded a basic eruptive (dunite, Specimen No. 70069,
U.S.N.M.), and it is mainly along the decomposed lines of contact
between the two that the corundum is found. According to Dr. T. M.
Chatard, the Corundum Hill Mine is situated on a ridge which runs in
the northeast and southwest direction characteristic of this section, the
dunite outcrops being on the crest, and apparently surrounded on all
sides except toward the east by hornblende gneiss. On the east side
mica schist (probably damourite schist) takes the place of the gneiss,
and it is on the eastern side of the dunite that the so-called ** sand vein”
is found. This isa vein-like mass of brown vermiculite in small scales
containing an abundance of small crystals of corundum which are usually
brown in color and often broken into fragments (Specimen No. 73529,
U.S.N.M.). The easterly wall of this vein is the mica schist very
much decomposed, while on the western side is found enstatite (Speci-
men No. 70070, U.S.N.M.), next vermiculite mixed with chlorite, then
tale (Specimen No. 70071, U.S.N.M.), which in turn gives place to
nodules of more or less altered dunite.

The specimens of corundum crystals for which this locality is so
celebrated (Specimen No. 73530, U.S.N.M.) have been found mainly, if
not wholly, on the westerly side of the dunite, and on or near the line
of contact between the gneiss and dunite.

State Geologist Yeates has stated’ that in the Laurel Creek region
the corundum is not confined to the vermiculite and chlorite bands,
but is abundant in the lime soda feldspar as well. The same authority
states that in this region the dunite is not inclosed by the hornblendic

1Bulletin No. 2, Geological Survey of Georgia, 1894.
222 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

gneisses, but intruded between these and other gneiss or mica schist;
also that the corundum-bearing veins lie in the dunite close to the con-
tact and in the vicinity of the hornblendic gneiss. It should be said
before leaving the subject that certain micaceous minerals, as margarite
and chloritoid (Specimen No. 63107, U.S.N.M., from Chester, Massa-
chusetts) are almost invariable accompaniments of corundum and
emery deposits, and that it was the finding of these minerals that led
to the discovery of the emery beds at Chester. Chatard reports that
in the North Carolina mines chlorite or vermiculite is considered a
‘*corundum sign,” and in mining such indications are followed so long
as they hold out (Specimen No. 63153, U.S.N.M.).

The geographical distribution of corundum-bearing rocks in the
eastern United States has been worked out in detail by J. V. Lewis of
the North Carolina Geological Survey, from whose report’ the accom.
panying map (Plate 8) is taken. According to this authority the
corundum occurring in such quantities as to be of commercial value is
almost universally found in connection with basic eruptive rocks, as
peridotites or their varietal forms pyroxenite and amphibolite, which
are themselves intruded into gneisses.

At Yogo Gulch, Montana, corundum in the form of sapphire (see Gem
Collections) occurs as a constituent of a basic eruptive rock near the
line of contact with aluminous shales (Specimen No. 53519, U.S.N.M.).
In Gallatin County the mineral is found in well-defined crystals of all
sizes up to an inch or more in length abundantly disseminated through-
out a granite (Specimen No. 83838,U.S.N.M.). In the Russian Urals it
occurs in disseminated crystals and large cleavage masses in feldspar
(Specimens Nos. 40323, 40315, 40334, 73532, U.S.N.M.). In India it
occurs as an original constituent associated with both acid and basic
rocks, but in most cases where the mineral is in the basic rocks there
have been found intrusions of pegmatite (an acid rock) in the near
vicinity. In the celebrated Mogok Ruby Mines the corundum is found
in a crystalline limestone and the detritus resulting from its decay, the
limestone itself being regarded by Professor Judd as an extreme form
of alteration of rocks of igneous origin (see further under Emery).

Corundum has recently been reported as a constituent of both nephe-
line syenites and ordinary syenites in the counties of Renfrew, Hast-
ings, and Peterborough, in Eastern Ontario, Canada. According to
W. G. Miller’ these syenites are dike rocks, consisting essentially of
feldspar, nepheline, and black mica or hornblende, the corundum
occurring more abundantly in the ordinary syenite than in that which
carries nepheline. The dikes are from a few inches to some feet in
diameter, and the corundum is distributed in a somewhat capricious

1Bulletin No. 11. Corundum and the Basic Magnesian Rocks of Western North
Carolina, by J. V. Lewis, 1896.
*Report of the Canadian Bureau of Mines, VII, Pt. 3, 1898, p. 207.
Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899.—Merri|!. PLATE 8,

MAP OF THE
APPALACHIAN
CRYSTALLINE BELT
SHOWING THE DISTRIBUTION OF
PERIDOTITES anD CORUNDUM.
By J.V. Lewis, 1895.

y

ais)
y Seats
Wheelin’ [

ef

\ 5 MA

ee

Ay imine

cay

e)

LEGEND:

Schists and Gneisses.

Peridotites and other Basic
Magnesian Rocks,

Corundum localities.

MAP SHOWING DISTRIBUTION OF CORUNDUM AND FPERIDOTITE IN THE EASTERN UNITED
STATES.
After J. V. Lewis, Bulletin 11, North Carolina Geological Survey.
‘ : i oe a

= ai) y~ ae

- 7 +s ile. ‘ \ ies TAP Oe

- A ry 4 ~~ hw h

ot ; rk i
© » Ss

a ’ . =

7 A a

a ee ae
_'

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 993

manner, being quite uniformly distributed in some of the smaller
dikes, or segregated irregularly along certain lines or patches. In some
of the dikes the mineral is quite lacking. The total area covered by
the corundum-bearing rocks, in the three counties mentioned, is 100
square miles (Specimen No. 53538, U.S.N.M.).

Origin.—Dr. Chatard, as a result of his observations already quoted,
regards the corundum of Franklin County, North Carolina, and the
Laurel Creek region of Georgia as a secondary mineral produced by a
mutual reaction between the various elements of the dunite and
gneiss during decomposition, the solutions formed during such decom-
position giving rise to such reactions as are productive of chlorite and
yermiculites, and, where the necessary conditions of proportion are
reached, to corundum.

On the other hand, Dr. J. H. Pratt,’ who has made a detailed study
of the North Carolina region, regards the corundum as an original
constituent of the peridotite—as having been held in solution in the
molten magma at the time of its intrusion into the country rock,
and having been one of the first minerals to crystallize on its cooling.
This view is most in accord with recent synthetic work done by Moro-
zewicz and others.

Pirsson, who has described” the occurrence of sapphires in a basic
eruptive rock from Yogo Gulch, Montana, regards them as of pyro-
genetic origin—that is, they result from the direct crystallization of the
oxide, but which has been derived from aluminous material dissolved
from shales by the molten rock during its intrusion. The sharp out-
lines of the crystals in the granite from Galiatin County, Montana
(Specimen No. 83838, U.S.N.M.), is also indicative of a direct crystalli-
zation from a molten magma containing an excess of aluminum. A like
origin must also be recognized for the Canadian mineral, and a part
at least of that of India.

Emery.—The rock emery takes its name from Cape meri, on the
island of Naxos, where it occurs in great abundance. Mineralogically
it has been regarded by various authorities as either a mechanical
admixture of corundum and magnetic iron ore or as simply a massive
iron spinel—hercynite. So far as the Naxos emery is concerned, the
first view is undoubtedly correct. Physically emery is a massive,
nearly opaque, dark gray to blue-black or black material, with a specific
gravity of 4 and hardness of 8, Dana’s scale, breaking with a tolerably
regular fracture, and always more or less magnetic.

Chemically the material is quite variable in composition, a fact
which gives support to the opinions of those who hold it to be a mixture
rather than a true chemical compound. Below are the results of

1American Journal of Science, VI, 1898, pp. 49-65.
2TIdem, IV, 1897, p. 421.
224 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

analyses by Dr. J. Lawrence Smith, from whose papers on the subject
these notes are partially compiled:

ry, Localities. Alumina.| Iron. | Lime. | Silica. | Water.
2 CO panne da eS f 61.05 | 27.15] 1.30 9.63 | 2.00
lL 63.50] 38.25] 0.92 1.61 | 1.90
Samos ese. he eee Soe 70.10 | 22.21] 0.62 4.00] 2.10
: y 80.10 | 33.20] 0.48 1.80| 5.62
SUNG Sven aoc GS ae oa \ 77.82] 8.62] 1.80 8.13| 3.11
CaM NS ein 8 DR Bie ce y 71.06 | 20.32} 1.40 AS12)|) P2553
ING, 75512) eS e064 beware 6.88 | 3.10
HIpHESus). -osceeeosa=. eae eee 60.10 | 33.20 0. 48 1.80 5. 62
( 442.070)| 50S | Seaenes S132) eee
5ONO27|=445 114 aeeeeee 3.25
Chester, Massachusetts .......--- 51592), A2n2Dileceeiaece 5.46
| | ae eC bl ee 5.48
| 84:02 | 9,43" sos 4.81

Geologically emery, like corundum, belongs mainly to the older
crystalline rocks. In Asia Minor it occurs in angular or rounded
masses from the size of a pea to those of several tons weight, embedded —
in a blue-gray or white crystalline limestone, which overlies micaceous
or hornblendic schists, gneisses, and granites. Superficial decompo-
sition has, as a rule, removed more or less of the more soluble portions
of the limestone, leaving the emery nodules in a red ferruginous soil.
With the emery are associated other aluminous minerals as mentioned
below.

According to Tschermak' the Naxos emery (Specimen No. 60465,
U.S.N.M.) occurs mostly in the form of an iron-gray, scaly to schistose,
rarely massive, aggregate consisting essentially of magnetite and corun-
dum, the latter mineral being in excess. In addition to these two
minerals occur hematite and limonite, as alteration products of the
magnetite; margarite, muscovite, biotite, tourmaline, chloritoid, dias-
pore, disthene, staurolite, and rutile occur as common accessories;
rarely are found spinel, vesuvianite, and pyrite. Under the microscope
he finds the emery rock to show the corundum in rounded granules
and sometimes well-defined crystals with hexagonal outlines, particu-
larly in cases where single individuals are embedded in the iron ores.
(Plate 9, fig. 2.) In many cases, as in the emery of Krenino and
Pesulas, the gran 1es are partially colored blue by a pigment some-
times irregularly and sometimes zonally distributed. The corundum
grains, which vary in size between 0.05 mm. and 0.52 mm. (averaging
about 0.22 mm.), are very rich in inclosures of the iron ores, largely
magnetite in the form of small, rounded granules. The quantity of
these is so great as at times to render the mineral quite opaque, though
at times of such dust-like fineness as to be translucent and of a brownish

*Mineralogische und Petrographische Mittheilungen, XIV, 1894, p. 313.
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899,—Merrill. PLATE 9.

MICROSTRUCTURE OF EMERY.

After Tschermak, Mineralogische und Petrographische Mittheilungen, XIV, Part 4.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 995

color. The larger corundums are often injected with elongated, par-
allel-lying clusters or groups of the iron ores, as shown in fig. 3, Tscher-
mak’s paper. The corundums in turn are often surrounded by borders
of very minute zircons. The iron ore, as noted above, is principally
magnetite, but which, by hydration and oxidation, has given rise
to abundant limonite. The magnetites are in the form of rounded
granules and dust-like particles, and also at times in well-defined octa-
hedrons. In their turn the magnetites also inclose particles of corun-
dum very much as the metallic iron of meteorites of the pallosite group
inclose the olivines and as shown in Plate 9, fig. 4. The iron ores,
as a rule, occur in parallel layers and lenticular masses or nests.

The following account of these deposits and the method of working
is by A. Gobantz:*

Naxos, the largest of the Cyclades Islands, is remarkable as being one of the few
localities in the world producing emery on a large scale; the deposits, which are of
an irregularly bedded or lenticular form, being mostly concentrated on the moun-
tains at the northern end of the island, the most important ones being in the imme-
diate vicinity of the village of Bothris. The island is principally made up of
archean rocks, divisible into gneiss and schist formations, the latter consisting of
mica schists alternating with crystalline limestones. The lenticular masses of
emery, which are very variable in size, ranging in length from a few feet to
upward of 100 yards and in maximum thickness from 5 to 50 yards, are closely
associated with the limestones, and, as they follow their undulations, they vary very
much in position, lying at all kinds of slope, from horizontal to nearly vertical.
Seventeen different deposits have been discovered and worked at different times.
These range over considerable heights from 180 to 700 meters above sea-level, the
largest working, that of Malia, being one of the lowest. This important deposit
covers an area of more than 30,000 square metres, extending for about 500 metres
in length with a height of more than 50 metres. This was worked during the
Turkish occupation, and it has supplied fully one-half of all the emery exported
since the formation of the Greek Kingdom. The highest quality of mineral is
obtained from two comparatively thin but extensive deposits at Aspalanthropo and
Kakoryakos, which are 435 metres above the sea level. The mineral is stratified
in thin bands from 1 to 2 feet in thickness, crossed by two other systems of divisional
planes so that it breaks into nearly cubical blocks in the working. The floor of
the deposit is invariably crystalline limestone, and the roof a loosely crystalline dolo-
mite covered by mica schist. The underlying limestones are often penetrated by
dykes of tourmaline granite, which probably have some intimate connection with
the origin of the emery beds above them.

Mineralogically emery is a compact mixture of blue corundum and magnetic iron
ore, its value as an abrasive material increasing with the proportion of the former
constituent. This proportion has, however, been usually much overestimated.
Seven samples collected by the author have been examined at the Technical High
School in Vienna, and found to contain from 60 to 66 per cent of alumina. The
average composition may be considered to be 3 corundum, the remainder being
magnetite and silica in the proportion of about 2 to 1, with some carbonate of lime.

The working of the deposits is conducted in an extremely primitive fashion.

'Oesterreichische Zeitschrift fiir Berg- und Hiittenwesen, XLII, p. 143. Abstract
in the Minutes and Proceedings of the Institute of Civil Engineers, CX VII, pp.
466-468. ’

NAT Mus 99——15
226 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

During the period of Turkish rule the exclusive right of emery mining was given to
two villages, and this rule has prevailed up to the present time; no Greek Govern-
ment having yentured to break down the monopoly. These privileged workmen
are about 600 in number, and have the right of working the mineral wherever and
in what manner they may think best. The produce is taken over by the Govern-
ment official at the rate of about £3 12s. for 50 ewts. The rock is exclusively broken
by fire-setting. A piece of ground, about 5 feet broad and the same height, is cleared
from loose material, and a pile of brushwood heaped against it and lighted. This
burns out in about twenty-four or thirty hours, when water is thrown upon the
heated rock to chill it and develop fractures along the secondary divisional planes in
the mass of emery, and so facilitate the breaking up and removal of the material.
Sometimes a crack is opened out by inserting a dynamite cartridge, but the regular
use of explosives is impossible, owing to the hardness of the mineral which can not
be bored with steel tools. Only the larger lumps are carried down to the shipping
place, the smaller sizes, up to pieces as large as the fist, being left on the ground.

As most of the suitable places for fire-setting at the surface have been worked out,
attempts have been made to follow the deposits underground, but none of these
have been carried to any depth, partly on account of the suffocating smoke of the
fires, rendering continuous work difficult; but more particularly from the dangerous
character of the loose dolomite roof, which is responsible for many fatal accidents
from falls annually. These might, of course, be prevented by the judicious use of
timber or masonry to support the roof, but this appears to be beyond the skill of
the native miners.

The rapid exhaustion of the forests in the neighbourhood of the mines, owing to
the heavy consumption of fuel in fire-setting, has been a cause of anxiety to the
Government for some years past, and competent experts have been employed to
suggest new methods of working. These have been tolerably unanimous in recom-
mending the institution of systematic quarry workings, using diamond boring
machines and powerful explosives for winning the mineral, and the construction of
wire-rope ways and jetties for improving the methods of conveyance and shipping;
but as funds for these improvements, owing to the disastrous condition of the
national finances, are not obtainable, the primitive method of working still con-
tinues. Meanwhile the competition of the mines in Asia Minor has become so
intense that the export of emery from Naxos has almost entirely ceased for a year
past.

According to Jackson, the principal emery deposit at Chester, Mas-
sachusetts, in the United States, occurs at South Mountain, in the form
of a bed from 4 to 10 feet in width, with a nearly N. 20° E., S. 20°
W., course, and dipping to the eastward at an angle of 70°. The bed
widens rapidly as it rises in the mountain, and is in one place, where
it is associated with a bed of iron ore (magnetite), 17 feet wide, the
emery itself being not less than 10 feet in the clear. The highest
point of outcrop is 750 feet above the immediate base of the mountain.
The bed cuts through both the South and North Mountains, and has
been traced in length 4 miles. Frequently large globular masses of
the emery are found in a state of great purity, separated from the
principal masses of the bed and surrounded by a thin layer of bright
green chloritoid and a thicker layer of interwoven laminated crystals
of delicate lilac-colored margarite (Specimen No. 63107, U.S.N.M.),
sometimes 2 or more inches in thickness. Some of these balls of
emery are 3 or more feet in diameter and extremely difficult to break.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 297

(Specimens Nos. 63102, 63103, 63104, 63105, 63106, U.S.N.M.), show the
character of the ore as mined and the character of the wall or country
rock.

The chief commercial sources of emery are those of Gumuch-dagh,
between Ephesus and the ancient Tralles; Kulah, and near the river
Hermes in Asia Minor, and the island of Naxos, whence it is quarried
and shipped from Smyrna, in part as ballast, to all parts of the world.
The only commercial source of importance in the United States, or
indeed, in North America, is Chester, Massachusetts, as above noted.
The island of Naxos is stated to have for several centuries furnished
almost exclusively the emery used in the arts, the material being
chiefly obtained from loose masses in the soil. The mining at Kulah
and Gumuch-dagh was begun about 1847 and at Nicaria in 1850. The
emery vein at Chester, Massachusetts, was discovered by Dr. H. 5.
Lueas in 1863, and deseribed by Dr. C. T. Jackson in 1864.

In preparing for use the mineral, after being dug from the soil or
blasted from the parent ledge, is pulverized and bolted in various

grades, from the finest flour to a coarse sand (Specimens Nos. 59844 to
59864, U.S .N.M., inclusive). The commercial prices vary according
to grade from 3 e 10cents a pound. At the end of the last century the
price of the Eastern emery is given at from $40 to $50 a ton. About
1835 an English monopoly controlled the right of mining and the price
rose in 1847 to as high as $140 a ton.

The chief uses of emery and corundum, as is well known, are in the
form of powder by plate-glass manufacturers, lapidaries, and stone
workers; as emery paper, or in the form of solid disks made from the
crushed and bolted mineral and cement, known commercially as emery
wheels. The great toughness and superior cutting power of these
wheels renders them of service in grinding glass, metals, and other
hard substances, where the natural stone is quite inefficient.

(See further under Grind and Whet Stones, p. 463.)

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CORUNDUM AND EMERY.

Joun Dicxson. Notes.
American Journal of Science, III, 1821, pp. 4, 229.
J. Lawrence Suirn. Memoir on Emery—First part—On the Geology and Miner-
alogy of Emery, from observations made in Asia Minor.
American Journal of Science, X, 1850, p. 354.
J. LAWRENCE SuitH. Memoir on Emery—Second part—On the Minerals associated
with Emery.
American Journal of Science, XI, 1851, p. 53.
Wiutram P. Buaxe. Corundum in Crystallized Limestone at Vernon, Sussex County,
New Jersey.
American Journal of Science, XIII, 1852, p. 116.
Cuarues T. Jackson. Discovery of Emery in Chester, Hampden County, Massa-
chusetts.
Proceedings of the Boston Saciety of Natural History, X, 1864, 1B. 84,
American Journal of Science, XX XIX, 1865, p. 87.
CHartes U. SHeparp. A Description of the Emery Mine of Chester, Hampden
County, Massachusetts. =
Pamphlet, 16 pp., London, 1865.
J. LAWRENCE SmitTH. On the Emery Mine of Chester, Hampden County, Massachusetts.
American Journal of Science, X LI, 1866, pp. 83-93.
Original Researches in Mineralogy and Chemistry, 1884, p. 111.
C. W. JenKs. Corundum of North Carolina.
American Journal of Science, III, 1872, p. 301.
CHar.es U. SHeparp. On the Corundum Region of North Carolina and Georgia.
American Journal of Science, IV, 1872, pp. 109 and 175.
FREDERICK A. GENTH. Corundum, its Alterations and Associated Minerals.
Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XIII, 1873, p. 361.
C. W. Jenks. Note on the occurrence of Sapphires and Rubies in sitti with Corun-
dum, at the Culsagee Mine, Macon County, North Carolina.
Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, X XX, 1874, p. 303.
W. C. Kerr. Corundum of North Carolina.
Geological Survey of North Carolina, I, Appendix C, 1875, p. 64.
C. D. Smirxa. Corundum and its Associate Rocks.
Geological Survey of North Carolina, I, Appendix D, 1875, p. 91-97. .
R. W. Raymonp. The Jenks Corundum Mine, Macon County, North Carolina. :
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, VII, 1878, p. 83.
J. Witcox. Corundum in North Carolina.

228 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Proceedirgs, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, XXX, 1878, p. 223.

F. A. Gentu. The so-called Emery-ore from Chelsea, Bethel Township, Delaware
County, Pennsylvania.

Proceedings, Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, X X XII, 1880, p. 311.
C.D. Smirx. Corundum. ,

Geological Survey of North Carolina, IT, 1881, p. 42.
F. A. Gentu. Contributions to Mineralogy.

Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, XX, 1882.

A. A. Jutien. The Dunyte Beds of North Carolina. .
Proceedings of the Boston Society Natural History, X XII, 1882, p. 141.
T. M. Cuatarp. Corundum and Emery.
Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-84, p. 714.
T. M. Cuatarp. The Gneiss-Dunyte Contacts of Corundum Hill, North Carolina,
in Relation to the Origin of Corundum.
Bulletin No. 42, U. 8. Geological Survey, 1887, p. 45.
G. H. Wixurams. Norites of the ‘‘Cortlandt Series.’’
’ American Journal of Science, X X XIII, 1887, p. 194.
F. A. Genru. Contributions to Mineralogy. .
American Journal of Science, XX XIX, 1890, p. 47. |
Emery Mines in Greece.
Engineering and Mining Journal, L, 1890, p. 273.
A. Gosautz. The Emery Deposits of Naxos.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVITI, 1894, p. 294.
Francis P. Kine. Corundum Deposits of Georgia.
Bulletin No. 2, Geological Survey of Georgia, 1894, 133 pp.
T. D. Parer. Emery and Other Abrasives.
Journal of the Franklin Institute, CX X XVII, 1894, pp. 353, 421.
J.C. Trautwine. Corundum with Diaspore, Culsagee Mine, North Carolina.
Journal of the Franklin Institute, XCIV, p. 7.
J. Votnry Lewis. Corundum of the Appalachian Crystalline Belt.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXV, 1895,
p. 852.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 229

J. Votnry Lewis. Valuable Discovery of Corundum.

Canadian Mining Review, XV, 1896, p. 230.

The Corundum Lands of Ontario.

Canadian Mining Review, X VII, 1898, p. 192.

Corundum in Ontario.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 303.

A. M. Sronr. Corundum Mining in North Carolina.
Sngineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 490.

Fig. 5.
PISOLITIC BAUXITE,

Bartow County, Georgia.
Specimen No. 63335, U.S.N.M.

3. BAUXITE.

Composition Al,O,.2H,O,=alumina, 73.9 per cent; water, 26.1
per cent. Commonly impure through the presence of iron oxides,
silica, lime, and magnesia. Color, white or gray when pure, but yel-
lowish, brown, or red through impurities. Specific gravity, 2.55;
structure, massive, or earthy and clay like. According to Hayes‘ the

1The Geological Relations of the Southern Appalachian Bauxite Deposits. Trans-
actions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XIV, 1894, pp. 250-251.
230 _ REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

bauxites of the Southern United States show considerable variety in
physical appearance, though generally having a pronounced pisolitic
structure. (See Specimens Nos. 63335, 66576, 66577, and 66578,
U.S.N.M., from Floyd and Bartow counties, Georgia; also fig. 5, p. 229.)

The individual pisolites vary in size from a fraction of a millimeter to 3 or 4 centi-
meters in diameter, although most commonly the diameter is from 3 to 5 millimeters.
The matrix in which they are embedded is generally more compact and also lighter
in color. The larger pisolites are composed of numerous concentric shells, separated
by less compact substance or even open cavities, and their interior portions readily
crumble to a soft powder.

In thin sections the ore is seen to be made up of amorphous flocculent grains, and
the various structures which it exhibits are produced by the arrangement and degree
of compactness of these grains. The matrix in which the pisolites are imbedded
may be composed of this flocculent material segregated in an irregularly globular
form or in compact odlites, with sharply-defined outlines. Or both forms may be
present, the compact odlites being embedded in a matrix composed of the less defi-
nite bodies. In some cases the interstices between the odlites are filled either wholly
or in part with silica, apparently-a secondary deposition.

The pisolites also show considerable diversity in structure. In some cases they
are composed of exactly the same flocculent grains as the surrounding matrix,
from which they are separated by a thin shell of slightly denser material. This
sometimes shows a number of sharply-defined concentric rings, and is then dis-
tinctly separated from the matrix and the interior portion of the pisolite. The latter
is also sometimes composed of imperfectly defined globular masses, and in other
cases of compact, uniform, and but slightly granular substance. It is always filled
with cracks, which are regularly radial and concentric, in proportion as the interior
substance has a uniform texture. Branching from the larger cracks, which, as a rule,
are partially filled with quartz, very minute cracks penetrate the intervening por-
tions. Thus the pisolites appear to have lost a portion of their substance, so that it
no longer fills the space within the outer shell, but has shrunk and formed the radial
cracks. No analyses have been made of the different portions of the pisolites or of
the pisolites and matrix separately, and it is.impossible to say whether any differ-
ences in chemical composition exist. It may be that some soluble constituent has
been removed from the interior of the pisolites, but it is more probable that the
shrinking observed is due wholly to desiccation.

Scattered throughout the ground-mass are occasional fragments of pisolites, whose
irregular outlines have been covered to varying depths by a deposit of the same
material as forms the concentric shells, and thus have been restored to spherical or
oval forms.

Composition.—The following tables will serve to show the wide range
of composition of bauxites from various sources:

Composition of bauxites from various localities.

SiO. | TiO.. | AlO3. |Fes Os. HO.

ov.

i
GO P20;. Analyst.

Baux, France:

1 Compachivariety. 22.4522... 264 2.8 © |.Bs Ev O726) yi 22b 58 10:82. || See Deville

By gPisiimemie ds ke se | 4.8 |3.2 | 55.4 | 24.8 HS6 Te -alccaaee Do.

3° Hard and compact caleareous |.......|...... 30.3 | 34.9 7 Ne eee Do.
paste.

4. Calabres,Wrance pe setae as se ee | 2.0° 11.6 | 33.2 | 48.8 SU re Seca Do.

5. Thoronet, France, red yariety...... | 0.30 | 3.40 | 69,30 | 22.90 1410 ee

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 934

Composition of bauxites from various localities—Continued,

| Sidg. | Tis. | A205. [Fes O5,| (BB) |(20%)| p.o,.| ~ Analyst.
i = 7 *
6. Villeveyrac, Hérault, France, white | |
VGN GUNG ate San ae ee | 2.20 | 4.00 | 76.90 - 10 15280) |iSae=2-
ge Wwoenein. Germany, ..2. 222. 2.2 2.5% | 62 29R eae ees | 64.24 | 2.40 25.74 .46 | Lill.
Langsdorf, Germany:
Sp Browmish red)... 33... .0<<2:-. | 5.14 |......| 60.85 | 14.36 |27.03 | 1.35 | .48 | Lang.
IMRT TOG: ono Nec acis = soe dcc5<55.<<~ Wes OE 21) eesererare 49.02 | 12.90 |25. 88 .93 “3's Do.
I0. Vogelsberg, Germany......-------- TOM) 3.20" |) 50592) eli cOnl2aenon |e eGDn las na. | Liebreich.
11. Cherokee County, Alabama ....... SU BT Naesees| COL 44 | maar nboeso [KILO | at Boek Dr. Won” =.
| | | Phillips.
12. Jacksonville, Calhoun County, | 18.67 |...--. | 45.94 | 11.86 |21.20 | 1.40 |._..-. Do.
Alabama. |
MaRS GES See | 47.52. 19.95}. 28.57  |..2.2. Do.
aM VL ae ers 2 on le a Oe COA PAU peo! (eo tapes) .85 233726 | ees Do.
TUS MENS 6 tae SS Re a 10.25 | 2.53 | 41.00 | 25.25 |20. 43 .65 | trace| W. FF. Hille-
| brand.
HG ASVUNILE Sees teehee ow Aen te 21.08 | 2.52 | 48.92 | 2.14 j23.41 | .45 | trace Do.
17. Floyd County, Georgia -...-.-...-.- 2.80 | 3.52 | 52.21 | 13.50 PART Pee cal epee Nichols.
Uae enn sheen ene erase at. ee sc| S060"| 57-20 |" Se Aly. 2. EE os Do.
19. IDG) 3 Ae fod i Clee be eee ee 2730" |'3- 55) | 56788: | 91.49) |. 2222: Re eed 07 Do.
Georgia:
PUN Orplimederere as G5. e eset sce 19.56 | 2.08 | 52.13 1512 7.80) ae a Brofe no Eons
| White.
PIM MLO DE ae shot Sy sce Sec eee ANAT EC | eee S07 pill Pele G2uimame lor 4s lees ee Do
BURN OMe Scjrnnc ax Shamans Ko aet esas PAYS em eas ne 56.10 | 10. 64 30. 10 etna ie Do
Sia; dls SaSsa8 sae as eee 8.29 | 3.15 | 58.61 | 2.63 Bye) oe [be Do
DANO Ar orate hn esa ceeee ses G (EVAN Secoae 59.82 | 2.16 SLO le Ase. Do
NOM OG ere een cle csc ae BaMtels Wl Besece 45, 21 0. 52 p by (Ra 3 em SR Do
26. Barnsley estate, Dinwood Sta- | 1.98 | 2.38 | 61.25 1. 82 31.43 ipeeeet Do
tion, Georgia, No. 7.
Pulaski County, Arkansas:
DRM BTAG Kyatet se se Se occ nice ie LQ ASH ae Soe 5d. 59 6.08 28-99 eee | Se
on AST Nalre| eee re aeaalbeeer hs | 57.62 | 1.83 ORGS a “Nhe
"TAO cen ane ae | 2.00 | 3.50 | 62.05 | 1.66 |30. 31 | Deceiad ante
ibe 1RNot lS SE ee ee a Sea We AO! [ere as | 46.40 | 22.15 26; O82 5 aaa
31. LD (6 fe a ee reas eee ees Deaqealasaee 08.60 | 9.11 287030 > |t acon
32. WO ee aap eae See Ee | 10.38 3.50 | 55. 64 W952 G24 |) ses cso eee
33. DORs wee cet se areit cee s ..-| 16.76 | 3.50 | 51.90 SelG}24., 8b) ||aaeecsl=ce ae.

No. 1.—Contains also 0.4 CaCO. No. 2.—0.2 CaCO;. No. 3.—12.7 CaCO 3. No. 5.—22.90 FeO + FesO3.
No. 6—0.10 FeO + Fe.03. No. 7.—0.85 CaO, 0.38 MgO, 0.20 SO3. No. 8.—0.35 FeO, 0.41. CaO, 0.11 MgO,
0.09 KO, 0.17 NagO, trace COg. No. 9.—FeO not det., 0.62 CaO, trace MgO, 6.11 K20, 0.20 NasO, 0.26 COs.
No. 10.—0.80 CaO, 0.16 MgO.

Origin and mode of occurrence.—The mineral received its name
from the village of Baux, in southern France, where a highly ferrifer-
ous, pisolitic variety was first found and described by Berthier in
1821. The origin of the mineral, both here and elsewhere, has been
a matter of considerable discussion. The following notes relative to
the foreign occurrences are from a paper by R. L. Packard:'

The geological occurrence of the bauxite of Baux was studied by H. Coquand
[Bulletin de la Société Geologique de France, XX VIII, 1871, p. 98], who describes

‘Mineral Resources of the United States, 1891, p. 148.
232 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

the mineral as of three varieties, pisolitic, compact, and earthy. The pisolitic
variety does not differ in structure from the iron ores of Franche Comté and Berry,
although the color and composition are different. It occurs in highly tilted beds
alternating with limestones, sandstones, and clays, belonging to the upper cre-
taceous period, and in pockets or cavities in the limestone. The limestone con-
taining the bauxite and that adjacent thereto is also pisolitic, some nodules being as
large as the fist, and the pisolitic bauxite has sometimes a caleareous cement, and at
others is included in a paste of the compact mineral. M. Coquand supposed that
the alumina and iron oxide composing the bauxite were brought to the ancient lake
bed in which the lacustrine limestone was formed by mineral springs, which, dis-
charging in the bottom of the lake, allowed the alumina and iron oxide to be dis-
tributed with the other sediment. In some cases the discharge occurred on land,
and the deposit then formed isolated patches. He refers to other similar deposits
of bauxite of the same period in France. Sometimes the highly ferriferous mineral
predominates over the aluminous (white), at others diaspose is found enveloping
the red mineral, while in other cases it is mixed with it, predominating largely, and
sometimes manganese peroxide replaces ferric oxide. In some places the ground
was strewed with fragments of tuberous menilite, very light and white.

M. Angé [Bull. Soc. Geolog. de France, X VI, 1888, p. 345] describes the bauxite
of Var and Hérault and gives analyses of it. Over 20,000 tons were being mined in
this region annually at the time of writing his report [1888]. In the red mineral of
Var druses occur with white bauxite running as high as 85 per cent. Al,O;, and 15
per cent. H,O, corresponding to the formula Al,O,+-H,O. He refers to the prevail-
ing theory of the formation of bauxite, according to which solutions of the chlorides
of aluminum and iron in contact with carbonate of lime undergo double decomposi-
tion, forming alumina, iron oxide, and calcium chloride. Other deposits in the
south of France, in Ireland, Austria, and Italy, he says, confirm this view, because
they also rest upon or are associated with limestone. The bauxite deposit in Puy
de Dome which he studied could not, however, be explained by this theory because
it was not associated with limestone, but rested directly upon gneiss and was partly
covered by basalt. The geological sketch map of the deposit near Madriat, Puy de
Dome, which he gives shows gneiss, basalt, with uncovered bauxite largely predomi-
nating, and patches of miocene clay, while a geological section of the deposit near
Villeveyrac, Hérault, shows the bed of bauxite conformably following the flexures
of the limestone formation when covered by more recent beds, and when exposed
and denuded occupying cavities and pockets in the limestone. This occurrence is
substantially the same as that of the neighboring Baux. M. Angé agrees with M.
Coquand in attributing the bauxite to geyserian origin. He uses as an illustration
of the contemporaneous formation of bauxite the deposits from the geysers of the
Yellowstone Park, which is evidently due to a misunderstanding. He made no
petrographical examination of the bauxite of Puy de Dome, nor did he attempt to
trace any genetic relation between the latter and the accompanying basalt. The
occurrence is, however, noteworthy, and an examination might show that it is
another instance of the direct derivation of bauxite from basalt, which is maintained
in the two following instances, somewhat imperfectly in the first to be sure, but with
greater detail in the second.

The first is a paper by Lang [in the Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Gesell-
schaft, X VII, 1884, p. 2892]. He describes the bauxite in Ober-Hessen, which is
found in the fields in round masses up to the size of a man’s head, embedded in a
clay which is colored with iron oxide. The composition varies very widely. The
petrographical examination showed silica, iron oxide, magnetite, and augite. The
chemical composition and petrographical examination shows the bauxite to bea
decomposition product of basalt. By the weathering of the plagioclase feldspars,
augite, and olivine, nearly all the silica had been removed, together with the greater

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. Dao

part of the lime and magnesia; the iron had been oxidized and hydrate of alumina
formed as shown by its easy solubility in hydrochloric acid. The residue of the
silica had crystallized as quartz in the pores of the mineral.

The more detailed account of the derivation of bauxite from basalt is given in an
inaugural dissertation by A. Liebreich, abstracted in the Chemisches Centralblatt,
1892, p. 94. This writer says that the well-known localities of bauxite in Germany
are the southern slope of the Westerwald near Mihlbach, Hadamar, in the neigh-
borhood of Lesser Steinheim, near Hanau, and especially the western slope of the
Vogelsberg. Chemical analyses show certain differences in the composition of
bauxite from different places, the smaller amount of water in the French bauxite
referring it to diaspore, while the Vogelsberg mineral is probably Gibbsite (hydrar-
gillite). The bauxites of Ireland, of the Westerwald, and the Vogelsberg, show by
certain external indications their derivation from basalt. The bauxite of the Vogels-
berg occurs in scattered lumps or small masses, partly on the surface and partly
imbedded in a grayish white to reddish brown clay, which contains also similar
masses of basaltic iron ore and fragments of more or less weathered basalt. itself.
Although the latter was associated intimately with the bauxite, a direct and close
connection of the two could not be found, but an examination of thin sections of the
Vogelsberg bauxite showed that most specimens still possessed a basaltic (anamesite)
structure, which enabled the author to determine the former constituents with more
or less certainty. The clays from different points in the district carrying basalt,
basaltic iron ore, and bauxite were examined, some of which showed clearly a sedi-
mentary character. Some of the bauxite nodules were a foot and a half in diameter
and possessed no characteristic form. They were of an uneven surface, light to dark
brown, white, yellowish, and gray in color, speckled and pitted, sometimes finely
porous and full of small colorless or yellowish crystals of hydrargillite. The thin
sections showed distinct medium-granular anamesitic structure. Lath-shaped por-
tions filled with a yellowish substance preponderated (the former plagioclases) and
filling the spaces between these were cloudy, yellow, brown, and black transparent
masses which had evidently taken the place of the former augite. Laths and plates
of titanic iron, often fractured, were commonly present and the contours of altered
olivine could be clearly made out. The anamesitic basalt of the neighborhood
showed a structure fully corresponding with the bauxite. Olivine and titanic iron
oxide were found in the clay by washing. The basaltic iron ore also showed the
anamesite structure.

But two localities in the United States have thus far yielded bauxite
in commercial quantities. These are in Arkansas and the Coosa Valley
of Georgia and Alabama.

According to Branner the Arkansas beds occur near the railway in
the vicinity of Little Rock, Pulaski County, and near Benton, Saline
County. ‘‘The exposures vary in size from an acre to 20 acres or
more, and aggregate something over a square mile.” This does not,
in all probability, include the total area covered by bauxite in the
counties mentioned, for the method of occurrence of the deposits leads
to the supposition that there are others as yet undiscovered by the
survey.

In thickness the beds vary from a few feet to over 40 feet, with the

total thickness undetermined; the average thickness is at least 15 feet.

These Arkansas deposits occur only in Tertiary areas and in the
neighborhood of eruptive syenites (‘‘granites”) to which they seem
234 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

to be genetically related. In elevation they occur only at and below
300 feet above tide level, and most of them lie between 260 and 270
feet above tide. They have soft Tertiary beds both above and below
them at afew places, and must, therefore, be of Tertiary age. Asa
rule, however, they have no covering, the overlying beds having been
removed by erosion, and are high enough above the drainage of the
country to be readily quarried. Erosive action has removed a part
of the bauxite in some cases, but there are, in all probability, many
places at which it has not yet been even uncovered.

It is pisolitic in structure, and, like all bauxite, varies more or less in
color and in chemical composition. (Specimen No. 67600 from Pulaski
County.) Ata few places it is so charged with iron that attempts have
been made to mine it for iron ore. Some of the samples from these
pits assay over 50 per cent of metallic iron. This ferruginous kind is
exceptional, however. From the dark red varieties it grades through
the browns and yellows to pearl gray, cream colored, and milky white,
the pinks, browns, and grays being the more abundant. Some of the
white varieties have the chemical composition of kaolin, while the red,
brown, and gray have but little silica and iron, and a high percentage
of alumina. The analyses given on page 231 show that this bauxite
compares favorably with that of France, Austria, and Ireland, and is
apparently well adapted for the manufacture of chemical products, for
refractory material, and for the manufacture of aluminum by the
Deville process.

The Georgia and Alabama deposits have been the subject of exhaust-
ive study by Willard Hayes, to whose paper reference has already
been made,

According to this authority the ore is found irregularly distributed
within a narrow belt of country extending from Adairsville, Georgia,
southwestward, a distance of 60 miles, to the vicinity of Jackson-
ville, Alabama. The only points at which it has been worked on a
commercial scale are at Hermitage furnace, 5 miles north of Rome,
Georgia, near Six Mile Station, south of Rome, and in the dike dis-
trict near Rock Run, Alabama. (See fig. 6.) The oldest rocks of the
region are of Cambrian age and are subdivided on lithologic grounds
into two formations, the Rome sandstone below and the Connasauga
shale above. The former consists of 700 to 1,000 feet of thin-bedded
purple, yellow, and white sandstones and sandy shales. In the south-
ern portion of the region the Rome sandstone is replaced by the
Weisner quartzite, which consists of a series of interbedded lenticular
masses of conglomerate, quartzite, and sandy shale. It apparently
represents delta deposits contemporaneous with a part or the whole
of the Rome sandstone. These rocks form Weisner and Indian
mountains, and in the latter they attain a thickness of 10,000 feet or
more.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. $35

The Connasauga is between 2,000 and 3,000 feet in thickness. It
consists at the base of fine aluminous shales; the upper portion is
more calcareous, and locally passes into heavy beds of blue seamy
limestone.

Above Connasauga shale is the Knox dolomite, the most uniform
and persistent formation of the southern Appalachian region. It con-
sists of from 3,000 to 4,000 feet of gray, semicrystalline, siliceous
dolomite. The silica is usually segregated in nodules and beds of

MAP SHOWING THE
GEOLOGICAL RELATIONS
OF THE

GEORGIA AND ALABAMA BAUXITE DEPOSITS.

C.W. HAYES
2 3

6CALE 0 } 4 MILES

Mtg

PZZZLLLLLL LLL

CAMBRIAN SILURIAN CARBONIFEROUS
Atiwestone SAI SSCowre ECB pavne
a at a Cec
[Ge ]connasauca [5875] Rockwooo

MAJOR THRUST FAULTS MINOR THAUST FAULTS

—_—-- —_—_—

LIMONITE DEPOSITS
44,4

Ye

SS
GY
NX AQ

Yi
Yyyyys
YUL By
Yi Gh

: WS
2 WY : \ NX
SAS$s$3“Q_Q@ SSN EN
Fig. 6.
MAP SHOWING THE GEOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF GEORGIA AND ALABAMA BAUXITE DEPOSITS.
After C. W. Hayes.

chert. These remain upon the surface, and with the other insoluble
constituents form a heavy residual mantle covering all the outcrops
of the formation. It is associated with these residual materials that
the extensive deposits of limonite and bauxite are found. The geo-
logical structure of the region is complicated and for its details the
present reader is referred to Dr. Hayes’s original paper.

Subaerial decomposition has progressed for a long period, and the
surface is deeply covered with a mantle of residual material, consisting
of the more insoluble portions of the original rock masses. This
236 — REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

residual material consists mainly of ferruginous clay with large
amounts of chert, and reaches a thickness of 100 feet or more. The
bauxite deposits in the Rock Run district are regarded as typical for
the entire region, and are described as follows:

Four bodies of the ore were being worked in 1893 on a considerable scale, and all
show practically the same form. The southernmost~of the four, called the Taylor
bank, is located 33 miles northeast of Rock Run, near the western base of Indian
Mountain. Although the heavy mantle of residual material effectually conceals the
underlying rocks, the ore appears to be exactly upon the faulted contact between the
narrow belt of Knox dolomite on the northwest and the sandy shales and quartzites
of Indian Mountain on the southeast. The ore is covered by 3 or 4 feet of red sandy
clay in which numerous fragments of quartzite are imbedded. The ore-body is an
irregularly oval mass, about 40 by 80 feet in size. Its contact with the surrounding
residual clay, wherever it could be observed, appeared to be sharp and distinct, and,
about the greater portion of its circumference, very nearly vertical. A certain amount
of bedding is observable in the ore-body, although no trace of bedding can be detected
in the surrounding residual material. Upon the northwestern or down-hill side of
the ore-body, this bedding is very distinct. Layers of differently colored and differ-
ently textured ore alternate in regular beds, a few inches in thickness, and aboye
these are thinner beds of chocolate and red material, probably containing consider-

= =
= 2 “cones pe LTT

2. NDy-
MOT Clay =
SPISOLITIC 0 “ew ee 2 AND cree SCL ae
£7 ise eo, SBAURITESS= (9/46 Gaps Rat 7
0D,

: DRAINAGE DITCH eins

Fig. 7.
SECTION SHOWING RELATION OF BAUXITE TO MANTLE OF RESIDUAL CLAY IN GEORGIA.
After C. W. Hayes.

able kaolin. These beds have a steep dip, somewhat greater than the slope of the
hill-side, but in the same direction. They are not simply inclined planes, however,
but are curved, so as to form a steeply-pitching trough. With increasing distance
from the ore-body, the lamination becomes less distinct, and the beds pass gradually
into a homogeneous mottled clay. The accompanying section, fig. 7, shows these
relations of the ore and residual mantle.

At the Dike bank [see Fig. 6], about a mile northeast of the one above described,
the stratification is well shown in portions of the deposit. Beds of yellow and gray,
firte-grained material, alternate with others of pisolitic ore. The beds dip at an angle
of about 40°, and are curved so as to form a steep trough. The compact material
also shows distinct cross-bedding; both primary and secondary planes dipping in
the same direction.

In the Gain’s Hill bank, about 250 yards north of the Dike bank, the ore-body
shows amore regularly oval form than in most of the other deposits, and is also
somewhat dome-shaped, swelling out laterally from the surface downward, as far as
the working has progressed.

Although some of the workings have gone to a considerable depth (in a few cases
50 feet or more), the bottom of the ore-body has not been reached in any case.
The ore varies in composition with depth, but not in a uniform manner, nor more
than do different portions at the same depth. The deepest pits have not gone
below the base of the surrounding residual mantle, so that no observations have yet
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 237

been made with regard to the relations between the ore and the country-rock; and
nothing has yet been observed which warrants the conclusion that the ore if fol-
lowed to sufficient depth, will be found inter-bedded with the underlying forma-
tions, or even that it will be found occupying cavities in the limestone—although the
latter is quite possible.

Concerning the origin of these deposits the author says:

No eruptive rocks, either ancient or modern, are found in the vicinity of the
latter, nor are there any rocks in this region which, by weathering, could yield
bauxite as a residual product. Hence, any satisfactory explanation of the origin of
these deposits must give the source from which the material was derived, the means
by which it was transported, and the process of its local accumulation.

As already stated in describing the stratigraphy of the region, the ore is associated
with the Knox dolomite or with calcareous sandy shales immediately overlying the
dolomite. The Connasauga, consisting of 2,000 feet or more of aluminous shales,
invariably underlies the dolomite at greater or less distance beneath the ore-bearing
regions, and is probably the source from which the alumina was derived.

The faults of the region have been briefly described. Undoubtedly such enormous
dislocations of the strata generated a large amount of heat. The fractures facilitated
the circulation of water, and for considerable periods the region was probably the
seat of many thermal springs. These heated waters appear to have been the agent
by which the bauxite was brought to the surface in some soluble form and there
precipitated.

The chemical reactions by which the precipitation was effected are not well under-
stood, and the conditions were not such as can be readily reproduced in the labora-
tory. Of the few soluble compounds of aluminum which occur in nature, only the
sulphate and the double sulphate of potash and alumina need be considered.

The oxygen contained in the meteoric waters percolating at great depths through
the fractured strata would readily oxidize the sulphides disseminated in the aluminous
shales. Sulphates would thus be formed by a process strictly analogous to that com-
monly employed in the manufacture of alum. Probably the most abundant product
of the process in nature was ferrous sulphate. Some sulphate of aluminum must also
have been formed together with the double sulphate of potassium and aluminum,
especially in the absence of sufficient potash to form alum with the whole.

In its passage from the underlying shales through several thousand feet of dolo-
mite the heated water must have become highly charged with lime, in addition to the
ferrous and aluminous salts already in solution. But calcium carbonate reacts upon
aluminum sulphate and to some extent also on alum, forming a gelatinous or floc-
culent precipitate which consists of aluminum hydroxide and the basic sulphate.
This reaction may have taken place at great depth and the resulting flocculent pre-
cipitate may have been brought to the surface in suspension. From analogy with
pisolitic sinter and travertine now forming, such conditions would appear to be
highly favorable for the production of the structures actually found in the bauxite.
The precipitate was apparently collected in globular masses by the motion of the
ascending water, and constant changes in position permitted these to be coated with
successive layers of more compact material. Finally, after having received many
such coatings, the pisolites were deposited on the borders of the basin, and the
interstices were filled by minute odlites formed in a similar manner or by the floc-
culent precipitate itself. Slight differences in the conditions prevailing in the sev-
eral springs, such as concentration and relative proportion of the various salts in
solution, also temperature and flow of the water, would produce the variation in the
character of the ore observed at different points.

The bedding observed in the bauxite-deposits may have been produced by the
successive layers deposited on the steeply inclined outlet of the basin. After the
238 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

cessation of the spring-action, surface-creep of the residual mantle from the higher por-

tions of the ridges covered the deposits to varying depths, as they are found at present.
A small portion of the ferrous sulphate was oxidized and precipitated along with

the bauxite, but the greater part was carried some distance from the springs and

slowly oxidized, forming the widespread deposits of limonite in this region.

Uses.—The better known use of bauxite is as an ore of aluminum,
for which purpose it lies beyond the scope of the present work. It
may, however, be well to state that before the aluminum can be satis-
factorily extracted the ore is purified by chemical processes. The
principal use is for the manufacture of alums and other aluminum
salts such as are used in the manufacture of baking powders and dyes.
It is believed that the mineral, owing to its highly refractive qualities,
will in the near future be utilized in the manufacture of fire brick and
crucibles. An alumino-ferric cake, a by-product obtained in the puri-
fying process, is claimed as of value for sanitary and deodorizing
purposes. The price of the crude ore varies greatly, according to
purity. The average price for the past few years has been about $5

a ton.
BIBLIOGRAPHY OF CRYOLITE AND BAUXITE.

PauL QuaLE. Account of the Cryolite of Greenland.

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1866, p. 398.

M. H. Coquanp. Sur les Bauxites de la chaine des Alpines (Bouches-du-Rhone) et
leur age geologique.

Bulletin de la Société Geologique de France, 2d ser., XX VIII, 1870-71, pp.

98-115.
Epwarp Nicnuors. An Aluminum Ore.

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VI, 1887, p. 905.
P. Jonnsrrup. Sur le Gisement de la Kryolithe au Greenland.

Bulletin de la Société Mineralogie of France, II, 1888, p. 167.

M. Aucr. Note sur la Bauxite, son origine, son 4ge et son importance géologique.
Bulletin de la Société Geologique de France, 3d ser., X VI, 1888, p. 345.
SrainstaAs Meunier. Reésponse a des observations de M. Augé et de M. A. de Gros-

souvre sur l’histoire de la Bauxite et des Minerais Sidérolithiques.

Bulletin de la Société Geologique de France, 3d ser., X VII, 1889, p. 64.

R. L. Packarp. Aluminum.
Mineral Resources of the United States, 1891, p. 147.
This paper contains numerous references to which the present compiler has
not had access.
Henry McCatuiry. Bauxite.
The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 57.
Bauxite Mining.
Science, X XIII, 1894, p. 29.
C. Wititarp Hayes. The Geological Relations of the Southern Appalachian Bauxite
Deposits.

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XIV, 1894, p. 243.
W. P. Buaxe. Alunogen and Bauxite of New Mexico.

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XTV, 1894, p. 571.
Francis Laur. The Bauxites. A Study ofa new Mineralogical Family.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XIV, 1894, p. 234.

On Bauxite.
Minutes of the Proceedings of the Institute Civil Eng., CX X, 1894-1895, pt. 2,
p. 442. ‘

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 239

4. DIASPORE.

This is a hydrous oxide of aluminum corresponding to the for-
mula Al,O,,H,O,=alumina, 85 per cent; water, 15 per cent; hard-
ness, 6.5 to 7. It is a whitish, grayish, sometimes brownish or yel-
lowish mineral, occurring in the form of thin flattened or acicular
crystals and also foliated, massive and in thin plates or rarely stalactitic.
(Specimen No. 53573, U.S. N. M.) It is transparent to subtranslucent,
and sometimes shows violet-blue colors when looked at in one direc-
tion, or reddish-blue or asparagus-green in others. Luster, vitreous
or pearly.

Oceurrence.—The mineral commonly occurs with corundum and
emery in dolomite and granular limestone or crystalline schists. In
the United States it occurs in large plates in connection with the emery
rock at Chester, Massachusetts.

Uses.—See under Gibbsite.

5. GIBBSITE; HyYDRARGILLITE.

This is also, like diaspore, a hydrous oxide of aluminum, corre-
sponding to the formula Al,O,, 3H,O=alumina 65.4 per cent, water
34.6 percent. The mineral is of a whitish, grayish, or greenish color,
sometimes reddish through impurities, and occurs in flattened, hexag-
onal crystals, or in stalactitic and mammillary and incrusting surfaces,
(Specimen No. 4602, U.S.N.M.). Its occurrence is similar to that of
diaspore.

Uses.—Neither diaspore nor gibbsite have as yet been found in suf-
ficient quantities to be of economic importance. Should they be so
found, their value as a source of alumina is easily apparent.

6. OCHER.

The term ocher as commonly used applies to earthy and pulverulent
forms of the minerals hematite and limonite, but which are almost
invariably more or less impure through the presence of other metallic
oxides and argillaceous matter. In nature the material rarely occurs
in a suitable condition for immediate use, but needs first to be pre-
pared by washing and grinding and perhaps roasting.

Various varietal names are applied to the ochers, according to their
natural colors or sources. The original *‘ Indian red” was a red argil-
laceous ocher, with a purplish tinge, found on the island of Ormuz, in
the Persian Gulf. A large part of the pigment of this name is now
prepared artificially from iron pyrites. Umber isa gray, brown, or
reddish variety containing manganese oxides and clay. It derives its
name from Umbria, in Italy, where material of this nature was first
utilized. Sienna is a highly argillaceous variety, also from Italy,
near Sienna.
240 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The natural colors of the ochers is dependent on the degree of hydra-
tion and oxidation of material and the kind and amount of impurities.
In a general way the hematites are of a deep-red color (Specimen No.
56075, U.S.N.M.), while the limonites are yellow or brown (Specimen
No. 61101, U.S.N.M.). Either color is liable to shade variations,
according to amount and kind of impurities. The colors are intensi-
fied or otherwise varied by roasting (Specimens Nos. 63056 and 63057,
U.S.N.M.).

Artificial ochers are produced by roasting iron pyrites (sulphide.of
iron) or an artificial sulphate (green vitriol) (Specimen No. 61122,
U.S.N.M.). (See under Pyrite.) The materials known commercially
as rouge, crocus, and Indian red are quite pure ferric oxide, pre-
pared by roasting pyrite or by other artificial means.

Composition of ochers in their natural condition.

Natural color. Locality. Fe.03. | AlgOs. | SiOo | HO. | Alks.
Marksville, Page County, Virginia.......... 39.0 1.50 33.0 11.5 0.5
Rawlins \WiVOnMNine see seesee seen eee ee 90.2 |.---.-.- eeP \ Sap aes 1.2
Yellow brown... Hancock, Berks County, Pennsylvania | a 36. 67 50. 00 10.,60))| Sseeec
(Specimen No. 62787, U.S.N.M.).
Deep brown ..... Anne Arundel County, Maryland (Speci- 19. 67 76. 57 2560) feaee
men No. 60843, U.S.N.M.).
Deep red brown . Northampton County, Pennsylvania (Speci-| b 42. 45 30. 58 LLi85)|eeeces
men No. 61103, U.S.N.M.).
Graves sconces ee Northampton County, Pennsylvania (Speci-| ¢12.20 74.10 6.28" | aeese
men No. 61098, U.S.N.M.).
Dark brown ...-.- Brandon, Vermont (Specimen No. 66782, | d52.92 2.88 14562)" Seicee
U.S.N.M.) Montgomery County, Alabama | a 10.57 69. 30 740! |. came
(Specimen No. 63339, U.S.N.M.).
Cartersville, Georgia (Specimen No. 63340, | b 55, 84 32. 20 12 00n Preece
U.S.N.M.).
aA part of the iron in a ferrous condition. b Contains also some manganese,
clIron exists mainly in a ferrous condition. d Contains much manganese,

Composition of manufactured mineral paints.

Variety. Fe,O3 | AleOz SiO, H.O
Lowe’s metallic paint a ......... 78. 87 3.29 | 11.96 5. 07
Rossie red pain). --- 2 see 60. 50 5.63 | 18.00 0.33
Light-brown paintc............. 77. 26 7.00 | 18.84 0. 06
Ss. and

Brown-purple paint d..........- 93. 68 3. 06 3.20 loss.
0. 06

a Made from red fossiliferous ores mined at Atalla, Alabama, and Ooltewah, Tennessee.

b Made by Iron Clad Paint Company, of Cleveland, Ohio, from ore mined in Wayne County, New
York.

c From ore mined at Lake Superior, Michigan.

d Ore from Jackson m‘ae, Michigan.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 941

A ‘blue ocher,” formed by the decomposition of the Utica shales in
Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, has the following composition:

lonition: (water Gnd earpoty—o-....-.2.~5.....--5- 9.10
(QP CMID aoe ee 6 Sah. 0.6 ct ee i OO On REC oe 44.50
@ombinedssilicawe= eee see eee seas l ee 26. 25
Alumina with traces of ferric oxide. ..-..---.-.--- 17.95
Marnesiay, «4 os 02 se oer eee ias ein act =:3,¢ > 94
A eaTOS | CLCt cnc o oc Cae ale Seta ro sio asc 1. 26

100. 00

A second variety, from 1$ miles northwest of Breinigsville, and
which was sold as a yellow ochre, yielded:

Silica, 60.53; alumina, 17.40; ferric oxide, 9.27; lime, 0.08; mag-
nesia, 1.92; water, 5.51; alkalies, 5.27.

Origin and mode of occurrence.—These vary greatly. In some
cases deposits of this nature are formed by springs. Such result from
the leaching out from the rocks, by carbonated waters, of iron in the
protoxide condition and its subsequent deposition as a hydrated ses-
quioxide. In other cases they are residual products formed by the
removal by solution, of the lime carbonates of calcaréous rocks,
leaving their insoluble residues—the clay and iron oxides—in the
form of a red, yellow, or brown ocherous clay. Again, they may
result from the decomposition (oxidation) of beds of pyrite (iron
disulphide) and from the decomposition of beds of hematite, and by
the disintegration and perhaps partial hydration of the more compact
forms of limonite. Still, again, they may result from the decomposi-
tion of schists and other rocks rich in iron-bearing silicate minerals.
The yellow ochers of the Little Catoctin Mountains, near Leesburg,
Virginia, are thus stated to be residual products from the decomposi-
tion of hydro-mica or damourite schists.

A paint ore found near Lehigh Gap, Carbon County, Pennsylvania
(Specimens Nos. 61115, 63481, 63482, U.S.N.M.), though not properly
an ocher, may be described here for want of a better place. The
raw material is a dull shaly or slaty rock, of a dark gray color, sandy
texture, and quite hard, and if descriptions are correct is probably
an arenaceous siderite, or carbonate of iron.

According to C. E. Hesse’ the ‘* paint bed” is of unknown extent
except so far as indicated by outcrops along the southern border of
Carbon County, about 27 miles north of Bethlehem, where it occurs in
a well-defined ridge of Oriskany sandstone. Along the outcrop the
beds are covered by a cap of clay and by the decomposed portion of
the Marcellus slate. Beginning with this slate the measures occur in
the following descending order:

a. Hydraulic cement (probably Upper Helderberg), very hard and

“compact.

1Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XIX, 1891, p. 321.
NAT MUS 99 16

242 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

b. Blue clay, about 6 inches thick.

c. Paint ore, varying from 6 inches to 6 feet in thickness.

d. Yellow clay, 6 feet thick;

e. Oriskany sandstone, forming the crest and southern side of the
ridge. It is extremely friable, and disintegrates so readily that it is
worked for sand at many points. (See fig. 8.)

The paint bed is not continuous throughout its extent. It is faulted
at several places; sometimes it is pinched out to a few inches, and again
increases in width to 6 feet. The ore is bluish-gray, resembling lime-
stone, and is very hard and com-
pact. The bed is of a lighter
== tint, however, in the upper than
in the lower part, and this is
probably due to its containing
more hydraulic cement in the
upper strata. The paint ore
contains partings of clay and
slate at various places. At the
Rutherford shaft there are fine -
bands of ore alternating with
clay and slate, as follows: Sand-
stone (hanging wall), clay, ore,
slate, ore, clay, ore, slate, ore,
cement, slate (foot wall). These
partings, however, are not con-
tinuous, but pinch out, leaving
the ore without the admixture
of clay and slate. Near the out-
crop the bed becomes brown
hematite, due to the leaching out

a

x SAAN
\ NN
ANY At
ANG

wa) ve ae
Eng by Ameren Bash Wee Coss

Ng
A
AA

= the lime and t let e
= Sas fs as of t e lime an to complete oxi
ee — dation. Occasionally streaks of

hematite are interleaved with
Fig. 8. 4 eee

SECTION ACROSS PAINT MINE AT LEHIGH GAP, PA. the paint ore. In driving up the

Mice Cre eke: breasts toward the outcrop the

ore is found at the top in

rounded, partially oxidized, and weathered masses, called ‘* bomb-

shells,” covered with iron oxide and surrounded by a bluish clay. In
large pieces the ore shows a decided cleavage.

Preparation.—As already intimated, only a small portion of the
ocher is used in its natural condition, it being first roasted and then
ground, the grinding being either “dry” or in oil. The roasting
deepens the color to a degree dependent upon the length of time the
ore is exposed. Yellows are converted into browns and reds, and the
ocher rendered less hydrous at the same time. The crude ore as mined

s

SECTION ACROSS THE BED, RUTHERFORD AND BARCLAY MINE.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 943

is not infrequently separated from the coarser or heavier impurities by
a process of washing in running water, whereby the ochre, in a state of
suspension, is drawn off into vats, where it is allowed to settle, the water
decanted, and the sediment made up into bricks and dried, when it is
ready for grinding.

The following description of the occurrence of umber and its prep-
aration at the Caldbeck Fells, in Cumberland, England, is taken from
the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry for October, 1890,
p- 953:

The vein of umber contains crystals of quartz, and lies in a granitic rock largely
decomposed. The method of working is as follows: The umber is brought down by
an overhead tramway and passed through a hopper into a wash barrel consisting of
a cylinder formed of parallel bars one-eighth of an inch apart, having a perforated
pipe conveying water, for its axis. By this means the umber is washed through, the
quartz being retained; the former then passes to an edge-runner, the casing of
which is of sufficient depth to allow of the submersion of the rollers. The rate of
revolution is about 14 to the minute, and the finer floating particles flow into the
drag mill. The bed of this mill is a single block of granite and over it the four burr-
stone blocks are dragged; the finer ‘‘floating’’ particles of umber pass to a second
mill of the same kind, then through a brass wire sieve (to remove particles of peat
and heather that have been floating throughout the process) to settling tanks, com-
posed of brickwork lined with cement. After settling for four hours four-fifths of the
water are drawn off, and the umber, now of the consistency of slurry, filter-pressed
and dried. It has the following composition:

HEREC ORIG M\sene ee tet ces oe eae ae 47.14
Manganese dioxide! 2 3255..4-2-2-22-s-c-2 ig ls Bf
@upric GM06 ses ose ses eee ae ese =4- 3. 23
TSTEC ET TIN 0% Oe ey = en a 7. 66
MATING ee se eee vee ie Spc a Trace
EES ie eet ee ere ree Trace
Silicate petite we eee eee seca csoetees 24. 70
Gombpined water 22. ..22-..-scscccqccn ene 6.18

100. 08

In this condition it may be put on the market, serving for colouring coarse brown
paper (that being the chief use to which umber is put), or it may be re-ground in a
conical burrstone mill and sold to paint and oil-cloth manufacturers and the makers
of the finer kinds of brown paper. The fine state of division to which it is reduced
may be judged from the facts that the workman in charge of the mill is compelled
to wear a respirator, and the stain is not easily removed from the hands.

At the Lehigh Gap mines the ore, as it comes from the mines, is
free from refuse, great care having been taken to separate slate and
clay from it in the working places. It is hauled in wagons to kilns,
which are situated on a hillside for convenience in charging. The
platform upon which the ore is dumped is built from the top of the
kiln to the side of the hill. The ore is first spalled to fist size and
. freed from slate, and is then carried in buggies to the charging hole
of the kiln,
244 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The kiln works continuously, calcined ore being withdrawn and
fresh charges made without interruption. The ore is subjected for
forty-eight hours to the heat, which expels the moisture, sulphur, and
carbon dioxide. About 1% tons of calcined ore are withdrawn every
three hours during the day. The outside of the lumps of calcined ore
has a light-brown color, while the interior shows upon fracture a
darker brown. Great care is necessary to regulute the heat so that
the ore is not overburnt. When this happens the product has a black,
scoriaceous appearance, and is unfit for the manufacture of metallic
paint, as it is extremely hard to grind.

The calcined ore is carried from the kiln in wagons to the mill,
where it is broken to the size of grains of corn in a rotating crusher.
The broken ore is carried by elevators to the stock bins at the top of
the building, and thence by shutes to the hopper of the mills, which
grind it to the necessary degree of fineness. Elevators again carry it
to the packing machine by a spout, and it is packed into barrels hold-
ing 500, 300, or 100 pounds each.

A ‘*mineral paint” mined on Porter Creek, near Healdsburg, Sonoma
County, California, is said’ to consist of hematite and silicate of iron
in the form of a compact mass lying between hornblendic rock, actin-
olite and mica schist on the one side and rotten serpentine on the
other. The vein has a north of east course, and is some 60 feet in
width. The material is mined from a tunnel, crushed, ground between
buhrstones, and bolted, making a paint fit for mixing with oils or japan.

Uses.—The ochers are among the most widespread and readily
accessible of coloring materials,and have been used by savage and
civilized people both ancient and modern. The war paint of the
American Indian was not infrequently an ocher mixed with oil or
grease.

According to William J. Russell,” the pigments used by the Egyptians
and others since the earliest times were of hematite, and mostly of an
odlitic variety, apparently closely corresponding to the Clinton hema-
tites of New York State. As tested, such were found to contain from
79.11 to 81.34 per cent ferrio oxide.

Yellow ocherous pigments, presumably limonite, are also described
by the same authority. These yield only about 33 per cent ferric oxide
and some 7 to 10 per cent of water, together with clay. The ochers
are now used mainly in the manufacture of paints for exteriors, as of
buildings, the rolling stock of railways, bridges, and metal roofing.
They are also used as a pigment for coloring mortars, and in the
manufacture of linoleums and oilcloths. Mixed with a certain pro-
portion of oxide of manganese, the ochers have been used to produce
desirable colors in earthenware.

1 Twelfth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist, 1894, p. 406.
2 Nature, XLIX, 1894, p. 374.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 945

The raw ocher (that is, ocher not roasted), of a light-yellow color,
was at one time in great demand, particularly throughout New Eng-
land, for painting floors.

The value of the prepared material is but a few cents a pound.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Frank A. Hix. Report on the Metallic Paint Ores along the Lehigh River.
Annual Report, Pennsylvania Geological Survey, 1886, pt. 4, pp. 1386-1408.
This is an important paper, giving position of ore beds, methods of mining
and manufacture.
Conrap E. Hesse. The Paint Ore Mines at Lehigh Gap.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XTX, 1890, p. 321.

7. I~MenrTE; Menaccanits; or Tiranic Iron.

Composition FeTiO,,=oxygen, 31.6; titanium, 31.6; iron; 36-55
hardness, 5 to 6; specific gravity, 4.5 to 5; color, iron black with a
submetallic luster and streak; opaque. Differs from magnetite, which
it somewhat resembles, by its crystalline form and by its influencing
but slightly the magnetic needle.

Mode of occurrence.—Its common form is massive, or in thin plates
or lamin, or as small granules, sometimes disseminated through the
mass of rock or loose in the sand. In microscopic forms it is a com-
mon constituent of eruptive rocks, both acid and basic. Not infre-
quently it occurs in large masses, closely resembling magnetic iron
ore (Specimen No. 63861, U.S.N.M.). In the parish of St. Urbian, Bay
St. Paul, Province of Quebec, Canada, is such a bed, stated to be 90
feet in thickness and to have been traced, with some interruptions, for
amile. The bed is in anorthite feldspar rock of Laurentian age. The
ore is quite pure, and carries some 48.6 per cent titanic acid. At
Krageré, in Norway, the mineral occurs in the form of veins in diorite.
In Virginia it is found in granular masses, containing apatite. (See
Phosphate Series. )

Uses.—The mineral has as yet proved of little economic importance.
It is stated that the presence of titanium has an important bearing
upon the qualities of iron and steel, but as such it is beyond the scope
of this work. As long ago as 1846 an attempt was made to use a
ferrocyanide of titanium as a green paint in place of the poisonous
arsenical greens. Later (1861) other patents were granted in England
for titanium pigments. A deep-blue enamel, resembling the smalt
prepared with the oxide of cobalt, has also been prepared from it,
but as yet the mineral, though abundant and cheap, has practically no
economic use.

8. RUTILE:

Composition and general properties.—This, like ilmenite, is a titanium
oxide, having the formula TiO,, oxygen, 40 per cent, and titanium,
60 per cent. The hardness is 6 to 6.5; specific gravity, 4.18 to 4.25;
246 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

luster metallic-adamantine, opaque as arule, rarely transparent; color,
reddish brown to red, rarely yellowish, blue, or black; streak, pale
brown. The mineral crystallizes in the tetragonal system, and is
commonly found in prismatic forms longitudinally striated (Specimen
No. 14410, U.S.N.M.) and often in geniculate or knee-shaped twins
(Specimen No. 81904, U.S.N.M.). Not infrequently it occurs in the
form of fine thread-like or acicular crystals penetrating quartz. It is
insoluble in acids and infusible.

Mode of occurrence.—Rutile occurs mainly in the older crystalline
granitic rocks, schists, and gneisses, but is also found in metamorphic
limestones and dolomites, sometimes in the mass of the rock itself, or
in the quartz of veins. Being so nearly indestructible under natural
conditions, it gradually accumulates in the débris resulting from rock
decomposition, and is hence not an uncommon constituent of auriferous
sands.

Localities.—Some of the more noted localities are, according to
authorities, the apatite deposits of Krageré, in Norway; Yrieux, near
Limoges, in France; the Ural Mountains; and the Appalachian regions
of the United States. Graves Mountain, Georgia (Specimen No.
46081, U.S.N.M.); Randolph County, Alabama (Specimen No. 65354,
U.S.N.M.); and the Magnet Cove region of Arkansas are celebrated
localities.

Uses.—Like ilmenite, the mineral may serve asa source for titanium
for a pigment for porcelain, but as yet it is little used.

Brookite (Specimen No. 45256, U.S.N.M.) and octahedrite have the
same composition and essentially the same physical properties and
mode of occurrence.

9. CHROMITE.

Chromite is a mineral of the spinel group, and of the theoretical
formula FeO, Cr,O,. This equals a percentage of chromic oxide of
68 per cent, but the natural mineral has often alumina and ferric iron
replacing a part of the chromium, so that 50 per cent chromic oxide
more nearly represents the general average. The ordinary demand,
it may be stated, is for an ore carrying 45 per cent and upward of
chromic acid.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. DAT

The analyses given below! will serve to show the varying character
of the mineral:

Composition of chromite from various localities.

Constituents.
Location. aaa ha ee =
AloOy. | MgO. | Cre0s. | Fe.O;. | FeO. | SiOx. | CaO. | Miscellaneous. Total.
Kynouria, Greece -.... 30.17 | 17.27 t 0 Cl ene 9.30 | 26.01 | 13.26 |CO,.+H,O=4.45 | 98.20
Near Athens, Greece..-| 20.80 | 11.78 9. 80 DUS. O0N eet aon hy os00 FeCOs3=37. 75 | 100. 20
Bare Hills, Baltimore, |
Moanrvland! =< 2<.--.<.- 13 O02) eae one 89.514) 36.004|...-... MOR BOG | eee et |stats inl arerelata rare 99.116
Chester, Pennsylvania.|.......-|------- 41.55 | 62,02 |......- 1,305) Be abresd Spe sea naocopdsace 104. 82
Franklin, Macon Coun-
ty, North Carolina...) 22.41 | 15.67 | 44.15 Bx 78) | lilesZOw | eteeeesera | steam erste | eterata stteehatetes atatetote 99.77
Wilmington,Delaware.| 6.66] 2.06 | 45.50 |...-.-.- ADT S\ le ts aOU) lesa |e. soe aie eine aietelatare 100. 00
Bolton, Canada........ S20 LocOsn) wADsG0) esas GE (iei emcee dGaeceor|lenoocospocecatpr 99. 81
Ekaterinburg, Russia..| 6.77 | 13.40 | 49.49 |.....-.- ROI NW TRU Nea ecod |naodaacganotac ccc 100. 00
Chester County, Penn-
Syl Vania eens cee ee ac 9.723 Ie sas sis DIRDO2|muods LAs | sare stare 290 lee ae MnO, trace. | 99.326
Monterey County, Cal-
PROMI epee ictasiaata ein a aly abyss) |) aay sib alee alesse TOAD DOD se | sesame sateeeieters +99. 60
Laneaster County,
Pennsylvania .....-- SV ESB aoe ee aesooe DRS Soil teeters lia ceterstore | ete tere teraleterarn te tele 99.16
DO me tise earsta os Gab) SEO Ghia Be deeoee SONS ll erate ora | eirsttereralteteie wie e arena iacatete ate 97.53
Chester County, Penn-
qi il eye Se Ses Geeeadedl orcesee CHASE BH | posceee||Socenasoosscas NiO=2. 28 | 104.33
5 SSE] MARGAAAS Rodoesoo Moteees Mseeene| Aasesor Al,O3+FeO |...-----
Meaieeeee  ee ee | HeOLa 64.00) Pease sce | ese cc = 103! |Sescce= 29.33 | 99.40
| GUI by oo Ob lease steno, See ONSEN sees 30.05 | 99.40
GR2u | OSH40) | Serestecs| see a= N60 N|Secsene 28.60 | 100. 88

Chromite, like magnetic iron, is black in color and of a metallic lus-
ter, but differs in being less readily if at all attracted by the magnet.
On a piece of ground glass or white unglazed porcelain it leaves a
brown mark, and fused with borax before the blowpipe it gives a green
bead.

Occurrence.—Chromite is 1 common constituent in the form of dis-
seminated granules of basic eruptive rocks belonging to the peridotite
and pyroxenite groups and in the serpentinous and talcose rocks which
result from their alteration (Specimens Nos. 63032, 36845, U.S.N.M.,
from Maryland and North Carolina). It is never found in true veins
or beds, though sometimes in segregated, nodular masses somewhat
simulating veins on casual inspection. Masses of pure material, like
Specimen No. 17288, U.S.N.M., from Lancaster, Pennsylvania (weight
1,000 pounds), are quite usual. The more common form, as noted
above, is that of detached granules, which when freed from the inclosing
rock form the ore known as chrome sand (Specimens Nos. 5179, 68032,
56310, U.S.N.M.), and small masses like Specimens Nos. 11681, 40320,
63032, U.S.N.M.

Deposits of chromite are now being worked near Black Lake Station,

1 As compiled from various sources in Wadsworth’s Lithological Studies. Memoirs
of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, XI, Part I, 1884, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

248 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

on the Quebec Central Railway, in close proximity to the asbestos
mines. The ore here occurs in a series of pockets extending in an
east and west direction. Some of the pockets are found lying ina
dike of fine-grained granulite, but the possible relationship between
the two has not been made out. While other deposits occur not asso-
ciated with the granulite, it is to be noticed that the largest pockets
of high-grade ore are thus associated. From one such pocket on the
Lambly property over 500 tons of ore were taken, yielding 54 pes
cent to 56 per cent sesquioxide of chromium.

Aside from the localities above mentioned, chromic iron is found in
pocket masses in the Cambrian and serpentinous rocks lying between
the Vermont line and the Gaspe peninsula, but has never been success-
fully mined owing to the great uncertainty attending its occurrence.

It is rarely found in beds or veins, but in detached pockets which yield froma
few pounds to hundreds of tons, the larger pockets being comparatively rare.

Chrome ore is also found in Newfoundland; the Russian Urals
(Specimen No. 40322, U.S.N.M.); in Asia Minor (Specimen No. 40156,
U.S.N.M.) and European Turkey (Specimen No. 4674, U.S.N.M.) and
in Macedonia; in Australia (Specimens Nos. 62532, 60999, U.S.N.M.)
and New Zealand (Specimen No. 70346, U.S.N.M.). In all cases so far
as known the deposits occurring in peridotite or serpentine.

The principal domestic sources of chromite are at present Del Norte
(Specimen No. 65349, U.S.N.M.); San Luis Obispo, Shasta (Specimen
No. 66498, U.S.N.M.), and Placer (Specimen No. 65351, U.S.N.M.)
counties in California, though formerly mines in Lancaster County,
Pennsylvania (Specimens Nos. 11681, 5179, U.S.N.M.), and at the Bare
Hills, near Baltimore, Maryland (Specimen No. 63032, U.S.N.M.) were
very productive.

is used in the production of the pigments
chrome yellow, orange, and green, and in the manufacture of bichro-
mate of potash for calico printing, and which is also used in certain
forms of electric batteries. A small amount is also used in the pro-
duction of what is known as chrome steel.

According to P. Speier, chrome ore linings for reverberatory
furnaces have been successfully adopted in French, German, and Rus-
sian steel works. The bottom and walls of the furnace are lined
with chrome ore in large blocks, united by a cement formed by two
parts of chrome ore finely ground, and one part of lime as free from
silica as possible.

The introduction of chromium from the lining into the bath of
molten steel only takes place to a very limited extent. From 660 to
1,100 pounds of limestone is charged into the furnace, and, according
to the percentage of sulphur, from 220 to 440 pounds of manganese ore,
for a charge of 1.5 to 1.7 ton of pig iron and 1,100 to 1,800 pounds of
cast-iron scrap. About one-third, including steel scrap, is introduced
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 249

into the furnace; and to this quantity is afterwards added from 660 to
1,100 pounds of wrought-iron scrap as soon as the melting is com-
plete. When a suitable temperature is attained the slag is run off,
and the next charge is introduced into the furnace when the bath is
quiescent. A sample is then taken and tested by bending, and if it be
found that the percentage of phosphorus is too high, more lime, or
lime and iron seale, are added, as much being introduced as the bath
will take, and the addition of ferro-manganese is also made.

The iron chromate is decomposed only under the influence exerted
by the reagents and oxidizing alkaline substances. Heat alone is
insufficient to decompose chromate of iron, which may float in a bath
of molten steel covered with basic slag without dissolving. One of
the principal conditions of success in the employment of the chrome
ore lining consists in carefully picking the pieces of ore used, which
should be of uniform composition; and the best composition of ore
used for lining reverberatory furnaces is found to be from 36 to 40
per cent of chromic oxide, 18 to 22 per cent of clay, 9 to 10 per cent
of magnesia, and at most 5 per cent of silica.’

The total annual product of American mines does not exceed between
3,000 and 4,000 tons, valued at the mines in California at not more
than $8 a ton for 50 per cent ore. Delivered in Baltimore its value
is from $20 to $25 a ton.

Some 4,000 tons are annually imported. The chief foreign sources
are Russia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, and Australia.

The following notes relative to the chrome industry in America are
of sufficient interest to warrant reprinting here:”

The chrome industry is one of the most unique and characteristic in Baltimore.
It originated in the early discovery of chrome ore in the serpentine of Maryland, and
has ever since maintained its prestige as one of the sources of the world’s supply of
the chromates of potassium and sodium, which haye many applications in the arts.
The following is the substance of an historical account of the Maryland chrome
industry, kindly prepared by Mr. William Glenn:

In 1827 chrome ore was first discovered in America on land belonging to Mr. Isaac
Tyson, in what are known as the Bare Hills, 6 miles north of Baltimore. Mr. Tyson’s
son, Isaac Tyson, jr., then in business with his father, was persuaded by an English
workman to attempt the manufacture of ‘‘chrome yellow”’ from this material, and
this was done in a factory on what is now Columbia avenue, in Baltimore, in 1828.
In the year of the discovery of the Bare Hill ore, Mr. Isaac Tyson, jr., who seems to
have possessed a very keen power of observation, as well as a considerable knowledge
of chemistry, recognized in a dull black stone, which he saw supporting a cider barrel
in Belair market, more of the same valuable material. Inquiry disclosed the fact
that this had been brought from near Jarrettsville, in Harford County, where much
more like it was to be found. Mr. Tyson at once examined the locality, and finding it
covered with boulders worth $100 a ton in Liverpool, purchased a considerable area.

_ 1} Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1895, pp. 506,507. Abstract from L’ Echo
des Mines, X XI, p. 584.
2From Maryland, Its Resources, Industries, and Institutions, Baltimore, 1892, pp.
120-122.
250 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Finding that the chrome ore was always confined to serpentine, Mr. Tyson began
a systematic examination of the serpentine areas of Maryland, which could be easily
traced by the barren character of the soil which they produce. A narrow belt of
serpentine extends across Montgomery County, and while chronie ore is occasionally
found in it (as, for instance, at Etchison post-office) , nothing of economic importance
has ever been discovered in Maryland south of the areas known as ‘‘Soldiers Delight’’
and ‘‘Bare Hills.’? Northeastward, however, the deposits become much richer.
The region near Jarrettsville was productive, and thence the serpentine was traced
to the State line in Cecil County. Near Rock Springs the serpentine turns and
follows the State line eastward for 15 miles. On the Wood farm, half a mile north
of the State line and 5 miles north of Rising Sun, in Cecil County, Mr. Tyson dis-
covered in 1833 a chromite deposit, which proved to be the richest ever found in
America. This property was at once purchased by Mr. Tyson and the mine opened.
At the surface it was 30 feet long and 6 feet wide, and the ore so pure that each 10
cubic feet produced a ton of chrome ore averaging 54 per cent of chrome oxide. The
ore was hauled 12 miles by wagon to Port Deposit, and shipped thence by water to
Baltimore and Liverpool. Ata depth of 20 feet the vein narrowed somewhat, but
immediately broadened out again to a length of 120 feet and a width of from 10 to 30
feet. The Wood mine was worked almost continuously from 1828 to 1881, except
between the years 1868 and 1873. During that time it produced over 100,000 tons of
ore and reached a depth of 600 feet. It is not yet exhausted, but the policy of its
owners is to reserve their ores while they can be elsewhere purchased at a cheap
rate. Another well-known chrome mine in this region is exactly on the State
boundary at Rock Springs, and is called the Line pit. So much of this deposit as
lay within the limits of Maryland was owned by Mr. Tyson, while he worked the
Pennsylvania portion on a royalty.

Other chrome openings near the Line pit were known as the ‘‘ Jen-
kins mine,” ‘‘Low mine,” ‘‘ Wet pit,” and ‘‘Brown mine.” This
region has proved one of the best in the country for fine specimens of
rare minerals.- As a mineral locality it is usually given as ‘*Texas,
Pennsylvania,” *

During his exploration of the serpentine belt Mr. Tyson also noticed
deposits of chromite sand, and to control the entire supply of this ore
he either bought or leased these also, and worked them to some extent
with his mines.

Between 1828 and 1850 Baltimore supplied most of the chrome ore consumed by
the world; the remainder came from the serpentine deposits and platinum washings
of the Urals. The ore was at first shipped to England, the principal consumers
being J. and J. White, of Glasgow, whose descendents are still the chief manufac-
turers of chromic acid salts. In 1844 Mr. Tyson established the Baltimore Chrome
Works, which are still successfully operated by his sons.

After 1850 the foreign demand for Baltimore ore declined gradually till 1860, since
which time almost none has been shipped abroad. The reason for this was the
discovery in 1848 of great deposits of chromite near Brusa, 57 miles southwest of
Constantinople, by Prof. J. Lawrence Smith, who was employed by the Turkish
Government to examine the mineral resources of that country. Other deposits were
also discovered by him 15 miles farther south, and near Antioch. These regions
now supply the world’s demand.

After the discovery of the magnitude of Wood pit, and of the ponntitel supply of

1P, Frazer, Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, CCC, Lancaster County, 1880,
pp. 176, 192.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 251

sand chrome to be found within the Baltimore region, Isaac Tyson, jr., began to fear
that the sources of supply could not much longer be restricted to his ownership. In
such an event he realized that he would be compelled to manufacture his ores or to
sacrifice them in competition.

The method of manufacture previously in use was to heat a mixture of chrome ore
and potassium nitrate upon the working hearth of a reverberatory furnace. The
potash salt yielded oxygen to the chromic oxide present, forming chromic acid,
which, in turn, united with the base, producing potash chromate. The process was
wasteful and exceedingly costly. Afterwards the process was somewhat cheapened
by substitution of potassium carbonate for the more costly nitrate; oxygen was taken
from heated air in the furnace. But not until 1845, when Stromeyer introduced his
process, was the manufacture of chromic acid placed upon a safe mercantile basis.
In this process pulverized chromic izon is mixed with potassium carbonate and
freshly slaked lime, and the mixture is heated in a reverberatory furnace. After
chromic oxide is set free in the charge it is freely oxidized because of the spongy
conditions of the lime-laden charge.

Among the first steps of Isaac Tyson, jr., was to apply, in 1846, to Yale College
for a chemist for his chrome works. In response a young man named W. P. Blake,
who was then a student in the chemical laboratory, was sent. Fora while Mr. Blake
did excellent service in the new factory, but he was not willing to remain.

Mr. (now Professor) Blake was the first chemist to be employed in technology
upon this continent, while the Baltimore works were the first to appreciate the value
of chemistry. After the departure of Mr. Blake another chemist was secured from
the first laboratory ever instituted for the teaching of chemistry, that founded at
Giessen by Liebig. In succession came another chemist from the same laboratory,
and this gentleman is yet employed in the works.

Between 1880 and 1890 the American production of chrome ore
has varied between 1,500 and 3,000 tons. The total eastern product
in 1886 was 100 tons only. Chrome ore was discovered in California
in 1873, and since 1886 this State has been the only one to produce
this mineral. From 2,000 to 4,000 tons of Turkish chrome ore are
now annually imported into the United States, most of which is
utilized in Baltimore.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Lake Chrome and Mineral Company, of Baltimore County.
American Mineral Gazette and Geological Magazine, I. April 1, 1864, p. 253.
Harrie Woop. Chromite and Manganese. Chromic iron and manganese ores have
been found in considerable quantities, but the deposits have not yet been exten-
sively worked. The chromite occurs in the Bowling Alley Point, Grafton, Young,
and Bingera districts. Manganese ores are found widely distributed throughout the
Colony; but the principal deposits are at Bendemere, near Moonbi, Glanmire,
Rocky, and Broken Hill.
Mineral Products of New South Wales, Department of Mines, 1887, p. 42.
Ueber schwedisches Chromroheisen und Martinchromstahl.
Berg-und Hiittenminnische Zeitung, XLVII, 1888. p. 267.
Die Chromersenerz-Lagerstatten Neuseeland.
Berg-und Hittenmiinnische Zeitung, XLVII, 1888. p. 375.
Chrome Iron.
t Eighth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1888, p. 326.
Chromite Mined at Cedar Mountain.
Eighth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1888, p. 32.
252 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Chrome Iron Ore from Orsova.

Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1889, p. 316.
Chrome Iron, Shasta County.

Tenth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1890, p. 638.
Chromium in San Luis Obispo County.

Tenth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1890, p. 582.
Chrome Iron in New Zealand.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 393.
Chromic Iron.

Twelfth Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1894, p. 35.
J. T. Donatp. Chromic Iron in Quebec, Canada.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 224.
— Chromic Iron: Its Properties, Mode of Occurrence and Uses.

Journal of the General Mining Association of the Province of Quebec, 1894-95,

p. 108.

W. F. Wirxinson. Chrome Iron Ore Mining in Asia Minor.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LX, 1895, p. 4.
Wm. GLENN. Chrome in the Southern Appalachian Region.

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XV, 1895, p. 481.
Chromic Iron.

Thirteenth Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1896, p. 48.
GrEoRGE W.Maynarp. The Chromite Deposits on Port au Port Bay, New Foundland.

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X X VII, 1897, p. 283.
J. H.Prarr. Chromite in North Carolina.
Engineering and. Mining Journal, LX VII, 1899, p. 261.
The Occurrence, Origin, and Chemical Composition of Chromite, with especial
reference to the North Carolina Deposits.

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineeers, X XIX, 1899,
Deli.

10. MANGANESE OXIDEs.

The element manganese exists in nature under many different forms,
of which those in combination as oxides, carbonates, and silicates
alone need concern us in this work. The principal known oxides
are manganosite (MnO); Hausmanite (MnO,Mn,O,); Braunite
(8 Mn,O,, MnSiO,); Polianite (MnO,); Pyrolusite (MnO,); Manganite
(Mn,O,,H,O); Psilomelane (H,MnO,); and Wad, the last being, perhaps,
an earthy impure form of psilomelane. To this list should be added
the mineral franklinite, a manganiferous oxide of iron and zine. Of
these the first named, manganosite, is rare, having thus far been reported
only in small quantities associated with other oxides in Wermland,
Sweden. The other forms are described somewhat in detail as below.
It should be stated, however, that with the exception of the well-
crystallized forms it is often difficult to discriminate between them, as
they occur admixed in all proportions, and, moreover, one variety,
as pyrolusite, may result from the alteration of another (manganite).
The better defined species may be separated from one another by their
comparative hardness, streak, and hydrous or anhydrous properties, as
shown in the accompanying table.
Report of U S. National Museurn, 1899,.—Merrill. PLATE 10.

IDEAL SECTIONS SHOWING THE FORMATION OF MANGANESE=BEARING

CLAY FROM THE DECAY OF THE ST.CLAIR LIMESTONE.

(4 Boone CHERT ea MANGANE SE-BEARING CLAY Feiieees LIME STONE
ST. CLAIR LIMESTONE E=Jsaccnaronat SANDSTONF
FIG.1. ORIGINAL CQNDITION OF THE ROCKS.

SECTION SHOWING THE FORMATION OF MANGANESE DEPosits FROM DECAY OF
LIMESTONE.
After Penrose, Annual Report Geological Survey of Arkansas, I, 1890.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 2538

Variety. Hardness. aaeya Color. Streak. ae ers
Franklinite ...| 5.5 to 6.5|5 to 5.22 | Iron black............ Reddish brown to } Anhydrous.
black.

Hausmannite .| 5 6.5] 4.7 4,85 | Brown black .......-- Chestnut brown...... Do.

Braunite ...-... 6 6.5] 4 4.85 | Brown black to steel | Brown black ....-....- Do.
gray.

Polianite ......| 6 6.5 | 4.8 4.9 | Light steel gray .-..-..- IBIRGKE ae ehue cos cuetees Do.

Pyrolusite ..... 2 2.5 | 4.8 Iron black to steel | Black or blue black .. aDo.
gray or bluish,

Manganite ....| 4 4.2 4.4 | Dark steel gray to | Red brown to black ..| Hydrous.
iron black.

Psilomelane ...| 5.6 Sun | 4.7 Iron black to steel | Brown black ...-.---- Do.
gray.

a Usually yields water in closed tube.

The chemical relationship of the ores as found in nature is thus set
forth by Penrose:

Chemical composition. Anhydrous form. Hydrous form.
Erotoxide (Mn). 2222 22s. 052 30 Manganosite (MnO)......-..--..- Pyrochroite (MnO.H.20).
Proto-sesquioxide (Mn,O,) ------ Hausmannite (Mn30,) -..--------

Sesquioxide (Mn.O3) ....-------- Braumitel(MmsOs)) 2 <2. <n -- 52-2 Manganite (Mn.03,H,0).
Peroxide (MnOz).......--.------ | Pyrolusite, Polianite (MnO.) ..... { aa
Wad.

Manganese oxides frequently occur admixed in indefinite propor-
tions with the hydrous oxides of iron limonite, giving rise to the
manganiferous limonites as shown in Specimens Nos. 66090, 10867,
U.S.N.M. from Spain.

FRANKLINITE.—This may be termed rather as a manganiferous ore
of iron and zinc than a true ore of manganese. Nevertheless, as the
residue after the extraction of the zinc is used in the manufacture of
spiegeleisen, we may briefly refer to it here. The mineral occurs in
rounded granules or octahedral crystals of a metallic luster and iron
black color, associated with zine oxides and silicates in crystalline lime-
stones, at Franklin Furnace, New Jersey. (Specimen No. 83941,
U.S.N.M.) It bears a general resemblance to the mineral magnetite,
but is Jess readily attracted by the magnet and gives a strong manga-
nese reaction. Its average content of manganese oxides Mn,O, and
MnO is but from 15 to 20 per cent.

HausManniTE.—This form of the ore when crystallized usually takes
the form of the octahedron, and may be readily mistaken for franklin-
ite, from which, however, it differs in its inferior hardness, lower
specific gravity, and in being unacted upon by the magnet. (Specimen
No. 64241, U.S.N.M.) It occurs in porphyry, associated with other

1 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas, I, 1890, p. 541.
254 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

manganese ores, in Thuringia; is also found in the Harz Mountains;
Wermland, Sweden, and various other European localities. In the
United States it is reported as occurring only in Iron County, Missouri.
The mineral in its ideal purity consists of sesquioxide and protoxide
of manganese in the proportion of 69 parts of the former to 31 of the
latter. Analyses of the commercial article as mined are not at hand.

Braunite.—This, like hausmannite, crystallizes in the form of the
octahedron, but is a trifle harder. Chemically it differs, in that
analyses show almost invariably from 7 to 10 per cent of silica,
though as to whether or no this is to be considered an essential con-
stituent it is as yet difficult to say. Analyses 1 and 2, on p. 256, show
the composition of the mineral as found. The ore is reported as
occurring both crystallized and massive in veins traversing porphyry
at Oehrenstock in Ilmenau, in Thuringia, near Ilefeld in the Harz;
Schneeberg, Saxony (Specimen No. 68136, U.S.N.M.), and various
other European localities. Also at Vizianagram in India; in New
South Wales, Australia, and in the Batesville region, Arkansas.

PortanirE.—Like pyrolusite, yet to be noted, this form of the ore is
chemically a pure manganese binoxide, carrying some 63.1 per cent
metallic manganese combined with 36.9 per cent oxygen. From
pyrolusite it is distinguished by its anhydrous character and increased
hardness. So far as reported, it is a rather rare form of manganese,
though possibly much that has been set down as pyrolusite may be in
reality polianite. :

PYROLUSITE occurs in the form of iron black to steel gray, sometimes
bluish opaque masses, granular, or commonly in divergent columnar
ageregates sufficiently soft to soil the fingers, and in this respect easily
separated from the other common forms excepting wad. Not known
in crystals except as pseudomorphs after manganite. Its composition
is quite variable, usually containing traces of iron, silica, and lime and
sometimes barium and the alkalies. Analyses III and IV, on p. 256, as
given by Penrose, will serve toshow the generalaverage. This isacom-
mon ore of manganese, and is extensively mined in Thuringia, Mora-
via, Bohemia, Westphalia, Transylvania, Australia, Japan (Specimen
No. 61936, U.S.N.M.), India, New Brunswick (Specimen No. 36825,
U.S.N.M.), Nova Scotia, and various parts of the United States
(Specimens Nos. 42011, Tennessee, 56354, Georgia, etc.).

MANGANITE differs and is readily distinguishable from the other
ores thus far described, in carrying from 3 to 10 per cent of combined
water, which can readily be detected when the powdered mineral is
heated in a closed tube. From either psilomelane or pyrolusite it is
distinguished by its hardness. When in crystals it takes prismatic
forms with the prism faces deeply striated longitudinally (Specimen
No. 67922, U.S.N.M., from Thuringia). Its occurrence is essentially
a

a irs) mal | 7

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill. PLATE 11.

BOTRYOIDAL PSILOMELANE, CRIMORA, VIRGINIA.
Weight, 373} pounds.
Specimen No, 66722, U.S.N.M.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 255

‘the same as that of braunite. The composition of the commercial ore
is given in the analyses on p. 256.

PstLoMELANE.—This is, with the possible exception of pyrolusite,
the commonest of the manganese minerals. The usual form of occur-
rence is that of irregular nodular or botryoidal masses embedded in
residual clays. It is readily distinguished from manganite or wad by
its hardness, and from hausmannite, braunite, or polianite by yielding
an abundance of water when heated in a closed tube. The sample
(Specimen No. 66722, U.S.N.M.), from the Crimora mines in Virginia,
is characteristic. See Plate 11. The composition of the commercial ore
is given in analyses V, VI, and VII on p. 256.

Wp or BOG MANGANESE (Specimen No. 66602, U.S.N.M., from Cuba)
is a soft and highly hydrated form of the ore, as a rule of little value,
owing to impurities (analysis VIII). Asbolite is the name given toa
variety of wad containing cobalt (see p. 187). See further Rhodonite
and Rhodochrosite, pp. 280, 314.

Origin.—The deposits of manganese oxides which are of sufticient
extent to be of commercial importance are believed to be in all cases
of secondary origin; that is, to have resulted from the decomposition
of preexisting manganiferous silicate constituents of the older crys-
talline rocks and the subsequent deposition of the oxides in secondary
strata. Indeed, in many instances the ore has undergone a natural
segregation, owing to the decomposition of the parent rock and the
accumulate of the manganese oxide, together with other difficult sol-
uble constituents in the residual clay. Thus Penrose has shown’ that
the deposits of the Batesville (Arkansas) region result from the decay
of the St. Clair limestone, the various stages of which are shown in
the accompanying Plate 10. The fresh limestone, as shown by analy-
sis, contains but 4.30 per cent manganese oxide (MnO), while the
residual clay left through its decomposition contains 14.98 per cent of
the same constituent.

Occurrence.—As above noted, the ore is found in secondary rocks,
and asa rule in greatest quantities in the clays and residual deposits
resulting from their breaking down. The usual form of the ore is that
of lenticular masses or nodules distributed along the bedding planes,
or heterogeneously throughout the clay. Penrose describes the Bates-
ville ores as sometimes evenly distributed throughout a large body of
clay, but in most places as being in pockets surrounded by clay itself
barren of ore. These pockets vary greatly in character, being some-
times comparatively solid bodies separated by thin films of clay, and
containing from 50 to 500 tons of ore; sometimes they consist of large
and small masses of ore embedded together, and again at other times
of small grains, disseminated throughout the clay. In the Crimora

1 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas, I, 1890.
256 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

(Virginia) deposits the ore (psilomelane) is found in nodular masses
in a clay resulting from the decomposition of a shale which has been
preserved from erosion through sharp synclinal folds.

Bog manganese is described as occurring in an extensive deposit near
Dawson settlement, Albert County, New Brunswick, on a branch of
Weldon Creek, covering an area of about 25 acres. In the center it
was found to be 26 feet deep, thinning out toward the margin of the
bed. The ore is a loose, amorphous mass, which could be readily
shoveled without the aid of a pick, and contained more or less iron
pyrites disseminated in streaks and layers, though large portions of
the deposit have merely a trace. The bed lies ina valley at the north-
ern base of a hill, and its accumulation at this particular locality
appears to be due to springs. These springs are still trickling down
the hillside, and doubtless the process of producing bog manganese is
still going on. A bed of manganese ore in the government of Kutais,
in the Caucasus, is described as occurring in nearly horizontally lying
Miocene sandstones. The ore is pyrolusite and the bed stated as being
6 to 7 feet in thickness.

Composition of manganese oxides.

Braunite. Pyrolusite. Psilomelane. Wad.
Constituents. = ==
is Il. Til. IV. V. VI. VITe. ||) Viner.
INT OSes bee ooeeneaee 87.47 | 86.95 | 90.15] 88.98 | 84.99 | 80.27 63. 46 | 25.42
Olsoucs es fone eee 9. 62 OF Sp" Eacememtsltemaeee TOLASS STASTO eee! aera
HesOg a. 8oe2s-cace seal eo re eas ene aaa 2.55 (hy lio eAememrel see cpatioocas LO lee asec a
CaO) 22 epemseeeecheere ORY We ee Sele icicoa pada cae sea ocecssas OQ: St et Sasa eel aeeeecte
BaOiwa. cet eeeoaacees 0.48 2.25 nA PA ees 5 | Roe ASD Ka Ol | (cs sees: al eee ee |
SiOameaenc-acere sae Onsaleseeeees 280 Oise s | Gaacates 2. 84 fete (ohne lee
Hs). ees saeeeeesess|eeasence 0.95 2205 5| Ges aies| aes aoe eee nee 6.00 | 33.52
I. Batesville region, Arkansas. V. Batesville region, Arkansas.
II. Elgersburg, Germany. VI. Schneeberg, Saxony.
Ill. Cheverie, Nova Scotia. VII. Crimora, Virginia.

IV. Cape Breton. VIII. Big Harbor, Cape Breton.

Uses.—According to Professor Penrose,” the various uses to which
manganese and its compound are put, may be divided into three
classes: Alloys, oxidizers, and coloring materials. Each of these
classes includes the application of manganese in sundry manufactured
products, or asa reagent in carrying on different metallurgical and
chemical processes. The most important of these sources of con-
sumption may be summarized as follows:

1 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Canada, VII, 1894, p. 146 M.
2 Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas, I, 1890.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 257

Spiegeleisen-.....--- : ,
eee Alloys of manganese and iron.
Ferromanganese. - - - : :
Alloys of manganese and copper, with or

Manganese bronze. - A :
without iron.

IOVE se a So Uwe An alloy of manganese, aluminum, zinc,
Silver bronze. .----- and copper, with a certain quantity of
silicon.
Alloys of manganese with aluminum, zine, tin, lead, mag-
nesium, ete.
Manufacture of chlorine.
Manufacture of bromine.
As a decolorizer of glass (also for coloring glass, see coloring
ere materials).

As a dryer in varnishes and paints.

LeClanché’s battery.

Preparation of oxygen on a small scale.

Manufacture of disinfectants (manganates and permanganates).
Calico printing and dyeing.
Coloring glass, pottery, and brick.
Green.
Violet.

Coloring materials. -
Pats oe S28 Se roe

Besides these main uses a certain amount is utilized as a flux in
smelting silver ores, and, in the form of its various salts, is employed
in chemical manufacture and for medicinal purposes. Pyrolusite and
some forms of psilomelane are utilized in the manufacture of chlorine,
and for bleaching, deodorizing, and disinfecting purposes. For this
purpose the ore must be very pure and free from iron, lime carbonates,
and alkalies. It is also utilized in the manufacture of bromine.

In glass manufacture the manganese is used to accomplish two
different results: First, to remove the green color caused by the
presence of iron, and second, to impart violet, amber, and black colors.

According to Mr. J. D. Weeks’ the amount of manganese actually
used for other than strictly metallurgical purposes in the United States
is small.

The value of a manganese ore depends somewhat upon the uses to
which it is to be applied.

Pyrolusite and psilomelane only are of value in the production of
chlorine as above noted. These are rated, as stated by Penrose,
according to their percentages of peroxide of manganese (MnQ,).
The standard for the German ores is given at 57 per cent MnO, and
70 per cent for Spanish. For the manufacture of spiegeleisen the
prices are based on ores containing not more than 8 per cent silica
and 0.10 per cent phosphorus, and are subject to deductions as follows:
For each 1 per cent silica in excess of 8 per cent, 15 cents a ton; for
each 0.02 per cent phosphorus in excess of 0.10 per cent, 1 cent per

1Mineral Resources of the United States, 1892, p. 178.
NAT MUS 99——17
258 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

unit of manganese. Settlements are based on analysis made on sam-
ples dried at 212°, the percentage of moisture in samples as taken
- being deducted from the weight. The prices paid at Bessemer, Penn-
sylvania in 1894, based on these percentages, were as below:

Prices per unit.
y ese.
Manganese eee Mens
* | ganese.
Cents. | Cents.
Ore containing above 49 per cent .--.....-..-..-...---<------- 6 28
Ore containing 46) to 49sper- emia. aes sees sae ee neem eae 6 oT
Ore containine: 43 10 46 periGent= ose. ssa see a eee eee 6 26
| Ore containing 40 toi43 per centile fo: esas ae ae ee ee ee 6 25

Otherwise expressed, the value ranges from $5 to $12 a ton,
according to quality and condition of the market.

It is probable that the total consumption in pottery and glass manu-
facture does not exceed 500 tons a year, of which about two-thirds is
used in glass making. The amount used in bromine manufacture and
the other uses enumerated probably amounts to another 500 tons.
The remainder is used in connection with iron and steel manufacture,
chiefly in the production of steel and a pig iron containing considera-
ble manganese for use in cast-iron car wheels. In the crucible process
of steel manufacture manganese is charged into the pots, either as an
ore at the time of charging the pots or it is added as spiegeleisen or
ferromanganese at the time of charging or during the melting, usually
toward the close of the melting, so as to prevent too great a loss of
manganese by oxidation. In the bessemer and open-hearth process
the manganese is added as spiegeleisen or ferromanganese at or near
the close of the process, just before the casting of the metal into
ingots.

It has been found in recent years that a chilled cast-iron car wheel
containing a percentage of manganese is much tougher, stronger, and
wears better than when manganese is absent. For this reason large
amounts of manganiferous iron ores are used in the manufacture of
Lake Superior pig iron intended for casting into chilled cast-iron car
wheels. (See also The Mineral Industry, VIII, p. 419.)

V. CARBONATES.
1. Catcrum CARBONATE.

Cancrrm, Catc Spar, IcELAND Spar.—These are the names given to
the variety of calcium carbonate crystallizing in the rhombohedral
division of the hexagonal system. The mineral occurs under a great
variety of crystalline forms, which are often extremely perplexing to
any but an expert mineralogist. The chief distinguishing characteris-
tics of the mineral are (1) its pronounced cleavage, whereby it splits
PLATE 12,

Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899.—Merrill.

XThe CaveD

| Gravel
Waste

bee
ee
Lore

Ys

YP vs

wv
QA s

K <
SS Q
Wid
IN
20.37
SANS

Ween 2s

KNSGictinnl eens

NES

MS ~
NS

: “
> St
vi

VIEWS SHOWING OCCURRENCE OF CALCITE IN ICELAND.

After Thoroddsen.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 259

up into rhombohedral forms, with smooth, lustrous faces, and (2) its
doubly refracting property, which is such that when looked through
in the direction of either cleavage surfaces it gives a double image.
(Specimen No. 53673, U.S.N.M.) It is to this property, accompanied
with its transparency, that the mineral, as a crystallized compound,
owes its chief value, though as a constituent of the rock limestone it
is applied to a great variety of industrial purposes. When not suffi-
ciently transparent for observing its doubly refracting properties the
mineral is readily distinguished by its hardness (3 of Dana’s Scale) and
its easy solubility, with brisk effervescence, in cold dilute acid.- This
last is likewise a characteristic of aragonite, from which it can be dis-
tinguished by its lower specific gravity (2.65 to 2.75) and its cleavage.
Caleium carbonate, owing to its ready solubility in terrestrial waters,
is one of the most common and widely disseminated of compounds.
Only the form known as double spar, or Iceland spar, need here be
considered.

Origin and mode of occurrence.

Cale spar is invariably a secondary
mineral occurring as a deposit from solution in cracks, pockets, and
erevices in rocks of all kinds and all ages. The variety used for
optical purposes differs from the rhombohedral cleavage masses found
in innumerable localities only in its transparency and freedom from
flaws and impurities (Specimen No. 53678, U.S.N.M.). The chief
commercial source of the mineral has for many years been Iceland,
whence has arisen the term Iceland spar, so often applied. For the
account of the occurrences of the mineral at this locality, as given
below, we are indebted mainly to Th. Thoroddsen.'| The quarry is
described as situated on an evenly sloping mountain side at Reydar-
fjorden, about 100 meters above the level of the ocean and a little east
of the Helgustadir farm. (See Plate 12.)°

The veins of spar are in basalt and at this spot have been laid bare
through the erosive action of a small stream called the ‘* Silfurlakur,”
the Icelandic name of the spar being ‘‘Silfurberg.” The quarry open-
ing is on the western side of this brook, and at date of writing was
some 72 feet long by 36 feet wide (see fig. 1). In the bottom and
sides of this opening the cale-spar is to be seen in the form of numer-
ous interlocking veins, ramifying through the basalt in every direction
and of very irregular length and width, the veins pinching out or
opening up very abruptly. In fig. 2 of plate is shown an area of
some 40 square feet of the basaltic wall rock, illustrating this feature
of the occurrence. Fig. 3 of the same plate shows the largest and
most conspicuous vein, the smaller haying been omitted in the sketch.
The high cliffs on the north side of the quarry are poorer in cale-sp2r
veins, the largest dipping underneath at an angle of about 40°.

1 Geologiska Foreningens I, Stockholm Forhandlingar, XII, 1890, pp. 247-254.
260 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

A comparatively small proportion of the cale-spar as found is fit for
optical purposes. That on the immediate surface is, as a rule, lacking
in transparency. Many of the masses, owing presumably to the
development of incipient fractures along cleavage lines, show internal,
iridescent, rainbow hues, such are known locally as ‘‘litsteinar”
(lightstones). Others are penetrated by fine, tube-like cavities, either
empty or filled with clay, and still others contain cavities, sometimes
sufficiently large to be visible to the unaided eye, filled with water and
a moving bubble. The most desirable material occurs in compara-
tively.small masses imbedded in a red-gray clay, filling the veinlike
interspaces in the bottom of the pit. The nontransparent variety,
always greatly in excess, occurs in cleavable masses and imperfectly
developed rhombohedral, sometimes 1 to 2 feet in diameter, associated
with stilbite.

Calc-spar has been exported in small quantities from Iceland since
the middle of the seventeenth century, though the business was not
conducted with any degree of regularity before the middle of the
present century, prior to that time everyone taking what he liked
or could obtain, asking no one’s permission. About the time Bartholin
discovered the valuable optical properties of the mineral (in 1669), the
royal parliament under Frederick HI granted the necessary permission
for its extraction.’ It was not, however, until 1850 that systematic
work was begun, when a merchant by name of T. F. Thomsen, at
Seydisfjord, obtained permission of the owner of some three-fourths
the property (the pastor Th. Erlendsson) to work the same. The
quarried material was then transported on horseback to the North-
fjord, and thence to Seydisfjord by water. In 1854 the factor H. H.
Svendsen, from Eskifjord, leased the pastor’s three-fourths right for 10
rigsdalers a year, and the remaining fourth, belonging to the Govern-
ment, for 5 rigsdalers. Svendsen worked the mine successfully up to
1862, when one Tullinius, at Eskifjord, purchased the pastor’s three-
fourths and leased the Government’s share for five years, paying there-
for the sum of 100 rigsdalers [about $14 or $15]. This lease was
renewed for four years longer at the rate of 5 rigsdalers per year
and for the year 1872 at the rate of 100 rigsdalers, when the entire
property passed into the hands of the Government in consideration of
the payment of 16,000 kroner [about $3,800]. From that time until
1882 the mine remained idle, when operations were once more renewed,
though not on an extensive scale, owing, presumably in part, to the
fact that Tullinius, the last year he rented the mine, had taken out a
sufficient quantity to meet all the needs of the market. Over 300
tons of the ordinary type of the spar is stated to have been sent to
England and sold to ‘‘factory owners” (Fabrikanter) at about 30
kroner a ton, though to what use it was put is not stated.

1 Laws of Iceland, I, 1668, pp. 321, 322.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 261

Aside from the locality at Helgustadir, calc-spar in quantity and
quality for optical purposes is known to occur only at Djupifjérdur,
in West Iceland.

The Reydharfjérdhr locality was also visited by Mr. J. L. Hoskyns-
Abrahall in the summer and autumn of 1889, and whose account! is
reproduced in part below.

Sudhrmiila Sysla, of which Reydharfjérdhr, the largest, bisects the
east coast of Iceland, are cut out of an immense plateau, formed of
horizontal sheets of volcanic rock, chiefly trachyte, between 3,000 and
4,000 feet high. This has been subsequently eroded into sharp, bare
ridges with immense cliffs or steep slopes falling from them, parted
by torrent valleys and fjords, the greater part of the district not reach-
ing the present snow line. It is on one of these slopes, which slants
down at an angle of forty degrees into Reydharfjérdhr, that the unique
quarry of Iceland spar is found. It consists of a cavity in the rock
about 12 by 5 yards and some 10 feet high, originally filled almost
entirely, but now only lined, with immense crystals, which are fitted so
closely together as to form a compact mass, like a lump of sugar, with
orains averaging 10 inches across.

The Syslumadhur,” Jon Asmundarson Johnsen, had given me leave
to examine the cave and take as many specimens as I liked, but the
permission was not of very much use, there being about 5 feet of
water nearly all over the bottom; and such specimens as I did get
involved doing severe penance in walking barefoot over sharp crystals.
The floor is covered with a thin layer of very fine chocolate-brown mud,
which sticks as tenaciously to one’s feet as to the crystals. I had to
resort to tooth powder to get the latter clean, though the great heaps
of spar which lie on the path side and in front of the mouth of the
cave were all washed by the rain till they were as bright and trans-
parent as ice. The water now running through the cave is incapable
of forming cale-spar. It appears, like the surrounding rocks, to con-
tain an excess of silicic acid, and either etches the surface of the spar
wherever it comes in contact with it, or covers it with stilbite, the
characteristic zeolite of the doleritic and basaltic rocks in Iceland. The
rock in which the cave is formed is a dolerite, and darker in color than
the surrounding phonolite, which is traversed by veins of black and
green pitchstone. In the neighborhood of the spar it is disintegrated,
colored slightly with green earth, and full of microscopic crystals of
stilbite and calcite.

The quarry was worked till 1872 by Herra Tulinius, a Danish mer-
chant of Eskifjérdhr. The trading station is an hour and a half’s ride
from Helgastadhir, the nearest farm to the quarry. (In Iceland all
distances are measured in terms of the hour’s ride, ¢/ma, and the day’s

1 Mineralogical Magazine, IX, 1890, p. 179.
* Magistrate, public notary, receiver of taxes, liquidator, auctioneer. ete.
262 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

journey, /eidh.) The Icelandic government in that year bought a quarter
share of the quarry, and stopped the work, so that Tulinius was glad
to sell them the rest. Five years ago an attempt was made to reopen
it. One man was employed, and after spending about a week in the
cave he succeeded in pumping out the water and extracting a fine
block of clear spar, which was sold at a high price in London. Here,
however, the work dropped, and in consequence Tulinius remains the
proprietor of the whole of the cale spar that is available for physical
work, and naturally sells it at a price that is calculated to make his
very moderate stock last for a considerable time.’ The reason of the
Icelandic government is not very clear, but as the working of the quarry
is, perhaps from patriotic motives, delegated to Herr Gunnarsson, an
Icelandic merchant, whose nearest warehouse is at Seydhisfjérdhr, a
good day’s ride from Eskifjérdhr, it is hardly to be expected that the
buried treasure will soon see the light. Perhaps, too, the specimens
of the best quality have been already removed. Certainly clear pieces
do not constitute the great mass of the spar, and if M. Labonne, who
visited the cave in May, 1877 (the water being at that time frozen),
could extract it ‘‘en assez grande abondance””* he did not leave much
exposed for me to take two years later. M. Labonne speaks in his
note of ramifications into the environing rock which haye never been
worked and suggests that this investigation might increase the impor-
tance of the quarry. Such ramifications as I could see were on a very
small scale. On the other hand, the thickness of the deposit has not
yet been ascertained, but it is said that the best pieces occurred near
the surface. For the most part the calcite is rendered semiopaque by
innumerable cracks, generally following the gliding and cleavage planes
(—+R and R), and apparently produced by the pressure of the spar
itself, but sometimes following the conchoidal fracture. Remarkable
examples of the latter kind are in the British Museum.

CuaLk.—This is the name given to a white, somewhat loosely coherent
variety of limestone composed of the finely comminuted shells of marine
mollusks, among which microscopic forms known as foraminifera are
abundant. The older text-books gave one to understand that foraminif-
eral remains constituted the main mass of the rock, but the researches
of Sorby® showed that fully one-half the material was finely com-
minuted shallow-water forms, such as inoceramus, pecten, ostrea,
sponge spicules, and echinoderms.

Chalk belongs to the Cretaceous era, occurring in beds of varying
thickness, alternating with shales, sands, and clays, and often including
numerous nodules of a dark chalcedonic silica to which the name

‘It is sold by Thor E. Tulinius, Slotsholmsgade 16, Copenhagen K.
Comptes Rendus, CV., 1887, p. 1144.
* Address to Geological Society of London, February, 1879.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 263

flint is given. Though a common rock in many parts of Europe, it is
known to American readers mainly for its occurrence in the form of
high cliffs along the English coast, as near Dover. Until within a
few years little true chalk was known to exist pas the limits of
the United States. According to Mr. R. T. Hill' there are, however,
extensive beds, sometimes 500 feet in thickness, eine throughout
the entire length of Texas, from the Red River to the Rio G rande, and
northward into New Mexico, Kansas, and Arkansas. These chalks in
many instances so closely simulate the English product, both in phys-
ical properties : and chemical composition, as to be adaptable to the same
economic purposes. The following analyses from the report above
alluded to serve to show the comparative composition:

Upper .
Lower ,.| White :
Cretace- eae Cliff ee Gray
| ous rh chalk, aga | chalk,
Constituents. | chalk, | Rocky | Little | nam. Ssus-| | Folk-
| Burnet Garmitart River, pase ni stone,
County, JNsGiaS. | Arkan- | Tain S| ‘England.
Texas. . aS ee
sas.
CaxrhbonsteoLllyne 2a. s 4. s2-2-- sos- ~~ 2-2 | 92. 42 88. 48 94.18 | 98. 40 94.09
Carbonate of magnesia.-.-.....--------- 1.38 Trace. | 1.37 . 08 aol
Silica and insoluble silicates .......-.--- | 1.59 9.77 3.49 1, LO} 3. 61
Ferric oxide and alumina........-.------ 41 EHO g PY Wal Poe ee af Are ate
Phosphoric acid, alumina, and loss..-.-. .--------- |sdecocosas|bsesesanse 42 | Trace.
(Cin Vora VE ECO hib bits AEs See AA se Sonal ees eerso Seer ose Saererorcme 1,29
Wire 32 oy ea eae a seen ia Se oee Ure | Sits eres Sed | JOD) oS eeenee . 70
| 99.98 99. 50 101 100 100

Chalk is used as a fertilizer, either in its crude form or burnt, in the
manufacture of whiting (Specimen No. 26499, from Trego County,
Kansas), in the form of hard lumps by carpenters and other mechanics,
and in the manufacture of crayons (Specimen No. 62063, U.S.N.M.).
Washed, chalk (Specimen No. 62085, U.S.N.M.) is used to give body to
wall paper; as a whitewash for ceilings; as a thin coating on wood
designed for gilding, being for this purpose mixed with glue; to vary
the shades of gray in water-color paints, and as a polishing powder for
metals. a

Concerning the importation and uses of chalk, Williams states: *

Paris white is the name given to the white coloring substance prepared by grinding
cliffstone, a variety of chalk or limestone which is as hard as some building stones and
has a greater specific gravity than the ordinary chalk. It isimported from Hull, Eng-
land, and sells at from $2 to $4 per ton ex vessel, according to freight rates from Hull.
During the calendar year 1884 3,905} tons of cliffstone were imported at New York.

The paris white made in this country is sold at from $1.10 to $1.25 per hundred-

weight, in casks, according to make and quality. The paris white made in England,
of which 508,185 pounds were imported at New York ane the calendar) year 1884,

ehaa Report of the Arkansas Geological Survey, in 1888.
2 Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-84, p. 930.
264 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

sells at from $1.25 to $1.30 per hundredweight. There is apparently no difference in
quality between the cliffstone ground in this country and the imported paris white.
Its principal use is in the preparation of kalsomine. It is also employed in the
manufacture of rubber, oilcloth, wall papers, and fancy glazed papers. * * *

Until recently all of the whiting used in this country was ground from chalk imported
from Hull, England. [See Specimen No. 36013, U.S.N.M.] The annual production
of whiting is about 300,000 barrels. The price varies, according to the quality, from
35 to 90 cents per hundredweight. There are four grades made, as follows: Common
whiting, worth from 35 to 40 cents; gilders’ whiting, 60 to 65 cents; extra gilders’
whiting, 70 to 75 cents; American paris white, 80 to 85 cents. The uses of whiting
are about the same as paris white, which it closely resembles.

The material, as should be stated, is brought mainly as ballast from England and
France.

LIMESTONES; MORTARS; AND CEMENTS.—Pure limestone or calcium
carbonate is a compound of calcium oxide and carbonic acid in the
proportion of 56 parts of lime (CaO) to 44 parts of the acid (CO,).
In its crystalline form as exemplified in some of our white marbles
the rock is therefore but an aggregate of imperfectly outlined calcite
crystals, or, otherwise expressed, is a crystalline granular aggregate of
calcite. In this form the rock is white or colorless, sufficiently soft
to be cut with a knife, and dissolves with brisk effervescence when
treated with dilute hydrochloric or nitric acid. Sulphuric acid will
not dissolve it except in small proportions, since the exteriors of the
granules become converted shortly into insoluble calcium sulphate
(gypsum), which protects them from further attack.

As a constituent of the earth’s crust, however, absolutely pure lime-
stone is practically unknown, all being contaminated with more or less
foreign material, either in the form of chemically combined or mechan-
ically admixed impurities. Of the chemically combined impurities the
most common is magnesia (Me¢QO), which replaces the lime (CaO) in all
proportions up to 21.7 per cent, when the rock becomes a dolomite.
This in its pure state can readily be distinguished from limestone by
its greater hardness and in its not effervescing when treated with cold
dilute acid. (See p. 274.) It dissolves with effervescence in hot acids,
as does limestone. As above noted, all stages of replacement exist,
the name magnesian or dolomitic limestone being applied to those in
which the magnesia exists in smaller proportions than that above
given (21.7 per cent). Tron in the form of protoxide (FeO) may also
replace a part of the lime. Of the mechanically admixed impurities
silica in the form of quartz sand or various more or less decomposed
silicate minerals, clayey and carbonaceous matter, together with iron
oxides, are the more abundant. These exist in all proportions, giving
rise to what are known as siliceous, aluminous or clayey, carbonaceous,
and ferruginous limestones. Phosphatic material may exist in vary-
ing proportions, forming gradations from phosphatic limestones to
true phosphates.

Limestones are sedimentary rocks formed mainly through the depo-
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 265

sition of caleareous sediments on sea bottoms; many beds, however, as
the odlitic limestones, show unmistakable evidences of true chemical
precipitation. They are in all cases eminently stratified rocks, though
the evidences of stratification may not be evident in the small speci-
men exhibited in museum collections. Varietal names other than
those mentioned above are given and which are dependent upon struc-
tural features or other peculiarities. A shaly limestone is one partak-
ing of the nature of shale. Chalk is a fine pulverulent limestone
composed of shells in a finely comminuted condition and very many
minute foraminifera. (See p. 262.) The name chalky limestone is fre-
quently given to an earthy limestone resembling chalk. Mar! is an
impure earthy form, often containing many shells, hence called shell
marl. An odlitic limestone is one made up of small rounded pellets
like the roe of a fish. The name marble is given to any calcareous or
even serpentinous rock possessing sufficient beauty to be utilized for
ornamental purposes.

Uses.—Aside from their uses as building materials, lithographic
purposes, ete., as described elsewhere, limestones are utilized for a
considerable variety of purposes, the more important being that of
the manufacture of mortars and cements. Their adaptability to this
purpose is due to the fact that when heated to a temperature of 1,000°
F. they gradually lose the carbonic acid, becoming converted into
anhydrous calcium oxide (CaO), or quicklime, as it is popularly called;
and further, that this quicklime when brought in contact with water
and atmospheric air greedily combines with, first, the water, forming
hydrous calcium oxide (CaOH,O), and on drying once more with the
carbonic acid of the air, forming a more or less hydrated calcium car-
bonate. In the process of combining with water the burnt lime (CaO)
gives off a large amount of heat, swells to nearly twice its former
bulk, and falls away to a loose, white powder. This when mixed with
siliceous sand forms the common mortar of the bricklayers, or, if with
sand and hair, the plaster for the interior walls of houses. (Specimens
Nos. 63144, 63145, U.S.N.M., from Vermont; No. 53195,U.5.N.M., from
Maine, and No. 53168, from Pennsylvania, show the character of the
rocks commonly used for these purposes.) Quicklime formed from
fairly pure calcium carbonate sets or hardens after but a few days’
exposure, the induration, it is stated, being due in part to crystallization.
The less pure forms of limestone, notably those which contain upwards
of 10 per cent of aluminous silicates (clayey matter), furnish, when
burned, a quicklime which slakes much more slowly—so slowly, in fact,
that it is not infrequently necessary to crush to powder after burning.
These same quicklimes when slaked are further differentiated from
those already described by their property of setting (as the process of
induration is called) under water. Hence they are known as hydraulic
limes, and the rocks from which they are made as hydraulic limestones.

266 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Their property of induration out of contact with the air is assumed
to be due to the formation of calcium and aluminum silicates. Inas-
much as these silicates are practically insoluble in water, it follows that
quite aside from their greater strength and tenacity they are also more
durable; indeed, there seems no practical limit to the endurance of
a good hydraulic cement, its hardness increasing almost constantly
in connection with its antiquity. Certain stones contain the desired
admixture of lime and clayey matter in just the right proportion for
making hydraulic cement. In the majority of cases, however, it has
been found that ahigher grade, stronger and more enduring material,
can be made by mixing in definite proportions, determined by experi-
ment, the necessary constituents obtained, it may be, from widely sep-
arated localities. The exact relationship existing between composition
and adaptability to lime making does not seem as yet to be fully worked
out. As is well known, the pure white crystalline varieties yield a
quicklime inferior to the softer blue-gray, less metamorphosed varie-
ties. Nevertheless there are certain distinctive qualities, due to the
presence and character of impurities, which led Gen. Q. A. Gillmore
to adopt the following classification:

(1) The common or fat limes, containing, asa rule, less than 10 per cent of impurities.
(2) The poor or meager limes, containing free silica (sand) and other impurities in

amounts varying between 10 per cent and 25 per cent.
(3) The hydraulic limes, which contain from 30 to 35 per cent of various impurities.
(4) The hydraulic cements, which may contain as much as 60 per cent of impurities
of various kinds.

As above noted most cements are manufactured from a variety of
materials, and their consideration belongs therefore more properly to
technology. Nevertheless it has been thought worth the while here
to give in brief the matter below relative to a few of the more impor-
tant and well-known varieties now manufactured.

PorTLAND CEMENT.—This takes its name from a resemblance of the
hardened material to the well-known odlitic limestone of the island of
Portland in the English Channel. As originally made on the banks
of the Thames and Medway it consists of admixtures of chalk and clay
dredged from the river bottoms, in the proportions of three volumes
of the former to one of the latter, though these proportions may vary
according to the purity of the chaik. These materials are mixed with
water, compressed into cakes, dried and calcined, after which it is
ground to a fine powder and is ready for use. The following analyses
from Heath’s Manual of Lime and Cement will serve to show the vary-
ing composition of the chalk and clay from the English deposits.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 267

[ Constituents. Upper chalk. | Gray chalk. | Clay.
ean —= = -S |
Calcium carbonate ...-.-.-.-- about..| 97.90 to 98.60 | 87.35 to 96.52 |-2--- 2222-5 |
SIC eccs acct sso canes I do | . 66 1.59} 1.67 6. 84 55 to 70
Magnesium carbonate ...-... do 10 21 . 10 ON ee eee ciassleie
TTOMSORIGE). toe eer caes ace see do... 35 74 .38 46 3.Ct‘«d‘S
ATGMIN g\2 3 4oSeowe isi. 2 2S ODS: |baceeren oe eeaer 1.14 .93 | Is iemyZ!
Potash and soda.....-...--.- Cs Po Rs| barb eer atin ceted Yo .42 4,29 | 3 4
PIMC aoc eee eee a~ =e C5 Vo ME Pe pd etree ee 2 | a NE en a 4 8
MTALTIONA to. - nico. += =i3 (s Co ee (eens Age eee) |S ens ean rer a 1 Qi
Ganbonic acid. -<2.2255.:2..-. do..2 | aioe eames canis Ps Be Ey ene ate 4 5

It is stated that the presence of more than very small quantities of
sand, iron oxides, or vegetable matter in the clay is detrimental. A
good cement mud before burning may contain from 68 to 78 per cent
of calcium carbonate, 21 to 15 per cent of silica, and from 10 to 7 per
cent of alumina.

The following analyses from the same source as the above serve to
show (I) the composition of the clay; (11) the mixed clay and chalk or
“slurry,” as it is called, and (III) the cement powder prepared from
the same:

ea I ee III yi
Constituents. Clay. Slurry. Cement.
Pini tae Peete ea oe! ee are Meecha 2 Se [Sereere ace: 62.13
Caleta Rul phabeeeeeer esc see oees eee serie cae e see eevee 2.13
CAlelUMCATOONMte Sac ocean ci eeecicn -wie scree | 2.01 | 69597) lbacemeeee
Silies \(soluble))-22s.2s22- 224-5222 Rate See Ago eee 54.14 | Tey 77) 20.45
PATTI A eee ers erate oeralsicinc | Sac se es Sate ee sisinate | 14.68 | 4.45
Masnesitiny CarbODAte =: s--s-.e2ece~cnie~ = aie ce 4.48 | 2587 beads eee.
AUR RCS pies ees a ee Sr Men Sk eats ictaie reaps)  ofaleiaserate nla lienawoeece 1.48
| Iron CO POIG Ke 2 hopes a eR eh A Se er SS 7.76 | 213 4.37
ORI PAL Ooo ae Bee gh ae eae ein re 87| 1.24 98
WiateDee acetic eer ea mec asc sits a ceia rma aes 15. 03 | 7.59 Jose erro
|

Several brands of Portland cement are manufactured in America,
usually from a mixture of materials, the proportions of which have
been worked out by experiment. At the Coplay Cement Works, in
Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, a blue-gray crystalline limestone and
dark gray more siliceous variety are ground and mixed into the desired
proportions, molded into a brick, and burnt to the condition of a
slag. The material is then ground to a powder and forms the cement.
Through the courtesy of the manager, the Museum collections contain
samples of the crude and manufactured materials, as follows: Lime-
stone (Specimen No. 53541, U.S.N.M.); cement rock (No. 53542,
U.S.N.M.). Composition formed by admixing the two rocks (No.
53543, U.S.N.M.); and the clinker (No. 53544, U.S.N.M.) obtained by
268 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

burning the composition. The chemical composition of the samples
as given are as follows:

K |Compound
Constituents. Limestone. ae ee of Clinker.
2 the two.

Silica (Si@o)i-ce.c: see teseeece 2.10 15. 22 13. 22 22. '74

| ne (Al,03) oo Se 1 BA 494 5.20 10.50
| Iron oxide (FesQg))- -. 2.--.-=: J

Calcium carbonate (CaCOs)--. 96, 17 69. 88 77.00 | CaO 61. 82

Magnesian carbonate (MgCOs3) Trace. 4.60 4,20 | MgO 2.05

An impure limestone, forming a portion of the water-lime group of
the Upper Silurian formations at Buffalo, New York, forms a ‘‘ natural
cement” rock which is utilized in the manufacture of the so-called
Buffalo Portland cement.*

The so-called Losendale cement is made from the tentaculite or
water limestones of the Lower Helderburg group as developed in
the township of Rosendale, Ulster County, New York. According
to Darton” there are two cement beds in the Rosendale-Whiteport
region, at Rosendale the lower bed or dark cement averaging some
21 feet in thickness and the upper or light cement 11 feet, with 14
to 15 feet of water-lime intervening. In the region just south of
Whiteport the upper white cement beds have a thickness of 12 feet
and the lower or gray cement of 18 feet, with 19 to 20 feet of water-
lime beds between them. The underlying formation is quartzite.
The method of mining the material from the two beds, as well as
their inclination to the horizon, is shown in Plate 13. (See Specimens,
Nos. 63062-63086, U.S.N.M., from Ulster, Onondaga, and Erie
Counties, New York; Nos. 63090-63099, U.S.N.M., Cumberland and
Hancock, Maryland; No. 53173, from Lisbon, Ohio, and No. 53198,
from Sandusky, Ohio).

RoMAN CEMENT.—The original Roman cement appears to have been
made from an admixture of volcanic ash or sand (pozzuolana, pepe-
rino, trass, etc.) and lime, the proportions varying almost indefinitely
according to the character of the ash. The English Roman cement is
made by calcining septarian nodules dredged up from the bottoms of
Chichester Harbor and off the coast of Hampshire, and from similar
nodules obtained from the Whitby shale beds of the Lias formations
in Yorkshire and elsewhere. The following analysis of the cement
stone from Sheppey, near South End, will serve to show the character
of the material:

‘Cement Rock and Gypsum Deposits in Buffalo. J. Pohlman. Transactions of the
American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VII, 1889, p. 250.
* Report of the State Geologist of New York, I, 1893.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill.

PLATE 13.

VIEW IN A CEMENT QUARRY NEAR WHITEHALL, ULSTER COUNTY, NEW York.

From a photograph by N. H. Darton.
eae

Ar Sao

~

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 269

C@arhomate Of Umer ee eee ates te. alec = at 64. 00
SFT Re ales eee ty ae Weare
JAlipiiciinl: eee Rola at Ne ee 6. 75
Magnesia. 222-225 Bere Mea swap 50
ORiGeOnimOne tee eae ae ee teks 6. 00
Oxidevoi- mancanese== == 2 sooo e ce = 1.00
A VigieTae ests nee een mete Ns an cee Eye ie. SE 3. 00
OSS Sees fe ee eee ae oom soe Seen 1. 00

100. 00

The names concrete and beton are applied to admixtures of mortar,
hydraulic or otherwise, and such coarse materials as sand, gravel,
fragments of shells, tiles, bricks, or stone. According to Gillmore the
matrix of the beton proper is a hydraulic cement, while that of the
concrete is nonhydraulic. The terms are, however, now used almost
synonymously.

Aside from their uses as above indicated limestones are used in the
preparation of lime for fertilizing purposes. For this purpose, as
before, the lime carbonate is reduced to the condition of oxide by burn-
ing, and then allowed to become air slaked, when it remains in the
condition of a fine powder suitable for direct application to the land
as is the plaster made from gypsum. <A lime prepared by burning
oyster shells is utilized in a similar manner.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Out of the many hundreds of titles that might be given, a few only are selected.
Those desiring may finda very full bibliography in a series of papers on The Chemi-
eal and Physical Examinations of Portland Cement. Journal of the American
Chemical Society, XV and XVI. 1893-1894.

Q. A. Gittmore. Practical Treatise on Limestones, Hydraulic Cements, and Mortars.

New York, 1863, 333 pp.
The Cement Works on the Lehigh.
Second Pennsylvania Geological Survey, Lehigh District, D. D. 1875-76, p. 59.

Henry ©. E. Reto. The Science and Art of the Manufacture of Portland Cement
with Observations on some of its Constructive Applications.

London, 1877.

JoHANN BretenBerG. Method for Utilizing Siliceous Earths and Rocks in the Manu-
facture of Cements, for the purpose of imparting to them Hydraulic Properties.
(German Patent No. 24038, November 28, 1882. )

Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, ITI, 1884, p. 110.
U. Cummines. Hydraulic Cements, Natural and Artificial, their Comparative Values.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, November, 1887.
M.H. Le Cmareiier. Recherches Expérimentales sur la Constitution des Mortiers.
Hydrauliques.

Chas. Dunod, Paris, 1887.

M. A. Prosr. Note sur la Fabrication et les Propriétés des Ciments de Laitier.
Annales des Mines, X VI, 1889, p. 158.

H. Pearern Brumevt. Natural and Artificial Cements in Canada.
Science, X XI, 1893, p. 177.

M. H. Le Cwarevier. Procédés d’ Essai des Matériaux Hydrauliques.
Annales des Mines, IV, 1893, p. 367,
270 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

A.H. Hearn. <A Manual of Lime and Cement.
London, 18938, 215 pp.

G. R. Renarave. Calcareous Cements: Their Nature and Uses.
London, 1895, 222 pp.

Urtan Cummines. American Cements.
Boston, 1898, 299, pp.

Cuaries D. Jameson. Portland Cement, its Manufacture and Use.
New York, 1898, 192 pp.

Bernarp L. Green. The Portland Cement Industry of the World.
(Reprinted from Journal of the Association of Engineering Societies. XX,

June, 1898).

PLAYING MARBLES.—At Oberstein on the Nahe, Saxony, playing
marbles are made in great quantities from limestone. The stone is
broken into square blocks, each of such size as to make a sphere the
size of the desired marble. These cubes are then thrown into a mill
consisting of a flat, horizontally revolving stone with numerous con-
centric grooves or furrows on its surface. A block of oak of the same
diameter as the stone and resting on the cubes is then made to revolve
over them in a current of water, the cubes being thus reduced to the
spherical form. The process requires but about fifteen minutes.

LITHOGRAPHIC LIMESTONE.—For the purpose of lithography there
is used a fine-grained homogeneous limestone, breaking with an imper-
fect, shell-like or conchoidal fracture, and as a rule of a gray, drab, or
yellowish color. A good stone must be sufficiently porous to absorb the
greasy compound which holds the ink and soft enough to work readily
under the engraver’s tool, yet not too soft. It must be uniform in
texture throughout and be free from all veins and inequalities of any
kind, in order that the various reagents used may act upon all exposed
parts alike. It is evident, therefore, that the suitability of this stone
for practical purposes depends more upon its physical than chemical
qualities. An actual test of the material by a practical lithographer
is the only test of real value for stones of this nature. Nevertheless the
analyses given below are not without interest as showing the variation
in composition even in samples from the same locality.
271

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS.

68°% 098 ‘T Tr 0 66 °T 09°S 6F 0 6G8 ‘0 LLG"0 0G°% PSOSSR) |Paresssgasces Sass Sosa os (ARIS. ONC -yxBp) hBp BU al)
F8'G eT FOL ‘0 60F 0 GIL’ pared ease sradl a asieta)) fea aewe ten ORL AG GSGNGR" i kame cage ee ie tee aes T (Avis on[q-IU.SI]) BpBURD
ie Ee alia a aaa se al cea (ete ta OL’P 99 °0 ConA 69 LL a ds os ger ete dimes Oe oe Rees And ~-> gossouua, ‘UOJIOAGQ
ip. Se 9 a ate (Dae ek eS Saige eat GL 90.0 OL ‘ST EE STG So ant mae ria WET See ah aS AquNOD ST[eVy ‘MWnossr yy
‘od CLS TFe 0 ren ea mtee || betsic) 08 "Ff StL ‘SG LG FL SO We hae |e pads oes GRRE A “o> (ARIS YYST[) LMOSST]L
‘od 78'S ¥a'0 og"s = |&64"9 9L0°T LES F OCHO." Ml acies (sian "es tates cases s--77"""( {BIS ONTq) BAOT
-Soutoa“m‘o | 66°% age'0.0 [t= oro — | og tr IPL'L RBA G eG GL leet o hero Sh teem kant ee (Avi3 yq8q]) AYon}UOy
“uT[OUIt) et ea ae See ie deal Se eam indo | te nana 60'S 1Z°0 G96 SA Re ae gh ge oie a weeee**BIIBAB ‘deyoyuelos
‘od FSG 648°I | €00°0 cSl'0 = | 868“ | 20 °0 Ize "0 10L ‘0 O88 *F GCE) Gamal ie scot sae Ay ak eh (MOTO) VEBARG ‘UoyoUA[OS
“fOUTOA “MAO | 66°% OF ‘0 &L‘0 0zL ‘0 00°% 0z¢ 0 9870 FSC" IZ¢"€ PEOkUbrethe sea Se ae a (YaVp) BIIBAL_ ‘UdToyUs[OS
PMO Sao yl I). ays fe” ames | ct ieceea eal ama” ea. Ch FP cs ‘0 88 "SL a Nea ge ee, ee ed ok Sas eee ee eee ee “RBIIBA RG ‘uoyolue[og

SiBi/Ets © g = a= s& Z

‘saungs oydnaboyny Jo uorpsoduo) ,
O72 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Localities. —Stones possessing in a greater or less degree the proper
qualities for lithographic purposes have from time to time been
reported in various parts of the United States; from near Bath and
Stony Stratford, England; Ireland; Department of Indre, France,
and also Silesia, India, and the British American possessions. By
far the best stone, and indeed the only stone which has as yet been
found to satisfactorily fill all the requirements of the lithographer’s
art, and which is the one in general use to-day wherever the art is
practiced, is found at Solenhofen, near Pappenheim, on the Danube, in
Bavaria. (Specimens Nos. 35888 and 35706, U.S.N.M.) These Pee
are of Upper Jurassic or Kimmeridgian age and form a mass some
80 feet in thickness, though naturally not all portions are equally
good, or adapted for the same kind of work. The stone varies both in
texture and color in different parts of the quarry, but the prevailing
tints are yellowish or drab. In the United States materials partak-
ing of the nature of lithographic stone have been reported from
Yavapai County, Arizona (Specimens Nos. 62798 and 68162, U.S.N.M.);
Talladega County, Alabama; Arkansas; Lawrence County, Indiana
(Specimen No. 25030, U.S.N.M.); near Thebes and Anna, Illinois
(Specimens Nos. 61344 and 62570, U.S.N.M.); James and Van Buren
counties, lowa; Hardin, Estelle, Kenton, Clinton, Rowan, Wayne, and
Simpson counties, Kentucky (Specimen No. 36897, U.S.N.M., from
Simpson County); near Saverton, Ralls County, Missouri (Specimen
No. 28498, U.S.N.M.); Clay and Overton counties, Tennessee; Burnet
and San Saba counties, Texas (Specimens Nos. 38624 and 70671,
U.S.N.M.); near Salt Lake City, Utah, and at Fincastle, Virginia.
While, however, from nearly, if not quite every one of these Be cines.
it was possible to get small pieces which served well for trial purposes,

each and every one has failed as a constant source of supply of the

commercial article, and this for reasons mainly inherent in the stone
itself. It is very possible that ignorance as to proper methods of
quarrying may have been a cause of failure in some cases.

The Arizona stone is one of theamost recent discoveries, and accord-
ing to first reports seems also the most promising. Samples of the
stone submitted to the writer, as well as samples of work done upon
it, seemed all that could be desired (Specimens Nos. 62798 and 68162,
U.S.N.M.). It is stated by Mr. W. F. Blandy that the quarries are
situated on the east slope of the Verdi Range, about 2 miles south of
Squaw Peak and at an elevation of about 1,200 feet above the Verdi
Valley, 40 miles by wagon road east of Prescott. Two quarries have
thus far been opened in the same strata, about 1,000 feet apart, the one
showing two layers or beds 384 feet in thickness, and the other three
beds 3,188 feet in thickness. As at present exposed the beds, which
are of Carboniferous age, are broken by nearly vertical fissures into
blocks rarely 4 or 5 feet in length. Owing to the massive form of
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 973

the beds and this conchoidal fracture the stone can not be split into
thin slabs, but must be sawn. No satisfactory road yet exists for its
transportation in blocks of any size, and such material as has thus far
been produced is in small slabs such as can be ‘*packed.” Those who
have inspected the properties express themselves as satisfied that
blocks of good size and satisfactory quality can be had in quantity.

The Alabama stone as examined by the writer is finely granular and
too friable for satisfactory work. Qualitative tests showed it to be a
siliceous magnesian limestone. It is of course possible that the single
sample shown does not fairly represent the product. The Arkansas
deposit is situated in Township 14° N., R. 15° W. of the 5th p. m.,
sections 14, 23, and 24, Searcy County. The color is darker than that
of the Bavarian stone. The reports of those who have tested it are
represented as being uniformly favorable.

The Illinois stone is darker, but to judge from the display made in
the Illinois building at the World’s Columbian Exposition, 1893, is
capable of doing excellent work and can be had in slabs of good size
(Specimens Nos. 61344 and 62570, U.S.N.M.). The Kentucky stone is
hard and brittle, though that from Rowan County is stated to have
received a medal at the exposition of 1876. It is fine grained and
homogeneous and very pure, only a small flocculent residue of organic
matter remaining insoluble in dilute hydrochloric acid.

The Indiana stone is harder than the Bavarian, and samples exam-
ined were found not infrequently traversed by fine, hard veins of
calcite. (Specimen No. 25030, U.S.N.M.)

The stone from Saverton, Missouri, is compact and fine grained, with,
however, fine streaks of calcite running through it. (Specimen No.
98498, U.S.N.M.) It leaves only a small brownish residue when dis-
solved in dilute acid. This stone has been worked quite successfully
onasmall scale. The State geologist, in writing on the subject, says:'

Some of the beds of the St. Louis limestone (Subcarboniferous) have been success-
fully used for lithographic work. No bed is, however, uniformly of the requisite
quality, and the cost of selection of available material would seem to preclude the
development of an industry for the production of lithographic stone. From the
deposit at Overton, Tennessee, it is stated slabs 40 by 60 inches by 3 inches thick
were obtained, though little, if anything, is now being done. An analysis of this
stone is given in the table. Other promising finds are reported from McMinn
County, in the same State. According to the State geological reports, the stone
lies between two beds of variegated marble. The stratum is thought to run entirely
through the county, but some of the stone is too hard for lithographic purposes.
The best is found 8 miles east of Athens on the farm of Robert Cochrane, and a
quarry has been opened by a Cincinnati company, which only pays a royalty of $250
per annum. It is sold for nearly the same price as the Bavarian stone. It is a cal-
careous and argillaceous stone, formed of the finest sediment, of uniform texture,
and possesses a pearl-gray tint. The best variety of this stone has a conchoidal
fracture and is free from spots of all kinds.

1Bulletin No. 3, Geological Survey of Missouri, 1890, p. 38.
NAT MUS 99 18

274 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

A lithographic stone is described in the State survey reports of
Texas as occurring at the base of the Carboniferous formations near
Sulphur Springs, west of Lampasas, on the Colorado River, and to be
traceable by its outcrops for a distance of several miles, the most
favorable showing being near San Saba. The texture of the stone is
good; but as it is filled with fine reticulating veins of calcite (Specimen
No. 70671, U.S.N.M.), and as moreover the lithographic layer itself is
only some 6 or 8 inches in thickness, it is obvious that little can be
expected from this source. The Texas Lithographic Stone Company,
with headquarters at Burnet, have used the stone, it is said, in con-
siderable quantities. A stone claiming many points of excellence has
for some years been known to exist in the Wasatch range within a
few miles of Salt Lake City, and several companies are or have been
engaged in its exploitation.

Very encouraging reports of beds examined by men whose opinions
should be conservative, come from Canadian sources, and it is possible
a considerable industry may yet be here developed, though little is
being done at present. The descriptions as given in the geological
reports are as follows: *

The lithographic stones of the townships of Madoc and Marmora and of the
counties of Peterboro and Bruce have been examined and practically tested by
lithographers, and in several cases pronounced of good quality; they have also
obtained medals at various exhibitions. They were obtained from the surface in
small quarries, and possibly when the quarries are more developed better stones,
free from ‘‘specks’’ of quartz and calcite, will be available in large slabs.

It should be stated that in actual use the principal demand is for
stones some 22 or 28 by 40 inches; the largest ones practically used
are some 40 by 60 inches and 3 to 3% inches thick. As the better
grades bring as high as 22 cents a pound, it will be readily perceived
that the field for exploration is one offering considerable inducement.

2. DOLOMITE.

This is a carbonate of calcium and magnesium (Ca, Mg), CO,,=
calcium carbonate 54.35 per cent, magnesium carbonate 45.65 per
cent. Hardness 3.5 to 4; specific gravity, 2.8 to 2.9; colors when pure,
white, but often red, green, brown, gray, or black from impurities.
(Specimen No. 82167, attached crystals on limestone from Joplin, Mis-
souri.) Dolomite, like calcite, occurs in massive beds or strata either
compact (Specimen No. 37795, U.S.N.M.) or coarsely crystalline, and
is to the eye alone often indistinguishable from that mineral. Like
limestone, the dolomites occur in massive forms suitable for building
purposes, or in some casesas marble. (Specimen No. 25075, U.S.N.M.)
From the limestone they may be distinguished by their increased hard-
ness and being insoluble in cold dilute hydrochloric acids. The dolo-
mites, like the limestones, are sedimentary rocks, though it is doubtful

Geology of Canada, 1863.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 975

if the original sediments contained sufficient magnesium carbonate to
constitute a true dolomite. They are regarded rather as having resulted
from the alteration of limestone strata by the replacement of a part
of the calcium carbonate by carbonate of magnesium.

Uses. — Aside from its use as a building material, dolomite has of late
come into use as a source of magnesia for the manufacture of highly
refractory materials for the linings of converters in the basic processes
of steel manufacture. According to a writer in the Industrial World’
the magnesia is obtained by mixing the calcined dolomite with chloride
of magnesia, whereby there is formed a soluble calcic chloride which
is readily removed by solution, leaving the insoluble magnesia behind.
According to another process the calcined dolomite is treated with
dissolved sugar, leading to the formation of sugar of lime and deposi-
tion of the magnesia; the solution of sugar of lime is then exposed to
carbonic acid gas, which separates the lime as carbonate, leaving the
sugar as refuse. Recently it has been proposed to use magnesia as a
substitute for plaster of paris for casts, ete.

The snow-white coarsely crystalline Archean dolomite commercially
known as snowflake marble, and which occurs at Pleasantville, in West-
chester County, New York (Specimen No. 30863, U.S.N.M.), is finely
ground and used as a source of carbonic acid in the manufacture of
the so-called soda and other carbonated waters. (Specimen No. 30864,
U.S.N.M.)

3. MAGNESITE.

This is a carbonate of magnesium, MgCO,, = carbon dioxide 52.4
per cent, magnesia 47.6 per cent. Usually contaminated with carbon-
ates of iron and free silica.

The following analysis will serve to show the average run of the ma-
terial, both in the crude state and after calcining:

Constituents. Styria. Greece.

Crude magnesite.

Carbonate of magnesia --.-....--.2. ccc. ence 90.0 to 96.0 94. 46
CarbouateoL mini = sessccnae eo aon ae 0.5to 2.0 4, 40
Carbonatelonaronis-—-. ooo oe sees 3.0 to 6.0] FeO 0.08
SLINGa ees ep asn he ese eae e eae cee mee eaeee 1.0 0. 52
Maneanous oxides) 0234 35s eee 0.5 | Water 0.54

Mapivesiaa. << of 3cs5 coe a5 feiss Sa eee wee 77.6 82. 46 to 95. 36
Wis sey Se Ae eee a ote ae a eee te Sek pS ae Teo 0.83 to 10.92
Alumina and ferric oxide ................... 13.0 0.56 to 3.54
Silica <2 acsea lets eeae koe sane tae eae ee 11abe 0.73 to 7.98

_ The mineral occurs rarely in the form of crystals, but is commonly
in acompact finely granular condition of white or yellowish color some-

1 June 1, 1893.
276 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

what resembling unglazed porcelain (Specimen No. 16070, from Gilroy,
California), and more rarely crystalline granular, like limestone or
dolomite (Specimen No. 48273, U.S.N.M., from Wells Island).

It is hard (3.5 to 4.5) and brittle, with a vitreous luster, and is
unacted upon by cold, but dissolves with brisk effervescence in hot
hydrochloric acid.

Localities and mode of occurrence.—Most commonly the mineral is
found in the form of irregular veins in serpentinous and other magne-
sian rocks, being a decomposition product either of the serpentine |
itself or of the original rock from which the serpentine is derived. It
is also found in granular aggregates disseminated throughout serpen-
tinous rocks. It is stated by Dana to occur associated with gypsum.

Prof. W. P. Blake has described* immense beds of very pure mag-
nesite as occurring in the foothills of the Sierra Nevadas, between Four
and Moore creeks, in what is now Tulare County. The beds are from
1 to 6 feet in thickness and are interstratified with talcose and chloritic
schists and serpentine. Mr. H. G. Hanks, who has since inspected
these deposits, reports them as existing in several hills or low moun-
tains, the mineral cropping out boldly in distinct and clearly marked
veins, varying from 2 inches to 4 feet, and of a maximum length, as
exposed, of 500 feet. In section 5, T. 15 $.,R. 24 E., Fresno County,
California, there is stated” to be a large vein ‘of the mori averaging
10 feet in width, incased in poriblende and micaceous shales. A
white marble-like crystalline granular variety has been found in the
form of drift bowlders on an island in the St. Lawrence River near the
Thousand Islands Park. (Specimen No. 48273, U.S.N.M.) According
to Canadian geologists magnesite forming rock masses occurs associ-
ated with the dolomites, serpentines, and steatites of the eastern town-
ships of Quebec. In Bolton it occurs in an enormous bed resembling
crystalline limestone inappearance. Ananalysis of this yielded: Car-
bonate of magnesia, 59.13 per cent; carbonate of iron, 8.72 per cent;
silica, 32.20 per cent. In the township of Sutton a slaty variety yielding
as high as 80 per cent of carbonate of magnesium occurs admixed with
feldepar and green chromiferous mica. In Styria the material lies in
Silurian pede’ consisting of argillaceous shales, quartzites, dolomites,
and limestones, resting upon gneiss. The extensive deposit of mag-
nesite occurring aeeoraied with Subcarboniferous limestones in the
Swiss Tyrol is yegarded by M. Koch® as due to a decomposition of
the original limestone through percolating magnesia- -bearing solutions.
Magnesia being the stronger base replaces the lime, which is carried
away in solution.

The chief localities of magnesite, native — foreign, are as fol-

1 Pacific Benivoud Ropes V, p. 808
2Tenth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1890, p. 185.
3 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft, XLV, Pt. 2, 1893, p. 294.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. Q77

lows: Maryland, Bare Hills, Baltimore County. New Jersey, Hobo-
ken. Massachusetts, Roxbury. New York, near Rye, Westchester
County; Warwick, Orange County; Stony Point, Rockland County;
New Rochelle, Westchester County; Serpentine Hills, Staten Island.
North Carolina, Webster, Jackson County; Hamptons, Yancey County,
MeMakins Mine, Cabarrus County. Pennsylvania, Goat Hill, West
Nottingham, Chester County; Scotts Mine, Chester County; Low’s
Chrome Mine, Lancaster County (Specimen No. 53101, U.S.N.M.).
California, Coyote Creek, near Madison Station, Southern Pacific
Railroad, Santa Clara County (Specimen No. 16070, U.S.N.M.); Gold
Run, Iowa Hill, and Damascus, Placer County; Arroyo Sero, Monterey
County; Mariposa and Tuolumne counties; Diablo Range, Alameda
County; between Four Creek and Moores Creek, near Visalia,
Tulare County (Specimen No. 63842, U.S.N.M.); Alameda County;
Napa County (Specimen No. 62594, U.S.N.M.); Millcreek, Fresno
County. Washington, Spokane County(Specimen No. 53235,U.S.N.M.).
Sutton, Quebec, lot 12, range 7; Bolton, Quebec. Regla, near Havana,
Cuba. Kongsberg, Norway. Piedmont, Italy. Bingera Diamond
Fields, New South Wales. Victoria, South Australia (Specimens Nos.
28466 and 28472, U.S.N.M.). Kosewitz and Frankenstein, Silesia.
Styria, in Austria-Hungary. Greece (Specimens Nos. 62895 and 67983,
U.S.N.M.).

Uses.—Magnesite is used in the preparation of magnesian salts
(Epsom salts, magnesia, etc.), in the manufacture of paint, paper, and
fire brick. For the last-named purpose it is said to answer admirably,
particularly where a highly refractive material is needed, as in the
so-called basic process of iron smelting.

Magnesia made from the carbonate [magnesite] by driving off the carbonic acid
is very refractory, if pure. It is made into any shape that is required, and is one of
-the most refractory of substances. It was formerly very difficult to get the carbon-
ate of magnesia, but large quantities of it have been found on the island of Eubcea,
so that it can now be had for $15 to $25 per ton, instead of $60 to $70 as formerly.
It ean be calcined at a less cost than ordinary lime, losing half of its weight, so that if
calcined before it is transported the cost may be still further reduced. It containsa
little lime, silicates of iron, and some serpentine and silica. After calcination, the
serpentine and silica can be separated, as it is easily crushed, but the most of the
work can be done by hand-picking beforehand. Before moulding, it must be sub-
mitted to about the temperature it is to undergo in the furnace, otherwise it would
contract. It is then mixed with a certain portion of less calcined material, which is
one-sixth for steel fusion, and 10 to 15 per cent. water by weight, and pressed in iron
moulds. If for any reason—either because there was too much or too little water, or
because the material was not properly mixed, or contains silica—the crucible is not
strong enough, it has only to be dipped in water, which has been saturated with
boracic acid, and then heated.!

Twenty or more years ago the mineral was mined from serpentinous

1T. Egleston, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, IV,
1876, p. 261.
278 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

rocks in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, by McKim, Sines and Com-
pany, of Baltimore, by whom it was used for the manufacture of
Epsom salts (sulphate of magnesia).

Although it is said' that these gentlemen made a pure salt at less
price than it could be imported, and thereby excluded the foreign
material almost exclusively, the mines are now wholly abandoned.
Isaac Tyson & Co., of this same city, also operated mines in Lan-
caster County.

Early in the fall of 1886 a small force of men was set to work on the deposits of
magnesite discovered on Cedar mountain, Alameda county, California. Since that
time several carloads of the mineral have been gotten out and shipped by rail to
New York, these deposits being only a few miles from the line of the Central Pacific
Railroad. The mineral occurs here in a decomposed serpentine rock and in a yellow
clay in which are embedded large bowlders. It lies in pockets and small veins, the
latter running in every direction. The richest spots are found under the bowlders,
where the mineral is quite pure. A machine is used to sift out the small stones from
the powdered magnesite, a good deal of which is met with. A number of veins of
this mineral has been exposed by the occurrence of landslides on the side of the
mountain where they are situated; only a few of them, however, contain good
mineral, nor is there any certainty as to how long these will last. The claims are
being opened by tunnels, of which two have been started. The process of gathering
this mineral is slow, as every piece has to be cleaned by hand and the whole has to
be carefully assorted according to purity. Having been divided into three classes, it
is put up in sacks weighing from 80 to 100 poundseach. This sacking is preliminary
not only to shipping but to getting it down from the mountains, which can be done
only on the backs of animals. While carbonate of magnesia occurs at a great many
places in California and elsewhere on the Pacific coast, the above is the only deposit
of this mineral that is being worked. An artificial article of this kind is obtained as
a by-product in the manufacture of salt by the Union Pacific Salt Company of
California.’

Th. Schlossing has proposed * to utilize magnesian hydrate obtained
by precipitation from sea water by lime, for the preparation of fire
brick, the hydrate being first dehydrated by calcination at a white
heat, after which it is made up into brick form.

According to the Industrial World* magnesite as a substitute for
barite in the manufacture of paint is likely to prove of importance.
The color, weight, and opacity of powder add to its value for this
purpose. In Europe it is stated the material is used as an adulterant
for the cheaper grades of soap.

Prices.—During 1892 the material, 96 to 98 per cent pure, was quoted
as worth $9 to $15 a ton in New York City. Material containing as
high as 15 to 80 per cent silica and 8 to 10 per cent of iron is said to
be practically worthless. In 1899 crude California magnesite was quoted
as worth $3 a ton at the mines.

‘Report C. C. C. Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, p. 178.
* Mineral Resources of the United States, 1886, p. 696.

3Comptes Rendus, 1885, p. 137.

“Industrial World, XX XVI, No. 20, 1891.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 279

4. WITHERITE.

This is a carbonate of barium of the formula BaCO,,= baryta
77.7 per cent, carbon dioxide 22.3 per cent. Color, white to yellow
or gray, streak white; translucent. Hardness, 3 to 3.75;° specific
eravity, 4.29 to 4.35. When crystallized, usually in form of hexagonal
prisms, with faces rough and longitudinally str iated. Common in
globular and botryoidal forms, amorphous, columnar, or granular in
structure. The powdered mineral dissolves readily in hydrochloric
acid, like calcite, but is easily distinguished from this mineral by its
great weight and increased hardness, as well as by its vitreous luster
and lack of rhomboidal cleavage, which is so pronounced a feature in
calcite. From barite, the sulphate of barium, with which it might
become confused on account of its high specific gravity, it is readily
disting uished by its solubility in acids as above noted. From stronti-
anite it can be distinguished by the green color it imparts to the
blowpipe flame.

Localities and mode of occurrence.—The mineral occurs apparently
altogether as a secondary product filling veins and clefts in older rocks
and often forming a portion of the gangue material of metalliferous
deposits. The principal localities as given by Dana are Alston Moor,
Cumberland (Specimen No. 67923, U.S.N.M.), where it is associated
with galena. In large quantities at Fallowfield near Hexam in North-
umberland; at Anglezarke in Lancashire; at Arkendale in Yorkshire,
and near St. Asaph in Flintshire, England. Tarnowitz, Silesia;
Szlana, Hungary; Leogang in Salzburg; the mine of Arqueros near
Coquimbo, Chile; L. Etang Island; near Lexington, Kentucky, and
in a silver-bearing vein near Rabbit Mountain, Thunder Bay, Lake
Superior.

Uses.—The mineral has been used to but a slight extent in the arts.
As a substitute for lime it has met with a limited application in mak-
ing plate glass, and is also said to have been used in the manufacture
of beet sugar, but is now being superseded by magnesite.

5. STRONTIANITE.

This is a carbonate of strontium, SrCO,,=Carbon dioxide 29.9
per cent; strontia 70.1 per cent. Often impure through the presence
of carbonates and sulphates of barium and calcium. Colors, white to
gray, pale green, and yellowish. Hardness 3.5 to 4. Specific gravity
3.6 to 3.7. Transparent to translucent. When crystallized often in
acute spear-shaped forms. Also in granular, fibrous, and columnar
globular forms. Soluble like calcite in hydrochloric acid, with effer-
vescence, but readily distinguished by its cleavage and greater density.
The powdered mineral when moistened with hydrochloric acid and
held on a platinum wire in the flame of a lamp imparts to the flame a
very characteristic red color.
280 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Occurrence.—According to Dana the mineral occurs at Strontian in
Argyllshire, in veins traversing gneiss, along with galena and barite;
in Yorkshire, England; at the Giants Causeway, Ireland; Clausthal, in
the Harz; Briiunsdorf, Saxony; Leogang, in Salzburg; near Brix-
lege, Tyrol; near Hamm and Minster, Westphalia. In the United
States, at Schoharie, New York, in the form of granular and columnar
masses and also in crystals, forming nests and geodes in the hydraulic
limestone; at Clinton, Oneida County; Chaumont Bay and Theresa,
Jefferson County; and Mifflin County, Pennsylvania.

Uses.—Strontianite, so far as the writer has information, has but a
limited application in the arts. It is stated’ that ‘* basic bricks” are
prepared from it by mixing the raw or burnt strontianite with clay or
argillaceous ironstone in such proportions that the brick shall contain
about 10 per cent of silica, and then working into a plastic mass with
tar or some heavy hydrocarbon. After molding, the bricks are
dusted with fine clay or ironstone, dried, and burned. The effect of
the dusting is to form a glaze on the surface, which protects the brick
from the moisture of the air. Like celestite, it is also used in the pro-
duction of the red fire of fireworks. The demand for the material is
small, and the price but from $2.50 to $4 a ton.

6. RHODOCHROSITE; DIALOGITE.

This is a pure manganese carbonate of the formula MnCO,,=carbon
dioxide, 38.3 per cent; manganese protoxide, 61.7 per cent. The color
is much like that of rhodonite (see p. 314), from which, however, it
is readily distinguishable by its rhombohedral form, inferior hard-
ness (3.5 to 4.5), and property of dissolving with effervescence in hot
hydrochloric acid, while rhodonite is scarcely at all attacked. The
mineral is a common constituent of the gangue of gold and silver
ores, as at Butte, Montana; Austin, Nevada, etc. (Specimen No. 26745,
U.S.N.M.) So far as known the mineral has as yet no commercial
value.

7. NATRON, THE NITRUM OF THE ANCIENTS.

This is a hydrous sodium carbonate; Na,CO,+-10H,O,=carbon
dioxide, 15.4 per cent; soda, 21.7 per cent; water, 62.9 per cent.
Occurs in nature, according to Dana, only in solution, as in the soda
lakes.of Egypt and elsewhere, or mixed with other sodium carbonates.
The artificially crystallized material is of white color when pure, soft
and _ brittle, and with an alkaline taste. Crystals, thin, tabular,
monoclinic. Thermonatrite, also a hydrous sodium carbonate of the
formula Na,CO,+ H,O=carbon dioxide, 35.5 per cent; soda, 50 per cent,
and water 14.5 per cent, occurs under similar conditions, and is con-
sidered as derived from natron as a product of efflorescence. (See
further under Sodium sulphates, p. 405.)

1 Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, III, 1884, p. 33.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 981

8. Trona; URao.

This is a hydrous sodium carbonate, corresponding to the formula
Na,CO,.HNaCO,+2H,0,=carbon dioxide, 38.9 per cent; soda, 41.2
per cent; water, 19.9 per cent.

Found in nature as an efflorescence or incrustation from the evapo-
‘ation of lakes, particularly those of arid regions. W. P. Blake has
recently described! crude carbonate of soda (Trona) occurring in the
central portion of a basin-shaped depression or dry lake in southern
Arizona, near the head of the Gulf of California. The deposit covers
an area of some 60 acres to a depth of from 1 to 3 feet, the lower
portion being saturated with water from a solution so strong that
when exposed to the air soda is deposited at the rate of an inch in
thickness for every ten days. In its native condition the soda is
naturally somewhat impure, from silt blown in from the surrounding
land. The analysis given below shows the general average:

Sarde sultmete meet eee. 2 Soesac ete = eae 13. 00
Tronsoxides and aluminas ssses---e 2-2 ae = 2. 80
L Brin oe) goers eee ie cen wed Soe eo ets ae Se ae 1.14
Salt (NAG hte) SB seo rzac ches oe 4,70
DUP Mae OL SOddue: Heat ta. oceetee sok Be ess 4.70
@arbonalevonsod areas se eee ne eee eee 723. 66

100. 00

See further under Thernardite, p. 415.
VI. SILICATES.
1. FELDSPARS.

The name feldspar is given to a group of minerals resembling each
other in being, chemically, silicates of aluminum with varying amounts
of lime and the alkalies potash and soda. All members of the group
have in common two easy cleavages whereby they split with even,
smooth, and shining surfaces along planes inclined to one another at
angles of nearly if not quite 90°. (Specimen No. 67361, U.S.N.M.)
They vary from transparent through translucent to opaque, the opaque
form being the more frequent. In colors they range from clear and
colorless through white and all shades of gray to yellowish, pink and
red, more rarely greenish.

On prolonged exposures to the weather they become whitish and
opaque, gradually decomposing into soluble carbonates of lime and the
alkalies, and soluble silica, any one of which may be wholly or in part
removed by percolating waters, leaving behind a residual product, con-
sisting essentially of hydrous silicates of alumina, to which the names
kaclin and clay are given (see p. 325). The hardness of the feld-
spars varies from 5 to 7 of Dana’s scale; specific gravity 2.5 to 2.5.

1 Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 188.
282 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

They are fusible only with difficulty, and with the exception of the
mineral quartz are the hardest of the common light-colored minerals.
From quartz they are readily distinguished by their cleavage charac-
teristics noted above. Geologically the feldspars belong to the gneisses
and eruptive rocks of all ages, certain varieties being characteristic of
certain rocks and furnishing important data for schemes of rock classi-
fication. Nine principal varieties are recognized, which on erystallo-
graphic grounds are divided into two groups. The first, crystallizing
in the monoclinic system, including only the varieties orthoclase and
hyalophane; the second, crystallizing in the triclinic system, including
microclinic, anorthoclase, and the albite-anorthite series, albite, oligo-
clase, andesine, labradorite, and anorthite. The above-mentioned
properties are set forth in the accompanying table.

Constituents. | inse | phane. | cline, |oclase.| Abie. | Glace. | sine, |dorte:| ehite:

| |

Silica SiOs .2- =) ssee-= 64.7 51.6 64.7 66. 0 68.0 62.0} 60.0 53.0 43.0

Alumina Al.O3....--- 18. 4 21.9 18. 4 20.0 20.0 24.0 26.0 | 30.0 37.0

Potishy sO pesca secs | 16.9 | 10.1 16.9 GRUP pSeaiesal Oamectiarc eceemcae [wee cabes neem

Soda Na,O.2. 0.28. 5c JU peace |AeSeeericeel ese acase 8.0 12.0 95051) M2 8a 0M 45 0el eee

IpAaniteyBaAO!sstaa-he-<\th ene ens UE eR eS bnel lc ogni6e)oaces aaoal oon? ose |eedeatod Saeamcos|lssccs-ac

Time CaOecess hea Rees eas eeee trian awe | Wen am ees aces SiO S70) 1350 yee oOne

Specific gravity...-.- || 254-976: 2.8 | 2.4-2.6 |2.0-5.8 | 2.5-2.6 |2.56-2.7 |2.6-2.7 |2.6-2.7 | 2.6-2.8

Faraness| 2-5. aseene 6. 0-6. 5 | 6.0-6.5 | 6.0-6.5 |..-..... 6.0-7.0 | 6.0-7.0 |5. 0-6.0 6.0 | 6.0-7.0
Se eee

Crystalline system. . ; Monoclinic. Triclinic.

Of the above those which most concern us here are the potash feld-
spars orthoclase and microcline, two varieties which for our purposes
are esssentially identical, both as regards composition and general
physical properties as well as mode of occurrence. Indeed, although
crystallizing in different systems they are as a rule indistinguishable but
by microscopic means or by careful crystallographic measurements.

Occurrence.—The feldspars are common and abundant constituents
of the acid rocks—such as the granites, gneisses, syenites—the ortho-
clase and quartzose porphyries, and the tertiary and modern lavas—
such as trachyte, phonolite, and the liparites.

Among the older rocks they not infrequently occur in large veins or
dike-like masses of coarse pegmatitic crystallization, the individual
crystals being in some cases a foot or more in diameter. The asso-
ciated minerals are quartz and white mica, with beryl, tourmaline,
garnet, and a great variety of rarer minerals. The ordinary white
mica of commerce comes from deposits of this nature and often the
two minerals are mined contemporaneously. Such of our feldspars as
have yet been worked for economic purposes occur associated only
with the older rocks—the granites and gneisses of the Archean and
Lower Paleozoic formations.

Near Topsham, Maine, is one of these pegmatitic veins, running
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 283

parallel with the strike of the gneissoid schists in which it lies, i. e.
northeast and southwest. The vein material is quartz, feldspar, and
mica. The quarry, as described by R. L. Packard, is in the form of an
open cut in the hillside, being some 300 feet long by 100 feet wide,
and of very irregular contours. The present floor and the sides of the
cut are of feldspar (Specimen No. 61086, U.S.N.M.), containing irreg-
ular bodies of quartz and mica, the first named occurring in large masses
entirely free from other minerals, though a second grade is taken
out which is in reality an intimate mixture of quartz and feldspar.

The quartz occurs, besides as mentioned above, in the form of irreg-
ular bodies, sometimes 6 or 8 feet across and 15 feet or more long. It
also occurs in cavities, or geodes, in the form of flattened crystals
(Specimen No. 61085, U.S.N.M.). The mica is here of little economic
importance, being found in the mass of the feldspar and along the seams
in the form of narrow, lanceolate masses, often arranged in small radi-
ating conical forms with their apexes outward.

The principal feldspar quarries thus far worked are in the Eastern
United States, from Maine to New Jersey. The material is mined from
open cuts, being blasted out with powder and separated from adhering
quartz, mica, and other minerals by hand, after which it is shipped in
the rough to the potteries, or in some cases ground and bolted in the
near vicinity. In Connecticut the material has in times past been
ground by huge granite disks mounted like the wheels of a cart on an
axle through the center of which extended a vertical shaft. By the
slow revolution of this shaft the wheels traveled around in a limited
circle over a large horizontal granite slab. The pieces of spar being
placed upon the horizontal slab were thus slowly ground to powder,
after which it was bolted and sacked. The modern method of pulver-
izing is by means of the so-called ‘‘Cyclone” crusher. The value of
the uncrushed material delivered at the potteries is but a few dollars
aton. Hence, while there are unlimited quantities of the material in
different parts of the Appalachian region, but few are so situated as
to be profitably worked. ,

Uses.—The feldspars are used mainly for pottery, being mixed in
a finely pulverized condition with the kaolin or clay. When subjected
to a high temperature the feldspar fuses, forming a glaze and at the
same time a cementing constituent. There are other substances more
readily fusible which are utilized for this purpose in the cheaper kinds
of ware, but it is stated that in the highest grades of porcelain, as
those of Sevres, feldspar is the material used. The proportions used
vary with different manufacturers, each having adopted a formula best
adapted for his own workings.

2. Mrcas.

Under this head are comprised a number of distinct mineral species,
alike in crystallizing in the monoclinic system and having a highly
284 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

perfect basal cleavage, whereby they split readily into thin, trans-
lucent to transparent, more or less elastic sheets. Chemically they
are in most cases orthosilicates of aluminum with potassium and
hydrogen, and in some varieties magnesium, ferrous, and ferric iron,
sodium, lithium, and more rarely barium, manganese, titanium, and
chromium. Seven species of mica are commonly recognized, of which
but three have any commercial value, though a fourth form, lepidolite,
may perhaps be utilized as a source of lithia salts. Of these three
forms, the white mica, muscovite, and the pearl gray, phlogopite, are
of greatest importance, the black variety, biotite, being but little used.
Muscovite, or potassium mica, is essentially a silicate of aluminum
and potassium, with small amounts of iron, soda, magnesia, and water.
Its color is white to colorless, often tinted with brown, green, and violet
shades. When crystallized it takes on hexagonal or diamond-shaped
forms, as do also phlogopite and biotite as shown in samples (Speci-
mens Nos. 62377 and 30763, U.S.N.M.). Its industrial value lies in its
great power of resistance to heat and acids, its transparency, and its
wonderful fissile property, in virtue of which it may be split into
extremely thin, flexible sheets. It has been stated, though I know
not how correctly, that sheets but one two hundred and fifty thou-
sandths (1/250000) of an inch in thickness have been obtained. Phlog-
opite, or magnesian mica, differs from muscovite in being of a darker,
deep pearl gray, sometimes smoky, often yellowish, brownish red, or
greenish color. Biotite, or magnesia iron mica, differs in being often
deep, almost coal black and opaque in thick masses, though trans-
lucent and of a dark brown, yellow, green, or red color in thin folia.
It further differs from the preceding in that its folia are less elastic,
and the sheets of smaller size. Lepidolite, a lithia mica, is much more
rare than either of the above, is of a pale rose or pink color, folia
usually of small size, commonly occurring in scaly granular forms
without crystal outlines. The following table will serve to show the
varying composition of the four varieties mentioned:

]
Variety. SiO, | AlsOs | Fe.0, | FeO | MgO | CaO | K,O0 | NaO| F H,O
|e | Jess |_ Mr |

Muscovite......-..- 45.71 | 36.57 |- 1.19} 2.07% |) Ov7} > 0.465) 99.225) 0-79) 0.2: 4, 83
| 44,48 | 35.70| 1.09] 1.07|Trace.| 0.10] 9.77] 2.41] 0.72 5.50
| 45.40 | SEW Allie PEE beisSoeoc igs al les Ae 8.33 | 1.41] 0.69 5.46
Phlogopite .....---- | 39.66 | 17.00/ 0.27) 0.20] 2649'}7..7.-.. 9.97| 0.60] 2.24 2.99
AS 00) el B027) | epee (il eee D7 ETOR seers 10.32| 0.30] 5.67 0.78
| 40.64) 14.11 | 9.084) <0.600) (yi Gyei scene ae 8.16 ||), onload 82 3.21
TSUN) aoaaaseedes | 44.94." 31.690) Al75)) 98°90) |seeee el eeeee 8.00| 0.59] 0.98 3.85
| $4.67.) 30,097) | © 2.42)) 16-90" | I BSa eee cere 7:55 | 1.57) 10:28 4. 64
39.30 | 16.95] 0.48] 8.45] 21.89] 0.82] 7.79] 0.49) 0.89 4. 02
| 40.16.|° 45:79 |. 9.58): 4991) asios|eoeereee GiGAil 0. Sitaleeeees 3.58
Lepidolite.......... | 20:80: «281901 sz 2-<.| Ase 5.08 LisO 127340 | eee 5.15 2.36
| 49.62 | 27.30} 0.31) 0.07] 4.34 LisO Teenie) || ale BCE: 1.52

| i

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 285

Although the basal cleavage which permits of the ready splitting of
the mica into thin sheets is the only one sufticiently developed to be
of economic importance, the mica as found is often traversed by sharp
lines of separation, called gliding planes, which may, by their abun-
dance, be disastrous to the interests of the miner. Such partings, or
gliding planes, supposed to be induced by pressure, are developed at
angles of about 663° with the cleavage, and may cut entirely through
a block or extend inward from the margin only a short distance and
come to an abrupt stop. In many cases the mica is divided up into
long narrow strips, from the breadth of a line to several inches in
thickness, with sides parallel, and as sharply cut as though done with
shears. (Specimens Nos. 62517, 63134, U.S.N.M.)

The imperfections in mica are due to inclosures of foreign minerals,
as flattened garnets, to the presence of free iron oxides, often with a
most beautiful dendritic structure, to the partings or gliding planes
noted above, and to crumplings and V-like striations which destroy its
homogenity. (Specimens Nos. 63139, 44450, U.S.N.M.)

Oceurrence.—Mica in quantity and sizes to be of economic impor-
tance is found only among the older rocks of the earth’s crust, par-
ticularly those of the granite and gneissoid groups. Muscovite and
biotite are among the commonest constituents of siliceous rocks of all
kinds and ages, while phlogopite is more characteristic of calcareous
rocks. It is, however, only when developed in crystals of consider-
able size in pegmatitic and coarsely feldspathic veins, or, in the case
of phlogopite, in gneissic and calcareous rocks associated with erup-
tive pyroxenites, that it becomes available for economic purposes.
The associated minerals are almost too numerous to mention. The
more common for muscovite are quartz and potash feldspar, which
form the chief gangue materials in crystals and crystalline masses,
sometimes a foot or more in diameter. With these are almost inva-
riably associated garnets, beryls, and tourmalines, with more rarely
cassiterite, columbite, apatite, fluorite, topaz, spodumene, ete. In-
deed, so abundant are, at times, the accessory minerals in the granitic
veins, and so perfect their crystalline development, that they furnish
by far the richest collecting grounds for the mineralogists. Of these
minerals the quartz and feldspars are not infrequently contemporane-
ously with the mica and utilized in the manufacture of pottery and
abrasives.

The origin of these pegmatitic veins is a matter of considerable
doubt. The finer grained pegmatites are, in certain cases, undoubted
intrusives, though to some authorities it seems scarcely possible that
the extremely coarse aggregates of quartz, feldspar, and mica, with
large garnets, beryls, and tourmalines, can be a direct result of cooling
from an igneous magma. To such it seems more probable that they
are portions of an original rock mass altered by exhalations of fluor-

286 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

hydric acids, like the Saxon ‘‘greisen.” Others regard them as
resulting from the very slow cooling of granitic material injected in a
pasty condition, brought about by aqueo-igneous agencies, into rifts of
the preexisting rocks. It must be remembered that the high degree
of dynamic metamorphism which these older rocks have undergone
render the problems relating to their origin extremely difficult.

Localities. —From what has been said regarding occurrences, it is
evident that mica deposits are to be looked for only in regions occupied
by the older crystalline rocks. In the United States, therefore, we
need only look for them in the States bordering immediately along
the Appalachian range and in the Granitic areas west of the front
range of the Rocky Mountains.’ In the Appalachian region south of
Canada mica mines, worked either for mica alone or for quartz and
feldspar in addition, have from time to time been opened in various
parts of Maine, New Hampshire, Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia,
North Carolina, and perhaps other States, but in none of them, with
the exception of New Hampshire and North Carolina, has the business
proven sufficiently lucrative to warrant continuous and systematic
working. Indeed, were it not for the increased demand lately arising
for the use of mica in electrical machines it is doubtful if any but
the most favorably situated mines would remain longer in operation
in the United States. This for the reason not so much that foreign
mica is better as that it is cheaper.

In Maine muscovite has been mined in an intermittent manner along
with quartz and feldspar at the well-known mineral localities at Paris
Hill and Rumford, Oxford County; Auburn, Androscoggin County;
Topsham, Sagadahoc County; Edgecomb, Lincoln County, and other
counties in the southeastern part of the State. In New Hampshire
the industry has assumed greater importance. The mica-bearing belt
is described by Prof. C. H. Hitchcock as usually about 2 miles in width,
and extending from Easton, in Grafton County, to Surry, in Cheshire
County; being best developed about the towns of Rumney and He-
bron. The mica occurs in immense coarse granite veins in a fibrolitic
mica schist (Specimen No. 63029, U.S.N.M.) of Montalban age, and is
found in sheets sometimes a yard in length, but the more common sizes
are but 10 or 12 inches in length. Immense beryls, sometimes a yard in
diameter, and beautiful iarge tourmalines occur among the accessory
minerals. Mines for mica were opened at Grafton as early as 1840, and
as Many as six or eight mines have been worked at one time, though
by no means continually. Other mines have been worked in Groton,
Alexandria, Grafton, and Alstead, in Grafton Country; Acworth
and Springfield, Sullivan County; Marlboro, Cheshire County; New
Hampton, Belknap County, and Wilmot, Merrimack County, though
only those of Groton are in operation at date of writing (1894).

' The region of the Black Hills of South Dakota is an important exception,
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 287

As seen by the writer, the veins at the latter place cut sharply across the fibrolitic
schist, and though the vein mateérials adhere closely to the wall rock on either side,
without either selvage or slickensides, still the line of demarcation is perfectly sharp.
There seems no room for doubt but that the vein material was derived by injection
from below, though from their extremely irregular and universally coarsely crystal-
line condition we must infer that the condition of the injected magma was more in
the nature of solution than fusion, as the word is ordinarily used, and also that the
rate of cooling and consequent crystallization was very slow. The feldspars not infre-
quently occur in huge crystalline masses several feet in diameter, though sometimes
more finely intererystallized with quartz in the form known as pegmatite. [Specimen
No. 62519, U.S.N.M.] The mica is by no means disseminated uniformly throughout
the vein, but on the contrary is very sporadic, and the process of mining consists merely
in following up the mineral wherever indications as shown in the face of the quarry
are sufficiently promising. Most of the minesare in the form of open cuts and trenches,
though in a few instances underground cuts have been made for a distance of a hun-
dred feet or more. The mica blocks as removed are of a beautifully smoky-brown
color, and often show a distinct zonal structure, indicating several periods of growth.
The associated feldspar is not in all cases orthoclase, but, as at the Alexandria mines,
sometimes a faintly greenish triclinic variety.

Samples of the New Hampshire micas, with the accompanying
gangue and wall rocks, are shown in Specimens Nos. 62515 to 62519
and 63028 to 63030, U.S.N.M.

In Connecticut some mica (muscovite) has been obtained in connec-
tion with the work of mining feldspar and quartz in and about the
towns of Haddam, Glastonbury, and Middletown, but the business has
never assumed any importance. Mica mines have also been worked
in Montgomery County, Maryland. South of the glacial limit mica
mining has proven more successful from the reason that the gangue
minerals (feldspar and quartz) were ina state of less compact aggre-
gation, due to weathering, the feldspar being often reduced to the
state of kaolin, and hence readily removed by pick and shovel. The
following account of the deposits of North Carolina is given by Prof.

W.C. Kerr:'

I have stated elsewhere, several years ago, that these veins were wrought on a
large scale and for many ages by some ancient peoples, most probably the so-called
Mound Builders; although they built no mounds here, and have left no signs of any
permanent habitation. They opened and worked a great many veins down to or
near water-level; that is, as far as the action of atmospheric chemistry had softened
the rock so thatit was workable without metal tools, of the use of which no signs are
apparent. Many of the largest and most profitable of the mines of the present day are
simply the ancient Mound Builders’ mines reopened and pushed into the hard unde-
composed granite by powder and steel. Blocks of mica have often been found half
imbedded in the face of the vein, with the tool-marks about it, showing the exact
limit of the efficiency of those prehistoric raechanical appliances. As to the geolog-
ical relations of these veins, they are found in the gneisses and schists of the
Archean horizons. * * * These rocks are of very extensive occurrence in
North Carolina, constituting in fact the great body of the roeks throughout the

. whole length of the State,—some 400 miles east and west,—being partially covered

1Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, VIII, 1880, p. 457.
288 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

up, and interrupted here and there by belts of later formation. Mica veins are found
here, in fact may be said to char-
acterize this horizon everywhere,
from its eastern outcrop, near the
seaboard, to and quite under the
flanks of the Smoky Mountains. It
is, however, in the great plateau of
the west, between the Blue Ridge
and the Smoky, that the mica veins
reach their greatest development,
and have given rise to a very new
and profitable industry,—new and
at the same time very old.

It may be stated as a very gen-
eral, almost universal, fact, that the
mica vein is a bedded vein. Its
position (as to strike and dip) is
dependent on and controlled by,
and quite nearly conformable to,
that of the rocks in which it occurs,
and hence, as well as on account of
their great size, some observers,
accustomed to the study of veins

!
in
——

TM

_

cient to remove all doubt on this
score. Themica vein is simply and
always a dike of very coarse granite.
It is of any size and shape, from a
few inches—generally a few feet—
to many rods (in some cases several
hundred feet) in thickness, and in
length from a few rods to many
hundred yards, extending in some
cases to half a mile or more. The
strike, like that of the inclosing
rocks, is generally northeast, and
the dip southeast, at a pretty high
angle; but they are subject, in these
respects, to many and great local
variations, all the conditions being
occasionally changed, or even re-
versed. An idea may be formed of
the coarseness of these veins from
this statement, that the masses of
cleavable feldspar and of quartz
(limpid, pale yellow, brown, or,
more generally, slightly smoky),
and of mica, are often found to measure several yards in two or three of their dimen-
sions, and weighing several tons. I have a feldspar crystal from one of these mines

———
————

= | _ and dikes and the characters of
VWs \ 5 intrusive rocks in other regions,
i ce have been disposed to question the
| = = sb % . vein character of these masses at
| = | SS ie a first. Buta good exposure of a sin-
=! IN 2 gie one of them is generally suffi-
=| ill
a) 1
=

————

——
r

2WSS=
se
————

ss
—

= ~\e
ig

SRCTION OF MICA VEINS IN YANCEY COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA,

——

——— SS

—

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 289

of nearly a thousand pounds weight, and I have known a single block of mica to
make two full two-horse wagon-loads, and sheets of mica are sometimes obtained
that measure three and four feet in diameter.

There are many peculiarities about these veins. Among the most important, in a
practical sense, is the arrangement of the different constituents of the vein inter se,
Sometimes the mica, for example, will be found hugging the hanging-wall; some-
times it is found against both walls; again it may be distributed pretty equally
through the whole mass of the vein; sometimes, again, it will be found collected in
the middle of the vein; in other cases, where the vein varies in thickness along
its course, the mica will be found in bunches in the ampullations, or bellies, of the
vein; in still other cases, where the vein has many vertical embranchments, the
mica will be found accumulated in nests along the upper faces of these processes or
offshoots. Those features of structure will be best understood from a few repre-
sentative diagrams.

Figure 9 is a horizontal section, with several transverse vertical sections, of a typ-
ical vein in Yancey County, at the Presnel Mine. The length of the section, i. e.,
of the portion of the vein that has been stripped, is 125 feet; the thickness varies from
3 to 10 feet, except at a few points, as b c where it is nearly 20 feet.

The crystals of mica are found in this mine generally near the foot wall, in the
recesses or pouches; at c, however, as seen in section D, it is found next the hanging-
wall.

The inclosing rock in this case is a hard, gray slaty to schistose gneiss. * * *

The feldspar, which constitutes the larger part of the mass of these veins, is often
found converted into beds of the finest kaolin; and, curiously enough, this was one
of the first and most valuable exports to England in the early part of the seventeenth
century, ‘‘packed’’ by the Indians out of the Unaka (Smoky) Mountains, and sold
under the name ‘“‘unakeh’”’ (white). This kaolin, like the mica, will doubtless soon
come again into demand, after lying forgotten for generations.

Characteristic samples of the micas of the region are shown in
Specimens Nos. 18205, 18207, 62962, and 62964, U.S.N.M.

In Alabama, along a line stretching from Chilton County, north-
east, through Coosa, Clay, and Cleburne counties, there are numer-
ous evidences of prehistoric mica mining. Many pits are met with
around which pieces of mica are still to be seen. In some places, just
as in Mitchell County, North Carolina, large pine trees have grown
up on the débris, so that a considerable time must have elapsed since
the mines were worked. About ten years ago, Col. James George, of
Clanton, Chilton County, prospected for mica, and some fairly good
specimens were obtained, but the investigations were not continued.
It is not thought that any mica has been marketed from Alabama.
The indications of good mica along the line mentioned are, however,
sufficient to warrant additional and more extended examinations. Lit-
tle mica is reported from other Southern States, though some mines
have been opened in South Carolina, Georgia (Specimens Nos. 63139 to
63141, U.S.N.M.), Virginia, and West Virginia. In 1881, a mica mine
was opened in Anderson County, South Carolina, and some miners from
Mitchell County, North Carolina, employed. The enterprise was not
successful, and the miners returned home shortly afterwards. Good
mica has been found in South Carolina, notably in Anderson, Oconee,

_and Pickens counties. The mica-bearing rocks of western North Caro-
NAT MUS 99——19
290 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

lina do not protrude into Tennessee, except at intervals, and then
only for short distances. Some prospecting has been done in Tennes-
see near Roan Mountain, but the results were not considered satis-
factory.’

In Colorado mica has long been known to be widely disseminated
and to occur in many places in bodies of workable size, but mining has
until lately always proved the mica to be ** plumose” and unfit for cut-
ting into sheets. Many mines have been located, but the product has
always proved worthless, until in the summer of 1884 the Denver Mica
Company opened a mine near Turkey Creek, about 35 miles from Den-
ver. This mica is of fair quality, and quite a considerable quantity of
it has been mined. It is slightly brown and the largest plates which
have yet been cut are not more than 2 by 6 inches in size. Only an
extremely small percentage of the gross weight is available for cutting
into sheets. An effort is being made to put it upon the market, and
at present four workmen are employed in trimming the sheets. Mica
of good quality and in large plates has also been recently reported
from the neighborhood of Fort Collins.

In Wyoming, mica has been found in workable quantities near Dia-
mond Park and in the Wind River country, as well as at many points
along the mountain ranges in Laramie County. It has recently been
mined to some extent at Whalen cafion, 20 miles north of Fort Lara-
mie, and some of the product has been shipped to the Eastern market.

In New Mexico mica occurs near Las Vegas, and reports of ship-
ments have been published. At Petaca, the Cribbenville mica mines
are being worked at present by sixteen men. Work was commenced
at these mines July 2, 1884, and the amount of excavation at present
is 13,160 cubic feet. The plates cut range from 2 by 2 inches to 5 by
8 inches in size. Some specimen plates have been cut 10 by 12 inches,
but the general average is about 34 by 43 inches. Some 12 tons of
mica have been handled, but the amount sold and the average price
obtained are not reported. Other localities in New Mexico also yield
mica, but none have been developed, except the two above mentioned.
(Specimen No. 61335, U.S.N.M.).

In California many deposits of mica have been noted, especially at
Gold lake, Plumas county; in Eldorado county; Ivanpah district, San
Bernardino county; near Susanville, Lassen county, and at Tehachapi
pass, Kern county. In 1883 a large deposit was discovered in the
Salmon mountains, in the northwestern part of the State, and some
prospecting was done.”

The mica-bearing deposits of the Black Hills of South Dakota heve
been variously regarded by different observers as intrusive granites
or true segregation veins lying parallel to the apparent bedding. New-

1Mineral Resources of the United States, 1887, p. 671.
2Idem, 1883-84, p. 911,
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 99]

ton and Jenny,' Blake,’ and Vincent regard them as intrusive, while
Carpenter® and Crosby‘ hold the opposite view.

According to Blake the mica occurs in granitic masses, remarkable
for the coarseness of their crystallization, the constituent minerals
being usually large and separately segregated. ‘* Large masses of pure
quartz are found in one place and masses of feldspar in another, and
the mica is often accumulated together instead of being regularly dis-
seminated through the mass. It also occurs in large masses or crys-
tals, affording sheets broad enough for cutting into commercial sizes.”
Associated with the mica at this point are the minerals quartz and
feldspar, mainly a lamellar albite (Clevelandite), which form the gangue,
and irregularly disseminated cassiterite (tinstone), gigantic spodumenes,
black tourmalines, and, in small quantities, block mica, beryls, garnets,
columbite, and a variety of phosphatic minerals, such as apatite, tri-
phylite, ete.

In Nevada mines have been worked in the St. Thomas mining dis-
trict, Lincoln County, the mica occurring in hard, glassy quartz rock
forming an outcrop some 200 feet wide by 600 feet long in gneiss and
schists. At the Czarina Mine, located in May, 1891, near Rioville, the
mica occurs under similar conditions. The mineral seems to follow
the division plane of the stratification, along the line or axis of fold.
This line runs north and south, slightly east of north of the main trend
of the range, thus running into Arizona a few miles north of Rioville.
In fact, the mica belt forms the boundary line between Nevada and
Arizona for 50 miles The mica, mostly small, is abundant, but mar-
ketable sizes are rare, and not to be had without a great deal of hard
work.’

Merchantable mica has been reported on the Payette River and Bear
Creek, in the Coeur d’Alene region of Idaho, and also in Oregon and
Alaska.

According to Mr. R. W. Ells® the Canadian micas of commercial
importance occur associated with eruptive dikes of pyroxenite and
pegmatite cutting the Laurentian gneisses. More rarely, as in the
Gatineau area, they are found where dikes of the pyroxenite cut the
limestone. This authority gives the condition of occurrence as below:

1. In pyroxene intrusive rocks which either cut directly across the strike of grey-
ish or other colored gneisses or are intruded along the line of stratification. Some
of these deposits have been worked downward along the contact with the gneiss,

where the mica is most generally found, for 250 feet, as at the Lake Girard Mine, and
irregular masses of pink calcite are abundant. In certain places apatite crystals

1 Geology of the Black Hills of Dakota, Monograph, U.S. Geological Survey, 1880.
* Engineering and Mining Journal, XX XVI, 1885, p. 145.

* Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X VII, 1889, p. 570.

* Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, X XIII, 1884-1888, p. 488.

> Mineral Resources of the United States, 1893, p. 754.

* Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, V, 1894, p. 484. '
292 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

oecur associated with the mica, but at other times these are apparently wanting.
As in the case of apatite deposits, mica occurring in this condition would apparently
be found at almost any workable depth.

2. In pyroxene rocks near the contact of cross-dikes of diorite or feldspar, the
action of which on the pyroxene has led to the formation of both mica and apatite.
Numerous instances of this mode of occurrence are found, both in the mines of
apatite and mica, the deposits of the latter in certain areas being quite extensive
and the crystals of large size.

3. In pyroxene rock itself distinct from the contact with the gneiss. In these
cases the mica crystals, often of large size but frequently crushed or broken, appar-
ently follow certain lines of faults or fracture. Some of these deposits can be traced
for several yards, but for the most part are pockety. Some of these pyroxene masses
are very extensive, as in the case of the Cascade mine on the Gatineau river and —
elsewhere in the vicinity. In these cases calcite is rarely seen and apatite is almost -
entirely absent. When cut by cross-dikes conditions for the occurrence of mica or
apatite should be very favorable.

4. Dikes of pyroxene, often large, cutting limestone through which subsequent
dikes of diorite or feldspar have intruded as in Hincks township. The crystals
occurring in the pyroxene near to the feldspar dikes are often of large size and of
dark color, resembling in this respect a biotite mica.

The mica found under the conditions stated above, in one, two, three, and four
is all amber-colored and of the variety known as phlogopite, or magnesia mica.
[Specimens Nos. 30763, 62149, U.S.N.M. ]

5. In feldspathic-quartzose rocks which constitute dikes often of very large size,
cutting red and greyish gneiss, as at Villeneuve and Venosta. These are distinct
from the smaller veins of pegmatite which occur frequently in the gneiss as the
anorthosite areas are approached. In this case the mica is muscovite or potash mica
and is invariably found in that portion of the dike near the contact with the gneiss.
The crystals frequently are of large size and white in color, associated with crystals
of tourmaline, garnet, et cetera, but with no apatite, unless pyroxene is also present.

6. In quartz-feldspar dikes cutting crystalline limestone, in which case the crystals
are generally of small size, mostly of dark color and of but little value.

In the case of the amber micas this peculiarity was noted that when the pyroxene
was of a light shade of greenish gray and comparatively soft, the mica was cor-
respondingly light colored and clear, and in some places almost approached the mus-
covite in general appearance. As the pyroxene became darker in color and harder
in texture, the mica assumed a correspondingly darker tint and a brittle or harder
character, and in certain cases where dikes of blackish hornblendic diorite were
present the mica also assumes a black color as well.

The chief Canadian localities, as given by the authority quoted, are
as below:

Along the Ottawa River it is found from a point nearly 100 miles west of Ottawa
to the township of Greenville, 60 miles east of that city, while on the Gatineau
River, which flows into the Ottawa at the city of Ottawa, mines have been located
and worked for 80 miles north from its mouth, and the mineral is reported from
points many miles farther north along that stream. To the east of Quebec it is
known on the branch of the Saguenay called the Manouan and in the townships of
Escoumains, Bergeronnes, and Tadoussac, situated east of the mouth of that river,
as well as at several other places along the river St. Lawrence. The mica found in
this last district is chiefly muscovite.

The principal areas where mica is at present worked are in the belt which extends
from North Burgess, in the Province of Ontario, approximately along the strike of the
gneiss, into the territory adjacent to the Gatineau and Lievre. Over much of this
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 293

area south of the Ottawa River the Laurentian is concealed by the mantle of Cambro-
Silurian rocks belonging to the Ottawa River basin, but it may be said that the geo-
logic conditions and the stratigraphic sequence in the area south of the Ottawa and
in the rear of Kingston are’the same as those found in the mineral-bearing belts
north of the Ottawa, and that the most favorable conditions under which the deposits
of mica and apatite may be looked for where traces of igneous agency are visible in
the presence of dikes of pyroxene and quartz feldspar, though it should be stated
that the mere occurrence of these in the gneiss does not warrant the presence of
either of these minerals.

The India mica mines occur in coarse intrusive pegmatitic-granite
dikes, cutting what is known as the ‘‘newer gneiss” of Singrauli. At
Inikurti the crystals (of mica) are as much as 10 feet in diameter.
Sheets 4 or 5 feet across have been obtained free from adventitious
inclusions which would spoil their commercial value.’

Black mica (biotite, lepidomelane, ete.,) is a much more common
and widely distributed variety than the white, but unlike the latter is
found not so much in veins as an original constituent disseminated in
small flakes throughout the mass of eruptive and metamorphosed
sedimentary rocks. The small sizes of the sheets, their color, and
lack of transparency render the material as a rule of little value. In
Renfrew County, Canada, the mineral occurs in large cleavable masses,
which yield beautiful smoky-black and greenish sheets sufficiently
elastic for industrial purposes (Specimens Nos. 62735, 62709, U.S.N.M.).

Lepidolite.—This variety of mica is much more rare than any of
the others described. While in a few instances it has been reported as
accompanying muscovite in certain granites, as those of Elba and
Schaistausk, its common form of occurrence is in the coarse pegmatitic
veins already described, where it is associated with muscovite, tourma-
lines, and other minerals of similar habit. As a rule it is readily distin-
guished from other micas by its beautiful peach-blossom red color,
though sometimes colorless and to be distinguished only by the lithia
reaction.” The folia are thicker than those of muscovite and of small
size, the usual form being that of a scaly granular aggregate. At Au-
burn, Maine, it is found both in this form (Specimen No. 61079,
U.S.N.M.) and forming a border a half inch, more or less, in width
about the muscovite folia (Specimen No. 13810, U.S.N.M.). The
more noted localities in the United States are Auburn, Androscoggin
County; Hebron, Paris, Rumford (Specimen No. 63003, U.S.N.M.),
and Norway, Oxford County, Maine, where it is associated with beau-
tiful red and green tourmalines and other interesting minerals; Ches-
terfield, Massachusetts; Haddam, Connecticut (Specimen No. 53540,
U.S.N.M.), and near San Diego, California (Specimen No. 62593,
U.S.N.M.). The most noted foreign locality is Zinnwald, Saxony,

Geology of India, 2d ed., 1893, p. 34.
? The pulverized mineral when moistened with hydrochloric acid and held ona
wire in the flame of a lamp imparts to the flame a brilliant lithia red color.
294 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

where the mineral occurs in large foliated masses together with quartz
forming the gangue minerals of the tin veins. Also found in Moravia
(Specimen No. 62580, U.S. N.M.).

Uses._Until within a few years almost the only commercial use of
mica was in the doors or windows of stoves and furnaces, the peep-
holes of furnaces and similar situations where transparency and resist-
ance to heat were essential qualities. To a less extent it was used in
lanterns, and it is said, in the portholes of naval vessels, where the
vibrations would demolish the less elastic glass. In early days it was
used to some extent for window panes, and is, in isolated cases, still so
used to some extent. For all these purposes the white variety musco-
vite is most suited. For use in stoves and furnaces ‘the mica is gen-
erally split into plates varying from about one-eighth to one sixty-
fourth of an inch in thickness. In preparing these plates for market
the first step is to cut them into suitable sizes. Women are frequently
employed in this work, and do it as well as, if not better, than the
men. The cutter sits on a special bench which is provided with a huge
pair of shears, one leg of which is firmly fixed to the bench itself, while
the movable leg is within convenient grasp.

The patterns according to which the mica is cut are arranged in a
case near at hand. They are made of tin, wood, or pasteboard, accord-
ing to the preference of the establishment. Generally they are simple
rectangles, varying in size from about four square inches to eighty.

The cutter selects the pattern which will cut to the best advantage,
lays it on the sheet of mica, and then, holding the two firmly together,
trims off the edges of the mica to make it correspond to the pattern.

The cleaning process comes next. The cleaner sits directly in front
of a window and must examine each sheet of cut mica by holding it up
between her eyes and the light. If there be any imperfections, and
there nearly always are, they must be removed by stripping off the
offending layers of mica until a clear sheet remains.

Finally, the cut and cleaned mica is put up in pound packages and
is ready for the market. There is an enormous waste in the processes
of preparation. One hundred pounds of block mica will scarcely yield
more than about fifteen pounds of cut mica, and sometimes it is even
less. The proportion varies, of course, with different localities.’
Professor Kerr states with reference to the North Carolina mines that
there is a waste of from nine-tenths to nineteen-twentieths of the
material, even in a good mine.

Mica being a nonconductor is of value for insulating purposes, and
since the introduction of the present system of generating electricity
there has arisen a considerable demand for it in the construction of
dynamos and electric motors. For these purposes the mica must be

1 Engineering and Mining Journal, LV, 1893, p. 4.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 295

smooth and flexible, as well as free from spots or inequalities of any
kind. It is stated that it should be sufficiently fissile to split into sheets
not above three one-hundredths inch in thickness, and which may be
bent without cracking into a circle of 8 inches diameter. Strips of
various dimensions are used in building up the armatures, the more
common sizes being about 1 inch wide by 6 or 8 inches long. Musco-
vite serves the purposes well, but is less used than phlogopite, the
latter serving equally well, and being less desirable for stoves and fur-
naces. Black mica would doubtless serve for electrical purposes, could
it be procured in sheets of sufficient size.

Mica scraps such as until within a few vears have been thrown away
as worthless are now utilized by grinding, the product being used for
a variety of purposes, noted below. The material is as a rule ground
to five sizes, such as will pass through sieves of 80, 100, 140, 160, and 200
meshes to the inch, respectively. The prices of this ground material
vary from 5 to 10 cents a pound according to sizes. Large quanti-
ties of this ground material are used in the manufacture of wall paper,
in producing the frost effects on Christmas cards, in stage scenery, and
as a powder for the hair, being sold for the latter purposes under the
name of diamond powder. The so-called French ‘silver molding” is
said to be made from ground mica. It is also used as a lubricant, and
as a nonconductor for steam and water heating; in the manufacture of
door knobs and buttons. It is stated further that owing to its elas-
ticity it can be used as an absorbent for nitroglycerin, rendering ex-
plosion by percussion much less likely to occur. Small amounts of
inferior qualities are also mixed with fertilizers where it is claimed to
be efficacious in retaining moisture. A brilliant and unalterable mica
paint is said to be prepared by first lightly igniting the ground mica
and then boiling in hydrochloric acid, after which it is dried and mixed
with collodion, and applied with a brush. Owing to the unalterable
nature of the material under all ordinary conditions, and the fact that
it can be readily colored and still retain its brilliancy and transparency,
the ground mica is peculiarly fitted for many forms of decoration.
Much of the ground material now produced is stated to be sent to
France.

The chief and indeed only use for lepidolite thus far developed is in
the manufacture of the metal lithium and lithia salts.

Prices.—The total value of the cut mica produced annually in the
United States during the past ten years has varied from $50,000 to over
$360,000, while the value of the imports has varied between $5,000
and $100,000. The price of the cut mica, it should be stated, varies
with the size of the sheets, the larger naturally bringing the higher
price. The average price of the cut mica, all sizes, is not far from
$1 a pound, while the scrap mica is worth perhaps half a cent a
pound. The dealers’ lists, as published, include 193 sizes, varying

oO
>
296 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

from 14 by 2 inches up to 8 by 10 inches, the prices ranging from 40
cents to $13 a pound. For electrical work upward of 400 patterns
are called for, the prices varying from 10 cents to $2.50 a pound.

3. ASBESTOS.

The name asbestos in its original sense includes only a fibrous variety
of the mineral amphibole; hence is a normal metasilicate of calcium
and magnesium with usually varying amounts of iron and manga-
nese and not infrequently smaller quantities of the alkalies. As is
well known, the amphiboles crystallize in the monoclinic system in
forms varying from short, stout crystals, like common hornblende, to
long columnar or even fibrous forms, to which the names actinolite,
tremolite, and asbestos are applied. The word asbestos is derived
from the Greek agfeotos, signifying incombustible, in allusion to its
fireproof qualities. The name ‘‘amianthus” was given it by the
Greeks and Romans, the word signifying undefiled, and was applied in
allusion to the fact that cloth made from it could be readily cleansed
by throwing it into the fire. As now used, this term is properly
limited to fibrous varieties of serpentine. Owing to careless usage, and

in part to ignorance, the name asbestos’ is now applied to at least four
distinct minerals, having in common only a fibrous structure and more
or less fire and acid proof properties. ‘These four minerals are: First,
true asbestos; second, anthophyllite; third, fibrous serpentine (chryso-
tile), and, fourth, crocidolite. The true asbestos is of a white or gray
color, sometimes greenish or stained yellowish by iron oxide. Its
fibrous structure is, however, its most marked characteristic, the entire
mass of material as taken from the ledge or mine being susceptible of
being shredded up into fine fibers sometimes several feet in length. In
the better varieties the fibers are sufficiently elastic to permit of their
being woven into cloth. Often, however, through the effect of
weathering or other agencies, the fibers are brittle and suitable only
for felts and other nonconducting materials. The shape of an asbestos
fiber is as a rule polygonal in outline and of a quite uniform diameter,
as shown in the illustration (fig. 10); often, however, the fibers are
splinter like, running into fine, needle-like points at the extremity.
The diameters of these fibers is quite variable, and, indeed, in many
instances there seems no practical limit to the shredding. Down toa
diameter of 0.002 mm. and sometimes to even 0.001 mm. the fibers
retain their uniform diameter and polygonal outlines. Beyond this,
however, they become splinter like and irregular as above noted.

The mineral anthophyllite like amphibole occurs in both massive,
platy, and fibrous forms, the fibrous form being to the unaided eye
indistinguishable from the true asbestos.

tion of the word is considered.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 997

Chemically this is a normal metasilicate of magnesia of the formula
“ =
Mg,Fe) SiO,, differing, it will be observed, from asbestos proper in
>: 39 =) ’

containing no appreciable amount of lime. It further differs in crys-
tallizing in the orthorhombic rather than the monoclinic system, a
feature which is determinable only with the aid of a microscope.

ia fl = e
The shape and size of the
fibers is essentially the same
as true asbestos. The fibrous
| variety of serpentine to which
| the name asbestos is commer-
| cially given is a hydrated met-
| asilicate of magnesia of the
formula H,Mg,Si,O, with usu-
ally a part of the magnesia
replaced by ferrous iron. It
|
|
|

——

differs, it will be observed,

from asbestos and anthophy1-

lite in carrying nearly 14 per

naan cent of combined water and

eee Ra ah | from the first named in con-

After G. P. Merrill. taining no lime. ‘This mineral

is in most cases readily distin-

guished from either of the others by its soft, silk-like fibers and further

by the fact that it is more or less decomposed by acids. As found in

nature the material is of a lively oil yellow or greenish color, compact

and quite hard, but may be readily reduced to the fluffy, fibrous state

by beating, handpicking, or running between rollers. The length of

the fiber is quite variable, rarely exceeding 6 inches, but of very smooth
uniform diameter and great flexibility.

The mineral crocidolite, although resembling somewhat fibrous ser-
pentine, belongs properly to the ‘plabole group. Chemically it is
anhydrous silicate of iron and soda, the iron existing in both the sesqui-
oxide and protoxide states. More or less lime and magnesia may be
present as combined impurities. The color varies from lavender blue
to greenish, the fibers being silky like serpentine, but with a slightly
harsh feeling. The composition of representative specimens of these
minerals from various sources is given in the accompanying table.’

AL
alk

‘From Notes on Asbestos and Asbestiform Minerals by George P. Merrill. Pro-
ceedings of the U. 8. National Museum, X VIII, 1895, pp. 281-282.

1899.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM,

od ‘SOOBIT,; €9°S6 | GL PL | SAT | ~~~" "| SPG'0 LOG) (CBT=O) [Se BOBS sires reese (Cees) SORTOO ata
| | “(0GFZ9) SOTBAA TINS
TUMIO TN “d “00 ‘SO0BIL| 86°C | 66°EL | 64'S |") TOT | Sha] STO op"! MON QsnqVV ‘SVL AOD | 0z
‘(‘slep fF Jo | |
*aw) cea d ‘oz UL 180 | 9¢°%% | 99°F leaxaapenla- seo S| PROP D, 3] BONES GTO ea) Spry eC UE cel nee tae “= [OIA TL ‘TRUILOTIZ | 6T
Mpc Sum TOCOOLs|" GaGa je ay ee Pee meds daal Obes ares Mle casa iL OR Gea ieags cen eae esl tae YON MON ‘PURIST W0}BIS | ST
| : | “(#0129)
soar |) eset Wh GSR Ga) | (Gay pseee --- G8 ‘2 | ZP SL Sees Seeeeoine Ommieocr) FA PA Xe || ABOR EDGE BOGUS ODOR OR Oxy} 9 1CIoe “eq ‘AUNOD aIBA RAC ‘UOISV LT
| DIN
‘od nat ae GB'8e | GL'OE] OTS fret] OL99G | GE-O fro Opes] “AuNoD projreH ‘OpTAseTAd | 97
UM] “d “095 ‘BOOURL| L8°6T | TSCT| §8°9 |---| GhS | 999) GTO OD Rain aay nik ** (Z9PEL) "O'S “10989 | CT
POAC OCH TEM |e COnOGs Ral Gils tame ates | oki ela tae (i{Oa alll ZZ ANN GIRS) NBER es 99 'T Tse Cia [ee | nena ODsece- srrrs77""" (FEQG) “BA ‘AHOUBOY | FT
‘TUMI0 WW ‘d ‘099 VaR ai 2 Ey as Hel as So OBNEE | FTE | VGL Dey ot ae 70) aan ah ED) |= oe ODE ees “=> (9g¢8) “PIN “UOYIV | ET
| | : “so]soqse
‘od | ‘saoBlL| G8'0G | 86°TT | OF'9 f77777*| IST | 93°9¢ | 9T-0 | “WwA ‘ofoqrydury *(ogez9)"wA ‘AUNOD aTAVUTAQLY | ZI
‘pivyovd "TY | | perks eS, |e RO) Poh ma LOT | Te LG Ovessi ie ae aoa ga o) Oeeeserlh eae a ees (T00L9) ‘TROD ‘osetd URS | TI
‘TI W ‘d “095 | | a Ce Cnt Sete Been oo okpeT 3h gget pe ONE abe ss sae op***"*/- (06029) OA AA AJUNOD WOgIRD | OT
‘0d | ‘eOBIL| 9F'L% | OL'O | 9L°OE |=" " Ga eeraa GL "9g OPS ieee s ase OD Saar “77 9""* (40929) ‘PIN WOMOGLY | 6
“prsyovd “Ta Pie er ral Clentote |. 20 COLO ie ‘| 16°0_| 00°6¢ 0 *(9280¢)"0"N ‘AjUNOD [[PYOITN | g
‘od | See tes emGheg: ges eatin ea} deeb eee a AGL FO (he dl Sea ec 1) cease oars (Z80hh) ‘ON “UTLUBIT | 2
| | (8FL29) ‘ON
‘od | Peer ha | Wee On ey | ‘oB_L pceicinc=le CON Tals caes aes || MOORLE 0 5 Fig re pie geageck 0) O) a aera ‘AJUNOD UalIB A ‘UOJUIIIBAA | 9
‘Od ‘OUBIL, c6'8Z | 380 te at: i [ail aa SAS | 1Z ‘9G (0) 3S ochan ata a ed O Dams “ON ATUNOD [[OMP[BO ‘ALOU | G
‘od NTO RsGi |) 2) C2) ee tesla re €8°9% | 09°0 | 00°TL 69'§ | 76°c¢ hese | eae ae OD steele Bry ‘(4) Agunop vsoode[By | F
TEIN d “09D | 96001 | PSs ey ee | OOwt al BPOL eer e oy) ea"eg OWE etree ane op-*--*|"-> (Tgg9g) “BH ‘AJuUNOD UNngeBY | §
‘od STROSS oR Fp INT WAIST alee ame oh eralz(0) gL Le Oe haere are Ops Res |e (ZF809) “BH ‘BaYDOOORN | Z
“(L¢8T9)
‘prByoed TU Se AP |e | CESS eh Cer) P| ech ks 0 jcaITAydoyjuy | BEsi00H = ‘uyBJUNOW = SI[BS | T
°
| i 5 : | = = =
“<qOyINY | oun | osm | ovo | ood | %0%a | *O%Ly | 2018 an: ke “AI [ROOT ‘ON
: | | 7 -ouNXa [BOLSO[RIOUTIT pack

‘sppsaur wdLofisagsy Jo sasimuy

MINERALS.

Y

THE NONMETALLIC

‘TIMIa NW ‘d ‘005
ch

“‘preuod Lf
og

‘od
‘od

‘OIPPPH “AWN
TIMI “d “00D
‘oor d ‘vurqg

“6cL “d ‘Zs

‘T ‘Youqayee
sonoN ‘loneg
“‘preyoed "TW
BUUCOC) i\er: mielers)
‘Grol d ‘ozqurTy
‘OFZL “d ‘ozqurA
"gear ‘d ‘ozqury
“PEsl “d ‘ozquTy

‘od

‘gee ‘d ‘vueq

‘yu90 dad ¢9°6 JO SSO[ [BUONIPpY UB ‘yea por ‘IWS 7B :JU90 sod CG'OT ‘OIL IB OFH A

€¢ °00L
826 66

998 66
LIG 66

LIL ‘O0L
46°86
00 “66

OF OOL
8°66
68 “86
c¢ “O01
10 ‘00T
6 “O0L
Te ‘001

99 OOL

Fc ‘00T

81069
C8 PL
Gg"éT

GL GL
TF6°G

£P'%

cro G0 | ()
€89°0 | 6&F'0 | Scl‘0
| t |
| gee"0 | zer‘0 | €%°0
269°0 | 88L°0 | 694°0
£90 | 98T°0 | 6S1'0
Sa ei sale a oe
|
|
Sra Reeanoe perma
so aseas Ga Cie OEE
GSOSSCSe yen adl eon)
ale Gaal see cies

Se eg ars

PG “FG
69 IF
0S “TF

LE “SP
LOS “8S

§66 “86
LOP GG

€6°LT
q9 “OT
Go 6
86 GG
“OORLL
OL 1s
88 “GG

89°83

C8 'GS

C&¢ GL
OTL TL

$9°G

cé “OL
GL'6

ag “CL
Ly OL
L6°TT
GG PL
{6 CL

66 SL

68 ST

48°0
S68

POL 'G
IIL ’&

TRL 'G

66 PL
&@ SL
¢0 6
cL'¢
C6 °S
Gs 9

p81
C6 TP
Lg °0F

0&8 ‘OF
L086 “9S

P98 9G
SST “9S

Tél LP
86 “ES
IL GS

SP “Gg
8¢ "1g
09 'SP
08 “8G
CF '6F
CL°6¢
86 °L¢

*paULULIa}9p JON DV

(@) oimsgd

-oyjue snoipAH
loess gece opt **
eons op--7"*

“sny uRrUre ‘ouTy
-uadies snoiqiy

*sOJsaqse
‘IBA ‘opoqrydury

*‘sOjsoqsV
‘IVA ‘opoqrydury
‘yoo ure] UnOUL

IBA ‘apoqryduy

eee ~--* (82129) “DIN ‘WOJIOGTY
““"BIQUIN[OD YSTME ‘BIOPOTA
Psa aa veeee ees gpeuEg

eee Seber (11 |
Sapae s creses puvyl1oosg ‘A0s10g
“puvl
-109§ ‘puvpleyjng ‘ssouurys
ter eS puBRl1oos ‘eI Bg OL

“-7"*puRpoos qaeynbaQ usp)

gai ee (T2¢6r) OURPT
rage "=** (12806) BOLT WINOS

OOTXOW
SSBIY ‘TUB BN
SSBIV ‘USpleIy
De Se SS ar SSB ‘WOI[O_
“SOlTBAA YINOS MON ‘SBE MOO
Pa o=s “--"" "Tapas ‘S1oqRy,
Be ole rie AUOXRS ‘JLOpsuNnD

“77 77*** BISATIS ‘ULloJsUOAURIA

see eeeeeeeeesseesees PBOIOTI_Z

66

GG
300 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Mode of occurrence and origin.—Concerning the associations, occur-
rence, and origin of the fibrous structure of these minerals existing
literature is strangely silent. _ It is known that all occur only in regions
occupied by the older eruptive and metamorphic rocks. It is prob-
able that in the fibrous forms the mineral is always secondary, and the
fibrous structure due in part, at least, to shearing agencies; that is, to
movements in the mass of a rock whereby a mineral undergoing crys-
tallization would be compressed laterally and drawn out along a line of
least resistance. This is, however, not the case with the fibrous varieties
of serpentine, which undoubtedly result from the crystallization in
preexisting fractures, or gash veins, of the serpentinous material.
The process is evidently the same as that which is seen in studying,
under the microscope, thin sections of olivine-bearing rocks which
have undergone hydration. The asbestos in Alberene, in Albemarle
County, Virginia (Specimen No. 62550, U.S.N.M.), occurs in thin,
platy masses along slickensided zones in the so-called soapstone
(altered pyroxenite) of the region, the fibers always running parallel
with the direction of the movement which has taken place. At
Alberton, Maryland, the fibrous anthophyllite (Specimen No. 62604,
U.S.N.M.) oceurs along a slickensided zone between a schistose acti-
nolite rock and a more massive serpentinous or talcose rock, which
is also presumably an eruptive peridotite or pyroxenite. The fibration
here runs also parallel with the direction of movement as indicated by
the slickensided surfaces.

Localities. —As already stated true hornblende asbestos occurs only
in regions of eruptive and metamorphic rocks belonging to the paleo-
zoic formations. The same is true of anthophyllite. Fibrous ser-
pentine occurs sporadically with the massive forms of the same rock
which is, so far. as known, almost invariably an altered eruptive. The
three forms are therefore likely to occur in greater or less abundance
in any of the States bordering along the Appalachian system, but are
necessarily lacking in the great Interior Plains regions, reoccurring
once more among the crystalline rocks of the Rocky Mountains and
the Pacific coast. The principal States from which either the true
asbestos or anthophyllite has been obtained in anything like commer-
cial quantities are Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama,
though it has been reported from other Eastern as well as several of
the Western States. Fibrous serpentine (chrysotile, or amianthus)
occurs in small amounts at Deer Isle, Maine; in northern Vermont; at
Easton, Pennsylvania; Montville, New Jersey; in the Casper Moun-
tains of Wyoming, and in Washington. It is known also to occur in
Newfoundland. The chief commercial sources of the material are,
however, Canadaand Italy. The Canadian source is in a belt of ser-
pentinous rocks extending more or less interruptedly from the Ver-
mont line northeastward to some distance beyond the Chaudiére
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 301

River. The geological horizon is that subdivision of the Lower Silu-
rian known as the Quebec Group. ‘The material has also been found
in the Laurentian rocks of this region.

Among the principal areas of serpentine which are found at so many widely scat-
tered points, the most easterly yet known is ata point called Mount Serpentine, about
10 miles up the Dartmouth River from its outlet in Gaspe Basin. The serpentine is
here associated with limestone and surrounded by strata of Devonian age. Small
veins of asbestos are found in the rock, but not yet in quantity sufficient to be eco-
nomically valuable. West of this the next observed is the great mass of Mount
Albert, whence it extends west in a great ridge for some miles. This mass is known
to contain veins of chromic-iron, and traces of asbestos have also been observed,
but the area has never yet been carefully explored with a view to ascertain the
presence of the mineral in quantity, owing largely to the present difficulty of access.

In Cranbourne and Ware, to the north of the Chaudiére River and in the vicinity
of that stream between the villages of St. Joseph and St. Francis, several small
knolls are seen, in all of which small and irregular veins are visible, but apparently
not in quantity sufficient to render them economically important, at least in so far
as yet examined. Further to the southwest, in Broughton, Thetford, Coleraine,
Wolfestow and Ham, a very great development of these rocks is observed, forming
at times mountain-masses from 600 to 900 feet above the surrounding country level,
and presenting very peculiar and boldly marked features in the landscape by their
rugged outlines and curiously weathered surfaces. The large areas of this division
terminate southward at a point termed Ham Mountain, a very prominent peak of
diorite which marks the extremity of the ridge. In this great area, which we may
style the central area, asbestos can be found at many points in small quantity, but at
a comparatively few does it occur in quantity and quality sufficient to warrant the
expenditure of much capital in its extraction.

The third area, regarding that of the Shickshocks as the first, begins near the
village of Danville, and may be styled the southwestern area. Thence it extends
through Melbourne, Brompton, Orford, Bolton, and Potton, in a series of discon-
nected hills, to the American boundary, beyond which the continuation of the serpen-
tines can be traced into Vermont. In these areas, with the exception of the peculiar
isolated knoll near Danville, the asbestos has, as yet, been observed in small quantity
only, and generally of inferior quality. Large areas of soapstone are found at points
throughout the area, and the associated diorites have a large development. It must,
however, be said of this section, that considerable areas, whose outcrops can be seen
along the roads which traverse the district, are concealed by a dense forest growth,
and the true value of such portions must, for some considerable time, be largely con-
jectural. In fact, until the forest and soil are completely removed by the action of
forest fires, as was the case at Black Lake and Thetford, the search for asbestos is
likely to prove difficult and unsatisfactory. It is, however, very evident from the
studies already made on this interesting group of rocks in Canada, that all serpen-
tines are not equally productive—a fact very evident even in the heart of the great
mining centers themselves, where large areas of the belt are made up of what is
known as barren serpentine. Asa general rule, however, the rock likely to prove
asbestos-producing can be determined by certain peculiarities of texture, color or
weathering.

At the Thetford mines, and in that portion of Coleraine lying to the northeast of
Black Lake, certain conditions favorable to the production of asbestos appear to
have prevailed, and have led to the formation of numerous veins, often of large
size, which, in places, interlace the rock in all directions. These veins range in size
from small threads to a width of 3 to 4 inches [fig. 11], and in rare cases even reach
athickness of over 6 inches. [See large Specimens Nos. 72836 and 61348, U.S.N.M.].
The quality of the fiber, however, varies even in these localities, and while much of
302 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

it is soft, fine and silky, other portions are characterized by a harshness or stiffness
which detracts greatly from its commercial value.

The veins while not disturbed by faulting generally improve so far
as quality of material is concerned as the depth below the surface
increases. They are, however, very irregular in their distribution,
and are rarely persistent for any great distance.

A small vein at the surface, of half an inch in thickness, may quickly enlarge to one
of three inches or more, and, continuing, may die out entirely, while others come in
on either side. They have much the aspect of the gash veins in slaty rocks, though
there are many instances seen where the fiber maintains a tolerably uniform size
for considerable distances. [See large Specimen No. 61348, U.S.N.M. ].

Fig. 11.
SERPENTINE ASBESTOS IN MASSIVE SERPENTINE.

Specimen No. 72836.

The containing rocks show the presence of numerous faults, as in other mineral
localities, but possibly in the serpentine these are often more plainly marked. These
faults throw the veins from side to side, and frequently are of sufficient extent to
cut off entirely the working face of a highly productive area, the rock on the other
side of the fissure being often entirely barren. The sides of the fault, in such cases,
show extensive slickensides, and frequently have great sheets of coarse or woody-
fibered or imperfect asbestos, along the planes of fracture. Occasionally, pockets or
small veins of chromic iron are found in close proximity to the asbestos.’

Specimens Nos. 62135, 62150, U.S.N.M. from Marmora and Thetford
show the characteristic manner of the occurrence of the mineral on a
small scale, while No. 62151, U.S.N.M., shows the material as freed
from the wall rock, before shredding. See also Specimens Nos. 538682
to 53690 from Danville, Province of Quebec.

1R, W. Ells, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VIII,
890, p. 322.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 3038

The Italian asbestos which finds ‘t way to the American markets
is both of the amphibolic and serpentinous varieties, both being remark-
able for the beautiful long fibers they yield. The amphibolic variety,
the true asbestos, from Mont Cenis, is shown in Specimen No. 53164,
U.S.N.M., and the serpentinous variety, from Aosta, in the sample,
No. 53161, U.S.N.M. Both are in the form of fibrous aggregates over
a metre in length.

Methods of mining and preparation.—The mining of asbestos is
carried on almost wholly from open cuts and shallow tunnels. Rarely
does it pay to follow the material to any great depth. In the United
States the mines are worked very irregularly, and in most cases aban-
doned at the end of a short season.

The mining of the Canadian material is carried on by means of open
cuts, much as a farmer cuts down a stack of hay or straw, or by open
quarry ona level. The rock is blasted out and the asbestos separated
from the inclosing rock by a process known as ‘‘cobbing,” and which
consists in breaking away the fibrous material from the walls of the
vein or from other foreign ingredients by means of hammers.

The cobbed material is separated into grades, according to quality,
which depends upon the length, fineness, and flexibility of the fiber.
During 1888 the finest grades brought prices varying from $80 to $110
aton. In 1899 the price had fallen to about $26 a ton.

Uses.—The uses of asbestos are manifold, and ever on the increase.
Among the ancient Greeks it was customary to wrap the bodies of
those to be burned in asbestos cloth, that their ashes might be kept
intact. In the eighth century Charlemagne is said to have used an
asbestos tablecloth, which, when the feast was over, he would throw
into the fire, after a time withdrawing it cleaned but unharmed, greatly
to the entertainment of his guests. The most striking use to which
the material is put is the manufacture of fireproof cloths for theater
curtains, for suits of firemen and others liable to exposure to great
heat. It is also used for packing pistons, closing joints in cylinder
heads, and other fittings where heat, either dry or from steam and hot
water, would shortly destroy a less durable substance. For this pur-
pose it is used in the form of a yarn, or as millboard. The lower
grades, in which the fibers are short or brittle, are made into a felt
which, on aceount of its nonconducting powers, is utilized in covering
steam boilers. It is also ground and made into cements and paints,
the cement being used as a nonconductor on boilers, and the paint to
render wooden structures less susceptible to fire. In the chemical
laboratory the finely fibered, thoroughly purified asbestos forms an
indispensable filtering medium. For this purpose the true asbestos is
preferable to the fibrous serpentine.’ Examples of the manufactured
products mentioned are exhibited with the crude products.

‘Prof. A. H. Chester: Some Misconceptions Concerning Asbestos. Engineering and
Mining Journal, LV, 1893, p. 531.
3d04 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The chief commercial use of the material is based upon its highly
refractory or noncombustible nature. The popular impression that it
is a nonconductor of heat is, according to Professor Donald, erroneous,
the nonconducting character of the prepared material being due rather
to its porous nature than to the physical properties of the mineral
itself... Owing to the comparative high price of asbestos, it is, in the
manutacture of the so-called nonconducting materials, largely admixed
with plaster of paris, powdered limestone, dolomite, magnesite, diato-
maceous earth. or carbonaceous matter, as hair, paper, sawdust, ete.
With the possible exception of the magnesite (carbonate of magnesia)
these are all less effective than the asbestos, and deteriorate as well as
cheapen the manufactured article. The following table will serve to
convey some idea of the relative portions of the various materials used
as nonconducting pipe coverings, ete. :

Parts
Asbestos sponge, molded:
Plaster of paris. 22 2.202.425tc en doe ee ol eee eee a oe ae 95. 80
Ri broussSWestOsmes=sese =e eee ere ee Berets eee es Ane ae 4, 20
100. 00
Fire felt sectional covering:
Asbestos - - - - - pen ook eee Be cee Satie See Se ee eee ee eer eee Gee 82. 00
Carbonaceous matter (hair, paper, sawdust, etc.) ...------.------------- 18. 00
100. 00
Magnesia sectional covering:
Carbonate of magnesia: -.-<-...-2.c.---- 2 k= -24-- ee eee . 92,20
Ri brous asbestos. as so ne ers ete ee wiles ee Senet 7.80
100. 00
Magnesia plastic:
Carbonate ol; magnesia... 2. sc ae = eta eee 92. 20
Pibrous asbestos: -sco-- ce sce oo ooo oe see See ee ere eee 7.80
= 100. 00
Asbestos cement felting:
Powdered Jimestone)-- > Ree eee eee eee ane ee eee 64. 50
Plaster of paris. 2.2. =< -o- see nas o> eee ae ee ee ere 3.50
Asbestos! of. Soe 2) ee Se 2 ee ae en eee ye 32. 00
100. 00
Asbestos sponge cement felting:
Powdered limestone o2. 5-0 0 ose Se ee ee ee eee 59. 00
Plaster of paris... 2.0.0 245209 (ese Soe eee eee er eee 10. 00
UN cloce\-] 1 0: eee ry Hee Oe oo dohoSaume sedan oncoaseaccasss 31.00
100. 00
Fossil meal:
Insoluble silicate: 22s. 2 ee ee eee 75. 00
Carbonaceous matter (hair, paper, sawdust, etc.) -.---.---------------- 11.00
Soluble mineral matter -. 2.22 .- .scg2 oe eee ee eee ee eee 8. 00
IMfoistiire 2 oe 5. LA ee. eee 6. 00
100. 00

1The Mineral Industry, II, 1893, p. 4.

salad
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 305

The following catalogue shows the mineral nature and localities repre-
sented in the Asbestos collection of the Museum:

Fibrous anthophyllite.
Fibrous anthophyllite.

Fibrous amphibole.
Fibrous amphibole.
Fibrous amphibole.
Fibrous amphibole.
Fibrous amphibole.

Fibrous anthophyllite.
anthophyllite.
Fibrous anthophyllite.
anthophyllite.
anthophyllite.

Fibrous

Fibrous
Fibrous
Fibrous amphibole.

Asbestos in limestone.
over Patapsco River, just west of Alberton, Maryland.

Tallapoosa County, Alabama. 62763.
San Diego County, California. 67001.
California. 50899.
Colorado. 50878, 50879, and 50880.
Connecticut. 50912.

Black Hills, South Dakota. 50916, 50917.
Lawrence County, South Dakota. 63487.
Salls Mountain, Georgia. 61505, 61357,
Cleveland, White County, Georgia. 62749.
Near Nacoochee, White County, Georgia. 60842, 63155.
Fulton County, Georgia. 63156.
Alberton, Howard County, Maryland.
Maryland. 50891 and 50892.

West end of lower bridge, Baltimore and Ohio Railroad,
62778.

62604, 62605.

Fibrous amphibole. Parkton, Baltimore County, Maryland. 8536.

Fibrous amphibole. Jefferson, Frederick County, Maryland. 68479.

Fibrous amphibole. Harford County, Maryland. 63033.

Fibrous amphibole. Massachusetts. 50909, 50910.

Fibrous amphibole. Gallatin County, Montana. 53341.

Fibrous anthophyllite. Warrenton, Warren County, North Carolina. 62748.
Fibrous anthophyllite. Mitchell County, North Carolina. 50876, 63158, 63159.
Fibrous amphibole. Nevada. 50885.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. New Hampshire. 50914.

NAT MUS 99

Fibrous amphibole. New York. 50867-50871 and 635160.

Fibrous amphibole. Delaware County, Pennsylvania. 62754.

Fibrous amphibole. Pennsylvania. 50895, 50896, 73507.

Fibrous amphibole. Chester, Chester County, South Carolina. 73462.

Fibrous anthophyllite. South Carolina. 50874, 50875.

Fibrous amphibole. Tennessee. 50905.

Mountain leather, amphibole. Minersville, Beaver County, Utah. 67266, 55379.

Fibrous amphibole. Utah. 50907, 50908.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Vermont. 50898, 63161.

Fibrous amphibole in calcite. Alberene, Albemarle County, Virginia. 62550,
62551.

Fibrous amphibole, near Roanoke, Roanoke County, Virginia. 5694.

Fibrous amphibole. Virginia. 50872.

Fibrous amphibole. Washington. 63206.

Fibrous amphibole. Wisconsin. 50906.

Fibrous anthophyllite. Carbon County, Wyoming. 62090.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Casper Mountain. 12 miles south of Casper,

Wyoming. 67377, 62091.
Fibrous amphibole. Wyoming. 66674.
Fibrous crocidolite. Weinthal, Cape of Good Hope, South Africa. 62107,
Fibrous amphibole. Transvaal, South Africa. 50877.
Fibrous crocidolite. Orange River, Mount Hopetown, Africa. 73128.
Fibrous amphibole. Gundagai, New South Wales, Australia. 62450.
Fibrous amphibole. Australia. 50893.
Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Victoria, British Columbia. 50902.
Fibrous serpentine in ophicalcite. Canada. 72836.
Fibrous amphibole, variety of mountain cork. Buckingham, Canada. 68138.

20
306 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Black Lake, Quebec, Canada. 62151.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Thetford, Quebec, Canada. 62150.

Veins of chrysotile. Marmora, Ontario, Canada. 62135.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Algoma District, Ontario, Canada. 62134.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Danville, Quebec, Canada. 53682-53684.

Fibrous amphibole. Canada. 50889.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Manitoba. 50904.

Fibrous amphibole. Canada. 50888.

Fibrous amphibole. Canada. 50890.

Fibrous amphibole. Canada. 50887.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Canada. 50886.

Fibrous amphibole. China. 50900.

Fibrous amphibole. Corsica. 73000.

Fibrous amphibole. Corsica. 82359.

Fibrous amphibole. France. 50883.

Fibrous amphibole. France. 50882.

Fibrous amphibole. France. 50881.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Erese, about 20 miles east of Aosta, Italy. 53161.

Fibrous amphibole. Monte Lunella, spur of Monte Cenis, 5 miles from Usseglio,
Italy. 53164.

Fibrous amphibole. Italy. 50894.

Fibrous amphibole. Zillerthal, Tyrol. 66838.

Fibrous serpentine, chrysotile. Piedmont, Italy. 73539.

Fibrous amphibole. Caterce, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 57168.

Fibrous amphibole. Goldenstein, Moravia. 66837.

Fibrous amphibole. Newfoundland. 50919.

Fibrous amphibole. Nova Scotia. 50911.

Fibrous amphibole. Spain. 50913.

Fibrous amphibole. Tasmania. 40918.

Fibrous amphibole, mountain cork. Venezuela. 50884.

Fibrous amphibole. Argentine Republic. 63416.

Fibrous amphibole. Bohemia. 73538.

Fibrous amphibole. Smyrna. 50901.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

A. Lrversipce. Minerals of New South Wales, 1888, p. 180. Gives list of localities.
Rosert H. Jones. Asbestos, Its Properties, Occurrence, and Uses.
London, 1890, pp. 236.
L. A. Kurix. The Canadian Asbestos Industry.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 273.
J.T. Donatp. Asbestos in Canada.
The Mineral Industry, I, 1892, p. 30.
L. A. Kuri. Notes on the Asbestos Industry of Canada.
The Mineral Industry, I, 1892, p. 32.
J.T. Donaup. Asbestos.
The Mineral Industry, II, 1893,p. 37.
Rupo.tr Maruocn. Asbestos in South America.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVITI, 1894, p. 272.
C. E. Wiuurs. The Asbestos Fields of Port-au-Port, Newfoundland.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 586.
Grorcr P. Merritt. Notes on Asbestos and Other Asbestiform Minerals.
Proceedings of the U. 8. National Museum, XVIII, 1895, p. 281.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 307

H. Neuties THompson. Asbestos Mining and Dressing at Thetford.
The Journal of the Federated Canadian Mining Institute, 1897, II, p. 273.
See also the Canadian Mining Review , X VI, 1897, p. 126.
Roserr H. Jones. Asbestos and Asbestic: Their Properties, Occurrence, and Use.
London, 1897, pp. 368.

4. GARNET.

The chemical composition of the various minerals of the garnet
group is somewhat variable, though all are essentially silicates of
alumina, lime, iron, or magnesia. The more common types are the
lime-alumina garnet grossularite, and the iron alumina garnet a/aman-
dite. Other varieties of value as minerals or as gems are pyrope, spess-
artite, andradite, bredbergite, and wvarovite.

The ordinary form of the garnet is the regular 12 or 24 sided solid,
the dodecahedron and trapezodedron, as shown in Specimen No. 53241,
U.S.N.M., from Roxbury Falls, Connecticut. The color is dull red or
brown, though in the rarer forms yellow, green, and white. Hardness
from 6.5 to 7.5 of the scale.

Occurrence.—Garnets occur mainly in metamorphic siliceous rocks,
such as the mica schists and gneisses, and though sometimes found in
limestones and in eruptive rocks, are rarely sufficiently abundant to
be of economic importance. In the gneisses and schists, however,
they not infrequently preponderate over every other constituent,
varying from sizes smaller than a pin’s head to masses of 100 pounds
weight, or more.

The most important garnet-producing regions of the United States
are Warren County, New York, and Delaware County, Pennsylvania.
At the first-named locality, the garnets occur in laminated pockets
seattered through beds of a very compact hornblende feldspar rock,
the size of the pockets ranging from 5 or 6 inches in diameter to such as
will yield 1,000 pounds or more (Specimen No, 53228, U.S.N.M.). In
the Delaware County localities the garnets occur in aggregates of small
crystals in a quartzose gneiss’ (Specimens Nos. 53221, 66710, U.S.N.M.).

One of the most noted garnet regions of the world is that near
Prague, Bohemia. According to G. F. Kunz,’ the garnets of the
pyrope variety are indigenous to an eruptive rock now changed to ser-
pentine, and the mineral is found ‘loose in the soil or in the lower
part of the diluvium, or embedded ina serpentine rock. * * In min-
ing for garnets the earth is cut down in banks and only the lower layer
removed, and the garnets are separated by washing. The earth is
first dry sifted and then washed in a small jig consisting of a sieve
moved back and forth in a tank of water.”

Uses.—Aside from their use in the cheaper forms of jewelry garnets

'The Mineral Industry, V, 1896.
*Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1892, p. 241.
308 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

are used mainly for abrading purposes and mainly as a sand for sawing
and grinding stone or for making sandpaper. The material is of less
value than corundum or emery, owing to its inferior hardness. The
commercial value is variable, but as prepared for market it is worth
about 2 cents a pound.

5. ZIRCON.

This is a silicate of zirconium, ZrSiO,,=silica 32.8 per cent; zirconia
67.2 per cent; specific gravity 4.68 to 4.7; hardness 7.5; colorless, gray-
ish, pale yellow to brown or reddish brown. Ordinarily in the form
of square prisms. Specimens Nos. 61133 and 62581, U.S.N.M., are
characteristic.

Zircon is a common constituent of the older eruptives like granite
and syenite, and also occurs in granular limestone, g@neiss, and the
schists. It is so abundant in the elzeolite syenites of southern Norway
as to have given rise to the varietal name Zircon syenite. Although
widespread as a rock constituent it has been reported in but few
instances in sufficient abundance to make it of commercial value.
Being hard and very durable it resists to the last ordinary atmospheric
agencies, and hence is to be found in beds of sand, gravel, and other
débris resulting from the decomposition of rocks in which it primarily
occurs. It has thus been reported as found in the alluvial sands in
Ceylon, in the gold sands of the Ural Mountains, Australia, and other
places. In the United States it occurs in considerable abundance in
the eleolite syenite of Litchfield, Maine, and is also found in other
States bordering along the Appalachian Mountains. The most noted
localities are in Henderson and Buncombe counties in North Carolina,
whence several tons have been mined during the past few years from
granite débris. (Specimen No. 61133, U.S.N.M.)

Uses.—See under monazite, p. 383.

6. SPODUMENE AND PETALITE.

This is an aluminum lithium silicate of the formula LiAl (SiO,),, =
silica, 64.5 per cent; alumina, 27.4 per cent; lithia, 8.4 per cent; in nature
more or less impure through the presence of small amounts of ferrous
oxide, lime, magnesia, potash, and soda. Luster vitreous to pearly;
colors white, gray, greenish, yellow, and amethystine purple. Trans-
parent to translucent. Usual form that of flattened prismatic crystals,
with easy cleavages parallel with the faces of the prism. Also in mas-
sive forms. Crystals sometimes of enormous size, as noted below.

Mode of occurrence.—Spodumene occurs commonly in the coarse
granitic veins associated with other lithia minerals, together with tour-
maline, beryls, quartz, feldspar, and mica. The chief localities as
given by Dana are as below:

In the United States, in granite at Goshen, Massachusetts, associated at one locality
with blue tourmaline and beryl; also at Chesterfield, Chester, Huntington (formerly
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 309

Norwich) [Specimen No. 62579, U.S.N.M.],and Sterling, Massachusetts; at Windham,
Maine, with garnet and staurolite; at Peru with beryl, triphylite, petalite; at Paris,
in Oxford County [Specimen No. 62578, U.S.N.M.]; at Winchester, New Hampshire;
at Brookfield, Connecticut, a few rods north of Tomlinson’s tavern, in small grayish
or greenish white individuals looking like feldspar; at Branchville, Connecticut, in a
vein of pegmatite, with lithiophilite, uraninite, several manganesian phosphates, ete. ;
the crystals are often of immense size, embedded in quartz; near Stony Point, Alex-
ander County, North Carolina, the variety hiddenite in cavities in a gneissoid rock
with beryl (emerald), monazite, rutile, allanite, quartz, mica, ete.; near Ballground,
Cherokee County, Georgia; in South Dakota at the Etta tin mine in Pennington
County, in immense crystals. [Specimen No. 73,642, U.S.N.M.]. At Huntington,
Massachusetts, it is associated with triphylite, mica, beryl, and albite; one crystal
from this locality was 163 inches long and 10 inches in girth.

At the Etta tin mine, in the Black Hills of South Dakota, the mineral
occurs, according to W. P. Blake, in sizes the magnitude of which
exceeds all records. Crystalline masses extend across the face of the
open cut from 2 to 6 feet in length and from a few inches to 12 and 18
inches in diameter. Blocks too large to lift have been freely tumbled
over the dump with the waste of the feldspar, quartz, and mica. The
gigantic crystals preserve the cleavage characteristics and show the
common prismatic planes. The color is lighter and is without the
delicate creamy pink hue of the specimens from Massachusetts. It is
very hard, compact, and tough, and is difficult to break across the
grain. Some of the fragments are translucent.

The chief foreign localities of spodumene are Uté in Sédermanland,
Sweden, where it is associated with magnetic iron ore, tourmalines,
quartz, and feldspar; near Sterzing and Lisens, in Tyrol; embedded in
granite at Killiney Bay near Dublin, and at Peterhead, Scotland.

Uses.—So far as the writer is aware, the mineral has as yet been put
to no economic use. There seems no reason for its not being utilized
as a source of lithia salts as well as amblygonite and lepidolite.

Prrauire, another lithium aluminum silicate containing 2.5 to 5 per
cent lithia occurs associated with lepidolite, tourmaline, and spodumene
in an iron mine at Uté, Sweden (Specimen No. 62582, U.S.N.M.), with
spodumene and albite at Peru, Maine, and with scapolite at Bolton,
Massachusetts.

7. Lazurire; Lapis Lazuni; ork NatrvE ULTRAMARINE.

Composition essentially Na, (NaS,.Al) Al,Si,O,,,= silica, 31.7 per
cent; alumina, 26.9 per cent; soda, 27.3 per cent; sulphur, 16.9 per
cent; hardness, 5.5; specific gravity, 2.38 to 2.45. Color, rich azure-
violet or greenish blue, translucent to opaque. The ordinary lapis
lazuli is not a simple mineral as given above, but a mixture of lazurite,
hauynite, and various other minerals.
310 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The following analyses quoted from Dana serve to show the hetero-
geneous character of the material as found:

ane Alu- Ferric | a
aeSp Silica, | F F Lime Soda Water, | Sulphur.
; Localities. + mina, iron, | ar Tat 2 ?
SiO. AloOz. Fe.0s. | CaO. Na,.O. | H,0O. SOs.
Omens ae 5245.52 45.33 12.33 | Dales | 23.56 11.45 0.35 Beer
IDS 520) BEM ooh ee cieae 40. 54 43.00 | 0. 86 1.14 | 12. 54 | a el ae ee!
IANGES ican ane acess 45.70 25. 34 1.30 7.48 10355 sl eee eee 4.32

Occurrence.—The localities are mostly foreign. The ultramarine
reported not long since as occurring near Silver City, New Mexico,
has been shown by R. L. Packard to be a magnesian silicate.

Mexico, Chile, Siberia, India, and Persia are the chief sources. The
following regarding the Indian localities is taken from Ball’s Geology
of India, Part III.

Agee to Captain Hutton, the lapis lazuli are in Kandahar is
brought from Sadmoneir and Bijour, where it is said to occur in masses
and nodules embedded in other rocks. He obtained a small specimen
from Major Lynch, which was said to have been brought from Hazara,
and he heard that it occurred in Khelat. Several writers speak of
its occurrence in Biluchistan, but possibly this may be due to some
confusion in names. Beyond a question of doubt it does exist in
Badakshan, the mines south of Firgamu, in the Kokcha valleys,

having been described by Wood in the narrative of his journey to the
Oxus.

The entrance to the mines is on the face of the mountain at an ele-
vation of about 1,500 feet above the level of the stream. The rocks
are veined, black and white limestones. The principal mine, as repre-
sented in elevation, pursues a somewhat serpentine direction. The
shaft by which you descend to the gallery is about 10 feet square, and
is not so perpendicular as to prevent your walking down. The gallery
is 30 paces long, with a gentle descent, but it terminates in a hole 20
feet in diameter and as many deep. ‘The gallery is 12 feet in diameter,
and as it is unsupported by pillars accidents sometimes occur. Fires
are used to soften the rock and cause it to crack; on being hammered
it comes off in flakes, and when the precious stone is disclosed a groove
is picked round it, and together with a portion of the matrix it is prised
out by means of crowbars. Three varieties are distinguished by the
miners, the n7//, or indigo colored, the asmani, or sky-blue, and the
sabzi, or green. The labour was compulsory; and mining was only prac-
tised in the winter. According to Wood, these mines and also those for
rubies had not been worked for four years as they had ceased to be
profitable. Possibly this may have been partly due to the fall in value;
according to Mr. Baden-Powell, recent returns represent the exports
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. re

as amounting to only 2 seers; but Colonel Yule, in his book of Marco
Polo, states that the produce was 30 to 60 poods (36 Ibs. each) annually,
the best qualities selling at prices ranging from £12 to £24a pood.
Mr. Powell’s figures perhaps only refer to the exports to India, For-
merly the produce from these mines, which must have been consider-
able, was exported principally to Bokhara and China, whence a portion
found its way to Europe.

Marco Polo says that the azure found here was the finest in the
world, and that it occurred in a vein like silver. The Yamgan tract,
in which the mines were situated, contained many other mines, and
doubtless Tavernier referred to it when he spoke of the territory of a
Raja beyond Kashmir and toward Thibet, where there were three
mountains close to one another, one of which produced gold, another
granats (garnets, or rather balas rubies), and the third lapis lazuli.

A small quantity of dajward is said to be imported into the Punjab
from Kashgar, and a mine 1s reported to exist near the source of the
Koultouk, a river which falls into Lake Baikal.

Uses. Ultramarine for coloring purposes has in modern times lost
much of its value, owing to the discovery by M. Guimet in 1828 of an
artificial substitute. Formerly it was much used as a pigment, being
preferred by artists in consequence of its possessing greater purity and
clearness of tint. According to Ball,’ the artificial substitute is now
commonly sold in the bazars of India under the same name, lajward,
for about 4 rupees a seer, while at Kandahar in the year 1841, accord-
ing to Captain Hutton, the true lajward, which was used for house
painting and book illuminating, was sold, when purified, at from 80
to 100 rupees a seer. Mr. Emanuel states that the value of the stone
itself, when of good color, varies, according to size, from 10 to 50
shillings an ounce. In Europe the refuse in the manufacture is
calcined, and affords delicate gray pigments, which are known as
ultramarine ash.

Lajward is prescribed as a medicine internally by native physicians;
it has been applied externally to ulcers. That it possesses any real
therapeutic powers is of course doubtful.

Although no longer a source of any considerable amount of the
ultramarine of commerce, the compact varieties of the mineral, such as
that from Persia, are highly esteemed for the manufacture of mosaics,
vases, and other small ornaments.

8. ALLANITE; ORTHITE.

This is a cerium epidote of the formula HR"R™,Si,O,,, in which
R™ may be either calcium or iron (or both) and R™ aluminum, iron,
cerium, didymium, orlanthanum. The following analyses are selected

1 Geology of India, ITI, p. 528.
312 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

from Dana’s Mineralogy as showing variation in the composition sufti-
ciently for present purposes:

Constituents. I. II Ill
as cx a

Silica: (SiQa) co: 2-2. beascenee eee ee 31.63 | 33.03] 30.04
Wb coy ues ie Gl WOKO}) mee ceeise kommen tho ase Stee scSt es cucs 0.87 1512 | None.
Alumina, (AlbOs) ¢ ces cle eee eee 13.21 | 17.63} 16.10
Iron sesquioxide (Fe,O,).-...-..-----++--2--e-2000-- 8.39 | 5.26| 5.06
Ceriumisesquioxide (@es03) eee eee ee ee eee 8. 67 2.84 11.61
Didymium sesquioxide (DisO3)..--.-.---.----------- 5. 60 7.68 | 5.39
Lanthanum sesquioxide (LasO3) ...--..------------- 5.46 | None. | 4,11
VittirimrsesquiaO xa Gey (Ws Os) toe este eee 0. 87 2.92 | None.
Erbinum sesquioxide (Hr503)) =se-2seeee ==] ee = ee 0.52 | None. | None.
Tron protoxide, (HeO)) 2aecs eee =a eee ee eee 7.86 7.01 | 9.89
Manganese (MMO) 222 -22ees- 4 2-2 eee eee eee 1.66 0.64 | Trace.
Lime |(CdO\ao-2 24s ot ae ee eee eee 10.48 | 12.78 | 13. 02
NV Erevauscitey (RO) 6 oe oem samc oe mori ceaeis Sassser Soo 0. 08 0.11 | alain
Potash (sO). ft eee ceed ne ee eaves 0.28} 0.40} 0.02
Soday (NasO) oso ete OSS ee hee eee ee None. | None. | 0.28
igre Us OMNES oe oe ater ne ee eR cb eiscope somes ae 3.49 9.37 | 2. 56

99.07 | 100.79 | 99.19

(1) Hitteré, Norway; (11) Ytterby, Sweden; (III) Nelson County, Virginia.

When in crystals often in Jong slender nail-like forms (orthite); also
massive and in embedded granules. Color pitch black, brownish, and
yellow. Brittle. Hardness 5.5 to 6. Specific gravity 3.5 to 4.2.
Before the blowpipe fuses and swells up to a dark, slaggy, magnetic
glass.

Localities and mode of occurrence.—The more common occurrence is
in the form of small acicular crystals as an original constituent in
granitic rocks. It also occurs in white limestone, associated with mag-
netic iron ore, and in igneous rocks as andesite, diorite, and rhyolite.
At the Cook Iron Mines, near Port Henry, New York, it is reported
as occurring in great abundance and in crystals of extraordinary size,
in a gangue of quartz and orthoclase.

The variety orthite occurs in forms closely simulating rusty nails in
the granitic rock about Brunswick, Maine. In Arendal, Norway, it
is found in massive forms (Specimen No. 66853, U.S.N.M.). At Finbo,
near Falun, Sweden, in acicular crystals a foot or more in length. In
Amherst and Fauquier counties, Virginia, it occurs in large masses
(Specimen No. 68661, U.S.N.M.) from Fauquier County, as it also does
near Bethany Church, Iredell County, North Carolina, and Llano
County, Texas (Specimen No. 62756, U.S.N.M.). At Balsam Gap,
Buncombe County, North Carolina, it occurs in slender crystals 6 to
12 inches long and in crystalline masses, in a granitic vein and under
similar conditions at the Buchanan and Wiseman mines in Mitchell
County.

Uses.

See under Monazite, p. 383.
ry

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. ole

9, (VADOLINITE.

This is a basic orthosilicate of yttrium, iron, and glucinum, though
with frequently varying amounts of didymium, lanthanum, ete. The
formula as given by Dana is Gl,FeY,Si,O,,,=silica 23.9 per cent,
yttrium oxides 51.8 per cent, iron protoxide 14.3 per cent, and glu-
cina 10 per cent. Actual analyses yielded results as below:

Constituents. I. DY.
SITE 20 9 eM 24.35 | 23.79
AbleVoyahabzy( td) eCO)))) Qoeeap ae eae eee peee acer e 0.3! 0.58
Yttrium sesquioxide (Y.O3) ...---------- 45. 96 41.55
Cerium sesquioxide (CesO03) ...---------- LGD) 2262
Didymium sesquioxide (DipOs)---------- ie Bigg ae
Lanthanum sesquioxide (LasOs) ...---.-- ft es aa
Iron sesquioxide (Fe:O3) ...------- raLeee 2. 03 0. 96
Tbgorn\ yoko ynop-atals (NAO) S265. 5cesobcosessoe 11.39 12. 42
Berylium (Glucina) protoxide (BeO) -..| 10.17) = 11.3838
1 iboats (CEO) EAS apeeteno-hosodoncagaasaces 0.30 | 0.74
WBSodalUNasO)eeces crest caemeciee ee aenes 0.17] Trace. |
\CHGe (US ONE 33 asec anncmopospaccoscocec 0.52 1.03 |
|} 99.90} . 100.24)

(I) Ytterby, near Stockholm, Sweden; (II) Llano County, Texas.

The mineral is sometimes found in form of rough and coarse crystals,
but more commonly in amorphous, glassy forms. Hardness 6.5 to 7;
specific gravity 4 to 4.47. Color brown, black and greenish black,
usually translucent in thin splinters and of a grass green to olive green
color by transmitted light. No true cleavage; fracture conchoidal or
splintery like glass, and with a vitreous or somewhat greasy luster.
Through oxidation and hydration the mineral becomes opaque, brown,
andearthy. Hence masses are not infrequently found consisting of the
normal glassy gadolinite enveloped in a brown red crust of oxidation
products. (Specimen No. 62780, U.S.N.M.) On casual inspection
the mineral closely resembles samarskite and the dark, opaque varie-
ties of orthite, but is easily distinguished from the fact that before the
blowpipe it glows brightly for a moment and then swells up, cracks
open, and becomes greenish without fusing. Some varieties (the nor-
mal anisotropic forms) swell up into cauliflower-like forms and fuse
toa whitish mass. Like orthite, it gives a jelly when the powdered
mineral is boiled in hydrochloric acid.

Localities and mode of occurrence.—The mineral occurs mainly in
coarse pegmatitic veins associated with allanite, and other allied
minerals. The principal locality in the United States thus far described
is some five miles south of Bluffton on the west bank of the Colorado
River, in Llano County, Texas (Specimen No. 62780, U.S.N.M). The
region is described’ as occupied by Archean rocks with granite, and
occasional cappings of limestone.

‘American Journal of Science, XXX VIII, 1889, p. 474.
314 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

A coarse deep red granite is the most abundant, and is cut by numer-
ous extensive veins of quartz and feldspar which carry the gadolinite,
in pockety masses, and the other minerals mentioned. Most of the
mineral thus far found is altered into the brown-red waxy material
noted above and occurs in the form of masses weighing half a pound
and upward. One ‘*‘ huge pointed mass, in reality a crystal, weighed
fully 60 pounds; ” another 42 pounds. One of the earliest opened
pockets yielded some 500 kilos (227 pounds) of the mineral.

Of the foreign localities those of Kararfvet, Broddbo and Finbo,
near Falun, Sweden, and at Ytterby, near Stockholm (Specimen No.
62793, U.S.N.M.), are important, the mineral here occurring in the
form of rounded masses embedded in a coarse granite. On the island
of Hitteré, in the Flecke fiord, southern Norway, crystals sometimes
four inches across have been obtained.

Uses.—See under monazite, p. 383.

10. CERITE.

This is a silicate of the metals of the cerium group; of a com-
plex and doubtful formula. The analyses below, taken from Dana’s
System of Mineralogy, will serve to show the varying character of
the mineral.

}

Constituents. I. Vie Ill.

aa = Fa = 5 F | |
Silican(SiOs joe sone a ee eee crete 19.18 | 22.79] 18.18

Cerium oxide (Ces03) .....------ 64.55 | 24.06] 33.25 |

Didynium oxide (Diz0s) Rett arta \ 4.08 | 35.37 34.60 |

Lanthanum (La.03).-..-...----- J

Iron oxide (WeO)ss22sse-s.245-- 1.54 3. 92 | 3.18
Alumina, (81509) a. 2c es tee Oo | 1.26 peeeenee
hime (CaO) Ss. a.= bee eee eee dsb ArS5 1.69
Water (@H6O)\ ene eee ativesseee 5. 71 | 3. 44 | 5.18

The mineral occurs in gneiss and mica schist, and is of a prevailing
pink to gray color. Specimen No. 62794, U.S.N.M., from Bastniiss,
Westmanland, Sweden, is characteristic,

Uses.—See under monazite, p. 383.

11. RHODONITE.

This is a metasilicate of manganese of the formula MnSiO,,=Silica
45.9 per cent; manganese protoxide 54.1. As a rule, iron, calcium, or
zinc replaces a part of the manganese. The prevailing form of the
mineral when in crystals is that of rough, tabular, or elongated prisms
with rounded edges (Specimen No. 83927, U.S.N.M., from Franklin,
New Jersey). It is also common in massive highly cleavable forms, and
in disseminated granules (Specimens Nos. 83927 and 83929, U.S.N.M.).
Rarely, as in the Ekaterinburg district of Russia, it occurs in massive
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 315

forms suitable for ornamental work. (See Collection Building and
Ornamental Stones.) Color brownish red, flesh red, and pink; some-
times rose red. Hardness, 5.5 to 6.5. Specific gravity, 3.4 to 3.68.

On exposure the mineral undergoes oxidation, becoming coated
witha black film and giving rise thus to indefinite admixtures of silicate,
oxides, and carbonates of manganese.

The mineral occurs in abundance associated with the iron ores of
Wermland, Sweden, and at other localities in Europe; in Ekaterin-
burg, Russia, as above noted. The zinciferous variety commonly asso-
ciated with the zine ores in granular limestones of Sussex County, New
Jersey, is known as fowlerite. (Specimen No. 67405, U.S.N.M.)

So far as the writer has information, rhodonite has as yet little com-
mercial value, excepting as an ornamental stone. To some extent it
has been utilized in glazing pottery and as a flux in smelting furnaces.

12. SreatTitE: TALC; AND SOAPSTONE.

The mineral steatite, or tale, is a soft micaceous mineral, consisting
when pure of 63.5 per cent of silica, 31.7 per cent of magnesia, and 4.8
percent of water. Its most striking characteristics are its softness,
which is such that it can be readily cut with a knife or even with the
thumb nail, and soapy feeling, there being an entire absence of anything
like grit. The prevailing colors are white or gray and apple green.
Several varietal forms are recognized; the name ¢a/c asa rule being
applied to the distinctly foliaceous or micaceous variety (Specimen No.
72838, U.S.N.M.), while that of steatite is reserved for the compact
eryptocrystalline to coarsely granular forms (Specimens Nos. 26137 and
63448, U.S.N.M.).

Pyrallolite and rensselaerite are names given to varied forms of tale
resulting from the alteration of hornblende or pyroxene. Such forms
are found in various portions of northern New York, Canada, and
Finland.

According to Dana, a part of the so-called agalmatolite used by the
Chinese is steatite.

The name soapstone is given to dark gray and greenish talcose
rocks, which are soft enough to be readily cut with a knife, and which
have a pronounced soapy or greasy feeling; hence the name. Such
rocks are commonly stated in text-books to be compact forms of stea-
tite, or tale, but as the writer has elsewhere pointed out, and as shown
by the analyses here given, few of them are even approximately pure
forms of this mineral, but all contain varying proportions of chlorite,
mica, and tremolite, together with perhaps unaltered residuals of
pyroxene, granules of iron ore, iron pyrites, quartz, and in seams
and veins alee and magnesian carbonates.’

1 Rocks, Meceneaibeane: and Saile: p. 101.
316 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Composition.—The varying composition of tale is shown in the series
of analyses given below.

Analyses of tale.

= 3 —,
Locality. SiOs. | AleO3. | FeO. | MgO.! CaO. |MnO.) NasO.| Ks0.| H»O. lrotals.
St. Lawrence County, New
MAG 3 ae ee pate Ore 60.59 OSS POS Roa aaeeeeeees 1G) EE aa eon ee 3.77 | 100.58
DO eee eee eee D108 | sea BO) | Soe O sR. Sere est OND eee eee | eee | 2.05 | 100.00
| 0.17

Luzenach, France.-.--------| 61. 85 26a .O:2buieod. b2.| brace. leer cee mene i eenen 0.60 | 100.00
Valley of Pignerolles, Italy -| 60. 60 0.30 | 0.60 | 35.30 OF 4 OR eee | ied BOn eae Not | 100.00

deter-

| min-

ed.

The following analyses of soapstone have been made in the labora-
tory of the department:

Analyses of soapstone.

oe |
AlsO3. | FeO. | MgO. | CaO. |Mn0O./ NasO. | K20.

Locality. SiO». HO. lrotals.

|
|
2 |
Francestown, New _Hamp- | |
shire (Specimen No. 63166, |
WSSINE Ms = see cee atc eit 42.43 | 6.08 | 18.07 | 25.71 | 3.27 ‘Trace 0.16 | 0.32 | 8.45 99. 49
Grafton, Vermont (Speci- | ) |
men No. 17569, U.S.N.M.).| 51.20] 5.22] 8.45) 26.79} 1.17 | 0.32 |.------)------ 6.90 | 100.05
Dana, Massachusetts (Speci- | | .

men No. 26439, U.S.N.M.)-.-| 38.37 5.64 | 8.86 | 28.62} 3.90 |Trace|.....--)..---- 14.49 99.88

Baltimore County, Mary- | |
land (Specimen No, 26628, |
UESS NEMS) cc ocecaseacc eee 52.70 5.57 : Beene eee emccoeran iit toy 1) IUL0L (TR!

Guilford County, North Car- | |
olina (Specimen No. °7662, |
UES NLM in. eaeeeese oases 40.03 | 10.86 | 9.59 | 26.97 170.) |sokees| 2 Berea ee oe 10.78 | 99.93

Lafayette, Pennsylvania

(Specimen No. 63168, | |
WEGEN: Mi ian eae cee oeeee 33.47.| 0.45

~I
>
wn
wo
Ge
Qo
oo
—
~I
~I

34 | 0.21 |..----- paceect 28.00) || “99hom

I
ay)
los
v2
(oY)
~]
bo
_

Occurrence and origin.—Tale in all its forms is presumably always
a secondary mineral, a product of alteration of other magnesian
silicates.

Smyth has shown! that the tale beds of St. Lawrence County, New
York (Specimen No. 63173), are alteration products from schistose
aggregates of enstatite or tremolite, principally the former. Accord-
ing to this author, the tale oceurs, not as has been stated, in the form
of a well-defined vein with walls of granite or gneiss, but in the beds
lying wholly within the schistose portions of the prevai:ing limestone.

The following account of these deposits as occurring near Gouy-
erneur is by A. Sahlin:’

The village of Gouverneur is situated near the northwest edge of a
geological island of Azoic rocks; granite, gneiss, limestone, and marble

18chool of Mining and Forestry, XVII, No. 4, 1896. Also Fifteenth Annual
Report of the State Geologist of New York, 1895, pp. 665-671.
2Mining and Scientitic Press, May 11, 1893.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. oli

being the representative features of the formation. To the west of
Gouverneur, extending to and beyond the St. Lawrence River, the
Potsdam sandstone is encountered; to the southeast, the Trenton lime-
stones extend toward the Adirondack Mountains. The tale belt is
found in the towns of Fowler and Edwards, from 7 to 14 miles south-
east of Gouverneur. It has a length of about 8 miles, a width of 1 mile,
more or less, and crosses the above-named Azoic island in the general
direction of WNW. to ESE. The ‘‘ veins” generally dip from 45° to
75° toward the northeast. Their width varies from a few inches to 20
feet or more. Surface out croppings are frequent, and local experts
contend that there is no use in looking for tale where it does not appear
on the surface. The abrupt change of formation precludes the prob-
ability of discovering new deposits beyond the small, and now most
thoroughly explored, belt already known. Within this narrow terri-
tory, ‘‘veins” of tale minerals, separated by layers of granite and
eneiss, are found and worked. ‘They are principally made up of the
hydrated silicates of magnesia, known as agalite and rensselaerite, the
former of a smooth, fibrous texture, the latter scaly and lamellar, and
both beautifully white or bluish-white. In the agalite veins are found
nodules of handsome pink to purple, columnar crystals of hexagonite,
and also large ‘‘horses” of yellowish-white hornblende. The occur-
rence of the two latter minerals, representing the anhydrous silicates
of magnesia, has given rise to the theory that the tale deposits origi-
nally occurred as hornblende, which has gradually become hydrated.

Since 1879, ten distinct mines have been opened, and some of these
have reached a depth of 400 feet or more on the slope. The present
output from these ten mines amounts, according to a close estimate, to
51,000 tons a year, which figure, however, could be readily doubled if
the reducing mills had the capacity to handle the larger quantity.
(Specimens Nos. 53590 to 53592, U.S.N.M., from Gouverneur are
characteristic. )

In western North Carolina and northern Georgia, particularly in
Cherokee, Moore, Guilford, and Murphy counties in the first-named
State, and in the Cohutta Mountains of Murray County in the last, are
numerous beds of very clean white or greenish fibrous tale occurring
in part, at least, in connection with the marble beds. Some of the
material is soft, white, and almost translucent (Specimens Nos. 26137,
27654, 63448, U.S.N.M.), while other is tough and semitranslucent,
hornlike. The beds are mostly very irregular in extent as well as in
quality of material.

In Stockbridge, Windsor County, Vermont, tale is mined from veins
from 3 to 12 feet in width in soapstone. (Specimen No. 53206,
U.S.N.M.) A greenish schistose tale is alsomined in Murray County,
Georgia. (Specimen No. 53226, U.S.N.M.)

Soapstone occurs mainly associated with the older crystalline rocks,
318 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

and in some cases is undoubtedly an altered eruptive; in others there is
a possibility of its being a product of metamorphism of magnesian
sediments. The principal beds now known lie in the Appalachian
regions of the eastern United States, though others have recently been
found in California, and there is no reason for supposing that many
more may not exist in the Rocky Mountain regions. The beds, if such
they can be called, are not extensive as a rule, but occur in lenticular
masses of uncertain age intercalated with other magnesian and horn-
blendie or micaceous rocks frequently more or less admixed with ser-
pentine. The rock, like serpentine, is, as a rule, traversed by bad
seams and joints, and the opening of any new deposit is always
attended with more or less risk, as there is in many cases no guarantee
that sound blocks of sufficient size to be of value will ever be obtainable.
The following facts relative to the. occurrence of soapstone in the
United States are taken mainly from a handbook by the writer on
Stones for Building and Decoration, issued by Messrs. Wiley & Co.,
of New York.

An extensive bed of fine quality soapstone was discovered as early as
1794 at Francestown, New Hampshire (Specimen No. 10774, U.S.N.M.).
This was worked as early as 1802, and up to 1867 some 5,500 tons had
been quarried and sold. In this latter year some 3,700 stoves were
manufactured by one company alone. The business has been conducted
on a large scale ever since, and the bed has been followed some 400
feet, the present opening being 40 feet wide 80 feet long and 80 feet
deep. Other beds, constituting a part of the same formation, occur in
Weare, Warner, Canterbury, and Richmond, in the same State, and all
of which have been operated to a greater or less extent.

Fine beds of the stone also occur in the town of Orford, and an
important quarry was opened as early as 1855 in Haverhill, but it has
not been worked continuously.

At least sixty beds of soapstone are stated to occur in Vermont,
mostly located along the east side of the Green Mountain range, and
extending nearly the entire length of the State. The rock occurs asso-
ciated with serpentine and hornblende, and the beds as a rule are not
continuous for any distance, but have a great thickness in comparison
with their length. It not infrequently happens that several isolated
outcrops occur on the same line of strata, sometimes several miles
apart, and in many cases alternating with beds of dolomitic limestone
that are scattered along with them.

The sixty beds above mentioned occur mainly in the towns of Reads-
boro, Marlboro, New Fane, Windham (Specimen No. 26626, U.S.N.M.),
Townsend, Athens, Grafton, Andover, Chester (Specimen No. 53244,
U.S.N.M.), Cavendish, Baltimore, Ludlow, Plymouth, Bridgewater,
Thetford, Bethel, Rochester, Warren, Braintree, Waitsfield, Moretown,
Duxbury, Waterbury, Bolton, Stow, Cambridge, Waterville, Berk-
shire, Eden, Lowell, Belvidere, Johnson, Enosburg, Westfield, Rich-
PLATE 14.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,—Merrill.

WINVATASNN3d ‘JALLaAVsv ‘AYYVN® ANOLSdVOS V NI MalA

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 319

ford, Troy, and Jay. Of these beds those of Grafton (Specimen No.
17569, U.S.N.M.) and Athens are stated to have been longest worked
and to have produced the most stone. The beds lie in gneiss, and were
profitably worked as early as 1820. Another important bed occurs in
the town of Weatherfield. This, like that of Grafton, is situated in
gneiss, but has no overlying rock, and the material can be had in inex-
haustible quantities. It was first worked about 1847. The Rochester
beds were also of great importance, the stone being peculiarly fine-
grained and compact. It was formerly much used in the manufacture
of refrigerators. The bed at New Fane occurs in connection with ser-
pentine, and is some half mile in length by not less than 12 rods in
width at its northern extremity. The soapstone and serpentine are
strangely mixed, the general courses of the bed being like that of an
irregular vein of granite in limestone.

In Massachusetts quarries of soapstone have been worked from time
to time in Lynnfield and North Dana (Specimen No. 26439, U.S.N.M.).
The Lynnfield stone occurs associated with serpentine. It has not
been quarried of late, but was formerly used for stove backs, sills,
and steps. In New York State soapstone and tale occur in abundance
near Fowler and Edwards in St. Lawrence County. Some of this
is very pure, nearly snow-white talc, and is quarried and pulverized
for commercial purposes, as already noted.

In Pennsylvania, in the southern edge of Montgomery County,
extending from the northern brow of Chestnut Hill between the two
turnpikes across the Wissahickon Creek and the Schuylkill to a point
about a mile west of Marion Square, there occurs a long, straight out-
crop of steatite and serpentine. The eastern and central part of this
belt on the southern side consists chiefly of steatite, while the northern
side contains much serpentine, interspersed through it in lumps.
Only in a few neighborhoods, as at Lafayette, does either the steatite
or serpentine occur in a state of sufficient purity to be profitably
quarried. On the east bank of the Schuylkill, about 2 miles below
Spring Mill, a good quality of material occurs that has long been
successfully worked (Specimen No. 63168, U.S.N.M.) The material
is now used principally for stoves, fireplaces, and furnaces, though
toward the end of the last century and during the early part of the
present one, before the introduction of the Montgomery County mar-
ble, it was in considerable demand for doorsteps and sills. It proved
poorly adapted for this purpose, owing to the unequal hardness of the
different constituents, the soapstone wearing away rapidly, while the
serpentine was left projecting like knots, or ‘t hobnails in a plank.”

Several small deposits of soapstone occur in Maryland and some of
them have been worked ona small scale. The material is of good
quality, but apparently to be had only in small pieces (Specimens Nos.
25010 and 26628) from Montgomery and Baltimore Counties.

In Virginia soapstone occurs in Fairfax (Specimens Nos. 25254, 28649,
320 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

U.S.N.M.), Fluvanna and Buckingham, counties. There is also a bed at
Alberene, Albemarle County, a little west of Green Mountain. This
is the bed so extensively worked by the Albemarle Soapstone Com-
pany (Specimen No. 62547, U.S.N.M.) From these points the beds
extend in a southwesterly direction through Nelson County, where
they are associated with serpentine; thence across the James River
above Lynchburg and present an outcrop about 2 miles west of the
town on the road leading to Liberty; also one some 23 miles west
of New London. Continuing in the same direction the bed is seen
at the meadows of Goose Creek, where it has been quarried to
some extent. Parallel ranges of soapstone appear near the Pigg
River in Franklin County. About 30 miles southwest from Rich-
mond, at Chula, in Amelia County, there are outcrops of soapstone
said to be of fine quality, and which in former times were quite
extensively operated by the Indians. They have been reopened within
a few years and the material is now on the market.

North Carolina contains, in addition to an abundance of the finest
grades of tale and steatite as already noted, beds of the compact com-
mon soapstone. Deposits in Cherokee and Moore counties furnish
especially desirable material for lubricating and other purposes.
Murphy, Guilford, Ashe, and Alamance counties (Specimen No. 27664,
U.S.N.M.) are also capable of affording good materials, but much of
it is inaccessible at present on account of poor railroad facilities
(Specimens Nos. 27662, 28118, U.S.N.M.) from Greensboro and Ball
Mountain.

Beds of soapstone are stated to occur in Salina County, Arkansas
(Specimen No. 39061, U.S.N.M.), and in Chester, Spartanburg, Union,
Pickens,Oconee, Anderson, Abbeville, Kershaw, Fairfield, and Richland
counties in South Carolina (Specimens Nos. 37590, 39019, U.S.N.M.).
Texas is also stated to have an abundance of material and of good
quality on the Hondo and Sandy creeks in Llano County. The Dis-
trict of Columbia contains a bed which is, however, probably too small
to ever prove of value (Specimen No. 38510, U.S.N.M.).

Uses. —The use to which the material is put varies greatly according
to its purity and physical characteristics. The white, fibrous variety
of great purity from St. Lawrence County, New York, is used as a
filler in paper manufacture, something like 30 per cent of the weight
of printing paper being made up of this material. For the purpose it
is run successively through coarse and finer crushers and then through
buhrstones, after which it is placed into what is known as an Alsing
cylinder, some 6 feet in diameter by about the same length. This
cylinder is lined with porcelain brick and filled to one-third its volume
with rounded pebbles or quartz, and when in motion revolves at about
the rate of 20 revolutions a minute. At the end of some three to four
hours the tale is reduced to the form of an impalpable powder. The
so-called cyclone crusher has also been used to good advantage in this
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. avi

work. The pulverized material is also used as a lubricator, for which
purposes it is remarkably well adapted. Rubbed between the thumb
and finger the powder is smooth and oily without a particle of grit.
It is also used in soap making, for which purpose it can, however, be
considered only as an adulterant, increasing the weight but not the
cleaning properties of the article. It is further used as a dressing for
fine leathers. Small quantities are used by shoe and glove dealers also.
The pure, creamy white tale, such as is obtained from North Carolina,
is used for crayons and slate pencils, while the still finer, cryptocrys-
talline varieties, such as are at present obtained almost wholly from
abroad, are used by tailors under the name of ‘‘ French chalk” and
for making the tips for gas burners. Fine compact grades of a some-
what similar rock (agalmatolite) are used extensively in China and
Japan for small ornaments. The stone is readily carved in fine sharp
lines, and is a general favorite for making the grotesque images for
which these countries are noted, and which are often sold throughout
the country under the name of jadestone.

The following account of the soapstone industry of China is taken
from the Engineering and Mining Journal of September 30, 1893. The
material referred to as soapstone is, however, very probably agalmato-
lite. (See p. 322.)

The British consul at Wenchow, in his last report, gives some interesting details
respecting the manufacture of steatite or soapstone ornaments in China. The mines
are distant 42 miles from Whenchow, and are reached by a boat journey of 35 miles
up the river, followed by a land journey of 7 miles over rough ground. The hills
containing steatite are owned by 20 to 30 families, who in some cases work the
mines themselves, in others engage miners to do it on their account. The gal-
leries are driven into the sides of the hills, and are often nearly a mile in length.
The composition of the hills is soft, and the shafts require to be propped up by sup-
ports of timber; for the same reason the floors are full of mire and clay, so that the
miners wear special clothing, made principally of rhea fiber. They lead a hard life,
living in straw huts on the hillside. The stone when first extracted is soft, hardening
on exposure to the air. Itis brought out of the mine in shovels, and is sold at the pit
mouth to the carvers at a uniform price of about one-half a penny per pound. This
would be when the purchaser buys it in gross, without first selecting it in any way.
When picked over, the mineral varies very considerably in value—according to the
size of the lump, its shape, and above all, itscolors. The colors are given as purple,
red, mottled red, black, dark blue, light blue, gray, white, eggshell white, ‘‘jade,”’
beeswax, and “‘frozen.’’ Of these ‘‘jade’’ (the white variety, not the green) and
‘frozen’? are the most valuable. Indeed so valuable is the latter that good speci-
mens of it are said to fetch more than real jade itself. The industry finds employ-
ment at the present time for some 2,000 miners and carvers. A great impetus was
given to it by the opening of Wenchow to foreign trade. Previous to that event the
chief purchasers of soapstone were officials and literary men, and the article most
often carved was a stamp or seal. When it was discovered that foreigners admired
the stone, articles were produced to meet what was supposed to be their taste. Such
were landscapes in low or high relief, flower vases, plates, card trays, fruit dishes,
cups, teapots, and pagodas. If left to his own devices, the native carver proceeds
first to examine his stone, much as a cameo cutter would do, to discover how best he
can take advantage of its shape and shades ofcolor. (See further under Agalmatolite. )

NAT mus 99 21

322 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The following quotation from an English writer will serve to show
the advantages gained by a use of tale in paper making:

There is a decided advantage in substituting agalite for China clay, because not
only is there an increase of dry paper, but such is obtained by a saving of fiber, as
well as a decrease of the waste in the actual loading material and a lessened amount
of polluting matter to be dealt with. Moreover, the fibrous character of the agalite
causes it to yield a paper of higher class quality than is the case with China clay.
The extra gloss which it is possible to obtain with papers containing agalite is shown
in various American journals and books.

The soapstones are suited for a considerable range of application.
Although so soft, they are among the most indestructible and lasting
of rocks, but are too slippery and perhaps of too sombre a color for
general structural purposes. At present the chief use of the material
in the United States is in the form of thin slabs for sinks and stationary
washtubs. At one time it was quite extensively used throughout New
England in the manufacture of stoves for heating purposes and to some
extent for fire brick, the well-seasoned stone being thoroughly fire-
proof. The putting upon the market of unseasoned materials or of
material with bad veins, which caused the stone to crack or perhaps
fly to fragments when subjected to high temperature, aroused a preju-
dice against the employment of this materia!, and the manufacture is
stated to have been to a considerable extent discontinued as a conse-
quence. In the manufacture of either stoves or washtubs slabs of
considerable size, free from segregation nodules of quartz, pyrite, or
other minerals or from dry seams, are essential. As but few of the
now known outcrops can furnish material of this nature, the main —
part of the business of the country is in the hands of but two or three
companies. The waste material from the quarries, or the entire out-
put in certain cases, is pulverized and used as a lubricant or white earth,
as is the micaceous variety.

13. PyROPHYLLITE; AGALMATOLITE; AND PAGODITE (IN PART).

This is a hydrous silicate of aluminum corresponding to the formula
H,O, Al,O,, 4510,. The analyses given below show the average com-
position of the material as it occurs in nature:

| | |
| : ic ;
| Locality. | Silica. | Aluminum.| Water. Remarks. |
Weer oat :

| Westana, Sweden ............- 65. 61 26, 09 7.08 |) With small amounts of

Neer Oyler a hss a ES ee ee Se Sec 66. 38 27.95 5. 20 iron, magnesia, and |
| Deep River, North Carolina --. 65. 93 29. 54 5. 40 lime. |

The mineral is not known in distinct crystals, but occurs rather
in foliated lamellar, massive and compact forms, closely resembling
some forms of talc, for which its soapy or greasy feeling renders it
very likely to be mistaken, though its hardness (2 to 2.5) is somewhat
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. ovo

greater. The prevailing colors are white or greenish gray to dull red,
often mottled.

Occurrence.—TVhe material sometimes occurs, as in the Deep River
region (Chatham, Moore, and Orange counties), North Carolina, in com-
pact to schistose masses of beds of considerable extent and purity.

Uses.—The more compact varieties, like that of Deep River (Speci-
men No. 27665, U.S.N.M.), ave used for making slate pencils and tailors’
chalk, or French chalk, so called. The still more compact forms, known
asagalmatolite (Specimens Nos. 87812, from Sonora, Mexico, and 27133
and 27134, Japan) and pagodite, are used extensively by the Chinese
and Japanese for making small images and art objects of various kinds.
Dana states, however, that a part of the so-called Chinese agalmatolite
is in reality pinite and a part of steatite. The objects sold by Chinese
dealers at the various expositions of late years under the name of jade
stone are, however, of agalmatolite.

Prutre: Agalmatolite in part. Composition, a hydrous silicate of
alumina and the alkalies. According to Dana,' the name is made to
include a large number of alteration products of white spodumene,
nepheline, feldspar, ete. Professor Heddle has described® a pinite
(agalmatolite) occurring in large lumps of a sea-green color, surround-
ing crystalline masses of feldspar in the granites of Scotland, and which
he regards as alteration products of oligoclase. The composition as
given is: Silica, 48.72 per cent; alumina, 31.56 per cent; ferric oxide,
2.43 per cent; magnesia, 1.81 per cent; potash, 9.48 per cent; soda, 0.31
per cent; water, 5.75 per cent.

14. SEPIOLITE: MEERSCHAUM.

This mineral is a hydrous silicate of magnesia, having the composi-
tion indicated by the formula H,Mg, Si,O,,,=silica 60.8 per cent; mag-
nesia, 27.1 per cent; water, 12.1 per cent. The prevailing colors are
white or grayish, sometimes with a faint yellowish, reddish, or bluish
green tinge. It is sufficiently soft to be impressed by the nail, opaque,
with a compact structure, smooth feel, and somewhat clay-like aspect;
rarely it shows a fibrous structure. Specimens Nos. 62545, 66861, and
67749 are characteristic. In nature it rarely occurs in a state of
absolute purity. The following analyses are quoted from Dana’s
Mineralogy:

Locality. | “S103. |) Mgoe|* Heo! | ayo. COs. |

| 2
| | : |
| i
ROTC Yin oceanic oa 61.17 28. 43 0. 06 9.83 | 0. 67 |
| GrEGeC coef. cate eee oS 61.30 | 28. 39 0. 08 9. 74 0.56 |
x * )
| dl ; ' H eee a Pere | Cuo. |) , y Hygroscopic Hy.0
Uta (ibrous))sa2 2s 322--o- 52.97 | 22.50 |) 0.87 \ 9. 90 " 8.80 |
| React | |
"System of Mineralogy, 6th ed., p. 621. * Mineralogical Magazine, IV, p. 215.
324 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The name is from the German words Meer, sea, and Schawm, foam,
in allusion to its appearance.

Mode of occurrence and origin.—According to J. Lawrence Smith,’
the Asiatic material occurs in the form of nodular masses in alluvial
deposits on the plain of Eski-Shehr, and is regarded by him as derived
by a process of substitution from magnesium carbonate which is found
in the serpentine of the neighboring mountains.

In an article by Dr. E. D. Clarke in the Cyclopedia of Arts and
Sciences it is stated that the meerschaum of the Crimeria forms a
stratum some 2 feet thick beneath a much thicker stratum of marl.
Cleveland in his elementary treatise on minerals (1822) states that at
Analotia, in Asia Minor, meerschaum occurs in the form of a vein
more than 6 feet wide, in compact limestone. At Vallecas, Spain, a
very impure form is stated to occur in the form of beds and in such
abundance as to be utilized for building material. Aside from the
localities above mentioned, sepiolite is known to occur in Greece, at
Hrubschitz in Moravia, and in Morocco, in all cases being associated
with serpentine, with which it is apparently genetically related.

Uses.—The mineral owes its chief value to its adaptability for
smokers’ use, being utilized in the manufacture of what are known as
meerschaum pipes. At Vallecas, as above noted, the material is said to
occur in such abundance as to be utilized as a building stone. In
Algeria a soft variety is used in place of soap at the Moorish baths
and for washing linen.

According to Kunz,” meerschaum has occasionally been met with in
compact masses of smooth, earthy texture in the serpentine quarries of
West Nottingham Township, Chester County, Pennsylvania. Only a
few pieces were found, but they were of good quality. It also occurs
in grayish and yellowish masses in the serpentine in Concord, Dela-
ware County, Pennsylvania. Masses of pure white material, weighing
a pound each, have been found in Middletown, in the same county, and
of equally good quality at the Cheever Iron Mine, Richmond, Mas-
sachusetts, in pieces over an inch across; also in serpentine at New
Rochelle, Westchester County, New York. A fibrous variety, in
masses of considerable size, has within a few years been found in
the Upper Gila River region, New Mexico (Specimen No. 67840,
WSN. M.):

According to a writer in the Engineering and Mining Journal,* the
Eski-Shehr mineral is mined from pits and horizontal galleries in
much the same manner as coal. As first brought to the surface it is
white, with a yellowish tint, and is covered with red clayey soil. In
this condition it is sold to dealers on the spot. Before exporting the

1 American Journal of Science 1849, VIII, p. 285.
2Gems and Precious Stones, p. 189.
3 Volume LIX, 1895, p. 464.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 325

material is cleaned, dried, and assorted, the drying taking place in the
open air, without artificial heat in summer, and requiring from five to
six days. The bulk of the material is sent direct to Vienna and Paris.

15. CLAYS.

The term ‘‘clay,” as commonly used comprises materials of widely
diverse origin and mineral and chemical composition, but which have
in common the property of plasticity when wet, and usually that of
becoming indurated when dried either by natural or artificial means.
Of so variable a nature is the material thus classed that no brief
definition can be given that is at all satisfactory. One may perhaps
describe the clays, as a whole, as heterogeneous aggregates of hydrous
and anhydrous aluminous silicates, free quartz, and ever-varying quan-
tities of free iron oxides and calcium and magnesian carbonates, all in
a finely comminuted condition.

Origin and mode of occurrence.—The clays are invariably of sec-
ondary origin—that is, they result from the decomposition of pre-
existing rocks and the accumulation of their less soluble residues, either
in place (as residual clays) or through the transporting power of ice
and water (drift clays). The fact that silicate of aluminum is so char-
acteristic a constituent of nearly all clays is due to the fact that this
substance is one of the most insoluble of natural compounds, and
hence when, under the action of atmospheric or subterranean agencies,
rocks decompose and their more soluble constituents—as lime, mag-
nesia, potash, soda, or even silica—are removed. the aluminous silicate
remains.

The kaolins, which may perhaps be regarded as the simplest of clays,
are the product, as a rule, of decomposition in place of feldspathic
rocks, as gneisses, granites, and pegmatites. Those of Hockessin,
Delaware (Specimens Nos. 63427 to 63430), are mainly of gneissic origin,
though from some of the pits the material is in part at least derived
from the decomposition of feldspathic conglomerate. In other cases
the rock, as in the case of that from Blandford, Massachusetts (Speci-
mens Nos. 68219 and 68221, U.S.N.M.), is a quite pure pegmatite, com-
posed almost wholly of quartz and orthoclase. The samples show the
material in various stages of decomposition. In all these cases the
material as mined contains particles of free quartz and other substances
detrimental to its use as a clay, and which must be removed by washing.
It sometimes happens that the natural admixture of silica and unde-
composed silicates is of just the right proportions to be utilized after
merely grinding and bolting. The so-called ‘‘ Cornwall stone” (Speci-
mens Nos. 65136 and 62118, U.S.N.M.) is but a granite, very free from
mica and ferruginous impurities, and in which the feldspar only has in
part decomposed to the condition of kaolin. In some instances the
natural conditions are such that running waters have assorted out the

326 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

fine clay particles from the coarser impurities and deposited them by
themselves, as in the case of that from Florida (Specimen No. 67256,
U.S.N.M.). In the majority of cases, however, natural washing has
but served to still further contaminate the materials, giving rise to the
complex transported clays to be noted later. Many rocks, such as the
aluminous limestones, are so impure that on decomposing and the
losing of their soluble lime carbonates they leave only very inferior
‘arieties of clay, suitable for brick and tile or pottery making. Such
are often highly colored by iron oxides (Specimens Nos. 62564, 62673,
63463, and 63493, U.S.N.M., in Rockweathering series).

The assorting and transporting power of running waters rarely
allow the beds of kaolin or of clay to remain in a condition of virgin
purity or even in the place of their origin. The minute size and the
shape of their constituent particles render them easily transported
by rains and running streams, to be deposited again in regularly
laminated beds (see Plate 18) when the streams lose their carrying
power by flowing into lakes or seas. It is through such agencies that
have in times passed been formed the so-called Leda clays (Specimen
No. 73036, U.S.N.M.) and the loess. Such may contain a very large
proportion of mechanically derived material and proportionately little
kaolin.

Speaking of clays of this nature as they exist in Wisconsin, Cham-
berlain says:

They owe their origin mainly to the mechanical grinding of glacial ice upon strata
of limestone, sandstone, and shale, resulting in a comminuted product that now
contains from 25 to 50 per cent of carbonates of lime and magnesia. This product
of glacial grinding was separated from the mixed stony clays produced by the same
action by water either immediately upon its formation or in the lacustrine epoch
closely following. The process of separation must have been rapid and comparatively
free from the agency of carbonated waters, otherwise the lime and magnesia would
have been leached out.

The formation of beds of clay has been confined to no particular
period of the earth’s history, but has evidently gone on ever since the
first rocks were formed and when rock decomposition began. The
older beds are as a rule greatly indurated and otherwise altered, and
in many instances no longer recognizable as clays at all. Throughout
the Appalachian region clay beds of Cambrian and Silurian ages have,
by the squeezing and sheering incident to the elevation of this mountain
system, become converted into argillites and roofing slates.

Mineral and chemical composition.—Formed thus in a variety of
ways, and consisting not infrequently of materials brought from diverse
sources, it is easy to comprehend that the substances ordinarily grouped
under the name of clays may vary widely in both mineral and chemical
composition. It may be said at the outset that the statements so fre-
quently made to the effect that kaolinite or even kaolin is the basis of
of all clays is not yet well substantiated.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 327

Kaolinite is in itself not properly a clay, nor is it plastic. Further,
in many cases it is present only in nonessential quantities. More open
to criticism yet, because more concise, is the statement sometimes made
that clay is a hydrated silicate of alumina having the formula A1,O,,
98i0,+2H,O. It is doubtful if a clay was ever found which could be
reduced to such a formula excepting by a liberal exercise of the imagi-
nation. There is scarcely one of the silicate minerals that will not
when sufficiently finely comminuted yield a substance possessing those
peculiar physical properties of unctuous feel, plasticity, and color,
which are the only constant characteristics of the multitudinous and
heterogeneous compounds knownas clays. Even pure vitreous quartz
when rubbed to the condition of an impalpable powder has when wet
the plasticity and odor of clay.t| Daubree so long ago as 1878” pointed
out the fact that by the mechanical trituration of feldspars in a revolv-
ing cylinder with water an impalpable mud was obtained, which
remained many days in suspension, and on drying formed masses so
hard as to be broken only with a hammer, resembling the argillites of
the coal measures.

The ever varying chemical nature of the materials classed as clays is
brought out to some extent by a comparison of the analyses in the
table (p. 349), but is even more evident in microscopic and mechanical
examinations. Indeed, as stated by Chamberlain:*

While it is convenient and customary to speak of the crude material of brick as
clay, that which is really made use of is a mixture of clay and sand, or, in the cream-
colored brick, of aluminous clay, caleareous clay or marl, and sand. The mixture is
really a loam and but for the appropriation of that term as the designation of a soil,
it would doubtless be more generally applied to such mixtures.

Professor Crosby, as noted elsewhere, has shown that the blue-gray
brick clays of Cambridge contain only from one-fourth to one-third of
their bulk of ‘‘true clay,” the remainder being finely comminuted
material to which he gives the name rock flour.

An examination of certain English fire clays has shown‘ that they
can not properly be considered as mere hydrous silicates of alumina,
but are very complex mineral admixtures, among which scales of
hydrous micas, grains of feldspar, more rarely quartz and rutile needles
greatly preponderate over the kaolin. The Leda clays of Maine, as
the writer has noted elsewhere, contain a comparatively small amount

‘Referring to the odor of clay when a shower of rain first begins to wet a dry, clayey
soil, Mr. C. Tomlinson has remarked that it is commonly attributed to alumina, and
yet pure alumina gives off no odor when breathed upon or wetted. The fact is, the
peculiar odor referred to belongs only to impure clays, and chiefly to those that con-
tain oxide of iron. (Proceedings of the Geological Association, I, p. 242; quoted in
Woodward’s Geology of England and Wales, p. 439.)

* Geologie Expérimentale; 1879, p. 251.

®Geology of Wisconsin, I, p. 673.

*W.M. Hutchings, Geological Magazine, VII, 1890, p. 264, and VIII, 1891, p. 164.
328 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

of kaolin but much free quartz, scales of mica, bits of still fresh feld-
spar, and more rarely tourmalines and other of the less destructible
silicates.

Iron in the hydrated sesquioxide state is found in nearly all clays,
even the whitest varieties. More than 1 per cent was found in a sili-
ceous clay from Ohio, although the clay itself was almost of snowy
whiteness.

Iron also exists in the form of a silicate and protoxide carbonate, and
sometimes as a sulphide in the form of disseminated pyrite. Lime
and magnesia are also common constituents, either as free carbonates
or as lime-magnesia silicates, and may exercise an important bearing
upon the suitability of a clay for any particular purpose, as will be
noted later. The clay from which the well-known Milwaukee cream-
colored bricks are made contains sometimes as high as 23 per cent
carbonate of lime and 17 per cent carbonate of magnesia, together with
nearly 5 per cent of iron.

The alkalies, potash and soda, are common constituents in small pro-
portions, and also lithia, the first named being most common as well as
most detrimental. It is a fair assumption that these substances are
constituent of still undecomposed fragments of feldspar and the micas.
To the presence of rutile needles and particles of ilmenite are due the
frequent traces of titanic acid revealed by chemical analysis. The
presence of any quartz and undecomposed feldspathic material in a
clay can as a rule be detected by the gritty feeling manifested when
the material is rubbed between the thumb and fingers. Mica is, how-
ever, not readily detected by this means.

The above remarks will explain why a purely chemical analysis of a
clay may be of little value for the purpose of ascertaining its suitability
for any particular purpose. It is essential that we know not merely
the presence or absence of certain elements but also how these elements
are combined. Further than this few clays are used in their natural
condition, being first purified by washing and usually mixed with other
constituents to give them body or fire-resisting properties.

Kinds and classification.—From a geological standpoint the clays
may be divided into two general classes, as above noted, (1) residual
and (2) transported, the first class including a majority of the kaolin,
halloysite, etc., and the second the ordinary brick and potter’s clays,
the loess, adobe, Leda, and the bedded, alluvial deposits of the Cre-
taceous, Carboniferous, and other geological periods. Special names,
based upon such properties as render them peculiarly adapted to eco-
nomic purposes, are common. We thus have (1) the kaolin and
China clay, (2) potter’s clay, (3) pipe clay, (4) fire clay, (5) brick, tile,
and terra cotta clays, etc., (6) slip clays, (7) adobe, and (8) fuller’s
earth. These will be discussed in the order given, though they must
necessarily be discussed but briefly, since the subject of clays alone
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 829

could be made to far exceed the entire limits of the present volume.
The names fat and lean clays are workmen’s terms for clays relatively
pure and plastic or carrying a large amount of mechanical admixtures,
such as quartz sand.

In tie Kaolin and China Clays are included a series of clays used
in the manufacture of the finer grades of porcelain and china ware
and which consist in large proportion of the material kaolin, the name
being derived from the Chinese locality Kaoling, from whence have
for ages been obtained the materials for the highest grades of Chinese
porcelain.

According to Richthofen,’ however, the material from which the
porcelain of King-te-chin is made is not kaolin at all, but a hard
greenish rock having somewhat the appearance of jade and which
occurs intercalated between beds of clay slate. He says:

This rock is reduced, by stamping, to a white powder, of which the finest portion
is ingeniously and repeatedly separated. This is then moulded into small bricks.
The Chinese distinguish chiefly two kinds of this material. Either of them is sold
in King-te-chin in the shape of bricks, and as either is a white earth, they offer
no visible differences. They are made at different places, in the manner described,
by pounding hard rock, but the aspect of the rock is nearly alike in both cases. For
one of these two kinds of material, the place Kaoling (‘‘high ridge’’) was in ancient
times in high repute; and, though it has lost its prestige since centuries, the Chinese
still designate by the name “‘ Kao-ling,”’ the kind of earth which was formerly derived
from there, but is now prepared in other places. The application of the name by
Berzelius, to porcelain earth was made on the erroneous supposition, that the white
earth which he received from a member of one of the embassies (I think, Lord
Amherst) occurred naturally in this state. The second kind of material bears the
name Pe-tun-tse (‘‘ white clay’’).

The following analyses will serve to show the average composition
of (I) the natural material from King-te-Chin, such as is used in the
manufacture of the finest porcelain; (II) that from the same locality
used in the so-called blue Canton ware; (III) that of the English Cor-
nish or Cornwall stone; (IV) washed kaolin from St. Yrieux, France,
and (V) washed kaolin from Hockessin, Delaware.’

| Constituents. I. II. igs ||) Adv Vv.
Silica stesso acetate leche este 73.55 | 73.55 | 73.57 | 48.68 48.73
JAN UMN Sse ee cmeciee tec arcise ose 21.09 | 18.98 | 16.47 | 36.92 37.02
lyauieday.ot GSSse0_ See caneeearenosecadlbopae-so beoocdes 32H Nazeseoss .79
Limersscnceanseeere soe anascee aes 2.55 1.58 | a bee BFE Sen ne ere .16
IMpeneNidue epee ees accemeeeee 15 1.08 spill .02 sabe
POtaS bam ee oe clo snes wel sees ieee el iene wiatere «46 -41
Soc sh tie Be 5 Sn a is ao ee Dp teii. 2.09 } Be 208 \ 04
Combined Gwater =: 2 <nc--d- ccs onsses 2. 62 1.96 Dr45n| owls)  d2.ce

Potaletcsssc.s. .sekaapaedoce wake 99.62 | 99.70 | 99.98 | 99.83 | 100.09 |

1 American Journal of Science,’1871, p. 180.

2 Analyses I and II by J. E. Whitfield, Bulletin 27, U. 8. Geological Survey; Til
from Langenbeck’s Chemistry of Pottery; IV from Zirkel’s Lehrbuch der Petrog-
raphy, III, p. 758, and V by George Steiger, U. 8S. Geological Survey.
330 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Plate 15, figs. 1 and 2, will serve to show the shape and kind of the
particles in the mineral kaolinite and in a prepared sample of the
Hockessin kaolin, as seen under the microscope.

The name halloysite is given to a white or yellowish material closely
simulating kaolin in composition, but occurring in indurated masses,
with a greasy feel and luster, and which adheres strongly to the
tongue, a property due to its capacity for absorbing moisture.’ As it
is utilized for much the same purpose as is kaolin, it is included here.

Halloysite is described by Gibson” as occurring in a bed some 3 feet
in thickness, lying near the base of the Lower Siliceous (li. Carbon-
iferous) formation, a little above or close to the Black Shale (Devonian),
in Murphrees Valley, Alabama. This bed has been worked with satis-
factory results near Valley Head, in Dekalb County. The present
writer has found the material in comparatively small quantities, asso-
ciated with kaolin, in narrow veins in the decomposing gneissic rock
near Stone Mountain, Georgia. A similar occurrence is described
near Elgin, Scotland. (Analysis below.) Near Tiiffer, Styria, halloy-
site is described*® as occurring in extensive thick and veinlike agglom-
erations in porphyry. It is quite pure, and in the form of irregular
nodules of various sizes, frequently with a pellucid, steatitelike cen-
tral nucleus, passing outwardly into a pure white substance, greasy to
the touch, in which are occasionally included minute pellucid granules.
Outside it passes into an earthy, friable substance. The following
analyses show the varying composition of halloysite from (I) Elgin,
Scotland, (II) Steinbruck, Styria, and (III) Detroit Mine, Mono Lake,
California.

Constituents. Ve AE ING
SiliGa +36 GAseek: SES Re eee 39.30 | 40.7 42.91
Altninia, 222 IESE eens iee ae 38.52 | 38.40] 38.4
MIM cae ate ae ee aes 0.75 0. 60 0.6
Mapnesiav. ss) ccse.se-cesoseeeee= 0.83 1.50 1:5
Merric/ oxide gt ss-co ass ee AAD Tey oe S53 Trace.
Mamnranese ao son. 25 asecen- cae 0) 25) ae |e a
Water: 25:4. c2 352 2n tenses 19.34 | 18.00 18. 00

99. 20

A white chalky halloysite from the pits of the Frio Kaolin Mining
Company in Edwards County, Texas (Specimen No. 53253, U.S.N.M.),

1This property is characteristic of nearly all clay compounds when they are dry.
It is to this same property that many of the so-called ‘‘madstone”’ owe their imagi-
nary virtues. Nearly all the stones of this type examined by the writer have proved
to be of indurated clay, halloysite, or a closely related compound. When applied
to a fresh wound, such adhere until they become saturated with moisture, when they
fallaway. Their curative powers are of course wholly imaginary.

? Geological Survey of Alabama. Report on Murphrees Valley, 1893, p. 121.

’ Mineralogical Magazine, II, 1878, p. 264.
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899,— Merrill. PLATE 15

Fig. 2.
MICROSECTIONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF (1) KAOLINITE AND (2) WASHED

KAOLIN.
The enlargement is the same in both cases.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill.

MICROSECTIONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF (1) HALLOYSITE AND (2) LEDA
CLAY.
The enlargement is the same in both cases.

PLATE 16.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 331

has the composition given below as shown by analyses made in the
laboratory of the department:

SOU (st) aceon wane oes Dee ie re 45. 82
RUT LTAe bies eps ee ah re ie ee aye te ots S 39. 77
POtaslics 23.5) see sie cee eng ara oes oh Se . 30
emit OD sco ea ee eae 13. 38

99. 27

The material is somewhat variable, corresponding in part to the
halloysite described by Dana, and being nonplastic, and in part being
plastic to an extraordinary degree. The plastic portions are almost
as gritless as starch paste. Its appearance under the microscope is
shown in Plate 16, fig. 1, the interspaces of the visible angular par-
ticles being occupied by the pasty, almost amorphous material. The
particles themselves act very faintly on polarized light, and it is not
possible to determine their mineralogical nature.

The name Indianaite has been given by Cox to a variety of halloy-
site found in Lawrence County, Indiana, and which he regarded as
resulting from the decomposition of Archimedes (Lower Carbonifer-
ous) limestone. It is represented as forming a stratum from 6 to 10
feet thick, underlying a massive bed of Coal Measure conglomerate
100 feet thick and overlying a bed of limonite 2 to 5 feet thick. The
material like kaolin is used in the manufacture of porcelain ware.
The composition of this material as given by Dana is as follows: Sil-
ica 39 per cent, alumina 36 per cent, water 23.50 per cent, lime and
magnesia 0.63 per cent, alkalies 0.54 per cent; 99.67 per cent. (See
Specimens, Nos. 29714, 34441, U.S.N.M.)

The potters’ and pipe clays belong mainly to what are known
geologically as bedded clays, and are as a rule very siliceous ¢om-
pounds, carrying in some instances as much as 50 per cent of free
quartz and 6 to 10 per cent of iron oxides and other impurities.
They are highly plastic and of a white to blue, gray, or brown color
(See Specimens, Nos. 17245, 33975, 20286, 67796, to 67798, from the
United States and England) and burn gray, brown, or red. The tables
on page 349 will show the varying composition of materials thus
classed. The fire clays, so called on account of the refractory nature,
differ mainly in the small percentages of lime and the alkalies they
varry, and to the absence of which they owe their refractory proper-
ties. (Specimens, Nos. 11629, New Jersey; 53179, Maryland; 59258,
West Virginia; 68248, California; 53249-53251, South Dakoka, ete.,
are characteristic. )

The bedded clays of the United States reach their maximum devel-
opment in strata of Cretaceous and Carboniferous ages. To the Cre-
taceous age belong the celebrated plastic clays of New Jersey and a
very large proportion of the brick, tile, and terra cotta clays of Dela-
Sat REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

ware,’ Maryland, and Virginia. The New Jersey beds are very exten-
sively utilized in Middlesex County and fully described in the State
Geological Reports.”

As described, the entire plastic clay formation consists of several
members as below, arranged in a descending series:

Feet.
(1) Dark-colored clay (with beds and lamine of lignite) -........... 50
(2) Sandy clay, with sand in alternate layers.......-..---2.--....-<- 40
(3) Stoneware clay bed - 22. ¥/. «52h -- 523-50 o ae eee ees 30
(4) Sand and sandy clay (with lignite near the bottom) .........-..-- 50
(5) South Amboy fire-clay bed. -22 22552. 22- ~~. =e 20
(6) Sandy clay (generally red or yellow) ~~ - 2-2-2222 ee Seen ee 3
(7) Sand and kaolin 2.2... i2s22ec.ceii2- 3.2 see 10
(8): Feldspar bed... .. 2-25.22 224s cee ee as er 5
(9), Micaceous sand bed! 2. St 20. 232: oe ee oe 20
(10) Laminated clay, and sand --.2-252.- 22-22-2252 ee 30
(11) Pipe clay (top white) 222. 32 32-0 eS a2- 2 10
(12) Sandy clay’ (including leaf bed)... --- 22.222 22 aioe re eee 5
(13) ‘Woodbridge fire-clay: bed" <1 2-2... 2222 3.us see eee eee 20
(14) Fire-sand. bedyi. bocce dct en sek ose Be ceria oe re eee 15
Raritan clay beds:
(15). Fine clay. 20s Ss. f ace ert ere anes eet erry a cee ere 15
(16) Sandy ‘clay.2: o2222cneshes2 822 sen s- eee oe eee 4
(17) Rotters’ clays: 32S 222s ae ee eee eee eee een eee 20
Total 2 oo. teste tee eh = Be ee 347

The following section of the Coal Measure clays at St. Louis, as pub-
ilshed in Bulletin No. 3 of the Geological Survey of Missouri, will
serve to show the alternating character of these beds, and their vary-
ing qualities as indicated by the uses to which they are put.*

(1) Loess, 20 feet.
(2) Limestone (Coal Measure), 5 feet.
(3) Clay, white and yellow, used for sewer-pipe manufacture, called ‘bastard fire
clay,’’ 3 to 4 feet.

(4) Clay, yellow and red, sold for paint manufacture and for coloring plaster and
mortar, called ‘‘ochre,”’ 3 feet.

(5) Clay, gray to white, used for paint manufacture and filling, 1 foot 6 inches.

(6) Pipe clay, variegated, reddish brown and greenish, called ‘‘keel,’’ 12 feet.

(7) Sandstone.

(8) Slaty shale.

(9) Coal.

(10) Fire clay, becoming sandy toward the base.

When first mined these Coal Measure clays are usually very hard,
but on exposure to the weather slack and fall into powder. They are

1This of course does not include the kaolin deposits of Hockessin, Newcastle
County, and similar deposits.

2Report on Clay Deposits of Woodbridge, South Amboy, and other places in New
Jersey, 1878.

3 Bulletin No. 3, Geological Survey of Missouri, 1890.
Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill. PLATE 17.

gz
Se kee:
BNE

Ss

capes
rela

Fig. 2.
MICROSECTIONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF (1) ALBANY COUNTY, WYOMING,
CLAY AND (2) FULLER’S EARTH.
The enlargement is the same in both cases.
PLATE 18.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.— Merrill

‘TMIeW “HT Aq ydeasojoyd B mod
“ANIVI ‘NOLSIMA ‘SAVI9 vaa7

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. Bod

as a rule much less fusible than are the glacial or stratified clays, and
are used mainly in the manufacture of fire brick, sewer pipe, terra
cotta stoneware, as crocks, fruit jars, jugs, etc., glass and gas retorts,
smelting pots, etc. Some of these articles are made direct from the
natural clays, while others are from a mixture of several clays or of a
clay mixed with powdered quartz and feldspar.

For ordinary brick-making purposes a great variety of materials
are employed; in some cases residuary deposits, and in others alluvial
and sedimentary. Throughout the glacial regions of the United States
a fine unctious blue-gray material, laid down in estuaries during the
Champlain epoch, the so-called Leda clays, are the main materials used
for this purpose. Such are also sometimes used in making the cheaper
kinds of pottery. The bowlder clays of the glacial regions are also
sometimes used when sufficiently homogeneous.

The prevailing colors of the Leda clays are blue-gray or yellowish.
They all carry varying amounts of iron, lime, magnesia, and the
alkalies, and when burned turn to red of varying tints. They fuse
with comparative ease and are used mainly for brick and tile making
and for the coarser forms of earthenware, such as flower pots, being
as a rule mixed with siliceous sand to counteract shrinkage. The
mining of such material is of the simplest kind, and consists merely of
scraping away the overlying soil and sand, if such there be, and remov-
ing the clay in the form of sidehill cuts or open pits.

Plate 18, facing this page, shows a cut in one of the beds at Lewiston,
Maine. The material here is fine and homogeneous, of a blue-gray
color, and contains no appreciable grit. It is mixed with siliceous
sand and used for making bricks, baking red. An analysis of the
material in its air-dry state yielded results as below:

STO TCSTH CL) SR eae Sea es ee ae ee 56.17
WAlmantags CNL Gy)\, a a5) Sas ecee @s2asoee = = 24. 2
Perrans oxide, (FeO). . 22 2555 25-2202-52 == 3. 54
| ETE O00 Re eel Spiele Wee eee Oc 2.09
Mises OMRON ast 2 teeters = 2.57
p2ay hE ON ON Oe as, CR a Ag ccs a 4. 06
oa se Os eS Fe ed a ke oa 2.25
Foniiiorb (0) 22 22 uae anes e ne 4.69

99. 62

Under the microscope these clays are seen to be made up of beauti-
fully fresh, angular bits of quartz, feldspar, mica, hornblende, and
augite, with more rarely tourmalines, zircons, and other refractory
minerals, with a basis of extremely fine undetermined material which
may perhaps be kaolin, though the general structure of the clay is
such as to suggest it owes its origin mainly to mechanical trituration,
rather than chemical decomposition. The appearance of the Lewiston
clay under the microscope is shown in Plate 16, fig. 1. (See Specimens
304 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Nos. 73036, 61041, and 61042, of these clays in their natural, mixed,
and baked condition. )

One of the most constant distinctions between the so-called clays of glacial and
nonglacial origin, are the relatively large amounts, in the first mentioned, of lime car-
bonate and alkalies and the extremely finely comminuted siliceous material to whicke
the name rock flour is commonly given. Prof. W. O. Crosby, has shown that the
smooth and plastic bluish-gray brick clays of West Cambridge contain only from
one-fourth to one-third their bulk of the clay kaolin, the remainder being largely
rock flour. [Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, X XV, 1890. ]

Leda clays from Beaver County, Pennsylvania, used in the manu-
facture of terra cotta at New Brighton, are reported’ as having the
following composition:

SINICA i sees 2 eee cee ae ee | 46.160 67. 780
AIIM 8) a5) See eee one ete ares | 26.976 16. 290
Sesquioxide of iron. 22. 5.- os. --s5---- 7.214 4.570
Titamiesacidl. So sotecc seek eet eec ace ee .740 | . 780
THING ys Aon Cee ee ee eee eee ase a aeies 2.210 . 600
Ma pepesisg.. =i5.=seeee cite aces ee aaemee 1.520 «727
Alikeilies 5.252 fcetsicbesessosess - sense 3. 246 2.001
Water aueScnses sactcees nice noe sceeecsse 11. 220 6.340

| 99.286 99. 088

Vitrified brick for street pavements are made from fusible clays,
sometimes in their natural condition and sometimes mixtures of ground
shale and clay. (See Specimens, Nos. 61141, 61142, and 68049, from
Evansville, Indiana.)

The following analyses of the materials used by the Onondaga Vit-
rified Pressed Brick Company show the character of the materials
there used:”

A green
Caleareous BF ck ae
Constituents. layer in t ge f ih Red shale. | Blue shale. Clay.
shale bank.| ‘Ure of the
different
shales.
SiliGi ae aee eee een a as tee ee eee ees 25, 40 54. 25 52.30 57.79 | 45. 35
ATMA Gircee anon ne Seek See ae Ree oe 9. 46 16.89 18. 85 16.15 | 12.19
Peroxide Oliron: - See ae eee eee eee 2.24 5. 81 6.55 5. 20 4.41
hime aac csc. 5 cca ee eee eee 22. 81 4.34 3.36 2.73 10.99
Mapniesitine oo 65cc: cake See eee eee 10.39 5. 21 4.49 4. 67 6.38
Carbonic acid ov. os Fee se eee ee eee 20.96 | - 4.3 3. 04 3.42 7.24
POLISH scene ook bales ee SO eee .95 2.95 4.65 4,11 | 3. 26
SOG a Mie eco lois Semcican bane 222 ee eo Ree eee 83 BB) ibe? | 1.14
Water and organic matter........-----=--- 7.60 5. 01 5.30 4.50 8.90
Oxideofammanganesess. .. 5. ca. cone cae-e | oe cue eee eters Trace. Trace. [seeett cee
[IGT ae ee ERE PR 2 | 99. 81 99.59 99. 89 99. 79 | 99. 86

The name slip clay is given to a readily fusible, impalpably fine clay
used for imparting a glaze to earthenware vessels. These clays carry

1Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, Report of Chemical Analyses, p. 257.
2 Bulletin of the New York State Museum, III, No. 12, March, 1895. Clay Indus-
tries of New York, p. 200.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. oor

iron oxides, potash and soda, together with lime and magnesia in such
proportions that they vitrify readily, forming thus an impervious
glass over those portions of the ware to which they are applied.

The following analyses show (1) the composition of a slip clay used
in pottery works in Akron, Ohio, and (II) one from Albany, New
York. (Specimen No. 53583, U.S.N.M.):

Constituents. (aye (1I.)
Siliea...<\..- oc.c2 ciecee aoe ese Saeeice 60. 40 58. 54
AlUMING) -secsaees noes eee eee oes 10.42 | 15.41
Tron/sesquioxagde@lsae- =-ae2 ae teat ease ate 5. 36 3.19
GING ee. Se coco come ees eee Sate te eee 9.88 6.30
Marinoni Se a eda nts Be Oe | 4.98 3.40
YSU ei SOR ne SEN CEES 0.87 4.45
Sulphuric aCidssncase- ess cee aes 0.65 1.10
Phosphoricsacid@s -c- 2. c--s- 25-022 = ON09% 9 Ree
Carbonic acid and water..-.....------ 8. 05 8.08

Motale oe Fe sacar sods 100. 00 100. 47 |

The Albany clay is stated by Nason’ to glaze at comparatively low
temperatures and to rarely crack or check. It occurs in a stratum 4 to
5 feet thick. It is used very extensively in the United States, and has
even been shipped to Germany and France. (See also Specimens
Nos. 53582, U.S.N.M., from Brimfield, Ohio; 53580, U.S.N.M., from
Rowley, Michigan, and 52985, 52995, U.S.N.M., from Meissen, Saxony.)

The name adobe is given to a calcareous clay of a gray-brown or
yellowish color, very fine grained and porous, which is sufficiently
friable to crumble readily in the fingers, and yet has sufficient coher-
ency to stand for many years in the form of vertical escarpments,
without forming appreciable talus slopes. It is in common use through-
out Arizona, New Mexico, and Mexico proper for building material, the
dry adobe being first mixed with water, pressed in rough rectangular
wooden molds some 10 by 18 or more inches and 3 or 4 inches deep,
and then dried in the sun. In some cases chopped straw is mixed with
it to increase its tenacity. Buildings formed of this material endure for
generations and even centuries in these arid climates. The material of
the adobe is derived from the waste of the surrounding mountain slopes,
the disintegration being mainly mechanical. According to Prof. I. C.
Russell it is assorted and spread out over the valley bottoms by ephem-
eral streams. It consists of a great variety of minerals, among which
quartz is conspicuous. The chemical nature of the adobes vary widely,
as would naturally be expected, and as is shown in the following analyses
from Professor Russell’s paper:”

1 Forty-seventh Annual Report of the State Geologist of New York, 1893, p. 468.
* Subaerial Deposits of North America, Geological Magazine, VI, 1889, pp. 289 and
342.
336

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Analyses of adobe.

SS) ae Fe Fort Win- Il, IV,

Constituents. a aNiaee : gate, New Humboldt,| Salt Lake

Mexita Wise, Nevada. | City, Utah.
S1Op seneeuc.<c -ooe eee seer 66. 69 | 26. 67 44. 64 19. 24
AN;O3-sc0csthesoscceeeeeeemeneee 14.16 0. 91 13.19 3. 26
Fe@oQp' iss .cineeseost note eeeee eee 4.38 0. 64 5.12 1.09
Mn Qos .fsene-tcemee seme ciee 0.09 Trace. 0.13 Trace.
CaO. Fae see 2.49 36. 40 13. 91 38. 94
MPO 3 Jeeses tee eee eee 1.28 0. 51 2. 96 2.75
KiO i esngec anne ence meee aeeerter EGA Trace. ia 7Al Trace.
IE O See sg prem ecuaocomnneascoe 0. 67 Trace. 0.59 Trace.
COg 5.24 ieee tae eee 0.77 25, 84 8. 55 29.57
PaOpenend Gece sscnes sek acectae 0.29 0.75 0. 94 0. 23
SOgos.ice Sacer chet ce Reese see eee 0. 41 0. 82 0. 64 0.53
Cle ae eee seceers easer ase 0. 34 0.07 0.14 0.11
gO 2 weet oa casivseemmapeciones 4.94 2.26 3. 84 UAL)
Organicnmatterse-.es-s--ees-ee 2.00 5.10 3.43 2.96
Total's <2 a cepeecenee 99, 72 99, 97 99.79 100, 35

The name /oess is given to certain quaternary surface deposits
closely simulating adobe, but concerning the origin of which there is

considerable dispute.
the best authorities, of subaqueous origin.

Deposits in the United States are, according to
Clays of this nature are,

as a rule, higher in silica than the adobes and correspondingly poorer
Loess is a common surface deposit throughout the Missis-

in alumina.

sippi Valley, and is in many instances of such consistency as to be
utilized for brickmaking.
The analyses given below are from Professor Russell’s paper:

Analyses of the loess of the Mississippi Valley.

Constituents.

No.1.

No. 2.

64. 61
10. 64
2.61
0.51
0. 40
0. 06
0.05
5.41
3. 69
1.35
2.06
a2. 05
6.31
(ijulrl
0.13

99. 99

No. 3. No. 4.
74.46 60. 69
12. 26 7.93

3.20 2.61
0.12 0. 67
0.14 0.52
0.09 0.13
0. 02 0.12
1.69 8. 96
1.12 4.56
1.43 nea le/
1.83 1.08
a2.70 a1.14
0.49 9. 63
0. 06 0.12
0.12 0.19
99.78 99. 54 |

a Contains H of organic matter, dried at 100° C.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. Sou

The name fullers’ earth (Walkerde, volaorde, terre a foulon, terra
da purgatori, etc.) includes a variety of clay of a greenish white,
greenish gray, olive and oil green or brownish color, very soft, with a
ereasy feeling. It falls into powder in water, imparts a milky hue to
the liquid, and appears to melt on the tongue like butter. It was for-
merly used by fullers to take the grease out of cloth; hence the name.

The English beds, according to Geikie’ occur in Jurassic and Cre-
taceous formations. Fullers’ earth from beds at Nutfield, near Red-
hill, Surrey, England, is deseribed* as a heavy blue or yellow clay,
with a greasy feel and an earthy fracture.

When examined with a microscope it is found to consist of
extremely irregular corroded particles of a siliceous mineral which in
its least altered state is colorless, but which in nearly every case has
undergone a chloritic or talcose alteration whereby the particles are
inverted into a faintly yellowish green product almost wholly on polar-
ized light. The particles are of all sizes up to 0.07 mm. The larger
portion of the material is made up of particles fairly uniform in size
and about the dimensions mentioned. In addition to these are minute
colorless fragments down to sizes 0.01 mm. and even smaller.

The minute size of these colorless particles renders a determination
of their mineral nature practically impossible. But the outline of the
cleavage flakes is evidently suggestive of a soda lime feldspar. The
high percentage of silica in the insoluble residue would indicate the
presence of a considerable amount of free quartz. This, however, the
microscope only partially substantiates, very few of the particles
showing the brilliant polarization colors characteristic of this mineral.

When the powder is treated with hydrofluorsilicic acid it yields
abundant crystals of potassium and aluminum fluosilicate, together
with radiating forms of calcium fluosilicate. The material differs
from that last described in that its particles are much larger and more
angular in outline and the various elements in a different state of com-
bination. (See Plate 17, fig. 2.)

A substance recently put upon the American market as a fullers’ earth
(Specimen No. 62737, U.S.N.M., from Enid, Oklahoma), under the
trade name of ‘‘ glacialite,” has the following chemical composition, the
material being dried at 100° C. before analyzing:

SiN Cas east ea eae ee se ae eee ae 50. 36
SA a) ser ae te ee ee ee se AS Eos 33. 38
HEEniG: ORNs Sree ae ee eee ae ee ao:
Sodium, lithium, potassium oxide -.----.-- . 88
Wisi here. ci Se ae aes. Stun a ee iets 12. 05
Orsami Camaiterass5 Ate sere oe eee Trace.
APE OW DIA Obey ee an eae nei etal se a Trace.

99.98

1Text book of Geology. 3d. ed. p. 133. * Geological Magazine, VI, 1889, p. 44>
NAT MUS 99 22

338 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

This material when placed in water falls away to a loose flocculent pow-
der, which shows up under the microscope in the form of sharply angu-
lar colorless particles, very faintly doubly refracting, without crystal
outlines or other physical properties, such as will determine their exact
mineral nature. The particles are of all sizes, from the larger floccu-
lent masses, some 0.25 mm. in greatest diameter, down to those too small
for measurement. The greater number lie between 0.005 and 0.01
mm., though a very large proportion are even smaller, not exceeding
0.002 mm. These smaller particles are angular in outline and almost
perfectly colorless. Their appearance under the microscope is some-
what that of decomposed cherts.

In addition to the faintly doubly refracting particles above men-
tioned, there are occasional clear, colorless, sharply angular particles
of a doubly refracting mineral which can only be referred to quartz.
A few yellowish iron-stained particles are suggestive of residual prod-
ucts from decomposition of iron magnesian silicates.

The Gadsden County, Florida, fullers’ earth (Specimens Nos. 53254
and 53255, U.S.N.M.) is a light-gray material, often blackened by
organic matter, and which shows under the microscope the same
greenish, faintly doubly refracting particles as does the English, inter-
mixed with numerous angular particles of quartz. This earth is quite
plastic and sticky when wet. A section of the beds at the pits of the
Cheesebrough Manufacturing Company, as given in The Mineral
Resources for 1895-96, is as follows:

Soilz 853 Slee ee eae ace sae inches-- 18
Red clays bee ry eae feet 2-203
Blue-clayietcs sores soso oe ee eee eee CWeeaa &
Kullers’ earths. 2:52 5.2 een eee eee COR BY,
Sandy blue earth ..<- 2250s eo eee da@zsc2) cs

Fullers’ earth (second bed). ...:..<---------
PLATE 19.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill.

VINVATASNNAd ‘ALNNOO AYVMV14q ‘Lid NOVY NI

M3lA

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 339

The following table’ as compiled by Dr. Ries shows the variable char-
acter of the material from different sources:

3 e dip do a, | a, [fa |85 |oes|
Ste | ie |G is2 24 bea | oes |2aa| s-
b q OS | Om 1.4 aia |ASe| aa
= g g I FE Sa oiee a ealee | eae || os
So |8.|2 | Eu | Se | £2128 \28 | E48 [Bee Ss
Constituents. q cai) He ad ad beeline a | SR Sig| oe
e Be ee | me ee eee) ee a oe o> Shee Oe Bs
= [2"|¢@ | o> | 8] 182) 28 eb. ese |-as| 22
= fe 3) "| BO eS Be cag | ete E94) BE
2 2 = aS x SER eae se a= ei a= at
a | 3 S = 3 S2 | 38 | sem | 585 |Boa| S
n Fy a Fy fy Fy | fy Fy es
Si@siss. == cess 51. 21 53.00 | 50.17 | 44.00 | 44.00 | 62.83 | 67.46 58. 72 50.70 | 58.30 54. 60
BS Osrsastann- < sia 12.25 | 10.00 | 10.66 | 11.00 | 23.06 | 10.35 | 10.08 16.90 | 21.07 | 10.63 10.99
1 = 0S Seer 207s) 9.70: 3.15 | 10.00 2.00 | 2.45} 2.49 4.00 6.88 | 6.72 6.61
CaQvesese as 205-5 2.13 .50 25.) 5.00 4.08 2.43 | 3.14 4.06 4.40 ilezab 6.00
MeQisereoccnces 4.89 1a irs mete 2.00 2.00 | 3.12 | 4.09 2.56 00 |. S15 3.00
TIGOMS oe cmeraenas 27.89 | 24.00 | 35.83 |....... 24.95 | 7.72 5. 61 8.10 9.60 | 9.05 10. 30
y}
INS OMee sea cae sas cee laieern|(SSicsncc| = <lccmes ORV Se eecee OF20" |e ascam = | dae <tsee ch Sees
ks pt Ges 8 beet See Oe aoe ee eas ave Wein
Wi Kortztn shy) Sac ees 321 oe a ee i ee ey 6.41 6, 28 2.30 7.90 | 9.55 7.45
Total ...-.: 100. 44 | 98.50 | 100.06 | 77.00 | 100.09 | 96.25 | 99.15 | 98.75 | 100.85 | 99.11 | 98.95
a Pogg. Ann., LX XVII, 1849, p. 591. gE. J. iene Ratt st.
b Klaproth. Beitr., Vol. IV, 1807, p. 388. AStandard Oil Company’s property, E. J. Rie-
c Dana, System of Min., 1893, p. 695. derer, analyst.
dGeikie, 1893, p. 133. i Howell property, E. J. Riederer, analyst.
ePenny Encyclopedia, XI, Dr. Thompson, analyst. j Morgan property, E. J. Riederer, analyst.

JP. Fireman, analyst.

Properties of clay.—To what the peculiar properties displayed by the
clays are due can not as yet be said to have been fully determined.
This is particularly the case with the property of plasticity and that
of becoming indurated when dried. ‘‘ Various explanations have been
offered, but none are yet advanced which make clear all points. It has
been ascribed to the impurities, to the alumina, to the combined water,
and to other causes, against each of which, examples can be cited that
seem to set it aside as inadequate. The impurities do not appear to
cause the plasticity, for the sand acts unfavorably to it. The alumina
is not responsible, or kaolins would be the most plastic of all, while
the flint clays of Ohio are many of them approximately pure kaolins,
and at the same time eminently non-plastic.”» The combined water
exerts some influence it is evident, as its expulsion entails permanent
loss of plasticity , but it can not be the sole cause of plasticity, as clays
equally hydrated are just as liable to differ in this respect as to agree.
No theory is so well received at present as that advanced by Cook.
He shows that the microscope reveals a crystalline structure which the
eye does not detect, and that this structure varies greatly in degree of
perfection in different = Some are esd of masses of

: Bevcafesuih Annual eco: of the U. S. G ieee Survey, 1895-96, p. 880.
* As is also kaolinite, the theoretically pure hydrous silicate of aluminum corre-
sponding to the formula Al,O,.2Si0,.2H,0.
340 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

hexagonal plates or scales piled up in long bundles or faces and masses
of unattached scales nearly perfect. Such clays are always but little
plastic, but may become so on mechanical treatment such as erinding
and kneading; on re-examination the clay then shows the same ele-
ments of structure, but broken and confused, no bundles left intact,
scales broken and a homogenous matrix of the crushed material derived
from the still crystalline part. Clays are found in all states of this
breaking up, from the highly crystalline mass to the homogenous
matrix showing no plates at all; and on the degree in which the erys-
talline structure is retained, its plasticity depends. This theory is cer-
tainly plausible, and is supported by the fact that we always subject
our clays to secure increased plasticity to mechanical disturbance
which has the effect that the microscope reveals. This view harmon-
izes With more points than any other advanced as yet, and offers a fair
solution of the different degrees of plasticity which plastic clays exhibit,
but it does not explain, nor attempt to explain, the differences which
exist between flint clays and plastic clays, as Professor Cook’s exami-
nations were entirely confined to the latter."

According to Russian authorities quoted by Ries,* the plasticity is
not only due to the interlocking of the clay particles, but varies with
the fineness of the grain, the extremely coarse and fine varieties having
less plasticity than those of intermediate texture. This view is also
held by Drs. Ries and Wheeler.

So far as the compiler’s own observations go, plasticity is not de-
pendent wholly upon hydration nor size nor shape of the constituent
particles. The glacial (Leda) clays are made up of fresh, sharply an-
cular particles of various minerals and contain less than 5 per cent com-
bined water; yet in their natural condition they are extremely plastic,
and scarcely less so when mixed with two-fifths their bulk of ordinary
siliceous sand, as is done in the process of brickmaking. The Albany
County, Wyoming, clay (Specimen No. 53229, U.S.N.M.), on the other
hand, equally or even more plastic and exceedingly pasty, is made up of
extremely minute particles of fairly uniform size, scarcely angular, and
apparently all of the same mineral nature throughout. This yields
some 16 per cent of water, on ignition, as shown in analysis, p. 348. On
the whole, the evidence seems to show that the plasticity is due to the
manner in which the particles conduct themselves toward moisture, and
this is apparently dependent upon the size and shape and the propor-
tional admixture of varying sizes of the constituents rather than upon
their chemical composition. The work now being done by Dr. Whit-
ney, of the Agricultural Department, on the relationship of soils to
moisture bids fair to throw important light upon this branch of the
subject.

1 Geological Survey of Ohio, Economic Geology, V, pp. 651-652.
2Clay Deposits and Clay Industry in North Carolina, Bulletin No. 18, North Caro-
lina Geological Survey, 1897.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 341

The expulsion of the combined water in a clay is nearly always
accompanied by a diminution in volume, which varies directly as the
water, or the purity of the clay. Pure kaolin shrinks as much as one-
fourth of its bulk, it is stated, sometimes even more. The sandy clays
used in making sewer-pipe and stoneware shrink from the tempered
state from one-ninth to one-sixteenth, usually about one-twelfth. The
shrinkage of the raw clay would be very much less, probably not
over 3 or 4 per cent.

A clay, when all the water of crystallization is expelled, will not
shrink any more at red heat, but with increased heat will shrink more
and more up to the moment of fusion. A pure kaolin apparently
shrinks when heated a second time, even if the water is all expelled
by the first heat, yet it is practically impossible to fuse it. Buta good
flint clay containing some sand will lose all shrinkage on being once
calcined at white heat. Such clay is then used to counteract shrinkage
in a body of green clay, as this effect is obtained by mixing in sand or
some nonshrinking body. Many clays contain sand enough naturally
to shrink little or none on heating, and some are so sandy as to
actually expand, though usually at the expense of soundness of struc-
ture; for the particles of clay will shrink away from the grains of
sand and this renders the structure very friable.

The qualifications of a clay for common pottery and building mate-
rial are simple, viz., plasticity when wet, and solidity and hardness
when burned, but those products involving the highest qualities of clay,
refractoriness, require much sharper tests.

The first requisite is purity, at least purity within limits, and
though the other points, density, plasticity, and non-shrinkage add
greatly to the value of a pure clay, they can in no degree supply its
place.

Infusibility in clays rests in the aluminous base and the quartz.

Long and intense heat applied to an intimate mixture of clay and
silica is apt to result in a silicate of another ratio of base to acid, and
which is likely to be fusible. But the great trouble with free silica in
clay, in a fine state of division, is the fact that any fluxing agent read-
ily unites with it, and makes a fluid slag; and in a refractory body the
fusing of any one part is the beginning of the end.

The constituents tending to make a clay fusible are iron, the alkalies
soda and potash, and lime and magnesia. It is hard to state which is of
the most consequence. Of the first two, iron is not so powerful a flux
as potash, which is the worst of all the common elements; but the iron
is present in largeramounts than potash in most clays, and consequently
does as much harm, if not more.

The effect of the iron is detrimental to the appearance of clay ware,
and consequently has a direct bearing on the price of goods, while
potash shows no more on the surface than on the inside, and when
342 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

present in the usual small amounts it produces an incipient vitrifica-
tion which makes the ware ring like a bell when struck, and is often a
help in selling.

The extent to which iron may be present without detriment is a
point on which authorities do not agree. The Stourbridge clay of
England, acknowledged to be the most refractory clay known, has 2.25
per cent of iron on an average of 100 analyses, with extremes of 1.48
and 3.63. Gros Almerode clay, has 2.12, Coblentz, 2.03, New Castle,
2.32, and yet all these clays are famous. Test mixtures of iron and
pure kaolin have been run higher than this and have stood well, but as
a general rule it is unsafe to rely for fine qualities on a clay with over 2
per cent of iron, particularly if the other impurities are developed in
any amount. It is a well-known principle in chemistry that mixtures
of bases are much more active fluxes than an equal amount of any one
base; so with iron, its effect shows worse when in presence of other
fluxing agents.

The state in which the iron is present makes some difference; if as
the sesquioxide, it takes more heat than when in the protoxide state
to combine in the clay, for iron will only combine with silica in the
protoxide state, and if that state is already developed, it is easier to
combine the sand and iron than if in the other oxide.

Sulphide of iron has a bad effect on the clay since its decomposition
gives rise to the lower oxide of iron, besides the effect which the sul-
phur may have.

Silicate of iron is also detrimental, since it melts at a comparatively
low temperature. On a piece of ware, iron in the uncombined state
imparts a buff or red color; when combination begins and progresses
the ware is of a bluish-gray cast, deepening as the fusion of the iron
proceeds, and running to glassy black if much iron is present.

Lime and magnesia act as fluxes on clays, but in any but the glacial
clays the comparatively small amounts present makes them but little
thought of as detrimental. They are probably present as silicates,
and as these are readily fusible, their action is evidently unfavorable.
When these bases are present as carbonates they conibine at a higher
temperature than iron or potash. The Milwaukee bricks, as already
noted, are full of carbonates of lime and magnesia, and require a very
hot burn, but when once the lime and silica combine they destroy the
effect of 5 per cent of iron, enough to make the clay perfectly black.
A brick of this kind presents an even, fine-grained, vitrified appear-
ance on its fracture.’

1They (lime and magnesia) have also the remarkable property of uniting with the
iron ingredient to form a light-colored alumina-lime-magnesia-iron silicate, and thus
the product is cream-colored instead of red. Mr. Sweet has shown by analysis that
the Milwaukee light-colored brick contain even more iron than the Madison red
brick. At numerous points in the Lake region and in the Fox River valley cream-
THE NONMETALLIC MINIERALS. 343

The amount of potash which a clay can contain and keep its fire
properties is variously put by different authorities. As with iron, pure
kaolin will stand a good deal when no other base is present, but a multi-
plicity of bases makes fusion easy. Titanic acid is regarded as neutral
to fire qualities; the form in which it is present being infusible.

Testing clays. —Yhe statement of the tendencies and comparative
power of the dangerous impurities of clay would lead us to believe we
could use predictions as to their result in a given clay with some con-
fidence, but the best practice does not yet trust to analysis alone.

The most complete test of a clay now known would be obtained by
use of such analysis as has been described, coupled with a fire test
made especially to develop such points as the analysis indicates to be
weak ones. Fire tests are of two kinds—one is subjecting the clay to
absolute heat without the action of any accompaniments, and the other
is in putting the clay through the course of treatment for which it is
designed to be used. The former develops the absolute quality of the
clay as good or bad, the latter proves or disproves the fitness of the
clay for the work. The latter is better of course as a business test
wherever it is practicable to use it. The former can be made only in
a specially adapted furnace. The clay is cut into one-inch cubes with
square edges, and is set in a covered crucible resting on a lump of clay
of its own kind, so that it touches no foreign object. The heat is then
applied, and its effect will vary from fusing the mass to a button to
leaving it with edges sharp and not even glazed on the surface. Expe-
rience soon renders one proficient in judging of clays by this test.’

A method of testing the fusibility of clays by comparing them with
samples of known composition and fusibility has of late years come
into extensive use. These prepared samples, known from their inventor
and their shape as Seger’s pyramids, consist of mixtures in varying
proportions of kaolin and certain fluxes, so prepared that there is a
constant difference between their fusing points. When such pyramids,
together with the samples to be tested, are placed in a furnace or kiln,

colored brick are made from red clays. In nearly or quite all cases, whatever the
original color of the clay, the brick are reddish when partially burned. The expla-
nation seems to be that at a comparatively moderate temperature the iron constit-
uent is deprived of its water and fully oxidized, and is therefore red, while it is
only at a relatively high heat that the union with the lime and magnesia takes place,
giving rise to the light color. The calcareous and magnesian clays are, therefore, a
valuable substitute for true aluminous clays, for they not only bind the mass together
more firmly, but give a color which is very generally admired. They have also this
practical advantage, that the effects of inadequate burning are made evident in the
imperfect development of the cream color, and hence a more carefully burned pro-
duct is usually secured. It is possible to make a light-colored brick from a clay
which usually burns red by adding lime. The amount of lime and magnesia in the
Milwaukee brick is about 25 per cent. In the original clays in the form of carbo-
nates they make up about 40 per cent. Geology of Wisconsin, I, 1873-79, p.669.)
' Geological Survey of Ohio, Economic Geology, V, pp. 652-655.
344 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

they begin to soften as the temperature is raised, and as it approaches
their fusion point the cones bend over until the tip is as low as the
base. When this occurs the temperature at which they fuse is con-
sidered to be reached.*

Uses.—Clay when moistened with water is plastic and sufficiently
firm to be fashioned into any form desired. It can be shaped by the
hands alone; by the hands applied to the clay as it turns with the pot-
ter’s wheel, or it can be shaped by moulds, presses or tools. When
shaped and dried, and then burned in an oven or kiln, it becomes firm
and solid, like stone; water will not soften it, it has entirely lost its
plastic property, and is permanently fixed in its new forms, and for
its designed uses. These singular and interesting properties are
possessed by clay alone, and it is to these it owes its chief uses. It is
used (1) for making pottery; (2) for making refractory materials; (3)
for making building materials; (4) for miscellaneous purposes.

Pottery.—Pure clay worked into shapes and burned, constitutes
earthenware. The ware of itself is porous, and will allow water and
soluble substances to soak through it. To make it hold liquids, the
shaped clay before burning is covered with some substance that in the
burning of the ware will melt and form a glass coating or glazing
which will protect the ware in its after uses from absorbing liquids,
and give it a clean smooth surface. The color of the ware depends
on the purity of the clay. Clays containing oxide of iron burn red, the
depth of color depending on the amount of the oxide, even a small
fraction of 1 per cent being sufficient to give the clay a buff color.

Clay containing oxide of iron in sufficient quantity to make it par-
tially fusible in the heat required to burn it, when made into forms
and burned, is called stoneware clay. The heat is carried far enough
to fuse the particles together so that the ware is solid and will not
allow water to soak through it; and the fusion has not been carried so
far as to alter the shapes of the articles burned. The oxide of iron
by the fusion has been combined with the clay, and instead of its
characteristic red, has given to the ware a bluish or grayish color.
Stoneware may be glazed like earthenware, or by putting salt in the
kiln, when its vapor comes in contact with the heated ware and makes
with it a sufficient glaze.

Clay which is pure white in color and entirely free from oxide of
iron, may be intimately mixed with ground feldspar or other minerals
which contain potash enough to make them fusible, and the mixture
still be plastic so as to be worked into forms for ware. When burned,

numerous contributions on their subject in the volumes of the United States Geolog-
ical Survey relating to mineral statistics.
i —

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 345

fusion sufficient to make a body that will not absorb water. And its
surface can be made smooth and clean by a suitable plain or orna-
mented glaze. Ware of this kind is porcelain or china.

Theanalyses on page 349, compiled from works believed to be authori-
tative, show the varying character, so far as chemical composition is
concerned, of the clays. In most of the analyses, it will be observed,
the silica existing in the form of quartz is given in a separate column
from the combined, while in column 4 is given the actual calculated
percentage of kaolin which the analyses indicates each sample contains.

Refractory materials.—Modern improvements in metallurgy, and in
furnaces for all purposes, are dependent to a great degree on having
materials for construction which will stand intense heat without
fusing, cracking, or yielding in any way. The two materials to
which resort is had in almost all cases, are pure clay, and quartz in
the form of sand or rock. They are both infusible at the highest
furnace heats. The clay, however, is liable to have in it small quan-
tities of impurities which are fusible, and it shrinks very much when
heated to a high temperature. Quartz rocks are very liable to crack
to pieces if heated too rapidly, and both the rocks and sand are rap-
idly melted when in contact with alkalies, earths or metallic oxides, at
a high temperature. They do not shrink in heating. Sandstone, or
quartz rock, is not as much used as a refractory material as it was
formerly. Bricks to resist intense heat are made of clay, of sand,
and of a mixture of clay and sand. The different kinds are specially
adapted to different uses.

Fire bricks made of clay, or clay and sand, are the ones which have
been generally made in the United States. To make these, the clay
which stands an intense heat the best, is selected as the plastic mate-
rial of the brick. This is tempered so that it may not shrink too
much or unevenly in burning, by adding to the raw clay a portion of
clay which has been burned till it has ceased to shrink and then
ground, or a portion of coarse sand, or a quantity of so-called feld-
spar. These materials are added in the proportions which the experi-
ence of the manufacturer has found best. The formula for the
mixture is the special property of each manufacturer, and is not
made public. The materials, being mixed together and properly wet,
are molded in the same way as common bricks are, and after they
have dried a little, they are put into a metallic mould and subjected to
powerful pressure. They are then taken out, dried, and burned in a
kiln at an intense heat.

It does not appear which is the best for tempering, burned and
ground clay, or coarse sand, or feldspar. Reputable manufacturers
are found who use each of these materials, and make brick that stand
fire well. It is of the utmost importance to select the materials care-
346 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

fully, and to allow no impurity to get in while handling the clay « or
working the components together.

Fire bricks intended, in faddition to their refractory qualities, to
retain their size and form under intense heat without shrinkage, have
been made to some extent. The English Dinas bricks are of this
kind, and the German and French “silica bricks.” The Dinas bricks
are of quartz sand or crushed rock, and contain very little alumina
and about one per cent of lime. They stand fire remarkably well, the
lime being just enough to make the grains of sand stick together
when the bricks are intensely heated. In the other ‘‘silica bricks,”
fire clay to the amount of 5 or 10 per cent is mixed with the sand, and
this plastic material makes the particles of the sand cohere sufficiently
to allow of handling the bricks before burning. They have met the
expectation of those who made them, and are extensively used.'

Under the head of ‘‘ Miscellaneous uses of clay,” p. 317, Cook
gives the following, which may well be incorporated entire:

Paper clay.—Clay which is pure white and that also which is discolored and has
been washed to bring it to a uniform shade of color, is used by the manufacturers
of paper hangings, to give the smooth satin surface to the finished paper. It is used
by mixing it up with a thin size, applying it to the surface of the pieces of paper, and
then polishing by means of brushes driven by machinery. The finest and most
uniformly colored clays only are applicable to this use, and they are selected with
great care. Clay is also used to some extent by paper manufacturers, to give body
and weight to paper.

Heavy wrapping paper, such as is used by the United States Post-
Office Department, must, according to specifications, contain 95 per
cent of jute butts and 5 per cent of clay. The cheaper forms of con-
fectionery, particularly such as is sold from carts upon the streets, is
very heavily adulterated with this material.

Alum clay.—A large quantity of clay is sold every year to the manufacturers of
chemicals, for making alum. A rich clay is needed for this purpose, but those con-
taining lignite or pyrite which renders them inapplicable for refractory materials,
do not spoil them for this use. Alum is made by digesting the clay in sulphuric
acid, which forms sulphate of alumina, then dissolving out the latter salt from the
silica and other impurities, and forming it into alum by the addition of the necessary
salt of potash, soda, or ammonia, and crystallizing out the alum.

The white clay of Gay Head and Chilmark, Marthas Vineyard,
Massachusetts, was at one time used extensively for alum making,
according to Edward Hitchcock.’

As a substitute for sand in making mortar and concrete clay is per-
haps the best material to be found. For this purpose the clay is burnt
so that it is produced in small irregular pieces that are very hard and
durable. These pieces are then ground to a fairly fine powder, which
is used to mix with the lime or cement just as sand would be. The

— a

1 Geological Survey of New J ersey, Report on Clay Deposits, pp. 307-312.
? American Journal of Science, X XII, 1832, p. 37.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 847

result is a very strong mortar, in some cases stronger than when sand
is employed.'

The so-called gumbo clays, sticky, tough, and dark-colored clays
of the Chariton River region, Missouri, are hard burned and used for
railroad ballast and macadam.

Under the names of Rock Soap and Mineral Soap there have from
time to time been described varieties of clay which, owing to their
soapy feeling, are suggestive of soap, and which in a few instances
have been actually used in the preparation of this material.

A rock soap from Ventura County, California, has been described
by Prof. G. H. Koenig as a mixture of sandy and clayey or soapy
material in the proportion of 45 per cent of the first and 55 per cent
of the second. The chemical composition of the material and of the
two portions is given below:

—
‘ - Crude Sandy Soapy
Constituents. material.| portion. | portion.
SHINE 32 Oe te CRE CE DOOEE SOS 67.55 69. 40 73.10
Alumina and iron.....---- 12. 97 13.50 14.10
GUN Cae csesecctienesinoeice 0.77 0.30
ae 4 : Not de-
Maomesiain <.scscin i sale! = 0. 85 Trace. rs
e -
POtaShe es eee eaeeoa eats 1.43 1 :
4,55 mined.
3.63 |J
13. 67 12. 25 6.70

Nearly all the silica is reported as being in a soluble or opalescent
state and the alumina as either a hydrate or very basic silicate. It is
said” that at one time the material was made into a variety of use-
ful articles, as ‘‘salt water soap,” scrubbing and toilet soap, tooth pow-
der, etc.

A somewhat similar material from Elk County, Nevada, has been
used for like purposes, and put upon the market under the name of
San-too-gah-choi mineral soap. This clay is of a drab color, with a
slight pinkish tint, a pronounced soapy feeling and slight alkaline
reaction when moistened and placed upon test paper. An analysis by
Packard in the laboratory of the U. S. National Museum yielded:

SLT a eee a nee Sree er SO ee ean 48. 80
SALUT eee eh eh ae he ee a Ti 18. 57
lronvotles sees. Mees ah eo se 3. 88
WANE se Se Es te ee eee 1.07
tamer ers SoS eee ee ae 2.52
SO 52 ee ee A Tie ee COE aes DBs
TAT Deeb /S3.6 eye een Mme ete 8 ai 1a Ae Sune ae bay
TD ARRMNN 2 Shen cs Sere eae te idee as oe = 21.18

ANGE cg OS Ra os ts ok og ae eae 99, 41

1The Worlds Progress, February, 1893.
2Sixth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1886, Pt. 1, p. 182.
348 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Mention may be made here also of the material sold in the shops
under the name of Bon Ami and used for cleansing glass and other
like substances. This under the microscope shows abundant minute
sharply angular particles, consisting of partially decomposed feldspar
mixed with a completely amorphous mineral which may be opalescent
silica or possibly a very finely comminuted pumice. An analysis by
Packard in the laboratory of the Department yielded:

Sili¢a.2 22. Fe 3 ee See 59. 86
Alumina 4/2 Asis See is oe ee a 18. 74
Magnesia 2: 424. Sasi Se te ease 0. 34
Potash vc). od ese ae ee 10. 70
SOG Bec. eae soe Se ee ete a eet Syaul
Tonitiom O¥ii5. 1 ee eee ope eee eens Teor

Motil sor. Soot aan eee Oe em ope eee 100. 82

Alcohol extracts 7.43 per cent, and water 0.244 per cent in addition,
the extract having a soapy appearance and the odor of some essential
oil.

A soapy clay occurring near Rock Creek station, in Albany County,
Wyoming, has been shipped in considerable quantities during the past
few years to New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago, but the use to
which it was put remainsa secret. It is stated* that at first the mate-
rial was sold at the rate of $25 a ton, but that the price has now
dropped to $5 a ton. Analyses are given as below. The chief
physical characteristic of this clay, aside from its soapy feeling, is its
enormous absorptive power, the absorption being attended naturally
with an increase in bulk amounting to several times that of the origi-
nal mass.” Plate 17, fig. 11 shows the extreme fineness and homoge-
neity of this clay as seen under the microscope.

ie II. je 2 lati, IV.
Constituents. Rock Crook Weston Natrona
Creek. County. | County. County.
SiOg sh sens oceans beak 59.78 61.08 | 63. 25 65. 24
Als Ogtzheasac soecneneteren eae 15. 10 17.12 12. 62 15. 88
Hes Osi scisace a setae sees erie 2.40 oe17 3.70 3.12
MeO. tei s22 Rs sa eee ee 4.14 1.82 3.70
gO) OS NED tested
CHO ssa 0.73 2.69 4.12 |J
NasO NK Otic se ae ore tee eee (a) b-0F 206 fvcstes skies - (a)
|
SO=n.22 boo cect See eee (a) 0.88 | 1.53 (a)
HaO 23 ees cette e ieee AG S26) | pee sake ste eee ate om elen 9.17
Specificveravityesa-een] eae eee ere ee DSO ace ane meee
a No estimate. bNaO.

1 Engineering and Mining Journal, LXIII, 1897, p. 600; LX VI, 1898, p. 491.

2A small plug of this clay fitted to accurately occupy a space of 20 cubic centi-
meters in the bottom of a conical measuring flask, and kept saturated with water for
two days, swelled to a bulk of 160 cubie centimeters. The absorption was so com-
plete that none of the water ran off when the flask was inverted, and the condition
of the clay resembled that of flour or starch paste.
349

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS.

(ABO

|
‘od OF 66 98 ‘OST 'S “AL GF G89 “0 6S 0 9F T GG '6T |0G°E 20°ST EEG erame | eee ZL'FG \2z SP | WABM-MOTL[OA) OLYO ‘[OOdIOATT ISB
‘od 88 “66 00 “1,16 °T eas PND) OL'T Pete ae alls ae lee cP 96 00°9 ORT GRIEOROOR Wumcatstarbes oeSor eee 5 od
‘od ‘Te "86 (OU OGstie «ales saa cal) FES) BOROERoL asicee ae el Samer Fh ee Peo Ge Hl OCEC ee =wITOLCGace@On Rar ops ol es Sao so SS aes eo od
| ‘AIBMOIUO}S ‘OIGO ‘playsutads
‘od BSE6GRGESTES ee 1" ca eae GorO SFO Sauce li ales hae panei ale | a as Po ma 19°96 &1°¢ ge'6l [OL'st | WON “OQ 3 UOsTyDIV ‘SIDA
| | ‘oryo ‘AquUNOD
‘od 06 OOT IT “109° “OFT “AL |GPT/8¢ 0 i8¢ "0 66 °0 OF'98 \cG°0 (S8°Sé 6L°6G = |68°L co'ez ice 6c | arog ‘ABlO VIBMOTIOJS UMOJUOTUL)
| ‘08 'F ‘OryO ‘OT[TA
‘od (OROOMEGRORUUDAGalanam=mre Mise cieame ce ir ss a re eS | “ABO UIT |8T'F6  |80°E Ig ‘6L \6L°69 | -asoy ‘ARTO oIBMOTOJS SOH[VA
| “oryO
} = |
‘od 4°00! 46 °T)I8" "OVI “AL \96°1/49°0 IF 0 0G °T FIGS |CE"0 64°08 c9°6g = |80°8 108% 19 °8% | ‘aI[[AoSOY ‘ARTO 9IBMOTO}S 8,UdT[V
EASE | | “Ory ‘aTTTA
‘oIyO JO AVAINS"[094) 98 "66 F6 ‘0\S9 °F G0 ‘0 IPT “GE9 “0 09 °O 96 °T GO"FP \60°0 SL “SP \CS ‘0G LG’G 80 °6L 109 cz | -osoy ‘ABO o1BMOUO}S §S ASVUTTINIG
| | ‘shina Sayod
pee: PS ping a (1s Cn | hear ese | ee hk (0) Aig] Gog | ease (rgaey Pm aah |(p me ZO'ZL_ «GBPS [LE ‘Sh |--"oouUBIg ‘xnOTIA “49 ‘ABlO BUITO
| | fy “BuBipul ‘AjyuUNOD
‘od ISkBOuireaIGhiO. | ilaaees PIO STEOk a apna cen icL'0 ~—s- |0F0-« (000s OF “0 co'66 ~=09'aa—«Ge "98 OL ‘OF | ooUSIMeT ‘UOINY woz ‘<Rpo BUTT
‘Sesior. | | | |
MON jo AvAInNg 5 | |
[RorBojoayH ‘syisod | | | “‘pue[ sug
-aq Av[Q uo yzoday |9l‘O0T OL O\GL°T 9 | hs pak aie arylaas¢ a8 64°0 00°88 \0z‘0 [08 "Ze TL*6¢  l0zs Il‘ OF'8t | ‘TTBMUIOD ‘YMApoy ‘AvpO vuUIGO
| ‘oIBAM BLA ‘AJUNOD o[}svd
18°66 \C& “1i6L °F La°0 VOREOGKOL eG Bie oie aoa QRcGsy allies in| eee 0c ‘9 LT-L8 cE GI OL PE \GL OF | -MON ‘uIssayooH ‘(poysea) UlloRy
| ‘sfippo DULYO
| cS) Gi ta 2 cd “GL | TT “OL 6 8 vs 9 ¢ 'y ‘S G "IE
ole! 3 | ee |» 2 : nl | Lei eee = Gulltespeale ae
BE iel-pe | fe | 2 ey E Beeler: a ES E El of
° ah i) ao = re) =) 2 iJ os =] a=) rs
“AVIOYINY ra 4 a= pet a z ® 5 = ae 32. ne oe 7 o | 5 (2 =o | “UoT}BACT pus Aurduto) JO auRN
Se ee oe els ee) see eee) Sele Bee ae | ee
ee ia a ga fe fm Md Seer Ceres | esl ee ee Oe
net xe 1] © S Nee a 7 > Ee | ISI Way NSE
ay of a mie ° Se Ne os eI aS —< : ae
7eang Sag g nell. = Sia a oe ‘ © f aes

*slinjo fo worpsodiuo)
Wer

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

350

‘od
‘od

‘od
“A TOA
‘oryo yo AdAINg"[094)

‘od

‘od

‘od
“ACTOA
‘O1TyO JO AVAING [O94

“ACTOA
‘oryO JO AVAING"[094)
*AasIof MAN JO
AVAINSG*[0a4)‘s}t1sod
-aq ABl[Q wo 410dayy

“AQoqny

‘ponuyu0g—shnpo fo woyrsoduo)

XN
| ‘oryo
OShOOL a mlehsh c. Wis we cae 0% T/€9 ‘0 680 GE ee ect ral ena “ABLD UVM |L6°C6 = |9F 6 PLCS |LL09 | ‘SHquInTOD “OD ABO 2117 [TBSSBAL
00 ‘O0T|"**~|02° 02 ‘T OO} ya) eS oes ce ‘ABTOUITM [08°26 |0G°OL 08 PE |9G°%@ |--~ ~~ ~~ = ooo ane te Fuad od
een Ee
O° LV ‘oryo
GL 86s canOles soso i TTQTAAS jl Sssmercclletietageg lice esis “16°26 |LL“SE |@8 "OF |SL°eh | ‘AL[LAOJOLDg “OD Yo M_ oI O,OTOG
98 ‘00T/69 ‘0/66 'T 00°0 l6¢ ‘O\61 0 (OS) 19°0 I8‘ST |89°L .|8L°Lt T6‘8L |89°IL PRLS |68"es |"OLMO ‘JuIO [vrouTW ‘UeplOH “A “OD
*/i)9 aly
*C0'8 *60°0 | *¢9°0 *(Avlo dys oy1[Owy) OLYO
00 ‘O0T|****|68 ‘0 18°0 8a 'F 88°6 ggtgh “asec: 0°H+%00 ’Od°H | 'OS°H [ZF OL [OF 09 | ‘UOT “OD 7 UOSUIqoY ‘o10UTIIG MA
= ‘(orn
Gs ‘66 |" """|3L°9 SEA? Astra Fe Ta Re a COT 10° OSh9G'ereman 08 “9¢ ep rs 08 *L $9°ZI 0G PL | UrBap) OTTO ‘enquINTOD ‘seuOot ‘oO “V
*(adtd ureip)
¢9°66 |80°T\19'9 62 0 &%'Z 990 6¢ 0 98° G8 cg |9T°0 |69°z¢ 91°68 |L0°L 68°C [0Z°9T | OFUO ‘SanqsoudBA, ‘SUBAD “H “M
*(odtd 10y 1)
L8"OOTIGL LLL *L cz ‘0 19'S TFT LL°0 LUG 6L°9T |L°0 |L0°9T 60'FL |29°6 698% 6L°Gs | OLYO ‘SUIPIS PURIST ‘ABlO IBATTOg
*(edid toMes) O1YO
$C 66 |9L ‘0/69 ZrO 18 "8 89°0 16 a) Irs 9L°9L |9G°L 0G ‘ST 80°GL 148°8 88'Lz |g0'6g | “‘MONBIS SFOHTVAM “TOHTRPAA “A N
‘hippo adit
VOUT EOIN G9 eee aeeteen €¢°0 40°0 z0'0 BPD ek beads Of Ie |(eauae aes 12°46 |99°SL 00°68 \cG‘tF |" -- ~~~ BruBAl[Asuuod ‘ABlO [[B_ OUT
*fasIo~ MON
96 “OOTIOL 0/22 °T 00°0 STO 1L'0 00°0 960 OFS |08L |OL'T 72°96 = |OL'FE = [S88 (06"SF | ‘OSplIqpOOM ‘suOg 3A 40yIND “A
*ponulyju0j—sfinpo ayo
tee Pe) eae ‘SL “TE “OL 6 8 ie 9 *g + a8 G Tk
' Q
gle) e2| Be 2] BF | eel i2] 2) ¢ | eF | oo] El es
oh & eae Ze é 8 ® Be Z =| Ge ne 29 8 E E © >| -uonroo, puv Auvduroo jo omen
fol one —oO — ne + ae aS in ~~ ay pale Cd a
Bis| se | ef lal BE | € | SRI RE/S°| £& | 2S | Be LEE) Bs
— a5 Ee ra ag 5 fe |e |e toon sO Sm |S Ca
=o oo 'O S a §o =n || eae) a Det S< = 1g)
SR jee PS pee Be eigealieaetly ae? 260i eae Phe F
351

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS.

*AasIo¢ MON JO
Saaings'[oay‘sitsod
-aq Avg uo yodoay

“ACTOA
‘orgo Jo faAang"[095)

*Xasio¢ MON JO
Searing’ [0ay‘s}tsod
-aq ABQ uo ywodey

“A‘TOA
‘ogo Jo AVAINS [094

‘od

‘od
‘od

‘od

62°66 (06 °%

0¢ 001 06 °0

F866 C60

26°66 08 °T
¢0°00T
TS ‘O0T $0 T

68001 691 L6'Z

“ABO OSB

TI “LL

‘IL

[dB St SIL,

6¢°0

£9°0

89°%

10°%

LO'T

8%

06 'T

Go 'T

99 °T

COST \ST'T
OTT | PO's
O?d | OPO

68g |09°T

C9 "8S |F6"0

£9°7E 108 'T

08 °La

Gg “Lg
“ABO UTA
TL “LZ

FE ‘TE

GE “G9

8L "6

08 '8&
c0 ‘00T
0¢ “L9

60 “89

*Aosiar MON ‘dT[TAorABs
‘Blo YoU JuoI ‘Toys zZ orig

accra eee ewceses puvlsug ‘ayjsStoMoN

PSOE puvlAivyy ‘esvaRg JUNO

““ULISUOOST AA ‘ABO YOM VYNBATL
finjo youu
‘Aosior MAN ‘UMOJUTBYUOg
JO jsoMUINOS-YINOS ‘UOSTTTA “_
“OLYO ‘TIVARO “OD YON oly BuIA
SESS OTYO ‘dT [fAsouRz ‘ABO Noe

‘O1yO ‘oTTTAuaq
91S rau “OD ABID OI pPUBIST
352 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The bibliography of clays is very extensive, and but a few references
are given here. The reader is referred particularly to Branner’s Bibli-
ography of Clays and the Ceramic Arts,’ and to the papers of Dr. H. Ries
in the reports on the Mineral Resources of the United States, published
annually by the U. S. Geological Survey.

S. W. Jonnson, Jonn M. Buaxe. On Kaolinite and Pholerite.
American Journal of Science, X LIII, 1867, p. 351.
J. C. Smock. The Fire Clays and associated Plastic Clays, Kaolins, Feldspars, and
Fire Sands of New Jersey.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, VI, 1877, p. 177.
GerorGE H. Cook. Report on the Clay Deposits of Woodbridge, South Amboy, and
other places in New Jersey.
Geological Survey of New Jersey, 1878.
Ricwarp C. Hints. Kaolinite, from Red Mountain, Colorado.
American Journal of Science, X X VII, 1884, p.472. See also Bulletin No. 20,
U.S. Geological Survey, 1885, p. 97.
J. P. Lestey. Some general considerations respecting the origin and distribution of
the Delaware and Chester kaolin deposits.
Annual Report Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1885, p. 571.
J. H. Cotirys. On the Nature and Origin of Clays: The Composition of Kaolinite.
Mineralogical Magazine, VII, December, 1887, p. 205.
J. Francis WiuurAms, R. N. Bracker. Newtonite and Rectorite—two new minerals
of the Kaolinite Group.
American Journal of Science, X LIT, 1892, p. 11.
Epwarp Orton. The Clays of Ohio, Their Origin, Composition, and Varieties.
Report of the Geological Survey of Ohio, VII, 1893, pp. 45-68.
Epwarpb Orton, jr. The Clay Working Industries of Ohio.
Report of the Geological Survey of Ohio, VII, 1893, pp. 69-254.
H. O. Horman, C.D. Demonp. Some Experiments for Determining the Refractori-
ness of Fire Clays.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XIV, 1894, p. 42.
W. Maynarp Hyrcainas. Notes on the Composition of Clays, Slates, etc., and on
some Points in their Contact-Metamorphism.
The Geological Magazine, I, 1894, p. 36.
H. Jocuum. The Relation between Composition and Refractory Characters in Fire
Clays.
Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers, CX-X, 1894-95,
p. 431.
J. A. Hoimes. Notes on the Kaolin and Clay Deposits of North Carolina.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XV, 1895, p. 929.
Hervricnu Rigs. Clay Industries of New York. ;
Bulletin No. 12 of the New York State Museum, III, March, 1895, pp. 100-262.
JoHN Casper BrANNER. Bibliography of Clays and the Ceramic Arts.
Bulletin No. 148, U.S. Geological Survey, 1896.
W.S. Buarcuitey. A Preliminary Report on the Clays and Clay Industries of the
Coal and Coal-Bearing Counties of Indiana.
The School of Mines Quarterly, X VIII, 1896, p. 65.
W. Maynarp Hurcurnes. Clays, Shales, and Slates.
The Geological Magazine, III, 1896, p. 309.
Cuas. F, Masery, Otts T. FLooz. Composition of American Kaolins.
Journal of the American Chemical Society, X VIII, 1896, p. 909.

1 Bulletin No. 143, U.S. Geological Survey, 1896.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. ode

Cuas. F. Masery, Orts T.FLooz. Clay, Bricks, Pottery, ete.
Thirteenth Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1896, p. 612.
Tromas C. Hopxrns. Clays and Clay Industries of Pennsylvania.
Appendix to the Annual Report of the Pennsylvania State College for 1897.
J. Netson Nevius. Kaolin in Vermont.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LXTV, 1897, p. 189.
Hernricnu Ries. The Clays and Clay-Working Industry of Colorado.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X X VII, 1897,
p. 336.
H. A. Wuereter. Clay Deposits.
Missouri Geological Survey, XI.
W. W. CLENDENNIN. Clays of Louisiana.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 456.
M. H. Crump. The Clays and Building Stones of Kentucky.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 190.
W. C. Knicut. Bentonite. [A New Clay. ]
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX. VI, 1898, p. 491.
— The Building Stones and Clays of Wyoming.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 546.
Hernricu Ries. Physical Tests of New York Shales.
School of Mines Quarterly, XIX, 1898, p. 192.
— The Ultimateand the Rational Analysis of Claysand Their Relative Advantages.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X X VIII, 1898,
p. 160.
Eueene A. Smirn. The Clay Resources of Alabama and the Industries Dependent
upon Them.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 369.
J. E. Topp. The Clay and Stone Resources of South Dakota.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 371.

Vil. NIOBATES AND TANTALATES.

1. COLUMBITE AND TANTALITE.

These are columbates and tantalates of iron and manganese, colum-
bite representing the nearly pure columbate and tantalite the nearly
pure tantalate. Both are likely to carry varying quantities of iron
and manganese. The analyses given below will serve to show the
varying composition, No. I being columbite from Greenland, No. II
from Haddam, Connecticut, and Nos. II and IV from the Black Hills
of South Dakota:

Constituents.

|
|
Columbium pentoxide :-..............-<..-: |
Tantalium pentoxide ..........---2--22.++-- | ph 28.55] 18.20] 53.28

ron PLOW SIGE ere soe ete ee tae eos see 17.33 | 13.54] 11.21 6.11

Manraneseprotoxidel. o.oo ..cos 2 teen tose 3.28 4.55 7.07 10. 40

—_

With traces of tin, wolfram, lime, magnesia, etc.

The mineral is of an iron black, grayish or brownish color, opaque,
often with a bluish iridescence, dark red to black streak, specific
gravity varying from 5.3 to 7.3 and hardness of 6. Insoluble in acids.

NAT MUS 99——_23
354 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Occurrence.—The mineral occurs in granitic and feldspathic veins
in the form of crystals, crystalline granules, and cleavable masses. In
the United States it has been found in greater or less abundance in
nearly all the States bordering along the Appalachian Mountain sys-
tem (Specimen No. 63478, from Portland, Connecticut), in the Black
Hills of South Dakota, and also in California and Colorado.
also been found in Italy, Bavaria, Finland, Greenland, and western

South America.

It has

Uses.—The material is used only in the preparation of salts of
columbium and tantalium, and as but a small quantity of these salts
are used, the mineral is in but little demand, except as mineralogical

specimens.
2

This name is given to a mineral closely related to samarskite (see

YTTROTANTALITE.

below), but carrying smaller percentages of uranium and lacking in

didymium and lanthanum.

It is essentially a tantalate of yttrium

with small amounts of other of the rarer earths. (Specimen No. 60926,

U.S.N.M.) In appearance it is distinguished from samarskite only

with difficulty. Pyrochlore, fergusonite, eschynite, euxenite, ete.,

are closely related compounds, the commercial uses of which have not

yet been demonstrated.

Composition as given below.

3. SAMARSKITE.

When crystallized, in the form of
rectangular prisms, but occurring more commonly massive and in

flattened granules. Cleavage, imperfect; fracture conchoidal; brittle.
Hardness, 5 to 6; specific gravity, 5.6 to 5.8.

resinous. Color, velvet black.

Luster, vitreous to
(Specimen No. 62772, U.S.N.M.)

Constituents. ifs 10% Ill. IV.
Columbic oxide -s/2s0!=e..- 25 sees: 1 lf 37.20
Mantaliconide £20 gserekece teeter fj, S481) 54.96) 55.13 1) 18 60
Tne ste and: stannic Oxides --=- pa. --|eeeso eee 0.16 | 0.31 | 0. 08
Uranic Oxides... -he..e sees nee sero 17.08 9.91 | 10.96 | \ 12.46
HETROUS ORIMCyS 25 ao oc cece cetee aces 14. 07 14. 02 11.74} 10.90
Manranous oxide maeeet=eeaeee ees eaaea | Seeeeeeeee 0.91 Le. 530] eee ONT
Cerous oxide, ete ........--2-222-eeeee- 3.95 5.17 4,94] 4,25
Vttria: s.secens sees ese seas ake Soseteeeee TELE 12. 84 14.49) 14.45
Magnesia. 22:25. Jacsaiseaet eee ee siaeen | beeee eee See eeee ee AINENGSS |b Gaason ==
Lime: -:2 ages eee Seema eel Ceeer oes Ub ye Eee meas | 0. 55
Loss: by demons. eee eee ee eee 0. 24 0. 66 0. 72 | 1.12
Tnsoluble ecto batedicind Soe eeeen Cee eee ae Li 2Dy le eerie see [oeeteeeeee
101.21 | 100.40 99. 12 | 100. 36

Localities and mode of occurrence.—The only localities of importance
in the United States are the Wiseman Mica Mine and Grassy Creek
Mine, in Mitchell (Specimen No. 62772, U.S.N.M.) and in McDowell
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 355

counties, North Carolina. The mineral has also been found in the form
of black grains and pebbles, sometimes weighing one-fourth of an ounce,
in the gold-bearing sands of RutherfordCounty. At the Wiseman Mine
large masses, one weighing upwards of 20 pounds, were found some
years ago. The analyses quoted above were made from material from
this mine.*

Uses.—See under Monazite, p. 383.

4, WOLFRAMITE AND HU3NERITE.

Composition, a tungstate of manganese,and iron. The proportion of
the iron and manganese are quite variable, the tungsten remaining
nearly constant. The name hiibnerite is given to the variety contain-
ing very little iron, but consisting essentially of tungsten and man-
ganese. The following table shows the range in composition:

| Locality. WOs. FeO. Mno. CaO. Mgo.

Wolframite: |
| Adium=Chalonie..= =<. 252 - 75. 55 21231 | 2.37 0. 26 0.51
Monroe, Connecticut ..-.-. 75.47 9.53 | A S263 a2 scenes o5es cee
| Hiibnerite:
Bonita, New Mexico...--. 76.33 3.82 | 19. 72 0.13 | Trace
Nye County, Nevada ..... 74. 88 0.56 23. 87 0.14 0.08

Wolframite is dark reddish brown to black in color, with a resinous
luster; has a hardness of about 5, a specific gravity of 7.55, and a pro-
nounced tendency to cleave with flat, even surfaces. Its great weight,
color, and cleavage tendencies are strongly marked characteristics, and
the mineral once identified is as a rule easily recognized.

Occurrence.—The mineral is found in veins associated with tin ore
(cassiterite), and also with quartz, pyrite, galena, sphalerite, etc. The
chief known localities in the United States are Monroe and Trumbull,
Connecticut; Blue Hill Bay, Maine; Rockbridge County, Virginia
(Specimen No. 65206, U.S.N.M.); the Mammoth district, Nye and
Lander counties, Nevada (Specimens Nos. 15755, 5653, U.S.N.M.); Black
Hills, S. Dakota (Hiibnerite) (Specimen No. 53461, U.S N.M.); Bonita
and White Oaks, Lincoln County, New Mexico; Falls Cente Texas
(Specimen No. 62766, U.S.N.M.); Russellville, Arizona (Specimen No.

53223,U.S.N.M.). The foreign localities are he tin regions of Bohemia,
Saxony (Specimen No. 67752, U.S.N.M.), and Cornwall and Devon-
shire (Specimens Nos. 67460, 67753, 67787, and 67788, U.S.N.M.),
England; also Australia (Specimens Nos. 60978, 60967 eure S.N.M.) and
Bolivia and Peru, South America. For nee see Gen Scheelite,
Dp. 396.

See the Minerals of North Carolina, Bulletin 74, U. S. Geological Survey, 1891.
356 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

5. SCHEELITE.

This is calcium tungstate, consisting when pure of some 80.6 per
cent tungsten trioxide (WO,) and 19.4 per cent lime; usually, however,
carrying from 1 to 8 per cent of molybdic oxide (MoO,). The min-
eral is white and translucent, and yellow and brownish in color, with
a hardness of 4.5-5, gravity 6, and a tendency to cleave into octa-
hedral forms. The occurrence is similar to that of wolframite, but
the mineral is less common.

Uses. —The tungstates have been used mainly in the manufacture of
tungstic acid, but the metal tungsten is coming into use as an alloy
in making steel. Recently attempts have been made in France to |
utilize the material in porcelain glazes, but thus far without much
success. There is at present no regular source of supply in America.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

J. Pamir. Tungsten Bronzes.
Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 152.
The Use of Wolfram or Tungsten.
Tron Age, XX XIX, 1887, p. 33.
T. A. Rickarp. Tungsten.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LITI, 1892, p. 448.
Wolfram Ore.
Iron Age, XL, 1892, p. 229.
Apotr Gurur. Ona Remarkable Deposit of Wolfram Ore in the United States.
Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XII, 1893, p. 236.
See also Engineering and Mining Journal, LVI, 1893, p. 216.
F. Cremer. The Place of Tungsten in the Industries.
Tron Age, LVI, 1895, p. 536.
Henri Morssan. Researches on Tungsten.
Minutes of the Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers, CXXVI,
1895-96, p. 481.
R. Hetmuacker. Wolfram Ore.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LXII, 1896, p. 153.
Prof. BopENBENDER. Wolfram in the Sierra de Cordoba, Argentine Republic.
Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical
Engineers, XLV, Pt. 3, March, 1896, p. 59.

VIII. PHOSPHATES.

1. APATITE; ROCK PHOSPHATE; GUANO; ETC.

Phosphorus is one of the most widespread of the elements, and is
apparently indispensable to both animal and vegetable life. In nature
it occurs in various compounds, by far the more common being the
phosphates of calcium and aluminum, such as are commercially used
as fertilizers. These in various conditions of impurity occur under
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. o50
several forms, some distinct and well defined, others illy defined and
passing by insensible gradations into one another, but all classed under
the general term of phosphates. Their origin and general physical
properties are quite variable, and any attempt at classifying must be
more or less arbitrary. For our present purposes it is sufficient that
we treat them under the heads of mineral phosphates and rock phos-
phates, as has been done by Dr. Penrose.’ These two classes are then
subdivided as below:

{ Fluor apatites,

Apatites-__-. :
Lee | Chlor apatites.

~ | Phosphorite.
| Amorphous nodular phosphates loose
or cemented into conglomerates.

Phosphatic limestones.

{ Soluble guanos.

| Leached guanos.

(1) Mineral phosphates” -

(11) Rock phosphates -_--
Guanes ...2=-

2

Bone beds.

Apatirr.—Under the name of apatite is included a mineral composed
essentially of phosphate of lime, though nearly always carrying small
amounts of fluorine or chlorine, thereby giving rise to the varieties
fluor-apatite and chlor-apatite. The mineral crystallizes in the hex-
agonal system, forming well-defined six-sided elongated prisms of a
green, yellow, rose, or reddish color, or sometimes quite colorless.
(Specimens, Nos. 62128, 62129, U.S.N.M., from Renfrew, Canada. )
It also oceurs as a crystalline granular rock mass. (Specimens,
Nos. 62137, 62148, 65111, U.S.N.M.) The hardness is 4.5 to 5; specific
gravity, 3.23; luster, vitreous. Apatite in the form of minute crystals
is an almost universal constituent of eruptive rocks of all kinds and
allages. It is also found in sedimentary and metamorphic rocks as
a constituent of veins of various kinds, and is a common accompani-
ment of beds of magnetic iron ore. It is only when occurring segre-
gated in veins and pockets, either in distinct crystals or as massive

1 Bulletin No. 46 of the U. S$. Geological Survey.

2Fuchs (Notes Sur la Constitution des Gites Phosphate de Chaux) divides the
natural phosphates into three classes. In the first the phosphatic material is concen-
trated in sedimentary beds; in the second it is disseminated throughout eruptive
rocks, and in the third it constitutes entirely or partially the material filling veins
and pockets. That found in sedimentary beds occurs in rounded and concretionary
masses called nodules. In eruptive and metamorphic rocks the phosphate occurs in
the crystalline form of apatite, sometimes isolated or grouped in aggregates. In
veins the phosphate occurs massive and in pockets, crystalline, but not in distinct
crystals; rather as globular and radiating masses. To such the name phosphorite is
given. The three varieties show a like variation in solubility, the amorphous phos-
phates being soluble in citrate or oxalate of ammonia to the extent of 30 to 50 per
cent; the phosphorites to the extent of only 15 to 380 per cent, and the apatite
scarcely at all. The amorphous phosphates alone have proven of value for direct
application to soils, the other varieties needing previous treatment to render them
soluble.
358 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

crystalline aggregates, as in Canada and Norway, that the material
has any great economic value. The average composition of the apa-
tites, as given in the latest edition of Dana’s Mineralogy, is as follows:

Nl 1
| Variety. | P.O¢ | CaO dm. | Cl. | |
aa
@hilor-apatite . 222... 2=-=-2 = | 41.0 bby eh led coancs 6.8 | or CagP Ox 89.4 + CaCl, 10. 6.
| River apatite =. 2-222. esa | 42.3 55. 5 Oo. Siissse ae or CagP203 92.25 + CaF, 7.75. |
|

The name phosphorite covers a material of the same composition as
apatite, but occurring in massive concretionary and mammilary forms.
(Specimens No. 37147, U.S.N.M., from Spain and 66741, U.S.N.M.,
from Florida). The name was first used by Kirwan in describing the
phosphates of Estremadura, Spain, which occur in veins and pockety
masses in Silurian schists, as noted later.

Rock PHOSPHATE.—The general name of rock phosphate is given to
deposits having no definite composition but consisting of amorphous
mixtures of phosphatic and other mineral matter in indefinite propor-
tions. Here would be included the amorphous nodular phosphates
like those of our Southern Atlantic States (Specimens Nos. 34322,
44944, 66737, U.S.N.M.), phosphatic limestones and marls (Specimens
Nos. 62718, U.S.N.M., Africa, and 62723 Utah), guano (Speci-
men No. 69281, U.S.N.M.), and bone bed deposits (Specimens Nos.
66581, 67332, U.S.N.M.). These are so variable in character that no
satisfactory description of them as a whole can be given. The name
coprolite is given to a nodular phosphate such as occurs among the
Carboniferous beds of the Firth of Forth in Scotland, and which is
regarded as the fossilized excrement of vertebrate animals. (Specimen
No. 62731, U.S.N.M.) Phosphatic limestones and marl, as the names
denote, are simply ordinary limestones and marls containing an appre-
ciable amount of lime in the form of phosphate. Such are rarely suf-
ficiently rich to be of value except in the immediate vicinity, owing to
cost of transportation. Guano is the name given to the accumulations
of sea-fowl excretions, such as occur in quantities only in rainless
regions, as the western coast of South America. The most noted
deposits are on small islands off the coast of Peru. The material is of a
white-gray and yellowish color, friable, and contains some 20 or more
per cent of phosphate of lime, 10 to 12 per cent of organic matter, 30
per cent ammonia salts, and 20 per cent of water. Through prolonged
exposure to the leaching action of meteoric waters, like deposits in the
West India Islands have lost all their ammonia salts and other soluble
constituents and become converted into insoluble phosphates, or
leached guanos like those of the Navassa Islands. (Specimen No. 732438,
U.S.N.M., to be noted later; and also specimens from the Grand Con-
netables, French Guiana, Nos. 73069 to 73075, U.S.N.M., and Redonda
Nos. 53147 to 53152, U.S.N.M.)

Origin and occurrence.—The origin of the various forms of phos-

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 359

phatic deposits has been a subject of much speculation. Their occur-
rence under diverse conditions renders it certain that not all can be
traced to 2 common source, but are the result of different agencies
acting under the same or different conditions. By many, all forms are
regarded as being phosphatic materials from animal life, and owing
their present diversity of form to the varying conditions to which
they were at the time of formation or have since been subjected.
This, however, as long since pointed out, is an uncalled-for hypothesis,
since phosphatic matter must have existed prior to the introduction
of animal life, and there is no reason to suppose it may not, under proper
conditions, have been brought inte combination as phosphate of lime
without the intervention of life in any of its forms. The almost
universal presence of apatite in small and widely disseminated forms
in eruptive rocks of all kinds and all ages would seem to declare its
independence of animal origin as completely as the pyroxenic, feld-
spathic, or quartzose constituents with which it is there associated.
The occurrence of certain of the Canadian apatites as noted later,
in veins and pockets, sometimes with a banded or concretionary
structure and blending gradually into the country rock, is regarded
by some as strongly suggestive of an origin by deposition from solu-
tion, that is, by a process of segregation of phosphates from the
surrounding rock contemporaneously with their metamorphism and
crystallization.

Dr. Ells, of the Canadian survey, would regard those occurring in
close juxtaposition with eruptive pyroxenites as due to combination
of the phosphoric acid brought up in vapors along the line of contact
with the caleareous materials in the already softened gneisses. This
explanation as well as others will perhaps be better understood in the
part of this work relating to localities. On the other hand, the pres-
ence of apatite in crystalline form associated with beds of iron ore,
as in northern New York, has been regarded by Prof. W. P. Blake
and others as indicative of an organic and sedimentary origin for both
minerals. The Norwegian apatite from its association with an erup-
tive rock (gabbro) has been regarded as itself of eruptive origin.

The phosphorites, like the apatites, occur in commercial quantities
mainly among the older rocks, and in pockets and veins so situated as
to lead to the conclusion that they are secondary products derived by
a process of segregation from the inclosing material. Davies regards
the Bordeaux phosphorites occurring in the Jurassic limestones of
southern France as the result of phosphatic matter deposited on the
rocky floor of an Eocene ocean, from water largely impregnated with
it. Others have considered them as geyserine ejections, or due to infil-
tration of water charged with phosphatic matter derived from the bones
in the overlying clays. Stanier, on the other hand, regards the phos-
phorites of Portugal as due to segregation of phosphatic matter from
the surrounding granite, the solvent being meteoric waters. These
360 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

deposits are regarded as superficial and Hmited to those portions of the
rock affected by surface waters.

The origin of the amorphous, nodular, and massive rock phosphates
can, as a rule, be traced more directly to organic agencies. All things
considered, it seems most probable that the phosphatic matter itself
was contained in the numerous animal remains, which, in the shape of
phosphatic limestones, marls, and guanos, have accumulated under
favorable conditions to form deposits of very considerable thickness.
Throughout these beds the phosphatic matter would, in most cases, be
disseminated in amounts too sparing to be of economic value, but it
has since their deposition been concentrated by a leaching out by per-
colating waters of the more soluble carbonate of lime. Thus H. Lésne,
in writing of the nodular phosphates occurring in pockety masses in
clay near Doullens (France), argues that the nodules as well as the clay
itself are due to the decalcification of preexisting chalk by percolating
meteoric waters.

In this connection it is instructive to note that phosphatic nodules,
in size rarely exceeding 4 to 6 cm., were dredged up during the Cha/-
lenger expedition from depths of from 98 to 1,900 fathoms on the
Agualhas Banks, south of the Cape of Good Hope. These are rounded
and very irregular capricious forms, sometimes angular and have
exteriorly a glazed appearance, due to a thin coating of oxides of iron
and manganese. The nodules yield from 19.96 to 23.54 per cent P,O,.
In those from deep water there are found an abundance of calcareous
organic remains, especially of rhizopods. The phosphate penetrates
the shell in every part, and replaces the original carbonate of lime.

The nodules are most abundant apparently where there are great
and rapid changes of temperature due to alternating warm and cold
oceanic currents, as off the Cape of Good Hope and eastern coast of
North America. Under such conditions, together with perhaps altered
degrees of salinity, marine organisms would be killed in great num-
bers, and by the accumulation of their remains would, it is believed,
furnish the necessary phosphatic matter for these nodules. It seems
probable that the Cretaceous and Tertiary deposits in various parts of
the world may have formed under similar conditions.

Hughes has described’ phosphatic coralline limestones on the islands
of Barbuda and Aruba (West Indies), as having undoubtedly originated
through a replacement of their original carbonic by phosphoric acid, |
the latter acid being derived from the overlying guano. The phos-
phatic guano has, however, now completely disappeared through the
leaching and erosive action of water, leaving the coral rock itself con-
taining 70 to 80 per cent phosphate of lime.

Hayes” regards the Tennessee black phosphates (Specimens Nos.

‘Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, XLI, 1885, p. 80.
“Sixteenth Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survey, 1894-95, Pt. 4, p. 620;
Seventeenth Annual Report U. 8. Geological Survey, 1895-96, Pt. 2, p. 22.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 361

62574 and 62781, U.S.N.M.) as due to the slow accumulation on sea bot-
toms of phosphatic organisms (Lingulz), from which the carbonate of
lime was gradually removed by the leaching action of carbonated waters,
leaving the less soluble phosphate behind. The white bedded phosphates
of Perry County (Specimen No. 52060, U.S.N.M.), in the same State, are
regarded as a product of secondary replacement—that is, as due to phos-
phate of lime in solution, replacing the carbonate of lime of preexisting
limestones, as in the case noted above. The source of the phosphoric
acid, whether from the overlying Carboniferous limestones or from the
older Devonian and Silurian rocks, is not, however, in this case apparent.

Teall has shown! that some phosphatic rocks from Clipperton Atoll,
in the northern Pacific, are trachytes in which phosphoric acid has
replaced the original silica. The replacement he regards as having
been effected through the agency of alkaline (principally ammonium)
phosphate which has leached down from overlying guano. A micro-
scopic examination of the rock in thin sections showed that the replacing
process began with the interstitial matter, then extended to the feldspar
microlites, and lastly the porphyritic sanidin crystals. The gradual
change in the relative proportion of silica and phosphoric acid, as shown
by analyses of more or less altered samples, is shown below, No. I being
that of the unaltered rock and IJ and III of the altered forms:

| Constituents. Ts 10 Ign
CiQL ates wed SS aanpe eS: Sad ko! 54.0| 43.7] 2.8
PiOe em Pee tee ya teenie eerttae ae 8.4 17.0 | 38.5
| HoOssionasniiOnicas =< 2s. 2-4 5- = 3.8 12.3 | 23.0

From a comparison of these rocks with those of Redonda, in the
Spanish West Indies, it is concluded that the latter phosphates have
likewise resulted froma similar replacement in andesitic rocks. (Speci-
mens Nos. 53148 to 53152, U.S.N.M.) In this connection reference
is made to the work of M. A. Gautier,’ in which he describes the
formation of aluminous phosphates in caves through the action of the
ammonium phosphate arising from decomposing organic matter on
the clay of the floor of caverns. (See under Occurrences. )

The guanos, as noted elsewhere, owe their origin mainly to the accu-
mulations of sea-fowl excretions. Such deposits when unleached, are
relatively poor in phosphatic matter and rich in salts of ammonia.
Where, however, subjected to the leaching action of rains the more
soluble constituents are carried away, leaving the less soluble phos-
phates, together with impurities, in the shape of alumina, silica, and
iron oxides to form the so-called leached guanos of the West India
Islands. As stated in the descriptions of localities, guano deposits are

1 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, LIV, 1898, p. 230.
?Formation des Phosphates Naturels d’Alumina et de Fer, Comptes Rendus de
l’ Academie des Sciences, Paris, CX VI, 1893, p. 1491.

362 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

not infrequently of a thickness such as to cause their origin as above
stated to seem well-nigh incredible were there not sufficient data
acquired within historic times to demonstrate its accuracy beyond dis-
pute. Thus it is said’ that in the year 1840 a vessel loaded with
guano on the island of Ichabo, on the east coast of Africa. During
the excavations which were necessary the crew exhumed the dead body
of a Portuguese sailor, who, according to the headboard on which his
name and date of burial had been carved with a knife, had been interred
fifty-two years previously. The top of this headboard projected 2 feet
above the original surface, but had been covered by exactly 7 feet of
subsequent deposit of guano, That is to say, the deposition was going
on at the rate of a little over an inch and a half yearly.

LOCALITIES OF PHOSPHATES.

Canada.—According to Dr. Ells, of the Canadian Survey,’ the dis-
covery of apatite in the Laurentian rocks of eastern Canada was first
made in the vicinity of the Lievre by Lieutenant Ingall in 1829, though
it was not until early in 1860 that actual mining was begun. The
mineral occurs in the form of well-defined crystals In a matrix of
coarsely crystalline calcite (Specimen No. 67942, U.S.N.M.) and in
vein-like and pockety granular masses along the line of contact
between eruptive pyroxenites and Laurentian gneisses. The first
form is the predominant one for Ontario only, the second for Quebec.
From a series of openings made at the North Star Mine, in the region
north of Ottawa, it appears that the massive coarsely erystalline gran-
ular apatite follows a somewhat regular course in the pyroxenite near
the gneiss, but occurs principally in a series of large bunches or chim-
neys connected with each other by smaller strings or leaders. Some-
times these pockety bunches of ore are of irregular shape and yield
hundreds of tons, but present none of the characteristics of veins,
either in the presence of hanging or foot walls, while many of the
masses of apatite appear to be completely isolated in the mass of
pyroxene, though possibly there may have been a connection through
small fissures with other deposits. ‘The lack of any connection between
these massive apatites'and the regularly stratified gneiss is evident,
and their occurrence in the pyroxene is further evidence in support of
the view that these workable deposits are not of organic origin, but
confined entirely to igneous rocks. In certain cases where a supposed
true-vein structure has been found, such structure can be explained
by noticing that the deposits of phosphates occur, for the most part at
least, near the line of contact between the pyroxene and the gneiss.

By far the greater part of the Canadian apatite thus far mined has
been from the Ottawa district of Quebec, where it is mined or quar-
ried mainly from open cuts and shafts. The principal fields lie in

TR. Ridgway, Science, X XI, 1893, p. 360.
? The Canadian Mining and Mechanical Review, March, 1893.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 363

Ottawa County, Province of Quebec (Specimen No. 62157, U.S.N.M.)
and Leeds, Lanark (Specimens Nos. 62136, 62137, U.S.N.M.), Fron-
tenac (Specimen No. 62148, U.S.N.M.), Addington, and Renfrew
(Specimen No. 62130, U.S.N.M.) counties, Province of Ontario. The
first consists of a belt running from near the Ottawa River on the
south for over 60 miles in a northerly direction through Buckingham,
Portland, Templeton, Wakefield, Denholm, Bowman, Hincks, and
other townships to the northward have an average width of 15 to 25
miles. The second belt runs from about 15 miles north of the St.
Lawrence River ina northerly direction to the Ottawa River, a distance
of about 100 miles, and varies from 50 to 75 miles in breadth.

Davies gives the following table as showing the average composition
of the Canadian phosphates:

| |
Constituents. TASS ETE ANGE Ina con|| mee VI.

Moisture, water of combination, and loss on ignition. 0. 62 0.10 0.11 1.09 0. 89 1. 83
EDOSpROTICIACIC. came stein. 4s molec ees Beas ce ences 33. o1 41.54 37.68 30. 84 82. 53 31.87
TPAD AE e555 AOROA SOE EN OITA OSes a ST ee 46.14 54. 74 51.04 | 42.72 44, 26 43. 62
Oxide of iron, alumina, fluorine, ete ................. 7.83 3.03 6288" 132382) eat: 9. 28
Tnsoluible siliceousmMatten:: 7c. s- certs <inie, <= aihanc dace 11.90 0.59 40290) 12032 10nh 138.50
| 100.00 | 100.00 | 100.00 | 100.00 | 100.00 | 100.10

Equal to tribasic phosphate of lime ................. | 78.15 | 90.68] 82.25] 67.32] 71.01 69. 35

Norway.—The principal apatite fields lie along the coast in the
southern portion of the peninsula between Langesund and Arendal.
The material occurs in crystals and crystalline granular aggregates of
a white, yellow, greenish, or red color in veins and pockets embedded
in the mass of an eruptive gabbro, near the line of contact of the
gabbro and adjacent rocks, in the country rock itself in the immediate
vicinity of the gabbro, and in coarse pegmatitic veins which are cut
by the gabbro. The largest veins are in the mass of the gabbro itself
or near the line of contact. Where the apatite occurs in the gabbro
the latter is as a rule altered into a hornblende scapolite rock. The
principal associated minerals are quartz, mica, tourmaline, scapolite,
feldspars, rutile, and magnetic and titanic iron and sulphides of iron
and copper. The country rock is gneiss, schist, and granite. The
mineral belongs to the variety called fluor apatite, as shown by the
following analysis from Dr. Penrose’s Bulletin:

Apatite from Arendal.

Phosphorcacid:(R0.): (yoo re ges 42, 229
HMO PING. (A) a2 0rd Sencar = aes eae eet 3.415
citeoneiien(G Vigs o aes e eee e nn 0.512
Haren (Ca) 9-1 ater he es oe oe 49. 96
Caletiny SAS 22. 30 ns aes Se teenie ps ee 3. 884
: 100. 000

1 Equal 92.189 per cent tribasic phosphate. * Equal 0.801 per cent chloride of calcium.
* Equal 7.01 per cent fluoride of calcium.
364 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The Norway apatites have been mined according to Penrose since
1854, the earliest workings being at Kragero. According to Davies,
however, the discovery of deposits that could be profitably worked
dates only from 1871. The distribution of the material is very uncer-
tain and irregular, and the value of the deposits can not be foretold
with any great approximation to accuracy. Specimen No. 65122,
U.S.N.M., is characteristic. The large specimen on floor of hall,
weighing nearly 2 tons, shows well the massive character of the
material.

A second locality of phosphates but recently described, and which
seems to occur under somewhat similar conditions, exists in the Gelli-
vara Mountains, in Norrland.

Nodular phosphatic deposits are described by Penrose’ as being
found at intervals all along the Atlantic coast of the United States,
from North Carolina down to the southern extremity of Florida. The.
North Carolina deposits occur principally in the counties of Sampson,
Duplin, Pender, Onslow, Columbus, and New Hanover, all in the
southeastern part of the State. The deposits are of two kinds, (1) a
nodular form overlying the Eocene marls and consisting of phosphate
nodules, sharks’ teeth (Specimen No. 73648, U.S.N.M.), and bones as
embedded in a sandy or marly matrix, and (2) as a conglomerate of
phosphate pebbles, sharks’ teeth, bones, and quartz pebbles, all well
rounded and cemented together along with grains of green sand in
a caleareous matrix. (Specimen No. 44244, U.S.N.M.)

The beds of the first variety usually overlie strata of shell marl,
though this is sometimes replaced by a pale green indurated sand.
The two following sections will serve to illustrate their mode of
occurrence:

SAMPSON COUNTY. DUPLIN COUNTY.
(1) Soil, sand or clay, 5 to 10 feet. (1) Sandy soil, 1 to 10 feet.
(2) Shell marl, 5 to 10 feet. (2) Nodule bed, 1 to 2 feet.
(3) Bed with phosphate nodules, 1 to3 (3) Shell marl.

feet.

(4) Sea green, sandy marl, 2'to 4 feet.

(5) Ferruginous hardpan, 6 to 12 inches.

(6) Interstratified lignites and sands as

in (4).

The nodules as described are of a lead gray color, varying in size
from that of a man’s fist to masses weighing several hundred pounds.
In texture they vary from close compact and homogeneous masses to
coarse-grained and highly siliceous rocks distinguished by considerable
quantities of sand and quartz pebbles sometimes the size of a chestnut.
Oceasionally the nodules, which as a rule are of an oval flattened form,

1 Bulletin 46 of the U.S. Geological Survey, 1888.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 365

contain Tertiary shells (Specimens Nos. 44244 and 34318, U.S.N.M.).
The second or conglomerate variety occurs mainly in New Hanover
and Pender counties, the beds in some instances being 6 feet in thick-
ness, though usually much less. The following section, taken like
those above from Dr. Penrose’s Bulletin, shows their position and asso-
ciation as displayed at Castle Hayne, New Hanover County.

(1) White sand, 0 to 3 feet.

(2) Brown and red ferruginous sandy clay, or clayey sand, 1 to 3 feet.

(3) Green clay, 6 to 12 inches.

(4) Dark brown indurated peat, 3 to 12 inches.

(5) White calcareous marl, 0 to 2 feet.

(6) White shell rock, 0 to 14 inches.

(7) Phosphatic conglomerate, 1 to 3 feet.

(8) Gray marl containing smaller nodules than the overlying beds, 23 to 43 feet.

(9) Light-colored, calcareous marl, containing nodules which are smaller than
those in the overlying beds, which grow fewer and smallerat a depth. Many shells.

The phosphatic nodules in this conglomerate are kidney and egg
shaped as sometimes make up as much as three-fourths the contents of
a bed; usually, however, the proportion is smaller, and sometimes there
are none at all. The mass asa whole does not contain more than 10
to 20 per cent phosphate of lime, but it is said to have been successfully
used as a fertilizer. The individual may be richer in phosphatic mat-
ter on the outer surface than toward the center.

Aside from the phosphatic layer as described above, phosphatic
nodules are found in large quantities in the beds of rivers of these
districts, where they have accumulated through the washing action of
flowing water, the finer sand clay and gravel having been carried away.
Such phosphates naturally do not differ materially from those on land
except that they are darker in color and sometimes more siliceous.

The deposits of South Carolina, though of low grade compared with
some others, are now more generally used than any other known phos-
phate. The output of the mines, which is yearly increasing, is shipped
to the North, South, and East by sea and to the West by rail. This
popularity is due not only to the cheapness of the phosphate ($5 to
$6 a ton in 1886), but to the many good qualities of the low-grade
acid phosphate made from it. The fact that the nodule bed extends,
at an accessible depth, over many miles of country, the easy approach
for large vessels up to the very mines, the abundance of water, fuel,
and labor, and a climate that permits mining operations to be carried
on throughout the whole year, all combine to make the South Carolina
phosphates the cheapest and consequently the most productive source
of supply of this material. Specimens Nos. 34317 and 34318, 84321 to
34324, and 34326 to 34828, U.S.N.M. are characteristic.

Phosphates in the form of nodules and phosphatic marls and green-
sands occur in Alabama in both the Tertiary and Cretaceous forma-
tions. Their geographical distribution is therefore limited to areas
366 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

south of the outcrops of the lowest Cretaceous beds which stretch in
a curve from the northwest corner of the State across near Fayette,
Courthouse, Tuscaloosa, Centerville, and Wetumpka, to Columbus,
Georgia. As all the Cretaceous and Tertiary beds have a dip toward
the Gulf of from 25 to 40 feet to the mile, the phosphate-bearing strata
appear at the surface only in a comparatively narrow belt along the
line above indicated and are to be found only at gradually increasing
depths below at points to the southward.

Phosphatic nodules and marls of the Tertiary occur in four different
horizons: The Black Bluffs and Nantehala groups of the Lignitic; in
the white limestone, and in eastern Alabama, at Ozark, in strata of the
Claiborne group. Selected nodules run as high as 27 per cent of
phosphoric acid, and marls as high as 6.7 per cent. The Tertiary is
not, however, regarded by Professor Smith as a promising source of
commercial phosphates in the State. In the Cretaceous the phosphates
occur in the transition beds both above and below the so-called Rotten
Limestone existing as nodules, shell casts, phosphatic limestones, marls,
and greensands. The nodules have essentially the characteristics of
those of South Carolina.

The principal phosphate region of Florida, as known to-day, com-
prises an area extending from west of the Apalachicola River eastward
and southward to nearly 50 miles south of Caloosahatchee River, as
shown on the accompanying map.’ According to Mr. Eldridge, the
deposits comprise four distinct and widely different classes of commer-
cial phosphates, each having a peculiar genesis, a peculiar form of
deposit, and chemical and physical properties such as readily distin-
guish it from any of the others.

According to their predominant characteristics or modes of occur-
rence, these classes have come to be known as hard-rock phosphates,
soft phosphate, land pebble or matrix rock, and river pebble. With
the exception of the soft phosphates, they underlie distinct regions,
each class being separate or but slightly commingling with one another.
The type of the hard-rock phosphate, as described by Mr. Eldridge, is
a hard, massive, close-textured homogeneous, light-gray rock, showing
large and small irregular cavities, which are usually lined with second-
ary mamiillary incrustations of phosphate of lime (Specimens Nos.
66737, 66741, U.S.N.M.), the general appearance being that of the
caleareous deposits of the preglacial hot springs of the Yellowstone
National Park.

There are numerous variations in color and physical characteristics
from this type, but which can best be comprehended by a study of
the collection. This type carries some 36.65 per cent phosphoric
anhydride (P,O,). The deposits of the hard-rock phosphate lie in
Eocene and Miocene strata, occurring in the first named as a bowlder

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 —Merrill. PLATE 20.

;
0)

‘ Crawlordvill

N ig
We AKU LEA

aN

- REGIONS or PHOSPHATE
MMB Hard Rock

{ pave “ \ oa nile ©
{ BAN G It & Dhigvelle

a , a skland WOrlando \

~ HERNAR 1

CEE: Land Pebble

: i er ak ¢ M1 Fe tj
; 2 : / Se
River Pebble °° veo. ia =3 |
‘ his a2 BOE oS agence | ee
% Boe 2 ; eta eee Be Oe CR
SS rertaat Tip i io, coon ah ean
Ba a AMULLSBOI At 1 artow Ne | 5
pir MAI OF EF LOR LAr . aie wy % | ‘é
~ showing’ regions of phosphate. + z
{ ~
‘BY GEORGE H ELDRIDGE oe oe
“fe
: ee
ep
1g t LAKE

+

ORR EOHOEEL

\
‘ Ss
‘
—
1
i
’
:
= 1
bakes bobs ~~ nave
{
|
i
!
i
|
ed emia | Miami
Ter Thoveesd !
telande i
{
MONRO |
'
; i
me
i

MAP SHOWING PHOSPHATE REGIONS OF FLORIDA
After George H. Eldridge.
———— a

i

an
‘
¢
rT
t

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 367

deposit in a soft matrix of phosphatic sands, clays, and other material,
resulting from the disintegration of the hard rock and constituting the
soft phosphates. The deposits underlie sands of from 10 to 20 feet in
thickness, and have been penetrated to a depth of 60 feet. The phos-
phate deposit proper is white, the bowlders of rounded and irregular
outline, varying in diameter from 2 or 3 inches to 10 feet. None of the
hard-rock deposits of the Eocene originated in the positions they now
occupy. The Miocene hard-rock phosphates, on the other hand, lie
in regular bedded deposits in situ, as well as in bowlders. The beds
lie horizontal but a few feet below the surface, being covered only by
superficial sand. The beds asa rule are but from 4 feet to 5 feet thick.
The name soft rock, or soft phosphate, as above indicated, is given to
the softer material associated with the hard rock, which in part
results from the disintegration of the last named. It is also applied
somewhat loosely to any variety not distinctly hard. It therefore
varies greatly in color, chemical and physical characteristics, and rarely
carries more than 20 to 25 per cent of P,O, (Specimens Nos. 67304,
67319, 67293, 67296, 67297, U.S.N.M.).

The name land-pebble phosphate includes pebble from deposits con-
sisting of either earthy material carrying fossil remains, grains of
quartz, and pisolitic grains of lime phosphate, or else of a material
resembling in texture and other characteristics the hard-rock phos-
phate. The individual pebbles vary in size up to that of the English
walnut, are normally white, but when subjected to percolating water
become dark gray or nearly black. The exteriors are quite smooth
and glossy, colors and textures uniform, and average some 30 to 35
per cent P,O, (Specimen No. 61070, U.S.N.M.).

The river-pebble varieties differ from the last mainly in mode of
occurrence, being found, as the name would indicate, in the beds of
stréams, where presumably they have accumulated through the wash-
ing away of finer and lighter materials. They are most abundant in
the Peace, Caloosahatchee, Alafia, and other rivers entering the Gulf
south of Tampa and Hillsborough bays, though the Withlacoochee,
Aucilla, and rivers of the western part of the State, carry also a mix-
ture of pebbles, hard-rock fragments, and bones derived from the vari-
ous strata through which they have cut their channels. The pebbles
of the Western rivers show a very uniform composition, and range from
25 to 30 per cent phosphoric anhydride (P,O,), or about 65 per cent of
phosphate of lime, the impurities being mainly siliceous matter, ear-
bonate of lime, alumina, and iron oxides (Specimens Nos. 67299, 67298,
67355, U.S.N.M.).

Phosphates the mineralogical nature of which does not seem to be
as yet accurately made out occur in the Devonian Shales of Middle
‘Tennessee. They are thus described by Professor Safford:!

‘Engineering and Mining Journal, LVII, April 21, 1894, p. 366.
368 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

There are two distinct beds of the phosphates, one above a stratum
knownas the black shale; the other below the shale. The one above isa
bed or layer of concretionary masses, balls, and kidney and knee-shaped
forms from the size of walnuts to that of a man’s head (Specimen No.
52059 from Hickman County). These are sometimes loosely disposed
in a greenish or bluish shale, and sometimes tightly packed together
like so many cannon balls in a layer 8 or 10 inches thick. Ordinarily
the layer has less thickness, often, in fact, being represented by only
a few scattered concretions. But, thick or thin, it may be said to be
universally present, its kidneys serving to indicate the place of the
black shale and the underlying bed when these are concealed by débris
or soil.

The other phosphate, that underlying the shale, and the more impor-
tant of the two, is, in its best presentations, a well-defined, continuous
stratum of dark-bluish or bluish-black—rarely grayish—rock, with fine
or coarse grain. Its regularly stratified character and its dark color
make it look like a bed of stone coal.

The geographical distribution and general geology of these phos-
phates has been worked out in considerable detail by C. W. Hayes,
to whose papers reference has been already made (p. 360). Accord-
ing to this authority the phosphates occur in four distinct varieties:
(1) Black nodular phosphate; (2) black bedded phosphate; (3) white
breccia phosphate, and (4) white bedded phosphate. The first two of
these are of Devonian age, the third is a secondary and comparatively
recent deposit, while the fourth, perhaps also of secondary origin, is
interbedded with rocks of Carboniferous age. The black nodular
variety contains from 60 to 70 per cent of phosphate of lime, and is
found in commercial quantities only in the region of the black bedded
phosphate in western middle Tennessee. The black bedded variety,
which is the only one that has thus far proved of commercial importance,
is confined, so far as at present known, ‘*to an oval area southwest of
Nashville, having Centerville about in its center.” It also covers
portions of Hickman, Williamson, Maury, Lewis, Wayne, Perry, and
Decatur counties.

Sections showing the relation of the phosphates to the adjacent for-
mations are given in Dr. Hayes’s paper. The beds vary in thickness
from a fraction of 1 to 8 or 10 feet, the average run of the rock being
about 50 per cent phosphate of lime. The white bedded and white
breccia phosphates are limited to small areas in Perry County. Their
contents of phosphoric acid (P,O;) is low, varying from 14 to 15 per
cent, and as yet their value for other than local purposes is to be deter-
mined. (See especially Specimens Nos. 52058, 52060, 52061, U.S.N.M.)

England.—Deposits of phosphates sufficiently concentrated for com-
mercial purposes lie near the upper limit of Cambro-Silurian strata in
North Wales. According to Davies, the phosphatic material occurs

da
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 369

in the form of nodular concretions of a size varying from that of an
ege to a cocoanut, closely packed together and cemented by a black
slaty matrix. The concretions haye often a black highly polished
appearance, due to the presence of graphite, but owing to the pres-
ence of oxidizing pyrite they sometimes become rusty brown. ‘The
concretions carry from 60 to 69 per cent of phosphate of lime; the
matrix is also phosphatic. The phosphate beds are highly tilted and
are overlaid by gray shales with fossilized echinoderms and underlaid
by dark crystalline limestone, which also contains from 15 to 20 per
cent of phosphatic material. Davies regards the deposit as an old sea
bottom **on which the phosphatic matter of Cretaceous and Molluscan
life was precipitated and stored during a long period, while certain
marine plants may also have contributed their share of phosphatic
matter. He thinks italsoas possible that, as in the Laurentian deposits,
the water of the sea may have contained phosphatic matter in solution,
to be deposited independently of organic agencies.

These phosphated beds are mined at Berwin, where an average pro-
duction over a space of 360 fathoms was 2 tons 10 hundredweight of
phosphate per fathom, of an average strength of 46 per cent.

The nodules average from 45 to 55 per cent of phosphate of lime.

Amorphous nodular phosphates also occur in both the Upper and
Lower Greensands of the Cretaceous and in Tertiary deposits. Those
of the upper beds have been mined in Cambridgeshire and Bedford-
shire. The phosphatic material occurs in the form of shell casts,
fossils, and nodules, of a black or dark-brown color, of varying hard-
ness, embedded in a sand consisting of siliceous and calcareous matter
as well as phosphatic and glauconitic grains. The average composi-
tion shows from 40 to 50 per cent of phosphate of lime. The thick-
ness of the nodule-bearing bed is rarely over a foot. The nodules of
the Lower Greensands differ from those of the Upper in many details,
the more important being their lower percentages of phosphate of
lime (from 40 to 50 per cent). They occur in a bed of siliceous sand
which itself is not phosphatic. The Tertiary phosphates reach their
best development in the county of Suffolk, where they are found at
the base of the Coralline and Red Crog groups and immediately over-
lying the London clays. The beds consist of a ‘*mass of phosphatic
nodules and shell casts, siliceous pebbles, teeth of cretaceans and sharks,
and many mammal bones, besides occasional fragments of Lower
Greensand chert, granite, and chalk flints.” The nodules vary in both
quality and quantity. They are at times of a compact and brittle
nature, while at others they are tough and siliceous. They average
about 53 per cent phosphate of lime and 13 per cent phosphate of iron.

France.—Phosphates of the nodular type occur in beds of Cretaceous
age in the provinces of Ardennes and Meuse, and to a less extent in
others in northern France; in the department of Cote d’Or, and along

NAT MUS 99 24.

370 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

the Rhone at Bellegarde, Seyssel, and Grenoble. As in England, the
phosphatic nodules of the northern area, such as are of commercial
importance, occur in both the Upper and Lower Greensands. They
resemble in a general way the English phosphates, but are described
as soft and porous and easily disintegrating when exposed to the air.
Those of the Upper Greensand average some 55 per cent of phosphate
of lime.

More recently deposits have been described by M. J. Gosselet,* near
Fresnoy-le-Grand, in the north of France. The phosphatic material
occurs in a zone of gray chalk some 6 feet in thickness (13 to 2 meters),
and is in the form of concretionary nodules forming a sort of con-
elomerate in the lower part of the bed. A portion of the chalk is
also phosphatic. Phosphatic material (of the type of phosphorites) is
found in fissures and pockets in the upper portion of limestones of
Middle Jurassic (Oxfordian) age, in the departments of Tarn-et-
Garonne, Aveyron, and Zoti, France.

The deposits are of two kinds. The first occurring in irregular
cavities or pockets never over a few yards long, and the second in the
form of elongated leads with the sides nearly vertical. These are
generally shallow, and thin out very rapidly at a short distance below
the surface.

The nodules or concretions are of a white or gray color, waxy luster,
and opal-like appearance, and occur in the form of tubercular or kidney
shaped masses embedded in ferruginous clay in the clefts of the lime-
stone, or in geodic, fibrous, and radiating forms.

The material of this region is known commercially as Bordeaux
phosphate, being shipped mainly from Bordeaux. They average from
70 to 75 per cent phosphate of lime, the impurities being mainly iron
oxides and siliceous matter.

Gautier” describes deposits of phosphates estimated to the amount
of 120,000 to 300,000 tons on the floors of the Grotte de Minerve, near
the village of Minerve on the northeast flank of the Pyrenees, in Aude,
France. The cave proper is in nummulitic limestone of Eocene age,
the floors being formed by Devonian rocks. The filling material con-
sists of cave earth and bone breccia below which are the aggregates of
concretionary phosphorites and other phosphatic compounds of lime
and alumina, the more interesting being Brushite, a hydrous tribasic
calcium phosphate hitherto known only as a secondary incrustation on
guano from the West India islands, and M/inervite, a new species hay-
ing the formula Al,O,. P,O,, 7H,O, a hydrous aluminum phosphate,
existing in the form of a white plastic clay-like mass filling a vein
from a few inches to 2 or more feet in thickness.

Germany.—According to Davies, the principal phosphate regions of

? Annales de la Société Géologique du Nord., X-XI, 1893, p. 149.
2 Annals des Mines, V, 1894, p. 5.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 871

North Germany occupy an irregular area bounded on the northeast by
the town of Weilburg, on the northwest by the Westerwald, on the
east by the Taunus Mountains, and on the south by the town of Dietz.
The phosphorite occurs in the form of irregular nodular masses of all
sizes up to masses of several tons weight, embedded in clay which
rests upon Devonian limestone and is overlaid by another stratum of
clay. The phosphate-bearing clay varies in thickness from 6 inches to
10 feet. With the phosphate nodules are not infrequently associated
deposits of manganese and hematite. Davies regards the deposits as
of early Tertiary age. The color of the freshly mined material varies
from pale buff to dark brown, varying in specific gravity from 1.9 to
2.8, the quality deteriorating with the increase in gravity. Selected
samples of the staple nodules yielded as high as 92 per cent phosphate
of lime; but the average is much lower, being but about 50 to 60 per
cent phosphate of lime. (Specimens Nos. 66827, 66828, U.S.N.M.,
from Gleisenberg and Heckholzhausen.)

Belgium.—Nodular phosphates belonging to the Upper Cretaceous
formations occur in the province of Hainaut, where they form the
basis of an extensive industry. The nodules, which are generally of
a brown color and vary in size from the fraction of 1 to 4 or 5 inches
in diameter, lie in a coarse-grained, friable rock called the brown or
gray chalk, which itself immediately underlies what is known as the
Cipley conglomerate. The phosphate-bearing bed is sometimes nearly
100 feet in thickness, but is richest in the upper 10 feet, where it is
estimated the phosphatic pebbles constitute some 75 per cent of its
bulk. Below this the bed grows gradually poorer, passing by grada-
tions into the white chalk below.

The overlying conglomerate also carries phosphate nodules, which
carry from 25 to 50 per cent phosphate of lime. Owing to the hard-
ness of the inclosing rock they are less mined than those in the beds
beneath. The mining of phosphates is carried on extensively near the
town of Mons, on the lands of the communes of Cuesmes, Ciply, Mes-
vin, Nouvelles, Spiennes, St. Symphorien, and Hyon. The annual
output has gradually increased from between 3,000 and 4,000 tons in
1887 to 85,000 tons in 1894. Other phosphatic deposits are described !
as occurring in the provinces of Antwerp and Liege.

Spain.—Important deposits of phosphorites occur between Logrosan
and Caceres, in Estremadura Province. The deposits are in the form
of pockets and veins in slates and schists supposed to be of Silurian
age; at times a vein is found at the line of contact between the slate
and granite. The veins vary in thickness from 1 to several feet, the
largest being some 20 feet and extending for over 2 miles. This is by

‘ Annales de la Société Géologique de Belgique, X VII, 1890, p. 185.
372 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

far the largest of its kind known. As described by Penrose, the
‘*Logrosan phosphate has a subcrystalline structure; some specimens
are fibrous and radiating and often resemble feathers. [See Specimen
No. 44277, U.S.N.M.]. It is soft and chalky to the touch, easily broken,
but difficult to grind into a fine powder. An examination under the
microscope exhibits conchoidal figures, interrupted with spherical
grains, devoid of color and opaque. (Shepard.)

‘*The highest-grade material is rosy white or yellowish white in
color, soft, concentric, often brilliantly radiated, with a mammillary
or conchoidal surface. Red spots from iron and beautiful dendrites
of manganese are not infrequent. The poorer qualities are milky
white, vitreous, hard, and, though free from limestone, contain con-
siderable silica.”

In the Caceres district the phosphorites occur not in veins but
rather in pockety masses in veins of quartz and dark-colored lime-
stone, which are found cutting both the granite and slate. (Specimens
Nos. 37147, 63779, 63780, U.S.N.M.)

The following analyses from Dr. Penrose’s paper show about the
average composition of these phosphorites:

Logrosan, by Professor Daubeny.

Silicaiey t= ale a epee eae ee 1. 70
Rrotoxide onion aes soar eee 3.15
Miwonideroilinneie shah teste pesky Nee eee 14. 00
Phosphate obalime=ss= sees. eee eee 81.15

Caceres, by Bobierre and Friedel.

Insoluble siliceous matter....-..---------- 21.05
Water expelled at a red heat....-..--.---- 3. 00
Tribasic phosphate of lime*--2-22-2--222 72. 10
Toss iron\ Oxides ere Suse eee eee eee 3. 85

Portugal.—Phosphorites occur in Silurian and Devonian rocks under
similar conditions to those of Spain in Estremadura, Alemetjo, and
Beira provinces, and which need, therefore, no further notice here.
Stanier,’ however, describes a variety found in pockety and short vein-
like masses which are worthy of a passing notice. These occur not
in schists and sedimentary rocks but in massive granites. They are
found mainly in the superficial portions, where the granite has weath-
ered away to a coarse sand, and in short gashlike veins and pockets
of slight width and extent. The phosphatic material is described as
of a milk-white color, opaque, and showing when broken open a pal-
mately radiating structure, like hoarfrost upon a window pane. As
a rule the masses when found are enveloped ina thin coating of kaolin-
like material supposed to be derived by decomposition from the feld-

1Les Phosphorites du Portugal, Annales de la Société Géologique de Belgique,
XVII, 1890, p. 223.
THE NONMETALLIO MINERALS. 373

spar of the granites. They are mined only from open cuts and in the
superficial more or less decomposed portions of the rock, to which
they are believed to be mainly limited, having originated, as elsewhere
indicated, through a segregation of his phosphatic material dissolved
by meteoric waters from the surrounding granite and subsequently
depositing it in preexisting fissures. The percentage of tricalcic
phosphate is given as varying between 60 and 80 per cent.

Ttaly.—Phosphatic deposits consisting of coprolites, bones, ete.,
imbedded in a porous Tertiary limestone occur between Gallipoli and
Otranto, Cape Leuca, west of the Gulf of Taranto, on the Italian
coast. There are two beds having a thickness of 194 and 314 inches,
respectively, and which have been traced for a distance of some 160
yards. Analyses show them to be of low grade, rarely carrying as
high as 10 per cent P,O,.

Tunis.—Phosphatic nodules in the form of cylindrical coprolites
and clustered aggregates have been found in Tertiary strata covering
considerable areas in the region south of Tunis. The coprolite nodules
are stated to carry as high as 70 per cent of calcium phosphate, and
the clustered aggregate some 52 per cent.

Pussia.—Rich phosphate deposits of Cretaceous age occur in the
governments of Smolensk, Orlow, Koursk, and Vorouez, between the
rivers Dnieper and the Don in European Russia. The deposits lie
mostly in a sandy marl, underlying white chalk and overlying green-
sands, which also carry beds of from 6 to 12 inches thickness of phos-
phatic nodules. The nodules are dark, often nearly black, in color
and are intermixed with gray, brown, and yellow sands. The depth
of the beds below the surface is variable. Yermolow' divides the
deposits into two groups, the first presenting the form of separate
nodules, rounded or kidney-shaped, of variable size, and black, brown,
gray, or green in color. The second is in form of an agglomeration
of large nodules cemented together into a sort of flag, miioh used to
be quarried for road purposes. The nodules in this agglomerate are
richer in phosphoric acid when most dense and of a deep black color,
the sandy varieties being comparatively poor. The cement carrying
the nodules contains numerous fossil bones, shells, corals, ete., which
are also phosphatic. The samples yield about 30 to 60 per cent phos-
phate of lime. et deposits occur south of Saratov, on the Volya
(Specimen No. 52067, U.S.N. M.); at Tamboy and Spask, where the
overlying rock is a ae eensand in place of the chalk; Moscow; east of
Novgorod, on the Msta; at Kiev, on the Dnieper; Kamenetz, Podolsk,
on the Dniester, and at Grodno, on the Niemen.

Maltese Islands.’—Nodular phosphates occur in Miocene beds on the

' Recherches sur les Gisements ae Phosphate de Chaux Fossil en Russie.
*J. H. Cooke, The Phosphate Beds of the Maltese Island. Engineering and Min-
ing Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 200.
374 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

islands of Malta, Gozo, and Comino, of the Maltese group in the Med-
iterranean Sea. The bed containing the nodules is in what is known
as the Globigerina limestone, which underlies an upper coralline lime-
stone, greensands, and blue clays, and overlies the lower coralline
limestone. Upper and lower beds all carry phosphoric acid in small
amounts. There are four seams of nodules, the first varying in differ-
ent localities from 9 to 15 inches in thickness. The second is more
constant in character, averaging some 2 feet in thickness and consist-
ing of an aggregate of irregularly shaped nodules, intermixed with
which are considerable quantities of the phosphatized remains of mol-
lusks, corallines, echinoderms, crustaceans, sharks, whales, etc., the
whole being firmly bound together by an interstitial cement, composed
of foraminiferal and other calcareous matter similar to that of which
the overlying beds are made up. ‘The third seam is the poorest of the
lot and consists of two or more thin layers of nodules, none of which
exceeds 3 inches in thickness. Between this and the fourth and lowest
seam, which is the most important of all, is a bed of rock some 50 to
80 feet in thickness. The seam averages some 34 feet in thickness.
The nodules are of a dark-chocolate color embedded in a calcareous
matrix, from which they are freed by calcination. The composition of
I, the nodules, and II, the average composition of nodules and inter-
stitial cement, is given below, from analyses by Drs. Murray and
Blake:

Constituents. if Il.
Sulphate of lime s2.-sceces te ee ae ee ee eet 2. 26 1.97
Carbonateion limes es. eae eee eee nent ae aes 47.14 51.12
Phosphate of lime.......-- Bet Sate Aa Reta Oe eco SEIS 38.34 31. 66
Mhibashuersy (CMW OM) eace.caanccas s6sasberescoceap se sosaocecc acs 5.98 10.59
Oxideomnronn(@he; On) eeseeseee eee eae eee ee eee ete Trace. 3.83
Residue .....-- Hai LEA PLY E 5 Oe Ben as ON ES ESP ry ee 6.08 | b0.87
Patel’ wikis ye te cheap esta ene ein 99.80 | 100. ony
a Silica. b Moisture.

GUANO, SOLUBLE AND LEACHED.—The largest and best-known de-
posits of unleached guanos are found on the mainland and small
islands off the coasts of Peru and Bolivia, where abundant animal life
and lack of rainfall have contributed to their formation and pre-
servation. These deposits are described as consisting mainly of the
evacuations of sea fowl and marine animals, such as flamingoes, divers,
penguins, and sea lions. Mixed with these deposits are naturally more
or less bone and animal matter furnished by the dead bodies of both
birds and mammals. The deposits vary indefinitely in extent and
thickness, but have attained in places a depth of upward of 100 feet.
As a rule they are more compact beneath than at the surface, but
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 375

may be readily removed by pick and shovel. The first deposits to be
worked are stated by Penrose to have been those of the Chincha
Islands, off the Peruvian coast. These were practically exhausted
as early as 1872. Other islands which have been worked and com-
pletely if not entirely stripped are those of Macabi, Guanape, Bal-
lestas, Lobos, Foca, Pabellon de Pica, Tortuga, and Huanillos.

A mean of 21 analyses of Macabi Island guano, by Barral, »s quoted
by Penrose,’ showed:

DS [TOE sae a ee ee eS ee eee, et eg A rn Pe en Pe ee 10. 90
abi uabed series st: Se Pal ce eee eee SE tithe ears Gm nee ees 2 oases 27.6
Lila (GSU ae pie IO eae Mean AE bers ae tots MR eels Sar | Stet yal? SiN one eee Bie 2 to3

Other analyses are given in the following table:

Angamos, coast | | eee | Island of
Constituents. of Bolivia, eecsirieey eaniae Elide, coast of
white guano. gar Neate California.
Organic matter......-.-- | 70.21 to 52.92 23. 00 32.45 | 27.87 to 34.50
|
Containing nitrogen....| 20.09 14.38 3.38 5. 92 | 1.34 6.98
Equivalent in ammonia.| 24.386 17.44 | 4.10 7.18 1.62 8.46
Total phosphates. ......-. imloss0ume20495: | 48. 60 34.81 | a28.00 31.00
{lot dePe-
: Galapa-
|e Ae Ae dro-Bey, Mexican e: Falkland
SST Es coast coast. mendes Islands.
of Cuba. | | nats eal
Organic matter......--.-| GG | TOO H HOTEL OD baaanscoes 17.35 to 28. 68
Containing nitrogen ....| 0. 28 0. 21 3.45 | 0.7 0. 56 2.26
Equivalent in ammonia. | 0.34 | 0.26 4.19 | 0.85| 0.68 2.74
Total phosphates........ 48.52 | 8.00 25.00 | 60.30 | a@21.46 25.62
ees =

aContaining sometimes very considerable quantities of phosphates of alumina and the oxide of
iron.

Aside from on the islands, guano is found all along the coast of the
Chilean province of Tarapaca, from Carmarones Bay to the mouth of
the river Loa, there being scarcely a prominence or rock on the shore
that does not contain some guano. According to the Journal of the
Society of Chemical Industry,’ the deposits have been known from a
very early date. The aborigines of the valleys and gullies of Tarapaca,
Mamina, Huatacondo, Camina, and Quisma were acquainted with the
fertilizing qualities of guano, and they conveyed it from the coast to
their farms on the backs of llamas.

The southern beds vary so much in aspect and color that it fre-
quently requires an experienced eye to make them out. Many of the
deposits are covered with immense layers of sand, while others are
buried beneath a solid layer of conglomerate. Guano is also fre-
quently found in the fissures and gullies which descend to the sea-

' Bulletin No. 46 of the United States Geological Survey.
2? Volume VI, 1887, p. 228.
376 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

shore. The richest and largest beds are at Pabellon de Pica, Punta de
Lobos, Huanillos, and Chipana.

Aside from the localities above mentioned, guano is found on the
islands Itschabo, Possession, Pamora, and Halifax, off the Namagua
coast of South Africa. The material is described as forming a grayish
brown powder, free from large lumps, and possessing a faint ammo-
niacal odor. It carries from 8 to 14 per cent of nitrogen and 8 to 12
per cent of phosphoric acid.*

The West India Islands. —Phosphates belonging to the class of leached
euanos occur in considerable abundance on several of the islands of the
We st Indies group, the principal localities being Sombrero, Navassa,
Turk, St. Martin, Aruba, Curacao, Orchillas, Arenas, Roneador, Swan,
Cat or Guanahani, Redonda, the Pedro and Morant Keys, and the rdek
of Los Monges and Aves in Maracaibo Gulf. These, as would natu-
rally be expected from their mode of origin, vary greatly, not merely
in appearances, but in chemical composition as well. That of Sombrero
is described? as occurring in two forms—one a granular, porous, and
friable mass of a white, pink, green, blue, or yellow color (Specimen No.
44975, U.S.N.M.); the Behee as a dense, massive, and homogeneous
fone of a white or yellow color. Many bones occur. ‘The phosphate
carries from 70 to 75 per cent phosphate of lime. An analysis as given
by Davies? is as follows:

Moisture and water of combination. . --- -- 8. 92
Phosphoric aedstvaece. 3 -—- ese eee 21.73
ISTIC xe Eh ee ets ee oe ee 45. 69
Carbonic acid) <5 aes 5 ese eee 5. 99
Oxideoturonieindtaluminaes.4e2 =) eee lO
Insoluble siliceous matter. .-...----------- . 60

100. 00

The Nevassa phosphate is described by D’Invilliers® as occurring
(1) in the form of a gray phosphate confined to the lower levels of the
island, and (2) a red variety occupying the oval flat of the interior.
The gray is the better variety, as shown by the analyses below, though
both are aluminous, and difficult of manipulation on that account.
Both varieties occur in cavities and fissures in the surface of the hard
gray, white, or blue limestone, of which the island is mainly composed.
These cavities or pockets are rarely more than 4 or 5 yards wide on
the surface, and frequently much smaller, and of depths varying from
5 to 25 feet. The deposits, so far as explored, are wholly superficial.

1 Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 29.

2R. F. Penrose, Bulletin No. 46 of the U. S. Geological Society .
3D. C. Davies, Earthy and Other Minerals, p. 178.

4 Equal to tribasic phosphate of lime, 69.27 per cent.

5 Equal to carbonate of lime, 13.61 per cent.

6 Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, II, 1891, p. 75-89.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 817

Experimental shafts sunk to a depth of 250 feet have failed to bring to
light any deeper lying beds.

Analysis of gray Navassa phosphate.

Watersatel 00: Cresco soeet eee te aaa se 2.33
Organic matter and water of combination. 7. 63
Iim@s se ee Se ee eee eee acces. 34. 22
Maenesia 1. 2 eee seer ee onan ence ee .51
Sesquioxide of iron and alumina .-..------- 15. 77
Potashvand: sodarssspenses eee ee eeee . 86
Phosphoric acid -22242s.9rses eases 31.34
ryeU yey npn al ceae: (64 (6 Maen Sites AGLI Te Ee 2 . 28
@hl Oringss2 2 eee eerie eee mt)
Carbonic acide + -eatee-seee oe tee eee 1. 84
Siliiceie 2 sees Bes es Oe ee 4.53
Bone phosphate: 220 ssc 5.2225. Sse teieee 68. 46
Bone phosphate (dry basis) ------------- 70. 09

LDC SEU Lo alsa oil ha) ag ene se ee 14, 223
Tyinets eS a2 ee ees are ere 23. 090
J SVS (2 So) BAM ge ee ete ein a re eee Trace.
BesqimoOxideranmons bee soi lsd Sie 9. 796
AM crenaraees tes sce 8 ce rs tices a 18. 425
Ibias phameaeids 23 25-25 obwee che 29. 779
SolpnmMmteaet ss: Sth .6 seca sa se-- <= 1. 160
Carbonic acid (by difference) -.---------- 3. 527
Bone phosphates 2.0.2.2, a5 3s 25-0 emi. 65. 037

Specimens Nos. 10247, 73245-73248, U.S.N.M., show the variable
character of the phosphate rock, and Nos. 73242, 73243, U.S.N.M., the
associated coral work.

The Aruba phosphate is described as a hard, massive variety of a
white to dark-brown color. The underlying corals of this island are
sometimes found phosphatized. An analysis given by Davies* is as
follows:

Per cent.

INIOIStUre oe. Bete ee te eee ee eee 8. 50
Water of combinatones a9 9ss-) eee 4.15
PhpspHonG asides. sees. ee oe ee 28. 47
A Ur aa Ys Ss ep eens ay I ey eA ean RP aN en ete teat ae 34. 07
Mapniesia.A\. 25.5 F225 casos ck 2 See 45
@arbomigHcid sis at ee a eon eae ee 2. 30
Oxiderointrontes os see Se eee epee oe 4.49
WANNA tee oe ene eee eect 9.48
Bulphuarie scid-eS 24. SOR st ees oe 1. 81
Insoluble siliceous matter ......-...-.---- 6. 28
100. 00

1D. C. Davies, Earthy and Other Minerals, p. 177.
2 Equal to tribasic phosphate of lime, 62.15 per cent.
5 Equal to carbonate of lime, 5.22 per cent.
378 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The Pedro Keys, Redonda, Alta Vela, and some others differ in car-
rying larger percentages of alumina and iron oxides, necessitating
special methods of preparation.

Deposits of leached guano of considerable extent have existed on
several islands of the Polynesian Archipelago, in the Pacific Ocean, the
better known being those of Bakers, Howland, Jarvis, Malders,
Birmie, Phcenix, and Enderbury islands. The deposits are described *
as varying from 6 inches to several feet in thickness, of a whitish-
brown or red color, pulverulent when dry, sometimes in the form of
fine powder and again in coarse grains. Though closely compacted,
the material can as a rule be readily removed by pick and shovel. The
purest varieties are those lying on the unaltered coral limestones, of
which the islands are mainly composed. Those lying upon gypsum
have become contaminated with sulphate of lime. In places the
deposits are covered with a thin crust due to the action of atmospheric
agencies. On Jarvis Islanda considerable share of the deposit is covered
by material of this crust-like character. Such on analysis are found to
contain less water and a corresponding higher percentage of lime and
phosphoric acid than the loosely compacted material, being indeed, as
shown by Mr. Hague, a nearly pure diphosphate of lime. The following
analyses show the general character of these guanos from Bakers Island,
No. I being freshly deposited and consisting of the dung of the frigate
bird (Pelicanus aquilus). No. 11 is a light-colored variety from a deep
part of the deposit, and No. III dark guano from a shallow part.

Analyses of guano.

Constituents. Ts 1 Jak:
Moistireiexpelled iat 212° (Wes. e a. asecce ease sac eeaee eee 10. 40 2.92 1.82
TOSS sDY WPMILON asec sows eee oa Ce eee eee eee eeer estas 36. 88 8.32 8.50
Insoluble in HCl] (unconsumed by ignition)...-.-..-------- OO7S)| Serene ees eee
TAME}: 2355. 22s coccsecwene cans seems Se ectiae Se eer cee eee 22, 41 42.74 42.34
IMS 2D GSIS ee a5 ee eae coke aaah eae since sis See ea ees 1.46 2.54 Dah
DPUlphwunic acids. sees ae eee a wee ee ye ae eee ee ieetate tetas 2.36 1.30 1.24
Phosphorice* acids 2. ceseccn asta sora eee ane ae ae 21.27 39. 70 40.14
Carbonie acid, chlorine and alkalies, undetermined.....-... 4.44 2.48 3.21
Total 2.22 52.5 ne ow oc Panes tetinntessccnenceteeeumesteees 100. 00 100,00 | 100.00
Soluble in water remaining after ignition...........-...---- B63) |keece ccs o\beaeeoseee

Bar Guano.—The dry atmosphere of caves preserves indefinitely the
fecal matter of bats and such other animals as may frequent them.
Such under favorable conditions may accumulate in sufficient quanti-
ties to become of economic importance, being gathered and used as a
fertilizer under the name of bat guano. The usual form of the

1). D. Hague, American Journal of Science, XXXIV, 1862, p. 224.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 379

entrances to caves is, however, such as to make the process of removal
tedious and expensive.

Bat guano is, as a rule, dark in color, of a glossy, almost mucilagin-
ous appearance, and quite hard (Specimen No. 53358, U.S.N.M., from
Goshen caves, Juab County, Utah). Its composition is shown in the
following analysis of a sample from the Wyandotte caves* in southern
Indiana :

boss Atvwredsheateass cope k eee eee ancics 44.10
ORGANIC MaGteR coset ere re 4. 90
DATING TTS oer ee en Ae)
Silicasis Vs eas ee eee eee (oF cls}
Aldumimee 3 oes es 2 ed oe See eee 14. 30
POLTIG ORLGCeN= dae oes SOLE Pa eae 120)
ALIN OY ye ae ete eres ees On pee 7.95
Nom edits 2 toa eye 8 ne aa e oe ee Hei
Sulphuric acid 222 soo 2h Sse sence le 5. 21
Wanrbonicmicidises Meet et Se eee Be
Phosphoric aeid:?.<5.5. 2424222522 4i6- he ei
Chloride of alkalies and loss......----.---- 5. 82

100. 00

According to the reports of the State geologist, the caves in the Si-
lurian strata in Burnet County, Texas, are in many instances enor-
mously rich in bat guano. The following description of one of these
caves is taken from the report for 1889:

The bat cave in the northwest corner of Burnet County is worked by a Georgia
company, and I learn from the men there that about 157 tons of the material had
heen shipped up to December 20, 1889. The shipments are made by wagon to
Lampasas, Texas, and from there by rail to Georgia and other parts of the United
States. The cave is situated about 8 miles from Bluffton, going north up Beaver
Creek. Near Lacy Branch, a tributary of Beaver Creek, about 2 miles north of
Silver Mine Creek, there is a fault on the west side of Beaver Creek, in a branch
which is called ‘‘ Bat Cave Hollow.’’? Proceeding from this point in a northwest direc-
tion for about 2 miles we reach the bat cave, on top of a higher chert bed. The way
from Beaver Creek to the cave is constantly ascending, first over Silurian limestone
for about 1 mile, when the chert formation appears. On the top of a chert hill
there is an opening of about 10 feet in diameter, extending perpendicularly down-
ward for 30 feet, where, at the north side of this opening, there is an entrance to the
cave. The cave has not been measured, but I estimate its length from north to
south to be about 600 yards, with as much if not more space in the opposite direc-
tion. The top of the cave, as well as its sides, is solid chert, such as occurs in all the
chert beds in San Saba and all the neighboring counties. The guano bed in the heart
of the cave has been burned, léaving the ashes at places 26 feet deep, and not less
than 18 feet at others. The ash is not brought up, and the supply of guano is taken
from the surrounding portions and sides of the cave. As I understand, there are
some leaders to the cave that have not yet been explored, there being plenty of ma-
terial near the heart of the cave for all present requirements. Five men were em-
ployed in digging and bringing out the guano by means of a rail track to the surface,
where it is deposited upon a large platform erected for that purpose.

1Geology of Indiana, 1878, p. 163.
380 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Muntz and Mareano! have called attention to the extensive deposits
of guano, sometimes amounting to millions of tons, in caves in Vene-
zuela and other parts of South America.

According to them the deposits consists not merely of the excreta
of the birds and bats which frequent the caves, but also of the dead
bodies of these and other animals. The excreta were found to consist
almost wholly of the remains of insects. Through the agency of bac-
teria, nitrification takes place, whereby the organic nitrogen is con-
verted in nitric acid which combines with the lime from the bones or
the carbonate of lime in the soils to form nitrates, as described on
page 391.

Uses.—The phosphates of the classes thus far described are used
wholly for fertilizer purposes. In their natural condition they exist
in the form known to chemists as tribasic phosphates—that is a com-
pound in which three atoms of a base mineral, usually calcium, are
combined with one of phosphoric anhydride (P,O,;). Thus the com-
mon tribasic phosphate of lime has the formula (CaO), P,O, (= 45.81
parts by weight P,O, and 54.19 CaO). Other bases, as alumina, iron,
or magnesia, may partially replace the lime, but the phosphate 1s
always deteriorated thereby. This is particularly the case when alu-
minum and iron are the replacing constituents. Although when finely
ground the tricalcic phosphates are of value for fertilizers, it is cus-
tomary to first submit them to chemical treatment in order to render
them more readily soluble.

This treatment consists, as a rule, in converting them into a super-
phosphate by treatment with sulphuric acid whereby a portion of the
base becomes converted into sulphates and the anhydrous and insoluble
tribasic phosphate into a hydrous and soluble monobasic form of the
formula CaO. (H,O),. P,O,;. There are other reactions than those
above given, but the process is one too complicated for discussion here,
and the reader is referred to especial treatise on the subject.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

R. A. F. Penrose, Jr. Nature and Origin of Deposits of Phosphate of Lime. Bul-
letin No. 46, U. 8. Geological Survey, 1888, pp. 148. Gives a bibliography, up
to date, of publication. The following have appeared since:

W.H. Apams. List of Commercial Phosphates.

Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VIII, 1889,
p- 649.
Joun D. Frossarp. About some Apatite Deposits of Ontario.
Engineering and Mining Journal, VIII, 1889, p. 194.

Paun Levy. Des phosphates de chaux. De leurs principaux gisements en France et
aletranger des gisements récemment découyertes. Utilisation en agriculture;
assimilation par les plants.

Annales des Sciences Geologique, XX, 1889, p. 78.

1Comptes Rendus de |’ Academie des Sciences, Paris, 1885, p. 65.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 381

Turopor Dretmar. Das Phosphoritlager yon Steinbach und allgemeine Gesicht-
spunkte tiber Phosphorite.

Vierteljahrschrift der Naturforschenden Gessellschaft in Zurich, 1890, p. 182.

Henri Lasne. Sur les Terrains phosphatés des environs de Doullens. Etage Séno-
nien et Terrains superposés. ;

Bulletin de la Société Geologique de France, X VIII, 1890, p. 441.

Idem, XX, 1892, p. 211.

Idem, XXII, 1894, p. 345.

Apert R. Lepoux. The Phosphate Beds of Florida.

Engineering and Mining Journal, X LIX, 1890, p. 175.

Hsatmar Lunpsoum. Apatitforekomster I Gellivare Malmberg och Kringliggande
Trakt.

Sveriges Geologiska Undersdkning, ser. C, 1890, pp. 48.

X. Srarrer. Lés depdts phosphates des environs de Thuillies.

Annales de la Société Geologique Belgique, X VII, 1890, p. LX-VI.

. Les Phosphorites du Portugal.

Idem., p. 223.

Watrer B. M. Davipson. Suggestions as to the origin and deposition of Florida
phosphates.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LI, 1891, p. 628.

Epwarp V. D’Inviturers. Phosphate Deposits of the Island of Navassa.

Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, II, 1891, p. 75.

N. De Marcy. Remarques sur les Gites de Phosphate de Chaux de la Picardie.

Buletin de la Société Geologique de France, XTX, 1891, p. 854.

EuGeEner A. Suir. Phosphates and Marls of Alabama.

Bulletin No. 2, Geological Survey of Alabama, 1892.

W. ve L. Benepicr. Mining, Washing, and Calcining South Carolina Land Phos-
phate.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 349.

Joun H. Cooke. The Phosphate Beds of the Maltese Islands.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LIV, 1892, p. 200.
Watrer B. M. Davipson. The Present Formation of Phosphatic Concretions in
Deep-Sea Deposits.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 499.
D. C. Davies. Phosphate of Lime.

Chaps. VII, VIII, IX, X, pp. 109-180, of A Treatise on Earthy and other
Minerals and Mining, 3d ed., revised by E. Henry Davies, London, Crosby,
Lockwood & Son, 1892.

HsAtmar Lunpsonm. Apatitforekomster I Norrbottens Malmberg.

Sveriges Geologiska Undersékung, ser. C, 1892, p. 38.

N. A. Pratt. Florida Phosphates; The Origin of the Boulder Phosphates of the With-
lacoochee River District.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LIII, 1892, p. 380.

Francis Wyarr. Phosphates of America.
New York, 4th ed., 1892.
W. P. Buaxe. Association of Apatite with Beds of Magnetite.
Transactions American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1893, p. 159.
. Contribution to the Early History of the Industry of Phosphate of Lime in
the United States.

Idem., p. 157.

A. Gautier. Sur des phosphates en roche d’origine animale et sur un nouveau de
phosphorites.

Comptes Rendus, CX VI, 1893, pp. 928 and 1022.

382 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

A. Gautier. Sur la genese des phosphates naturels, et en Particulier de ceux qui ont
emprunte leur phosphore aux etres organises.

Comptes Rendus, CX VI, 1893, p. 1271.

J. GosseLer. Note sur les gites du Phosphate de Chaux de Templeux-Bellicourt et
de Buire.
Société Geologique du Nord, X XI, 1893, p. 2.
. Note sur les gites de Phosphate de Chaux des environs de Fresnoy-le-Grand.
Idem., p. 149.
Tuomas M. Cuatarp. Phosphate Chemistry as it concerns the Miner.
Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1893, p. 160.
Gro. H. Evpripce. A Preliminary Sketch of the Phosphates of Florida.
Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1893, p. 196.
CHARLES HeEtson. Notes sur la nature et le gisement du phosphate de chaux naturel
dans les departments du Tarn-et-Garonne et du Tarn.

Société Geologique du Nord, X XI, 1893, p. 246.

Water B. M. Davipson. Notes on the Geological Origin of Phosphate of Lime in
the United States and Canada.

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1893, p. 139.

WixuraM B. Puruures. A List of Minerals containing at least one per cent of Phos-
phorie Acid.
Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1893, p. 188.
H. B. Smauu. The Phosphate Mines of Canada.

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1893, p. 774.
Joun Stewart. Laurentian Low-Grade Phosphate Ores.

Transactions of the American Institute Mining Engineers, X XI, 1893, p. 176.
Carrot D. Wricut. The Phosphate Industry of the United States.

Sixth Special Report of the Commissioner of Labor, 1893. Washington: Gov-
ernment Printing Office.

M. Buayac. Description Géologique de la Région des Phosphates du dyr et du
Kouif Pres Tebéssa.

Annales des Mines, VI, 1894, p. 319.

. Note sur les Lambeaux Suessoniens a Phosphate de Chaux de Bordj Redir et
du Djebel Mzeita.

Idem., p. 331.

EvcGenr A. Suirn. The Phosphates and Marls of the State. Report on the Geology
of the Costal Plain of Alabama, 1894, pp. 449-525.

A. Gautier. Sur un Gisement de Phosphates de Chaux et d’ Alumine contenant des
espéces rares ou nouvelles et sur la Genése des Phosphates et Nitres naturels.

Annales des Mines, V, 1894, p. 5.

Tuomas C. Meapows and Lyris Brown. The Phosphates of Tennessee.

Engineering and Mining Journal, LVIII, 1894, p. 365.

Wixuiam B. Pariures. The Phosphate Rocks of Tennessee.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVII, 1894, p. 417.
Davin Leyar. Etude sur l'industrie des Phosphates et Superphosphates. (Tunisie-
Floride-scories basiques. )
Annales des Mines, VII, 1895, p. 135.
J. M. Sarrorp. Tennessee Phosphate Rocks.
Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture, Nashville, Tennessee, 1895, p. 16.
CHARLES WILLARD Hayes. The Tennessee Phosphates.

Extract from the Seventeenth Annual Report of the U. 8. Geological Survey,
1895-96. Pt. 2, Economic Geology and Hydrography. Washington: Goyern-
ment Printing Office. 1896.

M. BapousgEav. Sur les gisements de chaux phosphates de I’ Estremadure.

Bulletin de la Société Centrale Agriculture de France, XXX VIII.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 383

2. MonazirE.
Composition, a phosphate of cerium metals of the general formula
(Ce, La, Di) PO,. Actual analyses as given by Dana yielded results
as below:

Constituents. Te 105
Phosphoric anhydride. (oO) ieeecnerete me oes eaiaiatetnieiniala = a= 29. 28 27. 55
Cerium’ sesquioxide/(Ces@py came tease eee wie ale eet ciara 31.38 29. 20

Lanthanum sesquioxide (LiacQ 3)-..------------.-+------.6-
Didyninm/SesquioS1G 6D Os) i ae teles ara lee te oleae eel =

Nay Hulbhenesc(opbikoy. ato len( PF (O)\ase sence ssesenodsoo ees coocsod Seeercanos | 3, 82
MnfopUs(es(0 holley. akslag (en OAR ened noon eboodanbyls qsaheeondace| bsoncoane 1.13
Silica (Sis) 426 22.252> cee eose sce eereeeeesse- serene eee 1. 40 1.86
SPHONING ROS) acerca ae alte emcee em oneentein sealer 6.49 9.57
TPT TE (CEO Eek o Blo Sosa opeeoesuE Gee Sa eBeACoDaDeeedreress| SooocHesEr 0.69
POTION) seen ee eat ee eels ese aie terene eu sees om 0. 20 0. 52

EG Gel eee ee acto ae acho a ret eae cctitalaieratece a mene are 99. 63 100. 60

I Burke County, North Carolina. II Arendal, Norway.

The crystals are commonly minute, often flattened; not uncom-
monly in form of small cruciform twins. The mineral also occurs in
coarse masses yielding angular fragments. Hardness, 5 to 5.5; spe-
cific gravity, 4.9 to 5.3. Color, hyacinth-red to brown and yellowish,
subtransparent to translucent.

Localities and mode of occurrence.—The common form of occurrence
of the mineral is that of minute crystals or crystalline granules dis-
seminated throughout the mass of gneissoid rocks. Owing to their
small size they have been very generally overlooked, and it is only
where, through the decomposition of the inclosing rock and the con-
centration of these and the accompanying heavy minerals—as magne-
tite, garnet, etc.—in the form of sand, that it becomes sufficiently
conspicuous to be evident. Prof. O. Derby was the first to point out
the widespread occurrence of the mineral as a rock constituent, he
having obtained it in numerous and hitherto unsuspected localities by
washing the débris from decomposed gneisses of Brazil. Although
widespread as a rock constituent and of interest from a mineralogical
and petrographical standpoint, only the localities mentioned below have
thus far yielded the mineral in commercial quantities.

North Carolina.—The mineral is found in considerable quantities in
the form of small brown, greenish, or yellow-brown granules, often
rounded by water action, in the gold-bearing sands of Rutherford,
Polk, Alexander, Burke, and McDowell counties, and also in the neigh-
borhood of Crowders Mountain, Gaston County, and at Todds Branch,
in Mecklenburg County, where it occurs associated with zircons and
‘an occasional diamond. Fine crystals over an inch in length have been
found in Mitchell County, and large cleavable masses, sometimes 3 or

384 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

4 inches across and of a yellowish-brown color, at Mars Hill, in Mad-
ison County. From the gold-bearing sands at Brindleton, Burke
County, some 15 tons of sand, containing from 60 to 92 per cent of
small crystals, had been obtained prior to 1891.

According to Mr. H. B. Nitze’ the commercially economical deposits
of monazite are those occurring in the placer sands of the streams and
adjoining bottoms and in the beach sands along the seashore. The
geographical areas over which such workable deposits have been found
up to the present time are quite limited in number and extent. In
the United States the placer deposits of North and South Carolina
stand alone. This area includes between 1,600 and 2,000 square miles,
situated in Burke, McDowell, Rutherford, Cleveland, and Polk coun-
ties, North Carolina, and the northern part of Spartanburg County,
South Carolina. The principal deposits of this region are found along
the waters of Silver, South Muddy, and North Muddy creeks, and
Henrys and Jacobs Forks of the Catawba River in McDowell and Burke
counties; the Second Broad River in McDowell and Rutherford
counties; and the First Broad River in Rutherford and Cleveland
counties, North Carolina, and Spartanburg County, South Carolina.
These streams have their sources in the South Mountains, an eastern
outlier of the Blue Ridge. The country rock is granitic biotite
gneiss and dioritic hornblende gneiss, intersected nearly at right
angles to the schistosity by a parallel system of small auriferous
quartz veins, striking about N. 70° E., and dipping steeply to the N. W.
Most of the stream deposits of this region have been worked for placer
gold. The existence of monazite in commercial quantities here was
first established by Mr. W. E. Hidden, in 1879. The thickness of
these stream gravel deposits is from 1 to 2 feet, and the width of the
mountain streams in which they occur is seldom over 12 feet. The
percentage of monazite in the original sand is very variable, from an
infinitesimal quantity up to 1 or 2 per cent. The deposits are naturally
richer near the headwaters of the streams.

Brazil.—As above noted, the original source of the Brazilian mo-
nazite were gneisses from which the mineral has been liberated by
decomposition. The particular localities examined by Professor
Derby are in the provinces of Minas Geraes, Rio de Janeiro, and Sao
Paulo. The most extensive accumulation thus far reported is in the
form of considerable patches on the sea beach near the little town of
Aleobaca in the southern part of the province of Bahia, though it
has been also found on other sea beaches and in river sands. Nitze
writes that

Sacks filled with this sand were shipped to New York in 1885, the deposit haying

been taken for tin ore. Its true character was, however, soon recognized, and since
then a number of tons haye been shipped in the natural state, without any further

Sixteenth Annual Report U. 8. Geological Survey, 1894-95, pt. 4, p. 689.
; THE NONMETALLIO MINERALS. 3885

concentration or treatment, as ballast, mainly to the European markets. It is
reported to contain 3 to 4 per cent thoria. * * * Monazite has also been found
in the gold and diamond placers of the provinces of Bahia (Salabro and Caravellas),
Minas Geraes (Diamantia), Rio de Janeiro, and Sao Paulo. It has been found in the
river sands of Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic, and also in the gold placers of
Rio Chico, at Antioquia, in the United States of Colombia.

In the Ural Mountains of Russia monazite is found in the Bakakui placers of the
Sanarka River. The placer gold mines of Siberia are reported to be rich in mona-
zite, which is rafted down the Lena and the Yenesei rivers to the Arctic Ocean, and
thence to European ports.

Economic deposits of monazite are also reported to exist in the pegmatic dikes:of
Southern Norway. It is picked by the miners while sorting feldspar at the mines.
It is not known to exist in placer deposits. The annual output is stated to be not
more than | ton, which is shipped mainly to Germany.

_ Methods of extraction.—The monazite is won by washing the sand and gravel in
sluice boxes exactly after the manner that placer gold is worked. The sluice boxes
are about 8 feet long by 20 inches wide by 20 inches deep. Two men work at a box,
the one charging the gravel on a perforated plate fixed in the upper end of the box,
the other one working the contents up and down with a gravel fork or perforated
shovel in order to float off the lighter sands. These boxes are cleaned out at the
end of the day’s work, the washed and concentrated monazite being collected and
dried. Magnetite, if present, is eliminated from the dried sand by treatment with a
large magnet. Many of the heavy minerals, such as zircon, menaccanite, rutile,
brookite, corundum, garnet, etc., can not be completely eliminated. The com-
mercially prepared sand, therefore, after washing thoroughly and treating with a
magnet, is not pure monazite. A cleaned sand containing from 65 to 70 per cent
monazite is considered of good quality. From 20 to 35 pounds of cleaned monazite
sand per hand, that is, from 40 to 70 pounds to the box, is considered a good day’s
work. The price of labor is 75 cents per day.

But very few regular mining operations are carried on in the region. As a rule
each farmer mines his own monazite deposit and sells the product to local buyers,
often at some country store in exchange for merchandise.

At the present time the monazite in the stream beds has been practically exhausted,
with few exceptions, and the majority of the workings are in the gravel deposits of
the adjoining bottoms. These deposits are mined by sinking pits about 8 feet square
to the bed rock and raising the gravel by hand labor to a sluice box at the mouth of
the pit. The overlay is thrown away excepting in cases where it contains any sandy
or gritty material. The pits are carried forward in parallel lines, separated by nar-
row belts of tailing dumps, similar to the methods pursued in placer gold mining.

At the Blanton and Lattimore mines on Hickory Creek, 2 miles northeast of
Shelby, Cleveland County, North Carolina, the bottom is 300 to 400 feet wide, and has
been partially worked for a distance of one-fourth of a mile along the creek. The
overlay is from 3 to 4 feet and the gravel bed from 1 to 2 feet thick. The methods of
mining and cleaning are much more systematic in Spartanburg County, South Caro-
lina, than in North Carolina regions. Although the raw material contains on an
average fully as much garnet, rutile, titanic iron ore, ete., as that in the North Caro-
lina mines, a much better finished product is obtained, and more economically, by
making several grades. Two boxes are used in washing the gravel, one below the
other. The gravel is charged on a perforated plate at the head of the upper box, and
the clean-up from this box is so thoroughly washed as to give a high grade sand,
often up to 85 per cent pure. The tailings discharge directly into the lower box,
where they are rewashed, giving a second grade sand. At times the material passes
through as many as five washing treatments in the sluice boxes. Even after these
grades are obtained as clear as possible by washing, the material, after being thor-

NAT MUS 99 25

386 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

oughly dried, is further cleaned by pouring from a cup, or a small spout in a bin,
in a fine, steady stream froma height of about 4 feet, ona level platform; the lighter
quartz and black sand with the fine-grained monazite (tailings) falls on the periphery
of the conical pile and is constantly brushed aside with hand brushes; these tailings
are afterwards rewashed. Instead of pouring and brushing, the material is sometimes
treated in a winnowing machine similar to that used in separating chaff from wheat.

Although the best grade of sand is as high as 85 per cent pure, its quantitative
proportion is small as compared with the second and other inferior grades, and there
is always considerable loss of monazite in the various tailings. It is impossible to
conduct this washing process without loss of monazite, and equally impossible to
make a perfect separation of the garnet, rutile, titanic iron ore, etc., even in the best
grades. The additional cost of such rewashing and rehandling must also be taken
into consideration.

If the material washed contains gold, the same will be collected with the mona-
zite in concentrating. It may frequently pay to separate it, which can easily be
accomplished by treating the whole mass over again in a riffle box with quicksilver.

It has been shown that the monazite occurs as an accessory constituent of the
country rock. and that the latter is decomposed to considerable depths, sometimes
as much as 100 feet. On account of the minute percentage of monazite in the mother
rock, it is usually impracticable to economically work the same in place, by such a
process as hydraulicking and sluicing, for instance. However, even hillside mining
has been resorted to. Such is the case at the Phifer mine, in Cleveland County,
North Carolina, 2 miles northeast of Shelby. The country rock is a coarse mica
(muscovite and biotite) gneiss, and the small monazite crystals may at times be
distinctly seen, unaided by a magnifying glass, in this rock. It is very little decom-
posed and still quite hard, and the material that is mined for monazite is the over-
lying soil and subsoil, which is from 4 to 6 feet thick. This is loaded on wheel-
barrows and transported to the sluice boxes below the water race. The yield is
fairly good, and the product very clean, though the cost of working * * * must
be considerably in excess of that of bottom mining. Where the rock contains suf-
ficient gold, as it sometimes does, to be operated as a gold mine, there is no reason
why the monazite can not be saved as a valuable by-product."

The following localities- are represented in the Museum collec-
tions:

Specimen No. 53107, U.S.N.M. Prado, Bahia, Brazil. Monazite-bearing sand from
the bed of a small stream near the beach.

Specimen No. 53108, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand, Prado, Bahia, Brazil. Natural con-
centrate of beach; represents the condition in which much of the material is
shipped.

Specimen No. 53109, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand, Prado, Bahia, Brazil. The natural
concentrate of the beach still further concentrated in the batea.

Specimen No. 53110, U.S.N.M. Monazite sandstone, Prado, Bahia, Brazil. A small
bit of loosely coherent standstone, composed largely of monazite particles. Of
Quaternary (?) age, and presumably the source of much of the sand on_ the
beach.

Specimen No. 62568, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand, with magnetic iron and other
impurities. Henderson County, North Carolina.

Specimen No. 63343, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand from near Shelby, Cleveland County,
North Carolina.

Specimen No. 63496, U.S.N.M. Monazite sand, concentrated, from Abbeville, South
Carolina.

1Sixteenth Annual Report U.S. Geological Survey, 1894-95, Pt. 4, pp. 686-687.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 887

Uses.—The rare elements cerium, zirconium, thorium, yttrium,
lanthanium, ete., which are as a rule associated with each other in the
minerals cerite, zircon, monazite, samarskite, etc., as described, find
their commercial use not in the form of metals, but as oxides only;
and it is only since the introduction of the Welsbach incandescent
system of lighting that their use in this form has assumed any com-
mercial importance.

This Welsbach light consists of a cap or hood to gas or other burners,
to increase: their illuminating powers. The cap is made of cotton or
other suitable material, impregnated with the oxides in proportions 60
per cent zirconia, 20 per cent yttria, and 20 per cent lanthanum. The
fabric is strengthened and supported with fine platinum wire and
suspended in the flame. On igniting in the flame the fabric is quickly
reduced to ash, the cotton being burnt away and the earthy matter
still retaining the form of a cap or hood.*

The drawback to the use of these oxides has been, it is said,” the
great difficulty in obtaining them in a pure condition. Several methods
have been used, but usually with poor results, especially when the
mineral contains iron.

The demand for the minerals of this group being so limited there is
no regular market price. The Mineral Industry for 1893 quotes zir-
con at 10 cents a pound, monazite 25 cents, and samarskite 50 cents.
It is stated that 1 ton of zircon will yield sufficient zirconia for half a
million Welsbach burners.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

See paper on Monazite, by H. B. C. Nitze, in Mineral Resources of the United States,
Part. 4, of the Sixteenth Annual Report U.S. Geological Survey, 1894-95, pp. 667-693.
This contains a very satisfactory bibliography down to date of publication. Also
see Les Terres Rares Mineralogie-Properties Analyse, by P. Truchot. Carré et Naud.
Paris, 1898.

‘

3. VANADINITE.

This is a vanadinate and chloride of lead of the formula (PbCl)
Pb,V,O,,, = Vanadium pentoxide 19.4 per cent; lead protoxide 78.7 per
cent; chlorine 2.5. In nature often more or less impure through the
presence of arsenic and traces of iron, manganese, zinc, and lime.
Color deep red to brown and straw-yellow, resinous luster; translucent
to opaque. Hardness 2.75 to 3. Gravity 6.66 to 7.23. When a drop
of nitric acid is applied to a particle of a crystal there is soon formed
a yellow coating of vanadic oxide. This reaction is quite characteristic
and furnishes an easy and convenient means of determination.

Localities and mode of occurrence.—Occurs in prismatic crystals with
smooth faces and sharp edges; crystals sometimes cavernous at the top,

‘Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, V, 1886, p. 522.
*Mineral Resources of the United States, 1885, p. 393.
388 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

as in Specimen No. 61135, U.S.N.M. Also common in parallel grouped
and rounded forms and globular incrustations. Dana gives the fol-
lowing relative to the known localities:

This mineral was first discovered at Zimapan in Mexico, by Del Rio. Later
obtained among some of the old workings at Wanlockhead in Dumfriesshire, where
it occurs in small globular masses, on calamine, and also in small hexagonal crystals;
also at Berezov in the Ural, with pyromorphite; and near Kappel in Carinthia, in
crystals; at Undeniis, Bélet, Sweden; in the Sierra de Cordoba, Argentine Republic;
South Africa.

In the United States it occurs sparingly with wulfenite and pyromorphite asa
coating on limestone, near Sing Sing, New York. In Arizona it is found at the
Hamburg, Melissa, and other mines in Yuma County, in brilliant deep red crystals;
Vulture, Phoenix, and other mines in Maricopa County; at the Black Prince mine;
also the Mammoth gold mine, near Oracle, Pinal County, and in brown barrel-
shaped crystals in the Humbug district, Yavapai County. In New Mexico it is
found at Lake Valley, Sierra County (endlichite); and the Mimbres mines near
Georgetown [Specimen No. 67844, U.S.N.M.].

The characteristic mode of occurrence at the Mimbres Mine, above
noted, is associated with descloizite in the form of small hopper-shaped
crystals and drusy or botryoidal and globular masses coating the
siliceous residues of the limestone in the irregular cavities with which
the stone abounds. The color of these coatings varies from beautiful
ruby red to light ocherous yellow. The mineral is here nearly always
associated with descloizites as noted below.

Uses.—See under descloizite.

4, DESCLOIZITE.

This is a vanadinate of lead and zine of the formula 4 (PbZn) O.
V,O,, H,O = vanadum pentoxide 22.7 per cent; lead protoxide 55.4
per cent; zinc oxide 19.7 per cent; water 2.2 per cent. The published
analyses show also small amounts of arsenic, copper, iron, manganese
and phosphorus. Color, red to brown; luster, greasy; no cleavage;
fracture small conchoidal to uneven. Occurs in small prismatic or
pyramidal crystals and in fibrous, mamillated or massive forms.
Often associated with and pseudomorphous after vanadinite.

Dana gives the following rela-

Localities and mode of occurrence.
tive to occurrence:

Occurs in small crystals, 1 to 2 millimeters thick, clustered on a siliceous and
ferruginous gangue from South America, at the Venus Mine and other points in the
Sierra de Cordoba, Argentine Republic, associated with acicular green pyromor-
phite, vanadinite, ete. At Kappel, in Carinthia, in small clove-brown rhombic
octahedrons.

* * * * * * *

Sparingly at the Wheatley Mine, Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, as a thin crystalline
crust on wulfenite, quartz, and a ferruginous clay. Abundant at the Sierra Grande
Mine, Lake Valley, Sierra County, New Mexico, in red to nearly black crystals,
pyramidal and prismatic in habit, associated with vanadinite, iodryite, ete.; at the
Mimbres and other mines, near Georgetown, New Mexico, in stalactitic crystalline
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 389

aggregates [Specimen No, 67844, U.S.N.M.]. In Arizona near Tombstone, in Yavapai
County, in brownish olive-green crystals; at the Mammoth Gold Mine, near Oracle,
Pinal County, in orange-red to brownish red erystals with vanadinite and wulfenite.
A yanadinite, probably identical with descloizite, occurs at the Mayflower Mine,
Bald Mountain district, in Beaverhead County, Montana; it is in an impure earthy
form of a dull yellow to pale orange color. See further under Carnotite, p. 404.

Vanadium is also found in small quantities in certain Swedish iron
ores; in the cupriferous schists of Mansfeld, Saxony; in cuprifer-
ous sands of Cheshire, England, and Perm, Russia; in coals from
various localities; in beauxite and in clay near Paris. As stated by
Fuchs and De Launey,' vanadium has been shown to exist in extremely
small proportions in primordial rocks, from which it became concen-
trated in the clays on their breaking up. Certain odlitic iron ores
(limonites) at Mafenay, Saone et Loire, France, contain the substance
in such proportions that the slag from their smelting have become
commercial sources of supply, some 60,000 kilograms of vanadic acid
being manufactured annually from them.

The following referring to the occurrence and value of vanadinates
in the United States is of sufficient interest to bear reproduction here:

The lead vanadates are frequently found in association with lead ores, as, for
instance, in the deposits at Leadville, whence some very handsome specimens were
formerly obtained. The most important occurrence of lead vanadates in the United
States, however, is probably in Arizona, where it has been reported in the ores of
several mines, among others those of the Castle Dome district, the Crowned King
mine in the Bradshaw Mountains, and the Mammoth gold mines at Mammoth, in
Pinal County. The last-mentioned mines are probably the only ones in the United
States from which vanadium minerals have been won on an industrial scale. The
vanadium minerals, of which nearly all the known varieties occurred, the dechenite
and descloizite predominating, were found in the upper levels of the mine, forming
about 1 per cent of the ore on the average, though within limited areas they formed
from 3 to 4 per cent. In the lower levels they occurred less abundantly, only an
occasional pocket and a small quantity of disseminated crystals being found. The
red crystals, according to an analysis by the late Dr. F. A. Genth, contained chlorine,
2.43 per cent; lead, 7.08 per cent; lead oxide, 69.98 per cent; ferric oxide, 0.48 per
cent; vanadic acid, 17.15 per cent; arsenic acid, 3.06 per cent, and phosphoric acid,
0.29 per cent. In milling the ore (gold) the vanadium minerals collected in riffles,
placed about 18 inches apart in the sluices. The material thus obtained was worked
over by hand in a sort of buddle, and the resulting concentrates were sold to the
Kalion Chemical Company, of Gray’s Ferry Road, Philadelphia. The total quantity
of concentrates obtained in this manner did not exceed 6 tons. An average sample
of the lot, analyzed by Dr. Genth, gave the following results: Vanadie acid, 15.40
per cent; molybdic acid, 3.35 per cent; arsenic acid, 1.50 per cent; carbonic acid,
0.90 per cent; chlorine, 0.48 per cent; oxide of lead, 56.80 per cent; oxide of zinc,
10.70 per cent; oxide of copper, 0.95 per cent; oxide of iron, 0.35 per cent; soluble
silica, 0.60 per cent; insoluble matter, 5.29 per cent. The value of the gold and
silver contents of the concentrates was about $140 per ton. The price realized on
this first lot was 12.5 cents per pound, or $250 per ton, on board the cars at Tucson.

The yanadic salts manufactured from this lot of concentrates were said to have

'Traité des Gites Mineraux, II, p. 95.
390 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

been the first produced on a commercial scale in the United States, and owing to the
limited market for the same the price dropped over 50 per cent.

Frue vanners were then introduced into the mill, and the product obtained from
them, amounting to about 1 ton per 100 tons of ore crushed, contained from 5 to 6
per cent vanadic acid and $40 to $80 per ton in gold and silver. The Kalion Chem-
ical Company offered to buy this product according to the following sliding scale:
With the market price of ammonium yanadate $5 per pound, $100 per ton for the
concentrates; vanadate of ammonium $4.50 per pound, concentrates $92; vanadate of
ammonium $4 per pound, concentrates $82; vanadate of ammonium $3.50 per pound,
concentrates $72; vanadate of ammonium $3 per pound, concentrates $64. Onlya
few tons of these concentrates were shipped to Philadelphia, the remainder being
sold to the Denver smelters for their gold, silver, and lead value.!

Uses.—The only uses thus far developed for the mineral are as a
source for vanadium salts used as a pigment for porcelain; in the man-
ufacture of ink and in textile dyeing and printing, both vanadate of
ammonium and vanadic oxide being used for the latter purpose, pro-
ducing an intense black color with a slight greenish cast.

5. AMBLYGONITE.

This is a fluo-phosphate of aluminum and lithium, of the formula
Li (Al F) P O,. Analysis of a sample from Paris, Maine, as given
by Dana, shows: Phosphoric acid, 48.31 per cent; alumina, 33.68
per cent; lithia, 9.82 per cent; soda, 0.34 per cent; potash, 0.03
per cent; water, 4.89 per cent; fluorine, 4.82 per cent; hardness, 6;
specific gravity, 3.01 to 3.09. Luster vitreous to greasy, color white
to pale greenish, bluish, yellowish to brownish, streak white. On
casual inspection the mineral somewhat resembles potash feldspar
(orthoclase), but when finely pulverized is soluble in sulphuric acid,
and less readily so in hydrochloric acid. The Hebron variety, when
pulverized and moistened with sulphuric acid, gives the characteristic
lithia red color to the flame.

Mode of occurrence.—Amblygonite occurs in the form of coarse
crystals, or compact and columnar forms in pegmatic veins associated
with lepidolite, tourmalines, and other minerals so characteristic of this
class of veins. In the United States it occurs at Hebron (Specimen
No. 62576, U.S.N.M.); Mount Mica, in Paris (Specimen No. 53694,
U.S.N.M.); Auburn and Peru, Maine, at the latter place associated
with spodumene, petalite, and lepidolite. In Saxony the mineral is
found at Chursdorf and Arnsdorf, near Penig, and near Geier. Also
found at Arendal, Norway, and at Montebras and Creuze, France.

Uses. —Since 1886 the mineral has been utilized as a source of lithia
salts, in place of the lithia mica. The chief commercial source is at
present Montebras, France, where it occurs in a coarse granitic vein
yielding also cassiterite and kaolin in commercial quantities.

‘The Mineral Industry, I1, 1893, p. 574.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 391

TRIPHYLITE AND LITHIOPHILITE.

These are names given to phosphates of iron, manganese, and lithium,
and which pass into one another by insensible gradations through
variations in the proportional amounts of manganese protoxide, the
triphylite containing from 10 to 20 per cent of this oxide, while the
lithiophilite contains twice that amount. The comparative composition
of extreme types is shown below:

Name. P.O;. | FeO. | MnO. | LipO. | Na.O. | HO. oe

| E
| AIO IMIbE Bae tas eam eet 43.18 | 36.21) 8.96] 8.15 mais 87
|

Lithiophilites...2525.--45..- 44.67 | 4.02 | 40.86 | 8.63
|

Triphylite is a gray to blue-gray mineral in crystals and coarsely
cleavable masses of a hardness of 4.5 to 5 of Dana’s scale, and specific
gravity of 3.42 to 3.56.

Lithiophilite differs mainly in color from composition as
above noted—being of a pink to clove-brown hue. Both minerals
may undergo a darkening in color, becoming almost black through a
higher oxidation and hydration of the manganese protoxide. This
feature is best shown in the lithiophilite from Branchville, Connecticut.
(Specimen No. 62583, U.S.N.M.)

Occurrence.—These minerals occur chiefly in granitic veins, associated
with spodumene and other lithia bearing minerals, as at the localities
above mentioned. Peru, Hebron, and Norway, Maine; Keityé, Fin-
land, ete.

IX. NITRATES.

There are three compounds of nitric acid and a base occurring in
nature in such quantities and of sufficient economic importance to
merit attention here. These are (1) the true niter or potassium nitrate
(KNO,), (2) soda niter or sodium nitrate (NaNO,), and (8) nitrocal-
cite, a calcium nitrate (CaN,O,). All are readily soluble in water, and
hence found in any quantity only in arid regions or where protected,
as in the dry parts of caves.

1. Nirer, Porasstum NITRATE.

Composition KNO,,—nitric anhydride, 53.5 per cent; potash, 46.5
per cent. Hardness, 2; specific gravity, 2.1; color, white, subtrans-
parent. Readily soluble in water. ‘Taste, saline and cooling. Defla-
grates vividly when thrown on burning coals and colors the flame
viol

The mineral occurs in ae ee mainly in the form of acicular crystals
and efflorescences on the surface or walls of rocks and scattered in the
loose soil of limestone caves and similar dry and protected places.
392 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

It is also found in certain soils of tropical countries, as noted under
origin. In the United States it has been found in caves of the South-
ern States, as those of Madison County, Kentucky, but never in
commercial qualities. The chief commercial source of the salt has
been the artificial nitrates of France, Germany, Sweden, and other
European countries. It is also prepared artificially from soda niter.

2. Sopa NITER.

Nitrate of sodium, NaNO,. This in its pure state is a white or
colorless salt, but in nature brown or bright lemon yellow (See Speci-
mens in jar, No. 67278, U.S.N.M.), of a slight saline taste, but with a
peculiar cooling sensation when placed upon the tongue. It is by
far the most common of the nitrates, and indeed the only one of the
natural salts of any great commercial value, owing to the comparative
rarity of the others. Though found to a slight extent in caves and
protected places, the commercial supply is drawn almost wholly from
the desert regions of the Pacific coast of South America and particu-
larly from Chile, the chief deposits being found in the provinces of
Tarapaca and Antofagasta.

According to the Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry: *

The total area of the province of Tarapaca is 16,7893 square miles, and it is divided
naturally into five distinct and well-defined zones. The first of these zones com-
mences on the shores of the Pacific and has an average width, west to east, of 18 miles.
It is formed, in the first place, of the beach; and, in the second, of the coast range,
which attains an altitude varying from 1,125 to 5,800 feet above the sea level. This
zone may be denominated the guano and mining zone. * * * This belt as it
advances eastward becomes more and more depressed and terminates in a series of
pampas (open plains), having an elevation of 3,500 to 3,800 feet above the sea level.
Nearly all these pampas contain vast beds of salts, sulphate of soda, and sulphate of
‘lime. They are known locally by the name of ‘‘salares.’’ In some parts of the desert
of Atacama the beds of nitrate of soda are found under these salares deposits, but
in Tarapaca the caliche (nitrate earth) is found only under a bed of conglomerate
knownas ‘“costta’ o* 2 e. %

The second zone—the nitrate zone—commences on the edge of the Camarones
Gully and extends southward to the desert of Atacama. Up to 1858 it was believed
that the nitrate beds did not extend southward beyond the Loa Gully, but in that
year beds were discovered in what was then the Bolivian littoral. Explorations
which were effected in 1872 proved that the nitrate beds extended northward beyond
the Camarones Gully and that they reached as far as the Chaca Gully and even as far
as the Azapa Valley, in the province of Alrica. * * * The quantity and quality of
the caliche varies very considerably in different parts of the zone, but the dimensions
of the nitrate area may be set down at 120 geographical miles in length north to south,
and 2 geographical miles in width east to west. It is estimated that the beds contain
the enormous quantity of 1,980,630,502 quintals of niter, and it is stated that with the
present export duty which is equal to 27 pence per quintal, the deposits will yield a
revenue of £230,809,474.

1 Volume VI, 1887, pp. 228, 229.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 893

It is elsewhere stated that the point on the slope of the mountains
where the deposits of caliche are found is some 500 or 600 feet higher
than the valley, but that the material diminishes in quantity and rich-
ness as the valley is approached and disappears entirely at the bottom.

An examination of the workings of these beds discloses the follow-
ing conditions:

(1) That the surface to the depth of 8 or 10 inches is covered with
a layer of fine, loose sand.

WWW. Halite and Glauberite

Fig. 12.
MAP OF NITRATE REGION, CHILE.

Nitrate f Sodiure

After Fuchs and De Launay.

(2) That underneath the sand is a conglomerate of amorphous por-
phyry, feldspar, chloride of sodium, magnesia, gypsum, ete., cemented
by the sulphate of lime into a hard, compact mass to a depth of 6 to
10 feet, called the ‘‘costra” or crust.

(3) That below this crust the caliche, or impure nitrate, is found,
presenting to the view a variety of colors—yellowish-white, orange,
bluish-gray, ete.
394 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The nitrate deposit is quarried by blasting with a coarse-grained
powder, of which as much as 150 pounds are sometimes used at a
single blast. Neither dynamite nor nitroglycerine is used, as it
would shatter and pulverize the caliche so as to occasion a serious loss.

After being brought to the surface the caliche is carefully assorted
by experts, broken into pieces double the size of an orange, and carted
to the refinery establishment, situated on the pampas or on the sea-
coast, or carried to Iquique, Pisagua, Patillos, and Antofagasta by
rail, all of these places having connection, by narrow-gauge rail-
ways, with the nitrate deposits and which, consequently, are rapidly
becoming the chief centers of nitrate production and export.

According to the reports of Consul-General Walker, the southern
limit of the nitrate fields is in Antofagasta province, latitude 25° 45'S.,
and the northern in latitude 19° 12’ S., its extreme north and south
length being some 260 geographical miles and its average width some
24 miles.

This narrow strip of nitrate lands stretches along the eastern slope
of the coast range of barren, verdureless mountains which wall in the
Pacific Ocean from the northern limit of Peru to the Straits of Magel-
lan, upon which, for more than 2,000 miles, no rain ever falls and
upon which there is no living vegetation. Some of the peaks reach
an altitude of 4,000 or 5,000 feet above the sea level, but the usual
height of the range is about 2,000. The average distance from the
coast to the nitrate beds is about 14 miles, but many of them are not
more than 10 miles.

The accompanying map, p. 393, from Fuchs and De Launays, Traité
des Gites Mineraux, will serve to show the geographic position of the
deposits.

Specimen No. 62111, U.S.N.M., show the varying character of the
material as mined.

€

3. Nirro-CaLcitTe.

Nitro-caleite, or calcium nitrate, CaN,O,+-”H,O, is not uncommon
as a silky efflorescence on the floors and walls of dry limestone caverns
and may be extracted in considerable quantities from their residual clays
by a process of leaching. During the war of 1812 the clays upon the
floors of Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, were systematically leached and
the dissolved nitrate obtained by evaporation and crystallization. The
wooden tanks and log pipes for conducting the water are still ina
remarkable state of preservation, owing to the dry air of the cavern.

The nitrous earths of Wyandotte Cave in southern Indiana, and
doubtless of other localities, were similarly treated during these times
of temporary stringency. (See Specimens Nos. 68165, 68166,U.S.N.M.
in cave exhibit. )

i
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. B95

According to the reports of the State geologist’ this earth, in its
air-dry condition, has the following composition:

HOSS Sip VECANGHLs Je eee ee cee se 16. 50
Silicqe 6M 3 US LS a Se es ee” 2S 20. 60
Rerricioxidet tae lead ads ee tenes 6. 03
Mancanie. mids ter act ta tere See 0. 75
PW Tbh co uh ot: opewies Aree Sees a Oe en Weta ay 20. 40
| levine eae eg SS a 2 AD. te BATN MG Te 4 vl py ne EO 8.06
TR ONESTA 8s << -a eye er eer eee ee as coke 4.58
APHONICACIO Seek ceo Sa eee ee ee 10. 38
PulphuniCacid? aes seer meee see sa ee 6.55
IPhosphomcyacidene cee se, c= see ee 2.43
INDICA CIGeS {ake ee ee eee 3. 50
Chlorides of alkalies and loss..........--- One
100. 10

The researches of Muntz and Marcano” have shown that the soils as
well as the earth from the floor of caves, in Venezuela and other por-
tions of South America may be rich in calcium nitrate to an extent
quite unknown in other countries.

Origin.—The source of the nitrates, both of caves and of the Chilean
pampas has been a subject of considerable discussion. There appears
little doubt but the deposits in caves and those disseminated in soils
are due to the nitrifying agencies of bacteria acting upon organic matter
whereby the organic nitrogen is converted into nitric acid which imme-
diately combines with the most available bases, be they of lime, soda,
or potash. The accumulation of the niter in caves is probably due, as
suggested by W. H. Hess (see Bibliography), to the retention by the
clay of the nitrates brought in from the surface by percolating waters.

In other words, the caves serve merely as receptacles, or store-
houses, for nitrates which had their origin in the surface soil. The
Chilean nitrate beds are considered by Muntz and Marcano as having a
very similar origin. The material being soluble is gradually leached
out from the soils in which it originated and drained into inclosed
salt marshes or inland seas where a double decomposition takes place
between the sodium chloride and calcium nitrate, whereby sodium
nitrate and calcium chloride are produced. That such a double
decomposition may take place has been shown by actual experiment.

This is not widely different from the view taken also by W. Newton.’

After discussing briefly theories previously advanced including
Darwin’s theory of derivation from decomposing seaweeds accumu-
lated on old sea beaches, and the even less plausible one of its deriv:
tion from guano, he goes on to show that ue a of f Tamart ug’ a

' Geological anor of item 1878 Sieh 163.
“Comptes Rendus de l’ Academie ice Sciences, CI, Paris, 1885, p. 1265.
* Geological Magazine, III, 1896, p. 339
396 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

within which the deposits lie, is covered by an alluvial soil rich in
organic matter. This organic matter under the now well-known action
of bacteria, aided by the prevailing high temperatures of the region,
gives rise to nitrates, which owing to the absence of rains for long
periods, accumulates to an extent impossible under less favorable
circumstances. Mountain floods which occur at periods of seven or
eight years, swamp the plain, bringing in solution the nitrate drained
from the soils of the surrounding slope, and to accumulate in the
lower levels. On the evaporation of the water this is again depos-
ited. The occurrence of the nitrate so far up the slope of the hills is
regarded by Newton as due to the tendency of the nitrate salt, in
saturated solutions, to creep up, as in experiment it may be seen to
creep up and over the sides of a saucer or other shallow dish in which
the evaporation is progressing.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

M. A. Muntz. Recherches sur la formation des gisements de nitrate de soude.
Comptes Rendus de Academie des Sciences, CI, 1885, p. 1265.
Rosert Harvey. Machinery for the Manufacture of Nitrate of Soda.
Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, IV, 1885, p. 744.
Ratpu ABercromsy. Nitrate of Soda, and the Nitrate Country.
Nature, XL, 1889, p. 186.
The Nitrate Deposits and Trade of Chile.
Engineering and Mining Journal, L, August 9, 1890, p. 164.
Nicotas Ruscue. Die Saltpetrewtiste in Chile.
Vom Fels zum Meer, pt. 4, 1891-2.
G. M. Hunrer. The Santa Isabel Nitrate Works, Toco, Chile.
Transactions of the Institute of Engineers and Shipbuilders of Scotland,
RV Ee.
WituraM Newton. The Origin of Nitrate in Chile.
The Geological Magazine, III, 1896, p. 339.
W. 4H. Hess. The Origin of Nitrates in Caves.
Journal of Geology, VIII, No. 2, 1900, p. 129.

X. BORATES.

Of the ten or more species of natural borates but three, or possibly
four, are commercial sources of borax, and need consideration here.
These are, (1) borax or tineal; (2) ulexite, or boronatrocalcite; (3)
priceite, colemanite, or pandermite, and (4) boracite, or stassfurtite.
Sassolite, or native boric acid, occurs chiefly in solution. The inti-
mate association of these minerals renders it advisable to treat of their
origin and mode of extraction in common, after giving the composition
and general physical characters of each by itself.

1. Borax or TrncaL; Borate OF Sopa.

Composition Na,B,O,.10H,O,= boron trioxide, 36.6 per cent; soda,
16.2 per cent; water, 47.2 per cent. Color, white to grayish, and
sometimes greenish; translucent to opaque. It crystallizes in short,

———
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 897

stout prisms, belonging to the monoclinic system (Specimen No. 15514,
U.S.N.M.) Hardness, 2 to 2.5; specific gravity, 1.7. Readily soluble
in water; taste sweetish alkaline.

9. ULEXITE; BORONATROCALCITE.

Composition NaCaB,O,.8H,0,= boron trioxide, 43 per cent; lime,
13.8 per cent; soda, 7.7 per cent; water, 35.5. Color, white, with silky
luster. Occurs usually in rounded masses of loose texture, which con-
sist mainly of fine acicular crystals or fibers. (See Specimen No.
18128, U.S.N.M., from Rhodes Marsh, Nevada.) Insoluble in cold
water, and only slightly so in hot, the solution being alkaline. Hard-
ness, 1; specific gravity, 1.65.

3. COLEMANITE.

Composition Ca,B,O,,.5H,O,= boron trioxide, 50.9 per cent; lime,
27.2 per cent; water, 21.9 per cent. Color, milky to yellowish-white,
or colorless; transparent to translucent. Hardness, 4 to 4.5; specific
gravity, 2.41. Insoluble in water, but readily so in hot hydrochloric
acid. Priceite and pandermite are hydrous calcium borates closely
allied to colemanite, occurring in loosely coherent and chalky or mas-
sive forms. (Specimen No. 63362, U.S.N.M.).

4. BoRACITE OR STASSFURTITE; BORATE OF MAGNESIA.

Composition Mg,Cl,B,,Oj),= boron trioxide, 62.5 per cent; mag-
nesia, 31.4 per cent; chlorine, 7.9 per cent. Color, white to yellow or
greenish. In crystals transparent to translucent. Crystals cubic and
tetrahedral. Insoluble in water; readily soluble in hydrochloric acid.
Hardness, 7; specific gravity, 2.9to3. (Specimen No. 64742, U.S.N.M.,
from Stassfurt.)

Localities and mode of occurrence.—As has been stated by Kemp*
the Great Basin region of the United States contains, along the Nevada-
California border at least ten salines or marshes which have been found
to hold boracic deposits. The marshes are regarded as the beds of
relatively restricted lakes which received boracic water, probably from
hot springs. Volcanic phenomena are abundant and were doubtless
the stimulating causes. Besides borax, ulexite (borate of lime and
soda) and priceite (borate of lime) are found commingled with more
or less gypsum, carbonate, chloride, and sulphate of soda and various
other alkaline salts. The best known of the salines in Nevada are
Teels Marsh, Columbus Marsh, Fish Lake Valley, and Rhodes Marsh,
all in Esmeralda County. These cover an area of thousands of acres,
but the productive portions are comparatively limited. In Churchill
County, this same State, there is a minor deposit at Salt Wells (Speci-
men No. 15522, U.S.N.M.). In California there is an important
deposit known as Searles Marsh, in San Bernardino County, and a vein

1The Mineral Industry, 1892, p. 43.
398 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

of calcium borate (colemanite) in the Calico District, this same county.
The Saline Valley, the Amargosa, and Furnace Creek deposits, in Inyo
County, are also extensive. (Specimen No. 62444, U.S.N.M.). Large
deposits of priceite are also found 5 miles north of Chetco, in Curry
County (Specimen No. 63362, U.S.N.M.), Oregon. The mineral is
stated by Dana to occur in a hard, compact form in layers, between
a bed of slate above, the cavities and fissures of which it fills, and a
tough, blue steatite below; also occurring in bowlders or rounded
masses completely embedded in the steatite. These masses vary from
the size of a pea to those of 200 pounds weight each.

The Calico District colemanite above referred to occurs, according
to W. H. Storms,’ as a bedded ‘‘ vein” in sedimentary strata which in
Tertiary times were uplifted in the Calico Range, the sedimentary
rocks consisting of sandstones, sandy clays, and clayey sands. ‘*The
borax ‘vein’ is traceable for several thousand feet, striking along the
western and northern side of the largest sedimentary hill in the range,
and finally passing down a canyon to the eastward, where it becomes
a well-defined vein. Toward the western end the borate of lime
appears to be much mixed with the sandy sediments, gypsum, and
clays, giving the appearance of having been formed near the shore
line of the basin in which this great mass of material has been left
as a residuary deposit, due to the evaporation of the water containing
the calcium borate.” There are apparently two beds of borate from
7 to 10 feet in thickness in close proximity, but which are believed by
Mr. Storms to be portions of the same bed repeated as the result of an
anticlinal fold, and exposed through erosion. See Plate 21.

The following description of Searles Marsh, in San Bernardino
County, is from the reports of the State mineralogist.*

This marsh is situated in the northwestern corner of San Bernardino
County, occupying a portion of T. 25 5., R. 43 E., M. D. M. The
site is distant from San Francisco southeast 500 miles; from San Ber-
nardino, the shire town of the county, due north 175 miles, and from
Mohave, nearest station on the Southern Pacific Railroad, northeast
72 miles; these distances being measured by the usually traveled
routes.

Locally considered, Searles Marsh lies near the center of an exten-
sive mountain-girdled plain, to which the phrases ‘‘Alkali Flat,” ** Dry °
Lake,” ‘‘Salt Bed,” ‘* Borax Marsh” have variously been applied, the
contents and physical features of the basin-shaped depression well
justifying the several names that have so been applied to it. It is, in
fact, a dry lake, the bed of which has been filled up in part with the
several substances named. Its contents consist of mud, alkali, salt,

‘Eleventh Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1892, p. 345.
*Tenth Annual Report of the State Mineralogist of California, 1890, p. 534.

PLATE 21.

Report of U S. National Museum, 1899 —Merrill.

‘SMOLIA LOL0}X9 PUB LOL10} UT
‘VINYOSINVD ‘LL399Vq YVAN ANI) XvVuOg

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 399

we

and borax, largely supplemented with volcanic sand. This depression,
which has an elevation of 1,700 feet above sea level, and an irregular
oval shape, is about 10 miles long and 5 miles wide, its longitudinal
axis striking due north and south. It is surrounded on every side but
the south by high mountains, the Slate Range bounding it on the east
‘and north, and the Argus Range on the west.

There is no doubt but this basin was once the bed of a deep and
wide-extended lake, the remains of a former inland sea. The shore
line is distinctly visible along the lower slopes of the surrounding
mountains at an elevation of 600 feet above the surface of the marsh.
Farther up, one above the other, faint marks of former water lines
can be seen, showing the different levels at which the surface of the
ancient lake has stood. In the course of time the lake became extinct,
having been filled with the sediments from the adjacent mountains.

What may have been the depth of the lake has not yet been ascer-
tained, borings put down 300 feet having failed to reach bed rock.
These borings, commenced in 1878, disclosed the following underlying
formations:

First, 2 feet of salt and thenardite [Na,SO,]; second, 4 feet of clay
and voleanic sand, containing a few crystals and bunches of hanksite,
[4Na,SO,, Na,CO,]; third, 8 feet of volcanic sand and black, tenacious
clay, with bunches of trona, of black, shining luster, from inclosed
mud; fourth, 8-foot stratum, consisting of volcanic sand containing
glauberite, thenardite, and a few flat, hexagonal crystals of hanksite;
fifth, 28 feet of solid trona of uniform thickness; sixth, 20-foot
stratum of black, slushy, soft mud; smelling strongly of hydro-
sulphuric acid, in which there are layers of glauberite, soda, and
hanksite. The water has a density of 30° Baumé; seventh, 230 feet
(as far as explored) of brown clay, mixed with volcanic sand and per-
meated with hydrosulphuric acid.

Overlying No. 5 a thin stratum of a very hard material was encoun-
tered. Being difficult to penetrate, and its character not recognized,
this was simply called ‘‘ hard stuff,” its more exact nature being left
for future determination.

As is the case with all salines of like character, this has no outlet,
the water that comes into it escaping only by evaporation, which proc-
ess goes on here very rapidly for two-thirds of the year.

While most of the water contained in this basin is subterranean, a
little during very wet winters accumulates and stands for a short time
on portions of the surface. In no place, however, does it reach a
depth of more than a foot or two, hardly anywhere more than 3 or
4 inches. |

Within the limits of the actively producing portion of the marsh,

“which covers an oblong area of about 1,700 acres, the water stands on
400 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

a tract of some 300 acres for a longer period than it does elsewhere;
but even here it nowhere reaches a depth of more than a foot.

Between this 300-acre tract and the main flat lying a little lower
there interposes a slight ridge, which prevents the surface water from
escaping to the lower ground.

The water of the lake is of a dark-brown color, strongly impreg-
nated with alkali, and has a density of 28° Baumé. The salts obtained
from it by crystallization contain carbonate and chloride and borate of
sodium, with a large percentage of organic matter.

Summarized, the following minerals have been found associated with
the borax occurring in the Searles marsh: Anhydrite, calcite, celes-
tite, cerargyrite, colemanite, dolomite, embolite, gay-lussite, glauber-
ite, gypsum, halite, hanksite, natron, soda, niter, sulphur, thenardite,
tincal, and trona, the most of these occurring, of course, in only minute
quantities. There is, however, reason to believe that hanksite will
yet be found abundantly, both here and in the other salines of this
region.

The submerged tract above described is called the ‘* Crystal Bed,”
the mud below the water being full of large crystals, which occur in
nests at irregular intervals to a depth of 3 or 4 feet. Many of these
crystals, which consist of carbonate of soda and common salt with a
considerable percentage of borate, are of large size, some of them
measuring 7 inches in length. The water 15 feet below this stratum
of mud contains, according to Mr. C. N. Hake, who made, not long
since, a careful examination of these deposits, carbonate of soda, borax,
and salts of ammonia. The ground in the immediate vicinity, a dry
hard crust about 1 foot thick, contains, on the same authority:

Sand! “twine. oe cee See sere eee re Se ea eee 50
Sulphate of soda: 2245520 a. a-ha  e  ee 16
Common salt*... 2.2522 f22ies ee Se eee 12
Carbonateotisoda, bo. soe ec ee ee eee re ee 10
Borax 20 ee Ce ee Se ee eee 1

The borax here occurs in the form of the borate of soda only, no
ulexite (borate of lime) having yet been found.

The chief foreign sources of borax salts are northern Chili, Stass-
furt in Germany, Italy, Asia Minor, and Thibet.

The Chilean mineral is ulexite and is reported as occurring through-
out the province of Atacama and the newly acquired portions of Chile.
Ascotan, which is now on the borders of the Republic, but formerly
belonged to Bolivia, and Maricunga, which is to the north of Copeapo,
are the places which have proved most successful commercially. The
crude material occurs in both places in lagoons or troughs, which,
instead of being entirely filled with common salt, as is usually the case
in the desert, contains zones or layers of boronatrocalcite embedded

——
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 401

in it. The lagoons of Maricunga lie about 64 kilometers from the
nearest railway station and are estimated to cover 3,000,000 square
meters. The boronatrocalcite occurs in beds alternating with layers
of salt and salty earth. .

The raw material contains, in the form of gypsum and glauberite,
a large amount of calcium sulphate.

Dana also mentions ulexite as occurring also in the form of rounded
masses from the size of a hazelnut to that of a potato in the dry plains
of Iquique, where it is associated with pickeringite, glauberite, halite,
and gypsum. The German mineral is boracite (stassfurtite) and is
found in small granular masses associated with the salt deposits of
Stassfurt. In Italy sassolite, or crystallized boric acid, has long been
obtained by the evaporation of hot springs in Sienna, in Tuscany.
Concerning the deposits of Asia Minor little is accurately known.
The mineral is pandermite (colemanite), which is found in thick white
lumps at Suzurlu, south of the sea of Marmora. Borax or tineal,
from Thibet, in northern India, was probably the first of the boron
salts to be utilized. It is stated to be brought on the backs of sheep
from the lakes in which it is formed across the Himalayas to the
shipping points in India.

Methods of mining and manufacture.—At the East Calico Cole-
manite mine, in San Bernardino County, the mineral is taken out in
the same manner as ores of the precious metals. Inclined shafts are
sunk, drifts and levels run, and stopes carried up as in any other mine.
The material, when hoisted to the surface, is loaded into wagons and
hauled to Dagget, whence it is shipped to the works at Alameda. The
process of extracting the boracic acid is not known to the public.

At Searles’s marsh the overlying crust mentioned constitutes the
raw material from which the refined borax is made.

The method of collecting it is as follows: When the crust, through
the process of efflorescence, has gained a thickness of about 1 inch,
it is broken loose and scraped into windrows far enough apart to admit
the passage of carts between them, and into which it is shoveled and
carried to the factory located on the northwest margin of the flat, 1 to
2 miles away.

As soon as removed, this incrustation begins again to form, the
water charged with the saline matter brought to the surface by the
capillary attraction evaporating and leaving the salt behind. This
process having been suffered to go on for three or four years, a crust
thick enough for removal is again formed, the supposition being that
this incrustation, if removed, will in like manner go on reproducing
itself indefinitely.*

1In order to determine the proportionate growths of the various salts contained in

this crust while undergoing this recuperative process, analyses were made on samples

representing respectively six months’. two, three, and four years’ growth. From the
NAT MUS 99 26

402 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Uses.—The various borax salts are used in the preparation of
boraciec acid and the borate of sodium, the borax of commerce.

XI. URANATES.

1. URANINITE; PITCHBLENDE.

Composition very complex, essentially a uranate of uranyl, lead,
thorium, and other metals of the lanthanum and yttrium groups.
The mineral is unique in containing nitrogen, being the only one
among the constituents of the primary rocks of the earth’s crust in
which the presence of this element has been thus far determined.’
The analyses given below are for the most part by Hillebrand, to whom
is due the credit of a large share of the present knowledge on the
subject.

Locality. UOs. | UOs, ThO.. CeOn. La,O3. YO. PbO. | CaO. IN‘ HO. | Fe.03. Mise.

Glastonbury, Con- |
NeCheUt =. =e. eee ee 23.03 | 59.93 11.10 3.08 | 0.11 | 2.41 | 0.43 0.29} 1.11

North Carolina. .....} 50.83 | 39.31 | 2.78 | 0.26 | 0.50 | 0.20 | 4.20 | ONS. OLS i) Leet eee 0.48
° |

Annerod, Norway ..| 30.63 | 46.13 | 6.00 | 0.18 | 0.27 | 1.11 | 9.04 | 0.37 | 1.17 | 0.74 0.25 | 4.66
Johanngeorgen- |

SLGOlaeenercceerace| Pe hs Pees) earn 56 Sonos so oeaca|laasade 6.39 | 1.00 0.02 | 3.17 0.21 | 5.53
|

Several varieties of uraninite are recognized, the distinctions being
based upon the relative proportions of the two oxides UO, and UO,
(see analyses above). Inasmuch, however, as these variations may be

ground from which these were taken the crust had been removed several times dur-
ing the preceding twelve years.
The analysis of samples gave the following results:

Six , Three Four

Constituents. months’ EWOmeNS years’ years’
growth 8 growth. growth.
SEUNG ciate Ae Sete ees cote Serene 58.0 | 55. 4 52.4 53.3
Carbonate of soda ....-..-..--. 5,2 5.0 8.1 8.0
Sulphate of soda 2--. -- 2-- s.--- Aaleey 6.7 16.6 16.0
Chilorideionsoda ss eee aaeeee 10.9 20.0 | Iie | 11.8
Boyes 0) 562, aoe oe ee 14.2 12.9 | 11.8 10.9
Total, 25? 225 sss seee ee 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0

From this list it will be seen that the first six months’ growth is richest in borax,
and that the proportion of carbonate of soda to borax increases regularly. The
presence of so much sand as is here indicated is caused by the high winds that blow
at intervals, bringing in great quantities of that material from the mountains to the
west. This sand, it is supposed, facilitates the formation of the surface crust by
keeping the ground in a porous condition.

!'The mineral has since been found to contain some 0.23 per cent of the new ele-
ments helium and argon.

Ee
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 403

due merely to oxidation they need not be taken into consideration
here. When crystallized, the mineral assumes octahedral and dodeca-
hedral forms, more rarely cubes. Hardness 5.5, specific gravity 9
to 9.7. Color grayish, greenish to velvet black, streak brown; fracture
conchoidal, uneven. The massive and probably amorphous variety,
containing few, if any, of the rarer earths and no nitrogen, is known
under the name of pitchblende. This last is the chief commercial
source of uranium salts. Through oxidation and hydration the min-
eral passes into gummite, a gum-like yellow to brown or red mineral of
a hardness of but 2.5 to 3 and specific gravity of 3.9 to 4.2. (See Speci-
men No. 53062, U.S.N.M., showing zone of gummite around a nucleal
mass of unaltered uraninite. )

Localities and mode of occurrence.—Uraninite occurs as a primary
constituent of granitic rocks and as a secondary mineral, with sulphide
ores of silver, lead, gold, copper, etc. In this form, according to Dana,
it is found at Johanngeorgenstadt, Marienberg, and Schneeberg,
Saxony; at Joachimsthal (Specimen No. 53061, U.S.N.M.) and Pribram,
in Bohemia (Specimens Nos. 66848, 67755, U.S.N.M.), and Rezbanya,in
Hungary. Considerable quantities have been mined from the tin-
bearing lodes of Cornwall, England. The crystallized variety brdg-
gerite is found in a pegmatite vein near Anneréd, Norway, and the
variety cleveite in a feldspar quarry at Arendal. In the United States
the mineral has been found in small quantities in several localities, but
only those of Mitchell and Yancey Counties, North Carolina (Speci-
mens Nos. 53062, 60927, 62755, U.S.N.M.), where the mineral occurs
partially altered to gummite and uranaphane, in mica mines; Llano
County, Texas; Black Hawk, near Central City, Colorado (Specimen
No. 83629, U.S.N.M.), and the Bald Mountain district of the Black
Hills of South Dakota need here be mentioned. Of the above the
Cornwall localities are at present of greatest consequence, having
during 1890 yielded some 22 tons of ore, valued at some £2,200
($11,000). During 1891, it is stated, the output was 31 long tons,
valued at £620, and in 1892, 37 tons, valued at £740. The next most
important locality is that of Joachimsthal, in Bohemia, where 22.52
metric tons of ore were produced in 1891 and 17.71 tons in 1892, the
value being some 1,000 florins a ton.

In the Cornwall mines the pitchblende is stated! to occur in small
veins crossing the tin-bearing lodes. At the St. Austell Consols
Mines it was associated with nickel and cobalt ores; at Doleoath with
native bismuth and arsenical cobalt in a matrix of red quartz and pur-
ple fluorspar; at South Tresavean with kupfer-nickel, native silver,
and argentiferous galena. At the Wood Lode, Russell district, in
Gilpin County, Colorado, pitchblende was found in the form of a

1The Mineral Industry, II, p. 572.
404 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

lenticular mass in one of the ordinary gold-bearing lodes traversing
the gneiss and mica schists of the district. The body occurred some
60 feet below the surface and was some 30 feet long by 10 feet deep
and 10 inches thick. The mass yielded some 4 tons of ore carrying
70 per cent oxide of uranium.

Other natural uranium compounds, but which at present have no use
in the arts, are as below: Torbernite, a hydrous phosphate of uranium
and copper; autunite, a hydrous phosphate of uranium and calcium;
zeunerite, an arsenate of uranium and copper; uranospinite, an arse-
nate of uranium and calcium; uranocircite, a phosphate of barium and
uranium; phosphuranylite, a hydrous uranium phosphate; trégerite,
a hydrous uranium arsenate; walpurgite, probably an arsenate of bis-
muth and uranium; and uranospherite, a uranate of bismuth.

Carnotite is a recently described uranium compound containing,
according to analyses, some 52 per cent uranium oxide (UO,); 20 per
cent of vanadium oxide (V,O,), and 11 per cent of potash. It is of a
beautiful light lemon-yellow color and of an earthy or ocherous texture.
According to descriptions gleaned from correspondence, and from sam-
ples received at the U. S. National Museum (Specimens Nos. 53491,
53492, 53649, U.S.N.M.), the material occurs mainly as an impregnation
in the form of an extremely fine, crystalline powder in the Dakota sand-
stones in the vicinity of La Sal Creek and Roc Creek, Montrose
County, and near Placerville, San Miguel County, Colorado. '

Uses.—Uranium is never used in the metallic state, but in the form
of oxides, or as uranate of soda, potash, and ammonia, finds a limited
application in the arts. The sesquioxide salt imparts to glass a gold
yellow color with a beautiful greenish tint, and which exhibits remark-
able fluorescent properties. The protoxide gives a beautiful black to
high-grade porcelains. The material has also a limited application in
photography. Recently the material has been used to some extent in
making steel in France and Germany, but the industry has not yet
passed the experimental stage. It has been stated that the demand, all
told, is for about 500 tons annually. Should larger and more constant
sources of supply be found, it is probable its use could be considerably
extended. According to Nordenskiold, £50,000 worth of uranium
minerals are consumed every year, the various salts produced being
used in porcelain and glass manufacture, in photography, and as chem-
ical reagents. *

1Since the foregoing was written Mr. W. F. Hillebrand, of the U. 8. Geological
Survey, has published (American Journal of Science, Vol. X, 1900, pp. 120-144) the
results of an exhaustive study of the material from this and other localities, and
shows that the so-called carnotite is probably a mixture of minerals made up toa
large extent of calcium and barium compounds intimately mixed with amorphous
silicates containing vanadium in the trivalent state.

? Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, LVI, 1900, p. 527.

le ht ee ee
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 405

XH. SULPHATES.
1. BartrE; HeEAvy SPAR.

Composition BaSO,,=Sulphur trioxide 34.3 per cent, baryta 65.7
per cent; specific gravity 4.3 to 4.6; hardness 2.5 to 3.5.
The sulphate of barium to which the mineralogical
name of barite is given occurs as a rule in the form of a white, trans-
lucent to transparent, coarsely crystalline mineral, about as hard as
common calcite, but from which it may be readily distinguished by
its great weight and its not effervescing when treated with acid. A
common form of the mineral is that of an aggregate of straight or
somewhat curved plates, separating readily from one another when
struck with a hammer, and cleaving readily into rhomboidal forms
much like calcite. (Specimens Nos. 54988, 67372, U.S.N.M.) It is
also found in globular and nodular concretions (Specimen No. 66851,
U.S.N.M.), stalactiticand stalagmitic (Specimen No. 63778, U.S.N.M.),
granular, compact, and earthy masses, and in single and clustered
broad and stout crystals. In nature the material is rarely pure, but
nearly always contaminated with other elements, as noted in the
following analyses of samples from Fulton, Blair, and Franklin coun-
ties, Pennsylvania."

Occurrence.

Fulton County. ce Franklin County.
Constituents. = Se =

(699) (345) (698) | (735) (582)

Locke. | Locke. | Galbreath.| Shockey. | Shockey.
Sulphate of barium) }22.-220222 22.2... 95. 22 96. 91 | 97.08 | 95, 91 98. 65
Oxides of iron and aluminum....--. 0.38 0.31 0.76 0, 24 0.14
Oxide of manganese ...........--... 0.05 None. | None. None. | None.
1b OE ee See GA e esa ee aes 0.59 Trace. | None. 0.17 | Trace.
WW GARGST) 23-5 o 4 Go suerte ousaae poe sees S- 0-18 | Trace. | Trace. 0.11 | Trace.
Carbonic acid 2m cm acta aime 0. 65 None. None. | None. | None.
WAL Seen eee owe Gosp nck coaele 0. 23 0.08 0.32 0.09 0. 20
PiliGaie race cesses cceessaachianeeeetae 2.45 2.35 1.74 2.80 | 1.11
Total eset oA LNT, 99.75 | 99.65 | 99. 90 99.32 | 100.10

The mineral occurs commonly in connection with metallic ores or as
a secondary mineral associated with sand and limestones, sometimes
in distinct veins, or as in southwest Virginia, where it fills irregular
fractures in certain beds of the Cambrian limestone or in part replaces
the limestone itself. (Specimen No. 67357, U.S.N.M.). In Washing-
ton County, in this State, the mineral has been mined in an itinerant
manner by farmers on whose land it occurs, and who work mostly from
open cuts or trenches, rarely making an opening of sufficient size to
be termed a mine. As the material is less soluble in atmospheric
waters than is the limestone in which it occurs, it follows that often

1 Pennsylvania Second Geological Survey, Chemical Analyses, pp. 368, 369.
406 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

the barite is found in loose, disconnected masses embedded in a residual
clay, and the process of mining is resolved into merely digging so long
as the yield is sufficient to pay expenses.

Preparation and uses.—The mineral is washed and ground like grain
between millstones and used as an adulterant for white lead or to give
weight and body to certain kinds of cloth and paper.

According to a writer in the Mineral Resources of the United States
for 1885, the ‘‘floated” or ‘‘cream-floated” barite used for paint is
prepared as follows: The crude mineral as mined is first sorted by
hand and cleaned, after which it is crushed into pieces about the size
of the tip of one’s finger. Next, it is refined by boiling in dilute sul-
phuric acid until all the impurities are removed, when it is washed by
boiling in distilled water and dried by steam. It is then ground to
flour, mixed with water, and run through troughs or sluiceways into
receiving vats, whence it is taken, again dried by steam, and barreled.
This cream-floated barite is quoted as worth about $30 a ton, while
the crude material is worth only about one-fourth as much.

Sources.—The principal sources in the United States are Lynchburg,
Hurt, Toshes, and Otter River, Virginia; Sandy Bottom and Hot
Springs, in North Carolina, and Cadet, Old Mines, Mineral Point,
Morrellton, and Potosi, in Missouri. A small amount is imported
from Mackellar Islands, Lake Superior. The total production for
1897 was some 27,316 tons, valued at $4 a ton.*

2. GYPSUM.

Composition CaSO, + 2 H,O, = sulphur trioxide 46.6 per cent, lime
32.5 per cent, water 20.9 per cent. The natural mineral is often quite
impure through the presence of organic, ferruginous, and aluminous
matter, together with small quantities of the carbonates of lime and
magnesia (see analysis, p. 407). Specific gravity 2.3, hardness 1.5 to
2, Color usually white or gray, but brown, black and red through
impurities. The softness of the mineral, which is such that it can be
easily cut with a knife or even by the thumb nail, is one of its most
marked characteristics. Three principal varieties are recognized, (1)
the crystallized, foliated, transparent variety, selenite (Specimens Nos.
53593, 58608, 62089, U.S.N.M.), (2) the fine fibrous, often opalescent
variety, satin spar (Specimen No. 62477, U.S.N.M.), and (3) the com-
mon massive, finely granular variety, gypsum (Specimen No. 53348,
U.S.N.M.). When of a white color and sufficiently compact for small
statues and other ornamental works, it is known as alabaster (Specimen
No. 63394, U.S.N.M.), though this name has unfortunately become
confounded with the calcareous rock travertine and stalagmite.*

1The Mineral Industry, VI, 1897, p. 57.
2See The Onyx Marbles, their Origin, Uses, etc., Report of the U. 8. National
Museum, 1893, pp. 539-585.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 407

The following is an analysis of a commercial gypsum from Ottaw:
County, Ohio, as given by Professor Orton:'

| iano tage Sere ee epee net a AGES SOOT Ooo PR See 32. 52
Sulpmanrie cides oe ee ee 45. 56
Wiehe eres ot ee oe aes leat teer ate ie 20. 14
Magniemac.. i252 ose ees ae tees es 0. 56
AUMUND tS Ss oe cee ee eee ee ora 0.16
insoluble residues. 2 ee ee eee eee 0. 68

99. 62

Origin.—Gypsum in considerable quantities occurs associated only
with stratified rocks and is regarded mainly as a chemical deposit
resulting from the evaporation of waters of inland seas and lakes; it
may also originate through the decomposition of sulphides and the
action of the resultant sulphuric acid upon limestone; through the
mutual decomposition of the carbonate of lime (limestone) and the
sulphates of iron, copper, and other metals; through the hydration of
anhydrite and through the action of sulphurous vapors and solutions
from yoleanoes upon the rocks with which they come in contact.
According to Dana,” the gypsum deposits in western New York do not
form continuous layers in the strata, but lie in imbedded, sometimes
nodular masses. In all such cases, this authority says, the gypsum was
formed after the beds were deposited, and in this particular instance
are the product of the action of sulphuric acid from springs upon the
limestone. ‘*This sulphuric acid, acting on limestone (carbonate of
lime), drives off its carbonic acid and makes su/phate of lime, or
gypsum; and this is the true theory of its formation in New York.”
Dr. F. J. H. Merrill, however, regards a portion at least of the New
York beds as a product of direct chemical precipitation from sea water.*

The gypsum deposits of northern Ohio are regarded by Professors
Newberry and Orton as deposits from the evaporation of landlocked
seas, as was also the rock salt which overlies it. By this same process
must have originated a large share of the more recent gypsum deposits
of the Western States.

Geological age and mode of occurrence. —As may be readily inferred
from what has gone before, beds of gypsum have formed at many
periods of the earth’s history and are still forming wherever proper
conditions exist. The deposits of New York State occur in a belt ex-
tending eastward from Cayuga Lake and in beds belonging to the
Salina period of the Upper Silurian age. The rock is often earthy
and impure, and is used nearly altogether for land plaster. It is asso-
ciated with dark, nearly black, limestones and shales and beds of rock
salt. In southwest Virginia, along the Holston River, are also beds

Geology of Ohio, VI, 1888, p. 700.
* Manual of Geology, p. 234.
3 Bulletin No. 11, of the New York State Museum, April, 1893.
408 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

of gypsum associated with salt and referred by Dana to this same
horizon. The rock is mined at Saltville in Washington County from
underground pits, and is used mainly for fertilizing. (Specimens Nos.
97129, 27153, U.S.N.M.)

Gypsum deposits of varying thickness and occurring at various
depths below the surface are found continuous over thousands of square
miles in northern Ohio, but are at present worked only in Ottawa
County at a station on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway
which bears the appropriate name of Gypsum (Specimens Nos. 31624,
17969, U.S.N.M.). The associated rocks are Lower Helderberg lime-
stones and shales and the beds, which vary from 3 to 7 feet in thick-
ness, are found at all depths up to 200 or 300 feet.

The following is a section of the Ottawa County beds as given by
Orton:

Feet.
Drift clays: .- -< -..2.-40s-22s02 e062 eecen ce cee oan ees oe eee eee 12 to 14
No.1. Gray rock, carrying land plaster -..--.---------------------------- 5
‘Bhive Shifle S52 85s! eee SU MAIO SL AAD tose
No. 2. Bowlder bed carrying gypsum in separate masses embedded in shaly
limestone ¢ = 1.'5 cio: G28) See Bae ae oe ie ee 5
Blue limestone, in thin and even courses. ------------------------ 1
No. 3. Main plaster bed. 5.222227 52 22-66 << ee ee te 7
1
5

bole

Gray limestone in courses..-..-.--.-----------------------+-+-----
No. 4. Lowest plaster bed, variable. .....---.--------------------------- 3 to
Mixed limestone and plaster, bottom of quarry.’

Sections like the above are stated to be capable of yielding 50,000
tons of plaster an acre.

The purest gypsum of the region occurs in No. 2, the bowlder bed,
as given above. It consists of calcareous shales through which are
scattered concretionary balls of gypsum varying in diameter from 6
to 24 inches. This pure variety is used mainly for terra alba; about
40 per cent of the total product has in years past been calcined for
use as stucco or plaster of paris and 60 per cent for land plaster.

At Fort Dodge, in Iowa, is a deposit of quite pure, light gray, regu-
larly bedded gypsum, resting unconformably upon St. Louis lime-
stone and lower coal strata and overlain by drift. It is supposed to
cover an area of some 25 square miles. The material was at one time
used for building purposes but proved too soft” and is now used
mainly for land plaster (Specimens Nos. 26804, 68058, 63059, U.S.
N.M.). (See Plate 22.

There are large deposits of gypsum in Michigan, the most extensive,
so far as explored, being near Grand Rapids, Kent County, in the
western part of the State (Specimen No. 56397, U.S.N.M.), and at
Alabaster Point, in Iosco County, on the eastern margin of the State.

1 Geological Survey of Ohio. Eocnomie Geology, VI, 1888, p. 698.
2 Stones for Building and Decoration, 2d ed., 1897, p. 76.
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill. PLATE 22.

VIEW OF A GYPSUM QuarRRyY, ForT DobGE, lows.
From a photograph by the Iowa Geological Survey.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 409

At both localities there is a succession of beds beginning at or near the
surface and aggregating many feet in depth. The beds are regarded
as of Carboniferous age. The following section shows the number and
thickness of the beds thus far discovered:

Feet.
JE Wrasse ey V0 tea ee eg, = oe 20
Geen se ao = sore ee eer ee es as 8
SOlb MUAION GINkG ner ear meee 1
CoypSED Bee eee soe eee Fi 12
ShaleloriGlay slate-o) see: eas kyl. 7
Giypsibian epee eer ee oe 64
CED a Sila ohne ls ee ee er 84
Slates cue qaerneree ees Sle est... wn 34
(Eniccienh. 2 34 eae Soe ee 124
Siialerum clay plate} 22 226.2 lle let... 14
ops ii SiS oS As NS 93
SST a EST) a ae 8
INOUD 3.234 4 ee ee een Rape 98

West of the front range of the Rocky Mountains are many important
beds of gypsum, but which have as yet been but little exploited owing
to cost of transportation, there being but little local demand. These
beds so far as yet worked are mostly of more recent origin than those
in the eastern United States, many being of Tertiary or even Quar-
ternary age.

Near Fillmore, Utah, are deposits of gypseous sand formed by the
winds blowing up from the dry beds of playa lakes the minute erys-
tals deposited by evaporation (Specimen No. 35380, U.S.N.M.). The
material thus blown together forms veritable dunes from which the
material may be obtained by merely shoveling. Prof. I. C. Russell has
estimated these dunes to contain not less than 450,000 tons of gypsum.

Important deposits of gypsum also occur in Kansas (Specimen No.
53348, U.S.N.M.), Colorado (Specimen No. 53265, U.S.N.M.), South
Dakota (Specimen No. 53462, U.S.N.M.), Wyoming (Specimen No.
63485, U.S.N.M.), California (Specimens Nos. 56419 and 67690, U.S.
N.M.), and New Mexico (Specimens Nos. 62254, 67948, and 28586,
Li N..).

Gypsum is a very abundant mineral in New Brunswick, the deposits
being numerous, large, and in general of great purity. They occur in
all parts of the Lower Carboniferous district in Kings, Albert, West-
moreland, and Victoria, especially in the vicinity of Sussex, in Upham,
on the North River in Westmoreland, at Martin Head on the bay shore,
on the Tobique River in cliffs over 100 feet high, and about the Albert
Mines. At the last-named locality the mineral has been extensively
quarried from beds about 60 feet in thickness, and calcined in large
- works at Hillsborough.

'Dawson’s Acadian Geology, p. 249.
410 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The mineral is usually met with in very irregular masses, associated
with red marls, sandstones, and limestones, and varies much in charac-
ter. At Hillsborough, in the quarries being worked, ten to fifteen
years ago there was exposed a total head of rock from 90 to 100 feet,
of which about 70, forming the upper portion, consists mostly of
‘‘soft plaster” or true gypsum, which rests on beds of hard plaster or
anhydrite of unknown depth. At the same point considerable masses
of very beautiful snow-white gypsum or alabaster are also met with,
associated with the varieties named above, but comparatively little
selenite, while at Petitcodiac, where the deposits has a breadth of about
40 rods and a total length of about 1 mile, the whole is fibrous and
highly crystalline and traversed by a vein of nearly pure selenite, 8
feet wide, through its entire extent. The rock on the Tobique River,
which rises in bluffs along the stream some 30 miles above its mouth,
is mostly soft, granular or fibrous, and of a more decidedly reddish
color than in the other localities.

Important beds of gypsum belonging to the same geological horizon
likewise occur in Nova Scotia, particularly at Wentworth and Montague
in Hants County, at Oxford, River Philip, Plaster Cove, Wallace Har-
bor, and Bras d’Or Lake, Cape Breton. At Wentworth there are
stated to be ‘cliffs of solid snowy gypsum from 100 to 200 feet in
height.” (Specimen No. 13690, U.S.N.M., from Windsor, Hants
County.)

Gypsum deposits occur in the Onondago formations of Ontario,
Canada, and are exploited along the Grand River between Cayuga and
Paris. The mineral here occurs in lenticular masses varying from a
few yards to a quarter of a mile in horizontal diameter and from 3 to
7 feet in thickness. (See Specimen No. 62145, U.S.N.M.).

The foreign sources of gypsum are almost too numerous to mention.
Important beds occur in Lincolnshire and Derbyshire, England; near
Paris, France, in Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.
The Paris beds are of Tertiary age, and the mineral carries some 10 to
20 per cent of carbonate of lime, together with silica in a soluble form.
The presence of these constituents is stated to cause the plaster to set
much harder, permitting it, therefore, to be used for external work.
The Italian gypsum is often of great purity. The finest alabaster is
stated to come from the Val di Marmolago, near Castellina. (Specimen
No. 63394, U.S.N.M.)

Uses.—These have been already, in part, noted. The principal uses
of gypsum of the ordinary massive varieties is for fertilizers (land
plaster) (Specimen No. 63059 U.S.N.M.), and in the manufacture of
plaster of paris, or stucco. (Specimens Nos. 53348, 53462, U.S.N.M.)

As above noted, gypsum is but little used for building purposes,
being too soft. Several residences, a railway station, and other minor
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 411

structures are, however, stated to have been built of this stone at Fort
Dodge, in Iowa. (Specimen No. 26804, U.S.N.M.) The variety satin
spar is sometimes used for small ornamentations, but it is only the
snow-white variety (alabaster) that is of any economic importance as
an ornamental stone. The main use of alabaster is for small statues,
vases, fonts, and small columns; it is too soft for exposed positions
where subjected to much wear. At present there are not known any
deposits of alabaster within the limits of the United States which are
of sufficient purity and extent to be of commercial value. A large
share of the alabaster statuettes now on our markets are of Italian
make as well as of Italian materials.

In preparing the gypsum for market the stone is first broken in a
crusher into pieces of the size of a hickory nut, after which it is ground
between millstones (French buhrstones) to a proper degree of fineness
and then put up in bags or barrels, if designed for land plaster; if for
stucco it is calcined after being ground. This process is in Michigan
carried on in large kettles some 8 feet in diameter, and capable of hold-
ing about 14 barrels at a charge. The powder is heated until all the
included water is driven off, being subjected to constant stirring in
the meantime, and is then drawn off through the bottom of the kettles
and conveyed by carrying belts and spouts to the packing room.?

Under the name of ‘‘terra alba” (white earth) ground gypsum is
used as an adulterant in cheap paints.

The commercial value of gypsum depends mainly on accessibility to
market. In 1899 the ground material was quoted at $2.00 a ton in
New York. In Michigan the average price of crude material has
been some $1.25 a ton, and for calcined plaster (plaster of paris) $3.00
to $5.00 a ton.

3. CELESTITE.

Composition sulphate of strontium SrSO,,= sulphur trioxide, 43.6
per cent; strontia, 56.4 per cent. Hardness, 3 to 3.5; specific gravity,
3.99; color, white, often bluish, transparent to translucent. Differs
from the carbonate (strontianite) by being insoluble in acids, but gives
the characteristic red color to the blowpipe flame.

According to Dana the mineral occurs usually associated with lime-
stones or sandstones of Silurian or Devonian, Jurassic, and other
geological formations, occasionally with metalliferous ores. It also
occurs in beds of rock salt, gypsum, and clay, and is abundantly asso-
ciated with the sulphur deposits of Sicily. (Specimen No. 60877,
U.S.N.M.) The principal localities in the United States are in the
limestones of Drummond Island, Lake Huron; Put in Bay, Lake Erie
(Specimen No. 53094, U.S.N.M.); Kingston, Ontario, in crystalline

*See Mineral Statistics of Michigan, 1881, for details of plaster work of that State.
412 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

masses, and in radiating fibrous masses in the Laurentian formations
about Renfrew. Large crystals of a red color are also found in
Brown County, Kansas, and at Lampasas and near Austin, Texas.
(Specimen No. 67936, U.S.N.M.) Near Bells Mills, Blair County,
Pennsylvania, the mineral occurs in lens-shaped masses between the
bottommost beds of the Lower Helderberg (No. VI) limestone. On
South Bass Island, in Put in Bay, Lake Erie, the mineral occurs fre-
quently in the form of beautiful crystals of all sizes up to 100 pounds
in weight, transparent to translucent and sometimes of a fine blue
color, lining the walls and floor of limestone caverns.

Uses.—Celestite is used in the preparation of nitrate of strontia
employed in fireworks, its value for this purpose being due to the fine
crimson color it imparts to the flame. The demand for the material is
very small.

4. MIRABILITE OR; GLAUBER SALT.

This is a hydrous sodium sulphate, Na,SO,+10 H,O,=sulphur
trioxide, 24.8 per cent; soda, 19.3 per cent; water, 55.9 per cent. In
its pure state white, transparent to opaque; hardness, 1.5 to 2; specific
gravity, 1.48. Readily soluble in water, taste cool, then saline and
bitter.

Occurrence.—Aside from its occurrence in soda lakes associated with
other salts as described later this sulphate is of common occurrence
as an effloresence on limestones, and in protected places, as in Mammoth
Cave, Kentucky, may accumulate in considerable quantities, though not
sufficient to be of economic value. (Specimen No. 68156, U.S.N.M., in
Cave series.) Salt Lake, Utah, contains a proportionately large
amount of this sulphate, which during the winter months is precipi-
tated to the bottom, whence it is not infrequently thrown upon the
shore by waves.

According to Prof. J. E. Talmage,! when the temperature falls to a certain point,
the lake water assumes an opalescent appearance from the separation of the sulphate.
This sinks as a crystalline precipitate and much is carried by the waves upon the
beach and there deposited. Under favorable circumstances the shores become coy-
ered to a depth of several feet with crystallized mirabilite. The writer has on several
occasions waded through such deposits, sinking at every step to the knees. Speak-
ing only of the amounts thrown upon the shores, and of most ready access, the source
is practically inexhaustible. The substance must be gathered, if at all, soon after
the deposit first appears; as, if the water once rises above the critical temperature,
the whole deposit is taken again into solution. This change is very rapid, a single
day being oftentimes sufficient to effect the entire disappearance of all the deposit
within reach of the waves. Warned by these circumstances, the collectors heap the
substance on the shores above the lap of the waters, in which situation it is compar-
atively secure until needed. To a slight depth the mirabilite effloresces, but within
the piles the hydrous crystalline condition is maintained. At the present time there
are thousands of tons of this material, heaped in the manner described, remaining
from the collections of preceding winters. The sodium sulphate thus lavishly sup-

1Science, XIV, 1889, p. 446.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. ATS

plied is of a fair degree of purity, as will be seen from the following analyses of two
samples of the crystallized substance, taken from opposite shores of the lake:

Constituents. Per cent.| Per cent.
WRC CLE stir eA nateie wo tele ialclscen t Recee ona ablomsr caterers 55.070 | 55.760
Sodtum~’ sulphate (NassO,) es Seamic ae elerepimeee ie eit 43.060 | 42.325
Sodiomiehloride: (NaGl)). << a. 2... S50. semcaete cmeecese nese 0.699 0. 631
Caleinm sulphate (CaSO), <.- 2.2.22. n= sce maces ess amscles 0. 407 0. 267
Masenesium sulphate (MgSQ,) ._.--5--.-22---scceseeoes<s-1 0. 025 0.018
HAIROUD DIG Ececas arto ok ok Ww cies Stereo cee as See Re See eee 0. 700 0.756
Potash  etotias oe ase ee eaa aoe ieetiene Sects 99.961 | 99.757

ths a arts tee Oe 2)

Some 14 miles southwest of Laramie, in Albany County, Wyoming,
there exist deposits of sulphate of soda, such as are locally known as
‘‘lakes.” The deposits in question comprise three of these lakes lying
within a stone’s throw of one another. They have a total area of about
65 acres, the local names of the three being the Big Lake, the Track
Lake, and the Red Lake. Being the property of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, they are generally known as the Union Pacific
Lakes.

In these lakes the sulphate of soda occurs in two bodies or layers.
The lower part, constituting the great bulk of the deposit, is a mass of
crystals of a faint greenish color mixed with a considerable amount
of black, slimy mud. It is known as the ‘‘solid soda,” of which an
analysis is given below.

Constituents. au ee

e. | ie er |
Relat ere eh kM hae ee en eas Gon 36. 00 81.63
UN pe tee ee eet oC ete i 1.45 1,82
1 SRI pe ERE sh die 0 lee gees] Sage ec eR me 0.77 1.64
IN Ciao sae he oe te eee ete OIO Ee wile Se aetna Cot | 0,21 0. 21
88.49 10/1) Ba. 20
| Insoluble residue (at ‘100 ©)4.0)cisises-s0ee 4b cho: dehes-c! 13. 86
99.16

Total chloride calculated as NaCl equals 1.16 per cent. This, calculated on 100
parts anhydrous Na,SO,, equals 3.22 per cent NaCl.

This solid soda is stated to have a depth of some 20 or 30 feet.
Borings were made a number of years ago under the direction of the
Union Pacific Railroad agents, but, as the records have been mislaid
or lost, with what results is not definitely known. There is nothing
to prove that the depth is not less than stated above.

Above the solid soda occurs the superficial layer of pure white
crystallized sulphate of soda. This is formed by solution in water of
the upper part of the lower body, the crystals being deposited by
414 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

evaporation or by cooling, or by the two combined. A little rain in
the spring and autumn furnishes this water, as do also innumerable
small, sluggishly flowing springs present in all the lakes. But on
account of the dry air of this arid region the surface is generally dry
or nearly so, and in midsummer the white clouds of efflorescent. sul-
phate that are whirled up by the ever-blowing winds of Wyoming can
be seen for miles. Even should there be a little water present there
is no difficulty in gathering the crystals by the train load. The spring,
however, is the worst season of the year, on account of the warm
weather and of the rains—conditions unfavorable to the formation of
crystals. The layer of this white sulphate is from 3 to 12 inches in
thickness. When the crystals are removed the part laid bare is soon
replenished by a new crop.

The following is an analysis of the purest of this white sulphate of
soda, calculated upon an anhydrous basis, that being the condition, of
course, in which it would be used:

Na SOP eet aes Be oe hv Eee ee ee ee 99. 73

INF Gils ads 54 ees BS ONO ee ES . 26

Insoliigle ti. 8c ee hs eee Trace.
99. 99

Below is given an analysis of the water of the lake:
Density =144° Tw. (=1.0725 specific gravity). Ten cubic centi-

meters contains:
Grams. Per cent.

INES O ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 0. 7563= 92. 23
CaS Oi ses yeee iis xa ee Bees OR014 6g
MGS @ ere ees oe Se eee er ae 0300/0 = eso
Mis Ci ie ee See neres e ae een oie 0.0300= 3.66
Nas BIO eer. 2 aes) pe eee OF01 21 aie

TotalesOliadse<,-1- ce eee 0.8200 100.00

Total solids by evaporation. 0. 8240

One cubic foot of this water contains 10.72 of pure crystallized sul-
phate of soda.'

(See Specimens Nos. 62086, 53427, U.S.N.M., from Albany County,
Wyoming.)

Other similar deposits occur in Carbon and Natrona counties, and
still others are reported in Fremont, Johnson, and Sweetwater counties.

It has recently been stated* that glauber salts has been found on the
bottom of the Bay of Kara Bougas, an inlet of the Caspian Sea, in
deposits sometimes a foot in thickness.

‘Journal of the Franklin Institute, CK X XV, 1893, pp. 53, 54, 56.
* Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, 1898, p. 310.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 415

5. GLAUBERITE.

Composition sodium and calcium sulphate. Na,SO,.CaSO,,=sul-
phur trioxide, 57.6 per cent; lime, 20.1 percent; soda, 22.3 percent. This
is a pale yellow to gray salt, partially soluble in water—leaving a white
residue of sulphate of lime—and with a slightly saline taste. On long
exposure to moisture it falls to pieces, and hence is to be found only
in protected places or arid areas. It occurs associated with other sul-
phates and carbonates, as with thenardite and mirabilite at Borax
Lake, in San Bernardino County, California, and with halite in rock
salt at Stassfurt (Specimen No. 40229, U.S.N.M.) and other Euro-
pean localities.

6. THENARDITE.

Composition anhydrous sodium sulphate. Na,SO,,=sulphur triox-
ide, 43.7 per cent; soda, 56.3 per cent. Color when pure, white, trans-
lucent to transparent; hardness, 2 to 3; specific gravity, 2.68; brittle.
In cruciform twins or short prismatic forms roughly striated. Readily
soluble in water. Is found in various arid countries, as on the Rio
Verde in Arizona, at Borax Lake, California, and Rhodes Marsh in
Nevada, associated with other salts of sodium and boron.

7. EpsomitrE; Epsom Sats.

Composition sulphate of magnesia MgSO,+-7H,O,= sulphur tri-
oxide, 32.5 per cent; magnesia, 16.3 per cent; water, 51.2 per cent.

This is a soft white or colorless mineral readily soluble in water and
with a bitter saline taste. It isa constant ingredient of sea water and of
most mineral waters as well. Being readily soluble, it is rarely met with
in nature except as an effervescence in mines and caves. In the dry parts
of the limestone caverns of Kentucky, Tennessee, and Indiana it occurs
in the form of straight acicular needles in the dirt of the floorand in pecu-
liar recurved fibrous and columnar forms or in loose snow-white masses
on the roofs and walls. (Specimens Nos. 68145, 68153, U.S.N.M., from
Wyandotte Cave, Indiana.) In all these cases it is doubtless a product of
sulphuric acid set free from decomposing pyrites combining with the
magnesia of the limestone. It is stated that at the so-called ‘‘alum
cave” in Sevier County, Tennessee, masses of epsomite very pure and
nearly a cubic foot in volume have been obtained. The material in all
these cases is of little value, the chief source of the commercial supply
being that obtained as a by-product during the manufacture by evapora-
tion of common salt (sodium chloride).

In Albany County, Wyoming, are several lakes, the largest of which
has an area of but some 90 acres, in which deposits of epsom salts are
formed on a very large scale, but which are of little commercial value,
owing to cost of transportation. The material forms compact, almost
416 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

snow-white aggregates of small acicular crystals of a high degree of
purity. (Specimen No. 62088, U.S.N.M.) The composition of the
natural salt is given as follows:* Insoluble residue, 0.08 per cent;
magnesium sulphate (containing traces of calcium and sodium sul-
phates), 51.22 per cent; water, 47.83 per cent;- chloride of sodium,
calcium, and magnesium, 0.42 per cent; iron, trace; loss, 0.45.

8. PoLYHALITE. 9. Kartnire. 10. KIESERITE.

For description of these minerals see under Halite, p. 195.
11. ALUMs.

Under this head are included a variety of minerals consisting essen-
tially of hydrous sulphates of aluminum or iron, with or without the
alkalies, and which are not always readily distinguished from one
another but by quantitative analyses. The principal varieties are kalin-
ite, tschermigite, mendozite, pickeringite, apjohnite, halotrichite, and
alunogen. Aluminite and alunite are closely related chemical com-
pounds, but differ in hardness and general physical qualities and in being
insoluble except in acids.

Although possible sources of alum, none of these minerals have been
to any extent utilized in the United States, owing to a lack of quan-
tity or inaccessibility, the main source of the alum of commerce being
cryolite, bauxite, and clay, as elsewhere noted. (See pp. 214, 229,
and 325.)

KALINITE is a native potash alum; composition K,SO,.A1,(SO,),+
24H,O, =sulphur trioxide, 33.7 percent; alumina, 10.8 per cent; potash,
9.9 per cent; water,45.6 per cent,or, otherwise expressed, potassium sul-
phate, 18.1 per cent; aluminum sulphate, 36.3 per cent; water, 45.6 per
cent. Hardness, 2 to 2.5; specific gravity, 1.75. This in its pure state
isa colorless or white transparent mineral, crystallizing in the isometric
system, readily soluble in water, and characterized by a strong astrin-
gent taste. In nature it occurs as a volcanic sublimation product, or
as a secondary mineral due to the reaction of sulphuric acid set free by
decomposing iron pyrites upon aluminous shales. Its common mode
of occurrence is therefore in volcanic vents (Specimen No. 60685,
U.S.N.M., from Vulcano) or as an efflorescence upon pyritiferous and
aluminous rocks. Being so readily soluble, it is to be found in appreci-
able amounts in humid regions only where protected from the rains, as
in caves and other sheltered places. So far as known to the author, the
mineral is nowhere found native in such quantities as to have any great
commercial value.

TSCHERMIGITE is an ammonia alum of the composition (NH,),SO,. Al,
(SO,),+24H,0,=aluminum sulphate, 37.7 per cent; ammonium sul-
phate, 14.6 per cent; water, 47.7 percent. So far as reported this salt
has been found only at Tschermig and in a mine near Dux, Bohemia.

‘Bulletin No. 14, October, 1893, Wyoming Experiment Station.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 417

It is obtained artificially from the waste of gas works. Mendozite is a
soda alum of the composition Na,SO,. Al,(SO,),+24H,O, =sodium sui-
phate, 15.5 per cent; aluminum sulphate, 37.3 per cent; water, 47.2.
The mineral closely resembles ordinary alum, and has been reported
from Mendoza, in the Argentine Republic, hence the name.  Picker-
ingite is a magnesium alum of the composition MeSO,. Al,(SO,),+ 22
H,O, = aluminum sulphate, 39.9 per cent; magnesium sulphate, 14 per
cent; water, 46.1 per cent. The mineral is of a white, yellowish, or
sometimes faintly reddish color, of a bitter, astringent taste, and
occurs in acicular crystals or fibrous masses. (Specimen No. 53043,
U.S.N.M., from Tarapaca, Chile.) Halotrichite has the composition
FeSO,. Al, (SO,),+24H,O, =aluminum sulphate, 36.9 per cent; ferrous
sulphate, 16.4 per cent; water, 46.7 per cent. The mineral is of a
white or yellowish color, and of a silky, fibrous structure, hence the
name from the Greek word as, salt, and #9¢6, ahair. Apjohnite has
the formula MnSO,. Al,(SO,),+-24H,O, = manganese sulphate, 16.3 per
cent; aluminum sulphate, 37 per cent: water, 46.7 percent. It occurs
in silky or asbestiform masses of a white or yellowish color, and tastes
like ordinary alum. It has been found in considerable quantities in
the so-called ‘‘alum cave” of Sevier County, Tennessee. According
to Safford:*

This is an open place under a shelving rock. * * * The slates around and
above this contain much pyrites, in fine particles and even in rough layers. * * *
The salts are formed above and are brought down by trickling streams of water.
* * * Fine cabinet specimens could be obtained, white and pure, a cubic foot in
volume.

Dana states that the cave is situated at the headwaters of the Little
Pigeon, a tributary of the Tennessee River, and that it is properly an
overhanging cliff 80 or 100 feet high and 300 feet long, under which
the alum has collected. It occurs, according to this authority, in
masses, showing in the cavities fine transparent needles with a silky
luster, of a white or faint rose tinge, pale green or yellow. Epsomite
and melanterite occur with it. Alunogen has the composition Al,
(SO,),+18H,O, = sulphur trioxide, 36 per cent; alumina, 15.3 per
cent; water, 48.7 per cent; hardness, 1.5 to 2; specific gravity, 1.6
to 1.8. This is a soft white mineral of a vitreous or silky luster,
soluble in water, and with a taste like that of the common alum of the
drug stores. It occurs in nature both as a product of sublimation in
voleanic regions, and as a decomposition product from iron pyrites
(iron disulphide) in the presence of aluminous shales. So far as the
present writer is aware, the native product has no commercial value,
being found (on account of its ready solubility) in too sparing quanti-
ties in the humid East, while the known deposits in the arid regions

NAT MUS 99 27
418 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

stated by Dana to occur in large quantities at Smoky Mountain, in
North Carolina, and large quantities of an impure variety, often of a
yellowish cast, are found in Grant County, on the Gila River, about 40
miles north of Silver City, New Mexico. (Specimen No. 67841,
U.S.N.M.) The mineral is also found in Crooke and Fremont counties,
Wyoming (Specimen No. 62087, U.S.N.M.); in Schemnitz, Hungary
(Specimen No. 53047, U.S.N.M.), and in Japan (Specimen No. 34402,
U.S.N.M.).

The chief use of the material, were it procurable cheaply and in
quantities, would be as a source of alumina for use in chemical manu-
facture and as an ore of aluminum. i

Concerning the occurrence of alunogen on the Gila River, New
Mexico, W. P. Blake writes:

In a region about half a mile square, of nearly horizontal strata of volcanic origin,
there has been extensive alteration and change by solfataric action, or possibly by the
decomposition of disseminated pyrites producing aluminous solutions, which, flowing
slowly by capillary movement from within outwards, suffer decomposition at the sur-
face with the production of sulphate of alumina (alunogen) in crusts and layers upon
the outer portions of the rocks, attended by the deposition of siliceous crusts and the
separation of ferric sulphate, while the rocks so traversed appear to be deprived of a
part, at least, of their silica and of their alkalies, with the formation of bauxite.

The alunogen is thus an outer deposit, while the bauxite is not a deposit, but is an
internal residual mass in place. Its color is generally bluish-white; structure, amor-
phous, granular, without concentric or pisolitic grains. When dried in the sun and
air it will still lose about 20 per cent by ignition. It gives only about 1 per cent of
soluble matter by leaching with water; is infusible, and reacts for alumina. The
amount of residual silica and alkalies has not yet been ascertained, and no careful
full analysis has been made. The composition is no doubt variable in samples from
different places, for the original rocks give evidence of a great difference within short
distances. ! :,

Material from this locality (represented by Specimen No. 67841,
U.S.N.M.) analyzed in the laboratories of the United States Geolog-
ical Survey, yielded results as below:”

A lttiin ay (AT) Os) ie an ae oe ee ee ere 15. 52
Sulphur trioxide (SOQj) 22 2... 22. Sabena 34. 43
Water CHyO)): 2260's oes Se ee 42.56
Insoluble.residué: 3. 25-252 eee 7. 62
100. 18
An asbestiform halotrichite from the same locality yielded—

Alumina (AGO,)\..<2 2-332 eee ee 7.27
Iron protoxide (FeO) =). See eee 13, 59
Sulphur trioxide (SO})) Gs. t= geeeeesnaeees 37.19
Water js: oases denteeet ae ae 40. 62
Insoluble residues 2.2) 2 eee 0. 50
99: 17

1Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XXIV, 1894, p.
57:

~

American Journal of Science, X X VIII, 1884, p. 24.

ws ft
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 419

In New South Wales the material is commonly met with as an efflor-
escence in caves and under sheltered ledges of the Coal Measure sand-
stone, usually with epsomite, as at Dabee, County Phillip; Wallera-
wang and Mudgee road, County Cook; the mouth of the Shoalhaven
River, and other places. Also found in the crevices of a blue slate at
Alum Creek, and at the Gibraltar Rock, County Argyle. Occurs as a
deposit, with various other salts, from the vents at Mount Wingen,
County Brisbane, together with native sulphur in small quantities; and
at Appin, Bulli, and Pitt Water, County Cumberland. At Cullen
Bullen, in the Turon district, County Roxburgh; at Tarcutta, County
Wynyard; Manero; Wingello Siding, and Capertee.

A specimen in the form of fibrous masses, made up of long, acicular
crystals, white, silky luster, like satin spar, found as an efflorescence in
a sandstone cave near Wallerawang, was found to have the following
composition:

A (Yee) deepen Fe eae Be) Sane eee Chee ee ey 47.585
Matter insoluble in water -..........-.-.- 1.079
PAN UITAN I ae eee rare oer pe ay ee 15. 198
BU OMEIC ION oo oS oe Ses le es 34. 635
NSOYG Wate 20S args Sd a a TN ee ee ene ee . 931
VERGE a ig gal eae eg ee A a Se ea OO)
ORs eee se carateree PR Std se eee = BAS,

100. 000

The formula for the above is practically Al,O,.3SO,+18H,O. An-
other specimen from the same place was found to contain a notable
quantity of magnesium sulphate.

Water. by ditiérence:. 2. 4224... 2552 222.55 47.388
RSHINC ONE Stier cera ais tere See Sk 1. 908
AMNION es Sela eee! a oe ek ee 13. 113
PUL MUMIG AGIGi sso Sosa S 5 5555-3 owe os 30. 067
RM os ste Fo Ree ns Soe sn ee . 798
RMON CONE Etta diavn Sots aS Aa keel eh a a 3. 726

of 0 Spans Oe tp niet ee ea 100. 000

The formula for the above is also practically Al,O,.835O0,+18H,O.

ALuMINITE.—Aluminite is a dull, lusterless earthy, aluminum sul-
phate of the composition indicated by the formula Al,O,.SO,,9H,O=
sulphur trioxide 23.3 per cent; alumina 29.6 per cent; water 47.1 per
cent. It is soluble only in acids, white in color, opaque, and occurs
mainly in beds of Tertiary and more recent clays. ©

ALuniIreE.—Composition K,O.3A1,0,.450,,6H,O=sulphur trioxide
38.6 per cent; alumina 37.0 per cent; potash 11.4 per cent; water 13.0
percent. Hardness 3.5 to 4; specific gravity 2.58 to2.75. This mineral
occurs native in the form of a fibrous, or compact finely granular rock
of a dull luster somewhat resembling certain varieties of aluminous
limestones. It is infusible and soluble only in sulphuric acid. The
more compact varieties are so hard and tough as to be used for mill-
420 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

stones in Hungary. No deposits of such extent as to be of economic
importance are known within the limits of the United States. Alunite
as an alteration product of rhyolite has been described by Whitman
Cross! as oceurring at the Rosita Hills in Colorado, the alteration being
brought about through the influence of sulphurous vapors incident to
the volcanic outbursts. The altered rhyolite as shown by analyses had
the following composition: Silica 65.94 per cent; alumina 12.95 per
cent; potash 2.32 per cent; soda 1.19 per cent; sulphur trioxide 12.47
per cent; water 4.47 per cent; Fe,O,, etc., 0.55 per cent. This indicates
that the rock is made up of alunite and quartz, in the proportion of
about one-third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. The most
noted occurrences of alunite are at Tolfa, near Rome; Montioni, in
Tuscany, Italy (Specimen No. 62863, U.S.N.M.); Musaz, in Hungary
(Specimens Nos. 60925, 66854, U.S.N.M.) on the islands of Milo,
Argentiera and Nevis in the Grecian Archipelago; Mount Dore in
France, and at Bulledelah in New South Wales. At the last-named
locality the mineral occurs in compact, micro-crystalline forms of a
slight flesh pink tint, in ‘ta large deposit forming the summit of a
ridge about three-fourths mile long by one-half mile wide, and rising
about 1,000 feet above the level of Lyall -Creek, on which it is situ-
ated. Viewed from the creek it presents a massive outcrop re-
sembling limestone. It yields from 60 to 80 per cent of alum upon
roasting, lixiviating, and evaporating” (Specimen No. 62179, U. S.N.M.).

Alunite from the mines at Tolfa varies considerably in composition.
The crystallized variety contains about 32 per cent alumina, whereas
the cruder specimens which contain a large quantity of silica have
only about 17.5 per cent. The following is an analysis of an average
sample:

Alumina yee. ss Sos Jos oe ee eee 27.60
Sulphuric acid’s¢. soe - Sook ae eee 29. 74
Potash. 23 2223 26 2 a eee 7.59
Waterss. (fe eee eee 11. 20
Tron 22 oe eee eee eee 1. 20
Silica SoS) Se Dae oF ie eee Oe eee 22.71

Total a. 5 ARS: ae ee eee 100. 00

When crushed it is easily reduced to a powder, the finer portions of
which are richer in alumina than the coarser portions, and for this
reason the author recommends that only the former should be exported,
the latter being converted into commercial products in the vicinity of
the mine.*

1 American Journal of Science, X LI, 1891, p. 468.

2 Catalogue of New South Wales Exhibits, World’s Columbian Exposition, Chicago,
1893, Dept. E, p. 358.

$ Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 501.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 491

Anum SnatE or SHALE is a somewhat indefinite name given to
fine-grained arenaceous rocks consisting essentially of siliceous and
fieldspathic sands and clays with disseminated iron pyrites. The fol-
lowing analyses from Bischof’s Chemical Geology will serve to show
their varying composition:

|
Constituents. Te TI. 16 ie
| sa esses ci Seer
Gilicn seen eon. eee ae 65. 44 72.40] 50.13 |
Porat ees tO es 14.87 16.45 | 10.73 |
Tron ORIG CRA: ode ete Se cee is stakes Soe e ae TOD 4 eames 2.27
Gin SL a eee mee mee iC SEs aa 15 17 40
Meromesinuast etc amt sna. L 7h: et ee wee Naa 1.34 1.48 1.00
POGISN es oe ee ce ce cae rate Sobek Specie cae Mote 4,59 DAOS alee onesee
Soa (is as ee Aye eee tee ere Se eS eee eet ie = | .48 aC ee aeeer ooe
HEC TAULLGR eee A PR oe covet tee ee | 1.25 2.26| 7.58
Carbon) SMGTWAter: case 5 =5-c.c kiosk mae een hears | Undet. Undet. 25. 04

Bornholm, and (III) from Garnsdorf, near Saalfeld, Prussia. Concern-
ing No. III it is stated that ‘ton the roof of the adit, driven into the
slate, there are almost everywhere yellow or white opaque stalactites,
and more rarely a green transparent deposit is produced. Both con-
sist of hydrated basic sulphate of alumina and peroxide of iron. In
the former, iron predominates; in the latter, alumina. Both substances
are quite insoluble in water.

From shales and slates of this type the alum is obtained by crushing
and allowing to undergo prolonged weathering or submitted to a roast- .
ing process. The essential part of the reaction consists in oxidizing
the bisulphide to the condition of a sulphate and finally into iron
sesquioxide, with separation of free sulphuric acid which attacks the
alumina, forming an equivalent quantity of sulphate of aluminum or
alum. So far as is known this process is not carried on at all in the
United States.

The alum shale of the English Upper Liassian formation consists of
hard blue shale with cement stones. On exposure to the air it grad-
ually becomes incrusted with sulphur, and occasionally with alum.

In composition the alum shale is as follows:

Tronisulphidevs acer ote aoe oe ae eee 8. 50
Silens ee et ok sew aaa eee nee 51.16
Crom peOpomides: Mel aon ce cen oe oe cee 6. 11
AUTO AS epee cea ey = Si pes tae Le eer ea 18. 30
| yh oY eX ARO RS ae eee eee SU Sie neen oe pee Fes 2.15
MaoneSIAS okie. at Bee ea eR eee 0. 90
Sulphuric acid: -«\ 22) sac 2sek ss eck mene 2.9

IP USED Se SE se errs eoee ed ak eae Seu te Trace.
OCAa. = 262 oe TAR eee es a eee hace Trace.
PORE a Ae 5 PAR eee ts + ae alee bent ek 8. 29
WWE Tears Siro game Eh s Ree ee We nate Rate oa 2. 00

gl Nai Pee Sa PM ee Sete Se en 99. 91
422 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

From this shale potash-alum was formerly made near Whitby and
Redear, the aluminum sulphate being extracted from the shale, and the
potash-salt being added. The trade which since the days of Queen
Elizabeth has been largely carried on, has now almost passed away, as
alum is now manufactured in other places from coal-shale. Alum
works formerly existed at the Peak, Robin Hood’s Bay, Stow Brow,
Sandsend, Kettleness, Lofthouse (Loftus), Osmotherly, ete. !

According to F. Stolba,* the so-called Bohemian fuming sulphuric
acid is made from vitriol obtained from Silurian pyritiferous schists
‘‘vitriolschiefer”). The method as given is as follows: Large masses
of the schist, which consist essentially of a quartzose matrix contain-
ing pyrite, carbonaceous matter, and clay, are exposed to the weather-
ing action of the atmosphere for three years. The products of oxida-
tion so formed are ferrous sulphate and sulphuric acid, which latter
acts energetically upon the clay, and finally aluminum sulphate and
other sulphates are yielded. The ferrous sulphate at first formed he-
comes by oxidation ferric sulphate, which, together with the aluminum
sulphate, is the principal product of the weathering of the vitriol slate.
Ferrous sulphate remains only in small quantities. The next operation
is lixiviation of the mass with water, after which the liquor obtained
is concentrated to a density of 40° Baumé, and finally evaporated
in pans until, on cooling, a crystalline cake of vitriol stone is obtained.
The vitriol stone is now calcined in order to remove the greater part
of its water. The resulting product, when heated to a very high tem-
perature in clay retorts, yields sulphuric anhydride, and a residue,
termed coleothar, remains in the retorts. The composition of vitriol
stone and colcothar will be seen from the following analyses:

VITRIOL STONE. VITRIOL STONE.

He, Og sons. 35d eee ee cU Ug We, (80) 5.c2e seeder aseee 50. 17
YaNl [EO aes tape Payee St 4.67 ASOD is 5522 eee 11. 94
EO ie ess ae 0. 64 FeSO)! essen aoe 1. 35
Bin@ eens: Weeseee Traces. Mah, o-. Se Se eee Tay,
"6 es ete pe 0.14 Gag ioe aeateee 0. 33
IMG One ace eee 0.39 CS Os eee ee eee 0. 20
1G OS Aeseane SERS ee 0. 07 KS Oye 90 nee 0. 13
Io (0 eines Sep rena, 2 0.05 NaSO) eee eee 0. 11
Cie. 8 he oe 9.10 FLSO, |. at rae 1.49
SAK Oe leserstnentt es New 7a Pe 0. 10 MnO, As, and P,@;222-= - Traces.
IPSec erin pss hese Traces. SiO, acne SoM SBE eho. 9. 10
SO las. Seto eleteey 40.51 PL OR Sts san ee sea See 32. 31=99. 29
Seer = 3a oe oe Traces.

OMe essences 32. 58=99. 32

The Geology of England and Wales, p. 279.
* Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, V, 1886, p. 30.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 423

COLCOTHAR.

Be, Oyo 0k os aa Ne cee 74. 62
AD 42S ad eran eee 12. 53
IMG) aeta- Serer meee onae
Oa sats 50. eet re eae 0. 82
SOvenne See ce ee eer yal Wi
NS Ot nee SORE Pe aa Acap ere iS aly/
Guy arc peck eee ee eee 0. 20
1 EO Ree ASG ls Bree 1. 30=99. 04

XII. HYDROCARBON COMPOUNDS.

1. Coat SERIES.

Here are included a variety of more or less oxygenated hydrocar-
bons varying widely in physical and chemical properties, but alike in
originating from decomposing plant growth protected from the oxidiz-
ing influences of the air. According to the amount of change that has
taken place in the original plant material, the amount of volatile matter
still retained by it, its hardness and burning qualities, several varieties
are recognized.

Origin.—The idea long prevalent but never entirely accepted to
the effect that the coal beds resulted from the accumulation 7m s7tu of
organic matter growing on gradually subsiding marshes has of late
given way quite largely to another more in accord with the facts as
now known.

While we have indubitable proof that peat may and does thus origi-
nate, as is to be seen in many a modern peat bog, and while, too, there
is no doubt as to the possibility of such, under proper conditions,
becoming converted into coal, still there are many facts which tend to
show that perhaps the most and the largest of the coal deposits are
due to the accumulation of transported plant remains laid down at the
mouths of rivers as in deltas and Jagoons. They are in fact as true
sedimentary deposits as the shales and sandstones with which they are
associated. This view best accounts for the constant interlamination
of the coal with clay and sand, with the marked styatification of the
coal itself, as well as the amorphous nature of the material, since, as is
well known, calcium sulphate, a constitueut of sea water, tends to
decompose organic matter, reducing it to a pulplike, and at times
almost mucilaginous condition.

The idea, too, long prevalent, that anthracite is but a bituminous
coal from which a large portion of the volatile matter has been driven
off by the heat and pressure incidental to mountain making or the
intrusion of igneous rocks is also in part being set aside. Undoubtedly
anthracite may be thus produced and in some cases has been thus pro-
duced, as in the Cerrillos coal field of New Mexico, where a bitumi-
nous coal containing some 30 per cent of volatile matter has been locally
494 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

converted into anthracite through the intrusion of a mass of an ande-
sitic trachyte.'

Prof. J. J. Stevenson has, however, argued’ that the difference
between anthracite and the bituminous coals is due, not to metamor-
phism through heat and pressure after being buried, but rather to the
former having been longer exposed to the percolating action of water,
whereby the volatile constituents were removed, prior to its final
burial, and the consolidation of the inclosing rocks.

The subject is, however, altogether too large to be satisfactorily dis-
cussed here, and the reader is referred to the special works on the
subject noted in the bibliography.

Prat represents the plant matter in its least changed condition. It
results from the gradual accumulation in bogs and marshes of growths
consisting mainly of sphagnous mosses, a low order of plants having
the faculty of continuing in growth upward as they die off below. In
this way the deposits often assume a very considerable thickness.
When suflicently thick the weight of the overlying matter may have
converted the lower portions into a dense brownish-black mass some-
what resembling true coal. The deposits of peat are all comparatively
recent and occur only in humid climates. They are developed to an
enormous extent in Ireland—about one-seventh of the entire country
being covered by them—and average in some cases 25 feet in thick-
ness. (Specimen No. 53242, U.S.N.M., from County Kerry.) They
are also abundant on the continent of Europe and various parts of
North America. In Europe, and especially in Ireland, the material
is extensively utilized for fuel, and there would seem no good reason
for not so utilizing it in America. As prepared for use the material
is simply dug from the bogs and stacked up until sufficiently dry for
burning, or pressed into bricks of suitable size and shape for conven-
ient handling. Many processes have been invented for reducing the
material to a pulp and subsequently condensing by pressure, but all
involve too great an outlay to be profitable.®

In America the chief use of the material is as a fertilizer, a material
for ‘*mulching.” An impure variety containing a considerable quan-

‘Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, VII, 1895-96, p. 525.

2 Idem, V, 1894, p. 39.

* A new method of making charcoal from peat has been patented in England by
Mr. Blundell and is to be tried in Italy, where there are large deposits of peat which
can, it is claimed, be handled very cheaply. In this process the peat is first reduced
to a fine paste and leaves the machine in a continuous thick tube 3 to 5 inches in
diameter, and is then cut off in sticks and dried for three days on wooden supports
and for a longer period in the air on wire netting. After twenty-five days the sticks
become dry and hard and may be burned as fuel; but it is more profitable to convert
these sticks into charcoal. This is accomplished in six hours in a retort, and 3 tons
of peat make 1 ton of charcoal.—Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, February 26,
1898, p. 248.

PLATE 23.

1899,.—Mernill.

Report of U. S. National Museum,

“IOTIUN IW OV Aq ydeasojoyd B WoL
‘VISSAY ‘SVII ‘STSAVYD DNINVSE-G105 DNIATYSAO Sdaqg LVad 40 MAlA

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 425

tity of silicious sand, and locally known as ** muck,” is thus used through-
out New England.

According to J. E. Kehl, United States consul at Stettin, Germany,
‘the manufacture of peat briquettes in that country is likely to become
an industry of some importance. The material fresh from the moor
is cut and ground quite finely by machinery, dried by steam, and
pressed into the desired form. The material thus prepared is said to
be clean to handle, gives a good heat, and burns satisfactorily in both
stoves and open grates. The peat briquettes retail at the rate of 8 for

-acent, American money.’

From a study made by Drs. J. W. Dawson and B. J. Harrison
some years ago” it was concluded that the peat deposits of Prince
Edward Island were capable of economic utilization. Three deposits
were referred to, the possibilities of which were given as below:

Lenox Island bog, at $4 a ton, 20,000 tons, value........----------------- $80, 000
Squirrel Creek bog, at $4 a ton, 500,000 tons, value ...-....--..---------- 2, 000, 000
Black Bank bog, ati$4 a ton, 1,777,248. tons, value:......--.--..22.2222s26 7, 108, 992

Riel rere Ne ae acta tara: Yale aah se ae ee 9, 189, 992

The following analyses of peats are given by this authority:

Hydro- Volatile oat
| Constituents. scopic combusti- | es che Ash.
water. | ble matter. ce es
= - n= |
Champlain’ peat..-5- =. 2. s2sno2e 14. 96 59. 60 22. 20 3. 24
odeesmeatinscac45--<0 cela. =. 17. 06 50.725 | 25. 96 6. 265
Indian Islamd peat... 2.2.2... 23. 71 41.195 | 19.835 | 15.26
Bisekp Banks peatyaats- ssssee as 16. 52 53. 29 22. 48 Tell |

Below are given the results of analyses of I, peat from bog of
Allan, Ireland; II, a ‘‘muck”. from Maine, United States; and III,
Commander Islands in Behring Sea (Specimen No. 59320, U.S.N.M.):

| Constituents. fe II. Iil. |

Per cent. | Per cent. | Per cent.

Carbon: j-seeaee ee ace een cepa etaate 61. 04 21 60. 48
Volatile: matherts: 6-6 Be ee Seer 37.53 72 39. 53
ASHES 2: 3208 oS oe eee ec eae t oc eech be et ee eee 1.88 A SBOE |

|

LIGNITE OR BROWN coAL.—This name is given to a brownish-black
variety of coal characterized by a brilliant luster, conchoidal fracture,
and brown streak. Such contain from 55 to 65 per cent of carbon and
burn easily, with a smoky flame, but are inferior to the true coals for
heating purposes. They are also objectionable on account of the soot
they create, and their rapid disintegration and general deterioration

‘United States Consular Reports, January, 1899, p. 99.
*Report on the Geological Structure and Mineral Resources of Prince Edward
Island, 1871.
426 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

when exposed to the air. They occur in beds under conditions similar
to the true coals, but are of more recent origin. The lignitic coals of
the regions of the United States west of the Mississippi River are mainly
of Laramie (Upper Cretaceous) age, and often show easily recognizable
traces of their organic origin, such as compressed and flattened stems
and trunks of trees with traces of woody fiber (Specimen No. 4795,
U.S.N.M.).

Jet is a resinous, coal-black variety of lignite sufficiently dense to be
sarved into small ornaments (Specimens Nos. 62930, 62804, U.S.N.M.).
According to Professor Phillips, it is simply a coniferous wood, and
still shows the characteristic structure under the microscope. It has
been known since early British times, having at first been found on
the seashore at Whitby and other places. The largest seam on record
was obtained from the North Bats, near Whitby. It weighed some
5,180 pounds and was valued at about $1,250. The material is now
regularly mined both in the cliffs and inland, and is one of the most
valuable products of the Yorkshire coast.’

Brruminovus Coats.—Under this name are included a series of com-
pact and brittle products in which no traces of organic remains are to be
seen on casual inspection, but which under the microscope often show
traces of woody fiber, spores of lycopods, etc. These coals are usually
of a brown to black color, with a brown or gray-brown streak, break-
ing with a cubical or conchoidal fracture, and burning readily with a
yellow, smoky flame. They contain from 35 to 75 per cent of fixed
carbon, 18 to 60 per cent of volatile matter, from 2 to 20 per cent of
water, and only too frequently show traces of sulphur, due to included
iron pyrites. Several varieties of bituminous coals are recognized,
the distinctions being based upon their manner of burning. Coking
coals are so called from the facility with which they may be made to
yield coke. Such give a yellow flame in burning and make a hot fire.
(Specimens Nos. 55490, U.S.N.M., Connellsville, Pennsylvania, and
59260, U.S.N.M., from New River, West Virginia.) Other varie-
ties of apparently the same composition and general physical proper-
ties can not for some unexplained reason be made to yield coke, and
are known as noncoking coals. (Specimens Nos. 59428, U.S.N.M.,
from Vigo County, Indiana, and 59208, U.S.N.M. (splint coal), from
Fayette County, West Virginia.) Cannel coal has a very compact
structure, breaks with a conchoidal fracture, has a dull luster, ignites
easily, and burns with a yellow flame. It does not coke. Its chief
characteristic is the large amount of volatile matter given off when
heated, whereby it is rendered of particular value for making gas.
(Specimens Nos. 56280, 56284, and 58496, U.S.N.M., are characteristic. )
Before the discovery of petroleum it was used for the distillation of
oils. Below is given the composition of a (1) coking coal from the

'Geology of England and Wales, p. 278.
PLATE 24.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 —Mer>rill.

‘SHSUA) YJUIAVTY oy} Jo yoday oy} wm1014
‘SS1VLG GSLINfQ) SHL 4O Sa7aIi4 Iv0O9 Qad013A3Q SHL DSNIMOHS dv

axaoy MOMS “SENOMH NWOF
oT Pouchaeg
SALVLS GHLINO AHL AO SATA Tvo9

GQsd0 ISAS BNL ONLWOHS

%

a 51
, Aes «le

‘ 1 3 bitra, MHe
\ ees
- Vv

\ | |
\ ig? 1
°rubyens & |

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 427

Connellsville Basin of Pennsylvania, and (II) a cannel coal from Ka-
nawha County, West Virginia.’

| Constituents. I.
| = MB,
| UU AUG Tsetse nie ne F Seiwa icinlalatizieloie/cieiaie eral ieleajain’ sleet (yeratetesiae 1.105
AMG id (\aaet: 1] 0:) (eee RS eSB oS Hoenn eae nccrinnee SooCorE 29. 885
BAMOCR GRE DON os) seo. conc oak = ate te ae eines ee ete etatet it aa 57. 754
See eee ee ee on. oils Sac eee gee Serer eet cette 9. 895
SUM PNUP caee se ee aca soe ~ ane woken oe Cem clstre(d ss eel NE SEOU Stecask
MO tates oe co ooo ecw dere oe ee eee eerie 99. 978 100. 00

ANTHRACITE Coat.—This is a deep black, lustrous, hard and brittle
variety, and represents the most highly metamorphosed variety of the
coal series. Traces of organic nature are almost entirely lacking in
the matter of the anthracite itself, though impressions of ferns, lyco-
pods, sigillaria and other coal-forming plants are frequently associated
with the beds in such a manner as to leave little doubt as to their
origin. Anthracite is ignited with difficulty and burns with little
flame, but makes a hot fire. Below is given the average composition
of a coal from the Kohinoor Colliery, Shenandoah, Pennsylvania.’

ANGIE a oo Mg cha lee eee a ae Re en 3. 163
Wolatilennailitene. meri aris aaa cee = Bie
immed: @arbOnMee Sse. tae oe Rees eee ee 81. 143
rel plans Sse 2 Sek ee d= rope os Se 0. 899
IAG ieee ee adenine le ieee eee eo ee 11.078

100. 00

(Specimens Nos. 59058, 59062, from Pennsylvania, and 30854, from
Colorado, are sufficiently characteristic.) Like the other coals, anthra-
cite occurs in true beds, but is confined mostly to rocks of the Car-
boniferous age. Thin seams of anthracite sometimes occur in Devo-
nian and Silurian rocks, but which are too small to be of economic
value. Rarely coals of more recent geological horizon have been
formed locally, altered into anthracite by the heat of igneous rocks.
Through a still further metamorphism, whereby it loses all its volatile
constituents, coal passes over into graphite (Specimens Nos. 17299
and 59099, from near Newport, Rhode Island), and it is possible, though
searcely probable, that all graphite may have originated in this way.

The principal anthracite coal regions of the United States are in
eastern Pennsylvania. From here westward throughout the interior
States to the front range of the Rocky Mountains the coals are all
soft, bituminous coals. Those of the Rocky Mountain region proper
are largely lignitic, passing into the bituminous varieties.

1 F. P. Dewey, Bulletin 42, United States National Museum, 1891, p. 231.
*Idem, p. 221.
428 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

The bibliography of coal, even though limited to the United States, would be enor-
mous. In all cases reference should be made to the publications of the various State
surveys, where such have existed. The few titles here given are of articles of general
interest and, as a rule, not relating to the coals of one particular locality alone.
Watrer R. Jonson. A Report to the Navy Department of the United States on

American Coals Applicable to Steam Navigation and to other purposes.

Washington, D. C., 1844, pp. 607.
Ricuarp Cow.inc Taytor. Statistics of Coal. The Geographical and Geological
Distribution of Mineral Combustibles or Fossil Fuel, ete.
Philadelphia, 1848, pp. 754.
J. LeConte. Lectures on Coal.
Report of the Smithsonian Institution, 1857, p. 119.
T. H. Leavirr. Peat as a Fuel.
x Second Edition. Boston, 1866, pp. 168.
Facts About Peat as an Article of Fuel.
Third Edition. Boston, 1867, pp. 316.
E. W. Hitearp. Note on Lignite Beds and their Under Clays.
American Journal of Science, VII, 1874, p. 208.
Lro Lesqurrevx. On the Formation of Lignite Beds of the Rocky Mountain Region.
American Journal of Science, VII, 1874, p. 29.
J. S. Newperry. On the Lignites and Plant Beds of Western America.
American Journal of Science, VII, 1874, p. 399.
James MacFaruane. Coal Regions of America.
New York, 1875.

Miau Green, ToorPr, Ricker, and Marsway. Coal; Its History and Uses. Edited
by Professor Thorpe. London, 1878, pp. 363.

RapHart Pumpetiy. Report on the Mining Industries of the United States, with
special investigation into the Iron Resources of the Republic and into the Creta-
ceous Coals of the Northwest.

Tenth Census of the United States, XV, 1880.
W. Ivison MacApam. Analyses of Coals from New Zealand and Labuan.
Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, IV, pt. 2, p. 165, session
1881-82.
J. S. Newserry. On the Physical Conditions under which Coal was Formed.
Science, I, March 2, 1883, p. 89.

Cuarces A. ASHBURNER. The Classification and Composition of Pennsylvania Anthra-

cites.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XIV, 1885,
p. 706.
Leo Lesquereux. On the Vegetable Origin of Coal.
Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 1885, p. 95.
S..W. Jonnson. Peat and its Uses as Fertilizer and Fuel.
New York, 1886, pp. 168.
GranamM MacFaruane. Notes on American Cannel Coal.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVIII, 1890,
p. 436.
W. Gattoway. The South African Coal Field. ;
Proceedings of the South Wales Institute of Engineers, No. 2, X VIT, 1890, p. 67.
Levi W. Meyers. L’Origine de la Houille.
Revue de Quest. Scientifique Brussels, July, 1892, pp. 5-47.
Wiiuram H. Pacer. The Carboniferous Age and the Origin of Coal.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LVI, 1893, p. 347.
Note sur la formation des Terraines Houillers.
Bulletin de la Société Géologique de France, XXIV, 1896, p. 150.
Making Coal of Bog Peat.
The Iron Age, LXII, Aug. 18, 1898, p. 3.

hy
iy ,
ry
’

ae

aes

PLATE 25.

1899,.—Mernill.

Report of U. S. National Museum

‘susuay) WIUAL a1 Jo ywodoy oy} WOd
‘VGVNVO ONV SS1LVLS GALINf) SHL NI SYNDDO NSWNLIG JYSHM SvVauVW DNIMOHS dV

any
— Servis cain
-HHL XI}
-——w2ANLIG azonToud —

CAM ANY Web

pub]
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 429

2. BITUMEN SERIES.

Under this head are included a series of hydrocarbon compounds
varying in physical properties from solid to gaseous and in color
from coal black through brown, greenish, red, and yellow to colorless.
Unlike the members of the series already described, they are not the
residual products of plant decomposition 77 s/tu, but are rather, in
part at least, distillation products from deeply buried organic matter
of both animaland vegetable origin. The different members of the series
differ so widely in their properties and uses that each must be dis-
cussed independently. The grouping of the various compounds as
given below is open to many objections from a strictly scientific stand-
point, but, all things considered, it seems best suited for the present
purposes. *

Tabular classification of hydrocarbons.”
RISC OUSH Seis Fok aioe sea ane tt Marsh gas (Natural gas).
FI Bile es ne ree Petroleum (Naphtha).
Pittasphalt (Maltha).
Mineral tar.
Asphalt.
baste aha ee ee J Elaterite.

(Wurtzillite.
| Albertite.

Bituminous® 22222 22<5-..--

Grahamite.
Uintaite.
Succinite.
Copalite.
Torbanite.
Ambrite.
Ves
Hatchettite.

Hydrocarbons.
(op)
eh
a

LENGTH VOI DIS) ay ge a chk t OE Eee eee

Cerous (waxy )

i i ee ee

Tabular classification or grouping of natural and artificial bituminous compounds.

Mixed with limestone, ‘‘asphal- fSeyssel, Val de Travers, Lobsan, Illi-
tic limestone.”’ \ nois, and other localities.

‘| Mixed with silica and sand, ‘‘as- Nn eee Kentucky, Utah, and other
a 3 4 phaltic sand.” localities. ‘‘ Bituminous silica.”’
5 Zi ae veep eee ee i Trinidad, Cuba, California, Utah.
= ERTS LOncistee Dae ie ee Sed ae California, Kentucky, Virginia,
3 and other localities.
4 = ie i tee 4 ae oils from the distillation of petro-
Pees, Re LES oe leum. ‘‘Residuum.’’
= | ea hee fGas-tar.
E|E OTS CR Ei eehrn oe erect an \Piteh.
Pa Ea Refined Trinidad asphaltic earth. Mas-
UST eal pene eS Saree eee ar tie of asphaltite.

esa asphaltic mastic. Paving com-
pounds.

‘See article What is Bitumen? by 8. F. Peckham, Journal of the Franklin Insti-
tute, CXL, 1895, pp. 370 to 383.

*W. P. Blake, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VIII,
1890, p. 582.
430 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Table of occurrence of important natural bitumen.}

Naturaligas <- 2-222. <--c5 Ohio, Pennsylvania, California, etc., in the
United States; Russia, France, ete.

Natural naphtha: -2.5252-=-- Found in petroleum districts (of little value,
superseded by artificial naphtha from crude
petroleum).

Petroletims.../ 2 se ess ae Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wyoming, California,

etc., in United States; Russia, ete. (consult
books on petroleum).
Maltha <2 st4.2222 35228422 California, Wyoming, Alabama, Utah, Colo-
rado, Kentucky, New Mexico, Ohio, Texas,
Indian Territory, etc.; Russia, France,
Germany, etc.
North America....Utah, California, Texas,
ete.
Central America. ..Cuba, Mexico, ete.
South America ...-Trinidad, Venezuela,
Peru, Colombia, ete.
sigaieguei ah Hirope suse eeaewee eee Syran-on-the
sinoet olga, Germany,
pure. France, Italy, Austria,
ete.
Important AIRE NE to tes Hit on the Euphrates
natural Aaa We Palesti 2
Pana sia Minor, Palestine,
ete.
ATniCg = oman. ees Oran in Egypt; probably
other places.
North America ....West Virginia, Kentucky,
Asphaltum - Texas, Wyoming, Utah,
Colorado, California,
Indian Territory, Mon-
tana, New Mexico.
Central America... Mexico, Cuba, ete.
South America ....Trinidad (largest supply,
most used), Venezuela,
Asphaltic Peru, Colombia, ete.
compounds. |Europe ..--------- Germany, Switzerland,
France, Italy, Sicily,
Russia, Austria, Spain,
etc.
Agia: 902) eae Asia Minor, Palestine,
Bagdad, and probably
in China.
ACTIURAS, itee es ae Egypt, and probably else-
where in Africa.

Origin.—Of the many views, mainly theoretical, that have been put
forward to account for the origin of bituminous compounds, but two
need be noted in detail here. Interested readers are referred to the
bibliography given on page 460, and particularly to the works of
Peckham, Orton, and Redwood. Prof. Edward Orton, after an

1J. W. Howard, as quoted by 8. P. Sadtler, Journal of the Franklin Institute,
CXL, 1895, p. 200.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 431

exhaustive consideration of the occurrence of petroleum, natural gas,
and asphalt in Kentueky,' gives the following precise summary:

1. Petroleum is derived from organic matter.

2. Petroleum of the Pennsylvania type is derived from the organic matter of bitumi-
nous shales, and is probably of vegetable origin.

3. Petroleum of the Canadian type is derived from limestones, and is probably of
animal origin.

4. Petroleum has been produced at normal rock temperatures (in American fields),
and is not a production of destructive distillation of bituminous shales.

5. The stock of petroleum in the rocks is already practically complete.

Hofer? regards petroleum as of animal origin only, and advances the
arguments given below in support of his theory:

1. Oil is found in strata containing animal, but little or no plant remains. This is
the case in the Carpathians, and in the limestone examined in Canada and the
United States by Sterry Hunt.

. The shales from which oil and paraffin were obtained in the Liassic oil shales of
Swabia and of Steirdorf, in Styria, contained animal, but no vegetable remains.
Other shales, as, for instance, the copper shales of Mansfield, where the bitumen
amounts to 22 per cent, are rich in animal remains and practically free from
vegetable remains.

bo

3. Rocks which are rich in vegetable remains are generally not bituminous.
4. Substances resembling petroleum are produced by the decomposition of animal

remains.®
5. Fraas observed exudations of petroleum from a coral reef on the shores of the
Red Sea, where it could be only of animal origin.

The relationship which exists between the solid or viscous bitumen
and the fluidal petroleum have not in all cases been satisfactorily
worked out, though Peckham has shown‘ that in California at least
there are almost infinite gradations from one extreme to the other. In
Ventura County, for instance, the petroleum is held, primarily, in strata
of shale, from which it issues as petroleum or maltha, accordingly as
the shales have been brought into contact with the atmosphere, the
asphaltum being produced by a still further exposure to the atmosphere
after the bitumen has reached the surface. This relationship between
the more fluidal and viscous varieties is shown in fig. 13, copied from
Professor Peckham’s paper above referred to, and which represents a
section across a portion of Sulphur Mountain between the Hayward
Petroleum Company’s tunnels in Wheeler Canyon, and the Big Spring
Plateau on the Ojai ranch. In this section it will be noted that the
mountain is formed of a synclinal fold of shale, the strata dipping

‘Report on the Occurrence of Petroleum, ete., in Western Kentucky. Geological
Survey of Kentucky, John R. Proctor, director, 1891.

2As quoted by Redwood, I, p. 238.

*Dr. Engler, as quoted by Redwood, obtained by distillation of menhaden oil,
among other products, a substance remarkably like petroleum, and a lighting oil
indistinguishable from commercial kerosene.

4See Report of the Tenth Census, p. 68.

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

432

UIRyyod “WS JOIV
“VINHUOUITVO ‘NIVINOOW WOAHdATAS HYNNOUHL NOWLOGS
‘SL 31

“wiusOJITeD *AjuNOD EINIWaA ‘neajejd ref[O pue ulejuNnoW inyding Yysnosy} UuoNDI2g

a

[ya woud —y stg)

apoara prio a Aouids Sry uv POE (MIG) UO [Py 6 MES
eR Spon, po “ALO YS pity oy

= SFE

7 Y

esis spenGsad paar Listes
J Ce g

Be i
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 433

inward on both sides and coming to the surface almost vertically on
the right, and more nearly horizontally on the left (the south). The
tunnels are driven into the nearly vertical face of the mountain and
the oil-bearing rock is protected by some 700 or 800 feet of overlying
shales. The oil obtained is the lightest thus far found in southern
California. On the other hand, the material which exudes on the
north side, when the shales are upturned at such an angle as to give
free access to atmospheric agencies, is in the form of maltha, or min-
eral tar, and so viscous, in December, 1865, that it could be gathered
and rolled into balls like dough.

The relationship between petroleum and natural gas is scarcely better
defined. That the gas can be derived from petroleum is undoubted,
and indeed the latter apparently never occurs free from gas. But on
the other hand, as Professor Orton states, the gas often originates
under many conditions in which petroleum does not occur. The
formation of marsh gas from decomposing plant remains on the bottom
of stagnant pools, and its presence in coal mines would show with
seeming conclusiveness that a part, at least, of the gas is formed quite
independently of petroleum. It would seem on the whole most
probable that no one theory was universally applicable to all cases.

Marsh Gas; Natura Gas.-—This is a colorless and odorless gas
arising from the decomposition of organic matter protected from the
oxidizing influence of atmospheric air. By itself it burns quietly, with
a slightly luminous flame, but when mixed with air it forms a dangerous
explosive. It is this gas which forms the dreaded fire damp of the
miners. In small quantities this gas may be found and collected, if
desired, from the bottom of shallow pools and stagnant bodies of water
by merely disturbing the decomposing plant matter at the bottom,
when the bubbles of the gas will rise to the top. Under this head may
properly be considered the so-called natural gas, which has of late years
become of so much importance from an economic standpoint. This gas
is, however, by no means a simple compound, but a variable admixture
of several gases, samples from different wells showing considerable
variation in composition, as well as those from the same well collected
at different periods. This last is shown by the seven analyses following,
and which may serve well to illustrate the average composition, though
in some instances the percentage of marsh gas has been found greater.!

"From Orton’s Report on Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Asphalt in Kentucky, pp.
108-110.

NAT MUS 99-——28
434 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899. .

Constituents. Teo ]y TIE | 9 Sues ene | v. | Vi. | vit. |

Lg Sn Gee wv arl compe pael | aaeee eee
VOOR eI ee sone sansa see e 1.89 1640) 74 ee rop 1.86 1.42) 1.20
Mintel pas Sat, Le ee 92.84 | 93.35 | 98.85 | 92.67 | 93.07 | 94.16 | 93.58
@lehant eas fo sues eee ee 0.20] 0.35! 0.20] 0.25] 0.49 | 0.30 | 0.15
Garhonic: Oxides. o-..-.- epee 0.55 |} 0,41 0.44 0. 45 0.73 0.55 | 0.60
Carbonic acid ............-.----- 0.20} 0.25] 0.28) 0.25] 0.26 | 0.29 0.80
xiv renss-benaa. see ts ae eee 0.35 | 0.39 0.35 0.35 | 0.42) 0.30) 0.55
ISSN iro genta c Serene a eCriee ass 8.82 | 3-41; 2.98) 3.58 | 3.02 | 2.80} 3.42
Sulphuretted hydrogen .......-- 0.15 0220))> S0L215 1081> 0.15 | 0.18 | 0. 20

Bistaltires sce eae eee 10000: eee | ae | ela ps | ei | rae | Se |

I, Fostoria, Ohio; II, Findlay, Ohio; III, St. Marys, Ohio; IV, Muncie, Indiana; V, Anderson,
Indiana; VI, Kokomo, Indiana; VII, Marion, Indiana.

Natural gas in quantities to be of economic importance is necessarily
limited to rocks of no particular horizon. It is not, however, indige-
nous to the rocks in which it is now found, but occurs in an overlying
more or less porous sand or lime rock into which it has been forced by
hydrostatic pressure. The first necessary condition for the presence
of gas in any locality may indeed be said to depend upon the existence
of such a porous rock as may serve as a reservoir to hold it, and also
the presence of an impervious overlying strata to prevent its escape.
In Pennsylvania the reservoir rock is a sandstone of Carboniferous or
Devonian age: in Ohio and Indiana a cavernous dolomitic limestone of
Silurian (Trenton) age.

PrrroLteum.—This is the name given toa complex hydrocarbon com-
pound, liquid at ordinary temperatures, though varying greatly in vis-
cosity, of a black, brown, greenish, or more rarely red or yellow color,
and of extremely disagreeable odor. Its specific gravity varies from
0.6 to 0.9. Through becoming more and more viscous the material
passes into the solid and semisolid forms asphalt and maltha. Chem-
ically it is considered as a mixture of the various hydrocarbons included
in the marsh gas, ethyline and paraffin series.

An ultimate analysis of several samples, as given by the reports of
the Tenth Census of the United States (1880), showed the following
percentages of the three essential constituents:

Locality. Hydrogen. | Carbon. | Nitrogen.
| | KoA
Wiest VITSINi a <4. cee wece soe eee eee 18. 359 85. 200 0. 54
Meced, OhiGies: .scte aces. sees ee eee 13. 071 86, 316 0. 23
California. 2 5s,chesecciocectcces eee oee eee 11. 819 86. 934 1.109 |

Petroleum is limited to no particular geological horizon, but is found
in rocks of all ages, from the Lower Silurian to the most recent, its
existence in quantities sufficient for economic purposes being depend-
ent upon local conditions for its generation and subsequent preserva-
tion. Inasmuch as its accumulation in large quantities necessitates a
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 435

rock of porous nature to act as a reservoir, the petroleum-bearing
rocks are mostly sandstones, though not uniformly so.  Petroleums
are found in California and Texas in Tertiary sands; in Colorado in the
Cretaceous; in West Virginia both above and below the Crinnoidal
(Carboniferous) limestones; in Pennsylvania in the ** mountain” sands
(Lower Carboniferous) and the Venango sands (Devonian); in Canada
in the Corniferous (Lower Devonian) limestones; in Kentucky in the
Hudson River shales (Lower Silurian), and in Ohio in the Trenton
limestone. (See series illustrating geological distribution. )

In some instances petroleum oozes naturally from the ground, form-
ing at times a thin layer on the surface of pools of water, whence in
times past it has been gathered and used for chemical and medicinal
purposes. The so-called ** Seneca oil” thus used some fifty or sixty
years ago was thus obtained from a spring in Cuba, Allegany County,
in New York. The immense supply now demanded for commercial
purposes is, however, obtained altogether from artificial wells of vary-
ing depths, and which are in some cases self-flowing, while in others
the oil is raised by means of pumps. Wells of from 500 to 1,500 feet
in depth are of common occurrence, while those upwards of 2,000 feet
are not rare. The principal sources of petroleum are in the United
States—New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, with smaller fields in
West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Texas, Colorado, and
California. The chief foreign source is the Baku region on the Cas-
pian Sea, and Galicia, in Austria.

Uses of petroleum.—The early uses of petroleum in America seem to
have been for medicinal purposes only (Specimen No. 59834, U.S.N.M.,
from Kentucky). The oil as pumped from the wells has but a limited
application in its crude condition excepting as a fuel, and owes its
great value to the large and varied series of derivatives which it
yields. A discussion of the methods employed in obtaining these
derivatives belongs properly to the department of chemical technology
and can not be dwelt upon here. It must suffice for present pur-
poses to say that the treatment as ordinarily carried out at present
involves a process of destructive distillation whereby the crude mate-
rial, heated under pressure, is resolved into a variety of products of
different densities, and varying from gaseous through liquid to solid
forms. Prominent among these derivatives may be mentioned, aside
from the gaseous compounds, rhigolene, gasoline, naphtha, benzine,
kerosene, various lubricating oils, paraffin, and the solid residues (coke,
etc.). Various pharmaceutical compounds are prepared from petro-
leum products, many of which are well known to the public, as vase-
line, cosmoline, etc. It is also used as a basis for ointments and in
soaps.

The accompanying map (Plate 25) from the reports of the Tenth
Census will serve to show the distribution of petroleum and allied
436 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

bituminous compounds in the United States. For full and detailed
information relative to the petroleum industry of the world the reader
is referred to the works mentioned in the Bibliography, that of Bover-
ton Redwood being the most systematic and complete.

The petroleum series in the Museum collections is quite large (some
303 samples), and is arranged for exhibition so as to illustrate (1) varia-
tion in specific gravity, (2) in color, (3) geological distribution, (4) depth
of source, (5) geographical distribution. This last, nearly as it stands
to-day, was described in Mr. Dewey’s Handbook, Collections in Econo-
mic Geology,! and the list is not entirely reprinted here.

In this connection reference should be made to the series of sands
and rocks associated with petroleums and bituminous deposits in a sep-
arate case. This comprises oil-bearing sands from wells in Wash-
ington County, Pennsylvania (Specimens Nos. 52025, 62997, 59930,
59932,U.S.N.M.); Oil City, Venango County, Pennsylvania (Specimen
No. 62998, U.S.N.M.); Butler County, Pennsylvania (Specimen No.

62996, U. S, N.M.), and a block of sandstone weighing 8 pounds, blown
from well No. 9, on Barse tract, McKean County, Pennsylvania, at
a depth of 1,730 feet. Also oil sands from Marion County, West Vir-
ginia (Specimens Nos. 62790, 62994, 62995, U.S.N.M.); oil-bearing
shales from Ventura County, California iSpoeimens Nos. 62785, 62914,

62915, U.S.N.M.); oil-bearing shales from Santa Barbara County,
Ghitfarats (Specimens Nos. 62939-62943, U.S.N.M.); core of diamond
drill from well No. 19, Pico oil field, California (Specimen No. 62921,
ULSsNMe)s eas dolomite from Cook County, Illinois (Specimen
No. 62789, U.S.N.M.); geodes of quartz filled with bitumen from
Hancock ea Illinois (Specimen No. 40364, U.S.N.M.); asphaltic
sands from Wyoming (Specimen No. 62716, U.S.N.M.); Indian Terri-
tory (Specimen No. 62245, U.S.N.M.); Germany (Specimen No. 66855,
U.S.N.M.); a series of sands, sandstones, and shales, with varieties
of asphalt, from the island of Trinidad (Specimens Nos. 68050-68066,
U.S.N.M.); trappean rock with bitumen, Hartford County, Connecti-
cut (Specimen No. 59934, U.S.N.M.); andesite with bitumen, Lake
Tahoe, Nevada (Specimen No. 33884, U.S.N.M.); shale asencnied with
albertite, Albert County, New Brunswick (Specimens Nos. 59936,
59938, 59939, U.S.N.M.); and clays associated with ozokerite and salt,
Boryslaw, Galicia (Specimens Nos. 66087, 66088, U.S.N.M.).

1. EXHIBIT ILLUSTRATING VARIATION IN SPECIFIC GRAVITY.

The series is arranged to show gradually decreasing specific gravity.
It begins with a very dark oil of 22° Baumé=0.9210 specific gravity.
In general as the specific gravity decreases the color grows lighter.
To this, however, there are several notable exceptions. For instance,
No. 59736 (823° Baumé=0. elle specific eee) is much lighter in

‘Bullen No. 42 of ee USS Nagel Mien 1891.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 437

color than its associates. The same is also true of No. 59735 (45°
Baumé=0.8000 specific gravity) and No. 59743 (47° Baumé=0.7909
specific gravity). On the other hand, Specimens Nos. 59506 (48°
Baumé=0.7865 specific gravity) and 59591 (484° Baumé=0.7843
specific gravity) are darker than their associates, while the color of
Specimen No. 59584, with the very low gravity of 503° Baumé=0.7755
specific gravity, is as dark as any member of the series.

(1) 22° Baumé=0.9210 specific gravity, dark greenish. Colorado. (59741.)

(2) 234° Baumé=0.9120 specific gravity, black. From the Trenton limestone.
J. W. Mitchell well, Plum Lick Creek, near Middletown, Bourbon County, Ken-
tucky. (59594.)

(3) 27° Baumé=0.8917 specific gravity, black. From the millstone grit (Carbon-
iferous). Lem Beck well, near Voleano, Wood County, West Virginia. (59553. )

(4) 28}° Baumé=0.8833 specific gravity, black. From the millstone grit (Car-
boniferous), near Voleano, Wood County, West Virginia. (59555.)

(5) 29° Baumé=0.8805 specific gravity, black. Brockin well, Johnson County,
Kentucky. (59597.)

(6) 30° Baumé=0.8750 specific gravity, black. From the millstone grit (Carbon-
iferous), near Voleano, Wood County, West Virginia. (59557. )

(7) 313° Baumé=0.8668 specific gravity, dark greenish. Broward well, Johnson
County, Kentucky. (59598. )

(8) 323° Baumé=0.8614 specific gravity, dark greenish red. Greensburgh, West-
moreland County, Pennsylvania. (59736. )

(9) 35° Baumé=0.8588 specific gravity, black. From the Trenton limestone.
Taskin well, near North Baltimore, Wood County, Ohio. —(59566.)

(10) 34° Baumé=0.8536 specific gravity, black. Oil in sand; here 23 feet in thick-
ness; depth of well 551 feet; drilled, 1877; torpedoed; yielded 3 barrels of oil on first
day of flow. Lot 4823, Howe, Forest County, Pennsylvania. (59805.)

(11) 35° Baumé=0.8484 specific gravity, black. From the first sandstone of the
Great Conglomerate (Upper Carboniferous). Well No. 6, West Virginia Oil and Oil
Land Company, White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59857. )

(12) 36° Baumé=0.8433 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the first sandstone
of the Great Conglomerate (Upper Carboniferous). Oil in sand. Well No. 7, West
Virginia Oil and Oil Land Company, White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Vir-
ginia. (59858. )

(13) 37° Baumé=0.8383 specific gravity, black. Oil in limestone, here 50 feet in
thickness; depth of well 1,321 feet; drilled 1885; torpedoed; yielded 50 barrels of
oil on first day of flow. Brick Yard well, Findlay, Hancock County, Ohio. (59807. )

(14) 38° Baumé=0.8333 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the first sandstone
of the Great Conglomerate (Upper Carboniferous). Oil in sand. West Virginia Oil
and Oil Land Company, White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59860. )

(15) 39° Baumé=0.8284 specific gravity, dark greenish red. From Clarion County
sand; depth of well 860 feet; drilled 1883; torpedoed; yielded 2 barrels of oil on first
day of pumping. Cumming’s well No. 1, Cumming’s farm, Tionesta, Forest County,
Pennsylvania. (59816.)

(16) 40°Baumé=0.8235 specific gravity, dark greenish. Bradford County, Penn-
sylvania. (59734. )

(17) 41° Baumé=0.8187 specific gravity, dark greenish. Parker County, Pennsyl-
vania. (59733.)

(18) 42° Baumé=0.8139 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the third sandstone
of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Black Gas well, Pleasantville, Venango
County, Pennsylvania. (59580. )
438 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

(19) 43° Baumé=0.8092 specific gravity, dark greenish red. Oil-bearing sand
here 20 feet in thickness; depth of well 1,855 feet; drilled 1883; torpedoed; yielded
2,200 barrels of oil on first day of flow. Reno well No. 1, Cooper tract, Sheffield,
Warren County, Pennsylvania. (59765.)

(20) 44° Baumé=0.8045 specific gravity, dark greenish. Bullion district, Warren
County, Pennsylvania. (59737. )

(21) 444° Baumé=0.8023 specific gravity, dark greenish. From third sandstone
of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Sand here 14 feet in thickness. Oil in sand;
depth of well 708 feet; drilled 1868; torpedoed; yielded 330 barrels of oil on first
day of flow. Well No. 6, Hamby farm, Rockland, Venango County, Pennsyl-
vania.  (59788.)

(22) 45° Baumé=0.8000 specific gravity, dark amber. Clarion County, Pennsyl-
vania. (59735.)

(23) 454° Baumé=0.7977 specific gravity, dark greenish red. Thom Creek district,
Butler County, Pennsylvania. (59746.)

(24) 46° Baumé=0.7954 specific gravity, dark greenish. Foxburgh, Clarion
County, Pennsylvania. (59739. )

(25) 463° Baumé=0.7932 specific gravity, black. Depth of well 660 feet; drilled
1866; yielded 600 barrels of oil on first day of flow. Well No. 184, Burtes lease,
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania. (59769. )

(26) 463° Baumé=0.7921 specific gravity, black. From the third sandstone of the
Petroleum Measures (Venango). Titusville, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59507. )

(27) 47° Baumé=0.7909 specific gravity, dark amber. Smith’s Ferry, Allegheny
County, Pennsylvania. (59745. )

(28) 473° Baumé=0.7887 specific gravity, dark greenish red. From the first sand-
stone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Beck well, near Pleasantville,
Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59583. )

(29) 473° Baumé 0.7876 specific gravity, dark greenish red. From the fourth
sandstone of the Petroleum Measures; oil in sand; depth of well 14 feet; drilled
1871; torpedoed; yielded 900 barrels of oil on first day of flow. Well No. 1, farm of
J. Blaney, Fairview, Butler County, Pennsylvania. (59799. )

(30) 48° Baumé==0.7865 specific gravity, black. Webb Oil Company, Taskill,
Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59506. )

(31) 484° Baumé=0.7843 specific gravity, dark greenish. From the third sandstone
of the Petroleum Measures (Venango), Cogley Field, Ashley, Clarion County, Penn-
sylvania. (59591.)

(32) 483° Baumé=0.7832 specific gravity, dark amber. Oil in sand, here 16 feet
in thickness; depth of well 1,025 feet ; drilled 1878 ; torpedoed; yielded 20 barrels
of oil on first day of flow. Well No. 1, Lot No. 55, Mead, Warren County, Penn-
sylvania. (59780.)

(33) 49° Baumé=0.7821 specific gravity, light greenish red. Oil in sand; depth
of well 1,254 feet. Tiona Oil Company, Warren County, Pennsylvania. (59514.)

(34) 50° Baumé=0.7777 specific gravity, light greenish red. Oil in sand, here 50
feet in thickness. Cameron well, Smith pool, Washington County, Pennsylvania.
(59589. )

(35) 503° Baumé=0.7755 specific gravity, black. Haskell well, Wigglesworth
Tract, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59584. )

(36) 51° Baumé—0.7734 specific gravity, light greenish yellow. Oil in sand, here
50 feet in thickness. Nicholas well, Vanceville, Washington County, Pennsylvania.
(59600. )

(37) 54° Baumé=0.7608 specific gravity, dark amber. Oilinsand; depth of -well
2,113 feet; drilled 1885; torpedoed; yielded 15. barrels of oil on first day of flow.
Gantz well No. 1, Little Washington, Washington County, Pennsylvania. (59777.)
—

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 439
9. EXHIBIT ILLUSTRATING VARIATION IN COLOR.

The series may be divided into two portions, beginning with a thor-
oughly black specimen and following through increasing amounts of
green and ved toa light greenish yellow in the first portion, and in
the second beginning wie a dark red and following through to a light
straw. in which the greenish element of the color does not appear:

(1) Black. Bear Creek, Burkesville, Cumberland County, Kentucky. (59852. )

(2) Black, tinged with green. Mecca, Trumbull County, Ohio. (59757.)

(3) Dark greenish. Anchor well No. 3, Glade, Warren County, ae
(59761.)

(4) Dark greenish red. Dale Brothers’ well No. 1, Batten farm, near Rockland,
Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59767. )

(5) Dark greenish red. Kane, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania. (59752. )

(6) Light greenish red. Gordon well, Washington, Washington County, Penn-
sylvania. (59526.)

(7) Greenish yellow. Leedecker well, Butler County, Pennsylvania. (59750. )

(8) Dark red. New Brinker well, Pleasant Valley, Westmoreland County, Penn-
sylvania. (59520. )

(9) Light red. Galtz well, Washington, Washington County, Pennsylvania.
(59527. ) :

(10) Amber. Hess, Sacket & Eichner well No. 1, Reidsburgh, Clarion County,
Pennsylvania. (59581. )

(11) Yellow. Riggs Gas well, Moundsville, Marshall County, West Virginia.
(59579. )

(12) Light yellow. Farm of J. Somerville, near Brady’s Bend, Armstrong County,
Pennsylvania. (59494.)

(13) Light straw. Holden Run, Armstrong County, Pennsylvania. (53016. )

(14) Nearly colorless. Venezuela. (59835. )

3. EXHIBIT ILLUSTRATING GEOLOGICAL DISTRIBUTION.

The series is arranged in a generally descending order. There is a
certain amount of overlapping, however, between the West Virginia
and Pennsylvania series, since the oil-bearing strata in these two States
have not been correlated. ;

(1) From the Tertiary sandstone. Dark greenish. Pico district, Los Angeles
County, California. (59552. )

(2) From the Cretaceous formation. Dark greenish. Cation City, Fremont County,
Colorado. (59548. )

The following thirteen specimens are from the West Virginia oil
field. Their location in depth is referred to the Crinoidal limestone as
a datum line:

(1) 50 feet above the Crinoidal limestone. Black; specific gravity 28° Baumé.
Oil in sand; depth of well 56 feet; drilled 1859; not torpedoed; yielded 100 barrels of
oil on first day of pumping. Well No.1, Dutton farm, Aurelius, Washington County,
Ohio. (59855.) ,

(2) 100 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish. Oil in sand; depth

of well 150 feet; drilled 1882; torpedoed; yielded 10 barrels of oil on first day of
pumping. Farm of Frank Atkinson, Aurelius, Washington County, Ohio. (59854. )
440 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

(3) 200 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oil in sand; depth of well
160 feet; not torpedoed. Rathbone oil tract, Burning Springs district, Wirt County,
West Virginia. (59837.)

(4) 250 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish. Oil in sand; depth
of well 350 feet. Well No. 6, farm of George Rice, Aurelius, Washington County,
Ohio. (59853. )

(5) 300 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oil in sand; depth of well
275 feet. Rathbone oil tract, Burning Springs district, Wirt County, West Virginia.
(59838. )

(6) 450 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish. Oil in sand; depth
of well 500 feet; drilled 1865; torpedoed; yielded 8 barrels of oil on first day of pump-
ing. Well No. 1, farm of. George Rice, Aurelius, Washington County, Ohio. (59852. )

(7) 650 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oil in sand; depth of well 800
feet; not torpedoed; yielded 5 barrels of oil on first day of pumping. Newton Farm,
Aurelius, Washington County, Ohio. (59850. )

(8) 820 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Black. Oilin sand; depth of well 840
feet. Petty Farm, Burning Springs district, Wirt County, West Virginia. (59839. )

(9) 930 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish; specific gravity 28°
Baumé. Oilin sand; depth of well 400 feet. Volcanic Coal and Oil Company, White
Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59844. )

(10) 980 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish; specific gravity 30°
Baumé. Oil in sand; depth of well 400 feet. Volcanic Oil and Coal Company,
White Oak district, Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59843. )

(11) 1,100 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish; specific gravity 47°
Baumé. Oil in sand; depth of well 1,100 feet. Gracy lease, Burning Springs dis-
trict, Wirt County, West Virginia. (59840. )

(12) 1,350 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Amber; specific gravity 39°
Baumé. Oil in sand; depth of well 1,350 feet; drilled 1880; torpedoed; yielded 18
barrels of oil on the first day of flow. Well No. 14, farm of George Rice, Aurelius,
Washington County, Ohio. (59851. )

(13) 1,500 feet below the Crinoidal limestone. Dark greenish; specific gravity
50° Baumé. Oil in sand; depth of well 1,000 feet. Gale tract, White Oak district,
Ritchie County, West Virginia. (59849. )

The following eleven specimens illustrate the occurrence at differ-
ent depths in the Pennsylvania field:

(1) 180 feet below the Pittsburg coal bed. Light greenish red; specific gravity 34°
Baumé. Bailey farm, Dunkard Creek, Greene County, Pennsylvania. (59536. )

(2) 460 feet below the Pittsburg coal bed. Greenish red; specific gravity 35°
Baumé. Maple well, Dunkard, Greene County, Pennsylvania. (59577.)

(3) 650 feet below the Pittsburg coal bed. Drilled in 1885, and only a few gallons
of oil were obtained; light greenish red. Clark’s farm, Washington County, Penn-
sylvania. (59523. )

(4) ‘‘Mountain Sand” of the Petroleum Measures (Lower Carboniferous). Dark
greenish red. Manifield well No. 1, Washington County, Pennsylvania. (59519. )

(5) 1,400 feet below the Pittsburg coal bed. Light greenish red. Huskill well,
Mount Morris, Greene County, Pennsylvania. (59534).

(6) From the first sandstone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Sand here
16 feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 337 feet; drilled, 1870; torpedoed;
yielded 225 barrels of oil on first day of pumping. Black; specific gravity 32° Baumé.
Well No. 1, farm of J. Blakely, Sugar Creek, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59781.)

(7) From the second sandstone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Sand here
38 feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 583 feet; drilled 1872; torpedoed;
yielded 2 barrels of oil on first day of pumping. Black; specific gravity 43° Baumé.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 44]

Well No.3, farm of Jennings & Ralston, Jackson, Venango County, Pennsylvania.
(59774.)

(8) From just above the third sandstone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango).
Sand here 22 feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 1,076 feet, drilled 1885;
torpedoed; yielded 18 barrels of oil on first day of pumping. Dark greenish; specific
gravity 49° Baumé. Well No.5, Diamond farm, Cranberry, Venango County, Penn-
sylvania. (59795. )

(9) From the third sandstone of the Petroleum Measures (Venango). Sand 18
feet in thickness; oil in sand; depth of well 957 feet; drilled 1885; not torpedoed;
yielded 35 barrels of oil on first day of pamping. Black; specific gravity 483° Baumé.
Well No. 1, Heckerthorne farm, Cranberry, Venango County, Pennsylvania. (59815. )

(10) From the fourth sandstone of the Petroleum Measures. Dark greenish red;
specific gravity 445° Baumé. Kangaroo well No. 1, East Brady, Clarion County,
Pennsylvania. (59489. )

— (11) From the third Bradford sand. Black. Nile Oil Company, Wert, Allegany
County, New York. (59477. )

The following five specimens from various localities continue the
section to the lowest point at which petroleum has been found:

(1) From the Middle Devonian formation. Black. Near Glasgow, Barren County,
Kentucky. (59544. )

(2) From the Corniferous limestone. Black; specific gravity 35.5° Baumé.
Crown well, Enniskillen, Province of Ontario, Canada. (59569. )

(3) From the Upper Hudson River shales (Lower Silurian). Dark greenish;
specific gravity 43.5° Baumé. Well No. 2, near Glasgow, Barren County, Kentucky.
(59599. )

(4) From the Hudson River group (Lower Silurian). Black; specific gravity
32° Baumé. Pioneer well, Francisville, Pulaski County, Indiana. (59575. )

(5) From the Trenton limestone. Black. Farm of Whitacre, Liberty, Wood
County, Ohio. (59601. )

AspHattumM; MINERAL PrtcH.—These are names given to what are
rather indefinite admixtures of various hydrocarbons, in part oxygen-
ated and which for the most part solid or at least highly viscous at ordi-
nary temperatures, pass by insensible gradations into pittasphalts or
mineral tar and these in turn into the petroleums. They are charac-
terized by a black or brownish-black color, pitchy luster, and bitumi-
nous odor. The solid forms melt ordinarily at a temperature of from
90 to 100 F., and burn readily with a bright flame, giving off dense
fumes of a tarry odor. The fluidal varieties become solid on exposure
to the atmosphere, owing to evaporation of the more volatile portions.

The nature of the material, its mode of occurrence, and indeed the
uses to which it can be put vary to such an extent with each individual
occurrence that a few only of what are the most noted or best known
can here be mentioned.

On the island of Trinidad is an immense superficial deposit having
an area of about 114 acres and a depth varying from 18 to 78 feet.
The surface is nearly level and of a brownish-black color. (See Speci-
mens Nos. 68063, 68065, 68066, U.S.N.M.)

The deposit has in numerous publications been compared to a lake
442 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

and stated to be fluidal and at a high temperature in the center.’ This
is quite erroneous and misleading.
The crude material has the following composition and _ physical
characteristics: ”
Specific gravity, 1.28; hardness at 70° F., 2.5 to 3 of Dana’s scale
color, chocolate brown; composition:

Bitumen:. 2... ss ese pee ee eee 39. 83
Barth y matter:2° 35 9. ee ea eee 33. 99
Vegetable matter: “22s eee ere 9. 3
Water... 8 22422525 35S ees = eer 16. 87

100. 00

In western Kentucky asphalt exudes from the ground in the form
of ‘‘tar springs,” and occurs also disseminated through sandstones anc
limestones of sub-Carboniferous age. (Specimen No. 63345, U.S.N.M.
F requently, as in the dolomite underlying Chicago, Illinois, the bitu
minous matter is so diffused throughout the rock as to give it on expo
sure a brownish-black appearance, and cause it to Ra an odo:
of petroleum appreciable for some distance. (Specimen No. 62789
U.S.N.M.) In the Dead Sea bituminous masses of considerable siz
have in times past risen like islands to the surface of the water anc
furnished thus the material used by the ancients in pitching the wall
of buildings and rendering vessels water-tight. The ancient name o
this body of water was Lake Asphaltites, and from it our word asphal
is derived. These illustrations are sufficient to indicate the numerou
conditions under which the substance occurs. The material is world
wide in its geographic distribution and equally cosmopolitan in it
geological range, being found in gneissic rocks of presumably Archeea
age in Sweden, and in rocks of all intermediate horizons down to lat
Tertiary.

Some 10 miles east of the city of Habana, Cuba, is a deposit o
asphalt described * as occupying an irregular branching fissure in :
soft clay rock, with eruptive rocks, diorites, and euphotides in the nea
vicinity. The asphalt, described as ‘‘ Coal” in the paper referred to
lies in parallel horizontal layers of from 1 to 4 inches in thicknes
across the vein, the lamine being somewhat deflected near the walls
as if pressed by the sides or walls. The deposit is regarded as havin;
originated as an open fissure terminating upward in a wedge-lik
form and into which was subsequently injected from below the carbe
naceous matter. The asphalt itself was described as of a jet-blac!

1See Mineral Resources of the United States, 1883-84, p. 937; also Dana’s Syster
of Mineralogy, 1892, p. 1018; and especially S. F. Peckham’s paper on the Pite
Lake of Trinidad, American Journal of Science, July, 1895, p. 33.

2 Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VII, 1889, p. 363.

3 London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science, X, 183%
p. 161.
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899.—Mernill. PLATE 26.

~wIANZINZ, \

——s e=~

RPENTS MOUTH.

Be LLE Vue
Estate.

PUTLCH LAKE x

AND
VICINITY.

PLAN OF PITCH LAKE, TRINIDAD.
After S. F. Peckham.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 443

color, resplendent luster, conchoidal fracture, and specific gravity
varying from 1.42 to 1.97. An analysis showed 63 per cent volatile
matter, 34.97 per cent carbon, and 2.03 per cent ash.

According to R. T. Hill,‘ asphaltum of unusual richness occurs
beneath the waters of the Cardenas Bay of Cuba and in several other
parts of the island in beds of late Cretaceous and early Eocene age.
The Cardenas deposits, four in number, are of interest in that all are
submerged beneath the waters of the bay. The material has been
mined for the past twenty-five years by mooring a lighter over the
shaft, which is from 80 to 125 feet in depth below the water surface.
The material is loosened by dropping a long, pointed iron bar from
the vessel, the detached blocks being loaded into a net by a naked
diver and then brought to the surface. The asphalt thus obtained
is stated to resemble cannel coal in appearance, though with a more
brilliant luster. Only from one to one and a half tons are mined in
this manner daily, the material being shipped to New York and
being used in the manufacture of varnishes. The price formerly
obtained varied from $80 to $125 a ton.

A large deposit of an inferior grade, and used mainly for roofing,
is situated near Diana Key, 15 miles from the city of Cardenas, and a
massive bed, some 12 feet in thickness, near Villa Clara. Material
from this last source has, during years past, been used for making the
illuminating gas used in the city.

Baron H. Eggers has described’ the two groups of asphalt deposits
near the Gulf of Maracaibo, South America (Specimen No. 51720.
U.S.N.M.), which are perhaps sufficiently distinctive to merit atten-
tion. One, the El Menito deposit, is in the form of a rounded hill com-
posed of reddish stony soil covered with scanty grass. Over its summit
are scattered a number of small truncated cones about 2 feet high,
with round, crater-like openings, from which the asphalt, or piteh,
flows ina Bln viscous stream down to the foot of the hill, where it
collects and forms pools or small lakes. The outflowing asphalt is
quite cold, and hardens in the course of a few days. The Mene Grande
deposit is quite similar, but much larger, and has been calculated to
yield some 2 tons a day. Other deposits occur in the region.

Sandstones and limestones are sometimes so impregnated with bitu-
minous matter that they may be used as sources of the material by
refining processes or for the direct manufacture of pavements by
simply crushing. Such are the so-called bituminous or asphaltic sand
rocks and limestones of ky (Specimen No. 63345, U.S.N.M.),
Texas (Specimen No. 63342, U.S.N.M.), Utah, Colorado, California,
Wyoming (Specimen No. 53l8t, U. v: N. M.), and other States, peo of

1Cuba and Porto Rico, , 1898, p. 83.
- *Scottish Geographical Siaeaaine, XIII, 1897, p. 209. An abstract of original
paper in the Deutsche Geographische Blitter, XIX, Pt. 4.
444 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Canada (Specimen No. 59927, U.S.N.M.) and Spain (Specimen No.
40011, U.S.N.M.).

According to G. H. Stone,’ the asphaltic sandrock of western Colo-
‘ado and eastern Utah consists of grains of sand which are in contact
with one another, the spaces between the grains being filled with
asphalt, the proportioned amount of which varies up to 15 per cent by
weight, or 27 per cent by volume. The thickest stratum of fully
charged rock in the region described was nearly 40 feet in thickness,
though usually the strata of high-grade material are not more than 4
to 10 feet thick and alternate with others which are quite poor or
barren, so that the amount of ‘‘ pay rock” is often grossly exaggerated.

Shales and marls may often be so highly charged with bituminous
matter as to be nearly or quite black, and even approach cannel coal in
composition, though much richer in ash. Those of Colorado and Utah,
according to Stone, contain but from 10 to 20 per cent of carbona-
ceous matter, though burning readily with a bright flame. They are
of Tertiary age. Asphaltic sands and sandrocks are of common occur-
rence in Kern, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Santa Cruz, Ventura,
and other counties in California, and in some cases are quite exten-
sively utilized.”

In Ventura County the material is reported as occurring in the form
of a fissure vein in siliceous clay, of Miocene age, the vein being from
7 to 15 inches thick on the surface, but widening rapidly in descent to
a thickness of 5 feet at a depth of 65 feet (Specimens Nos. 67675, 67676,
U.S.N.M.). This material is as taken from the vein far from pure
asphalt, but rather an asphaltic sand. The Las Conchas Mine in Santa
Barbara County consists of a body of sand soaked with maitha, embrac-
ing an area of 75 acres and estimated to be 25 feet or more in thickness.
At the Pacific Asphalt Company’s mine the asphalt occurs in irregular
masses and veinlike bunches in soft, sandy clay, and is said to be 50 to
60 per cent pure.

On the Sisquoe Grant, 8 miles north of Los Alamos are two very
large deposits, one some 10,560 feet long, 500 feet wide, and averag-
ing 300 feet in thickness, and the other 5,000 feet long, 800 feet wide,
and 100 feet thick. In Santa Cruz County there are enormous deposits
of bituminous rock lying in nearly horizontal strata in the foothills
facing the coast west and north of the city of Santa Cruz. The beds
have been extensively eroded so that the outcrops occur in irregular,
detached hillocks. At one of the open cut mines the materials lie as
follows:

Feet.
Light-colored shales): 2422.02 22 s_seeee etet oe 60
Massive bitumimous rock 2255.2 ees see e= eee Ser 30
Very soit sandstone’. . i 5:-<* 722es. eee eee 8
Massive bituminous rock. 222. 2 sas eee apa

1 American Journal of Science, X LIT, 1891, p. 148.
2 See Thirteenth Annual Report State Mineralogist of California, 1894.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 445

These underlaid by soft sands and shales. The analyses given below
are of interest as showing percentage of bituminous matter in samples
from various localities.

San Luis Obispo Bituminous Rock Company’ s mine.

Sand) s's1. So. & Fae eee eee mee ein 6. 83
Clay. ok 8 eee 3.36
Tame 2/22: 22 fs ee eee eee 2. 81
Asphaltum: 22.3... 5. eee eae: 87. 00

Waldorf Mine, Santa Barbara County.

BitwMens: 2.4. swd Ses oes eee ee eee 76. 2
MOIStURG: o2ioc.ck SoS oo eee eee ee eS
Mineral residue::2 4 otc eaee see eee 22.0

100. 0

Punta Gorda Mine, Ventura County.

BM eles: eee he ele en cid see CEOS
SNE S2o 3 Ae ee eS oe Ge ee eek: 51. 64
DE SE ee Ne a ar etal ree oP 4.76
Si Nate Gi limes soo oc2 se os Sie eros os 2.45
Carbonate ol limess = 42s. rete ts ee 11. 96
Carbonate ol macnesia== = 2-4 5--eeee ee a5 19)

99. 89

Uses.—The uses of the common type of material such as is known
simply as asphalt are quite varied. The walls of Babylon are stated
to have been cemented with it, and doubtless it was so used in other
ancient cities. It was also, as at present, used for making vessels
water-tight. At the present day the refined asphalts are used, accord-
ing to F. V. Greene,’ as a varnish or paint, as an insulating material,
for waterproofing, as a cement in ordinary construction, and as a
cement in roofing and paving compounds. For these purposes it is
first tempered with some form of oil, the kind and amount used
depending on the purposes to which it is to be applied. A mixture of
asphalt and sand forms the ordinary concrete for sidewalks and base-
ment floors. The most extensive use of asphaltic compounds is at
present for street pavements, the material for this purpose being mixed
with fine sand and sometimes powdered limestone. The asphaltic
sands, sandstones, and limestones are sometimes so evenly impregnated
with bituminous matter that they may be crushed and applied directly
to the roadbed. The uses to which are put the higher grades of
asphaltic compounds, such as are designated by special names, are
given further on.

Mansak.—The local name of manjak is applied to a variety of bitu-
men somewhat resembling uintaite, occurring on the island of Barbados,

‘Asphalt and its Uses, Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers,
XVII, 1889, p. 335.
446 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

in the West Indies. The material is described! as a very pure hydro-
‘arbon of a black color, high luster, and witha bright conchoidal fracture.
It is brittle, and so friable that it can be ground to powder between
the thumb and fingers. (Specimen No, 53539, U.S.N.M.) It occurs in
seams or veins, varying from one-fourth of an inch to 30 feet in thick-
ness, cutting the country rock, which is an argillite or shale, at all
angles with the horizon and with a general NNE strike. In places
the bituminous matter has saturated the entire rock in the neighbor-
hood of the veins, producing a shale from which as much as 37 gallons
a ton of petroleum has been obtained by destructive distillation. Thus
far the greatest development is along a vein 200 feet in length, 100
feet in depth, and from 8 to 9 feet in width. One vein, which has
been explored to a depth of 200 feet, is stated to have dwindled down
to a width of 6 feet, though 30 feet wide at the surface.

Uses. —Like gilsonite, the material is used for making varnishes,
insulating electric wires, etc., bringing the price of this mineral, from
$5 to $10 a ton, according to quality and freedom from impurities.

ELATERITE; MIngerAL CaoutcHouc.—This is the name given to a
soft and elastic variety of bitumen much resembling pure india rubber.
It is easily compressible in the fingers, to which it adheres slightly,
of a brownish color, and of a specific gravity varying from 0.905 to
1.00. It has been described from mines in Derbyshire and elsewhere
in England (Specimens Nos. 63848, 68001, U.S.N.M.), but so far as
the writer is aware is of no commercial value. Its composition, so far
as determined, is carbon 85.47 per cent, hydrogen 13.28 per cent.

W urRTZILLITE.—The name wurtzillite has been given by Prof. W. P.
Blake to a hydrocarbon very similar in appearance to the uintaite
(described on page 450), but differing in physical and chemical properties.
It is described as a fine black solid, amorphous in structure, brittle when
cold, breaking with a conchoidal fracture, but when warm tough and
elastic, its elasticity being best compared with that of mica. If bent
too quickly it snaps like glass. It cuts like horn, has a hardness be-
tween 2 and 3, a specific gravity of 1.03, gives a brown streak, and in
very thin flakes, shows a garnet-red color. It does not fuse or melt
in boiling water, but becomes softer and more elastic; in the flame of
a candle it melts and takes fire, burning with a bright luminous flame,
giving off gas and a strong bituminous odor. It is not soluble in alco-
hol, and but sparingly so in ether, in both of which respects it differs
from elaterite. In the United States it occurs near Scofield, Carbon
County, and in the Uinta Mountains of Wasatch County, Utah (Speci-
mens Nos. 53356, 67265, 67860, U.S.N.M.).

ALBERTITE.—This is a brilliant jet black bitumen compound break-
ing with a lustrous, conchoidal fracture, having a hardness of between

1W. Merivale, Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 790; also the
Mineral Industry, VI, 1897, p. 54.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 447

Land 2 of Dana’s scale, a specific gravity of 1.097, black streak, and
showing a brown color or very thin edge. In the flame of a lamp it
shows signs of incipient fusion, intumesces somewhat and emits jets
of gas, giving off a bituminous odor; when rubbed it becomes electric.
According to Dana it softens slightly in boiling water, is only a trace
soluble in alcohol, 4 per cent in ether, and some 3 per cent soluble in
turpentine. The following is the composition as given by Wetherill:
Carbon, 86.04 per cent; hydrogen, 8.96 per cent; oxygen, 1.977 per
cent; nitrogen, 2.93 per cent; ash, 0.10 per cent.

Dr. Antisell made the following comparative tests to show the rela-
tive richness of the material in volatile matter:

J

Se ee ——f

South |

|
F | Cannel : Lake | :
| Constituents. Tce American SSR | Albertite.
coal. asphalt. | asphalt.

ae SS | nase a
f sVoOlaule mealtbers-sssscecce tos ess =< | 50. 52 70.15 71. 67 59. 88
Racca a deren ee ce 8 | 47.69 29.85 | 28.04] 39.59
| LVF Rie EOS aR i Oper eee nena eee LeeOlea rae steno 0.29 | 0.53
Ota ee te eee ee eters | 100.00 100. 00 | 100. 00 | 100. 00
| | |

The mineral‘is described by C. H. Hitchcock’ as occuring in ** true
cutting veins” in shale of Lower Carboniferous age in Hillsborough
County, New Brunswick. The shales themselves contain a large
amount of carbonaceous matter and by distillation have been made to
yield 30 gallons to the ton of refined illuminating oil. They contain
immense numbers of fossil fish and are mostly inflammable. The veins
vary from a fraction of an inch to 12 feet in width with a general N.
65° east course, sometimes vertical and sometimes inclined north-
westward from 75° to 80°. They enlarge and contract very irregu-
larly, but in general increase in thickness as followed downward.
Hitchcock regards the veins as having been filled by the injection of
the material in a liquid state and being subsequently indurated.

Uses.—This vein seems to have been discovered about 1840 by Dr.
Abraham Gesner who, in 1850 took out a patent in the United States
for the manufacture of illuminating gas from this and other asphalts.”
A company was organized and for some years active mining opera-
tions were carried on, but have been discontinued since the discovery
of petroleum. (Specimens Nos. 59935, 66701, U.S.N.M.)

GRAHAMITE. —Grahamite is a hydrocarbon compound closely related
to albertite, but differing physically in having a duller luster and more
cokelike aspect. It has been described by Dr. Henry Wurtz as occur-

‘American Journal of Science, XX XIX, 1865, p. 267; see also Dawson’s Acadian
Geology, 3d ed., pp. 231-241.

* Review of reports on the Geological Relations, etc., of the coal of the Albert Coal
Mining Company, situated in Hillsborough, Albert County, New Brunswick, as written
and compiled by Charles T. Jackson, M. D., a Fellow of the Geological Society of
London, ete., New York, 1852.
448 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

ring in shrinkage fissures whose course is N. 76° to 80° E. in Carbon-
iferous shales and sandstones, on a branch of Hughes River, Ritchie
County, West Virginia. It is completely soluble in chloroform and
carbon disulphide, nearly so in turpentine, and partially so in naphtha
and benzine, but not at all in aleohol. Melts somewhat imperfectly,
beginning to smoke and soften like coking coal at a temperature of
about 400° F. (Specimen No. 59924, U.S.N.M.)

As occurring in the vein the material shows four distinct, though
somewhat irregular, divisional planes, having a general parallelism
with the walls. Next to the walls the structure of the mineral is
coarsely granular, with an irregularly cuboidal jointed cleavage, very
lustrous on the cleavage surfaces, that in immediate contact with the
walls usually adhering thereto very tenaciously, as if fused fast to the
eranular sandstone. (Specimen No. 59941,U.S.N.M. <A ‘“‘horse” or
fragment of sandstone from the vein, showing adhering grahamite. )

Next to these two outside layers, which are very irregular and from 2 to 3 inches or
more-in thickness, is found, on each side of the vein, a layer averaging from 15 to 16
inches in thickness, which is composed of a variety highly columnar in structure and
very lustrous in fracture, the columns oeing long and at this place at right angles to
the walls. Finally, in the center of the vein, varying in thickness, but averaging
about 18 inches, is a mass differing greatly in aspect from the rest, being more com-
pact and massive, much less lustrous in fracture, and with the columnar structure
much less developed, in places not at all. The fracture and luster of this portion of
the vein are clearly resinoid in character.

The general aspect of the mass, as well as all the results of a minute examination
of the accompanying phenomena, lead irresistibly to the conclusion that we have
here a fissure which has been filled by an exudation, in a pasty condition, of a resinoid
substance derived from or formed by some metamcrphosis of unknown fossil matter
contained in deep-seated strata intersected by the fissure or dike.

The density of a mass of the mineral was found to be 1.145. The horizontal extent
of visible outcrop actually measured by me was 530 fathoms, thinned out at east end
to 30 inches and at west end to 8 inches; but as these points were at least 70 to 80
fathoms vertically higher than the bottom of the ravine, the width (averaging about
50 inches) at the latter depth points to a rapid widening of the fissure in descent.*

J. P. Kimball has described? a deposit of similar material on the
west bank of the Capadero River in the Huasteca, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
The country rock is a fossiliferous Tertiary shale overlaid by con-
glomerate.

The grahamite occurs in a fissure some 34 inches in thickness
terminating in an ‘‘overflow” some 64 feet in maximum thickness,
thinning away at the edges, but the full extent of which was not
determined. The evidence showed that the fissure had been filled
by material oozing up from below and spreading out upon the
surface prior to the deposition of the overlying gravel. The strike

1 Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, X VIII,
1869, pp. 125-128.
» American Journal of Science, XII, 1876, p. 277.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 449

of the fissure was nearly north and south, and at the time of making
the report noted (1876) it had been developed to a distance of some
300 feet. The material is described as more uniformly lustrous than
that from Ritchie County, and of a greater coherence, though none the
less distinctly cleaved and jointed. An analysis of a sample from the
Cristo mine, as given, yielded results as follows:

Specific gravity ...2. 2c. -beseeososesp os 1. 156
Volatile matter:
Illuminating gas -...- .2-<teer seems 63. 32
Sulphur. 2. 2222 Sse ee eee 0. 46
Water . Si .- ose nea eee eee ee 0. 36
64. 14
Coke:
Fisedt casbonii065cndesenoh cea tee 31.63
Sul pWUn ee es ces Sens oases ecee 0. 37
NE eens aie ghee Siete aero ie iene oie 5. 86
37. 86
100. 00

CARBONITE OR NATURAL COKE is the name given toa peculiar hydro-
carbon compound occurring in the form of beds like bituminous coal,
in Chesterfield County, Virginia, and having a dull black and, for the
most part, lusterless aspect, somewhat resembling coke. (Specimens
Nos. 63499, 63500, U.S.N.M.)

An analysis by Wurtz‘ yielded the following:

Per cent.
CORRE eat ee a Me tet eh Led od 84.57
Volatile combustible matter...........-.-- 15. 43

Other analyses by Dr. T. M. Drown’ on two portions, the one dull
and lusterless and the other lustrous, yielded:

, . Dull eaten
Constituents. portion. | portion.
SPCCiiCPTAVALVs acecte ss cme +e ecuid aces see oa semeee user 1.375 | 1.350
TEORS TOC Okemo setae: acon otek Sie ce See ee | 2.00 0. 69
Volatile meatier: cae cs acesiec:<e 6.25.2 state eneeaeeee 15. 47 11.10
PAS Cite yatexes orate cmin iainrarla Sows we lnlintene wicin eae oie CREME REE 3.20 | 6. 68
PUERCO) CALDOMS cciiscs ccd oerd od deseo cscs cece emcee serene 79. 33 81.53
100.00 | 100.00
Sulphur Aico 2224.20 2ck bec secs ste soceneeecmeieeereanee 4,08 ; 1.60
|
Occurrence.—The material occurs interbedded with shales much like

ordinary bituminous coal, there being, according to Raymond, three
distinct beds varying from 1 foot 9 inches to 9 feet in thickness, inter-

' Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, III, 1875, p. 456.
*Idem, XI, 1883, p. 448.

NAT MUS 99——29
450 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

stratified with the shales, the lowermost bed of 9 feet thickness being
underlaid by fire clay. The origin of the material is in doubt, the
earlier writers regarding it as a bituminous coal coked by the heat of
intrusive rocks. Later writers throw doubt upon this by stating that
there are in the vicinity no intrusives of such size as to warrant any
such assumption.

Uses.—The material is said to burn without smoke or soot, like
anthracite, and to have been used for domestic purposes.

UintarrEe; GitsontTE. This is a black, brilliant, and lustrous vari-
ety of bitumen, giving a dark-brown streak, breaking with a beautiful
conchoidal fracture, and having a hardness of 2 to 2.5 and a specific
gravity of 1.065 to 1.07. It fuses readily in the flame of a candle, is
plastic, but not sticky while warm, and unless highly heated will not
adhere to cold paper. Its deportment is stated to be much like that
of sealing wax or shellac. Like albertite and grahamite it dissolves
in turpentine and is not soluble in alcohol. It isa good nonconductor
of electricity, but like albertite becomes electric by friction. Its com-
position as given is: Carbon, 80.88 per cent; hydrogen, 9.76 per cent;
nitrogen, 3.30 per cent; oxygen, 6.05 per cent, and ash, 0.01 per cent.
Specimens Nos. 62379, 53355, U.S.N.M., are characteristic.

Occurrence.—According to George H. Eldridge’ the gilsonite de-
posits of Utah occur filling a series of essentially vertical fissures in
Tertiary sandstones lying within the Uncompahgre Indian Reserva-
tion, or in its immediate vicinity. The fissures have smooth, regular
walls and vary in width the sixteenth of an inch to 18 feet, and in
length from a few hundred yards to 8 or 10 miles.

The larger veins are somewhat scattered, one lying about 33 miles
east of Fort Duchesne, a second in the region of the Upper Evacua-
tion Creek, and the three others of most importance in the vicinity
of the White River and the Colorado-Utah line. Besides these there
is a 14-inch vein crossing the western boundary of the reservation
near the fortieth parallel; another about equal size about 6 miles south-
east of the junction of the Green and White rivers; a third in the
gulch 4 or 5 miles north of Ouray Agency, west of the Duchesne River,
and a number from one-sixteenth of an inch to a foot in thickness in
an area about 10 miles wide, extending from Willow Creek eastward for
25 miles along both sides of the Green and White rivers. The veins
are sometimes slightly faulted, and often pinch out to mere feather
edges. The filling material is quite structureless excepting where, as
near the surface, it has been exposed to the atmospheric influences,
where it shows a fine pencillate or columnar structure at right angles
to the walls. The walls of the veins themselves are impregnated with
the gilsonite for a distance of several inches, but all indications point

1Seventeenth Annual Report U.S. Geological Survey, 1895-96, Pt. I, p. 915.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 451

to their having been filled, not by lateral impregnation, but by injec-
tion from below.

The mining of gilsonite is conducted in the ordinary manner by
means of shafts and tunnels. The work is, however, attended with
considerable difficulty and some danger, owing to the fine dust arising
from it. This penetrates the skin and lungs and is a source of great
annoyance, and moreover becomes highly explosive when mixed with
atmospheric air.

Uses.—The principal use of gilsonite thus far has been in the manu-
facture of varnishes for ironwork and baking japans. It is not well
adapted for coach varnishes. It has been also used for mixing with
asphaltic limestone for paving material. Other possible uses suggested
by Mr. E. W. Parker, in the Mineral Resources of the United States
for 18938, are as below: For preventing electrolytic action on iron
plates of ship bottoms; for coating barbed-wire fencing, etc.; for
coating sea walls of brick or masonry; for covering paving brick;
for acid-proof lining for chemical tanks; for roofing pitch; for insu-
lating electric wires; for smokestack paint; for lubricants for heavy
machinery; for preserving iron pipes from corrosion and acids; for
coating poles, posts, and ties; for toredo-proof pile coating; for coy-
ering wood-block paving; as a substitute for rubber in the manufac-
ture of cotton garden hose; as a binder pitch for culm in making
brickette and eggette coal.

3. OzoKERITE; MinerAL Wax; NATIVE PARAFFIN.

This is a wax-like hydrocarbon, usually with a foliated structure,
soft and easily indented with the thumb nail; of a yellow brown or
sometimes greenish color, translucent when pure, with a greasy feel-
ing, and fusing at 56° to 63°; specific gravity, 0.955. It is essentially
a natural paraffin. The name is derived from two Greek words, sig-
nifying to smell, and wax. Below is given the composition of (I) sam-
ples from Utah and (II) from Boryslaw, in Galicia.

| Constituents. Te a (3

| CALPOM 242% ose hae esta waleclesa steelers sees cone deme cinemas 85. 47 85. 78

| ELV GrOgen 22 25 5oe saeco earns ced seers oso ee ae ae ee se 14,57 14. 29 |
|

Total oo eis foe ies ome eee e ceisios = Stace no Benes oe 100.04 | 100.07 |

The substance is completely soluble in boiling ether, carbon disul-
phides, or benzine, and partially so in alcohol.

The following, from a paper by Boverton Redwood,! will serve to
show the varying characters of the material from the various reported
sources.

‘Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, XI, 1892, p. 114.
452 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Colorado.—Dull black, hard, and pulverizable; melting point, 76° C.
Yields on distillation:

Percentage
(by difference).
Parafin and oll 22.22 eee 90. 00
LOSs in: Gas. ....-.\5- 12.2 heee eee ee ee 2. 12
oss -in: water 25 h2 2c eee eee 2. 60
Residue ....2-3.. 52 eee 5. 28
100. 00

It commences to distill at 360° C., when nearly 3 per cent of oil
setting at 830° C. comes over. At a much higher temperature it dis-
tills steadily and furnishes a product suitable for use as a source of

paraffin.
Baku.—Specific gravity, 0.903; melting point, 76° C.:
Paraffin) mass Sse 2 42 se ee 81. 80
Gas): etess eset she eee ee 15. 80
Coke seein Sout sce ee eee 4. 40
100. 00
Persia.—Dark green, rather hard; specific gravity, 0.925:
ighitroilsOs74.0 toxO aS Osea eee 2. 35
Light oil, 0. 800itio 0: 82022125 ee ae 3. 50
OUR ONS80= os ae ae Sera i ee es eee 16. 63
iParaiiin 22 c00 bf Sie oe et coe ee 53.55
Cokes ta 22) ahi n 6 tle ee Se ee eee 16. 73
LOSS ies daw 9s due ee ee eee 7. 24
100. 00

England (Urpeth, near Neweastle).—Soft and sticky, brownish.
Specific gravity, 0.890; melting point, 60° to 70° C.:

Light oil, boiling point 80° to 120° C ...--- 3. 00
Light oil, boiling point 150° to 200° C ..--- 7.50
Lubricating oil, boiling point 200° to 250° C_ 7.80
Parathine 22 55.22 080. 458086 a eee 64. 95
Cokeis2330 5. oot Sd be eee 11.15
Gas! loss)-2 bce th coo eee ee ee 5. 60

100. 00

Boryslaw.—Specific gravity, 0.930—I, dark yellow; II, dark
brownish black:

Constituents. il 3H

————. — = — —a —- | |

Benzine, 0.710 't6:0.750 S02 ae ee ee eee 4,32 3.900 |
Kerosene, 0:780' to: 0:8205 5 2 an ee eee eel 25. 65 27. 83
Lubricating oil: 0:896..59. sss. Gc5.0 chee eee eee eee 7.64 6.95
Parattin: ete: 5 i22t% ck aseeeet act oe oo ea eee 56. 54 52.27
CONGR teess tess biel ee Bee ee ee eee 2. 85 4.63
WWOSS SE Sees oc Sent dee oO eas eee eee eee 3. 00 4.82
100. 00 100. 00

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 453

Olive-green, rather hard; specific gravity, 0.9236; melting point,
60.5° C.:

Light oil, boiling point up to 150° C....--- 6. 25
Heavy oil, with paraffin, 150° to 300° C ... 35.10
Parafin, etc., over 3000'Oo 22-22 . ee. 49. 73
Residue in retort, and loss .----.---------- 8. 92

100. 00

Occurrences. —Ozokerite occurs in the United States in Emery and
Uinta counties, Utah, where, in the form of small veins in Tertiary
rocks, it extends over a wide area (Specimens Nos. 59984, 62805, and
63203, U.S.N.M.). It is also found in Galicia, Austria, in Miocene
deposits (Specimens Nos. 66077, 66079, 66080, 66083, 66084, 66086, and
66860, U.S.N.M.); in Roumania, Hungary, Russia, and other Asiatic
and European localities. Asa rule, the deposits are in beds of Ter-
tiary or Cretaceous age. The Galician deposits are the most noted
of the above. According to Redwood it is difficult to say whether
ozokerite is peculiar to any particular geological formation. Regard-
ing it as a derivative of petroleum with a high melting point, Rateau
points out that it would not be reasonable to expect that it would be
confined to any one formation, and in fact it is found in many, though
chiefly in the Tertiary and Cretaceous. The Boryslaw, Dwiniacz,
and Starunia deposits are in Miocene, but ozokerite has been met with
in the shales of Teschen, as well as in Neocomian and other formations
elsewhere. The Kouban deposits are on the borders of the Lower
Tertiary and Upper Cretaceous. In Teheleken it is found accompany-
ing petroleum in pockets in beds of sand above the clay shales and
muschelkalk of the Aralo-Carpathian formation. In southern Utah
and Arizona it occurs in Tertiary rock, probably Miocene.

The soil of the valley in which Boryslaw lies is a bed of diluvial
deposit some meters in thickness. In sinking a shaft, first yellow clay,
then rounded flints and gravel, and then plastic clay are met with.
Below this sandstone and blue shale, much disturbed, alternate, and it
is in these beds, which have a thickness of some 200 meters, that the
ozokerite is found. The ozokerite-bearing formation lies on a basis
of petroliferous menilite shale, the strata of which, as they approach
the surface, are disposed almost vertically, but inclined toward the
south. The strata are composed of layers of coarse-grained sandstone,
green marl, fine-grained sandstone with veins of calcite, dark shale
alternating with gray sandy shale, imperceptibly merging into the
main beds of the nonpetroliferous sandstone and shale. Below these
are the Carpathian sandstones of the lower Eocene (nummulitic sand-
stone) and upper Cretaceous formations.

The geological conditions prevailing at Dwiniacz and Starunia are
similar to those at Boryslaw, but the ozokerite is more largely mixed
with petroleum. The soil is gray and red diluvial clay, below which
454 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

is a bed of gravel, lying on the Miocene formation, in which the
ozokerite and petroleum occur in association with native sulphur, iron
pyrites, and zine blende. Still lower a highly porous calcareous rock —
is met with, containing cavities filled with petroleum 4nd sulphureted
water, and below this again is a marl with gypsum and the salt-clay
formation destitute of petroleum.

The ozokerite occurs in the form of veins of a thickness ranging
from a few millimeters to some feet, and is accompanied with more or
less petroleum and gaseous hydrocarbons. It fills the many fissures
with which the disturbed shales and Miocene sandstone abound, and
frequently forms thus a kind of network. The Boryslaw deposit
extends over a pear-shaped area, the axis of which lies E. 30° S. The
upper layers of the richest portion of the deposit occupy an area of
about 21 hectares, with a length of 1,000 meters and a maximum
breadth of 350 meters, but outside this there is an outer zone of less
productive territory which increases the total superficies to about
60 hectares, with dimensions of 1,500 meters by 560 meters. The
deposit narrows considerably as the depth increases, and at a distance
of 100 meters from the surface of the ground has a breadth of only
200 meters.

Uses.—The ozokerite, after being freed so far as possible from im-
purities, is melted and cast into loaves or blocks of the form of a trun-
cated cone, and weighing about 50 to 60 kilos. There are two or three
recognized commercial qualities of the melted and cast ozokerite. The
first quality is transparent in thin sheets and its color ranges from
yellow to greenish brown. Adulteration by means of crude petroleum,
heavy oils, the residues from refineries, asphaltum, and even earthy
matter, are not unknown, and occasionally by a process of double casting
the exterior of the block is made to differ in quality from the interior.

The refined material is known as ceresin (Specimen No. 63204,
U.S.N.M.). It is used for candles, an adulterant or a complete sub-
stitute for beeswax, in the manufacture of ointments and pomades.
A residual product from the purifying process, of a hard waxy nature,
is combined with india rubber and used as an insulating material for
electrical cables. In this form it is known as okanite. A ball black-
ing, used on the heels of shoes, is also manufactured from it. (See
Specimens Nos. 63204, 62235, 62236, 66076, U.S.N.M.)

The names scheererite, hatchettite, fichtelite, and kdnlite are applied
to simple hydrocarbons closely allied to ozokerite found in beds of
peat and coal, but, so far as the writer is aware, never in such abun-
dance as to be of commercial value.

The name torbanite or kerosene shale has been given to a dense coal-
black substance appearing and breaking much like cannel coal, and
which occurs in irregular, isolated, circumscribed, and lenticular depos-
its near the base of the carboniferous beds of New South Wales, Aus-
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 455

tralia, and near Bathgate in Linlithgowshire, Scotland. The better
varieties contain from 70 to 80 per cent of volatile hydrocarbon, 6 to
8 per cent of fixed carbon, 7 to 20 per cent of ash, with a little sul-
phur and water. The material is used mainly for gas and oil making
by distillation, the best qualities yielding from 150 to 160 gallons of
erude oil to the ton and about 20,000 feet of gas of 48-candle intensity."
(Specimen No. 12786, U.S.N.M.)

4. RESINS.

SuccrnitB; AMBER. The mineral commonly known as amber is a
fossil resin consisting of some 78.9+ parts of carbon, 10.53 parts of
oxygen, and 10.53 parts of hydrogen, together with usually from two
to four tenths of a per cent of sulphur. It is not a simple resin, but
a compound of four or more hydrocarbons. According to Berzelius,
as quoted by Dana, it ‘‘consists mainly (85 to 90 per cent) of a resin
which resists all solvents, along with two other resins soluble in alcohol
and ether, an oil, and 24 to 6 per cent of succinic acid.

The mineral as found is of a yellow, brownish, or reddish color,
frequently clouded, translucent or even transparent, tasteless, becomes
negatively electrified by friction, has a hardness of 2 to 2.5, a specific
gravity when free from inclosures of 1.096, a conchoidal fracture,
and melts at 250° to 500° F. without previous swelling, but boils
quietly, giving off dense white fumes with an aromatic odor and very
irritating effect on the respiratory organs.

As above noted, amber is a fossil resin or pitch, an exudation prod-
uct principally of the Pinus succinifer, a now extinct variety of pine
which lived during the Tertiary period.

Occurrence.—Amber or closely related compounds has been found
in varying amounts at numerous widely separated localities, but
always under conditions closely resembling one another. The better
known localities are the Prussian coast of the Baltic; on the coast of
Norfolk, Essex, and Suffolk, England; the coasts of Sweden, Den-
mark, and the Russian Baltic provinces; in Galicia, Westphalia, Poland,
Moravia, Norway, Switzerland, France, Upper Burma, Sicily (Speci-
men No. 61140, U.S.N.M.), Mexico, the United States at Martha’s
Vineyard and near Trenton and Camden, New Jersey.

The substance occurs in irregular masses, usually of small size. One
of the largest masses on record weighed 18 pounds. This is now in
the Berlin Museum. A mass found in the marl pits near Harrison-
burg, New Jersey, weighed 64 ounces. This last is presumably not
true amber, since it contained no succinic acid, which is now regarded
as the essential constituent.

The amber of commerce comes now, as for the past two thousand

1 Minerals of New South Wales, by A. Liversidge, p. 145.
456 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

years, mainly from the Baltic, where it occurs in a strata of lignite-
bearing sands of Lower Oligocene age. According to Berendt* these
are two amber-bearing strata, the one carrying the amber in nests and
both underlaid and overlaid by clayey seams, and the second and lower
a glauconitic sand commonly known as the blue earth. The material
is mined by open cuts where the strata come to the surface; by means
of shafts and tunnels, as in coal mining; and by dredging or diving, in
the latter case the material having been derived originally from the
amber-bearing strata and redeposited on the present sea bottom.”

The pieces obtained vary from the size of a pea to that of the hand.
The annual product at present amounts to some 300,000 pounds, valued
at about $1,000,000. The price of the material varies greatly with the
size and purity of the pieces. Pieces of one-fourth pound weight bring
about $15 a pound, while the small granules will not bring one-
twentieth that amount. The value of the material is often lessened by
the presence of flaws and impurities, or inclosures, such as insects and
twigs of plants. (Specimens Nos. 53056, 61140, 66812, 67748, U.S.N.M.)

Uses. —Amber is used mainly in jewelry, in small ornamentations,
and smokers’ goods, the smaller pieces being used in making varnish.
The clear pieces and chippings have of late been compressed by a
newly discovered process into tablets some 6 by 3 by 1 inches in size,
which can be utilized in the manufacture of articles for smokers’ use.

Retinire.—The name retinite is used by Dana to include a consid-
erable series of fossil resins allied to amber, differing mainly in con-
taining no succinic acid. They occur in beds of brown coal of
Tertiary and Cretaceous age, much as does the amber proper. The
principal varieties that have thus far eevcn of any economic impor-
tance are noted below:

CHEMAWINITE.—This is the name given by Préfessor Harrington*
to an amber-like resin found associated with woody débris on the south
east shore of Cedar Lake in Canada (Specimen No. 62602, U.S.N.M.).
The material occurs in granular form and in small sizes only, such as
are quite unsuited for manufacturing purposes. The true gum-bearing
stratum, if such exists, has not yet been discovered, the material thus
far found being ached up by waves on the beach. According to
O. J. Klotz the beach matter resembles the refuse of a sawmill, no
stones and very little sand being associated with the débris, which is
everywhere underlaid by clay. The principal beach was estimated to
contain some 700 tons of granular material.

A somewhat similar resin is found in the lignite and soft greenish

1Se omen der Ey aie dkonomischen Gesellschaft, VII, 1866.

2 According to the Engineering and Mining Journal of May 20, 1893, the dredging
process on the Baltic coast has been discontinued as no longer profitable.

’American Journal of Science, XLII, 1891, p. 332.

4American Jeweler, No. 2, XII, 1892.

=

ae

JP
Pi tag

/-

=a 4

a woe

=

7 er _

‘VOINSY ‘NOIDSY YSAIY ODNOD WOXS 1WdOO WNS AO AINGON

e

—M

9

Report of U. S. National Museum, 189

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 457

sandstone near Kuji, Japan.’ Itis reported as being of inferior quality,
opaque, cloudy, and much fissured. It is, however, mined and shipped
to Tokio, where it is presumably worked up into small ornaments.

The so-called Burmese amber, or Burmite from the Hukong Valley,
is reported as occurring in a soft blue clay, probably of Lower Miocene
age, and in lumps not exceeding the size of a man’s hand.

Gum Coprat.—The name copal or gum copal is made to cover, com-
mercially, a somewhat variable series of resins more or less fossilized
and found for the most part buried in the sands in tropical and sub-
tropical regions. They are in general amber-like or resin-like in
appearance, of a hardness inferior to that of true amber, of a light yellow
to brown color, brilliant glass-like luster, transparent to translucent,
and have a conchoidal fracture. When cold they are brittle and can
be readily crushed to powder, but possess a slight amount of elasticity.
When rubbed on cloth they become electric and emit a peculiar resin-
ous odor. The specific gravity varies from 1 to 1.10. When heated
the material softens, swells up, and bubbles, finally melting, remain-
ing liquid until carbonized. It burns with a yellow smoky flame; is
partially soluble in alcohol, wholly so in ether, and also in turpentine
on prolonged digestion. The so-called Kauri gum is a light amber-
colored variety from the Dammara Australis, a living coniferous tree
of New Zealand (Specimens Nos. 62468, 62469, U.S.N.M.). The prin-
cipal source is the northern portion of the Auckland provincial district
which has exported since 1863 (and up to 1897) some 134,630 tons of
gum valued at £5,394,687, the product for 1890 being 7,438 tons
valued at £378,563.

The gum-digging industry is one that gives employment to both
Europeans and natives.” The gum is found but a short distance below
the surface and is dug with the aid of a few implements, the entire
outfit often consisting of a steel prod, a spade, and knife and haver-
sack. With the copal is often found the more amber-like resin ambrite,
which has a slightly greater hardness (2), a specific gravity of 1.0384, a
yellowish gray to reddish color and which yields on analysis carbon,
76.88; hydrogen, 10.54 per cent, and oxygen, 12.77 per cent. It
becomes strongly electric by friction and is insoluble in alcohol, ether,
chloroform, benzine, or turpentine and burns with yellow, smoking
flame. Quite similar to the kauri gum is the copal of the African
coasts. According to Dr. F. Welwitsch*® gum of the west coast and
probably all the gum resin exported under this name from tropical
Africa is to be regarded as a ‘‘fossil resin produced by trees which,

'Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, V, 1876, p. 265.

* Report of the Mining Industry of New Zealand for 1888. In the report for 1887
it is stated that ‘‘according to the last census’’ the number of persons employed in
the occupation of gum digging was 1,283.

’Journal of the Linnaean Society of London, Botany, IX, 1866, p. 287.
458 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

in periods long since past, adorned the forests of that continent, but
which are at present either totally extinct or exist only in a dwarfed
posterity.” The gum, which is called by the Bunda negroes Ocate
Cocoto, or Mucocoto, is found in the hilly or mountainous districts all
along the coast of Angola, including the districts of Congo and Ben-
euella, and is brought Sy the natives to the different market places on
the coast of Angola, including the districts of Congo and Benguella.
The larger quantities of the resin are mostly found in the sandy soil
and it is apparently limited in its geographical distribution with that of
the tree Adansonia digitata, the lands in the Government of Benguella
extending along the mountain terrace of Amboin, Selles, and Muco-
bale, south of the Cuanza River being most productive, having yielded
between 1850 and 1860 some 1,600,000 pounds of gum a year.

It is a general and widely spread opinion [writes Welwitsch] that the gum copal
in Angola is gathered from trees; but this, according to my own observation, is obvi-
ously erroneous; for the gum copal is either dug out of the loose strata of sand,
marl, or clay, or else it is found in isolated pieces washed out and brought to the
surface of the soil by heavy rainfalls, earth-falls, or gales; and such pieces, where
found, induce the negroes to dig for larger quantities in the adjacent spots. This
digging after larger quantities is, as may be supposed, often very successful; but
sometimes it is less satisfactory, or totally without result, just in the same manner as
with people digging for gold. At times numerous larger and smaller pieces of copal
are found close to the surface of the sand, or within the depth of a few feet; while
in other places, after digging to the depth of 5 to 8 or even 10 or more feet, only
single pieces, or sometimes none at all, are brought to light. As soon as a negro has
discovered in any spot one or more pieces of copal, he hastens to his relations and
to his commercial friends, telling them of his fortunate treasure-trove, showing what
he has found, and concludes with them a kind of treaty of partnership whereby he
becomes entitled to the larger share in the probable gains. The members of this
partnership then provide themselves with digging implements, including large sacks,
mostly made of the bark of the Adansonia or Raphia leaves, and they then proceed
to the indicated spot to commence researches. As is natural, such a spot and its
neighborhood are not left until the diggers have convinced themselves that they have
completely exhausted the district, or that no more gum copal is to be found beyond
the first indicating pieces. In the latter case it is supposed that the first pieces met
with were washed down from afar, and further researches are then made accord-
ingly.

If, after prolonged researches in the same district, no more gum copal is found, the
diggers leave that place; the secured resin is cleaned by washing and packed in
sacks, to be ready for sale in the markets on the coast. Different varieties of unequal
value being often obtained on the same spot, the resin, when brought to market, has
to be sorted before being sold. It is classified mostly according to its color; and the
price is determined by weight. The deep-colored quality is generally worth double
the price of the lighter sort. The shape in which the gum is found is quite variable;
it often has the form of an egg, a ball, or a drop, at other times it looks like a flat,
pressed cake, and it is also met with in sharp-canted pieces. The pieces vary as
much in size as in shape; they are rarely larger than a hen’s egg, and there are
many much smaller, others (which, however, seldom occur) are as big as a man’s
fist, or even a child’s head, weighing 3 to 4 pounds and more. All the pieces of
different shape and size have one common characteristic, namely, that on their sur-
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 459

face they are covered with a thinner or thicker close-sticking whitish, nearly chalky
crust, which exhibits on many pieces veins or network, while in most instances it
covers the surface like an earthy powdery coat. The surface of fresh-broken pieces
appears conchoidal, with finely radiating lines in each conc hoidal impression. The
luster is glossy, the mass is hard and transparent to a certain depth, and where
scratched mas a knife or needle it leaves a white powdered stroke. It can easily
be scraped with a knife into powder which, if sprinkled over red-hot coals, changes
instantaneously into thick vapors, at first with a slight yellow color, with a strong
aromatic smell, somewhat similar to that of incense. Large pieces brought into con-
tact with a light soon burn up, developing at the same time the above- mentioned
yapors. When chewed it crackles between the teeth without leaving a noticeable
taste.

The fact that there is often seen, even on the canted broken sides of many pieces,
the same hard, whitish, earthy crust which covers the other unbroken surface of the
same piece, tends to prove that after their falling off the mother tree they were
forcibly transported from their original spot by floods or earth falls, by which they
were broken before they came into the marl or sandy plains in which they are now
found. At times the crust just alluded to is very hard, of considerable thickness,
and with a glossy polish, which leads to the supposition that pieces in which it is
found have been embedded for a long time in the ground, or perhaps in water basins.
While an earthy crust of greater or less thickness is noticed on all pieces of gum
copal before it is washed or rubbed off, the color in different pieces varies very much;
some samples are yellowish white, some of honey or gold color, and others are dis-
tinguished by an intense reddish orange color. The general appearance of the pure
pieces of this resin, especially in the gold-colored kind, has delusive resemblance to
amber, with which, though much softer, it has the common properties of igniting
and of becoming electrical by friction. The interior of the Angola copal pieces,
when not mixed with earthy substances, or with remains of bark, is even glossy and
transparent; but I have never observed insects in any of the numerous samples
which, partly in Angola and partly at Lisbon, came under my notice, while in the
copal sent to Lisbon from the province of Mozambique, on the east coast of Tropical
Africa, various hymenopterous insects are to be met with. The different colors of
the copal of Angola just described are connected more or less with its availability
for varnishes, ete. Thus the copal dealers distinguish three sorts, namely, (1) red
copal gum (gomma copal vermellia); (2) yellow (a. c. amarella); (3) whitish
(G. c. bianca). The red and whitish sorts furnish the best and finest varnish, and
therefore are most in request and the dearest, while the whitish quality is sold at
the lowest price."

According to Burton’ the present limit of distribution of the gum-
yielding trees on the east coast is less extensive than that of the extinct
forests which have yielded the true or ‘‘ripe” copal, or *‘sandarusi,”
as it is locally called. Every part of the coast from Ras Gomani, in
south latitude 3, to Ras Delgado, in 10° 41’, with a mean depth of 30
miles inland, may be called the copal coast. The material is found in
red, sandy soil, but is not evenly distributed, occurring rather in
pereies, as though produced by isolated trees. Dr. Kirk considers

egeeel of the Linnean Society of London, Botany, IX, 1866, pp. 291 293.

2Lake Region of Central Africa, II, p. 403. See also report by Dr. M. C. Cooke
on the gums, resins, ete., in the India Museum, or produced in India. London,
India Museum, 1874.

460 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

this gum as a product of trees of the same species as those at present
producing the raw gum called by the natives and Arabs sandarusiza
miti or chakazi; that is, the Zrachylobium mozambicense Peters. The
gum when dug from the soil has superficially a peculiar pebbled ap-
pearance, best described as ** goose skin” (Specimens Nos. 62472, 62473,
U.S.N.M.), and which Burton considered as due to the impress of the
sandy grains in which it had been buried, but which Dr. Kirk regards
as due to the structure of the cellular tissues of the tree. The copal
when dug up has, according to this authority, exteriorly no trace of
the loose skin structure.

As is the case with the New Zealand and West African gums, the
methods of digging are very crude, careless, and desultory. The
diggings are mostly beyond the jurisdiction of Zanzibar, but as this is
the principal port, most of the material is known commercially as
Zanzibar copal.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

M. GC. Coox. Report on Gums, Resins, Oleo-Resins, and Resinous Products in the
India Museum, or produced in India.
London, India Museum, 1874, pp. 98-103.
S. F. Peckuam. Report on the Production, Technology, and Uses of Petroleum and
its Products.
Report of the Tenth Census of the United States, X, 1880.
This important report contains a very complete bibliography on the subject up
to date of publication.
G. W. Grirrixn The Kauri Gum of New Zealand.
U.S. Consular Reports, II, 1881, p. 241.
R. W. Raymonp. The Natural Coke of Chesterfield County, Virginia.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XI, 1882, p. 446.
Epwarp Orton. A Source of the Bituminous Matter in the Devonian and Sub-Car-
boniferous Black Shales of Ohio.
American Journal of Science, X XIV, 1882, p. 171.
Orazio Stuvestr. On the Occurrence of Crystallized Paraffin in the Hollow Spaces
of a Basaltic Lava from Paterno, near Mount Etna.
Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, I, 1882, p. 180.
Winutam Morrison. The Mineral Albertite and the Strathpeffer Shales.
Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, V, 1883-1888, p. 34.
. A New Mineral Tar in Old Red Sandstone: Ross-shire.
Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, V, 1883-1888, p. 500.
S. F. Pecknam. The Origin of Bitumens.
American Journal of Science, X X VIII, 1884, p. 105.
Epwarp Orron. The Trenton Limestone as a Source of Petroleum and Natural
Gas in Ohio and Indiana.
Eighth Annual Report U. 8. Geological Survey, Pt. 2, 1886-87, pp. 483-662.
J. L. Kiemscamipr Asphalt Deposits in the Formation of Coal.
Berg- und Hiittenmiinnische Zeitung, XLVI, 1887, p. 78.
Joseph M. Locks. Gilsonite or Uintahite. A New Variety of Asphaltum from
the Uintah Mountains, Utah.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, XVI, 1887, p. 162.
A. Rarrav. Note sur l’Ozokérite, ses Gisements, son Exploitation 4 Boryslaw et son
Traitement Industriel.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 461

A. Rarrav. Annales des Mines, XI, Pt. I, 1887, p. 147. See also Engineering and
Mining Journal, XLV, 1888, p. 415.
Verarbeitung des galizischen Erdwachses.
Berg- und Hiittenmiinnische Zeitung, XLVII, 1888, p. 435.
A. Liversipcre Torbanite.—Cannel Coal or Kerosene Shale.
Minerals of New South Wales, 1888, p. 145.
Max von Isser. Die Bitumenschatze von Seefeld.
Berg- und Hiittenminnisches Jahrbuch, XXXVI, 1888, Btls Je
L. Bagu. Note Sur L’Ozokerite de Boryslaw et les petroles de sloboda (Galicie) .
Annales des Mines, XIV, 1888, p. 162. See also Transactions of the North
of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers, XXXVIII, 1889,
p. 15.
RaveH Ropinson. Kauri Gum Industry.
Engineering and Mining Journal, XLVI, 1888, p. 462.
R. W. Raymonp. Note on a specimen of Gilsonite from Uintah County, Utah.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Hoge XVII, 1888, p. 113.
F. V. Greene. Asphalt and its uses.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VII, 1888, p. 355.
Wituram Morrison. Elaterite: A Mineral Tar in Old Red Sandstone, Ross-shire.
Mineralogical Magazine, VIII, May, 1888, October, 1889, p. 133.
Henry Wurtz. The Utah Mineral Waxes.
Engineering and Mining Journal, XLVIII, July 13, 1889, p. 25.
—. Uintahite a variety of Grahamite.
Engineering and Mining Journal, XLVIII, August 10, 1889, p. 114.
WruuraM P. BuaKke. Wurtzilite from the Uintah Mountains, Utah.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VIII, 1890,
p. 497.
. Uintaite, Albertite, Grahamite, and Asphaltum described and compared, with
Observations on Bitumen and its Compounds.
Transaction of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X VIII, 1890,
p- 963.
Henry Wertz. Wurtzilite, Prof. Blake’s New Mineral.
* Engineering and Mining Journal, XLIX, 1890, p. 59.
. Bituminous Rock, California.
Tenth Annual Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1890.
E. W. Hitearp. Report on the Asphaltum Mine of the Ventura Asphalt Company.
Tenth Annual Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1890, p. 763.
.*Asphalt and Petroleum in Mexico.
Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, LX, 1890, p. 426.
GrorGE VALENTINE. On a Carbonaceous Mineral or Oil Shale from Brazil: Its
Formation and Composition. As a Key to the Origin of Petroleum.
Proceedings of the South Wales Institute of Engineers, X VII, August 8, 1890,
p- 20.
S. Deutscn. Ozokerite in Galicia.
Journal of the Iron and Steel Institute, 1891, p. 311.
A. N. Searu. Utah Ozokerite.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LI, 1891, p. 441.
Henry Wurtz. A Review of the Chemical Literature of the Mineral Waxes.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LI, March 28, 1891, p. 326.
CLARENCE Lown; H. Boorn. Fossil Resins.
New York, 1891, pp. 119.
Epwarp Orton. Report on the Occurrence of Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Asphalt
Rock in Western Kentucky.
Geological Survey of Kentucky, J. R. Procter, Director, 1891.

462 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Boverton Repwoop. The Galician Petroleum and Ozokerite Industries.
The Journal of the Society of Chemical Industry, XI, 1892, p. 93.
E. T. Dumsie. Note on the Occurrence of Grahamite in Texas.
Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, X XI, 1892, p. 601.
Henry M. Capeiy. Petroleum and Natural Gas; their Geological History and
Production.
Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, VII, Pt. 1, p. 51, 1893-94.
. Asphaltum and Bituminous Rock.
Twelfth Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1894, p. 26.
S. F. Peckuam. Petroleum in Southern California.
Science, February 9, 1894, p. 741.
Enaar B. Gosting. A Treatise on Ozokerite.
The School of Mines Quarterly, X VI, 1894, p. 41. ;
J. G. GoopcuiLp. Some of the Modes of Origin of Oil Shales, with Remarks upon
the Geological History of some other Hydrocarbon Compounds.
Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society, VII, 1895-96, p. 121.
C. Ec. Bertrannp; B. Renautr. The Kerosene Shale of New South Wales.
Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical
Engineers, X LIV, 1895, p. 76.
—. Asphalt and Bitumen.
Journal of the Franklin Institute, September, 1895.
8. F. PeckHam. On the Pitch Lake of Trinidad.
American Journal of Science, L, 1895, p. 38. See also the Geological Magazine,
II, 1895, p. 416.
Boverton Repwoop; GrorGE L. Hottoway. Petroleum and Its Products.
2 Vols., London, 1896.
—. Asphaltum and Bituminous Rock.
Thirteenth Report of the California State Mineralogist, 1896, p. 35.
Orro Lana. Trinidad Asphalt.
Transactions of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical
Engineers, XLV, Pt. 3, March, 1896, p. 1.
. Maracaibo Asphalt.
Scottish Geographical Magazine, April, 1897, p. 209. Abstract from Deutsche
Geographische Blatter, XIX, Pt. 4.
M. H. Enpemann. Sur la composition et l’analyse des asphaltes.
Moniteur Scientifique, L, 1897, 4th Ser., XI, p. 755.
. The Uinta and the Uncompahgre Asphaltites of Utah.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LXIV, 1897, p. 10.
Wa trter MerivaLe. Barbadoes Manjak.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 790.
Joun RutHerrorp. Notes on the Albertite of New Brunswick.
Journal of the Federated Canadian Mining Institute, ITI, 1898, p. 40.
F. Norriine. Petroleum in Burma.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LXV, May 7, 1898, p. 555.
A. 8. Cooper. A Bituminous Rock Deposit in Santa Barbara County, California.
Engineering and Mining Journal, LX VI, 1898, p. 278.
I. C. Wuire. Origin of Grahamite.
Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, X, 1899, pp. 277-284.

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 463

XIV. MISCELLANEOUS.

1. GRINDSTONES; WHETSTONES; AND HONEs.

The custom of sharpening edge tools on pieces of stone has been
practiced by barbarous and civilized nations ever since the adoption of
cutting implements of any kind, however crude and of whatever
materials.

With the first crude implements, it is safe to say almost any stone
possessing the requisite grit would serve to produce the rough edge
desired. With the improvement in the cutting implement there has,
however, been necessitated a corresponding improvement in the char-
acter of the sharpening implement as well. Formerly, it may be safely
assumed, every man used that which was most accessible and could be
made to best answer its purpose. Now the grindstone and whetstone
industry is as well organized as any other branch of manufacture, and
forms no inconsiderable feature of the nation’s trade. Localities are
ransacked and material is brought from far and near, carried long dis-
tances, overland or across the ocean, to the workshops of the manu-
facturer to be cut into the desired shapes and sizes, classified and
assorted according to quality, and sent abroad once more to meet the
demands of the ever-increasing trade. The use of the grindstone, it
should be noted, is not confined merely to sharpening edge tools, but,
as will be noted later, they are made from a variety of materials and
of an equal variety of sizes, from the 2-inch wheel of novaculite, used
by jewelers, to a coarse grit monster of over 2 tons weight for the
grinding of rough castings in machine shops.

A stone to be suitable for grinding purposes must possess a fine and
even grain, free from all hard spots and inequalities of any kind. It
is essential, too, that the various particles of which it is composed be
cemented together with just sufficient tenacity to impart the neces-
sary strength to the stone, and yet allow them to crumble away when
exposed to friction, thus continually presenting fresh sharp grains and
surfaces to act upon the material being ground. Simple as these
essential qualities may seem they are in reality but rarely met with
in perfection, and the majority of grindstones now on the market are
quarried from a comparatively limited number of sources. If the
stone be too friable it wears away too rapidly, and the grinding done
is coarse and uneven; a sharp edge or polish is unobtainable. If too
hard it glazes and loses its cutting qualities, or cuts so slowly as to be
no longer desirable. If, moreover, the particles composing the stone
adhere with too little tenacity, the stone, particularly if it be a large
one, such as is used for grinding castings, is liable to burst, perhaps
to the serious injury of workmen and machinery.

The requisite qualities as above enumerated are found mainly in
464 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

those stones that have originated as sandy deposits on sea bottoms and
have undergone little if any metamorphism—in other words, in sand-
stones. For some particular reason, or rather owing to certain
peculiar conditions, although sandstones were formed throughout a
great number of periods in the earth’s history, those formed during
the Carboniferous age seem best adapted for the purpose, and from
stone found somewhere in this formation are manufactured a large
share of the grindstones now in use.

A majority of the grindstones now found in the markets of the
United States are made from sandstones quarried from the Upper, Mid-
dle, and Lower Carboniferous formations of Ohio, Michigan, Nova
Scotia, or New Brunswick, or England and Scotland. A few are, or
have been, made from stone from Missouri and Kentucky. The Ohio
stones are obtained nearly altogether from quarries in the sub-Car-
boniferous sandstones at or near Berea, Amherst, Bedford, Constitu-
tion, Massillon, Marietta, Independence, and Euclid. Few if any of the
quarries are worked wholly for grindstones, but in the majority of
cases the stone is sought for building purposes as well, and the grind-
stone output may be merely incidental, certain layers only being
adapted for the latter purpose. This is well illustrated by the following
section, as shown at one of the Amherst quarries and as described * by
Professor Orton, the State geologist. The reader will understand that
by section is meant the various layers exposed in the quarry wall, or
that would be passed through in digging or boring from the surface
downward.

At Amherst, then, the stone lies as follows, beginning at the surface:

Feet.
Drift material (soil, sand, etc.) ..---------- 1 to 3
‘Worthiessishellbrock-{aesee-- = ase a ee 6 to 10
Soft rock used only for grindstones. - - - - -- 12
Building stone ss2S2 5 3 Se se ee eee 3
Bridge stone. sce sas ee eee 2
Gmindstone2 <2 seceecee canes eee eee 2
Building and grindstone-.--:--=2------2- 10
Building stone. 22282 o ee ee eee eee 4to 7
Building stone or grindstone. -..--------- 12

Commenting on the condition of affairs as here displayed, Professor
Orton says:

As will be noticed in this section, the different strata are not applicable alike to
the same purpose,and the uses for which the different grades of material can be
employed depend principally upon the texture and the hardness of the stone. The
softest and most uniform in texture is especially applicable for certain kinds of grind-
ing, and is used for grindstones only, and the production of these forms an important
part of the quarry industry. In its different varieties the material is applicable to all
kinds of grinding, and stones made from it are not only sold throughout this coun-

‘Geological Survey of Ohio, V, p. 586.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 465

try, but are exported to nearly all parts of the civilized world. Some of the finest-
grained material is also used in the manufacture of whetstones. There are various
points in the system of the Berea grit where the stone is adapted to this use, but such
a manufacture is best carried on when joined with a large interest in quarrying, so
that the small amount of suitable material can be selected; and thus it happens that
only at Amherst and at Berea are whetstones manufactured in large quantities.

Below are given in brief outline the sources and main characteristics
of the principal grindstones now in the market, beginning with those
of the United States. In speaking of the texture of any stone, that of
Berea has been taken as the standard. This is the stone most used for
grinding cutting tools, such as axes and scythes. It must be remarked
here that the term Berea grit is applied not merely to the stone from
the immediate vicinity of the town of Berea, but is rather a general
name applied to this particular subdivision of the Subcarboniferous
formation of Ohio and extending over a wide field.

Berea.—Medium fine; blue gray, light yellowish, or nearly white.
For edge tools in general; the finer varieties also used for whetstones.
Four quarries a few miles west of Berea produced alone upward of
$10,000 worth of grindstones during the last census year. (Specimen
No. 25059, U.S.N.M.)

Amherst.—Medium fine, like the Berea, being a part of the same
formation. Light gray, with small rust-colored spots due to iron
oxides. For grindstones and whetstones for edge tools in general;
the softer varieties for saws. (Specimens Nos. 25079, 25421, U.S.N.M.)

Independence.—Similar to the Amherst, and especially adapted for
the manufacture of large grindstones for dry grinding; stones said not
to glaze when used for this purpose. (Specimen No. 25080, U.S.N.M.)

Bedford.—Rather coarser, though of even texture and filled with
brown spots of iron oxide. Especially adapted for grinding springs.

Euclid.—Fine, light bluish-gray; for wet grinding edge tools.

Massillon.—Medium to rather coarse; the microscope shows it to be
an aggregate of rounded, colorless grains of quartz, with little, if any,
cementing material. Not so finely compacted as the last, and small
fragments can be readily broken from the sharp edges by means of the
thumb and fingers. Color, light yellowish or pinkish; for edge tools,
springs, files, and nail cutters’ face stones, but mainly for the dry
grinding of castings. (Specimens Nos. 25054, 25055, U.S.N.M.)

Constitution.—Medium; light gray and rather more friable than
the last. A variety of textures, however, and all kinds of grits for
wet grinding are furnished. (Specimens Nos. 25056, 25057, U.S.N.M.)

Huron, Michigan.—*ine; uniform blue-gray color, with numerous
flecks of silvery mica. Smells strongly of clay when breathed upon.
For wet grinding of edge tools; produces a fine edge. (Specimen No.
25076, U.S.N.M.)

The Joggins, Nova Scotia.—Fine gray; of uniform texture; used for
wet grinding all kinds of edge tools; the larger stones for grinding

NAT MUS 99 30

466 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

springs, sad irons, and hinges; extensively exported to the United
States.

Bay of Chaleur, New Brunswick.—Fine dark bluish-gray; of firm
texture; smells strongly of clay when breathed upon. Resembles the
stone of Huron, Michigan, but contains less mica. Used in the manu-
facture of table cutlery; also machinists’ tools and edge tools in
general. .

Newcastle, England.—Light gray and yellowish; with a sharp grit;
rather friable, and texture somewhat coarser than that of the Berea
stone, which it otherwise somewhat resembles. The finer grades used
for grinding saws and the coarser and harder ones for sad irons,
springs, pulleys, shafting, for bead and face stones in nail work, and
for dry grinding of castings; also used by glass cutters.

Wickersly, England.—A dull brownish or yellowish, somewhat
micaceous stone of medium texture and rather soft. For grinding
saws, squares, bevels, and cutlers’ work in general.

Liverpool, or Meling, England.—Dull reddish; a somewhat loosely
compacted aggregate of siliceous sand, so friable that the sharp angles
are easily crumbled away by the thumb and fingers. A very sharp
grit, used for saws and edge tools, particularly axes in shipyards.

Craigleith, Scotland.—Fine-grained and nearly white. A very
pure siliceous sandstone with a sharp grit. Said to be the best stone
known for glass cutting, though the Newcastle, Warrington, and York-
shire grits are also used for a similar purpose.

Grindstones from France and Saxony find their way into our mar-
kets but rarely.

For whetstones the same qualities are essential as for grindstones,
though as a rule the whetstones are designed for a finer class of work,
and hence a finer grade of material is utilized. For sharpening scythes
and other coarse cutting tools, however, the same stone is used as for
grindstones, the same quarry producing stone for building, grind-
stones, and whetstones, as above noted. The so-called Hindostan, or
Orange stone, from Orange County, Indiana, is a very fine-grained
siliceous sandstone of remarkably sharp and uniform grit, and which
for carvers and kitchen implements is unexcelled. (Specimens Nos.
38901-38905, 38910-38912, 38918-38924, 72896, 72899, etc.., U.S.N.M.)
The so-called Labrador stone is also a sandstone of a dark blue-gray
color and of less sharp grit than that just mentioned. (Specimens
Nos. 38957, 38959, 38963, 38964, 38968, 38974, 38980-38982, and 38985—
38987, etc., U.S.N.M.) Many scythestones like ‘‘ Indian Pond” (Speci-
men Nos. 38950, 38873, 38874, U.S.N.M.), ‘‘Chocolate,” ‘* Farmers’
Choice,” ‘Black Diamond,” ‘‘ Vermont Quinebaug,” and the*‘ La-
moille” (Specimens Nos. 38926 and 38878, U.S.N.M.), are fine-grained
mica schists from New Hampshire and Vermont quarries (Speci-
mens Nos, 38947 to 38951, etc., U.S.N.M.). These as a rule are very
Report of U.S. National Museum, 1899.—Merrill. PLATE 28.

Hie 2)
MICROSECTION OF MICA SCHIST USED IN MAKING WHETSTONE.
Fig. 1, cut across foliation; Fig. 2, cut parallel to foliation.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 467

fine-grained schistose dark-gray rocks, sometimes of a light chocolate
color on a freshly fractured surface. The microscope shows them to
consist of a compact and slightly schistose aggregate of quartz and
mica in which are frequently included very abundant small octahedral
crystals of magnetic iron and sometimes garnets. (See Plate 28.) So
abundant are these magnetite granules in some of these rocks, espe-
‘cially those of Grafton, New Hampshire, as to constitute an important
feature, and it is doubtless very largely to them that the stone owes its
excellent abrasive qualities. Magnetite, it will be remembered, has a
hardness of about 6.5 of the scale, and constitutes a very considerable
proportion of the ordinary emery of commerce. We have here, then,
what is almost a natural equivalent of the artificial emery stone, the
compact groundmass of quartz and mica serving as a binding material
for the magnetite grains while they perform their work in wearing
away the implement being ground. <A part of the abrading quality of
these stones is, however, due to the abundant quartz and mica scales
and their peculiar arrangement in relation to one another.

The well-known Water of Ayr, Scotch hone, or snake stone, as it is
variously called, is also a very compact schist. It is said to come from
Dalmour, in Ayrshire, Scotland. (Specimens Nos. 38931, 38937, 38946,
54146, U.S.N.M.)

The name novaculite is applied to a very fine-grained and compact
rock consisting almost wholly of chalcedonic silica, and which, owing
to the fineness of its grit, is used only in the finer kinds of work, as in
sharpening razors, knives, and the tools of engravers, carpenters, and
other artisans. The true novaculites are, so far as the writer is aware,
at present quarried in America only in Montgomery, Saline, Hot
Springs, and Garland counties, in Arkansas, and are known commer-
cially as the Washita (or Ouachita, as the name is properly spelled)
(Specimens Nos. 388955, 38966, 38969, 38977, 72900, etc., U.S.N.M.),
and Arkansas stones (Specimens Nos. 38954, 38971, U.S.N.M.). Both
varieties are nearly pure silica, the Ouachita being often of a yellowish
or rusty red tint (Specimen No. 72900, U.S.N.M.), and the Arkansas
of a pure snow whiteness, the latter variety being also the hardest,
most compact, and highest priced. The analyses given below show
the average composition of the two varieties: =

Constituents. Arkansas. | Ouachita.

SLO} res i SAE de ghee Sa ees Relea St bee S08 99. 50 99. 49
0.13
0.06
0. 04
0. 08
0.16
0.10
0.14

468 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

According to Griswold stone suitable for the manufacture of whet-
stones occurs in quantity in two distinct horizons in the Arkansas noyac-
ulite series of rocks, both of which are now being worked. The
principal quarries are in the massive white beds of the Hot Springs
region, the material being mainly of the fine, compact white **Arkan-
sas” type. Within a limited region, northeast of Hot Springs, the
stone becomes more porous, owing in part to the existence of a larger
number of the rhomboidal cavities, and passes over to the Ouachita
type.

The microscopic structure of the Arkansas novaculite is shown in
Plate 30, fig.1, the large white areas being angular granules of quartz.

Owen regarded the Arkansas novaculites as belonging to the age of
the millstone grit formation; that is, to the lower part of the Carbo-
niferous, and considered them as a sandstone metamorphosed and freed
from impurities by the action of hot alkaline waters. State Geologist
Branner, however, regards the finer grade of novaculite as a meta-
morphosed chert, a conclusion more in accordance with the microscopic
structure of the rock, which is more that of chalcedony than of an
altered sandstone. Griswold, on the other hand, regards the novacu-
lite as a product of sedimentation of a fine siliceous silt, and of Lower
Silurian age,’ while Rutley*® considers it as a product of chemical
replacement by silica of the calcareous material of dolomite or dolo-
mitic limestone beds. |

The view of Suttons quarry No. 7 in Plate 29 shows the novaculite
beds dipping 60° to the southeast, the bed of good stone being some 12
or 15 feet in thickness. The rock is everywhere badly jointed, in one
case mentioned by Griswold as many as six different systems being
developed in a single quarry. The natural result is that pieces of only
very moderate dimensions are obtainable even under the most favorable
of circumstances. Fine veins of quartz intersecting the rock in various
directions increase the difficulty of getting homogeneous material and
thereby increase the cost of the output.

The Arkansas stone is now used for many purposes. The whet-
stones are used by engravers, surgeons, carvers, dentists, jewelers,
cutlers, and other manufacturers of fine-edge tools, and by machinists
and woodworkers of the more skilled class. Small whetstones for
penknives are made in considerable quantity and some stones are sold
for razor hones.

The stone is also used by wood carvers, jewelers, manufacturers of
fine machinery and metal work, and by dentists in various forms of

'See Whetstones and Novyaculites, by L. S. Griswold, Annual Report of the Geo-
logical Survey of Arkansas, ITI, 1892. This report contains a very full discussion of
the Arkansas novaculite in all its bearings.

2 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, L, 1894, p. 377.
PLATE 29.

1899,—Mernill

Report of U S National Museum,

‘OBST ‘IIT ‘sBsueyay Jo Aso[Oay oy} Jo Jaodoy [BNUUY ‘plOMSNY 10); V
“SVSNVMYUY ‘AYYVND ALITNOVAON JO M3lA

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 469

files and points. Dentists use particularly the ‘‘ knife blade,” a very

thin, broad slip of stone, triangular in section, with one short side, the

other two forming a thin edge as they come together (Specimens Nos.

38998, 58721, U.S.N.M.). They are used for filing between the teeth.

Carvers use wedge-shaped, flat, square, triangular, diamond-shaped,

rounded, and bevel-edged files for finishing their work. (Specimen No.

38996, U.S.N.M.). Jewelers, especially manufacturing jewelers and
watchmakers, use all these forms of files and also points. These last
are sometimes made the size of a lead pencil, having a cone-shaped end,

and are about 8 inches long and 4 inch square, tapering to a point.

They are used chiefly in manufacturing watches to enlarge jewel holes
(Specimens Nos. 38995, 53726-53727, U.S.N.M.).

Wheels of various thicknesses and diameter are also made from
Arkansas stone. They are used chiefly by jewelers and dentists, but
could be made of service in all workshops where an Arkansas whet-
stone is used (Specimens Nos. 38992, 38962, 53710, U.S.N.M.). The
difficulty of obtaining pieces of clear stone large enough for wheels
several inches in diameter makes the price very high, and the difficulty
of cutting out a circular form increases the cost. Wheels are quoted
at from $1.10 to $2.20 an inch of diameter.

Arkansas stone is used for finishing and polishing metal rolls, jour-
nals, cross-head slides, piston rods, crank pins, and all kinds of lathe
work.

Fragments of the Arkansas stone are saved at the factories, and now
and then sent away to be ground for polishing powder. In the manu-
facture of this powder millstones are worn out so rapidly that the
process is rather expensive, but as waste stone is utilized, the powder
can be sold by the barrel at 10 cents a pound. It makes a very fine,
pure white powder of sharp grit, suitable for all kinds of polishing
work; it is known as ‘‘Arkansas powder.” A large amount of energy
is wasted, however, in the manufacture of this powder, for the silica
of the Ouachita stone is in every way identical with that of the Arkan-
sas stone, and it would be much more easily reduced to powder than
the Arkansas.

The so-called Turkish oilstone from Smyrna, in Asia Minor, is both
in structure and abrasive qualities quite similar to the Arkansas novac-
ulites. (Specimens Nos. 38956, 38967, 38997, U.S.N.M.) It, however,
is of a drab color and carries an appreciable amount of free caleium
carbonate and other impurities, as shown by the analysis given below,
as quoted by Griswold:

TURKEY STONE.

Rikleds (lO) ecaen. ce re aad OT ee oe ee 72. 00
manera CAL Ob Sa! kobe! 2 ee eee as 3. 33
RERTIPORUCNO LP acs =o ik at ep Ce eto oe 13. 33

Garnenie sew (COs) iso e ee ek 10. 33
470 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

According to Renard,’ the celebrated Belgian razor hone quarried
at Lierreux, Sart, Salm-Chateau, Bihau, and Recht is a damourite
slate containing innumerable garnets, more than 100,000 in a cubic
millimeter. Like the Ratisbon hone, this occurs in the form of thin,
yellowish bands, some 6 centimeters wide (2% inches) in a blue-gray
slate (phyllade). The bands are essentially parallel with one another
and with the grain of the slate, into which they at times gradually
merge. The chemical composition of a sample from Recht is given
as below. ‘The microscopic structure of the stone as described and
figured by Renard is essentially the same as that of the Ratisbon stone
in the collection of the U. S. National Museum (see Plate 30, fig. 2),
and the stones are practically identical in color and texture as well.

Silica, (SiO;)..50..6 he eee eee 46.5
Mitanieroxid.en (hiO;) pase. sae Ne Aly
Alumina (ATS), ssa ae a ere 23. 54
Ferric iron (Me;02) 2. esos 2 eee 1.05
Herrous trons (EO) ie sass ees 0. 71
Manganese oxide (MnO) -..--------------- 17.54
Maemnesia s(MeQ) tc" Shs Sse ee 1.18
Iamiex(CaO)rece Ss aos ee ee eee 0. 80
Soda (Na,0) ac. Se Se eee oe ee 0. 30
‘Potash *(KG@) te Atak Gos ered ae eee eee 2.69
Water (EL, ©) S22 ssi eese eee hates 3. 28
Carbonidioxider(CO;)==2==5ss====e eee 0. 04
Rhosphonrie acid: (2, O:) p=aeee= see 0.16
Sulphure(S) sash Socesee eae as ee ee 0.18
Organic matters soe se ee 0. 02
Motels Bi See a a See Sees Se AME

The cutting property of the stone would appear to be due to the
presence of the small garnets above noted. (Specimens Nos. 38938-
38940, U.S.N.M.)

The so-called holystone is but a fine, close-grained sandstone of the
same nature as that used in grind and whet stones. The greater part
of those made in this country are from the Berea sandstone of Ohio,
though some are said to be imported from Germany. The stones are
used mainly on shipboard, and the trade is small.

2. PUMICE.

The material to which the name pumice is commonly given is a form
of glassy volcanic rock, which, by the expansion of its included moist-
ure while in a molten condition, has become, like a well-raised loaf,
filled with air cavities or vesicles. The cutting or abrasive quality

1 Mémoires Couronnés et Mémoires des Savants Etrangers de L’ Academie Royal des
Sciences, etc., Belgique 1878, pp. 1-44.
Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899,—Merrill. PLATE 30.

Fig. 2.
MICROSECTIONS SHOWING THE APPEARANCE OF (1) ARKANSAS NOVACULITE
AND (2) RATISBON RAZOR HONE. THE DARK BODIES IN (2) ARE GARNETS.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 471

of the material is due to the thin partitions of glass composing the
walls between these vesicles. Any variety of voleanic rock, flowing
out upon the surface of the ground, is likely to assume the vesicular
condition known as pumiceous, but only certain acid varieties known
as liparites seem to possess just the right degree of viscosity to produce
a desirable pumice, and in this rock only in exceptional circumstances.
Almost the entire commercial supply of pumice is now brought from the
Lipari Islands, a group of voleanoes north of Sicily, in the Mediterra-
nean Sea. (Specimen No. 60787, U.S.N.M.) The material is usually
brought over in bulk and sold in small pieces in the drug and paint
shops, or ground and bolted to various degrees of fineness and sold like
emery and other abrasive materials. (Specimen No. 54155, U.S.N.M.)
At times an inferior grade of pumice has been produced from voleanic
flows near Lake Merced, in California. In Harlan County, Nebraska,
and adjacent portions of Kansas, as well as in many other of the States
and Territories farther west, have been found extensive beds of a fine,
white powder, which was first shown by the present writer’ to be
pumiceous dust, drifted an unknown distance by wind currents and
finally deposited in the still waters of a lake. Through a mistaken
notion regarding its origin this material was first described in Nebraska
as geyserite. So far as the writer is aware, these natural pumice
powders have thus far been used only locally for polishing purposes
and as a cleansing or scouring agent in soap. As the material exists
in almost inexhaustible quantities, it would seem that a wider scope of
usefulness might yet be discovered. (Specimens Nos. 53074, 60920,
37023, U.S.N.M., from Montana, Washington, and Nebraska.)

The analyses given below show (I) the composition of the pumice
dust of Harlan, Orleans County, Nebraska,’ and (II) a pumice from
Capo di Costagna, Lipari Islands:

Constituents. | I. | II.
BUC BRS Serer c teers teeters mie elctereiaceine See e Seen ee ene ee 69.12 73.70
Pl been oF; 1e (ete fe ree eee ae ple tee ae a ny ble A ee 27
7 H 17. 64

TOM" OST CS am eee ie oe ein oe Seem ace a See eye ae Sn 2.31
MGIRYD GE 38a ato aa iaeateree ictal eee aos ae Si hie cee i ae eee 0.86 0. 65
IME TIGRE. ete cece core ee a ate oe ee Ee oe | 0.24 0.29
Gtashi sons tease a ure ace 1 tee Sane (omen Sates Pate | 6.64 4.73
S(OT6 be RS anes Care LPs Bae Phe pai Bee A Bog Coe Oe Re ae | 1.69 4,25
TEM ON Ss ae oe eee one ces ee ee oe eee eee | 4.05 1. 22

Mrs Wade ae 7 enter nA eh nla adn Ob oot Cee eee a | 100. 24 | 99, 42

"See On Deposits of Volcanic Dust in Southwestern Nebraska (Proceedings U. S.
National Museum, VIII, 1885, p. 99), and Notes on the Composition of Certain Plio-
cene Sandstones from Montana and Idaho (American Journal of Science, XX XII,
1886, p. 199).

- *Rocks, Rock-weathering, and Soils, p. 350.

472 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

According to Dr. L. Sambon, as quoted by Dr. H. J. Johnston-Lavis:

All the best pumice of commerce is obtained from the northeast region of the island
of Lipari, extending as far as the summit of Mte. 8. Angelo on its northern slope.
* * * Ttis excavated at the Fossa Castagna near M. Pelato, at M. Chirica, and
on the shore of the Mosche.

I visited a quarry of M. Pelato on the outer southern side. The height was about
1.50 m. and 1 m. large. The entrance was sustained by poles, faggots of brushwood,
and stones; at first one descended for 160 steps, then one ascended for about 50 m.
where two naked men were digging in the dull light of an oil lamp. In decending
I met some young men who were carrying up baskets full of pumice. They wore
short coarse linen drawers, and on their naked breast hung the blessed scapulary.
On my arrival at the workes they made me sit down on an empty basket while
I watched the men dig out the pieces of pumice, often the size of a human head,
from the embedding matrix, which is composed of different sized fragments and
dust of the same material, pressed together, and forming an incoherent tuff.
They told me of their poor wages, and the dangers of their work in consequence of
the frequent collapse of the workings, killing men and youths. It was horrible to
hear those accounts of misery and misfortune at the bottom of these caves.

The low roof and narrow passage from which every moment fragments detached
themselves seemed to threaten the collapse of the whole; and it was with great relief
that I again reached the daylight. Only a few weeks previously a quarry of M.
Pelato had collapsed and buried some workmen, and more than two days work were
required to reach them. These unfortunate men, saved by a miracle, returned again
to their work, for what else could they have done to obtain bread?

Prolonged and curious was at all times the discussion concerning the origin of
pumice. It was believed to be amianthus decomposed by fire, by Pott, Bergman
and Demeste; calcined lignite or schist, by Vallerio; scorified marl by Sage and
granite that had become blown up and fibrous by the effect of fire and water by
Dolomieu. The latter asserted having found inclosed in some pieces of pumice frag-
ments of granite. He also declares that he had seen masses of granite which took on
gradually the fibrous structure and other characters of pumice; so that he concluded
that granite or granitoid schist was the primitive material which by the effect of the
volcanic fire passed to the state of the pumice. Finally he declares he sent speci-
mens to all the most learned geologists of the time. Spallanzani, who visited that
same locality and hunted in every part of Campo Bianco in a most diligent manner
but without being successful in finding the granite of Dolomieu, says wittily that
probably the French geologist had carried them all away. Spallanzani himself, on
the contrary, considers that pumice and obsidian are the result of fusion of great
masses of intermediate lavas which one encounters on all parts of the mountain.
Prof. J. F. Blake recently, probably ignoring the observations of Spallanzani, is sat-
isfied in finding in that locality ‘‘Mother-pumice’’ as he has baptized it, from which
also is derived the obsidian. But pumice, obsidian and all intermediate rock varie-
ties more or less scoriaceous are but different forms of the same eruptive product.
The whole history and modifications of pumice have been worked out by Dr. John-
ston-Lavis, who has shown that by studying these eruptive products the whole
mechanism of volcanic action in general is explained and the sequence of eruptive
phenomena of any volcanic focus can be made out. * * *

When we descend to the shore of the Beja delle pomice by the gorge to the South
East of the great obsidian flow, the slopes facing the lava are composed of immense
deposits of pumice in which hundreds of holes are observable, marking the excava-
tions made in search of the larger masses of this valuable rock, much of which could
be seen in the numerous baskets standing at hand. The sight of the enormous
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 473

agglomeration of pumice and dust of a glaring white colour, cut by the action of rain
and wind into fantastic shapes, stands out against the blue sky like the irregular
crags, spurs and ridges of a great glacier.

Along the marina are quantities of pebbles of pumice, either rounded by the
torrents that descend from above or by the waves that lap the’shore. When the
wind blows from N. E. a veritable fleet of floating masses reaches the port of Lipari.
The pumice that has been excavated is carried to the beach, and stored and sorted
in sheds or caves cut out of the same pumice tuff, protected in front by a breakwater
of big stones to prevent heavy seas reaching and washing away the produce.

Pumice in commerce is classified as follows—grosse(large size), correnti (medium),
and pezzani (small); the large and middle size are subdivided into lisconi (flat) and
rotondi (round). The lisconi are filamentous and break less easily than the rotondi.
They are also trimmed by the sorters. The lisconiand rotondi are again subdivided
into white, black, and uncertain, according to their colour.

The price varies according to the quality from 50 to 2000 lire the ton. The
common price for the assorted is 350 to 500 lire the ton. As much as 5000 tons a
year are exported. The best pumice is that of Campo Bianco. It is also obtained at
Perera, but it is in small quantity and was produced at the eruption of the Forgia
Vecchia. It is a first class grey pumice and fetches from 600 to 750 lire the ton, and
does not so easily break as the Campo Bianco. Also at Vulcano a grey pumice
is found but the presence of included crystals render it useless for commercial pur-
poses. At Castagna a commoner pumice is obtained called Alessandrina, ot which
brick shaped pieces are made and used for smoothing oil-cloth."

According to the Engineering and Mining Journal’ a merchantable
pumice has recently been found in Miller County, Idaho, but the
demands for material of this nature is likely to be lessened by the
putting upon the market of a German artificial product. In 1897 some
1,700 tons of pumice were mined near Black Rock, Millard County,
Utah.

Ground and bolted pumice is quoted as worth from $25 to $35 a ton
according to quality.

3. ROoTTENSTONE.

The name rottenstone has been given to the residual product from the
decay of silico-aluminous limestones. Percolating carbonated waters
remove the lime carbonate from these stones, leaving the insoluble
residue behind in the form of a soft, friable, earthy mass of a light
gray or brownish color, which forms a cheap and fairly satisfactory
polisher for many metals. Specimens Nos. 54150, 54153, 67390, 67791,
U.S.N.M., show the material in its natural state and ground and bolted.

The chemical composition of rottenstone, as may well be imagined
from what has been said regarding its method of origin, is quite
variable, though alumina is always the predominating constituent.
Analyses show: Alumina, 80 to 85 per cent; silica, 4 to 15 per cent;

1 The South Italian Volcanoes, by H. J. Johnston-Lavis, Naples, F. Furchheim, 1891,
pp. 67-71.
2Volume LXIV, July 24, 1897, p. 91.
474 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

5 to 10 per cent of carbon, and equal amounts of iron oxides and
varying small quantities of lime. The material has little commercial
value.

MADSTONES.

These need but brief notice here. The fallacy of the madstone dates
well back into the dark ages and perhaps beyond, and strange as it may
seem continues down to the present day. Not longer ago than Decem-
ber, 1898, the Washington newspapers chronicled the sale for $450
of amadstone in Loudoun County, Virginia, and from year to year
very many letters are received by the Smithsonian authorities making
inquiries regarding such, or possibly offering one for sale at fabulous
prices.

So far as the writer is able to learn, either from literature or from
personal examination, stones of this class are almost invariably of an
aluminous or clayey nature, and their supposed virtue is due wholly
to their avidity for moisture—their capacity for absorption, which
causes them to adhere to any wet surface, as the tongue or to a wound,
until saturated, when ‘they will drop away. It should not be neces-
sary to state, at this late day, that their curative powers are purely
imaginary. The ancient bezoar stone, used in extracting or expelling
poisons, consisted of a calculus or concretion found in the intestines
of the wild goat of northern India.'

Mo.upiIne SAND.

For the purpose of making molds for metallic casts, a fine, homo-
geneous argillaceous sand is commonly employed.

The physical qualities which go to make up a molding sand consist,
according to Nason,” of elasticity, strength, and a certain degree of
fineness. It must be plastic in order to be molded around the pattern;
it must have sufficient strength to stand when unsupported by the
pattern, and to resist the impact of the molten metal when poured into
the mold. Too much clay and iron present in the sand will cause the
mold to shrink and crack under the intense heat; too little will cause
it to dry and crumple, if not to entirely collapse.

The peculiar virtues of molding sand, as outlined above, are ascribed
to the fact that each of the sand grains is coated with a thin film of
clay.

The accompanying table will serve to show the varying chemical
ober acter of sands thus employ ed, though, according to authorities

es w. i. Lotsa: Pele ‘Medias ine of the Pennsylvania Germans, Proceedings of the
American Philosophical Society, X XVI, 1889, p. 337.

» Forty-seventh Annual Report of the Berens State Museum of New York, 1893, p.
469.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 475

quoted by Crookes and Rohrig,’ the “quality of the sand for molding
depends less on its chemical composition than on its physical proper-
ties, namely, whether the grains are round, angular, scaly, ete., and
whether they are of uniform size. The adhesiveness is dependent
not alone on the quantity of clay, but upon the angularity of the
erains, and by a mixture of smaller and larger grains. Reinhardt states
that to the naked eye, a good sand should consist of particles seem-
ingly uniform in size, with a sharp feel to the touch. When strewn
upon dark paper it should show no dust, and when moistened with
from 10 to 20 per cent of water it must be capable of being formed
into balls without becoming pulpy or being too easily crushed.

Constituents. | Te he Ill. Ve Vv. | VI VII. VIII
| -——— os --

SiO ammeter omen neae eee seme | 92.083 | 91.907 | 92.913 | 90.625 |, 79.02 | 86.68 | 87.6 90. 25
DTA ria seen es SURE BC DEES A ane ee | 5.415 | 5.683 | 5.850] 6.667 13,72 | CHOON Mee A hee alt)
WOOManGMN CO. 22. ue -n-cecsees ees 2.498 | 2.177 | 1.249} 2.'708 2.40 | 3.42 3.6 5.51
GOP eee ces coca coca secuetese Traces| 0.415 | Traces | Traces|.....--- | 0.96 0.96} 0.23
Ry —ne Sees da sboos sedoondegwenduored Beeent dc neoseder| paaomeor eeenaaes ONL) [Useless
Tep(0) 2 caw CEOS See pene Se aoe oeee Beaeene4 Beteaesa esa an lear 4:58: |... eee eee

99, 996 |100. 182 [100.012 |100.000 | 100.43 | 100.29 | 99.86} 100.09

|

Of the above No. I is from Charlottenburg, Germany; No. II, a sand
employed for bronze castings in Paris foundries; No. III, sand from
Manchester, England; No. IV, from near Stromberg; No. V, from Ilsen-
burg, in the Hartz Mountains; No. VI, from Sheffield, England; No.
VU, from Birmingham, England, and No. VIII, from Liineburg.

The sand from Isenburg, the composition of which is given in column
5, is stated? to be prepared by mixing ‘*common argillaceous sand,
sand found in alluvial deposits, and sand from solid sandstone.” In
preparation the first two are carefully heated to dehydrate the clay
and then mixed, equal proportions of each with the same amount of
sandstone. The mixture is then ground and bolted, the product being
as fine as flour and capable of receiving the most delicate impressions.

According to D. H. Truesdale,’ the four essential qualities in mold-
ing sand are, in the order of their importance, (1) refractoriness, (2)
porosity, (3) fineness, and (4) bond. These qualities are dependent
mainly upon the varying properties of siliceous sand and clay, the
refractory nature being governed by the absence of such fluxing con-
stituents as calcium carbonate, the alkalies, or of iron oxides. Since
in nature it is not always possible to obtain the admixture of just the
right proportion, artificial mixtures are often resorted to, as mentioned

1A Practical Treatise on Metallurgy, II, p. 626.
? Percy’s Metallurgy, i861, p. 239.
’ The Iron Trade Review, October, 1897, p. 24.
476 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

above. W. Ferguson gives! the following analyses of molding sand
in actual use in his foundries:

No.2, medium] No.3,coarse | No.4, forheavy

Ganctindeutn No. 1, fine sand grade for sand for machinery
for snap work.| medium class heavy ma- in dry-sand
of work. chine castings. molds.

Sili@asacec see te eae eae eae aes ee eat 81.50 84. 86 82. 92 79. 81
Alina este eae eee eee 9. 88 7.03 8.21 10. 00
Pemicoxmae. seer eres eee ee eee 3.14 2.18 2.90 4.44
Combined swaterees 22. ooe- eek ena 3.00 2.20 2.85 2.89
Caletum carbonates: 2 se2c-. -ssa-- = oe 1. 85 1.10 1.10 D5
MaeTiCsiac see Wotan ase aac em erento 0. 65 0. 98 None. 0.88
POtasSuUNs) fe eee eee eee ere No estimate. | No estimate. | No estimate. No estimate.
Mancanesensn see sne se ease eee sas Trace. Trace. Trace. Trace.
Orgpaniomatter- 2222-6 esses eee le= Trace. Trace. Trace. Trace.
Total 2 sock smsee eseee se Lema 100. 02 98. 35 97.98 99. 27

Sands containing lime or alkalies, that is those containing free calcite
or feldspathic granules, are sometimes liable to fusion in the case of
heavy castings. It is customary in such cases to coat the surface of
the mold with graphite.

Sands suitable for ordinary castings are widespread, though the
finer grades are often brought considerable distances, some of those
used in bronze casting in America being imported from Europe. In
the United States the beds are alluvial deposits of slight thickness.
Large areas occur in New York State, in counties extendiug from the
Adirondacks to New Jersey. At date of writing a very considerable
proportion of the material used in the eastern United States is dug in
Selkirk, Albany County, New York. (Specimen No. 61044, U.S.N.M.)

Nason states that these sands occur in beds varying from 6 inches to
3 feet or even 5 feet in thickness. They immediately underlie the
surface soil and overlie coarser, well stratified sand beds more nearly
allied to quicksands.

In gathering the sands for market, a section of land 1 or 2 rods in
width is stripped of its overlying soil down to the sand, which is then
dug up and carried away. When the area thus exposed is exhausted,
a like area, immediately adjoining is stripped, the soil from the second
being dumped into the first excavation. By this method the field,
when finally stripped of its molding sand, is ready again for cultivation.

It is estimated that a bed of sand 6 inches in thickness will yield
1,000 tons an acre. The royalty paid the farmers from whose land it is
taken varies from 5 to 25 cents a ton. Some 60,000 to 80,000 tons are
shipped annually from Albany County alone.

The Selkirk molding sand is of a yellow-brown color, showing under
the microscope angular and irregular rounded particles rarely more

1Tron Age, LX, December, 1897, p. 16.
y

THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 477

than 0.25 mm. in diameter, interspersed with finely pulverulent matter
which can only be designated as clay. The yellow-brown color of the
sand is due to the thin film of iron oxide which coats the larger eran-
ules. When this film is removed by treatment with dilute hydrochloric
acid, the constituent minerals are readily recognized as consisting mainly
of quartz and feldspar fragments (both orthoclase and a plagioclase
variety), occasional granules of magnetic iron oxide, and irregularly
outlined scales of kaolin, together with dust-like material too finely
comminuted for accurate determination. Many of the larger granules
are white and opaque, being presumably feldspar in transition stages
toward kaolin. An occasional flake of hornblende is present. The
term greensand* is applied to the argillaceous molding sands, in an
undried.state, and which is-employed in its native state, new and damp.
The term dry sand is used in contradistinction, to indicate a sand that
must be dried by heat before being fit for use. The dry sand is stated
to be firmer and better adapted than the green for molding pipes, col-
umns, shafts, and other long bodies of cylindrical form.

In England good molding sands are obtained from the Lower Mot-
tled Sands of the Bunter (Trias) beds and from those of the Thanet

(Lower Eocene).
6. Minera WATERS.

From a strictly scientific standpoint any water is a mineral water,
since water is itself a mineral—an oxide of hydrogen. Common usage
has, however, tended toward the restriction of the name to such
waters as carry in solution an appreciable quantity of other mineral
matter, although the actual amounts may be extremely variable.

Of the various salts held in solution, those of sodium, calcium, and
iron are the more common, and more rarely, or at least in smaller
amounts, occur those of potassium, lithium, magnesium, strontium,
silicon, etc. The most common of the acids is carbonic, and the next
probably sulphuric.

Classijication.—The classification of mineral water is a matter at-
tended with great difficulty from whatever standpoint it is approached.
Such classification may be either geographic, geologic, therapeutic, or
chemical, though the first two are naturally of little value, and the
therapeutic, with our present knowledge, is a practical impossibility.
The chemical classification is, on the whole, preferable, although even
this, owing to the great variation of methods of stating results used
by analytical chemists, is at present attended with some difficulty.
Dr. A. C. Peale, the well-known authority on American mineral
waters, has suggested the scheme given below,” and from his writings
has been gleaned a majority of the facts here given.

‘This must not be confounded with the Greensand marl, or Glauconitic sand used
for fertilizing purposes, and mentioned on page 369.

* Annual Report of the U.S. Geological Survey, 1892-93, p. 64.
478 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

According to their temperatures as they flow from the springs the
waters are divided primarily into (A) thermal and (B) nonthermal, a
thermal water being one the mean annual temperature of which is
70° F. or above. Each of these groups is again subdivided according
to the character of the acids and their salts held in solution as below:

Class I. Alkaline.

Class II. Alkaline-saline {yi bharet
jSulphated.
\ Muriated.
Sulphated.
Muriated.

Silicious - i

Glass U0. Saline 22>. 22-23

CHE al Vides (0 beats ee oe Sulphated.

Muriated.

Any spring of water miay be characterized by the presence or
absence of gas when it is designated by one of the following terms:
(1) Nongaseous (free from gas). (2) Carbonated (containing carbonic-
acid gas). (3) Sulphureted (containing hydrogen sulphide). (4) Azo-
tized (containing nitrogen gas). (5) Carbureted (having carbureted
hydrogen).

In cases where there isa combination of gases such is indicated by a
combination of terms, as sulphocarbonated, etc. The classes may be
further subdivided according to the predominating salt in solution, as
(1) sodic, (2) lithic, (3) potassic,(4) calcic, (5) magnesic, (6) chalybeate,
(7) aluminous.

The alkaline waters, Class I above, include those which are charac-
terized by the presence of alkaline carbonates. Generally such are
characterized also by the presence of free carbonic acid. Nearly one-
half the alkaline springs of the United States are calcic-alkaline, that
is, carry calcium carbonate as the principal constituent. The saline
waters include those in which sulphates or chlorides predominate.
They are more numerous than are the alkaline waters. The alkali-saline
class includes all waters in which there is a combination of alkaline
carbonates with sulphates and chlorides; the acid class includes all
those containing free acid, which is mainly carbonic, though it may be
silicic, muriatic, or sulphuric.

The character of the salts held in solution is the same for both ther-
mal and nonthermal springs, though as a general rule the amount of
salt is greatest in those which are classed as thermal. Thus at the Hot
Springs of Virginia one of the springs, with a temperature of 78° F.,
has 18.09 grains to the gallon of solid contents, while another, with a
temperature of 110° F., has 33.36 grains to the gallon.

Source of mineral waters.—Pure water is a universal solvent and its
natural solvent power is increased through the carbonic acid which it
takes up in its passage through the atmosphere, and by this same acid
and other organic and inorganic acids and the alkalies which it acquires
in passing through the soil and rocks. The water of all springs is
THR NONMETALLIC MINERALS. A479

meteoric, that is, it is water which has fallen upon the earth from
clouds, and gradually percolating downward issues again in the form
of springs at lower levels. In this passage through the superficial
portion of the earth’s crust it dissolves the various salts, the kind and
quantity being dependent upon the kind of rocks, the temperatures
and pressure of the water, as well as the amount of absorbed gases it
contains.

- Both the mineral contents and the temperature of spring waters are
dependent upon the geological features of the country they occupy.

Asarule springs in regions of sedimentary rocks carry a larger
proportion of salts than those in regions of eruptive and metamorphic
rocks. Thermal springs are as a rule limited to regions of compara-
tive recent volcanic activity, or where the rocks have been disturbed,
crushed, folded, and faulted, as in mountainous regions. Occasional
thermal springs are met with in undisturbed areas, but such are
regarded as of deep-seated origin, and to owe their temperatures to
the great depths from which they are derived.

Distribution.—Mineral springs of some sort are to be found in each
and all of the States of the American Union, though naturally the
resources of the more sparsely settled States have not as yet been fully
developed. For this reason the table given herewith is to a certain
extent misleading:

Production of mineral waters in 1899 by States and Territories.

Springs
State or Territory. report- | Product. Value.
ing.
Gallons.
PAU cu eure eer ene oe st ac ee tnt VS, Seana aide win cia a aeie’s ave 4 38, 900 $19, 917
J Nid gS ee AS OAR GAG APG Se AP Cee Geo teen Ar eat 5 48, 602 17, 442
Grilfonmianepe secre can cece oscar sere ee bic aa, ees att Bos. eee 88 | 1,464,075 698, 493
(Ciaieniiah)se - 2550 SiGe Ge SAE Ae Se GARR Ee SA Se Gat UE ee ai 642, 850 172, 970
CGPS Taare Of UST Re Ce eR Rt SE Be ese Seed eo Oe 12 338, 017 50, 685
PMIshuctios COliIA Dia oe eo ee owe Oe oles Se eee neiniatertays 2) 168, 500 10, 275
TEA Piura Cig eo ie Se eS is 3:9 Nad ns eS aoe eee ht 2 17, 000 7, 250
GRUNER eo hn Se os FEAR O SES eas Oe ee ia cee eee ee 6 128, 040 24,770
MENTS ee eee os eS tt ha ac eet hein ee SE, aera ote 18 | 858, 950 101, 090
TRG ENE RS Seiet 2 ee ee pets Aor ei ens cia hoa @ eee ee ae ee 12 162,475 25, 255
Wigkyorieer ta Naa te ction = oh doc cede cece aan Oe Aes oem innes cane fee ook 3 40, 200 3,320
SCRE RRR eo os ways cia a Se a ee ores ae ee ae 6 | 36,175 2,718
PACTRUNG KVpees Sate ews wil acinlgn es Pee ee aoe etme To Ce nek oo cake Caen ice 4 | 63, 500 7, 032
IMIG ICGKES. 3 SEES Ae So a eens AP A yoo a A eae <P 26 | 1,850, 132 179, 450
[EDTA LS aR0 b> ee ieee en eat gl Nias Bi eke Fee re eek BE Tne S 11 | 100, 380 15, 045
IMEECRE IRD UTS iat Se mek EN me tate ie aie at tae Pea eS 39 | 4, 439, 041 | 230, 704
AVY UT nto he alee 2 Nie ev wey st, oo ae sat 2 le RL Or ty Oe 21 | 3,045, 400 368, 235
VAIN CAO LAR ten Oey aie CEL 2 ie eee TORE IGN Coe OE tn ae 4| 2, 078, 700 54, 704
MASSIASIPp lama eeeaa = Se aie Sac acl sciercicisee fe sic cinco b is cee pactane te 6 271, 500 48, 292
IMIESSO ELE USI te tee ee a eee ee ert SS ah ie Lee ate Sl 12 | 551, 876 262, 705
PN Sy EL ou) DSLR tae te ee eg Res ye ne ag a | 6 | 469,800 190, 990
Mii MOLSON ee oe ee eee ee oe ea bn ap ye et 7 332, 000 171, 380
INTER ICOL 72.0. 5 aie eeeeae ten an Rs Ok “SeROAEr oS s8ahe | 5 46, 800 | 7,770
480 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Production of mineral waters in 1899 by States and Territories—Continued.
Springs
State or Territory. report- Product. Value.
ing.
Gallons.

NG@w YOrkke 23 faccnec cede din cilestece sae cece pee ee eee eeeeeee 46 | 4,454, 057 $809, 056
North Caroling 2s52.25-\5.-<td-se0e soe ons cote eee eee eee eee eee if 103, 150 20, 715
ODO sag secccsese cs = ea Sse ees ep etec ee ereciee = Se eee een eee terete 15 | 2,494, 473 171, 135
(ONE 70 1 ieee re eee ee eee AMPA Co Ae Ata Sonhuobte <2 sconiec 2 45, 500 9, 700
Pennsylvanians .2 2225.2 ake sete ecb ee ee cone are ee ees 25 | 1,542,800 340, 254
Rhode sland =< wo. 2..o0- 25s Soe-5 22 ss cece eee ee eee eee 4 195, 000 15, 000
NoOuth Carolina == ss4- 22 se oa so = = = a eee ee ln 5 322, 564 33, 450
South Dakota. . 2c... 2226 ence vec nse doa: omaese eee eee SSS eeeeeee 2 188, 645 44,073
TeVNESSCO 4. wise sass s a sie oases Ssins Saplcies se eee See eee 6 346, 700 55, 658
id Ks). ¢: OA eee ee ee omni Sys mee Aa Oe ie OE GOs 15 | 4,729, 950 155, 047
UWtahsn: 22. 2 set 52s: decce eeeeicewnct se suset Secs eo ee ee eee eee 3 7,850 1,955
Vermont. -6.-.52 ose ccd heactine coca sestet ose Se Seen Cee eee 6 53, 917 15, 869
Wireiniay cae. cccoceth conscience taen sea ceeinaie eee sees ise store es 39 954, 689 341, 769
Washington’. o's 2222) tedcce cose aases SaaS ones pee e eee eee 3 54, 000 7, 002
West, Witeiini tise cet ce ite teenie eee See 7 32, 220 18, 305
WASCONSIN 3: oSocc os 5 Hacc ind eeten semen se cceeeee eto oe eee eee eee 30 | 4,089, 329 701, 367
Other States'a: is or. Se PL een See eee ot Cee inee chee oars 4 263, 782 75, 847

Total Set seore ce eee fier a tek en eaten Se pee ne 479 | 37,021,589] 5,484, 694
Estimated production of springs not reporting sales .........-...-.- 62 | 2,540,597 1, 463, 336

Grand total 2:26... 3522 dsaidesk aces oe ele seas oe sices sane nertee 541 | 39, 562, 136 6, 948, 030

aThe States in which only one spring for each has made a report are included here. These States
are Idaho, Louisiana, Montana, and Nebraska.

Uses.—The mineral waters are utilized mainly for drinking and
bathing purposes, the thermal springs being naturally best suited for
bathing, and the nonthermal for drinking purposes.

For exhibition purposes the following waters have been selected,
kind and geographic distribution being the controlling factors in mak-
ing up the collection. In all cases the samples are exhibited in the
original bottles as put upon the market.

ALKALINE WATERS.

Poland Natural Spring Water, Poland Springs, Maine.
Ballardyale Lithia Spring Water, Ballardvale, Massachusetts.
Londonderry Lithia Spring Water, Londonderry, New Hampshire.
Otterburn Lithia Water, Amelia, Virginia.

Capon Springs Minéral Water, Capon Springs, West Virginia.
Jackson Lithia Spring Water, Jackson County, Missouri.
Algonquin Spring Water, Prince George County, Maryland.
Manitou Natural Mineral Water, Manitou, Colorado.

Rock Mineral Water, Jeffress, Virginia.

Massanetta Spring Water, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

Bethesda Natural Mineral Water, Waukesha, Wisconsin.
Clysmic Natural Mineral Water, Waukesha, Wisconsin.
White Rock Lithia Water, Waukesha, Wisconsin.

Idanha Natural Mineral Water, Soda Springs, Idaho.
Missisquoi Mineral Water, Sheldon, Vermont.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 451

ALKALINE SALINE WATERS.
1. Sulphated.

Takoma Springs Water, Takoma Park, Maryland.

Fonticello Lithia Water, Chesterfield County, Virginia.

Tredyffrin Lithia Water, Chester County, Pennsylvania.

Charmian Natural Mineral Water, Franklin County, Pennsylvania.

Harris Antidyspeptic and Tonic Water, Burkeville, Virginia.

Crockett’s Arsenic Lithia Water, Shawsville, Virginia.

Thompson’s Bromine and Arsenic Springs Water, Ashe County, North Carolina.
Harris Lithia Water, Laurens County, South Carolina.

Stafford Mineral Water, Jasper County, Mississippi.

Bladensburg Spa Mineral Water, Bladensburg, Maryland.

Healing Springs Lithia Water, Bath County, Virginia.

Fairchild’s Potash Sulphur Water, Garland County, Arkansas.

Buffalo Lithia (Spring No. 2) Mineral Water, Buffalo Lithia Springs, Virginia.
Geneva Red Cross Lithia Spring Water, Geneva, New York.

Wright’s Epsom Lithia Water, Mooresburg, Tennessee.

Veronica Natural Mineral Water, Santa Barbara, California.

2. Muriated.

Como Lithia Water, Henrico County, Virginia.

Powhatan Natural Mineral Water, Alexandria County, Virginia.
Blackistone Island Mineral Water, St. Marys County, Maryland.
Columbia Natural Lithia Water, Washington City.

Saratoga Natural Vichy Water, Saratoga Springs, New York.
Lincoln Spring Water, Saratoga Springs, New York.

The Hathorn Mineral Water, Saratoga Springs, New York.

High Rock Springs Water, Saratoga Springs, New York.
Congress Water, Saratoga Springs, New York.

Houston Lithia Water, Houston, Virginia.

SALINE WATERS.

1. Sulphated.

Indian Spring Water, Sligo, Maryland.

Rockhill Spring Water, Rockville, Maryland.

Pluto Spring Water, French Lick Springs, Indiana.

Excelsior Mineral Water, Excelsior Springs, Michigan.

Greenbrier White Sulphur Water, Greenbrier County, West Virginia.
Geneva Lithia Water, Geneva, New York.

Blue Ridge Springs Water, Botetourt County, Virginia.

2. Muriated.

Anipa Spring Water, Rome, Georgia.
Deep Rock Spring Mineral Water, Oswego. New York.
Blue Lick Water, Blue Lick Springs, Kentucky.

ACID WATERS.

1. Sulphated.

Shenandoah Alum Springs Water, Shenandoah County, Virginia.

Rockbridge Alum Springs Water, Alum Springs, Virginia.

Wallawhatoola Sulphated-aluminous Chalybeate Water, Millboro Springs, Virginia.
NAT MUS 99 ol

482 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

7. Rosap-Maxk1ne MATERIALS.

Roadways subject to any considerable amount of traffic demand
aimost invariably some sort of stone bedding to prevent their becom-
ing soft or badly cut up and rutted by wheels and hoofs of horses.
Until within a comparatively few years it has been the general custom
to pave the streets of cities and towns with rectangular blocks of
granite, trap, or other hard rock, forming thus the well-known Belgian
block and Telford pavements. Such are set in regular rows and the
interspaces filled with sand and sometimes with tar or asphalt. For
suburban and country roads a pavement of broken stone, the invention
of a Mr. L. Macadam about 1820, and known by his name, is at pres-
ent the most extensively used. The invention is based upon the prop-
erty possessed by freshly broken stone of becoming compacted and to
a certain degree even cemented when subject to heavy rolling and the
impact of wheels. The finer particles, broken away by the action of
the wheels, fill the interstices of the larger, and gradually bring about
an induration forming a roadbed hard, smooth, and durable.

Not all materials are equally good for macadamizing purposes. If
the rock is too hard ordinary travel is not sufficient to produce the
desired amount of fine material, and satisfactory cementation does
not ensue. If too soft it grinds away too rapidly. If the material is
decomposed, it is stated, it does not become sufficiently indurated—
refuses to set, as it were.

Obviously the bulk matter of any roadbed must be built up of
materials from near-by sources, owing to cost of transportation. For
surfacing, however, materials are often carried long distances. For
this purpose a hard, dense rock, such as the finer grades of trappean
rocks, are now most generally used.

Macadam is laid with or without a foundation of larger stones.
When such is used a thickness of from 6 to 12 inches is recommended
and over this is laid from 4 to 6 inches of the broken stone or ‘‘ metal.”

Taking all points into consideration, it is probable that the best size for macadam,
for hard and tough stones, such as basalt, close-grained granite, syenite, gneiss, and
the hardest of primary crystallized rocks, is from 1} to 14 inches cube, according to
their respective toughness and hardness, while stones of medium quality ought to
be broken to gauge of from 1} to 2} inches, and the softer kinds of stone might vary
between the limits of 2 and 23 or 23 inches, but the latter is a size which should
seldom be specified.

On roads for light driving it is customary to place a final surfacing
of smaller stone, such as will pass a 1-inch mesh.

Considerable importance is attached to the manner in which the macadam is pre-
pared for use. Machine-broken stone is not considered of the same value as that
broken by hand. The stones are not so regular a size and shape, and there is a
greater proportion of inferior stuff. A mechanical crusher is apt to stun the mate-

rial, and does not leave the edges so sharp for binding as they are when the stone is
broken with a small hammer.?

1 Circular No. 12, U. 8. Department of Agriculture, Office of Road Inquiry, 1896.
THE NONMETALLIC MINERALS. 483

The cost of macadamized roads from necessity varies almost indefi-
nitely. The primary factors are (1) cost of labor, (2) accessibility of
materials, and (3) character of country. From $2,000 to $2,500 a
mile is perhaps an average figure for localities where materials are
available close at hand.

The collections are intended to show only the average sizes employed
and the varying nature of materials.
i +

" 4
ad 7
=

hh Si pe Dad 3s) bp Wy
4 Ta ec iacced 7 Wiha 3 ni . wy ih

/

A PRIMITIVE FRAME FOR WEAVING NARROW

FABRICS.

OTIS TUFTON MASON,
Curator, Division of Ethnology.

o~-
. 7

4

’
.

I
<
7
A PRIMITIVE FRAME FOR WEAVING NARROW FABRICS.

By Oris Turron Mason,
Curator, Division of Ethnology.

“Tela jugo vineta est; stamen secernit arundo;
Inseritur medium radiis subtemen acutis;
Quod digiti expediunt, atque inter flamina ductum
Percusso feriunt infecti pectine dentes.”’
(Ovip—Pallas and Arachne, lines 55-58.)

INTRODUCTION.

The textile art among savage and barbarous peoples, as well as in
the hands of country folk in civilization, consists in the joining of
flexible materials in filaments—straw, splints, threads, etc. The sim-
plest of these activities is twisting or twining. The making of sennit
or braid comes next. After that will follow basketry, matting, net-
ting, lace work, and even fabrics, all made, out and out, with the
fingers.

The second step in the textile art, as in all others, will be taken with
the aid of some kind of device which hastens or perfects the operation
of the hand. There will be knives to split the material, gauges to
replace the finger nail, spindles, bobbins, frames, and shuttles, of very
humble structure, forsooth, but all of them containing the working
principles of the most advanced apparatus having the same functions.
Omitting all other textile processes, attention will be directed here to
weaving proper, or the use of mechanical appliances to this end among
primitive peoples.

In any style of mechanical weaving, however simple or complex,
even in darning, the following operations are performed: First, rais-
ing and lowering alternately different sets of warp filaments to form
the ‘‘sheds;” second, throwing the shuttle, or performing some oper-
ation that amounts to the same thing; third, after inserting the weft
thread, driving it home and adjusting it by means of the batten, be it

the needle, the finger, the shuttle, or a separate device.
487
488 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

In the modern power loom the parts by which these operations are
performed are very intricate and rapid in their composition and action;
but in the simplest form of apparatus, from which the power loom
was originally derived, a few sticks and strings and the cunning hand
of the operator take the place of machinery, and time is no object. A
eareful examination of any power loom will demonstrate the oft-
repeated fact that most of the machinery, after all, is a substitute for
the human fingers.

Tal il

PR
|
Tt Ni

( i IS if
i)" lth
A HD

M i jl alt wy
Wy i ic ii i] Wi
al f iA

LP OY «
OW ai

CHIPPEWA HEDDLE FRAME, CARVED FROM A SINGLE PIECE OF WOOD.

Cat. No. 3648. U.S.N.M. Collected by Henry R. Schoolcraft.

DEFINITION OF HEDDLE FRAMES.

There are in the U. S. National Museum a collection of heddle
frames, and photographs of others from different parts of Europe and
America, each one of which was designed to form the ‘‘sheds” in
weaving belts and garters—that is, to raise or lower different sets of
warp filaments in the manner to be now described. A series of healds
are attached to or form parts of a heddle frame, which sometimes
hangs free on the warp threads, as in the frontispiece, and sometimes
is attached solidly to a frame or box, or to the body of the operator.
(Compare fig. 16 with Plate 3.) In the former of these classes the
**sheds” are opened by the weaver, who lifts or lowers the heddle with
the hand. In the second class, the ‘‘sheds” are formed by raising or
lowering the inner ends of the warp itself, half of its filaments being
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 489

*- entangled in the stirrups of the healds, the other half passing up and
down between the healds.

A still simpler style of making ‘‘sheds” may be seen in a Chinese
device employed in weaving rush matting. A block of wood like a
piece of studding, as long as the matting is to be wide and 4 inches
square in section, has a series of triangular saw cuts through it. Each
eut has an upright opening on one side and terminates with a small
hole on the opposite side. The next saw cut alternates with the pre-
ceding, its long opening being on the side of the small perforation in
the other cut. In rocking the heddle block by means of two handles
on top, backward and forward, ‘‘sheds” are formed in the twine which
constitutes the warp of the matting. i

The specimens to be herein described came to the Museum from the
Zuii and other pueblos of the Southwest; from the Masquakee or Sauks
of Iowa; from the Chippewa Indians; from Finland, Germany, and
Italy in Europe; and, finally, from the English settlements in the New
England States and New York, and the Dutch settlements in Lancaster
County, Pennsylvania. To complete the round this ingenious mechan-
ism, having traveled through many lands and some centuries, emerges
from the U.S. Patent Office as patent No. 334320 (Plate 4), and adapted
forms are used for illustrating technical instruction in the Teachers’
College, New York.

HEDDLE FRAME OF THE ALGONQUIN TRIBES.

The first of these objects brought to the notice of the ethnologist,
belonging to the first class above described, in which the operator
raises and lowers the heddle frame, was a Chippewa specimen figured
in Schoolcraft, but no description of it is there given (fig. 1).

The Chippewa Indians (belonging to the Algonquin family) about
Lakes Michigan, Huron, and Superior were in an excellent area of
food supply, contiguous to Iroquoian and Siouan tribes, and were
also brought into close industrial relationship with the French
explorers and priests; later the English settlers became their teachers."

The very object described by Mr. Schoolcraft was in the possession
of the United States Government before the U. S. National Museum
was founded, and is here figured; but there is on the specimen and in
the catalogues no allusion to the distinguished ethnologist and none to
the function of the apparatus. It is carved from a single block of
beech wood one-eighth of an inch thick. The upper margin is rounded
and cut into patterns as with a jig saw, representing two animals, two
hearts, and a symmetrical pattern in the middle. The lower margin
is treated in the same way, only the designs are such as might be seen
on old-fashioned furniture. The working part of this apparatus is

1 Information respecting the Condition and Prospects of the Indian Tribes of the
United States, Philadelphia, 1852, II, pl. 77.
490 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

the rectangular space constituting the middle portion. There are
thirty-seven upright healds or ‘‘ heddle dents ” and thirty-eight spaces.
The healds are not inserted into the wooden frame, but are a part of
it, and are about the twenty-fourth of an inch in thickness, the mate-
rial having been cut away on both sides so as to leave these as thin as
safety would allow. Each heald or upright piece is wider in the cen-
ter than at the ends and is there perforated with a small hole. The
whole frame is just 7 inches wide and the healds about 3 inches in
length. The points to be especially noticed in this example are, first,
that the apparatus is made from a single piece of wood; second, that
the Indians of the upper Great Lakes were taught by the early set-
tlers from Europe to be weavers; and third, that the method of orna-
mentation, shown at the top and bottom of this specimen, is common
enough in Germany (figs. 8 and 9), but it is not common elsewhere
among American aborigines on such heddle frames. The healds and
spaces, together seventy-five in number, make provision for seventy-
five warp threads in all.

Mr. W J McGee, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, calls atten-
tion to similar heddle frames in use among the Masquakee, or Sauks
and Foxes, an Algonquin tribe in Iowa, and presents to the U.S.
National Museum an excellent example of a weaving frame from that
tribe (fig. 2).

Mr. W. H. Jackson says that the Sacs, Sauks, Saukies, or Osaukees,
as it has been variously written—a word meaning yellow clay—and the
Foxes, or Outagamies, or more properly the Musquakkink (red clay)
are now as one tribe. They were first discovered settled about Green
Bay, Wisconsin (after residence on the north shore of Lake Ontario),
but their possessions extended westward, so that the larger part was
beyond the Mississippi. They partly subdued and admitted into their
alliance the Iowa, a Dakota tribe. By 1804 they had ceded all their
lands east of the Mississippi and settled on the Des Moines River,
moving subsequently to the Osage (in Kansas) and, after 1842 [in 1845],
the most of these finally to the Indian Territory. In 1822 the united
bands numbered 8,000, but are now [1875] reduced to a little more
than 1,000, of whom 341 are still in Iowa, 430 in the Indian Territory,
98 in Nebraska, and about 200 in Kansas. The Sauks and Foxes of
the Mississippi in the Indian Territory have a reservation of 483,840
acres.’

The frame is made of walnut and is in #ts general structure similar
to the foregoing, but is much heavier and more elaborately finished.
It has forty-two healds, making provision for eighty-three warp
threads in all. The ornamentation, at the top especially, has been evi-
dently under the influence of whites in quite recent times. In this

‘Report U. 8. National Museum, 1885, p. 37.
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 491

specimen, as it is set up, the healds are not all used, only a sufficient ©
number to enable the weaver to form a texture having fifty-five warp
threads. ‘Especial interest attaches to this piece of work, which is an
example of transparent weaving and beadwork. ‘The warp consists of
fifty-five white threads. The shuttle is a steel needle thr raded with
fine cotton on which beads of different colors are strung. The figures
are produced by counting off
the beads and arranging them
so that one will fall in each
of the interstices of the weav-
ing.

Accompanying this frame
(fig. 3) is a shuttle for mat
weaving, having an eye near
the center of its body. In
forming the beadwork a steel
needle was employed; but in
ordinary garter weaving on
the same loom the shuttle was
employed both for placing
the weft and beating it home.

The general method of op-
eration in both heddles just
deseribed and in all others
of this type was as follows:
Warp threads of the healds
and spaces, or a smaller num-
ber, were cut into the length
of the intended garter,or belt,
or band to be woven. Ifthey

were all of the same color one Figs. 2 and 3.
filament was drawn through MASQUAKIE HEDDLE FRAME AND SHUTTLE.

the stirrup in each heald and Cat. Nos. 205262 and 176680, U.S.N.M. Collected by W J McGee.
one passed between each pair

of healds. If there were to be various colors in the warp, filaments
of different shades were passed through the stirrups and between the
healds according to the taste of the weaver. At one end, which will
be called the outer or farther end, the filaments were gathered together
into a knot and made fast to some fixed object answering to the yarn
beam of a loom. The other end, which will be called the inner or
proximal end, answering to the cloth beam of a loom, contained that
portion of the fabrie which, when finished, was rolled on a stick that
lay against the breast of the weaver and was secured by a strap pass-
ing around the body and buttoned to the ends of the cloth beam.
Sometimes the inner ends of the warp were merely held in the left
492 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

hand of the weaver. In any case, they were secured to some movable
object which allowed the weaver to increase or decrease the tension
at will.

THE PUEBLO HEDDLE.

There is among the Zuni Indians a style of setting up the warp of a
belt or garter for heddles of this class, which relates the frame to the
Indian blanket loom. The warp is one continuous yarn wound round
and round two cylinders, one resting against the soles of the weaver’s
feet, the other attached to her body by a strap which passes behind
her back, its ends buttoning over the ends of the inner cylinder. In
the use of this device the warp is loosened or tightened by moving the
feet or inclining the body, the most pliant, delicate, and responsive
tension device.’ (Plate 1.)

When the woman and her loom apparatus were set up for work,
she raised or lowered the heddle with one hand. The warp filaments
which passed through the stirrups in the healds, being fixed in their
places, were by this movement raised or lowered with the frame, but
the alternate threads which passed between the healds remained stead-
fast and straight. Whether the frame was raised or lowered, a ‘‘ shed”
was formed in the warp; the weaver then passed through this *‘ shed”
a simple bobbin or shuttle, often a rod with the weft woven on it,
after the manner of a kite string, containing the weft or woof fila-
ments, usually of white thread and quite fine. When the weft had
been passed through this ‘‘ shed” between the heddle frame and the
body of the weaver it was beaten home by means of the shuttle or
with a separate tool, as among the Zufi, or by the weaver’s finger.
This completed one weft.

The alternate warp series were then brought to the top or depressed,
and a second **shed” formed. The shuttle was passed back through
this ‘‘shed” and the weft again beaten home. If a pattern was to be
wrought, the shuttle was not passed through the ‘*‘shed” as described,
but worked, as in darning, through a certain number of the upper
warp threads each time before a new ‘*‘shed” was made.

THE FINLAND HEDDLE.

In 1893, Consul-General John M. Crawford sent to the U. S. National
Museum, from Helsingfors, in Finland, two specimens of this type of
heddle, one of which resembles in general features those described,
while the other (fig. 4) is very suggestive of the type found in the
pueblos of southwestern United States, to be later studied (fig. 5).

‘Washington Matthews, Navajo Weavers. Third Annual Report of Bureau of
“thnology (1884), pp. 371-378.
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 493

Each of these specimens is carved out of a single piece of wood, and
in each one the framework above and below is much thicker than the
healds. Fig. +4 has eighteen healds in all and seventeen long’ slits
between them. The specimen is 8 inches long and 5% wide. The
upright bars are whittled into a roundish shape, so as to present no
sharp corners to the work. The top of the framework is carved out
into the form of a ring used both in handling the apparatus and for
suspending it when out of use. In fig. 5 the upper and lower margins
are cylindrical in form, like the back of a comb, the middle parts cor-
responding to the teeth. In outline
this example is nearly square, being
about 5$ inches broad and_ high.
Accompanying this specimen of
Consul-General Crawford’s was a
shuttle for carrying the weft. It is
a thin piece of wood, parallel-sided,
except a slight constriction at the
middle, with a wide notch at either
end for holding the weft filament;
the edges are sharpened for driving
home thelay. It also hasa perfora-
tion through one end for the pur-
pose of suspension.

With these frames were a num-
ber of belts and garters woven in
such apparatus, which exhibit in
their patterns the manner of produc-
ing diaper effects on the surface.

a < ‘ 5 Fig. 4.
In plain weaving, it will be recalled, sae Do Petts Ge.

the shuttle is passed backward and _— Cat. No. 167839, U.S.N.M. Collected by Consul-

General John M. Crawford.

forward on the ‘‘shed” -produced
by the vertical motion of the heddle, and as soon as the weft is passed
the shuttle becomes a batten for driving it home. But whenever the
weayer desires to produce other effects than plain weaving, it is neces-
sary to count off from the upper threads at each excursion of the
shuttle such numbers of warps as are necessary, and to use a batten
stick or her fingers in forming the secondary ‘‘shed” and in driving
home the weft. This custom also appears in other places, to be men-
tioned farther on. In each instance, the patterns on Plate 2 are in
pairs, showing the two sides of the fabric and the effects of the special
secondary treatment of the warp by counting. There is thus to be
seen in these patterns a good example of primitive arithmetic (Plate 2).
Attention is especially called to the fact that along with this type of
heddle in the Crawford collection there came a loom for weaving
494 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

coarse hemp cloth. This apparatus coincides precisely with the com-
mon hand loom seen over Europe and the United States. Just as in
New England and in New York the country folk were making cloth
and tape with primitive apparatus only a generation back, so in Fin-
land the same practices yet survive. Helsingfors lies at the northern
end of the Baltic Sea, and it is only a short journey thence to northern
Germany, where the little heddle frame will next be found. It doubt-

Ji J ge i

if wd

Fig. 5.
HEDDLE FROM HELSINGFORS, FINLAND, WITH SHUTTLE,
Cat. No. 167837, U.S.N.M. Collected by Consul-General John M. Crawford,
less traveled northward, acquiring a new name at every landing, but
its structure and function have undergone little change. The patterns
at Helsingfors are more primitive.

GERMAN HEDDLE FRAMES.

The next example takes the student to the town of Saalfeld, K6nigs-
bere, in east Prussia. It was presented to the U. 5S. National Museum
by Mrs. Elizabeth Lemke, who says that it is a common apparatus
among the people. There are twenty bars or healds in this example,
and nineteen slits between. The frame is 142 inches long, and 8}
inches wide. The healds are 8% inches long, giving to the warp thread
a wider excursion up and down. This specimen is made from a thin
pine board finished in a planing mill, and is three-eighths of an inch
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 495

thick, without ornaments. The upper part is rounded and has a pro-
jecting handle, as in old-fashioned school slates.

The shuttle is of hard wood and resembles the form of a netting
needle which has a deep, rectangular notch at one end and a slitted
point at the other end opening into an eye, in the middle of which
stands a pointed spindle. This specimen, like all those before men-
tioned, hangs free on the warp, and the ‘‘sheds” are made by moving
the heddle up and down while the warp is stationary at both ends
(fig. 6).

Example No. 176321, in the U. S. National Museum, is also from
Saalfeld. It is made of a thin piece of plain board, and there are six-
teen healds and fifteen slits or spaces between the healds. The appa-
ratus is 194 inches long, 8 inches wide, and nearly one-half an inch
thick, rounded atthe upper end, and cut
out to forma hand hold or grip. The
saw cuts are roughly made, and the holes
have been burned through with hot wire.

The shuttle is a small seine needle, not
slitted at the point, but having a project-
ing spindle in the eye at the pointed end
and a deep notch in the other, as in the
common seine needle. In this example
the shuttle contains white weft thread
or twine; the warp filaments are alter-
nating brown, blue, white, and red
threads. The shuttle serves also for

fi
(nny
Aan)
wl
a ! \

Na
t

a batten to beat the weft in place. ein 1}
Accompanying this apparatus is a Aa i hy HM

device used in winding off the warp LE ll

and giving to its filaments the correct Fig. 6.

length (fig. yee Ut is a piece of hard ~ yeppue ann SHUTTLE, FROM SAALFELD,

wood, heart-shaped, with a pointed base SASS

to fit in a socket and a pointed spool Cet Ne. TORS ae ee ce eee

Elizabeth Lemke.

above to hold the yarn.

In the Museum of the Society for Pomeranian History and Antiqui-
ties, in Stettin, are three heddles or weaving boards of the type now
being considered. Each was collected in Further Pomerania, where the
apparatus is called the *‘deska,” as it is also known in Cassubisch dia-
Ject. It is in use up to the present day, but among the surrounding
German population throughout the whole of Pomerania, so far as infor-
mation goes, it is unknown. The oldest one (fig. 8) measures 4 inches
in width and 7 inches in length, is carved out of a single piece of wood,
and has nine long openings between the healds which, through many
years of use, have become worn away. These openings or slits are 3
inches long and 0.2 inch broad. There are ten perforations for warp
496 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

threads, the outer two being through the sides of the frame itself.
The upper margin of the board is cut out in figures or patterns quite.

==

(5S SSE

—

Fig. 7.

HEDDLE AND SHUTTLE, SET UP FOR
WEAVING, ALSO WARP HOLDER.
Saalfeld, East Prussia.

Cat. No. 176321, U.S.N.M. Collected
by Elizabeth Lemke.

Furthermore, it will be

similar to those on the Schoolcraft specimen.
In addition to these openings, the surface is
covered with carvings.

The second example (fig. 9) is rather rudely

~made of board. It is 5 inches broad and $8

inches long. Counting the sides of the appa-
ratus, there are fourteen healds, perforated
in the middle, through which warp threads
pass, and thirteen slits or openings between
these, all 44 inches long and 0.2 inch broad.
The upper part of the board has three heart-
shaped perforations, a serrated border, anda
loop, used for moving the heddle up and down
or for hanging it up when not in use.

A third example, having no ornamentation,
is 54 inches long and 8 inches broad. It has
eighteen openings, 4 inches long.’

The lack of definite information concerning
the precise origin of the Schoolcraft specimen
(fig. 1) and that of the Sauk or Masquakie
Indians of central Iowa, collected by Mr.
W J McGee, makes it difficult to inquire
into the German origin of the Algonquin
specimens. It must be noted, however, that
the ornamental carvings at the top are alike
in the two types. Furthermore, it must not
be assumed that the specimens in the U. 5.
National Museum exhaust the geographic dis-
tribution of this type of apparatus. Quite
the contrary. It would be surprising to find
that it had no use in England and France in
the Colonial period.

ITALIAN HEDDLE FRAMES.

In the U. 8. National Museum is a heddle
frame from the town of Siena, south of Tus-
‘any, Italy, collected by Dr. G. Brown Goode.
Unfortunately, material is lacking in all the
area between east Prussia and Tuscany.
seen that the inventor has been at work more

than once to transform the Cassubisch into the Tuscan specimen

Upon the Cassubie population of Farther Pomerania see Baltische Studien, by Dr.
C. A. Hass, pp. 33-368, and Blatter fir Volkskunde, IV, pp. 51-81.
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. ; 497

(fig. 10). It consists of eleven strips or healds of walnut wood 54 inches
long, one-fourth inch wide, and one-twelfth inch thick, each perfo-
ratel in the middle for a warp filament. These slats are set into
grooves in a rectangular frame 6$ inches long and 5;°, inches wide;
the frame itself is three-fourths inch wide and five-sixteenths inch
thick. It accommodates twenty-three warp filaments and belongs to
the second class of heddles before mentioned, in which the heddle

Figs. 8 and 9.

HEDDLES FROM STETTIN, NORTH GERMANY.

In Museum of the Society for Pomeranian Antiquities.

is stationary and the weaver raises and lowers the inner end of the

warp. This specimen is set up, with considerable mechanical accom-

paniment, on one end of a box that is 7{ inches long and 54 inches

wide. On the other end is an upright frame in which works a

revolving yarn beam, a nee copied from the ordinary hand loom.
There is also in the U. S. National Museum a facsimile of this

-example, from Lancaster, Lee Ivania, the center of the Teutonic

NAT MUs 99-——32
498 . REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

population called the Pennsylvania Dutch. The framework, or hed-
dle frame, has thirty-one healds or upright bars, perforated, and
thirty-two slits, in all accommodating sixty-three warp threads of
various colors. The ordinary yarn beam is replaced in this example
by a reel, on which the warp is distributed. This reel is held fast by
a stick pushed through between the spokes of the reel and resting
against the upright posts which support the shaft. By removing the
stick additional warp may be unwound (fig. 11). Still more rude is
another example in the U. S. National Museum, probably from Penn-
sylvania, consisting of a heddle frame cut out of a thin piece of board
one-eighth inch thick. Provision is made for twenty warp threads,
by means of ten healds and ten slits. On one margin of the frame
the outer portion is perforated and on the other side it is not. This
upright is nailed in the end of a very rude box, having a bottom and
two sides but no ends. The box is 2 feet long. At the rear portion,
on either side, a post is fastened, and in this a reel, on which the
yarn is wound. The structure is similar to that of the Italian speci-
men and to others from Pennsylvania, but this is the rudest example
of the kind in the Museum.

NEW ENGLAND HEDDLE FRAMES.

The writer is greatly indebted to Mrs. Alice Morse Earle, author of
the charming work on Life in Colonial Days, for a photograph of a
loom belonging to this stationary type for making silk braid, from
Long Island, set up and in operation. The furniture of the room and
the costume of the weaver are all in harmony with the instrument
itself, and reproduce, as nearly as possible, the time in which these
heddle frames were in common use throughout New England and the
Eastern States. There is room for thirty-three warp threads, though
it is possible to weave with asmaller number. Mrs. Karle, after
speaking of the large, home-made looms seen in all thrifty New
England houses, makes the following observation on the heddle frames:

Smaller looms, called tape looms, braid looms, belt looms, garter looms, or ‘‘ gallus
frames,’’ were seen in many American homes, and useful they were in days when
linen, cotton, woollen, or silk tapes, bobbins, and webbings or ribbons were not
common and cheap, as to-day. Narrow bands, such as tapes, none-so-pretty’s, rib-
bons, caddises, ferretings, inkles, were woven on these looms for use for garters,

points, glove ties, hair laces, shoe strings, belts, hatbands, stay laces, breeches sus-
penders, ete.!

In 1894 the author visited the town museum in Bristol, Connec-
ticut, and saw two specimens of the second type of heddle apparatus,
one of which was given to the U.S. National Museum, and is here
figured (fig. 12). It will be recalled that in this type the heddle is
fixed and the weaver moves the inner or cloth end of the warp up and

1 Alice Morse Earle, Home Life in Colonial Days. New York, 1898, p. 225.
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 499

|

bi |

La

f ==

LT

S| — =

a
(AA

a4) ap
/ Y i} AA

Mera NE
ay Hi Aq MAZZZ
LZ he A
* /

SSsS

\

Figs. 10 and 11.
HEDDLES FROM SIENA, ITALY, AND LANCASTER, PENNSYLVANIA.
Set up in a box, with yarn beam and other loom attachments.

Cat. Nos. 164841 and 175639, U.S.N.M. Collected by G. Brown Goode.
500 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

down to form the sheds. A note with reference to these specimens
was inserted the next day in the Hartford Courant, and as a result
replies were received from various quarters, calling attention not only
to the existence of other examples, but mentioning the names of women
who in their early days had practiced weaving tape, fanciful hat-
bands, garters, and other narrow ornamental fabrics on them. It
became evident that a device which at first seemed
to have been invented by American Indians was
not known to them prior to Columbus, but had
crept into savage hands from the folk craft of
early white settlers. ,
Specimen No. 169078, in the U. S. National
Museum, is a heddle frame presented by Roswell
Atkins, of Bristol, Connecticut, of the seventh
generation of this family in the United States.
It is made of a piece of pine board three-fourths
of an inch thick. The upper end is sawed into
fourteen healds, and each of them is pierced for
a warp thread, making room for twenty-seven
warp threads. At the top, the healds are held in
place by two battens which clamp the upper ends.
The bottom is chamfered to. be held between the
knees by a person sitting in a chair (fig. 12).
This is a very primitive specimen of this class of
heddles, and serves to illustrate their popularity
in folk industry. There is nothing about this
piece that is above the skill of the untutored
farm boy with a common saw and awl and ham-
mer; the lower portion is not even rounded out
to fit the limbs of the operator as seen in other
figures.
Specimen 175641 in the U.S. National Museum
is a heddle frame from Bristol, Connecticut,
Bey made from a thin board of maple wood. The
ee ae eee eae ee portion consists of twenty-two healds 8%
Cat. No. ture USNM. pre iaChes long, sawed out from the top-as in fig. 14
sented to the National Muse- (fig. 13). These, together with twenty-one spaces,
um by Roswell Atkins. 5 . . ;
provide for forty-three warp filaments, and this
portion of the apparatus is 9 inches wide. The tops of the healds fit
in a groove of a rectangular block of oak which furnishes a framework
to the upper border. On opposite sides, at the bottom of the healds,
are riveted semicylindrical strips of the same material, strengthening
the apparatus at that point. The continuation downward of this upper
or working part forms a base 17 inches long, cut out in a pattern
resembling a vase or lamp stand. This stand is inserted in a groove

A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 5O]

at the end of a piece of oak wood and held fast by wooden pegs.
Finally, the oak piece is firmly set in and mortised into a heavy block
of wood which acts as a foot to the apparatus.

This specimen belongs to the class of stationary heddle frames as in
the example from Siena, Italy, and from Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
The specimens from Maine and Connecticut, held between the knees
of the operator, really belong to the same type.

Mrs. F. R. Post, of Hebron, Connecticut, has one of these heddle
frames cut out of a single piece of wood, on which her grandmother
when young used to weave garters, etc., for her mother and her sisters,
and her mother has also used it.

The warp was laid off in proper lengths by being wound around
chairs, run through the holes in the healds and between slats; the outer
ends were tied together and fastened to some object and the inner ends
were held in the hand of the weaver. The weaver held the heddle
between her knees by means of the projecting lower part or handle,
and taking the inner ends of the warp in one hand, she raised and
lowered it alternately. The slats allowed the warp to spring the same
as the harness ina loom. The filling was put in with her other hand
by means of a simple shuttle, and beat up with one finger. (Compare
fie. 14.)

Mrs. Louise G. Strong, of Colchester, Connecticut, also sent to the
U.S. National Museum models, in cardboard, of these primitive hand
looms, and with them two specimens of work done thereon. The first
specimen is tough white linen tape one-fourth of an inch wide, used
in old country houses for making loops on towels and other fabrics to
hang them up. The other example is in worsted; the warp is a series
of black, green, red, olive, and blue worsted thread; the woof is a salmon-
colored worsted thread, but it is invisible on the surface of the fabric,
the warp having been driven hard home, so as to give a twilled effect.

Mrs. Strong says that the loom on which these were woven was used
in her family eighty years ago for making substantial fabrics, but
more especially as a pastime for young women.

Mrs. O. D. Nott, of New York, writes that her grandmother, living
in the little village of Milton, Litchfield County, over sixty years ago,
used a loom to make tape for apron strings. It was a very simple
affair, operated as follows: One end of the warp threads was fastened
to some stable object to hold them firm; the other ends were held in
the left hand, and by raising and lowering them the ‘‘ shed” was formed,
through which the filling or weft was inserted. In a cardboard model
given to the U.S. National Museum are five healds and six spaces.
The woof in this example is not even wound on a shuttle. The fabric
being very narrow, a small reel or bobbin was sufficient for the work,

. the lay being beaten home with the forefinger.
Specimen 175640 in the U. 8S. National Museum is a heddle frame
502 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

(_— =
4 ——— ———— ae
- | Ill

y 5 .

Fig. 13.
HEDDLE FRAME FROM BRISTOL, CONNECTICUT.
On solid base connected by an ornamental leg.
Cat. No. 175641, U.S.N.M. Collected by A. W. Williams and G. F. Richards.
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 503

from Auburn, Maine, collected by Mr. H. C. Merrill. It is formed
from a piece of white pine board one-half inch thick, and has eighteen
heddle dents. There is no crosspiece at the top, the working portion
being formed by seventeen saw cuts 10 inches long, dividing the upper
portion into parts like the teeth of a comb, each part one-half inch
wide. On both sides the angular edges of the upright parts have
been whittled away so as to facilitate the passing of the threads. The
holes for the warp threads have been rudely perforated and their
outer extremities whittled. The eu
lower part of the apparatus, 8} thy aa
inches long, has concave sides to 1h i |
facilitate holding it between the | a
knees of the operator (fig. 14). MAW |
It is quite possible that examples | MY
might be found in northern New
England States. The form in which
the heddle made of a single piece of
board is prolonged to be held be-
tween the weaver’s knees or to be
set in a block of wood on the floor
is peculiar to New England, so far
as the U. S. National Museum col-
lection testifies.

PATENTED HEDDLE FRAMES.

As the climax of this type of the
stationary heddle frame, attention is
now called to the United States pat-
ent No. 334320, granted in 1886 to
Eugenia Wernicke, a subject of the
King of Prussia, residing at 7 Bes- Fig. 14.
selsstrasse, Berlin. HEDDLE FROM MAINE, WITH HEALDS DISCON-

In the Wernicke patent the hed- NECTED AT THE TOP.
dle frame, in the drawing, shows _ At the bottom a footing is cut in to fit the knees
twenty-seven healds made of wire Nino.
or cord, with stirrups in the middle.
The shuttle for holding the thread is a seine needle lenticular in cross
section, tapering at its extremities, and provided at each end with an
eye. Other attachments to this device form part of the patent,
namely, for holding the warp in good shape, so as to secure uniform-
ity of width in the textile; clamp for holding the apparatus to the
table, etc., all unimportant in this place, the principle of operation
being the same as in those previously described from Germany and
other parts of Europe.

Cat. No. 175640, U.S.N.M. Collected by H. C. Merrill.
504 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The language of the-claim is as follows (Plate 4):

I claim as new:

(1) The combination, with a holder for one end of the warp threads, a clamping
device for securing said holder to a fixed support, and a holder for the other end of
the warp threads, of one or more bars adapted to be inserted in the warp, to serve
as a guide against which the weft is beaten up, a heddle frame constructed to be held
in and operated by hand, and a shuttle, also constructed to be operated by hand,
said devices constituting a hand-weaving apparatus, substantially as described.

(2) The combination, with a fixed support for one end of the warp threads and a
free support for the other end of said warp threads, of one or more bars adapted to
be inserted in the warp, to serve as a guide against which the weft is beaten up, a
heddle frame constructed to be held in and operated by the hand, substantially as
and for the purpose specified.

(3) The combination, with a fixed support for one end of the warp threads and a
free support for the other end of said threads, of one or more bars adapted to be
inserted into the warp and to serve as a guide against which the weft is beaten up,
a heddle frame constructed to be held and operated by hand, and a shuttle of len-
ticular form in cross section, operated by hand to pass the weft thread through the
warp and for beating up the lay, substantially as described.

(4) The holder or clamping device for one end of the warp thread, consisting of
the clamping bars 1, 2, 3, the latter being provided with a screw clamp or clamping
bracket (B), and the screws (s), said parts being constructed for operation substan-
tially as and for the purpose specified.

(5) The heddle frame consisting of a rectangular frame (H), the upper crossbar
(h!) of which is provided with a groove in its under side, and the lower cross-
bar (h*) with an offset in combination with the rack bars (h), rectangular in
cross section, the healds (H!'), the stirrups (e), the locking bar (L), and locking
latches (1) substantially as and for the purpose specified.

(6) The herein described shuttle (8), the body of which is of lenticular form in
cross séction, having slitted points (st), the slit of which terminates in an eye (s’),
substantially as and for the purpose specified.

HEDDLE FRAMES FROM THE PUEBLO REGION.

This interesting region occupies the valley of the upper Rio Grande,
the Territories of New Mexico and Arizona, and also portions of
southern Utah, southern Colorado, southern California, and northern
Mexico. It was first invaded by Spaniards when Cabeza de Vaca
crossed it in 1536, and visited by Francisco Vasquez de Coronado in his
expedition to search for the Seven Cities of Cibola in 1540. After
this the region was occupied by Spanish settlers, sheep were intro-
duced, and weaving in machines began. Some of the rude mechanical
appliances of this class existed there doubtless before of Mexican
type, since in the ancient ruins and cave dwellings textile fabrics of
excellent quality are found. But no relic has, up to this time, been
exhumed which connects the heddle frame here described with any-
thing earlier than the Spanish occupation, nearly 400 years ago.

The most interesting part of this study, however, is a large collec-
tion of heddle frames from the pueblo region of the United States for
weaving garters, belts, and other narrow ceremonial fabrics, some-
times in plain color, more commonly in stripes and diaper effects in
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. ° 505

different colored warps, quite similar to those of the Finlanders
(Plate 5). A number of sections of reed or split mesquite sticks are
laid parallel, as in the batten of the ordinary loom. These are
fastened at their ends on two par-
allel sticks, which constitute the
framework, whose length depends
upon the number of warp threads
to be inserted in the garter or belt.

Aninteresting feature in the struc-
ture of many of these pueblo hed-
dles is the occurrence of the wooden
cross piece at the upper part, on the
opposite side from the cross piece
at the bottom. When one of these
heddles is held perpendicularly in *REteH stows wmuonor srncse
the hand, if the upper cross stick f
ison the side next to the eye, the lower one will be on the outside
away from the eye (fig. 15).

The Algonquin Indians sit upon the ground at their work; so do
the pueblo tribes. Hence the free-swinging heddle is more convenient
for them. The same may be true of the east German types. Fig. 16

Fig. 15,

ay
es 7 / \\ WN ta Cy.
ot OW ng Calli SHG si
| ( If, [is Wy je “il mora
ec
t / f Wiss ' Vis

Wotan
f

Fig. 16.

PUEBLO WOMAN SITTING ON THE GROUND AND WORKING HEDDLE IN WEAVING A BELT.

shows the attachment of the warp to the cylindrical stick in front of
the weaver, which by courtesy may be called the primitive ‘cloth
beam.” It is held in place by a strap around the back, buttoned on
the end of the roller, serving also as a roller for the finished work.
The method of administering the heddle and the batten is clearly
exhibited (fig. 16).

506." * REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

This pueblo series is of such importance that the typical forms will
be more minutely described, and a table given of all the specimens so
as to bring out the characteristics which they have in common and
those which serve to differentiate them.

Specimen No. 176704 in the U. S. National Museum isa rude heddle
frame from Zuni, New Mexico, collected by Frank Hamilton Cushing
(fig. 17). The crossbars of twig are 6% inches long, and there are
sixteen healds, 44 inches long, laid parallel, with their ends on the
same side of the crossbars; these are made of little sticks rudely
whittled out, notched at their ends and fastened to the crossbars by
means of a rawhide lashing. The
holes, or dents, or stirrups in the
healds are rudely gouged out and
punched through. The whole appa-
ratus is so clumsily put together
that it gives the impression of a
child’s heddle for practicing. It is
inconceivable that good work could
be done with such a utensil, and yet
the Zuni have no better. Only
thirty-one warp threads could be
used in this heddle. One can not
always be sure that the objects ob-
tained from modern Indian tribes
have seen actual service. As soon
as things are known to be desirable,
they are forthcoming. In the best
made Zuni heddles the crossbars are
on alternate sides.

Specimen No. 41666 in the U. S.
National Museum is a heddle frame
from Zuni, New Mexico, collected
by Maj. J. W. Powell. The cross-
bars, of wood, are 28 inches long.
There are ninety-four healds of small reed, 5% inches long, and these
are attached to the crossbars by the usual lashing of rawhide thong,
supplemented by wrappings of yellow yarn. The excursion of the
loose warp filaments is 44 inches up and down. The holes or stirrups
through the healds have been bored with hot wire; indeed, in all of the
old specimens this seems to have been the method of piercing the
healds or of finishing off the stirrups (fig. 18).

It is noteworthy that in the examples presented from the different
States of the Union, from Finland, Germany, and Italy, the heddle
frame, with its healds, is carved or sawed out of a single piece of wood,
or the healds are set in a groove which corresponds with the crossbar

Fig. 17.

RUDE ZUNI HEDDLE FRAME FOR NARROW
GARTER,

Cat. No. 176704. U.S.N.M. Collected by F. H. Cushing.
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 507

of the Zuni loom, but in all the looms of the Southwest the healds are
lashed to crossbars.

Specimen No. 165534 is a small batten frame or reed from Guadalajara, -
reeds

66 9

Mexico, collected by P. L. Jouy. It consists of sixty-four
made of bits of flat iron, somewhat like those of
a small clock spring. These are set at the top
and bottom between two semicylindrical bits of
wood and held in place by half-hitches of twine,
whieh not only hold fast the reeds, but also
give uniform spacing for the warp. ‘The col-
lector says that ‘‘it is wsed for separating the
threads of the warp in weaving the “rebezos’ or
ornamental head shawls,” universal throughout
Latin America (fig. 19).

At the side of this frame upright pieces are
set in between the ends of the crosspiece and
held in place by lashing. There are no dents or
stirrups in this piece, so that it could not in any
way have been used as a heddle or harness, but
simply as a reed in beating home the weft. The
noticeable feature is the method of attaching
the upright iron portions to the crossbars, which
is very similar to that used by the Zuni in
attaching the healds to their heddle frames.

Example No. 166694 in the U. 8S. National
Museum is a heddle frame labeled Moki or
Tusayan, collected by Mr. James Mooney. The
frame sticks are 222 inches long. There are
eighty-two healds of reed and eighty-one spaces,
so that there is in all provision for one hundred
and sixty-three warp threads. The healds are
8? inches long, giving an excursion to the warp
threads of 7 inches; at their upper and lower
ends they are laid on different sides of the

crossbars, so that in looking at the apparatus Fig. 18.
the crossbar will be on the side of the eye, and cents 3 no. ae

¢ 3 etiey Showing the healds on alter-
the other will appear behind the ends of the sed GE chonaiais:
healds. Cat. No. 41666, U.S.N.M. Col-

= lected by J. W. Powell.
As before remarked, there are a great many

specimens made in this way, although there are others in which the
crossbars.are both on the same side of the healds as ina gate. The
ends of the healds are attached to the crossbars by a peculiar kind
of lashing, in which the twine or filament crosses itself over the
healds and lies in somewhat parallel lines on the sides of the cross-
bars (Plate 6).
508 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

PUEBLO HEDDLES OF VARIOUS SIZES.

Collection of heddles from pueblos, marked Zuni in the catalogue,
but the location is not definitely known. The apparatus is more com-
mon at Moki.

Plate 7, fig. 1. Crossbars, rectangular strips of wood with notches
cut on the flat side to receive the ends of the healds. This char-
acteristic should’ be noted in this specimen, since it is very rare;
in most examples it will be seen that the healds are laid against the

Ne ee nie a 8 eee te ee TEE

Ze i iiiee ) )
SPP PERO RR ERE RRR RRO EI OAD
LNT EA ee er VO)

| Se

| (ein BL
Wy
: ie! i
HN} al
nite
| |
AT \;
AE nM
~ Ny
sai nNlil) 7
<a

—__—-

TIT t ttt tt tt 1 Fe 9 ira es Sen eo
facaiyinpaan Wisiiapidi Tati Toh
SZ Za, Tacit iia AOE SEER

N My (nae Eevess:asssseeeesn-=

Fig. 19.

BATTEN FROM GUADALAJARA, MEXICO, ON THE PLAN OF THE PUEBLO HEDDLES.
Cat. No. 165534, U.S.N.M.

frame. In this specimen there are sixteen healds made of bits of
split cane or splints of wood one-fourth of an inch wide and very thin.
The ends are notched to fit into the notches cut into the crossbars and
are held in place by a continuous winding or wrapping of sinew fila-
ment. The holes or stirrups, in the healds, are coarse and rudely
excavated.

The healds are 4 savties long ‘between the crossbars; the whole
leneth of healds is 5 inches, and of crossbars 9% inches.

Cat. No. 127688, U.S.N.M. Collected by Bureau of Ethnology.

ao
A PRIMITIVE WEAVING FRAME. 5O9

Piare 7.—Collection of Pueblo heddles, marked Zuni, but they are quite as
likely to be Moki. U.S.N.M.

Fic. 2.—Crossbars of willow twigs; sixteen healds, 53 inches long, made of splints
of wood, rudely whittled and fastened to the crossbars by wrapping of rawhide and
rags. This is a very rude specimen. Length of crossbars, 7} inches. Zuni, New
Mexico. Cat. No. 75732, U.S.N.M. Collected by James Stevenson.

Fig. 3.—Crossbars of twig; forty healds of cane splints, 53 inches long, notched at
either end to be fastened against the crossbars on alternate sides by rawhide string
and rags. It is specially noteworthy that the ends of the bars are not opposite to
each other. Zuni, New Mexico. Cat. No. 75731,U.S.N.M. Collected by James
Stevenson.

Fia. 4.—Crossbars of splints of wood, rectangular in cross section and regularly
notched in on the broad side for securing the thirty-five healds which are made
of thin splints of wood, 6} inches long, and notched at the ends and fastened to
the crossbars by a lashing of leather. This specimen has the appearance of having
been much used. Moki pueblo. Cat. No. 127688, U.S.N.M. Collected by James
Stevenson.

Fia. 5.—Crossbars of sticks of wood rectangular in cross section; forty-four healds,
the shorter ones 63 inches long, are fastened to the crossbars by wrapping of leather
string. On either side of the middle are three groups of healds rising above the
upper crossba.s by a series of steps. Moki pueblo, New Mexico. Cat. No. 127688 (a),
U.S.N.M. Collected by James Stevenson.

PLarr 8.—Figures of two heddles from Moki Indians, New Mexico. Collected
by Mrs. Stevenson.

Fig. 1.—Crossbars of sticks, perforated for the fastening of the forty-eight healds,
of split cane, 6 inches long, which are attached to the crosspieces by means of a
leather string rove through the holes in the ends of the healds and through the
crossbars. Both ends of each heald are on the same side of the crossbars.

This specimen is unique in the manner of attachment, since most of the healds are
fastened to the crossbars by wrapping, but in this case they are sewed together by
means of leather thong. Moki Indians, New Mexico. Cat. No. 127688 (b), U.S.N.M.
Collected by James Stevenson.

Fig. 2.- -Crossbars, one of stick, the other a flat piece of wood resembling a bow.
There are eighty-nine healds, consisting of small reeds not split, 73 inches long,
neatly wrapped at their ends with fine thread attaching them to the crossbars. The
two ends of these healds, as in other best examples, are on different sides of the
crossbars. The great number of healds, their neat lashing, and the position of the
crossbars on different sides of the healds, mark this as a well-used and genuine
example. Two reeds are broken out, and their places have been filled by woollen
yarn with knotted stirrups in the middle to take the place of the holes in the healds.
Moki Indians. Cat. No. 166695, U.S.N.M. Collected by James Mooney.

It has been seen already, from the plates and descriptions, that
among the Zufi and other Pueblo Indians a special batten is used for
beating home the weft. In the simple tape-weaving devices in Con-
necticut the forefinger of the weaver is used as a batten, the shuttle
serving merely to carry the warp thread back and forth through the
**sheds.” In the Finland examples, in those of Germany, and perhaps
elsewhere, a wooden bobbin with open ends carries the warp filament,
while in other examples either one or both ends of the bobbin are
carved into the shape of the shuttle used in net making, and the edges
of this wooden bobbin in all cases are made in the form of a knife
510 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

blade, so as to be utilized also as a batten in pushing the weft thread —
into place. Now, in the Pueblo examples the bobbin is a little stick
on which the weft thread is wound, very much as a boy winds his kite
string, into a spindle-shaped package, the ends of which pass easily
into and through the ‘‘sheds.” This bobbin is not used at all in beat-
ing the weft thread home, but a separate sword or batten is employed,
which performs several functions. First, it takes the place of fingers
in separating different series of warp threads when figure weaving is
in view. After running the batten underneath those warp threads
that are to appear in the figure it is revolved 90° on its axis and
in this way becomes a special harness for making ‘‘sheds.” Second,
as a batten for beating home the weft. Third, as a help to the hed-
dle, which does not always separate the two series of warp threads.
The longer specimens are used for precisely the same purposes by
blanket weavers in their looms, and in the U. S. National Museum
there is, in the Ainu collection, a weaving in bark in which a very
broad batten of this kind with a handle similar to some of those found
in the Pueblo region is exhibited.

The specimens shown in Plate 9 are of mesquite wood (Prosopis
julifiora) or of oak (Quercus gambelii). The upper example is made
from a branch split and smoothed and shaped as little as possible. In
the others it will be seen that there is an increasing effort on the part
of the maker to secure a handle and a wider, thinner, and smoother
blade.

It is regrettable that the author has not been able to extend his
inquiries into France and Spain. Hypothetically, the heddle frame
came from Europe or southwestern Asia. The Finns, the Germans, the
Sauks, and the Pueblo tribes have the free-swinging heddle frame.
The New England women, who sit in chairs at their work, the Penn-
sylvania Dutch, and the Italians used the stationary frame, making the
‘*sheds” by raising and lowering the inner or cloth ends of the warp.

Those weavers that sat on the ground and employed the free-swing-
ing heddle could use a sword or paddle batten, serving to make the
‘*sheds,” to separate certain warp filaments for figure working, and
for beating home the weft. Only rich patterns occur where the free-
swinging heddle frame is employed. Not enough is known of the
spread of this last apparatus in Europe to show the definite manner of
its introduction into Iowa and the Pueblo region. On weaving with
little boards in Bagdad and Mesopotamia, see C. F. Lehmann.*

'Verhandl. d. Berliners Gesellsch. f. Anthrop., etc., May 19, 1900, p. 299.
PLATE 1.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 —Mason

“L14g IVINOWSYSD ONIAVEM NVWOM INNZ

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Mason. PLATE 2.

sae aeccteneenss eqagnaseasosea)

we renenwarwanert
bs <, S

ereaeecmeatecosaveaseonense

TUTE TITEL LL Tere hee
: s. et od - m cS

~~ ,

TeCR OPES PEO COLE UE EEE a]

Gaga tesseecacieeenee

PPeve Ceeree eer esas ee faves

aoeecvnareeatartanesea?

: wenden’
oer TPT ETTTT Tite
HELE ACER OUND mere hme CAAT AUAA MRA AERATOR eCen SER ssTOEEOnadat east Att aased dene stagenss bi

a ae 2 in oe

ME
eo.

a, a
: teat I can Nia oe. ~~
Perr rr rt tir rr Tr err Prrrrrrrrrrrcerirrrrreririrertiii ry ire Pelee

NEP >
eee ee
Mee

re
[Lotta

ecrenesuaes
queers

be taht t. . 4
ie
rs = ¢7

Petia eee ee eee TT TS

etheaset

EReeeeeee tee

: +e
es : ee
Tccastetscascavisecens seters:, . ee

Porevauvaseuesatsaneurts retrrrrriy)

Ee ASST Cer eees ENED vaevecesteetirase

Faesaracsuagay paseaetare)
ea oo os

[ei
seheeere eas ‘.
| Teco eset er eang bas rasy

eee PPT A ROPROR AOS ESOS UES POSES SSS T LS eee VOee PCCP SUeeCOeeer eS eCtiCeaceereeee ETUC Ler r tT rir
‘ + “e° - ros — —. = a
bed sed af ~ - ’ .

= - -> <= Fl

Ree e ee aan esaetcunelveunt Saventnatociaxsstenrexeetras

[GSeveeagtseaeas oss setsesseseessseaggrasaissssissssereisessestgs sgreassesrssissriesraseagsssss
ay 25 : oy - b >

i Cae ges ge ee

Te

A> - a & a 2 es > em. a = ro +
SOCCER SSR TE EATERS tee taeee CHOATE REEL A RTT SREETASE SO eRe rss eee setae ian

EMR.
—. ~~
Ag eLelaaereege ties

e- $9 =:

<

SeeEVLT Tat ETETEESFe
r s -~

— -

» ee 4
as — a
ais teeeeeeteresrerseetert siti ieeeeey
My es WE oe
+ >S + <- — iF + + 4 4
a i ed es al A

; é 3 i ; i

- vw

++

PATTERNS OF GARTERS AND BELTS MADE IN HEDDLE FRAMES IN HELSINGFORS.
Report of U, S. National Museum, 1899.—Mason PLATE 3.

LCOM WITH HEDDLE FRAME FOR WEAVING SILK BRAID.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. — Mason PLATE 4,
(No Model.) 2 Sheets—Sheet 1.
E. WERNICKE.

HAND WEAVING APPARATUS.
No. 334,320. Patented Jan. 12, 1886,

—— = — =——
SS EZzZD-DZ Zee \ Ny)
i II
i fy
fy oe il
A = |
, di

,
A\ on \ l
- TAL Oye

Nas

i)
HH oe ' >

\\
We

ft)

i

/

YN ee) “Devt €or:
RK =

¢ \ S a entity ay
to YoU 95.05 o>) \N an hii
a

PATENT HEDDLE FRAME No. 334,320.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Mason.

a

a
z
+!
4
>
=

Pea peg ee Rel testy:

Attsts

Tyra

%

BELT AND GARTER PATTERNS FROM PUEBLOS.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899. Mason. PLATE 6.

Hi

I

)
YY

a a OL

ol
“Ly it

OG SSS

CONSTRUCTION OF PUEBLO HEDDLE FRAME.
PLATE 7.

of U. S. National Museum, 1899,—Mason.

Report

/.
ia Bade AB af
a i {
f

thodelelodaloded oe Gelem*se

bt :
rf |
——

2
x
=
=

—. = - « #
ee - esse - ~~ ae oe =

TYPES OF PUEBLO HEDDLE FRAMES.
PLATE 8.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Mason.

-

a4 4

aes

TYPES OF PUEBLO HEDDLE FRAMES.
Report of U. S. National Museum 1899 Mason PLATE 9.

PUEBLO BATTEN KNIVES FOR BEATING HOME THE WEFT.
AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY.

BY

WALTER HOUGH,

Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology.

AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY.

By WALTER Hoven,

Assistant Curator, Division of Ethnology.

The first potter at Morgantown, after the Indians, whose shards are
scattered in the rich alluvium of the valley of the Upper Mononga-
hela, was called by his apprentices ‘* Master” Foulk. Of him nothing
more can be learned, nor can the date of his enterprise be fixed beyond
that it was before 1785, neither do any of his wares exist at the present
day.

In the period of settlement between 1758, when Thomas Decker
arrived at the mouth of the creek that bears his name, and 1786, when
Morgantown was incorporated, there is little to chronicle beyond the
events incident to the early frontier, such as the establishing of forts
and the fights with the Indians, in which David Morgan stands out
prominently as a remarkable figure in border wartare. |

About the year 1785, James Thompson, with his son, John W. Thomp-
son, then 4 years old, came from Bel Air, Maryland, to Morgantown.
They settled near the Dorsey fort, several miles south of the town,
because in those days of Indians, panthers, wildcats, and bears, every-
one wanted to be near the fort. Later they moved to Morgantown,
and, as family tradition has it, built the fifth house in the place. John
was apprenticed to ‘‘ Master” Foulk, the potter, learning the trade
and succeeding to Foulk’s business.

This pottery was probably the first established west of the mountains,
and arose from the increasing needs of the settlements growing around
the frontier forts, so remote from the seacoast markets and almost
without roads and transportation. Early in the nineteenth century,
domestic pottery, which had been hauled all the way from Baltimore,
sold on the frontier at 3 levys a gallon, equivalent at this day to 72
cents. This was another inducement to supply the demand on the
spot. Moreover, the extensive deposits of Quaternary clays on the

NAT MUS 99 3d 513

514 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

terraces of the Monongahela, shown by Dr. I. C. White to be coinci-
dent in geological time with the formation of the great glacial dam
across the Ohio near Cincinnati, furnish abundant and superior
material for pottery making.*

There was also an early market for the wares of Morgantown, and a
great part of the product of the pottery was sent in keel boats and flat-
boats to various points down the Monongahela above Pittsburg and
into the ‘‘ wilderness.”

The stoppage of intercourse between the United States and England
during the Administration of Thomas Jefferson worked hardship upon
the growing country, as yet depending largely upon foreign nations
for manufactured articles. However, the restrictions on trade and
intercourse of the embargo act of 1807 paved the way for independent
manufactures in the United States to supply home demand and mark
the beginning of that industrial energy which has led to industrial
supremacy. At this period many small manufactories were started,
as the glass factory (1807) of Albert Gallatin and the pottery of
Alex. Vance at Greensboro, Pennsylvania (1809).

During the war of 1812, as William Boughner, of Greensboro, Penn-
sylvania, informs me, the yellow glazed ware was in good demand
and brought a high price. He instances that cups and saucers sold at
a dollar the set. It will be seen that again the cessation of commerce
with England cut off the supplies of wares of the quality not made in
America and stimulated the small potteries to manufacture articles for
table use. Previously the wares were of the commoner forms for
domestic use, such as milk pans, preserve jars, jugs, etc. Unfortu-
nately, no examples of the tableware of 1812 survive, but fragments
from the site of the old pottery show that it was a good quality of
earthenware covered with a lustrous yellow glaze.

The Vance-Boughner pottery at Greensboro, Pennsylvania, contin-
ued to produce lead-glaze earthenware up to 1849; one of the latest
specimens being shown in Plate 3. The manufacture of stoneware,
principally in the form of jugs and milk crocks, still continues at that
place. The earliest specimen of salt glaze stoneware from Greensboro,
turned by Alex. Boughner in 1850, is shown in Plate 6.

One can hardly realize the difficulties that beset the potter on the
frontier in the early days. His materials for glazes were secured only
by the greatest exertions, and their compounding taxed his patience.
His colors were ground on stones by hand. Sheet lead secured from

1]. GC. White, American Geologist, XVIII, December, 1896, pp. 368-379.

Recent investigations seem to show that the clay deposits are due to local dams of
ice. The writer, whena boy, discovered fossil plants in these claysand brought them ,
to the attention of geologists. Dr. F. H. Knowlton, of the U. 8. Geological Survey,
has determined the plants to be of the Quaternary glacial period.
AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. 515

chests of tea and oxidized over the fire in an iron pan formed the basis
of his lead glaze; other materials had to be brought long distances
over the mountains.

On every hand there was call for the inventive spirit in the potter
and skill in handling all sorts of tools and doing odd jobs. If a tool
was needed there was nothing to do but to make it; brushes of human
hair served for decorating the ware; bits of stick were whittled into
modeling tools, or objects from various sources, if they had the proper
form, were pressed into service. Clay was to be dug and worked in
the rude mill of the potter’s manufacture, the masonry kiln was to be
laid up, and wood hauled and chopped with which to burn the ware.
In the ‘‘ shop” abounded evidences of the potter as jack of all trades;
the wheel, the pieces of wood held in the hand for forming the vessels
(Plate 8), the slip pump, carriers for removing the green ware, molds,
stamps (Plates 9-18), and many other things that he had made with
his own hands. A picture of the resourceful handicraftsman’s labora-
tory and workshop in the period of independent trades is full of
interest. Also the products have an individuality that is denied to
the products of cooperative labor, though the latter be more in touch
with art ideas diffused at the present time.

The first ware made at Morgantown was porous terra-cotta covered
with a yellow lead glaze. Teapots, cups and saucers, dishes, and other
tableware were turned out. Unfortunately, no specimens of this
ware remain, but fragments from the site of the old pottery show its
character.

Following this came ‘‘ red ware,” or terra-cotta, covered with trans-
parent lead glaze. At this period (1800) a number of glazes began to
be used, such as dark-brown lead glaze, black iron or manganese
glaze, gray “china glaze,” greenish-gray and white, the surviving
specimens being interesting and beautiful. They show decided artistic
merit in the glaze and a quaintness of form that is pleasing and well
worth the study of modern ceramists.

Lead glaze wares went into disuse on account of a belief that such
glazes are unwholesome, which is true. It was observed, also, that
the preparation and firing of lead glazes had a bad effect on the health
of the potter.

With the disappearance of the ware having a lustrous glaze there
ended a most interesting period of the pottery at Morgantown. The
traditions and training that had given form and character to the art
during more than fifty-five years and produced results that were com-
mendable could not survive the introduction of heavy, unresponsive
material like stoneware, which was produced in the second period.

In the second period, by the mixture of clays, securing the fusible
and infusible elements which stand high heat in the kiln, stoneware
51/6 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

began to be made. This ware was rudely decorated with blue on the
paste, slipped in the interior with ‘‘Albany clay,”’ and glazed in the
kiln with salt.

The method of glazing by salt was introduced into Staffordshire in
1690 by two Germans from Nuremburg, named Elers. It was experi-
mented with by Wedgewood, but proved unavailable, and fell to use
for common ware. It is probable that the first salt glaze made in
this country was at Marcus Hook, New Jersey.

On the close of the first period of the Morgantown pottery and the
death of the aged potter, John W. Thompson, following a few years
atter, his son Greenland Thompson took charge of the work.

Greenland Thompson was a singularly retiring but well-informed
man. Under better material conditions and surroundings he might
have advanced to the manufacture of finer wares under the demands
of modern taste. Within his limitations his temperament was artistic
and appreciative.

The idea which he carried out in stoneware was the application of
natural forms in relief to the exterior of vessels. The specimens
of his work in the U.S. National Museum consist of a small cream
pitcher with an ornamentation of rose stems, leaves, and buds; a
flower vase covered with impressions from the shell of the Brazil nut,
all of heavy ware, soft gray in color, and glazed with salt (Plates 6,
7). More pretentious pieces were made by this potter, consisting
of large garden-flower vases, the holder decorated with rose and other
floral designs, and the base representing rounded river pebbles, or
cylinders imitating tree trunks with vines clinging to them.

Vases of this character were not made for sale, but may be consid-
ered as the pastime of the potter, and were intended as presents to
friends. A small trade was, however, carried on in children’s banks,
pipes, fat-lamps, etc., but the standard product of the pottery was
crocks, jars, jugs, and other desiderata for the housewife. The only
decoration applied to the salt glaze ware consisted of rude floral orna-
mentations in cobait.

One of the most interesting specimens of early salt glaze ware
of Morgantown belongs to Mrs. Linnie Dille, of that place. It isa
jar, bearing the following brush-work inscription in cobalt blue:
‘‘Home manufacture. Independence. High tariff. William Crih-
field. August, 1844.” Crihfield or Chrichfield was an employee of the
Thompson pottery.

The work of Greenland Thompson was not appreciated at its value
and was scarcely known outside of Morgantown. In consequence,
there are very few specimens in existence, those pieces which have

' Albany slip clay is a fusible silicate of aluminium mined at Albany; New York,
It fires to a sublustrous enamel of dark purple color.
~~

AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. sky

escaped destruction being lost in the limbo of ‘told things” which
exists in or around every human habitation.
The pottery ceased operation on the death of Mr. Thompson in 1890.
The writer is much indebted for the historical information in the
above paper to Mrs. Dorcas Haymond, a daughter of Mr. John W.
Thompson.

DETAILED CATALOGUE OF THE WARES OF THE FIRST PERIOD.!

Wuisky FLASK. Terra-cotta with brown lead glaze; heavy ware. Such flasks were

in use on the frontier before glassware was comnaon. ~ Plate 1, fig. 1.
Teight, 63 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178460.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

Omruent JAR. Terra-cotta with greenish-gray glaze showing mottlings of pink.
The vessel has one of the most beautiful glazes produced by the old pottery at
Morgantown. Plate 1, fig. 2.

Height, 4 inches; diameter, 2} inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 205346.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

Prrcner. Terra-cotta, unglazed. On one side is the impression of a large mold in
relief representing a house surrounded with trees, a favorite device of the early
potter. The spout was formed from the pattern figured on Plate 16, fig. 7.
The handle has been broken off. Plate 1, fig. 3.

Height, 9 inches; diameter, 8 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 205345.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

PResERVE JAR. Terra-cotta body covered with dark brown lustrous glaze. Sealed by
tying oiled paper over the mouth, as in the old form of preserve jar. Plate 1,
fig. 4.

Height, 6} inches; diameter, 5} inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 205344.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

Spice BoTrLe. Terra-cotta body covered with transparent lead glaze giving the beau-
tiful clear red of the earliest pottery made at Morgantown. The word “ peper”’
in dark brown decorates one side. The shoulder of the bottle bears a slip deco-
ration in white, the motive being the name D. Thompson. Plate 1, fig. 5.

Height, 53 inches; diameter, 3 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 203343.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

SuGAR PURIFIER. Terra-cotta covered with glaze giving the reddish-brown color which
is said to have been the color of the earliest ware made at Morgantown. In
form the vessel is conical, open at the top, and having an orifice at the bottom.
It was set up over another jar and was filled with the rather crude maple sugar
manufactured in the early days, which would drain through the orifice, leaving
the upper layer white anddry. The initials “J. F. C.,”” of an unknown potter,
are scratched through the glaze. Date, 1800. Plate 2, fig. 2.

Height, 13? inches; diameter, 9 inches.

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96595.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

1'The wares described are exhibited in a wall case on the south side of the ceramic
gallery in the U.S. National Museum.
518 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

Mo.assres JAR. The sugar purifier was placed above the molasses jar in order to
cateh the drips from the soft sugar. For description of the jar see page 518 and
explanation of Plate 4, fig. 2.

PRESERVE JAR. Terra-cotta body, straight sides, sloping shoulders, and short straight
neck. The glaze is opaque, lustrous, and gray-green in color, with cloudings of
brown blended into the glaze. This specimen is one of the most artistic and
pleasing of the objects remaining from the early pottery at Morgantown. It
dates from the last quarter of the eighteenth century. Plate 3, fig. 1.

Height, 82 inches; diameter, 6; inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178456.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

Spice BorrLe. Terra-cotta body, sloping sides, fluting around bottom. Lead glaze,
dark brown, heavy and lustrous, with obscure mottling or spotting that gives a
pleasing broken color. Such bottles were used for containing spices. Date,
about 1800. Plate 3, fig. 2.

Height, 43 inches; diameter, 4 inches.

Morgantown, West Virginia. 178455.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

MouassEs JAR. Terra-cotta body, covered with dark brown mottled glaze; amphora
shape. For containing molasses and apple butter. Date, about 1820. Plate
3, fig. 3.
Height, 11 inches; diameter at top and bottom, 5 and 5} inches; at middle, 8 inches.

Morgantown, West Virginia. 178459.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

Juc. Red body, pear shape. Glaze red brown, highly lustrous, and with uniform,
spirally arranged crackle. Turned in 1849 by William Boughner, at Greensboro,
Pennsylvania. Plate 3, fig. 4.

Height, 87; inches; diameter, 6 inches.
Greensboro, Pennsylvania. 178454.
Gift of William Boughner.

PRESERVE JAR. Terra-cotta body of usual shape covered with dark-brown lead glaze,
with imperfections, giving light brown and yellow effects. Plate 3, fig. 5.

Height, 8 inches; diameter, 6} inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178452.
Gift of Hon. J. M. Hagans.

Pircuer. Terra-cotta body glazed outside and within with a speckled glaze resembling
Flemish gray. This glaze was called ‘‘china glaze’’ by the potter; its composi-
tion is not known at present. Horizontal rows of alternate green and black
circles have been painted on over the glaze and fused, forming a bizarre ornamen-
tation. The body of the vessel is ovoid, the spout bent in the neck; the handle
is very broad, and the pitcher presents a quaint, old-fashioned appearance. Plate
4, fig. 1.

Height, 93 inches; diameter, 7} inches.

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96594.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

MouassEs JAR. Terra-cotta body covered with a greenish semitransparent glaze.
Where the glaze is thicker the greenish hue predominates, where it is thinner the
orange hue of the body shows through. The handle and sides of the jar between
the handles are decorated in brown. The handles are lugs for lifting the jar.
Plate 2, fig. 1, and Plate 4, fig. 2.

Height, 133 inches; diameter, 10} inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96590.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.
AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. 519

Preserve sar. Terra-cotta body covered outside and within with a brown (near
sienna) transparent lead glaze speckled with minute dark-brown spots. The
sides of the jar are decorated with a conventional flower, possibly a tulip, in
white, green, and brown. The colors have blended into the glaze. The jar
is of quaint shape, the sides having a long, concave sweep, the shoulders bended
with turned grooves, and the rim low, suited tor tying on the cover. This
excellent specimen is of the first period of the pottery of Morgantown. Plate 4,
fig. 3. ;

Height, 10} inches; diameter, 6} inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96588.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

Cuurn. Terra-cotta body covered with an uneven semitransparent greenish-yellow
glaze known as ‘‘china glaze,’’ decorated with a leaf design in black. The churn
is a truncated cone, the rim hollowed for the reception of the churn lid. It is
related that churns were made as presents to children, but also were found useful
for small churnings in the household. Plate 4, fig. 4.

Height, 93 inches; diameter, 8} inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96592.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

Spice BorrLe. Terra-cotta, unevenly covered with a glaze varying from gray to
brownish yellow, rough and spotted. The word ‘‘Cinnamon,’’ in brown, is
written on the bottle, and the signature of D. G. Thompson is scratched on
the paste. The sides slant to the bottom from the shoulder, which slopes
upturned to the neck. The latter is ridged. Plate 5, fig. 1.

Height, 5} inches; diameter, 33 inches.

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96593.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

PRESERVE JAR. Terra-cotta body, burned rather hard. Speckled brown lead (near
sienna) transparent glaze, with large feathery clouded splotches of lighter green-
ish buff ‘“‘china glaze’’ over brown glaze, but melted in. Ornamental band
stamped with rolling die around the shoulder of the jar. Almost straight,
slightly bulged sides, sloping shoulder, flaring rim, inside of which is a collar to
hold the lid for sealing. Glazed brown inside, no glaze on bottom. No marks.
Plate 5, fig. 2. This jar is of the variety first made in Morgantown, where
a pottery was in existence about 1785. It dates from about the beginning of the
present century.

Height, 93 inches; diameter, 6} inches.

Morgantown, West Virginia. 96587.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

JAR oR CADDY. Terra-cotta body covered with black, lustrous, obscurely-crackled
glaze made with lead. A band of three horizontal grooves in the paste goes
around the middle of the jar. A relief stamp representing a coat of arms is
placed above the band. The sides of the jar are slightly concave, the shoulder
is square, and the neck is upright without flange, the general shape being that
of the old-fashioned glass candy jar. This jar is a very excellent example of the
‘*pblack’’ ware of the early pottery. Date, about 1792. Plate 5, fig. 3.

Height, 8} inches; diameter, 6§ inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96589.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

Far-Lamp. Terra-cotta, unglazed; in shape, that of a North African lamp, but with
larger reseryoir. It is probable that this is a potter’s lamp. In it waste fat was
burned by means of a wick formed of cotton cloth. Plate 5, fig. 4.

Height, 5 inches; diameter, 5 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia.
Gift of Dr. Walter Hough.
520 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

WARES OF THE SECOND PERIOD.

. . =
Juc. Old form in stoneware, with salt glaze of grayish-brewn shade. Employed for
holding oil, ete. Date, 1845. Plate 6, fig. 1.
Height, 8} inches; diameter, 4 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178464.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

PRESERVE JAR. Gray salt glaze stoneware, slipped inside with ‘‘Albany clay,”’ the
slip giving a smooth, dark-purple enamel. The jar shows mark of the turning.
Sealed by settling a convex tin cover in a slot at the mouth of the jar and secur-
ing with sealing wax. Date, 1872. Plate 6, fig. 2.

Height, 114 inches; diameter at base, 5; inches; at top, 3; inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 178461.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond. -

PRESERVE JAR. Fine specimen of the best type of salt glaze stoneware, carefully
thrown and finished. The color is uniform and pleasing. The clay from which
it is made is said to be the best ever discovered at Greensboro, but has been
exhausted for many years. Turned by Alex. V. Boughner, at Greensboro,
Pennsylvania, in 1860. Plate 6, fig. 3.

Height, 7 inches; diameter, 43 inches.

Greensboro, Pennsylvania. 178453.
Gift of Alex. V. Boughner.

PRESERVE JAR. Brownish-gray salt glaze stoneware resembling the Flemish ware.
Sealed in the old style by tying oiled paper around the mouth. This is one of
the earliest pieces of stoneware made at Morgantown, West Virginia. Date,
1850. Plate 6, fig. 4.

Height, 6 inches; diameter, 3§ inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

Murrin nines. Rings of salt glaze stoneware used for baking gems or “‘ popovers.”’
Date, 1849. Plate 6, fig. 5.
Diameter, 3} inches; height, 17 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96596.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

.

Frowrrpor. Gray stoneware with salt glaze. The outer surface is overlaid with
clay representations of Brazil-nut shells in low relief, forming an effective deco-
ration. Made by Greenland Thompson about 1870. Plate 7, fig. 1.

Height, 3 inches; diameter, 7} inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 95933.
Deposited by Miss Clara Hough.

CrEAM prrcHER. Gray stoneware with salt glaze. Decoration, the branch of a rose-
bush in leaf and flower applied in relief to surface of pitcher. Made by Green-
land Thompson about 1873. Plate 7, fig. 2.

Height, 3 inches; diameter, 23 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 95131.
Deposited by Miss Clara Hough.

Fiowerpor. Gray salt glaze stoneware. The outer surface is overlaid with clay
representations of pine cones in low relief, taken from molds made from the
subjects. Made by Greenland Thompson about 1873. Plate 7, fig. 3.

Height, 53 inches; diameter, 7§ inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 95932.
Deposited by Miss Clara Hough.
AN EARLY WEST VIRGINIA POTTERY. 5D}

FLowrer por. Salt glaze stoneware. Decorated with impressions from molds of pine

cones. Date, 1880. Made by Greenland Thompson. Plate 7, fig. 4.
Height, 3} inches; diameter, 5} inches,
Morgantown, West Virginia. 205341.
Gift of Mrs. Dorcas Haymond.

BorrLe FOR SLIP PAINTING. Terra-cotta, with brown glaze. The vessel has been
turned in the shape of a low bottle, and while green flattened on one side, con-
cavities pressed in the opposite sides for the thumb and forefinger, a hole made
in the top for the cork, and a quill thrust in the neck. In painting, the bottle
was filled with slip and the perforated stopper inserted. By the closing and
opening of the aperture in the cork with the forefinger the slip was made to flow
at the pleasure of the operator. Slip painting was prevalent in England in the
last century, and some remarkable pieces are still in existence. The slip vessel
may have been brought from England at the close of the last century. Plate 12,
fig. 1.

Length, 4 inches; height, 2§ inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96597.
Gift of Mrs. Doreas Haymond.

BortLeE FOR SLIP PAINTING. Similar in form to No. 96597, but of unglazed terra-cotta,
and having two holes. Twosmall feet in front allow the bottle to stand in slant-
ing position, preventing the leakage at the quill when notin use. Plate 12, fig. 4.

Length, 53 inches; height, 33 inches.
Morgantown, West Virginia. 96598.
Gift of Mrs, Dorcas Haymond.
Fic.

Fic.

Fia.

Fic.

Fia.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1.

| 2
|

_ “Tickler,” or pint flask. Red body; rough surface, glazed thinly with brown

lead glaze. Date, 1790. Height, 63 inches; breadth, 43 inches; thickness,
4 inches. Cat. No. 178460.

. Ointment jar. Red body, with mottied greenish glaze. Date, 1800. Cat.

No. 205346.

. Unglazed pitcher. Baked red ware, showing use of large stamp on side.

Date, about 1790. Cat. No. 205345.

4. Preserve jar. Red body; dark-brown lustrous glaze. Old form of preserve

jar, sealed by tying oiled paper over the mouth. Cat. No. 205344.

. Spice bottle. Red body; transparent glaze. Cat. No. 203343.
Ia

Report of U

S, National Museum, 1899.—Hough

PLATE 1.

WARE OF THE FIRST PERIOD.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 2.

Fic. 1. .Molasses jar. Thin, greenish glaze on terra-cotta. Brush decorations in
brown on lugs and sides. Cat. No. 96590.

Fig. 2. Sugar purifier. Terra-cotta, with yellow glaze, giving an orange-red color.
Cat. No, 96595.
PLATE 2.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,—-Hough.

‘doldad 1Sul4

SHL 4O SUVA

=," " uf e hate ix: f
; ‘ * io
. im ae aie Sait oe rie
eh 5 7 a fc Jas Sieh del .
> ae ?
om;
ak
«i ee !
os . :
1 |
J an
: h
a ;
A

ie

Fic.

Hines

Fig.

Fig.

bo

EX PE AIWAT I ON “OES PISA ess.

. Preserve jar. Red body, covered with gray-green glaze, with cloudings o

brown fused into the glaze, giving delicate shaded effect. Beautiful speci-
men, probably the highest product of the pottery. Date, 1820. Height,
x Inches; diameter, 63 inches. Cat. No. 178456.

. Spice bottle. Dark-brown lead glaze on red body. The glaze is heavy and

lustrous, and a close examination shows mottling of lighter color, giving a
variety to the general effect. Date, 1800. Height, 4% inches. Cat. No.
178455.

Molasses jar. Dark-brown mottled glaze on red body. One handle broken
off. Height, 11 inches; diameter at top and bottom, 5 and 53 inches; at
middle, 8 inches. Cat. No. 178459.

. Jug. Red-brown lustrous glaze, with uniform spiral crackle. Body, red

ware. Turned in 1849 by William Boughner at Greensboro, Pennsylvania.
Height, 8; inches; diameter, 6 inches. Cat. No. 178454. Gift of William
Boughner.

. Preserve jar. Dark-brown glaze, with mottlings of yellow, the shadings

giving good color effect. Height, 8 inches; diameter, 63 inches. Date,
1820. Cat. No. 178452. Gift of Hon. J. M. Hagans.
Report of VU. S, National Museum, 1899.— Hough.

PLATE 3.

WARE OF THE FIRST PERIOD.
a

su

a

ae ~

.
Ps
” 2
-
a
i >
i.
: 4
wi.
ad .
a oe
‘
”
=
~~ it

NAT

oe

MUS

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 4.

| |

| 1 2 3 4 |

Fic. 1. Pitcher. Terra-cotta, glazed with an opaque glaze resembling ‘‘ Flemish
-  gray.’’ Spotted alternately black and green. Cat. No. 96594.
2. Molasses jar. Terra-cotta, with semitransparent green glaze. Cat. No. 96590.

Fic. 3. Preserve jar. Terra-cotta, covered with lustrous brown glaze. Decoration,
a conventional tulip in white, green, and dark brown. Fine specimen of
old ware. Cat. No. 96588.

Fic. 4. Churn. Terra-cotta, with uneven, semitransparent, greenish-yellow glaze.

Decoration, a leaf design in black. Cat. No. 96592.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough,

PLATE 4.

WARE OF THE FIRST PERIOD.
Fia.

Igitels, »

Fia.

Fig.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 5.
| 1 2 3 4
|

. Spice bottle. Terra-cotta, covered thinly with opaque white glaze. Neck

fluted. The word ‘‘Cinnamon”’ is painted on the side in brown. Height,
54 inches; diameter, 3? inches. Cat. No. 96593.

. Preserve jar. Terra-cotta body, brown glaze, with light cloudings. Height,

9% inches; diameter, 63 inches. Cat. No. 96587.

3. Jar or caddy. Terra-cotta body, covered with very dark-brown, lustrous

glaze. Height, 83 inches; diameter, 63 inches. Cat. No. 96589.

. Fat-lamp. Terra-cotta, unglazed and rudely finished. This form of lamps

was one of the early products of the pottery at Morgantown. Height, 5
inches; diameter, 5 inches. Cat. No. 178464.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,—Hough. PLATE 5.

WARE OF THE FIRST PERIOD.

Ere:

Fia.

Fic.

Fic.

Fia.

5.

EXPLANATION OF PEATE 6:

. Jug. Half-gallon jug in grayish-brown, salt glaze stoneware, used for oil.

Date, 1845. Height, 83 inches; diameter, 4inches. Cat. No. 178464.

. Preserve jar. Gray, salt glaze stoneware, slipped inside with ‘‘Albany clay;’’

not carefully finished. Slot in lip forsealing with tin cover and sealing wax.
Date, 1872. Height, 114 inches; diameter, 53 inches—at top, 34 inches. -
Cat. No. 178461.

. Preserve jar. Best type of salt glaze ware, carefully thrown and finished.

Turned by Alex. Boughner, at Greensboro, Pennsylvania, in 1860.
Height, 7 inches; diameter, 43 inches. Cat. No. 178453. Gift of Alex. V.
3oughner.

. Preserve jar. Brownish-gray, salt glaze stoneware, having the appearance of

old Flemish. Sealed in old style by tying oiled paper around the mouth.
Date, 1850. Cat. No. 200342. ry

‘*Popover’’ or muffin mugs. Stoneware, covered with Albany slip. Date,
1849. Height, 1f inches; diameter, 34 inches. Cat. No. 96596.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 18¢

WARE OF THE SECOND PERIOD.

Fie.

Fia.

Fia.

EX RPILANA TION Or] P EAE sz.

. Flowerpot. Gray stoneware; salt glaze. Decoration, casts from molds taken

from Brazil nuts. Made by Greenland Thompson, 1884. Height, 33
inches; diameter, 74 inches. Cat. No. 95933.

. Cream pitcher. Gray stoneware; salt glaze. Decoration, rose leaves and

buds. Made by Greenland Thompson, 1870. Height, 33 inches. Cat.
No. 95931.

3. Flowerpot. Gray stoneware; salt glaze. Decoration, pine cones. Made by

Greenland Thompson, 1882. Height, 53 inches; diameter, 73 inches.
Cat. No. 95932.

. Flowerpot. Brownish-gray stoneware; thin salt glaze. Decoration, pine

cones. Made by Greenland Thompson, 1885, Cat. No. 205341.
s
‘
eae
etl Sok x
Tae “
tee ak

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 8.

Frias. 1-10. Formers of wood held in the hand by the potter while ‘‘throwing’’ ware
on the wheel, giving shape to the vessel by dexterously applying the
bit of wood to the revolving clay. The notches on the formers are
for the purpose of securing certain shapes and for finishing lips of jars,
etc. The formers were made of apple or pear wood. Morgantown,
West Virginia. Cat. No. 178502. Gift of Miss Jennie Thompson.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough PLATE 8.

TOOLS OF THE POTTER.
Fia.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fia.
Fig.
Fia.

Fia.

Fic.
Fia.
Fia.

Fia.
Fia.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 9,

. Former of wood. Cat. No. 178496.

. Hinged mold for tubular spouts. Cat. No. 178499.
. Lifters for handling green ware. Cat. No. 178497.
. Plumb bob of clay and string. Cat. No. 178510.

Awl. Cat. No. 178505.

. Former for mouths of jugs, etc. Cat. No. 178513.

, Wooden spatula. Cat. No. 178512.

. Wooden spatula. Cat. No. 178512.

. Arm rest. In use fastened by a bolt at the side of the wheel-box and coy-

ered with sheepskin as a cushion. Cat. No. 178495.

. Gauge for jar mouth. Lid of preserve jar fitted with handle to allow of

placing it over the mouth of the jar being thrown to ascertain gauge. Cat.
No. 178500.

. Wire for cutting ware from the wheel. Copper wire with wooden handle

and leather guard. Cat. No. 178498.

. Gauge for height of ware. Planted in alump of clay in the wheel-box. Cat.

No. 178504.

3. Bow for wire used in cutting ware from the wheel.
. Scraper for removing clay.
5. Former for mouths of jugs, ete.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough. PLATE 9.

- TOOLS OF THE POTTER.
bi
ay ry om poe h
= ee 4 +7

Pa

—_
=?
*

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 10,
1
14
5
7

iS)
2
el 2

3

SS eee

Fics. 1-5. Small modeling tools made from iron wire. (Cat. No. 178511 belongs to
all figures on this plate. )
Fics. 6-25. Modeling tools, scraper, etc., of various materials and -sources put to use
by the potter.
Fig. 24. Old knife used on the wheel for forming ware.
Fic. 25. Bits of wood, etc., adapted for use as modeling tools.
Fic. 30. Gauge.
PLATE 10.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—

oc
uw
=
fs
oO
jal
Ww
ae
b
uw
oO
o
=|
(eo)
(2)

eee ee a ee ee ee ee
EX PILAINAT !OIN (O'R (PEATE ake

Fies. 1-4. Dies of baked clay. Early form of die placed in bottom of press, fitted
with plunger to force clay through forming handles. Cat. No. 178515.

Fig. 5. Pattern for handle dies; sheet iron. Cat. No. 178507.

Fics. 6-7. Dies. Square frame of oak, over one end of which is tacked sheet iron,

pierced with the shape and fitted with a core. Placed in the press for

forming hollow handles. Cat. No. 178501.
S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough PLATE 11.

HANDLE DIES OF THE POTTER.

“t
ae
‘bhad

Fia.

Fia.
Fia.
Fia.

Fia.

Hw Oo bo

EX, BA NAgi ON <OiF SAGE leo

. Vessel for slip decoration. Red body covered with brown glaze. The upper

side of the vessel has an orifice to which was fitted a plug pierced with a
small hole, and the spout is supplied with a quill. The vessel is shaped for
grasping in the hand. Being filled with clay slip about the consistence of
thick cream, the stopper was inserted and the flow of the slip regulated by
the opening and closing of the orifice by the thumb. By this means designs
were applied to pottery, often complicated, and producing pleasing effects.
A specimen of the work may be seen on Plate 4, fig. 5. Cat. No. 96597.

Vessel for slip decoration. Red body, thin brown glaze.

Vessel for slip decoration. Red body, brown glaze. Wings at sides of body.

Vessel for slip decoration. Cream-colored body; splotches of brown glaze.
This vessel has two orifices in the top for convenience of the slip decorator.
Cat. No. 96598. :

. Vessel for slip decoration. Cream-colored body; splotches of brown glaze.

One orifice; four holes for quills at the spout.

A
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough, PLATE 12.

BOTTLES FOR SLIP PAINTING.
EX PLAINA THO(N OF (PDAs Emile.

2 2
1 3 4
il 10
5 |
9
6 7 8

Fras. 1-4. Rollers for decorating pottery. Sections of cylinders of baked clay with
sunken designs on the periphery, mounted in rude guides. Cat. No.
178526.

Fras. 5-9. Unmounted rolling stamps of wood and baked clay. Cat. No. 178526.

Fras, 10-11. Hand stamps of baked clay. Cat. Nos, 178525, 178520,
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough PLATE 13.

ROULETTE WHEELS FOR ORNAMENTING POTTERY.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 14.

|

1-20

|

Fias. 1-20. Hand stamps of baked clay used in the early manufacture of pottery at
Morgantown, West Virginia. Cat. No. 178520.

Fics. 21-25. Stamps of printing type and molds from type used in signing later ware.
Cat. No. 178520.

S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough

STAMPS FOR WARE.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 15.

1 2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9 10 at

| 12
| 13 14 15 16 1
18 19 20 21 22 23

Fies. 1-6. Button molds. Cat. No. 178519.

Fics. 7-11. Buttons cast from mold, unbaked. Cat. No. 178519.

Fic. 12. Figure stamps of wood. Cat. No. 178518.

Fics. 13-23. Figure stamps of baked clay and impression of stamps. Used in stamp-
ing ware according to cubical capacity. Cat. No. 178518.
PLATE 15.

pray

4 =
fon ‘4 >
RAM (¢
SAAT AAA
AAG §
7

ui
co
_<
oc
ie}
re
o
a
=
<
ke
io)
Ww
cc
>)
9
LL
ja)
Zz
<x
7p)
z
(e)
be
iS
=)
(ea)

1899,.—Hough

| Museum,
BUTTON MOLDs,

on

Fias. 1-3. Forms for molding small cake pans. Cat. No. 17851
Figs. 4-12. Forms and molds for making mouths of pitcher
Baked cream-colored clay. Date, 1790. Cat. Ne

ee

ar
bs

pr Tis 5
a’

Ae
°7

a pa
Report of U. S, National-Museum, 1899.—Hough PLATE 16.

~

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 17.

Fics. 1-3. Pipe molds of unbaked clay, conventional pattern.
belongs to all the figures in this plate. )
Fics. 4,5. Pipe mold, ‘‘ Indian pattern,’ and casts from halves of the: r
halves are afterwards joined by luting to form a pee ayia
Fig. 6. Half mold and east. =k RES ie hea
Fig. 7. Half mold; plain pipe. tan
Fic. 8. Pipe mold; baked cream-colored clay. Showing towels ee ho
together, ~~
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough.

Pipe MOLDs.

Mee

re se 8.4 ao

i

EXPEANAT ION ORO Ee AIne tis.

Fics. 1-2. Separators of clay. Formed by hand before setting up the kiln and
rolled in coarse sand to prevent adhering to ware. Cat. No. 178523,
Fic. 3. Rest for large vessels at bottom of kiln. Unbaked. Cat. No. 178522.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Hough PLATE 18.

SEPARATORS FOR WARE AND REST FOR WARE IN THE KILN.

POINTED BARK CANOES OF THE KUTENAT AND AMUR.

BY

OTIS T. MASON,
Curator, Division of Ethnology.

WITH NOTES ON THE KUTENAI CANOE BY MERIDEN S. HILL.

~

POINTED BARK CANOES OF THE KUTENAI AND AMUR.

By Ov1s T. Mason,
Curator, Division of Ethnology.

WITH NOTES ON THE KUTENAI CANOE BY MERIDEN §S. HILL.

INTRODUCTION.

Among the series of models to illustrate the history of navigation
gathered in the U. 5. National Museum there is one of a canoe secured
a long time ago by Mr. George Gibbs and numbered 641 in the
Anthropological Catalogue. Figures of such canoes are given in the
Standard Natural History,’ Lord’s British Columbia,’ Proceedings of
the Royal Society of Canada,* and by Julian Ralph.*

The model in question is not of birch-bark, but of pine-bark (Pinus
monticola), laid on with the inner or smooth side out. The canoes of
this type are all pointed like a monitor, at either end, on or below the
water line; that is, they are longest on the line of the keel. When
new they seem to be straight along this line, but, from being loaded
in the middle, they sag afterwards, and the pointed ends get turned up
through striking the shore in landing.

Mackenzie mentions the use of spruce-bark in canoe building, but
does not speak of the shape.

A glance at a large collection of American Indian water craft through-
out both continents reveals the fact that this pointed type is unique
for the Western hemisphere. In the north and east the birch-bark
canoes prevail, and farther north the kaiak and the umiak. In the west
the dugout is universal and assumes often large size and graceful out-
line. But every example of skin boat, bark canoe, and dugout on the
Western Hemisphere, excepting the Kutenai canoe, is longer on top
and narrower at the bottom, or what would be the keel if any were
present. In afew local forms of Canadian bark canoes there is a sug-
gestion of a chin at the ends, faintly hinting at kinship with the Kutenai
type. Further examination into the water craft of North and South
America fails to reveal any such form as that of the Kutenai canoe.
The bark boats or ‘‘ woodskins” of the Amazon and its affluents and

1Vol. VI, p. 441. = Voli TX, p15; tg:
2'Vol. II, p. 178. *On Canada’s Frontier, p. 293.
NAT MUS 99——36 525
526

the Orinoco have no such motives.*

REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The reader will have to search in

another part of the world for similar models, as will be shown

further on.

TYPES OF AMERICAN WATER CRAFT, BY AREAS AND FAMILIES.

ZOOTECHNIC AREAS.
1. Arctic.
2. Canadian.
3. Atlantic slope.
4. Plains of the West.
5. Louisiana or Gulf.
6. Southeastern Alaska.
. Columbian region.

8. Interior basin.
9. California region.
10. Pueblo region.

11. Middle America.
12. Antillean region.

13. Cordilleran region.

14. Upper Amazonian.

15. Eastern Brazilian re-
gion.

16. Mato Grosso
southward.

17. Argentina- Patagonian
region.

18. Fuegian region.

and

PEOPLES.

Eskimauan.
Athapascan.
Algonquian-Iroquoian.
Siouan.

Muskhogean.
Haida-Skiddagetan.
Salish-Chinookan.

Shoshonean.
Very mixed stocks.
Tanoan-Tewan and Sono-

ran.
Aztec-Mayan.
Carib-Arawakan

Chibcha-Kechuan.
Jivaro, Peba, Puno, ete.
Tupi-Guaranian, Tapuyan.

Mixed people of Brazilian
and Andean types.

Chaco, Pampean, and
Patagonian stocks.

Aliculuf, Ona, and Yah-
gan.

WATER CRAFT.

Kaiak and umiak of skin.

Bark canoes.

Dugouts and rafts.

Coracle of buffalo hide.

Cane floats and pirogues.

Dugout, exclusively.

Dugout and pointed bark
canoes.

None.

Dugouts and reed rafts.

None.

Reed floats and dugouts.

Dugout and woodskins—(1)
woodskins, (2) buck-
shell, (3) corial, (4) canoe.

Balsas, reed floats with sails.

Dugouts.

Jangadas or catamarans.

Woodskins and dugouts.
Dugouts or none.

Bark canoe in streaks or
longitudinal sections.

It would occur to any student of technography that in this particular

spot the birch trees fail and nature furnishes an excellent substitute in
the pine bark. On this point Mr. Gifford Pinchot, of the Forestry
Division of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, calls my attention to
the following quotations from Sargent’s Silva of North America:

The canoe birch is one of the most widely distributed trees of North America.
From Labrador it ranges to the southern shores of Hudson Bay and to the Great
Bear Lake, and thence to the valley of the Yukon River and the coast of Alaska, form-
ing with the aspen, the larch, the balsam poplar, the banksian pine, the black and
white spruces, and the balsam fir, the great subarctic transcontinental forest; and
southward it ranges through all the forest region of the Dominion of Canada and the:
Northern States to Long Island, New York, and northern Pennsylvania, central
Michigan, and Minnesota, the bluffs of the Niobrara River in northern Nebraska,
the Black Hills of Dakota, northern Montana, and northwestern Washington. An
inhabitant of the rich wooded slopes and the borders of streams, lakes, and swamps,
the canoe birch, although it never forms a large part of the forest, is very common

"Von den Steinen, Unter den Naturyélkern Zentral Brasiliens, Berlin, 1894, p. 120,
pike
POINTED BARK CANOES. 527

in the maritime provinces of Canada, in the region immediately north of the Great
Lakes, and in northern New England and New York, where it ascends to higher ele-
vations than any other deciduous-leaved tree; it is small and comparatively rare in
the coast region of southern New England, in southern New York, and central Minne-
sota; widely distributed at high latitudes from Labrador to the eastern base of the
Rocky Mountains; it is never very abundant there nor a conspicuous object in the
landscape, and within the Arctic Circle becomes small and crooked. West of the
Rocky Mountains, where it attains its largest size, the canoe birch usually grows
singly and is found only along the banks of streams. (Vol. IX, p. 57.)

The Western white pine is distributed through mountain forests from the basin of
the Columbia River, in southern British Columbia, to Vancouver Island, southward
along the western slopes of the Rocky Mountains to northern Montana, and to the
Bitter Root Mountains of Idaho, westward along the mountain ranges of northern
Idaho and Washington, reaching the sea level near the shores of the Straits of
Fuca, and southward along the Cascade Mountains and the Washington and Oregon
coast ranges, extending eastward in Oregon to the high mountains east of Goose
Lake, and southward along both slopes of the California Sierras to the ridge between
Little Kern and Kern rivers, in latitude 36° 25’. In northern Idaho the western
white pine grows to its largest size, and is most abundant, often forming an important
part of the forest at elevations of from 2,000 to 2,500 feet above the sea on the
bottom lands of streams tributary to Lake Pend Oreille; farther east, in Montana,
it is less abundant and smaller; in the interior of British Columbia it is not abun-
dant, although it sometimes is large; it is scattered in considerable numbers through
the coniferous forests of the coast ranges of British Columbia and through the interior
of Vancouver Island; and it is not rare on the Cascade Range, where it ascends to
elevations of 5,000 to 6,000 feet, nor on the California Sierras, first appearing singly
or in small groups along the upper margin of the fir forest, and attaining its noblest
dimensions in California at elevations of about 10,000 feet above the sea, where trees
90 feet high, with trunks 5 or 6 feet in diameter, sometimes occur, and resist for
centuries, with their massive trunks, and short, contorted branches, the fiercest
Sierra gales. (Vol. XI, p. 23.)

As to the unique shape of the Kutenai canoe on the American Con-
tinent, it will not suffice to say that pine bark is more easily bent after
this fashion, and that in obedience to the law of economy of effort
this was the natural result of employing that material. The writer
made experiments with substances having similar toughness and elas-
ticity and found it no more difficult to bend them into the common
canoe form than into the monitor form when the material is properly
cut out. As to the economy of sewing at the ends, that is difficult to
determine. At any rate, the other American Indians invariably slope
their birch-bark canoes outward from the bottom at both ends, but
the Oltscha and Goldi of the Amur, and even the Tungus and Yakut,
imitate the Kutenai tribes and point their birch canoes below the
water.

In order to ascertain the distribution and handling of these pine-
bark canoes, the assistance of Mr. Meriden S. Hill, secretary of the
Tacoma Academy of Sciences, Washington, was invoked, and the
results of his investigations will now be given.
528 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.
THE KUTENAI CANOE.

The pine-bark canoe, pointed at both ends below water, is used in
only a circumscribed area on the Kootenai River, and on the Columbia
at the mouth of the Kootenai. In order to make sure of this and to
know more about the uses of this craft, at the suggestion of the curator
of the Division of Ethnology in the U.S. National Museum, an exten-
sive correspondence was conducted with missionaries and others who
have spent years on the Kootenai and the Upper Columbia. (Plate 1.)

It is well to say that the birch-bark canoe of regions east of the
Rocky Mountains does not exist on the Columbia or the Kootenai,
but the dugout, in ruder form, is to be found in many localities,
becoming more beautiful and seaworthy as one approaches the ocean.
The writer has never heard of any other regularly built canoe of bark
or other material in America pointed at or below the water line. All
the birch-bark canoes are rounded up the other way, like the prow of
an old-fashioned ship or of a lifeboat. It was the writer’s purpose to
work up the matter with greater detail, but he was prevented by
continued illness.

In the second volume of Ross’s Fur Hunters he says, speaking of the
Kutenai upon the Arrow Lakes, in British Columbia:

At the water’s edge we saw and examined a birch-rind canoe, of rather singular
construction, such as I had never seen in any other part of the country, but used by
the natives here; for I saw several of the same make when I passed this place two
years ago. Both stem and stern, instead of being raised up in a gentle and regular
curve, as is customary elsewhere, lie flat on the surface of the water, and terminate
in a point resembling a sturgeon’s snout. The upper part is curved, except a space
in the middle. Its length is 22 feet from point to point and the whole bottom
between these points is a dead level.!

Such craft must prove exceedingly awkward in rough water, and
there is often a heavy swell on these lakes. Dawson has also mentioned
these canoes in the following language: .

In addition to the ordinary and always rough dugout canoe made from the cotton-
wood (Populus trichocarpa) probably, and employed occasionally on certain lakes
or for crossing the rivers, the Shushwaps in the eastern part of their territory in
British Columbia made small and shapely canoes from the bark of the western white
pine (Pinus monticola). These may still be occasionally seen on Shushwap Lake
and in the vicinity of the Columbia. The inner side of the bark stripped from the
tree in one piece becomes the outer side of the canoe, which is fashioned with two
sharp, projecting spur-like ends, strengthened by wooden ribs and thwarts inter-
nally; the whole is lashed and sewn with reots, and knot holes and fissures are
stopped with resin. The canoes thus made are very swift, and, for their size, when
properly ballasted, remarkably seaworthy.?

Mr. G. M. Sproat, author of Scenes and Studies of Savage Life,
says that the pointed canoe is the common craft on the Columbia River

‘Alexander Ross, The Fur Hunters of the Far West, London, 1855, 2 vols. Vol.
Lipps Loo sl703
* Transactions of the Royal Society of Canada, December 11, 1891, fig. 4.

hi
“Fe

POINTED BARK CANOES. 529

above Colville and on the lower part of the Kootenai. They are in
daily use there, but are not known to have existed in any other part
of America.

Mr. A. J. Kent, of Idaho, writes that the Kutenai have no other kind
of canoe except the one made of spruce, white pine, or cedar-bark,
pointed at both ends beneath. These are about 15 feet long and weigh,
say, 50 pounds. The bark is very tough and pliable when it is taken
off in the spring. The squaws build the canoes when the sap starts,
sewing them with rawhide or anything else strong enough, closing the
cracks with pitch from the yellow pine. It takes two squaws four or
five days to make a canoe, the chief difficulty being to get the bark off
whole and to turn it wrong side out successfully.

Mr. John Sizelove, postmaster at Kalispel, says that the pointed
canoes are made of spruce-bark peeled off in a single piece. The
frame is made of'split cedar. The Indians at Kalispel will use no
other kind of boat, as these are very light and can be taken out of the
water and kept away from snow and ice in winter. This writer states
that the points curve upward and do not sink below the water. It is

Fig. 1.

OUTLINE OF KALISPEL POINTED CANOE, SHOWING CURVED BOTTOM,

a little difficult to decide at present whether this is a local peculiarity
or due to the sinking of the middle when loaded. Mr. Sizelove sends
a drawing to confirm his statement (fig. 1).

The Kutenai bark canoes, ac-so-molth, are thus described by Mr. D.
M. McLaughlin: The pine-bark is cut from the tree in the length
required. The gunwales are prepared by splitting three pieces of
cedar wood from a stem 3 to 4 inches in diameter, one of them a half
cylinder wide, the other two in quarters, placing them about and above
the margin of the bark, and lashing all fast with a band of the bark of
the vine maple (Acer circinatum). After this is finished the ribs,
made of the same vine-maple wood split into the required lengths, are
forced in between the gunwales. Thin cedar boards are then pushed
between these ribs and the bark of the canoe. The ends of the thwarts
are forced in between the three pieces of cedar wood, forming the
gunwales, closing or opening the canoe as required. These thwarts
are then securely bound with the vine-maple so as to keep all stiff and
solid, especially the middle one, since it has to bear the greatest strain.
Mr. McLaughlin says that the canoes, in spite of their frailty, can
stand an extraordinary amount of storm and wave when well managed.
530 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

He is sure that when the canoes are first finished they are as straight
as an arrow along the bottom. After one has been used awhile the
ends turn up more or less, according to the weight put into them.
The Indians, after using one, take it out of the water to dry and this
has a tendency to draw up the points.

The Rey. Joseph M. Caruana, S. J., gives the following general
measurements of the pointed canoe (in Salishan languages, ¢/e or thie),
in use among the Lakes or Snaichisti Indians, in Stevens County,

Fig. 2

POINTED CANOE OF THE LAKE INDIANS, WASHINGTON,

Washington: length, 24 feet; width, 4 feet; depth, 23 feet; paddle, 6
feet; poles, used perpendicularly in strong currents, 6 feet; mat in
bottom to kneel on while paddling, 3 by 4 feet. The same writer says
that in 1862 pointed canoes were in great use among the Spokane and
Coeur d’Aléne tribes, as well as the Colville, or Sgoyelpy, and Kalispel.
He crossed many a river on such bark canoes while living among the
Coeur d’Aléne or Szchizue Indians. These canoes held two persons
with luggage. ‘The bottoms were flat and the ends somewhat turned

a StS

Fig. 3.

DETAIL OF THE LAKE INDIAN CANOE, WASHINGTON.

up. They were fragile and swift. The Indians had no tradition and
could give no account of their origin. The canoes examined by Father
Caruana had ribs of white cedar, very light and pliable, and bound to
the horizontal framework with split cedar roots or willow twigs. The
ribs are pointed at the top and do not reach the gunwale, but are forced
through the bark and covered in. The chinks are well pitched, espe-
cially at the two ends. Mr. Kent, of Bonners Ferry, Idaho, describes
one of the canoes as 14 feet long, weighing 50 pounds.

Fig. 2 is of a model of the pointed canoe of the Lake Indians, made
N

POINTED BARK CANOES. 5381

under the supervision of Father Caruana. It is 3 feet long from point
to point; open space, 2 feet; width, 6 inches; depth, 4 inches. This
represents a larger one, 24 feet in length. Fig. 3 represents the de-
tail of construction in the framework. In putting in the ribs incisions
are made into and halfway through the bark of the hull at its upper
border. The ribs are inserted into these openings and pushed upward
and out at the edge, which has been split for this purpose. The ends
of the ribs do not reach quite up to the gunwale. The ribs are fewer
in number, but larger, and pass'at their ends between the bark and
the inside one of the three strips or staves which together form the
gunwale. These also pass outside the longitudinal slats toward the
hold of the boat, while the ribs pass between the longitudinal slats and
the bark sheathing. Slender roots and thin bark ribbons, apparently
of spruce, are used in stitching and wrapping the various sections of
the canoe together. The seams and joints are well covered with
pitch. As in the full-sized craft, the inside surface of the bark be-
comes the outside of the hull, which is formed of three pieces, as
indicated in the drawing. The part marked shows the method of
bending on of one of the thwarts. In some cases the ends are pierced
and seized or sewed to the gunwale. With this model were two
pointed sticks representing the poles used in managing the canoe over
swift currents, a paddle, and a mat on which the man kneels.

CANOES OF THE KUTENAI AND OF THE AMUR COMPARED.

Through the researches of Mr. Meriden 8. Hill, given in the fore-
going lines, and the courtesy of Dr. Demetri N. Anutchine, president
of the Society of Friends of Natural Science, Ethnology, and Anthro-
pology in Moscow, and of Dr. N. Doubrovinee, perpetual secretary of
the Imperial Academy of Sciences in St. Petersburg, it is made possible
to bring into a comparative study two inventions that are like to each
other and unlike to any other craft in either hemisphere. It is not
necessary to do more than to refer to Mr. Hill’s remarks, since he has
ransacked the upper drainage of the Columbia in northern Idaho,
northeast Washington, and southeast British Columbia. Additional
information comes from Mr. A. J. Kent, Bonners Ferry, Idaho, to
the effect that the Kutenai tribes are not ingenious; that they follow
closely their model; that the squaws make the canoes in the spring,
after the sap starts, sewing the parts with rawhide as well as with
bark splints, and that it takes from three to five days to finish a canoe.
Maj. C. A. Bendire, U. 8. A., had traveled often in one of these, and
found no trouble in placing therein, besides himself and the boatman,
his saddle and outfit.

The Gibbs specimen, No. 641 in the U. S. National Museum, is
made of pine-bark (Pinus monticola), in three pieces, drawn over a
wooden frame, the inside of the bark forming the outside of the canoe.
532 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The framework consists of four longitudinal rods, to which are lashed a
series of ribs by means of bark strips. Outside of this frame and next
to the bark are a series of false ribs or slats to hold the bark in place.
The canoe is straight along the bottom and pointed at bow and stern.
The gunwale consists of three long pieces, one, the inwale, laid along
the inner margin of the bark; one, the outwale, laid parallel to this
along the outer margin of the bark; and the third, the gunwale, which
is broader and semicircular in section, is laid on top of all, so as to
cover in the upper edge of the bark and the other two strips of the
gunwale. The whole are lashed together with bark. This triple
arrangement is also found on the upper margin of the bow and stern
where the two edges of the bark are joined. The gunwale is held in
shape and place by thwarts lashed at their ends. (Plate 2.)

From the descriptions elicited by Mr. Hill concerning full-sized
boats, it appears that the model is correctly made, and it is safe to
conclude that—

1. The Salishan and Kitunahan tribes that occupy the area included
in the Kutenai drainage, make a canoe differing from any other craft
known to American tribes.

2. These canoes are made chiefly of the tough leathery pine-bark,
on cedar frames and sewed with tough roots, such as the Indians eoslae
for basketry all over this northwestern region.

3. The bark is stripped off in lengths equal to those of the desired
canoes, about 15 feet, and in order to increase its gliding quality is
turned inside out.

4. At a convenient distance from the ends the margins of the bark
are firmly tied together. Between these two points of union the edges
are forced apart and held in place by thwarts varying in length. Out-
side the two points of union the ends of the bark are pinched togethe1
and triangular pieces cut from the corners, so that when the sloping
edges are joined a sloping or incurved line extends from the points
of union on top to the extremities of the bottom, in fact causing the
canoe to look at each end something like a modern ‘‘ ram” or monitor.

5. The bark is strengthened by ribs and by horizontal slats,and the
parts are sewed together by means of vinemaple, pine, cedar, or spruce
root, or with strips of bark.

6. A gunwale is built up by splitting a cedar pole into three parts,
one of them the segment of a circle in section for topwale; the other
two, inwale and outwale, are quarters of circles in section, so that they
will fit neatly on top and along the outer and inner margin of the
upper border of the bark. In this part of the construction the Kute-
nai craft is in contrast with other northern bark canoes.

By reference to Major Powell’s map! of the linguistic stocks of

‘J. W. Powell, Seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology, Washington,
1891.
POINTED BARK CANOES. 533

North America, it will be seen that the tribes in Washington using
the pointed canoe are:

1. Shushwap, of the Salishan family.

Colville or Tgoyelpi, Salishan family.
Kalispel, Salishan family.

Spokane, Salishan family.

Lakes or Snaichisti, Salishan family.
. Kutenai, Kituanahan family.

it the light of these Kutenai specimens it may be interesting to
examine similar craft of Asia. There being no trees yielding bark fit
for canoe making along the Arctic coast, it is necessary to trace the
fiftieth parallel of latitude, that of the Kutenai canoe, across the Pacific,
and this brings one tothe Amur basin. Upon this stream dwell Giliaks,
Goldi, Manyargs, etc., unclassed ethnic groups—that is, etimolenicts
have not been able to relegate them to any of the well-known Asiatic
families.

An excellent account of these tribe: is given by Leopold von Schrenk
in a work entitled Reisen und Fors’ hungen in Amurliinde. He shows
a Giliak man seated in a pointed vark canoe.’ Layard also figures a
Pheenician war galley pointed beneath the water.”

Von Schrenk describes three types of boat on the Amur River and
about its mouth, the built-up boat, or bateau, the dugout, and the birch-
bark canoe.’ The first named is a sort of flat boat or scow made of
three planks hewed out of the larch or Picea ajanensis, worked out with
adze and knife and fitted together with pegs. Bow and stern boards
are set in and the bottom board projects at the bow into a sort of plat-
form, slightly turned up. In many examples considerable style and
ornamentation are added, so that Schrenk believes this built-up form
to have been introduced under Manchu-Chinese influence from Soon-
garia. For centuries Chinese merchants, and among them Manchu
officials, have come from Soongaria into the Lower Amur country, the
former to trade with the people, the latter in order to collect from them
the tribute owed tothe Chinese Government. The boats in which these
journeys are made are indeed much larger and more complicated than
the Goldi Giliak examples, but they are on the whole of like construc-
tion. Itis to be remarked in this connection that the plank boat in
use by the Giliaks at the Amur mouth; on Saghalin, by the Oltcha,
their neighbors up the river; by the Golde, occupying the stream as far
as the Usuri mouth; and by the Oltscha on the seacoast south of the
Giliak, is entirely absent from upper Amur areas. Schrenk saw none,

gr HR go bo

S

1Leopold yon Schrenk, Reisen und Forschungen in Amurliinde. St. Petersburg,
1881, III, p. 510.

2Perrot et Chipiez, Phcenecia, London, 1885, I, p. 34.

3Reisen und Forschungen in Amurlinde, III. St. Petersburg, 1881, pp. 500-515.
5384 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

and Maack, following the Amur from the Schilka, encountered the
first craft of this kind at the Usuri mouth. Maack also missed the
kind of dugout (called wajamagda or awarpe) resembling in form tie
plank boat.

The dugout canoe is found in the interior of Saghalin. Schrenk saw
a Giliak example (called momu) in winter in the village of Yokyrn,
carefully protected from snow, resting on a frame near the yourt. It
was 20 feet long, broadest in the middle and tapering toward the ends.
The bow terminated in a point, but the stern was square and perpen-
dicular with a broad let-in, as in the plank boats.

Much simpler and more primitive are the little canoes also excavated
out of the Hammagda tree and pointed fore and aft, which, with small
differences in proportions, are called by the Oltscha and the Golde
otongo and gulba. Both are of the same form, pointed fore and aft,
but the gu/ba in relation to its length is narrower and deeper and with
thicker walls than the otongo, and for that reason better. fitted to be
used in rough water and in places abounding in stones and rocks, ete.
The dugouts of Hammagda wood made by the Orochi on the seacoast
and the mountain streams flowing to the sea and on the tributaries of
the Lower Amur or Usuri are the same as those made by the Golde
and Oltscha on the main stream. So was the awarpe of the Orochis,
on the Upper Munamu stream, made and used outward on the Amur.
On the contrary, only now and then, throughout the long course of
the Amur does one of the Golde, Oltscha, or Giliak plank boats find
its way to the Orochi, on the seacoast.

Schrenk saw among the Birari of Ossika on the Amur a dugout
canoe called by them mango, 28 feet long, 3 feet broad, and 1 foot
deep, and another time one still larger, in which Biraris from the Aar
River were returning from their summer fishing grounds on the Amur
to their winter settlements. It was deeply laden and carried mast, and
sail made of canvas, and held at the corner with the hand instead of
with shrouds. On the testimony of the Birari these boats were made
from the stem of the abundant dshagda tree (Pinus sylvestris, L.).

Canoes made of a wooden interior structure covered with birch-bark
are more commonly in use than dugouts among the Oltscha and Golde
on the Lower Amur, and they are employed also by the Tungus on
the Amur tributaries and throughout the streams of the Stanavoi
Mountains. In general, of like type everywhere, having the two ends
similarly pointed, these bark canoes called dsaz by the Oltscha and
Golde, in their outlines and proportions, as in individual traits, pre-
sent many peculiarities. However, corresponding nearly to the gulba
and otongo dugouts of the Oltscha and Golde, there are two forms of
bark canoes, one deeper and narrower in proportion to the length,
generally decked a little with bark at bow and stern; and abroad, flat,
and open form, with ends strongly upeurved. Of the former Von
POINTED BARK CANOES. 585

Schrenk furnishes a lithograph’ and of the latter a woodcut, showing
a Goldi man at the mouth of the Usuri River sitting in his dsaz. The
former, through its light form and the deck over the bow to keep
off the spray of the turbid waters, is better adapted to use on the
upper streams. The latter, on the contrary, furnishes more room for
the fishing and hunting outfit and for the game. The handling of the
canoes is precisely the same as that of the dugouts, the ofongo and the
gulba.

The measurements of the Oltscha canoe were 184 feet long, 23 feet
broad in the middle, depth 11 inches. In managing these frail and
light canoes the Amur-Tungus, Oltscha, Goldi, and other tribes, like
their Siberian congeners, develop a skill and dexterity which, at times,
in the mad rush of the swollen streams, not seldom recalls the hardi-
hood and readiness of the Aleuts in their baidarkas, and is in strong
contrast with the clumsiness and prudent foresight of the Giliak at
the Amur mouth and on Saghalin Islands. What the snowshoes are
in winter the birch-bark canoes are to the Tungus as soon as the
waters have thrown off their icy coverings. Their light weight allows
also the carrying of them with ease over long portages and in visiting
other waters, either in hunts or migrations. Thus the birch-bark canoe
furnishes the unique, typical, characteristic conveyance to the hunting,
fishing, wandering, hungry Tungus. Also the Birari and the Man-
agér have bark canoes of the form and structure of the dsaz, but twice
as long, while the width is the same. Schrenk saw among the latter
an example 354 feet long and only 2 feet 2 inches wide. Such a boat
is like the Aleut baidarka with several holes, and more like the great
mango. ‘These are propelled with poles or with two or three double
paddles, and are worked by men paddling first on one side and then on
the other, shooting forward with great velocity.

The pointed dugouts, as well as the birch-bark canoes, are found also
among all the aboriginal tribes of the Upper Amur. Since these are
chiefly nomads living by the chase, who only occasionally go down
from their hunting grounds and the Amur tributaries to the main
stream in order here to prosecute their fishing, these simple, easily
repaired, and, on occasion, readily transported craft, which are also
available in rapid as in still water, suffice for all their needs. Not
merely the narrow patterns, like the otongo or the dsaz, are thus dif-
fused, but also those of large dimensions. Insuch boats they migrate
from winter to summer quarters and back, transporting not only women
and children, but a multitude of tools and utensils.

In the museum of the Imperial Academy of Sciences of St. Peters-
burg are three models of pointed canoes, all made of birch bark.
Through the kindness of Dr. N. Doubrovinee, secretary, I am able to

1 Reisen und Forschungen in Amurliinde, III, pl. xxxvut, fig. 5, p. 510.
536 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

reproduce them here. The rudest paddle, a Tungus example, has a sim-
ple handle with oblong elliptical blade, without decoration (fig. 4).
The Yakut paddle is double, with cylindrical grip and oblong pentag-
onal blades, square on the outer ends (fig. 5). The Goldi paddle has a
similar grip and hexagonal blades with long tapering points, a grace-
fully shaped implement (fig. 6).

The double paddle is seen in the Giliak’s hand in Schrenk’s figure.
The Goldi and Yakut employ also the double paddle in their pointed
canoes, but in the Tungus pointed canoe the simple paddle is used.
The single paddle is found elsewhere around the great circle of the
earth that includes the two areas of the pointed canoe. The double
paddle exists sparingly in the Eskimo area of Alaska and among the
same people in Greenland. On all the waters of the southern United
States the negroes propel their dugouts and skiffs with the double
paddle.

The Tungus model (Plate 3), though clumsy looking, is built up in
five sections. Five strips of bark are bent in the middle and united
at their edges to form the hull. The four seams extend quite around

a <e
ee ==)

Figs. 4, 5, and 6.
TUNGUS PADDLE; YAKUT PADDLE; GOLDI PADDLE.

the craft and are rendered tight with pitch. The canoe is kept in form
by a series of flat ribs, almost touching one another, and extending
along the inside from end to end of the structure, as in a canoe. On
the outside of the canoe, along the bottom, a wide strip of bark is
sewed neatly, the stitches long on the inside of the boat and short on
the outside, passing quite through two thicknesses of bark, including
the flat ribs on the inside, holding all together. At the ends the canoe
front is straight, the lines sloping inward only a little, so that it is but
slightly pointed below. The bark is simply doubled over at the ends
and sewed down. On the upper margin strips of wood are sewed on
both sides of the bark to form inwale and outwale. There is no top
piece except along a short space between the thwarts. Here the side
strips for wales leave the margin and pass downward a little to make
POINTED BARK CANOES. io

way for the cap piece along the middle. The top piece is neatly
chamfered and grooved to fit in place. There are four thwarts, two
near the ends of the hold, which are merely lashings, the material
passing backward and forward two or three times and then closely
woolded, two solid pieces near the middle of the canoe serving as
spreaders. The ends of the thwarts are pierced and lashed to the gun-
wale at the ends of the cap pieces so as to hold all parts firmly together.
The Tungus canoe is wide and shallow and is an excellent freight boat.

The Yakut pointed canoe (Plate 4) is also made in sections of birch
bark, of which, in the model here studied, there are four in number,
passing around from gunwale to gunwale, overlapping and stitched
together. The bottom is strengthened by adding broad strips of bark
from end to end and sewing them down at their edges. At the ends
the Yakut canoe is shaped like a snout, the line from bottom upward
being incurved. ‘The joint at the ends is a very simple one, the edges
of the bark cut to shape and sewed together. The gunwale is formed
by a binding of bark turning over and hemmed down, the edges show-
ing on the outside and inside. Two thwarts are held in place by a
lashing which passes across parallel and on both sides of the thwart
and fastened through the bark sides. The canoe is held in shape by
means of flat, wide ribs, whose ends are concealed under the bark
binding of the gunwale. The Yakut canoe is a wide craft, better
suited to freight than speed. As the model here described is rougher
than the others shown, it is possible that the larger ones have better
elements of construction.

The Goldi pointed canoe (Plate 5) more closely resembles that of the
Giliak and of the Kutenai. The hull of the model consists of a single
piece of bark (but in full-sized boats it may be in sections) and there is
no additional layer of bark on the bottom. The gunwale is formed by
clasping the edge of the bark between two strips of wood, forming
inwale and outwale, and there are no top strips as in the Kutenai
craft. The unique feature in the Goldi canoe is the insertion of a
wooden point at either end. This is curved upward gracefully.
Another noteworthy feature is the covering of a portion of the hold
at either end with a sheet of bark, forming a partial deck. One
thwart is shown in the model, though others must exist in the full-sized
canoes. Slats are laid along the inside lengthwise and over these are
neatly forced in flat-rib pieces at intervals. This is a dainty looking
craft, long and slender, and doubtless used for speed and fishing and not
for freight. In the middle of the inside a piece of hide affords a
kneeling place for the boatman.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,—Mason,

PLATE 1.

KUTENAI CANOE IN MOTION.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899 —Mason,

Sa Zz

S| =|
_—— 4

eee ee
Se es =A et Se
——

———.—.
—
Der Has sw ete
————

————)
=H:

Y
Lb
|
—

I

i

—

=x
—

—

S)=Et

}

—
i

==)
diel

zi SSIlz =I

(=
ti
G

=
ji

Ie
ii A
DR

— =
lh

———

————|

ne | ——=_—

( —s
=> ‘ , i xo} y pace
Send |e
=> ==
——
Se
——

—=

Wy

=P
_CS SS
S|
=< |
4 =2
SS
ns

ae

==

P

( (PSs
oi

Tafa

Y
ld

R _/ =

eo 4

I }
vil
reall Nhe
\\ TVARAMAN

ABN jt
I

q
\ 4

PLATE 2.

— E77 —— ort =\\\\= N\e
= ee Se

= aS)
= a

5

UN

SS

Ys

LZZ
sie
La WEA

“|e

sy =

=
NE

SS

= SS

T] ro
BY eS i aay sult
1 ~
Za

) |
(xan sah Sf
me

W\ZiZZ

\)

:
<
iL

a ¢ ZZ = Z

Cai

ff

AW

ak

ial

ai

La
=

IE

=

pie

GEE
a) =@—~
LZ

DETAIL OF KUTENAI CANOE.

No. 641, U.S.N.M.

Cat.
i

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Mason.

PLATE 3.

TUNGUS POINTED CANOE.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Mason. PLATE 4.

YAKUT POINTED CANOE.
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899.—Mason. PLATE 5.

GOLD! POINTED CANOE.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF A COLLECTION OF OBJECTS
OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL DEPOSITED IN THE
U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM BY HADJI
EPHRAIM BENGUIAT.

BY
CYRUS ADLER, PH. D.,
Custodian, Section of Historic Religious Ceremonials,
AND

I. M. CASANOWICZ, PH. D.,
Aid, Division of Historic Archzxology.

539
TABLE OF CONTENTS.

Page.

MEUMEIIC 48s: olde eels as os 2 cle ee ees See ae ea eae menor 545
I. Objects used in the service of the synagogue -...-....-------------------- 545
fa ROTA SCrOllis seas 44555 ae Ste SN SNe as Olen nh Bs Perce arane aie 545

2 Wrapper ior the Torali seroll; 22% 5222-2 vil. fave ooo ae tees 546

S- Wrapper for the: Bora scroll. 2-32 2225s2222d-ccess 62 ee sea pee ns 546
AEMILGEE DANO sven H Se Sees Shak 2 eke ao SS eee oleae 546

Bae VOl Orie AAOLyeARaS: 5s- 2°52 si eee Soe. rhekoeens cares eeeaee 546

Pee enontie. WGlyeArky 522. 2ec8hs) S228 c2cheecess eee ees 547
MOVOTO ULNE FO GATK ONS She sacs ec ein cote oee ohn cent 2 -ceeeeeee 547

Pe Wareriur tun reacide ded 2 220 aie eile let Si loeeeeee 547

OO), TSCA STON 5) Ae Scene oa a eee a eae Sere © 547

LA SST TS PET RT UTS ETF ae Np pes ee Ae eae lee eg a par 547

hie saoleorine bookof Rather .-o -c¢ss50h sce ee cs ten aees sees 548
a tnottine nook OF Mather oos.is.c.223° tec aes == -Lne2 seen 548
iPanoleonthe book of Manner s..--o2 2.22.8 sae. seo ween - eee 548

ied, SE ah eyo 8 16 Td ENS ee ae a ere ee Oe 548

Pj aehiemiileavlantiee ees. 8 oe. ot tore ec raat ces ee eee oem 549
Rorsinmminivenndicationmye Mere Paki ont OS Oe eae ho Wee ee 550

mee Obieewsisedeat piayer +.222:222525: 2.525.225.0522 22. eel ss ee 550
7 weMahineetaver BOOK. 250 - o828s" A5tl es Ss Yoo. sees be eee 550

18. Manuscript containing various prayers .......------------------ 590

19. Manuscript containing the Psalms and various prayers - ----- - --- 550

20. The Old and New Testaments in the original languages- --- ------ 550
Died IMCLORICRE ee et oS a cob ewe meen nod snd oasis ceeeh ane eno ddl

ee SUNG Wace ee oe ee oe LS oes Seaman oe me a> Ae eee eee 552

Die ae Gren aoe aia es eas sa aes io ae See ee 552

Bie (Prayer suai e toe were ae ae ee oe ee eee 592
IIJ. Objects used on festal occasions at the Jewish home.----.--------------- 593
(a) Sabbath. -22- esos anemone Snee neetis teas = eee aire 553
25. Cup and saucer used for Kiddush. . 1. 02.2. .2-22-2-22-22+55--2- 593

26. Spice bottle used for Habdalah .......-...2+--+--------25-=4-+- 553

97. Silver candlestick used for Habdalah ..-..-.2+.------=222:2---% 553

OI EPARSOVEE..-. 2. .<eatoeee eee ten eile ae ee ae So a 554
28001 wO-embroldered Cupmlodem ce aos sees sbeo. co. Lewes secon oe 555

Pee worand: DARI ceases ees: soe ee ee te a oe ae we me Se ere 55)

Bie sBsO Ver Cish tessa eee ast ese cen k ket ums = 2 feiss oan te 595

Bi Oover tor the umles yened, Dread a. 22.2 Son 2 cee as Sool een neren 556

ee IS CIS eee oes ee Sa ioe sae esos See ee ame 556

Soo Oovenion GierereeM MGQOSt 82. .aq =o samc wed sens sesasenemlee = 556

ee Bye) we Werle sacra os aes ys tee he are! amine a ass dene 556

Syn AUC Aa GU ares Soe ee noe tee - oaa asta was <8 aie ea 556

S6e Lb nameledssancermandysll ver spOGUIes =a aselies. cinco = = = 2 ee oe 556

NAT MUS 99 37 541
5492 CONTENTS.

III. Objects used on festal occasions at the Jewish home—Continued. Page.
(b) Passover—Continued.

37. Glass'and plate... 2 22226552202 oe occ ee ene 556

88. Piece of brocade... 3... ..-case-s00 sees eee ee ee ae eee 556

39. Table center. 2.2 .\..: -sesssseen eee ee eee 556

40. Serviette - . .- 2.0 32252 Sek ee cee ae se ee 557

(c) Tabernacles: ..-- 2.32.3) pene ee ee 597

41. Curtain for the Sukkah> 2-233 eee ee = 557

42. Curtain tie:-. 2522 -eeeeee ee eee (SAY eee Ppp Rea ee age SS TIE 597

IV. Objects used-on special eceasions=. "2255 n i) meee ae ee 558

43. Wrapper for carrying child to synagogue ............-.--------- 558

44. Marriage contracts. 22 eo soccer ee ee eee eee ee 508

45. Marriage contract. ---- Saf veesas cee tete ene eeee neces sees cer 558

V. Miscellaneous. 2.5. 20% o52s55- ca So seee eek eee esse ee eee 559

46. .Mewizot 2: Sree. eee eee aid wicini Sie dine SoM eee em eae eRe eee 599

. 47, Amulet of parchment—2.-= 25. 22535 5.5-.- poeee eee eee eee 509

48, Silver medallion: 22-5)... 2s22+ 44ea eben ee eee eee 559

49. Two silver Tings ..52< Sooo ee ee eee 559

50.. Silver medal. .252222- 2525 >ase poss aes st eer ee 599

51.’ Silver coin.) S223. 2 skeet. cose soe eee 560

52. Seriptural motto.22-.< -Secs 2: 2. see eee 560

VI. Illustrations of Bible narratives, mostly textiles.............-..--.----. 560

See, Lhe sacrifice of lisaacs 2: a2. Heiaeos <= one eee 560

54. ‘The deteat or Goliath by Dawid 25.5: 328s ee eee 560

55.. The story of David and Bathshebavs:csis. 20 ose see ee eee 560

56: Joseph-and the wife.of Potiphar.<. 2 2227-226. tone eos 560

57. The passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea.-........----- 560

58: The:story of the golden calf: . 2 222 Si 26 2 eee ee ee 560

59: The judgment, of Solomone:. #2222020 S322 Ce ee 561

60. The prophet Elijah provided with food by ravens.....--.-------- 561

61. Susanna and the-elders. 2222-2. ean oe ee ee eee 561

62) Judith and Holotermess2= 220 s.r ot paces oan ee eee eee eee 561
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Page

ume bared Er NORbEN, OIEUE SS 22 ono 6355. ck ws ee ied epee oe as yee eee 546

Pe PLAeMers On tie-LOran- Scroll. 92. <5 fats Ges see 546

paveronnne-Loly Ark (Parocheth) <0. 20. oso oo eo ee see 546

eo Vetonmertialy Ark (Parochetly)) 22 ou. 2. oe oecl e ake te 546

a Melanie Glyuubk: CParochethy ssc bo eS ee 546

Gis COVE NG MORONS COS = 80a Pi doe aro Sec ok ek ate wages 546

4. Torah geroll unrolled on the reading desk ...-...2....:..2-..--22222252- 546

Sey LPNS p82 (0% 2807 Ml SV 2 ele a ne 548

Pe et eer MG MelanUkal ari 26S. oes eis eee Lowe ock ek been ee 548
ree mineuerien ana firayer books. 022-02. 722-522 fee c eee leet tees leet 550
TEs Lo SPST S09) 8 1 500
12. Manuscript containing Psalms and various Prayers.................----- 550
emma’ (ballithh se oro 8 eS tse). Pie. os ck ease e tl sees 552
Pee vena tor kiddush and Habdalah ..2.-..2..225.2..2...---.--2--2---- 5o4
15. Two embroidered cushions used at the Passover Meal ............-.----- 554
ip tower and basin used at the Passover Meal...................--.--2----- 554
Mami n teeriat tie barcover Meal 222 0c oes e ce ene eee ce ne nese dd4
18. Cover for the unleavened bread at the Passover Meal............---.---- 5d6
i. braces dish used at the Passover Meal. 2. .........0...-2---22-----2-2ece~ 556
20. Cover for green herbs at the Passover Meal...........--.-.--....------- 556
Bt Vessels used'atthe Passover Meal. .......s.....-..:--------.:-------2-- 556
22. Glass and plate used at the Passover Meal ................-.----------- Gib nae
23. Piece of brocade used at the Passover Meal.............---.--.-..------ 556
a2. Linen fable center used at the Passover Meal ....2......:----22--2.--22. 506
go: Herviette used at the Passover Meal 2.2.20 002 6.03. en 556
26. Curtain for Booth (Sukkah) of the Feast of Tabernacles..............__- 598
MIRA CLES te ot we Se ees eee ae yc. ye eon eke a a Noe wee 598
26. Wrapper for carrying child to‘synagogue .../..:502.2.-.44-2--222-2.-.-- 558
Pespanayh and amulets: \ ic omese ase ceee eee ya oa ee 558
30. Tapestries illustrating Biblical narratives. ...............-..-=...------- 560
31. Lithograph representing the passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea. 560
32. Embroidery representing the story of the golden calf .............-..--- 560
33. Tapestry representing the Judgment of Solomon........-...-......__..- 560
34. Embroidery representing the Prophet Elijah fed by ravens..........._-- 560
30. Tapestry representing the story of Susanna .................-.-.-----.-- 560
36. Tapestry representing the story of Judith and Holofernes.-............. 560
’

S
ot}

=
me,

rte a
ye

‘

DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF A COLLECTION OF OBJECTS OF
JEWISH CEREMONIAL.

DEPOSITED IN THE U. 8. NATIONAL MUSEUM BY HADJI EPHRAIM
BENGUIAT.

By Cyrus Apter, Pa. D.,
Custodian, Section of Historic Religious Ceremonials,
AND
I. M. Casanowicz, Pu. D.,
Aid, Division of Historic Archeology.

INTRODUCTION.

Hadji Ephraim Benguiat, the owner of the collection here described,
is the descendant of an illustrious Spanish Jewish family which traces
its origin as far back as the beginning of the eleventh century. Many
members of the family have distinguished themselves in Biblical and
rabbinical learning, in philosophy and letters. The love for religious
art has been a tradition in the family, and many of the objects of the
collection are family heirlooms.

The collection comprises all the important objects which come into
use in Jewish religious life, and is unique for its artistic and historical
value.

I. OBJECTS USED IN THE SERVICE OF THE SYNAGOGUE.

1. Toran scro~L.—Parchment scroll of the Pentateuch in Hebrew
mounted on wooden rollers, wrapped in a cloth of green velvet em-
broidered in silk, which is held by a silver-worked belt and covered
with a mantle of black velvet embroidered in gold. The upper han-
‘dles of the rollers are of carved wood, the lower of ivory, with silver
bells on the rollers. The scroll was made in Smyrna, Asia Minor, in
the eighteenth century. The bells were manufactured in Damascus
‘and bear the inscription: ‘“‘Joseph, son of Ephraim Benguiat.” Height

545
546 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

of scroll, 7 inches; of rollers, 14 inches. (Plate 1, fig. 1, and Plate 7.
U.S.NM.. No. 154606.) :

The Pentateuch, called by the Jews Zorah, i. e., the Law (properly
instruction), is considered by them the most important and sacred por-
tion of the Scriptures. In order to keep it alive in the minds of the
people, it is divided into pericopes' according to the number of Sab-
baths, the whole to be read through during service in the synagogue
within a year.” For this purpose a manuscript copy of the Penta-
teuch is used. The copy is written by a professional scribe (sofer) on
parchment made of the skin of a clean animal (one whose flesh may be
eaten), in Hebrew, without vowel points, accents, or verse divisions,
in certain stated columns. The sheets are fastened together with
sinews of a clean animal so as to form a scroll, and mounted on
wooden rollers. When not in use the scroll is covered with a robe of
costly stuff and, when the congregation can afford it, adorned with
silver or gold pelle and breastplate. *

2. Weararrun FOR THE TORAH SCROLL.—Made of yellow silk, embroid-
ered with flowers and Hebrew inscription in silver, gold, and silk,
with silver lace fringes. The inscription reads: ‘‘And it brought forth
buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds.‘ Embroidered as
a holy work by the hands of Magdalene Bassan in the year 5496”
(1736). Measurements, 11 feet 1 inch long, 64 inches wide. (Plate 2,
fig. 1.. U.S.N.M. No. 154608.)

3. WRAPPER FOR THE TORAH SCROLL.—Made of green silk, embroid-
ered with flowers and Hebrew inscription in silk. The inscription
reads: ‘*This holy cover was made by Simha, wife of Levy Hai, of
Buttrio [Italy], in the year 5457 [1697], and was purchased by Phineas
Veneziani and brothers.” Measurements, 8 feet 13 inches long, 7%
inches wide. (Plate 2, fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154604.)

4. SULVER BAND (fragment).—Inscribed in Hebrew: ‘‘ David, King
of Israel, lives and is established forever.” Perhaps part of an orna-
ment of the Torah scroll. Measurements, 7{ inches long, 2 inch wide.
(U.5S.N.M. No. 1291.)

5. Ver or THE Hoty Ark (Parocheth).—Made in Padua, in 1736,
of yellow silk and richly embroidered in silver, gold, and silk, with
flowers, and the first words of the Decalogue (Ten Commandments)
borne upon clouds—the symbol of the Deity. Measurements, 6 feet
3 inches long, 5 feet 2 inches wide. (Plate 3, U.S.N.M. No. 154602. )

‘Such a weekly pericope is called by the German Jews (Ashkenazim) sidra, or

“order;’’ by the Portuguese Jews (Sefardim) parasha, division, section. This latter
term is applied by the Ashkenazim to the shorter divisions into which the sidra is
divided.

*Many modern Jewish congregations have adopted a triennial cycle, which was
also known in ancient times.

“Compare Report of the U. 8. National Museum for 1896, p. 993, and Plate 15.

* Numbers xvii, 23.

ee ee
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1.

JU)
tre

Fig. 1. Toran ScROLL WITH MANTLE AND SILVER BELLS.

(Cat. No. 154606, U.S.N.M. Smyrna, Asia Minor.)

Fig. 2. Stuver Pornter (yad).

(Cat. No. 158347, U.S.N.M. Morocco.)
Fig. 3. Smuver PorntTer (yad).

(Cat. No. 154808, U.S. N. M.)

Nic}
PLATE 1.

Te A 4G 1¢ Eset So

TORAH WITH POINTERS.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 2.

Fig. 1. WRAPPER FOR THE TorAH SCROLL.
(Cat. No. 154608, U.S. N. M.)

Fig. 2. WRAPPER FOR THE TORAH SCROLL.
(Cat. No. 154604, U.S.N.M. Butterio, Italy.)
PLATE 2.

Repart of U. S. National Museum, 1899 —Adler and Casanowicz

WRAPPERS FOR THE TORAH SCROLL.
Repo

rt of U. S, National Museum, 1899,—Adler and Casanowicz.

VEIL OF THE HOLY ARK (PAROCHETH).

Padua, Italy.
Cat. No. 154602, U.S.N.M.

PLATE 3.

PLATE 4.

Adler and Casanowicz

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.

VEIL OF THE HOLY ARK (PAROCHETH).

Asia Minor,

Smyrna,

Cat. No. 154588, U.S.N.M.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 5.

VEIL OF THE HOLY ARK (PAROCHETH).

Probably Asia Minor.

Cat. No. 1286, U.S.N.M.
oe fy

=

a
eS :

Report «

WSD
~b

SS
ae
—— s

.
es a ae
s x 5

5) ps
nF

SS
2

ei PD

es
~ >
SN

>.

LM,

<

if U. S, National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz.

NG

ps i

: aligs
foe ita

tre ig mei

DYED SOWIE DS

& | oh
(fy . FY es YK P:
ae Weigh TC oe

ve i J 1
: A

&) hag te

PLATE 6.

‘i
WW 4 &|)

om 5 my
Veo S be Oiras
+e

COVER FOR THE READING DESK.

154806, U.S.N.M.

sat. No.

(
PLATE 7.

Zs

Casanowic

Adler and

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,

“IWN'S'1) 909FST “ON “78D
MSAd ONIOGVAY AHL NO GATIOYNN 1040S HVHOL

OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 547

The Torah scroll when not in use is kept standing upright in a press
or wall closet placed slightly above the floor of the nave and reached
by steps. As the Torah is in the eyes of the Jew the most sacred and
precious object, so is the closet which holds it the most important
part of the synagogue. It is called “‘ Holy Ark” (aron ha kodesh), atter
the Ark of the Covenant in the Tabernacle and Temple, whose place it
has taken. The Holy Ark is set in or against that wall of the syna-
gogue toward which the worshipers turn in the more solemn parts of
the liturgy, the wall which is in the direction of Jerusalem. When-

_ ever the Holy Ark is opened, the congregation rises in reverence for
the Law of God it holds. Before the Ark is a curtain of costly
material, which is named parocheth' after the curtain which in the
Tabernacle and the Temple screened the Holy of Holies.

6. Vern or THE Hoty ArK.—Made in Smyrna, Asia Minor, of blue
silk and richly embroidered in gold, with the inscription in Hebrew,
‘Portuguese congregation.” Measurements, 6 feet 3 inches long, 4
feet wide. (Plate 4, U.S.N.M. No. 154588.)

7. Vez or tHE Hoty ArK.—Made, probably in Asia Minor, of
yellow silk with silver-lace borders embroidered with flowers in silk,
with silver appliqué work representing vases of flowers supported by
columns on either side and a synagogue in the center. A Hebrew
inscription in gold appliqué indicates that the veil was dedicated by
Benjamin, Modico, and Solomon Nabaro to the congregation **'T almud
Torah” (Study of the Law). Measurements, 5 feet 10 inches long,
5 feet 34 inches wide. (Plate 5, U.S.N.M. No. 1286.)

8. CovER FOR THE READING DESK.—Made of yellow silk and em-
broidered with flowers in silver and silk. Measurements, 4 by 3 feet.
(Plates 6 and 7, U.S.N.M. No. 154806.) When the time arrives for
the reading of the Torah, which is about the middle of the service,
the scroll is taken out of the Holy Ark and carried in procession, the
congregation standing, to the dima (from the Greek f77ua) or almemer
(corrupted from the Arabic a/-mnbar, pulpit). This is a table or desk
standing upon a raised platform, upon which the scroll is unrolled
(Plate 6). This table or desk is covered with a costly cloth similar to
the curtain of the Holy Ark.

9. StivER PornrEeR (yad).—Made in Morocco in the seventeenth
century. Length, 114 inches. (Plate 1, fig. 2, U.S.N.M. No. 158347 4)
The pointer, usually terminating in the shape of a hand, hence called
yad (hand), is used at the public reading of the Torah to guide the
reader (ba'al goré) of the lesson and prevent him from losing the place
in the scroll.

10. Sunver pornteR.—Length, 114 inches. (Plate 1, fig. 3, U.S.N.M.
No. 154808.)

1Compare Report of the U.S. National Museum for 1896, p. 994 and Plate 16.

548 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

11. Rott or tHE Book or EstHer.—Parchment scroll inserted in
a revolving silver case, with marginal illuminations illustrating the
events narrated in the book. Written in Venice, Italy, in the seven- |
teenth century. The silver case was once in possession of the Jews of
Granada, Spain. Height of scroll, 8inches. (Plate 8, fig. 1, U.S.N.M.
No. 154592.)

Five of the shorter. books of the Bible—Canticles, Ruth, Ecclesiastes,
Lamentations, and Esther—are called the ‘‘ Five Rolls” (hamesh meqi-
loth), and are read on special occasions during the service in the syna-
gogue, viz, Canticles on Passover, Ruth on Pentecost or Feast of
Weeks, Ecclesiastes on Tabernacles, Lamentations on the 9th of Ab,
and Esther on the Feast of Purim. The first three are read privately
by each member from his own copy during a pause in the public
service (between the first part of the liturgy and the reading of the
Torah). The Lamentations are chanted by the leader and members
of the congregation, each reading a chapter, during the services of
the 9th of Ab (August) in commemoration of the destruction of the
Temple of Jerusalem. Still more ceremony is attached to the reading
of the Book of Esther, which takes place during the services of the
Feast of Purim, which is celebrated on the 15th of Adar (March-April)
to commemorate the deliverance of the Jews of Persia from the
machinations of Haman. For this purpose a parchment scroll, written
in the same manner as the Pentateuch (see under 1) is used. The read-
ing takes place from the same desk as that of the Torah, and is pre-
ceded and followed by a benediction. At certain passages the congre-
gation joins in, reciting them before the public reader. The Book of
Esther is therefore known as the roll (A/egillah).

12. Rott or THe Book or EstHEer.—Parchment scroll inserted
in a revolving silver case. Written in Smyrna, Asia Minor, in the
eighteenth century. The case was once in possession of the Jews
of Granada, Spain. Height of scroll, 8 inches. (Plate 8, fig. 2.
U.S.N.M. No. 154592”.)

13. Rott or tHE Book or EstHer.—Written in columns of eight
lines and about 1 inch wide, on a scroll of vellum seven-eighths of an
inch wide, and inserted in a hexagonal revolving silver case, sur-
mounted by a cupola, from which rises a crescent and star, the emblem
of the Mohammedan peoples. Height of case, 13 inches; diameter,
1 inch. Made in Fez, Morocco. (Plate 8, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No.
158347.)

14. Ram’s HoRN (shofar).—(Plate 9, fig. 1. U.S.N.M. No. 154589.)
In ancient times the horn or shofar was used, according to the Penta-
teuch, for the announcement of the New Moon and solemn festivals,"
for the proclamation of the year of release (Sabbatical year),” and

‘Numbers x, 10; compare Psalms Ixxxi, 4. * Leviticus xxv, 9.

‘ EXPLANATION OF PLATE 8.

———— — —

g. 1. Routt or THE Book or EstHeEr.

(Cat. No. 154592, U.S. N. M. Venice, Italy.)

ry, 2. Rott or THE Book or EstHEr.

(Cat. No. 154592, U.S. N. M.. Smyrna, Asia Minor.)

. 3. Miniature Roti or tHE Book or EsrHer.
(Cat. No. 158347, U.S. N. M. Fez, Morocco.)
PLATE 8.

1899 Adler and Casanowiecz

2umM,

S. National Muse

Re

‘Y3H1LSQ 4O MOOG 3HL 4O STIOY

(ote EA BNA OUR MAA) COG OO

Ad COLA OE
co at

Lod acd uga-2

EXPLANATION OF PLATE |

a

Fig. 1. Ram’s Horn (Shofar).
(Cat. No. 154589, U.S. N. M.)

Fig. 2. Hanukan Lamp.
(Cat. No. 154591, U.S. N. M.)

iJ
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 9.

RAm’S HORN AND HANUKAH LAMP.
OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 549

above all for military purposes, like the modern bugle, to give the
signal for going out to battle, for the announcement of a victory, and
for a recall of the troops.'| It was also used as a musical instrument
in religious processions.”

At present the shofar is especially used during the penitential sea-
son, which begins with the Ist of the month Ellul (August-September)
and culminates on the Day of Atonement (yom kippur) on the 10th of
Tishri (September-October). During the month of Ellul the shofar
is sounded three times at the close of the morning service each day,
with the exception of the Sabbaths, in some congregations and in
others at the evening service. On the 1st of Tishri, the beginning of
the civil year (rosh ha-shana), one of the most solemn of the Jewish
feasts, and the ‘‘memorial of blowing of trumpets,”* thirty blasts,
among the Sefardim seventy-two, are sounded on the shofar in the
middle of the morning service, after the reading of the day’s lesson
from the Torah, and before the ‘‘additional service” (musaf). On
Atonement Day the shofar is sounded once, among the Sefardim four
times, at the close of the concluding service (né7/ah), and on the
seventh day of Tabernacles (Z/osha'‘na Rabba) it is sounded at each of
the seven circuits. The shofar is usualiy made of a ram’s horn, but the
goat’s horn is also employed.*

15. Hanuxanu LAmMp.—Made of brass. Height, 74 inches; width at
base, 64 inches. (Plate 9, fig. 2, U.S.N.M. No. 154591.)

The feast of dedication or Hanukah (the latest addition to the cycle
of Jewish festivals) is celebrated for eight days, beginning with the
25th of Kislew (December-January), in commemoration of the purifi-
cation of the temple and the restoration of the service after the deliv-
erance of Jerusalem from the oppressions of Antiochus Epiphanes,
King of Syria, by the Maccabees in 164 B. C. The institution of this
festival is related in I Maccabees iv, 47-59. In the New Testament ®
it is mentioned under the name of ¢yKaivia (enkainia), ** dedication.”
The principal feature in the observance of this festival is the lighting
of lights in the synagogue, as well as in private houses, whence it is
also called the ‘‘ feast of lights.” *

On the first night one light is lit, on the second two, and so on to the
eighth. The lights are set in a place where people on the street may
see them, in the window or by the door. They are considered sacred,
and must not be employed for any ordinary purpose. For this reason

' Numbers x, 1-9.

*II Samuel vi, 15; I Chronicles xy, 28; compare Psalms xcviii, 6; el, 3.

3 Leviticus xxxii, 24.

*Compare Cyrus Adler, The Shofar, its Use and Origin. (Proceedings, U. 8S.

National Museum, XVI, pp. 287-301; Report U. S. National Museum, 1892, pp.
437-450.

2S John x, 22. ®Compare Josephus, Antiquities, xii, 7, 7.

NAT MUS 99 38
550 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

a “servant light” (shammash) is placed next to them, which is used in
lighting them. Rabbinical tradition accounts for this feature of the
feast by the story that when the priests entered the sanctuary, after
the Syrians had been driven out, to light the perpetual lamp they
found a vial of sacred oil unpolltted, which under ordinary circum-
stances was only sufficient for one night, but by a miracle lasted for
eight nights.

When possible, lamps burning olive oil are to be used, though fre-
quently candles made of pure beeswax are employed. In the syna-
gogues there is usually for this purpose a lamp made after the form of
the candlestick (menorah) of the tabernacle and temple, as described in
Exodus xxy, 31-140."

16. Parr OF CANDLESTICKS.—Silver repoussé work. Measurements,
124 inches high, 6+ inches wide at the base. (U.S.N.M. No. 1287.)
The candlesticks come from a church in the Philippine Islands. Mr.
Benguiat is of the opinion that they originally belonged to a Jewish
synagogue in Spain, which was converted into a Christian church after
the expulsion of the Jews from that country and found their way to
the Philippines.

Il. OBJECTS USED AT PRAYER.

17. MINIATURE PRAYER BOOK.—Containing all the prayers and
devotions used on week days and on special festal occasions, in the
synagogue and at home. Printed at Amsterdam, Holland, in the year
5499 (1739). Bound in leather, with silver clasps, with the name of
‘*Kphraim Benguiat” in Hebrew characters impressed on the left
cover. (Plate 10, fig. 1, U.S.N.M. No. 154581.)

18. MANUSCRIPT CONTAINING THE FORMULAS USED FOR THE ABSO-
LUTION FROM Vows Hastiny or UnconscrousLty MApDE, AND PRAYERS
RECITED AT THE CEMETERY, AND ON THE EVE OF NEw YEAR’S AND
ATONEMENT Day.—Written in Hebrew square characters in black ink
with the rubrics in red. Bound in leather with pressed covers and red
edge. Measurements, 7 by 5 inches. (U.S.N.M. No. 1294.)

19. MANUSCRIPT CONTAINING THE PSALMS AND VARIOUS PROPITIA-
TORY PRAYERS.—Written in a quaint, Arabizing cursive script by
Abraham Zarfati at Asmir in the year 5522 A. M. (1762 A. D.). The
Psalter, besides contributing extensively to the synagogual liturgy,
constitutes in itself a prayer book of the Jews. It is recited in part or
in its entirety by pious Jews as a means of prayer and devotion.
Measurements, 6 inches long, 4 inches wide, # inch thick. (Plate 12,
U.S.N.M. No. 1293.)

20. THz Otp TESTAMENT IN THE HEBREW LANGUAGE AND THE
New TESTAMENT IN GREEK.—Printed by Christopher Plantin at Ant-

‘Compare Report of the U.S. Nationai Museum for 1896, p. 996 and Plate 17, fig. 2.

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 10.

Fig. 1. Mintature Prayer Boox.

(Cat. No. 154581, U.S.N.M. Amsterdam, Holland.)
Figs. 2. PuHyuacrertss (Tefillin).

(Cat. No. 154588, U.S. N. M.)

Fig. 3. BaG ror PHYLACTERIES.
(Cat. No. 154582, U.S.N.M. Chalcis Greece.)

i i a i i
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,—Adler and Casanowicz.

- 3 ie
de TPES

PHYLACTERIES AND PRAYER BOOK.

hei a ae
ak ae  ;
iat

2 ar

‘

a

‘ha
<

:
d
: ia
A

oo n

EXPLANATION OF PLATE 1

Figs. 1. PHYLACTERIES UNFOLDED.
(Cat. Nos, 154, 154, 583, U.S.N.M.) _

Fig. 2. Vetver Baa or Prywacrertss.
(Cat. No. 154580 U.S. N. M. Morocco.)

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz.

PLATE 11.

PHYLACTERIES AND BAG.
eh pe

PLATE 12.

“IWN'S'D. ‘866 “ON 38D
“TITUS V

“SSYHSAVHd SNOIYVA GNV SN1VSd DNINIVLNOO LdIYOSNNVIA}

a

Adler and Casanowicz.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.

{ ara

ep PI abr ie Oo neny
able ci ROS dd ele im

ch SEE PES Te TOM aR

per Pema ager grade ey),
peat Salad te Ne:
a Geet otrnty ei ue 7” as
A MORNE RIE RE tal: ata
OR OGLE RMON IE OES Fin aver

~ f

PAGEL AT RIG CGO 1 Or vi fan
Pee aise 0 f. = U
Ret ‘6 MM | COE GG LOT TRUER

LEG (AIA eT

SUES. pera

(0 1% a hah adS

(RO GAAS ; biter ete Penson fy Cm

[dO Let LIM iol rapes ca)
‘

AD se 08 ta ne ao pa YL GY
Cn oF ik i carro searing tone came
(Q Weatior qirreccte dt ae yg de
CEM TOT yr mm icnaingt: caberecenel
cat ee Nae CT GOR GT ATL, Pie
(2 Fé AARON te CE he oa:
Ue Od Aha HOR OG HO ce
Mal OF RTL re ei Oil
: we GET AAT STC VO (70 arnt,

Yo hich paeme 2 mor cen «ace
OBC te CRAM RES iad rs ie
(ero aegls ale 4m oD dae free toe
POL CMD: fate MOCO UC OB gy on
eh. Woe ede eer: 7 incre Mii
bal Ge as TIM: at A POC MRC 90 eas

7A ~,
wh\ Utes

A
eG
al
aay

_ OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 551

werp in 53888 A. M. (1573 A. D.). The Hebrew text is unpointed.
Bound in leather, with gilt edge. Measurements, 7 inches long, 43
inches wide, and 1 inch thick. (U.S.N.M. No. 1292.)

21. Puyuacrertss (fefi//in).—(Plate 10, fig. 2, and Plate 11, fig. 1,
U.S.N.M. No. 154583.) The phylacteries, or tellin, are two square
boxes of parchment. The boxes are fastened to a kind of a base made
of thick parchment with a loop on one side, so as to let a narrow
leather strap pass through (Plate 10, fig. 1). Into these boxes are
inserted the following passages from the Pentateuch, written on strips
of parchment: Exodus xiii, 1-10; Exodus xiii, 11-16; Deuteronomy
vi, 4-9, and Deuteronomy xi, 13-21. By means of the straps the
boxes are bound around the arm and head and worn by all male Jews
who have attained religious majority—i. e., passed the thirteenth year
of age—during morning prayers of week days; hence their Hebrew
name tefillin, from tefillah, prayer. The name phylacteries is derived
from the Greek ¢vAax«rypia (phylacteria), which is used in the New
Testament,* meaning, properly, things that guard—i. e., amulets,
talismans, which the Jewish ¢ef/lin are not. The New Testament
name may be based upon an external resemblance between the tepillin
and the Greek phylacterza. ‘The obligation to wear ¢efil/in is derived
from the command included in the extracts mentioned above: ‘*And
you shall bind them as a sign upon your hand and for frontlets
between your eyes.” ”

The ¢efilla for the head is embossed on two sides of the exterior with
the Hebrew letter W shin (sh), and inside is divided into four compart-
ments, in each of which one of the four extracts from the Pentateuch is
put, and the strap is tied at such a distance as to fit the head of the
wearer, forming a knot shaped in the form of the Hebrew “T daleth
(a). The ¢efi//a for the hand or arm has no letter impressed on the
outside and no divisions inside, and the four passages it contains are
written continuously on one strip of parchment. One end of the strap
is made into a small noose, with a knot resembling the Hebrew ¥ yod
(y ori). The three letters thus exhibited on the outside of the tellin
constitute the Hebrew name of God 177W Shaddaz, rendered by the
English versions: ‘‘Almighty.”* The materials used in making the
tefillin must come from a clean animal, and the extracts from the Pen-
tateuch are written in the same manner as the Torah scroll. (See
under I, 1.)

In “‘ laying the tefillin” (hanohath tefillin) that of the arm is put on
first. The box is fastened on the naked left arm above the elbow, and
the strap is wound seven times around the arm below the elbow.
Then that of the head is put on so that the box comes to rest on the

1Matthew xxiii, 5.
2 Deuteronomy vi, 8; xi, 18. Compare Exodus xiii, 9 and 16.
3 Genesis xvii, 1.
552 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

forehead below the hair and between the eyes, the knot being at the
root of the neck, while the ends of the strap pass over the shoulders °
and hang down on either side. Next, the end of the strap of the ¢efilla
of the arm is wound thrice around the middle finger and around the
hand. Each of these performances is accompanied by appropriate
benedictions and the recitation of passages from the Scriptures. In tak-
ing off the tefillin that of the head is removed first, then that of the
arm. The straps are folded around the bases (Plate 10, fig. 2), and the
tefillin are reverently put into a bag, which is sometimes included in
another, so that the sacred objects may be more carefully protected.’

22. INNER BAG OF TEFILLIN.—Made of silk and embroidered. Made
at Chalcis (island of Euboea, Greece), in the seventeenth century, and
found there after the Jews had departed for the battle of Athens in
1822. (Plate 10, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154582.)

23. BaG oF TEFILLIN.—Made of velvet in Morocco. (Plate 11,
fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154580.)

24, PRAYER SHAWL (tallith).—Made of white brocade silk, with gold-
embroidered edges. Length, 6 feet; width, 1 foot 5 inches. (Plate 13.
U.S.N.M. No. 154588°.)

The tallith is a rectangular piece of cloth, made of wool or silk,
worn by male adults (among the Sefardim, or the observers of the Portu-
guese rite, also by small boys) at the morning services and when per-
forming certain religious functions. To each of the four corners of

(usually woolen) run through an eyelet near the corner and then doubled
and knotted in a certain manner, so that eight threads are allowed to
hang down as a fringe. It is, besides, usually bordered with bluish-
black stripes and adorned with a silk ribbon or silyer-corded lace called
‘“‘crown” (‘atarah) on the top. The ¢allith is loosely thrown over all
the other garments, sometimes passing across the top of the head and
flowing down over the upper part of each arm and over the back,
sometimes wrapped around the neck. The obligation to wear a gar-
ment with fringes is derived from Numbers xv, 38: ‘‘ That they make
their fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their gen-_
erations, and that they put upon the fringe of each border a cord of
blue, and it shall be unto you for a fringe, that you may look upon it -
and remember all the commandments of the Lord, and do them. And
that you go not about after your own heart and your own eyes;” and
Deuteronomy xxii, 12: ‘* Thou shalt make thee fringes upon the four
borders of thy vesture, wherewith thou coverest thyself.” Besides
the tallith, which is worn at stated seasons, the Jews wear at present
under the upper garments during the entire day a garment with
fringes, called the ‘‘ small ¢allith” (tallith katam), or the ‘‘ four corners”

‘Compare Report of the U.S. National Museum for 1896, p. 997, and plate 21.
1899.—Adler and Casanowicz

PLATE 13.

her PPP” wrod

—

Ree
$
\
‘
{
{
‘id

PRAYER SHAWL (TALLITH).

Cat. No. 1545885, U.S.N.M
OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 553

(arb'a kanfoth). Tt consists of a piece of rectangular cloth of any
material, but usually of wool, about 3 feet long and 1 foot wide, with
fringes fastened to the four corners in the same manner as to the
fallith, with an aperture in the center sufticient to let it pass over the
head, so that part falls in front and part behind. This small ¢a/dith
is assumed to have originated in the times of persecution, when the
Jews had to refrain from exhibiting the garment with fringes and
could only in this manner comply with the commandment to wear
fringes.

III. OBJECTS USED ON FESTAL OCCASIONS AT THE JEWISH HOME.

(a) SABBATH.

25. CUP AND SAUCER USED For KippusH.—Made of cut glass,
gilded. Measurements: Cup, height 14 inches, diameters 2 and 1p
inches; saucer, height 1 inch, diameter 43 inches. (Plate 14, figs. 1
and 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154585.)

The Jews, like other Oriental peoples, compute the day from sunset
to sunset. The Sabbath, therefore, begins at sunset on Friday and ter-
minates at sunset on Saturday.

It is inaugurated in the home by blessing and lighting of the candles
by the mistress of the house,’ and in the synagogue by a special service.
On returning from the service, and before the evening meal, the head
of the house fillsa cup with wine, raises it in his right hand, and recites
Genesis ii, 1 and 2, which relate the origin of the Sabbath, and pro-
nounces a benediction over the wine to God, who ‘‘has sanctified the
Sabbath.” For this reason the ceremony is called kiddush, i. e., sanc-
tification. He then drinks from the cup and hands it to the other per-
sons at the table to partake of. Where no wine or other liquor is avail-
able, the Aiddush is pronounced over two loaves of bread, which are
laid on the table in memory, it is assumed, of the two portions of manna
that were gathered in the wilderness on Fridays. The loaves are then
cut up by the head of the house, the pieces dipped in salt and distributed
among the members of the family.

96. SPICE BOTTLE, USED FoR HappaLan.—Made of china, with neck
of oxidized silver. Measurments: 44 inches high, 12 inches in dia-
meter. (Plate 14, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154587.)

27. SILVER CANDLESTICK, USED FOR HappaLAnu.—The base is in the
form of a leaf, 2? inches long and 24 inches wide; height of the candle-
stick, 1 inch, with an extinguisher. (Plate 14, fig. 4. U.S.N.M. No.
154586.)

The Sabbath is inaugurated at the home by a benediction over a cup
of wine (see under 25) and is terminated ina like manner. In addi-
tion to the cup a wax candle and a box containing some spices are used.

1Compare U. S. National Museum Report for 1896, p. 994.
554 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

The head of the house takes the cup in his right hand and the spice
box in his left, while the candle is usually held by a child, and, after
reciting several passages of the Scriptures, pronounces a blessing over
the wine, then over the spices, smelling them and passing them to the
others present, then over the light, closing with thanksgiving to God
for the distinction He made between Sabbath and workdays, between
things sacred and profane, etc. The cup is then passed around among
the members of the family and the candle extinguished with drops of
wine from the cup. This ceremony is called the habdalah, i. e., sep-
aration or division, because it divides or separates the Sabbath from
the other days of the week.

(b) PASSOVER.

The feast of Passover is celebrated in commemoration of the deliv-
erance of Israel from the bondage of Egypt, as related in the first
chapters of the book of Exodus. It begins on the evening of the
14th of Nisan (March-April) and continues, with the Jews who live in
Palestine, for seven days, with those in other places for eight days.
It is the first of the three pilgrimage festivals (the two others being
the feast of the weeks, or Shabuoth, and the feast of the Tabernacles,
or Sukkoth)! and begins the ecclesiastical year.”

In ancient times the celebration of Passover centered around the
Paschallamb. As it could not be slaughtered outside of the sanctuary *
its use ceased with the destruction of the Temple, and the eating of
unleavened bread, or maggoth, is now the principal feature of the Pass-
over feast. The eating or even the keeping of anything leavened or fer-
mented (Aameg) is strictly prohibited, * hence the Passover is also called
the ‘‘feast of unleavened bread.”°® On the evening preceding Passover
the ceremony of ‘‘ searching for leaven” (bedigath hameg) takes place.
The head of the house, furnished with a candle, a wooden spoon, and
a feather brush, goes over the whole house and gathers all suspicious
crumbs into the spoon. This is burned on the morning of the 14th of
Nisan in the courtyard (b¢'ur hameg). In the evening the feast begins
with a service in the synagogue. In the home the evening meal is of
the nature of a commemoration service, called Seder—order, arrange-
ment, or program. At the head of the table are cushioned chairs or
lounges for the master and mistress of the house to recline on, as was
done and is still customary in the Orient among the high and freeborn.
On the table are the articles emblematic of the events commemorated.
These are: Three maggoth, or cakes of unleavened bread, baked in the

1Compare Exodus xxiii, 14-17; xxxiv, 23; Deuteronomy xvi, 16.
2 Compare Exodus xii, 2; Leviticus xxiii, 5; Numbers xxviii, 16.

3’ Compare Deuteronomy xvi, 2.

4Compare Exodus xxii, 19; xxiii, 7; Deuteronomy xvi, 3 and 4.
5 Exodus xxii, 15.
“a9 gp AI ta oes. eee =
a ie - - 4. - m9 '
| : ae. Eig aot! eee -"
a A . 7 Pt se pe
4 ; ’ ;

EXPLANATION OF POAT Es 14.

Figs. 1 and 2. Cup anp Saucer, usED ror Krppusu.
(Cat. No. 154585, U.S. N. M.)

Fig. 3. Spice Borrie, usED FoR HABpDALAH.
(Cat. No. 154587, U. 8. N. M.)

Fig. 4. Stuver CANDLESTICK, USED FoR HABDALAH.
(Cat. No. 154586, U. S. N. M.)
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Acler and Casanowicz PLATE 14.

UTENSILS FOR KIDDUSH AND HABDALAH.
TAK:

i. Pow

Se. Meet

et

» Sa.
PLATE 15.

Adler and Casanowicz.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899

‘INN'S’ O09FST “ON “48D

“RIIR.S [UE

“IVAW YSAO0SSVd AHL LV Gasn

“AODBULRS

‘SNOIHSND GAYSGIONSWA OM L

- ate
+S
AD

.

Report of U. S. National Muse

ur

Y

1899.—Adier and Casanowicz.

PLATE 16.

EWER AND BASIN USED AT THE PASSOVER MEAL.

No, 155178, U.S.N.M.

Cat,
PLATE 17.

Adler and Casanowicz.

Report of U, S, National Museum, 1899,

‘INN'S’ F66

“<TR pue uredg

CT ‘ON 38)

WAW YSAOSSVd 3H1I Lv Gasn ‘HSIC

4th, oA -
ac). Ate ALLE CEG wr
pac) WAL (LIGEO: TU NGL,

MOLY DOL NUL
4

Chacup Cade. deal Cewuce Bes

IG CSNYOOSt ac eA

MAR eC

ROU NWR
Yr Heh UL (oNecu)

NEC

Mice GR i
Pai UCC CA ICL
trv «4

ro {CG '
Ow yy acl utiee oe

ONAL cue

NACEEN NCUA City
ANG C7,
Mick uatud Lact

G NO Ci uAcG agNCH

OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 555

shape of large, thin, round crackers, the ‘‘bread of affliction”,' a
piece of roasted meat, usually the bone of a lamb, representing the
Passover lamb; bitter herbs, usually horse-radish (maror), in com-
memoration of the ‘‘embittering of life” which Israel suffered in
Egyptian servitude;* a roasted egg, in memory of the festal sacrifice
(hagigah) offered in the Temple; a compound of almond, apples, and
sirup, which has the color of brickclay (Aaroseth), in commemoration
of the labor of brickmaking the Israelites performed in Egypt’ and
into which the bitter herbs are dipped before they are partaken of;
green herbs—parsley or lettuce (Aarpas)—as the ‘food of poverty;”
a cup with salt water, in which the green herbs are dipped to represent
the hyssop dipped in the blood of the Paschal lamb.* There are,
besides, wine and cups or glasses for each at the table, as everyone
assisting at the celebration is supposed to partake of four cups of
wine.

The service begins with 4¢ddush, as on Sabbath and other festivals.*
The family then sits down and the hagadah, i. e., narration, consist-
ing of an account of the sufferings of Israel at the hands of. the
Egyptians and their miraculous deliverance by God, accompanied by
psalms and hymns, is recited. At appropriate passages of the hagadah
the articles mentioned above are partaken of, symbolical ceremonies
performed, and the evening meal is eaten.

28. Two CUSHIONS, USED TO LEAN UPON AT THE PASSOVER MEAL, OR
SEDER.—Made of green silk and richly embroidered in gold and silk,
in Samacoy, Bulgaria, in the sixteenth century. Length, 19 inches;
width, 162 inches. (Plate 15. U.S.N.M. No. 154600.)

29. EWER AND BASIN, USED FOR THE ABLUTION AT THE PASSOVER
MEAL, OR SEDER.—Brass repoussé and chased work. Height of ewer,
13 inches; diameter of base, 7 inches; height of basin, 4% inches;
diameter, 143 inches. (Plate 16. U.S.N.M. No. 155178.) Washing
of the hands (netilath yadayim) by pouring water over them is observed
by the Jews before prayer and before meals, sometimes also before
saying grace after meals. The custom is also referred to in the New
Testament.°

30. PAssovVER pisH.—Used at the’ Passover meal, or Seder. to hold
the maggoth and the other symbolical articles of the service. Made
by the Jews of Spain in the thirteenth century, glazed in Italy in the
sixteenth century. On its surface are painted the benediction of Aid-
dush and the sixteen words containing the program of the ceremonies
performed during the Seder, and four vignettes representing the
family in the various stages of the service. Height, 3+ inches; diam-
eter, 18% inches. (Plate 17. U.S.N.M. No. 154594.)

1Deuteronomy xvi, 3. Slibidy xi 22.
? Exodus i, 14. 5 See under 25, p. 553.
ST bid, 14a-v: 7 if. ® Compare Matthew xv, 2; Mark vii, 2; Luke xi, 38.
556 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

31. CovER FOR THE UNLEAVENED BREAD, OR mag¢oth, USED AT
THE PASSOVER MEAL, OR SEDER.—Linen, embroidered in silk. Made
in Chalcis (Eubcea), Greece, in the seventeenth century. Measure-
ments, 163 by 15 inches. (Plate 18. U.S.N.M. No. 154599.)

32. BRASS DISH, USED FOR HOLDING THE GREEN HERBS AT THE PaAss-
OVER MEAL, OR SEDER.—Chased work. Made in Venice, Italy, in the
fifteenth century. Height, 34 inches; diameter, 174 inches. (Plate
19. U.S.N.M. No. 154595.)

33. COVER FOR THE GREEN HERBS, USED AT THE PASSOVER MEAL,
or SEepER.—Purple-colored silk, embroidered in silver and gold.
Made in Chios (an island off the coast of Asia Minor) in the eight-
eenth century. Measurements, 21 by 19 inches. (Plate 20. U.S.N.M.
No. 154597.)

34. TWELVE WINE GLasses.—Used for the drinking of the ‘‘ four
cups” (arba’ kosoth) at the Passover meal, or Seder. Cut glass with
gilded rims, and engraved with scenes from human life (the two glasses
on the plate, for instance, represent a woman at the loom and a sailing
vessel, the others being a woman spinning; a rural idyl; a harvesting
scene; a country homestead; a landscape; a chariot race; a house with
its inhabitants; a hunting scene). Made in the seventeenth century.
Height of each glass, 44 inches; diameter, 1g inches. (Plate 21, fig. 1.
U.S.N.M. No. 154593.)

35. ANTIQUE CHINA Ccup.—Used for the salt water at the Passover
meal, or Seder. Height, 14 inches; diameter, 23 inches. (Plate 21,
fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No. 154618.)

36. ENAMELED SAUCER AND SILVER SPooN.—Used for the compound
of almonds, apples, and other fruit, or haroseth, at the Passover meal,
or Seder. Height of saucer, seven-eighths inch; diameter, 43 inches;
length of spoon, 54 inches. (Plate 21, figs. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154596.)

37. GLASS AND PLATE.—Used for the counting of the ten plagues
inflicted on the Egyptians, at the Passover meal, or Seder. Height of
glass, 64 inches; diameters, 54 and 3% inches; height of plate, 1 inch;
diameter, 84 inches. (Plate 22. U.S.N.M. No. 1290.) During the
reciting of the account of the deliverance from Egyptian servitude in
the liturgy of the Seder, or hagadah, at the mention of the ten plagues
sent against the Egyptians’ a drop of wine is poured out from a glass
into a plate at the mention of each plague, or sometimes is dipped out
with the finger.

38. Precr oF BROCADE.—Used as a tablecloth at the Passover meal,
or Seder. Measurements, 3 feet 103 inches by 1 foot 6$inches. (Plate
23. U.S.N.M. No. 154596".)

39. TABLE CENTER.—Used at the Passover meal or Seder. Linen,
with edge and corners richly embroidered in silk and gold. Made in

‘Compare Exodus vii-xii.

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz PLATE 18.

COVER FOR THE UNLEAVENED BREAD AT THE PASSOVER MEAL.

Chalcis, Greece.

Cat. No. 154599, U.S.N.M.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 19.

Brass DISH, USED AT THE PASSOVER MEAL.

Venice, Italy.

Cat. No. 154595, U.S.N.M.
a ad

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 20.

COVER FOR GREEN HERBS AT THE PASSOVER MEAL.

Chios.

Cat. No, 154597, U.S.N.M.
EXPLANATION: OFUPLAREeote

Figs. 1. WINE GLASSES USED AT THE PAssovER MEAL.
(Cat. No. 154598, U.S. N. M.)

Fig. 2. ANTIQUE CuP USED AT THE PassovER MEAL.
(Cat. No. 154618, U.S. N. M.)

Figs. 3. ENAMELED SAUCER AND SILVER SPOON USED AT THE PassovER MEAL.

(Cat. No. 154596, U.S. N. M.)

ee ——_
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 21.

VESSELS USED AT THE PASSOVER MEAL.
“IVWAIW YSAOSSVd SHI LV Gasn ‘A1iv1d GNv ssv15

PLATE 22.

a

a Siew oe

Ory ae. PS
pie, ir Wee ip ee

3
.
O
<
2)
>
oo

Report of U. S. National Museum,

PLATE 23.

1899.—Adler and Casanowicz.

S. National Museum,

U

Hod ae ah

% ae

PIECE OF BROCADE, USED AT THE PASSOVER MEAL.

-M.

596, U.S.

4

0, 15

N

at.

C
Repoit of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 24.

LINEN TABLE CENTER, USED AT THE PASSOVER MEAL
Janima, Turkey.

Cat. No, 154601, U.S.N.M.
Report of US. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz PLATE 25.

SERVIETTE USED AT THE PASSOVER MEAL.

Chios.

Cat. No. 154598, U.S.N.M.
land

OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 55%

Janina, Turkey, in the seventeenth century. Length, 3 feet 10 inches;
width, 1 foot 7 inches. (Plate 24. U.S.N.M. No. 154601.)

40, Servierre.—Used at the Passover meal or Seder. Woolen,
with lace edge worked in silver and silk. Made in Chios in the six-
teenth century. Length, 4 feet 3 inches; width, 1 foot 74 inches.
(Plate 25. U.S.N.M. No. 154598.)

(Cc) TABERNACLES.

41. CURTAIN FOR THE BOOTH OR TENT (SUKKAH) OF THE FEAST OF
TABERNACLES.—Made of linen and silk, with gold threads in the edge,
by the Beduins of Jerusalem in the eighteenth century. Length, 10
feet 2 inches; width, 6 feet 4 inches. (Plate 26. U.S.N. M. No.
154590.)

42, CURTAIN TIE.—Linen with edges embroidered in gold and silk.
Made by the Jews of Smyrna, Asia Minor, in the seventeenth century.
Length, 8 feet; width, 84 inches. (Plate 27. U.S.N.M. No. 154617.)

The Feast of Taber fae takes place on the 15th of Tishri (September-
October), and continues, according to Leviticus xxiii, 39-43, seven
days, with an eighth day for the conclusion of the feast, to whielet is
added the feast of the ‘‘Rejoicing of the Law,” thus eton mee it to
nine days. It is celebrated in remembrance of the wandering of the
Israelites through the desert where they dwelt in booths or tents’. In
ancient times the feast was coincident with the harvest season and was
a feast of thanksgiving.” It was one of the most important and
joyous of the three pilgrimage festivals. The most characteristic fea-
ture of the celebration of this feast is the dwelling in booths or tents,
whence is derived its Hebrew name, Sukkoth, or more fully hag ha-
sukkoth, the feast of booths. The booth has three sides of wood, usu-
ally boards or planks, while the fourth side, on which is the entrance,
is hung with a curtain. It must be erected in the open air and covered
with green branches and leaves, affording protection against the sun
by day, but permitting a small portion of the sky to be seen and the
stars to show at night. Inside it is usually adorned with draperies and
garlands. Being the ‘‘dwelling place” * during the festival, the meals
are taken in the booth and especially pious people even sleep in it.
Sick and feeble people, however, are exempt from the obligation of
‘‘dwelling in tents,” and the precept is generally suspended in inclem-
ent weather. Another of the important ceremonies connected with the
observance of the Feast of Tabernacles is the use of palm branches
(Julab), bound up with myrtle and willow branches, and a kind of cit-
ron (ethrog), for which see the Report of the U. S. National Museum
for 1896, page 996.

1Compare Leviticus xxiii, 43.
2 Leviticus xxiii, 39; Exodus xxiii, 16; xxxiv, 22.
3 Leviticus xxiii, 42.

NAT Mus 99 39

558 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

IV. OBJECTS USED ON SPECIAL OCCASIONS.

43. WRAPPER USED ON THE OCCASION OF CARRYING A CHILD TO
SYNAGOGUE.—Linen with embroidered inscription in Hebrew reading:
‘‘ Jacob, surnamed Kapel, son of Naphthali Shalita, surnamed Hirsh
Heller, born Wednesday, the 15th of Shebat (January—February) 5604
(1844). May the Lord let him grow up to the study of the Torah, to
marriageand good works. Amen. Selah.” Madein France. Length,
9 feet 4 inches; width, 6 inches. (Plate 28. U.S.N.M. No. 154605.)

Among some Jews it is the custom when a child is brought for the
first time to the synagogue that the father takes it to the desk, where
the lesson from the Law is read during service, and presents a wrapper
for the Torah scroll.

44. MarriacEe contracr (kethubah).—Written on parchment in the
so-called Rashi or Rabbinical script with gilded initials and decorated
borders. Height, 12 inches; width, 18} inches. Dated Haskeuy,
Constantinople, the 7th of Tishri (September—October) 5361 A. M.
(1601.4. D.). The contracting parties are Solomon Medinah and Mer-
cada, daughter of Moses Firmon. Marriage is usually preceded by an
engagement or betrothal, on which océasion it is customary among
some Jews to draw up a formal writ of agreement between the bride
and groom, whence the ceremony is called tenavm, ** articles of agree-
ment.” The marriage ceremony takes place under a canopy (Auppah)
of silk, or velvet about two yards square, supported by four poles. The
bride and bridegroom are led under it by their parents and friends.
The rabbi, or anyone competent to perform the ceremony, takes a cup
of wine, and after pronouncing an appropriate blessing, gives it to the
bride and bridegroom to taste. The bridegroom then places a ring on
the finger of the bride with the words: ‘‘ Behold thou art wedded to

me by this ring, according to the law of Moses and Israel.” ‘This act, _

which is called sanctification (k¢ddushin) in itself makes the marriage
valid. Then the marriage contract is read. This is written in Aramaic
after an established form. It states that the bridegroom agrees to take
the bride as his lawful wife, and that he will keep, maintain, honor,
and cherish her, ete., and also specifies the sum he settles upon her in
case of his death. After that the bridegroom crushes an empty glass
with his foot in remembrance of ‘the destruction of Jerusalem." The
rabbi, or whosoever performs the ceremony, takes another cup of wine,
pronounces over it seven benedictions, and hands it again to the bride
and bridegroom, who taste it, and the ceremony is then’ concluded.
45. MARRIAGE ConTRACT.—Written on parchment. The marginsare
richly decorated; of the writing only a few traces are left, which, how-
ever, exhibit fine workmanship. Height, 204 inches; width, 184 inches.”

1Compare Psalms cxxxvii, 5.
2For an illustration of an old marriage contract, see Report of the U. S$. National
Museum for 1896, p. 998.

t of U.S. National Museum, 1899 —Ad'er and Casanowicz PLATE 26.

CURTAIN FOR BOOTH (SUKKAH) OF THE FEAST OF TABERNACLES.

Jerusalem, Palestine.

Cat. No. 154590, U.S.N.M.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz PLATE 27.

CURTAIN TIE.

Smyrna, Asia Minor.

Cat. No. 154617, U.S.N.M.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 28.

WRAPPER FOR CARRYING CHILD TO SYNAGOGUE.
France.

Cat. No. 154605, U.S.N,M.
hy
=
oo Ee ora ger ern See ;
‘ pie fi ltt a ool Mg . A a mre)
kee BRN Rete ye 4 Je, fe Se Sy :
onnl 4 » i “ 5 " Acie +
ae! = ‘7 : sree) s
- g 3 ;
‘ a. y . AP
z f pl
- ire
=),
»
.

€

Rote re Re

sS
Pi

EXPLANATION OFS PseAviBe 20.

. MezuzAW INCASED IN A QUILL.

MeEzUZzAH IN A TIN CASE.

3. MEzUZzAH IN A GLASS TUBE.

MrzuzAH UNFOLDED.
(Cat. No. 154584, U.S. N. M.)

AMULET OF PARCHMENT.
(Cat. No. 154611, U.S. N.M.)

. SttveR MEDALLION, USED AS AMULET.

(Cat. No, 154613, U.S. N. M.)

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz PLATE 29.

7M OFRSON) ON Ay

"ON aI >
VIN 23) JW) r93) qass 923 nb

YP7> 2 ov! ym)? “IN WW Aba
~12 YR2531 Mesa QNawa Ba nIST yrab
TT SY nnd omar yereay ypawas

yoxWal Vea mipty Sy p'naray yang Pa
N OWA TT ¥P ON run Dow pst Afar
SN TID SaN 7anKnb o4 gone Ay SS
N dutnnn 550'5? Sai 3223 S55

MAY AMR Rae hana bal
3 Beaab5y aby ty

S19 Yate ey
S mane ya -
Yon> *

MEZUZOT AND AMULETS
OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 559

V. MISCELLANEOUS.

46. Mrzuzan.—The mezuzuh consists of the passages Deuteronomy
vi, 4-9, and xi, 13-21, written on parchment in the same manner as the
Torah scroll and the phylacteries' and inserted in a wooden or metal
‘ase or glass tube. On the outer side is written the Hebrew name of
God, Shaddai, “Almighty,” and a small opening is left in the case
opposite this word. The case is fastened in a slanting position to the
right-hand side of the doorpost, in compliance with the words: *‘And
thou shalt write them (the words of the Lord) on the doorposts of thy
house and within thy gates.”” Pious Jews touch and kiss the mezuzah
as they pass through the door. Some Jews in the Orient nail to the door-
way the entire Decalogue inclosed in a tin case. The custom has been
widely adopted by other peoples of the East, particularly by Mohamme-
dans, who write passages from the Koran over the doors and windows
of their homes. (Plate 29, fig. 1, mezuzah incased in a quill; fig. 2,
mezuzah in a tin case; fig. 3, mezuzah in a glass tube; fig. 4, mezuzah
unfolded. U.S.N.M. No. 154584.)

47, AMULET OF PARCHMENT.— Written for Hadji Ephraim Benguiat
when he was sick inchildhood. Length, 94 inches; width, 14 inches.
(Plate 29, fig. 5, U.S.N.M. No. 154611.)

Amulets are charms, or preservatives against evil spirits, witchcraft,
the evil eye, or disease. They are made of stone, metals, animal prod-
ucts, ete., in fact of any substance. The most common consists of
words, characters, or sentences ranged ina particular order and written
on parchment, or engraved upon wood, stone, or metal, and worn
about the neck or some other part of the body. Amulets are found in
use among nearly all peoples and religions of ancient and modern times.

48. SILVER MEDALLION, USED PROBABLY AS AN AMULET.—Filigree
work. On one side is, in gilt relief, the Hebrew name of God, Shaddaz,
(‘Almighty’), on the other the figure called ‘‘Shield of David” (magen
David) with a fleur-de-lis inside. Height, 22 inches; width 1 inches.
(Plate 28, fig. 6. U.S.N.M. No. 154613.)

49, Two SILVER RINGS, USED AS AMULETS.—Engraved with the name
of the owner: ‘‘Ephraim Benguiat,” and kabbalistic words. Diameter,
three-fourths inch.

50. SILVER MEDAL.—Struck in commemoration of the edict of Em-
peror Francis Joseph I of February 18, 1860, granting the Israelites
of his Empire the right to own real estate. On the obverse are in
relief, to the right, a crowned female figure holding a scroll inscribed
in Hebrew, ‘‘One people and one nation;” to the left, the figure of a
boy holding in his right hand a wreath, in his left a palm branch.
Between the figures are, above, two tablets inscribed in Hebrew, ** One
law for usall;” beneath, the bust of the Emperor and the double eagle

1See above under 1 and 21, p. 546 and 551. 2Deuteronomy vi, 9; xi, 20.
560 REPORT OF NATIONAL MUSEUM, 1899.

of the imperial standard. The margin and bottom of the medal have
appropriate German legends, expressive of the gratitude of the Israei-
ites. The reverse is inscribed with the paragraphs of the edict bear-
ing on the subject. Diameter, 2+¢ inches; thickness, one-fourth inch.

51. Strver cory.—On the obverse is, in relief, a seated female figure
laying her right hand in blessing upon the head of a boy standing in
front of her. The margin is inscribed with part of the Aaronitic
blessing in German, ‘‘ The Lord bless thee and keep thee,” * while the
chair on which the female figure is seated is adorned with the mono-
gram of Christ (x). At the bottom is the name ‘‘Abramson.” On
the reverse is, on the top, the name of God, ‘* Jehovah,” in Hebrew
characters, with rays of the sun going out from it, surrounded by the
inscription in German, ‘* Light and truth.” It may have originated
with some Kabbalistic sect and have been used as a talisman. Diam-
eter, 12 inches.

52. ScrrprurAL MoTro.—Made of red silk and embroidered in gold,
with the Hebrew passages, ‘‘ Let thy garments be always white, and
let not thy head lack ointment,” and, ‘‘ I will dwell in thy tabernacle
forever; I will take refuge in the covert of thy wings. Selah.”*? Made
in Smyrna, Asia Minor, at the beginning of the nineteenth century.
Length, 274 inches; width, 7} inches.

VI. ILLUSTRATIONS OF BIBLE NARRATIVES, MOSTLY TEXTILES.

53. THE SACRIFICE OF Isaac.—As related in Genesis, chapter xxil.
Piece of red tapestry, made in Spain. Length, 22 inches; width, 7
inches. (Plate 30, fig. 1. U.S.N.M. No. 154607.)

54. Tuam DEFEAT OF GoLiaTH BY Davip.—As described in I Samuel,
chapter xvii. Piece of green tapestry, made in Greece. Length,
5 feet 5 inches; width, 11 inches. (Plate 30, fig. 2. U.S.N.M. No.
154608.)

55. THE story or Davip AND BaTHsHEBA.—ASs related in II Sam-
uel, chapter xi. Piece of green tapestry, supposed to have been made
in England in the thirteenth century. Length, 29 inches; width, 103
inches. (Plate 30, fig. 3. U.S.N.M. No. 154609.)

56. JOSEPH AND THE WIFE OF PoTreHAR.—As related in Genesis
xxxix, 7. Oil painting on copper. Height, 213 inches; width, 18
inches.

57. THE PASSING OF THE IsRAELITES THROUGH THE RED SEa.—As
described in Exodus xiv, 15. Lithograph. Height, 20 inches; width,
30 inches. (Plate 31. U.S.N.M. No. 1289.)

58. THE STORY OF THE GOLDEN CALF.—As related in Exodus, chap-
ter xxvii. On the top to the right is seen Moses on Mount Sinai
holding the two tablets of the law; to the left is the calf mounted on
a column; below are the people dancing around it, and Aaron with his

——

1 Numbers vi, 24. * Ecclesiastes ix, 8. 3 Psaims bxi, 4.

EE
: 1s J, P
Ps ¥ .
<gifc | Sele ‘ iat
To Nueces a A ‘ -
ity a =X -
cree ag Gr ">
eine he }
~ »
4° 4
‘ Li:
Vb
2 )
j ¥
ra ne
. =
5 : >
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 30.

=]

Fig. 1. TAPESTRY REPRESENTING THE SACRIFICE OF Isaac,
(Cat. No. 154607, U.S. N. M.)

Fie. 2 TAPESTRY REPRESENTING THE DEFEAT OF G OLIATH BY Davin.
5
(Cat. No. 154608, U.S. N. M. Greece.)

Fig. 3. TAPESTRY REPRESENTING THE Srory or DAvID AND BATHSHEBA.
>)
(Cat. No, 154609, U.S. N. M. England.)
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 30.

KEK HHH,
ba

ABAAKK HC LL LES

ey

re
a a
"|
8

ay ae

Fs

IEIL EK SHIR A

TAPESTRIES ILLUSTRATING BIBLICAL NARRATIVES.

a st: i
= d

ae ‘

WA AS
=

reece eer

ier, Key

Fi

pore Se A

re Pe. | ie

>, tert dat”
‘

ke

\

PLATE 31.

Adier and Casanowicz

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899

WNS' 1D
‘VAS 03yY 3SHL HOSNOYHL SALITSVYS| SHL 4O ONISSVd SHL ONILNASSYdSH HdVYSOH LIT

GL “ON “FBO

Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz

PLATE 32.

EMBROIDERY REPRESENTING THE STORY OF THE GOLDEN CALF.

Spain.
No. 158349, U

.S.N.M.

Cat.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz.

PLATE 33.

TAPESTRY REPRESENTING THE JUDGMENT OF SOLOMON.

Cat. No. 158350, U.S.N.M.
Report of U. S, National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 34,

EMBROIDERY REPRESENTING THE PROPHET ELIJAH FED BY RAVENS.

Spain.

Cat. No, 154616, U.S.N.M.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899.—Adler and Casanowicz. PLATE 35.

TAPESTRY REPRESENTING THE STORY OF SUSANNA.
Cat. No. 154610, U.S.N.M.
Report of U. S. National Museum, 1899,—Adler and Casanowicz PLATE 36.

fe

; * Meng
wi 2
SN a
a i
:
:
oS

ER

rs
t

epee

TAPESTRY REPRESENTING THE STORY OF JUDITH AND HOLOFERNES.

Greece,

Cat. No. 154807, U.S.N.M.
pes
}

Pah CRS ees Ted eae
A Os, Sey
OBJECTS OF JEWISH CEREMONIAL. 561

arms outstretched in deprecation. Silk embroidery. Made in Spain
in the sixteenth century. Height, 114 inches; width, 144 inches.
(Plate 32. U.S.N.M. No. 158349.)

59. THe JUDGMENT OF Sotomon.—As related in I Kings iii, 16.
French petit point tapestry. Height, 183 inches; width, 21} inches.
(Plate 33. U.S.N.M. No. 158350.)

60. THE PROPHET ELIJAH PROVIDED WITH FOOD BY RAVENS.—As
related in I Kings xvii, 6. Silk embroidery, with the face of Elijah
painted. Made in Spain in the eighteenth century. Height, 11%
inches; width, 9} inches. (Plate 34. U.S.N.M. No. 154616.)

61. SUSANNA AND THE ELDERS.—As related in the ‘‘ History of
Susanna” (the apocryphal chapter xiii of the book of Daniel). Brown
tapestry. Height, 3 feet 84 inches; width, 2 feet 2 inches. (Plate 35.
U.S.N.M. No. 154610.)

62. TAPESTRY, PROBABLY REPRESENTING THE STORY OF JUDITH AND
Hotorernes.—As related in the (apocryphal) book of Judith, chap-
ters x-xili. Made in Greece. Height, 143 inches; width, 18 inches.
(Plate 36. -U.S.N.M. No. 154807.)
: ue 4 *
in | Ain ics Sy Ae?
ae a Vim “) 2 ig.
7 . cae NG (ek
; hits ee har hs Jie Be
3 4 erty.
Mie: 6) STE ERE Oa eae
> = < eae
, } Tae viet oo Betamite cael. (yi. > e
: d , : -
_—_ ; ;
nee Pgh Set 3 pears
: 2 A x a Ge phe He
i rae fi Teeter: ook ete ae i
Wetnrane tik tnt es tr br hips Cod ¥ S
: : 7
A Hit, Hee oe Dre ee

a

te ee. jt OTe ee MEAT TA ee
fe 3 aft aoe, sana vata
. Pell aa See pare ew 5 tcje Ean baye? ces ag ie 2
L ¢ = #, rie eS
ig» Wh anes eer Aik at SS pals We 6p on
i vr
7 ©
S : “
ae he

m
DN DHX:

Page.

Accessions annually since 1881, table showing......-------.-.-------------- 54

during year ending June 30,1899, list of ........----------------- 73

AHO WHI eae 3b eee eS 2000 DOE eee eRe POSER OE coco anor sonore 481
Adler, Cyrus, and I. M. Casanowicz on Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection
of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited in the United

States National Museum, by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat... 539

GUSpdiEIEIOOLG! TSNPIONS 62.2204... 5-.ce- Sos aeeeee nen 2

title of joint paper by -.----.-- Uke ose ol ekt wee eee eee 125

ANG haan TEIN 0 8 SS Reiger Se OES See eee ee Bee Hee 8 option Se 02

BSG GS ao ee eer le es aita ecis bs  o'ejnin'cin b Se ee ee 335)

IOUS ee eo PS Se ee ae renee f ee 5)

(Aanes, digit Dulom OL spectMenevtie = 502. .--2--+-....---..- .<-s=+-ssecceoe 17

I EPPLCENG Wa bh ee Se ale ae esi Cee SE OS aE eh ho er ee ete 322

OST FS a dog Se ee te oe ee oe ee een 215

Agriculture, Department of, mammals, insects, and plants received from ----- g

SNipreatimghiv® 2 Sok SSeS SOS a beD REO SOSe a> SE eae nee ee eee 307

JAlinginiita . 0c. ck ech eben sd dbddosees bose Cn eee ana eee een tse 446

ny Ee Pe eto are Sa sco eine a Ss Sic ce Soe teh = nee 447

Algonquin tribes, heddle frame of the-.........---------------+------------ 489

IN ieliine: WellveitS) 5 - soko e SOBRE SOE ae Ba eee eae een ene nooo mo ra] 480

SAR eran (1 nO Slr go patois Spars sine eis,o ie rei,ci= se) = ee eee Sillil

SUL ESSE Eee = ei earn ee Seo 312

loculmies and mode of occurrence. OL = 2.2.25... 2- 22-25 s= =e 312

OGRE Oa. bad SS Beene Been ee. oe ae mores sec acooct: 312

JM GRaOITIN ID Ae eee Ne fae SR ee eet oer sc Rac 182

DORR TERE othe e Loe a ae oe eins aon See yeaa a See ele ere 186

AS linieanitaditves | oe ee eR eS or Abeer Sonn nea emer ee dose sueaoasbonc 419

ANWR gtk eSB Be ees ee Cece epee eric ae oeoce er Lesatccems te maence 416

Hilbiey Sie ree eee a eA Ge er eA See OEE OAE Speers ear 421

PULUETINETN Nene ee ees ear ce oe ares Bee etn rey, Eevee cre sae see cae cory ret 419

CTU MTree omer cesee ee BS Se TE Aan See Ag Sg eR ee ee ee Oe 419

UUs DE otcge see aR LES cranes ait oo ata eee i eyeeiais =e oe see ptt a 346

Psu hey ete ee ett ee gO ae pee ene le earn Rin tcl oe eee 416

Slat | Vey aera ek A A ee sie A ee SP AO Se aCe eer marys 421

FSG HCLMIP ites: o& sae ae os cee ct acs manna neau omen ee eee 416

PANETTIERE rae ree re eee ets ar Sere ae aint eae aera ate wi 419

GerTOSILIOI Of @ ao Sea a eae orca oe a eine See in ae ee 419, 420

BUREer OCR IECHCS Ol. =o. ace. sea see tee seen a ceseana oem mene t eee ae 455

WEES See iano Side Conn an AR Rear NOOB RSE Meena areeert 456

PMiblyaOOMees <= oo oso oa enn 8 eee pee entero nie so ociss sss bse - == 390

MITOCL EG Og O CCURTOM GENO letierene oe amines cee ees wale eee Soe eons 390

(HES(SS apie Ore SE Sen fake ES a ee ee ee a ee 390

Bmerica, disc buitom Of SpeCnumenAIle a. o.25ocas5-- ssc sees seas- cc cece =e 117

Amides gerbe OEWANESS Seancas aber 2Sue Se Oc BO rIC eRe Se Ap oR aCe Gere aaa eee 465
564 INDEX.

Page
Amulet of parchment... ....-..22:2seeonceuee eee ==: Re ee ee 559
Amur, Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and. By Otis T. Mason.-....... 523
River, types of boat on. the’). = *2es5: =s5> -2e2 eee ee 533
An Early West Virginia Pottery. By Walter Hough ......-:--..-.-22..2.22 511
Analyses of adobe .....<--25-sseece cane Seen ee ee aie oe ae 336
allanite _.--. J2c.c2s80 232 Se eee Se oe eee 312
asbestiform: minerals.c2s 023.2 ee eee Sobee see eee ee 298
barite - 322 soe liegt koe Se ee = aoe ee 405
carbonite eis fs Fe oe Se re ae 2 ae a 449
C1BYS 2a scds Sie He Nn Se ee Te Sr eee 329
colum bite ,2.2528 22 oa oaks Se ee 303:
gadolinitte.. 5c skate ae ee 313
PIANO: VaS see Nee Soo 22 So ee eee 375, 378
halloysttte:2 2258 2.06 2 A AE Se Se ete 330
lazurite® 222222 223 Soh. on ee ee eee ee ee ee 310
loess’of Mississippi Vialleyessessecserer sees cease e eae 336
molding Sand 2 osc sieinclsorso ee Se eee So ae eae ee 476
Navassa phosphate: 9.02085 So5- cee ate) ee ee 377
pests sooo ee Ce eee eee 425
PUMICE rahe La kidn eas ee ee eee EC RR OE EOC 471.
pyropliyllite 4 ew a ee ee ee 322
SOplolite acc siers sm ee Geicroere Soe CERO Oe ea 323
SLIp Clb Y 2-2 Sse cetbe attho no See ee ee eae ee 335
soapstone Hc 2c2 sass thd See ce ee Boe ae eee eee eae 316
tale osc cciiF lb ck See Ce OLE en see ee 316
UPAMINITO: FS sok ied eee Re EEE ORE SERRE Ene Enron 402
iA nal ysis of eulmibe icc 5 eee es yet re eee Tere ree 420
Aruba -phosphatec ce ache eee ee eee 377
Daticuanlons bs ee gaee re oe eros Pee i eS eS 379
VY PSUM ca caste eee e+ cece eee ee R eer eee Eee eee eee 407
leached puanion wren ce mereseeigeio ihe: ee eee ae ee ee ee 376
petroletim <2 <<. cca aaeas See Se ee eee 434
Amdradite:.sos5:2 2 ee cto R eee een eet ee ae eRe EEE Ce Ree ee eee 307
Annual. report:(1896): published 23- =— == se seeee se eee ee eee 125
Anthracite coal coos rs SG Be tae Ce eer ia 427
Anthropolopy,, importanhaccesslOnsstO = oe eee ee eee 8
department! of chancesaneee se eeee eee eee ee ee nee ee eeeeeee 17
collections received by, list of......--.-.----- 18
field work*ins 353.2 ee ee eee 17
report. of head ‘curator on.22.J.-4- o=5- eee 17
researches and publications of-......-.------- 23
Antique china cup. <3.-osc.06 86%. Gace cae ee eee eee 556
Apatite. 2. i222 soa Jes ag Ss Dae enti ce rte re 396
bibliography of accc cst Aah eae erence a ae 380
bat guano 252058 cee eee Ree rece ese ere te 378
QUANDO) iso inweisi qs See Sete Se lena ie ee eee ee er 374
rock phosphate: - <2 U-28 cee ee tee eee eee 308
Appendix A oc so sche Soh Ses HES oe oe ee ee ee 71
TD. epi eta oac dete S a ee ee 73
Lb ere enn me Meir ye an ke a oe iW 7
AV’ - . pcicisrca roi tte RUSS ears eee eee 125
Woe oes fade cae eee ye 8 a es ea oe ee eee 151

INDEX. 565

Page.

Applied geology, section of, installation in .......-------------------------- 39

Appropriations for National Museum for current fiscal year -.--------------- 51
year ending June 30, 1898, disbursement of unexpended

DALANCeS) Ole - ss 4 eee aoe eee ae eee ee arene. ci = 52

year ending June 30, 1900.....-------------------------- 53

Argentina, distribution of specimens in ......-.--------------+---+--------- 123

Ou petty bog oe eee ee en tee See 182

coun Cte nee AS Ae oe coke ce seo 182

ReopsestON Of 2. -< =... . ---- 2 eee gon eens ge eae ne eee 182

SR GRE Lok Oe eee eee merce opp ororcassodcne 182

penieal pyrites ©. =. -:-.2-.2-------------/- 22 ee ene ogee ngesenecesa cose 189

INTISOYT SES ie ako GO Be BC 2 CCA CEO BBE eE SBE aoe ne neee Se cence caso sc isc 183

Arsenopyrite. .----. --- 2. 2--------- ---- 0-2-2 2 e eeeeee eee rete renee 189

COM OPMNOMEOE ea oo snot 22-55 -e eee ee seen eee 189

GUE Meteo a eal od eae ese meeeaaaee 189

UEGHIOT 425. css ho eS eee eee ese sa ees 189

Aruba phosphate, analysis of......-.--------------------+--------2-------- 377

Jae) tee fe egetgy aed de oo 25 ee eee mere r ecm ct 296

piblopeaphiygGmte = = cote e285 2-5-2222 - 2 -2 eo 2 enn teem 306

ioealitt@ 2 5. heehee Sees pes oh eee eee pe peepee nsoacc 300

methods of mining and preparation of ....-..---------------------- 303

mode of occurrence and origin ..---. Bee Ae a ace 300

WERELON soeoe ascends bos codoccnoccodc CIA e I REEC ee oo eo Eeeaeeoeeec 303

JSP RES 8 So AS Soo 8 oops See ee 187

Ashman, E. H., contributions from ........-.------------ .----------------- 29

Ashmead, William H., gift to department of biology by-.-------------------- 8

PART OREO TOEWONKS OL Saaci5 a5 sina eas Sone 31

PAE Chia APVCES! WY, = — lela = oie nie noe em ewes coe eerie 126

Asia, distribution of specimens in...-..---------------------------+-------- 123

Pena NG ie gee 22 ee sen ne wma an nee eine as eens Se eo eine 441

TERT ype to eS eee eran meet aren tere ors cy re 445

Atkins, Roswell, heddle frame presented by -.----------------------------- 500

reeMIENt a0 - 2 == 5 = 2a 2-2 oe ne = soe ne we eee en een eeene 183, 184

Australia, distribution of specimens in ...-...------------------------------ 124

Austria, distribution of specimens in....----------------------------------- 123

Ayers, Howard, fishes loaned to..-.-.------------------------------------- 34

MiyXinoid mishes SEN LOl sack soem = neta ett ea 60

Baror tenn 5. 25... 22.25 cece ening sae = So + Sine Sie bates me am == hese = 552

Bailey, Vernon, representatives of genus Microtus furnished to.....--------- 60

Baird, Prof. Spencer F., appointed Assistant Secretary -.-.-.-.-.------------- 5
establishment of the Fish Commission under direc-

GLOMM ORs yates aoe ee sa osaiclne oat alo a ctalnce or 5

Baker, A. B., collecting outfit furnished to.......---------.4---------------- 67

collections, D¥ soca ee a ei neta eee je aceie os oe 27, 38

explorations yielding important results to Museum conducted by - 66

eer @uu ha Pitt OL CRs Rane Wye ae Sere eee eee ett ans 32 28

bak Gr ais Gre COustION, Dyoe erent eee yee ae enc oem e na cao ote 30

Bangs, Outram, gift of collection of birds by .--..-..--.---.----------------- 28

ornithological collections made by ......-.----------------- 66

eUasdll aR Pe) ost ee ee ee 60

BUPetMe tra DIO Se GOs ea one te a als a iewo mec anist aie eeee =~ 60

SruChedsrallsemead Owes larkS- ClCs oo ncq006 ens cde nee seni 59
566 INDEX.

Page.
Bangs, Outram, use of Colombian birds by 22--2. 222222- --e eee eee eee 35
use of ornithological collections by =.:22_.2. 22-45 eee 34
Banks, Nathan; custodian of Arachinidae om scm mss eee eee bill
titles. of papers! Dy sa... ee eee ae eee ee ee 128
Barber, A. W., gift-of skulltirom)... 2.55 -G ase eeee eae ee ene eee 38
Barite, analyses:of 2. 22 eth bree eo oe ee ee eee 405
COM POSiLIODGOD a ae Aree eee ee ea 405
OCCUTEMCE! OF Sz chee Se IS Res ie eg a 405
PLOPALAEOM Of eis ere ren ne ee 406
sources Of.0.. 2. ck atawnn ete oes Se ee ae ~ 406
TWSOS Of | fs asorevata nina cerrne dlel aio wie cranes ane afore kee ee 406
Barlow; Joel; author of DhelColmmiplade assess — eee e ee eee 4
Barrett-Hamilton, G. E. H., reference to specimens sent to -.----- Reis Soe 35
squirrels and mice furnished to .-....-..-.----- 60
Bartsch, Paul; collecting, outht- furnished to: 223222 aoe eee eee ee 68
collections of Kinderhook fossils made by -------------------. 46

Kinderhook corals collected byeesess- peso oe eee ee eae 67
material collected by 2.2.4 22a ce e0 36S eee 67
titles of papers iby! J5-.4- ooo ee eee eee eee 128
Bat: QUAM OTe posses wrens Se ale ae Se an eS 378
ANAL EIS Ole a.) ae oe tects Se eee eee ee ees 379
Ba kite isso o est So aie Ae ee SESE Be ee 229
bibliography Ol 32a. 2 st eso yoo oo oe eee 238
COMPOSItLON: Of, 2S Sass. ROS Ge oe oes ole Se ee)
occurrences! OLS 22...55 5545552 cockela = alae ee 233
OriginiandmmodeoL occurrence Ols=se— ase emee teeta ee eee 231
origin of deposits) Ol ss sen 5-5 2cse Soe See ee ee 237
WSS Of. 2.5 Foss Hs ja Hokey ead cen See ee ae eee See ees 238
Bavaria, distribution of specimens:.. ...25. 252-02. sseee sess 123
Bay of (Chaleur; New, Brunswick, orm dston esa ses s=— ase eee eae 466
Bean, Barton’ A. material collected) bye s+-4 esse esas soe eee 66
prepared jointly preliminary catalogue of fishes.......--..-.- 33
reference to: stu@y Of 02.0.3... 22. os eee eee ee 32
title of jomt paper by... 3%. 3.2 Seabee eee ee ee ee 129
titles of papers by) .....2 42 =. 3. -hJacee eee eee 129
Bean; Tarleton HH... material collected by aac oe oa et 66
reference to study of fishes by....-.--------- ue Sock e 32
title‘of joint paper by... 552-240 ee eee eee 129

Becker, George F., agreed to look after interests of Museum in Philippine
Islands ..2:2 224 scac2sads bac eet oe jee eee eee ee eee 65
Beckwith, Paul, material acquired by explorations of........----.---------- 65
sent to Cuba and Porto Rico as agent for Institution.....-..-- 17
Bedford ‘grindstones =< = - 2 ss2<..2 5.542252 nt aeee oe ae eee eee eee 465
Beede; J. W.;.number of fossils sent! tos2-.2 aes eee oe See eee eee eee eee 62
paleozoic':material lent to {22 2o22 S222 aoe = eee ee 47
Belgium, distribution of specimens amass. - =e. ee 45) See een 123
phosphatesiin 2... 2Lc2aseise cece eee ee Se ee See ee 371
Benedict, James E., continues work on crustaceans of the family Galatheidz- - 33
reference to identification of crabs by ------------------- 31

Benguiat, Hadji Ephraim, owner of collection of objects of Jewish ceremonial
deposited in Museum 2. .uvi 22.3 oo oe oe ee 545
Berea grindstones :<22cn\nccsckg secs tee ae Jel e ee eee eee 465
Bergen, Paul,D., collecting. outfit furnished. to. ... S222 <Sssie--22ee2s = eee 67

ornithological collections made by -..22--.--2----<<-s2-"se= 66

es eee

INDEX. 567

Page.

Panmoeranny Of apatite ..- 2. .< 2c. lo celee nc kann cemenetuneentewccceueneeewse 380
PabOStOs .2< i cul? SOAS eeks een eke se eeeceeeeeme Et OS ow 306

DAUERIGSY oe cj ee St rete Sine erate cm noi aot. 238

Ghromite 2.2 43. cak Cours Serene ee Hee tee Seaernoe eae te 251

CE Se a ene Sor ye EY va eet ye Ae ee arm Mee aes 352

COMBS ots oa i Sonn J RUE or oe Sree eae eae tae 428

COMME +2 20. c Luca. Lee eee See Re ee eee eee eee eeeenenee 189

COLUNGUMY &< 2 icc. 2k Lc eee eee eee oie eis oe So eee 227

EPyOule.. +... .-...i. cee eee ee eae ee eee 238

CISION! oa: ois.c nis Se eee Oe os dS oh ee eee 167

CMRCTY/- a/c Sen does ee ECE See nie eines eee eee 227

Praphite... ss22cscseet lee eee eeeea een tes ees eas> eae seeeaste 173

Mimestones: coos eeacce se aemee cee Bere s se oe neal emcee 269

MONAZALC) oe eee CER Ceee Pee eee ek ecient eee 387

National Museum for year ending June 30, 1899.....-------- 125

TLUGT ATOR ee eee ee eer ee ree ta ieee See he ee ences eevee a nee 396

ocher (painiiores)\< nce arti a = edie e wean ne See ae eres 245

OPIUM ies ee cee ce eet Se cee ee ph cnlcoe el oe cones 184

YES eee ee ace genet mk eee hla amen ote 193

PORISAEY C2. Noe meee oi see Oe chee eS cce a eee eeeeeeaae 184

ORT Set ae et Netra eyo imme eae Savoie Stereos Geeta oe 460

SCheeliiess smae tok eae een a ae ee sealers ane eerie ele erate 396

SUPT) SUF ees 5 ee a ey ote Re A a ee Co 181

TSEISGINNIO Gs 4506 SSS ABE eos Ge BAR OO SOU aI eI ers aaa tae eee ee ee eee 187
Brolory, department of, accessions to, list of.....-...------2..--22-.25222522 27
GIDE NOESY Oe aire et anes SN ba ne oc a OE 25

rel nw OF keine a ele aL MRE Ss ae PaaS See eee 32

Sion Eu Mehmead to. See. (oN 3 ee see 8

improvements in exhibition halls of......---.------- 25

investivations DY 2.2 te ce cece ce teen sese ase eeee 32

MELSON OLS see iae 5 fa sen es sa Sates Sees eae 35

report. of head curator ON. otc ba Ec ee es 25

Se Of thecallechons IN jcc ceee pw eee eee 34

work omstudy series Imrs 2225s eo se ee 30

DE ee eye ea A aaa 5S 293
Hireh-bark canoe east of the Rocky Mountains -.-...-.-.--...-.----2-2-+2=- 528
bird, Henry, collections of inseets consulted. by.......-------.2-----2.-2=52 58
Birds, division of, condition of exhibition series In.......-..=..------------- 26
work on the study seriesiime+ cs. 525- s-ee- bao HESS See 30

paras eees, Section Of, accessions tO Wa. -.'4. ses - ene sate eraieoel aes 28
COSTES US oa Co: RA ee a a ER SR Riedy: es APU eae ela ees 429
Fe) oi oa Siar ee Oe ee QAP EPS Stns CO LOU P Naren RRM RCT! 446

as ples eine 2 8, Ho eae ea hI SE renee pels slants Aeiatn eaane 441

carbonites's- ae ss-scce ee cE oe Pe er ea ert = ae 449

elatenite eee Sect faa tee Aare typo sata acracty aunts seen wae 446

pra hamittie: asa enc bhatt a Sater Merete n Deel wa ae cattle 447

YT EL oh Ke eee Srey pet tN raster Sree ta ehaiat ho Saas wiv siaie als’ 445

PALS ED PAG Ye fal sithala tere ptein Gia lola tata alal neem iw dain diated 433

RP DELe A Are ets Stee ett oe rate Siok oe Naeciee ow oS 433

ewroleuiin essere ae we Soe ode oe Seve k ees oe ae 434

NAME Get UC evar ee Mee Ryeh re 1S cee mie sian Some Noes 450

URL ATL Oe eae eens Ceaser sen xo ae aye es EES Dee elke 446
568 : INDEX.

Page
Bituminous coalsss 5. se = ase eee gas elects teas See eee Eee eee 426
compounds, origin of! 24.45. 57se20 52 eee ee 430
tabular classification Of 2 .02.ds55-eeee eee eee ae 429
Black mica... - . 2 -.<...s8c eeoseash ease eee eee eee ee 293
Boat on the Amur River, types of... 256. 55ss24s5eo 6 ee 538
Bohemia, distribution of specimensim. 523.5 4a24-5-2-4-----55 eee eee ee 123
IBOracite = s42 sae eeeeee Sixig cha w a Usage coels Keer eee et ee 397
COMpPOSIULON OF [S.5. 352s $25’ g ss eee eee a ee 397
localities andmode'of occtitrence Of. .45265-4- oe eee eee 397
methods of mining and manufacture of ..2.252-.s-sco-s--4esceeeee= 401
USS Of nan oGe Wace se okies le ducets soca. Soe 402
Borate of. magnesia <2. 2.55 loses Aan 2d eee eee 397
Sodat. 22. es Ree re re ie 396
Boratess . 56 oc fc se sas oe oleae Seas ou eee eee eee ee ee 396
boracite 2 2ssSad 22S ee ee ee ee 397
bOraRn. £58, Sasso. se ee ee ee ee ee ee 396
colemanite-. 2.5. 2 sic Uh Sere Seales aaae Se ae a ee ee 397
Ulexite 4 2.2 as cite beh deve atc ec a tees ee eee eee 397
BOrak oo. 6 Hiss hon sh See eee eee 396
Boronatrocalette. =... <\.3255.daeassce ease lees eo ae 397
Branchont,.J., collections of insects consulted by ...--:.+.-2---cseee-oee eee 58
Brass dish-usedat Pagsover meal»: 2. 23.2525 5 S22 eee eee 556
Braunite sss pases se 5 Se ee ee a Sa a ee 254
Bray, W. L., extensive studies carried on in herbarium by....-.....-------- 59
Brazil; monazitedn. o.42 222 255 2520 oe ee ee eee 384
Bred berSite. 2-5. 25.5506 Sods tase LO ee eee 307
Brewster, William,.series of specimens lent tov. 5.222222 J2iefe 2 cece ones eee 35
specimens of wrens, sparrows, etc., sent to....-.--..------ 60
title of paper by: 2.22. .0-6 S3cc-oe ee 129
British; Museum, donationyby 525 see ne ee 29
Brockett, Paul, assistant, department of anthropology .......-.--.--.-.----- 22
Brogperite’, 26s 2oessecs Sc See cee ose eee ee ee ee ee 403
Brown. coal j.2-Soydese S28 Soe ee ee ee 425
Bruner, Lawrence, collection of Mexican and Central American Acrididée sentto. 35, 61
Brushite.. o<<2 Ses. b esos gs 36 eon ea eke eee ee 370
Bubretotie 2.3. 02. sdesesdaekekee eee 217
Buildings ... .2..--s vies ces coh eee ee eee G
Bulletin No:.4(, Parte TT and Lih-publighed)...222heee-we-seos eee eee 125
Burden, Charles E., collections of insects consulted by ........-------------- 58
BurMmite 2202 3052S es 2 asta Soe ee ee 457
Buseck; August, collection of insécts made by 2.2h22e os sees eee eee 67
Cale spar <2 .2scacns Seo ie se ee ee ee 258
Oalcite -¢ sswse scans Sere poo bc seals baa ee eS RRR ee ee 258
orlgimtandmodeof occurence Oly sae oa ee eee eee ee ee 259
Calcium, carbonate. s 2.5. 30... eee ee coe ees eee ee a 258
calcite, ov ccs icecce cee eee eee eee 258
cements). o.¢2iss ele ceo Ss ee 264
chalk. cose 2s nee ee Seek cote ees Se ee eee 262
limestones: ; /:202o05 .. ace ee oat oe ee 264
lithographic limeston6 2. ...-23255 5-22 eee ee 270
MOTtATS assy - SSeS ose ee Sikne oe Sac eee Cee eee 264
playing marbles) toe ccs 5-28 Seo Sa a 270
Portland: cement... 222.4220 3.8 saeco oe eee 266

Roman. cement s22 252. ee eee OS
INDEX. 569

Page.
Call, R. E., reference to collection of shells presented by-.------------------- 30
Calvert, Philip P., unworked dragon flies sent for use in connection with his
WORKALOM Mate See eee Sots mt oto osc steree hese 35
unworked material in the Odonata sent to.....----------- 61
Canada, distribution of specimens in.......-----.-------------------------- 117
phosphates in. 2. ..-..-.---=-22.se05-+ -----22-- 2202-22 -2--2-5--- 362
Candolle, C. de, specimens of DlsMte seme (OMoets = os 5-os=. 2-352 te 61
@ange paddies -< 2e2e- epee eaats = een area net ete a cin nts teen Sense. 536
Canoes of the Kutenai and Beer, Pointed Bark. By Otis T. Mason --.-.-.-.--- 523
ANC Ome eA nit, COMM PAne Wat sass = sae =o - cee ee = 531
NVestern’ Hemispheres -2iee 2-6 ease e- 4 ----5--5-5- 55-5. - 525
Cantwell, J. C., collecting outfit furnished to:-.....---..------------------- 67
Mecpe Eimer .: 2ose eee see eae Senne eae oe sein le ae eS sea 223
fearon, dianond, 2 see ee oat eee ted eee Ee Perens eet oo tac a cet 165
graphite .) Ege aee ne ee eee ae ek eee erieewe mins Sate nee toa <)ajm no tia 168
BeeeEtHates....._ . Gree eee Sere ae eee eae ee = oo 258
calcium . 3. See ee ore ee Be See eee te eee rete steer 258
dolomite . = = Rens Cae Ate a as ENS ap geerieates 2A Aa. 274
magnesite. 5 sere res heen a a ee eee ee ae eee aerate retest ah 275
Natron -\. eee es Re eo eee aera eae == 280
rhodochrosites: teen beseech Se oe eee ees ese Dees cree 280
stron tis tiene arse cee arr ters aa eee eto 279
trona . . 2c ee ee eee ae ot ele ce eee a ere recone Bier 281
witherite esses eee nae tee eee Rete Wh ase Spo 5 oT tamer rere: eesare 279
BOMMERIITES __._ .. SO a ee ea eee cee 8 ch ia aS ae eee a 449
anal yS@alole sss baee ses Scores tee ee tessa et io 552 ee eee 449
OCCULTEHGRIO Lee ies eee ee Slee SS ioe eee ores 449
USeS OME Pe ee Se eee sae s SEAR Ee OS Sela ese Se oe eee ores 450
DNA)... . See eens Sea ore ae Ds PhS SA ee eee Ree eae 404
Caruana, Joseph M., measurements of pointed canoe by--------------------- 530
Oaeanowicz, I. M., aid division of religions. ......-.----2s---224-22-2:+5--=- 23
Cyrus Adler and, on Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of
Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited in the U. 8.
National Museum by Hadji Ephraim aoe eeeckioe wees 539
titleof- joint piper byi¢ ese seo eee eee eonene saree = at 2 el 25
PAPEC DYo-o. cc eset eee ckeee eee ere sa = 129
Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited in the
U.S. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat, Descriptive,
by Cyrus Adlerand.ls Mi Casanowies=------- 4+ ---+5-+=------ 539
mineral nature and localities represented in the asbestus collec-
tion of theaVinsenme sees see eeeter eset cca en ase oslo 5 305
wares Of jhe fret enednscecsserersaceseaena', 2255-245 2s55--%8 517
sec blog ae GUNS Ee Ee Se 520
Welestite:. 2... 5.2 kee eee eee mere eee ee ee tnn si -ccccestcesls eles. 411
Composition Ghee esewee wee shew i ne ak oases Seschs-s3+-5--6-0-- 411
LISS 0 Laat ee ee rere ee Ee Peo eed ae = 5% ee ee PALE,
ON SA OOS be ol oe SU oo ened Og eee a tae eS ee Re 264
Ceremonial deposited in the U. 8. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Ben-
guiat, Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish, by Cyrus
Adler and I. M. Casanowicz Lone Bo usa as SS ee ees ee 539
WEtItG + Ae eS ee ene SP ee a Soe oe escola ebescce ste eecsse sees 314
USCHtC eee ee ne ee ee bee te be tat ccc eo Slbesce sel as. 314
Sin lced Gu yer mnen eae tues ose n seb ce ssc gc sccecccseccte-e+~ + scemecersess 215

NAT Mus 99——40
570 INDEX. -

Page.

@halle= +.) 52.0.2... c..2. =e Geend see none een ee 262 ©
Wses Of 522226002. set Pelee ae cia oe ere ee a 263
Challenger, exploring steamer. -.-. +. -2-.-22-2< 2 < 2-25-5502 soe ee 219
Chamberlain, L. T., gifts of'gems from! - = S22 2ca2 Ss ee ees 38
Chapman, Frank M., titles of papers by -----+-252 == -22- 226: (6 eee 129
Chapman, John, gift of) 725225 See so == ne eee ee ee rn ee 28
Characteristic features of graphite-s. -< - 2.2. 32322. oes 2 ee ee ee 168
Chemiawinite =. [2 2 SoS ia a ree ee ea 456
Chemical composition:of infusorial eatth=. 2-2 222-2 = 2-2 aes see aes 220
Chestnut, Victor K., specimens of Mexican drugs sent for examination to----- 60
titles of papers: by ..2 <2: .-2-5sse 2esee ee eae eee 129
China, distribution of specimens im ..-. 2-522. Sa = ae ee 123
Chinese device for weaving rush matting -...----.------------ ene es oy 489
Chittenden, Frank H., miscellaneous material sent to -..--..---------------- 61
titles oi papers by 22.2... Set eee eee 129
Chlor-apatite=+ i222. 2202..5e0 i ede ce ose: Sak: wea eee
Chromite 222 en ee a ee ee ee ee 246
bibhographiy Of -. - 6.22. oe. aoe 2 ee tre er ee 251
G@eCarPenee Ole. oo... SS 2.4 s os ee See cee eee ees oe 247
PRICE Ol e.c 8 Fi Hee Sn dna caw 5 Cane pk ee eee ee ee 249
WSEB OF |: | a See ee eg oes no ent wen oe tae ree eee 248
Clark, A: Howard, custodian divasion of history.< =. -2- 22.2.2: sees sen eee cee 21
report doreumrent- year: 225. oe actus ee eee 21
Clark, F. W., series of silicates and specimens of chalcedony turned over to- -- 47
Clark; Hubert Eynat title of paper by =" 2--* = see ee 131
Glassifieation® of mineral watersoe areas te ao are ara ee 477

Clay; pothery. {cso ae so esha Rh ee ee ee Se 344 -

properties of S225. 2223 eee i ee es 339
Clays so) 2h pe awa Sim tea a ae 325
amalyses Of. 222s c4 70s Sobers = See se ese are he eee 329
bibliography of -2:2.5525 Sse te nee ws SE ere pe ee ere 352
composition, of 22g 2. 255) Sa cee eee ee ee ee eae eee 349
kinds'and}classiticatiom: obese ee eee ee ap cre he ene ree 328
mineral/and chemical composition of:..2..22. 2: 2 2322S eee eeoe 326
origin and. mode of oceurrence of 3-7 4-- == 2h ee gee eee 325
tésting Of 2.55.25 s ea aa o ees ee ee eee 343
used in early pottery 222 25-25 3 Aenea eon ae a ee eee eee 513
its <0) Re Eee fa oS 5 REE aaeee ne: f= oS ose cou seno soso Sere ae Se 344
Cleveite: 252.2 ae oe re eee ar eee 403
Coal, anthracite: > -1.3. 1.25 2S eee ee Sate ee le 427
bibliography of -. .2 .-.-2:-- Seeieo = eee 3 = te pl 428
bituminous..cee 2e.2 ee Se cease ae one ee oe em ee ere eee 426
lignite = Jl J.3G4. 2.5. Soe ee ieee ake ee ee eee 425
measure Clays... 2... 22454 ssse~ seen pe eee oe eee ee 332
origin’ of 20.22 sen ce eal ee eee RESON Sia aeaeces tise, Se 423
peat: 5. a es nrc rm cee 424
SOVICS oe SS ee es ee 423
Cobalt, asbolite-.c 22532225522 Se Beeb Soe ee ate te ate eee 187
bibliography-Of 452 20-4245 Sues Vanes ata teem enna tate teen 189
bieberite . 288. Sere Se ee 187
cobaltite :22oes a2 Sess See Sess eee oe ee ae ie ee 184
cobaltomenite ~2s222 sees a ee ee ee 187

erythrite 22.2223) ake oe eee ee eee ee 187

7

INDEX.

DUES EP See cS a Pe Pe
LE Cea ES ia aS aah NES BSS eal a Nee em LE ee
LAE TA SSE I pile CE UREN re atest nee ee oly SSS
CEUIRTNGAR ERIN i ce Tk eek, Chae Oe er gay mee eh ER eo
19S TT ys adage py ce, es PE Son eA tea NS aR Rr

TMNT Ak. Se i ee ae ane ae Tt millet 11a ty inate ee Alege a
BPPEeCO Mallika oS oc... oe ets ae eae i Ae Bek
20 DIST re ae les ete Oe Sea aeRO ae, DASE ry Sr Yi
{SSTS CT Roe eh a SI a eae Sc Cobo ee ELBE POOR NaN aly UA hermes
WREST Li CoP eae nS eS nc 2, Ses NA Dag od gah cae oe Tie Rear 2 og a ae
USELE ESE rR feces Fo OT el LS Ae epee oe cee tns PL ee Pe ge

Cockerell, T. D. A., collections of insects consulted by .............-...------
C2 SESS a RS 2 lie EES MS Se a ae ee Cpa oe ae ONO iS
SULT ROTO Cs Bee Rice oe A ek ne ioe Ae ae ce a Deed Tm

Collections in the Section of Applied Geology, Guide to the Study of the, by
Reh MOC RPULL ous 3 Sit ng gas oe See SS er oe

of objects of Jewish Ceremonial Deposited in the U.S. National

Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat, Descriptive Catalogue of

a, by Cyrus Adler and I. M. Casanowiez ..-.....--.-...--22. 4.
eaireeeeenit str Mished 25. <r 5- fac ek a lk ete nee

1s 3 TE achat Se eA eR St I i
Sm EU PECES OR CMERY. 20 on ae ee EL
PMR ee ee nen ke eee eee De ey ee cae oe

OT SESS a a ee oe a ae ee eee
APECIMOM VIA e Ase Fo el eh wes Nl Le Pd ee ieee
| STEIN SEIS Ot Ae Toe i VIP er Ae OO

CLIP eer See Settee eee Ns SP ree Mlk ya ry ae

GUUS Eiaee arma tee = eh hae eae Soe OL. go Gs Ue ee en
GYRO CHa come eee tet en Sant Netee oor st Ae oe eA den
mlauberitemer sa tae tech sak cee te igs SS 8 ee 2
SY PEGS peerage ee ee eee oe ee pon oe 2 Wok hee
alte = ae Geena eer ee ree 2 AN ho ee a) ee Se

571

Page.
184
186
186
187
187
186
185
187
187
189
184
184
185
187

58
397
397

155

ad,
572 INDEX.
Page.
Composition of samarskite -.....------------------------------------------ 354
tale... 2c i. Se eeeeeeee Jcteeencvegh Bee aeet eee i Se A eens 316
thenardite...2 2222 Seenee senate eee eee eee eee 415
ulexite. oo: -2ececeee Coe so See e a ee a ee 397
UrAaNniNite.: 2 ele ee ee ee eee ee so te rere 402
wolframite 22 22 os le2 Sete oe ee ee eae ie ee 355
Constitution grindstones .:<2.5-<-=-2+--~-<o-ee =e ees - =~ ee ee eee 465
Cook, 0. F., honorary assistant curator in charge of Cryptogamic collections. - 51
titles of papers bys,2.- 2-2 2-2: 2. entemee ee ee a eee ere 131
Cooperation of Executive Departments of the Government ------------------ 62
Coprolite 2.22.2: .aen tee ease oe tee = 8 ee 2 eee 358
Coquillett, Daniel W., titles of papers by ----------------------------------- 131
Gorunduim 222-22. 205 2 eee eee ee eee eee 220
and emery 2. i2:-e.6ecet-s seen ee ane eee =e ee 220
bibliography of.) 2-- 22 eS ee eee ee 227
composition of -... <2 24 <<... pete ee cee ee eee ee 220
OCCUTLENCES OL - oa=-\sce sce eke eee eee oe eee ee 221
Origili Of . sisson sse- ted ee ee ee ee er 223
WEES Ofoc ese oe eee Ce SOc Oe Se = re ee ere eee 227
Cossman, M. M., Paleozoic material lent to -------------------------------- 47
Coubeaux, Eugene, ornithological collections made by- --------------------- 66
Coulter, J. M., title of joint paper by -.------.----------------------------- 132
Cover for green herbs... .. . ..-5-- 26 --= + <2 <2 925 eee = 2 em re 556
the Treading desk <.-.<-¢..262)-tace- = -- == eee ee ee 547
inl (erniemeol lpaen0l 4 eee Reka = Rte SS eee Ae Soe edn oases ses 2= 556
Coville, Frederick V., extract from report of ...--.------------------------- 31
honorary curator, division of plants ...--------------- 31
joined the Harriman Alaska expedition --...-.-------- 32
reference to study of genus Ribes -.....-------------- 33
title of joint: paper by, 2-22 5.22 22s ee 2 eee er 132
Cox, W. V., designated as chief special agent to Pan-American Exposition - - - 51
Craft of Asia similar to Kutenai specimens -----.--------------------------- 533
Cragin, F. W., spent time at Museum working up a collection of J urassic fos-
Sils from Texas’. 52. s5 2.22 Soo ae ee ere 60
worked on collection of Texas Jurassic fossils-----.----------- 47
Craigleith, Scotland, grindstones -...-.---------------------------++-------- 466
Crawford, John M., specimens of heddle from Helsingfors, Finland, sent to
Museum: by .--22 42 2-3 -- es - se erer eee Lo See 492
Crosby, F. W., collections made in Europe by-.---------------------------- 47
geological material acquired by collection of .---------------- 67
reference to basaltic columns collected by .------------------ 40
series of volcanic products collected by -.--.----------------- 38
Cry OU oi oe a a eee ae es 214
bibliography of ...5.---2- 2-3-2 << 22 fo ee ee ee ee 238
composition of 2.7... -siees sans See eee 214
mode of occurrence of ..----- So seins ioe eae ee ee eae 214
USES OF oc vawe ene See eee ee Be ee a aa a ote 215
Culin, Stewart, continues studies on aboriginal and modern games. -- - ------- 58
specimens of Indian gambling implements sent for examina-
novi) (ee a ROR a eee Bee EE RE eo Sceames ae cle 60
title of paper: : 2s: - = 2-4 #2 ea on eae ee ae 132
Cup and saucer used for Kiddush....-.--------------------------+---------- 553
Currie, Rolla P., reference to work of....-.-------------------------------- 3

titles of papers by--..-----------------+--------=+-"==-=-=5 132

INDEX.
ere Wrote rsth ho et an hk he eee ta aime aie ew 8
CLO eye erate je cress dict Sa ea RT DS oR ete Sig A) RS SU 945. A
Cushing, Frank H., collection of pipes, gorgets, ceremonial objects, etc., sent
LOM Sx AMIN ALON OMS see yaanis eee eae ee See
heddle frame from Zuni, New Mexico, collected by. -----
Gushians uscdeat, LASsOVEr Meal. .o\/os Sicteake Seite eo See eases ese ae =
Poa me meenion de rocks collected by <tx2.t4k.ce cack nc oy eke acicdeens
Dall, William H., joined the Harriman Alaska expedition -.........--------
statement regarding work on mollusks.-....--------------
titles, OF MApPers) Dyas a= se ace eee ees See eee
[Esp FASE 5 oss to 8 a Ae a Ra I ene 8 cy Rg pe me Nay ioe ag
amelie VV.) collecting outhy furmished O22 22225 eme soe ees oe eee ae
Darton, N. H., series of jointed sandstones collected by -..----.-------------
Davenport, George, specimens of plants gent to....----.--------------------
Mea wecce mall: collectioniobtamed by s2-ces22--22-n252. 225.622 ao ene bs aee
specimens of Alaska moose and wild white sheep obtained by -
Delco OmerolaibeDy Davide mes 6. nena eh ial el Ny Se eee
IMEHimnOngOTmneG (Lemna Capes ks ae eres Sear are Nea a oe eee
Denmark. Gistributouon specimens IMrea=:.04 sae t sca etek 2s 2a Ss eeee

Department of Agriculture, collection of D. G. Fairchild received through. - - -
TET OVONSHRSE Con, TaN CEES i thes tal ies a A ee na a AI ee Re Ta
JCS) aR EES, EUW FOU aVCUTTe 2 2s ae a a ae cares gn Me
SS ot er ne eee ee ers ea ee bel ool. Sle ek

Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of Jewish Ceremonial deposited
in the United States National Museum by Hadji Ephraim Benguiat, by
Se pecenaies anid l1Vl. CASANOWICZ J. --525-2---5 0-052 -- oe eco nae toe

ener BE retrace ns eo ee ee SO ok es

LOM CRINDENOL co 4 apes Bie Se IS Ts en eee Se Pe oe PEs

[uh OL SET ES aa SHR GES Te a ee

Ole Met eOC CURE CEs OlMea tee ames ee aay ys enone

(RESHAY oj Set Uk aoe Seay te ate, oc ME ee

Diaspore

occurrence of

Dickhaut, H. E., acquisition of series of Upper Silurian fossils collected by... - -
collection of Cincinnati fossils purchased from
series of Upper Silurian fossils collected by

Bmmculiies at the carly potter o- tiwct S258 Lesh ies dle eee Se

Diller, J.8., specimens of chalcedony sent to

itl ofspapeniby.cee one eee se oc ace bar eet he Tee Fh ee

Distribution of mineral waters

eee ean TN einer eee ee a aa is ON ESS ee ie Scan an Sgaeue
Dugout canoe in Saghalin

Seen MCS ene eseya es 3 et ae mm et i Shs os a ne See oe
Dwight, E., material in the family Chrysomelide sent to ...........----.----
imei, Jonathan. gr, bird skins senttoe.0.o2 00s. .2-..5.s-.--.0-2c-c. 2b. - oe

573

Page.
557

557

539
280
165
167
166
166
239
239
239
218

67

39

47
514

62
133
479
117
274
275

34

59
477
534
528

61

60
574 INDEX.

Dwight, Jonathan, jr., specimens of birds loaned to...-....-----------------
Dyar, Harrison G., reference to labor in section of lepidoptera of-.-.--.------
title of jomt paper Dy. S222. 2 22 <= ee oe ee ee ees

titles of papers by 22-22-22 Shee  e eee

Pakle, Arthur 8., title of paper Wy 222-- se een ee
Earle, Mrs. Alice Morse, photograph of loom from Long Island received from. -
Early American potteries 252522522 cass oe ee ee i eae
market for pottery made at Morgantown........-------2.------------
Eastman, C. R., specimens of teeth of Paleozoic sharks sent to ---...---------
Elaterit@. i222 5.0 Sts a an as Soe So ne ee ee
Elements! 22 222 o.oo a oa ee ee ee a ee
allemontite: 22252-25252 Se sen ose Fe ee eee

sulphur 522 22252 322. Pe. So ee ee ee ere cree

Eliot, Sir Charles N. E., British commissioner to Samoa --------.------------
collecting outfit furnished t0--3.= 223222255 5a eee

prosecuted investigations on the Nudibranchs...-..-------

reference to investigations on Nudibranch mollusks. -- ~*~. -

Emeril, Cape 2.25 fie ages ccaeies 3 ce ae eae em ea
Emerson, B. K.,sections’of granites lent t0 222-22 se eee eee
rocks supplied to . 222. 222si2essese-s-2 eee gs

Emery 2222 2c. c4a8<c500-Ree sete jee a ae ee eae eee 220, 223
bibliography of .:2: s2522s2..e.ctoee eee ee ee eee ee ee
commercial sources Of, 5-4 22252555: S203 See Saas ae ee ee ee
COMMPOSIFIGN- OL F325 Sk eS eae a ee nee a
OGCUTPENCE Of fee oat oe Ree oe er eee ee aes ee eee

DLICES Oli: 2 AS. SSRs eee See eNO een ee ee PR Se Ce eee

USES Off o252 ee bee LEC SOP Se Bae os te on at alate peer an oe
Hnameled saucer and silver spoon) 2226 —- === oes ss eee a eee
England, distribution of ‘specimens ine2--22--- == 2 foe ieee ne ena ee
phosphates in : 222-2 .20 55-552. ac 2252 SS Ree eee

Epsom salts. 2: 0222s. be+ ssi scea seca nse - os nese eee ee ee
Epsomite 0 2... 20 tet eckson eens here ee Sears ee ee eee
composition of ..--- - Pera Lc See 2 Se eg se eee eae ee
Erythrite® 220-022 2-2. se sak as nies oa een oe | ee eee
Ethnology, division of, installation work in .----- PEERS AL Oren SEO aes Se me FS
Exhibit illustrating geological distribution
variation in color = ..22 225222 fet eee eee See ee

specific gravity: 222.552 s 2s ee ee ees

Expenditures of National Museum for current fiscal year. -------------------
Explorations and researches= i -.2:.- 2-20 s2-- tee ee eee
conducted by members of Museum staff .......------.---------

materials acquired from...22 2.2.2. so.) eee oe eee ee

Wx positions /o. 2 SSeS en ee Se ee
participation of Smithsonian Institution in ...-.-.---------------

Extraction and preparation of sulphur .-...<-..- 225. oe ee eee
Euclid grindstones. - 22022 sis SoS ah ee Soe 6 ee eee a a ee
Europe, distribution of specimens in: .--2.= 2-Ss02522 52 setae sees oe
Evans, Walter, series of plants from Alaska collected by -.---------.--------
Evermann, Barton W., collecting outfit furnished to ......-------.----------
collections! Of hishes: sed: Dyer eae eee ee eee

reference to use of collections of fishes by -.----------

titles) of, joint, papers Dyseess ess === se ==. eee

INDEX. 575

Page.
RMSE le DET eD Stereo ogee ace ae eee ae wes eee ee nt wel Stan eons 555
Fabrics, A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow. * By Otis Tufton Mason.... 485
Fairchild, D. G., botanical collections made in Europe by...-.-------------- 67
collecting outfit furnished t0.2: 2c soo ote cece cles ts 3 68
CNC a eerie aaa ee aod a S Sane ster a see EEO seme eeha mann ectas ue Se 281
DOCUTFONGS OLE 223 fo! oon wma tote ch sce e dweccdw na peteantealas's 282
(HEGISCa) tha bes a eagle Saar ae fo) ape gs gg are ee ere 283
Ferguson, A. M., reseaches on the genus Croton ....-..--..----------+------ 59
Fernald, C. H., specimens of family Pyralids sent to .........-.------------ 61
Fewkes, Dr. J. Walter, aid in Pueblo section received from ....--.---------- 19
reid work in department of anthropology -....-..2....-2.---+-----e0-2-0~5 17
\PrieallEeraya} Jaks (ol ey earl aXe aes, ea ee peer ee ie Rr AE fey Vat ea ees eee dee ee 492
First pottery established west of the Allegheny mountains ......-.---------- 513
PMIAZe Ad Gan cis COMM 22 8c et Sloss 516
Fish Commission, U. S., collections of fishes received from ......------------ 66
collection of reptiles and batrachians received from. - 28
collection recelvedsiroml: Ss=sce onsen a eae qa 27
CONG UG OMpOL seem are a ane Sow socio sie) Se re nie 8
establishmien tole se sac sass ce sta es ek nes 2 eee 5
explorations carried on. by i-222 5022 322520 22S ces. 5
explorations yielding important results to Museum
Eopoucted by naturalistea of 15. 32222. 2 oi Foon 66
fishes received wrOmicrs sees era eete c= = Hoo e eS 28
reference to collection of crabs made by -.---------- ol
series of reptiles and batrachians turned over to
3 ESSEC TC Da hie se eee Pe eae ee Ae I 66
zoological collection received from .....-.---------- 27
UE 22 ak Ghat ee Serre ee Ye 216
aE en ne SMe eke RM a ee 28S Ke kas eet etme wee eee 307
TEED EOTEIRS So ie ate SR a eg eel Ce ed enn eS 213
HECULTELICOOL= Seah Sam neo eres cod ona oak ete Se coe Scones 214
(HES Olan clk ae BBG eH Ee nS AS ea a Os et rae Se 214
Pe wanpednd! DECH ACNt GO, ccc nan. aoc lsc.decsecccecseecscee aoe rhe 61
Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics, A Primitive. By Otis Tufton Mason.... 485
Hetace mish bULOnFOL Specimens INsas= 282 ace sas eas-cceses usc escseseeoeee 123
> | PLEGE Sp TRI SUCRE phe om eid De a a gee ei 369
ese sR Legs as eee eee eee ee ee ene Aree Se LP a a Ae ee 253
Fritsch, Anton, director of National Museum at Prague, Bohemia ----------- 60
Paleozoiematenalelentitos. ss este Ase = tape sass saa ee eee 47
studvedgmethodstolinstallations 222-2 ance acne Soe ae 47
studied the fossil Myriapoda and Arachnida in Lacoe collection. 47, 60
irllemsvear thier: cee etm enn ce ae ree Meenas Peter at een NG Sj ee ae eal 337
SrA OLIENILG ao cine Oey ee Renee Lee Rene asin Une en Skea e ho oecueese acme 313
anal yRee Giese se Skate ane eos hock lck wee eee eae ee 313
localities and mode of occurrence of...........-..--------------- 313
uses of -.2 22+ Sieg SR SE Se Se Te Sn Mines ote Rash Seen Pe eK 314
Gallatin, Albert, establishment of glass factory of........--.....------.------ 514
Gamble, F. W., annelids of genera Ammotrypane, Trophonia, Ophelia, etc.,
SCntutOssee. oe eee oe aaa a cetaice ce coeemeeces ase 61
specimens of several genera furnished to...........-------- 35
OLE eta Be Siena 2 eR rele Fed ea, ae 5 1 Se Sean eS eae aE eat ee 307
é CCIE OIE CRC CRE PES tea! er at 3 WIniclaiw Oo cijecine a okacnee ne 307
576 INDEX.

Geological age and mode of occurrence of gypsum..--..--------------------
Geological Survey, U.S., materialeacquired by explorations of..-..-----------
material deposited. Dy ...2 2s 4Jeeien Sachs eee ree

Geology, department of, accessions in, list of. .--..--------------------------
assistance afforded students and investigators by ----

organization, of thes. 222-29.) 2224 32 eee

present condition of collections in......------------

report. of héad :curatorems 222 .2235c_ hae eae ee

researches Obs. 2.47. 28 Ged eee ae Sees eee

sources,of new material) ie ees ree eee

storage and: workroomis of .\22. 22. = .J-.'s- se a5 eee

Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied, by

George Py Merrill, ).. oJ22 26-202 5- eee ee er a

German’ hed dile iran esi et eee
Germany, distribution of specimens. im: .-...2-- 4-2-2" 2255-2 = ee
phosphates im .2u4--2 Ss 5. Sins See oe te eee ee

Geyserite-.s.22) Jeena na S22 ee an Rope ae eae ee
Gibbs, George, reference to canoe collected by ..-.-..----------2-+-=s<==-4=
Sibbsiten pees ee Se Se ee ete ieee ate
USessOf se Safe poo eee Sepa eee ees ae ea net

Giers, E. T., collecting outfit furnished, to--2- 502 25>. 20 24 --one
Gilbert, B. D., specimens of. plants sent to -_.-.--=..---5/--+--22--2+--5 eee
Gilbert, Charles-H., tithe of paper by..422-- 22 =. -4 ge ee ee
Gill, Theodore N.,, titles of, papers by.<_ = -=2 2-2 .e cee ae
Gillsomifie. 25,232 ors eee eo Ss ee er a epee

WSS OLS. 2 ak ee eke ee ee ae eed ea Ik eee

Girty, George H., custodian in section of invertebrate fossils ...-.-----------
Paleozore materiale emt tO ep sees esa a eee er

Gilaciallite:. Sis. See Se er ee ene ae a et aca oe ee ee
Glass:and plate: - 22 5.2.2 sees2 ae eae tees ee re aa eee
Glatfelter, N. M., specimens of plants supplied to.-...-...------------------
Glauber salts foe foe ee oe os Se oe rare = ee ne Se ee ee ee
Glauberite oes. td el ee oe ee ee

Gilaacod ot. oe ste a eee Sn
Glazes used on early potteries.....~..- 2... < See ae oe oe
Goldi paddle: 4-6-0 S.i¢ t26 Ae see ase en aes ja eMereee eee ee
pointed canoe. <. 2.25.2. 525-55 Stee e ee Ree oe ee eee
Goode, G. Brown, appointed ‘Assistant Secretary ..-......------------------
heddle frame from town of Siena collected by ..----------

purchase by Museum: of library. of --.---2-2.--_224eeeeee

title’of joaper By 222 25.-3 sees sere a ee re

Grahamiite: 220 0 oe ee ee es Se ar ee an oe er =
OG@CUNTOMCOOE 1 es eye eae rete a

Granier, M. E., accessions in anthropology through -..---...-----------------
Graphic arts, section of, installation work in ..--..-.-------------------------
Graphite s-esse5=— bic Sneha ce ea a Se eee
bibliography off: 22.22/22 2 ee
characteristic features Of sc. s5 so > moe ee ee eee
OcCUrreNnGe an GzOnigimM Ole ose ae eee ee ee
occurrence Of -.S ikf. 8 8o Sa ee tee ee ree ete Sea eee
preparation ‘of (1- Y ol Po 2s 5 ete ee

INDEX. - 577

Page
Merainite, prie@es Of.<2 =... <0-ce Ses 2S --nca et wien nea acini nese see 173
AMURCCS OL ete ee eh ngs Sahni oer ees cat ek ees cici5t 171
RSE NGL eS Se I ee ep eR ie OP SIA erate 172
Great Britain, distribution of specimens in ....-.-..------------------------- 123
(arent Gin! 25.0 be ba PEA Sete Spe ae aoc em ine nt a sar este Sesrraioricae 477
Greene, E. L., consulted material in various genera......--.----------------- 59
reference to services in determining various specimens. -.--- --- 34
specimens’ of plants supplied. to.......-----------.---<-------- 62
SMe O ne eee ne tt. a eee aes oe Ie ee eens 463
SG DU RCrSC | Yo) Cee eR EN ne Se ee ee pe PRES nla esis Ama 465
Beer een. titles of papers by 2.5252 4ees-- 2. a2 cae kee eae ae 136
(EROS ANI Se Rene le iO Sag SSL CO IE as eee oa af ins ree ee Bett Es 307
(AMIENS Sd A REN Pre een anne ate dene er eh oe ees Sete ei) ONO, SOs OTe:
BRUM RV Or ape aceite see treo eal Sas St amet OR mae 5 be hae Ce ea 375, 378
Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied Geology, by
Gearie Py Merrill). tse 52 82 155
in the section of Applied Geology, list
ObiUstramoneili= se eee ae 163
inthe section of Applied Geology, table
of contents and scheme of classifica-
{KO} AUG) Ee ein tees eee cele SE 159
euMMaCEAB ED Demer e ey we awe Ce. eS sa Soe) 2s BUR een oases Seo 457
Cauhiie, Leon J... collecting outht furnished to_._-...222.2-22-2---f-----2-42 67
tn ree eee Aa ay Seas Ae Ue kom bee Jo abe bac ct R ase 406
fn luy SVSUCOIN NS Sea eh cle tt SS Pe pie eee Se ETS 407
MERRGUL TOL wee ne ee eee cise ee OR oe ace 406
geological age and mode of occurrence of -...-.-..----------------- 407
GATTO OT Ee 2 eS CO ed RR > BS Sais 2 ER nn a eS ee cee 407
CSCS, CONT Sick AU Nc TN a IN Nn el gn oe ER ec AES RR Ee 410
afer hich penn: Seton Ss Sere oe be). a NUN eee nel Cee 195
0 1 ERE 2 he ee OR ae 8 a ee eae een ae ee oc 214
ITUUYOR ETT ah ee ae ae eh 2 a Bn ome ed a Pe ces een ES EY 213
ret ieee a ees Sey pean ean Cie ele Cee ee os te 195
THT 2 5 OS 5 Sp a Se ea oe ee ae ee eee eRe eg =e OD
HOVAMY OTS FEN KON LONn = Bees he SS a ee Se ee ORS Mere rre be See pice 195
TOPIC UL STS tetera tee pre Ake A LeU RR Ee See ke Sino ah i) 1k Ve ee eee 200
VTi Ce Ta Sra rae eneeeg ee eee ave eva role oltre eerie tape he Bt faites 2 Se ee oe 199
PRGA pete Arg sk vite eps pea Pyare rk cle ily. ei BS ONS ell See tet 200
methors oh mining andumaniiacture Ola o- 2s -4--2c5 a= 5 -2l= == ene 206
Dep AO Ccelrrences Ofasautause Soca ce sto eey bean ks koe sh ae es 196
VERSO SNEOY ORs tS ES et Rl at ee pena Ae, Ro 211
Hall eaO- specimens: omplants sup pleditoie=s seeesee= hte ceo 2 eno 5) eee 62
Hall, James, return of Troost collection of crinoidea to Smithsonian Institution
eRe ee ke ec see eer ee Ene me ee Ak ood d Mone See ea tae 39
FLL PR ASTI SSR Ste 1 Se Sete egy Pee aaa Re a ee ee 330
Aisa SEH OL eee Mrmr supra kes ee wes ebay Sree ee oe ee 330
Hampson, Sir George F., collection of moths sent to.........-.--.---------- 61
iemsandyeAcec., collecting outfit furmished toe 9-5 ..2--. 2.22 -s52-5-244--2% 68
ECT S52 = Xa Sy Peon eee ee ee GN Et Ol aca as anaes Soon 549
Harrison, Miss Carrie, transferred to Department of Agriculture. ......-.----- 51
enol MERE ONIN Lory gh een SE ad ess oo Sosa vole bel peasant ete 30

-Hatcher, J. B., agreed to look after the interests of Museum in Patagonia - -- - 65
lomol snccimens received fron) 25-42. -45s-20.5-2-Jcb sess. 10
578 - INDEX.

? Page.

Hausmannite:. = ....52. 22-2. sec) eee eee eee eee eee 253

Hay, Oliver P., described two new species of fossil turtles..-..........------ 47

researches on vertebrate fossils made by..-....-.-...------- 59

specimens of Dermochelys studied by ..-.------------------ 58

title of paper by. 225.c¢.5 cc Se ace ae eee 137

Hay, W. P., described new form.0f isopod, 2=4 = oan Seoee sae oe eee 34

donation’ of 2.522 Sy ees See Sie ne ee ree 29

specimens of erayiishes named by bss sceer so ae eee 58

title of paper by Ui me. stl i Soe ee eee ee 187

Haymond, Mrs. Dorcas, historical information in relation to pottery received

from ~ 2-222 sce eae SSS Ee ae a eee ar 517

Heath, Harold; materialicollected) by 22252 3222— Sessa ee eee 67
Heddle frame définition: of 2e:. 2 2... 22 eee eee 488 —

from: the’ Pueblo region... 222 ssn-<e nese eee ee eee 2. e0e

Germans So isos a 494

Italian 2.22 2 oe5 eno. ee ee 496

New England). - .5 2.5522). ssc. ogee ek eee ee eee 498

of the Algonquin ‘tribes Vs. 2.3 22 22 epee eee 489

patented -..-.- Spe ee a es ee cies gala 503

the -Binland 22254) 8o 5-2 Ss Pe ee oe tee ee 492

the: Pueblo = s2z2 es oe eee ee ee eee 492

Heddles, Pueblo, of various sizes®2-< = 2... -2 38 See ee eee 508

Henderson, UL. * title of paper: by.222 252-6252 See ee eee ee eee 137

Henshaw, iy Wi. donation: by 222 2cs-e2- + 22 oe eee eee ee ane 29

Hill, Meriden §:;assistance received from:’:<. 2/222 2--2-.e- =e eee eens 527

resilis Of tovestivations Ol: a2 pene asses e eee ee a 528

Hill, R:T., title:of joint paper by >. 22-3 2: dese ae ee eee 13%

Hine, James, collections of insects consulted by--....------------------+---- 58

History, division: of, installation ‘work in 2. - 22 sc Sees eee eee 21

Hitcheock, C. H., geological collections made by .22222. 22. 2a anaes 47
Holland, W. J., collections of insects consulted: by. -2-- ..- 522 ese eee 58

Holm, Theodor, specimens of plants supplied to -.......-..----------------- 62

Holmes; ¥. H., skins purchased fromsee2s- 2. <2 2 32 - le see eee ee eee 28

Holmes, J. 8., collecting outfit furnished to ....-. 0.22.2 |S Sse eeeee eee 67
Holmes, William H., head curator of department of anthropology .--.-------- 25 ~

investigations in California by 2.2 cos s202 = eee 17

material acquired from explorations by -.-------------- 65

report on department of anthropology by...-.-.-.-------- 17

researches in California and Mexico by-..---- Stee es 10

trip to Mexico -~ ..j:0-2,eos-koes es Boss eee eee 5 18

FROneS 2 sone Soc ok eae car ert ee OS ee 463

Hornung, J., ornithological collections made by ..-..----.-------:-------==- 66

Hough, Walter, assistant curator, division of ethnology......--..------------ 19

detailed to carry on ethno-botanical researches in Mexico. - - - - 65

expedition to Mexico 2.2/2 ac sa ba ee 10, 18

on An Early West Virginia Pottery s--.------2-222-5se3 = -=- 511

reference to researches conducted by..-.--.----------------- 24

Howard, Leland O., reference to gratuitous services of .....--.-------------- 31

report concerning accessions to division of insects - . - - - - - 29

titles of papers by: 2. tesLS ees eee ee oe ee ee 137

Howe, Reginald Heber, jr., specimens of thrushes sent to...-.-..----------- 60

Hiibnerite <1: S22 oe Re eG aa arm en pea ee 355

INDEX. 579

: Page.

Hudson, Dr. W. J., accession of part of basketry collection of ...------------ 8
Haron, Machigan, ‘prindstones. 2s. 5.2... 2. Soescl ccs ene usnse ss ==-'------- 465
Seat ULON rs hn shane seen eee keene omen ase een ewe S22 ~- = 239
Fivdrocarbon compounds 2. 2.22.2 loosens cele sat cesses eae se dake. --+-- 423
bitumen Sonics sc seen oe oe ok Ree eee Sista adit 429

GOal SENIGS Sago eee eS Sa eee eee a < 423

OZOKCTITG os ssee Bae ote So eee oe ee eee 451

Testing. cual osetia ees eee ee ae kee, 455

Hydrocarbons, tabular classification of.........-.-------------------------- 429
ePURR RIN GEee ees ree cs Coo 1 tbe A Pence ee eee se ees b an ae ee vee oe ee 258
Ide, George E., collecting outfit furnished to................---+---------+--- 67
Illustrations of Bible narratives, mostly textiles. ..........------------------ 560
SPE fs ae ee Lean seh eae eT ese aos ook a viaes eset aeeae 245
CONMIPOSIAGH Gh ss) Se. Pesan ane Seas e Re sees sat itemscei ame 245

INOS Ole OCCUTEGNCE Oleic, eas Seeks ee ae Ler Set a ee eee oe nae 245

TIS S O Shes ae ees Sent BM US re NE Tg sec She SES te ae AL ME at 245
Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, models of pointed canoes in-.-. 535
PRUE neNGeUOe GINO SLONeRs= o2 o spol c es foe aes dns awe eee ose ei 465
Peed istri bution Ol Specimens INL 2l. Sees le ook zk ok ewe ss oe ee eee 123
EER Ciel eae ee RU Te eee REAR ae Lee aE Fen ORE ae ctr ees aL eee 293

Trey cae PU St eR eS ee at SI SP Pe ee ae a EN 331
Fntusorial Garth, chemical composition of.:.....-....-...-.-------:--------- 220
WIS SiO geen Rey eee oe 2) He RE EE eS Sa ee 220

OE USBIP SDSS IN TP Oe ae ne ee 552
Se ISIO OF ACCORDIONS TOs sa 7 ace esas c ci asetei seo ose 222-522 22 ee 29
imemuianen Of anthropological materials -.-.. 2.222. <-5622s----+---/2+5-2-- 9
Invertebrate fossils, section of accessions to....-..-------------------------- 38
Investigators accorded access to collections in the National Museum ---- ----- 58
Trish, H. C., specimens of plants sent to -...-..----------- We eee Ee aot ee 62
MMMM apap eee eee ee ie ets ee iyi Secale i ee 496
Beis CSE MLON OF SHECIMeNS 1 2225205. 25-- S2 sc Sanc ese cee tele see e escent 124
Pee eet eee ee foe eho eels oS os oak Se SEL os eee 373

Jewish Ceremonial deposited in the U.S. National Museum by Hadji Ephraim
Benguiat, Descriptive Catalogue of a Collection of Objects of, by Cyrus Adler

nak Th, WA ORC OK AUCY Aa a ie ease eee ea ETS ea nee gE Ro 539
Jordan, David 8., specimens of Nemichthys scolopaceus and Chirostoma
CSLOMSEMi Ors te so meee een te cee assis k Saas seer 60
Piicswe rout papers DUIsst ous cane 0. toes subs oaee 138
Tere pian’ tne wite- Ol F OUPUAT Is 24027 slows at Sa ahs Senses ans se Sekt 560
Jouy, P. L., batten frame from Guadalajara, Mexico, collected by------------- 507
UE EE ORES 22s n§ Cavs orn C!s SA a pape ogee as Te ae EE eR eRe 29
Me cMennOl HOIOMOM memes mens ca lence bes steam as abe ume ses Peano 561
aith and tt Olofernes mea mene ee ele nes eee Se ee ete eae Susie. 561
IFRCSg TN PSE eed ie de Ee mena ree cet Mae en Giana ATE ae Lei se bach 416
TESTI 2 SS SS A BE ee A 416
[GV CUIEST 5 SERRA Rs Mi a I peyote eee ee AEE 330
engall. W.'C., collection of fishes used by.) 22.-.22.s----s5---52.s55-22-- 34, 59
Dos. LOT EA IERG Cae Tal nl 0's ae a ee Ae ~ 80
PODER YS 1 eo oa dw eA a ee oe net ne ee a 416
Mirnbally james i. > collecting outht turmished to..--.--2..-2-------.s---<- 68
Kemi AanOeelsissiiicai Ol .OL Clay Shae ssa eee 2-2 4le ae seas cnoc os Peele scn 328

“Kingsbury, George, collecting outfit furnished to.........------------------ 68
580 INDEX.

Page

Knowlton, Frank Hall, titles ofspapersibyy=22s ss es eee eee 139

Kutenai and Amur, Pointed Bark Canoes of the, by Otis T. Mason ..-.------ 523

canoe, peculiarities of constriction of. 3222.20 SS. se ease eee eee 527

the 00-222 en Sethe blab eeinsie ERE ee ee ee 528

construction, Of. £75 Me Sscon ee ns ee ee 529

described ‘by. D2M:, Melauchiln 322.2222 20sec ee eee 529

apon Arrow Lakes, British Columbiac +; S22 oese 2. 2 eeee 528

Larcoe, R. D., carboniferous plants purchased for Museum by ...------------ aig)

donations made byes 22525 ce a eee et a ee eee eae 47

Lajward. . 2.022 23 es Cee ee Sa Se eet ane eenalt

Langley, S. P., Secretary of Smithsonian Institutions. 2 2320 SS see ee 71

Lapis lagi 22 2 Se See oe a net te BS in) eee ee 309

Lagurite.. csc sok ie ee Se ee ee re ne 309

analyseszol of42 ese a eet 2s cece eee ae ee Oe ee 310

Occurrence: Obese 3552 oe oe oe ae ee ee 310

USES, OF S58 eS Se AR Bens Se ee ee 311

Leached cuano, ‘analiysestoh {322 22h. oe here eet eee ee 376

Lead glaze waresys: 2220 ie oie eel PS oe 3 er ee ee eee 515

eda clays 8 oa See aS ie epee rea ee ane ee 333

Lee, Harry, series of tellunide ores procured. throughis-s—) 95-—5=4===— =e 47

State commissioner of mines of Colorado. -..---.---------------- 47

Leiberg, J. B., studied plants collected in Western timber reserves. -.-------- 59
Lemke, Mrs. Elizabeth, specimen of heddle from Saalfeld, Konigsberg, East

Prussia; presented. to. Musenmi by. 22s ss6- o> 2h. eae eee eee eee eee 494

Lepidolite: 2224 225 S255 los ee ke Se ee ee ee 293

Lepidomelane 222 2s ose ae Fes See te 293

Leucopytite Sse. ss so so ee See ee ee 189

Library, accession} tosc: sas 22526 Sosilze 2 2 Sa ee 13, 64

progress of “work tm) .555 95-55-25 24e Bae ee See ees 64

Mionites oe ss OOs Fe ee 2 eae ee ee 425

Limestones® fs 226 52528 2932 RE Pe a eae ee a eee eae 264

bibliography: of 22 %5-4)- Sates oe Gee ees 2 ee ee nee ee 269

NIseS: OF 2.2226 oN SEs eee Bee = ee Ne ne en FS on Bes 265

lindahi) J: Ds specimen of Amphystoma senititios 2 ss5 552s sos eee 60

Linell> Martinis, titletof, jolt paper by s- ses ae oes saeco eee eee 139

titles of papers«by:. 222 5.52 e ee a eee eos 139

Limmselte 2 os ok SSeS a Be ee ES ee eee 186

OCCUILEN CES OF S35 roe ae Be ee ee ee ee 187

List of accessions during year ending June 30, 1899 .....---.-.-------------- 73

authors: of papers’ bibliography 2222 see. eee == sss esse eee 149

hithiophilite 2-23 .s .csas shee TS a a aS 391

Occurrence ol: {e222 ete ee oe ee ene te So pS eee 391

Lithographic limestone... 5, 22242922625 eee eee 270

localities:of 22... | 3 8ets Se Se 272

Liverpool, or Melling, England, grindstones:22-2 22 22.23) s2--2-e-4e eee 466

Localities and mode of occurrence of allanites===>----=---425--os eee 312

boracitert x=. 220252 S52 ee eee ee 397

descloizite:. <2 223) ee ees ae eet 388

ead olimitey Os posse eee ate ci aes 313

MaAonesite; sys sz ew ey Seen 276

MOM AZO See ey kh 383

Samarskite.: 25250 sie: oso eee 354

UTraninitea3 eee ee ee eS eee 403

INDEX. 581

Page

Localities and mode of occurrence of vanadinite.......--------------------- 387

, CeadoVevattse aoa 5s 24 oS legs Ae a 279

OikASDEStOdGs= = e2 = oo eee ee eens ec ces coe eee seam. oem. >= 300

Inphorrsplie LUINeHgNe +2 -- <a. ees - da eis ose een eee rie one 272

MINK CG Taig nad ia Sp RN eR Cate A ARTES GE, Stents peal. la Be ee Pe Ba ies 286

phos phiatesie ce. Sl Ac eo eone « Sarees Soe sek eee eee eae e = = 362

MU eeeear ey ees sc ke eet ieee tes cites Sole een oigeer eaters = 246

SROUUMIENG 440% Oo. con cue Oe tien MER eels eben te were eee 309

SLY ars hog oes Se ae ee Teed ere ee ee eee eee eye yer ee os ERR YS Sg 175

WAG RSE Se ee eS cults Ck ls lala te ac eee ne Eine cin sie Ste nie sce sic Saree Sere eet 336

Or Mississippi Valley, analyses! Of fa ccx2 snc = gs/.n ee aecee eens eee 336

STEMI NEMEC ere oe Re kom Se As Sheet thera Lik en toh Canto ole aie sae eet 189

ine... collecting outht furmished. tov. ~ <2). 2-26. soe ess Les. b- seen 67

Lord, Edwin C. E., reference to study of rocks by .......------------------- 46
studied rocks collected on Mexican border by Dr. E. A.

Miea ris ace tae ewe Been te SO ek ay ere ea ce ER eek 60

tiblesiat weapers; By us sce ae ee NS a Td Se ee ne 139

Bortiond.,A., collections mane dye ce leee lost! oul... oh twlenc oun eee 27

series of mammals collected for Museum by ..-.-.-------- ase 66

Loucks, W. E., collection of house wrens sent to .....---.----.-----------.. . 30,61

Epi ah avliLe wine tres etesc iste noe ee te ei ee MY oe op al ee ee 200

Lucas, Frederick A., completed study of fossil bisons of North America ------ 393

completed study of the fossil bison .....--------------- 46

described hitherto unknown fossil snake -.....--------- 46

Hiles Oi pMpeEiNy tet ee eee Sse ese Ps 2 kee LS oe 159

Lyon, Marcus W., jr., appointed aid in department of biology ...--.-..------- ol

Miaehougsl, D.'T., specimens of plants:supplied ‘to ...--...-.-.-----+---2--64 62

ese a Pee i ee ein i ME ae Uae Data, ch ser) eee ate 474

WOMB Cr ee a teat se slew ties he RAR Labi wl Steg SN ea hel Neyeail \ E » YA eae 275

localittestand)mode,otoccurrence Olsjo2s2e =. eee pe ae ss eee eee 276

RIC RIM rne ee mie ce eats ob St ih seat ake Pou ace Ge CEs 278

(ESN IG So SG eR ie Be SRS 2 ie eee eee pee ae eee eee 277

Re eee eas SD ROMPNALCH 1M sm eke buen. o. sad tls y etecis boas ceeeee mer 373

Risa seaivisions OlmAcCCesslOns lOveeeewedece cues... -Sa5scseene+ sacs oe Se eee 27

WOLK ONL StldiyaSenlesiine tee foe Je see oe eee Soe 30

Wrancanese OXIGGS a t--tnisace nn eee aa ae Bhs ak AEG Atak AEE pe EAS, PEELS Ch 252

PREIS Be Nee Se tae SOL ok ote can a tebe oS = tees ube 254

1aeeeall keltiGWiy Re eae e  oye ce eet oy Relea bar a ue one Ree ewe eRe er pe es Ate epee Re 253

NaAUSINANMILe see ees ee ee ee ee Se ete eee 253

INIA CANN eis ee creer eh See ae Se ay eS © ee eae 254

MCCULLEMCELOL see eiyet oe Moya Meee nic eh ee red ee eee 255

OTIS Olea etre eee ae at ee epee ene CE ek ea ta 255

jorovne aN Wee See te ea etna ae eee rein et a ene ete ee et es 254

DSM OM Clan ese ane eee er eee mehe ee oe ee 255

PYRO ULSI RO per ee tar ee eee! ee ns exes Duk eee ees eee 254

TSE Sa 0 1 rae ee en et ee ere te rae Lh S a a ae EB els Set 256

WAGON OMUOPUMANPAnese = e651 Seet ee oases es coc eee 255

EMS SSIS See SSeS ee IS SEI AO Se APS Coat ene ae PS 254

MIG WAN EIS. (OSES) CO) Wie Mpc ies a as ae Dap Core ee og 2 ee ere ese 446

Manuscript containing the Psalms and various propitiatory prayers......---- 550

VanlOusen tly Cine Sas Sem seet oes cs cess seat ae ee yee 550

- Marine invertebrates, division of, work on study series in......-------------- 31

Riri ee PS OR AMOLMDY toc.5 cet hisabie. «4 sacle cam cbeea accu scceree ences 140
582 INDEX.

Marlatt, Charles L., titles of papers by 2-= --2-225- =225 soe b erate ae
Marriage contract ....-.-------s2-¢-eees -2ce ean sees Se ee ae
(kethubah) 92.2222 ee one oe Soe Sl baa eee

Marsh gas ..-..--.----2-- <2 = Ae seeeee an see re Se
Marsh, Prof. Othniel C., acquisition of collection of ...........-.-------------
collection of Japanese marbles lent to ....-.---------

gift of specimens of Japanese breccia from ...--------

_ reference to-death ol.) 23s. eee 48, 51, 69

Mason, Prof. Otis T., curator division of ethnology..-....--.-----------.------
on A Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics - - - - -

Pointed Bark Canoes of the Kutenai and Amur ---------

reference to researches conducted by -------------------

title-of. paper by: #43252 42-4 tl Sie ee ee eee

Masquakee heddle frame: < 2-2: 25222 2oce5-~ = S23 ss tees nee ee = ee
and shuttle 222. -2s-f525 ate teese eee eee

Massillon :grindstones:. 22.252 222s == man 35 as See a ee i ee
Masters, T. Maxwell, specimens of plants sent to -...----- Siete oe ee eeromees
Matthews, W. D., studied methods of installation ...........--.-.------------
Mayer, P, Caprellide in Museum placed in hands of. ..-.--------------------
Maynard, George C., designated as aid in division of mechanical technology. -
McConnell, Mrs. M. R., specimens of plants supplied to-...------------------
McDonough, P., collecting outfit furnished to....-...-----------------------
McGee, W J, weaving frame of the Masquakee Indians presented to Museum
bY. == = 52 eee ode eet wae s atin Sampo we Boi etece w ee ce tl i
McGregor, Richard C., ornithological collections made by-.------------------
title of paper by 2-3-3052 322 -ooees eee eee

McGuire, J. D., collection of aboriginal tobacco pipes studied by ------------
reference to researches conducted by....-------------------

McLaughlin, D. M., description of Kutenai canoes by-..--------------------
MeNeill, Jerome, species of Acridide sent to.------.------------------------
Mearns, Edgar A., collecting outfit furnished to....---.--------------------
COD DULLOMNS ar OTn see oes a= ae ere eee

ornithological collections made by -.-.--------------------

reference to rocks collected. by: 23- /--=222s20 22> ese=eme nes

titles of papers by: 522.2. 222 be cee cece eee

Mechanical Technology, division of, installation, work in-.-..----------------
Meéerschaumis 2 222 02 3 ee se et a ae ae ore ee a
Meinert, F., collection of Caprellidze sent to. ..-----------------------------
use of collection of Pycnogonida accorded to....--.------------

Meénaccanite’= 52 252 Bice os ee oe oe I cleat ai tee
Merriam, Miss Florence, reference to use of ornithological collections by- ----
studied various Western birds..-..-----------------

Merrill, George P., head curator of department of geology. --.--------------
on Guide to the Study of the Collections in the Section of

Applied Geology...-------.------+----<2-==+--------

report on department of geology by---------------------

titles of papers by.----------<-2-22-524--s-h ope cene eas

Merrill, H.C., heddle frame from Auburn, Maine, collected by--------------
Merrill, Miss Harriet B., collections of insects consulted by------------------
Methods of extraction of monazite .......-------------------------+--------
glazing by salt -.-.--.------------- --- 222 eee e eens tenner renee ee

mining and manufacture of boracite -....-----------------------

[lbh aee eae toe a SHEoe Asa so ease

INDEX. 583

Page.
Methods of mining and preparation of asbestos .........-------------------- 303
MEnICA” GintrtDOtOn. Of SPOCUNONA Ic oo ono ota ne Gaetickuetiacsce cs + neues 117
MNeTReRT etc eee 2 Fo Riggs se Sa eho ab ee ieke Gea em aa.n oe ade c's 2 oe 559
BrmeM Ota. 52 Feros. sa Ree cot le cates cacao es + 5 sememere eeu nee see ea em 290
PaO terse sau aed ie seas wate eanine sas sear aso ees Laas 293
PSP See Sane Sr op > one nn Ram ae ae wets eee aera 295
es See east Se ong So Js cra tn Sao ts RUC ale ene eens ee oan 294
Mie tM oe Rare mee ys 5 SDSL kee Sekai eee Seas cise oar ne moctae 283
PPRRNELGE (tos So ee ote aks 2S ER ee aera oe eae ot wits Met ee gees 286
PERMIELCHCE Oboe 6 aoc te Soe 6 See ea oe ae ie Ce meee aay See as seein ete 285
Metrricdiiy bute WO Sots a: ok pace ee aoe ee ate ee | ms Semen ay ae Bee 199
PRSTTQUATINS Sc teen aio eek ok ihe eee ee he aca sas Bates se See Gee eee aoa 215
Miller, Gerrit S., jr, collecting outfit furnished to............--.--.-.------- 68
described new species of Pleistocene bear.....-.--.------- 47
TOLOTEHCE LG: DADEPHD yatsis eee ae A ee Nama 32

temporarily appointed assistant curator, division of mam-
LACS pee ea yatta See ce a Pa ee a el Pe a 30
titlesiof papers Dyte: Sete cS EO os Sao ea 142
Miller We, specimens of plants sapplied) tor 52522222 Ss. lassie a Scene 61
Mineraleand chemicalicomposition ol clays. =2--5--22 2S 22.2525 - 22524-2452 ee 326
EXOULCMOMG Hee ee mee ete ee ek NOE emo Sn counts aire ee roee 446
Pee er ee ee SA ne ora ates ae a cont eee eco we eRe 441
(SOE Oya os is eh SE a RS Ek iS ae a eer 347
WRLCTSMGlAsSii Ca tlOM NO eames eee meer en ee esioc-c Vas eltomee 477
Gisiya Ui ONs Ohare ae eee Ce cea ees eesti sso ates 479
2 OUTED OS, Sy Se aie ate ee ee a 478
(WEES OUE Lede Ss See ae Ee ai ee 480
Wiklimsceod Go ae! 2 Mia Se eee iA PS eee as eh 7 ae ne ek aren ae ae ng 451
Mineralogy, division of, accessions to .....-.....-----------e----0---eeeeeee 38
arrangement of collections in---...2.-.-----.--- 2.2: 40
TRE INES 6 ee RS ey SS a ee pe Oe ae 45
0 SULEL ME Uo Eg Se eg gS AES ce a a ee aE SS Pd 370
EMER AVCr: OOK ta eer a Se See tes eet Sent See e ee 550
© eh LN: 252 Bi ephage cee oa REN RO ah = AEA a rc eee ee 8 412
OREUETENCE Olas een ea ee ee IL eet ee eee en eae 412
Mipee LANE OLS maar emen ear vann ae ayes AEN eee Se SU uh cee eee 463
SHINO SL OMe Seer se Aas saree een irene Coe eT hl oe eee 463
Helieae Sees eet sae Roe ie kN era Gc hs Ud ier es vale 463
Wes ee enc nes ete e soa secey See teat ee 474
TRAE Reet UR ORAIN Asses et su bes) Sa ae hee Sd rl kre 477
ATION RAI ete eee ee ie Pe oe ees me ee oleha Sa ae eee 474
objectsiohwewish: ceremonial sa)" 3 gece Seu ceeeo es See sauna 559
Dicom ee emcee ees hso dour hee oe 470
ROMO Nine eOUeTIS Sobel ce ee els Fee ke i ee 482
TOPLENSLON GH ae ne sess ee SE ae eA! oo oS ee 473
Wieintemesra eee escent bathe Ae aen eet ose Glee tS 463
ET SE ER NP Oe ae acs SERRE, ore Ae ee fe ae 189
Mode onmoccurrenceand origin Of asbestos: =... 22-12 s......5..s~-2 5b fee 2e 300
BOMOMLUC pwn te re eke Ahh bee Lee Bees 324
ohambPiyeoMmiiae oss ses oss Sk ees te oct es oeee es 390
Cy OUEiens eyed te pesos ole ac Too 214
RMU se onan eee. SSS eh SoS oO ge 245

SURG C t= A ethan oe asinacah Sat a's ccc se daaeeinee 309
584 “INDEX.

Mode of occurrence of pyrites -. 2.23.22 5. iL eeeee ee eee ee eee eee eee
rutile 222.222 3JSe3 a2 Gis oele see eee nee
spoduMene. « 5ssos 72a See nee nee Ro ee ea

Models, illustrative of history of navigation, in National Museum----....-.--

Molding sand 2. 22. 5 122 sce einen stat Se FE eee

analyses Of). Soc 40 aaa, diro fa eee oe ee
essential qualities of 20s 55.5555 seee ese ook aoe
localities: of 3 272 Fags 3-\e Dns qo se ag eee Da

Mollusks, division of, work on the study series in..-........-.--..---..-..--

Molybdenite...2: . jcsoceto Siaaeete Sa ewes Seal a eee tee es a

compositions 43.25. pois basen s- oes Se ee

occurrente OF 5/3 fas .csusc-ss'o Saag eee eee. oe

USCS Of sins ceeee ee sheet cLdet ae eeee eeeee eee oe ee ee

Monazite: 02.252 ssi ge seas spe emede ts cues See aan ee ee
bibliography of S229 4 os os ee eee eee ee ee
composition‘of 2.222 3. 320 ee eee

in Brazil. oso. doe 6 ceeds bbe tas Sos 5 5 soe eee ee ee

Montgomery, ‘Thomas: H.., title of paper by: 222: J2cc2-24. e229 e. ce oe eee
Mooney, James, Moki heddle frame collected by ..........----.------------
Moore, J. Percy, collection of leeches sent tole s-2-42ce5. eee eens eee eee
specimens of Desmognathus sent to.---....--......---.----

title.ef paper DY 222. 22-4 ast aoa) ce eee eee eee

Moore, H. F., reference to study of isopod crustaceans collection. ...........-
studied Isopoda collected by the steamer Fish Hawk--......--

Morgantown; pottery at: :. 2222.2 Site. dense eee se pe aeee ee eee eee
Mortars: 2.2 c2eccccstss face See Pee eee ee ee
Moss, William B., donation of shell collection of Rev. and Mrs. James Had-
field from i222. 51 ssl 22s og sesame ee eh leet. tae hee ee

Murdock, John; ‘title. of paper iby2 set seus... S02. eee ee ee ee
Museum building, number of visitors during the past year to.-.........-.---
number of:specimens,in. <.os...0: 23 hows Seo eee

stath? os. passe fos che aden Sees Roe Pee een ea eee
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass., snakes sent to.......---
Museum of Natural History, Paris, fishes obtained by M. Chaffanjon, received
from oo22s. wl sce cooley ee ie ee ee

National Electric Light Exposition, Museum represented by number of models
of electrical apparatus-at-22 22.2262 4e55. 22.22 deea secant eee
National Museum, U...S., accessions to ..<t2.2 4/2 Set oe eee
appropriations for <.. 22th ces eee ee ee ee

bibliography of, for year ending June 30, 1899 ......

building and repairs in* 222-2. 2u22se eae eee

buildings rented by .22. 22422-82220 0o eee eee

catalogue entries in registers of..........-.--.------

collection of -heddle tramesin= 2 ssee es eee ee

cooperation of Executive Departments of the Govern-

ment With 4202 Ud see eeeenee so oe

custodian of specimens: .. 2/8240. boo 26 ae

exchanges, by 23.52 vont eso. -2.4 eee

expenditures Of 222 2s 3eodecs dewnsho sane s oe oe

INDEX.

National Museum, U.8., information furnished by the _......-.-...----. ----

investigators accorded access to collections in... .----
list of authors of papers in bibliography of .....--.--
list of papers by officers and others.......--.-------
list of papers published separately from Proceedings
ODE os 8 Sire eee ee sen ae ee ere
list of papers published separately from Report
CLSOG:); Ofe% Sas pe a raeee ek, AL Ed itl fe eee ean
material distributed for examination by......-.-.-----
papers describing and illustrating collections in the. -
publicationsof-the-a4s- oa. 285 AS ee ee ee
students accorded access to collections in. -....------
subjects of papers published by ...-...-....--------
table showing annual accessions since 1881 in ......-
table showing appropriations and expenditures for
year ena UME O0 1890 2. is ioe oa ee
table showing disbursements from unexpended bal-
ances of appropriations for year ending June 30,
TPS Ue a yd a SE oa Poe Re he PRED EdietS SRIe cto
table showing number of accessions received annually
BUBCR INOS hea ce Ok sire Me eas CA ee le
table showing number of specimens received in 1898—
99, and total number in the several divisions on
AIG, 5 Oral SOO eee apne de ste ek Shoe jl
table showing number of visitors during fiscal year to-
table showing number of visitors since 1881 _.......-
tabulated statement of lots of specimens distributed
yee Mn! (ary Oh ee be ence ok eee

EDM IAA LT OR ERR eRe eet ee On amas aa enh tan FS Sh det

Patromphucsmunim: ofthe ancients: foo... 22.05 bos kta e cee

Natural coke
. gas

Navsenapmospuate, analyses Of sss 0s. a 6 2c een es eats sede oe ee

Necrology

Nelson, E. W., collection of Mexican plants purchased from...........-.----

enpaged im study‘of Mexican: birds: 2222 2 222.. 5.52. 208 22 2
material acquired from expedition to Mexico of..........----
reference to use of ornithological collections by ........------
pmipllnanmigis TUrMIshed hs. = ces eect see Bde eee eee
RIDIO BRBEIS Ni: eee ce ae ee, SAC te CSS GO SOs ek ae

Netherlands, distribution of specimens in .-............2....-.----22e0s0-0-
momeebnrlanc headie tamed Aa. Ao: Be eo es as otal steele bees ois
Dommerry, John Strong: title of paper by <.205.'.2652 252 226 eb. 2ac cS eink
ernie, ncland. eringmponeses 226s cis Sac as S ok wbaccow eee a cn
Newhall, W. H., reference to arrangement of collections by.....-....---.----

LC
composition of
WVilraber, Se... -

i

NAT Mus 99——41

585

Page.
62

58
586 INDEX.

Nitrocalcite. 22. 2.2.2 Sot. 2 22h SLE ee ee ee
INGO DALES ations we goes he tee eee Joust vio OSC eee RR ees
and tantalates - 2. dsc 5 bce Se Soe eae eee ee
columbite. ici! 2 ee ee ee

hiibnerites. 220 ee seb BS See ee eee

samarskite:. 2-US.0c2 22 eee Sa eee eee

scheelitie e523 Tey eps Rens RE NS ea ee

yttrotantalite 22232: Nou Ses ee ee

Nonmetallic minerals, the 2222-.2 222.5253. 525. hei ee
North America, distribution of specimens im))-222522ee55-e5e ese ee eee
North’ Carolinas a;nonazitepins sess ee ce. c oo eee eee ee
Norway, phosphates tm: 2: 22¢25 S2o60 2. 24. SSS ee
Novaculite...:2:4425.4 24.2222 ose eel oe oe a
Nutting, Charles Cleveland, title of paper by.--.----------------s-.-25-5-2-
Oberholser, H. C., collection of birds determined by ----------.------------
- collections: of: birds named by 2.205 50.

titles of papers: by =<! 22 2222 eet Sos eee eee

Objects used at Passover celebration at Jewish home. ---.-...--..------------
prayer 2.5... oss. ce ce ek eles ie Ue oe ee

in the service. of the synagopues.. 2225532222. 5-55-ee ae

on feast of tabernacles in Jewish home -----.------------------
festalioccasions at Jewishihome mss.) s. sess ee

Sabbathiat Jewish: homie see ee sae ae se eee ee

special occasions’: i022 0.258 23508 tee Sea eee
Occurrenceiand! oriein of eraphite J 22.— esses tee seer ele ee eee
tal@e ete deta Soe. ea Oe Re eer

of amber ao2v s.22e.08b. 4 Ue eces Sa er ee ee

arsenic’... 022. esses See eet ae =o gen eee ee eee ee bee ee eee

arsenopyrites 2. 2s eee wa ete te ee wee ae eee

barite 22.2. fas2e eee ecco. Sea Se eee ees

batxitie 22 Sse ee ea ene e eee eee eee

carbone: 2.23222 .b so. 224 te ccs sooo ee = eee ee eee 2

chromite: 202. See. Sek See eS ee ee eee

Cobaltitte-.. $23 fee 528 seco es Seis ac eee eee = ee eee

columbite:: 3.255.085 eke ee ee eee

COrundum .- 2.522 secs te eee ee ee eed

diaspote:- 2. o4e0e sees deme tGe seis to UAE IE oe ee

paimet, 2202 55..S322. SS a Se es = oe eee
gilsonite:.....02- 0055 cise cs ed foc 12S Capen see ee eee
grahamite . 2... 2'e. ca se Sona Sas aes os eee eee
graphite. ..20.s2s.:0S 26... os sone ee eee eee
lagzurite . 2215. 2.5- See ae Sess Se ee
linnseites si 22.2 isl ee Sete et a ee Ae ree ee ee
lithiophilite:.'s. 2s 2st yas Ae see aa ee ee ee eee
manganese Oxides. 224. Jebse 5. Soe ee eee os see = pee

INDEX. ; 587

Page.

MET ONCE GEMGNGE 26 Scns 2. ,0 Phat Re kne CERT EM EE Ck RR EE RNS ORS EK Ls dese 243

DPMMIGMIE SCAN SOC LA TCA CEGLY cu concer ame OReT poked Re Les 183

GZORCIENOG stn hon ae Seen Se kee NEE RCE SEE cam eRe eae ne bs 453

PTOMEV NIG. AE es ee As lie sac kne hax na eee enon eMart: & 323

POMPE Ente he keke oe Let mite ac eke dc oe ree ote ie ais 183

REIGN eee Se oc Econ ce AAAS oe eas Laws tea eee 186

SULOU CANINE. Cn tk nk CORR Ce oak SEEN Cate eee ene 280

PRU PARE Ro catia t exer Rae ee ek Eee eater ee ae eee 177

Tg hd <a Se POR Roc) 75 as DROP DAES URC Ne op Dx 391

WGltanittee WS. So See ee eee oy Leek ton eee eee 355

PeeAnii, Gist DUnOn of SpecimendG dh. 2.2... ots on Cc oe cee eet 124

Pen re Ber ne See IER ea EIR REN kk Sale Dep a 239

eMea MIRNA) Ch tn ee Oe GI ee Wh hae ic els i) Oa ap See eee 243

mpi. aNG WHOMG OL OCCULTCHES OFsnc ae. 26ese tie es. Lobe eee 241

etnreres)) MmbHoptaphy Of 328s 222s Oe cele ie eas 245

Rs paestiOnl Olsen fcc c eee se tate acetals casks Sa SAG Sess 242

SE geen ea eee naa TL a LSA, Sac pecs HLS See ae ie 244

Ge ciiertaie | Be pOsMIONY: toccs Coates beter C. Ee a eee 13, 69

Revel ts COMMONS Tromecc. oe eS eee 29
Omaha International Exposition, assortment of ores and economic products

from Central and Western States received from.............-...--.-.---.- 37

Bee Ha ard ots ek oot is Ja ua’ Fu We caw Noes SUR EkM USD ELS. fol 216

Oricin and mode ef occurrence: of bauxite ..-........- 202.0220 keel ee 231

CUTIVEN = Ee 2 oh Sie, Tae BEES Re chs 1 Ae oe a 259

ELITES ya DDT SER A RAL a Saeed oar ee a ER 325

GREE Seperate ees SN tly a8 eas 241

BU eI ose ice + 5's Abit Sool ae 174

SAU RNGebe etetitia ye 72S a NG aS eg ch PEM 218

GONG snot oe Pig wee Lote ee ae 166

eek. gs See tier Po ergs Sa eee 196

Tockypnosphaters. Ase BS ee 358

MDM PIEAOUIE COMPOUNGR: on eee ee cans 2S els oder aoe eee 430

LSE 5] Ops SS GR eh ee RE TSR cia Sere | 423

ETL pele Seed BRIE Eph Hc ia ve ey eR ee a PRO ME ITENE CPi Mh Cae Eg 223

UVETL BE TSIGR i] 9) bao ap A ARES: ie NO Be ae aed aera ear: 17% 237

EA JO SLUTTY ee eS ASN aap Sih oe aha NEE mee te Re ery eto ee Lhe fee TRE Delo 407

Re L AT EATON RES eater ee eh OB anne ak Se ees Be 255

GRATER er ot eich ee eee. peer eee Pm eS AE BURLEY ene Seis 395

ELLE apg aR 2 ND es Sl se 2 ey 4 183

aD opraryeninses cl asa Mea es eal ah rete 184

SCE HELE Geol amet Pe tee ee thon ata te tort Sede ESS eons 183

HBO Olen sas) Misr oh genes Aes 0 Ok Ag) wl Rh ah aera 184

og NCL ES So ih Oe on RC Hed ee ee ene Eee es Me a Ole So ae 311

Wssnod. WiliredvHpjexamined the wren-tltse.... 02225. 26.2. eon-soe ee oe 59

PCO ANG MEME, LO. os one sane oe aceon lo oe ake 60

reference to use of ornithological collections by... ...-- 34

jl CEST 0 7 eta eS Ey Pa MOS et 143

Eee ess ee ern rere os ok irons Lacey ) a oe 68

Rr E re Se 3 on ae ORE ay woe ae acid WON abe oe 215

“PREETI GSR ag i ol a mee ees Se 229

LES PPE Se DOES so ORIEL O27 ts) Cael ie a Aas ee 246

cc ELS TELS Na TT) oh SES pe cease ts a Re RR gs Me ne oe 220
588 INDEX.

Oxides, emery =)... ...-.--'- S222 fee eerie ire ee
gibbsite - 2.2. 2222S SS cS ae ae eee
ilmenite: 2/2 Seo eS
manganese Oxides... 5. 2-2 .2---s ss seete eee eee ee eee
ocher 2s 22 5 SSS a ae ee

Pagodite 222 Sass ee ae oe ee erent RES Ss he eee
Pair of candlesticks. [222-26 es aa ce ote oo == oe oe
Paleobotany, section of, accessions to <—_------ 2-22 oe = sen eeeeere
installawoniin’s...2o. vee See ae ee eee

Palmer, Edward, made collections for Museunr. --.-..-----------------------
Palmer, William, collecting outfit furnished to -------.---.-------22---=5---
material collected, by .2. 2.5 acs as eae ae ee eee

small shrikes of North America studied by....------------

titlé‘of ‘paper by 2¢ 2.4... :. Soo Meee eee tee ee

Pan-American Exposition 2222-52 5 62 25 eae
Paper clay ~~ 5. 5) ose. ce Fee oe Sa oe ees ae ie
Papers describing and illustrating collections in the U. 8. National Museum - -
published in separate form during year ending June 30, 1899 --.------
Passing of the Israelites through the Red Sea. .----.-- © Bee te eee ee
Passover dish = 253252 enc Shoe Shee (hes ee eee eee
Patented heddletirames 22 32223 Sok soe aes fe 2 er oe a ee ere
Peabody, George, gifts to Yale University by.-.-.-.-------------------------
Peabody Museum, reference to establishment of ....--.----------------------
Peale, A. C., appointed aid in section of paleobotany ..---------------------

analyses Of 2122 222 22520 ee eee oe ee ee eee
Peru, distribution of specimens in -.....----.----------------+------------+
Petallitie sores fo ee ac ee ele ara te aie oo

analysis of2 2. Ste 28 ac be stuns sees ee eee =e
USGS OF Scone hoo os ca te ee ae ae ee eee
Phosphates: sot. ssa asse eee eae Oo ose a cat tae ke eee Skee ee
amblysonite-.222o2s. 2a 9s sens See oe ee ee
apatite n.4 fs. k aloes ae ee ae rr
descloizite {ace 2 os a ae oe Se ae en
in’ Belgium: 25. 4.02 2S0 2325620 see ee ea ee
Gamad aries So eg a ae aero
Wupland . 222.5: 2 222 es eee eee oe
FPranee fii... 322 220 os aaa Se eee eee
Germany -.2.2 1 f226dshc2 5. aoe eee see ee eee
Ttaly 2 Sie2 222 2225 232 5ne Uae te ce ee

Norway ©. 23.225- 220k Foie keer eee a ete eee
Portugal ! 2. 2225 te 522 ces fee eee eee ee
RUSS 2 se eS Pe ee ae ee eee ee

Phosphates

Phosphorite

MMV Osby LN GIaMlelAanGsin ise oe aes oe eee ees oso lee...
NIULIROPMRINT OLS ae ae SS es ce IR Leas PRPs ne REM So
FOCAIMIOR: Ole = a Nee Se oe ers 2 ah Loe OE ee Me DS op 20
MONA ects a Ses eee ke ls Sle eer ae Rl PPR VEE St 5
EREDINV Ute > oe SoS ose 222: coc See AES nd ees abstr nen ¢
TESES Obese oe Sas 2 he ie see 8 ye eas Bere
VERMLELELT TGC ere es SS Sy te ere ae epee re Dare ss Oa als

TE TRROU DET DUO oe OR Ra ee cy ne te Pe ge a a ees Se hyd
PP PeCEeMESOC LINED pets 35,5 5552's 2d sta oe semen Suc sens ane oe ee eee ees
RSE rte aes hee Sos He JS eee te ce Se er gees eet

Einite les:

COMPOSION Ole wees eo eee ee ee Se SS oo Cs wR ha Se
TEDL SCPE Og eS BR Pipe ae a he ee ee Re ane Sh a =

Pitchblende

Rianie civislon Or Wworkaccomplishedsines 2s). Sa als. Senta ee
Lav P oan Lesa ee eee Se S27. Sake Te ee Se A Sa ae ba SoS Shere
Poinsett, Hon. Joel R., founder of National Institution................-...--

Pointed bar

k canoes of the Kutenai and Amur, by Otis T. Mason_--..-------

canoe of the Lake Indians, Washington <..-:-........-.2---2s-02266
dugouts among aboriginal tribes of the Upper Amur ..-...--...-----

Polianite. . -

Pollard, Charles Louis, reference to work on the violets by --....------------

Polyhalite -

(216 CSWY OY Reg a1 072 a9 ge et 9 a

igmiiknind! yeaa? 2 eee ee See ee See SN en a
EAE ST STATUS TS a eee
“PRESSING as TAMAR DS eto ois SE pe oN et eens OR ee Ss
DUIS cc csc e ees US SESS eS ee Sn ne ey A Pe ae nee ee
Ameariy West Virzinia, by Walter Hough: :.:...-.-..-----.--+---.2-
PESO tD eee as eee, = 3 SS oe ee

M

OUCAMUO WI te sare. s ate eens eel ahs 3)! oS eciee ec te sa ence ae

Powell, J. W., heddle frame from Zuni, New Mexico, collected by -..-.--.----
peepee. CUAeW tiny ee ocr On Sie ae ne So So phi da ad eee eee
Preble, .A., type of mictomys innuitus lent to'.:-.-...--2-22.-.225-22.-4-
Prehistoric archzeology, division of, installation work in.............--------

Prentiss, D.
Preparation

Wit. collestinmoutiitetomished stom. os sachs se sc ecasene 22 Seen
Ol ALAC C Rs oe eee ee Ae eee cee Fe NS Sy ue Lv eee Oe
DEC ee Rae pete en aie etm cee ey a IG Least oe eae at
PETES UEC eyeeeeus. ec elcaty pawerats wats eee eI A ya SLs Ue is Se eee SMO Rd
BUC AVET 2 oo Repeated ates tte aN Seal SOF ENE, Sry Aen le aa Ra Re AM US Ra MSIE Dy Us

IRFICES.OMGOEOOM LOH ae Rear ue re eee en he. CAR an hae Sean Meee
UNTO: Vir eee ete ee a a tae NEN or ER Or gene AC BEETS oes SL aks OL
Sipe eee ae tee een cee SLE a a Pigott
MENA E COE Sree eet ee pe Ee CaN op os BE RS te aS ae tae
MMIC A eee Seer ee nae Ce Lent SN ede ile pe ae Se
Primitive Frame for Weaving Narrow Fabrics, A, by Otis Tufton Mason -----

Proceedings

XOX UD LISLied( Mee ee eee ieee or ae ars oe = lo eek cea aera
XXII, list of papers published separately from -...........-:.---

ReRUpetiaed eis tk = oe ee ee. SSE Soe os besos eee thas
‘Prophet Elijah provided with food by ravens ..............----------------

Psilomelane

wee ee He
590 ; INDEX.

4 Page

Public benefits of the. Museum) 2-22). <2 222220 ee ee aaa ees tat!
Publications of the National Museum 2222 222 sem oe seen eae 14, 63
Pueblo heddle .......s2.. ..-<.2-ccicisices eis se eisai et 492
heddles of various sizes.i2 2 so. e6sacesee eee eee eee eee 508
region, heddle frames from thes-2:22-- 22.0 5es-.=21-t ese eee 504
Pamice.. = 2. 2.2.2.2 5s ce eee Ae Ce ee oe ee ee eee ee 470
analyses Of... -csicse.4 dooce nce eee eee oe ee eee ee 471
Pyrites .. 222: 2. le.steh bee esas = ee eee ee ae 190
bibliography of 2222). 2nS soe oe see Be ee 193
modé, of occurrenceioh tess s assem ee eee eee eee ee Wiles See 190
uses Of 22. soso eee on See eee Ss ape pee ee 191
Pyrolusite . 2.2 2.o2-52.piese choke Sede de. Soest eee oa cee ae 254
Pyrope s:< wo seco se ee ee em ee ae a eae 307
Pyrophyllites 22... 2 2ac 2b 228 Seewsce ee see We eee ee eee 322
analysesiof: 22-0 23-28-20 bee cen eb eeee eee P eee te eee 322
occlirrence of :4i.2.5.... 24.2.2 ie ee 323
uses Of 1-2 Socc2s8 ss o.oo 2a es ee Se a ee 323
Qiiarty sas Sos Ss eco Ok ee oie ee ee ee ee eee eee 215
mikey 5 2S eke oe tse ws A Es epee ie Sane eee eee 215
smoky 2. otk SEE hei ae loc Se en a 215
TOSC S28 oe Bal ae oo ce eee eres Eno ae ee ee eer 215
Ralph, William L., contribution of : .. 52... 2-222. 226 2-3 see eee eee 2
custodian, section of birds’ eggs: .. 525s. -2. 522 ose 28
Ram’s-horns(shofar) = 2.522 censk Vices sees ae oe ee eee 548
Randall, W., collecting outit furnished! to = 325.-<0s 2 -eene = ee ae ee 68
Rankin, W.M., title of paper ‘by =. =.<2.0.25-520 322 2 ee ee 143
Rathbun, Miss Mary J., collecting outfit furnished to.........---.----------- 68
collection, made by 2. 12. -k)-6.5- Sse eee 29
material collected by _.. .. 2... 5.52124--=-hasensee eee 66

prepared article on the Decapod Crustaceans of West
JARI Ga 2 352) tees oe eee aan a eee eo ser 33
reference to identification of crabs by.-------------- 31

reference to study of invertebrates at Grand Manan
FslandsNew Brunswick s.22 cesses -eeeeeee eee ee 32
titles of papers: by <..25./5s26¢. S23. eee 144
Rathbun, Richard, Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. --..--- ria!
Report of 3
Realgar .. 2 20lc2vk $s 53 5ee- 5h b Shee eee be nee tae eee 183
bibliography. of) 22 <2... }2. 2225222. 202 522 see ee 184
‘oceurrencés: of; <2. 35. Pek ia eee 183
vised Of. 2 Re ee se ete See eee 184
Red: Ware ese oni Boe ee SS ae ieee aoe ea 515
Refractory materials. ..22 23-225. 22s ss es aoe vee oe ee 345
Reinecke, O., collections of insects consulted by.....-..--------------+----- 58
Reinstallation of biological materials 22..22--5--s--2- + -s2se2> =e eee 9
geological materials... ..-225--0..- 225 6225532 e eee 10
Religions, division of, installation work in --......--.---------------------- 23
Remingtonite 203) sol be Go sce d coated es sees oe nee ee eee ees 187
Report (1896), list of papers published separately from......---------------- 151
of the Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution ...-..------- 3
on department of anthropology, by the head curator --...---.--------- 17
biology, by the head curator........--.---------+--- 25

geology, by the head curator.........-.----------- 37

INDEX. 591

Page.
[Bkan hi, pee eee eG mete nt tibe SE a aA Soe s Oro bee Bock Cy. SSO Caen. ern 455
bibliography of22:..-. 2. .2.--<225-)tess< +2 seems esc fe ---5-- 460
GHEmEWIKIG’ - <2 = c.- 22 he$4ee5e se escesceess nese meena ese asa se tana 3 456
Gunn eapals. (a2. -25 stake chess ssenss hese ~ case a sa soeeese enh + 457
NOON he ee eS Gu neo ccna OMe ter tebostericaro rae 456
PEP CINMHO AMIDE cae e A cock cities lt seine’ wena eae anes asia oe 455
jRe ira Ue ee ie ose ie he ee ee PP re err ee ero Sones 456
ere ERIFOSILESS == oes ue ak se kk SO Sees eek oe ence eee eens 280
Pal G Omit eee ate os hee ik cL eS Oe cals Sita mew eaeisietetaiat= 314
Richardson, Miss Harriet, Isopoda studied by---.---------- acs a Stel IRN af 34

prepared special report on isopods of the Pacific
coast of North America.-.-...---- Ds Go a ae ae apa 34
titlé:of paper by Wes oo eho 5 82 oe eee 144
Richmond, Charles W., engaged in preparation of card catalogue...-.--.----- 33
titles Of papere DY ss 22s oss- ae ts oa ae eae oe oe ene 144

Ridgway, Robert, continues work on manual of North and Middle American
ird set cceen st aconet esses Dees nae nes Marie Lats oe 33
joined the Harriman Alaska expedition...-...------------ 32
titles of papers bys oo... ss2e nase = eee eee ee ee 144
Riley, J. H., appointed aid in department of biology --.-------------------- 51
iRead-makine materials 22 os 224 oS sso eas see eas se eae eee 482
Robinson, B. L., specimens of plants sent to ....--------------------------- 61
eriseirplite=+-62 <2 2 22---- 2-8 sactt asec te see tsens tea hen se. -65.-=f0Opeue
Oripin) and occurrence Ol- 2... -2--5 42 2+55---2-<2---5- 3--<2- 308
20 Oe Se eS er ea ee 347
Menlediaihesookwot Dsthersseee sab te tetera eee Peek ek Ses bee oles 548
[Rania GONE 6 Soe Ue ociace 55 SOeO AO BEM OOS Se aes are ge ae ers eres 268
Rose, Joseph N., collecting outfit furnished to -....-..-.------------------- 68
continues monograph of the Agaves....---..-------------- oo
engaged in botanical work in Mexico .....---------------- 67
Expeditions tO. MEKICO 2.2. 62226-52352 .-56 5225 e e555 22m 10, 18
explorauonsan Mexieo Of .2:-.:.5 2.52.2 --2222-5-oeee eos 65
AERO FOUN PAVOM DY. 2. +o 22 A a n'sews Stee eee oe 132
[SRS 0 LL ee eee ee eee eer 215
rn oe ee ee ee eee nas Aco: os Sule clei sawn epee =e 187
Rnsendalescemenite “seg. o- = aan same See soe leis see es mae ecm ei atte 268
Rotch, A. Lawrence, Chinese kites examined by --------------------------- 58
Touts tons Bs Gee Soe Re es ae Bear ass ae Io ed eae peonoaeS Sa aroasse 473
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, England, specimens of plants sent to.-.-.----- 61
Russia, phosphates in ..-:-...--------------4\---------2-++---+-++----2+---- 373
TescEGHUNNSe og BSS SS ea eg eal Ta POR Ie Cnn mR ea iC Sa 245
SMMIPOSIC OEP Ohe fen ke Ge weet abet oe seen ian wml =a nena oman 245
[PS ES a SES ip ld, WE SM pd 4 ae eS bin Rete near gee te 2 a 246
TOME: OLOCCHTRCN CE ON Seem Se een ee a eo toe nies eae rete aire 246
[BISCOS EO a RS ay RU 9s SELES ed en 2S ate UR yee eis Aes eens ae 246
A ORILCOLO Te [SAO wee See arene tee ee eee Res oe Le oS Ss eee aoe a 'a's</etnen 560
Ce oe ee ee cet eee et meat Rie Bec ania ye ues A ace ee oe 186
Safford, James, title of joint paper by ..-....-..---------------------------- 145
Sh UVa WEI KET Sateen act Se Bea Gna pe BS See One ae eraeSeenes Sarasa 481
Sia ae. oS ss ER a Sea OS ee Sa Ss See Se ere et oe ac 354
BOMIMOSINIONAOL eer eka nee te S.J. awk na at ss encegs one tes 354
localities and mode of occurrence of.........------------------- 354

TEEGIOTT og es I ee 2 en mle mae ere se 355
592 INDEX.

Sanderson, E. Dwight, collections of insects consulted by...........-..-----
Sargent, C. S., specimens. of ‘plants sent 10.2. =. 2-5-5 2deseeee ee eee eee
Neheelite < 2.225.222. .e ole oe eel e Ceeeee
bibliography of .. . 2-2. -2225.)2 552 == see eae ne ae ee
USCS OF. - - 22 2 ob js Carsibie ape ene cae ee hee ee
Schoolcraft, Henry R., reference to Chippewa specimen of heddle frame
described iby: -22se= 2. see ce ch ekna wee <a eee. oe aad 2o ee aoe eee
Schuchert, Charles, continues work on fossil starfishes of America........--- .
engaged in rearranging the Lower Helderberg and
Oriskany collections 2. G25) andes8s. hee ae ee
reference to arrangement of specimens by .....----.----
reference to rocks ‘collected by uu 22.22- 5.225. see ee

titles‘of joimtipapers" bys. o se. Senco ee ee eee 145,148

Schwarz, Eugene A., placed in charge of collection of Coleoptera .......-.---

reference to gratuitous services of ...........-....------
title of, joint. paper by i2. 5.22 2e5- ea eee
titles of papers by ...< 22522 eee
Scientific staff cs. 228 cas See ee A ee es ee
Scotland; distributionof specimens in = -.2 -... 22. 8G ee ee
Scriptural mottocis- so2 Utes ee ee 2 Fe ee ee ee
Scudder, 8. H., specimen of Stenopelmatus fasciatus sent to .........-..--.---
Selys-Longchamps, Baron de, gift of mammals by.........-..---------------
Seplolite = Ss234 22556, Shin Se ene Be re ee ee en
analyses Ob 2i.0. = ..52. dn cian Jae Lee Soe re
USES Of Fo ASS 8 FO Se ee ee
Serviette \, sac sae soars eens pacity ye rg yr Re ee
Shaffer,O... att of fishes from: 252% 22.:.5o25 Lotees aos ee
Shale... .2:sene Meo? 42 5s eee es ee pele eh a
Shumucker, 8. C., collections of insects consulted by..-.-.:..2-2-2.---22-224-
“Siegenite 5 o.5 spelara Sale ina Sethe eecee cael Sela SSR et A aaa a a aay Oe at Rd we
Diltea ec vee Sse ahs 2 Ae es ee ee nr a a en
bubbrstone 255 222s 2 Cee me ee
diatomaceous: or infusorial earths 2" S$... 2055 soso eee ee
fimt's Soe 2 Shek ee ae OSs Ja ee
origin and occurrence of deposits of: ......2<25.-0-5-48e 22s eeeeeee
QUaTEZ 5 2 Seco See URES SS cc ee eis oe ie rat eee ee
tripoli. (2 orc 2 Soe i AL at SA a ee ae
wses Of. o2 3. Lewes ese Se ee Lee
Nilicates 2 2s le 2 eee cord Catan ese qo See eoee Sea eae ee
allanites 22 Jc 2s se Bare a see
asbestos. 2) soc se fas hia cere eee ey rere tee a
eerite.. 230 iso. Sa ee Oe
Clays, <2 cose Soap: a Sas As A oe Se ee Sc ee
feldspars ». 5220 siat on ee eh ae
gadolinite ia. . 22.22 VOU Ss oo oe ee
garnets tact. Sac eS obs Sas eee aie ee Se Re ea oe ea
lazurites G25.05. 620 eee Se ee
micas =. 2s 2. DEE SS ee a eee
pagodite. 22. an ses Se Se ee a
pétalite2.0 24" seu ae vena tie ac iale a aa hase ana ge a
pyrophyliite -..sc6.-oh le Sobek seamen Pee ieee ee
rhodonite ...: 5 2/2 Sone See ene ee ee a

Beplolite:. 5 2S ok. Se ae cae aaa aa

INDEX. 593

Page.

ERiit Gt POM ERIONPh Ree Sect oi etN Shu War aae ited s ck SOa eee bes 52 lose eee 315
SLES: pe oS a ee eins sp ppery SAPD a) toe? A ee 308

Se Ue ee eRe Sao ioe fot a RR ES,. <n SS a 315

TANT OV AG ce WEEE ee AO Ei Pa EB peice fa iy eb ma ety tn, Sn OF Scan 308
Bemcmapamitta Wo ee hacks oh ot) uals cats aemte dase ek bose Ontos ad Sam sce 546
Cantwlestick mised tor Eabdslah: 2 een o6 sous oa ok ae nes yee aes 553

COMMA esos coe iak aoa. wo ad ame erates sass SS ae as eee 560

TST Ee eC AC es ES SL oP ot a kes So Oe ee Ee meats 559
BPMs eee SS Jos 5g Secacals Dee eer ae re a care tse eee ea a 559
[HOUOVICTS AE Se Pee Se Pa ae ee SEG RES opp ys rg Te Pr reread Cie Ne ars 547

IES GCE Vteitlemets ese = ose oe RE ee Ee gad aS Or eee ee ene 547
Simpson, C. T., continues work on the Naiades.............-.-------------- iibtaes
PeRE ROU LD yoe = 5,0 Meas we S Dees ees Neeser ae eres. oes eis Seber 186
Oe LST LA SESS SS So ae ey i pt Ee a Rie tell ee ene oS me 334
DNA SES Ole ee ieee w Ae Bem en ten ene pre F ulhd  eee gui es -335
Peal. ie. SPeClNEnA OL plants seb tess soso ssc 2 5.22). le wn See 61
Repti Reese oa a bat = ect eee 9 oes ees cL oe 2 nae | ke bel ab NE 185
DPC MRT EN COR iia ser cn mts eee Sees Sate oa a Sawtelle Sees 186

Smillie, T. W., chairman U. 8. Civil Service Board on Photography. .--.-.----- 68
A Otoereap ewes hs meee ere tere eT eee ee ee Sree 68

Smith; Hugh M., collections of fishes used by -.---.....-....-.-.-..-.---.-- 59
prepared jointly, preliminary catalogue of fishes... -.---.---- 33

PMU LESSOR ERE DOT AD Vers Soc emte ate eee oe ee tee ta. ee 145

Smith, John B., collections of insects consulted by --.--.......------------- 58
ine Gee Clit PANEL OVine weet os a tek ace e eet cen 145

Smith, J. J., studied genus Lopthocarpus and its allies. ......-...-.---.----- 59
Eminem ames, aunervopical cabinet of 2. _..-...2..2..-.--52s+-2+--- eee 4
Smithsonian building, number of visitors during past year to.....----------- iL
ene, eee ry wenn eee en NE lo eo ce ee See ee ee 215
Snyder oA. J, consulted collections of insects. ......-2-.--.s.--.--eeecensee 58
specimens of genus Argynnis sent to............------------- 61

SEU STO. 5 6 SS EEN I a aa rays 2 St 315
SSCS Ea eee ee i eee ke Lows haotee be dap see Mane 316

aan dP ee ei aie bovine Heke SP eRe ae Gees See 392
EMI OEIOG {= 20282 os ee sue eens oa,s oben ooo aclee sone eee ieg- koe 195
rete OTA WalOre-n? Seer an aot st oe et cla Sedona Soabieame cee 478
tee aRPMAULUCe 22 ee eerie s ae ee isd un eee Saco ete se abaceeeenesls 406
ied DEM ee bed ne Coes ee meet kPa SOR oe Sale eee, $09 Ves 171
CEN CUS TSUPC VY «Gs Sai OM 2 od IN genet eee Ce er ne PBC 465

South America, distribution of specimens in.....-...-.......-.-.-.--------- 123
Dap URPERTAMT ISN ALER AM ea cee he oo een ee erate IR Be a eo eS 371
Specimens of early stoneware in National Museum..-.-..................----- 516
SHOES ESN OS OER See ese Reet art ep ee ec sear a gee ee 307
pares OCA ELEGY SS eee ee re eee arn CeBIT ot a deena Se Seka we 187
Seiad RISC tOl CIAO Re Geto sense Sete SO os sk eases oa nS 553
=] DOs HU CU NEY VES See ees aha se pel Be ie nee te mG nd ae yn ey a A 308
SRATOUS Gres pate tae Ney ck ea ge ee a a ape 308

LOCHIIINCSO Ie teeta eerste mena ie Saiyan SS SoS ot Soe EE 309

acme Ob OCCULTORER Olen eee. 2 oon oes ee vs blond oe es Sete 308

LIE LCL ieee sti oe gk a a ae 309

UAT OG COD ALLONADY (= sateen e ist ee sis San cS aoe Sale Se cce wee 29
pitas, Own, G, ines CXAMINed DY. 2 Jeec 2 c52 a5 scc0scceee-sssceeees es 59

Specimens. Of Hshessent tO. . 5-2... ceceslecsca- 2 aoatne aa 60
594 INDEX.

Page

Starks, Edwin C., specimens sent for dissection to ............-.------------ 35

title of paper. by. «<~2-2scsscesceenee ses Sees eee eee 145

Stassfurtite ...........--<--Goa-sacns utes se eleiaiele ata le oe _ 397

Statement of distribution of specimens during year ending June 30, 1899... ge aly

Stearns, R. E. C., titles of papers by--..2-22-224---ssss-2 sce see eae eee 146

Steatite =. . 2.2. 5-2 -- Seo Sta ee wis sisi cele See ole cia Sn 8 le 315

Stein, Robert, collecting outfit furmished to: 22. 2542-+2.-4 4 42-eeseee see 68

Steiner collection, accession in.anthropology ~ 22. Y222>.-sasoses2 ae eee eee 8

Steiner, Roland, material acquired from explorations of -...........--------- 66

Stejneger, Leonhard, specimens of toad described by .-.-....-.--------------- 28

titles/of papers. by... .22 2. 2222-02 o S222 eee 146

Sterki, V., number-of specimens'sent to ~.- 42-5 -2eae- o-S donee ee 61

Stevenson, Mrs. M. C., assisted in installation work .......-....------------ 19

Stockman, W. B., collecting outfit furnished to.-< =. 22-22 3.22 --254e5= sone 68

Stone, Arthur, reference to use of Colombian birds -.....-....-..----------- 35

Stone, Witmer, specimens of wrenssent to. .--.- .2-2---2-s2e-2-seeeeneeccsae 61

Story of David and Bathsheba=. +... <2: 5. =. sesbesets as sas ones eee 560

the golden’ ¢alfi>-uusc.2. sec. o5-- bse eens aes eae ee 560

Strecker, Herman, collections of insects consulted by ....-..---------------- 58

Strong, Mrs. Louise G., models of handlooms sent to Museum by -...-------- 501

Strong, R. M., series of small shrikes'sent to ..-2o21 232. osoeesdec see eee 35, 60

Strontianite <2: 2.20222. os ch acta code eeek i aeaL as eee an ee eee ee 279

composition of. io. si2.c65-2 502d. one ee eee 279

occurrence:of. : . -25.25.cse be Jae! Se ee ee 280

WIGS Ol, 5225 Pee 42a5ce 225i eee ee eee eee 280

Students accorded access to collections in the National Museum. -------.----- 58

Study of the Collections in the Section of Applied Geology, Guide to the, by

George’: Merrily. oo. e520 0 Soe Se cee oe ie sot ee 155

Succiniteamberisso 3262 2b eS es A ee 455
Sulphiates + 245 co. ss bese ey Sens eS a eee 405 —

PUIG: oS ale oe i ee A NS Star rR aa 416

barite 22 .i2. J jobbet co ce eee Se 405

celestité.2 ..2 3.23 0een ei Soe eae oS ee eee 411

epsomite: 2 sao okei hoses sees Joel ok.. soos tee eee ee 415

plauberitie 2.622 ssh is esac sock ess Ue eee ee ee 416

GYPSUM 2 see ee 2 oes Sin clos Sed cena tae ona See Coe eee eee eee 406

kainitt: 32 25S. Sone a. 5S Se ae eee ke ee eee 416

kieserites ofc.) 4c. 52 ois Jee ee sade eee 416

mirabilite. 220 $425.5 sas eset ace os de eee eee 412

polyhalite .2.s2ssss.2 202: seeks ag oe > 416

thenardite :. 222s) Prades ee see sees en Se eee 415

Sulphides 22: 322 2022.86.25 Sea betes eset ee ata eS eee 183

and arsenides:. .. Sac. 8. 469i deel. ieee ek eee ee 183

arsenopyrite) .<.s2-2ls2.5-642.050e02es-— eee 189

cobalt minerals: = 2.2320 2+ -tiSete bs See ae ee 184

lollingite. <2 yvs.p<eice dese en totes eee eee 189

molybdenite =. 2i2c2ec20cs622 22 < Soe ree 193

orpiment <2. 2222. 526242 becee pee er 183

PYTItes. ..2 ins 552 De see bee eee eae eee 190

réal@ar, 2.40 i.2<.se. teh cote eee oe oh eee 183

Sulphur -:/.....6 /leedosek eu ee i Seed ee ae ee oe eee seen ae 174

bibliography Of \s <0... Sderot ete kas acl 181

deposits: . 2232 vies diese eetonnee gees =. MSR ESOS Laos oe eee 177

¥

INDEX. 595

Page
Bulpuur, exiraction. and Preparation OL. 2. 2<.2.-4-0s55cea emacs ldlaaeee ees 181
oP LENT So) ile Ot Mea Rea eae rer oc SY ES be 175
CEGUTLOUCE OL does ole eel oe tae Meek Cos 6 oe ee eee inc, ce NET
SMP iey BIO, MOA OL OCHNITENCE Of 2. rac aceeen Seon atyes Sociens we oss 174
(HSS 01 Ae ey ae eae Se a eta 9 Set ye are ean. SARA chat! 181
Bratiiiany OF Operations Of The Year...) Sonscwee snede Ss a2 --% po eoe eee 51
Sree CNG LOOPS scot At sc. osc Gee nea Soc pie Seat ina eee 561
Sweeny, T. W., preparator division of ethnology............----.------+.---- 19
Seen. ishreOuion of specimens in =o Spl sas... oe Skee beeen anes 124
Swingle, W. T., botanical collections made in Europe by -.-...-.------------- 67
Baruzenand, distribution of specimens in. .....2-2-..sss..0--8---5057--5e5e8 124
RUMIP NITRITE. Seren et aap hs Stk i cae SO A me acd oe Te Sigel 7k CN 187
Systematic geology, section of, accessions to...........-..---.-------------- 37
(| USL Ey (i 27 8.0 a Se RR SE RR RAS nea (28 na ae CEN Sere dine ane at a 22 596
of occurrence of important natural bitumen ......-..-.--------------- 430
Tabular classification of bituminous compounds .........-...--------------- 429
nivdlitgeart DOus eth aoc cee cae ete site aaa ee 429
DEAN ole Oe 2 tS IS RUA gle Ete 0 a ey eee Si SLE Amey CN De RR Wan ean ea FUR Yes CL 315
CERES MTS ASTS'S) COW esp tee = a ie sates fot ee A Pn PUN yo Reet 316
ULI MCC SE poets en anne es is eae co Ci Le eens 316
OCEUETENCE aN Ce OTIS Lester semen Se ee eno ae ener tas ers, eet eeg eee eee 316
SEE CU 2 2s Ha RR EP Aa IS AS eae a ret cree eee 320
OPTRIELCHTES! —_- yg SEAL eet SCS ge Ape Eee eee ieee oe en SCE, 303
Tassin, Wirt, reference to papers in course of publication, by -.-....----.---- 46
report on collections in division of mineralogy ------- pal Aa Ea 40
EROS ii gee nee late St se cis os Sh ee So's hed owe 'eains 68
Test, Frederick Cleveland, title AUS ORT egal 0) 7 ee aye eee eS 147
EEE Da Sage 2 ee ee 348
TPN, LOCUS SU, es ca Se Im an a Ey 200
iio omeeiien Nova scobla, eTrindstones. ..---~.2..--.2=--+---+--2-2-eeeeee 465
oe kate nt ile a cpets S S see a es eg Nee Soe ts 51
The Old and New Testaments in the original languages. ....-.-.---.--------- 590
“EEE as. aged RIE ee ae a ee ees Pe NETS 415
CCUM TOO SLT OME O Leper centaur sehen ut A Sod at a pay Se 415
Oe IGT OS OTe ato eee Pe eerie re en eave SS Sey aa ree eee ee 415
eee yee 8 oo oo ae eR eo eS BLS SUE (eV SERRE EC FEET ented ee 396
Sipley, §. J.; collecting outit furnished to. -...- 22: 2.2j.-42--.4-5s2ensoan = 68
SIPRET RGIS EA Sater Sct ens en eres Nateaa nic, am sparc sys ae me Se RS 245
LL A Ein EL gaa 2 SSOP eS i Se ee a I Be ed em LE SS es ek 545
Trans-Mississippi and International Exposition.....................--.----- 68

departments of Museum rep-

TERENLEM Ate os sae eee 13
Trelease, William, specimens of plants supplied to................-.---.----- 61
Pigmermnne Lhe fomicd Cane 2.) oes cca eee ecn sae oS os Slee AS 533
COE CLL REARS A NE Sia mn etl, - age ae Oe a ET ee AE 391
TGR id anveye] cil sie hmedt,& pie st Dee Sve aE ye. SOs Arsen mR ee aah a ae a are 391
CUR POS OM MPR aaa eet hoe eee = Sie UB oo ta No Seale ea 391
OCCU ECO Oliver eater te eee rare ars te Ce eS | CN an 391
OEDEMA gE OR 217
RP PE eS 1 Nee ye ne hele 2 diets Os! awe au tinelnesouegaeets 281
Troost collection of crinoidea, return to Smithsonian Institution of. ...-.----- 39

True, Frederick W., appointed representative to Pan-American Exposition... 13,51
collecting Gublit cuiMished tO... ... 2... 2 eeseecaelelsenans 68
596 INDEX.

Trae; Frederick. W., executive, curator - 2222222) (bP ee
head curator of department of biology..........---.----
report on department of biology by -.........-..-------
titles of papers: by 7558 See sas ae

Techermigite. ...- 22202252222 ssgsees soos te eens ae eee ee

Tungus paddle -. 22. 5.5222 2.225 sosse2 asks se eee ee ee ee eee

Tunis, phosphates in

Twelve wineglasses

Two. silver rings . 2. 2054 sns8 Fee caae = Se eee etn a

Types of American water craft, by areas and families ................._..---

Uintaite . 25... cen bes Sa sees see a ce eae dae et ee tes eee

Ulexite

composition of
Ultramarine, uses of]. 22222225, 2.setecns ce tens ob) oe eee
Underwood,-L. M., examined fern groups 22 22S eee
specimens of planisisent tos. 522222 Ji see

United States, distribution of specimens in . 22.3222. 25 2oeeeeeae eee
Upham, E. P., assistant division of prehistoric archeology .........-.-------
title of joint paper ‘by =~: iso. . oscaie dee

Uranates

analyses-Of.... - = 52223 digesesc2 oct Sea se eee eee
composition of v2 .28222< 2258s Se
localities'and mode‘ofioccurrence Ola 222 eee eee
OSCR IOL S22 ooo et a ee erst ok

U. 8. Geological Survey, acquisition of Marsh collection through .......-----
Uses of albertite 22.02 0224: oki 22s See ee ee
allanite. 2.22225 280325. a2 2 eee ed eee ee ee
amber. ace. 225 cick eee. ee ee ee eck ne eer ee
amblygonite - 2 =.= 24 $i 5 Ue Ra ee eee
APSENIC 2 22 a6 1S Shree ates coe ake e see oe eee ee oe
arsenopyrite 2.2222 Z2o00 2c be. se se sd. 5ctt eee see ee eee
asbest0s .-.ti5..f22ch eet et Lee cee ek oe ee ee ee
asphaltum, 2-22. 2822.52... chee. See eee ee ee
barite 2.0 Seec2 be 226 bt oe Loe e ee ae oe Se

boracite’<. 2.22.5. Se aeio eee ee Se ee ee
carponites =e essen nao dae bee OSU eh ir ss OIE he ee
Gelestitie’s.. 00 22a RS eS ee
cerite é. 2s. 22ers a a ee ee ee eee
chalk: 2: esti eo ee a ee

clays: So.2 sc s.cees cee eee eee eee wakeanet tex Coste e eee ees

eryolite.. 3.02 22e. Se cb ile beeen eee shee eae ae eae ee
descloizite : 22222. ie Shee ee ee eee ee ees
diamond. 23.7. S ee Se ee eee ee),
diaspore .2 22S. Gohe Ske ee See a reg a

INDEX. 597

Page.
Meme reloMmito es Eta. oe DA til Soldat c hi Sidekep eee ae esac) 275
CIOnY eta at coe nce oe ce es ast Soe ead . veer ceb ean ec sens 227
FSAI 2 ta aa ee hose each caas do cn pee eRe e dae oe 283
UOTILCS sae ee ee es ee Sak Se a coca med eae wee 214
MIDs ote te Seen ee oa eae eet eto s shag se oes was 314
PURO Cbs = Ae cee ne etc Saas eas Sa oieeecicmais cee sleds BClsto meee eens 307
ID DSS pa eee eee Sts NS Oe edt k a: 23 oe eee eee 239
PRreten sere ee AGe des Soest Ueseaeces ses sume oS 6p a RL es eee 451
CTA bE ater ee ates Tees eae s oc SaGe ais See ce eee oe 172
(PAT) OFS TUE Ree Se Oo iM ge OR ran FA ERP SD IO pe ee RO ey 410
EDLs =e eee Bae ee E a eae ET tiv oY eee eee 211
iene ee ee ee mee he Lk Shh ha Bie eee ee 245
RRERNOT LE CONG Ieee one em eee OS SIs neil Boe 2 2 ae eee 220
IZ UILO Se sera eeretee acta acme woes Stee be be eee a dll
MES HON CHC pees Nae etenn te mete o oie canister ans aS Me a 265
PMO S Ga ena ee ae SO et seas co wake eos oo oles tees enh
OVETUSMTEE (MCG 10 U2 opel ene Pa ata PL Oa ea ee Ug pe on a ee Pd 256
ICT LAG SR nA ee ee aa ns He a Kote eg oF ab am aS i WAR A elena 446
EM ERR SE eet ee epee ti ees AR i, Sa sae Se ee 294.
TEST SRA CST gS Se NINE eS hc i eS ee Se Pele Pee ES) 480
PEP POMLCTILGG tte a Le hee Ss 2 ate Reena eek clone bs See N ed 194
RRC ZA LE ete ae aie egy eo me Semrey Seed) eee A pected ee 387
DENSE, Ses Gee See SUBSE sietci ce Sa aes ean a area ea 244
SCT TLLTS Se SR ee A = LS Sa epee ee A 183

OZ LLC ER ee eee eee heater et ee ere Gee c Se stows cea seuluuee 454 |
(egy) GILL Le Scene Cee Se a eee en 435
Coes) P28) 2S cl Sek io aie le See eee af 380
eRe ee eee at ee eee eo ligte de doe we ated sce ee On
APTN TUDS LUD) Bic 2 ga a ee pe a PZ) 323
ae een ie mein ee ret, ood Ac SeiNe beso POL et fees 184
RCM a SIE ale ge Se ery |. ae ise PS NER STC Sel gee e Oe 246
SU UREM NS el Le ese ee ate ee en ee ee eet Ste LL Oe ke) we oh Se ee ae 395
SLL Se Ie See Sa" ae ee ee eS DO Deo 356
Eee Ae noe eee ene ee nee Joe! of A, CN ee eee 324
BUH. We Rk eee Se Rae ats Sees ie 5 Se ie a ae eet ee 216
BER MS HUONG perros Cetera ay sre Res Mic eee eS Sie las nae ak ae 309
LE UT RE oa a a aoe 2 ee edness” a Oe eens Peer nsec eye et 280
Se SING Pseiee eee eee eer ae aes Ae Re MeL ie ot Ge ean ke ee 181
UCPC agape ges ares yale ia mr RE che a nas © sole Nien ee ian See ee SER AS 320
BRNO ees ce toon Geet Re Us hits Ne dee ao Ee ee 311
MCR MUCL TPE eee ee sc a eS le he ea iy hee oe Ta 404
SISA TEL BEES eee ye = 9 rene ced cinerea. eRe R Pal SAN at Le eae 388
ESE NESE Le Messen fark eras eh Ma en sen Soe a td Mela Seo Lis Diy ae A es 279
mnie ae aie ee ee Cm Se RS tasted eee 307
Matiennne, (. i.,-series oF rocks collected. by’ .=5--.22502 02s. 2 22 ols te cll 38
SU RIRIRTIN NS oe eee aan eae cosine Sc OS aout BU Se Atads segane secs 387
localities and mode of occurrence of ....-.~-.:--:-----------2.4- 387
The TRO) Le SO Ss sha apr Se 7 ar RS MR OE ates Se ea ae Ba 388
(SOE I ee Aig is Si eg 8 9 eee nO ee 389
Vance, Alex., establishment at Greensboro, Pa., of pottery factory of .......-- 514
o SAEEES SSUES S01 15) ge ee re 514

‘Various articles of tableware made at Morgantown......-..-..-..----------- 515
598 INDEX.

Page.
Vaughan, T. Wayland, reference to investigation of the West Indian corals... - 34
study of collection of West Indian corals begun by--- - 58

title.of joint paper by 2c... 22 2s Ssecees ses eee 137
Veil of the Holy Ark -.2. 26222 Seas ac sone eee en sea ene beeen 547
(Parocheth) 2vie: <2. So.0 oe co peeves ae ‘Gecnaens 546
Vertebrate fossils, section'of accessions tore. seek sees ane 22 ee ere 38
Wad or bog manganese’. /-.t252s2pe02 i. 522.5 Se eee 255
Walcott, Charles D., honorary curator, division of stratigraphic paleontology - - 3
retirement from Acting Assistant Secretaryship --.....-- 3
series of specimens determined by-.----.....-.-----.---- 39
titles ‘of papers ‘by. ./:. 22222 oe be 2 ace bee eee 147
Wanner, Atreus, use of Triassic materials by. 2.222 ces. 50. eee eee ae eee 48, 59
Ward, Henry B., collection of gephyreans sent to...............------------ 35, 61
Ward, Lester. F.; title.of paper by . <<< -22 22 ce eee ee 147
Watkins, J. E., curator, division of mechanical technology .-......----------- 22
Watson, Thomas L.:; title of paper by. 22222222. eee eee eee 147
Waugh, F. W., specimens of plants supplied to ..............------:----.--- 61
Weeks, Miss Ella, consulted collections of insects ...........--....-...--.-.- 58
Wenzel, W. H.,. collection of msects.consulted by .-: 22-3." 2.2222. sees 58
West India. Islands, phosphates in. 2.2. ¢t 2222 sek eee ee 376
Indies, distribution: of specimens:in).-.---. ce oo ele se eee ee ee 123
Virginia Pottery, An Early, by Walter Hough ........./.-....-.-....- 511.
Westcott, O.8., collections of insects consulted by .-=2:---2.---2--2-e--sccae 58
Wetherill, H. E:, ‘collecting outfit furnished to_.: 2202. -.2i_i22ece ee ssn2seuee 67
Whetstonés 222. pate. botee eo Pel one cee eee eee oe eee eee 463
White, David, series of Carboniferous plants from Indian Territory described by - 39
title:of jomt paper by: 22223. <2. 02s cece 148
Whiteaves, J..F. title of paper. by: ..< 320224. ee ee 148
Wickersly’ (England) grindstones:. .. 2.2 oo: 2) soba. soe ek eee ae eee ea 466
Wilder, George D., ornithological collections made by ...-.---..------------ 66
Wilkes, Lieutenant Charles, expedition. under .<.--. 2.0. le. ccicebs once lueee 5
Wilkins, Miss Lewanna, engaged in determining set of California plants. ----- 59
Williard, T. E., assisted in arrangement of specimens.--------...... ...----- 45
Willige, J. L. facting chief clerk 22°5. 252 222k el ce ec eee ce ee eee 51
Wilson, Thomas, in charge of division of prehistoric archeology ..........-- 23
reference to researches conducted by ....-.--:.------------ 14
title of joint paper by .202 22 :--.. 2222. ie eeeee ae eee 148
titles of papers by 2222222221 v- 20 hee Le se cae 148
Wiitherite. 2.22: Sate. ck ee ee Oe Se eee ee 279
localities. and mode'of occurrence Of... 2-2-6) 225-2 See eee 279
WBCS GE 2.22 ce eee ce cak a coun eee eeete kote 279
W olframite oo. ecco eet eee eens oe eee 355
and. hibneritie!. .2o¢- se see. choc ee ee eceos oo 355
composition Of: 2s 62.22<02 5. -2eae Sen beck noe oh eee 355
OCCUITENCE Of S/o 28 She Sobers ae ete oe eee 355
Wrapper. for carrying child to synagogue. 2-2 2io.22- cae so ee ee ee 558
the Torah: seroll. ..o2c. 2 2ses etka eee 546
Wright, B. H., donations 6f river mussels from: 2050. <5 cane eee ee ees 28
Wurtzillitew sco. cnt Sa Seta cea owe ct ee 446
Yakut paddle - 2.2. Volto. - fabs ee Gee oe ee 536
polited canoe. =<. 25. 2 Pee eee REhoe cesneosed see Se! See 537
Yttrotantalite 2 ool 2 SL 22 SSS ee mtr See ato 354
ZATCOD «3. 8a Ses eee eee 2c See tetepne tate km akon ee ee 308

a

aly » i]
ne hea Be MOL uc teas ‘
ot pa f “aes © : he .
¥ Ss i , f eae
= wp Loar? ees ey
. ‘ ne ia) =
d 4 thea
P ‘
=
.
.
%

’ . a4 ‘4 7, "
; \ 7 il oe “| uy ests)
< v Lo 4 7
Ms bartix yt cw “4 7 Me
‘ , ‘ oy, a,
Ay 7
eu
. A
¢
‘
“
6
m ¢
4
,
a
‘
bd ~
°
.
-

2 can ae OR ete
A energy, —
GS — eee get cha no re ee

te tl

nuetiimereie an

MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRA

000

ee

ee am
4 hadi
fee
oat
'
»
8,

