es ay, tee ihe ,
we we le ho ae ae
O, & Pan hd e “i ew » :

a

£

APe 3
are oh

‘

tS ;

an a
le ia ie aN je fi
aa tee 7; * i s : ee ¢
3 om ie th “te, os ie. te Ye
ec a: a ee PY Wy aye
; rm ee sc We

a ining w Th ie oe Be ie

a3 ae i hg Yee is
ree % Pes, rn 1g Me a * _, die IY i le
ea es
J i aa a
hl fhe BA Yas et

A. Whee me j
Pe ep

ot ”
La oe
. roe ‘a vp : cis ; ., Be:

: 2e is Jom Pi CoP. nt 3
ae (tr a Wes - ote poe

a) a a RE A Pha |

he ‘ie iy in im BY. “4 7 4 - i: mi : x A Bh ; ae . ia

ti 4’ te Wy Hie Aye tae el, ee Ts
fe if By aS We 45. a te - RK "ag % rte | ye Le fi ; :

ay 4 a omy ay - sf . e Hi nT ve A i “i J v a ie Yh ik
cs a) a ‘fe La ae ea ij . : a “es sty f : Ras, , 18 p ieee {ea : ri
. a! ae Ye S% ‘i - s ~ ‘a an ee a 7 cc fe i i ? Be
ay Ae as, a ge Adin fi i. i 7 x fey Me Vy

Pil Qe ;

ei a ;
Le / 7 4 Dae Dy
4a f cee ~. ‘ i" }
ef j ' AR A
Pte . ie »
yy o i
‘ A As
if i J a” is q \ :
7 ,
v y ij . Yi
' 7 ’
fine ’
Dy ‘ ' , * EY
t 7 : " J i " ,) “
5 ; q ‘ 4 i ¥ - ¥
‘ Hh 4, , Hy , ' J ;
® 1 , ‘ ' , a
j
Ms ie Aon
7
P ae
7 i
i
'
atl
] q
*
7 h
hi v
ay 7 -
J
+ .
t a@
ue }
. ie
i = a eee
: ea e {
fF
= » : My
j é ie i aoe | te ie ¥ at
te wale t ry

7 7
Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4314

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the

Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1957

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1958
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 31, 1957.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1957. Ihave the honor to be,

Respectfully,
Lronarp CarMicHarL, Secretary.

II

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office
Washington 25, D. O. - Price $4.50
CONTENTS

Page
BRIDE RCIA Se oe ae eee eee ang yk wee 2s i hy 3 v
Glaneral statement: - 5. = Ss pret e gee ee eee ee ee ot oes 1
PLE) HOSED ay HSV Swot ae a I ELE ge ls A 4
PTE SBOSTOOhe Ree CMUs sss oe ae eee ee ee oe ao ee 4
EVSUE GT CPE SS fe RIES SE Sa AE I) ap ed aren AN ee ER 5
RISTO ee tee ees ek es ee tee Snot Yb hurt 6
1g ESET ERE Og SRLS RI le PO A re RR 6
Bio-pciences Information Exchange... ---~-22--L--.---b 84a 7
Summary of the year’s activities of the Institution__.__________________ if
Reports of branches of the Institution:
United States National Museum____---__--- Font’ Jycee doe h gods i & 11
Bureau of American Ethnology. ....-- >... feb s2b55)3 ees9_e 40
AstrophysicalaObservatOryeo.. se oe ee ee eee ae 68
National Collection of Fine Arts... 2h2). Sahel + linha tee e) ede 82
reer: Gallery, OfcAT bo sos 2 ae he es fe pada PT esas peel. 98
National Air Museum. 205.000 28 AT Be Dh ree 111
Nations! Zoological Park... SF patel s(teiel A eloweterl 5 125
Canal Zone. Biological Area. 222") bo ee eM Ph tees ot 155
International Exchange Service________-. .. 222250--seedselseecee 163
National Gallery of/Art2 =. 2.22.2 ce th ee SEP hn LAS eos 172
Reporu On whe WoOnaAT ys ese eee ee ko Re ae OE Ot nae git) hang ot 185
Report on publicationss22 52222. on50 22 Sek Bea R chee inate BoP Je te 189
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents___.___-__-_-- 196
GENERAL APPENDIX
Science, technology, and society, by L. R. Hafstad___.....__.----------- 207
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1807-1957, by Elliott B.
{Ry 5 Gist AT Cee es not ea A 1 ale NR ce A alee TACT 7 np a ee 221
Cosmic rays trom the'sun, by Chomas Goldi2 9) 25222253050 book 233
Meteors, Dye ETeG bs WiMDpIGs o.oo as oo8 aoe ee aoe meee meena ee 239
The development of the planetarium in the United States, by Joseph Miles
(CLE | OF STE ET ra epee tet ett th NR ne OR RS AP ese cE ONS UAC cy GO ea 261
The development of radio astronomy, by Gerald S. Hawkins____-------- 279
SUES UNC SUIAIS en E yk tas Dice eee eee aera fae nee eS Rr Pe! 293
Pollen and spores and their use in geology, by Estella B. Leopold and
c BS PEUGTG ida tapaS (OVO HT sa ces hy Del ed Ale dah pl hey ne 303
The influence of man on soil fertility, by G. V. Jacks___-__-._-_--------- 325
The land and people of the Guajira Peninsula, by Raymond E. Crist__--- 339
The nature of viruses, cancer, genes, and life, by Wendell M. Stanley__-._ 357
Mystery of the red tide, by F. G. Walton Smith___._._____._---------- 371
The return of the vanishing musk oxen, by Hartley H. T. Jackson___---- 381
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Page
Bamboo in the economy of Oriental peoples, by F. A. McClure______-__-- 391
Mechanizing the cotton harvest, by James H. Street___________-_-____- 413
Aniline dyes—their impact on biology and medicine, by Morris C. Leikind-- 429
Causes and consequences of salt consumption, by Hans Kaunitz_________ 445

Roman garland sarcophagi from the quarries of Proconnesus (Marmara), by
5 Rd 5 POG 5 C0 fo Bl Se) 1 0 am ne eS a eg SO 455
Stone age skull surgery, by T. D: Stewarte... 2225-0522) ee eek ee 469

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report:

Pea tess el 52k Nig a a i ee oe ne 54
Plates.3,. 42. 2. sb ee Ch Sci as E: SECT OOS. ease 102
Plates: 5;..6 7c. 2 58 cnclsie eO EE RE a AUG SU LL 150
Plates 8; 9.222225 2222 S52 2s Se SE ey, SS Quy ROLLER AN. 243 AS 182
United States Coast and Geodetic Survey (Roberts): Plates 1-5_______-- 230
Cosmic-rays: (Gold): Plates. 21.13 54:..502 Fark uini a. aemeins. te aire 238
Meteors (Whipple): Plates 1-6... ...- 25552422 See et Jase ose 246
Planetarium (Chamberlain): Plates 1-6________________________..__-- 278
Radio-astronomy (Hawkins): Plates 1.2.5. (20522 229520 in es ees 286
Jetstream (lee) si Blatesls sso. 252 Sees ee eT le Rete 294
Guajira. Peninsula (Crist) >: Plates 1-10}. 24. 4. 2982 Pee ols Jee 342
Red tide (Smith):. Plates 1-4... feces 52 ee CRO ach: OTTO Care 374
Musk oxen. Gackson):2Plates) 15.24 22502 as 2 ae Sarees Jeera 390
Bamboo. (McClure): Plates 1-10... uo SSR 2 aes SSS Se 406
Cotton harvest.(Street):. Plates 1, 2a ee ee ee Sees) Ae res 422
Sarcophagi. (Ward Perkins), Plates d-@-0 22.5545. =- Spe ania eee 8 462

Skull surgery. (Stewart)::Plates I=102_862 20 sei paaee Cees OSES 486
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1957

Presiding Officer ex officio—Dwiaut D. E1seNHOwER, President of the United
States.
Chancellor.— EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
DwicuT D. E1seNHOWER, President of the United States.
RicHarpD M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States.
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
JouHn Foster DULLES, Secretary of State.
GrorcE M. HUMPHREY, Secretary of the Treasury.
CHARLES E. WILSON, Secretary of Defense.
HERBERT BROWNELL, JR., Attorney General.
ARTHUR E. SUMMERFIELD, Postmaster General.
Frep A. Seaton, Secretary of the Interior.
BHzra Tart Benson, Secretary of Agriculture.
SincLarz WEEKS, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES P. MITCHELL, Secretary of Labor.
Marion B. Foutsom, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
Hart WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
RicHarp M. Nrxon, Vice President of the United States.
CLinton P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
H. ALEXANDER SMITH, Member of the Senate.
OvreRTON Brooks, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
JouHN NiIcHOLAS Brown, citizen of Rhode Island.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
RosBert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D. C.
CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Delaware.
CaryL P. HASKINS, citizen of Washington, D. C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Ezvecutive Oommittee.—ROBERT V. FLEMING, chairman, CLARENCE CANNON, CARYL
P. HASKINS.
Secretary. LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries.—J. BH. Grar, J. L. Keppy.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mnrs. Lou1srE M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—T. F. CLARK.
Chief, editorial and publications division—PavuL H. OEHSER.
Librarian.—Mkrs., LEILA FF. CLARK.
Superintendent of buildings and grounds.—L. L. OLIVER.
Chief, personnel division—J. B. NEWMAN.
Chief, supply division—A. W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic laboratory.—¥. B. KESTNER.
vI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.

Assistant Director.—F. A. TAYLOR.

Planning Officer.—J. C. EwERs.

Administrative assistant.—W. E. BOYLE.

Chief exhibits specialist —J. E. ANGLIM.

Chief zoological exhibits specialist—W. L. Brown.
Registrar—HELENA M. WEISS.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: F. M. Setzler, head curator.

Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., as-
sociate curator.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; S. H. Riesenberg, C. M.
Watkins, associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., G. C. Lindsay, Rodris C.
Roth, assistant curators.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ZooLoey : W. L. Schmitt, head curator.

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator ; H. W. Setzer, C. O. Handley,
Jr., associate curators.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator.

Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator.

Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor,
associate curators.

Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. Cra-
bill, W. D. Field, Grace EB. Glance, associate curators; Sophy Parfin,
junior entomologist.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; F. M. Bayer,
T. EH. Bowman, C. E. Cutress, Jr., associate curators.

Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, associate
curator.

DEPARTMENT OF BoTaNy (NATIONAL HERBARIUM): J. R. Swallen, head curator.

Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. 8. Cowan, E. C. Leonard,
Velva E. Rudd, E. H. Walker, associate curators.

Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.

Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, curator.

Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator; P. 8S. Conger, M. E.
Hale, Jr., associate curators.

DEPARTMENT or GroLocy: G. A. Cooper, head curator; J. H. Benn, museum
geologist.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, acting curator; E. P.
Henderson, associate curator.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: G. A. Cooper,
curator ; P. M. Kier, David Nicol, associate curators.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
associate curator.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES: R. P. Multhauf, head curator.

Division of Engineering: R. 8. Woodbury, curator.

Section of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: R. S. Woodbury, in
charge.

Section of Tools: R. 8S. Woodbury, in charge.

Section of Light Machinery: A. E. Battison, associate curator.
SECRETARY'S REPORT VII

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES—Continued
Division of Engineering—Continued
Section of Marine Transportation: K. M. Perry, associate curator.
Section of Electricity: W. J. King, associate curator.
Section of Land Transportation: R. S. Woodbury, in charge.
Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: R. P. Multhauf, in
charge.
Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator.
Section of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, associate curator.
Section of Wood Technology: W. N. Watkins, in charge.
Section of Agricultural Industries: E. C. Kendall, associate curator.
Division of Industrial Cooperation: P. W. Bishop, curator.
Division of Medicine and Public Health: G. B. Griffenhagen, curator.
Division of Graphic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator.
Section of Photography: A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator.
DEPARTMENT OF History: M. L. Peterson, acting head curator.
Division of Military History: E. M. Howell, acting curator; Craddock R.
Goins, J. R. Sirlouis, assistant curators.
Division of Naval History: M. L. Peterson, curator.
Division of Civil History: Mrs. Margaret W. Brown Klapthor, associate
curator; C. G. Dorman, Mrs. Anne W. Murray, assistant curators.
Division of Numismatics: Viadimir Clain-Stefanelli, curator.
Division of Philately: F. R. Bruns, Jr., curator; F. J. McCall, assistant
curator.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director —M. W. STIRLING.

Associate Director.—F. H. H. Rosrrts, Jr.
Anthropologist.—H. B. Cotiins, Jr.

EHthnologist—_W. C. STURTEVANT.

River Basin Surveys.—F.. H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—¥. L. WHIPPLE.
Associate Directors.—J. A. HYNEK, T. HB. STERNE.
Assistant Director.—J. S. RINEHART.
Astrophysicists.—H. L. FirmMAN, L. G. JaccHu1a, C. A. WHITNEY, F.. B. Riaas, Jr.,
M. Krook. :
Mathematician.—R. E. Briaes.
Physicist —A. S. MELTzER.
Table Mountain, Calif., field station.—A. G. Fror.anp, Physicist.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—R. B. WITHROW.
Plant physiologists—W. H. Kien, Mrs. Atice P. WitHRow, LEONARD PRICE,
V. B. Exstap, C. C. Mon.
Biochemist.—J. B. Wou¥r.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—T. M. Brags.
Curator of ceramics.—P. V. GARDNER.
Chief, Smithsonian Traveling Harhibition Service—Mrs. ANNEMARIE H. Pops.
VIII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director—J. A. POPE.

Acting assistant to the Director—RAYMOND A. SCHWARTZ.
Associate in Near Eastern art.—RIcHARD ETTINGHAUSEN.
Associate in technical research.—R. J. GETTENS.

Assistant in research.—H. P. STERN.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Chairman.
Maj. Gen. Reusen C. Hoop, Jr., U. 8S. Air Force.
Rear Adm. JAMEs S. RussgE LL, U. S. Navy.
Lt. Gen. JAMES H. DOOLITTLE.
GROVER LOENING.
Head curator.—P. E. GARBER.
Associate curator.—W. M. MALE.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Acting Director.—T. H. REEp.
Assistant Director.—J. L. GRIMMER.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA
Resident Naturalist.—C. B. Kororp.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Chief —D. G. WILLIAMS.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
JOHN Foster DULLES, Secretary of State.
GrorcE M. HuMpuHREY, Secretary of the Treasury.
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
EF. LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
PAUL MELLON.
Rusu H. Kress.
President.—CHESTER DALE.
Vice President.—¥. LAMMoOT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—JOHN WALKER.
Administrator.—ERNEST R. FEIDLER.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—Prrry B. Corr.
Assistant Director.—MACcGILL JAMES.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ix

Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows

Anthropology
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood Betty J. Meggers
N. M. Judd W. W. Taylor, Jr.
T. W. McKern W. J. Tobin
Zoology
Paul Bartsch, Mollusks Allen McIntosh, Mollusks
J. Bruce Bredin J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates
L. L. Buchanan, Coleoptera C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects
M. A. Carriker, Insects Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology
C. J. Drake, Insects Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Marine
D. C. Graham, Biology Invertebrates
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine Inverte- | C. R. Shoemaker
brates R. HE. Snodgrass, Insects
A. B. Howell, Mammals Alexander Wetmore, Birds
W. L. Jellison, Insects Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Copepod
W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera Crustacea
Botany
Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses F. A. McClure, Grasses
E. P. Killip, Phanerogams J. A. Stevenson, Fungi
Geology
R. 8. Bassler, Paleontology J. B. Knight, Invertebrate Paleontol-
R. W. Brown, Paleobotany ogy
Preston Cloud, Invertebrate Paleon-| Mrs. Helen N. Loeblich, Invertebrate
tology Paleontology
C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate Paleon- | J. B. Reeside, Jr., Invertebrate Paleon-
tology tology

W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy

Engineering and Industries

F. L. Lewton, Crafts and Industries

History
Elmer C. Herber Carroll Quigley
F. W. MacKay, Numismatics P. A. Straub, Numismatics

National Zoological Park
W. M. Mann E. P. Walker

Bureau of American Ethnology

J. P. Harrington R. J. Squier
R. F. Heizer J. R. Swanton
Sister M. Inez Hilger A. J. Waring, Jr.

R. 8. Solecki
x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Astrophysical Observatory
C. G. Abbot

Freer Gallery of Art

Grace Dunham Guest Katherine N. Rhoades
Max Loehr

Canal Zone Biological Area

C. C. Soper | James Zetek
Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution
LEONARD CARMICHAEL
For the Year Ended June 30, 1957

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the activ-
ities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The one-hundred-and-eleventh year of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion has been marked by progress in many areas. James Smithson
in his will that established the Institution provided that it should be
concerned with both the increase and the diffusion of knowledge
among men. During the year covered by this report, as in previous
years, the institution has been active and successful in research, that
is, in the increase of knowledge. It has also continued to carry on
the diffusion of knowledge by publications, lectures, correspondence,
and above all by museum displays.

Details of the research activities, publications, and other work of
the institution are given in later pages. In introducing the report,
it seems particularly fitting this year to make special reference to
the museum functions of the Smithsonian. Public exhibitions are
not part of the assigned functions of all Smithsonian bureaus. The
following units, however, do maintain such exhibits: The United
States National Museum, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the National Air Museum, the National Zoolog-
ical Park, and the National Gallery of Art. Asa group these Smith-
sonian units care for the great national collections of the United
States. Collectively, in number and quality of objects, these units as
part of the “Smithsonian Museum Complex” constitute one of the
largest and most distinguished groups of cultural and scientific col-
lections in the world. All these parts of the Smithsonian are alike
in that they are concerned with the preservation, maintenance and
restoration, study, and appropriate public display of their collections.
The National Gallery of Art and the Freer Gallery of Art were built
and given to the Nation by Andrew W. Mellon and Charles Lang

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Freer, respectively. Both of these galleries admirably provide for the
specialized work of preservation, restoration, study, and public display
of their great art treasures.

The United States National Museum, the National Collection of
Fine Arts, the National Air Museum, and the National Zoological
Park all in different ways need added facilities in order to perform
the functions assigned to them in a manner that is fitting for the
collections of the United States of America.

Much progress has been made during the year in the work of the
United States National Museum. Detailed, and in some respects defin-
itive, planning has been carried on for the new and additional build-
ing for this museum for which a Federal appropriation was made
last year. This building, to be known as the Museum of History and
Technology, will be located on the Mall on a plot of land bounded
on the north, east, and west, respectively, by Constitution Avenue,
Twelfth Street, and Fourteenth Street. When completed, this new
structure, housing the Nation’s collections in the fields of history and
technology, will be one of the world’s finest museum buildings. It will
do much to regain for the United States its proper place in the museum
world which this country has been gradually losing during the past
half century. The years since the end of the Second World War
have seen a sharp increase in national museum construction and re-
construction throughout the world.

The Natural History Building of the United States National Mu-
seum is also almost desperately overcrowded. A quarter of a cen-
tury ago this condition was recognized by the Congress, and new
wings for this building were authorized. The detailed planning of
these wings and their construction thus constitute one of the great
current needs of the Smithsonian, and funds for such planning are
included in the 1958 Smithsonian appropriation.

Besides planning for new buildings and additions to existing
buildings, the Smithsonian was active during this year in the recon-
ditioning and renovation of its buildings. Some of the old build-
ings of the Institution had fallen into real disrepair. This year
wooden sash of the Smithsonian Building was renewed, external
painting carried on, and much needed repairs to the plumbing, elec-
trical and heating service were made in this and other buildings.

The program of modernizing the public displays of the Institution
explained in previous reports was continued this year. Notable new
halls showing life in early America, power machinery, mammals of
North America, and the history of the telephone were opened. The
interest created by these new and truly educational halls is reflected
in a large increase in attendance.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

The staff of the National Collection of Fine Arts improved details
of the exhibits of this important unit in our Nation’s provision for
the preservation, study, and display of works of art. It becomes
more certain each year, however, that the really great collection of
American paintings and the decorative arts which is served by this
bureau can never be adequately dealt with until it has a satisfactory
building of its own. Its present borrowed space in the Natural His-
tory Building is both inadequate and inappropriate. The greatest
paintings of American artists and examples of outstanding Renais-
sance jewelry should not be displayed next door to dinosaur bones and
totem poles.

The National Air Museum has also added many significant items
to its great collections this year. A new building for this world-
famous and peculiarly American collection is now most urgently
needed.

Progress in the collections and in the physical facilities of the
National Zoological Park was also made during the year. It is still
true, however, that this great collection of animals is far from ade-
quately housed. It is certainly important that as soon as possible the
outmoded wooden buildings at the Zoological Park be replaced by
modern and appropriate structures. The National Zoological Park
each year is visited by Americans from every State and by many for-
eign guests. In attendance and scope of its collections it is one of
the foremost zoos of the world, but in spite of some recent improve-
ments in its facilities, it is still far behind many modern zoological
parks in the adequacy of its display techniques.

Dr. Mann Retires

Dr. William M. Mann, who served for 31 years as Director of the
National Zoological Park, retired on October 31, 1956, having reached
the statutory retirement age of 70. Dr. Mann was the fifth director
of the National Zoological Park since it was established by Secretary
Langley in 1889. Under his direction the Washington Zoo became
one of the best and most representative collections of living animals
in the world. The physical equipment of the Zoo also steadily im-
proved, and during Dr. Mann’s administration four modern exhibi-
tion buildings were added. Today the National Zoological Park is
not only a scientific and educational center but aiso one of the
Capital’s prime tourist attractions.

For the Zoo, Dr. Mann made trips to many foreign lands to obtain
live animals for the collection. For example, in 1926 he headed the
Smithsonian-Chrysler Expedition to East Africa, in 1937 a National
Geographic Society Expedition to the East Indies, and in 1940 the
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Smithsonian-Firestone Expedition to Liberia. He was particularly
successful in obtaining rare species never before exhibited, and
through his many associations with zoologists, animal collectors, deal-
ers, circuses, and other zoos the world over he maintained the
National Zoological Park at a high level.

Dr. Mann continues his association with the Smithsonian in the
capacity of Honorary Research Associate. Dr. Theodore H. Reed,
of Portland, Oreg., chief veterinarian of the Zoo since July 1955,
was named Acting Director of the National Zoological Park on

November 1, 1956.
THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

On December 14, 1956, the Institution suffered a deep loss in the
death of one of its newest Regents, Dr. Everette Lee DeGolyer. This
vacancy in the class of citizen Regents has been filled by the election
of Dr. John Nicholas Brown, of Providence, R. I. The member-
ship of the Board is now up to full complement, that is, 14 members:
6 congressional members, 6 citizen members, the Vice President, and
the Chief Justice of the United States.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice
President Richard M. Nixon; members from the Senate: Clinton P.
Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall, H. Alexander Smith; members from
the House of Representatives: Overton Brooks, Clarence Cannon,
John M. Vorys; citizen members: John Nicholas Brown, Arthur H.
Compton, Robert V. Fleming, Crawford H. Greenewalt, Caryl P.
Haskins, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

On the evening of January 17, 1957, preceding the annual meeting,
an informal dinner meeting of the Board was held in the main hall
of the Smithsonian Building amid various exhibits showing phases
of the work being carried on at present. Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt,
head curator of zoology of the U. S. National Museum, gave an ac-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

count of the Smithsonian-Bredin Belgian Congo Expedition, and
George B. Griffenhagen, curator of the division of medicine and public
health, spoke about the Old World Apothecary Shop. The Secre-
tary gave a brief résumé of his trip to Europe in the fall of 1956 to
visit museums in connection with planning for the new Museum of
History and Technology.

The regular annual meeting of the Board was held on January 18,
1957. The Secretary presented his published annual report on the ac-
tivities of the Institution together with the 1956 Annual Report of
the United States National Museum. Dr. Robert V. Fleming, Chair-
man of the Executive and Permanent Committees of the Board, gave
the financial report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1956. The usual
resolution was passed authorizing expenditures of the income of the
Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1958.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian pri-
vate funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee of
the Board of Regents, page 196.

APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for its regular operations
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957, total $4,425,000 obligated as
follows:

TN BUTE 0S a Oe a ear ee Sie te eee $81, 010
United States National Museum = 2bes 2k) - Uewee oo 1, 782, 690
Buresurvol American HtnnNoW ry ee. ee eS ee eo 61, 891
Astrophysical: Observatonyess- sae 8. ee a ee 302, 510
Nationali@ollectionvot:Mine7Arts== 20.0 ee. ees Ce 48, 185
Natrona Air Museum: —- —% Se. Bee 2b Les 2 A ee es en 120, 156
International xchange) Services 22) = = a eee 87, 513
Canale Zones iological Areas ese ac ee eee 30, 274
Maintenance and operation of buildings____________________________ 1, 442, 364
Othericenendlisenvices=—— seen hk hs ee ee 467, 562
PUGFerx > Tn ARs tov ea eT os ee A a 845

In addition to the sum of $2,288,000 appropriated last year for the
preparation of plans and specifications for the new Museum of His-
tory and Technology, the Institution received this year an appropria-
tion of $33,712,000 for the construction of this building.

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer from other Government agencies as follows:

From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park_._._._ $720, 000

From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the
RivenwuasindgSprveyse ter) ce 8 5 ores eet oh Dy eke tee I ts 1 108,800
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957
VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings during the year
reached an all-time high of 4,841,818, nearly 700,000 more than the
previous year. April 1957 was the month of largest attendance, with
726,290; May 1957 second, with 661,857; August 1956 third, with
660,567. Largest attendance for a single day was 73,141 on May 4,
1957, the largest number ever so recorded. On the same day 33,964
visitors came to the Arts and Industries Building alone. Table 1
gives a summary of the attendance records for the five buildings.
These figures, when added to the 942,196 visitors recorded at the
National Gallery of Art and the 3,998,546 estimated at the National
Zoological Park, make a total number of visitors at the Institution of
9,782,560.

TaBLE 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended
June 30, 1957

Smithso- Arts and Natural Aitreraft Freer

Year and month nian Build-| Industries | History Building | Building Total
ing Building | Building
1956
Dh 8 eee els ae ie 1 pe ie 8 114, 497 262, 770 125, 623 84, 245 13, 899 601, 034
ALI gISGSser et: CU = ee Re 112, 025 310, 283 129, 086 94, 873 14, 300 660, 567
September-226. bse 49, 928 129, 610 76, 206 38, 118 8, 045 301, 907
October= + *¥ 85 Avie See a 38, 593 108, 986 68, 549 41, 251 7, 769 265, 148
INovembers2¢2 - = cosen ee eee 34, 687 96, 789 61, 743 29, 697 7, 354 230, 270
Mecomber es. 2. += Se A 20, 763 56, 647 47, 983 19, 504 4, 754 149, 651
1957
Januanyen Oe os 21, 964 54, 766 50, 565 19, 744 4, 124 151, 163
Mebriamyae Nees Ae eee ee 30, 422 89, 111 69, 457 34, 033 5, 849 228, 872
IVE AT Chis Let we st cee Ae ae gee 46, 485 126, 117 91, 452 42, 306 7, 776 314, 136
WW 0) ease CR es Dear ce eat pret 121, 295 345, 873 156, 334 88, 336 14, 452 726, 290
OY tk eet RR ST Bb. Sa A eye 110, 512 303, 595 156, 318 80, 141 11, 291 661, 857
UDG = See ee 90, 492 240, 651 126, 725 80, 225 12, 830 550, 923
Lotalces: soe asses 791, 663 2, 125, 198 1, 160, 041 652, 473 112, 443 | 4,841, 818
LECTURES

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of
New York City, a part of the income from which was to be used for
an annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun. The twenty-
fourth Arthur lecture was delivered in the auditorium of the Natural
History Building on the evening of April 10, 1957, by Dr. Thomas
Gold, professor of astronomy at Harvard University. This illus-
trated lecture, on the subject “Cosmic Rays from the Sun,” will be
published in full in the general appendix of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1957.

Prof. George E. Mylonas, chairman of the Department of Art and
Archaeology at Washington University, St. Louis, and professor of
SECRETARY'S REPORT 7

archaeology at the University of Athens, Greece, delivered a lecture
on “The Grave Circles of Mycenae” in the auditorium of the Natural
History Building on the evening of February 6, 1957. This lecture
was sponsored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution and the Archae-
ological Institute of America.

Several lectures were also sponsored by the Freer Gallery of Art
and the National Gallery of Art. These are listed in the reports of
these bureaus.

BIO-SCIENCES INFORMATION EXCHANGE

The calendar year 1956 marked a high peak in the activities of the
Bio-Sciences Information Exchange. Increased governmental sup-
port of research in the bio-sciences was reflected in the volume of
research registered; the greater use of the services of the Exchange
is indicative of the growing recognition of its value.

This agency, operating within the Smithsonian under funds made
available to the Institution by other governmental agencies, acts as
a clearinghouse for current research in the life sciences. Abstracts
of on-going research are registered by investigators engaged in bio-
logical, medical, and psychological research and in limited aspects of
research in the social sciences. Through an extensive system of sub-
ject indexing, these abstracts are provided upon request and without
charge to researchers in research institutions. Through this simple
mechanism, the Exchange maintains a communication system which
precedes publication and prevents unknowing duplication. For
granting agencies and properly constituted committees it prepares
extensive surveys of research in broad areas.

The Exchange is growing in scope and in content. Its body of
information now consists of 14,000 active research projects and its
use by individual scientists and by committees is increasing in
proportion.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES

National Museum.—The year’s accessions to the national collections
aggregated 647,750 specimens, somewhat less than last year, bringing
the total catalog entries in all departments to 44,377,488. Some of
the outstanding items received during the year included: In anthro-
pology, an Egyptian ibis statuette of about 1800 B. C., a fine collec-
tion of English and American furniture and glass, the first cigar-
store wooden Indian the Museum has ever had, and invaluable addi-
tions to the Greenwood collection of Americana; in zoology, several
collections of mammals of medical importance, a fine lot of Belgian
Congo birds, fishes from many parts of the world, including one collec-
tion of nearly 17,000 specimens from the southern United States,
more than 168,000 specimens of ectoparasites and 60,000 beetles in

451800—58——2

8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

one collection, 27,600 specimens of marine invertebrates from the
Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean expedition, and 2,900 Australian mol-
lusks; in botany, an important collection of type specimens from
Central America, as well as desirable lots of plants from Iran, the
West Indies, Cuba, Ecuador, Brazil, East Africa, and the Marshall
Islands; in geology, several fine gems and mineral specimens, seven
meteorites new to the collections, several thousand invertebrate fossils,
and about 100 fossil mammalian specimens collected from the Eocene
of Wyoming; in engineering and industries, about 20 original instru-
ments relating to the history of the telephone, a Robertson milling
machine of 1852, a full-sized pirogue, an X-ray tube of Roentgen, a
complete set of hospital-ward fixtures of about 1900, and examples of
the graphic art of Whistler, Gauguin, Bonnard, Rouault, Picasso, and
Matisse; and in history, a Pennsylvania reception room of the period
1785-90, a summer service uniform once worn by President Hisen-
hower, and many desiderata in the fields of philately and
numismatics.

Members of the staff conducted fieldwork in Canada, Ecuador,
Peru, Brazil, Panama, Philippine Islands, Society Islands, Mexico,
Europe, Bermuda, and many parts of the United States.

The exhibits-modernization program was successfully continued,
and three new halls were opened to the public—the Hall of Power
Machinery, the Hall of Everyday Life in Early America, and the Hall
of North American Mammals. <A new telephone exhibit also received
much attention. Seven new exhibit units were installed in the North
American Indian Hall.

Bureau of American Ethnology.—tThe staff members continued
their research and publication in archeology and ethnology: Dr.
Stirling conducted archeological work in Ecuador, Dr. Roberts con-
tinued as Director of the River Basin Surveys, Dr. Collins studied
anthropological materials in European museums, and Dr. Sturtevant
did fieldwork on the Seneca and the Florida Seminole.

Astrophysical Observatory—The APO continued its researches in
solar astrophysics as well as its meteoritic studies, adding several
members to its staff and notably increasing its publication activities.
Of great current interest is the Observatory’s so-called Moonwatch
program—the optical tracking of the earth satellite to be launched as
a part of the International Geophysical Year. The division of radia-
tion and organisms continued its research on the role of light in regu-
lating growth in plants.

National Collection of Fine Arts—The Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion accepted for the Gallery 62 oil paintings, 2 watercolors, 3 etch-
ings, 1 miniature, and 1 vase, and a collection of 59 French and Eng-
lish fans. The Gallery held 15 special exhibits during the year, while
SECRETARY'S REPORT 9

the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service circulated 86 exhibi-
tions, 81 in the United States and 5 abroad.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Purchases for the collections of the Freer
Gallery included Chinese bronzes, jade, paintings, and pottery; Japa-
nese lacquer work, paintings, and pottery; Persian gold work and
Persian, Armenian, and Iraq manuscripts; and an Indian (Mughal)
painting. The Gallery continued its program of illustrated lectures
in the auditorium by distinguished scholars in Eastern art. Air-
conditioning of the building was completed during the year.

National Air Musewm—During the year 1,050 specimens in 33
separate accessions were added to the aeronautical collections, includ-
ing a Bell VTOL aircraft with 2 jet engines, valuable material per-
taining to planes of the Wright brothers, several fine scale models,
and a large and historically valuable collection of instruments.

National Zoological Park.—The Zoo accessioned 1,851 individual
animals during the year, and 2,965 were removed by death, exchange,
or return to depositors. The net count at the close of the year was
3,157. Noteworthy among the additions were a pair of white
rhinoceroses, an African elephant, a young Asiatic elephant, a pair
of okapis, a pair of snow leopards, a very rare Colombian red-eyed
cowbird, and prized Pacific sea snakes. Visitors totaled almost 4
million.

Canal Zone Biological Area.—The year’s visitors to Barro Colorado
Island totaled about 750, of whom about 60 were scientists using the
station’s facilities for special researches, particularly in wildlife ob-
servation, forest ecology, photography, and certain insect studies.

International Fachange Service—As the official United States
agency for the exchange of governmental, scientific, and literary pub-
lications between this country and other nations, the International Ex-
change Service handled during the year 1,205,039 packages of such
publications, weighing 827,897 pounds, an appreciable increase over
last year.

National Gallery of Art-—During the year the Gallery received 650
accessions, by gift, loan, or deposit. Six special exhibits were held,
and 15 traveling exhibitions of prints from the Rosenwald Collection
were circulated to other museums and galleries. Exhibitions from the
“Index of American Design” were given 50 bookings in 18 States, the
District of Columbia, and Germany. Nearly 44,000 persons attended
the various tours conducted by Gallery personnel, and about 11,500
attended the 51 auditorium lectures of Sunday afternoons. The Sun-
day evening concerts in the east garden court were continued.

Library.—tIn all, 54,316 publications were received by the Smith-
sonian library during the year, and 87 new exchanges were arranged.
Among the gifts were several private collections of valuable material,
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

both of books and periodicals, entomology and geology this year being
particularly well represented. At the close of the year the holdings
of the library and all its branches aggregated 966,401 volumes, in-
cluding 586,700 in the Smithsonian Deposit in the Library of Con-
gress but excluding unbound periodicals and reprints and separates
from serial publications.

Publications —Kighty new publications appeared under Smithso-
nian imprint during the year (see Report on Publications, p. 189, for
full list). Outstanding among these were: “Small Arms and Am-
munition in the United States Service, 1776-1865,” by Berkeley R.
Lewis; “Annotated, Subject-heading Bibliography of Termites,” by
Thomas E. Snyder; “Crustacean Metamorphoses,” by R. E. Snod-
grass; “The National Aeronautical Collections,” by Paul E. Garber;
“American Moths of the Subfamily Phycitinae,” by Carl Heinrich;
“The First Quarter-century of Steam Locomotives in North America”
and “Automobiles and Motorcycles in the U. S. National Museum,”
both by Smith Hempstone Oliver; “Seminole Music,” by Frances
Densmore; “Guaymi Grammar,” by Ephraim §S. Alphonse; “New
Horizons in Astronomy,” edited by Fred L. Whipple; “The World of
the Dinosaurs,” by David H. Dunkle; and “Meissen and Other Ger-
man Porcelain in the Alfred Duane Pell Collection,” by Paul V. Gard-
ner. In all, 405,266 copies of printed matter were distributed.
Report on the United States
National Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condition
and operations of the United States National Museum for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1957:

COLLECTIONS

During the year 647,750 specimens were added to the national col-
lections and distributed among the six departments as follows:
Anthropology, 14,004; zoology, 480,328; botany, 45,069; geology,
33,322; engineering and industries, 1,706; history, 73,321. Although
fewer specimens were received than during the previous year, the total
represents a normal annual accretion. Most of the specimens were
received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government
departments and agencies. The Annual Report of the Museum, pub-
lished as a separate document, contains a detailed list of the year’s
accessions, of which the more important are summarized below. Cata-
log entries in all departments now total 44,377,488.

Anthropology.—An outstanding donation to the anthropological
collections received in the division of archeology is a wood and bronze
statuette of an ibis from the necropolis of Tuna-el-Gebel, Upper
Egypt, dated about 1800 B.C. This was given by General Mohammed
Naguib to President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who in turn presented it
to the Institution. A large miscellaneous collection assembled by the
late Monsignor John M. Cooper was donated by the Catholic Uni-
versity of America. This material consists of North American Indian,
Eskimo, African, Philippine, and Negrito cultural objects; Coptic
textiles; and an embossed gold disk from Ecuador, and other Latin
American artifacts.

Ethnological gifts include two large Fijian kava bowls donated
by the Government of New Zealand. Kava bowls are essential for the
Fijian ceremony of Yanggona, or formalized drinking of kava. An
antique type of Malay kris, or “Keris,” was given by Ibrahim Izzudin
bin Yousoff, Kelantan, Federation of Malaya. The laminated blade of
this heirloom, a traditional Malay weapon, is made from meteoric iron
and copper. The hilt and sheath are decorated with gold overlay in
filigree with stone brilliants inset in bezels.

In anticipation of period-room installations for the new Museum
of History and Technology, the following paneling and finish were

11
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

accepted: A late 18th-century drawing room from the Thomas Han-
cock house, Worcester, Mass., a gift of Mrs. Adelaide K. Bullen;
paneled wall and woodwork from the Richard Dole house, Newbury,
Mass. (about 1740), a gift of Mrs. Florence Evans Bushee; carved and
decorated architectural woodwork by Samuel Field McIntire, from
the interior of “Oak Hill,” Peabody, Mass. (1813-14), a gift of the
Jordan Marsh Co.; an original decorative finial, salvaged from the
steeple of the Old North Church, Boston, after the damage by a hurri-
cane in 1954, gift of the Lantern League of the Old North Church.

Miss Elsie Howland Quinby generously converted her loan of 118
specimens of English and American furniture and glass to a gift.
Col. and Mrs. Robert P. Hare gave two 17th-century English back
stools and a set of six American Sheraton “fancy” chairs. Mrs.
George Maurice Morris presented, among several other gifts,
a carved walnut tray and brass candlestick of about 1760. Mr. and Mrs.
George H. Watson donated an early 19th-century Windsor settee, with
original paint and stenciling, and an extraordinary hollow-tree-trunk
grain barrel. Through the Virgil M. Hillyer fund a North Devon-
shire pottery oven from Bideford, England, was purchased.

Mrs. Marjorie Merriweather Post was the donor of the only cigar-
store wooden Indian ever acquired by the Museum. Several important
examples of 18th- and 19th-century American blown glass were pre-
sented by W. Daniel Quattlebaum. These include New York, New
Jersey, and New England types, as well as a rare cut-glass tumbler
with an embedded ceramic cameo bust of Lafayette, made at the Bake-
well works in Pittsburgh on the occasion of Lafayette’s visit to Amer-
ica in 1824, An entire collection of 173 glass paperweights, mostly of
European and American origin, was the gift of Aaron Straus.

In order to augment the exhibits in the hall “Everyday Life in
Early America,” several large collections were accepted as loans. In
addition to her previous gift of more than 1,600 objects, Mrs. Arthur
M. Greenwood lent 326 specimens of Americana, including 22 ex-
amples of primarily American 17th- and 18th-century silver, rare
children’s books and hornbooks, Indian captivity accounts and broad-
sides, numerous dolls, and many articles of domestic use. Two speci-
mens of North Devonshire pottery excavated at Jamestown, Va., were
lent by the National Park Service.

In exchange with the Institute and Museum of Anthropology,
Moscow State University, the division of physical anthropology re-
ceived a cast of a child’s skull and lower jaw from the Mousterian cul-
tural period of the Crimea. The Moscow State University received
a cast of the Tepexpan skull in return. This exchange resulted from
a visit by the Russian delegation following the Fifth International
Congress of Anthropology and Ethnology in Philadelphia.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 13

Zoology.—As reservoir hosts, transmitters, and carriers of disease,
mammals are intensively studied and collected the world over by spe-
cial agencies and commissions whose efforts have resulted in some of
the more important accessions received by the division of mammals in
recent years. This year in cooperation with the Armed Forces Epi-
demiological Board and the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. David H.
Johnson, curator of mammals, collected 656 specimens of bats and
other small mammals in central Luzén, Philippine Islands. ore
than 500 other mammals from Panama and the Canal Zone accrued
to the collection, largely from the field collecting of the personnel of
the 25th and 7451st Preventive Medicine Survey Detachments of the
U.S. Army, and in part by Dr. Karl B. Koford, Dr. Alexander Wet-
more, and by Dr. Robert K. Enders of Swarthmore College. Do-
nated by Dr. Enders also were 376 mammals from Alaska, Colorado,
Massachusetts, Wyoming, and Saudi Arabia. The Pan American
Sanitary Bureau of the World Health Organization contributed 38
rodents from Peru. Type specimens were received from Kenneth
Walker, Tacoma, Wash., from the Office of Naval Research through
the University of Kansas, and from Kenneth S. Norris and William
N. McFarland.

This year’s more important ornithological accessions included 118
Belgian Congo bird skins, representing 59 forms new to the Museum,
received as an exchange from the Institut Royal de Sciences Natur-
elles, Brussels; 23 birds from the Caroline Islands, a transfer from the
Pacific Science Board, National Research Council; 10 Venezuelan
birds, including the type specimens of 8 new forms, deposited by Dr.
William H. Phelps, Caracas; by deposit from the Smithsonian Insti-
tution 817 skins, 16 skeletons, 3 nests, and 5 sets of eggs of birds, col-
lected in Panama by Dr. A. Wetmore.

Noteworthy collections of New World amphibians and reptiles were
received as gifts from the following donors: Jerry D. Hardy, Catons-
ville, Md., 702 specimens from Cuba; William L. Witt, Arlington,
Va., 208 reptiles and amphibians; the Naturhistoriches Museum,
Vienna, Austria, 98 frogs from Brazil; Dr. John W. Crenshaw, Jr.,
Columbia, Mo., 52 turtles; Dr. W. G. Lynn, Washington, D. C., 28
frogs from Jamaica and Antigua, B. W.I. For type material in this
field the Museum is also indebted to the University of Colorado, to
the Natural History Museum of the University of Illinois, and to Dr.
Gordon Thurow, Braddock Heights, Md.

The largest accession to the fish collection was the gift of Dr. Wil-
liam R. Taylor, associate curator, representing his comprehensive col-
lection of 16,821 specimens gathered from the southern United States
over several years. Other sizable fish collections were received as
follows: 4,329 specimens from Paraguay donated by Dr. C. J. D.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Brown, Montana State College; 1,653 specimens of West Indian
fishes obtained on the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition
and deposited by the Institution; 190 fresh-water fishes from Colom-
bia, the gift of Dr. George Dahl. Included in 8 accessions number-
ing nearly 700 specimens were 6 holotypes and 598 paratypes of fishes
described by one or another of the donors from various parts of the
world: Dr. J. J. Hoedeman, Zodlogisch Museum, Amsterdam; Daniel
M. Cohen, Stanford University; Drs. Reeve M. Bailey, University of
Michigan, and William R. Taylor, U. S. National Museum; Wayne J.
Baldwin, University of California at Los Angeles; Dr. Andreas B.
Rechnitzer, U. 8. Navy Electronics Laboratory, San Diego, Calif.;
Dr. John C. Briggs, University of Florida; William C. Schroeder,
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University; Dr. Boyd W.
Walker, University of California at Los Angeles; and Victor G.
Springer, University of Texas.

The largest accession accruing this year to the division of insects
consisted of 168,531 specimens of ectoparasites and transferred from
the Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Department of the Army.
Ernest Shoemaker of Brooklyn donated his personal collection of
60,338 specimens, chiefly Coleoptera, all exquisitely prepared and in-
cluding 101 Morpho butterflies, many of which are rare. Dr. Colvin
L. Gibson of Memphis presented 4,327 butterflies and moths, and
some representatives of other groups collected in Mexico, the British
Solomon Islands, and the United States. Associate Curator O. L.
Cartwright presented 11,400 specimens of insects which he collected
in Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas. A gift of 6,546 named lepi-
dopterous larvae, mostly from western United States, which were
associated with reared examples in the economically important fam-
ily of cutworm moths, was received from S. E. Crumb, Puyallup,
Wash. Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator, contributed 4,801 miscel-
laneous insects, mostly from the State of Washington. Other note-
worthy accessions included 5,347 insects from Africa and South, Cen-
tral, and North America, received from N. L. H. Krauss of Hono-
lulu; 3,753 North Dakota spiders, donated by J. M. Davis, Silver
Spring, Md.; and 10,000 miscellaneous insects from Thailand, re-
ceived from the International Cooperation Administration.

Aside from gifts bringing additional type material to the Mu-
seum’s marine invertebrate collections, the following are deemed par-
ticularly worthy of note: 27,600 specimens from the Smithsonian-
Bredin Caribbean Expedition deposited by the Institution; 1,757
crustaceans and other invertebrates from survey vessel collections in
the Gulf of Mexico and off the southeastern United States, trans-
ferred from the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 176 identified speci-
mens of 40 species of pelagic copepods from Sweden and South
SECRETARY’S REPORT 15

Africa donated by Dr. Karl Lang, Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet,
Stockholm, Sweden; 1,828 shrimps, crayfishes, and other inverte-
brates given by Dr. Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., University of Virginia;
160 identified specimens of 138 species of mysidacean crustaceans from
the vicinity of Plymouth, England, presented by Dr. Olive S. Tat-
tersall, through Dr. Isabella Gordon; and 2 specimens of Cephalo-
carida, the recently discovered crustacean subclass, received from
Howard L. Sanders, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
Donors of type material included the late Dr. Raymond C. Osburn,
Ohio State University; Dr. E. Ruffin Jones, University of Florida;
Maureen Downey, Beaufort, N. C.; Dr. Trevor Kincaid, Seattle,
Wash.; Mrs. Mildred S. Wilson, Anchorage, Alaska; Dr. J. T.
Penney, University of South Carolina; Gordon Clark, University of
Maryland; Dr. Alejandro Villalobos F., Instituto de Biologia,
Mexico; Dr. N. T. Mattox, University of Southern California; and
the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California.

Among the outstanding mollusk accessions for the year may be enu-
merated the following: 2,900 Australian specimens donated by Samuel
W. Rosso, Hattiesburg, Miss.; the deposit of 1,380 mollusks received
from the Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition; 673 specimens
of land and fresh-water snails from Libya, collected by Dr. Rolf
Brandt, and purchased through the Frances Lea Chamberlain Fund;
900 specimens of land and fresh-water mollusks from the Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and New Caledonia, from James R. Hood;
and 84 marine mollusks from South Africa, received from the Univer-
sity of Cape Town, through Prof. J. H. Day. Types of helminths
were donated by Dr. Elon E. Byrd, Athens, Ga.; Dr. Thomas C.
Cheng, Charlottesville, Va.; Dr. Paul R. Burton, Coral Gables, Fla.;
and Dr. Leland S. Olsen, Lincoln, Nebr.

Botany.—An important collection of 196 type specimens of Central
American plants was contributed by the Escuela Agricola Panameri-
cana. Other gifts included 210 specimens of plants of Iran collected
and presented by Justice William O. Douglas; and 697 Cuban plants
from Manuel Lopez Figueiras, Santiago de Cuba. Dr. A. O. Smith
obtained 4,047 specimens of West Indian plants on the Smithsonian-
Bredin Caribbean Expedition, and C. V. Morton collected 4,927
specimens of plants in Cuba. E. P. Killip obtained 1,505 specimens
for the Institution on the Isle of Pines, Cuba, and in southern Florida
and Texas.

Among the interesting collections received in exchange were 800
Brazilian plants, mostly from the Amazon region, from the Instituto
Agronémico do Norte, Belém, Para, Brazil; 1,640 plants of Ecuador
obtained by Dr. Eric Asplund; 1,058 specimens collected in His-
paniola by E. L. Ekman from the Naturhistoriska Riksmuseet, Stock-
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

holm, Sweden ; 232 specimens obtained in Asia Minor by E. K. Balls
from the Royal Botanic Garden, Edinburgh, Scotland; 621 plants
collected in East Africa by H. J. Schlieben from the Missouri Botan-
ical Garden, and 1,353 specimens of plants of Hong Kong, California,
and Mexico from the University of Michigan.

Extensive collections of plants of Santa Catarina, comprising 2,479
specimens, were received from the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues,”
Itajaf, Santa Catarina, Brazil, with a request for identifications. The
Los Angeles County Museum sent, for study and report by herbarium
specialists, 239 specimens from the collections made by E. Yale Daw-
son on the Machris Brazilian Expedition.

There were transferred from the U. S. Geological Survey, Depart-
ment of the Interior, 2,142 specimens collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg
in the Marshall Islands, and from the Agricultural Research Service,
Department of Agriculture, 870 specimens collected by F. J. Hermann
in Canada and northwestern United States.

Geology.—Outstanding among the gifts of minerals is an unusual
scapolite from Itrongahy, Madagascar, from John B. Jago, and an
exceptional barite from Sterling, Colo., given by Arch Oboler. Some
of the newly described minerals presented are: cardosonite, Spain, by
Dr. I. Asensio Amor; kingite, Australia, from the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organization; ferroselite, Mon-
trose County, Colo., from Howard Bowers; heidornite, Germany,
from Prof. Dr. W. V. Engelhardt; hibonite, Madagascar, from John
B. Jago; tertschite, Turkey, from Dr. Heinz Meixner; vayrynenite,
Finland, from Mary Mrose; and bgéggildite, Greenland, from Hans
Pauly.

Several outstanding additions were made to the gem collection by
exchange, including an exceptionally fine 18.3-carat canary-yellow
diamond from South Africa, a 51.9-carat yellow sapphire from
Burma, and a 68.85-carat brilliant-cut sphalerite from Utah. A 13.50-
carat andalusite from Brazil and an 11.80-carat star spinel from
Ceylon showing four separate 6-rayed stars were purchased through
the Chamberlain Fund for the Isaac Lea collection.

Of the 131 specimens added to the Roebling collection by purchase,
the outstanding items are: schoepite and soddyite from Shinkolobwe
in the Belgian Congo, and hambergite from San Diego County, Calif.
Newly described species added to the Roebling collection are: coflinite
from Utah; kettnerite from Czechoslovakia; hawleyite from the
Yukon in Canada; and isokite from Northern Rhodesia.

Significant additions to the Canfield collection include two 6-inch
crystals of enargite from Peru; a 6%-ounce gold nugget from the
Yukon, Alaska, mined in 1896; several fine groups of showy wulfenite
crystals from Arizona; and two exceptionally fine crystals of blue
and yellow sapphire from Burma.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 17

Three meteorites new to the collection acquired as gifts were Bonita
Springs, Lee County, Fla., from E. P. Henderson; Kaufman, Kaufman
County, Tex., from Mrs. Carl C. Hinrichs; and Mayday, Riley County,
Kans., from Prof. Walter S. Houston. Four meteorites, also new to
the collection, were received as exchanges: St. Peters, Graham County,
Kans. ; Kunashak, Elenovka, and Sikhote-Alinskii, from the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics.

Important gifts received in the division of invertebrate paleontology
and paleobotany are: 750 Tertiary mollusks from Virginia, North
Carolina, and Florida given by Shelton P. Applegate; 500 specimens
of Permian brachiopods from Tasmania, from Dr. Kenneth E. Caster ;
93 pleosponges from South Australia, the gift of B. Flounders; 66 type
and figured specimens from the Pennsylvania rocks of western Mary-
land from Joseph Lintz, Jr.; 4,665 specimens of crinoids and other
fossils representing the private collection of the late Dr. Edwin Kirk,
received from Mrs. Kirk; 400 specimens of Cretaceous Foraminifera
from Egypt donated by Rushdi Said; and 311 Miocene mollusks from
Peru, given by the Johns Hopkins University.

An important collection of 500 Tertiary brachiopods from Okinawa
was transferred from the U.S. Geological Survey. Among the acces-
sions obtained by exchange were 2,695 specimens of Foraminifera from
Poland; 158 Tertiary brachiopods from New Zealand; and 894 inverte-
brate fossils, mostly Mesozoic and Tertiary from Japan.

Through the income of the Walcott bequest 5,322 specimens of
Devonian, Mississippian, and Permian fossils were collected by Dr.
G. A. Cooper, A. L. Bowsher, and J. T. Dutro, Jr., in the Glass Moun-
tains of Texas and the San Andreas and Sacramento Mountains of
New Mexico.

The division of vertebrate paleontology received outstanding speci-
mens through purchase, fieldwork, and exchanges. Specimens of
fossil fishes acquired by purchase come from the Devonian Escuminac
formation on Chaleurs Bay, Canada; and a series of late Paleozoic and
early Mesozoic fishes from various European localities.

Important specimens collected by Drs. C. L. Gazin and D. H. Dunkle
include 100 mammalian specimens from the Eocene of Wyoming, and
several good specimens of ancient dogs and horses which were obtained
near Harrison, Nebr. Dr. Dunkle, with Professor Westoll, secured
over 200 fossil fish specimens from Lower and Middle Devonian locali-
ties in Scotland.

Exchanges were effected that produced excellent fossil fishes and
other fossil vertebrates. Several types of Triassic fishes from Green-
land and casts of Devonian amphibians were obtained from the Danish
Mineralogical Museum. A large skeleton of a Cretaceous fish was
obtained from the Bureau of Economic Geology of the University of
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Texas, and Dartmouth College exchanged six primitive jawless ostra-
coderms from Oesel Island in the Baltic. An exchange of value, con-
sisting of nine jaws and maxillae of primitive perissodactyls and artio-
dactyls, was obtained from the Muséum de Sciences Naturelles, Lyon,
France.

Engineering and Industrics—In connection with the development
of the new exhibit of telephony, about 20 original instruments showing
the evolution of the telephone from 1880 to the present day were added
to the collections of the division of engineering. These specimens
were donated by Bell Telephone Laboratories, Stromberg-Carlson Co.,
the Bell Telephone Co. of Canada, North Electric Co., Western Elec-
tric Co., and the Ohio Bell Telephone Co.

All sections in the division received important new accessions in
preparation for exhibition in the Museum of History and Technology.
A specimen of particular historical interest added as a loan to the
collection of machine tools is a Robertson milling machine of 1852,
from Yale University. The section of light machinery acquired a
fine French astronomical clock, of about 1800, featuring a planetarium
enclosed in a glass sphere etched with the constellations, thus exhibit-
ing particularly well the astronomical associations of timekeeping.
A full-sized pirogue, made in the manner of the Acadians, was pre-
sented to the transportation section by Esso Standard Oil Co., together
with a film recording the process of its fabrication. An elegant
Queensbody basket phaeton was given by Mrs. William A. Frailey.
The collection relating to instructional mathematics was augmented
considerably with the receipt, from Prof. Frances E. Baker, of a set of
131 mathematical models.

The division of medicine and public health added to its collection
the third X-ray tube of the discoverer of X-rays, Wilhelm Konrad
Roentgen, a gift of the General Electric Co. For the hospital exhibit
in the Museum of History and Technology, a complete set of hospital
ward fixtures of about 1900 was received from the Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital. The materia medica collection obtained a number of
additional examples of patent medicines, such as Bateman’s Pectoral
Drops, presented by Ronald R. McCandless, Owen H. Waller, and
A. P. Whealton; Godfrey’s Cordial, presented by Robert Russell and
A. P. Whealton; and Porter’s Curative Sugar Pills, from Samuel
A. Aker, David E. Kass, and George C. Kass.

Among the more important specimens acquired by the division of
crafts and industries is an 18th-century Don Quixote tapestry pre-
sented by Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt, a rustic copperplate printed fabric
dated 1761, from Mrs. Betty H. Harriman; and a copperplate print
stitched into a quilt top, from Mrs. Nicholas Satterlee. In the section
of agriculture, a model of the Hussey reaper of 1833 was constructed by
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

Donald Holst of the office of exhibits; a Pennsylvania bar share plow
was donated by Daniel G. H. Lesher; and an early threshing machine
by James W. Brown.

Preparation of exhibits for the new museum made it possible for
the division of graphic arts to acquire a number of important prints.
Among these are “St. Catherine with the Wheel,” a hand-colored
anonymous woodcut dated 1465-70, and examples of the graphic work
of J. M. Whistler, Paul Gauguin, Pierre Bonnard, Muirhead Bone,
Georges Rouault, Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, and others. An out-
standing collection of materials representing the history of motion-
picture photography, comprising 864 items, was received as a bequest
from Gatewood W. Dunston.

History—tThe division of civil history acquired a notable reception
room that was originally installed in a house near Kutztown, Berks
County, Pa., during the period 1785-90. This room corresponds in
size, plan, locale, period, and original usage to the second-floor front
drawing room of the Philadelphia Presidential Mansion as it appeared
during Washington’s second administration.

The Ladies’ Hermitage Association, Nashville, Tenn., presented a
buff-and-gold china bow] from one of the dinner services used at the
White House during the administration of President Andrew Jackson.
A plate and a cup and saucer representative of the State services made
by Wedgwood for the White House for use during the Theodore
Roosevelt administration were presented by Josiah Wedgwood & Sons,
Inc.

A most interesting addition to the costumes collection is a gold
brocade shoe for a woman of the early 18th century with a matching
gold brocade clog, a gift of Mrs. Brookings T. Andrews.

The military history collections were enhanced by the gift from
President Dwight D. Eisenhower of a summer service uniform of a
General of the Army worn by him during his term as Commanding
General, Supreme Headquarters, Allied Powers Europe. Twelve
military paintings by the celebrated military artist Charles Hoffbauer
were presented by Mrs. John Nicholas Brown.

Outstanding among the specimens received in the division of naval
history was a series of six oil paintings of naval actions in the Pacific
Ocean during World War II which came as a gift of the artist
Clarence J. Tibado.

An important accession received in the division of numismatics is
an original pantograph invented and built by Christian Gobrecht, a
foremost United States Mint engraver, together with various engrav-
ings and plate proofs of State bank notes made by him, the gift of
Mrs. C. F. Wolters. Outstanding among the specimens presented by
Paul A. Straub are a broad gold 8-ducat piece struck in 1617 in Qued-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

linburg by Dorothea, Duchess of Saxony, and a ducat, dated 1688,
struck by August Friedrich of Holstein-Gottorp.

A newcomer to the list of donors of philatelic material is Harry
L. Lindquist, publisher of Stamps magazine, who presented his col-
lections of Danish and Swedish booklet panes, including many of
great rarity. Former Postmaster General James A. Farley converted
one section of his valuable philatelic holdings from loan to gift dur-
ing the year.

Philip H. Ward, Jr., of Philadelphia, donated a considerable num-
ber of United States and foreign stamps—to continue his ranking
as the “oldest” continuing donor, having first evidenced his support
of the national postage stamp collection as long ago as 1915. B. H.
Homan, Jr., of New York donated 18 original drawings for Ecua-
dorean stamps, and 114 French pre-stamp covers.

EXPLORATION, FIELDWORK, AND RELATED TRAVEL

Near the close of the past fiscal year Dr. T. Dale Stewart, curator
of physical anthropology, investigated the burial site of an adult
male Indian on the bank of York River opposite West Point, Va.
Portions of the skeleton were unearthed. Trephined skulls from
Bolivia in the American Museum of Natural History, New York City,
and from the central highlands of Peru in the Peabody Museum,
Cambridge, were examined by Dr. Stewart April 2-7, 1957, to ad-
vance completion of a research project.

Frank M. Setzler, head curator of anthropology, and Dr. Clifford
Evans, associate curator of archeology, attended during September
1956 the Fifth International Congress of Ethnological and Anthro-
pological Sciences at Philadelphia. During April 1957 Mr. Setzler
visited New Martinsville, W. Va., to survey and discuss a cooperative
arrangement for the excavation of a prehistoric Indian mound on
the property of the Columbia-Southern Chemical Corp. Plans are
now being formulated to proceed with this project during the next
fiscal year.

Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator of archeology, and Dr. Betty
J. Meggers, research associate, with support from a grant from the
American Philosophical Society, excavated 12 archeological sites
on the Rio Napo and its tributaries on the eastern slope of the
Ecuadorian Andes from October through December 1956. The
results of this work indicate that the Rio Napo culture is ancestral
to the Marajoara culture at the mouth of the Amazon, although the
ultimate origin of the Napo culture is still unknown. During Janu-
ary and February 1957, under a cooperative arrangement with
Sr. Emilio Estrada, Director of the Museo Arqueolégico “Victor
Emilio Estrada” of Guayaquil, they continued research begun in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

1954 on the coast of Ecuador. Additional sites were investigated
in the Guayas Province to expand knowledge of the Formative
Period cultures and establish links with cultures of this period in
Middle America and Peru. En route to Venezuela, 2 weeks were
spent in Colombia examining collections in Bogota, Barranquilla,
and Cartagena and consulting with Colombian anthropologists.

On arrival at Caracas, Venezuela, these two investigators were in-
vited by Dr. José M. Cruxent, Director, Museo de Ciencias Naturales,
to accompany an expedition sponsored by that museum and the Uni-
versidad Central de Venezuela to the Rio Ventuari, a headwaters
tributary of the Rio Orinoco. Some five weeks were devoted to stra-
tigraphic excavations of 30 or 40 former sites of human occupation
in this region. The materials obtained will permit a more adequate
interpretation of the cultural level relationships of the former in-
habitants of Brazil, the Guianas, Colombia, and Ecuador. Drs. Evans
and Meggers returned to Washington on April 5, 1957.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of archeology, participated, May 2-4,
1957, in a symposium held at the University of Wisconsin, Madison,
which dealt with the identity and historical implications of an arche-
ological cultural horizon known as Oneota, ancestral to certain Siouan
groups of Indians.

Dr. Marshall 'T. Newman, associate curator of physical anthro-
pology, under a research project financed by a grant from the Na-
tional Science Foundation, conducted studies in physical anthro-
pology, nutrition, dietary habits, blood analyses, bone density and
maturation, and cultural anthropology on the Quechua-speaking
Indian community of some 1,750 individuals at Hacienda Vicos in
the Callejon de Huaylas, North Central Sierra, Peru. Blood samples
obtained during this investigation have since been studied by the
Blood Grouping Laboratory, Boston, and the U. S. Public Health
Service Laboratory at Framingham, Mass. Bone-density analyses
and skeletal-maturation studies are being made at Pennsylvania State
University from X-ray photographs of the hands of Indian school
boys. Dr. Newman returned to Washington on July 27,1957. Dur-
ing April 1957 Dr. Newman consulted with specialists of the Fels
Research Institute staff at Yellow Springs, Ohio, relative to age
assessments from carpal X-rays, tooth eruption data, and metric
growth data obtained at Hacienda Vicos.

C. Malcolm Watkins, associate curator of ethnology, in the interval
between October 1 and 8, 1956, arranged for the shipping of cultural-
history materials from Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood’s home in Marl-
boro, Mass., sorted the woodwork from the Thomas Hancock
house in Worcester, and packed and shipped tiles given by E. Stanley
Wires of Wellesley Hills.
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Conrad V. Morton, curator of cryptogams, during August 1956,
participated in a field trip organized by the American Fern Society
on the Gaspé Peninsula, Canada. On the return trip Mr. Morton at-
tended the meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences
at Storrs, Conn.

From October 1956 to April 1957, Dr. Lyman B. Smith, curator of
phanerogams, conducted field studies of the flora of southern Brazil
under a grant from the National Science Foundation and in col-
laboration with the Herbario “Barbosa Rodrigues.” Over 5,000
plants were collected on the planalto of Santa Catarina and adjacent
regions for phytogeographical research on the origin of the flora of
southern Brazil.

During February 1957, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, curator of birds,
was selected to inaugurate the recently endowed “Lida Scott Brown
Lectureship” at the University of California at Los Angeles. Pre-
viously, in August, he studied the African parasitic weaverbirds in
the Chicago Museum of Natural History in furtherance of a mono-
graph now in course of preparation.

On April 80, 1957, Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate curator
of mammals, was detailed to conduct prelimimary mammal surveys
in eastern Panama in cooperation with the yellow-fever project of
the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory. Fieldwork continued through the
month of June and Dr. Handley returned to the Museum on June 28,
1957.

At the invitation of Dr. William McD. Hammon, chief of the de-
partment of epidemiology and microbiology, Graduate School of
Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Dr. David H. Johnson,
curator of mammals, joined a virus-research group from July 24 to
October 2, 1956, in the vicinity of Manila and Clark Airbase, Luzén,
Philippine Islands. This survey of the mosquito-borne virus diseases
affecting wild animals and man was supported by the Armed Forces
Epidemiological Board, U. S. Department of Defense.

On July 27, 1956, Dr. Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator of fishes,
returned to Washington following completion of his studies under a
fellowship awarded by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foun-
dation. Dr. Lachner is preparing monographic studies of the cir-
cumtropical marine fish families Apogonidae (cardinalfishes) and
Mullidae (goatfishes) and found it necessary to examine the collec-
lections preserved in the British Museum (Natural History), Lon-
don; the Zoological Museum, Amsterdam; the Rijksmuseum van
Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden; Naturhistorische Museum, Vienna;
Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frankfurt; Zoo-
logisches Museum, Hamburg; Zoological Museum, Copenhagen; the
Museum of Belgian Congo, Tervuren; and the Muséum National
SECRETARY’S REPORT Do

d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris. Dr. Lachner studied the sharksuckers
(Echeneidae) in the collections of Tulane University, New Orleans,
April 15-22, 1957, and added important data to his review of host
specificity. Some 500 specimens of fresh-water barbeled minnows
(Hybopsis) were examined for inclusion in a partially completed
manuscript. X-rays were taken of 19 types and specimens of small,
somewhat transparent fishes (Henicichthyidae) to determine details
of the osteology for incorporation in a revisional study.

In continuation of his research on sea anemones, Dr. Charles E. Cut-
ress, associate curator of marine invertebrates, searched the inverte-
brate collections of the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale
University, the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard Uni-
versity, and the American Museum of Natural History, New York,
October 22-November 6, 1956, for type specimens and material from
the central and South Pacific Ocean. Dr. Cutress was detailed during
February 1957 to proceed to the Museum of Wesleyan University at
Middletown, Conn., for the purpose of packing and shipping zoologi-
cal materials which were transferred to the national collections.

In furtherance of his taxonomic studies on scarab beetles, O. L. Cart-
wright, associate curator of insects, examined types of Onthophagus,
Ataenius, and Ligyrus, as well as other genera, in the collections of the
Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge and the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, February 24-28, 1957. Later, April
21-24, 1957, he critically studied the types of Scarabaeidae in the Cin-
cinnati Museum of Natural History and Purdue University, Lafayette,
Ind.

Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator of zoology, and leader of the
Smithsonian-Bredin Society Islands Expedition, left Washington on
June 14, 1957, en route to Papeete, Tahiti. The generosity of Mr. and
Mrs. Bruce Bredin, of Greenville, Del., enabled the Smithsonian Insti-
tution to charter the vessel Mareva for this marine biological survey of
the Society Islands. The party included also Dr. Harald A. Rehder,
curator of mollusks, and T. E. Bowman and Charles E. Cutress, Jr.,
associate curators of marine invertebrates. In the course of this cruise
collections were obtained at or in the vicinity of Makatea, Tickahau,
Bora-Bora, Raiatea, Tahaa, Huaheine, and Moorea.

Early in January Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research associate and
former Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, returned to Panama
in continuation of his field researches on the distribution and variation
of the birdlife of the Isthmus. Through the friendly interest of Dr.
Pedro Galindo of the staff of the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory for
Tropical Medicine, and Diputado in the legislative body of the Re-
public, permission was given for work in the restricted area of the
Comarca de San Blas, territory of the coastal group of the Cuna In-

451800—58——3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

dians. The field party obtained transport from Paitilla Airport,
Panama City, via Cessna-180 four-passenger plane to Mandinga in the
San Blas where camp was established midway between the foothills of
the Cerro Azul and the sea. While much of the land had been cleared
for farming, original forest remained in the swampy woodlands near
the coast and over the inland hills. During a period of four weeks
observations were made on approximately 200 species of birds with
series of specimens prepared of those desired for special study.
Friendly Indian neighbors were almost daily visitors, the colorful
dress of the women being especially attractive. As this is the first col-
lection of any extent to be made on the Caribbean coast between the
Canal Zone and Puerto Obaldia on the Colombian frontier, the work
has afforded especially valuable information.

Following return to the Canal Zone Dr. Wetmore spent from Febru-
ary 25 to 28 in the launch Sea Raider, Richard E. Parker of Colén,
skipper, in work along the western side of the Gulf of Panama. Col-
lections were made especially at Ensenada Venado, west of Punta
Mala, and on Isla Iguana, to the north of that point, localities acces-
sible only by boat. This year sea birds had not yet arrived to nest on
the rocky islets of Los Frailes off Punta Mala, though they had been
abundant there on February 6, 1956. On the return trip he examined
the rocky islets of Isla Villa and Farallon de Chirt.

After a day on Cerro Azul and another near the base of Cerro Bruja,
the party left by jeep for the lower end of the Azuero Peninsula.
Here, from quarters obtained in the friendly village of Pedasi, studies
were made in the valleys of the Rio Caldera and the Rio Oria, the latter
accessible over a rough track practicable only in the dry season and by
means of the 4-wheel drive of the jeep. Following two weeks here Dr.
Wetmore crossed on March 22 by Cessna—180 plane from Las Tablas to
the isolated village of Tonosi for examination of the valley of the Rio
Tonosi. Here he and Mrs. Wetmore were the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
Harry L. Peck, long resident in the valley, who afforded all needed
facilities for the work. This concluded the work for this season, ex-
cept for a two-day visit to the Barro Colorado Island field station on
April 2 and 3. The collections made have added definitely to our
knowledge as the work centered on areas that previously had not been
investigated.

During July 1956 Dr. C. L. Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleon-
tology, accompanied by preparators Franklin L. Pearce and Theodore
B. Ruhoff, proceeded to Shoshoni, Wyo., to prospect for fossil remains
in several upper Eocene localities on the north side of the Wind River
Basin. This fieldwork was financed by the income from the Walcott
bequest. The exposures on Badwater Creek yielded additional
artiodactyl remains. Subsequently a search was made for skeletal
material of the Oligocene horse Mesohippus, in the Chadron beds
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ve 25

north of Harrison, Nebr. An incomplete skull of this horse and two
excellent skulls of the Oligocene dog Daphoenus were collected. Op-
erations were then transferred to Bitter Creek, Wyo., where portions
of two skeletons of Coryphodon as well as small mammals were secured
from quarries on exposures south of the town. After August 1 field-
work was commenced on the fossiliferous exposures of Knight Eocene
and presumably Evanston Paleocene in Fossil Basin near Kemmerer,
Wyo., where additional materials were obtained. Several excellent
specimens including a partially articulated skeleton of Menisco-
thertwm were found in the New Fork tongue of the Knight formation
as exposed along Alkali Creek east of Big Piney. The museum carry-
all was returned to Washington on August 17, 1956.

During the last two weeks of December 1956 Dr. Gazin studied
specimens of the earliest known North American primates in the col-
lections of Princeton University, the American Museum of Natural
History, and Yale University. On January 15, 1957, in accordance
with a previous agreement relative to the final distribution of Pleisto-
cene sloths and other mammals excavated near Octi in the Republic
of Panama he proceeded to Panama to unpack and assemble the fossil
skeletal material returned to Dr. Alejandro Mendes, director, Museo
Nacional of Panama. This assignment was completed on February
3, 1957. He examined various Eocene adapid and tarsiid primates
at Princeton University and reviewed the lower Eocene anaptomor-
phids and other Tertiary mammals in the collections of the American
Museum of Natural History, June 2-9, 1957.

During the first week of November 1956 Theodore B. Ruhoff and
Shelton P. Applegate investigated a fossil whale occurrence in the
vicinity of Smithfield, Va.

To obtain required specimens of fossil fishes and other early verte-
brates for the exhibition series, Dr. David H. Dunkle, associate curator
of vertebrate paleontology departed from Washington on August 17,
1956, for Europe. A field excursion in northern Scotland under the
guidance of Prof. T. Stanley Westoll of the University of Durham
resulted in the collection of Devonian fishes in such historic localities
as Holburn Head Quarry, Murkle Bay, the Thurso Foreshore and
Achanarras Quarry in Caithness; Edderton, Cromarty, and Ethie
Burn in Rosshire; Turin Hill in Forfarshire; and the vicinity of
Lesmahagow in Lanarkshire. At Copenhagen he arranged an ex-
change for Triassic fishes of Greenland and Madagascar with the
Danish Mineralogisak Museum. Extensive collections of fossil fishes
were examined at the National Museum of Sweden and the Swedish
Geological Survey Museum in Stockholm. Casts of primitive tetra-
pods from the Devonian of Greenland were received. At Bonn, Ger-
many, late Paleozoic and early Mesozoic fossils, including such rare
forms as a lower Devonian ostracoderm and a placoderm, were selected
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

for the display series. Arrangements were made with Dr. B. Hauff
of Holzmaden for a series of lower Jurassic fishes. At the Muséum
National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, desirable exchanges were dis-
cussed with the staff. Dr. Dunkle returned to Washington on Novem-
ber 9, 1956.

Dr. Dunkle accompanied Dr. G. E. Lewis, U. S. Geological Survey,
May 6-20, 1957, on a reconnaissance of the occurrence of fossil
mammal-like reptiles (ictidosaurs) in the Kayenta formation on the
western Navaho Indian Reservation, Ariz., with the objective of
locating skeletons for exhibition.

Following approval of an exchange arrangement, Franklin L.
Pearce and John E. Ott were sent on November 23, 1956, to the Museum
of the University of Texas at Austin to assemble and pack for shipment
a Triassic phytosaur skull and the field blocks enclosing the giant
Cretaceous fish X?phactinus. When preparation is completed these
specimens will be incorporated in the display series.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, curator of invertebrate paleontology, was invited
by the organizers of the Twenty-second International Geological
Congress, Mexico City, to lead a field excursion late in August 1956
to Sonora, where the party studied the Cambrian sequence near
Caborca and the Permian, Mississippian, and Devonian near Antimo-
nio. The Walcott bequest financed the fieldwork by Dr. Cooper in the
Glass Mountains of Texas and in south-central New Mexico. On
August 18, 1956, while accompanied by Dr. C. O. Dunbar of Yale
University, L. G. Henbest of the U. S. Geological Survey, and Dr.
John Skinner of the Humble Oil Co., Dr. Cooper reviewed the Per-
mian stratigraphy in the vicinity of Marathon, Tex., and subsequently
collected additional blocks of invertebrate materials. The field truck
was driven to Nogales, N. Mex., prior to the Mexican excursion.
When the Geological Congress terminated, Dr. Cooper returned to
Nogales where A. L. Bowsher and J. T. Dutro of the U. S. Geological
Survey joined the party for the Devonian stratigraphic fieldwork in
the vicinity of Silver City and Hillsboro, N. Mex. At Hillsboro,
Mississippian fossils also were collected. During the last week of
September and the first half of October, Alamogordo served as head-
quarters for the fieldwork in the San Andreas Mountains located in
the White Sands Proving Ground area. Field studies in New Mexico
were concluded at several localities in the Sacramento Mountains east
of Alamogordo.

The income from the Walcott bequest and assistance from the Na-
tional Science Foundation enabled Dr. David Nicol, associate curator
of invertebrate paleontology, to conduct marine fieldwork at the
Bermuda Biological Station during July 1956. He collected recent
and fossil mollusks, gorgonians, Foraminifera, and fishes. Dr. Nicol
SECRETARY’S REPORT 27

studied the Paleozoic pelecypods at the Museum of Paleontology,
University of Michigan, June 9-14, 1957.

The Walcott bequest also provided funds for Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr.,
associate curator of invertebrate paleontology, and Dr. Hans Bolli
of Pointe-a-Pierre, Trinidad, W. I., to study the Cretaceous-Tertiary
boundary in Alabama and Texas and to collect foraminiferal samples
during July 1956. The Planktonic Foraminiferal Project Fund fi-
nanced Dr. Loeblich’s trip to Houston, Tex., during November 1956
to obtain well cores from the subsurface Miocene of Texas and south-
ern Louisiana from the Humble Oil Co., and to New Orleans for con-
sultations regarding similar materials with geologists of other oil
companies. In furtherance of the same project Dr. Loeblich partici-
pated in a symposium on biostratigraphy at St. Louis, Mo., during
April 1957.

The exhibition and development programs for the Museum of His-
tory and Technology and the Museum of Natural History necessi-
tated conferences with historians, scientists, and educators relative to
the planning and designing of interiors and contents of exhibition
halls. Travel to determine the worth of materials offered to the mu-
seum, to examine methods of exhibition and to consult with experts on
preservation provided the opportunity for new staff members to
become familiar with the practices and procedures employed in other
museums.

Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, acting head curator of engineering and
industries, conferred on October 2 and 3, 1956, with officials of the
Bell Telephone Laboratories at Murray Hill, N. J., and New York
City on the design of the exhibit of the telephone in preparation for
installation in the museum. Late in December 1956, he examined
exhibition practices in the Museum of the New York Historical
Society, the Museum of Modern Art, Whitney Museum, Museum of
Contemporary Crafts, and the commercial exhibits at Rockefeller
Center, all in New York City. At the request of the chairman of the
Crystals Section of the Committee for the Brussels Worlds Fair of
1958 and the Department of State, he participated in the conference
held at Chicago on January 14, 1957. On the two following days he
visited the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry to study the
commercial displays and the Chicago Museum of Natural History to
examine exhibit practices employed in the current renovation
program.

During the period from March 26 to April 2, 1957, Dr. Derek J.
Price, consultant to the department of engineering, in his search for
suitable nineteenth-century chemical and physical laboratory ap-
paratus to illustrate the history and principles of these sciences in the
displays now being planned for new exhibit halls, conferred with the
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

staffs of the respective departments of the universities of Mississippi,
South Carolina, and North Carolina. On April 15-17, 1957, he ex-
amined the collection of astrolabes, sundials, and other antique instru-
ments now owned by Eugene Hoffman and Miss Margaret Hoffman,
New York City, and studied the Samuel V. Hoffman collection of in-
struments at the Museum of the New York Historical Society.

On May 24, 1957, Dr. Price examined physical apparatus, including
some 20 pieces said to have been made or used by Secretary Joseph
Henry, housed in the Palmer Physical Laboratory of Princeton Uni-
versity. Through the kindness of L. C. Eichner, he was enabled to
see the workshop machinery used by Henry Fitz, one of the earliest
and most important astronomical telescope makers in this country,
and now in the possession of his granddaughter, Mrs. Willard H.
Howell of Southold, L. I. Sufficient material has been preserved to
permit a restoration of the original shop in the proposed Hall of
Physics.

Enquiries relative to the existence of early scientific instruments
were made April 30-May 12, 1957, by Dr. Price at the University of
Chicago, Museum of Science and Industry, Argonne Atomic Labora-
tories, and the Adler Planetarium in Chicago, and the University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wis. Among the items of especial interest ex-
amined were Italian and Danish facsimiles of important historic
instruments made for the Century of Progress Exposition (1933-
34) which are now mostly in storage. A continuous search is being
made for historic instruments illustrating the important develop-
ments in experimental physics and in astronomy.

The recent renovation of the exhibition halls of the Wistar Institute
Museum, Philadelphia, was examined by Frank A. Taylor, Assistant
Director, on May 29, 1957. He paid particular attention to the
techniques utilized for improvement of the exhibits.

To locate significant early types of tools as well as information re-
garding their inventors and their manufacturers, Robert S. Wood-
bury, curator of engineering, visited manufacturing firms, institutes,
and museums in Providence, Worcester, Sturbridge, Cambridge, and
New Haven, July 27 to August 1, 1956. A number of individuals in-
terested in the history of tools were consulted, most of whom indi-
cated a desire to assist in the program. Machine tools and machine
shops in the Greenfield Village and the Ford Museum at Dearborn,
Mich., were studied by Curator Woodbury during August 1956.

Inspection of the 1874 machine shop exhibited by the Cincinnati
Milling Machine Co., the machine-tool exhibits of the Chicago
Museum of Science and Industry, and the automated foundry of the
Ford engine plant at Cleveland was undertaken from February 11 to
14, 1957. Plans for the hall of tools in the Museum of History and
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

Technology were discussed March 25-28 by Mr. Woodbury with
Joseph W. Roe at Southport, Conn., and individuals acquainted with
the Towne Foundation which sponsored the Museum of Peaceful
Arts in New York City. Tentative negotiations were made by Cura-
tor Woodbury April 22-27, 1957, to obtain documentary data and ex-
amples of early grinding and milling machines from the Abrasive
Machine Tool Co., Providence; the Norton Co., Worcester ; the Fellows
Gear Shaper, Springfield; Lamson and Goodnow, Shelburne Falls;
the Hartford Machine Screw Co.; and the Cryder Plumbing Co.,
Newark.

Edwin A. Battison, associate curator of light machinery, was en-
gaged from November 11 to 21, 1956, in the examination and study
of historical horological and business-machine collections in West
Chester, Pa., Clifton, N. J.. New York City, South Kent, Waterbury,
East Hartford, and New London, Conn., and Monson, Crafton,
Milton, Waltham, Auburndale, and Boston, Mass. The period from
February 19 to 22, 1957, was utilized by Mr. Battison to examine and
study the clock, watch, lock, and calculating-machine exhibits and
collections located in the offices of manufacturing firms, individuals,
and institutions in New London and New Haven, Conn. Mr. Bat-
tison visited a number of dealers in New York City in search of old
and unusual clocks and watches for the exhibit series on May 2, 1957,
and examined many early European watches belonging to the Metro-
politan Museum of Art.

Potential donations from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
and Harvard University of electrical equipment were discussed with
responsible officials, November 7-10, 1956, by W. James King, asso-
ciate curator of electricity. He visited the Franklin Institute, Phila-
delphia, December 11-12, 1956, to examine the technique employed in
the display of electrical equipment and studied display techniques
utilized for communication apparatus in the Museum of the Signal
Corps, U. S. Army, at Fort Monmouth, N. J. He also inspected the
technical relics of Edison exhibited in the Edison Laboratory National
Monument, West Orange, N. J., as well as displays in the museums of
New York City, December 26-31, 1956. He held discussions with in-
dividuals familiar with the early history of radio and other electrical
devices, February 10-15, 1957, at Norwalk and Stamford, Conn., and at
Troy and Schenectady, N. Y. At the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,
Troy, he reviewed several pieces of laboratory equipment for possible
presentation. Consideration was given by the General Electric Re-
search Laboratory, Schenectady, to the transfer of certain outmoded
pieces of equipment for the display series. Further consultations
with the staffs of the departments of mechanical and electrical en-
gineering of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on April 17-18,
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

1957, did not reveal the existence of immediately available electrical
power machinery.

At Schenectady, May 14-17, 1957, Mr. Kang was shown historically
interesting vacuum tubes and also received three magnetrons from the
General Electric Research Laboratory. Dr. Irving Langmuir and
Dr. W. D. Coolidge gave particularly helpful advice. Consultations
were held with officials of the physics and electrical engineering de-
partments of Union College regarding possible donations of apparatus.
From E. F. Hennelly, he obtained Dr. Albert W. Hull’s kenopliotron,
the first radio receiver using 60-cycle power only.

Kenneth M. Perry, associate curator of marine transportation,
visited, August 20-29, 1956, the Marine Museum of Seaman’s Church
Institute, New York City; the Marine Historical Society’s “Mystic
Seaport,” Mystic, Conn.; the Russell Hart Nautical Museum, Cam-
bridge; the Penobscot Marine Museum, Searsport, Maine; the Old
Dartmouth Historical Society and Jonathan Bourne Whaling Mu-
seum, New Bedford; the Whaling Museum of the Nantucket Historical
Society; and the hall of marine transportation in the Franklin In-
stitute, Philadelphia. During the period December 17-19 he inspected
the watercraft collection of the Mariner’s Museum at Newport News,
Va.

Leslie J. Newville, engineering division, examined extensive docu-
mentary material relating to the development of phonographs in the
possession of the Radio Corporation of America at the Camden and
Cherry Hill plants, as well as at the Edison Laboratory National
Monument, West Orange, N. J., from October 17 to 19, 1956.

Philip W. Bishop, curator of industrial cooperation, studied the
principal exhibits in the Franklin Institute relating to the practical
applications of science, November 23-24, 1956. Atthe invitation of the
Bethlehem Steel Co., Messrs. Bishop, Woodbury, Battison, and Perry
visited, on April 16, 1957, the Sparrows Point Plant in Maryland for
a guided tour of the operations of the blast furnace, open hearth shops,
Bessemer converters, slab mill, hot and cold continuous strip mills, and
the galvanizing and tinning plants. Curator Bishop on April 29, 1957,
consulted material in the libraries of the Engineers Societies of New
York and the American Society of Civil Engineers to obtain docu-
mentary data required for the cataloging of the engineering drawings
of Alexander Lyman Holley.

Data and ideas useful in the planning for the graphic arts displays
in the projected exhibit halls of the Museum of History and Tech-
nology were obtained by Jacob Kainen, curator of graphic arts, on a
European trip extending from September 7 to 30, 1956. The museums
he visited featured either science and technology or graphic arts, or
fine and decorative arts. The exhibits were chiefly technological in
Teyler’s Museum, Haarlem; Museum for the History of Physical
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3l

Sciences, Leiden; Deutsches Museum, Munich; Museo Nazionale della
Scienze e della Tecnica, Milan; and Museo di Storia della Scienze,
Florence. He studied exhibit techniques for the display of graphic
arts in the print rooms of the Rijksmuseum and the Gemeente Mu-
seum, Amsterdam; the Print Cabinet of Boymans Museum, Rotter-
dam; the Plantin-Moretus Museum and Prenten Cabinet, Antwerp;
the Cabinet des Estampes, Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels; the Graph-
ische Sammlung, Munich; the Gabinetto dei Desegni e Stampi, Uffizi
Gallery, Florence; and the Gabinetto Nazionale della Stampi, Rome.
Most of these institutions serve as research centers for scholars. In the
museums featuring decorative arts, such as Die Neue Sammlung,
Munich, and the Bavarian National Museum, Munich, contemporary
display techniques were employed.

Edward C. Kendall, associate curator of manufactures and agri-
cultural industries, on March 9-10, 1957, examined the Laucks col-
lection of farm equipment belonging to the York County Historical
Society at Lancaster, Pa., and the Pennsylvania Farm Museum of
Landis Valley with a view of locating duplicate equipment suitable
for display purposes. An old Pennsylvania plow dating from at least
1807 was presented by Daniel G. H. Lesher of Waynesboro, Pa. Ten-
tative arrangements for obtaining duplicate examples of farm equip-
ment in the possession of the New York State Historical Association
at the Farmer’s Museum, Cooperstown, were made by Mr. Kendall,
March 31-April 8, 1957.

Miss Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator of textiles, studied exhibit
techniques and methods of portraying the crafts of primitive man, es-
pecially those of spinning and weaving, at the American Museum of
Natural History and the exhibit on printing fabrics in the Cooper
Union Museum. Effective exhibit techniques were observed in the
display of summer and other fabrics at the Salamandré Museum of
Textiles and at the Museum of Modern Art, New York City. Meth-
ods of cataloging and storage of textiles utilized in the Textile Study
Room of the Metropolitan Museum of Art were particularly instruc-
tive. This visit extended from August 27 to 31, 1956.

At the County Court House, Savannah, Ga., Miss Rogers searched
the circuit court records from 1796 to 1812 for information on the
trials pertaining to Eli Whitney and the cotton gin. Valuable as-
sistance was given by Mrs. Hawes of the Georgia Historical Society.
Miss Rogers also examined the textile collections of the Telfair Acad-
emy of Arts and Science and the Charleston Museum and the facili-
ties for storage of textiles at Colonial Williamsburg, March 11 and
16, 1957, and consulted with Arthur E. Wullschleger, New York City,
on April 11-12, 1957, regarding the assembly of an old Jacquard loom
that he had purchased in France as a gift to the museum.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

George Griffenhagen, curator of medicine and public health, Sep-
tember 8-15, 1956, discussed dental history exhibits, apothecary shop
restorations, and pharmaceutical antiques with officials of the Charles
H. Land Museum and the Columbia University College of Pharmacy
in New York City, the owners of collections in Bridgeport and
Newton, Conn., the Beverly Historical Society and the Essex Institute,
Salem, Mass., the Albany, N. Y., College of Pharmacy, the Coopers-
town Farmer’s Museum, the Rochester Museum of Arts and Sciences,
and the Buffalo Historical Society. At Jamestown and Colonial
Williamsburg on October 30, 1956, he examined early English delft
and glass drug containers and devoted December 10-12 to a review of
the Ephraim McDowell Medical Museum in Danville, Ky., and to
conferences relative to the apothecary shop restoration planned for
this museum. He held conferences relating to the Hall of Health
with medical historians in New York City, December 26-28, 1956.
As executive Secretary of the Fourth Pan American Congress of
Pharmacy and Biochemistry, Mr. Griffenhagen undertook a 3-week
trip through Latin America, which required stops in Venezuela, Bra-
zil, Peru, Ecuador, Panama, Costa Rica, and Cuba, which afforded
an opportunity to examine collections of pharmaceutical antiques in
Rio de Janeiro and Lima. He studied ceramic drug jars at the School
of Pharmacy Museum, Minneapolis, and the pediatric and medical
antiques at the Canadian Academy of the History of Pharmacy, To-
ronto, April 1-6, 1957.

Mr. Griffenhagen displayed panels to be shown in the new Hall of
Health at the meeting of the American Association of Anat-
omists, Baltimore, April 16-19, 1957. He held consultations relative
to the donation of ceramic apothecary jars by the Bristol-Myers Co.,
the possible participation by Schenley Laboratories in the restora-
tion of “Americana Pharmacy,” and the content of the Hall of Dental
History with representatives of the American Academy of History
of Dentistry, April 30-May 2, 1957, at New York City.

Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator of history, studied the
military collections at the Chapel Museum, Fort Jay, and Castle
William on Governors Island, as well as the Cooper Union Museum
and the Marine collections of the Seaman’s Bank of Savings, New
York City. At Boston he visited the Old State House, the Frigate
Constitution, the Bunker Hill site, Old North Church, and Old South
Church. This travel extended from April 15 to 17, 1957.

Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., curator of philately and postal history,
consulted donors and potential donors to the national stamp collec-
tions at New York City, October 8-9, 1956, at Princeton, N. J., April
19, Detroit, May 1, and Chicago, May 2, 1957.

To observe European museum practices, exhibition techniques, and
the content of military collections for the advancement of planning
SECRETARY'S REPORT 33

the displays in the Museum of History and Technology, Edgar M.
Howell, acting curator of military history, departed from Wash-
ington on May 3, 1957. In the course of this travel he took extensive
notes and photographs of military collections at Madrid, Spain; Paris,
France; Vienna, Austria; Brussels, Belgium; Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; Oslo, Norway; Stockholm, Sweden; Copenhagen, Den-
mark; London, England; and Edinburgh, Scotland. This detail was
completed June 6, 1957.

Dr. V. Clain-Stefanelli, curator of numismatics, November 22-25,
1957, discussed types of display cases, cabinets for study collections
of coins, medals, and paper currency, and display methods for numis-
matics in New York City with officials of the American Numismatic
Society, the Money Museum of Chase National Bank, and the Metro-
politan Museum of Art. On April 12, 1957, he conferred with Julius
Lauth of the Medallic Art Co. relative to a medal exhibit illustrating
the manufacturing processes, artists’ drawings and models, and en-
gravers’ tools, and with Ernest Moore of the Gorham Co. regarding
production of coins and medals. Potential donations and transfers
were discussed with several numismatists. At Clinton, Conn.,
William Hasse, Comptroller of the New Haven Bank, presented a
number of early New Haven checks and promised help in obtaining
notes, plate proofs, and copper currency plates for the national col-
lections. Sources of information regarding Confederate note issues
were suggested by Philip Chase of Wynnewood, Pa., May 11, 1957.
Mr. Chase decided to present a set of Confederate chemiograph plates.

William L. Brown, chief zoological exhibits specialist, and Norman
H. Deaton examined the skeletons of elephants in the collections of
the American Museum of Natural History, and living animals at the
New York Zoological Park to obtain required measurements and data
for the preparation of an unusually large specimen from Angola for
exhibition.

EXHIBITIONS

A congressional allotment of $601,000 permitted continuation in
1957 of the program for modernization of selected exhibition halls.
Construction work was completed during August 1956 on the Power
Hall, during January 1957 on the American Indian Hall, and during
June 1957 on the Health Hall. Construction bids were received for
the Gems and Minerals Hall in January 1957, the World of Mammals
in May 1957, and the Textile Hall in June 1957. Actual construction
was commenced in these halls approximately one month after the bids
were approved by the Public Buildings Service.

More than 800 guests were present on the night of January 26, 1957,
when Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, and Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood opened the Hall of Everyday
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Life in Early America. Home furnishings, tools, crafts, and arts of
early settlers are displayed to illustrate the many elements in the do-
mestic and community life of the period.

Secretary Carmichael and Dr. Melville Bell Grosvenor, President
of the National Geographic Society and grandson of Alexander
Graham Bell, during the morning of March 11, 1957, invited the
visiting public to view the recently completed exhibit produced and
presented by the Bell System and the independent telephone industry
to illustrate the invention and development of the equipment required
for the operation of a modern telephone system.

On March 27, 1957, Dr. Carmichael and Dr. Robert P. Multhauf
formally opened the Hall of Power Machinery. In this hall, moving
engines and models, murals, diagrams, and schematic mechanisms are
displayed to show technological development from primitive wind- and
water-powered machines to the steam and gas turbines.

The recently completed Hall of North American Mammals was
viewed by a number of guests on April 30, 1957, following a brief cere-
mony at which the contributions to mammalogical research by the staff
of the Institution during the preceding 100 years were reviewed by
Dr. Carmichael and Dr. Kellogg. In this hall 12 habitat groups with
scenic mural backgrounds present the larger native mammals of major
importance to the American pioneer.

During the year seven new exhibit units were completed for installa-
tion in the recently constructed North American Indian Hall, in which
life-size ethnic groups will depict the everyday activities and the cul-
tures of the Indians of eastern, central, and northern United States,
Canada, and Alaska, and of the Eskimo tribes of the Arctic regions.
Two Egyptian bull mummies installed in the Hall of Old World
Archeology seem to be especially interesting to school children. Tem-
porary revisions have been made in the North American Archeology
halls.

Detailed plans for the two halls of the World of Mammals were
carried forward by Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mam-
mals. Progress was made in the planning for the marine exhibits that
will occupy the large central hall of the west wing of the Natural
History Building.

A series of dioramas of fossil marine life will be shown in the Hall
of Invertebrate Paleontology. Two of the completed dioramas recon-
struct the life present on sea bottoms during the Middle Cambrian
and Permian time. Construction work on the Gem and Mineral Hall
required removal of the materials heretofore exhibited there. A part
of the popular gem collection was placed temporarily on exhibition on
the first floor near the rotunda. Plans for the Hall of Lower Verte-
brates were revised to provide display space for newly acquired mate-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 35

rials. Restoration of a number of fossil fishes and tetrapods has been
completed for the exhibit series.

Work began on the renovation of the graphic-arts exhibits illustrat-
ing the history and methods of fine printmaking. Arrangements were
made with prominent artists for exhibits illustrating the history and
methods of printmaking. A number of important prints by some of
the earlier artists were acquired for the exhibit series. Exhibits on
camera lenses, instantaneous photography, and camera shutters were
installed in the refurbished photography gallery. This gallery is also
utilized as a photographic-print salon for special exhibitions of the
work of present-day photographers.

The new Hall of Health is nearing completion. Plans for the
modernized textile hall have been completed. Improvements have
been made in the automobile hall. A rearrangement of reconditioned
time-keeping instruments has greatly improved the attractiveness of
this exhibit.

Work on an exhibit illustrating the history of the United States
Army was advanced by the installation of weapons, models, and dio-
ramas. Progress was made on the renovation of the exhibit comprised
chiefly of the New England Copp family collections of household
furnishings and personal effects. More than 100 exhibition frames of
stamps were renovated. Special exhibits comprising old campaign
buttons, torchlights, parade costumes, election souvenirs, banners, in-
augural medals and inaugural programs were arranged for display at
the time of the national elections and the presidential inauguration.

Hight exhibition halls had been completed for viewing by the visit-
ing public at the close of the fourth year of the continuing program for
the modernization of the Smithsonian exhibits. Following prepara-
tion of the original narrative scripts and selection of objects by the
curators, the museum’s exhibits designers and preparators, in consulta-
tion with the curators involved, design the hall layouts and construct
the individual exhibits. As many as 50 topics have been presented in
one exhibition hall. That the modernization program has proceeded
smoothly and effectively is shown by the encouraging public response
to these new exhibits.

_ The educational program of volunteer docent guide service con-
ducted with the cooperative assistance of the Junior League of Wash-
ington for the benefit of the schoolchildren of Greater Washington,
was continued with success. The work remains under the immediate
supervision of Frank M. Setzler, head curator of the department of
anthropology, together with Mrs. Robert Nelson and Mrs. Alexander
Chilton, of the Junior League, who helped to organize the program
and made the arrangements with the teachers for the docent service.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

During the past school term 116 tours were conducted, the docents
escorting in all 3,056 children through the exhibit halls of the Amer-
ican Indians and the First Ladies of the White House. Counting
those from last year, a grand total of 7,556 children have thus far
been escorted. The tours were conducted Monday through Saturday
by Mrs. G. E. Brown, Mrs. Alexander Chilton, Mrs. Walter Graves,
Mrs. Edward Lamont, Mrs. William McClure, Mrs. Robert McCor-
mick, Mrs. Peter Macdonald, Mrs. John Manfuso, Mrs. Robert Nelson,
Mrs. Bolling Powell, Mrs. Jay B. L. Reeves, Mrs. John Schoenfeld,
Mrs. E. T. Stirling, Mrs. Richard Wallis, and Mrs. George Wyeth.

The number of schoolchildren thus far accommodated is gratifying,
yet it is only a small percentage of the number who come to the
Museum from all States of the Union to visit the Museum. The
numerous requests for this type of service only accentuate the acute
need for an expanded program. The Junior League of Washington
is enthusiastic about continuing this volunteer service and intends to
expand it next year to include two more exhibition halls that have
recently been opened, Everyday Life in Early America and the
Power Hall.

VISITORS

During the fiscal year 1957 there were 4,076,908 visitors to the
Museum buildings, an increase of 556,802 over the attendance for 1956.
The average daily number of visitors was 11,614. On one day, May
4, 1957, 73,141 visitors were recorded. Attendance records for the
three buildings show the following numbers of visitors: Smithsonian
Building, 791,663; Arts and Industries Building, 2,125,198; and Nat-
ural History Building, 1,160,044. March 1957 was the month of the
largest attendance with 623,502 visitors; April 1957 was the next
largest with 570,425; and August 1956 was third with 551,394. In-
cluded in this total are 370,034 schoolchildren, who arrived in 9,193
separate groups.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

The architects of the new building for the Museum of History and
Technology completed their studies for the exterior design of the
building and submitted diagrammatic plans in accordance with the
estimated schedule for their work. The design they favored was
voted the preference of the Joint Congressional Committee on Con-
struction of a Building for a Museum of History and Technology for
the Smithsonian Institution. The Committee so advised the Regents
of the Smithsonian Institution, and the Regents voted unanimously
to adopt the preferred design. Upon the completion of the diagram-
matic plans, the architects and the Public Buildings Service made
SECRETARY'S REPORT 37

detailed estimates of the cost to construct the building. These esti-
mates disclosed that the building, if built within the appropriation,
would be much smaller than the size of the building that had been
determined to be required for the needs of the Smithsonian and upon
which the original estimates for the appropriation were made. This
development was brought to the attention of the Joint Committee and
the Board of Regents. The objective was to determine the size of
the largest operable building that could be built with the appropriated
funds. At the end of the year, the question of determining the basis
on which it would be necessary to proceed was under discussion. Plan-
ning of the interior of the building by the Smithsonian staff continued
during the year. This is described in part under the section on
exhibits.

Planning for the additions to the Natural History Building con-
tinued throughout the year. A committee of Smithsonian staff mem-
bers appointed by the Director reviewed the previous planning, as-
sembled the latest data on the requirements of the scientific and service
divisions, and studied all the proposals for facilities and equipment in
the additions. A thoroughly prepared program of the requirements
will be available for the guidance of the architects. Dr. T. Dale
Stewart is chairman of the committee. Funds for planning the addi-
tions, including the preparation of working drawings and specifica-
tions, were appropriated by the Congress at the turn of the fiscal year.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

After nearly 50 years of government service, of which 42 years and
6 months were with the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Waldo L.
Schmitt, head curator of zoology, having reached the mandatory re-
tirement age, was placed on the retired roll on June 30, 1957.

Smith H. Oliver, associate curator of land transportation and horol-
ogy, resigned July 13, 1956. On July 21, 1956, Dr. Ernest R. Sohns,
associate curator of grasses since 1951, transferred to the Department
of Defense. Dr. A. C. Smith, curator of phanerogams since 1948,
resigned on August 19, 1956, to accept a position with the National
Science Foundation. Dr. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., associate curator of in-
vertebrate paleontology, resigned June 28, 1957, to join the research
staff of the California Research Corporation.

In the department of zoology, Dr. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., accepted an
appointment as associate curator of insects on September 18, 1956,
and William R. Taylor as associate curator of fishes on December 3,
1956.

Dr. Saul H. Riesenberg on August 7, 1956, was appointed to the
associate curator vacancy in ethnology.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

The vacancy resulting from the death of Dr. William F. Foshag was
filled July 16, 1956, by the promotion of Dr. G. Arthur Cooper to head
curator of the department of geology.

In the department of botany, Dr. Lyman B. Smith was promoted to
curator of phanerogams effective August 20, 1956, Dr. Richard S.
Cowan was appointed associate curator of phanerogams on May 1,
1957, and Dr. Mason FE. Hale, Jr., as associate curator of cryptogams
on June 17, 1957.

Vacancies in the department of engineering and industries were
filled by the appointment of Dr. Robert S. Woodbury as curator of
mechanical and civil engineering July 9, 1956, of Edwin A. Battison
as associate curator of light machinery July 19, 1956, of Dr. Philip
W. Bishop as curator of industrial cooperation October 1, 1956, and
of Dr. Derek J. Price as consultant on the history of science, particu-
larly scientific instruments January 7, 1957.

Dr. Philip W. Bishop on May 15, 1957, was designated acting head
curator of the department of arts and manufactures as a result of
the reorganization of the former department of engineering and in-
dustries. Dr. Robert P. Multhauf will serve as head curator of the
department of science and technology.

Vacancies in the department of history were filled by the appoint-
ment of Edgar M. Howell on September 10, 1956, as acting curator
of military history and of Dr. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli on October 1,
1956, as curator of numismatics. Mrs. Anne W. Murray was reas-
signed to serve as assistant curator of civil history July 17, 1956.
Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator of the former department
of history, became, effective November 18, 1956, head curator of the
department of armed forces history. Dr. Brooke Hindle agreed to
serve as consultant on the planning for the historical exhibits on March
13, 1957.

Robert Sterling Clark, 79, art leader and sportsman, died December
99, 1956, at Williamstown, Mass. He founded the Sterling and Fran-
cine Clark Art Institute, which opened in May 1954 at Williamstown.
Clark, a collaborator in zoology since 1922, engaged Arthur de Carle
Sowerby in 1909 for a 3-year period to accompany him as naturalist
of a scientific and geological expedition into northwestern China, and
subsequently financed the latter’s collecting expeditions for the next
20 years. The zoological specimens were sent to the National Museum.

Stuart Hoffman Perry, 82, associate in mineralogy since April 1,
1940, died at Tucson, Ariz., February 15,1957. Mr. Perry, a generous
donor of meteorites and fossils to the national collections, received the
G. Lawrence Smith medal from the National Academy of Sciences in
1946. He was the author of United States National Museum Bulletin
184, “The Metallography of Meteoric Iron.”
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

Dr. Adam G. Boving, 87, associate in zoology since 1939, died at his
home in Washington, D. C., on March 16, 1957. Dr. Boving was one
of the pioneers and world authorities on beetle larvae. Until his
retirement in 1945 he had been employed since 1913 as an entomologist
by the U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Robert A. Cushman, 77, assistant custodian of Hymenoptera since
1927, died at Altadena, Calif., on March 27, 1957. Cushman was ap-
pointed entomologist in 1906 in the U. S. Department of Agriculture
and remained in that organization until he retired for health reasons
in 1944. He published many significant articles dealing with the
classification of parasitic Hymenoptera.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineton Kerroea, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

451800—58——4
Report on the Bureau of American

Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection
of the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeo-
logic remains.”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. M. W. Stirling, Director of the Bureau, spent the period Febru-
ary 4 to May 10 conducting an archeological reconnaissance in Ecuador
under the joint auspices of the National Geographic Society and the
Smithsonian Institution. Assisting in the work were Mrs. Stirling
and Woodbridge Williams, National Geographic Society photog-
rapher. During the course of the expedition the party saw all the
major archeological collections in the country. They made test exca-
vations at various places on the coast of Esmeraldas and Manabi and
during April 3 to April 17 conducted a stratigraphic excavation at
Tarqui, near Manta. The cultural deposits reached a depth of 15
feet. Although detailed study of the abundant material recovered
remains to be done, the site evidently belongs to the late Formative
Period. Other places of interest visited during the reconnaissance
were the Island of Santa Clara, the Inca ruin of Ingapirca, and the
famous archeological site of La Tolita on the northern coast. On
the east side of the Andes several mound groups were discovered on
the Pastaza River in the vicinity of Puyo and Shell Mera. The work
was accomplished with the permission and cordial cooperation of the
Ecuadorean Casa de la Cultura. The expedition is particularly in-
debted to Carlos Zevallos Menéndez, head of the Casa de la Cultura in
Guayaquil, and to Emilio Estrada of Guayaquil for their whole-
hearted assistance.

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau,
devoted most of his time to duties pertaining to the management of
the River Basin Surveys, of which he is Director (see his report,
p. 44). Early in July he made an inspection trip to a field party

40
SECRETARY’S REPORT 41

working in the Lovewell Reservoir area on White Rock Creek in
Kansas, and to parties working in the vicinity of Pierre, S. Dak. He
attended and participated in the sessions of the Fifth International
Congress for Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences held at
Philadelphia, Pa.,in September. During the fall and winter months
he reviewed and revised a number of manuscript reports on the results
of investigations in several areas. In November he visited the field
office and laboratory of the River Basin Surveys at Lincoln, Nebr.,
and presided over one of the sessions of the 14th Conference for
Plains Archeology. At the end of April Dr. Roberts went to Lincoln
to assist in preparing plans for the coming field season and to take part
in a meeting of the Missouri Basin Inter-Agency Committee, which
convened there on May 1. From Lincoln he went to Madison, Wis., to
attend the annual meeting of the Society of American Archeology and
to discuss problems concerning the Inter-Agency Salvage Program
with archeologists present there. He returned to Lincoln later in
May to confer with members of the field staff on the program for sum-
mer fieldwork and attended sessions of the annual meeting of the
American Association of Museums being held there. Early in June
he visited a field party that was excavating sites in the Toronto
Reservoir area on the Verdigris River in southeastern Kansas. At
the close of the fiscal year Dr. Roberts was in the office in Washington.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthro-
pologist, was in Europe studying museum collections of Mesolithic
materials for their possible bearing on the Eskimo problem. The
study was supported by a grant from the American Philosophical
Society. The need for such a study arose from the fact that recent
excavations at early Eskimo and pre-Eskimo sites in Alaska, Canada,
and Greenland have revealed a number of implement types similar to
those of the Mesolithic and early Neolithic cultures of Eurasia, lending
weight to previous indications that Eskimo culture was basically of
Mesolithic origin. Prominent among the Arctic sites exhibiting Meso-
lithic affinities is the early Dorset culture site T 1, on Southampton
Island, Hudson Bay, where Dr. Collins excavated in 1954 and 1955.

In London Dr. Collins examined the extensive collection of Meso-
lithic implements from Europe, Africa, India, and Ceylon in storage
at the British Museum (Great Russell Street) as well as the African
materials in the British Museum (Natural History), South Kensing-
ton. At Cambridge he discussed Mesolithic problems with Dr. J. G. D.
Clark and examined the collections, mainly from the early Mesolithic
site of Star Carr, in the University Museum. The Tardenoisian and
Azilian collections in the Musée de Homme, Paris, were made avail-
able through the courtesy of the Director, Dr. Henri V. Vallois. At
the Bernisches Historisches Museum, Bern, Dr. Hans-Georg Bandi
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

showed Dr. Collins the materials from a stratified cave near Basel,
where Tardenoisian was found overlying the older Sauveterrien, and
Dr. R. Wyss showed him materials, now in process of publication, from
early Mesolithic sites in the vicinity of Schétz, Canton Luzern. Drs.
E. Vogt and Joseph Speck made available the extensive Mesolithic and
Neolithic study materials in the Schweizer Landesmuseum, Ziirich,
and Museum fiir Urgeschichte, Zug. Other Swiss museums in which
similar collections were studied were the Musée d’Art et d’Histoire,
Fribourg; Museum Schwab in Biel; Heimatmuseum, Rorschach;
Musée d’Art et d’Histoire de Genéve; Historisches Museum, St.
Gallen; Historisches Museum, Baden; Gletschergarten Museum,
Luzern; Musée Archéologique et Historique, Lausanne; and Heimat-
museum, Schétz. The extensive Mesolithic collections from Scandi-
navia in the National Museum, Copenhagen, were examined during
the time Dr. Collins was there as a delegate to the 32d Session of the
International Congress of Americanists. At the Museum of Far Kast
Antiquities in Stockholm, through the kindness of Drs. Karlgren and
Sommerstrom, he was able to study the rich collection of artifacts
from Mesolithic and Neolithic sites in Inner Mongolia obtained by
the late Dr. Folke Bergman, archeologist of the Sven Hedin Expedi-
tion. The firsthand knowledge of the Mesolithic materials from
Eurasia gained from the museum survey will make possible a more
precise evaluation of the relationship between the Old World Meso-
lithic and the early Eskimo and pre-Eskimo cultures of the American
Arctic. The results will be incorporated in reports describing and
interpreting the Arctic materials, including those excavated on South-
ampton Island in 1954 and 1955.

Preliminary reports on the early Dorset materials from Southamp-
ton Island have been published in the Annual Report of the National
Museum of Canada and in Anthropological Papers of the University
of Alaska. A popular article on the work was published in the Na-
tional Geographic Magazine for November 1956, and a general article
on the same subject appeared in the Smithsonian Annual Report for
1956. An article on Eskimo archeology was prepared for the next
edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Dr. Collins continued to
serve as chairman of the directing committee of Arctic Bibliography,
an annotated and indexed bibliography of Arctic publications in all
fields of science, which is being prepared for the Department of De-
fense by the Arctic Institute of North America. Volume 7 of the
Bibliography was issued by the Government Printing Office in June
1956, and the material for volume 8 will be turned over to the printer
in July.

Dr. William C. Sturtevant, ethnologist, divided his time principally
between continuing his studies of the Florida Seminole (begun before
joining the Bureau) and initiating new studies among the Seneca.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 43

During the year he continued analysis and organization of his Sem-
inole field notes and conducted research on printed, manuscript, and
photographic materials relating to the Seminole in library and
archival repositories in Washington and in the library of the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society in Philadelphia. He continued the work
of revising for publication a manuscript on Seminole medicine and
magic, and prepared for fieldwork in Florida during the next fiscal
year. He nearly completed during the year a long paper on the sup-
posed ethnological resemblances between the southeastern United
States and the West Indies. His short Seminole autobiography, col-
lected in 1950 and 1952, appeared in the journal 7'equesta, this being the
first such document published for any tribe of the southeastern United
States. At the end of January and the beginning of February,
Dr. Sturtevant spent a week in south Florida, where he delivered
a public lecture on “The Indians of South Florida” before the His-
torical Association of South Florida and read a paper on “Accom-
plishments and Opportunities in Florida Indian Ethnology” at the
annual meetings of the Florida Anthropological Society. This trip
enabled Dr. Sturtevant to revisit several Seminole settlements, secur-
ing some new ethnological data.

Another project involved library research on the history and use
of some root foods of the southeastern United States and the West
Indies—chiefly the cycad Zama and manioc. A monograph on the
subject is in preparation, and future fieldwork concentrating on the
same topic is planned for Cuba and perhaps elsewhere. New evidence
has been discovered here relating to supposed prehistoric contacts
between the two regions and to continuity in each area between
aboriginal and European practices with regard to root foods, and on
changes and borrowings during the historic period.

Dr. Sturtevant’s Seneca work concentrated on the use and manu-
facture of wooden masks, and especially on the esthetic attitudes of
the modern Seneca toward these masks. Trips were made to examine
museum collections and consult specialists in Philadelphia, New York,
New Haven, Albany, and Rochester. Dr. Sturtevant spent May and
June doing fieldwork on the Cattaraugus Seneca reservation in west-
ern New York State, with briefer trips to the nearby Allegany Seneca
reservation. No intensive ethnological work has been done on the
Cattaraugus reservation for some 40 years, in marked contrast to
the situation with other Seneca communities. The fieldwork enabled
the documentation of differences between the Cattaraugus Seneca
and other Seneca already described in the literature, especially in the
ceremonial cycle of the non-Christian groups. Considerable informa-
tion was collected on present-day usages and beliefs connected with
the masks. Texts of myths, religious speeches, prayers, and songs
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

related to them were recorded in Seneca and transcribed and trans-
lated. Case histories of individuals cured by use of the masks were
also gathered and analyzed. The esthetic attitudes of the Seneca
toward the masks are difficult to distinguish from their feelings about
their religious associations and ceremonial and curative powers, but
through the use of photographs of museum specimens and the exam-
ination with informants of specimens in use in the community and a
collection in the Buffalo Museum of Science, some data on this topic
were obtained. Another subject on which investigations were begun
at both Cattaraugus and Allegany is an interesting pattern of ritual
friendship, by which two or more individuals go through a ceremony
for curative or other reasons, which puts them in a siblinglike rela-
tionship and results in the extension of the appropriate kinship terms
and some aspects of kinship behavior to other members of their fami-
les. This is a form of fictional kinship which has interesting paral-
lels in many other societies; godparenthood and blood-brotherhood
are related phenomena, for example.

Dr. Sturtevant also attended the Fifth International Congress of
Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences, in Philadelphia, Septem-
ber 1-9, and the Tenth Conference on Iroquois Research, Red House,
N. Y., October 26-28.

On May 8, 1957, Carl Miller was temporarily transferred from the
River Basin Surveys to the rolls of the Bureau of American Ethnology
for the period ending September 1, in order that he might continue
the excavations begun last year at Russell Cave, Alabama, where very
early Indian remains were found in stratigraphic sequence. He spent
May and June at Russell Cave opening a new trench and making
preparations for converting the excavation into a permanent exhibit.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS
(Prepared by Franx H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director, from data submitted by staff members)

The River Basin Surveys, a unit of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology, continued its program for salvage archeology throughout the
fiscal year. The investigations were carried on in cooperation with the
National Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of the Depart-
ment of the Interior, the Corps of Engineers of the Department of the
Army, and several State and local institutions. Because of an increase
in funds more activities were possible than in the preceding year. Dur-
ing fiscal 1956-57 the work of the River Basin Surveys was supported
by a transfer of $108,500 from the National Park Service to the Smith-
sonian Institution. Of that sum $90,000 was for use in the Missouri
Basin and $18,500 for work in other drainage areas. This was the first
time in several years that Federal money was available for studies by
the River Basin Surveys at projects outside the Missouri Basin. A
SECRETARY’S REPORT 45

grant of $12,000 from the Idaho Power Co., made late in the spring of
1956 for archeological investigations along the Snake River in Idaho-
Oregon in the districts to be flooded by the Brownlee, Oxbow, and
Hells Canyon dams, was available for the field season beginning July 1,
and that, with the new Federal money, gave a total of $30,500 for
several reservoir basins in scattered portions of the country. The
Missouri Basin Project had a carryover of $24,954 on July 1 and that,
with the new appropriation, provided a total of $114,954 for work in
that area. The grand total of funds available for the River Basin
Surveys for 1956-57 was $145,454.

Field investigations during the year consisted of both surveys and
excavations, although the major efforts were directed to the excavation
of sites. On July 1, 1956, six parties were in the field—five engaged
in digging, the sixth doing preliminary survey and testing. Three
of the excavating parties were working in the Oahe Reservoir area in
South Dakota, one was in the Lovewell Reservoir area in Kansas, and
one was opening sites along the Snake River near Robinette, Oreg.
The survey-testing party was devoting its entire attention to the Big
Bend Reservoir area in South Dakota. Shortly after the first of July
another party proceeded to a large site in the Oahe Reservoir area, also
in South Dakota, and began a program of mapping and testing at the
remains of the largest known earth-lodge village on the upper Missouri
River. All these parties remained in the field until September. Late
in August a party proceeded to the Coralville Reservoir on the Iowa
River in Iowa and carried on a series of excavations in five sites, work-
ing until mid-October. A survey-testing party worked in the Toronto
Reservoir area in Kansas from September 22 to October 28. Late in
October excavations were started at a large mound in the Hartwell
Reservoir area on the Savannah River in Georgia. They were con-
tinued until March, when the study of the mound was completed.
During March and April a preliminary survey was made of the
Dardanelle Reservoir area on the Arkansas River in Arkansas. Dur-
ing April another party made a preliminary survey of the Warrior
Lock and Dam on the Black Warrior River in Alabama. On May
15 an excavating party proceeded to the Toronto Reservoir on the
Verdigris River in Kansas, and on June 29 it completed the investiga-
tions in that area. Early in June four excavating parties started
digging at sites in the Oahe Reservoir area in South Dakota and were
continuing their investigations at the end of the fiscal year. At the
same time an additional four field parties moved into the Big Bend
Reservoir basin in South Dakota and began excavating sites in that
area. ‘They were continuing their operations at the end of the year.
Late in June a survey-testing party moved to the Big Bend area and
was Just beginning its work on June 29. During the fiscal year nine
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

parties from cooperating institutions also conducted excavations in
the Missouri Basin. Six of them worked in the Oahe Reservoir area,
one in the Glendo Reservoir area in Wyoming, one at the Tuttle
Creek Reservoir in Kansas, and one at the Pomme de Terre Reservoir
in Missouri. Three of the parties completed their projects during the
field season of 1956 and the remaining six were continuing their 1957
programs at the end of the fiscal year.

By June 30, 1956, reservoir areas where archeological surveys had
been made or excavations carried on since the start of actual fieldwork
by the River Basin Surveys in the summer of 1946 totaled 247 in 28
States. In addition, two lock projects and four canal areas had also
been examined. Asa result of the surveys 4,622 sites had been located
and recorded, and of that number 935 have been recommended for
examination or limited testing. In using the term “excavation,” the
complete uncovering of a site is not indicated. Rather it implies
digging only about 10 percent of the site. Though many of the
locations are of sufficient significance to warrant complete excavation,
the needs of the Salvage Program are such that it is not possible to
make so extensive an investigation at any one location. Preliminary
appraisal reports have been completed for all the reservoir areas sur-
veyed with the exception of one that was done late in the year, and
that report is well under way. During the course of the year two
such reports were completed and at the end of the year were being
mimeographed for distribution to the agencies cooperating in the
Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Program. Since the start of
the program 183 such reports have been distributed. In several cases
information obtained from a number of reservoir projects falling
within a single basin or subbasin have been combined in a single report,
and for that reason there is a considerable difference between the num-
ber of reservoirs surveyed and that of the reports issued.

At the end of the fiscal year 350 sites in 47 reservoir basins located
in 18 different States had been either partially or extensively dug.
In some of the reservoir areas only a single site was excavated, while
in others a whole series was studied. At least one example of each
type of site recorded by the preliminary surveys had been investi-
gated. In the case of some of the larger and more complex types
of village remains, it has been necessary to dig a number of some-
what similar sites in order to obtain full information concerning
that phase of aboriginal culture. Reports on the results obtained in
certain of the excavations have appeared in the Smithsonian Mis-
cellaneous Collections, in Bulletins of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, and in various scientific journals. During the year River
Basin Surveys Papers 9-14, which are to be Bulletin 169 of the Bu-
reau of American Ethnology, were sent to the printer. The six
papers consist of three pertaining to investigations in the Missouri
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

Basin, one to a site in the Allatoona Reservoir area in Georgia, and
two to the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area, Georgia-Florida. Three
detailed technical reports on the results of earlier work were com-
pleted during the year and are ready to submit to the editors for
publication.

The distribution of the reservoir projects that have been surveyed
for archeological remains was as follows on June 30, 1957: Alabama,
2; Arkansas, 1; California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 5; Idaho, 11;
Illinois, 2; Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 2; Minnesota, 1;
Mississippi, 1; Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1; North
Dakota, 13; Ohio, 2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; Pennsylvania, 2;
South Dakota, 10; Tennessee, 4; Texas, 19; Virginia, 2; Washington,
11; West Virginia, 2; and Wyoming, 22.

Excavations have been made or were under way in reservoir basins
in California, 5; Colorado, 1; Georgia, 5; Kansas, 5; Montana, 1;
Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 4; Oklahoma, 2; Oregon,
4; South Carolina, 1; South Dakota, 4; Texas, 7; Virginia, 1; Wash-
ington, 4; West Virginia, 1; and Wyoming, 2. Only the work of
the River Basin Surveys or that which was in direct cooperation
between the Surveys and local institutions is included in the preced-
ing figures. Investigations carried on under agreements between the
National Park Service and State and local institutions have not been
included because complete information about them is not available.

As in previous years, helpful cooperation in carrying on the River
Basin Surveys program was received from the National Park Service,
the Bureau of Reclamation, the Corps of Engineers, and various
State and local institutions. The Corps of Engineers provided
transportation and guides for the work in two reservoir areas.
Temporary headquarters and living accommodations were made
available at several projects. The construction agency in several in-
stances made mechanical equipment available to assist in heavy ex-
cavations. The University of Washington at Seattle provided a base
of operations and laboratory space for the Snake River party, while
the University of Georgia furnished similar accommodations for the
party working at the Hartwell Reservoir in Georgia. The field
personnel of all the agencies was particularly helpful to the party
leaders from the River Basin Surveys and expedited their activities
in numerous ways. The National Park Service continued to serve
as the liaison between the various agencies both in Washington and
in the field. It also prepared the estimates and justifications needed
to procure funds to support the Salvage Program. Throughout all
the Park Service regions the regional directors and members of their
staffs cooperated whole-heartedly in the program.

The main office in Washington continued general supervision of
the program, while the field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln,
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Nebr., were responsible for the activities in the Missouri Basin and in
addition provided the base of operations for several of the parties
working in adjacent areas. The materials collected by excavating
parties in the Missouri Basin as well as those from the Snake River
and reservoir areas in southeastern Kansas and in Arkansas were
processed at the Lincoln laboratory.

Washington office—The main headquarters of the River Basin Sur-
veys continued throughout the year under the direction of Dr. Frank
H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, archeologist, was based at that
office and from time to time assisted the Director in some of the gen-
eral administrative problems. In October Joseph R. Caldwell was
appointed as temporary archeologist to carry on the project at the
Hartwell Reservoir in Georgia, with field headquarters at the Uni-
versity of Georgia in Athens. His work was completed and his ap-
pointment terminated on April 6, 1957. Dr. Robert E. Greengo
joined the staff as an archeologist on a temporary appointment March
6 for the purpose of making the preliminary survey at the Dardanelle
Reservoir project in Arkansas. Dr. Greengo proceeded from Wash-
ington to Lincoln, Nebr., where he obtained the necessary equipment
for his fieldwork and went from there to Arkansas. The general ad-
ministration of his field investigation was from the Lincoln office.
Upon the completion of the survey, Dr. Greengo returned to Lincoln
where he prepared his report. He subsequently returned to Wash-
ington, and his employment was terminated on May 4. From the be-
ginning of the fiscal year until the latter part of August William M.
Bass served as a temporary physical anthropologist studying the
skeletal material collected by various parties in the Missouri Basin.
He returned to duty on June 3 and resumed his work on the bones.
He was occupied with that task at the end of the fiscal year. Al-
though technically a member of the staff of the Washington office, Dr.
James H. Howard, archeologist, reported to the Lincoln office on
May 13 and worked under its supervision in the Toronto Reservoir
area in Kansas. His work there was completed by the end of the
year, and it was contemplated that he would be shifted to the Missouri
Basin Project. Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, who was in charge of the
Snake River field party at the beginning of the fiscal year, was shifted
by the Washington office to the Missouri Basin Project in August.
His place for the remainder of the field season was taken by George L.
Coale, who served as a temporary archeologist until December 15.
After being appointed a member of the regular Missouri Basin staff,
Dr. Caldwell was detailed to the Coralville project in Iowa for the
period from August 28 to October 18. He subsequently returned to
the Lincoln headquarters, and all his later activities were in connec-
tion with the Missouri Basin Project,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

At the beginning of the fiscal year Mr. Miller was in charge of an
excavating party in the Oahe Reservoir area, and his activities there
are described in the section of this report pertaining to the Missouri
Basin. After he returned to Washington in September, he prepared
a brief report on the results of the work in South Dakota and then
resumed writing on his unfinished report concerning investigations
previously made at the John H. Kerr (Buggs Island) Reservoir, Va.
In January he selected material from the collections made at the Clark
Hill Reservoir in Georgia and prepared an exhibit to be sent, to the
office of the Corps of Engineers at the Clark Hill Dam in Georgia.
During the fall and winter months Mr. Miller gave talks before a
number of societies and school groups in the Washington area about
the work that he had done at Russell Cave in Alabama while on detail
to the regular Bureau of American Ethnology staff in the closing
months of the previous fiscal year. Early in April he left for the
Warrior Lock and Dam Project area on the Black Warrior River in
Alabama and proceeded to carry on a preliminary survey to determine
if archeological materials would be involved in the construction at
that locality. He completed the survey on April 26, reporting that
no significant materials would be lost as a result of that project. On
April 27 Mr. Miller proceeded to Little Rock, Ark., for the purpose of
making a preliminary survey of the Greers Ferry Reservoir area, but
because of heavy rains and exceptionally high water in the area it was
necessary to postpone that investigation indefinitely. From Little
Rock he went to South Pittsburg, Tenn., to resume work at Russell
Cave. On May 6 he was again transferred from the River Basin
Surveys staff to the Bureau of American Ethnology for the period of
the Russell Cave investigation and at the end of the fiscal year was
still in that status. During the month of May Mr. Miller gave talks
on his work at Oak Ridge, Tenn., and at Birmingham, Ala. In June
he participated in a special televised educational program and spoke
before several societies in Tennessee and Alabama.

Alabama.—A survey of the Warrior Lock and Dam Project was
made during April. No sites of importance were found in the area
to be flooded. However, a number of significant sites which merit
study under other than salvage auspices were discovered adjacent to
the pool area.

Arkansas—From March 14 to April 20 a preliminary survey was
made of the Dardanelle Reservoir area on the Arkansas River. Fifty-
two sites were located and recorded and limited testing was recom-
mended for 23 of them. A preliminary appraisal report was com-
pleted in May. A proposed survey of the Greers Ferry Reservoir
area had to be postponed because of high waters.

Georgia.—During the period October 25, 1956, to March 23, 1957,
in the Hartwell Reservoir area on the Savannah River, a large mound
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

was excavated at the site of the lower Cherokee town of Tugalo near
Toccoa. There are several historical references to the location dating
back to about 1715. The village area at the site had previously been
explored, but the mound had not been touched. The mound excava-
tions uncovered four superimposed pottery dumps representing a
clear continuity from historic Cherokee well back into prehistoric
Cherokee. This represents the first known sequence within prehis-
toric Cherokee materials. Below the Cherokee deposits with a break
in continuity was a burned mound and a sequence extending back-
ward through four stages to the beginning of the mound construc-
tion. The remains of earth-lodge temples were found on three of
the levels and the traces of another type structure were uncovered on
the fourth or lowest level. The latter rested on deposits indicating
another break in continuity beneath which there was evidence of
occupation by a group that has been called Late Middle Creek cul-
ture which is believed to date about A. D. 500. The ceramic material
obtained from the excavations provides one of the longest pottery se-
quences ever found in the Georgia area. The work at the Tugalo
Mound was a cooperative project in that labor for the digging was
provided by the Georgia Historical Commission and a vehicle for
transportation and equipment needed in the investigations was sup-
plied by the Department of Anthropology of the University of
Georgia.

Zowa.—During the period August 28 to October 18 an excavating
party from the River Basin Surveys working in the Coralville Reser-
voir area completely excavated one rock shelter and tested two others.
Three open occupation sites were dug and three others tested. Two
mounds were also excavated. The materials obtained demonstrate
that the peoples living there had a basic Woodland Culture with some
later Mississippi traits. The relationship was predominently toward
the East, but some influences from the Plains were in evidence.

Kansas.—During September and October a survey-testing party
operated in the Toronto Reservoir area on the Verdigris River in
southeastern Kansas. As a result of its investigations, seven sites
were recommended for partial excavation or testing. On May 15 an
excavating party proceeded to the area and by the end of the fiscal
year had dug in eight sites, one of which was found by the excavating
party and had not previously been reported. Six of the sites studied
were occupation areas in the open and the other two were rock shel-
ters. The materials obtained there indicate several cultural relation-
ships. There is evidence for Upper Republican, Keith-Focus Wood-
land, Archaic, and Kansas City Hopewell. The full significance of
the information and specimens obtained will not be apparent until
detailed studies have been made in the laboratory. No additional
work will be required at the Toronto Reservoir.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 51

Missouri Basin—The Missouri Basin Project continued to operate
throughout the year from the field headquarters and laboratory at
1517 O Street, Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson served as
chief of the project throughout the year. Activities included work
on all four phases of the Salvage Program: (1) Survey, (2) excava-
tion, (3) analysis, and (4) reporting. The first two phases were
emphasized through the summer months and the second two during
fall and winter.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the staff, in addition to the chief,
consisted of two permanent archeologists, two archeologists detailed
to the project from the Washington office, three temporary field as-
sistants, one field and laboratory assistant, one administrative assist-
ant, one museum aide, one photographer, one clerk-stenographer, and
one half-time records clerk. There were 28 temporary laborers in the
employ of the field parties. At the end of the 1956 field season all
temporary employees, with the exception of one field assistant and a
survey party chief, were terminated. The men detailed to the project
for the season returned to their regular duties in Washington in Sep-
tember, and the temporary field assistant and survey party chief were
terminated in January. During the year two permanent archeolo-
gists were added to the staff and four temporary archeologists were
employed for the 1957 field season. In June one archeologist and one
field assistant were again detailed from Washington for work in the
field. At the Lincoln office one clerk-typist, one part-time draftsman,
one laboratory assistant, and one part-time laboratory assistant were
appointed. At the end of the year there were 76 temporary laborers
employed by the field parties.

During the year 16 River Basin Surveys field parties were active
within the Missouri Basin, while 4 others working in reservoirs out-
side the Basin also operated from the Project office in Lincoln. Of
the 16 Missouri Basin parties, 1 was at work in July, August, and
September in the Big Bend Reservoir area, South Dakota, and 5
parties were at work there in June. One party was at work in the
Fort Randall Reservoir for a brief time in September. Four parties
worked in the Oahe Reservoir in July and August and four other
parties were there in June; one field party conducted excavations in
the Lovewell Reservoir in Kansas in July and August. The four
parties operating outside the Missouri Basin were concerned with the
Coralville Reservoir in Iowa, the Toronto Reservoir in Kansas, and
the Dardanelle Reservoir in Arkansas.

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included
nine field parties from State institutions working under agreements
with the National Park Service and in cooperation with the Smith-
sonian Institution. Parties from the Universities of South Dakota
and Wisconsin and from the North Dakota State Historical Society
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

were in the field in the July—October period. Parties from the Uni-
versities of South Dakota, Idaho, Kansas, Missouri, Wyoming, and
the State Historical Society of North Dakota were in the field in the
May-June period.

A River Basin Surveys party, directed by Robert W. Neuman, was
in the field at the beginning of the fiscal year and completed 10 weeks
of excavation in four sites along White Rock Creek in the Lovewell
Reservoir area in Jewell County, Kans. Three of the sites were
fairly extensive but did not yield much material. The artifacts
found suggest that they may belong to the White Rock Aspect. The
latter is so poorly known that the evidence recovered from them
should, even though scanty, clarify the picture greatly. The fourth
site was a moderate-sized burial mound of the “Middle Woodland”
period. Unfortunately it had been partially destroyed in earlier
years by pot-hunting activity. The profile and structure of the
mound were, however, readily discernible, and enough material was
recovered to identify readily its cultural relationship. Fragments
of human and other bones were recovered along with cord-marked
potsherds and other artifacts, including two small shell gorgets. No
further work is anticipated for the area to be flooded by the waters
of the Lovewell Reservoir.

On September 21 and 22 further investigations were made im-
mediately adjacent to the Oldham Site in the Fort Randall Reservoir
in South Dakota in an area in which burials and artifacts had been
exposed by wave action and lowering of the reservoir. This site had
been partially excavated in previous years, and it was hoped that the
recent return there would produce additional important evidence.
Furthermore there was an opportunity to determine whether a site
once flooded could yield worthwhile archeological information if the -
water receded and left it exposed. Unfortunately, this work produced
no new evidence concerning the occupations of the site, even though
some artifacts were collected. The ground, though 10 feet above the
water level, was too saturated and disturbed to provide any useful
information about relationships to the house features, village, or other
previously collected material. The work demonstrated conclusively
that sites must be dug before they are flooded.

A survey-testing party, directed by Harold A. Huscher, at the
beginning of the fiscal year was conducting an intensive survey of the
Big Bend Reservoir area, which is situated between the upper reaches
of the Fort Randall Reservoir and the Oahe Dam, on the Missouri
River, in central South Dakota. The party of three was in the field
for 15 weeks and located, visited, and recorded 129 new archeological
sites and revisited 26 previously known. Detailed field maps were
made of approximately one-quarter of these sites and about one-third
of them were tested. Many of them are large and productive and
SECRETARY’S REPORT 53

material from them should fill in some of the gaps in present knowledge
of the prehistory of the area, particularly for the period from about
A. D. 1000 to 1700.

Several military and trading posts pertaining to the early 19th
century were also located in the area. Of particular interest is a site
that may belong to the period of the Spanish-Colonial post of Regis
Loisel (ca. 1802-03). Several interesting prehistoric sites appear to
have had rectangular earth lodges arranged in rows, much the same
as at the Huff site in North Dakota. Among other significant mani-
festations are a boulder efligy site, “Middle Woodland” sites, and sites
that appear to be nonceramic.

At the beginning of the 1957 field season in mid-June, there were
five field parties in the Big Bend Reservoir area. G. Hubert Smith
and a party of nine were at work at the end of the fiscal year excavating
the 19th-century historic trading post of white origin known as Fort
Defiance (or alternatively Fort Bouis). This same party anticipates
investigations at two other 19th-century historic sites in the area when
it has completed the season’s work at Fort Defiance-Bouis. Dr.
Warren W. Caldwell and a party of nine at the end of the fiscal year
were excavating the remains of an earth-lodge village which appears
to have had three occupations, including a Middle Woodland compo-
nent. Robert W. Neuman and a party of 10 were excavating a series
of three linked earth-lodge village sites on the left bank of the Missouri
River in the vicinity of Old Fort Thompson. William N. Irving and
a party of nine were also working on the left bank of the Missouri
River in the vicinity of Old Fort Thompson. They were starting test
excavations in a series of 14 sites and will make a map of each village
pattern. Harold A. Huscher and a party of two were preparing to
start reconnaissance and mapping of sites and scouting for new sites
in the entire area of the Big Bend Reservoir at the end of the fiscal
year. None of the five parties had been in the field long enough
by the end of the fiscal year to provide specific reports of results.

A River Basin Surveys party, directed by G. Hubert Smith, was in
the field in the Oahe Reservoir area at the beginning of the fiscal year
and completed nine weeks of excavation at a late historic trading-post
site near the Oahe Dam on July 31. This party excavated the stockade
outline and the remnants of several interior structures, and recovered
a considerable amount of object material representing the period about
1860. ‘The site is believed to be that of Fort Pierre II, which was oc-
cupied after the abandonment of Fort Pierre I in 1858. Structural
remains were found but a few inches below the plow zone, and in some
instances much had been destroyed by plowing over the years. A
road patrol was used for clearing away the overburden and very
satisfactorily exposed the stockade and other structural features. The
stockade proved to be approximately 220 feet square. Other struc-
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

tural features included a warehouse, a cellar, and a dwelling. Among
the objects recovered were two coins dated 1857, glass beads, a religious
medallion, several small catlinite balls, and a great mass of hand-
wrought iron. No further work is contemplated at that site.

A second River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area,
directed by Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, was in the field at the beginning of
the fiscal year and completed 12 weeks of digging on August 25. This
party was continuing excavations begun in previous years at the
Cheyenne River site at the mouth of the Cheyenne River. Three
definite occupations of the site were identified. The earliest was a
rectangular-house component. The middle one was a circular-house
component, and the final occupation was protohistoric Arikara, with
circular houses. An encircling stockade and defensive ditch were dis-
covered and excavated, but the specific occupation to which it belonged
was not definitely determined. It presumably belonged to one of the
two early occupations. <A large burial area was excavated and the
remains of over 50 individuals were recovered. The burials, in small
pits placed close together, were flexed and in most cases had been
covered with poles or wooden slabs. The burials almost certainly were
from the Arikara occupation. Some artifacts, including pottery and
a fine catlinite pipe, were recovered from the graves. The 1956
season’s excavations at the Cheyenne River site completed the investi-
gations planned for that location.

A third River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area,
directed by Car] F. Miller, was in the field at the beginning of the fiscal
year and completed 9 weeks of digging on August 24. This party of
nine began, and brought to satisfactory completion, the excavation of
the Hosterman site on the Missouri River near Whitlocks Crossing,
S. Dak. At that site evidence was found of a stockade consisting of a
double row of posts. Several refuse pits, cache pits, and other similar
features were excavated, including pits containing large sections of
articulated bison bones. The latter appear to have been slaughtering
areas. House structures presented a difficult problem as post holes
were dim and difficult to identify. One structure was fairly clear in its
outline, but the entrance was not located. Artifacts were moderately
abundant and suggest that a single occupation, perhaps of short dura-
tion, will be established for the site when analysis of the material has
been completed. No further work is contemplated at that location.

The fourth River Basin Surveys party in the Oahe Reservoir area,
directed by Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, began work on July 2 and com-
pleted 6 weeks in the field on August 10. This party of 10 conducted
a testing operation at the Sully site some 20 miles above Pierre on the
left bank of the Missouri River. The site is that of the largest known
LATE 1

P
* :
(ade

Secretary’s Report, 1957

1. Excavating in rock shelter in the Coralville Reservoir area.

2. Tracing the locations of buildings and the stockade at the site of Fort Pierre II.
{ Secretary's Report, 1957

SCM

1. Two sides of catlinite plaque with engraved decorations. The plaque was found in the
bottom of a cache pit at the Sully site, in the Oahe Reservoir area, near Pierre, $8. Dak.

2. Portion of burial area at the Cheyenne village site.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 55

earth-lodge village on the river, and two objectives were accomplished
during the season. First, a detailed map was made of the area and
the site itself was staked off in 100-foot blocks. Second, a 5-foot-
square test was excavated at each 100-foot stake along the north, south,
east, and west base lines. In addition, two test trenches were dug and
a house quadrant was excavated. The testing procedure was to obtain
both horizontal and vertical distribution patterns of specimens and
features over the entire site. From the analysis of such distributions,
it was possible to plan for the recovery of a maximum amount of in-
formation about the site as a whole from a minimum amount of excava-
tion in the 1957 season. The site is nearly 4,000 feet long and 1,500
feet wide and may contain the remains of as many as 400 house
structures. More than half that number are identifiable on the surface
as unquestionable structures, and an almost equal number appear as
possible house structures. They range from 25 feet to over 60 feet in
diameter. What were probably four ceremonial lodges are each almost
90 feet in diameter. There is clear stratigraphy in the site, with struc-
tures underlying a sterile zone, which in turn underlies a refuse heap.
Cache pits are abundant and range from small pocket caches to large
bell-shaped pits 7 feet deep and of equal diameter. Artifact material
is abundant, and pottery sherds found there suggest at least three, and
probably four, occupations. An outstanding specimen, a catlinite
plaque with animal designs engraved on both sides, was found in one
cache pit. Two certain burial areas, possibly several others, were
located but not tested. No fortification ditch or stockade was observed.

Cooperating institutions in the Oahe Reservoir area at the beginning
of the fiscal year included a party from the University of South
Dakota directed by Roscoe Wilmeth, a party from the University of
Wisconsin directed by Dr. David A. Baerreis, and a party from the
State Historical Society of North Dakota directed by Alan R.
Woolworth.

At the start of the 1957 field season in mid-June, there were four
River Basin Surveys parties in the Oahe Reservoir area. Dr. Waldo
R. Wedel, again detailed to the project by the United States National
Museum, and a party of 10 were excavating the Black Widow site and
testing six others nearby in the Fort Bennett area on the right bank
of the Missouri River. The Black Widow site was sampled in 1952
by a River Basin Surveys party. Since the material from it suggested
affiliations with the site completed by Dr. Wedel in 1956, an extensive
excavation was deemed advisable. The adjacent sites to be tested dur-
ing the 1957 season seem to be a part of the same complex. . Donald
D. Hartle and a party of eight were making test excavations in a series
of 30 sites on the right bank of the Missouri River in the Fort Bennett

451800—58——_5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

area at the end of the fiscal year. A house or two and several cache
pits will be dug in each, and a map made of each village plan and site
location. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson and a party of 25 were at work
at the end of the fiscal year at the Sully site where preliminary studies
were made the previous season. The major effort will be the excava-
tion of that site, but seven other small nearby sites that may be related
to it will be tested. Charles H. McNutt and a party of eight were
making test excavations at 14 sites on the left bank of the Missouri
River in the general vicinity of Old Fort Sully. They were excavat-
ing a house or two and several cache pits in each and making a map
of the village plan and site location. None of these parties had been
in the field long enough, at the end of the fiscal year, to report any
specific results.

In May and June Dr. Theodore E. White, National Park Service
geologist at Dinosaur National Monument, was detailed to the Mis-
souri Basin Project for a period of 6 weeks. During that time Dr.
White made an osteological analysis, in the Missouri Basin Project
laboratory, of all of the unworked animal bones from the sites exca-
vated over the past four field seasons by the Smithsonian Institution’s
River Basin Surveys field parties. Work was also done on bones col-
lected by field parties of several of the cooperating institutions. ‘This
included. over 800,000 individual bones from 63 archeological sites in
eight reservoir areas. Dr. White selected numerous specimens for the
Missouri Basin Project’s comparative collection and set aside others
that will be sent to the United States National Museum for further
study or for exhibit purposes. The bulk of the identified bone mate-
rials remaining was transferred to the Nebraska State Museum. Dr.
White amassed voluminous notes on this bone material for use in
continuing his series of reports on “Butchering Techniques of Aborigi-
nal Peoples.” Material was gathered for at least eight additional
papers in this series. Seven have already been published. One of the
particularly interesting results of this osteological analysis was the
identification of the remains of a number of unusually large dogs in
the canid material.

During the time the archeologists were not in the field, they were
engaged in analyses of their materials and in laboratory and library
research. They also prepared manuscripts of technical scientific re-
ports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular nature. The
laboratory and office staff devoted its time to processing specimen ma-
terials for study, photographing specimens, preparing specimen rec-
ords, and typing and filing records and manuscript materials. The
accomplishments of the laboratory and office staff are listed in the
following tables.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

Tasie 1.—Specimens processed July 1, 1956, through June 30, 1957

Number Catalog | Number of

Reservoir of numbers | specimens
sites assigned | processed
(i SEP BLD TE Se a Nae 2 ee Ee 8 114 3, 336 24, 602
eer ne a eee ee eer 9 878 3, 088
MRICN Ee So. eee ee ee 51 ito. 1, 384
OTE USE 2 MR ES 2 2 he 5 157 2, 004
Mrs MOU Rn ne 3 10 11
MERRION ese = ee ee ee = 8 2,198 5, 689
Seeitereet 6 a2 oF ese eee oe see eee 20 9, 303 140, 630
TRACT) no a a 35 536 862
SITes Oud TeSCLVGlisees = = a = 5 81 679

250 17, 690 178, 949
4 23 57

See Ae ae ae Law As) 179, 006

As of June 30, 1957, the Missouri Basin Project had cataloged
749,244 specimens from 1,725 numbered sites and 50 collections not
assigned site numbers.

Additional specimen transfers were made, all to the United States
National Museum, as follows: Human skeletal remains from 3 sites
in the Oahe Reservoir area; bird bone from 23 sites in 5 reservoirs;
fish bone from 9 sites in 8 reservoirs; and unworked shell from 2 sites
In 2 reservoirs.

TABLE 2.—Kecord materials processed

RenexecOpiesuOLineCOrd ges see ae ee se 11, 879
Photosraphics Megauives) imagen 2 ae ee 1, 984
RAOtO2TADNICEULINts Mad esate ees ie ee 7, 945
Photographie prints mounted’ and filed==_2= 222" S82 Sew eee ee 3, 990
Platevayouts made tforimanuscriptst Ss Ut set ee BU eee 10
Mransparenciessmountedin glasss2slhes. 2-0 es ele ee ee ats 959

@artorraphicitracines and, revisions! =. 228 ee a ee ee ee 70

During October 25-27 the annual meetings of the Mountain-Plain
Historical Association were held in Lincoln and the Missouri Basin
Project staff served as one of the local host organizations. As a pro-
gramed part of the meetings the group was invited to tour the facili-
ties at the Project laboratory. During the Thanksgiving weekend
members of the staff participated in the 14th Plains Conference for
Archeology, held in Lincoln. On April 27 members of the staff par-
ticipated in the annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sci-
ences. May 2, as a programed part of the meetings of the Missouri
Basin Inter-Agency Committee being held in Lincoln, the group was
given a conducted tour of the Missouri Basin Project facilities.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

There were over 30 members who visited the laboratory. During the
annual meeting of the American Association of Museums held in
Lincoln, May 21-25, the Missouri Basin Project served as one of the
local host organizations. Staff members participated throughout
the meetings.

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, when not in charge of field parties,
devoted most of his time to managing the office and laboratory in
Lincoln and preparing plans for the 1957 summer field season. He
spent some time working on a summary report of the Missouri Basin
Salvage Program for the calendar years 1952-55 and wrote several
short papers for presentation before scientific groups. In January
he attended and participated in the annual meeting of the Committee
for the Recovery of Archeological Remains held in Washington, D. C.
On April 9 he spoke before the Kansas City Archeological Society
on the “Progress of Salvage Archeology in the Missouri Basin.” On
April 12 he went to Mitchell, S. Dak., where he was moderator for
the afternoon session of the annual meeting of the South Dakota So-
cial Sciences Association. The main topic under consideration was
“South Dakota Prehistory” and at the end of the session Dr. Stephen-
son summarized the discussions and emphasized the needs of salvage
archeology in the area. He served as chairman of the Anthropologi-
cal Section of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences at its annual meeting
held in Lincoln on April 27. At that time he also presented a paper
on “Emerging Problems in Missouri Basin Archeology.” On May 1,
by special invitation, he presented a paper, “How Has Archeology
Contributed to Our Historical Knowledge?” before one of the ses-
sions of the Missouri Basin Inter-Agency Committee which was
meeting in Lincoln. When the annual meeting of the American Asso-
ciation of Museums was held in Lincoln May 21-25, Dr. Stephenson
served as a co-host and also was chairman for a program of Indian
dances presented at an evening gathering. At one of the regular
sessions, he spoke on the subject “Archeological Salvage Field Trips.”

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, joined the staff of the
Missouri Basin Project on August 22 and, as previously mentioned,
was detailed for work at the Coralville Reservoir in Iowa. During
the fall and winter months after his return from the field, he prepared
a report on the work he had done along the Snake River just prior to
joining the Missouri Basin Project, and completed a report on the
results of his investigations in Iowa. He participated in several
scientific meetings, presenting papers before sessions of the 14th
Plains Conference for Archeology and the Nebraska Academy of
Sciences. During the year two papers, of which he was a coauthor,
were published: “A Burial Cache from the Spokane Region,” Ameri-
can Antiquity, vol. 22, No. 1, and “The Problem of Northwest Coastal
Interior Relationships as Seen from Seattle,” American Antiquity,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 59

vol. 22, No. 2. On June 1 Dr. Caldwell made a brief reconnaissance
with G. Hubert Smith in the Big Bend Reservoir area for the purpose
of determining where a camp should be established for the coming
season’s fieldwork and also for inspecting the sites where he expected
to work. On June 11 he and his party moved into the field and were
engaged in excavations at the end of the year.

Donald D. Hartle, temporary archeologist, joined the Missouri
Basin Project staff on June 6 and on June 12 left the field headquarters
with a party to begin excavations at several sites in the Oahe Reservoir
area. Mr. Hartle was formerly a full-time member of the staff at
Lincoln and is still working on reports of work which he did at that
time. He was in the field at the end of the fiscal year.

Harold A. Huscher, field assistant and temporary archeologist, was
working in the Big Bend area at the beginning of the fiscal year, and
his activities there have been discussed in a preceding paragraph.
After his return to the Lincoln headquarters in the fall, he devoted
several months to the preparation of a preliminary appraisal report
on his summer’s work. In his report he made specific recommenda-
tions for an excavation program in the area during the 1957 field
season. He left the project in January to complete work he was doing
for the Department of Justice but returned in the capacity of a
temporary archeologist late in June and proceeded to the Big Bend
area where he was just beginning a survey program at the end of the
fiscal year.

William N. Irving, temporary archeologist, joined the Project staff
June 10 and on June 12 left Lincoln in charge of a party to begin
the excavation of a series of sites in the Big Bend Reservoir. His
activities there to the end of the fiscal year have previously been
described.

Alfred E. Johnson, field archeologist and subsequently survey party
chief, was in the field at the beginning of the fiscal year as a member
of the Big Bend survey party under the direction of Mr. Huscher.
In October he took over the task of making a survey and tests in the
Toronto Reservoir area. He was in the field until mid-November
when he resumed his academic work at the University of Kansas. He
remained a part-time member of the staff, however, until early in
January and during that period completed a report, “An Appraisal
of the Archeological Resources of the Toronto Reservoir.” Mr.
Johnson did not rejoin the Project staff when fieldwork was resumed
in the spring but went as an assistant with the party from the Uni-
versity of Kansas which was working in the Tuttle Creek Reservoir
area at the end of the year. His Toronto report was in the process of
being mimeographed on June 30.

Charles H. McNutt, archeologist, was appointed a member of the
permanent staff of the Project on June 10. He devoted the following
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

week to learning the routine of the laboratory and Project office and
on June 19 left Lincoln in charge of a party to start a series of test
excavations in sites in the Oahe Reservoir area. His activities in that
connection have already been discussed.

Robert W. Neuman, field assistant and archeologist, was in charge
of an excavating party at the Lovewell Reservoir in Kansas at the
beginning of the fiscal year and worked there until August. After
returning to the Lincoln headquarters, he resigned from the Project
in order to resume his academic work at the University of Nebraska.
During the fall and winter months, however, he continued work on
his report of the results of the excavations in the Lovewell area and
returned to the Project as a part-time employee in May. On June 10
he was appointed temporary archeologist and left Lincoln with a
field party on June 12 to begin excavations in a series of sites in the
Big Bend area where he was occupied at the end of the fiscal year.
Mr. Neuman participated in the annual meeting of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences on April 27, presenting a paper summarizing the
results of his studies at the Lovewell Reservoir.

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, during the periods he was at the
field headquarters in Lincoln, devoted his time to analyzing the ma-
terials obtained from his field investigations and preparing reports
on the results of his work. A 75-page manuscript on the findings
made at the site of Fort Pierre II during the 1956 field season was
completed. Mr. Smith also prepared an illustrated article on “Arche-
ological Salvage at Historic Sites in the Missouri Basin,” which was
published in the Missouri Basin Field Committee Progress Report for
March. During a 6-week period in February and March, Mr. Smith
was detailed to the National Capital Parks, National Park Service,
Washington, D. C., in order to make archeological investigations at
the oldest known surviving building in the District of Columbia. The
structure was built in 1766 and is known as the Old Stone House. Inas-
much as it was being restored, it was deemed advisable to make an
archeological study of it before too much work was done on it. Mr.
Smith found a number of interesting facts about the physical history of
the structure and prepared a report on them for the National Capital
Parks. At the request of the Minnesota Historical Society, Mr. Smith
spent a week in Saint Paul where he assisted in planning future in-
vestigations of historic sites in that State and in checking over results
of previous undertakings of that nature. Mr. Smith participated in
the various scientific meetings held at Lincoln during the year, pre-
senting papers pertaining to his work at Fort Pierre II and discussing
“The Present Status of Research on Early Historic Sites of the Mis-
sourl Basin.” In April he gave an illustrated talk on “Dakotans before
the White Man” at the 18th annual meeting of the South Dakota
Social Sciences Association. During May he took part in a meeting of
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

the Committee on Historic Sites of the Mississippi Valley Historical
Association held at Lincoln. On June 10 Mr. Smith left with a field
party for the Big Bend Reservoir area and at the end of the fiscal year
was engaged in excavations previously described.

Richard P. Wheeler, archeologist, was at the Lincoln headquarters
during the entire year. Most of his time was spent completing a
lengthy detailed manuscript pertaining to archeological remains in
the Angostura Reservoir area, South Dakota, and the Keyhole and
Boysen Reservoir areas in northeastern and west-central Wyoming.
The manuscript is based on data gathered by reconnaissance parties
of the Missouri Basin Project during the period 1946-51 and informa-
tion obtained by excavating parties in 1950-52. Mr. Wheeler served
as general chairman of the 14th Conference for Plains Archeology
in November and presented a paper, “Archeological Field Data and
Their Interpretation,” at the annual meeting of the Nebraska Academy
of Sciences in April. In May he gave an illustrated talk before the
Interprofessional Club of Lincoln on the subject “Some Recent
Archeological Discoveries in the Missouri Basin.” Mr. Wheeler was
in the Lincoln office at the end of the fiscal year.

The activities of Dr. Robert EK. Greengo and Dr. James H. Howard,
archeologists, who were temporarily based at the headquarters of the
Missouri Basin Project, have been discussed elsewhere and need no
further comment.

Snake River Basin.—At the beginning of the fiscal year a field party
was excavating in sites along the Snake River in the area where the
Idaho Power Co. is building its Brownlee and Oxbow dams. Test
digging was done in a number of sites, and extensive excavations were
carried on in four habitational areas. Two of the latter were on the
Oregon side of the Snake River at Robinette and two on the Idaho
side at Big Bar. Most of the material found there indicates that the
sites date from the late prehistoric period to the early period of Euro-
pean contact but at two of the locations there were items representing
much earlier horizons. The general picture obtained by the investi-
gations is that of an early expansion of Great Basin cultural features
into the Northwest and their replacement by a more dynamic cultural
pattern working upstream from mid-Columbia centers. The artifacts
collected show that the people had a basically hunting-gathering type
of economy. Implements associated with fishing were for the most
part lacking but an abundance of fresh-water mussel shells in the
middens indicates that aquatic food was actually consumed. Such evi-
dence as was found pertaining to habitations suggests that rather
flimsy brush superstructures were erected over saucer-shaped floor
areas. At the time of the arrival of the first Europeans, that area was
inhabited by a band of the Shoshoni known as the “Mountain Sheep
Katers.” ‘They were a seasonal nomadic group subsisting mainly by
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

hunting and gathering activities. They have not been known to visit
the region regularly since the 1880’s and their survivors are now mainly
on reservations in Idaho and Oregon.

Cooperating institutions—Several State and local institutions con-
tinued to cooperate in the Inter-Agency Salvage Program throughout
the year. In addition to those previously mentioned for the Upper
Missouri Basin area, the University of Missouri began a survey of
the Pomme de Terre Reservoir on the river of the same name in Mis-
souri and continued its investigations in the Table Rock Reservoir area
on the White River. The University of Kansas started a series of
investigations in the Tuttle Creek Reservoir basin in Kansas, and the
University of Wyoming excavated in the Glendo Reservoir area in
Wyoming. In New Mexico the School of American Research began
a survey of the Navajo Project, and in Arizona the Museum of North-
ern Arizona started a salvage program in the Glen Canyon Reservoir
basin. The University of Utah also participated in the Glen Canyon
investigations. The University of Texas had an excavation program
in the Ferrells Bridge area. The University of Oklahoma worked in
the Keystone and Oolagah Reservoirs in that State. In California in-
vestigations were made in the Monticello Reservoir area by Sacramento
State College and at the Trinity River Project by the University of
California at Berkeley. At the Dalles Reservoir on the Columbia
River, the University of Oregon excavated on the Oregon side of the
river and the University of Washington on the north side. Washing-
ton State College started an excavation project in the Ice Harbor
Reservoir basin.

ARCHIVES

The manuscript collections of the Bureau continued to be utilized
by anthropologists and other students. About 222 manuscripts were
consulted by searchers, either in person or through the purchase of
reproductions. In addition, 95 mail inquiries concerning manuscripts
were received and numerous manuscripts were consulted by the archi-
vist in preparing replies. As in previous years, as individual manu-
script files were called into use, their contents were reviewed and more
fully recorded in the catalog; numerous annotations were made and
about 55 new entries drafted. A number of new descriptive lists of
manuscripts having to do with specific tribes or subjects were also pre-
pared for distribution.

Utilization of the Bureau’s photographic collections by scholars,
publishers, and the general public as a source of documentary informa-
tion and illustrative material continued to increase. There were 444
inquiries and purchase orders for photographs (as against 294 in
1956) ; and 1,019 prints were distributed (978 in 1956). The archivist
continued to prepare lists describing photographs available for specific
subjects or tribes; 65 such lists are now available.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

A number of photographic collections relating to specific areas were
studied by specialists, who not only derived useful historical informa-
tion from them for their own studies, but in turn were able to supply
for the Bureau records numerous additional details concerning the
identification of subject, locality, etc., thus increasing the value of the
collections to future users.

Over 400 photographic views of Mesa Verde, Colo., and vicinity,
made and collected by J. W. Fewkes in the period 1908-22, were
studied by members of the National Park Service staff at Mesa Verde
National Park; fuller identifications and descriptions were provided
for many of these by the Park staff. About 40 of the pictures were
considered of especial historical interest and were copied by them for
the Mesa Verde files.

A series of 124 photographs of ruins in Chaco Canyon, N. Mex.,
made by Victor Mindeleff in 1887 was studied by National Park Serv-
ice archeologists at Chaco Canyon National Monument, N. Mex.,
and Southwestern National Monuments, Globe, Ariz. They identified
a number of previously unidentified views and provided details of
locality and additional notes on others.

These series are of considerable historical interest in that they show
ruins in states of preservation and repair differing from their present
state; a few show ruins that are no longer standing.

Additional caption information was provided by Dr. Harold C.
Conklin of Columbia University for a group of 121 photographs of
native peoples of the Philippine Islands made and collected by Col.
Dache M. Reeves prior to 1938.

Several members of the Cheyenne and Arapaho tribes, who were in
Washington on business, visited the Archives and provided additional
identifications and other information about photographs of Cheyennes
and Arapahoes taken in the early 1900's.

During the year a number of new photographs were added to the
collections through gift or loan for copying.

Twenty-two photographs of Chippewa, Ottawa, and Potawatomi
Indians living in the State of Michigan during the period 1853-ca. 1920
were lent for copying by the Michigan Historical Commission, through
Dr. Philip P. Mason, archivist.

Dr. Paul H. Ezell, of the Department of Anthropology, University
of San Diego, San Diego, Calif., lent for copying 11 photographs relat-
ing to the Pima Indians; they range in date from 1896 to 1954.

Twenty-five original photographic prints relating to a number of
Plains and Southwestern tribes were received as a gift from the Penn-
sylvania State Museum, Harrisburg, Pa., through John Witthoft,
director. Most of the photographs were made in the early 1880’s by the
photographic firm of Baker and Johnston.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

A gift of 26 glass negatives of outdoor and studio portraits of
Indians of the Southwest, principally Apaches, was made by Dr. E. M.
Wurster of Williamsport, Pa., through John Witthoft, of the Penn-
sylvania State Museum. The photographs are believed to have been
taken by a photographer named Eames.

Two groups of photographic prints were obtained for reference pur-
poses from other institutions (which retain the negatives and the right
to grant publication permission). Both groups are photographs of
drawings made by Robert Ormsby Sweeny in Minnesota in 1852, the
year in which he first settled in St. Paul. One set of prints was re-
ceived from the British Museum and was made from that institution’s
collection of 20 original drawings by Sweeny. Another set of 20
photographs represents a selection from a group of more than 60
Sweeny drawings pertaining to Indian subjects in the collections of the
Minnesota Historical Society.

ILLUSTRATIONS

The illustrator on the staff of the Bureau devoted his time to the
preparation of a variety of maps, graphs, and diagrams, the designing
of charts, the restoration and retouching of photographs, and the
preparation of various other illustrative work. An appreciable
amount of time was allocated to making drawings for other depart-
ments of the Institution.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

There were issued one Annual Report, two Bulletins, and one
miscellaneous publication, as follows:

Seventy-third Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1955-1956.
i1i+23 pp.,2pls. 1957.

Bulletin 161. Seminole music, by Frances Densmore. xxviii+223 pp., 18 pls.,
1fig. 1956.

Bulletin 162. Guaymi grammar, by Ephraim §. Alphonse. ix+128 pp. 1956.

Miscellaneous publication. List of publications cf the Bureau of American
Ethnology, with index to authors and titles. Revised to June 30, 1956. 112 pp.
1956.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 164. Anthropological Papers Nos. 49-56:

No. 49. The Ormond Beach Mound, east central Florida, by Jesse D.
Jennings, Gordon R. Willey, and Marshall T. Newman.

No. 50. Hair pipes in Plains Indian adornment, a study in Indian and White
ingenuity, by John C. Ewers.

No. 51. Observations on some nineteenth-century pottery vessels from the
Upper Missouri, by Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 52. Revaluation of the Eastern Siouan problem, with particular em-
phasis on the Virginia branches—the Occaneechi, the Saponi, and the
Tutelo, by Carl F. Miller.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

Bulletin 164. Anthropological Papers Nos. 49-56—Continued
No. 58. An archeological reconnaissance in southeastern Mexico, by
Matthew W. Stirling.
No. 54. Valladolid Maya enumeration, by John P. Harrington.
No. 55. Letters to Jack Wilson, the Paiute Prophet, written between 1908
and 1911, edited by Grace M. Dangberg.
No. 56. Factionalism at Taos Pueblo, New Mexico, by William N. Fenton.

Bulletin 165. Music of Acoma, Isleta, Cochiti, and Zui Pueblos, by Frances
Densmore.

Bulletin 166. River Basin Surveys Papers, No. 8. Excavations in the McNary
Reservoir Basin near Umatilla, Oregon, by Douglas Osborne. With ap-
pendixes by Marshall T. Newman, Arthur Woodward, W. J. Kroll, and B. H.
McCleod.

Bulletin 167. Archeological investigations at the mouth of the Amazon, by
Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans.

Bulletin 168. The Native Brotherhoods: Modern intertribal organizations on
the northwest coast, by Philip Drucker.

Bulletin 169. River Basin Surveys Papers, Nos. 9-14:

No. 9. Archeological investigations in the Heart Butte Reservoir area,
North Dakota, by Paul L. Cooper.

No. 10. Archeological investigations at the Tuttle Creek Dam, Kansas,
by Robert B. Cumming, Jr.

No. 11. The Spain site (8391.M301), a winter village in Fort Randall Reser-
voir, South Dakota, by Carlyle S. Smith and Roger T. Grange, Jr.

No. 12. The Wilbanks site (9CK-5), Georgia, by William H. Sears.

No. 18. Historic sites in and around the Jim Woodruff Reservoir area,
Florida-Georgia, by Mark F’. Boyd.

No. 14. Six sites near the Chattahoochee River in the Jim Woodruff Reser-
voir area, Florida, by Ripley P. Bullen.

Bulletin 170. Excavations at La Venta, Tabasco, 1955, by Philip Drucker,
Robert F. Heizer, and Robert J. Squier. With appendixes by Jonas EH. Gull-
berg, Garniss H. Curtis, and A. Starker Leopold.

Publications distributed totaled 28,558 as compared with 17,018 for
the fiscal year 1956.

COLLECTIONS
Acc. No.

214119. 3 cedar-bark mats from Nootka Indians, British Columbia, Canada.

214961. 27 miscellaneous archeological specimens from Tennessee and Illinois
collected by J. W. Emmert and G. Fowke before 1894.

205014. 15 land snails from Ecuador and 33 ethnological specimens from Ecua-
dor and Florida (through Dr. M. W. Stirling).

205360. John W. Powell catalog of Indian collections deposited in the Smith-
sonian Institution, and supplement to catalog.

207445. 13 specimens associated with Zui Indian religious cult practices.

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

212741. 2 fresh-water mussels from Iowa (through Robert L. Stephenson).

211157. Archeological material from 4 Nebraska counties, 1955.

211158. Archeological material from 2 sites in Oahe Reservoir, Stanley County,
S. Dak., and human skeletal material, 1955.

213526. Archeological material from Rock Village, Mercer County, N. Dak.,
1950-52.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Acc. No.

213765. 9 specimens of archeological material from Pembina River Reservoir,
N. Dak., 1948.

214031. 1,332 specimens of archeological material from Fort Randall area,
Gregory and Lyman Counties, S. Dak., 1950-52.

214234. Archeological material from Garrison Reservoir, McLean County,
N. Dak., 1952.

214612. Archeological material from Fort Randall Reservoir, Lyman County,
S. Dak., 1950.

MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. John R. Swanton, Dr. John P. Harrington, Dr. A. J. Waring,
Jr., and Ralph S. Solecki continued as research associates of the
Bureau of American Ethnology.

Dr. Frances Densmore, who had been a collaborator of the Bureau
for a period of 50 years, died June 5, 1957, at her home in Red Wing,
Minn., at the age of 90. Shortly before her death she corrected the
proof of her last bulletin for the Bureau entitled “Music of Acoma,
Isleta, Cochiti, and Zufii Pueblos,” which will be distributed in Au-
gust 1957. Thirteen of her papers on Indian music were published
by the Bureau as complete bulletins, five as anthropological papers,
and one was published in the Annual Report series.

Information was furnished during the past year by staff members
in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the American Indians, past
and present, of both continents. Twelve bibliographies or informa-
tion leaflets were prepared and duplicated for distribution to the
public, as follows:

SIL-16, rev. Indian Crafts and Indian Lore. Bibliography.
SIL-50. Selected List of Portraits of Prominent Indians.
SIL-65, rev. Bibliography on the American Indians.
SIL-76. Statement regarding the Book of Mormon.

SIL-79. Indian Songs and Dances. Bibliography.

SIL-81. Selected Bibliography on Stone-chipping Methods.
SIL-89. Selected References on the Plains Indians.

SIL-92. Origin of the American Indian.

SIL-93. Trails and Trade Routes.

SIL-96. Photographic Collections pertaining to the American Indians.
SIL-98. Selected References on the Seminole Indians.
SIL-99. American Indian Medicine. Bibliography.

Many new descriptive lists and information leaflets were prepared
in answer to requests for information on the Bureau’s photographic
and manuscript collections. There continued to be a popular de-
mand for information, published material, and photographs from
teachers—particularly of primary and secondary grades—from Scout
and other civic organizations, and from the general public. Infor-
mation and reference material for term papers were constantly re-
quested by hundreds of high school and college students. Staff mem-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

bers and the archivist were frequently consulted by publishers re-
garding the progress made in the various fields of anthropology and
on specific projects for background material to be used in scientific
and popular magazines and books, appropriate pictures and illus-
trations. Many specimens were identified for owners and data sup-
plied to them.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Srirtine,
Director, Bureau of American Ethnology.
Dr. Lronarp CaRMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the oper-
ations of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1957:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two research divisions: the
Division of Astrophysical Research, for the study of solar and other
sources of energy impinging on the earth, and the Division of Radia-
tion and Organisms, for investigations dealing with radiation as it
bears directly or indirectly upon biological problems. Three shops—
for metalwork, woodwork, and optical electronic work—are main-
tained in Washington to prepare special equipment for both divisions,
and a field station for solar observation is located at Table Mountain,
Calif.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The transfer of the office of the Director of the Observatory and the
Division of Astrophysical Research from Washington to Cambridge,
Mass., has made possible a close liaison with the Harvard College Ob-
servatory—a working association that proved highly effective during
the year. There is every indication that this relationship between two
of the great astrophysical centers in the United States will continue
over the years to stimulate the efforts and increase the effectiveness of
both institutions.

Important progress was made in the past year in the reorientation
of the Astrophysical Observatory’s research program toward broader
scientific investigation of various solar-system phenomena—a pro-
gram that should bear heavily upon the scientific progress of our
nation during the coming decades. Concentration, as in the past,
concerns the impact of radiations, atoms, and meteoritic particles on
the earth, both in its atmosphere and upon its surface. All these
phenomena represent energy sources that affect our atmosphere and,
to varying degrees, the conditions in which we live, particularly the
technological instrumentation which has become such a vital part of
our great modern civilization. Vigorous and effective research pro-
grams in the special fields of activity of the Observatory are now
firmly established, and a considerable portion of the work is closely
integrated with the massive effort of the International Geophysical
Year. This is particularly true of the satellite program, studies of
the upper atmosphere, and various aspects of the meteoritical research
programs.

68
SECRETARY’S REPORT 69

One of the long-term goals of the Astrophysical Observatory is to
conduct astronomical observations and experiments above the atmos-
phere and to develop relevant techniques of value to the research pro-
gram. When this goal has been attained, we shall not only improve
vastly the precision and significance of our observations by eliminat-
ing the deleterious effects of a hazy, cloudy, turbulent, and mostly
opaque atmosphere but also greatly increase our understanding of the
interactions, because the external energy sources affect profoundly
this ocean of atmosphere in which we live.

Solar astrophysics—Early in the fiscal year, Dr. Theodore E.
Sterne joined the Astrophysical Observatory as Associate Director,
with the principal duty of supervising solar astrophysical research.
The following are among the studies that have been pursued in this
field :

The Table Mountain station continued to operate despite atmos-
pheric disadvantages outlined in the 1956 report. Of the observing
staff, F. A. Greeley retired during the year, and Stanley Aldrich went
on leave of absence at the end of the year.

Careful statistical studies of the variation of solar radiation inten-
sity were made by Dr. Sterne and by Mrs. Nannielou Dieter, who
joined the Observatory for the summer of 1956. By comparing simul-
taneous Montezuma and Table Mountain values between 1926 and 1955,
they found that the root-mean-square value of real changes in the
solar constant during this interval was no greater than 0.0032 calorie
per square centimeter per minute, or about 0.17 percent of the solar
constant itself. This result demonstrates the high precision of the
fundamental observations made over the years. They also calculated
correlations from the observations at each station separately and found
no periodicities that were common to the two stations.

A thorough study is being made for the improvement of the radia-
tion-measuring program by changes in the site, the observing equip-
ment, and the frequency of observations.

Dr. Max Krook has been investigating the theory of nonsteady phe-
nomena in the solar atmosphere and corona. His studies include the
effects of convective instabilities and magnetic fields on the state of
motion of the solar atmosphere, and have shed light on the preduction
of such events as sunspots, flares, prominences, and the production of
cosmic rays.

Theoretical studies of the propagation of nonadiabatic acoustic
waves in the solar atmosphere have been made by Dr. Charles Whitney,
who joined the staff in July 1956. He has succeeded in constructing
a theoretical model for solar granulation (small-scale brightness fluc-
tuations observed on the solar disc) which is in accord with observa-
tions. Although such studies have been made with particular empha-
sis on solar activity, they will have a much wider application.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Dr. John H. Waddell has been investigating, theoretically and ob-
servationally, the velocity fluctuations in the solar photosphere and
their effect on the line spectrum of the solar disc.

Dr. Alan S. Meltzer, who joined the staff in October 1956, has been
conducting two studies of solar line profiles: I, variation of Doppler
half-width with atomic weight; II, parity effect. During the months
of March and April 1957, he made observations relevant to these two
studies at the Sacramento Peak Observatory, Sunspot, N. Mex.

Dr. William M. Sinton, who joined the staff in July 1956, left in
May 1957 for the Lowell Observatory at Flagstaff, Ariz. While with
the Smithsonian he used photoconductive equipment and the Wyeth
61-inch reflecting telescope of the Harvard College Observatory to
observe the intensity of radiation from the planet Mars in the vicinity
of 3.46 microns, during the planet’s 1956 opposition. The reflection
spectra of most planets show absorption in this spectral region arising
from the carbon-hydrogen bond. The absorption bands are so dis-
tinctive that if present in Mars light they would be evidence for or-
ganic molecules and, therefore, of life on Mars. The electrical meas-
urements with the 61-inch telescope indicated the probable presence of
the distinctive bands and thus of life, probably vegetable, on Mars.
The effect of solar radiation on Mars is obviously important in under-
standing its effects on the earth.

Meteoritical studies——Meteoritical studies have been a part of the
Smithsonian Institution’s scientific research program for over 80
years, during which time its meteorite collection has been developed
into one of the most outstanding in the world. The only tangible
extraterrestrial material, meteorites are of great astrophysical interest.
Under Dr. John S. Rinehart’s direction, the Astrophysical Observatory
undertook, during 1956, a freshly oriented program of meteoritical
research, with the principal objective of resolving astrophysical prob-
lems. This program is now well under way with the pursuit of the fol-
lowing specific activities: A study of the processes that cause the abla-
tion of meteorites during their flight through the atmosphere; the
design and construction of an electron fluorescent X-ray micronana-
lyzer to be used especially for studying the distribution of nickel,
iron, and cobalt within meteorites; the collection and identification of
airborne extraterrestrial material; the sending of an expedition to the
Arizona Meteorite Crater for determining the distribution of meteor-
itic debris about the crater; and the determination of the ages of
meteorites by radiochemical techniques. All these efforts have been
directed toward solving the riddles of the ages—the origins and
natures of extraterrestrial material.

The study of ablation of meteorites has been concerned with the
distinct shapes and surface features of a large number of meteorites,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 71

and the examination of the internal structure of meteorites from a
metallurgical point of view. The plan is to prepare detailed descrip-
tions of the topology and morphology of individual meteorites, especial
interest being paid to those that show ablation. While very little
can yet be said about the total amount of meteoritic material lost,
meteorite size and material are both very critical factors. It has been
found that small (up to 3 inches in diameter) meteorites are smoothly
sculptured ; large stones exhibit shallow elongated pits or depressions
(2 cm. by 1 cm. by 5 mm. deep); and large irons, very deep pits
(5 cm. in diameter and 3 cm. deep). The number, distribution, and
size of the depressions depend upon the relation of a particular surface
or portion of surface to the direction of flight. Pronounced irregu-
larities of shape increase ablation. Finally, heat from the surface
seems to penetrate into the meteorite at most only a few millimeters
beyond where ablation leaves off. Dr. E. P. Henderson, of the United
States National Museum, is actively engaged in this project, which is
being supported by the United States Air Force Office of Scientific
Research. One of the most difficult and challenging problems facing
the present-day aerodynamical engineer is the rational design of pre-
flight devices that will withstand the rigors of the passage through
the atmosphere. The investigations of the Astrophysical Observatory
will yield basic data which may aid in a solution of these problems.

Dr. F. Behn Riggs, Jr., and Prof. Andrew Lang have nearly com-
pleted the design and construction of an electron fluorescent micro-
analyzer. The fundamental principle of the instrument is the direct
excitation of X-radiation characteristic of the elements of the sample
by a fine beam (approximately 5 microns in diameter) of electrons
focused on the selected site. The method will be applied first to the
determination of nickel-iron-cobalt percentages in meteorites that have
Widmanstaetten figures. The method is applicable to microscopic
areas or particles.

An expedition consisting of Dr. John S. Rinehart, Nicholas Matalas,
R. O’Neil, and R. Olsen was in residence at the Barringer Meteorite
Crater in Arizona during the summer of 1956, to determine the dis-
tribution of minuscule bits and pieces of meteoritic material in the soil
around the crater. The expedition collected and processed some 700
soil samples from over an 80-square-mile area. Especially designed
magnetic separators were used to recover the meteoritic material. The
results have indicated that the debris lies in a definite pattern; it is
symmetrically distributed about a line that runs roughly about 15°
north of east; while symmetrical, the distribution is not smooth but
contains several local areas in which the abundance of meteoritic ma-
terial is high; the crater does not lie at the center of the pattern; and
there is a concentration of material to the east of the crater. These

451800—58——6
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

findings strongly suggest that the meteorite approached the crater
from a direction slightly to the south of west rather than a north-
northwesterly direction, as has been previously assumed. The total
amount of finely divided meteoritic material was found to be about
12,000 ordinary tons, which fixes a lower limit to the mass of the
meteorite that formed the crater. The expedition was supported in
part by the Geophysics Research Directorate of the Air Force Cam-
bridge Research Center.

A concentrated effort is now being made to estimate the rate of
accretion of meteoric material by the earth and to establish the physi-
cal nature of this material. Most of the mass is probably accreted in
the form of dust and small particles. From a practical point of view,
astronautical ventures and possibly rainfall could be influenced by
such material. Thus far a few collections of dust (presumably
meteoric) have been made on the ground. A method will be devised
and a device constructed for collecting micrometeorites from aircraft
and balloons at and above stratospheric altitudes. The designs of
collectors are well underway, and an Air Force-furnished aircraft is
in sight for use in making collections. Paul Hodge is working ac-
tively on this project.

Dr. E. L. Fireman is continuing his ground-breaking studies of the
stable and radioactive isotopes produced by cosmic rays in meteorites
and by high-energy particles in targets. Previously he conducted this
research at the Brookhaven National Laboratory. Part of the equip-
ment used for these studies has beeen transferred from Brookhaven
under a research contract with the Atomic Energy Commission and
put into operation at the Astrophysical Observatory, where a
radiochemistry laboratory has been set up. Dr. Fireman also col-
laborated with Dr. J. Ziihringer to measure the depth variation of
tritium and argon-37 produced by high-energy protons in iron.

Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia has supervised the reduction by accurate tech-
niques of meteors photographed with the Super-Schmidt cameras un-
der the Harvard Meteor Program and has conducted research on the
physical nature of meteors through a study of their deceleration and
fragmentation inside the earth’s atmosphere. Among the significant
results of this research in the course of the elapsed year can be listed
the finding that there is no clear-cut evidence for the presence of hard-
bodied meteors of asteroidal origin among 361 Super-Schmidt meteors
which were analyzed, and the result of the comparison of visual and
photographic magnitudes of meteors, which showed that the “color
index” of meteors is rather independent of velocity, but shows a strong
dependence on meteor brightness.

Upper atmosphere and satellite-tracking programs.—The respon-
sibility for the optical tracking of the IGY earth satellites was as-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 73

signed to the Smithsonian Institution by the National Academy of
Sciences and the National Science Foundation at the recommendation
of the United States National Committee of the International Geo-
physical Year. Dr. J. Allen Hynek, who became an Associate Direc-
tor of the Observatory on July 1, 1956, has been in charge of the
Optical Tracking Program. Major extension of staff in the tracking
project began in September 1956, and has grown steadily during the
course of the year as various specialists were invited to join the staff
under contract through funds furnished by the National Science
Foundation. As of June 30, 1957, the satellite-tracking staff con-
sisted of 32 persons

The optical tracking program for the satellite has three main divi-
sions: The photographic tracking program under the supervision
of Dr. Karl G. Henize; the computational, analysis, and communica-
tions division under the supervision of Dr. Don Lautman; and the
visual search program, popularly termed Moonwatch, under the
direction of Leon Campbell, Jr.

The precision photographic program will employ 12 Baker-Nunn
Schmidt cameras at strategic locations in a worldwide belt. The
sites will be located in Florida, New Mexico, Hawaii, Japan, Aus-
tralia, India, Iran, Spain, South Africa, Argentina, Peru, and the
Netherlands Antilles.

The designs of the mechanical and optical parts of the telescopes
have been completed, and the instruments are under active construc-
tion. The mechanical portions of the telescope-cameras are being
constructed by the Boller and Chivens Co. in South Pasadena, using
the designs of Joseph Nunn, while the optical components are being
constructed at the shops of the Perkin-Elmer Corp., according to
designs made by Dr. James G. Baker. Glass for the 30-inch mirrors
is being furnished by the Corning Glass Co.

It is expected that the tracking stations will be in operation during
the latter part of 1958. Each station is to be equipped with precision
timing devices and all auxiliary apparatus necessary to the mainte-
nance of an essentially complete observatory. The stations are being
operated, wherever possible, as joint cooperative ventures with the
country concerned, and it is a pleasure to report that the highest
degree of cooperation has been found in all cases. This network of
observing stations, it might be pointed out, continues the long-
established Smithsonian tradition of operating various strategically
located observatories around the world.

The telescopic cameras designed for satellite tracking have been
made as versatile as possible to allow for a wide variety of sizes and
shapes of satellites expected to be launched by this and other coun-
tries during the course of the IGY. Indeed, it should even be possible
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

for these instruments to photograph a highly reflecting sphere the
size of a tennis ball at a distance of more than 200 miles.

The popular interest and cooperation generated by the Moon-
watch program have far exceeded the expectations of the Astro-
physical Observatory. In the United States alone there are 90 reg-
istered Moonwatch teams comprising more than 1,500 voluntary
observers, many of whom are amateur astronomers of considerable
experience in the observation of the sky. A regular series of Moon-
watch bulletins has been initiated by the Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, published in Sky and Telescope, with reprints fur-
nished to all registered observers. The bulletins are regularly
translated into Spanish for distribution in South America and Spain,
while the English edition is mailed to many parts of the world.
Moonwatch stations have been established also in Japan, Iran, Korea,
Argentina, Peru, Chile, Australia, Union of South Africa, Pakistan,
and India. One aspect of the Moonwatch program which should not
be underestimated is its contribution to the creation of interest among
the public in scientific matters. Moonwatch teams provide oppor-
tunity for serious people without specific scientific training to partici-
pate in the IGY program and to render a definite scientific service.

The computation and analysis division of the program is now pre-
pared, through the use of electronic calculators, to handle orbital com-
putations from the raw data furnished by the precision stations
as well as the Moonwatch stations. International Business Ma-
chines Corp. has made possible the use of their 704-computer instal-
lation at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Observatory
will receive up to 1 hour a day of machine time until June 30, 1959,
for satellite computations. IBM will also supply one or two program-
ers for technical assistance.

Such computations will furnish the immediate ephemerides for
satellite positions, so that the precision tracking stations can be
properly alerted, and the Moonwatch teams and public in general
informed of the satellite’s immediate whereabouts. The long-range
purposes of the computation and analysis division, however—and its
most important aspect—are the detailed analyses of the changes in the
various elements of the satellite orbit. These orbital calculations are
essential to the proper use of the satellite as a scientific vehicle for
geodetic and geophysical purposes.

In support of upper-atmospheric studies by satellite methods Dr.
Sterne has completed a theoretical research on the gravitational motion
of a particle of small mass near a planet flattened by rotation. He dis-
covered a novel Hamiltonian function that led to an exact analytical
solution for the motion of a particle in very nearly the correct field of
force. Dr. Sterne also developed special mathematical procedures for
SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

inferring the density of the earth’s atmosphere from a satellite at such
low altitude. In the course of this work he extended a U. S. Air
Force atmospheric model to much greater heights than the 540 kilo-
meters at which the Air Force abandoned it.

PUBLICATIONS

Volume 1 and numbers 1-4 of volume 2 of the Smithsonian Contri-
butions to Astrophysics were published. Volume 1, issued under the
partial support of the National Science Foundation, included New
Horizons in Astronomy, a series of 39 papers by eminent American
astronomers outlining future research of importance in astronomy.
Research contributions on meteors and solar work comprised the
remainder of the publications.

During the current year the following publications by staff mem-
bers of the Astrophysical Observatory appeared in various scientific
journals:

FireMan, B. L., and Schwarzer, D. Measurement of Li®, He® and H® in meteor-
ites and its relation to cosmic radiation. Geochim. and Cosmochim. Acta,
vol. 11, No. 4, April 1957.

Henize, Kart G. The Baker-Nunn satellite-tracking camera. Sky and Tele-
scope, vol. 16, pp. 108-111, January 1957.

JaccHia, L. G. A preliminary analysis of atmospheric densities from meteor
decelerations for solar, lunar and yearly oscillations. Journ. Meteorol.,
vol. 14, pp. 84-87, 1957.

Kroox, Max. Electrodynamics of fluids and plasmas. Smithsonian Contr.
Astrophys., vol. 1, pp. 53-58, 1956.

Mettzer, ALAN 8S. Spectroscopic investigation of Algol. Astrophys. Journ.,
vol. 125, p. 359, 1957.

MELTzER, ALAN S., SCHARZSCHILD, M. and B., and Searxe, L. A spectroscopic
comparison between high- and low-velocity K giants. Astrophys. Journ.,
vol. 125, p. 123, 1957.

Rinewart, Joun S. Applications of high speed photographic techniques to
hypervelocity free-flight investigations. Proc. 3d Int. Symp. High Speed
Photogr. Butterworth Scientific Publications, 1956.

Meteorites. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 1, p. 81, 1956.

Ablation of meteorites [abstract]. Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc., vol. 2, p. 45,

1957.

A soil survey around the Barringer Crater. Sky and Telescope, vol. 16,

No. 8, June 1957.

Arizona’s meteorite crater, by H. H. Nininger [review]. Science,
vol. 125, p. 829, 1957.

Wurertet, Frep L. Meteors. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 1, pp. 83-86,
1956.

The scientific value of artificial satellites. Journ. Franklin Inst.,
vol. 262, pp. 95-109, 1956.

Moontracking. Saturday Rev., vol. 39, No. 35, pp. 37-39, Sept. 1, 1956.
Wanted: Spotters for the satellites. Science Digest, December 1956,
pp. 33-37.

Moon. World Book Encyclopaedia, pp. 5227-5231, 1957.

The sunward tail of comet Arend-Roland [letter]. Nature, vol. 179,
p. 1240, 1957.

76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

WuirLe, Frep L., Davis, R. J., and ZirKer, J. B. The orbit of a small earth
satellite. Jn “Scientific Uses of Earth Satellites,” pp. 1-22. University of
Michigan Press, 1956.

Time available for the optical observation of an earth satellite.
Ibid., pp. 23-28.

WuHiper te, Fred L., and Jacouta, L. G. The Harvard photographic meteor pro-
gramme. Jn ‘Vistas in Astronomy,” vol. 2. Pergamon Press, 1956.

The orbits of 308 meteors photographed with Super-Schmidt
cameras [abstract]. Astron. Journ., vol. 62, pp. 37-38, 1957.

Reduction methods for photographie meteor trails. Smithsonian
Contr. Astrophys., vol. 1, pp. 183-206, 1957.

WHIPPLE, Frep L., and Wricut, F. W. Methods for the study of shower radiants
from photographic meteor trails. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys., vol. 1,

pp. 239-243, 1957.
OTHER ACTIVITIES

A conference on Constants for Orbital Calculations was held at
the Astrophysical Observatory on January 25, 1957. On February
15, 1957, a conference on Solar Measurements was held at the Smith-
sonian Institution, Washington, D. C. The Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory and the Harvard College Observatory acted as co-
hosts at the meetings of the American Astronomical Society, May 8-11,
1957. The Astrophysical Observatory was host to the international
Third Cosmical Gas Dynamics Symposium, June 24-29, 1957.

Various staff members attended meetings of the American Astro-
nomical Society, the American Physical Society, and the Third Cos-
mical Gas Dynamics Symposium.

Dr. E, L. Fireman attended the National Academy of Sciences con-
ference on Nuclear Geology and the Gordon Conference on Nuclear
Chemistry.

Dr. John S. Rinehart participated in the Third International
Symposium on High Speed Photography in London, September 1956;
the Institution of Mechanical Engineers Conference on the Properties
of Materials at High Rates of Strain in London, May 1957; the Air
Force Office of Scientific Research and Naval Research Laboratory
Symposium on Hyper-velocity and Impact Effects, May 1957; and
the National Academy of Sciences Symposium on Tektites, Wash-
ington, June 1957.

In the interest of obtaining optical tracking sites for the Satellite
Tracking Program, Dr. J. Allen Hynek traveled to South America,
visiting Montevideo, Uruguay; Santiago, Chile; Lima, Peru;
Antofagasta, Peru; Arequipa, Peru; and Curacao, N. W. L., during
January 1957. He also traveled to Teheran, Iran; Delhi, India;
Tokyo, Japan; and Hawaii during the latter part of May and early
June of 1957 to inspect optical tracking sites. Dr. Karl G. Henize
traveled to Spain and South Africa between March 20 and April 7,
1957, to inspect optical tracking sites.
SECRETARY’S REPORT rir

The Director attended and contributed to the International Geo-
physical Year conference at Barcelona, Spain, September 1956, and the
International Federation of Astronautics Congress at Rome in Sep-
tember 1956. He was panel leader of and contributor to an Astronau-
tics Symposium, San Diego, January 1957, sponsored by U. S. Air
Force, Office of Scientific Research, and by the Convair Corp.

In national science and defense, the Director contributed by serving
in the following capacities: Chairman of Technical Panel on Rocketry
of the International Geophysical Year; member Technical Panel on
the Earth Satellite Program of the International Geophysical Year;
member of the working group on Tracking Earth Satellites on above
panel; member Panel of the Atmosphere of the Scientific Advisory
Board to the Air Force; member Committee on Cosmic and Terrestrial]
Relationships of the American Geophysical Union; Editor, Harvard
Announcement Cards; and general editor, Smithsonian Contributions
to Astrophysics.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS
(Prepared by R. B. WitHrow, Chief of the Division)

The major activities of this division have been concerned with fun-
damental physiological and biochemical research on the role of light
in regulating growth in higher plants. Seed germination, seedling
growth, flowering, and the development of what is commonly referred
to as a “normal plant” are controlled by light. Pigments within the
organism absorb the light and convert it into chemical bond energy
and thus initiate a chain of events that produces the observed growth
effects. In most instances, relatively little hght 1s necessary. This
is in contrast to the photosynthesis of sugars where very high inten-
sities are required for optimal results. There is a similar group of
light-controlled reactions in animals which regulate many phases of
reproductive behavior. Plans are now being implemented to inves-
tigate this phase of animal physiology.

The two general groups of photochemical reactions that regulate
plant growth are (1) those controlling photomorphogenesis, which
are activated chiefly by red and far-red light, and (2) those con-
cerned with phototropism, controlled principally by blue light. The
respective pigment systems channel the energy into different biochem-
ical pathways and therefore induce entirely different physiological
responses.

Photomorphogenesis.—Seed germination, seedling development,
flowering, bud development of woody plants, and changes in stem
length are examples of formative processes controlled by light from
the red end of the spectrum. Collectively, these may be grouped un-
der the term “photomorphogenesis.”
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Reports from other laboratories have indicated that chemicals such
as gibberellin and kinetin will, to some extent, replace red irradiation
in promoting some photomorphogenetic processes such as seed germi-
nation and flowering. These materials have been tested on seedling
growth during the past year by Dr. W. H. Klein and Victor Elstad.
It was found that gibberellin and kinetin could not substitute for red
irradiation in this case. Both inhibited the growth induced by a red
exposure and produced results similar to those of the growth-regu-
lating hormone, indoleacetic acid. Gibberellin and red radiant
energy initiate separate and distinct growth responses and, when
added together, produce a resultant of the two reactions.

The induction of growth by red radiant energy (660 mp) can be
blocked by far-red energy (710-730 mp). Dr. Klein, Dr. R. B.
Withrow, and Victor Elstad have found that the efficiency of the far-
red is markedly increased by interposing a dark period of 60 to 90
minutes between the red and far-red treatments. This suggests that
a thermochemical step intervenes between the absorption of red radi-
ant energy and maximum capacity for inactivation by far-red. Re-
ducing the temperature from 25° C. to 2° C. during the light treat-
ments has no measurable effect on the induction process, but the
lowered temperature reduces the maximum photoinactivation by 50
percent when compared to photoinactivation at 25° C. This sub-
stantiates the thesis of an intervening thermal step.

Phototropism.—There is a wide range of growth reactions acti-
vated by blue radiant energy, including cytoplasmic streaming,
changes in cell-membrane permeabilities, the regulation of respira-
tory enzymes, changes in bioelectric potentials and phototropism or
bending of plants toward a light source. The late Dr. E. S. John-
ston of this laboratory became interested in phototropism in 1934 and
made the first precise quantitative measurements of the spectral char-
acteristics of the phototropic response in oats. From these data it
was postulated that the pigment system activating the response ab-
sorbed chiefly in the blue and was likely to be a carotenoid or a flavin.

At the present time Walter Shropshire is conducting experiments
to resolve the question of the identity of the photoreceptor by deter-
mining if the response occurs in the near-ultraviolet where the ab-
sorption of flavin is markedly greater than that of carotenoids. The
results of Avena-tip-curvature experiments indicate that both pig-
ment systems may be involved. The action spectrum in the visible
has the peaks characteristic of carotenoid absorption, while in the
near-ultraviolet the response is characteristic of a flavin system.

Experiments are in progress to ascertain the function of each of
these pigment systems, using straight growth measurements of intact
Avena seedlings and the curvature of carotenoid-deficient Phyco-
myces. An attempt is being made to correlate all the blue photoreg-
SECRETARYL’S REPORT 79

ulatory reactions to see if they are mediated by the same basic mech-
anisms.

A National Science Foundation grant for 3 years is supporting the
major portion of the work at present.

Chloroplast development.—It has been found by Dr. J. B. Wolff
and L. Price that radiant energy is necessary for the maturation of
the chloroplast, the photosynthetic organ of the leaf of higher plants.
The progress of this photomorphogenetic development has been fol-
lowed by measuring the gradually increasing rate at which the leaf
is able to synthesize chlorophyll when placed in high red or blue
irradiances. In the leaf of a dark-grown seedling the rate of chloro-
phyll formation is at first very slow, but after two or three hours of
high-intensity irradiation, the rate begins to increase. Therefore,
the time lag before the leaf begins to form chlorophyll rapidly is
taken as the time required for certain developmental changes in the
proplastid as it is transformed into a functioning chloroplast.

Irradiation of dark-grown bean or corn leaves with a small amount
of red energy (prior to incubation in the dark) has been found to be
more effective than blue energy for stimulation of the ability to form
protochlorophyll. Oxygen is required for the developmental proc-
esses, since it was noted that little or no chlorophyll is formed in an
atmosphere of nitrogen. When the temperature at which the leaves
are kept was lowered from 25° C. to 15° C., the metabolic processes
necessary for synthesis of the chloroplast components are almost com-
pletely stopped; too high a temperature has a similar effect. These
metabolic processes are being studied in greater detail.

Photoperiodice chlorosis—Chlorophyll content of a number of
plants is markedly influenced by the relative lengths of the light and
dark periods. The leaves of young plants often show a marked
chlorosis, with a definite pattern of interveinal yellowing when given
long light periods in a 24-hour cycle. Often associated with the
mottling are nastic responses, very similar to those occurring with
certain types of virus infection. ‘Temperature is closely correlated
with light in influencing this process. At some temperatures, the
plants are yellow and at others green, regardless of the photoperiod.
Particularly does a cyclic alternation in temperature promote or in-
hibit the chlorosis under light conditions where the converse is true
at constant temperatures. This type of chlorophyll deficiency has
not been observed in plants growing under outdoor or greenhouse
conditions with daylight, but seems to be a response unique to irradi-
ation with artificial sources, particularly the incandescent lamp. Dr.
Alice Withrow and Walter Shropshire this year have found that the
far-red is the region of the spectrum which most effectively promotes
the chlorosis. Far-red also promotes a very marked lengthening of
the stem.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Modification of X-ray damage by visible radiant energy.—The
damaging effects of X-rays and other forms of ionizing radiation to
living cells are due chiefly to the breaking of the chromosomes and
interference with normal cell division. Young, rapidly dividing cells
are most susceptible to X-ray damage and evidence three types of
aberrations—chromatid break, isochromatid break, and chromatid
exchange.

It has previously been reported that far-red radiant energy, when
used as a treatment supplementary to X-rays, increases the frequency
of chromatid aberrations. This year, Dr. C. C. Moh and Dr. R. B.
Withrow have extended the study on the interaction between red and
far-red radiant energy at the level of the cell nucleus.

Root tips of broad bean (Vicia faba) were pretreated with a 3-hour
exposure of red (620-680 mp) and/or far-red and near infrared (710-
960 mp) radiant energy, and then irradiated with 120 roentgens of
X-rays. As compared with the control (X-rays only), root tips
receiving far-red treatment yielded 30 to 40 percent more chromatid
breaks and chromatid exchanges. Those receiving far-red followed
by red energy showed no appreciable increase in aberrations. These
results indicate that red radiant energy inactivates the action of the
far-red exposure. In a second series of experiments, root tips were
irradiated with red energy for 3 hours, followed by a 3-hour exposure
to far-red energy. As compared to the control, the red plus far-red
treatment resulted in an increase of chromatid breaks and chromatid
exchanges amounting to about 20 percent. It would appear that
application of far-red energy after the red treatment could not com-
pletely overcome the inactivating effect of the red. In a third series,
root tips were exposed for 3 hours to red and far-red energy simul-
taneously by using a broad waveband from 620 to 960 mz. No
increase in any type of chromatid aberration was found.

PUBLICATIONS

Ken, W. H., WirHrow, R. B., and Exstap, V. The response of the hypocotyl
hook of bean seedlings to radiant energy and other factors. Plant Physiol.,
vol. 31, pp. 289-294, 1956.

KLEIN, W. H., WiTHrow, R. B., Histap, V., and Price, L. Photocentrol of growth
and pigment synthesis in the bean seedling as related to irradiance and
wavelength. Amer. Journ. Bot., vol. 44, pp. 15-19, 1957.

Kein, W. H., WirHrow, R. B., WirHrow, ALIcE P., and Etstap, V. Time course
of far-red inactivation of photomorphogenesis. Science, vol. 125, pp. 1146-
1147, 1957.

Wirnrow, ALice P., and Wotrr, J. B. Succinate oxidation by mitochondrial
preparations from bean seedlings. Physiologia Plantarum, vol. 9, pp. 339-343,
1956.

WirHrow, R.B. An interference-filter monochromator system for the irradiation
of biological material. Plant Physiol., vol. 32, pp. 355-860, 1957.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 81

WIiTHrROw, R. B., and Mou, C. C. Nonionizing radiant energy as an agent in
altering the incidence of X-ray-induced chromatid aberrations. I, Effects
of far-red and infrared radiant energy on Tradescantia and Vicia. Radiation
Res., vol. 6, pp. 491-500, 1957.

WirnHrow, R. B., and Price, L. A darkroom safelight for research in plant
physiology. Plant Physiol., vol. 32, pp. 244-248, 1957.

WituHrow, R. B., and WiTHROw, ALICE P. Generation, control and measurement
of visible and near-visible radiant energy. Jn “Radiation Biology,” vol. 3,
pp. 125-259. McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1956.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Papers on the research in progress were presented during the past
year at several international and national science meetings. At the
unnual meeting of the American Society of Plant Physiologists at
Storrs, Conn., the following papers were given:

Elimination of the lag phase of chlorophyll synthesis in dark-grown bean leaves
by a pretreatment with low irradiances of monochromatic energy, by R. B.
Withrow, J. B. Wolff, and L. Price.

The action spectrum and kinetics of far-red blocking of the red-induced opening
of the hypocotyl hook of bean, by W. H. Kiein, R. B. Withrow, and V. Elstad.
The role of chlorophyllase in the synthesis of chlorophyll a in higher plants, by

J.B. Wolff and L. Price.

At a meeting of the Southern Section of the American Society of
Plant Physiologists at Birmingham, Ala., R. B. Withrow gave a paper
entitled “Action Spectrum and Photomorphogenesis in Higher
Plants,” and at the Midwest Section at Ann Arbor, Mich., W. H. Klein
participated in a round-table discussion on “Hifects of Light Quality
on Plant Development.” At the International Photobiology Con-
ference at Turin, Italy, and the International Photoperiodism Con-
gress at Parma, Italy, R. B. Withrow discussed the current research
of the laboratory. R. B. Withrow and Walter Shropshire attended
the national organizational meeting of the Biophysical Society held
at Columbus, Ohio.

During the year, R. B. Withrow served as consultant to the Office
of the Commanding General, U.S. Air Forces in Europe, and also as
consultant to the Argonne National Laboratory. He was appointed
chairman of the International Symposium on Photoperiodism in
Plants and Animals, sponsored by the National Research Council,
which is to be held at Gatlinburg, Tenn., in the fall of 1957.

Respectfully submitted.

F. L. Wutiprte, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Collection of
Fine Arts

Srr: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1957:

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 34th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in the Regents Room of the Smithsonian Building on Tuesday,
December 4, 1956. Members present were: Paul Manship, chairman;
Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; Leonard Carmichael, secretary ;
John Nicholas Brown, Gilmore D. Clarke, David E. Finley, Lloyd
Goodrich, Bartlett H. Hayes, Stow Wengenroth, Archibald G. Wen-
ley, Andrew Wyeth, and Mahonri Young. Thomas M. Beggs, Direc-
tor, and Paul Vickers Gardner, curator of ceramics, National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, were also present.

Mr. Bliss, Mr. Goodrich, and Mr. Hayes commented favorably upon
the progress of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service and
its satisfactory relationship to other organizations in respect to the
circulation of exhibitions. Mr. Beggs stated that when funds are
available it will be desirable for the National Collection of Fine Arts
to organize for circulation exhibitions combining artistic and scientific
material from Smithsonian collections. It was reported that, although
Department of State contracts had been vital to the Service initially,
these have diminished in size and the Service is now self-supporting.

A resolution on the death of Lawrence Grant White, a member of
the Commission from 1950 to the time of his resignation March 2, 1956,
was read and unanimously adopted.

The chairman stated that the field of architecture was unrepresented
on the Commission for a term expiring in 1959, owing to the resigna-
tion of Mr. White. The Commission then recommended to the Board
of Regents the name of Douglas Orr to fill the vacancy.

The Commission also recommended the reappointment of David E.
Finley, Paul Manship, Charles H. Sawyer, and Archibald Wenley, for
the usual 4-year period.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul Man-
ship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard
Carmichael, secretary.

Dr. Finley, chairman of the executive committee, reported that
this committee had not met during the year.

82
SECRETARY’S REPORT 83

The following were reelected members of the executive committee
for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman; Robert Woods
Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, and George Hewitt Myers. Paul Manship,
as chairman of the Commission, and Leonard Carmichael, as secretary,
are ex officio members.

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects:

Oil, The Dog Trader, by Richard N. Brooke (1847-1920). Gift of Col. Thomas
G. Young, Jr.

Two watercolors, Emergence and Tulips, by Andrey Avinoff (1884-1949), were
accepted on condition that they be held until eligible for consideration of the
accessions committee of the National Gallery of Art. Gift of Mrs. Elizabeth
Shoumatoff.

Oil, Furbelows, by Albert Sterner, N. A. (1863-1946). Henry Ward Ranger
Bequest.

Oil, Days of Sunshine, by William Wendt, A. N. A. (1865-1946). Henry Ward
Ranger Bequest.

Three etchings, by Carl Oscar Borg (1879-1947) : On the Rim, Grand Canyon,
Arizona; The Chief’s House, Moenkopi, Arizona; and Under Western Skies.
Anonymous gift.

Miniature, Young Gentleman, by John Alexander MacDougall (1810-1894).
Gift of Henry L. Milmore.

A collection of 59 fans, 18th and 19th centuries, mostly French and English.
Gift of Henry L. Milmore.

A 19th-century copy of the Portland Vase, by Wedgwood, England. Gift of
Paul A. Straub.

The following 59 paintings, as bequeathed by Mabel Johnson Langhorne (oils
on canvas unless otherwise indicated) :

Madonna, by Biagio di Bindo Albertinelli (1474-1515). (Tempera on
wood.)

Large Landscape, by Thomas Barker (1769-1847).

Small Landscape, by Thomas Barker (1769-1847). (Oil on wood.)

Duke of Sussex, by Sir William Beechey (1753-1839).

Dutch Gentleman, by Ferdinand Bol (1616-1680).

Christ Addressing the People, by Bonifazio Veronese (1490/1-1540).

Small Landscape, by Richard Parkes Bonington (1801-1828).

Landscape, by John Constable (1776-1837).

Small Landscape, by John Constable (1776-1837).

Windmill, by John Constable (1776-1837).

Small Landscape, by John Crome (Old Crome) (1768-1821).

Edmund Waller (1606-1687), by William Dobson (1610-1646).

Young Girl, by Willem Drost (16??-16??).

Landscape, by Thomas Gainsborough (1727-1788).

Small Landscape, by Thomas Gainsborough (1727-1788).

Head of Christ, by follower of Giorgione (1477/8-1510/1). (Tempera on
wood.)

Scene in Venice, by Francesco de Guardi (1712-1793).

Venetian Scene, by Francesco de Guardi (1712-1793).

Small Landscape, by Francesco de Guardi (1712-1793). (Oil on wood.)

Irish Gentleman, by John Hoppner (1758-1810).

Gentleman, by John Jackson (1778-1831).

Prince Henry of Wales, by Cornelius Janssens van Ceulen (1593/4-1662/4).

Portrait of Rubens’ Wife, by Jakob (Jacques) Jordaens (1593-1678).
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Gentleman, by Sir Godfrey Kneller (1646-1723).

Barnyard Scene, by Robert Ladbrooke (1768/70-1842).

Self-portrait, by Sir Thomas Lawrence (1769-1830).

Viscountess Hatton, by Sir Peter Lely (1618-1680).

Festive Scene, by Jan Miense Molenaer (1605/10-1668). (Oil on wood.)

Ralph Cross Johnson (1843-1923), by Ernest Moore.

Fishing Boats Beating up to Windward, by Edward Moran (1829-1901).

Judith van Volbergen, by Paulus Moreelse (1571-1638).

Small Landscape, by John Francis Murphy (1853-1921).

Landscape, by John Francis Murphy (1853-1921).

Portrait of a Boy, by Sir Henry Raeburn (1756-1823).

Portrait of a Gentleman, by Sir Henry Raeburn (1756-1823).

Lady in White, by Sir Joshua Reynolds (1723-1792).

Lord Lifford, by Sir Joshua Reynolds (1723-1792).

Lord Roth, by Sir Joshua Reynolds (17238-1792).

Richard Brinsley Cheridan, by Sir Joshua Reynolds (1723-1792).

Old Man, by Jusepe (Giuseppe) Ribera (1588/90-1652/6).

Interior of New College, Oxford, by David Roberts (1796-1864).

Rouen Cathedral, by David Roberts (1796-1864). (Oil on wood.)

The Doctor’s Visit, by Jan Havicksz Steen (16267-1679).

Landscape with Figures, by Jacobus van Strij (1756-1815).

Mrs. Price, by Sir James Thornhill (1675-1734).

Baptism of Christ, School of Giovanni Battista Tiepolo (1693/6-1770).
(Oil on wood.)

Woman Taken in Adultery, School of Giovanni Battista Tiepolo (1693/6-
1770).

Head of an Old Man, attributed to Benvenuto di Piero Tisi (called Garofalo)
(1481-1559), formerly attributed to Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519).
(Tempera on wood.)

Sir William Boothby, by undetermined artist (formerly attributed to Sir
Joshua Reynolds).

Mrs. Lloyd, by undetermined artist, after Reynolds.

Marine, by undetermined artist.

Virgin and Child with Apple, by undetermined artist. (Tempera on wood.)

Adoration of the Kings, by Bernard Van Orley (1485/93-1542). (Tempera
on wood.)

Landscape by John Varley, Sr. (1778-1842). (Watercolor on paper.)

Small Landscape, by John Varley, Sr. (1778-1842). (Watercolor on
paper.)

Entombment, by Rogier van der Weyden (1399/1400-1464). (Tempera on
wood.)

Italian Landscape, by Richard Wilson (1714-1782).

Italian Landscape, by Richard Wilson (1714-1782).

Landscape, by Richard Wilson (1714-1782).

A bronze bust of Gen. Winfield Scott Hancock, by James Wilson
Alexander MacDonald (1824-1908), declined for the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, was recommended for acceptance by the United
States National Museum, to be assigned to the Division of Military
History for possible use in the new Museum of History and Tech-
nology. Offered by Mrs. Griffin de Mauduit through Mrs. James L.
Collins, Jr.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 85

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

Six miniatures, watercolor on ivory, were acquired from the fund
established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer
as follows:

106. David McClellan (1773-1820), attributed to Benjamin Trott (ca.1770-
ca.1841).

107. Christopher Burdick (1789-1833), by undetermined artist.

108. Mrs. Christopher Burdick, née Lydia Haston (1796-1881), by undeter-
mined artist.

Nos. 106 through 108 were acquired from Mrs. Janet W. Yates, Washington,
D.C.

109. Unknown Gentleman, by George W. Newcombe (1799-1845).

110. TS in Blue Coat, by undetermined artist.

Nos. 109 and 110 were acquired from Mr. A. C. Mayer, Washington, D. C.

111. Col. Josiah Parker (1751-1810), by Charles Willson Peale (1741-1799) ;
from Mrs. Sue C. Bunch, Washington, D.C.

WITHDRAWAL BY OWNERS

Oil, Maid of the Mist, by Thomas Cole, lent October 6, 1942, by Mrs.
L. T. Gager, Washington, D. C., was withdrawn by the owner.

Oil, George Washington, by Charles Willson Peale, returned as a
loan December 4, 1956, by the estate of Mrs. John S. Beck, was with-
drawn by order of Oscar J. See, the executor, on March 28, 1957.

ART WORKS LENT

The following art works, oil paintings on canvas unless otherwise
noted, were lent for varying periods:

To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D. C.:

August {, 19560 {442 Huichol Indian, by Anton Sario.
In the Studio, by Arnoldo Tamburini.

September 21, 1956_____ The Wanderluster’s Rest, by William H. Holmes.
The South Strand, by Emil Carlsen.

January 23, 1957.-..-_- The Wain Team, by George Elmer Browne.

President John Tyler, by G. P. A. Healy.
Fisher Girl of Picardy, by Elizabeth Nourse.
Linlithgan Bridge, by Richard M. Stevenson.
Marchi 1Oyt95f222 = George Catlin, by William Fisk.
Daniel Chester French, by Evelyn Beatrice Long-
man. (Bronze bas relief.)
To the U.S. Court of Military Appeals, Washington, D. C.:
August 10, 1956________. Summer, by Charles Harold Davis.
Abraham Lincoln, by Henry Kirke Bush-Brown.
(Bronzed plaster bust and pedestal.)
Hebruary 6).1957_.-.... Evening Tide, California, by William Ritschel.
Gen. Winfield Scott Hancock, by James W. A. Mac-
Donald. (Bronze bust and pedestal.)
April S195 aos sas The First Gun at Fort Sumter, by Alban Jasper
Conant.
86

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

To The White House, Washington, D. C.:

August to, 19562222222 Roseate Spoonbills, by Abbott H. Thayer.
Male Wood Duck, by Richard 8. Meryman.
January 14, 1957_____--. Early Summer, by Charlotte B.Coman. (Returned

January 30, 1957.)
Evening Tide, California, by William Ritschel.
(Returned January 30, 1957.)

To the Department of State, Washington, D. C.:

ATSUSEELD OD G=— = ae, Tomb of “Mahomet the Gentleman” at Broussa, by
Osman Edhem Hamdy Bey.
November 19, 1956_____- View of Constantinople from Pera, by an unde-
termined artist.
January 22, 1957_____.-. Spring, Navesink Highlands, by Childe Hassam.
End of Winter, by John Henry Twachtman.
March 14, 1957_-__-_--- The Torrent, by John Henry Twachtman.

Niagara, by George Inness.
Autumn at Arkville, by Alexander H. Wyant.
Marnchued Obj The Blockmaker, by Edgar Melville Ward.

To the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, Dallas, Tex., for an “Exhibition of
Presidents” :

September 5, 1956____-_- U. S. Grant, by Thomas LeClear.

William Howard Taft, by Alyn Williams. (Minia-
ture, watercolor on ivory.)

John Tyler, by George P. A. Healy.

George Washington, by Henry Bounetheau, after
Stuart. (Miniature, watercolor on ivory.)

George Washington, by Henry Bounetheau, after
Trumbull. (Miniature, watercolor on ivory.)

Woodrow Wilson, by Edmund Tarbell.

(All were returned December 138, 1956.)

To the National Air Museum, Washington, D. C., portraits (sanguine chalk
on paper unless otherwise noted) of members of the Lafayette Escadrille, by
John Elliott (1858-1925) :

October 16, 1956__-____ Victor Emmanuel Chapman.
Richard Stevens Conover, 2d.
Hamilton Coolidge.

Elliott Christopher Cowden.
Edmond Charles Clinton Genet.
Bert Hall.

Gervais Raoul Lufbery.
James R. McConnell.
Ricbard Norton.

Paul Pavelka.

Norman Prince.

Philip Rhinelander.

Quentin Roosevelt.

Alan Seeger.

William Thaw.

Georges Thenault.

Raynal Cawthorne Bolling.*
William Halsall Cheney.*
Richard McCall Elliott, Jr.*
Kiffin Yates Rockwell.*

*Sepia prints.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

To the Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.:
October 18, 1956_-----_- William C. Preston, by George P. A. Healy.
New Year’s Shooter, by George Luks.
Henry Ward Ranger, by Albert Neuhuys.
Thomas McKean, by Charles Willson Peale.
La Vachére, by Theodore Robinson.
The Inn, Germany, by Walter Shirlaw.
Infant Christ with Cross and Torch, by undeter-
mined artist.
February 14, 1957______ Early Summer, by Charlotte Buell Coman.
Un Brave—French Soldier, by Lucie Louise Fery.
The Watering Place, by Louis Paul Dessar,
Rev. George Heaton, M. A., by Edward Heaton.
Self Portrait, by Will H. Low.
Musa Regina, by Henry Oliver Walker.
Manifest Destiny—Buffalo, by Edward Kemeys.
(Bronzed plaster.)
Grizzly Bear, Seated, by Edward Kemeys.
(Bronzed plaster.)

May 23 3195 (222 ee Se Life Saving Patrol, by Edward Moran.
To the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., for photographing:
October 29, 1956_.__-_- Thomas Hopkinson, by Robert Feke. (Returned

October 31, 1956.)
To the Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington, D. C.:

November 6, 1956__----- Harly Spring, by Alexander T. Van Laer.
Idle Hours, by Harry S. Mowbray.
Study Head, Madam Capri, by Walter Shirlaw.
Among the Old Poets, by Walter Shirlaw.
Walter Shirlaw, by Frank Duveneck.

DANUVALYA too (eee — November, by Jervis McEntee.
Adieu, by Salvatti Aly.

To the Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C.:

November 7, 1956_----_- A Pool in the Forest, by Benjamin Rutherford
Fitz. (Returned June 13, 1957.)
Housatonic Valley, by Alexander Wyant. (Re-
turned June 138, 1957.)

To the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., for the 25th Biennial Exhibi-
tion of Contemporary American Oil Paintings, January 138 through March
10, 1957:

January 3, 1957_-_-.- — Caresse Enfantine, by Mary Cassatt. (Returned
May 23, 1957.)
The Island, by Edward W. Redfield. (Included
with exhibition shown at the Toledo Museum of
Art, April 1-30, 1957, and to be circulated by the
American Federation of Arts through September
380, 1958.)

To the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. ©., for an exhibition of Presi-
dential Portraits, March 19 to September 1, 1957:

Marchito 1952-2 Self Portrait, by George P. A. Healy.

To the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Va., for an exhibition, “The
Tastemakers,” January 18 through February 24, 1957:

January 4, 1957_______. Fired On, by Frederic Remington. (Returned
March 5, 1957.)

451800—58——_7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

To the Pan American Union, Washington, D. C.:
January 5) 195 7222S African Elephant Scenting Danger, by Eli Harvey.
(Bronze.) (Returned January 23, 1957.)
To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D. C.:
Aprile26,9195 422-2 Beach of Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Massachusetts,
by Frank K. M. Rehn.
The White Parasol, by Robert Reid.
Furbelows, by Albert Sterner.
To the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington,
IDS (Oae
Mayul6;) 195 feasa== sa Henry B. Fuller, by George Fuller.
The Villa Malta, by Sanford R. Gifford.
The Gathering Storm, by Louis Gabriel Eugéne
Isabey.
Captain John Hricsson, by Arvid Nyholm.
May Sil O52 sabe aes Gathering Mists, by Charles Warren Haton.
An Abbess, by Govaert Camphuysen.
Hucalyptus Tree, by A. Ames.
Pepper Tree, by A. Ames.
A Bodhisattva, Cave 4, Bagh, by Sarkis Katcha-
dourian. (Watercolor.)
Bear Standing on a High Rock, by Edward Kemeys.
(Bronzed plaster.)
To Conrad V. Morton, Department of Botany, U. S. National Museum, for display
at the Arts Club:
June: 195 19 oes Unknown Man, by Henry Dexter. (Plaster.)
(Returned June 26, 1957.)
To the Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.:
June) 21) Wb fase eS A Pool in the Forest, by Benjamin Rutherford Fitz.
Housatonic Valley, by Alexander H. Wyant.

LOANS RETURNED

Table, French, 18th century (P. 220), lent August 21, 1953, to the
American Institute of Architects, was returned December 6, 1956.

Oil, Capt. John Ericsson, by Arvid Nyholm, lent March 3, 1950, to
the House Judiciary Committee, was returned December 28, 1956.

Two oils, Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming Territory,
by Thomas Moran, and Mary Abigail Willing Coale, by Thomas
Sully, lent December 6, 1955, to the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service to be included in an exhibition “Pennsylvania Painters,”
were returned January 30, 1957.

Oil, The Continentals, by Frank B. Mayer, lent October 28, 1953,
to the Department of State, was returned May 8, 1957.

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

Six oils, Building the United Nations, by Harold Weston (1894— ),
gift of the Committee of the Weston United Nations Paintings, Mrs.
William S. Ladd, Chairman, were accepted December 6, 1955, with a
fund of $2,500. The paintings were lent to the Corcoran Gallery of
Art on April 9, 1956, and were returned October 8, 1956.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 89

Oil, Episode of the Siege of Lille, 1792, by Gaston Melingue (1840-
1914), gift of Thomas G. Young, Jr., was added December 4, 1956.

Oil, Shapes of Fear, by Maynard Dixon (1875-1946), No. 98 in the
Henry Ward Ranger Bequest, was added December 4, 1956, with the
consent of the National Academy of Design.

Miniature, watercolor on ivory, copy of the Head of the Virgin
from Raphael’s “The Virgin with the Goldfinch,” gift of Henry L.
Milmore, was added December 4, 1956.

Tapestry, 17th century, Flemish verdure, gift of John B. Turner,
was added December 4, 1956.

Two paintings, by Edwin Scott, Porte St. Martin et Enterrement,
and Ship at Anchor, Cherbourg, No. 2, lent February 18, 1953, to the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia, were
returned May 31, 1957.

The following paintings, oil on canvas unless otherwise noted, were
lent for varying periods:

To The White House, Washington, D.C.:
Ut ba? ied 15 5 Se Grand Canyon, by Carl Oscar Borg. (Returned
August 15, 1956.)
Guard, by J. Echenal. (Watercolor.)
Moonlight on the Sea, by Frank W. Stokes.

Lady of Light, by undetermined artist.
To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D. C.:

AMUSE, 1 95G2e sees Street in the Pueblo of Zui, New Mexico, by
De Lanecey Gill. (Watercolor. )
October 24, 1956..______ Grand Canyon, by Carl Oscar Borg.
To the Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.:
February 14, 1957______ Musketeer, by G. Camfri. (Watercolor.)
To the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D. C.:
April 26; 1957 ioe 8 Pueblo Bonita Ruin, by De Lancey Gill. (Water-
color.)
Italian Woman at the Foot of the Stairs, by Ed-
win Scott.

Smoke from the City, by Robert Burns Wilson.
(Watercolor. )
To the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington,
DAE:

May Gs 10D (22 Tiger Lily, by Florence Koehler. (Gouache.)
INR? AS leaeis (C0 5 $e lege ae Piazza San Marco, by Henry Bacon. ( Watercolor.)
George Bernard Shaw, by Alice Pike Barney.
(Pastel. )

Alice (Alice Pike Barney), by L. A. Malempre.
(Marble bust. )

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND

Additions to the principal during the year amounting to $662.30
have increased the total invested sums in this fund to $37,090.52.

A gift of $1,500 was received from Mrs. Laura Dreyfus-Barney in
partial defrayment of the cost of printing a booklet, “Alice Pike
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Barney: Paintings in Oil and Pastel,” consisting of reproductions
from the Lending Collection, given in memory of Alice Pike Barney.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

No. 36, Midsummer, by William S. Robinson, N. A. (1861-1945),
purchased by the Council of the National Academy of Design April 7,
1924, was reassigned by the Academy to George Washington Univer-
sity, Washington, D. C., on March 1, 1956.

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest that paintings pur-
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger Bequest, and assigned to
American art institutions, may be claimed during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the follow-
ing four paintings were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art
Commission at its meeting December 4, 1956:

No. 59, Days of Sunshine, by William Wendt, A. N. A. (1865-1946), assigned
to the Malden Public Library, Malden, Mass., in 1926, was accepted to become a
permanent accession.

No. 72, The Golden Hour, by George Elmer Browne, N. A. (1871-1946), was
returned to the Michigan State College of Agriculture and Applied Science,
East Lansing, Mich., where it was originally assigned in 1929.

No. 98, Shapes of Fear, by Maynard Dixon (1875-1946), assigned to the
Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, The Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, N. Y.,
in 1982, was reassigned, with permission of the National Academy of Design, to
the Smithsonian Lending Collection.

No. 119, Furbelows, by Albert Sterner, N. A. (1863-1946), assigned to St.
Gregory College, Shawnee, Okla., in 1942, was accepted to become a permanent
accession.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as follows:

Title and Artist Assignment
180. Mansion in Dutchess County, Museum of Cranbrook Academy of Art,
by Hobson Pittman, N. A. Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
(1900— ).
181. Attic Windows, by Charles Taylor Montclair Art Museum, Montclair, N. J.
(1911- ).
182. Demolition, by Harry Leith Ross, Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts,
N. A. (1886—__). Philadelphia, Pa.
183. Picnic Along the Brook, by John B. Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga.
Costigan, N. A. (1888-__ ).
184. Ruined Cathedral (watercolor), by The Andrew Dickson White Museum of

Ralph Hulett (1915-_ ). Art, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.
185. At Home (watercolor), by Walter Oklahoma Art Center, Oklahoma City,
Biggs, N. A. (1886—_). Okla.

186. Quince Street (watercolor), by (Not yet assigned.)
W. Emerton Heitland, N. A.
(1893-  ).

187. Toward Evening, by Junius Allen, Columbia Museum of Art, Columbia,
N. A. (1898-_). S.C.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 91

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Eighty-six exhibitions were circulated and shown in 198 museums
and galleries during the past season, 81 in the United States and 5

abroad, as follows:

UNITED STATES

Paintings and Drawings

Title
American Indian Painting________-
A Century and a Half of Painting
in Argentina.
Argentine Children as Illustrators__

PAST Seely selfs sia5 0) Sot ose

AT Gene Operas oe eae SA eet Pe
Californiaeainting so ee

Canadian Abstract Paintings_______

Children’s Paintings from Forty-
five Countries IV.

Children’s Paintings from Forty-
five Countries V.

Children’s Paintings from Forty-
five Countries VI.

Children’s Paintings from Japan___

Dutch Art 1945-55 (and sculpture) _

Hiniopian eainhingse. 2. eee

A Frenchman in America, Charles
Alexandre Lesueur.

Six Japanese Painters____________-

Kokoschka’s Magie Flute_____-__-~-

Pennsylvania Painters_____._____-_

Blan Portraitsss. = sees re eee ees

Work by Rudy Pozzatti (and
prints).
Sargent Watercolors______.___.--.-

Steal Te eyo hie ee
Watercolor, hoday.-2—-2--2-——=-2——
Contemporary Swedish Paintings__-.

Source

Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, Okla.

Government of Argentina; Argentine
Embassy; private collectors.

Editorial Guillermo Kraft Ltd., Buenos
Aires; Argentine Embassy.

Arts & Activities Magazine; Galerie St.
Etienne.

Metropolitan Opera Guild.

Long Beach Museum of Art, Long Beach,
Calif.

National Gallery of Canada, Embassy of
Canada.

Embassy of Denmark; Friendship Among
Children and Youth Organization.

United Nations Educational, Scientific,
and Cultural Organization.

Dr. W. Sandberg, Stedelijk Museum;
Mr. E. L. de Wilde, Van Abbe Museum ;
Mr. A. M. Hammacher, Kroller-Miiller
State Museum; Embassy of the Neth-
erlands.

George Washington University; Mr.
Bruce Howe; Embassy of Ethiopia.
Museum of Le Havre; American Hm-

bassy in Paris.

National Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo;
artists.

Minneapolis Institute of Arts; artist;
Embassy of Austria.

Pennsylvania State University, State
College; museums; private collectors.

University of Colorado Museum, Boulder.

Print Club of Cleveland; Cleveland Mu-
seum of Art; dealers; private col-
lectors.

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

Cleveland Museum of Natural History.

Toledo Museum of Art; dealers; artists.

National Museum, Stockholm; Swedish
Hmbassy.
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Paintings and Drawings—Continued

Title Source
Swedish Children’s Paintings_______ National Museum, Stockholm; Swedish
Embassy.
Baintingsiby Lessalossaeas aan Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai; National

Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo; Ki-
yoshi Kojin Temple in Takarazuka;
Rev. Bishop Kojo Sakamoto.

Graphic Arts

American Printmakers___--_-__---- University of Illinois, Urbana; artists.

George Bellows Prints and Drawings. National Gallery of Art; Boston Pub-
lic Library ; Library of Congress; Fogg
Art Museum of Harvard University.

Recent British Lithographs____--~--- British Arts Council; British Embassy.
Contemporary German Prints___---. National Gallery of Art.
Japanese Fish Prints____________-_-. Dr. Yoshio Hiyama; Kokusai Bunka

Shinkokai; Japanese Embassy ; Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History.

United Nations Educational, Scientific,
and Cultural Organization; Japanese
National Commission.

Japanese Woodcuts I____-----_~-~--.
Japanese Woodcuts II____-_---__---

Architecture

A Half-Century of Architectural Ed- School of Architecture, Georgia Institute
ucation. of Technology.

American Institute of Architects; Archi-
tectural Photographers Association;
George Hastman House.

Contemporary Danish Architecture-. Prof. Kay Wisker, Royal Academy of Co-

penhagen; Embassy of Denmark.

Contemporary Finnish Architecture__. Finnish American Society; Association

of Finnish Architects; Embassy of

Architectural Photography I____-__.
Architectural Photography IT____~_-.

Finland.

German Architecture Today_______~_ Bund Deutscher Architekten; German
Hmbassy.

Landscape Architecture Today_____- California Redwood Association.

INR LUMleehee es ee eee American Institute of Architects.

San Francisco Bay Region Archi- California Redwood Association; North-

tecture. ern California Chapter, American In-

stitute of Architects.

Venetian eVaillas Pies sek! Yel ae f Soprintendenza ai Monumenti Medievali
Venetian avallas Wil = ass) eee i e Moderni, Venice; Embassy of Italy.
Design
American Craftsmen, 1957_________ Mr. Robert von Neumann; University of

Illinois, Urbana; artists.
American Craftsmen IJ_.-__~-_--- University of Illinois, Urbana; artists.
Contemporary American Glass__-_- Corning Museum of Glass.

American Jewelry and Related Ob- Huntington Galleries, Huntington, W.
jects I. Va.; artists; Hickok Co.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 93

Design—Continued
Title Source
American Jewelry and Related Ob- Rochester Memorial Art Gallery, Roch-
jects IT. ester, N. Y.; artists; Hickok Co.
Recent Work by Harry Bertoia_____ Knoll Associates; artist.

Contemporary European Tapestry_. Contemporary Arts Association, Hous-
ton, Tex.; artists; private collectors;

museums.

Duteh Arts-and Crafts=——2) 222 s2a8 Ministry of Education, Arts and Sciences
in The Hague; Netherlands Embassy.

HBuropean Glass Design___-________ Georg Jensen, Inc.; designers.

Fifty Years of Danish Silver_______ Georg Jensen, Inc.; Danish Embassy.

Kinnishi@rafts sebin eed Uae ses Waertsila-Arabia and other Finnish

Manufacturers; Finnish-American So-
ciety, Helsinki; Finnish Embassy;
artists, Tapio Wirkkala and Rut Bryk.

italian Arts) and (Crafts2o2- 22222 -= Compagnia Nazionale Artigiana, Rome;
Italian Embassy.

Midwest Designer-Craftsmen_______ Art Institute of Chicago; artists.

New) England’ Craftsol.—-_- 2-3 Worcester Art Museum; Junior League

of Worcester, Inc.; The Craft Center,
Worcester, Mass.

Good Design in Switzerland_______-_ Schweizer Werkbund; Embassy of

Switzerland.
Books

GermanvArt Books222s2222.— 2422 —— Association of German Booksellers; Ger-
man Hmbassy.

International Children’s Books_____ Washington Post Times-Herald Book
Fair; embassies.

Sixtya Swedish) Books=222222ea02222 Dr. Uno Willers, Royal Library of Stock-
holm; Embassy of Sweden.

A World of Children’s Books__--_-~ Washington Post Times-Herald Book

Fair; embassies.
Oriental Art

Chinese Ivories from the Collection Sir Victor Sassoon, London.
of Sir Victor Sassoon.

Folk Art

PAMeriGana © Yt se Ri Index of American Design, National Gal-
lery of Art.

Early American Woodcarving___--~-. Index of American Design, National Gal-
lery of Art.

SK OM Agr Git pet AUS See ee ret eT Eskimo Art, Inc.; Canadian Handicrafts
Guild.

Popular Art in the United States_____ Index of American Design, National
Gallery of Art. ;

Punchyandysudyn ss. sae eo Index of American Design, National

Gallery of Art.
Serimshaw Exhibition___--._________ Colonel Leslie Buswell.
94. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Folk Art—Continued

Title Source

Swiss/Peasant Art. 2 oes te ceers R. Hanhart, Director, Museum, St. Gall;
Pro Helvetia Foundation; Embassy of
Switzerland.

Ansel Adams Photographs 1933- Artist; George Hastman House, Roches-

1953. ter.

Birds in Color, by Eliot Porter_______ Artist; American Museum of Natural
History.

Japan I, by Werner Bischof_________- Magnum Photos, Inc.

Japan II, by Werner Bischof______~_-_. Magnum Photos, Ine.

Perceptions: bees We Ee een eae Mrs. Dody Warren Weston and Donald
Ross; San Francisco Museum of Art;
photographers.

This is the American Harth__________ Ansel Adams; Nancy Newhall; National

Park Service; California Academy of
Sciences; Sierra Club.

The World of Edward Weston___-~_--. Beaumont and Nancy Newhall; artist;
George Eastman House.

Young Germans Behind the Camera_. Dr. L. Fritz Gruber, Photokina, Cologne;
German Embassy.

Anthropology
Carl Bodmer Paints the Indian Karl Viktor, Prinz zu Wied; German
Frontier. Hmbassy.
A. J. Miller Watercolors____------~- Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md.
Swedish Rock Carvings______------- Dr. Per Nystrém, Governor of the

Province of Géteborg and Bohus, Em-
bassy of Sweden.

EXHIBITIONS CIRCULATED ABROAD
yohn Marin.
This is the American Earth (4 copies).

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 2,293.
Examination was made of 836 works of art submitted for identifi-
cation.

An illustrated and descriptive catalog, by Paul Vickers Gardner,
entitled “Meissen and Other German Porcelain in the Alfred Duane
Pell Collection,” was published in July 1956.

An illustrated booklet, “Alice Pike Barney: Paintings in Oil and
Pastel,” with foreword by Thomas M. Beggs, was published in May
1957.

Special catalogs were published for the following 11 exhibitions: A
Half-Century of Architectural Education; Contemporary Danish
Architecture; Dutch Art 1945-1955; George Bellows Prints and
Drawings; German Architecture Today; Sixty Swedish Books;
SECRETARY'S REPORT 95

Swedish Rock Carvings; Canadian Abstract Paintings; German Art
Books; Good Design in Switzerland, and Paintings by Tessai. The
last four contained acknowledgments written by Mrs. Annemarie H.
Pope, chief, Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service. Special
acknowledgment for the Bellows catalog was written by Miss Jo Ann
Sukel, research assistant.

Mr. Beggs gave a talk on 18th-Century Paintings before the Alexan-
dria Woman’s Club, and served on the juries of three local shows and
one in Virginia. He was elected to the Board of Trustees of the
Barney Neighborhood House.

Mr. Gardner gave illustrated lectures and conducted discussion
groups on 18th-Century European and China-Trade Porcelains;
European Porcelain for Colonial Tables; and Porcelain, Mirror of
Fashion, at the Sulgrave and Senior Congressional Clubs in Washing-
ton, D. C., and at the Richmond Antiquarian Society and the Alexan-
dria Association in Virginia. His review of “Ceramics for the Arche-
ologist,” by Anna O. Shephard, appeared in the May 1957 issue of
the Scientific Monthly.

Between August 17, 1956, and March 29, 1957, Mrs. Pope repre-
sented the Traveling Exhibition Service on a visit to museums and
galleries in Seattle, Wash.; Honolulu, T. H.; Tokyo, Kyoto, Nara,
Japan; Taipei, Taichung, Taiwan; Hong Kong; Saigon, Viet-Nam;
Phnom Penh, Siem-Réap (Angkor), Cambodia; Singapore; Djakarta,
Djokjakarta, Surabaya, Indonesia; Bangkok, Chiengmai, Thailand;
Rangoon, Burma; Calcutta, India; Frankfurt, Germany ; Amsterdam,
Holland; and London, England.

Mr. Lyon represented the National Collection of Fine Arts at a
seminar on “Resinous Surface Coatings,” held at Oberlin College,
Oberlin, Ohio, under the auspices of the Intermuseum Conservation
Association. He discussed the organization of art clubs, the planning
of stimulating art meetings, and group art trips, for the Petworth
Women’s Club and the Port Tobacco Art Guild of Southern Mary-
land. He also judged two local exhibitions and one held at the Fairfax
County Court House. On June 28, he left on a 2-month trip through
western Europe, expecting to visit British, French, Italian, and Span-
ish Museums.

Fifty-five paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent collection
were cleaned and revarnished, and 66 picture frames were repaired and
refinished. Three plaster casts, one sculpture in wood, and one
Italian chair were repaired.

The canvases of 9 paintings from the Smithsonian Lending Collec-
tion were cleaned, restored, and revarnished, and 12 frames were
repaired and refinished.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Six paintings by George Catlin were cleaned, repaired, and revar-
nished, and two picture frames were refinished for the United States
National Museum.

Under special contract, Glenn J. Martin began the cleaning and
restoring of 12 paintings in the permanent collection.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS
Fifteen special exhibitions were held during the year:

August 23 through September 21, 1956—The Second Biennial Exhibition of
Creative Crafts, sponsored by the Ceramic Guild of Bethesda; Clay Pigeons of
Kensington; Cherry Tree Designers; Designer-Weavers, and The Kiln Club of
Washington, consisting of 113 pieces. Craft demonstrations were given twice
daily. A catalog was privately printed.

October 7? through 28, 1956.—The Sixty-fourth Annual Exhibition of The Society
of Washington Artists, consisting of 82 paintings and 18 pieces of sculpture. A
catalog was privately printed.

November 8 through 25, 1956.—The Nineteenth Metropolitan State Art Contest,
held under the auspices of the D. C. Chapter, American Artists Professional
League, assisted by the Entre Nous Club, consisting of 203 paintings, sculpture,
prints, ceramics, and metalerafts. A catalog was privately printed.

December 2 through 24, 1956.—Paintings of Life in Greece, Spain, and the
United States, by Demetrios J. Kokotsis, sponsored by His Excellency, The Am-
bassador of Greece, George V. Melas, consisting of 71 oil paintings and 65 sketches.
A catalog was mimeographed.

December 9 through 24, 1956.—Contemporary Persian Miniature Paintings of
Selected Quatrains of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, by Hossein Behzad, spon-
sored by His Excellency, the Ambassador of Iran and Madame Amini, consisting
of 50 paintings.

January 6 through 27, 1957 —Twenty-first Exhibition of the Society of Wash-
ington Printmakers, consisting of 208 works in the graphic media. A catalog
was privately printed.

February 5 through 28, 1957.—In cooperation with the Department of History,
an exhibition, “Portraits in Plaster,’ consisting of 38 life and death masks and 9
busts of famous European and American statesmen, artists, musicians, and poets,
mostly of the 18th and 19th centuries, from a collection assembled in 1929 by
Henry C. McComas and presented to the United States National Museum. A
mimeographed list was supplied.

March 10 through 29, 1957.—The Thirteenth Annual Exhibition of the Artists
Guild of Washington, consisting of 50 paintings and 3 pieces of sculpture. A
catalog was privately printed.

March 10 through 29, 1957.—The Tenth Annual Hxhibition of the Washington
Sculptors Group, consisting of 58 pieces of sculpture. A catalog was privately
printed.

April 7 through 28, 1957.—Exhibition of Contemporary Paintings of Life in
Pakistan, by Zainul Abedin under the sponsorship of His Exceliency, the Ambas-
sador of Pakistan and Begum Ali, consisting of 52 paintings. A catalog was pri-
vately printed.

April 14 through 28, 1957.—Exhibition of 115 color renderings, “500 Years of
Turkish Tiles,” by Captain Izzet Cetin; 14 photographs showing interiors and
exteriors of buildings in Turkey which contained the tile of which the renderings
SECRETARY'S REPORT 97

were made; three books of descriptive materials on Persian and Turkish tiles, and
15 tiles and 1 plate by a modern ceramist, Fureya, was held under the sponsor-
shipship of the Turkish Embassy. A leaflet was privately published.

May 5 through June 2, 1957.—The Sixtieth Annual Exhibition of the Wash-
ington Water Color Club, consisting of 157 watercolors, pastels, prints, and draw-
ings. A catalog was privately printed.

May 5 through June 2, 1957.—The Twenty-fourth Annual Exhibition of the
Miniature Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D. C., con-
sisting of 1838 examples. A catalog was privately printed.

June § through July 7, 1957.—Exhibition of 69 photographs of the Appalachian
Trail and its activities, by members of the Potomac Appalachian Trail Club.

June 80 through July 7, 1957.—¥Pxhibition of 33 Contemporary Paintings of
Indonesia, by Derachman, sponsored by His Excellency, Moekarto Notowidigdo,
Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia. A catalog was privately printed.

Respectfully submitted.

TuHomas M. Braces, Director.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sm: I have the honor to submit the thirty-seventh annual report
on the Freer Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 30, 1957.

THE COLLECTIONS

Thirty-nine objects were added to the collections by purchase as

follows:
BRONZE

56.15. Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C—A. D. 220). Square ceremonial vessel
of the type hu; decorated with human figures in hunting and legend-
ary scenes cast in relief. 0.369 x 0.225.

56.19. Chinese, Shang dynasty (ca. 12th century B. C.). Ceremonial tripod of
the type chiieh decorated with casting in relief; inscription of one
character. 0.197 x 0.167.

56.26. Chinese, Shang dynasty. Ceremonial vessel of the type p‘an decorated
with casting in relief; inscription of one character. 0.121 x 0.325.
(Illustrated. )

56.29. Chinese (Ordos), Han dynasty. Openwork plaque showing two fighting
animals cast in relief and with incised decoration. 0.115 x 0.069.

56.31. Chinese, Shang dynasty. Battleax with decorations cast in low relief.
0.182 x 0.060.

57.12. Chinese, Sung dynasty (A. D. 960-1279). Eight-lobed mirror with silvery
surface; decorated with phoenixes and cosmic symbols cast in relief;
inscription of 40 characters. Diameter: 0.224.

GOLD

57.3. Persian, 11th-12th century. Ring decorated with turquoises, pearls, and
designs in niello. 0.037 x 0.020.

JADE

56.16. Chinese, Early Chou dynasty (ca. 11th century B. C.). Large cere-
monial perforated disk of the type pi; mottled green and brown neph-
rite. Diameter: 0.458.

LACQUER

57.8. Japanese, Kamakura period (A. D. 1192-1333). Seated image of Dai
Nichi Niorai carved in wood and covered with gold lacquer, with
gilt bronze crown, crystal eyes and urna, lotus throne. Overall: 0.735

x 0.505.
MANUSCRIPT

56.11. Armenian, 18th century. Gospel of 294 parchment leaves by the priest,
Thoros, Monastery of Grner, Cilicia, A. D. 1263; black and gold text
and 18 full-page pantings; modern binding. Average page: 0.204 x
0.150.

98
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

57.18. Iraq (Baghdad ?), second half 14th century. Leaf of a copy of Qazwini’s
‘Aja’ib al Makhliqat (“Wonders of Creation”); miniature showing
wild cattle. 0.3827 x 0.230.

56.14. Persian, 16th century. Hatifi’s Haft Manzar written by Mir ‘Ali on
104 paper leaves of various colors; red leather binding with gold deco-
ration. Overall: 0.262 x 0.168.

PAINTING

56.22. Chinese, Yiian dynasty (1260-1368). Bamboo in the snow, in ink on
paper; by T‘an Chih-jui; one inscription and one seal on painting.
0.314 x 0.206.

56.27. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (1644-1912). Landscape in ink and full color
on paper; by Wang Chien; dated in correspondence with A. D. 1688;
1 inscription and 15 seals on painting. 1.855 x 0.625.

56.28. Chinese, Ming dynasty (1368-1644). Landscape in ink and color on paper;
by Shen Chou; dated in correspondence with A. D. 1491; one inscription
and five seals on painting. 1.125 x 0.598.

57.4. Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty (1644-1912). Landscape, “Peach-blossom Spring,”
after a story by T‘ao Ch‘ien; in ink and colors on paper; by Tao-chi;
poem by the artist and one inscription on painting. 0.250 x 1.578.

57.14. Chinese, Yiian dynasty (1260-1368). Scroll in ink and colors on paper
showing Yang Kuei-fei mounting a horse; by Ch‘ien-hstian (13th cen-
tury) ; inscription and 14 seals on painting. 0.295 x 1.170.

56.12. Indian, Mughal, first half of the 17th century. Leaf from the “Jahangir
Album’; recto: landscape with elephant, mahout, and servant; verso:
a quatrain in nasta‘liq on illuminated ground. Overall: 0.425 x 0.265.
(Illustrated.)

56.8— Japanese, Ashikaga period (1333-1568). Set of three landscapes in ink

56.10. on paper; each bears a seal purporting to be that of Kano Motonobu
(1476-1559). Hach 0.992 x 0.494.

56.17— Japanese, Momoyama period (1568-1615). Pair of six-fold screens painted

56.18. in ink and color on paper; landscape with birds and flowers; attributed
to Kano Sanraku. 1.645 x 3.7383.

56.20—- Japanese, Edo period (1615-1868). Pair of six-fold screens painted in

56.21 color on paper with gold ground; two groups of walking cranes; by
Korin (1658-1716). 1.660 x 3.710.

57.2. Japanese, Edo period, Ukiyoe school. Woman and child walking in the
rain; ink and color on silk; by Kubo Shunman (1757-1820) ; signature,
poem, and seal on painting. 0.842 x 0.280.

57.5. Japanese, Edo period, Ukiyoe school. Two courtesans under a tree; ink
and color on silk; by Hishi (1756-1829) ; signature and oneseal. 0.983 x
0.375.

57.6. Japanese, Edo period, Ukiyoe school. Two courtesans and a willow tree;
in full color on silk; by Hishi (1756-1829); signature and one seal.
0.984 x 0.378.

57.7. Japanese, Edo period, Ukiyoe school. Three courtesans under a cherry
tree ; ink and color on silk; by Hishi (1756-1829) ; signature and one seal.
0.983 x 0.377.

57.9. Japanese, Fujiwara period (897-1185). Image of Fudé-son in ink and
slight color on silk; attributed to Ichigyo. 1.675 x 1.175.

57.11. Japanese, Ashikaga period (1392-1568). Album of 8 paintings in ink
on paper and 8 pages of calligraphy; by Sdami (d. 1525) ; 16 seals.
Average page: 0.280 x 0.51440.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

POTTERY

56.23. Chinese, Sung dynasty (960-1279). Shallow dish of Tz‘u-chow type; buff
stoneware covered with white slip; decorated with green and red
enamels over the glaze. 0.032 x 0.130.

56.24. Chinese, Sung dynasty (960-1279). Tea bowl of Ohien type; coarse buff
stoneware with thick blackish-brown glaze. 0.055 x 0.110.

56.25. Chinese, Ming dynasty, Hstian-te period (1426-1435). Bottle-shaped vase
of gray stoneware covered with thick, even, sea-green celadon glaze;
six-character mark of the period incised under glaze on base.
0.257 x 0.1389.

56.80. Chinese, Six Dynasties (265-589). Ewer of coarse gray stoneware covered
with thick, oily, blackish-brown glaze; Yiieh ware of Te-ch‘ing type.
0.235 x 0.116.

56.32. Chinese, Ming dynasty (1368-1644). Plain white porcelain vase in form
of a faceted cube with cylindrical neck, two loop handles, high flaring
base; four characters ssti-nien-shih-yang in underglaze blue under base;
early 15th century. 0.240 x 0.131.

56.13. Japanese, 17th century, Kakiemon ware. Large white porcelain jar
decorated in colored enamels over the glaze. 0.404 x 0.310. (Illus-
trated.)

57.1. Japanese, 18th century, Imari ware. Large white porcelain dish dec-
orated in underglaze blue and enamel colors and gold. 0.555 x 0.077.

57.10. Japanese, 18th century, Kutani ware. White porcelain octagonal dish on
high round foot; decorated in underglaze blue and enamel colors;
character fuku in underglaze blue under base. 0.087 x 0.228.

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

Thirty-two Chinese and Japanese objects were restored, repaired,
or remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition to this work on the collec-
tions, Mr. Sugiura completed ¢‘ao for 26 Chinese books. Assisted by
his son Atsushi, he also mounted a large wall map, which was hung
in the office. One Chinese painting was repaired for Dumbarton Oaks
Library and Collections, and one page of calligraphy was mounted for
the United States Department of State.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 1,603. This unusually large
number is accounted for by the air-conditioning of the building, re-
decoration of exhibition galleries, and reinstallation of exhibitions.
The changes were as follows:

American art:

Oilpainbim ogee Le ee ee eT ep ee ee 132

Pastels snd Orawints.. ce 5s ee ete oS ere oe eee 34

Wi CCECOLOTS is a2 ee ear ee ea 32
Chinese art:

Bronzer ne Set) Mohd AR Gis mene ok Sat Rc eRe 179

(G0) Vc Loy al Oe ee NO NRT betes Ot oN A May meeie Cheba tes Ua EL, 11

AE WoU Sie LS AIL AE aaa AR raat Lak iC aas E Na iy Tal 177
SECRETARY’S REPORT 101

Chinese art—Continued

14a] 0) Co ate a TRENTO 8 GSS VS ey See 3
Mietalwonki i weet Woo cee oh ane pe SMS 8 eee et 26
J EPS aTt ay a a a aN na Ite Le Fe i ae aoe J lets
DECENT hp IR Sa cash egy Mes ea wae eh an AIR ee 292
Stonesseulpturels sii8 $1) O5Fe SO) EEG Sess ee ee hs 26
Christian art:
@rystale 2 2528 be. Sy SRE oy! sw se Eas We aah nt 2
(Glasser te PCE Ec ae Eee cop ee eer ay peer 4
Gn ee ALS ath a RO pat cee Ee Peo 18
DEEN LIST 5 0) 0 pO ar el AEA yen Re a2 aRE NL Sa i 18
A CENCE ot ina sas aan er we a Ok Mee RRR Recah ne] eee) Oly 20 eS aE a 8
Stone sculpturees en aioe! 2 Diy ook Bi ee Se he 2
Indian art:
HES Te OTAD, Cetera meen ce Tite re Els (A pl MR yeas Se
Maniuscripts= so. s22-6-—= Dr INULIN ESS le toe ta eye 12
JE vi tiayec G20) 2 Ee Spl aes a BA Rae eh eyo) -ayan 2) he Sus ne Rie 26
Stoneisculpturess..Ulog 7. 1 ods Os Be ee 8
Japanese art:
SOT ZOE ee a pe ees SPU ON oe a Ne ss 2
DE SEC Aah sa ISS NU af TS 34
TITER nee CIS SN be es Re eee met ere ate 180
RG tery Secu eos ctelid eS) rh 2S ee ane 44
Woodisculpourereiwe wis Uh Ae oe cobs oa ie ae eee 6
Korean art:
ESO TAT Cee a ee ee ee oe a ed 2 EA 2
IRGUGERY Seen aren cs all Saag NN eS 2 See eres 36
Near Eastern art:
Boo lucie eee oe oe = he he Mae oid ot. Se ere 10
C@rystaleese ae ene ee far a8 2 ce ee LOE. eee 2
Classe Vee rere nee mmenne ee NM co 2 ee |: a ee 8
IN Periti Seriya tae te i kd) Sak es eee 16
ANA Ret Arp eee Ro Ot st A a ied ee ANE eh hn SA 36
EC Wha aYs9s pane we Nae SE ¢R RE SEO Ee Soh Weel nsf aa 86
1 EG i es cy ak cael Ra te PLAN LSU 9 LN LET A aR Wy YO SOM 36
Stone sculptures! eet aa sh ees ees be 2
Tibetan art:
| Pern aye hase Seas ae NAD EY UNE ad PD IT eel Aa a LU 4
LIBRARY

The specialized museum library must combine many services. It
must be a research unit for the staff and graduate students for docu-
menting the gallery’s objects and its possible acquisitions; it must
serve the high-school, college, and university students, and all those
studying the Oriental arts.

The reference service of the library is the most difficult to measure
statistically. Each request answered requires immeasurable time, in-
genuity, and imagination. The number of scholars from all parts of
the world who used the library nearly doubled in number during the
year. One visiting scholar, Miss Wellesz, was very grateful when the
librarian was able to give her the name of the library in Washington
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

that had the rare book she had been searching for in Berlin, the British
Museum, and the Library of Congress.

With the decataloging of material not in the Freer library subject
field it is planned that the future acquisitions adhere to the policy of the
library—to supplement the objects of art in the collections. Limited
stack space is another governing control.

The most important acquisitions to the library in the past year were
784 books, pamphlets, and periodicals. Of these, 452 were welcome
gifts from individuals and exchanges from other institutions. Out-
standing among the purchases were Art and art industry in Siam,
published in two elephant-sized folios, which describe and illustrate
the technique of Siamese black-and-gold lacquer work; A/ateriaua
pour un corpus inscriptionum arabicarum, issued in three parts in
seven tomes of sixteen fascicles and as a part of the M/émoires pub-
lished by the members of the Mission Archéologique Francaise au
Caire; and the first three volumes of Dr. Sirén’s work on Chinese
painting, leading masters and principles. James Michener presented
the library with the large folio of Ukiyoe hanga senshu (Selected
masterpieces of Ukiyoe prints). Microfilms were purchased of the
out-of-print books to round out some of the reference materials.

Many bibliographies were compiled; some for publication, a few for
replies to letters, and many others for the objects of art in the
collections.

PUBLICATIONS

There were no publications issued during the year. Avs Orientalis
II was in press at the close of the year.

REPRODUCTIONS

The photographic laboratory made 2,510 items during the year as
follows: 1,924 prints, 291 negatives, 1,255 color transparencies, and
40 black-and-white slides. Total negatives on hand, 11,308; lantern
slides, 10,000; 121 reproductions in the round of Freer Gallery objects
were sold.

BUILDING

The general condition of the building is good. Minor repairs were
made when necessary throughout the year, and broken and damaged
skylights were replaced and waterproofed. Paint was removed from
the flagpole and two new coats applied.

Installation of air-conditioning equipment in the building, begun on
August 6, 1956, was continued. A cooling tower was installed on the
north side of the roof to work in conjunction with the air-conditioning
equipment in the subbasement, and other major changes throughout
the entire building were made.
PEATE S

Secretary's Report, 1957

\

*

3
:
at
258
. §
1.
gy

56.26

he collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.

1tion to t

Recent add
Secretary's Report, 1957

56.13

Recent additions to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.

PLATE 4
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

Sections of the terrazzo floors in Galleries 13 and 17 were laid or
reground and polished. A viny] tile floor was installed in the techni-
cal laboratory.

The work of making exhibition cases for the galleries continued
in the cabinet shop, and miscellaneous odd jobs related to storage,
exhibition, restoration, crating, and maintenance of office and Gallery
equipment were carried on as usual. Much time was given to various
jobs arising as air conditioning of the building progressed, such as
dustproofing all grills throughout the entire gallery floor, offices, and
storage rooms.

In the court all plantings appear to be doing well. A few replace-
ments were made in the azalea bed, and one American boxwood and
one Ligustrum were set out to fill in the southeast corner of the court.
The fountain was drained, cleaned, repointed, and waterproofed, and
drainage around the fountain was corrected. To provide adequate
watering, four 20-foot sprinklers were installed in the four corners of

the court.
ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day except
Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 112,443. The highest monthly attendance was in April,
14,452, and the lowest was in January, 4,124.

Even while undergoing a major building change of air-conditioning,
the office handled 1,948 visitors for the following purposes:

Generali sianf orm siti Orne eee a ek 861
Toy submit.objects forjexamination~.~ 222 eee 370
FROuseerstallomenl Dens =e cee aca ee A oan ee es Ee 173
To take photographs in court or exhibition galleries_____._.._____ 121
FROESCUGLY? Lm 1D rier ye eee eee Bs os es ee ee 252
Tomsee: building and) installations: 22 obs. eee eee 25
Lotexamine Or POLTOW* Slidese 22 ook ea A ee ee 12
Torsketch inegalleries! 2.22 ete 21
Lo UusevHerzfelgMATchi vers vee ee Hn els oe | Eh 1
To see objects in storage:
Peelers LED 1 gts gl RAM pet oe ee OT ee ee eae reer vl 2 Rae Sas 2h 19
Armenian, Byzantine, Greek MSS., ete______.____________ 3
Christianl art: GW ashinstOne MS Si) 18
Far Eastern jade, lacquer, wood, ivory, textiles, ete_______ 11
Hare Dasternemeta lwor kes sae eee oy ease meee eee 12
Mari Hasternepaimtin gs S20) ot) es 83
Marshastern, pottery scart: 2c. es 22 als i ee ie eS rote te 48
Near Eastern glass, bookbindings, ete____________________ 13
Nears Hasternametalwork. 2 2402 Soo see eee ee eee 8
INCATIMASTCEN: Dain tines et ees a ee 2a 21
Near’ Kastern:pottery os 22 222 ee, See ee TS 9

451800—58——_8
104 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957
AUDITORIUM

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:

1956
October 16. Dr. Richard Edwards, Washington University (St. Louis).
“Unique Aspects of Chinese Painting.” Attendance, 119.
November 138. George N. Kates, “The Imperial Lakes of the Forbidden City,
Peking.” Attendance, 208.
1957
January 15. Dr. Carl H. Kraeling, Oriental Institute, University of Chi-
cago. “Recent Explorations in Libya.” Attendance, 63.
February 12. James I’. Cahill, Freer Fellow. “Painting—Albums in China
and Japan.” Attendance, 119.
March 19. i. Arthur Lane, Keeper of Department of Ceramics, Victoria
and Albert Museum, London. “Islamic Pottery, XIV-
XVIII Centuries.” Attendance, 116.
April 16. Dr. Alexander Soper, Bryn Mawr College. ‘The Southern
Contribution to Early Buddhist Art in China.” Attend-
ance, 71.

Three outside organizations used the auditorium, as follows:

1956
November 27, 28. The United States Department of Agriculture held meetings
for field staff members of the Federal Wxtension Service.
Attendance, 78 and 95, respectively.
1957
February 5. Under the auspices of the Turkish Embassy, Prof. Nureddin
Sevin, Ankara State Conservatory, Ankara, Turkey, lec-
tured on “Turkish Art Through the Centuries.” (Illus-
trated.) Attendance, 163.
February 25. The Agriculture Extension Wives Group held a conference.
Attendance, 14.

Four other meetings were held in the building by the Board of
Governors, Washington Society, Archaeological Institute of America,
Rutherford J. Gettens, president, as follows:

A) by le Wr Ota 3 nf see ean A Et a Attendance, 8
October MAOH ois NE eee Bs ee Attendance, 9
DNS) ob eAb Reb ef) topo ig Moat Oe Attendance, 8
May: QOL Obyiiced Maal oes alee neh ee ee ne de Cs Attendance, 10

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub-
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects in
the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian,
Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral or written, and ex-
clusive of those made by the technical laboratory (listed below) were
made on 3,660 objects as follows: For private individuals, 1,603; for
SECRETARY’S REPORT 105

dealers, 787; for other museums, 1,270. In all, 1,850 photographs were
examined, and 568 Oriental language inscriptions were translated for
outside individuals and institutions. By request, 16 groups totaling
314 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by stati
members. Two groups totaling 25 persons were given docent serv-
ice in the storage rooms by staff members.

Among the visitors were 57 distinguished foreign scholars or per-
sons holding official positions in their own countries who came here
under the auspices of the State Department to study museum admin-
istration and practices in this country.

In the technical laboratory 51 objects from the Freer collections and
46 from outside sources were examined. The following project was
begun:

1. Collection of specimens and information on various efflorescences on objects
in museum Cases.

The following projects were continued:

1. X-ray diffraction studies on jade objects in the Freer collections.

2. Collection of further specimens and information about the occurrence and dis-
tribution of smalt (cobalt blue glass pigment) in the Near and War Hast.

8. Collection of further specimens and information about Maya blue pigment
from Central American sources.

4. Collection of further specimens and information on the red pigment vermilion
on ancient Chinese objects.

5. Examination of specimens of wall paintings from the ancient Christian church
of the Chora in Istanbul in cooperation with Dumbarton Oaks Research
Library and Collection.

The following projects were completed :

1. Development of technique of mounting paint cross sections in cold-setting
polyester resin for microscopic identification.

2. Preparation of a selected bibliography on the conservation of ancient bronzes.

6. Conservation and treatment of several Freer objects, including bronzes, pot-
tery, stone reliefs, and wooden sculptures.

4. Collection of about 400 quantitative chemical analyses of ancient bronzes re-
ported in the literature.

During the year, 7 written reports were made and 37 verbal reports
given on objects examined in the technical laboratory.

In August, Dr. Pope began a 7-month trip to the Far East and
Southeast Asia to study museums, private collections, and kilnsites in
connection with his research in various phases of Far Eastern ceramics.
After brief visits to the museums in Seattle and Honolulu, he spent
2 months in Japan, 2 weeks in Formosa, 10 days in Hong Kong, 5
days in Saigon, 3 days in Phnom Penh, 6 days at Angkor, and a week
in Singapore. Then followed 17 days in Java, 2 weeks in Sarawak, a
month in Thailand, 3 days in Rangoon, a week in Calcutta, and 2 weeks
106 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

in London to see further collections and consult with colleagues en

route home.

By invitation the following lectures (illustrated unless otherwise
noted) were given outside the Gallery by staff members:

1956
July 9.

September 24.

October 16.

November 9.

November 14.

1957
January 7.

February 12.

February 13.

February 14.

February 25.

March 20.
April 29.

June 22.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the opening of an exhibition of Islamic
art sponsored by the Summer Institute of Middle Eastern
Studies of Ohio State University at the Ohio State Histori-
cal Museum, on “Islamic Art.” Attendance, 175.

Dr. Pope, at the American Embassy, Tokyo, Japan, on
“Chinese Ceramics in the Freer Gallery of Art.” Attend-
ance, 40.

Dr. Pope, at Jimbun Kagaku Kenkyusho (Institute for
Humanistic Studies), Kyoto, Japan, on “Chinese Porce-
lains from the Ardebil Shrine.” Attendance, 100.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, to the Women’s Commit-
tee, Baltimore Museum of Art, on “Persian Miniature
Painting.” Attendance, 196.

Mr. Gettens, in Bethesda, Md., at the Abracadabra Club, on
“The Van Meegeran Art Forgery Case and Trial.” (Illus-
trated with his own photographs.) Attendance, 25.

Mr. Stern, at the University of Maryland, on “Japanese
Wood-block Prints” at the opening of an exhibition of
Ukiyoe wood-block printing. Attendance, 50.

Mr. Gettens, at the Broadmoor Hotel, Washington, D. C., to
the American Ceramic Society, Baltimore-Washington
Section, on “The Early Use of Cobalt Minerals in the
Coloring of Smalt, Glass and Pottery Glaze.” Attendance,
80.

Mr. Stern, at the opening of the exhibition of the Hauge
Collection, American University, Washington, D. C., on
“Japanese Art.” Attendance, 60. This was recorded for
future broadcasts by the Voice of America, television and
radio.

Mr. Gettens, at the Presbyterian Church, Falls Church, Va.,
to the Women’s Group, on “Some Personal Experiences
with the Dead Sea Scrolls.” Attendance, 140.

Dr. Pope, at the Siam Society, Bangkok, on “The Smith-
sonian Institution and the Freer Gallery of Art.” At-
tendance, 50.

Dr. Pope, at the Oriental Ceramic Society, London, on
“Things of Interest Seen on My Trip.” Attendance, 125.

Dr. Pope, at the Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C., on “Art
in the Orient.” Attendance, 275.

Mr. Gettens, at the Presbyterian Church, Mooers, N. Y.,
Sesquicentennial Celebration, on “Some Personal Experi-
ences with the Dead Sea Scrolls.” Attendance, 125.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 107

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi-
ness as follows:

1956

July 17-20. Mr. Gettens, in Cambridge, Mass., Fogg Art Museum, con-
sulted the Conservation, Oriental, and Photography De-
partments about old records and photographs on smalt.
Sampled three Fogg objects in connection with this tech-
nical problem.

July 21-22. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Cincinnati, Ohio, the Cincinnati Mu-
seum of Art, to study Near Eastern and Indian collections.

August 2-6. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Ann Arbor, at the University of Michi-
gan, discussed Ars Orientalis III. Also visited the Kelsey
Museum of Archaeology to see a Coptic exhibition.

August 7. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Detroit, to see the Near Eastern col-
lection at the Detroit Institute of Arts.

August 11. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Corning, N. Y., examined objects at

the Corning Museum of Glass and discussed research prob-
lems with their staff.

August 24. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Cambridge, Fogg Art Museum, saw an
exhibition of Islamic art and studied their photographic
collection. Examined objects at the Center of Middle
Eastern Studies and in two private collections.

August 28. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Cambridge, examined Russian publica-
tions on Near Eastern archeology in the Semitic Mu-
seum, Harvard University. In Boston, examined objects
at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum and the Museum
of Fine Arts.

September 4. Mr. Stern, in New York, examined objects at dealers.

September 5. Miss Elisabeth West, in Toronto, Canada, at the Royal On-
tario Museum of Archaeology, visited their laboratory
where she examined objects and obtained samples of early
Chinese blue glass for the Freer Gallery technical labora-
tory.

September 6-7. Mr. Gettens, in Corning, N. Y., examined objects at the
Corning Museum of Glass and watched the processing and
etching of glass.

September 20. Mr. Gettens, in Atlantic City, N. J., read a paper entitled
“On the Origin of Smalt and the Early Use of Cobalt in
Blue Glass and Pottery Glazes”’ at a symposium held by
the American Chemical Society on “Ancient Chemistry.”
Attendance, 30.

October 5. Mr. Wenley and Mr. Stern, in Philadelphia, attended the
opening of the exhibition of the Caspary Collection at the
Philadelphia Museum of Art.

October 9. Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, examined objects at the
Walters Art Gallery and the Baltimore Museum of Art.

October 28-30. Mr. Wenley, in Ann Arbor, attended a meeting of the Freer
Fund Committee and conferred with staff members about
Ars Orientalis.
108

1956
November 9-10.

November 23-26.

November 30.

December 3-7.

December 28-29.

1957
January 10-13.

January 24.
February 1.
February 2.

March 8-9.

March 11.
March 12.

March 11-13.

April 2-5.

April 2-6.

April 11-12.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Mr. Stern, in New York, examined objects at the Willard
Gallery and the Oriental Art Gallery.

Mr. Gettens, in New York, examined objects at dealers and
in one private collection. Conferred with the Director of
the Metropolitan Museum of Art about qa Rembrandt
painting.

Mr. Gettens and Miss Elisabeth West, in Baltimore, examined
paintings in the Walters Art Gallery and obtained paint
samples from Flemish and Florentine paintings.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, examined objects belonging
to dealers.

Mr. Gettens, in Philadelphia, attended the annual meeting
of the Archaeological Institute of America; examined ob-
jects in the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and the
University of Pennsylvania Museum, and also observed
the restoration work in progress in Independence Hall.

Mr. Stern, in New York, examined objects at dealers and in
the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

Dr. Httinghausen, in New York, examined objects at dealers
and in one private collection.

Dr. Httinghausen, in Baltimore, examined objects at the
Baltimore Museum of Art.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, examined objects at the
Walters Art Gallery.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Chicago, attended a conference on the
composition of a manual for the teaching of Islamic
civilization sponsored by the University of Chicago and
the Rockefeller Foundation. Examined photographs at
the Oriental Institute.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Minneapolis, examined objects at the
Minneapolis Institute of Art.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Chicago, examined objects at the Art
Institute of Chicago.

Mr. Gettens, in Chicago, attended a Conference on Archaeo-
logical Identification and the Cooperation of Specialists in
Related Disciplines at the Oriental Institute, University
of Chicago, under the auspices of the National Research
Foundation. He read a paper entitled “Problems in
Archaeological Identifications: the Identification of Mate-
rials of Cultural Remains.” Attendance, 40.

Mr. Gettens, in Oberlin, Ohio, attended a seminar on “Resin-
ous Surface Coatings” at Oberlin College under the aus-
pices of the Intermuseum Conservation Association. He
read a paper entitled “Summary of the History of Resinous
Surface Coatings.” Attendance, 50.

Mr. Wenley, in Boston, attended the sessions of the Ninth
Annual Meeting of the Association for Asian Studies
(formerly the Far Eastern Association, Inc.), the Far East-
ern Ceramic Group, and the Far Hastern Ceramic Group
Council.

Mr. Wenley, in Ann Arbor, attended a meeting of the Freer
Fund Committee at the University of Michigan.
1957
April 23-25.

April 26.

April 27.
May 21.
May 25-26.

June 3-5.

June 24-26.

June 25-28.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 109

Mr. Wenley, in Princeton, N. J., attended sessions of the Amer-
ican Oriental Society, and in the absence of Dr. Schuyler
Cammann, presided as chairman at the meeting of the Far
Hastern Section.

Mr. Wenley and Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, examined
objects at dealers. Attended the dinner and formal open-
ing of the Kevorkian Gallery of Ancient Near Eastern Art
at the Brooklyn Museum of Art.

Mr. Wenley and Dr. Httinghausen, in New York, examined
objects at dealers.

Mrs. Lnor O. West, in Chicago, attended the Museum Store
Association meeting at the Art Institute of Chicago.

Mr. Wenley, in St. Louis, Mo., attended the Association of
Art Museum Directors meetings at the City Art Museum.
Mr. Gettens, in Winterthur, Del., attended the symposium on

Museum Operation and Connoisseurship and participated
in the round-table discussion on “Case Study, Identifying
and Interpreting an Object” at the Henry Francis du Pont

Winterthur Museum.

Mrs. Bertha M. Usilton, at Kansas City, Mo., attended the
annual meeting and Art Reference Round Table of the
American Library Association.

Mr. Gettens, in Boston, examined objects at the Fogg Art
Museum in connection with his technical projects.

Members of the staff held honorary posts, received recognition, and
undertook additional duties outside the Gallery as follows:

Mr. Wenley:

Dr. Pope:

Research Professor of Oriental Art, Department of Fine
Arts, University of Michigan.

Member, Visiting Committee, Board of Overseers of Dum-
barton Oaks Research Library and Collection.

Member, Smithsonian Art Commission.

Member, Advisory Committee on Exchange in the Arts, De-
partment of State, United States Advisory Commission on
Educational Wxchanges.

Member, Smithsonian Institution Sub-Committee on Re
search Programs.

Chairman, Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship Committee
of the American Oriental Society.

Vice President, Textile Museum, Washington, D. C.

Vice President, Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.

Member, Visiting Committee, Board of Overseers of Harvard
College to the Department of Far Eastern Civilizations.

Member, Editorial Board, Archives of the Chinese Art So-
ciety of America.

President, Far Hastern Ceramic Group.

Made three tape recordings for Radio Sarawak, Kuching:
(1) An interview with Tom Harrisson, Curator, Sarawak
Museum, about Dr. Pope’s interest in the ancient Chinese
porcelain trade; (2) an interview by Mr. Harrisson on
Dr. Pope’s impressions of the excavations made by Mr.
Harrisson in the Santubong delta; (3) a talk on Charles
Lang Freer and the Freer Gallery of Art.
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Dr. Pope:

Dr. Ettinghausen :

Mr. Gettens:

Mrs. Usilton:

While going through the Freer exhibition galleries, made a
tape recording in French in reply to questions by Mme.
Fevrier for Voice of America broadcasts.

Organized an exhibition of Islamic art at the Ohio State
Historical Museum, Columbus, Ohio, for the Summer Pro-
gram on the Middle East at Ohio State University.

Discussed the Freer Gallery of Art and its collections in
Persian with Mahmoud Danishvar of Tehran. This was
tape recorded for use on Voice of America broadcasts.

Translated into Persian his “Foreword, An Exhibition of
Illustrations to Fifty Quatrains by Omar Khayyam by the
Contemporary Iranian Painter, Hossein Behzad” to be
used on Voice of America broadcasts in Iran by Morteza
K. Yahyavi.

Made a tape recording in German for Voice of America
broadcasts in Vienna, Austria, on “The Freer Gallery of
Art and Its Collections.” The interviewer was Oliver
Bryk.

Chairman, Art Committee, Cosmos Club.

Member, Ad Hoe Committee on Restoration of Catlin Paint-
ings, Smithsonian Institution.

President, Washington Society, Archaeological Institute of
America.

Member, Council of the District of Columbia, Library Asso-
ciation, as Publicity Chairman.

Advisor and critic of the schedules for 700’s (Fine Arts) of
the Dewey Decimal Classification, 16th edition.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. WENLEY, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Air Museum

Stir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957:

The occurrence of greatest importance to the National Air Museum
during the fiscal year 1957 was the introduction in Congress of a bill
proposing the reservation of a definite site on the Mall, in Washing-
ton, for the National Air Museum building. Introduced in the Senate
on May 2, 1957, by the Honorable Clinton P. Anderson, this bill,
S. 1985, would reserve for this Museum an area directly across the
Mall from the National Gallery of Art. The site is bounded on the
north by Jefferson Drive, on the east by Fourth Street, on the south
by Independence Avenue, and on the west by Seventh Street, and
would provide space for a building with a base of approximately
300,000 square feet. It has been approved for the Museum by the
National Capital Planning Commission.

Great progress was made in establishing a shop for the Pestoeation
of aircraft that have long been in storage. The exhibition area re-
mains the same as in former years, but rearrangements were made
to give more space to individual exhibits. Important accessions were
received. The number of sources from which specimens were ob-
tained compares favorably with other years, while the number of
specimens acquired is greater than in any previous year owing to an
important transfer of aeronautical instruments and similar material
from the National Bureau of Standards.

The fame of the National Air Museum as a depository for evidence
of aeronautical history and progress is constantly increasing. More
and more time is required from the staff to furnish information to
visitors and correspondents. Many demands for facts are received
by phone from Government agencies. It is increasingly apparent
that the aircraft industry and persons engaged in aeronautical
research depend on the Museum for this service. Accurate replies
should be given promptly, but the present curatorial staff can no
longer keep abreast of the increased demand. Two additional
curatorial positions have been authorized, and it is hoped that quali-
fied persons can be obtained to fill them.

ADVISORY BOARD

Two meetings of the Advisory Board of the National Air Museum
were held, at which progress was reported and plans discussed.

Teal
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Two changes occurred in the membership of the Board. Maj. Gen.
John P. Doyle, who retired from the Air Force, was succeeded by
Maj. Gen. Reuben C. Hood, Jr., as representative of the Chief of Staff
of the Air Force. The vacancy created by the death in 1956 of
William B. Stout was filled by the Presidential appointment of
Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle. The other members of the Board, Dr.
Leonard Carmichael, chairman; Rear Adm. James S. Russell, repre-
senting the Chief of Naval Operations; and Grover Loening,
Presidential appointee, continued their service on this Board.

At the meeting of the Board on December 14, 1956, all members were
present. ‘The chairman summarized the history of the National Air
Museum; described progress in the care of stored aircraft; and again
acknowledged the generous gift from the Aircraft Industries Associa-
tion and the Air Transport Association of $25,000, used for an archi-
tectural study of a National Air Museum building. Mr. Loening
advocated the division of the Museum into two parts: a monumental
exhibition building for outstanding specimens, and a secondary facil-
ity in suburban Washington for the study collections. Dr. Carmichael
outlined the difficulties encountered during efforts to obtain a preferred
site for the exhibition building. Because of prospects of expansion,
the appointment of a director for the Museum was urged. Coopera-
tion with the new Air Force Central Museum recently established at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio was discussed. A letter
affirming Air Force policy was presented by General Hood, in which it
was stated that aeronautical specimens held by the Air Force that were
primarily of national importance would be transferred to the National
Air Museum whenever space becomes available for their display. A
progress report was presented on the sculpturing and casting of the
William Mitchell statue. The Board resolved that it be accepted and
an appropriate ceremony be scheduled for its presentation. Follow-
ing a discussion of several aircraft believed to be available to the
Museum, and a statement by Admiral Russell regarding the problems
experienced by the Navy in recording and storing specimens being pre-
served for the Museum, the meeting adjourned.

The next meeting of the Advisory Board was held on May 24, 1957,
following the news of the bill introduced in Congress to reserve a site
on the Mall for the National Air Museum. All members attended the
meeting and enthusiastically discussed the advantages of this site and
plans for the building. It was pointed out that details of building
construction and exhibition arrangements studied during the planning
of buildings for other proposed sites could be utilized in determining
the form of structure and interior arrangements for this latest project.
It was agreed that the next step would be to obtain authorization by
the Congress for the construction of the building and funds for the
preparation of plans.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 113

A written report of curatorial activities since the previous meeting
was submitted ; the need for additional staff, including a director, was
considered; and activities of other aeronautical museums were dis-
cussed in terms of relation to and cooperation by and with the National
Air Museum. Particular attention was given to progress with the Wil-
liam Mitchell statue project.

STEPHENSON BEQUEST

Previous annual reports have included details regarding the author-
ization by Congress for the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
to accept as a gift from the late George H. Stephenson of Philadelphia
a statue of Brig. Gen. William Mitchell. The sculpturing by Bruce
Moore progressed during the year to the completion of the full-sized
plaster cast and its delivery to the foundry for casting in bronze. The
granite base is being cut. The full-length figure, in World War I uni-
form, mounted on its base will be about 10 feet in height and, pending
completion of the Aeronautical Hall of Fame in the proposed new
building, will be placed in the Arts and Industries Building adjacent
to Air Force displays. The formal presentation ceremony is scheduled
for December 17, 1957, as a climactic feature of the year that celebrates
the 50th Anniversary of the United States Air Force.

SPECIAL EVENTS AND DISPLAYS

The year 1956 was celebrated in Denmark as the 50th anniversary of
the first flight there by James Christian Ellehammer, which occurred
September 12, 1906. A reproduction of his airplane of 1906 was con-
structed in Denmark, and a copy of his 1909 airplane was flown there.
Another feature of the anniversary year occurred on December 11,
1956, when a model of the 1906 aircraft was presented to the Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution for the National Air Museum by His
Excellency, the Ambassador of Denmark, Henrik Kauffmann, in the
Regents’ room of the Smithsonian Building, and in the presence of a
distinguished group of officials, aeronautical historians, and Smith-
sonian personnel. The model is constructed to a scale of 1:14 and
reflects Ellehammer’s earlier interest in kites in the diamond shape of
its principal surface. A miniature reproduction of the engine that
Ellehammer made is mounted at the front, and the 3-wheeled chassis
and tethering connection illustrates how the aircraft was guided over
its circular path and rose for a flight of about 140 feet at a height of
about 18 inches, with Ellehammer on a bicycle seat just behind the
engine.

For the annual meeting of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on January 18, 1957, the National Air Museum displayed a series
of scale models illustrating development of United States naval air-
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

planes. This display was particularly timely because the Vought
F8U-1 “Crusader” Navy fighter plane had recently established a new
national speed record of 1,015.4 miles an hour. Contrasted with a
model of that jet-powered swept-winged fighter was a similarly scaled
1: 16-size reproduction of the Navy’s first seaplane of 1911, which flew
at about 50 miles an hour, and of models of Navy planes used in
World Wars I and II.

The National Air Museum was represented by the head curator at
the National Air Races held at Oklahoma City on Labor Day; at the
directors meeting of the National Aeronautic Association, held in
Washington on October 2, on the Brewer Trophy Committee to choose
the person most prominent in 1956 in the field of aviation education
for youth; at the Wright Brothers Banquet of the Aero Club of
Washington, on the 53d anniversary of the first flight, December 17,
1956; and at the American Helicopter Society Forum held in Wash-
ington on May 10, 1957. At the model airplane exhibition held at
Cleveland on February 22, the head curator served as chief judge,
selecting three outstanding models for the Museum collections. For
the First National Conference on Aviation Education, organized by
the National Aviation Education Council and held in Washington
March 7-8, 1957, the National Air Museum was represented by both
the head curator and the associate curator, the former as speaker on
“Aviation as a Vocation and Avocation” and the latter as consultant
on Aviation Curriculum Enrichment. Among the 23 lectures given
on various aspects of flight during the year by the head curator,
two were presented to aeronautical groups at universities, three to
units of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, and three to military
units. Six lecture tours of the aeronautical exhibits were given, five
to military units, and the other to a group of progressive youths spon-
sored by Representative Peter Mack of Illinois.

The Museum participated in three television programs on aero-
nautical history during the year ; the head curator spoke on three radio
programs and made sound tapes for two others, all relative to the
functions and exhibits of this Museum. Numerous persons preparing
broadcast programs consulted the Museum for facts.

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS

Many of the displays maintained in the Aircraft Building and in
the Aeronautical Hall of the Arts and Industries Building were im-
proved during the year. Several specimens were added to the Robert
J. Collier Trophy display illustrating annual awards “for the greatest
achievement in aviation in America, the value of which has been
thoroughly demonstrated by actual use during the preceding year.”
The display of the Klemin Plaque awarded annually by the American
SECRETARY'S REPORT 115

Helicopter Society to outstanding personages in that field; the
case containing mementos of Wiley Post and his two world flights;
the Postal Aviation exhibit featuring models of historic airmail
planes; the Amelia Earhart Memorial Collection; and the aeronau-
tical instrument collection were improved. A series of paintings of
jet-powered aircraft by the noted artist Charles Hubbell was added to
the exhibition of the Whittle jet engine. The case containing noted
aeronautical awards, including the Curtiss Marine, Pulitzer, Harmon,
Brewer, and Wright brothers trophies, was rearranged and labels
were rewritten. The case containing model aircraft of the first World
War and the commercial models exhibit were rearranged, and the im-
pressive series of models illustrating types developed by the Wright
brothers and their company was improved by the addition of several
models, prints, and structural specimens. A seasonal exhibit of kites
attracted attention from the younger visitors and from aeronautical
historians who recognize the kite as the fundamental manmade air-
craft. Some of these early types of kites embody the genesis of im-
portant aerodynamic features.

The 40-year-old prefabricated steel Aircraft Building, actually a
World War I airplane hangar, was provided with a new skirting
around its lower edge, extending over the concrete curbing so that rain
will drain outward instead of seeping inward. The sloping wall was
painted.

The Smithsonian Print Shop prepared a number of labels to replace
the former temporary ones, greatly improving appearance and legi-
bility. All the suspended airplanes in the Arts and Industries Build-
ing were cleaned, and several fabric repairs were made. The Wright
Military and Curtiss Pusher airplanes were provided with glass
screens at their wing tips to protect them from handling by visitors.
The Langley quarter-size model aerodrome was re-covered; the large
display case containing airplane models of the pre-World War I
period was disassembled, moved from the Arts and Industries Build-
ing and re-erected in the Aircraft Building, and the models rein-
stalled ; and exhibits of relics associated with the first transcontinental
flight and the First Aero Squadron of World War I were improved.

The Air Force Central Museum at Wright-Patterson Field trans-
ferred to this Museum a 3-unit wall case in which scale models show-
ing the progress in design of Air Force planes have been installed.
This new case is provided with shielded lighting and illuminated label
frames and is a great improvement over the floor case formerly used.

Many of the new accessions listed at the end of this report were
prepared for exhibition during this year; others must be held in stor-
age until the new building is completed.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957
RESTORATION OF STORED AIRCRAFT

At the end of the previous fiscal year all the buildings at the Na-
tional Air Museum Restoration Facility in the Suitland, Md., build-
ing area had been erected; a force consisting of a foreman, two air-
craft mechanics, a vehicular mechanic, and an aide had been engaged,
and they were setting up a shop in the largest building. In that shop
the stored aircraft, principally those World War II planes that had
been transferred from the Air Force by order of Gen. H. H. Arnold,
will be prepared for eventual exhibition and study.

That large building, known as No. 10, and measuring 200 by 180
feet, was improved by the addition of a concrete ramp in front; instal-
lation of gas heat in one of its 60-foot-wide sections, involving the
erection of a 200-foot partition to confine the heat to that area; and
insulation of the ceiling and walls. Electric service was increased and
extended to the newly installed power tools and equipment, including
a metal-cutting band saw, punch press, belt and disk sanders, air
compressor, plastic-heating oven, drill press, and other devices for the
fabrication and repair of aircraft parts. This shop area is becoming
a well-organized and efficient unit of the Museum. Using scrap ma-
terial for the most part, the facility personnel have constructed a tool
crib, sheet-metal rack, scrap boxes, parts bins, welding area, and
benches for special tools.

Because many of these aircraft were stored at Park Ridge, Ill., for
a long time in the open, and then subjected to the hazards of overland
shipment, they must be removed from their boxes and cared for as
quickly as possible in order to arrest deterioration. During the year
seven airplanes and seven rotorcraft were unboxed, inspected, and
corrective work started. One aircraft, the World War I De Havil-
land-4, was completely restored. This entailed splicing the broken
longerons; cleaning and repairing the transverse frame of the fuse-
lage; re-covering the control surfaces, with assistance from the fabric
shop at Bolling Air Force Base; cleaning and redoping the wings;
cleaning the engine; and making numerous repairs to equipment.
This airplane is now ready for exhibition. In connection with the
work on other aircraft a number of pieces of shop equipment have
been made, including fuselage and wing cradles, engine covers, and
handling gear. Some special tools had to be fabricated from raw
stock.

In response to a request from the Department of Justice all the
autogiros in the facility were moved to Building 10, unboxed, and
partly assembled for examination in connection with investigation
of patent claims against the Government. The information thus
obtained was helpful in studying details of the case. The DC-3
transport airplane, given to the Museum in 1953 by Eastern Airlines
SECRETARY’S REPORT LL7

and flown into the Washington Airport, was disassembled there by
Museum personnel with help of the airline crew and hauled by truck
to Suitland, the fuselage being towed on its own wheels. The Ger-
man V-1 buzz bomb of World War II was assembled and painted,
with the assistance of Andrews Air Force Base mechanics. At the
close of the year preparations were being made to set up our own
paint-spraying booth.

In Building 1 a shop for maintenance of vehicular and handling
equipment has been organized. Because much of the equipment for
lifting heavy loads was obtained from Government surplus stock, it
has required reconditioning. Repairs have been conducted during the
year on five forklifts, a crane, truck, and bulldozer, and the associated
slings, dollies, jacks, hoists, and other material. Some repairs have
been made to the roads connecting the buildings.

The four large aircraft that remain stored in the open at Andrews
Air Force Base, and which suffered from vandalism and exposure
until Museum personnel could be engaged to care for them, were the
first to receive preservative attention from the Museum crew. All
openings on these aircraft were sealed; control surfaces, propellers,
and tires removed; engines cleaned and sprayed; landing gears
shored; and the wings and fuselages securely tied down.

Final prejects of the year were the unloading of the Bell VTOL
aircraft, and the removal of two airplanes from exhibition for repair.

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

During the fiscal year it was acknowledged by the Court of Claims
that the Curtiss Army racing airplane of 1925, preserved here since
1927, embodies wing details that enabled the Government successfully
to defend itself against a claim involving nearly half a million dollars.
That amount alone is several times the annual appropriation for this
Museum. In addition, the Justice Department was furnished infor-
mation and shown material relative to claims pertaining to rotorcraft,
airplane control devices, and parachute releases. The fact that this
information was readily made available to the investigators saved time
and expense to the Justice Department. If the related specimens had
not been preserved the Government’s cause would certainly have been
weakened.

Many offices within the Government requested and received as-
sistance and information from the Museum during the year. Among
these were the U. S. Information Agency; the Office of Military
History; the Air Force Information Service; the Department of
Defense, Office of Public Information, and the same Department’s
Office of Scientific Information; the Air Force Research Unit; the Air
Research and Development Command; the State Department, Office of
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Dependent Area Affairs; the Voice of America; and the Government-
published magazine America Illustrated. Subjects included the
history of jet aircraft and guided missiles, identification of per-
sons in photographs, the story of skywriting, flight clothing and uni-
forms, addresses of companies and persons, the history of trans-
atlantic flying, lives of aeronautical pioneers, data on famous aircraft
and some obscure ones, first instances of structural details and acces-
sories in aircraft, air-sea rescue devices, and many others. The De-
partment of the Interior asked about early uses of airplanes in
Alaska, the Air Force Museum was supplied with photographs for
its displays, the Coast Guard received help with an exhibit on ant-
arctic flying, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics was
aided in locating data on a helicopter pioneer, and the Geological
Survey was interested in maps used by Charles Lindbergh when he
flew across the Atlantic in 1927. The Civil Aeronautics Administra-
tion was helped with facts about airmail history, in identifying an
obsolete “flying wing” aircraft, and pioneer flyers. Speech writers
in the Navy Department requested help in assembling facts for talks
to be given by their head officers; at the beginning of the Naval
project, which culminated in establishing a new altitude record for
balloons, the Museum was asked to furnish information about earlier
attempts to reach record heights; and the Navy’s Hydrographic
Laboratory, experimenting with hydrofoils, was informed about
earlier experiments with water vanes. Several times during the
year the Navy was assisted in preparation of a film illustrating
the development of Naval aviation as recalled by the pilots and en-
gineers who helped to make that history. Such assistance with im-
portant projects admittedly saved time for the research workers, and
prevented duplication of work already accomplished and a search for
details proved or rejected. From the offices of a number of Congress-
men requests were received for information needed by constituents,
and in every case help was given to the extent possible by the limited
staff and facilities of the Museum.

PUBLIC INFORMATIONAL SERVICE

As stated in the opening paragraphs of this report, furnishing in-
formation to the public is a function most demanding on the time of
the staff. This service occupies a large portion of each Museum day,
but space permits only a few highlights to be given here.

General Dynamics Corporation’s Convair Aircraft, preparing a
history of its third of a century in aircraft production, used the Na-
tional Air Museum’s reference files and photographic prints to pre-
pare the background, and Capital Airlines found useful information
here for its historic review. Many aeronautical organizations found
SECRETARY'S REPORT 119

Museum records to be helpful: the Aero Club of Washington selected
its honor guests for the annual banquet on the basis of accomplish-
ments determined in part from information furnished by the Museum;
the Air Force Association used the Museum’s files in planning its con-
vention; the OX-5 Club, formed of pilots who flew behind the
worthy engine of that name, was aided in preparing its meetings; and
the reunion of the World War I 20th Squadron was made more en-
joyable because of help from the Museum. The Early Birds, an or-
ganization of those who flew solo during the first 13 years of human
flight, continue to ask the Museum to help in arranging meetings, re-
calling historic events, and preserving their treasures associated with
early flying.

The city of Philadelphia was assisted in celebrating the 45th
anniversary of a “race” between Lincoln Beachey, Hugh Robinson,
and Eugene Ely, flying from Governors Island, N. Y., to Phila-
delphia in Curtiss pusher airplanes. The Art Center at Kalamazoo,
Mich., was helped in preparing a display of artistic and aerodynamic
kites. Artists were aided in preparing authentic paintings of World
War aircraft, airmail planes, and Zeppelins. Many reporters consulted
the Museum for details, especially at the time when the Presidential
helicopters landed on the White House lawn, and newspapermen
wanted to know of previous instances when landings had been made
there. The Museum told them about Harry Atwood making a Presi-
dential visit in his Wright-B airplane in 1911 and James Ray piloting
an autogiro to land beside President Hoover in 1981.

Among the many publications that checked their articles from
Museum facts were the National Geographic Magazine inquiring
about airplane control, and Air Force history; Reader’s Digest asking
about Sikorsky’s helicopters and Lindbergh’s flight to Paris; Life,
needing details on polar flying; the Saturday Evening Post to get the
story of the first transcontinental flight; Fairchild Aircraft’s Pegasus
to obtain photographs and to learn about the military demonstration
flights at Fort Myer, Va., in 1909; Coronet asking about the pioneer
of rocketry, Robert Goddard; and the World Book Encyclopedia to
receive help with biographies of noted flyers.

Many schoolteachers received help in planning their aviation
courses, and numerous students appealed to the Museum for answers;
the newly established school at Cedar Rapids, named for the Wright
brothers, obtained from the Museum a series of photographs of
Wright aircraft to decorate its halls; while college students used
Museum facts in preparing their theses.

Several of the aviation motion pictures that were shown during the
year had utilized Museum records in their preparation, notably, the
“Spirit of St. Louis.” Aeronautical books reflected the work of their

451800—58——_9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

authors who came to the Museum for assistance. Persons construct-
ing full-sized reproductions of famous aircraft in which to recapture
the romance of flying of the early days, and modelmakers enjoying
the hobby of building noted aircraft in miniature, wrote or came to

the Museum for help.
REFERENCE MATERIAL

The National Air Museum library, reference files, and documents
form an indispensable supplement to the knowledge of the staff and
are of great value to researchers who come to the Museum. These
records are used when labels are written, catalogs compiled, letters
answered, and statements require authentication. Realizing that all
this constitutes a valuable public service, a number of other aeronau-
tical historians and collectors have deposited their reference material
with the Museum, where it continues to be available to themselves
and also serves others. The cooperation of the following persons and
organizations is sincerely appreciated :

BERLINER, Henry A., Washington, D. C.: Two scrapbooks assembled by his father,
Emile Berliner, recording experiments by father and son with helicopters, air-
planes, and aircraft engines from 1903 to 1925.

Bopinz, Joun W., West Trenton, N. J.: Selection of aeronautical periodicals to
aid in completing Museum volumes.

Bowen, Trevor, Burry Port, Wales: Photographs of the monument commemorat-
ing the arrival of Amelia Earhart at the end of her first transatlantic flight
in the Fokker Friendship, with Wilmer Stutz and Louis Gordon, June 8, 1928.

Cuine, Capt. JosEpH, Coronado, Calif.: Photograph album illustrating activities
of the First Aeronautic Detachment, U. S. Navy, in World War I (loan).

Fire, Ray, Coronado, Calif. : File of newspaper articles pertaining to the airplane
Spirit of St. Louis and reference items on Convair aircraft.

First Marine AVIATION ForcE VETERANS ASSOCIATION, through J. HE. Nicholson,
Adjutant, Baltimore, Md.: Photographs of U. 8S. Marine aircraft and personnel
operating in France during World War I (loan).

FRANKLIN INSTITUTE, Philadelphia, Pa., through Director A. C. Carlton and Capt.
Ralph Barnaby, U. S. N. (Ret.) : A scrapbook and a selection of aviation prints
collected by the late S. 8. Jerwan, pioneer flyer in Moisant airplanes, 1910, and
later an instructor in flying.

Greea, RicHARD, Kalamazoo, Mich.: Photographs and slides of a special display
of kites assembled by him at the Art Center (loan).

HAmMILTon STanDARD, Windsor Locks, Conn.: A motion-picture film, “Keep ’Em
Flying,” describing the operation and servicing of a hydromatic propeller.

JARRETT, Cot. BuRLING, Aberdeen, Md.: A motion-picture film compiled by himself
and Maj. Kimbrough Brown, describing the life and flight of the German
World War I Ace, Baron Manfred Von Richthofen (loan).

Jones, Mrs. Ernest L., Clifton, Va.: Original manuscript of the chronology com-
piled by her late husband, Col. E. L. Jones, comprising a detailed listing of
events in aeronautical history. A very valuable reference work.

Kirk, Preston, North Platte, Nebr.: An original booklet describing aircraft
engines developed by Charles Lawrance.

Lzver, Harry (Estate of), Washington, D. C.: Two aeronautical dictionaries used
by him while aviation editor of the Washington Star.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 121

Liprary oF Coneress, Washington, D. C.: Charts showing details of aeronautical
equipment, drawings of German aircraft, World War I recognition posters of
German airplanes, 21 photographs of historic aircraft, and, through Dr.
Robert Multhauf, a copy of Locomotion Aerienne by D’Amecourt, 1864.

LIncoLn Press, Washington, D. C.: Copies of Jane’s “All the World’s Aircraft”
(loan) ; bound volumes of the magazine Aero Digest, and a quantity of back
issues of this magazine (gift).

MANDRAKE, CHARLES G., and Lonao, Rosert, Wichita, Kans.; Copy of “The Gee
Bee Story,” a history of Granville brothers’ racing planes, 1920-1939.

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D. C.: A reprint of the log of the Navy’s
first airplane, the Curtiss A—1 of 1911; drawings of the N-9 training plane and
of the F5L patrol plane of World War I.

NIcEWARNER, Mrs. R. J., Bethesda, Md.: Album of photographs assembled by her
father, Capt. Kenneth Whiting, U. 8. N., illustrating his experiences as a pioneer
in naval aviation and in the development of the aircraft carrier (loan).

Nieto, JosepH, San Antonio, Tex.: Drawings of World War I airplanes and of
commercial planes of the 1930’s (purchased). Motion-picture films of notable
flights (gift).

Nippon Agro CiLup, Tokyo, Japan, through §. Sonoda: Recent Japanese aviation
periodicals.

PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE Co. or AMERICA, Newark, N. J.: Motion-picture film of
the “You Are There” television program “Benjamin Franklin and His Kite.”

Reap, Rosert E., Alexandria, Va.: A contemporary poster of the editorial in the
New York Sun, May 21, 1927, “Lindbergh Flies Alone.”

SEELEY, R. D., Fort Meade, Md.: A collection of photographs of foreign aircraft
and engines, principally German and Italian types of World War II (loan).

Smarp, Joun R., Sioux Falls, 8S. Dak.: Book by this author listing Aces of World
War I.

Unitep ArrcorArr CorPoRATION, East Hartford, Conn.: With the assistance of
Harvey Lippincott, a file of the Corporation magazine Bee Hive, copies of the
publication Aerosphere, and a selection of texts describing Pratt & Whitney
aircraft engines.

VERVILLE, ALFRED, Washington, D. C.: Drawings and texts describing the Verville
“Messenger” airplane, 1920.

ACCESSIONS

Additions to the National Aeronautical Collections received and
recorded this year total 1,050 specimens in 33 separate accessions from
30 sources. Those from Government departments are entered as
transfers; others were received as gifts except as noted.

Arg Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D. C.: Twin floats devised and
constructed in 1907 by Orville and Wilbur Wright and tested on the Miami
River, Dayton, Ohio, during experiments to develop a seaplane intended to
be flown over the assembled world fleets at Hampton Roads, Va., during the
Jamestown Exposition of that year, and a drawing illustrating that experiment
(N. A. M. 945). Two dioramas, first received of a series illustrating the
history of the United States Air Force. One diorama depicts a scene during
the Civil War: the inflation of a captive balloon, piloted by T. S. C. Lowe and
used for military observation of Confederate operations; the other diorama
illustrates an important operation during World War II, after the capture of
Finschafen, New Guinea, when a landing and takeoff strip had been prepared
for use of Lockhead P-38 Lightning fighter planes (N. A. M. 946).
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

ATCHISON, Jos. ANTHONY, Washington, D. C.: Two paintings for an exhibit on
Natural Flight, showing the extinct pterodactyl and the dragonfly (N. A. M.
918, purchased).

Betz Argcorart Co., Buffalo, N. Y.: VTOL aircraft (Vertical Take Off and Land-
ing), developed by Lawrence Bell and associates in 1954. Fairchild J-44
engines, located each side of the fuselage, were pivoted into vertical position
for direct upward takeoff, and after gaining altitude were rotated to horizontal
position for forward thrust. A conventional wing provided lift for forward
flight, and a French Palouste compressor provided air blasts at the wing tips
and empennage for reaction control. Landings were made either by descend-
ing gradually during forward flight, or by pivoting the Fairchild engines into
upright position and descending vertically (N. A. M. 943).

BERLINER, Cot. Henry, Washington, D. C.: Two wing ribs from the Wright
brothers’ airplane of 1908 which was the first to be demonstrated to Govern-
ment officials at Fort Myer, Va., those demonstrations being suspended by the
unfortunate accident of September 17, 1908; an Erco propeller blade of about
1945 formed of impregnated wood and plastic; and a portrait photograph of
the donor’s father, Emile Berliner, who, beginning about 1890, and continuing
later with the assistance of his son, experimented with rocket-powered model
airplanes, full-scale helicopters, and engines. The donor developed helicopters
that achieved vertical lift, successful airplanes, and aeronautical equipment
(N. A. M. 987).

Boring AIPLANE Co., Seattle, Wash.: A scale model, 1:48 size, of the Boeing
B-52 Air Force bomber which was the subject for the 1955 award of the
Robert J. Collier Trophy (N. A. M. 933).

Bouanp, JoserH, Frederick, Md.: A scale model, constructed by himself, of the
Boland Tailless Pusher airplane developed by him and his brothers at Rahway,
N. J., 1909. It incorporates a unique “jib” control and was flown most notably
by Frank Boland in Venezuela and Trinidad, 1912, it being the first aircraft
to fly in those places (N. A. M. 917).

Byrp, Mrs. THomas, Boyce, Va.: Plaster cast of the Congressional Medal
awarded posthumously to Brig. Gen. William Mitchell, August 8, 1946, “for
outstanding pioneer service and foresight in field of American military avia-
tion.” Sculptured by Erwin Springweiler (N. A. M. 927).

Cessna Argorart Co., Wichita, Kans.: Models, scale 1:36, of three airplanes:
the Comet of 1911 developed by Clyde VY. Cessna during the pioneer days of
aeronautics; the Type 180, 4-seated high-wing monoplane introduced in 1953;
and the Type 182, which is a 1956 improvement of the Type 180 having
smoother flight characteristics (N. A. M. 936).

Commence, U. S. DEPARTMENT of, NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS, Washington,
D. C.: A large and valuable collection of instruments dating back to the
practical beginnings of aircraft instrumentation, including some types used
with early lighter-than-air craft, compasses, engine instruments, navigation
devices, fuel regulators, flight performance instruments, bombsights, and other
equipment, both American and foreign. This material has been collected over
the past 40 years or more in connection with the testing work of the Bureau’s
laboratories. ‘The assistance of Dr. W. G. Brombacher in listing and identi-
fying this collection is gratefully acknowledged (N. A. M. 924).

GarBer, PauL Epwarp, Washington, D. C.: A Japanese “cricket” kite, embody-
ing pouches and dihedral angles for stability made in 1956 (N.A.M. 915) ;
a sculptured portrait of Dr. Samuel Pierpont Langley, third Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, renowned astronomer, scientist, and pioneer of avi-
ation; sculptured head by Joseph Anthony Atchison, 1957 (N. A. M. 939).
SECRETARY’S REPORT 123

GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION, Bethpage, L. I., N. Y.: Two
seale models, 1:16 size, of the Grumman F11F-1 “Tiger” airplane in current
use as a Navy fighter. One of these models is shown with the Robert J.
Collier Trophy, it being the first airplane to embody the Area Rule principle
developed at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics laboratories
by Richard Whitcomb who was recipient of that Trophy for the year 1954.
The other model is in the series illustrating naval aircraft (N. A. M. 935).

HAVEN, GILBERT P., Glastonbury, Conn.: Two load calculators, resembling a
slide rule and used in determining the amount and dispositions of fuel, cargo,
and other load factors to insure safe operation of aircraft. These are for
B-17 and B-29 airplanes (N. A. M. 938).

HUBBELL, CHARLES H., Cleveland, Ohio: Scale model, 1:16 size, of the Morane-
Saulnier monoplane of 1914, one of the first fighter airplanes used by the
French in World War I (N. A. M. 922, purchased).

JERWAN, S. S., Philadelphia, Pa.: An autographed photograph of Admiral
Richard HE. Byrd, inscribed to the donor, who was a pioneer pilot of Moisant
airplanes in 1910 (N. A. M. 931).

Kirk, Preston, North Platte, Nebr.: Three aircraft engines, a British Bentley
BR-2, rotary engine used in World War I pursuit planes; an American Law-
rance 2-cylinder opposed A-8 used in training airplanes of the same period;
and an American Irwin 4-cylinder radial developed in 1926 for light airplanes
(N. A. M. 929).

Lever, Harry, Washington, D. C.: A propeller blade from a Curtiss electric
propeller, 13 feet diameter, made for a Convair CV240 transport plane, and an
airplane bomb casing used for practice during World War II (N. A. M. 920).

Martin Co., Baltimore, Md.: An oil painting by Charles Baskerville of Glenn
L. Martin, the renowned aviation pioneer who died December 4, 1955 (N. A. M.
932).

McDonnNeELL AIRCRAFT Corp., St. Louis, Mo.: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the
McDonnell F3H-2N “Demon” swept-wing single-place, all-weather jet fighter
in current use by the U. 8S. Navy (N. A. M. 928).

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF F1nE Arts, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.:
A group of 16 framed portraits in chalk by John Elliott and four photographic
prints of portraits by the same artist of members of the Lafayette Escadrille,
a renowned group of American flyers who fought with the French in World
War I (N. A. M. 921, loan).

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D. C.: The original insigne of the Naval
Aircraft Factory, Philadelphia, Pa., organized during World War I, where
many notable aircraft were developed and manufactured (N. A. M. 916). A
Kaman K-225 helicopter, developed in 1948 and adopted the following year by
the Navy as a utility type. Its rotor assembly is of the twin-intermeshing
type, and its power was supplied by the Boeing 175-hp. YT-50 gas-turbine
engine. The assistance of the Kaman Aircraft Corporation in conditioning
this helicopter for Museum preservation is gratefully acknowledged (N. A. M.
940).

NortH AMERICAN AVIATION, INc., Columbus, Ohio: A scale model, 1:16 size, of
the FJ-4 “Fury,” naval fighter; the first aircraft developed by this division of
this company, produced 1955. This airplane incorporates such advanced
features as mechanically drooped leading edge, slotted flaps, and split ailerons
(N. A. M. 934).

PARKER, WILLIAM, Bartlesville, Okla.: The indicating unit of the radio compass
used by Wiley Post during his extended substratosphere cross-country flights
in the Winnie Mae, 1935 (N. A. M. 928).
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Porter, STANLEY L., Alexandria, Va.: A diamond-celled box kite of the type in-
vented by his father, Samuel Potter, who was a pioneer in the development of
cellular kites and their use for meteorological research by the U. S. Weather
Bureau (N. A. M. 914).

Royat DanisH AERO CLuB, Copenhagen, Denmark, through His Excellency the
Ambassador of Denmark, Henrik Kauffmann, Washington, D. C.: A scale model,
1:14 size, of the airplane designed, constructed, and flown by Jacob Christian
Ellehammer on the island of Lindholm, September 12, 1906. The assistance of
Erik Hildes-Heim in obtaining this model is gratefully acknowledged
(N. A. M. 926).

Ryan AERONAUTICAL Co., San Diego, Calif.: A scale model, 1: 16 size, of the Ryan
M-1 mailplane used on commercial postal aviation routes of the mid-1920’s and
the basic form of high-wing closed-fuselage monoplane from which the Spirit
of St. Louis was evolved by the same company (N. A. M. 930).

Sperry Gyroscope Co., Great Neck, N. Y.: A scale model, 1: 8 size, of the original
“Aerial Torpedo,” pilotless guided missile developed by the donors during the
first World War (N. A. M. 919).

TusTAN, MicHAeEt, Cleveland, Ohio: A scale model, 1:16 size, of the Pfalz D-3,
German World War I fighter airplane introduced in the spring of 1917 and
favored by some of the German Aces because of its maneuverability and strong
construction (N. A. M. 941).

Vaai, Ernest F., Cleveland, Ohio: A scale model, 1:24 size, of the British
F. E. 2B World War I two-seated fighter, developed by the Royal Aircraft Fac-
tory. Because its propeller was behind the wings, the gunner in the front seat
had a wide angle of fire (N. A. M. 942).

WHITNEY, Cart. REGINALD, Baldwin, L.I., N. Y.: A Japanese aviator’s flying suit
used in World War II (N. A. M. 925).

WISEMAN, Mrs. 8S. A., Washington, D. C.: Four silver trophy cups awarded to
the pioneer aviator Arthur L. Welsh in 1911 and a framed photograph of him
and Robert J. Collier seated in a Wright-B airplane. Welsh was taught to fly
by Orville Wright and became instructor and test pilot at the Wright School
in Dayton. He taught Lt. H. H. Arnold (later General of the Air Force) how
to fly. Welsh was killed in the crash of a Wright-C at College Park, Md., in
1912 (N. A. M. 944).

Respectfully submitted.
Paut Epwarp Garser, Head Curator.
Dr. LronarD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Zoological Park

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957:

This has been a year of many changes in the administration of the
Park, as four men in key positions reached the retirement age. The
first to leave, on October 31, 1956, was Dr. William M. Mann, who had
been Director of the National Zoological Park since 1925. During his
term of office the number of animals in the collection increased from
1,600 to 3,000, much of the increase being due to collecting expeditions
he headed. Under his direction three modern exhibition buildings
were erected and a new wing was added to the bird house. Also built
under his administration were the machine shops, garage, a new res-
taurant, and the building that houses the police headquarters and pub-
lic restrooms. Dr. Mann’s enthusiasm for his institution endeared him
to friends all over the world. He remains in touch with the Zoo as
Honorary Research Associate of the Smithsonian Institution. On
June 11, 1957, the American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums honored Dr. Mann at a luncheon in the Zoo, paying tribute
to his many years of leadership in zoological park management.
Those attending from out of town were Lee Crandall, formerly Direc-
tor of the New York Zoological Park; Freeman Shelly, Director of
the Philadelphia Zoo; Roger Conant, Curator of Reptiles, Philadel-
phia Zoo; Clyde Gordon, Director of the Staten Island Zoo; and
Roland Lindemann of the Catskill Game Farm, Catskill, N. Y.

The Assistant Director, Ernest P. Walker, retired on December 30,
after nearly 27 years with the Zoo. Asa mammalogist, especially in-
terested in small mammals and wildlife conservation, his services were
invaluable. He developed new diets for animals, and devised new
methods of exhibiting them. He is continuing to write about
mammals.

On February 28, Frank O. Lowe, head keeper, said farewell to the
animal charges he had worked with for 48 years; and on April 2, Peter
Hilt, superintendent of maintenance and construction, retired after
36 years with the Zoo. Both of these men were remarkably efficient in
their fields and were respected and liked by the men who worked under
them.

EXHIBITS

Plans for the future of the Zoo are to maintain a well-balanced zoo-
logical collection, with special emphasis on the exhibition and propa-

125
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

gation of North American animals, inasmuch as this is the National
Zoological Park. The exhibition of exotics will not be neglected, but
an attempt will be made to feature such animals as Rocky Mountain
goats, Rocky Mountain sheep, prong-horned antelope, and other native
species. Variety of species will be emphasized rather than numbers
of individuals.

This year, for the first time, an outdoor exhibit of trained birds of
prey was started. With the cooperation of local falconers, a red-
tailed hawk and a Swainson’s hawk were taken from the Zoo’s col-
lection and trained to a stoop and to the wrist. A duck hawk, or
peregrine falcon, already trained, was presented by a falconer. The
public has shown much interest in this new exhibit, where the birds
are to be seen at close range and with no bars between them and the
visitors.

Albinism, a curious phenomenon, has been prominent in 1957, and
an unusual number of birds, mammals, and reptiles have their pink-
eyed representatives within the present collection—in fact, to an
extent seldom seen in zoos. The mathematical improbabilities of a
male and female albino black snake meeting in their natural habitat
are staggering, but such might be possible under zoo conditions. It
is hoped that some interesting genetic implications may develop
from these exhibits.

ACCESSIONS

A number of outstanding additions came to the Zoo this year.
The most important was a pair of white or square-lipped rhinoceroses,
(pl. 5, fig. 1), purchased from John Seago, an English collector, who
had been trying for two years to secure them for the National Zoo-
logical Park. They were the first ever to come to this country and
are still the only ones in the United States. Another purchase was
a pair of snow leopards, commonly considered the most beautiful of
the bigcats. (PI. 5, fig. 2.)

The Government of the Belgian Congo, through the Minister of
Colonies, presented the National Zoological Park with a fine pair of
okapis (pl. 6), the first ever to be exhibited here. They were flown
from Leopoldville to Hanover, Germany, for a 60-day quarantine and
then to the United States Quarantine Station at Athenia, N. J., for a
30-day quarantine. Upon arrival at the Zoo they were formally pre-
sented by Baron Leopold Dhanis, Counsel at the Belgian Embassy in
Washington. With their glossy, dark-brown coats and striped legs
they form an outstanding exhibit.

An inconspicuous small black bird, with red eyes, which was ob-
tained from an animal dealer, turned out to be an ornithological
prize. It is a Colombian red-eyed cowbird (Tangavius armenit),
127

which had not been observed since 1866 and was assumed by scientists
to be extinct.

Six poisonous black-and-white-striped sea snakes (Laticauda colu-
brina) were obtained through the efforts of Frederick M. Bayer, of
the United States National Museum. These are seldom seen in cap-
tivity, as they are difficult to keep. Shortly after their arrival here,
one of them laid 15 eggs, attracting a great deal of interest, as most
reference books state that sea snakes are viviparous. Disappoint-
ingly, none of the eggs hatched.

The United States Army Signal Corps, giving up its homing
pigeon loft at Fort Monmouth, N. J., brought two hero pigeons to
the Zoo. These birds, known as Anzio Boy and Global Girl, com-
pleted, between them, 61 important World War II missions in the
Mediterranean area and were given citations by the Army. They
have been placed in an outdoor cage, and an account of their military
history appears on a large label nearby.

SECRETARY'S REPORT

GIFTS

Other gifts of special interest were received from the following:

Ballou, George, New York, N. Y., 19
spiny mice (Acomys).

Bonawit, George O., Suitland, Md.,
white-crested cockatoo.

Broadhead, William S., Middleburg,
Va., Azara’s wild dog.

Brown, Mrs. Helen, Washington, D. C.,
black spider monkey.

Cleveland Wild Boar Club, Cleveland,
Tenn., wild boar.

Coalson, H. B., Berryville, Va., spider
monkey.

Dennis, Wesley, Warrenton, Va., emu.

DePrato, Mario, Langley Park, Md., 125
hermit crabs, 7 turtles, 23 snakes, 6
frogs, 8 lizards, 1 toad.

Du Pont, Irénée, Wilmington, Del., 4 Cu-
ban iguanas.

Gasch, Manning, Forestville, Va., Amer-
ican bison.

Gianturco, Delio, Washington, D. C.,
Mexican spider monkey.

Hamlett, George W., New Orleans, La.,
3 western rattlesnakes.

Harbaugh, George, Safeway Ware-
house, Washington, D. C., 3 tarantu-
las and 2 cat-eyed snakes, which had
come in on bunches of bananas.

Hoffman, Irvin, Cabin John, Md., 2
Reeves’s pheasants.

Kerwin, Charles H., Rockville, Md.,
Virginia deer.

Lichtenecker, Dr. Karl, Washington,
D. C., collection of tropical fish and
aquarium plants.

Martin, Mrs. Roy M., Winston-Salem,
N. C., ocelot.

McBride, W. W., Chevy Chase, Md.,
kinkajou.

Medley, Miss Virginia,
D. C., margay cat.

Muddiman, Buddy, Washington, D. C.,
collection of reptiles.

Murphy, Robert, Westtown, Pa., duck
hawk.

National Aquarium Society, Washing-
ton, D. C., 2 black angelfish.

Operation Deepfreeze, Washington,
D. C., through Cmdr. F. Dustin, black
swan.

Overton Park Zoo, Memphis, Tenn., 2
anhingas.

Pabst, G., Jr., Washington, D. C., 2
masked lovebirds.

Palmer, Miss Gaela, Chevy Chase, Md.,
macaque.

Patuxent Research Refuge, Laurel, Md.,
through Dr. C. M. Herman, 8 par-
tridges.

Washington,
128

Pifer, Ray F., Takoma Park, Md., col-
lection of local snakes.

Pittman, Miss Irma F., Washington,
D. C., Indian hill mynah.

Pope, Mrs. Esa B., Berryville, Va., 6
ring-necked pheasants, chukar quail.

Rivero, Juan, Mayagtiez, Cuba, 6 tree
boas.

Royal Zoological Society, Amsterdam,
Holland, European stork.

Sadler, Mrs. W. L., Monrovia, Liberia,
golden cat (Felis aurata), and a
small-clawed otter.

Sand Lake National Wildlife Refuge,
Oberon, S. Dak., 6 blue geese.

Schmid, Paul F., Bethesda, Md., collec-
tion of local snakes.

Shearer, Miss Julia, Locust Dale, Va.,
yellow-thighed caique.

Sinsabaugh, Miss Doris, Washington,
D. C., white-breasted toucan.

Sorensen, H. P., El Paso, Tex., cock-
atiel.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Stewart, Mrs. Elizabeth, Washington,
D. C., Florida gallinule.

Sultan, W. E., Baltimore, Md., collec-
tion of tropical fish including the re-
cently imported Distichodus sexfasct-
atus.

Turner, William, Washington, D. ©.,
marsh hawk.

Wampler, Capt. French, Alexandria,
Va., ringed aracari toucanet.

Warner, Mrs. C. F., Washington, D. C.,
collection of reptiles.

Welsh, Neal, Rockville, Md., collection
of tropical fish.

Wheeler, Mrs. T. E., Cheam, Surrey,
England, 40 grass parakeets, a su-
perior English strain of birds.

Xanten, William R., Jr., Washington,
D. C., collection of reptiles and a
tarantula.

Zoologisk Have, Copenhagen, Denmark,
2 European oystercatchers, 2 ruff
shorebirds.

EXCHANGES

The Zoo often obtains specimens of interest through exchanges with
other zoos or with private individuals. Worthy of mention this year
are a black-and-white casqued hornbill, obtained from Dr. Lawrence
Kilham, Bethesda, Md.; four roadrunners, from the San Antonio Zoo,
San Antonio, Tex.; Todd’s toucan, from William H. Paul, Washing-
ton, D. C.; a collection of Florida reptiles, from Lewis H. Babbitt,
Petersham, Mass.; four peafowl from the San Diego Zoological So-
ciety, San Diego, Calif.; and an albino black snake, from Allan G.
Dillon, Arlington, Va.

PURCHASES

Purchases of special interest not previously mentioned were as
follows:

An African elephant, about 214 years old, named Nancy. The Zoo
had lacked the African species since the death of Jumbina.

A young Asiatic elephant, named Dixie, purchased as a companion
for the young African elephant.

Seven hoopoes (pl. 7). These attractive European birds had not
been in the collection before. They are now mating, and it is hoped
some young birds can be raised.

A male hippopotamus, purchased as a mate for the female bought
last year.

A hawk eagle, a rare species from Colombia.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 129

Two jacanas. A young giant anteater.

Two oropendolas. Three red howler monkeys.
One Cayenne kite. Two pygmy cormorants.

One blue toucan. One blossom-headed parakeet.
Four giant tortoises. Two slaty-headed parakeets.
Two African wild dogs. 25 golden frogs.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

One of the signs that an animal is doing well in captivity is its
ability to reproduce its kind and, as the following list shows, the
number of mammals, birds, and reptiles born in the National Zoologi-
cal Park during the year is gratifying:

MAMMALS
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
ROTA MSs eee ee ee eet ee @himpanzeeL sess. Seek 1
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus_------- Guenon 2 #3138 2 54it ae py x 1
Cencontthecus neglects== == = = DeBrazza, 8. 2uenon 2 22 = 1
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus___-- Ey oridhenio bone = = eee 1
ig obale stars ss % Sip ae Se 2. Sa White-handed gibbon__________- 1
Choloenus didactylus-—___ =. = Gwo-toed sloth... 522. sae 1
CyAOMys TUAOUICTE RUSS! 4 ee eS IPPATTEL ECL ps aie arene es 5
Phiceomysicumingti iso. 22 sees 2k Slender-tailed cloud rat_______-. 1
TEEPE BS GTA LL AOS ESE Thee RTO He les AGricansporeupimen 22 Ga eee e as 1
Dasyprocta prymnolopha_-_----------- Agouti_ else ge ww ts ee 8
WAY TASH OLA te SEES 5 Sees ee ee ae Red) fox beau as he 5
PAULO ETOUILALILOSULS = ete Wister civet.ce 0 = comet en hems a re 1
Mie maritimus X Ursus midden- Hybrid bear (second generation) _- 3
or ffi.

LISS LO DO eae ened ee SE ee le Grizziy Dean setae Sep 2
ECPI CORR att ee EN Ne TOT he Les eer en El nae 3
Equus burchelli boehmi__._.---------- Grants zebras eer eee eee 1
DECREED TIGL Oo hen a ep DS ca ae ge etapa ey ee 3
LANTGIES: (Tie Sia $a ate alte ge Ry Sac INXISKALCETE™ eet eee In ae are 2
Dienr St CONQUCTIStS= come om te a TIRE PIC am) el ice eae eee a eres 1
CETUISTCLO DIL Se Os Nae weet es Redtdeeras2 ems meh ae Ryan aee 1
CermiusinippONee soe oon ce ee alt cee eee Be le te 2
TOWD tallowsGeersas a= =e 2

Dama dama__---------------------- Wihite fallow deers] 222-52 6
Odocotleus virginianus_-------------- Virginia deers asd wa 4
Odocoileus virginianus costaricensis._... Costa Rican deer______________- 1
Girajaicamelopardalisesas. esa ae ao! a Nubian giratiel ease 5 2
PSUOS GUT US te ele oe Seen ae Gras Sea 5 pai pe 1
AM OCNOCDLESSTCONNIS ae ee Seen = ae AMO ai 8 Ss nee eee a 1
JNU OROCGYOD UW hen eee Aoudad or Barbary sheep-_-_-____-_ 2
LOMO OU Bato eRe ee SPAT] sat Gl 2s 5 a es eta et ene pee dae 1
(CURR TOG He TG Es eae gs eee ee ee Common! goateccss see eo ek 2

BIRDS

Agavornis personiiac 228. sb Masked lovebirdiseoc2 22 Me 1
Anaeiplatyrhynchosa coe. se k= Mallard ducksaas22cso. oe 12
BT ONLONCOMAUCISIS a y= nn ee Canada codsenine ere se 10
Biauna tarquatae oes ee ec oe Crested) sereamerssee et if
CURYSOLODINAS Pacts oS 2a I Golden‘ pheasanti 2 22022252 5
COlrmbal as ae ts 2 Pigeon ee aie tee MON ena EH ET 2
Gennaeus leucomelanus_-._...-------- Nepal kaleege pheasant____.___- 1
Larus novaehollandiae__...---------- Sil verso ull eee ie ln 5
Melopsittacus undulatus.__...-------- Grassiparakeetieisse nsec ceceee 7
130 |§ ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

BIRDS—continued

Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Manta Ory Zorg 2. 2k eee eee ee Javea SpAalTOW. one one ee 15
Nycticorax nycticorax hoactli__...----- Black-crowned night heron. -_-___- 15
Taeniopygia castanotis__._...--------- Zebra finch = 22 252 see es 10
Trorisoma linedtum a: 22S oe as eee Tiger bittern:.22 Ss See eee 2
REPTILES

Chamaeleon bitaeniatus hoehneli__----- African chameleon__.._..--.---- 21
Chelydra:senpentina =) tiger. vices oo Snapping turtle: jste.2 bes 6
Chaysemys NiCiG = eee oe nee eee es Rainted surtles Si: eee eae 10
Fipterates anquiifer_ 220 b 0 Se Se. vee oe Cuban‘ tree boa ls eee eee alee 2
Lamproneltisiqeuluss sees eae ee King snake iced hu teres bey Moers 2
INGERTL UST DEA OIDe eaten ne eee een Wiater snake: 26253520. 22a eee 21
FZSCUGCNUYSESCTE DUC sere ee a ey re Red=linedturtles-244 3223s 11
Storeria dekayi_------ A ee a aA DeKay’s snakes: 2550222002 eee 45

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,851. This in-
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings.
Space is too limited to list here the numbers of ducks, chickens, and
rabbits, usually given to children at Easter time, which eventually
find their way to the Zoo, or such pets as monkeys, parakeets, alli-
gators, caimans, and guinea pigs. Many of the common local wild
things are found by persons, often children, who, thinking the crea-
tures need help, bring them to the Zoo. They include gray squirrels,
cottontail rabbits, opossums, raccoons, foxes, woodchucks, blue jays,
robins, sparrows, box turtles, and other less plentiful forms. Some
are kept, some are exchanged, and some are liberated.

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Class Species or | Individuals
subspecies

Miao mite | so tli EE Selatan, pyre a ete ee 289 696
Pid. 332262) 2 2c alk yd ee 307 1, 251
Reptiles oso ea. eee ae eee See ie 166 864
Mish! 22262 2 Oe Lt eo Re ee ce 2 oe ee 25 97
Arthropods 02. 3. 3/5 3 eS eh ee ee 6 149
IW rolUS Kis os i ee oe ik ee cade yo 1 100
Dota aja) chase fe speepee So NS any ce ae a en 794 3, 157
Animals on hand. July 1 WOp68e 222 are ee ee 2, 965
mocessions during ‘the: year. S322 es eek eee te ee ae ee 1, 851
Total number of animals in collection during the year_____---_---- 4, 816

Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals
ODNGSPOSIG, CEC = a es ee ee ere 1, 659

In collection on June 30; 195/22 eae eee ee ee eee 3, 157
SECRETARY’S REPORT

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1957

MAMMALS
MONOTREMATA
Scientific name Common name
Tachyglossidae:
Tachyglossus aculeatus_..-.-------- Echidna, or spiny anteater___-_-
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphiidae:
Caluromys piilander= = 2/3222 y= Woolly opossum==222" 2225-22
Didelphis marsupials virginzana_..- Opossumes--- =. 22222 2 ee
Phalangeridae:
PEI@UniarnOrfOlleNstas So nk Se Lesser flying phalanger______--
DyZCROSUTUS VULTECIIGL 8 oa ak Vil pimeroposstim=anaa as ene
Phascolomyidae:
Hastorhinus laitfrons 2 ee Hairy-nosed wombat__________
Wombatus hirsubus of Ve” Mainland wombat_-.-__.-.-_-
Macropodidae:
DENI OVAGUS WNUStUS= eee nee nen ee ‘Tree. kanvarooy = sous oo. 2 ee
Hypsiprymnodon moschatus - ------- Ratan carooese see ae ee
IA CET OPUS GUOETICUS 2 tse ae ee Gray -kanraroom rene se
LVUCETO RUSH I AL) (0S one ee ee Redvkangarqos=22 oe o Mie ene
Proemnodon agiis. 22.2 ee Weaitabys sere a8 see
Provemnodon: bicolors2 SS Swamp wallaby.=-etes2 ss
PRIMATES
Lorisidae:
Galago crassicaudatus___..---------- CARGO ee a ee ae nae ere
Galago senegalensis_._..__.--------- Atri Cane al ag Osea eens
INBICLUCEDUESICONLCUL IL mami eet ee Slow ilOrise j=: — o! eae eens
Lemuridae:
PeNUerNONGO 2.2 2 aes ea ie oS Mongooz lemure 22555225245
Cebidae:
Actus travirgatus—— 2-2 22 23 ek Night monkey = 222234 t2 47522
Ateles fusciceps robustus_____------ Colombian black spider monkey_-_
Ateles geoffroyi geoffroyt or griscesens. Spider monkey_--------------
Ateles geoffroyi vellerosus__._.------- Spider monkey» ~ 2.) 4seb 3-4-2:
CORCAIGO.TIULDICUTOUS: oe = Red! us karte sa se ose a yas

CU USICA DUCTIUG occok Ole eehe slb yoo

hagothwn PYGMOCH =. 20-2222 o-- Woolly. monkey 2222. 250.
OLUIUINUESCUUT EUS ne ee Squirrelsmonkey sess sesso see
Callithricidae:
Colpinranisp mantel ld AE d 0. Red-mantled marmoset-------
Cehucilamygmaucas | 232 2 a Pigmy marmoset_._-..._.----
Leontocebus rosalia__.........---22 Golden marmoset___._..-.-.---
Marikina nigricouis.o~.2.--- === Black and red marmoset- -----
Cercopithecidae:
Allenopithecus nigroviridis__._------ Allen’s: monkey...5-22.2uUce
Cercocebus albigena_..-..---------- Gray-cheeked mangabey ------
Cercocebus aterrimus__-.----------- Black-crested mangabey-_-_-_---
Cercocebus aterrimus opdenboschii__. Crested mangabey_-_---------
Cercocebus chrysogaster____.-------- Golden-bellied mangabey_-----
Cercocebus fuliginosus.__-..------- Sooty mangabey_-__..--....--
Cercocebus galeritus agilis__--.----- Agile mangabey__-----.------
Cercocebus torquatus_._-.---------- Red-crowned mangabey--_-----
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus_ ----- Green guenans=5.2= 5... a2
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus X C.a. Hybrid, green guenon X vervet
BUGCHULE GUSH ee ee RAR a ES PUTO Meee ak ws at
Cercopithecus cephus__...-.-------- Mustached monkey-___--------
Cercopithecus diana_._..---------- Dians, monkey 25.42 pp 2

Cercopithecus diana roloway-------- Roloway monkey__.-.-.------

White-throated capuchin monkey-_

Brown capuchin monkey-_-------
@apuchingmonkeyaeas ass. ese

131

bo ee

See hoe Fh FOO

BhNwWeo SF Wher

| 15

SOW CON Pee Peo Heep APH
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

MAMMALS—-Continued

PRIMATES—continued
Scientific name Common name
Cercopithecidae—Continued
Cercopithecus neglectus._...---.---- De Brazza’s guenon__-.-..--_.--
Cercopithecus nictitans....--------- White-nosed guenon___--______-
Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista..__._ Lesser white-nosed guenon_______
Cercopithecus preusst 2-222 Ne eee Preussl Ss SUCHONa = wooo seek eee
Macaca irus mordays22 25 2252s 52 URGE oY ONC OE Sea ee ee
MacacalasiGtiees == 5 son oe eee eee Chinese’ macaques: 25225253580
DVECCOCH UGTA Se ae eee ene a Moormmacaquces sass =: ===
VAC CHC OMT Cee ee een hesuspmonkey 32a 22 525 =a eee
Macaca nemesirina.2 .2S2 58 iene e355 Pig-tailed monkey. 2° 22 422252255
Macaca philip pinensiss. c= 2 5) 52S Philippine macaques2* 522522
IMGCECO SINICA 2 2 = See PRE eee AY Toque or bonnet monkey__-----_-
IMGCGCO speciosa | see ans esa Nees Red-faced macaque_-..--.------
Miscqeq\-siylaniisie oe ee Barbary apes =o. 2a oe eee
Mandrnillas sphinves el 22 ee ee Mandl’ vce >see eee eee
ZO DUOSCOTTOL Seen ae eee Chacnmia bapCon. = 22-2. ae eee
PADtOVCYNOCE PNAS = ones eee Golden ‘baboons. eee
Rapio hamadryas se 22 Eee Hamadryas baboon___--------_-
PAR CSOINS DIAUT OTS oe is eres yay ed Spectacle wlan pris ae eee ee
Wheropithecus gelada 2223s a eee Gelbda baboon”) os ees
Pongidae:
Gora Ort os ea Meeks en Gorilla we 2 Wt ee a
Hylobates agilis X H. lar pileatus.... Hybrid gibbon__-_.-_.__._-__--
iEojlobates Roolock = se == ae Higolocks. = see. Rapa at ee ee
EV OUGLCS Ai = 2 Se crn = menace ners White-handed gibbon__.-___--_-
ulobates molochet sass aan ee ae Wisti-wall lb Don sae eae eee
1 ERR TAD A019 ca a Sl AE Chimpanzeereerst ieee ee as
Pongo pygmaeus abelit__._..__._---- Bornean orangutan= = co") =e
Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus_.-._---- Sumatran orangutan___.-.----.-
EDENTATA
Myrmecophagidae:
Myrmecophaga tridactyla........--- Giant-anteaters Sa sos a ea a
Bradypodidae:
Choloepus didactylus__.........---- Two-toed sloth woo 22k Awa ee
Dasypodidae:
Dasypus novemcinctus_....-------- Nine-banded armadillo_...-...--
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Oryctolagus cuniculus__.........___ Domestic rabbit. -- sso ees
Sylvilagus floridanus....---------- Cottontail rabbit2--2 2-25. aes
RODENTIA
Sciuridae:
Callosciurus nigrovittatus._.....---- Southern Asiatic squirrel___---_.
Cynomys ludovicianus._.--_-----_-- Prairie-dog!2 2.2 YWER Aah aage
Glaucomys volans volans_..__...---- Eastern flying squirrel__._____--
Marmota monazr____- 2-22 22 Groundhor =... eee as
Rabife indica :.....- VI apien paiaaee Giant Indian squirrel. _.._.____-
Sciurus carolinensis____.-...----=- Gray squirrel, albino__._-______-
ISCEURUS- NUGEN: == 2 > = Vere YD Fox squirre) - 522i eae gea
WeLuMLs vartegatus...2 soc syoent al Mexican red-bellied squirrel______
Tamias.striaius2222kor) Deiwow De! Eastern chipmunk, albino______-
Cricetidae:
Mesocricetus auratus___.-.....---- Hamster 200% 24 S69 po LOD
Muridae:
Acomys: cahirinus= [225088 Dooogsaut Egyptian spiny mouse_________-
Cricetomys gambianus.......--_--- Giant pouched rat___._________-
Meriones unguiculatus__.-.....__-- Mongolian gerbil_______.___-_--

Phloeomys cumtngi_.....-..2.=.--- Slender-tailed cloud rat_-_.-_.---

2
iS

—
DR DR ORK DD BRE NRE NOR DRE ON He eee OO

CNR 00 fa pat pat ak Pet tO Oe OO

—_
SECRETARY’S REPORT 133

MAMMALS—Continued
RODENTIA—continued
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Gliridae:
GROPUCUTUSEIUUN LI US ae Dormousew= 22242 see ee 1
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyura_..-.-.-----_-- Malay porcupine... 2-ee=)2 2i26) 1
PU SUIE GOleOlG 2) bee at oe ae African, porcupine 4.2352 4 6
Erethizontidae:
Coendou prehensilis= ....222s---55- Prehensile-tailed porcupine-__-_-___ 1
Caviidae:
Cmizawporcellusss ose 5525-952. 5665 Guines=piga.t 2228 ee art 16
Hydrochoeridae:
Hydrochoerus hydrochoeri_.-..--.~-- Capybarsia 2h. 32 aaa eee eg Spa 3
Dasyproctidae:
OuiiculUs PACE. 2 Se oo se See Pace. a. ek tas sae el ie ee 4
DWasyprocia punciatas. =. bok Speckled’ arcoutit 2. seo ee wee 7
Chinchillidae:
Chinchilla chinchilla} ste 2. ee Chinchilla suo = 3 Aes eee ee 3
WMGTATIE VISCOCCIO. - - ese eee Peruvian! ViSCacciaase ous 5 aes 1
Capromyidae:
WIRIGCOSTOT COUDUS 2 Xan aesstet Spee Coy pun 2s ce ee etre he 2
CARNIVORA
Canidae:
CONISHONLGNClICUS aero oa cee Sea Din GO esse 5 Gs ee ae 2 eee ae 1
CanesilupusmMuUpiUss = 30.252 35s Bete Rimber wolf 5025. U4) ales se: 4
CantsInigerg TU Ua re ue se OS edi woltsus saa se 55 coe co) see 1
CPraoryon. tHOUs. 2 ese Lok Re south, American. fox ._-/_. 2a 1
IGN MCCS CONG) = = ayo ae ae eee Hennec fox. 533522 eae 2
TVEROTABUCLUS) S556 3552S African hunting dog___._.-____-_ 2
Nyctereutes procyonoides__...------ INPOCOOM Gloves ee eed 6
Otocyonemegalotis 2.45. UI2eoS! Sat bis-cared fox we ae ee see oe 4
Speothos wenaticus. 1.2.56 28 3822 Bushidogticcs te ccs 22 See 2,
Urocyon cinereoargenteus__.._-____- Ses Svs Eee Lh SSI Ce Be 8
ediioxeensis gies. 2 EE B 13
Vulpes fulua___------------------ eee LOX SOUR Re Ae 5°
Ursidae:
Fuarctos americanus...-.---------- Black bearse: 22.2224 3.20 ao & 2
ddelanctos malayanus. 2) =. eet Malayisumibears: 225522 ee 3
Selenarctos thibetanus___._.--------- IEamall any amit e ares eee 2
Selenarctos thibetanus japonicus _-_-- Japanese black bear-_=-..-....-. 1
Selenarctos thibetanus ussuricus_ ~~ Koreancbeare = J. 362222 s aa 2
Thalanctos mariwiimus)—22- 325225622 Polar bears 2522) =. eset hah e 1
Thalarctos maritimus * Ursus mid- Hybrid bear___-_------____-__- 4
dendor ffi.
MReMmarclos. Orns: ==. eo 2 Spectacled bear_....---.--2.-.- 1
ONES ERG TS) 0) ne doe ag A Alaskan, brown bear. ...--.=---- 1
CUR ato) LOE = shoe a MAR oe LE European brown bear_..-..---_- 4
Ursus arctos occidentalis. ......---- Syrian, brown beats seeps kee 2
OP SOIR Ta 11 aaa oe ely OS ee Alaskan Peninsula bear________-_ 2
Orsusihornoilis. 2 a ee Grizzly. bearas eee saeco rs aes. 2
Wirsusimiddendorfics 225224 254—2.. Kodiakipeansa cess een sees ae 1
WESUSTGINENSIO 2 oe ote) Sitka brownbear 2. oo. 228 2847 2
Procyonidae:
AGUTUSH ULL Gene san eas Se ee Luesser panidazesiew sae hr hee 2
IBassaricyon gau0r so raee S ae Olingoss she see ae Pe Tay Mov Ou 1
ISGSSURISCUS GSLULUSHEE. Oe a. Ringtail, or cacomistle____..____ 1
ES MUA TU CUM Se PS, Comtimatumdi steam es Sh oe 1
WNIGSURROSUOs os oo eee Soe Red! coatimundiz= 2 220554222202 2
HALOS AUTS Soe TOR DN hes 8 ea Kainksjouls sees tas. RO Bye 3
IRON OO MOO oe ea ee Raccoons) eae ay 2 eet 13
Mustelidae:
MUL ROCLILET CIES ooo 5 EPA EN LH African clawed otter.._....--_--- 1
Mephitisimenhities 22, 2 9_ buy. Suis Common skumke.2 2... SSeS ee 1
Mustela eversmanni_..------------ Ferret, albinos. 2 2285s eg 8 1
134 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

MAMMALS—Continued
CARNIVORA—continued
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Mustelidae—Continued
WVMinistelarendid sess a ee eee W easelics = sos oe wee iS 1
Pieronura brasiliensis__._.-_--------- South American flat-tailed otter_-_ 1
Sprlogale: phenami oss fie se ou ee eas California spotted skunk______-- 3
POGUE AL USE a SE A Americansbadrers 45a e eee 1
Raynatvar vara enes sae. Lae See Ma yRac 2 22 een oS ee il
Cryptoproctidae:
Gropiopracia gern .2. 2 8 Vikas us Boe Rossao Seton Se 1
Viverridae:
Arcticlis ivi Nuronge anise nee Binturongecssee.. 2222+ eee 1
Atlas Naud nosuse= = aoe ae Water civets.02e20 5. epee 3
Genetia geneia 22 hae ee Genet) 22 haces ios. ee 2
Genetia genetta neumanit___.------- Genet ..ts-oe Nad LL DE 2
iHerpestes)tehneumon= == 2225522 Ss African Civet== 45 ee UC aaa 2
Tchneumia alboicauda. =) 22222 22522 White-tailed) civet® 222.22 seas 2
Paguma larvata taivana__---------- Formosan masked civet___------ 1
Viverratangaliunga.2 5-22 fee Ground 'civets.2. 12S tee 1
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans__-------- Spottedthyenas.=2-) =e ae 2
Ha ACRATRYGENE se i oe te Striped: hyena... 2) Se eee 2
Felidae:
PACTRONYD INGLE 5 oe wee Cheetah. i242 oe ee 2
CUISN CHGS BENE Seo Rea Sees ee el a Jungle cates: <=. 22-33 eae 2
Pelesicon colognes) 2. = oe SU tae weed Pumas. c.- 52 Sete ee 4
LEGIES USD SSS Se a See eee ee 2 lon ee ees eet eel eee 9
Helisvoncd sats 2 ne aap Sh eae Jaguar tee e SoS ke ee eee 3
Melamporeros: 26s e ae ak Pampasicate-. 25." >= See eee 1
elas nardalis = jai st ees eee Codie lle inate 3
- rican leopards scucsess pate
Felis pardus__-------~------------ {Bin leopards=_.- = sek 2
Melis: senvals 22 n= 2 SE ae eds oe Servalicat.2 =) <=} eee ee 1
eles SU LUESITUSe oe ee ee Atirican: wil cat ase ee 2
elistigninas Se 2 ee Marcay Catscests pe eee 2
elisntegrisw ss £2 se 2a eae epee Bengali tigen tage yn sce ee ee 3
CUES ULTUCU GS = 2B Sens ein ea es Pee Snow leopards2s =e") — eae 2
syn CANGAENSIs. = 2 oes ae Wyn: 25 ole l ete ee ee 1
EGRET UsUSe Sg eel ple eee Bobeatu.. 2555 Hee es ee 2
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
Oianianlavescens eae ee eee Patagonian sea-lione=) 22s) 2e= =e 2
Zalophus californianus___-.-.------ Sesion! 2)... eee ee 2
Phocidae:
Phocee vituling 22220220 ea Harbor:seal..=2.2-S2eesseee eee 2
TUBULIDENTATA
Orycteropodidae:
Oricleronusvayenan ans see oe ee Antbear, or aardvark. ___.------ 1
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
Elephas anaximus. 2 2 ee indianelephante =.) oe ae eos 3
oradoniaajricana._ 2.230222 ae Atrican elephants. 822 4 655. see 1
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
LORS OSU US eee ey Burro,/or donkey.—.._Laeeeoe 1
Equus burchelli antiquorum____----- Chapman's zebra_- 2.3 4aea Saee 1
Equus burchelli boehmi____..------- Grant's ‘Zebra. fos ee 4
Bgwusigrevye se wes tS Ay tl Grevy’s zebrac2)- ee 3
GUUS Teta ee es erent Asiatic wild ass, or kiang_------- if
Equus praewaiskiw.--.-22dele oye Mongolian wild horse_-_-------- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 135

MAMMALS—Continued
PERISSODACTYLA— continued
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Tapiridae:
VACTOCOQLOMNAICE = 222 yoo Oe Indian. tapings SSP eens ee i
RPI UMUS UCT CUI US ate eae et ee Brazilianytapieee eee 1
Rhinocerotidae:
Geratothertvum simumeen 22a White or square-mouth rhinoc-
GTOS e232 ES pipe elaltetig ih
Dareros btcorniss sense 2k African rhinoceros4 oops. 4 Sean 2
Rhinoceros unicornis__.......22<4- Great Indian one-horned rhinoc-
EOS oe ees Se heh ry Se
ARTIODACTYLA
Suidae:
LEO RES gS Rate ttey European wild boar____.---_---- 2
Tayassuidae:
Pecari tajacu angulatus._---------- Collared peccary 2.22520 52 429 2
Hippopotamidae:
Choeropstis liberiensis___----------- Pygmy hippopotamus__________-_ 4
Hippopotamus amphibius--.-------- PPO POLALNUS sea sees ae 4
Camelidae:
Camels bactrianus... =). Bah see Bactrianvcamel..o. 9. 22.2 see 2
Camelus dromedantus. =) 222252 >=— Single-humped camel____________ |
TGC IT COONS LOI Chee a te et geek ee Se HBL oa re SA a ORES MERE Ais eas a 6
Lama glama guanicoe_ 2-3 Guanes Coe eye ne Gc gma) UA a 3
QAO COR = oe ia eee te rc Al paeass 55 2e0 b.0 Se Se Seo. 4
Cervidae:
ETSI EEO pe ASI AAI, as See ER ASI SEGCOT A yt & Sah NL aL he 6
Orpous CanNddensis 0 Lesa ea ee AINETIGAN Clie 2 Sab aut ba ee 5
CLE UT RCAIE Ga) CE aioe a Die pee ieee petaaren Redideere: ous Aamir 2
CO CRTES IEE ONE re re et a Nika) Geers sce cams ee 10
Cervus nippon manchuricus___.----- Pye mec als La copula SO bal 2
ROWMyLallow,ACCr eee me ee ee 16
Dama dama__-------------------- {Wns fallow; Gere e tate ee cee es 17
ELODIULS) (CAULOTON NS se ae ae PérerDavidis deerse. = 2a ora Pe
AGRO DOLESLANEN ILS tee a Chinese water deer_.___-------- 3
Mauntiacus muna. .-- 2 2—_ . Sees ib-taeed, deers. oo o2 ls 2S 1
Odocotleus virginianus == =~ Virginia deers 282522: 2a) aaa 17
Odocoileus virginianus costaricensis_._ Costa Rican deer___---_---___-- 3
Giraffidae:
Giraffa camelopardalis___---------- Nubian eiraites2 aaa oe 4
Oka pie johnstond Tug AsIwoty ae Okapia Sea O es Saga Ee Sao 2
Antilocapridae:
Antilocapra americana. 232 -= == Pronghorn antelope.____-------- 1
Bovidae:
WAgammorragus lervig. = oe YU eS Aoudad® sae. shes 2h. See 14
Anoa, depressicornis 200. Deu reL Anos. 5: 3253 SSE) ea NS 3
SEDO SACL UTA, eee are aaa Gare foe ee EE Aenea aaa 4
BEESON OUSOM apse et ONY American bison. 2. [24 078) bite 8
WB1301C DONGSUS.~ rae ee SE European bison, or wisent_-___--- 2
BOS GRA C8 ep IS. ee is Pr ree a HWUDE Koller o 2
est Highland or Kyloe cattle__ 4
Bos taurus_-~-------------------- BritishsBarkweatiless.2 se ae 6
Capra aegagrus cretensis__...------ Cretan agrimi goato2 322 BY O18 1
Capra hincus ee eu eR ONY Domestic goatln ce 100k Pin 5
Cephalophus nigrifrons____-------- Black-fronted duiker__-_________- 1
Hemitragus jemlahicus_._---------- Tabrs 22 2 eR Oso sya ene he 2
OPIS PU STROTENE DIINO en oe ee ce Mouflon 22a 20ers 2 in eae | Sees 2
Poephagus grunniens___----------- Yak. 252 OU Ha ei or Gane 5
Pseudois nayaur.. esuoe _acels Blue ‘sheep =: 22 eaten a iteo hs Oa ie 1
SS OUGGNGLGTICG ae ee Saiga antelope += 222.20. Seo 1
CET USRCM EM So Sige Africam) buthal one se sss lyase 2
PLOT OLTAGUS ON eo aise a ok Eland idee yey SU ee 2

451800—58——10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

BIRDS
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Struthionidae:
wlruineo camelusan.— ——- sted seers Ostrich. 205. 45 bat ele 1
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
RhewamertcanG.sn os bs Le. Rhea. Wa oaks ile is ek 2
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
Casuarius wunappendiculatus unap- One-wattled cassowary -~-------- 1
pendiculatus.
Dromiceiidae:
Dromiceius novaehollandiae_-.------ Te ae her re 5
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:
LENOMUS: MOAIOT Seo OE On Ne ee ee Chestnut-headed tinamou - - ----- 1
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
Aptenodytes patagonica__..-------- King penguin: 22ers ee 4
PUGOSCel a Relient een Adelie penguin: 22s. = 1
Spheniscus humboldti__------------ Humboldt’s penguin.___-______- 2
PELICANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus erythrorhynchus_-_-------- Wihitespelican <2 22 25 2a eee u
Pelecanus occidentalis occidentalis... Brown pelican_....------------ 2
Pelecanus onocrotalus .------------ Rose-colored pelican__._.---..-- 2
Phalacrocoracidae:
Phalacrocorax auritus albociliatus..... Farallon cormorant.------------ 1
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
Plorida caerulea. 22 355 Bee ee Blue sheron.s4.54 22s asee 4 eee 2
Eencophoye tila... 202525 See Snowy egret. 2.240.522... eae 2
Notophoyx novaehollandiae_--.----- White-faced heron__------------ u
Nycticoraz nycticorax hoactli___----- Black-crowned night heron-_-_--_-- 24
LOT tSONLARLUILECLIIL nena a higerbittern. 22 222 see eee 4
Balaenicipitidae:
ISOIGENICEDS TEs one ue eo ee Shoebilljat) 2 sh 455.0 ee eee 1
Cochleariidae:
Cochleartus cochleartus___..-._.- - 256 Boat-billed heron____..--------- 3
Ciconiidae:
Dissoura episcopus._.... 24a) ao5igns Woolly-necked stork------------ 1
Leptoptilus crumeniferus.---------- Marabou stork. >. 2°" - wees 1
Leptoptilus javanicus__------------ Lesser adjutant... 2 pea hae 2
Threskiornithidae:
AGIA AJOjG... - = ah ba nee St ee Roseateispoonbille == 2
udocimus albG_._.s=a8 Jaties noe ahe White ibis) oyster ae 4
Budocumus ruber... -.--2ee. shee ee Scarlet ibiss 2 oe es eee 2
Mycteria americana_..------------ Wood ibis. 22 2eeeeete. 22k oe 1
Threskiornis melanocephala__.------ Black-headed ibis.......-----.-- 1
Phoenicopteridae:
Phoenicopterus antiquorum-_-------- Old World flamingo___---------- 1
Phoenicopterus chilensis___.-------- Chilean flamingo .__- -...es es Soe 2
Phoenicopterus ruber_...---------- Cuban flamingo...) sesceebs 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

BIRDS—Continued

ANSERIFORMES
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Anhimidae:
Chaunatorquaia...— Jeon 4 typ bat Crested screamer: < ose Yeo os 4
Anatidae:
LV 2 EEE ERT Sree Woodie eee ra ec 9
Aix sponsa X Aythya americana. -- Hyped wood duck X red-headed 2
uck,
PAROS LOU tat sn ete By ot ema tL Fintan die ke jo ee ain eye a 4
PANTS: LUSCONS ne = el ed eR aa ot Blue-wingved teal! 2225822 ses 1
Mallard duels iva. so eet oe otc 57
Anas platyrhynchos_..-.---------- ROU CTI TONIC Ke een uP deers ces ei a 8
Wihiteonallardtduck seers 1
Anas platyrhynchos X A. acuta__--- Hybrid, mallard duck X Ameri- 1
can pintail duck.
Anas platyrhynchos X A. p. domes- UHybrid, mallard X Pekingduck._ 20
tica.
Anas platyrhynchos domestica__-_----- Peking Gucks <25 sas ya neers 102
Anas poecilorhyncha___------------ Indian spotted-bill duck_________ 1
PAGER GILOTEDCR 2 L282 PR Sek Blacks duck y2 oo ee eas 1
ANSEF GlOTTONS = 222. hy A ee White-fronted goose____..__--_- 3
Anser anser domesticus.-.--------- Domestic Chinese goose__-_____-_ 7
Anseranus semipalmata__---------- Australian pied goose_--.---_--=- 1
PAUEH A) OMCTLCTUC CTU Se a ee re Red-headed duck_______-__-___- 4
PETA VLERUNLCT EOS oo os ope Canvasback ducks 2 ose 3
ONL QCONAUENSIS = aaa ee Canada GOUses a2 asen secs eee ee 40
Branta canadensis canadensis X Hybrid, Canada goose X blue 2
Chen caerulescens. goose.
Branta canadensis minima-.------- @Cackling, po0se! {asso ee = eee 13
Branta canadensis occidentalis - - - --- White-cheeked goose_______---_- 27
Corringgmoschatg ene en See Muscovy Gucksee aera 7
Cereopsis novaehollandiae-_-_-------- Cape Barren CO0S8e20 eee ee 1
Ghenratlontica esas nee eee ee ye SNOW ZOOse ssa eee ees if
Chenicdenlescens = se ae es iBIUe | FOOSEE* = See eee eee 6
Chere WU MeToOreO ee ee ee ihesserisnow) POOse sera ee 2
NOHET OSE te ee ee he se ROSS'S COUSES 2 ere cere oe 4
CRENODIS QUAL Qa ee re Blacks wane ieee msec eae 4
Chloephaga leucoptera___._---------- Upland goose! 2 2 Siegeteynt aiak 1
Cygnus colMmmotandys 202 = WWihis thine wane see eee ee 5
OUARUSCUGIUS ets DAN ae oS Wihooper swauece ote = eee 2
Dendrocygna autumnalis.---------- Black-bellied tree duck_______-_- 30
Dendronessa galericulata_...------- Manga rin cic kaee eee 2
JURA AT OS Oe He HH oTa Bees es aps oe lo ig ol ols Indian bar-headed goose_____---- 5
Marecd americana. Se nee ‘Baldpatet ils see ge aes Sena 1
WNICIN SEG oa ne SU ee a Red-crested pochard__-_-._.---- 1
NEP OCUTOQIETERS Soe eae ee ee (LESSODHeAGp yo. eee Ses eh ke 1
ALOU CLENCOMUA G1 CO mee eee ee IBM PELOL SOOSO Seer ee eee 2
Plectropterus gambensis._--.------- Spur-winged goose____-________- 1
Sarkidiornis melanota_---.-------- Comb dick Perey cee eee: 1
Somateria mollissima__..-.-------- HiGer GUCK== © Utes neem ee wee 1
DRagornotadornd = eee ee ee European shell duck___________- 1
FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:
UU ETOSLOUT Dy sere Noe ee ee urkey Vivre ese oe oy eee 4
Coragyps atratus.. so2s_ oo kb Sk Pe Black vulttiret 222" Soot eee 6
ROP TNEUDEL Ue Nene Se Rippell’'s: vulturese. 22 1 heh 2
Peeudogyps Ofricanuseasts ss.) oie White-backed vulture__....----- 1
NarcorTampnus PAPG.—.-=-.--.=-=-== King wires eee oo eS 1
Sagittariidae:
Sagittarius serpentarius...--------- PECrecary ore seas use 2
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

BIRDS—Continued
FALCONIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name
Accipitridae:
Buteo gamaicensts.<2 SIUS2 04 Lots Red-tailed hawk__--------__-_--
eueoiinentue ww 2 eee See ue Red-shouldered hawk__-____=_--
Buteo poectlochrous.-.-~-~ + ~~. ---_- Buzzard: eagle. <2<-e2= } NS
Butea*swainsont® UL? POC Met Swainson’s hawks. _ 2. Siogas
Haliaeetus leucocephalus__--------- Bald eagle. 08 Dok oes bane
Haliaeetusileucogaster=—- = 2 22 White-breasted sea eagle________
Haltasiur indus eae eee Brahminy-kites=<-. 2222 ei ee
Harpia harpyja enw 2 le Harpy peaele oo). ee ks po eae
Leniodon-cayanensie-—= ===) US eRe Cayenne-kite: «222222012
Milvagorchimangon.” + SUN eet Dake Chimangot. jc. Uae. 2
Milvus migrans parasitus_.-------- African yellow-billed kite________
MOF DNUStOUON ests sae ee ee Guianan crested eagle__.-___-__-
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis _ -- ~~~ Osprey 2% 22% _ 2k DOA a ae
Pithecophagus jefferyz_.-.---_------ Monkey-eating eagle__._.________
DI PLCOLLUSOrTiaberas = eet ern geen ee Manduit’s hawk-eagle__.-____-__
Falconidae:
Nalco mMerteania 22 e= es oe A eS Prairievfaleons2=.--2 =) ee ee
Falco peregrinus anatum----------- Duck hawk? 2 So- 2 ee Sei ree
alco snarvertiens. see See ee Sparrow hawkss2ett on Weta ee
Polyborus plancussn ss: 2) Bae wes South American caracara____--_-
GALLIFORMES
Megapodiidae:
ANCHO VURGM= Sao ee ee Brush turkey= 2... boo ee
Cracidae:
Cravlalvertsn se re ee Blue-cered curassow- -----------
Crary lbUulOSG ae ee eee Wattled cilrassow—-2- 2-2-2
Craz panamensis: ~~ oe Se Panama curassow 2 ee
Phasianidae:
Alectornis graeca_.._.--._--.-------- Chukar quail 42s sae eae
ATTUSIANUS QTGUS) oa a eee Aros pheasante- .- 2 8a ese sees
Chrysolophus amherstiae----------- Lady Amherst pheasant_-_-_-_---
Chrysolophus pictus. ....---------- Bolden pleasante ste at ak eee
Colinus virginianus———-———-----—- [Red Bobwhite yiigrte 2 SUbNaIS
Crossoplilon aurtiwm. -  ee Blue-eared pheasant-_-__-_-_-_---

IRedtjunglefov] eat te ae ee
HWong=tailedfowles sas eee
Mghting fowlscvsso.sase ee cece
Bantam chickenienee sae
Siler Dantas Soo ane cee
Silver-spangled Hamburg fowl - --

Gallus: gallus U2ees rE are ae

Gennaeus leucomelanus_----------- Nepal pheasant22 22 nows S oe
Hierophasts swinhoti-2_-- =. 2+ Swinhoe’s pheasant.-_-_-_-_-
Lophortyz californica vallicola_-_----- California valley quail____---_-_-
Mophertys gambelts= 2 ooo 2 ees Gambel’s quaile= 2 ees eee
Pavoterstatug yan to eS ee Pextowlic soot tee ee ee ea
erie Herdie eee ae oe oe Hungarian partridge____..__----

Ring-necked pheasant_______-__-

Phasianus colchicus torquatus_-_-_---- White ring-necked pheasant____-

UTINGMCUSITECVES <n Reeves’s pheasant___...--------
Numididae:

Numida-meleagrie_-<===2U Se Ake White guinea fowl__.___--__----
Meleagrididae:

Meleagris gallopavo____-_---------- Domestic turkey__.-_--._--.-2-

GRUIFORMES

Gruidae:

Anthropoides virgo.....--.-------- DMemoisellercranes ss eee

inaleanica mavens. — ee eee West African crowned crane-----

Balearica regulorum gibbericeps_---- East African crowned crane-_-_----

5
:

WO re Pt et ND et et et et et CO St tt OD

aS NNN RNP REWIND HR WOR ebb oe
SECRETARY'S REPORT

BIRDS—Continued
GRUIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name

Gruidae—Continued

Gils; CONGAENSISA > 2 ae Beene epee Florida sandhill erane._.....----

Giusileucogeranusesous foes eel SIberiany Crane see ws ee hel a ee
Psophiidae:

ESOpniG Crepiuans ean ne Sure as Gray-backed trumpeter ---------
Rallidae:

Pralicasamericang aghast Soi8 fe Se Americanicootsss- ose e eee

Gallinula chloropus cachinnans------ Hloridaygallinule sass o n= ame

Laterallus leucopyrrhus_...-------- Black-and-white crake______-_--

Porphyrio poliocephalus.......----- South Pacific swamp hen___-_--_--

Rallus limicola limicola._._-_------ Virginia rail 5 seep yes lees
Eurypygidae:

Buropyga elias... iseeolen eevee Sun; bitternms3 2eey a eee
Cariamidae:

Cantamacrisinid== = = es aa ee Carlama, or seriamas:t owen aole
Otididae:

Chlamydotis undulata macqueeni.... MacQueen’s bustard____._------

CHARADRIIFORMES

Jacanidae:

Jacana spinosa hypomelaena____---- Black-jacang.<.- 2 2t Suis Sous
Recurvirostridae:

Himantopus mesicanus.-.--------- Black-necked'stilt=2- be Sessa ee
Burhinidae:

Burhimus bisiriatyusuio) Doser aus South American thick-knee_-_-_-___
Haematopodidae:

Haematopus ostralegus__..--------- Oystercatcher.... -241sU2s-eos ae
Charadriidae:

Belonopterus cayennensis___-------- South American lapwing------_-

Charadrius-vocifertiaes 22 eo 0 Gee. Kuilldeer. se. = Sess

Philomachus pugnage 2! 5 ese Rufi-ccs 2) 22 te Se et sa OY
Stercorariidae:

Catharacta maccormicki__..-------- MacCormick’s. skuaee ices: 22199)
Laridae:

Dgrosternd Inca. 2-22 Sk ese es Tied iaeriy ees aye coe rs he a oes

TE QUUSTQUNTCHL ee ee eee ee Hauching lle sess ee ea

Baruadelawarensts. 2.25.2. ko Ring-billed| guile. 2. we oe os

ASOT US TAOMUINICONUS oo eyo id Kelp oul aos. oe ee eae

Larus novaehollandiae_.----------- Silver oul eee eco eee ae

COLUMBIFORMES

Pteroclidae:

dcteroclesvorientalisee ss 22.2 0255< Sands prousee eee to eae ees
Columbidae:

Caliimoalania sings 2 2 eke Zoe Homing, pigeono22 2b oe

Columba nigrirosiris... 2. 2s... Black-billed pigeon_____________

Galhicotumba lezontca. 22-5 2-222 Bleeding-heart dove___-___--__-_

Geopelsaictneadtalyesetie 22 lo Diamond doves ced so ea eee

Campinas i toe eS Crowned pigeon=s 22s ie eater

Wireplopela Gecaocto. 2-28. eo Ring-necked dove_______-__-__-_

Streptopelia tranquebarica.--.------ Blue-headed ring dove____----_-

EN OIGONAS AICO Mea mene e ee White-winged dove____-_______-_

EWU ULCEINOChOULO sa eee Mourning tovelmsees 2h eo

PSITTACIFORMES

Psittacidae:

Agapornis fischert..22 2.222001. 0201 Yellow-collared lovebird_____--_-

Agapornis personata_..._.......--. Masked Jovebird. 22-2 422222252

Agapornis roseicollis.___.__._._-.----- Rosy-faced lovebird____.____--__

PLING ZONA ACS NOs Ane 2 oN LN Blue-fronted parrot........-----

Amazona auropalliata.__.....------ Yellow-naped parrot._----------

ANNE ZONE NSCNie oe oe a in Finseli’siparrotes=2- 025222. 652

—_

139

= do Bee OR S&S ee

—_

—_

Nps oO oO me bh Cs no

ONNNNWOrFe CO

CODD ee AT
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

BIRDS—Continued
PSITTACIFORMES—continued

Num-
Scientific name Common name ber

Psittacidae—Continued
Amazona leucocephala___..-------- Cuban ‘parrotua. oases 1
Amazona ochrocephala__.---------- Yellow-headed parrot__-_.--.__- 1
AUN GZONOOnOtneL ae a ae ee Double yellow-headed parrot__-__- 2
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus_--_----- Hyacinthine macaw_____-------- 1
VAP CHORORO UNG mare teeta ene che ate Yellow-and-blue macaw-----_-_- 3
Araichloropierag ss 2 aaa Red-and-blue macaw___.----___- 3
Ara macdos has. 2 ae Red-blue-and-yellow macaw_ ---_-_ 4
Aratinga-canicwlaris2 S956 Wolss oh Petz’s parakeet. ..s2. 222225 -L2u 1
Aratinga-pertinaziieles es eee Rusty-cheeked parrot__-..---__- 4
Br ObOgeruSi gl GUlantS rere Tovi parakeet. aieeaed sees 1
Callocephalon jimbriatum__.-------- Gang-gang cockatoo-_-_-_--------- 5
Calyptorhynchus magnificus.------- Banksian cockatoo______-----_-- 2
Domicellavgarn aaa ae ee ee Reddlornyacesae = oe ee we 1
Helectus pectoralisfe igo) eu Eclectus.parrots.2 2 pus ey. ba 1
iRakatperaivaes ae a2 so a ey L White: cockatoos2220-=-- 2. tee 2
Kakatoevducropsan sas aoe Bae Solomon Islands cockatoo--_--_-_- 1
Makatoewgalertas soso aoc. BS sk Sulphur-crested cockatoo_------- 6
Kakatoeleadbeaterms 222. <. Res Leadbeater’s cockatoo_.__._------ 10
IGGKNLOP INOICCeNs1S ee abe eee Great red-crested cockatoo- ~~ -_- 1
Kakatoe sanguineus_..------------ Bare-eyed cockatoo___.--.------ 5
Melopsitiacus undulatus_..--------- Grass parakeet..- 2. - 2. 45
Nestor nolabiiza: 20 stbhe Pontos ale ot Weaparrot. - ocean iey es elen tes 3
Nymphicus hollandicus-.----------- Cockatiel.c co. 222.025 Ul. Ae 4
Pronus mensivuusses. 22 eions tf sue Blue-headed conure__...--.----- 1
Rigiycercusielegansa sss 52255524522 Pennant’s parakeets = 223 s355sss— 3
Platycencuseximius.-. sadelesangice Rosella parakeet. ..-.---.------ 1
Roltensrs warn sont =a ne eee Barraband’s parakeet__...------ 2
Psittacula cyanocephala____-------- Plum-headed parakeet_--_--_--- 1
ASTELOCCULONC AUD CUTTG =a aes peers Red-shouldered parakeet_-__--~- 1
Peciaoula fascwore 2. Moustache parakeet...-.--._--- 2
iRstiaculaynnament se eee eee Kramer's parakeet... 32 42825e0 1
Psitiacus ertthacusse4e ait ntese ae! African gray parroteas3s.< 24.2 1

CUCULIFORMES

Cuculidae:
Eudynamys scolospacea___.-------- Koel 22's hv <0. Dee eee ae 1
Geococcyx californianus_.-.-------- Roadrunner. 222 sss 2 2 eee 2

Musophagidae:
Cringeriafriconus. 23 Looe iPlantain-eater.« 2 seh wiles whe eae 2
Rawraco corythaie. = 22-2 eee South African turaco____--__---- i
ROURACOMDETS C= ata aoe eee ee Purplewuracols sae) === eee 1

STRIGIFORMES

Tytonidae:
Pyle Glo@ Bravineola2- = ee PaArMVOW loos 52 Shee ee 2

Strigidae:
SALDOWURGLIVIGNUS= = eee eae Great horned owl. 22° 2. oe 6
Bubo virginianus elutus._..._-------- Colombian great horned owl-_-__-- 1
IRCLUD OI KEUUL DU ee ee Malay fishin clowlee = ane 1
Oris OR Oe es Ge oe ee ce ey BerecemOWl sce... 5o ee eee e 1
EME PANG VATIO—_ = 4 Soo oe Barred Owl. <2 2s eae oe erence 11

TROGONIFORMES
Trogoniidae:

Priotelus temnurusia2 Soe Cuban trogon’2 22) ene eee 2
SECRETARY'S REPORT he Mey 141

BIRDS—Continued

CORACIIFORMES
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber

Alcedinidae:

Dacelo grgasus Sele i ast Kookaburras one scer ea a ke 5
Bucerotidae:

meeros andulotuss 22. 8 obs ncu di. Malayan-bhor pills esa ee 1

Anthracoceros malabaricus__-------- Piedthornpillzas222 2 ene Ste 1

ES UCEROSOLCONIUS =a eee eee eee Conecave-casqued hornbill________ 1

cence hyarocor ase. fo S292. 22a Philippine*hornbill 4223242058804 1

PSUCOTVUS GUYSSINTCUS= Ba eee ee Abyssinian ground hornbill______ 1

Bycanistes subcylindricus__--------- Black-and-white casqued hornbill_ 3
Momotidae:

WMomotus lessont 221828 Seu ooe as MotmotJc2l sel ean ory ay 2
Upupidae:

Wipiune.epopsess. 522220 Lease. Hoopoe: Jee U3 eu Sc DL 5

PICIFORMES

Ramphastidae:

Andigena hypoglauca_------------- Blue. toucan. 2. 234s ej el 1

Avlacorhampus albivittatus_-------- White-lined toucanet__-________- 2

Pteroglossus torquatus..____._------- Ringed toucanet__....__________ 3

GNUDROStOs| COTIN At S= ae = ee ee Sulphur-breasted toucan_________ 2

Ramphastos culminatus-_----------- White-breasted toucan____.____- 1

Ramphastos swainsoni_------------ Swainson’s toucan._. Lo east 1

amphastostoco. -- hitee nase Toco toucans =o. 32 se seeey Ben 3
Capitonidae:

Cyanones, astaticais2o- basses ote yd Asiatic red-fronted barbet_____-_- 1

Megalaima zalonica_.--.---------- Streaked barbet.. .. -los.ee. ake 2

PASSERIFORMES

Cotingidae:

Chasmorhynchus nudicollis___------ Dellbird. 2s =< | eters he 1

PAU DUCOLE RUD LC OL ne Orange cock-of-the-rock________- 2

Rupicola sanguinolenta_....------- Scarlet cock-of-the-rock_________ 1
Tyrannidae:

PHGNGUS SULDRUTOIUS 2252 oat Kiskadee flycatcher_._._....___-. 4
Alaudidae:

ALAMO GTUENSUSs = =a Seen ea oa At SK VIAr Ks ee Goethe eee es ae 2
Corvidae:

Caloevie fOTMOsa 2 = 2 58 Magpie jayesesc aes os ee ae 1

Comussonachynhynchosee ease = CROW ae ee ne tice Se 6

Corvus corax principalis___.__.----- PROT Les is al ap fs bs ics ae es 1

COTUUS INSOIENSE aos eat a a Indian Crowe 2i52)50. 38 oo ot ee, 2

Cyanocitoerstata = =a ee BBG] yas he ete se 2

Gymnorhina hypoleuca...---------- White-backed piping crow______-_ 1

PEUCOLIVEEL Ce ee ke he Sty tc A Yellow-billed magpie__.________- 1

Pra 730 hudsoniea. ooo 2 Miaagpie ae cere oye Saeed ge 4

Wrocissacaeruled. 2. 235-3 22 oS Formosan red-billed pie________- 1
Ptilonorhynchidae:

Ptilonorhynchus violaceus__.-------- Satin bowerbird= uo 5225 445 ceu. 2
Timaliidae:

GOGTULOZ DICQLOT i BE ha White-headed laughing thrush_-_-_ 1
Pycnonotidae:

Heterophasia capistrata.-..-.------ Black-headed sibia___._._.....--- 1

EROROLUS COlET2— 2 on ee Lo Red-vented bulbul_______..____- 1

Pycnonotus leucogenys.--.--------- White-cheeked bulbul_______--_. 1
Mimidae:

WETS MOlsGlOUOS. 8 ao ns ye SH Mocking birds oes ele 8 1
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

BIRDS—Continued
PASSERIFORMES—centinued

Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Turdidae:
Geokichia ettring_ = 222 -- ase aden Orange-headed ground thrush_ -_- il
Thamnolaea cinnemomeiventris__- - - - - Clift chatecs oa Ue ee te ale 2
Turdus grayi...-- s4azped_ passin Bonaparte’s thrush. 22. 242424 1
Turdus migratorius..__.- 2622222 228 Robin. 2226 32S oe ae eee 1
Albino robine 2452.2. See 1
Sturnidae:
Acridotheres triatts | ces sete ease Junglesmynah--osintesonie se mone 1
Graculameltgiosanses 23 ube eae et NebdlManksect Homme eee poke we eee iy 2
Gracula religiosa indica.._..-------- besser, hill mynah= S22 eee 2
Gracula religiosa robusta__---------- Nias wattled mynah-_-----_--_-- 1
Lamprocolius purpureus_—.--------- Burchell’s glossy starling______-- 3
IP OSLOTATOSEUS seit ela ee Rose-colored pastor_____-------- 1
(S07 C ONS 2671). CTU Sm yea es Tricolored or superb starling. - __- 1
SGU LON TI LL CLD Cite ee re Gray-headed mynah-_-__-__----- 1
Stunnss Pulgaris ants hee oe Monee SORT eee 2A Lie ee oll 2
Ploceidae:
Aidemosyne modesta__------------- Plum-headed finch___----------- 1
AMAdINaATAascrala sass os Sees Cut-throat weaver finch._______-_- 10
Diatropuna procne= ae so ar Sees Giantiwhy dah Wii! _ eee 5
Estrilda amandava__ 2202 222-252 -2 Strawberry, finchea2ss ae 1
Eisirilda angolensise 2 222 Sees 22522 Cordon: bleu finch! 2532-2 Seanes 6
Estrilda.astrild.=. 800! 5 oeueye Red-eared waxbill_..__--------- 1
EsimildgCinened==-ee = ee ae Commoniwaxbill.s -- S30) seen 4
Psirviga coerulescens..- 22 2k Lavender finch. . =... - «sae 2
Estrilda melpoda..---/----2-+-L-- Orange-cheeked waxbill_---__-_-- 1
Bistrildasenegaua== =e ae See Hire finches. 25-4. Soups eee 2
IE NIAG ENR FRE STIR on Ce eae Yellow-crowned bishop weaver___ 10
EAU PLOCles OTIS =). 22 os eee Redsbishopsweavene ==] oo see" Uf
GOL REE) ONES Sa os See Se White-headed nun___------_--_-- 16
Onchure MGlGCCd.. 222 2~- 22 ee Black-throated munia___-_-_---_- 1
Lonchura panctulata- ===> = 22 222s. Spice finch ek. no ee ee nee 1
MAU VONOT ZC OT ee ee J ayantun chases a a ee eee 30
Plocerpasseronandlt= = eto. Mah alinweaversenee a am seen 1
IRLOCEUS LOGY Oo a ee ae eee ee Baya WeAVelzes 2022 42a 12
Ploceusitellinues soo a ee ee Vitelline masked weaver__----- hes 3
Poephila acuttcauda.. 2. 2. 3522" 8 Shaft-tailed finch. 92.20. 2 ee 2
Poephiia: gouldiaes2=="==s= = 222-2 Veneers finchits sAbestr oe ee 3
Black-headed Gouldian finch____- 2
Poephila guttata castanotis___------- Aebratinche 552 sees eee nee 47
Poephilasrujicauda s22 2222622222228 Star fincth:-- si 220s. se. see 1
Ouceied queleg ee sasaadasn ance Se Ried=-billed:weaversss] =] ae 1
Steganopleura bichenovit__.-------- Bicheno’s finches s2e tetera 1
Steganura paradiseas 22272202220 Paradisewhydahst esc see eee a
Icteridae:
Agelaius icterocephalus____--------- Yellow-headed marshbird__-_-_--- iL
Kclerus Giraud?T 225" Sean Ear eee Giraud’s:oriolesses4n0 = =e eee 1
HichertiSKtClerus renee ee eee ee PurGUpial’ ye 2 2 aor Sr ee eee 1
Molothrus bonarsensts.2---25-"- 525 Silky cowbitG. 20-2232) eee At
ER OMTOCOLOLION 2 LVOT ae ae iIRicergrackles {aioe Ss eene eee ne 1
OussCRie CUutsCulG eae 2 ee Purple-erackle..2). 5.23 33 eer 1
HONGGuiusianmentteen ens eee Colombian red-eyed cowbird_---- 1
Xanthocephalus canthocephalus__---- Yellow-headed blackbird__------ 1
Xanthornus decumanus------------ Crested oropendola_-_-------_---- 1
Thraupidae:
Culospiza mucapilass Cease Brown-headed tanager__-------- 1
somocolaclevertOnd ==] ae Black-and-white tanager___----- 2
Ramphocelus dimidiatus_-.-.------ Crimsonitanager2>=22 =. 3ee=ees 3
Ramphocelus passerini__._---------- Passerimi/s tanacerssss sss eees 6
RT ORL DD ESRCOT oes a a ee Bluestanagers-= 2 ek els eee ees 4
Thraupis leucoptera_-.------=--.-- White-edged tanager_____------- 1
Thraupis palmarum..< 22222 --<. Black-winged palm tanager-_-_---- 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

BIRDS—Continued
PASSERIFORMES—continued

Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Fringillidae:
Conmuelsrconaueliseee nee eee ee Huropean coldfinch=s25 a2 23x s2 6
Carduelis carduelis X Serinus ca- European goldfinch X canary---- il
narius.
Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis - - ~~. Fouse inch ee a= a Cs es se 1
iietoaniea melodia= 2-226 ey ees Song Sparrowee=ece sono see ee 1
BORGONTCNCUCTULOLG Se eae ee Bravzilianvcardinal=223 222 as 1
Paroaria gularis nigro-genis___----- Black-eared cardinal_....-._---- 3
AOOSDUZO LOT OULCL Ae eee ae ere Ringed warbling finch_-..___--_- 1
Richmondena cardinalis._..-.-----~- Cardinal = © > occ Pes 1
Saltater mazimus = == 22s Ls Buff-throated saltator_....-..--- 1
ETLNVUS CONONIUSH Se ee ee ee Canaryece nace tee Py 3
ICIS Tulevlas = =.= see ON ee Saffron’ fineh- ++ 2+. 2 22 SS TR Ne. 6
Bporopitla guituralis.. 2-2. Yellow-billed.fineh=. 2.2.2 Sein 32
REPTILES
LORICATA
Crocodylidae:
Alligator mississipiensis_-.-------- Allieater== -'- 22 SeUsiy SSCA oe 19
Allagator sinensis. 2.3 28 Sto Chinese alligator 222) 022225. 22 2
Carina Sclerone =o hoe et eens toe Carmien. 20 eat ate ee a a 16
Crocodylus*Gcutis. ee ees BOP SPO American crocodile___-_.--.-..-- 2)
Crocodylus cataphractus._---------- Narrow-nosed crocodile. ____---- 1
Crocodylus*nidloticus= 2-2. = = 20s 2h! African crocodiles == “2 i Sr aaa 1
Crocodutus-porusus=+ =See er tree Salt-water crocodile________.__-- 1
Osteolaemus-tetraspis- — 222 sheets Broad-nosed crocodile__-_-------- 3
Tomistoma schlegelt_ \. 22222222. Gavin {eee 1s GaSb Bele OF 1
SAURIA
Gekkonidae:
GECKOISMUTENt 2 NR ER Sa eet gE Giant gecko. Saki anes ee en te 1
Tarentola mauritanica.232Uu loses CCKO MN! Be Ses abies neh atonec hin 1
Gerrhosauridae:
Gerrhosaurus major_.------------- Plated lizardsi2 22 .essoseuiuiss 44 8
Iguanidae:
Anolis carolinensis.......--------- American) anolis.2 2 eee eas 5S 35
PA NOLES ACTUSLGLELLU Sic ae ee ee a Little crested anolis__----------- 5
FATUOUSALTUGT Gorn see ed ARE aI S Krug’s anolis_-_--- ies care a iy oo 5
Anolis stnarwiis wee ere Ee ae Poa West Indian anolis_.....-._..-= 4
Cyehiza macleayive. 242s SAA Ls Cubandeuanaecs eee oe sen hae 3
Cyclura. stejnegert o.oo ow BULB Mona Island iguana__-2--.----- 1
WGuORGILOUGN AIL Cea Le SS Commoniucuana_22 222 senses aes 11
Phrynosoma cornutum_------------ Horned: toa cde ten ste sie oyu ane 10
Sceloporus undulatus.....--------- Fence. lizard. /So eva is Bees 8
Helodermatidae:
Heloderma horridum...---.--2----- Mexican beaded lizard. _...---=- 2
Heloderma suspectum_.------------ Gila monster 2253222252 bee 5
Varanidae:
Varanuseartuel 2 oles en SINS Australian lace monitor_---.---- 2
Teiidae:
Tupinambis nigropunctatus___.----- Black. tipule Satie sys 2 eee 1
cincidae:
Chalcides sepoides.... 2 -..2-.-4--- Three-fingered skink___.-------- 2
Bgernia) luctuosa 222 = sae as le Mourning) skinkoeweene ee Sarena 2
Bgernianohited: 142 Sandia oh White's skink= 2202 22). 2/2 wyatne a ahs 8
HBumeces fasciatus..22f255 322 25222 Greater five-lined skink____----- 5
Scincus. officinalis... 2325925151 A Sandi skink-) 552022. qigtiiveah epehs 9
Prachysaurus) rugosuse sie ng be Stump-tailed lizard__._---.------ 1
Anguidae:
phisaurus ventralis___.......--.-- Glass lizard 22-02 ew ose 1
Chameleontidae:
€hamaeleon dilepis__......---.---- Flap-necked chameleon__-_------ 1
Chamaeleon jacksoni.._..---------- Three-horned chameleon-------- 2
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

REPTILES—Continued
SERPENTES
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Boidae:
Boe enyarts, COOK - fae Bh Sue eae Gook:s. tree boas. 34.3 as 1
POG: €NYOL4S LNYOTES 2 Sei Pree DOR. oe hee te oe 1
Constrictor constrictor.....-..------ Boa constrictors. =o. 0) oe) 2
Constrictor imperator._.--.-------- JEM PCTOR DOR a ee a ee 2
Epicrates angulifer_...--=.-------- Cuban boas. oo. vee 5
pierates €CncnriG... Le atom eee Ramnbow,boa. oe 22 ee oo eee 5
Bryn tRepGicus nc hood be oe erty he Sharp-tailed sand boa___._------ 1
UNO CLES) UP TINUSE dil oe Re se es ANSCONGS cha Ue oc ee eee 5
Paitin TROUPES a leek oc Be aie Indian rock pyihonse oc 528 eee 1
PUthon PCQtus . 2) ene S tr Be beh Bally Ghomy each see eu ta ae 5
Python Tec ulavus (iL ho ee ea Repral pybhOn en Woo oe behest eee 3
ERON: SCORES it) Pe re Airicganv python... 2. Loe a 2
Colubridae:
Abastor erythrogrammus___--------- Rainbow snake... 2022250 joe 1
Bodedonlenediunys 2 2.2 se ee African house snake, or musaga- - 2
Coluber constrictor constrictor __----- Black PACER a oy cue ee ua ee eae il
Diadophis punctatus edwardsi___---- Ring-necked snake__..._..__.----- 1
Elaphe obsoleta confinis__-_-------- Southern pilot black snake_______ 1
Elaphe obsoleta guitata___-_-------- Comm, snake. fiiighy 8 on htc oe 2
Elaphe obsoleta lindhetmeri__------- Sa tae oye ae snake. soak 3
llotvblacksnake== 22-022 oecen ge 10
Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta- ----------- {pilot black snake, albino________ 2
Elaphe quadrivittata.__.-.---------- Chicken Snake? cnc Sees ac tore 8
MGrOncia,M0OCUTS.. = 288 eh oes ele Mudiisnakce. 2 oo ae ae eae 2
Heterodon contortrigs-.--22----==22 Hog-nosed snake______.-.__.__- 1
Lampropeltis doliata____----------- Scarlet, king snake... ok 1
Lampropeltis getulus californiae__---- California king snake____.______ 2
Lampropeltis getulus getulus__------ UG SIAN = hee ee Sh 3
Lampropeltis getulus splendida_-_._-- ponoran king snake <i. 48 S228 1
Lampropeltis rhombomaculata___---- Moleisnakes- 2.22. oo eeeiaee 1
Lampropeltis triangulum_---------- Milk, snakewo 22-2 oo esa he 2
Leptodiera annulata_._-.---------- Cat-eyed snake_s-sussnosu-cule 4
Masticophis flagellum flavigularis_.... Coachwhip snake_____.__.--_-- 6
Natrix erythrogaster... .. 22 2L lete Red-bellied water snake_________ 3
IN EE TES CS ONG) ce te a OS Southern banded water snake____ 3
Watris. pictiventris___... |) ee staid Florida water snake__.......-.__ 11
Natrix septemvitiata_........------ Queen water snake___._....__-- 2
Natrinistpedoti: 3. BU Water snake... 220.4: sew ae 6
Opheodrys vernalis..2. 22-2222. 222 Smooth-sealed green snake_______ 2
PrUONNIS SAYt ao dois o- BESS SD en Bull snake. 22. Seat eee 1
Simocephalus capensis__....------- ile snakes oct oo. een le a il
Storeria. dekayi—_. 2. Pewee Boas DeKay’s snake.) enews an 2
Storeria o. occipitomaculata___---.-- Red-bellied snake____._....--.-. 1
Thamnophissauritus. Passov Ribbon. snake. ...eu¥sichse deel 1
Thamnoplhis sirtalis_......-..2-._- Garter, snake... 00. oo hea bi iegiae 3
Zamenis florulentus.....-.-------- Egyptian racer... sei) 2-44 sores 1
Elapidae:
LEY C57 Tee Ne ME Ra a Meyptian.cobra... 2 2..222) 2888 9
Naja,hannah. 323 ints alee lane Kingeobra.... ae. 5.422 2a ey eee 1
Naja melanoleuca._......--------- Black cotrae l epee el 1
INGIQNGI: os cue i a ae Imdiam cobraechtssssece: oe ee 5
Crotalidae:
Ancistrodon contortrix mokeson_----- Northern copperhead snake__--__-_ a
Ancistrodon piscivorus__..--------- Watermoccasin. oi S20) 254 aoe 4
Crotalus.atrot os Jio25. 48288 Be Texas diamondback rattlesnake- - 6
Crotalus horridusivis-healas | wade Timber rattlesnake__-__...-.-_-- 1
Crotalusdepidus ee Rock rattlesnake. ._.22.22iL-25 1
Sistrurus miliarius__s22 2-222 ae Pygmy rattlesnake__.__...__-_- 2
Sistrurus miliarius streckert__------ Ground rattlesnake_._......-82 A
TYIMEFESUPUS SD so. 3 2 Re See ‘Korean yiper =... Evrae sans 1
Trimeresurus flavoviridis.....------ Habu... .2.4-20 5. jaah ane 1
SECRETARY'S REPORT or 145

REPTILES—Continued

TESTUDINATA
Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Chelyidae:
Batrachemys nasuta...------------ eed American _ side-necked 2
turtle.
Chelodina longicollis... ...-~...-~--= Australian side-necked turtle____- 3
Hydromedusa tectifera_------------ Small side-necked turtle__--_.-_-- 2
Phrynops geoffroyana__------------ Geoffroy’s side-necked turtle_--__- 1
PATRONS MILAN ee Large side-necked turtle______-_-_ 15
Platemys platycephala_..---------- Flat-headed turtle___-_---_-___- 5
Kinosternidae:
Kinosternon cruentatum-_----------- South American mud turtle__-__- 1
Kinosternon subrubrum-_----------- Miia) turtles soa Sees hae oe ee a 5
Sternotherus odoratus-__------------ Musk'turtles#':.. 22 4gehs ede 6
Chelydridae:
Chelydra serpentina_-------------- Snapping turtle. =si2.c.2ssJssh= 12
Emydidae:
Batigur Pasha es 22s 2s ves Soe ok Indian fresh-water turtle_.-_-__- 1
Chrysemys picta_..2. eeS_rasaccé Painted turtle.....-ses<mseu-4) Bl
Clemmys guttata.,_ baat ea Spotted turtle... . tents 2
Clemmys.insculpta_...... 242% deal Wood turtle... 2-2 ase oe 8
Clemmys marmorata marmorata_---- Pacific pond turtles -cu<22-22e_ == 1
Cyclemys amboinensis_-.---------- Kura kura box turtle_-.-....--- 1
Bimydura. krefii Ses easaeeee Krefft’s: turtle... 5... e¢htae ok 3
Emydura macquariae_.------------ Murray, turtle......c2ssht 42254 8
Emys.orbicularist. So s2ae_cekimein. Kuropean pond turtle__.-___---- 3
Graptemys barbourt_-------------- Barbour’s. turtle... <¢+i=< susteeke a
Graptemys geographica_-_---------- Map turtle. 2202220225432. .2948 3
Graptemys pseudogeographica------- False map turtle... gacttiens 5 4
Kinizys bellianae. eed eeu. see Hinge-back turtle_ ~~ ~~-ss-2--.. 1
Malaclemys terrapin__------------- Diamondback turtle_-----.------ 6
Pseudemys decussata_..----------- Cuban water turtle_-....-..----- 1
Pseudemys elegans22~ 220224222225 Mobile turtle. sesecseh ee beth 12
Pseudemys floridana= 25222255205 Florida water turtle__..__..----- 10
Pseudemys floridana suwannensis__. Suwannee turtle_-..------------ 7
Pseudemys ornata ei. soa e seks Central American turtle__----_-- 2
Pseudemys rubriventris__._..-------- Red-bellied turtle.___.__..-----. 6
pseudemys seri pian uC Le Red-lined turtle_ =... 2... +425 12
Pseudemys scripta callirostris_.----- South American red-lined turtle__ 8
Pseudemys scripta troostti_...------ Cumberland turtle....---------= 10
LeMGDeENne, GUT . ey west) Florida box turtle” 2235545 p42 1
Mernrapene CQiOUnG 2-2 e eae eee a Box turtles.< 22.2.2. ete ee 50
Terrapene carolina triunguis__------ Three-toed box turtle_-_._-_----_- 3
Terrapene ornata ornata___--------- Western box turtle. ..._...-_--- 2
Pelomedusidae:
Pelomedusa galeata_.._-.---------- African water turtle_.__-.-.---- it
Pelustosi migi cans ==. ae African black mud turtle._..___- 3
Pelasias siuatus. | Sethe e haat African snake-neck turtle______-- 8
Pinymens groves Hs. eek. Semones South American gibba turtle____- 3
Podocnemisuni files: 2. 284 gow yh) Amazon spotted turtle-__....--- 13
Testudinidae:
Testudo elephantina_..------------ Giant Aldabra turtle__....._---- 6
Tesiuao.ephingtum =. .4etaheen Duncan Island turtle.__---___-- 3
ESA O LeU IOLE en ee ee se South American turtle___-_------ 2
DestudovicinG wos, 2 aE ood I Galapagos turtle. =. 22. s-22nsue 1
Trionychidae:
Preonyo jeron. |S tathdeepiilg in gt American soft-shelled turtle__-_--- ai
RDONUT ITU ea a ape eee! African soft-shelled turtle___-~_-- 2
146 ANNUAL REPORT

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA
Scientific name Common name

Ambystomidae:

Ambystoma opacum.—...----2.-~5-- Marbled salamander____.___-__-
Salamandridae:

Diemictylus viridescens_....-------- Red-spotted newt..---._----_--

TOATICNG LPtORG 2 Lectin oe oe Califormia newts oo eee eee

Triturus pyrrnogaster—2 2 -——-—-— 3 Red-bellied newt__-.---..---_--
Amphiumidae:

Amphiuma means___-.---.2-2 2-22 COngo.édl= = ee See eee

SALIENTIA

Dendrobatidae:

Den dnobales SPB See eae ee a eee ee Green poison-arrow frog__.---_--

Dendrobates auratus__....--.------ Black poison-arrow frog_-_------

Dendrobates typographus__..------- Yellow poison-arrow frog_--_-_--
Bufonidae:

Bufoiamenteanuse ornate ts Danie Amenican toads. —) io be cohen ges

Buso gutiatyuss site seu Nagtous Honest, toad. ie ise, alepetionas

Bugovmartinuseprsces ce TEL Dood Gianttoads 5326 Senseo

Bujowparacnemiseceaius BOS Ouiee 4 Rococoltoad nie eis tee peel inas

Bufo peltocephalus__.-...--.------ Cuban: toad... ig sae ce ew pce

Bufo vsridts sos nase GUg_ © 1 hat 2 Buropean toad=.25-23aed seus
Leptodactylidae:

Ceratophrys calcarata__._---------- Colombian horned frog__-_--_---

Ceratophrys ornata_.-.------------ Argentine horned frog_----------
Hylidae:

Acrasigrylluselestiiee QU gant sale Cricket :frogesoeecobusee aes

Hyla.crnenea.sen TUE Jo0ce eR GLE Green tree, frog__2...2ugil ac sees

Hayla versicolor. Vie esaddsome Gray..tree frog-nsecaret tusosay

Hylambates maculatus. _...-_------ African flash tree frog___._._.----

Megalizalus fornasinii_.----------- African. green frog 2uu.L. susll2s
Microhylidae:

Microhyla carolinensis_____..----~-- Narrow-mouthed toad_-_--_----
Pipidae:

Pipe ipGercews ls BIME ala dhew Surinam .toadssebeveeer seas
Ranidae:

Ran@adspersau.-20. Locus. Uso African. bullfrog. sinjese 2b eed

Rane-catesberana..0./ 105 wsadonn American bull frog__---.--------

Rana-clamianssok UL FOU Green frogas je) y a. el neers

RGNGPIPIENS 2s ares ooe oo SRS 208 Leopard frog... Sie eee

FISHES
Acanthodoras spinosissimus__..-_----- Talking catfish... pinion weds
Acanthophthalmus semicinctus_-—_--~- Large dublin cele ee sabe
Anabas testudinews) eel ol o1 ou eal Climbing perch.__.. sadousae saceye
Astronotus ocellatusiioe LooLuus. Jouve Peacock.cichlid_..o 7 buses saonus
Barbus-everettt..J2Tull bation gosgunh Glown, barbs: . ces sere S
TB eUGIS OR oo. aed ae ae et Mightingfish.2 225 25. l see e eee
Brachygobius xanthozonus.__.-.------_- Bumblebee-fish_______.___-_-_--
Corydoras-hastatussJ10) Die’ enn) Corydorass...._... suet os eee
Distichodus sexfageintiusteoliogs. digo Aaeeue ek ete
Electrophorus electricus_.....-..----- Hlectriceel ja oto eee
Gambusiaipunctatus. oe Blue gambusia___ .--__ aang
Labeo chrysophekadion____.______-__- Black sharkfish.< 2... 229690 Ane
. . UPD ase Se PA ee

Gebreresverticuraus. 22 3 ee eae eee {Fi mectallod mimapyel oo. 4 cela
Leptdosiren paradora..... =.= South American lungfish_~____-_-
Wi clam smite! oe 1g CHO [Ee gS eRe ae Ry
Plecostomus plecostomus___._.-------- Armoreqicatlish ae... oo ee
Protopterue annectens_« 0.2222 .-.--=- African lunetish 69!) oc! ae
Pterophyllumeimekit_.... 22 2 3 Black angelfishs 0 oul boe ee
Serrasalimus niger ics oe lemwalen ) iit 281 a: eR ae pope eRe

—
None OF NHN HK DPRK PR KF FOYT R ATR Re

10

mh et
KN PNK COON CH HEH Oe eK bp Ree
SECRETARY’S REPORT 147

FISHES—Continued

Num-
Scientific name Common name ber
Sternarchella schottt_____.__________- Africaruknifefisht abe 5 ae _/ a2 2
Romichthays albonubes= = 22222 oes. White Cloud Mountain fish__-__-_ 1
Trichogaster trichopterus__-...------- Pearl pouramiiees Seen ee eee eh Des 8 1
Kaphophorus) hellert .j2.0 0 ea ee 2k Green swordtail_.~..._.-.-.--\.. 4
MGmhopnorus maculatus. wis 2s sea eae PSs) OG moog shes mae Eee 6
Wmmdentificdyr shee, S201 SWC EL ae Mouthbreedersis_ OO Ol) OT 8 2
ARTHROPODS
Crustacea:
SEO USULLEL OME See ete ee Le) Carne Coconuticrab ease = ae gee 1
Coenobita. clypeatusie. 2222-8. Land! hermitieralb S224 oe Se 35
Arachnida:
Gentruroraes graciirs: 2232 2s eke Florida scorpions:.4..21 44 So. ts 2
EU MEL MONS iat eenee Neale guile Tarantulan3. 22 oo. ce eee ee 10
MRE ODECLILS MLACLATUS Ns mn aie ee ae Black-widow spider__..--.------ 1
Insecta:
IS IAUCTUS CANT ETE site a et ee 2 Tropical giant cockroach -__-_---- 100
MOLLUSKS
LVL AC TALON 0 RN SN ORR Ee Pondssnails oats gto Joa 100
FINANCES

The appropriation for the National Zoological Park is carried in
the District of Columbia Appropriation Act. In the fiscal year 1957,
$720,000 was appropriated, of which $545,627 was alloted for sala-
ries, leaving $174,373 for the operation of the Zoo. Included in this
last figure is $65,000 for animal food, $29,000 for maintenance and re-
pair, and $15,000 for the purchase of animals. In addition to animals
purchased from appropriated funds, many valuable animals are
acquired through judicious exchange.

The estimated net worth of the Zoo is approximately $4,500,000,
which includes the value of the land, buildings, improvements, ani-
mals, and the current appropriation.

PERSONNEL

J. Lear Grimmer, formerly Assistant Director of the Lincoln Park
Zoo, Chicago, Ill., was appointed Assistant Director of the National
Zoological Park on June 3. Mr. Grimmer is a trained zoologist,
specializing in herpetology but interested in the entire field. He has
had eight years experience in zoological park administration.

Former assistant head keeper Ralph Norris, who has had 25 years
experience, has been appointed head keeper.

James M. Derrow, an employee since 1931, was promoted from
assistant superintendent of maintenance and construction to superin-
tendent.

There are 137 authorized positions at the Zoo, which at the present
time are divided as follows: 12 in the administrative office, 52 in the
animal department, 21 police, 47 in the mechanical shop, and 5 in the
grounds department.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

During this fiscal year $15,310.87 was utilized for terminal leave
payments for retiring personnel. Funds are not appropriated for this
purpose. In order to absorb this amount it was necessary to main-
tain vacancies throughout the year. To meet this unique situation
all employees had to put forth extra effort. Their loyalty and de-
votion to the Zoo and their hard work have been reflected in the
excellent health of the animals and the general appearance of the
Zoo. Great credit is due the employees for their cooperation during
this trying time.

Other personnel items referring to retirements are mentioned at the
beginning of this report.

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons
all over the world who write for information regarding animals.
From every part of this country citizens write to the Zoo as a national
institution. Telephone calls come in constantly, asking for identifica-
tion of animals, proper diets, or treatment of disease. Visitors to the
office as well as to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking
information.

The Acting Director spoke before three civic groups and made one
television appearance.

The Assistant Director made one television appearance, in which
he showed the feeding and handling of gorillas. On another occa-
sion, the Zoo’s three baby lion cubs appeared on television.

Two groups of naval medical officers were taken on a tour of the
Zoo, special attention being paid to those animals which are reservoirs
of human infection, and those with which they might come in contact
at their stations.

Malcolm Davis, assistant head keeper, in charge of birds, continues
to contribute notes and observations to ornithological journals and
publications. He helped revise “Parrots Exclusively” and assisted in
the preparation of “Pet Mynas,” both published by All-Pets Magazine.

Mario DePrato, principal keeper in charge of the reptile house,
talked before a Navy Research group on poisonous reptiles. On a
collecting trip in Florida and another in the Dismal Swamp, Va., Mr.
DePrato gathered a number of interesting reptiles, which were added
to the collection.

Travis Fauntleroy, administrative assistant, and Ralph Norris, head
keeper, were sent to the Cincinnati Zoo for two days to study manage-
ment problems and animal-handling techniques.

While the Zoo does not conduct a regular research program as such,
every effort is made to study the animals, and to improve their health,
housing, and diet in any way possible.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 149
VETERINARIAN’S REPORT

The work in this department during the past year has been some-
what curtailed in its professional aspects owing to the promotion of
the veterinarian to Acting Director upon the retirement of Dr. William
M. Mann. The majority of his time has been absorbed in administra-
tive duties which have, regrettably, necessitated leaving undone much
of the routine veterinary work.

Several programs that had been started and that require much time
and constant attention have been curtailed. Every effort has been
made to see that the health of the animals in the Park is safeguarded,
and necessary medications and treatment have been given. Particu-
lar emphasis has been placed upon the nutritional aspects of veterinary
practice and changes in and additions to the diets have been made.
This has meant a great deal of extra work on the part of the veteri-
narian with rather long hours. He has had to be on duty almost every
day of the year to fulfill the dual requirements. With the addition
of Mr. Grimmer as Assistant Director, the administrative duties have
become less arduous. It is expected that after the first part of the
next fiscal year a full-time veterinarian will be in residence, so that the
programs already started can be continued, and new and better prac-
tices put into effect.

Owing to the intense interest among zoo veterinarians and all zoo
people in the aspergillosis infection of birds, particularly penguins,
there has been instituted a cooperative study with Dr. William Sladen,
an English medical biologist, in residence at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity on a Rockefeller scholarship, and Dr. Carlton Herman of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Research Laboratory at Patuxent,
Md., on various aspects of aspergillosis. Studies are being under-
taken (1) to determine the best method of artificial infection; (2) to
find the mode of natural transmission; (3) to develop a sensitivity test
or some other method that will lead to an early diagnosis of this
disease; (4) to find the most efficacious method of treatment. In con-
nection with this last problem, several new drugs have been tried out
by various routes of administration. So far, the work has been prom-
ising and many new facts have been learned about the disease although
no definite conclusions have as yet been reached.

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates during the past
fiscal year and a table of comparison with the last 5 years:

Mortality, fiscal year 1957 Total mortality, past 5 fiscal years
J 20s Va VEE Fe fe tga Ds SI nA BN LOO LOGS 22 2S he eg eee a) eae 672
ES 060 Fo a SO EN ER eee Bg Sc uma dT SS ARIE Dk MO nO AO PO 648
Reptiles sire sea oor shee ae ee is BUY (09h FS fo 5) OER SU SY SO A A RTA 735
ADHD ans eae a 2 fe LODGE a a Sey Eg Tao Standage 618
Fishes, arachnids, insects, ete_____ pie A P85 LTE A 2h Cs SEO ARYL ey a 549
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Many of the losses during the year were natural attrition due to
senility. During the war years the normal flow of animals was re-
duced, and since then political situations in many parts of the world
and animal disease conditions (necessitating expensive quarantine)
have made replacement of stock difficult. It 1s extremely gratifying
to the veterinarian that this year shows a decrease in the number of
deaths in comparison with the increase in total animal population
and number of species.

COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Government and State agencies, private concerns and in-
dividuals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result the
Zoo receives much help and advice, and many valuable specimens,
and in turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, speci-
mens it does not need.

Special acknowledgment is due Howard Fyfe, United States Dis-
patch Agent in New York City. He is frequently called upon to
clear shipments of animals coming from abroad, often at great per-
sonal inconvenience. The animals have been forwarded to Washing-
ton without the loss of a single specimen.

United States Marshal Carlton G. Beall turned over to the Zoo
800 pounds of whole eggs and 18 cases of crabmeat which had been
condemned by the court as unfit for human consumption but was fit
for animal feed. The poultry division of the Department of Agri-
culture gave several thousand day-old chicks, which are good food
for many young animals. The National Institutes of Health coop-
erated in many ways, helping with postmortems, giving valuable ad-
vice, and donating surplus laboratory animals, some of which were
exhibited and some used as food. Laboratory animals that had served
their purpose were also donated by the Army Medical Center and the
Navy Medical Center.

The Fish and Wildlife Service donated a pair of whistling swans
and an eastern weasel, and placed on exhibition in the Zoo two mallard
ducks, named MacMallard and Susie, which they intend to use in
promotion work for wildlife conservation, much as “Smoky” the bear
has been used by the Forestry Service in fire prevention.

In cooperation with Dr. Ray Erickson of the Fish and Wildlife
Service, Department of the Interior, Mr. Davis has worked on the
development of a brail for Canada geese. The purpose of this
project is to develop a brail that will prevent flying but at a later
date may be removed and permit the birds to have full use of their
Secretary s Report, 1957 PLATE 5

# x -
Si oe
Sd a a

1. Willie and Lucy, white or square-lipped rhinoceros, were captured for the Zoo in Uganda.
They are the first of their species to be exhibited in the United States.

2. The snow leopard, or ounce, inhabits the high altitudes of central Asia. A pair of these
beautiful cats was purchased by the Zoo in the late summer of 1956. Photograph by

Ernest P. Walker.

Secretary's Report, 1957 PLATE 6

Masudi and Hanadi are the first okapis to be exhibited at the National Zoological Park.
Gifts of the Belgian Government, they were formally presented on November 28, 1956.
Photograph by Rohland, Washington Post and Times-Herald.

Secretary's Report, 1957 PLATE 7

Wild-caught hoopoes are too nervous to adapt themselves to captivity. “The ones now in
the Zoo were taken as nestlings and hand-raised by a collector in Hungary. Photo-

graph by Ernest P. Walker.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 151

wings. It is the desire of the Fish and Wildlife Service to use this
brail in establishing flocks of geese in areas that they formerly in-
habited, but which they have abandoned owing to hunting pressure
and environmental changes.

VISITORS

Attendance at the Zoo this year reached a total of 3,998,546, an all-
time high record. In general this figure is based on estimates rather
than actual counts.

Estimated number of visitors for fiscal year 1957

prerheyn (GL OGG) ee See ee 54se950)|/hebruary =. ooo-s22 eee 206, 850
PANTIES Ciao eh Eh ace YA 491), 300)|) Marchi. 524 so ees 315, 900
Sentembert 2. 22 kate oe ces AAO TOON ATT ior U0 eh ee ae Neon 403, 346
October2e2 22 bd ee STIZEOOO Maya) Se we Ee he UA 468, 200
November] fu ite pe ae 1891400) Jiune tw! See eee 389, 300
December= soe eee 100, 800 —_———-
January. (195%) 22225 127, 900 Pc Eee ee a ee 3, 998, 546

Number of groups from schools

Number | Number Number | Number
i of in

Locality of in Locality
groups groups groups groups

ANG V of sacl ie Oe eee 21 903) ||P Miississippilss2-so2 aoe seeee == 6 204
Californiator eet gers fen 3s 1 8: |iNebraskass-so1S 2). Seee ees 2 93
Gonnecticnt=sese=-=eeee-= eee 9 475 || New Hampshire-_-____-.-.---_- 1 45
Welaware:. ser ey ere ye. I 16 730) ||| INewiJersey222 22. tees ee 20 3, 130
District of Columbia-.-------- 148 8;521:)|| ING w. Works 2c 522 2ah ose 120 6, 154
loridaseeensy sere ik eee Sea 14 045 || North Carolina_____.--_------ 262 11, 718
Georgiai 22-2275 = os aces 55 6,759 |} North Dakota_.-------------- 28
Mlinoissee Se sok eR 7 TW Oat oS A a eee 52 2, 362
1 bate i ly ol; Aes ee eee ea 7 491.5) Rennsylvaniae) = 2222 259 14, 644
Ow aes ito eee eS 2 45 ||| SouthiC@aroling= 2-225" eo 75 2, 589
eanrisasi: > See 2 Ras eS ek 1 Tui) Dennessee: Soll Se ati ee 63 2, 622
Mentuck ye 29s suo ee os 15 667.5}, Wermonta ls sae se ec 35
Wouisiangs 1s. Te) ests 8 3 1260) Virginia’? 02k 28 seer ae ee 567 38, 266
VI e Ta Bak ae ee Soe Ss a ah 17 822) 1) West, Virginia 22222 se ae 53 4, 346
iMarviand )) test” SSO ees 549 38773" || «Wisconsin Uys ee Pls Teele 2 167
Massachusetts__..------------ 17 580 f _
Michioant? 22605. e233 45452 9 496 Motaliztestitet fee 2 2, 388 148, 064
IVEInTIesOtas: 2s eons tae tees 4 8 75

Other groups, totaling 278 persons, visited the Zoo: two groups from
Japan, one from Germany, one from Canada, and three convention
groups from the United States.

About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which
they came. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the
Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by States
of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, Mary-

451800—58——11
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

land, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from other
States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1957 is as follows:

Percent Percent
Maryland ea o5 4 co eee ae 28. 7| Massachusetts__......-.-____- 0.9
NVR Re RN Shes EP ee re 22 O.. Connecticut. = <2 = Usui iie eas 7
District of Columbtas: 202225 2 s_ 22) 9) RE OIS Sey ect a ee a
Pennsylvanians 4: 20. 44-425 4 0) South, Caroling 2) es) 7
TSAIPaS ais G0 ape SAE NA ea PAE ANG Gy WEA RAMI A NA DR Da . 6
NortinCancinse a. See oes 2:2: "Catornia. ot oe 2 eine 2 eee 16
ING WileOrse see nee ts Oe 1.'6| Georgia... Sy _ sae 8
LO) JY ASC op GAMBA ie Nai eh oe i. Bi Tennessee 22222 eles oe eee 6
West Virginia__*S8i sn bee 10'S Texasd ess Daimweseg oo oe 5
lOnIG ae Se yee ee ee es le aa
94. 0

The remaining 6 percent came from other States, Canada, Alaska,
Newfoundland, Okinawa, France, Hawaii, Cuba, Panama, Germany,
Mexico, British Columbia, Nova Scotia, England, Guam, South Amer-
ica, Philippine Islands, and Puerto Rico.

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and
foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about 22 States,
Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign countries; and dur-
ing the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent not less than
34 different States, Territories, and countries.

Parking spaces in the Zoo now accommodate 1,079 cars when the
bus parking place is utilized, and 969 cars when it is not used.

GROUNDS, BUILDINGS, AND ENCLOSURES

The National Zoological Park covers an area of 176 acres. There
are 3 miles of automobile roads, 3 miles of trails, 7 miles of pedestrian
walks, 2 miles of boundary fence, and 8 miles of paddock fence. All
told, there are 201 houses: 7 large exhibition buildings; the office; a
building that contains police headquarters, public restrooms, and
gardener’s storeroom; the cafeteria; 19 service buildings, and 172
shelters for animals and equipment. There are 762 animal cages and
16 large outdoor pools.

Also to be considered under maintenance are a central high-
pressure heating plant, which includes 1,800 linear feet of conduits,
or 3,600 feet of steam lines to the buildings, and six smaller heating
plants.

During the year there were extensive replacements, remodeling, and
repairs to paddocks, cages, and water lines, with major repairs to the
roofs of 12 large animal shelters. A large outdoor pen was re-
modeled for the African buffalo; the mouflon yard was enlarged by
combining two paddocks, and the cage that had formerly housed the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 153

gaur, in the elephant house, was remodeled to make it suitable for the
forest-dwelling okapis.

Nine new picnic tables were made in the mechanical shop and set
out in various parts of the grounds.

The work of the gardener’s force has been mainly that of removing
dead trees, which are a menace to both animals and visitors, and
replacing them with young trees. The animal department is fur-
nished with forage which is very beneficial for animals. In an ex-
change with the Park Department of Norfolk, Va., we supplied a few
animals for the Zoo there, and received a large shipment of azaleas
and camellias, which add greatly to the attractiveness of the Park.

Although the greater part of the Park is kept as natural woodland,
there are 22 acres of lawn, which require 128 man-hours to mow, using
the present equipment.

The accumulation of trash is still a major problem. After days of
heavy attendance, such as Easter Sunday and Monday, 5 to 10 days
are required to sweep walks, rake lawns, and make the Park present-

able again.
PLANS FOR THE FUTURE

Owing to lack of appropriated funds, no major improvements
were undertaken during the fiscal year. The old buildings continue
to deteriorate, and even the newest exhibition building is now 20
years old and needs painting and repairs. Ten enclosures, including
the pools for exhibition of aquatic mammals, have been abandoned
for nearly 10 years. It is hoped that in the near future funds will
be appropriated for the following badly needed new construction and
improvements:

Buildings.—A building to house antelopes and other hoofed ani-
mals that require a heated building. The present structure, built in
1898 for $3,500 is inadequate, dimly lighted, and poorly ventilated.
The rare and beautiful okapis had to be placed here when they ar-
rived last November. The building houses a miscellaneous collection
of cats, kangaroos, gaur, the rare agrimi goat, and others. The
Zoo has made it a policy not to purchase or accept antelopes, because
of the lack of housing for them.

A new administration building to replace the 152-year-old historic
landmark, which is still in use as an office building but is not well
adapted for the purpose. Termites destroyed the photographic file
this year, and most of the Zoo library has now been moved to the
second floor of the building to postpone the day when the invaders
will attack this valuable collection of scientific books. A thorough
examination of the office was made by the District of Columbia De-
partment of Buildings and Grounds, which recommended that unless
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

extensive repairs are undertaken immediately, the building be con-
demned as unsafe.

A hospital, which will also serve as a fireproof receiving station
for animals shipped in, for quarantining them when necessary and
with facilities for caring for those in ill health. This building should
also contain an office and laboratory for the veterinarian. ‘There is
no structure within the National Zoological Park suitable for conver-
sion into an animal hospital. The building now in use is an ancient
stone building, formerly used as a hay barn and storage shed, which
was hastily cleaned out and sketchily furnished at the time the vet-
erinarian was appointed in 1955.

E'nclosures.—Enclosures and pools for beavers, otters, seals, and
nutrias, which cannot be adequately cared for or exhibited under
existing conditions.

New paddocks for the exhibition of such animals as deer, sheep,
goats, and other hoofed animals, to provide for the exhibition of a
greater assortment of these attractive and valuable animals.

Installations—Extensive remodeling of some of the buildings is
needed to bring them up to date with the latest techniques of zoologi-
cal exhibits, making them more pleasing esthetically for the visitors
and ecologically for the animals.

Respectfully submitted.

TueroporE H. Resp, Acting Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Canal Zone Biological Area

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report on
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 30,

1957.
SCIENTISTS, STUDENTS, AND OBSERVERS

Anyone with serious interest in tropical wildlife may use the field,
laboratory, and living facilities on Barro Colorado Island. These
people may stay on the island overnight, or for periods of weeks or
months. Some who visit the island carry out technical scientific re-
search, while others come to familiarize themselves with the wildlife
and its environment. Most of them are residents of the United
States, but some are from the Canal Zone or Europe. Following is a
list of the 61 scientists, students, and observers who, during the past
year, used the island living facilities and stayed at least one night.

Name Principal interest

Ansley, Dr. and Mrs. H., Insect cytology.
Johns Hopkins University.

Banting, Mr. and Mrs. W. L., Wildlife observation.
Amsterdam, Holland.

Barbash, Miss B., Wildlife studies.
Swarthmore College.

Bartel, Mr. and Mrs. J. N., Bird observation.
Pomona, Calif.

Bates, Mr. and Mrs. R. H., Wildlife observation.
Exeter, N. H.

Blakely, R. L., Wildlife observation.
Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago.

Burckle, L. H., Forest ecology.
Army Map Service.

Burkhart, Mrs. H. H., Nature writing.
Sarasota, Fla.

Burroughs, R. P., Wildlife observation.
Board of Directors, Panama Canal.

Carson, Dr. and Mrs. H. L., Genetics of Drosophila.
Washington University, St. Louis.

Carter, Mr. and Mrs. J. P., Wildlife observation.
Berkeley, Calif.

Clark, Dr. W., Photographic tests.
Eastman Kodak Co.

Coursen, Mr. and Mrs. B., Bird observation.
General Biological Supply House.

Cronin, Mr. and Mrs. W. J., Wildlife observation.
Panama, R. P.

Deusing, Murl and Don, Wildlife photography.

Milwaukee Public Museum.
155
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Name

Hisenmann, Eugene,

New York City.
Enders, Dr. R. K.,

Swarthmore College.
Fast, A. H.,

Arlington, Va.
Forbes, Dr. and Mrs. A.,

Milton, Mass.
Fouquette, M. J.,

University of Texas.
Galler, Dr. S. R.,

Office of Naval Research.
Graf, J. E.,

Smithsonian Institution.
Greenewalt, C. H.,

Wilmington, Del.
Grégoire, Dr. and Mrs. C.,

Brussels, Belgium.
Groner, Miss D.,

Los Angeles, Calif.
Hartman, Ziska,

Chiriqui, Panama.
Heed, Dr. W. B.,

The Genetics Foundation.
Howes, P. G.,

Bruce Museum, Connecticut.
Hughes-Schrader, Dr. S.,

Columbia University.
Johnson, Dr. P. T.,

U. S. Department of Agriculture.
Johnston, H. R.,

U.S. Forest Service.
Kellogg, Dr. Remington,

Smithsonian Institution.
Kosan, W. M.,

Margarita, Canal Zone.
Lee, Mr. and Mrs. G. E.,

Balboa, Canal Zone.
Marsh, Miss R. E.,

Margarita, Canal Zone.
McHale, J. P.,
Lincoln Park Zoo, Chicago.
McRoberts, Mr. and Mrs. D.,
Colorado Springs, Colo.
Musteriec, J. P.,

Army Map Service.
Napier, F. C.,

Frick Park Museum, Pittsburgh.
Preston, Dr. and Mrs. F. W.,

Butler, Pa.
Reed, Mr. and Mrs. C. S.,

Board of Directors, Panama Canal.
Rettenmeyer, C. W.,

University of Kansas.

Principal interest
Bird observation.

Survey of mammal population.
Bird observation.

Wildlife observation.
Amphibians.

Investigation of laboratory facilities.
Inspection of facilities.
High-speed photography of birds.
Microscopy of insect blood.
Bird observation.

Wildlife observation.

Genetics of Drosophila.
Wildlife photography.

Insect cytology.

Arthropods.

Inspection of termite tests.
Inspection of facilities.
Wildlife photography.
Wildlife observation.

Wildlife photography.

Wildlife observation.
Mammals.

Forest ecology.

Wildlife observation.

Wildlife observation.

Wildlife observation.

Army ants.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Name
Reynolds, Dr. Orr E.,
Office of Naval Research.
Schull, Lieut. Gov. and Mrs. H. W.,
Balboa, Canal Zone.
Smith, V. K.,
U.S. Forest Service.
Sonneborn, D.,
Swarthmore College.
Soper, Dr. C.,
Eastman Kodak Tropical Research
Laboratory.
Stappenbeck, Dr. and Mrs. C.,
Lake Junaluska, N.C.
Stultz, Mrs. O. M.,
Montebello, Calif.
Sturn, Dr. H.,
Mainz, Germany.
Thurman, E. B.,
National Institutes of Health.
Tryon, Drs. R. M. and A.,
Missouri Botanical Garden.
Usinger, Dr. and Mrs. R. L.,
University of California.
Vogel, Dr. S.,
Mainz, Germany.
Walch, Miss C.,
Swarthmore College.
Ward, Mr. and Mrs. R.,
Kennett Square, Pa.
Wasserman, M.,
The Genetics Foundation.
Weatherwax, Dr. and Mrs. P.,
Indiana University.
Weber, Dr. N. A.,
Swarthmore College.
Wetmore, Dr. and Mrs. A.,
Smithsonian Institution.
Wilmar, Mr. and Mrs. H.,
Walt Disney Productions.

Principal interest
Investigation of laboratory facilities.

Wildlife observation.
Inspection of termite tests.
Wildlife observation.

Deterioration studies.

Wildlife observation.
Bird observation.
Plant ecology.
Arthropods.

Ferns.

Insects.

Plant ecology.
Wildlife observation.
Bird photography.
Genetics of Drosophila.
Grasses.
Fungus-growing ants.
Bird observation.

Wildlife photography.

157

VISITORS

Visitors for the day were permitted on the island twice a week.
Most of these were guided on a walk through the forest by the Resi-
dent Naturalist. In all, about 750 visitors, including organized
groups of Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and military personnel, took advan-
tage of the opportunity to spend a day on the island. This increase
of 310 over last year was primarily due to special charges made on
an experimental basis to organized groups, particularly Boy and Girl
Scouts. The visitors are met in the morning by the launch at Frijoles.
Then they are taken to the Island, guided on a 3-hour walk in the
forest, provided with lunch, and returned to Frijoles in time for the
evening train. In order to aid in accounting for visitors, a system
of issuing tickets was introduced.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957
RAINFALL

During the dry season (January through April) of the calendar
year 1956, rains of 0.01 inch or more fell during 55 days (279 hours)
and amounted to 12.53 inches, as compared to 10.78 inches during 1955.
During the wet season of 1956 (May through December), rains of
0.01 inch or more fell on 215 days (989 hours) and amounted to 101.52
inches, as compared to 103.62 inches during 1955. Total rainfall for
the year was 114.05 inches. During 32 years of record the wettest
year was 1935, with 143.42 inches, and the driest year was 1930, with
only 76.57 inches. February was the driest month of 1956 (2.11
inches) and July the wettest (19.5 inches). The maximum records
for short periods were: 5 minutes 1.30 inches; 10 minutes 1.65 inches;
1 hour 4.11 inches; 2 hours 4.81 inches; 24 hours 10.48 inches.

TaB LE 1.—Annual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island, C. Z.

Total Station Total Station

Year inches average Year inches average

QD 5 Sis ee es 104.37) eee nS 7: TSP a ree ahh 91.82 108. 41
JOG ae sake See TIS 920 PS: 56 1942225. 2 een 111.10 108. 55
J QQ ee eet te mie VWI6.36 WANG sy1943sh. eee ee eee 120.29 109. 20
ODSR aes ee et LOU 2 WTS DN OLS ee ae ee ee 111.96 109.30
NOQO Bus fiers See Sis4 LOG. 56 1942.52 eves eee 120.42 109. 84
1OSO0e. =: Se eseseces = TORST HOMO TO O4 Gites 2 aes es ee 87.38 108. 81
OS tee ee LIZS307 OL GOING A (2 eae ee 77.92 107. 49
LOS D Reet aes oe USA 2) NOS GHG B = 2 eee ee 83.16 106. 43
LOSS sO ee HO on LOna 2140 ee see ree 114.86 106. 76
[POS42s wee eee Fes es OOF 42 LOT OA O50 ses Seo ae 114 5 Oe
[OSS ak te ee ee TAS MAO UOANIONS OW LODE ee 8S ee 11272: 7-107228
GS Goe ce ee es see 938588) 108598) 190522202222 =e ee ee 97.68 106. 94
1937 Sees ee ees TASS SLO Oboe oon ee ae 104.97 106. 87
TOS SUM. Behe a T7809" OSG Zi Loa eee 105. 68 106. 82
NOSOU Se meet Mice Lea DOM ANG e aa os eee 114.42 107.09
QA Qa Ss pene Mette 86.51, WOSt45i 1956.24. eee 114.05 107. 30

TaBLE 2.—Comparison of 1955 and 1956 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island (inches)

a

Total Accumu-

Month _ i SStation | Years of | 1956 excess | lated excess
average record jor deficiency|or deficiency

1965 1956

ALAN EIN cy peg = ee a Se eee 9. 05 5. 57 2.19 31 +3. 38 +3. 38
1 yA ee ee eee eae e BOSS See EOSee 0. 46 2.11 1, 25 31 +. 86 +4, 24
Mirchi nite 5 spnny toe 2 Bupa eee bees A 0. 90 2. 24 1.19 31 +1.05 -++5. 29
IAD Yaseen ae oe | ee Se cee ann 0. 37 2. 61 3. 06 32 —0. 45 +4. 84
Vy eee eee eee eee ee 10.58 |} 16.55 11.01 32 +45. 54 +10. 38
Junewmess sews. saree Beeb beet. seek 13. 54 6. 85 11.11 32 —4, 26 +6.12
fb) hae Se Ree eee eee eee eens 11. 49 19. 55 11.81 32 +7. 74 +13. 86
DAIS TSG Sete eee eee eee eee mene 11. 36 9. 48 12.18 32 —2.70 +11. 16
Sentembers ee 2 2225-2 --e ene es ace 9.27 | 11.27 9. 97 32 +1. 30 +12. 46
Octo heres ee eee 16.33 | 18.64 13. 90 32 +4. 74 -++17. 20
INO VGlnl Dei ean eee 18. 35 12. 37 18. 81 32 —6. 44 +10. 76
Deep Daleee fe sie ane eee eee 12. 72 6. 81 10. 82 32 —4.01 +6. 75
Wonk 2.8 Ae oss Sanco eee 114.42 | 114.05 107;30)\|'252 Cee ee +6. 75
Dry Seas0 nes see] eae ean aceenenae a oe 10.78 | 12.53 (SC Oe Pees) ee ea +4. 84
Wrat season s/0aieeL ae ee) se kee 103. 64 | 101. 52 QONGHE S22. Jae Sy eee Se +1. 91
SECRETARY’S REPORT 159

Evaporation in excess of precipitation is of greater ecological im-
portance than rainfall alone. To measure this quantity a 4-foot-
diameter evaporation pan was installed near the laboratory. Water
loss in excess of rainfall for the dry season of 1957 was as follows
(inches) :

January 3.511 March 6.629
February 5.344 April 8.146

The dry season was unusually long and rainfall did not exceed
evaporation until the last few days of May. For that month the net
gain was 0.8 inch.

BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND IMPROVEMENTS

The major building project of the year was the construction of a
12-by-24-foot above-ground wooden house for use of the workmen
living on the island. This house has shower, toilet, and full concrete
slab floor at the ground level. The generator house and floor were
enlarged, and a third diesel generator was installed in this building.
Near Chapman House a new concrete septic tank was built. In order
to decrease fire hazard, an isolated gasoline-kerosene storage shed was
constructed.

A large part of the work of building a new unloading dock was com-
pleted. The project requires bridging of the mouth of Allee Creek,
cutting and filling a slope to make a bed for car track and walkway,
and extending the unloading dock in front of the generator house.
Completion of this work will permit abandonment of the old wooden
dock which has been extended again and again because of silting.

Minor construction and maintenance work included building steel
and wooden shelves and tables for the darkroom and stockroom in the
new laboratory; repairing and painting metal cabinets and shelves
which were badly rusted; painting two launches, the aluminum run-
about, and several of the old wooden buildings; and replacing all
broken screens. All this construction and repair work was done by
Mr. Vitola and the regular staff of island laborers.

Among the equipment received on the island was a 14.5-K WA Cater-
pillar generator. The electric plant now includes three generators,
each sufficient for all present electrical needs. Additional electrical
apparatus has increased the danger of fire which would cause ir-
reparable loss of the valuable materials on the island. As an added
safeguard, 5 CO, and 3 water-pump extinguishers were added to the
fire-fighting equipment.

Much of the equipment received was for use in the laboratory and
in scientific work. This included two window air-conditioners, attic
fans, oscillating fans, study lamps, room dehumidifiers, a laboratory
refrigerator and freezer, small drying oven, compound and dissecting
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

microscopes, microscope lamp, binoculars, a spotting telescope, port-
able typewriter, 4-by-5 Crown Graphic camera, tripod, telephoto lens,
exposure meter, photographic enlarger, projection screen, thermo-
graph, hygrograph, small and large live-mammal traps, insect nets,
and a metal label embosser. Some of this equipment was donated by
the General Biological Supply House. Many needed reference books
and a subscription to Ecology were purchased. To facilitate shoreline
exploration, two 12-foot cayucos were acquired.

James Zetek, soon after his retirement, gave to the island most of his
extensive biological library. This created the major task of transfer-
ring hundreds of books and reprints from the Balboa Office to Barro
Colorado Island. With the former island library these publications
are now shelved in dehumidified rooms of the new laboratory. One
large room of the laboratory is used as a stockroom for supplies which
scientists may borrow. Almost the entire present stock of vials, flasks,
graduates, and other laboratory glassware, as well as most of the
chemicals, was donated by Mr. Zetek. The herbarium, bird skins,
and alcoholic collections were also moved to the new laboratory. Now
all indoor scientific work may be carried on in this one building, well
separated from eating, sleeping, recreational, and other living areas.

The administrative office was moved from Mr. Zetek’s house in Bal-
boa to a building in nearby Diablo Heights.

PLANS AND URGENT REQUIREMENTS

Inasmuch as the large wooden water-storage tank near the kitchen
may not last even a few more yeazs, the possibility of supplementing
stored rainwater with spring water during the dry season has been in-
vestigated. A spring was located about 1,000 feet from the concrete
water tank at the new laboratory, and 40 feet above the level of this
tank. As this spring continued to run throughout the abnormal dry
season of early 1957, it should be enclosed and the water piped to

the concrete storage tank. It is doubtful, however, that this addi-
tional water supply will eliminate the need to replace the wooden
water tank. But, with the spring water, a moderate-sized replace-
ment tank may suffice.

The short bridge from the Frijoles dock to the shore must be re-
built. Materials have been obtained. Most of the ties forming the
walkway from this dock to the railroad station need replacement. The
trackway from dock to station should be straightened and lengthened,
to facilitate the handling of heavy loads. An unloading ramp to aid
in carrying gravel, machinery, and other heavy materials from a
freight car to the launch is also needed at Frijoles.

Among other projects planned for the coming year on Barro Col-
orado Island are the following: completion of bridge, trackway, and
SECRETARY'S REPORT 161

unloading area of new dock; overhaul of gasoline winch engine;
sheathing the ceiling of the lower floor of the new laboratory, strength-
ening hallway floor of new laboratory; insulating two rooms of lab-
oratory for efficient air conditioning; construction of clothes-chang-
ing rooms at dock level; partitioning the old Zetek office into a sepa-
rate living apartment and storeroom; construction of drying rooms in
the old and new laboratories; addition of dry closets to the Z-M-A
and Barbour houses; installation of shower and toilet in Barbour
house; installation of shower in Chapman house; rebuilding of dock
at Drayton trail-end house; and replacement of termite-eaten timbers
of Chapman House.

From the foregoing plans it is apparent that our present labor
force of one foreman and two laborers is totally inadequate, consider-
ing that these men must also operate the launches, haul supplies, keep
the trails clear, guard against poachers, dispose of refuse, and perform
other maintenance chores. Ways must be found to augment the labor
force with contractual labor, or to increase funds for adding other
laborers to our staff. Shortage of labor, especially of skilled type, is
the greatest hindrance to proper maintenance and to completion of
the construction program.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The United States Forest Service made final inspection of all ter-
mite-resistance tests on the island, with the exception of Drayton trail-
end house. Completion of these tests leaves the way clear for the re-
pair or reconstruction of some of the former test houses, if there is
demand for their use.

To aid 1-day visitors and naturalists who visit the island, informa-
tion leaflets were prepared and multilithed for distribution.

More than 1,000 identified plant specimens were mounted on her-
barium sheets by women of the Canal Zone College Club, under di-
rection of Mrs. C. B. Koford. These women also bound reprints,
sorted publications, and performed other helpful tasks, voluntarily.

To inaugurate population studies on the island many vertebrates
were captured, banded or otherwise marked, and released. These ani-
mals included more than 100 birds of 31 species, 58 mammals of 11
species, and several reptiles and amphibians. Birds and bats were
banded with regulation Fish and Wildlife Service bands.

As part of long-range ecologic studies of forest vegetation, the
Naturalist, aided by Joseph Musteric of the Army Map Service,
staked out two permanent transects 200 feet in length, plotted the
forest profiles, and measured the diameter of the trees. Many more
transects should be established, and the vegetation remeasured at in-
tervals of a few years. Many plants, animals, and scenes were photo-
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

graphed in color for a permanent file of 2-x-2-inch slides. These will
be used on the island as orientation and identification aids and as a
record of habitat conditions.

The major ornithological event of the year was the discovery in
January of a young king vulture (Sarcoramphus papa), still largely
covered with down, on the forest floor. Heretofore little was known
of the nesting and young of this huge spectacular bird. Also of note
was the return of the oropendolas (Zarhynchus wagleri) to a con-
Spicuous nesting site in the laboratory area. ‘Twenty nests were con-
structed above the Kodak Test Table Building.

Principally through use of mist nests, the number of species of
bats known to occur on Barro Colorado Island was increased from
17 to 28. These bats included two species apparently not previously
recorded for Panama (Centurio senew and Micronycteris hirsuta).
Including these, and deleting a few old, unconfirmed, or unnatural
reported occurrences, the number of species of mammals known to
occur on Barro Colorado Island is 70.

FINANCES

Trust funds for maintenance of the island and its living facilities
are obtained by collections from visitors and scientists, by table sub-
scriptions from institutions, and by other donations. The table sub-
scriptions were greatly appreciated as they helped to defray the cost
of maintaining the island facilities. Organizations that continued
their subscriptions, and the amounts donated, are as follows:

Hastman Kodak G02 22 SOM she ans ise. OIE Se $1, 000. 00
New; York Zoological Societys 2) 226 2 ey EE EY 300. 00
Smithsonians, Institution .22-- hee roe BE alee gd pe Ed ep 300. 00

Donations are also gratefully acknowledged from Blair Coursen,
Eugene Eisenmann, C. M. Goethe, Frank Hartman, and F. W.

Preston.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Canal Zone Biological Area can operate only with the excellent
cooperation of the Canal Zone Government and the Panama Canal
Company. Thanks are due especially to Executive Secretary Paul
Runnestrand and his staff, the Customs and Immigration officials,
personnel of the Panama Railroad, and the Police Division. The
technical advice and assistance provided by P. Alton White, Chief of
the Dredging Division, and members of his staff was of invaluable
help to the Island.

Cart B. Kororn, Resident Naturalist.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the International Exchange
Service

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year
ended June 380, 1957:

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency
for the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and
literary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies
and individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries,
serves as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and
comprehensive objective, “the diffusion of knowledge.” It was later
designated by the United States Government as the agency for the
transmission of official documents to selected depositories throughout
the world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to
conventions, treaties, and other international agreements.

The number of packages of publications received for transmission
during the year increased by 43,184 to the yearly total of 1,205,039,
and the weight of the packages increased by 24,841 to the yearly total
of 827,897 pounds. The average weight of the individual package de-
creased to 10.99 ounces as compared to the 11.14-ounce average for
the fiscal year of 1956.

The publications received from foreign sources for addressees in
the United States and from domestic sources for shipment abroad
are classified as shown in the following table:

Classification Packages Weight

Number | Number | Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad_._-------- 6864461) |Saeeneoe PAI Ya lil [eee eh
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents. -_}---------- £23.03. eae SES RRS 14, 644
United States departmental documents sent abroad__---_------ 279, S20 Were e 28300240 | ooo: eae
Publications received in return for departmental documents-.--- =--------- (155 72 (AN (pea 19, 035
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad---} % 164,541 |-------___ WeTpooon sce, Set
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States_.__-_------------|---------- DON SOieg |bencsesase 101, 981
MRO tale meas cies RR a a cee ae aN 1,130,507 | 74,532 | 692,237 | 135, 660
Grand Gta) pe Fr Re LO a 1, 205, 039 827, 897

163
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bu-
reaus of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such
means is impractical, to the foreign addressees by direct mail. Dis-
tribution in the United States of the publications received through the
foreign exchange bureaus is accomplished primarily by mail, but by
other means when more economical. The number of boxes shipped to
the foreign exchange bureaus was 3,132, or 58 more than for the pre-
vious year. Of these boxes 911 were for depositories of full sets of
United States Government documents, these publications being fur-
nished in exchange for the official publications of foreign governments
which are received for deposit in the Library of Congress. The
number of packages forwarded by mail and by means other than
freight was 208,503.

There was allocated to the International Exchange Service for
transportation $40,900. With this amount it was possible to effect
the shipment of 859,071 pounds, which was 21,888 pounds more than
was shipped in the previous year. However, approximately 10,540
pounds of the full sets of United States Government documents accu-
mulated during the year because the Library of Congress had requested
suspension of shipment to certain foreign depositories.

During the year ocean freight rates per cubic foot increased from
the June 30, 1956, average of $1.28 to $1.464. However, about a fourth
of the cost of this increase will be offset by a reduction on June 18,
1957, of approximately 17 percent in the truck rates to the Baltimore
piers.

The total outgoing correspondence comprised 2,406 letters, exclusive
of information copies.

With the exception of those to Taiwan, no shipments are being
made to China, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Communist-controlled
area of Viet-Nam, or Communist-controlled area of Laos.

Shipping arrangements were completed with the newly established
Rumanian International Exchange Service and the first postwar
shipment was made to Rumania on November 29.

With certain exceptions the regulations of the Bureau of Foreign
Commerce, Department of Commerce, provide that each package of
publications exported bear a general license symbol and the legend,
“Export License Not Required.” 'The International Exchange Serv-
ice accepts for transmission to foreign destinations only those packages
of publications that fall within the exception and those packages of
publications to which the general license symbol and legend have been
applied by the consignor.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 165

official publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the
Library of Congress is now 105 (62 full and 48 partial sets), listed
below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the

footnotes.
DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Divisi6n Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SoutH WAtgEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Austria: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.
BeteruM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.

Braziu: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

BuieariA: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.’

BugMa: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.

CanapDA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

Maniropa: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

ONTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Qursec: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CEYLON: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.
Cute: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

Cuina: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.

National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan.

CoLtomMBtiA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Biblioteca Nacional, San José.

Cugna: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.

OZECHOSLOVAKEIA : National and University Library, Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Copenhagen.

Eayret: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.

Free University of Berlin, Berlin.

Parliamentary Library, Bonn.

GREAT BRITAIN:

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

Lonvon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository

of the London County Council.)

Huneary: Library of Parliament, Budapest.’

Inp1A: National Library, Calcutta.

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.

InDoneESsIA: Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta.

IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

IsrAEL: State Archives and Library, Hakirya, Jerusalem.”

Iraty: Ministerio della Pubblica Istruzione, Rome.

JAPAN: National Diet Library, Tokyo.*

1 Shipment suspended.
2 Changed from Government Archives and Library, Hakirya, Tel Aviv.
= Receives two sets.
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departamento de Informaci6n para
el Extranjero, México, D. F.

NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo.

Peru: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLAND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.*

PortuGaL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

Spain: Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.

Swepen : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

TURKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education,
Istanbul.

Union or SoutH AFrrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

UNION oF Sovrer SocraLtist REpuBLIcs: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow.

UnitTEp Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.

Urvuevay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Yueos.avi4: Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.®

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.

ANGLO-HayPTIAN SupAN: Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum.

BouiviA: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas Gerais: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Belo Horizonte.
BriTISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA:

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

British COLUMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.

Ecvuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

EL SALVADOR:

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.

GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
Hait1: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:

Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.

INDIA:
Bompay: Secretary to the Government, Bombay.
Bruar: Revenue Department, Patna.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 167

Inpra—Continued

Uttar PRADESH:

University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Secretariat Library, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow.
West Benga: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Calcutta.

Iran: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
TrAQ: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA:

Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew.
Lespanon: American University of Beirut, Beirut.
LIBERIA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Mataya: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.
Matta: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NICARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, Managua.
PAKISTAN: Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.
PANAMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccidn Biblioteca, Asuncidn.
PHILIPPINES: House of Representatives, Manila.*
ScotLtanp: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.
Sram: National Library, Bangkok.
SrinGAPoRE: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore.
VATICAN City: Biblioteca Aspostolica Vaticana, Vatican City.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 77 copies of the Federal Register
and 89 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over
the preceding year of 1 copy of the Federal Register and 1 copy of the
Congressional Record. The countries to which these journals are be-
ing forwarded are given in the following list:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA:

Biblioteca del Poder Judicial, Mendoza.°

Boletin Oficial de la Republica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruc-

cién Publica, Buenos Aires.

Camara de Diputados Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA :

Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.

New South WaAtgES: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.

™ QUEENSLAND : Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.®

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
Brazit: Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.°
British HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

4 Added during the year.
5 Federal Register only.
® Congressional Record only.

451800—58——_12
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CryLton: Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.°
CHINA:
Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.°
Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan.
CUBA:
Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.°
CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Ceskoslovenska Akademie Ved, Prague.‘*
Eeypr: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.°
IBANCE:
Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.
Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.
Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.®
Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.®
Service de la Documentation Etrangére, Assemblée Nationale, Paris.®
GERMANY:
Amerika-Institut der Universitit Miinchen, Miinchen.°
Archiv, Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.
Bibliothek der Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitit Kiel, Kiel-
Wik.
Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.’
Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.**
Deutschen Institiut fur Rechtswissenschaft, Potsdam-Babelsberg II.*®
Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.°
Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.®
Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschafts-Archiv, Hamburg.
Guana: Chief Secretary’s Office, Accra.®
GREAT BRITAIN:
Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.
House of Commons Library, London.’
Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.®
GREECE: Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés Hellénique, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca dela Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Hartt1: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HonpvuRas; Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
HuNGARY: National Library, Budapest.
INDIA:
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.* Ferg
Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.®
Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.°
Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.®
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Legislative Assembly Library, Trivandrum.°
Madras State Legislature, Madras.®
Parliament Library, New Delhi.
Servants of India Society, Poona.®

7 Three copies.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 169

IgeLtanpD: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
IskaEL: Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem.
ITay:
Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.
European Office, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome.*
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.
JAPAN:
Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
Ministry of Finance, Tokyo.
JORDAN: Parliament of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman.°
Korea: Secretary General, National Assembly, Pusan.
LuxEMBOouRG: Assemblée Commune de la C. E. C. A., Luxembourg.
MExIco:
Direccién General Information, Secretaria de Gobernacién, México, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, México, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES : Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Basa CALIrognia : Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CxHr1apas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Guitiérrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
COAHUILA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CortimMa: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
GuaNnaJgvuaTo: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato."
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
México: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacAn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
MoreEtos: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
Nayakrit: Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo Le6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.®
PUEBLA: Secretaria General de Gabierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
SINALOA : Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonora: Gobernador del Hstado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
VERACRUZ: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacion y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTAn : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NETHERLANDS : Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.’
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PanaMA: Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.°
PotanpD: Kancelaria Rady, Panstwa, Biblioteka Sejmova, Warsaw.‘
PorTUGUESE T1mMoR: Reparticaio Central de Administracao Civil, Dili.®
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

SwiTzERLAND: Bibliothéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.°
International Labor Office, Geneva." ®
Library, United Nations, Geneva.
UNION oF SoutH AFRICA:
Carer or Goop Horr: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Union or Soviet SooraLtist Repusiics: Fundamental’niia Biblioteka Obschest-
vennykh Nauk, Moscow.
Uruevuay: Diario Ofical, Florida 1178, Montevideo.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below are
forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries.
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded
directly by mail.

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

Be.caium: Services des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de Bel-
gique, Bruxelles.

Cuina: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, University Library,
Prague.

DENMARK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliotheque Royale,
Copenhagen.

Eeypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulag, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Helsinki.

FRrANcE: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY (Hastern): Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.

GERMANY (Western): Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft, Bad
Godesberg.

Huneary: National Library, Széchényi, Budapest.

Inp14 : Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

INDONESIA : Minister of Education, Djakarta.

ISRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione,
Rome.

JAPAN: Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New SourH WaAtsEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
l’Université Royale, Oslo.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuGaL: Secck#o de Trocas Internacionais. Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

8 Two copies.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7k

RumANIA: International Exchange Service, Biblioteca Centrala de Stat, Bu-
charest.

South AUSTRALIA: South Australian Government Hxchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicié6n de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Madrid.

SweEpDEN : Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholn.

SwiTzERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Palais Fédéral, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

TURKEY : National Library, Ankara.’

Union or SoutH Arrica: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape
Town.

Union or Soviet Socratist Repusiics: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: State Library of Western Australia, Perth.”

Yuaosuavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
D. G. WuuraMs, Chief.
Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

® Changed from Ministry of Education, Istanbul.
10 Changed from Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Report on the National Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees,
the 20th annual report of the National Gallery of Art for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1957. This report is made pursuant to the pro-
visions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, 75th Congress,
first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Sec-
retary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. On May 1, 1957, Chester
Dale was reelected a general trustee of the National Gallery of Art
to serve in that capacity for the term expiring July 1, 1967. Mr.
Dale was also reelected by the Board of Trustees on May 2, 1957, to
serve as President of the Gallery, and Ferdinand Lammot Belin was
reelected Vice President. The four other general trustees continu-
ing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957, were Ferdi-
nand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Paul Mellon, and Rush H.
Kress.

On September 13, 1956, the Trustees of the Gallery elected Perry
B. Cott as Chief Curator and Mrs. Fern R. Shapley as Assistant
Chief Curator. At this same meeting the Trustees approved the
appointments of William P. Campbell as Curator of Paintings and
John E. Pancoast as Registrar.

The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1957, are as
follows:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treas- Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.
urer. Perry B. Cott, Chief Curator.
John Walker, Director. Macgill James, Assistant Director.

Ernest R. Feidler, Administrator.

On July 1, 1957, Macgill James retired as Assistant Director of the
Gallery.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting on May 2, 1957, are as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
Earl Warren, Chairman. tion, Dr. Leonard Carmichael.

Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Paul Mellon.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

172
SECRETARY'S REPORT 173

FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
George M. Humphrey, Chairman. tion, Dr. Leonard Carmichael.
Chester Dale, Vice Chairman. Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Paul Mellon.
ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Chairman. Paul Mellon.
Duncan Phillips. John Walker.
Chester Dale.

PERSONNEL

On June 30, 1957, full-time Government employees on the staff of
the National Gallery of Art numbered 313 as compared with 312 as
of June 30, 1956. The United States Civil Service regulations gov-
ern the appointment of employees paid from appropriated public

funds.
APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1957, the Congress of the United
States in the regular annual appropriation for the National Gallery
of Art provided $1,505,000 to be used for salaries and expenses in
the operation and upkeep of the Gallery, the protection and care of
works of art acquired by the Board of Trustees, and all administra-
tive expenses incident thereto, as authorized by Joint Resolution of
Congress approved March 24, 1937 (20 U.S. C. 71-75; 50 Stat. 51).
Congress also included in a supplemental appropriation act $30,000
to cover (a) the additional cost of steam for heating and air-condi-
tioning the Gallery, which cost exceeded the original estimate of
General Services Administration by $18,000; (b) the increased cost
of electric current ($3,800), and (c) the increase of salaries of em-
ployees whose rates of pay were adjusted as of December 2, 1956, by
Wage Board determination under authority of Public Law 763, 83d
Congress ($8,200). The total appropriation for the fiscal year was
$1,535,000. The following expenditures and encumbrances were
incurred :

Personal services (including $413,088.28 for guard protection)____ $1, 298, 635. 00

Othertthany personaleservices se ee 241, 336. 07

Wnobligated@ balances: sre eee ee 8 Ee ee ee 28. 93

LUO fs i st ARGS hh SA Sei ON RMI Nae A OREN Be 1, 535, 000. 00
ATTENDANCE

There were 942,196 visitors to the Gallery during the fiscal year
1957 as compared to an attendance of 1,013,246 for the fiscal year 1956.
The average daily number of visitors was 2,596.
174. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957
ACCESSIONS

There were 650 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts,
loans, or deposits during the fiscal year.

GIFTS

During the year, the following gifts or bequests were accepted by
the Board of Trustees:

PAINTINGS
Donor Artist Title
William Robertson Coe! 322... Renoirs 2o_* sou Girl with a Basket of Fish.
William Robertson Coe_-.. Renoir__---------- Girl with a Basket of
Oranges.
Lewis Einstein. ./_-.----- Fravonard.;2af Ht. Adoration d’un trone.
Lewis Hinstein_...------- School of Antwerp_- Goosen van Bonhuysen.
hewissmimsteinae === ee Greco-Egyptian___. Portrait of a Woman.
Howard Sturges..._.----- Gainsborough_---_-- Shepherd Boys and Dog
Sheltering from Storm.
Howard Sturges. .-2-— 22 Guardiz 222. ss Castel Sant’ Angelo.
Howard Sturges_-2_------ toy Be, cheapest ge age ge The Earl of Beverley.
Howard Sturges_-_------- Sheetal om. cp os The Countess of Beverley.
Howard Sturges._-------- Hopprers3-43 42 2e- Portrait of a Man.
Miss Edith Reynolds-_-_-_--- Hennig e-6 2 2 ee: 2 ee Edith Reynolds.
Horace Havemeyer- ------ Mia neteiee meee Gare Saint-Lazare.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Buddington__------ Father and Son.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Chambers--------- The Connecticut River Val-
bisch. ley.
Col. and :Mrs::.E.-W. Gars, Bield_ 2022 2-2 = 9 Ark of the Covenant.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Hashagen__-_------ Ship Arkansas Leaving
bisch. Havana.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- MacKay-_--------- Catherine Brower.
bisch.
Col} and Mrs. W. Gare “Ropese Seen sak 2. Mount Vernon.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown_--------- Boy and Girl.
bisch.
Colvand, "Mrs, (ES W. Gar- Unknown.) Brothers.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown_--------- Miss Daggett.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown_--------- Landscape with Group of
bisch. Buildings.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown_.-------- Woman Taking Footbath.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown-_--------- Washington, the Mason.
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Unknown-_-_-------- “We Go for the Union.”
bisch.
Col. and Mrs. E. W. Gar- Vanderlyn, attr. to-. Miss Van Alen.

bisch.
SECRETARY'S REPORT LS

PAINTINGS—Continued

Donor Artist Title
Alexander D. Thayer- ---- Vardi ges. dso Charles Carroll of Carrollton.
William Nelson Cromwell_. Goya___---------- Victor Guye.
George Matthew Adams... lLegros__---------- Memory Copy of Holbein’s

Erasmus.
Katharine Husson Horstick. Hakins_--_--------- Louis Husson.
Katharine Husson Horstick. Hakins_----------- Mrs. Louis Husson.
Albert M. Friend, Jr__---- INeaic lene = aes We ree George Dodd.
Albert M. Friend, Jr__----- INeaglens ose. ae Julia Anne Dodd.
Avalon Foundation_-_----- Pamette =o sss My Gems.
Curt, H. Reisinger. _-_._.. YAo1 5 STU Hugo Reisinger.
Curt H. Reisinger. ..-__-- pesnardes . 202 oe Nude.
Curt: H... Reisinger __..-_.- Melchers. 22-22. 2 The Sisters.
SCULPTURE

George Matthew Adams_-- Dalou___---------- Alphonse Legros.
Miss Syma Busiel__-_---- Houdones ese see — Diana.

Mellon Collection______--- Bellows: 2s2222c2= 15 lithographs.

Mrs. Andrew Carey_-_----- Variouge sso 17 prints and drawings.
Herbert and Claiborne Pell. Various___-------- 8 prints.

Mrs. Roger H. Plowden_.. MHazeltine_-.-_----- 2 watercolors.

Howard Sturges. ..------- Vanious-=s=s222224 10 drawings.

George Matthew Adams__. lLegros__---------- 24 prints and drawings.
William Robertson Coe___._ Various___-------- 1 print, 17 books.
Lewis Hinstein......---_-- Various. 222582 8 3 drawings.

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

The following works of art were received on loan by the Gallery:

From: Artist
The Putnam Foundation, San Diego, Calif. :
WAC WHOL AV OLECIT a cet eee ls hs ee ae ee Corot.

Virgin and Child with St. Elizabeth, the Infant St. John and Veronese.
St. Justine.

@hristroni ithe) Crosses se ee ee a ee Murillo.
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:
TAvadadhy Orgy Oil aA Cid of pe eS ee eee Higleton (7).

Col. and Mrs. Edgar W. Garbisch, New York, N. Y.:
Highty-two early American paintings.
Peter Jay, Havre de Grace, Md.:
a OAD cl UY oc a as Se ee Stuart.
Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.:
Twenty-two objects of Pre-Columbian art.
Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Washington, D. C.:

AVie S@aO tes KOLO WETS ee ee ee ee eee ae Cezanne.
PORES eOL roel OT oe eS Se ee Cezanne.
BEY ERG EU UT BIN Oita a ree ef re aes Cezanne.
SBT TDA es phehaee  n  pa aR h SRS a e ge SUR Se eee Cezanne.
PSH ta LL op Wet 5 Dn ee Dufresne.
tS Hes BA Ua Bh A A aa i a Sr ee ge Manet.

DSO E Cee eo A a a i pa sy eg Renoir.

VELES peg aU ee Oy CET MS We tential EN oN em at Sey cI a we le ped Renoir.
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN RETURNED

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal
year :

To: Artist
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, N. Y.:

75 paintings and 2 sculptures.
Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Wrightsman, Palm Beach, Fla.:

Portrait oft, Young: Girl] sess sss see ee ee ee Vermeer.
Claiborne Pell, Washington, D. C.:
The Jolly shlatbortmenvoat ss see Se ee Le eee Bingham.
Mrs. Eugene Meyer, Washington, D. C.:
AVI DISO OL AN Oy CTS ee eee eh TE Ps 1 eA a Se Cezanne.
PortraitsotvarSalor-. 2 aee es eae e 2  ee ee Cezanne.
bevChateaw JNO 2 25 ee ee see ees Cezanne.
MS GRUP = es a ad ee hh ial dS A ie Cezanne.
HS re) = ed pg RTS EE EO ie EE A eee Dufresne.
SET Weed Gf Ns a Po YSN eae et re De Manet.
SIN FUN ta a A BEE BYE Py Ss Ss 2s Renoir.
Portree tot erie rae ae Ne a ee es Renoir.
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:
FLO GOL sy AV OT ai re he a se Derain.
WomantinyanVArm chain. =) sank os lo oe ee ee eee Derain.
Wiomansintau@hemise #24 55 sys oe ei ee ee Derain.
Ne vB PERE LS ae 2 etek ik ek a kh Oe es Tondu.
Indian pMiaiden!. s22e0.7 ious ol eS i Wright.

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.:
Six objects of Pre-Columbian art.

WORKS OF ART LENT

During the fiscal year the Gallery lent the following works of art
for exhibition purposes:

To:

American Embassy, Paris: Artist
DMF A A7) Ee Trek a 1 ae ee ep SP ey le ND ape he Estee ohn Stuart.
O55 10 gl B21) eth em ee ene re tg 120 So SN DRC Me OY BES ee Stuart.
TT WOLdra wal Su Ole CLASSIC ky Urls ee eet eee ee Guardi.

Blair-Lee House, Washington, D. C.:

LOPEy AV Ey re Maen Beh | a EH Le ae: ae ar my S28 oe cal ato oa) tree eater Sores Stephens.
Secretary «Horrestallic te hie Beenie eae Raye, 2 eae aoe Murray.

Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C.:

Mending “thes Elarness’ i222 a ee ee eee Ryder.

Dallas Museum of Fine Arts, Dallas, Tex.:

ANOLE W DACKSOM 2 = oie oe I ee ee a ee Farl.
Mrank lim WPieree S222 2 22k ee ae ee ie Healy.
Vali aim) Efeniey, Ebay rr 1S ri eee eee ees ee ee Lambdin.:
The Washington: Hamily (engraving) 20 = Savage.
PO aTa eG) ET CY; ACE Tr Sea I are nye eC Sully.
Andrew. Jacksons 2a. oie Son eee ee el eee Sully.
General AD waht) E1Ser lO wer ae eee ee eee Stephens.
Georre Washing ton oe eae ain ee ed ee Ee Stuart.

Alexander Hamilton Bicentennial Commission, Washington,
DACr
AV OKANO OL VELA TAT EON Sos a ee es eg ea ER Ee Trumbull.
SECRETARY'S REPORT ; 177

To:
Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio: Artist
Mending the: Harness ie 2s eh ee Ryder.
Virginia 350th Anniversary, Jamestown Festival, Williams-
burg, Va.:
Pocahontas eee ee a ee ee eed ee British School.
Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford, Conn. :
Walley FROG OrS et See NE, Pe See Trumbull.
Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Mich.:
Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens_____________________- Ryder.
Columbus Gallery of Fine Arts, Columbus, Ohio:
Colveste repli eal eee a oe a ae Bellows.
Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford, Conn.:
Miss" Daggett S22 Wh a he nh ea Artist unknown.
Institute of Contemporary Arts, Washington, D. C.:
SSR MTU TN G5 Sees eA eee Canaletto.
VINOD He OD 0 Sp ae pee OS Ee te yee eo ee Piranesi.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, Wash-
ington, D. C.:
Forty-five modern German prints.

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of
Art during the fiscal year 1957:

Masterpieces of Graphic Art from the Rosenwald Collection. Reopened May
23, 1956, continuing through July 8, 1956.

American Paintings from the Collection of the National Gallery of Art. July
18, 1956, through August 12, 1956.

Prints by the French Impressionists. From the Rosenwald Collection. August
15, 1956, through December 31, 1956.

A Retrospective Exhibition of the Work of George Bellows. The first one-
man show in the history of the National Gallery of Art. January 19, 1957,
through February 24, 1957.

American Primitive Paintings. From the Collection of Edgar William and
Berince Chrysler Garbisch (2d exhibition). March 16, 1957, through April
28, 1957.

“One Hundred Years of Architecture in America.” An exhibition celebrating
the Centennial of the American Institute of Architects. May 15, 1957,
through July 14, 1957.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Rosenwald Collection—Special exhibitions of prints from the
Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during
the fiscal year 1957:

Rijks Museum, Amsterdam, Holland:
Three Rembrandt drawings____________ May-—October 1956.
Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis,
Minn.:
Exhibition, “Prints, 1400-1800,’ three
DUUN GS See oe eee ed a he ee October-November 1956.
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

Philadelphia Art Alliance, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Twenty-nine Rowlandson prints________
Marion Koogler McNay Art Institute, San
Antonio, Tex.:
Twenty-two Rembrandt etchings________
North Carolina Museum of Art, Raleigh, N. C.:
Exhibition, ‘Rembrandt and School,” 54

The Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore,
Md.:
Exhibition, “4,000 Years of Modern Art,”
One Prin oes ee
The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Tex.:
Exhibition, “The Life of Christ,” 68
VATE SE See Ee ES Eee EO re ee
Art Institute of Chicago, II1.:
Exhibition, “Prints, 1400-1800,” three
DIU tS! a= Rey Ge a OE ae
The University Gallery, University of Minne-
sota:
Exhibition, “Musieal Exhibition,” 33

Fort Worth Art Center, Fort Worth, Tex.:
Exhibition, “Horse and Rider,” eight
DUTY GS See AMIE ia AUER ID ee Ono Se
Literature and Fine Arts Gallery, Michigan
State University :
Exhibition, “Impressionist Prints,’ 30
FS falco ATL ea ak SY la RAIS)
Museum of Modern Art, New York, N. Y.:
Exhibition, “Munch,” one print_________
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Pxhibi-
tion Service, Washington, D. C.:
Exhibition, “Bellows,” 19 prints
Grolier Club, New York, N. Y.:
Exhibition, “Blake,” four prints_________
Community Arts Program, Munson-Williams-
Proctor Institute, Utica, N. Y.:
Exhibition, “Portraiture: The 19th and
20th Centuries,” six prints

Index of American Design.—During the fiscal year 1957, 23 travel-
ing exhibitions (including 804 plates) with 50 bookings were circu-

October-November 1956.

November—December 1956.

November—December 1956.

November 1956—June 1957.

December 1956—January 1957.

January 1957.

January-February 1957.

January—March 1957.

February—March 1957.

February—March 1957.

March-— 1957.

April-June 1957.

April—December 1957.

lated to the following States and Germany :

Number of Number of
State evhibitions | State ewhibitions
AT eT as Fae roca se ene em 2'| Minnesota i)... = = SAN ree pee
AT COTIS A Soe ree ie etn Sneak AMES SOUL je yee
Connecticutis.) eae 3) |New MexXicone 2. are
District) of ‘Columbias-2 2 ZiPNG Wie OF Ke Sans Ce nae Aen Ree
LOT perce eee ce et eee aM North Caroling] 222.) sae
SULIT OLS Yee eae eee eo le eee 1 Oklahomas a2 2222 ase) eee
Kentuckyiee sna cee orien ee 2 | LNOUtD OATOLIN a =: = st. aeenene nee
Maine 22 0 Semaine as een 2) REN ESSCO ™ tctce a neta aie nee eee
Maryland f2cuee er e Nee I NY bag bas ape aa UE A NL IL
Michigan ees cera net Were nt 8;| Germany -___.-_- ee Pe oe Me aE et
SECRETARY’S REPORT 179

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The Curatorial Department accessioned 131 gifts to the Gallery
during the fiscal year 1957. Advice was given with respect to 346
works of art brought to the Gallery for expert opinion, and 10 visits
to collections were made by members of the staff in connection with
offers of gift or for expert opinion. About 1,520 inquiries requiring
research were answered verbally and by letter.

William Campbell gave three lectures on American primitive
painting at the Cooperstown summer seminars and also spoke to a
women’s group at Shepherdstown, W. Va. He assisted in the judging
of an exhibition of the art work of State Department employees.
John Pancoast judged an art contest for AMVETS. Erwin O.
Christensen lectured on African Negro sculpture at Howard Univer-
sity, gave a Washington Seminar lecture on the Index of American
Design, and held 12 monthly talks for USIA groups on the Index.
Miss Elizabeth Mongan lectured at the Detroit Institute of Art,
served on a jury for an exhibition in Philadelphia, and spoke to 10
groups visiting Alverthorpe Gallery. Miss Elizabeth Benson spoke
to two women’s organization meetings. Hereward Lester Cooke
assisted in the judging of seven art exhibitions in the Washington
area.

Perry B. Cott served as a member of the Board of Governors of
the Archaeological Institute of America, Washington Society. Miss
Katherine Shepard was secretary of this organization and went as
official delegate to its General Meeting in Philadelphia. Miss Mongan
was Honorary Vice President of the American Color Print Society,
served on the American Jury of Selection of the International
Graphic Arts Society and was a director and member of the Execu-
tive Committee of the Print Council of America.

RESTORATION

Francis Sullivan, Resident Restorer of the Gallery, made regular
and systematic inspection of all works of art at the Gallery, and
periodically removed dust and bloom as required. He relined 6 paint-
ings, and gave special treatment to 34 paintings. Nineteen paintings
were X-rayed as an aid in research. Experiments were continued
with the application of 27H and other synthetic varnishes developed
by the National Gallery of Art Fellowship at the Mellon Institute
of Industrial Research, Pittsburgh, Pa. Proofs of all color repro-
auctions of Gallery paintings were checked and approved, and tech-
nical advice on the conservation of paintings was furnished to the
public upon request.

Mr. Sullivan inspected all Gallery paintings on loan in Govern-
ment buildings in Washington. He also gave advice on and special
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1957

treatment to works of art belonging to other Government agencies
including the White House, the Freer Gallery of Art, and the Smith-
sonian Institution.

PUBLICATIONS

The Director’s book on The Feast of the Gods and related paint-
ings, entitled “Bellini and Titian at Ferrara,” appeared during the
year. Mrs. Fern R. Shapley was the coauthor of a book “Compari-
sons in Art,” also published by the Phaidon Press. She also prepared
the text for the Gallery’s Portfolio No. 5, “Masterpieces from the
Samuel H. Kress Collection.” Mr. Campbell compiled the data for the
Bellows and Garbisch exhibition catalogs, and wrote the introduction
to the Garbisch catalog. Mr. Christensen prepared a guide to the
Chinese porcelains of the Widener Collection, and wrote an article
on “An American Primitive Portrait Group” for Antiques magazine.
Mr. Cooke’s research on “Documents Relating to the Fontana di
Trevi” was published in the September Art Bulletin, and six of his
short articles for the Ladies Home Journal appeared during the year.
Mr. Pancoast reviewed a book on Ghiberti for The American Scholar.

During the past fiscal year the Publications Fund published three
new 11-x-14-inch color reproductions, and two more were on order.
Eleven new color post cards were published; and plates were made for
seven new Christmas and Easter folders. Two more large collotype
reproductions of paintings on exhibition, distributed by a New York
publisher, were placed on sale; 11-x-14-inch reproductions printed on
canvas, an entirely new type of item, were also on order.

Two new books of A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts, “The Art
of Sculpture,” by Herbert Read, and “The Nude,” by Kenneth Clark,
were placed on sale. “American Primitive Paintings,” Part II, was
made available, and a book “Portrait of Jesus,” by Marian King, based
on pictures in the National Gallery of Art, was stocked, as well as a
paper-bound edition of a booklet, “Favorite Paintings from the Na-
tional Gallery of Art,” by present and former members of the Gallery
staff. There was a fourth printing issued of the Gallery’s Handbook
No. 1, “How to Look at Works of Art; The Search for Line,” by
Lois A. Bingham.

Catalogs of the George Bellows show and “One Hundred Years of
Architecture in America” exhibition were distributed.

A boxed set of ten 2-x-2-inch color slides with text was made avail-
able.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The program of the Educational Office was carried out under the
supervision of the Curator in Charge of Educational Work and his
staff who lectured and conducted guided tours in the National Gallery
of Art on the works of art in its collection.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 181

The attendance for the general tours, Congressional tours, “Tours
for the Week,” and “Pictures of the Week,” totaled 43,954 while that
for the 51 auditorium lectures on Sunday afternoons was approxi-
mately 11,488 during the fiscal year 1957.

Tours, lectures, and conferences were arranged by special appoint-
ment for 322 groups and individuals. The total number of people
served in this manner was 7,640. This is an increase over last year
of 23 groups and 350 persons. These special appointments were made
for such groups as representatives from high schools, universities,
museums, governmental agencies, and distinguished visitors.

The program of training volunteer docents was continued during
the fiscal year. Fifty-seven ladies were given special instruction un-
der the general supervision of the Curator in Charge of Educational
Work and under the specific direction of one of the members of the
staff. By arrangement with the school systems of the District of
Columbia and surrounding counties of Virginia and Maryland, these
ladies assisted in giving guided tours for the children from these
schools. In all, 751 classes, with a total of 22,561 children, were given
the tours during the fiscal year. This represents an increase over last
year of 4,046 children in attendance.

The staff of the Educational Office delivered 20 lectures in the audi-
torium on Sunday afternoons. Twenty-four lectures were given by
euest speakers, and during April and May Dr. Sigfried Giedion de-
livered the Sixth Annual Series of seven A. W. Mellon Lectures in
the Fine Arts on the theme “Constancy and Change in Art and
Architecture.”

During the past year 205 persons borrowed a total of 6,110 slides
from the slide lending collection.

The office completed in May two new slide strip films on paintings
in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
July 1, 1957. These are in addition to two other slide strips (one on

in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
J uly 1, 1957. These are in addition to two other slide strips (one on

in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
J uly 1, 1957. These are in addition to two other slide strips (one on

in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
J uly 1, 1957. These are in addition to two other slide strips (one on

in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
J uly 1, 1957. These are in addition to two other slide strips (one on

in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
J uly 1, 1957. These are in addition to two other slide strips (one on

in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
J uly 1, 1957. These are in addition to two other slide strips (one on

in the National Gallery of Art which will be available for sale about
J yo ia Cre _ These are in addition to two other slide strips ee on

L
