~ en ee ®. - - — —
soe semrwrnene were Sgagepeccennefesnamenemnors oa x ahaa tenenens nnn eenen anes Soran ne nena erereaenaneenarens Deanna astemenanieeeniaeraneererceeeraedle=aseunaaerersentennngunsassuarenpegaeunensmepeanunmeereaeacuenenshempuceneaneta
~suscdouegeentosvonsngichpusessoassunaaieesslaasbenemsspareomsed muprasestadpenessieeeeeaticaseod hiapesestepeenateneiopeammenenseietenapeetiomenmeateiomenemmtivagem rion
" a 7 a» meorereneer —
ne eee 4 <é ——_ ~_ en TTS eG nn
sss ae A A is ee oo —< aera oes
A AT A ne oO A —S— eee SS SSS. —————————SS
a ee em an nl mal x nn nm ee» — ee ee nn a re en a
Sess AO eI nn a ‘een SRY 2b SY SESE ——E EE a
welgtpaanpioegaeiciaeion A ere SS wa ee SSS
i - Se ~ * Sars oe 4
a a ne a rae OD a
Paes ae nr waren monn oa aga mteeeeneaen actanetrhenrnama orttheteie nein oielenpuone inn Ls aS SS tees, — et Ss le — a
nae Ge a NA ee Ee tg ne Ce SS — ae a Y i oe Ws SC a ARS OT EE SW SLT STI
ose Se SSR LER (oO Er) = gane Hn Laediceoiresereescdill Uictessitapeentenctatalobapepeetensia-stemeesoocastpree-onprscouprents casayeonecseeisaqnec bapetorengeeesctopsecseetampenatenenieeeetsmeetnapeocionemanapetpacemecenpneneeememeneeapameamemeneaiemeapnaeeenon
tn at be a a a an ee me “se SS ———E—— SS SSS SS SSS SS See
i nt en nn ee Bd i SE EE ET i or SF a a a eS
wn re ee ee ee ,o-. 3-3 @ oom SE EL ET >< Ry a LS
ae se Fie Js 2 rr a ee ee Soeoronatopeoresastanascloase-nee=tcbonngpeonsena eslgepteeecapesohpeeccsmp-sanpeasesegneaatneeeeaaenenesaavponeetesetenpaeeen
SD SS SS en ae nee Ts on Se ee ee F SS, eS NS Lo
ee ae ._ f-- -—-- ~~ ----- -4 >_> 4.2- 4... &_.-_ oa" ee
winkonsinkalgtanphahupgecnrteckotcaptabeion cel cheurtatetoastemaragneneyreeend inde umereanaemnepeaocrerratrte eaenaenee So 4 34-7 ™ aa Se eS nt NE ET TS
= -—— ~ Siedtnioueteietacesgutmabates! - a + oad -
a nO nena = SS ee eae eens ESSE
Seiplnwsisiphainbequpauaewchonealsigionaicoeaaepignsieicateleeeioetaiclete Pane Se, fh Se SS SS eee SSS SSS SaaS =
pay 4 x a - : —=
= SS SS a SSS ES ==
—— = Se aS ESS ee oe ES So a a a Se ee IS
ne ne ee nr a ne Oe . —— —— 8 ee me ee ff rs _— ~~ = = ee ne tn en ne ee ee ee Re EG ee
eae eT PTO oven ne waee oan a ee EN SI a a —— S pn nL a Rg CE RT NOOO
NS Moe aa geaes 6 sme Rae nn a ann ee SS es sf ee Shen ee ee = SS a a a a a
a a Be Do ee aa ne CN ER SS 6 en A a nob eee eS Ps be ee SE
A ES a a -s— one a a a eens sea I Ls eS TL TL
gn apn eae ane a ace pean aeagnGnchahongananr hylan Gnas agiaberenrapepiniengeaaaeene en neon (he es et ees eS ee SS LL, A SS CT A A ET A TT, TE AT A EST AN EATS
ere ee ee ee a 'S- Se Uke 2 bese — ne | ee ee — Se a nS TE oe ne oP
= (S-829-| TA+c a? nS Pe ie ee ee
SS SS SS 6 Fo ee Seecbosuaaporesstewiclnloeee sine retraite saeeeiatakenaeeetea sanpaeeseaaipnpassstignroscespeosialicoecanaguanesgayseeagenstebeamempechoorasennetonape cient onecion eehaepesetcaaemameneaeeeeeteenaeres
esengpeyremer nen ecaentyousirebeadvans SAD ids DOoNSSDSISPIPOSEROSS HENSIES Soensen—r Lancer an aneama > et Ap = SE A OT TSAI
—, iY bf ~~. , en mS NG eS
: 6 oe eS ee SaaS maueye—otoie? Se Ne
HBG io ton Sa ERR Rn eT Seoereeny . ne er ee g = a a a a CE
gee reg pee enn meereneemennorpeeresacae maaeaeeeapanpighginione sisin aging ipaprigiemgeneioweietien fa SS ‘+ Saas ppichnerestemetnreseae ae Se
: ——— = 6 ee SS iat SS SSS SSS eee EEE SE SSE
oe S-t 2" « -4oe.% eo ¢ ¥ &~ oon
a a a a EN ome ten BE eT nn re eS SS SS Se SSS SEE
Fo A AAA ALI CE Ae oe = ~~ so ee — Ie LS a a
ne a TS TT Ia a ar ne een ae nN ST (4 ool SS” a= Se aes ne nreeearennanat Ne A A OE
te en = a pe nn ee en a ee x = o — == w —- Eee a nn es en mr ee nt i on ee a nm | ee
ae eS tee a =~ > 22 OT A
a a A ne Ee ee NN nT OAS IE EE BN] CS oS at = Se SS EE ES ESE SS ESS prvicocodesnsLiaenu sietomppecnseapscicieaeeeenenssnpapepeeeoea
EES TAIT T DS AN a TAIT We eet ot ee . CS ee ee Se Te TT a A TL TT ET TTS
SE AIT SRE ST Se aE SALTS LN ITT REID oem oe F 7%, . ~. 5? Be Nr rE Sa A ET ET
Si = te SS 3 Ss SS ee
a aa =a —— a > =) ae rn a ee nn en a ees
—aubeyreieigious-aab-pusio-ana-s-5-ansub—e-aapeoen-=-glagee—teOaqgaohansink ane oaenabwantalatendateapancpichenphalsteseresissatekoashghanpioohatetanenekeben = ei | a . SN Ee
iyi pase seceonnonoepraiotataetehonenensiolalgaghiibapeoeetoaiaeteconemvengieeeprieaetenreteaeeien ae eee cnt negra tee ene e243, *% FF Ne <i ienpuansetosslsbabieeestiaeens oeesipeents oafupeocstennelapaperaeteabeaipesianseoamenstanpeaapecaa-aesekamasceeapeasenagpeseeeetsaaem abana eeicteboes
Se A AE Re aE ee PT an nr RT EN CT {a ee F aleve \ a nS ae Se
Deca ET a a ne nee a a wn en anne eag (sw, eemmeesn te > Sy SSS SS SS SS SS
ae od = 2 Ie ne rt nt i ne ee ee ee ee ee. ee ee te
a PB Se = 8 Se —y Se a a a a
SS ee 2 So EE EE en
Frc aenerene reer prem genreneeesennrop ayarsrereresayareneeaposers nmapnoacioneicioee idensnonpacioneos eee ereeeinienaenes hein n eS — = SS i) natn es Soe ee SS SS eS eS eee
a a a TNO TS oe ee Sa SN Net NR SESE OP eS = 3 SED SSE ESSE SSS
eapeoerrarpanare a eetranreonrencenreratet eeteeaprpughenpiphinphviones =ateammctelomae- ean pateniapentee otis laolsiaigianmadaolG P, = naorengeocetenbapaptapreseoies henitneentetscetchehenenetsteniapnpee= msarenesssenes-ateipasectoressioeaeesepaaisnpecotonnseeppicene iantetaareanennetontearetenpeescamapentocenamesapameoeipenenaseiesoneeioeinan
ee
RL A SL — — > rs me ee ee ee a e -e
Be ar pa Se RO RTE SEN De ae ane cas ae a eee ne RE —. Ss oS, (Bn a Se SSS EEE EEE EE ee
eee a NSN OTN SS SN SN a TRNAS OAS SSCENENT SONS Same eraeer oars pONTNSerarareoaaaeeeseneenaeensreee aero <M SS SESS ee en ee ee
tt A a ep A an ~ a? a et re ea a
ehh seen eee pctaereehcioneaongsemmnpaaietabiigicietsoee sistant tee mene eee ines oesees nerromeneineegeeietne i beneateoretontnens Reauueeeetet tet ibeniotecrccomapeenet Asistgresinteime=stinrsenttLarenpesssimon ieneipnesaseesteapepe meeteduaeapesaearesiamecaemrimressgere aiemrices ape tobenetdoeontessreineeentenpa ttereeate
wee 5S Se
DEORE 8 Saag a eee na a RE ar re nee eon Fe ana SRE <> a an a nr ER a NE TN a A eT
eae - = SSS
Spemennskonerenrsstobrcossnoesenronses-onseusscoeszeeQuSeasseeSapneae-phghe-aasch-ot-—nt=eaineny Meat agiglost icky int acasienpesioinnpioisasayimseabarspprepsatommeemeeriepeionpepinionet tekakeeds ices ieee TCI Rear ear eee AT eR arpa errant
Ce aS I Ee a Se a ae oe eee oe ss re a ee a aS
a a re men ann a cn a aE RE eT eee peereeteees nN Se
papa epee none ee menenrennae-onyenrewara—=——fagloketaheisteneiongusienanantleniapesnpgidoacin ou nesemanearasteapeie mea pe em PMR eee eee ee eis gre se-prorean oss Laengnahraenmnresieatensintpaictchatuncereteapantptravonnoncioginyies-msecshenpreceeet cant onigieeteatereseachpe—seteapb-emaapeecraseeaisenecasesipeeLatseiane= Lpapeeisepeeasineaenes-igpoceceipeeciame i sasngeteeangeen meee
1 En rar te 0 A na nena ne aE itieatiriesenteeeetee ae a neo nang Sree SS See —————E——————> EEE Eee
: ss See SS  — EEE SSE
Se ee a NN a Se A ne Se RTS a NRT SSN AT SE A EN ELST EEN oF AFG Sao NEON rae SRO ES EE SF SRSET SONS
0S ee Serio = Se a ee eae ee ae Se ne ee Tene
See EE EE SR re ns CS AE re Ea ANT RN DON I aS NERO OD Se ene eon eee eR ee I AO SS SS SS SSS SS SSS SSS
eases eas A RL OE a LE Ee NE ET OE EE LEE ee AE LE ee NN
we = = Eso = —— ——— ee SSS SSeS SEE EEE
wa a — Se sss yx
See haga necore=erntonar papa cocsneppepnteerseetor siowoms-ovsesesta—cesnssspesvaenc wrpnsaresachsecheie}-Terer~eoyrpaclsioiatsnpe ras een gmenepe perme ene Laem A UDRG AE EESIO TELLUS RONDA ICON a
: -- = = —— are cteaticagniaaene — = —————————————————————————————_EEE ell ll laa
eee SS ——SS—S LS — SSS
Seasec rece nceen eee ee eee ee nese en eee ee ene Te a ae a EE a TT eR OT
Sea Ee TY DES Ne TAIT TET DETTE TOT TIS SOT OOO ae LEIS CAE BEETS PEST ee RAE OTT a a aa A a a an er ee ee a Se
eS SEE —E————E __—__ESE
i SA AN mc ede nengeepadetnasnaneemeneteeneee eee nepmmemeneneoeeeeee ee EEE LEE T TE ST SATE S OSS Oe ae ES SSIES PER LETT area oa es ae a a ey one ae aT aaS a i i
ln Se geen neon nner a ene eon a EN a EN NLS NE TNT ES SST ST ae A NT a TS
- = =aas a ————— = — <9 ——— ae
Fda ee eae ee Te ATS TDN SSL Oe SPA ADDER TET. CADETS PETITE TRICITY ESTES SSR OS ASO MNRSETS Ae ak DEAN Hy SeaT od onenonaaaen eae SET DESEDETEDETT WF Pr enenEDENaE Sy aneeae? A OE AIC AT OE TRIS FIRE ET ON CT TT IT AT Te ICE TTT eS TEE —
a ee == —= ——————— ea
oo Sea So en eae SSS OS
Sern sss. : SESE __
ae aT LN eee OTT a SOT — = <= : SS TEE
eae perenerectnen een anennoeaennnpweeaaemrapeceonrsamyereneteaybot-pessaaesseapireape-gioeaeyeaaaglakaks Lbaperpeorpnreopeceepeeene aap ST eT aan ere TONS ARUN ROR Sa enna a cnn nC nr a ee
Sa a eet tee Se nae ee err pass act = — — —: = — - ——— —- —— — ~ a

| Pou a7
' iy
;

rhs cont

Mt 7 i)

vi in i ne ; 7 : :

Rar " i aM rn - 7 » fi

ve

i

/
¥ i]
A
nh) {
i

Wha i he 1) aay,

ii Nae ae
Wh me re, if be ;
: wae Raye \ } v rie } i . A ov

Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the
SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4435

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the
Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1960

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON; 1961
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 27, 1960.

To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 380, 1960.

Respectfully,
LronarD CarMICHAEL, Secretary.
It
CONTENTS

Page
Piet Ob OMnClAls soe 28 oe eS Se ee eee eee eee Bae Vv
General stavemelte = 082. Sen wei aerate ee = Seo ee i
ABieeea Do1e(:5 oF hTe) Jha 31.) 2) ree eI Cen ene cere Meare area ae ereeett ee Sn re ire 6
TENE SUORTOTOl keOCeUUS! aca a ete ae ea aie oben 6
STINET! COS ee ee as a or eye tee ei a See Soe te v6
VATS) ee eee eae nh ec ah Sh Nene hs ir, ai Ae ee a Sra 7
Reports of branches of the Institution:
United States National Museum____.....-.---------------------- 9
Buresuros American Honnolocyis 22-822 ee a ee ae ee 48
ASTRODNYVcIeal SU OSCEVALOIY 22 o0e ce eae one se Geo eee 83
National Collection of. Wine Arts.....sso-2e20 25262555 20ee0 ee 97
reer GralleryrOl Athens Jena. co chon ewe ce Oe soe eS Soe eee 106
INaMGnoY Aiba SCN Ya scce acs ueea Saeco oh ea oetee ee ease ee 119
INacIONE! AOOOUICAL Path. eien 2. 260 5sneecka soe omelet 131
Canal Zone biglovical Area = 25 5 san oe eo een eee ete ee 172
International Exchange Services: .o o2stcee ss eek See egos a aie 177
Navona! Gallery Of Wri 28s! i502 See eee ee eee ee cen ke 186
Repory on une il rary <2. 0 ene penn lan eo eh ee eae eae 199
Reports OW PUDUCHHONs so f2n 5520525528. kee ole eee ad oee oes ele 202
Other activities:
WSEGEU TORS aera ee Ie kms Si ene ee eee 211
Bio-Sciences Information Exchange_....-....-------------------- 211
Smithsonian Morseum) Services. =. 2 sae oo se oe eee ee ee 212
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents_._._--------- 214
GENERAL APPENDIX
The science of yesterday, today, and tomorrow, by W. F. G. Swann__--_- . 229
The origin and nature of the moon, by Harold C. Urey_.--------------- 251
Exploring the solar system by radar, by Paul E. Green, Jr., and Gordon H.
Pet On Otet eee eee ee ee Ae ene eee ien tere note econ eaeae 267
Digital computers: Their history, operation, and use, by E. M. McCormick. 281
Navigation—From canoes to spaceships, by Charles §. Draper--__------- 301
Photography of the ocean floor, by A. 8. Laughton__.-._.-------------- 319
History of a tsunami, by Elliott B. Roberts.................--------~- 327
Hailstorms and hailstones of the western Great Plains, by Vincent J.
SCOAC Clae lee Wen, Lee Se Leone Gk nee skew Sect oe coe sees 341
The 1959-60 eruption of Kilauea Volcano, by Donald H. Richter and
Petry be SLOT eg 8 hs oe nk te So ee seo 349
Hsmmones, by Ha dielovies pees ce Sok ae Saeco h este dances 357
IV ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Seeing the magnetization in transparent magnetic crystals, by J. F.
Dillon, Prowse tees Sethe ca oe Se ee oe ae ee ee

Rice—Basic food for one-third of the earth’s people, by Raymond E. Crist-_
The River Basin salvage program: After 15 years, by Frank H. H.

Roberts, Jr sss oe 2 Se th eS a iat ie el
New World prehistory, by Gordon'R: Willey...2232=¢ = 22 822.» Fe
The art of Seth Eastman, by John Francis McDermott_............__--

LIST OF PLATES
Secretary’s Report:
Plates: 2. ntsc eesti ccnwonecece eesti oe eee) ee
Rlatesi3- 422. S28 t eo ee ae Ee eee ee

Origin and nature of the moon (Urey): Plates 1-5._____.-----------_--
Solar system (Green and Pettengill): Plates 1-3_......_..-.-------___-
Navigation: (Draper) :,.Plates 1—4....5-2.2 3 ee oe SEE
Photography of the ocean floor (Laughton): Plates 1-9_...._.._-_______-
History of a tsunami (E. B. Roberts): Plate 1_.....2.....-..._Levtaie
Hailstorms: (Schaefer): Plates 1-8-2... 22.23 et ee oe
Kilauea Volcano (Richter and Eaton): Plates 1, 2.2...-.L------_ 12.2.
Magnetic:crystals.(Dillon),:. Plates .1-8_ = Boe 18a Sees i eS
Bird flight (Raspet):..Piates, 1,02 Nisot. ool won eesoy_eelpnere sel 16
Luminescence..(Nieol): Plates I=4..2-3 2022 ck et ee
Trumpets in the West (Morse): Plates 1-3_222_....--..-.=.-._.uL.-.
Clam farms) (Turner) s“Platesyl-o323r oe oo eee
Cotton fiber science (Palmer): Plates, 1—8._.. 2. 2c eo eee es Se
Rice (Crist): Plates 1-6... 2 2 rere se ee ee
River Basins salvage program (F. H. H. Roberts): Plates 1-12_-_____-__-
New World prehistory (Willey): Plates 1-7__--L20. cL 2L 22202 LL ee
The art of Seth Eastman (McDermott): Plates 1-8_.........-----_----

Page

385
405
425
447
457

465

473
509

523
551
577

62
106
110
134
198
262
270
310
326
334
342
350
390
422
454
462
470
486
518
534
566
582
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1960

Presiding Officer ew officio —Dwicut D. EISENHOWER, President of the United
States.
Chancellor.—EARrL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
DwicuTt D. E1s—ENHOWER, President of the United States.
RricouHarp M. Nrxon, Vice President of the United States.
Hart WakkEN, Chief Justice of the United States.
CHRISTIAN A. Herter, Secretary of State.
Rosert B. ANDERSON, Secretary of the Treasury.
Tuomas §S. GatsEs, Jk., Secretary of Defense.
WILLIAM P. Rogers, Attorney General.
ARTHUR BF. SUMMERFIELD, Postmaster General.
Frep A. Seaton, Secretary of the Interior.
Ezra Tart Benson, Secretary of Agriculture.
FREDERICK H. MUELLER, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES P, MITCHELL, Secretary of Labor.
ARTHUR S. FLEMMING, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
RicHARD M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States.
Cxiin'tron P, ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
J. WILLIAM FULBRIGHT, Member of the Senate.
LEVEBETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
Frank T. Bow, Member of the House of Representatives.
OverRTON Brooxs, Member of the House of Representatives.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN NicHoLas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island.
Artuur H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
Rosert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D.C.
CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT, citizen of Delaware.
CaryL P. Haskins, citizen of Washington, D.C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee.—RoBERT V. FLEMING, chairman, CLARENCE CANNON, CARYL
P. HAsKINS.
Secretary.—LEONARD CARMICHAEL,
Assistant Secretaries.—J. L. Keppy, A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.
Assistant to the Secretary.—Jamers C. BRADLEY.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mrs. Louiszs M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—Epaar lL. Roy.
Chief, editorial and publications division.—PavL H. OEHSER.
Tibrarian.—RvutTH BW. BLANCHARD,
Curator, Smithsonian Museum Service.—G. CarroLti LiInpsay.
Buildings Manager.—ANDREW F.. MICHAELS, JB.
Director of Personnel.—L. C, WESTFALL.
Chief, supply division.—A. W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic service division.—O. H. GREESON.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. Remington Kellogg.
Registrar.—Helena M. Weiss.

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director.—A. C. Smith.
DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY: F. M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews,
exhibits specialist.
Division of Archeology: W. R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., G. W.
Van Beek, associate curators.
Division of Ethnology: S. H. Riesenberg, curator; G. D. Gibson, E. I. Knez,
associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Physical Anthropology: T. D. Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.
DEPARTMENT OF ZooLoGy: Herbert Friedmann, head curator.
Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, curator; C. O. Handley, Jr., H. W.
Setzer, associate curators.
Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, acting curator; H. G. Deignan, as-
sociate curator.
Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, curator.
Division of Fishes: L. P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, W. R. Taylor,
associate curators.
Division of Insects: J. F. G. Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, R. E. Crabill,
Jr., W. D. Field, associate curators; Sophy Parfin, assistant curator.
Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; F. M. Bayer,
T. E. Bowman, C. E. Cutress, Jr., associate curators.
Division of Mollusks: H. A. Rehder, curator; J. P. E. Morrison, associate
curator.
DEPARTMENT OF BoTANy (NATIONAL HEeBARIUM): J. R. Swallen, head curator.
Division of Phanerogams: L. B. Smith, curator; R. 8. Cowan, E. C. Leonard,
Velva E. Rudd, J. J. Wurdack, associate curators.
Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.
Division of Grasses: J. R. Swallen, acting curator.
Division of Cryptogams: M. EB. Hale, Jr., acting curator; P. S. Conger, as-
sociate curator; R. R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Woods: W. L. Stern, curator.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY: G. A. Cooper, head curator.
Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: G. S. Switzer, curator; R. 8. Clarke,
Jr., P. E. Desautels, E. P. Henderson, associate curators.
Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: G. A. Cooper, acting
curator; R. 8S. Boardman, P. M. Kier, Richard Cifelli, associate curators;
E. G. Kauffman, assistant curator.
Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
Nicholas Hotton, III, associate curators; F. L. Pearce, exhibits specialist.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Director.—F. A. Taylor.

Assistant Director.—J. C. Ewers.

Chief exhibits specialist —J. BE. Anglim.

Chief zoological exhibits specialist —(Vacant.)

Assistant chief exhibits specialists —B. S. Bory, R. O. Hower, B. W. Lawless, Jr.
SECRETARY’S REPORT vil

DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY: R. P. Multhauf, head curator.
Division of Physical Sciences: R. P. Multhauf, acting curator.
Division of Mechanical and Civil Engineering: E. 8S. Ferguson, curator ;
HK. A. Battison, associate curator; R. M. Vogel, assistant curator.
Division of Transportation: H. I. Chapelle, curator; K. M. Perry, associate
curator; J. H. White, Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Electricity: W. J. King, Jr., acting curator.
Division of Medical Sciences: J. B. Blake, curator, 8. K. Hamarneh, asso-
ciate curator.
DEPARTMENT OF ARTS AND MANUFACTURES: P. W. Bishop, head curator.
Division of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, acting curator.
Division of Ceramics and Glass: P. V. Gardner, acting curator.
Division of Graphic Acts: Jacob Kainen, curator; F. O. Griffith, 3d, assistant
curator.
Division of Agriculture and Forest Products: E. C. Kendall, acting curator.
Division of Industrial Cooperation: P. W. Bishop, acting curator; Charles O.
Houston, Jr., associate curator.
DEPARTMENT OF CiIviIL History: A. N. B. Garvan, head curator; P. C. Welsh,
associate curator.
Division of Political History: W. E. Washburn, curator, Mrs. Margaret
B. Klapthor, associate curator; C. G. Dorman, Mrs. Anne W. Murray,
assistant curators.
Division of Cultural History: C. M. Watkins, acting curator; J. D. Short-
ridge, Rodris C. Roth, associate curators ; John N. Pearce, assistant curator.
Division of Philately and Postal History: G. T. Turner, acting curator;
¥. J. McCall, associate curator; C. H. Scheele, assistant curator.
Division of Numismatics: Viadimir Clain-Stefanelli, acting curator; Mrs.
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, assistant curator.
DEPARTMENT OF ARMED Forces History: M. L. Peterson, head curator.
Division of Military History: FE. M. Howell, acting curator; C. R. Goins,
Jr., assistant curator.
Division of Naval History: M. L. Peterson, acting curator; P. K. Lundeberg,
associate curator.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—¥. H. H. Roberts, Jr.

Anthropologist.—H. B. Collins, Jr.

Ethnologists —W. C. Sturtevant, W. L. Chafe.

RIVER BASIN SuRvEYs.—F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director; R. L. Stephenson, Chief,
Missouri Basin Project.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—F. L. Whipple.
Associate Director—J. A. Hynek.
Astrophysicists——R. J. Davis, E. L. Fireman, L. G. Jaechia, Max Krook, F. B.
Riggs, Jr., C. A. Whitney.
Mathematician.—R. K.. Briggs.
TABLE MOUNTAIN, CALIF., FIELD STATION.—A. G. Froiland, physicist.
DIvIsIoN or RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—W. H. Klein.
Plant physiologists.—V. B. Elstad, Leonard Price, E. C. Sisler.
Electronic engineer.—J. H. Harrison.
Instrument maker.—D. G. Talbert.
VIIl ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—T. M. Beggs.
Associate curator.—Rowland Lyon.
SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING HxHIBITION SERVICE.—Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope, Chief.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. Wenley.

Assistant Director.—J. A. Pope.

Associate in Near Eastern art.—Richard Ettinghausen.
Curator, Laboratory.—R. J. Gettens.

Associate curators.— J. F. Cahill, H. P. Stern.

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:

Leonard Carmichael, Chairman.

Maj. Gen. Brooke C. Allen, U.S. Air Force.

Rear Adm. P. D. Stroop, U.S. Navy.

Lt. Gen. James H. Doolittle.

Grover Loening.
Director.—P. S. Hopkins.
Head curator and historian.—P. E. Garber.
Associate curators.—L. S. Casey, W. M. Male, K. E. Newland.
Junior curator.—R. B. Meyer.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—T. H. Reed.
Associate Director.—J. L. Grimmer.
Veterinarian.—James FE. Wright.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA
Resident Naturalist —M. H. Moynihan.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Chief.—J. A. Collins.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
EagL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
CHRISTIAN A. HERTER, Secretary of State.
RogertT B. ANDERSON, Secretary of the Treasury.
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
KF. Lammor Bein.
DuNCAN PHILLIPS.
CHESTER DALE.
PavuL MELLON.
Rusu H. Kress.
President.—Curstrr DALE.
Vice President.—F. LAMONT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—JOHN WALKER.
Administrator.—Drnest R. FEIDLER.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Ourator.—Prrry B. Cort.
SECRETARY’S REPORT i

Honorary Research Associates, Collaborators, and Fellows
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
John B. Graf
Unitep States NATIonaAL MusEuM ‘

MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Anthropology

Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood. H. Morgan Smith, Archeology.
N. M. Judd, Archeology. W. W. Taylor, Jr., Archeology.
H. W. Krieger, Ethnology. W. J. Tobin, Physical Anthropology.
Betty J. Meggers, Archeology.

Zoology
J. Bruce Bredin. Allen McIntosh, Mollusks.
M. A. Carriker, Insects. J. P. Moore, Marine Invertebrates.
C. J. Drake, Insects. C. F. W. Muesebeck, Insects.
Isaac Ginsberg, Fishes. W. L. Schmitt.
D. C. Graham, Biology. Benjamin Schwartz, Helminthology.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr., Marine R. B. Snodgrass, Insects.

Invertebrates, TT. E. Snyder, Insects.

A. B. Howell, Mammals. Alexander Wetmore, Birds.
Laurence Irving, Birds. Mrs. Mildred 8. Wilson, Copepod
W.L. Jellison, Insects. Crustacea.
W. M. Mann, Hymenoptera.

Botany
Mrs. Agnes Chase, Grasses. F. A. McClure, Grasses.
BH. P. Killip, Phanerogams. J. A. Stevenson, Fungi.

Geology
KR. 8S. Bassler, Paleontology. W. T. Schaller, Mineralogy.
C. Wythe Cooke, Invertebrate

Paleontology.

MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY
Exhibits
William L. Brown.

History

Elmer C. Herber. F. W. MacKay, Numismatics.
Ivor M. Hume.

Science and Technology
Derek J. Price.

BuREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

J. P. Harrington. M. W. Stirling.
Sister M. Inez Hilger. A. J. Waring, Jr.
x ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
C. G. Abbot.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Oleg Grabar. Max Loehr.
Grace Dunham Guest. Katherine N. Rhoades.

NATIONAL Ark MusEUM
Frederick C. Crawford. | John J. Ide.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
W. M. Mann. | FE. P. Walker.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA
C. C. Soper.
Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

LEONARD CARMICHAEL

For the Year Ended June 30, 1960

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the
activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1960.

GENERAL STATEMENT

It is perennially amazing, in rereading the history of the Smith-
sonian Institution, to realize the wisdom that guided the founder,
James Smithson, and the prime organizer and first Secretary, Joseph
Henry. Smithson directed, in his now famous phrase, that his
institution concern itself with “the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.” ‘This was indeed a broad and humane prescrip-
tion. Equally so was Joseph Henry’s interpretation of it when he
came to lay down the fundamental plan of the Institution. Said
Henry: “Smithson’s will makes no restriction in favor of any par-
ticular kind of knowledge, and hence all branches are entitled to a
share of attention. He was well aware that knowledge should not be
viewed as existing in isolated parts, but as a whole, each portion of
which throws light on all the others, and that the tendency of all is
to improve the human mind, and to give it new sources of power and
enjoyment.” He further added, “To effect the greatest good, the or-
ganization of the Institution should be such as to produce results which
could not be attained by other means.”

The social import of the Smithsonian’s broad and inspiring
charter has never been more obvious than it is in today’s atomic age
when the great modern achievements in science and technology, which
daily impress themselves upon every citizen, call for the widest and
most liberal basis of understanding. But this is still an age in which
enlightenment is far from universal. A great responsibility, therefore,
rests upon those individuals and institutions into whose hands has
been placed the preservation of our cultural and scientific heritage

al
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

to provide, in every effectual way, those new sources of intellectual
power that Joseph Henry visualized so that every citizen will aspire
to an understanding of this complex modern world and feel himself
a part of man’s upward struggle.

We have an obligation to the future. In shaping our museum
halls, we must render human history—of our environment, our ideas,
or technical achievements, our institutions, our manners and customs,
our daily lives—meaningful to the citizens of tomorrow as well as
of today. It is, also, our responsibility to raise the general level
of cultural appreciation, to educate in the broadest sense, and to
encourage people to seek knowledge of the highest order. The Smith-
sonian Institution has an important role to fulfill in meeting these
responsibilities. Through its great museums, art galleries, research
laboratories, and explorations, it seeks not only to preserve and
document the full range of our history but also to interpret it to the
public.

Scientific and other scholarly research, educational exhibits,
publication of new advances in knowledge, facilitation of worldwide
interchange of published scientific and literary information, and, with-
in the Institution’s resources, the fostering and stimulation of schol-
arly endeavor—all are part of the work of today’s Smithsonian, just
as they have been during all the 114 years since its establishment.
A great museum must be more than a laboratory or a showcase. It
must be a center of interpretation and inspiration for its millions of
visitors.

In these first paragraphs of this year’s Smithsonian Report, it
seems especially appropriate, therefore, to give particular attention
to the growing significance of the Institution’s museum exhibits. We
are in the midst of extensive building and modernization programs
which have already had their impact upon the visiting public; and it
may be salutary to analyze some of the factors involved.

Both in April and again in May of this year more than a million
people, by actual count, came to the old buildings of the Smithsonian.
This does not include those who, during this time, visited the National
Gallery of Art and the National Zoological Park. Never before in
a single month have so many visitors come to the Smithsonian, or
probably to any other museum complex in the world. In fact, as
recently as 1953 the largest total monthly attendance was almost
exactly one-half the figure for this year’s banner months.

What has caused this explosive increase? There seems to be no
doubt that this amazing growth in public interest in the Smithsonian is
due to the many new, vital, and effective renovated museum halls which
have been opened to the public during the past few years. These
new halls include the First Ladies Hall, the American Indian Hall,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 3

the North American Mammals Hall, the Latin American Archeology
Hall, the Bird Hall, the American Cultural History Hall, the
Power Machinery Hall, the Second American Indian Hall, the Hall
of Health, the Military History Hall, the Printing Arts Hall, the Gems
and Minerals Halls, the Textile Hall, the Jade Room, the World
of Mammals Hall, and the Agricultural Hall. Each of these revi-
talized exhibit areas is really a museum in itself. Each one alone
has great visitor-attraction potential purely from an educational
standpoint. Furthermore, in each of the modernized halls, the Smith-
sonian has been guided by new general museum principles and has
used a variety of means to achieve the objectives mentioned above
which the curators and designers had in mind in planning and
constructing the halls.

The basic new philosophy of the nature of the museum that is illus-
trated in each rejuvenated hall is that exhibits should be so presented
that the serious visitor may be both interested and instructed. In
each new hall a visitor may, of course, be casually entertained,
but he also is exposed to accurate, well-organized, attractively ar-
ranged segments of vital human knowledge. Thus, if he spends
a moderate amount of time and effort in studying the sequences of
objects and carefully reads the labels, he will be amply rewarded
by a deeper and wider understanding of the complex world in
which he lives. Aided by the modern exhibit techniques now avail-
able, the story of man and his world unfolds before the visitor as
he walks from hall to hall. These new exhibits are in marked
contrast to the static displays of yesterday. In the old days the
viewer may have been impressed by the abundance of material ex-
hibited but, for the most part, was neither instructed nor motivated
to future study.

The Gems and Minerals Hall may be taken as an example of
the effect of this new philosophy in dealing with a specific subject-
matter field. The mineral collections of the Smithsonian, said to
be the best of their kind in the world, have been built up during
more than a century by gifts from interested friends all over the
globe and by transfer to the Institution of outstanding specimens
from the United States Geological Survey and other Federal bureaus.
These collections are so extensive and important that many geolog-
ical scientists come from every part of the country each year to
work in our laboratories on special problems that can be solved
only by the study of this material.

The public exhibits in the new Gems and Minerals Hall, how-
ever, represent only selected specimens from the total mineral collec-
tions of the Smithsonian. The problem, therefore, was first to select
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

for exhibition the best and most significant items from this array
of material and then to tell the fascinating and often romantic story
of minerals and gems systematically and in such a way as to be in-
teresting and meaningful both to the casual visitor and to the indi-
vidual who already knows much about scientific geology. The millions
of visitors who have already studied this new hall since it was opened
to the public two years ago have seen, under almost ideal conditions of
museum light, the outstanding specimens of the world’s principal
minerals. The chemical structure of each of the great mineral classes
and the specific make-up of each specimen are shown. The physics of
crystals, as well as many interesting facts about the geographical dis-
tribution of minerals in the world’s crust, is explained in labels and
diagrams. Outstandingly valuable and beautiful gems are shown as
examples of specific mineral groups. These displays, taken as a whole,
are at once scientifically instructive and esthetically pleasing.

This new hall, which an unthinking person might in advance picture
as a mere collection of rocks, has thus become so attractive that on busy
days it is sometimes even necessary for the visitors to form in lines and
move quickly past some of the more popular exhibits.

All this is in sharp contrast to the old days, when only the student
who already had a real knowledge of mineralogy had the patience
and the interest to stay in the old exhibit rooms and study in detail
what the crowded cases contained. The nongeologist who came to
the old mineral hall could hardly be expected to carry away with
him any new understanding of geology as one of the great and
humanly important sciences. For the novice there was no “plot”
in the old form of exhibition, and its relation to his general knowl-
edge was not indicated. It is no wonder that this “visual storage”
type of exhibit often left little lasting impression. Today all
this has changed. The static and repetitious tall, dark, wooden-
framed cases are gone, and the science of mineral identification has
been given a new meaning.

The transformation that has taken place in this single mineral
hall may be cited as illustrating the general change that has been
brought about in the older Smithsonian buildings as the present
program of modernization of exhibits, in all the new halls enu-
merated above, has progressed.

It is not accidental, therefore, that the number of visitors to the
Smithsonian Institution has doubled in the past few years. What the
Smithsonian now presents to its visitors has new attractiveness and
new educational significance. In every museum the person who enters
its doors profits by his prior preparation for understanding and by
the ease with which he can see the objects that are on display. In the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 5

new Smithsonian exhibits, every effort is made to make each presenta-
tion logically clear and interesting so that the visitor will stop and
read the explanatory labels. In this way, the Smithsonian exhibits
improve the visitors’ basic understanding of the natural history of
America and of the world, of the history of many of the most impor-
tant human arts and sciences, and of the technology that has made the
modern world what it is. No one, for example, can go through the
new American Cultural History Hall without seeing in a new way how
Americans lived on this continent before the industrial revolution
and how the coming of power machines transformed the basic ways
of life of the Nation.

Thus the question as to what visitors gain by coming to the Smith-
sonian can be answered briefly: They gain in an understanding of
the world in which they live and in their knowledge of America.
Patriotism is a word that is sometimes misused, but who can doubt
that any American citizen becomes more truly patriotic when he has
knowledge of the basic natural resources of his country and of how
these resources have been and are now used in the growth and main-
tenance of our modern life?

The increase in the number of visitors who come to the Smithsonian
also indirectly reflects most favorably upon the basic attitudes of the
citizens of our Nation today. It is inspiring to watch them passing
in great streams through the doorways of our buildings. They come
in order to see important exhibits, which they know in sum total can
be viewed nowhere else in the world. Most of them surely leave with
an understanding, which they could gain in no other way, of factors
that have made modern life.

Some of the new exhibit halls that are now open in the Smithsonian’s
old Arts and Industries Building have been so constructed, by the use
of portable panels, that when the new Museum of History and Tech-
nology is completed the whole display can be moved to the new build-
ing without unnecessary delay. When this is done, other exhibits of
larger dimensions not at present on display will take their place in
the old building. The professional staff is now working with exhibits
experts in the preparation of other new halls so that there will be as
little delay as possible in making the great new building an effective
museum for the public as soon as its structure is complete.

Later pages of this report describe in detail the work done during
the year by the staff of the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts, the National Air Museum, the Canal
Zone Biological Area, the International Exchange Service, the Na-
tional Zoological Park, and other specialized units of the Smithsonian.
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

May the opportunity be taken here to express, on behalf of every-
one connected with the Smithsonian Institution, gratitude to the Con-
gress of the United States for making available funds for the addition
of a much-needed east wing to the Natural History Building and
also for the air-conditioning and renovation of this old and important
building. For more than a quarter of a century, published records
show that Congress has recognized that the facilities of the Natural
History Building are overcrowded and inadequate for the important
scientific and museum functions assigned to it. It is a source of
special rejoicing, therefore, that the Institution is now being allowed
to develop facilities so that it will be able to accomplish far better
scientific work in this building than was feasible in the past.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment,” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The membership of the Board of Regents remained unchanged
during the current year. The roll of Regents at the close of the
fiscal year was as follows: Chief Justice of the United States Earl
Warren, Chancellor; Vice President Richard M. Nixon; members
from the Senate: Clinton P. Anderson, J. William Fulbright, Leverett
Saltonstall; members from the House of Representatives: Frank T.
Bow, Overton Brooks, Clarence Cannon; citizen members: John
Nicholas Brown, Arthur H. Compton, Robert V. Fleming, Crawford
H. Greenewalt, Caryl P. Haskins, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

As has been customary in recent years, an informal dinner meeting,
preceding the annual meeting, was held on the evening of January
14, 1960, in the main hall of the Smithsonian Building amid exhibits
from the various divisions showing the most recent developments in
the work of the Smithsonian bureaus. Dr. James F. Cahill spoke
on “The Chinese National Art Collection (Palace Collection) in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 7

Taiwan”; Dr. Richard S. Cowan on “Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean
Expedition of 1959”; Dr. William C. Sturtevant on “Agriculture of
the Seminole”; and Dr. Fred L. Whipple on “Scientific Results from
Satellite Tracking.”

The annual meeting was held on January 15, 1960. The Secretary
presented his published annual report on the activities of the Insti-
tution together with the 1959 Annual Report of the United States
National Museum. The Chairman of the Executive and Permanent
Committees of the Board, Dr. Robert V. Fleming, gave the financial
report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1959.

In addition to the annual meeting, the Board of Regents met again
on May 4, 1960. The Secretary presented a brief interim report, and
the Chairman of the Executive and Permanent Committees of the
Board presented a financial report. This meeting was followed by an
inspection of some of the new exhibits of the Smithsonian.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian
private funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee
of the Board of Regents, page 214. Funds appropriated to the Insti-
tution for its regular operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1960,
totaled $7,718,000. Besides this direct appropriation, the Institution
received funds by transfer from other Government agencies as follows:
From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park__._ $1, 165, 200

From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the
IRLVer BASIN SURVECY Sse ee ee eee 122, 055

VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings on the Mall reached
a total of 6,494,630, an all-time high and 143,000 more than the pre-
vious year. April 1960 was the month of largest attendance, with
1,070,709; May 1960 second, with 1,007,442; July 1959 third, with
941,397. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance records for the
five buildings; table 2, groups of school children. These figures,
when added to the 951,608 recorded at the National Gallery of Art and
the 4,059,804 estimated at the National Zoological Park, bring the
year’s total number of visitors at the Institution to 11,506,042.

579421—61—_—_2
ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

TABLE 1.— Visitors io certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended

June 30, 1960

Smithsonian

Arts and Natural Aircraft Freer
Year and month Building Industries History Building | Building Total
Building Building
1959
Tuly ee Be 123,735 | 355,316 | 311, 489 |135, 584 | 15,273 | 941,397
August__----- 126,971 | 377,340] 295,634] 8 078 | 16,183 | 824, 206
September - -- 52, 279 146, 086 117, 026 | closed 8, 662 324, 053
October=2—2 22 54, 841 158, 749 109, 032 | closed 7, 460 390, 082
November- --- 45, 549 134, 169 113, 367 | closed 6, 379 299, 464
December____- 29, 129 71, 139 79,592 | closed | 5,080] 184,940
1960
Janwaryo2. oe 36, 498 79, 557 86, 585 | closed 6, 675 209, 315
February ----- 38, 913 99, 156 88,217 | closed | 4,946 | 231, 232
March___----- 43,924] 114,124] 106,173] closed | 6,168] 270,389
Aprile see se 174, 083 448, 872 348, 552 | 83, 571 | 15, 631 }1, 070, 709
Migs ee 153, 306 | 388,022] 333, 461 |118, 080 | 14, 573 |1, 007, 442
June ue ae 160, 476 307, 504 229, 619 | 90, 755 | 13, 047 801, 401
Toca ewe 1, 039, 704 |2, 680, 034 |2, 218, 747 1436, 068 |120, 077 |6, 494, 630

TABLE 2.—Groups of schoolchildren visiting the Smithsonian Institution during the

Year and month

year ended June 80, 1960

Number cf | Number of Year and month Number of | Number of
children groups children groups

1960

21, 072 675 || January__--_--- 8, 898 289

8, 287 Sl Taiehebruaryse. ose 15, 236 378

3, 159 1635p Mianche sss 31, 626 807

16, 776 499%); Aprileeen Sane 78, 896 1, 658

19, 292 S15 lela yaa eee 94, 807 2, 052

10, 24 290 ia| |Pdunessot=s se 35, 723 812

Total.._-| 344, 020 8, 449
Report on the United States
National Museum

Sm: Ihave the honor to submit the following report on the condition
and operations of the U.S. National Museum for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1960:

COLLECTIONS

During the year 2,014,443 specimens were added to the national
collections and distributed among the eight departments as follows:
Anthropology, 57,202; zoology, 346,610; botany, 56,989; geology,
33,079; science and technology, 1,433; arts and manufactures, 1,075;
civil history, 1,514,274; and Armed Forces history, 3,780. Included
in the above total were 1,488,864 stamps, 215,686 insects, and 75,014
marine invertebrates. Most of the specimens were acquired as gifts
from individuals or as tranfers from Government departments and
agencies. The Annual Report of the Museum, published as a
separate document, contains a detailed list of the year’s acquisitions,
of which the more important are summarized below. Catalog entries
in all departments now total 54,007,823.

Anthropology—Among the items transferred to the Smithsonian
Institution were a number of interesting ethnological objects presented
to President Dwight D. Eisenhower during his recent eastern good-
will tour. Included was a full-size Iranian desk of Khatamkari
inlay made by the foremost craftsmen in the reign of Reza Shad and
used by him and the present Shah. An excellent Mende (Sierra
Leone) helmet mask, complete with raffia fringe, of the type used in
initiating girls into the Sande Society, was presented by Mrs. Virginia
Pollak. Two hundred specimens from the Wai Wai Indians, living
in British Guiana, collected by Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator,
and Dr. Betty J. Meggers, research associate, division of archeology,
were turned over to the division of ethnology. Included in this unique
collection are wooden stools, cassava graters, pottery vessels, articles
of clothing and ornament, tools, weapons, and utensils,

Mrs. E. E. Daman of Louisville, Ky., presented a fine Chinese
imperial dragon robe of the late Ch’ing dynasty. An excellent walrus-
ivory cribbage board, carved in relief with human and animal motifs,
collected near Nome, Alaska, was received from Mr. and Mrs. W.
De Witt of Erie, Pa. Articles of Korean costumes made of colorful

Q
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

silk brocade with subdued designs were donated by Lt. Col. and Mrs.
G. W. Kelley of Alexandria, Va.

A special effort was made by the division of physical anthropology
to incorporate in the collections the backlog of River Basin Surveys
materials transferred from the Bureau of American Ethnology. The
most outstanding transfer consists of 148 skeletons from the Sully
site in the Oahe Reservoir, S. Dak., occupied in prehistoric times by
the Arikara tribe. An important collection of 167 plaster-of-paris
face masks of various peoples, mainly from Africa, acquired from Dr.
Lidio Cipriani of Florence, Italy, help to fill in the ethnic gaps in the
division’s large group of face masks and busts. The Cipriani col-
lection will also provide masks for display units in the exhibits mod-
ernization program. A new cast of the skull and lower jaw of the
Skhiil V, one of the Palestine Neanderthal specimens, was received
as an exchange from the Peabody Museum, Harvard University. The
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research presented
a cast of the upper jaw of Zinjanthropus boiset, a lower Pleistocene
australopithecine from Tanganyika. A bust of Dr. AleS Hrdlicka,
Jate curator of the division of physical anthropology, sculptured by
Milan Knobloch, was received as a gift from the National Museum
Society in Prague, Czechoslovakia.

A total of 56,271 specimens was added to the collections of the
division of archeology during the year. Objects from a prehistoric
Oklahoma mound consisting of rare textiles, engraved conch shells,
pottery vessels, native copper artifacts, pearls, stone pipes, and chipped
stone comprised the outstanding acquisition. Other items came from
the Spiro Mound site in Le Flore County, dating probably from the
13th or 14th centuries of the Christian Era and representing a high
point in the ceremonial art of the Southeastern United States.

Zoology.—The division of mammals received 4,242 specimens com-
prising 50 accessions. Nearly half of this number came from Panama
and the Canal Zone under a collecting program being carried out by
Associate Curator Charles O. Handley in cooperation with the Gorgas
Memorial Laboratory, units of the Department of Defense, and also
individuals. Through Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, of the U.S. Naval Medi-
cal Research Unit No. 2, more than 300 mammals were received from
Formosa. Dr. Robert Traub, of the Army Research and Development
Command, contributed important collections from Malaya, Borneo,
and western Mexico. The division also received specimens obtained
in Indiana by Russell E. Mumford, Dwight M. Lindsay, and Ralph
D. Kirkpatrick; in Lancaster County, Va., by C. O. Handley, Louis
T. Dymond, and D. I. Rhymer; in Maryland by C. P. Lingebach; and
in New Hampshire by Bernard Feinstein.

Two lots of Panamanian birds, comprising 1,313 bird skins, 93
skeletons, and 1 carcass, all collected by Dr. A. Wetmore, were ac-
SECRETARY’S REPORT Tt

quired by the division of birds. Other significant accessions were
749 skins, 43 skeletons, and 1 alcoholic specimen of North American
birds transferred from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 246 birds
from Formosa transferred from the U.S. Naval Medical Research
Unit No. 2; 123 bird skins from Colombia by exchange with the
Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogoté; and 236 birds from
Bechuanaland and Southern Rhodesia obtained by purchase.

Small but noteworthy lots of reptile and amphibian material were
received from areas previously unrepresented in the national col-
lections. The most interesting of these are: 14 reptiles from Saudi
Arabia, donated by Dr. R. L. Pefily ; 6 reptiles from Swan Island near
Honduras, transferred from the Coast and Geodetic Survey; and 23
specimens of Leurognathus marmoratus, a very rare species of sala-
mander, from Georgia, the gift of Dr. B.S. Martof.

During the year 8,500 fresh-water fishes, collected by W. R. Taylor
and R. H. Kanazawa in the southern Appalachians, and 2,285 deep-
sea fishes from the western Atlantic, transferred from the Fish and
Wildlife Service, were accessioned. A 15-foot thresher shark, a cast
of which will be placed on exhibition, was donated by Harvey Bullis,
Jr. This shark is unique because of its long tail.

The scale-insect (coccid) collection deposited by the Department
of Entomology, Cornell University, estimated to contain about 50,000
specimens including many types, comprised the most important acces-
sion in the division of insects. The John S. Caldwell collection of
nearly 13,000 lanternflies and psyllids and the Mark Robinson col-
lection of 16,210 scarab beetles were also acquired. About 16,969
miscellaneous insects from various parts of the world were given by
N. L. H. Krauss; O. L. Cartwright donated an additional 10,000 scarab
beetles from his personal collection, and he also collected 2,774 speci-
mens for the Museum; Dr. K. V. Krombein contributed 3,467 speci-
mens of mostly Hymenoptera and Lepidoptera; and Dennis E.
Puleston presented 2,764 miscellaneous arthropods collected by him in
Tahiti.

This fiscal year was a record-breaking one for accessions of marine
invertebrates. The most important and comprehensive of these are
6,900 shrimps and other invertebrates from the tropical and sub-
tropical western Atlantic transferred from the Fish and Wildlife
Service; a lot of 12,475 Antarctic invertebrates received from the Navy
Hydrographic Office; about 2,400 identified medusae from the Arctic
Ocean received from the Department of the Navy; more than 18,000
crustaceans from northern Alaska presented by Dr. E. E. Reed of
Colorado State University; and over 24,000 crustaceans and other
invertebrates, mostly from Lake Pontchartrain, received from Tulane
University.
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

The Frances Lea Chamberlain bequest provided funds for the pur-
chase of the C. R. Laws collection of about 12,500 mollusks assembled
by one of New Zealand’s outstanding malacologists. The second
largest accession was a gift from W. E. Old, Jr., of 8,200 mollusks,
representing many rare and otherwise important species. Two note-
worthy collections of Pacific marine mollusks were received, totaling
about 3,900 specimens.

Botany—Among the important plant collections received as ex-
changes were 3,793 specimens from the Muséum National d’Histoire
Naturelle, Paris, including 3,050 ferns, many of them isotypes, and
valuable historic collections such as those of L’Herminier from Guada-
loupe, Leprieur from French Guiana, and Bourgeau from Mexico;
5,808 plants of Indonesia from Herbarium Bogoriense, Bogor, Indo-
nesia; and 2,582 photographs of type specimens received from the
Chicago Natural History Museum. Other collections include 896
specimens acquired from the Texas Research Foundation, Renner,
Tex., and collected by Dr. C. L. Lundell and Percy Gentle in Texas,
Mexico, and Central America; 587 specimens received from the Gray
Herbarium, Harvard University, and collected in Costa Rica by Miss
Edith Scammon and in Peru by Dr. and Mrs. Rolla M. Tryon; and
162 plants of Israel from the Hebrew University, Jerusalem.

Gifts included 4,498 plants collected on Trinidad, Tobago, and
other West Indian islands by Dr. Richard S. Cowan on the 1959
Smithsonian-Bredin Caribbean Expedition; 5,476 plants presented
by Dr. José Cuatrecasas, collected by him in Colombia; 1,226 excellent
specimens of Pennsylvania plants given by Muhlenberg College, Allen-
town, Pa.; 396 specimens, largely ferns, constituting the personal
herbarium of the late Frank N. Irving, received from Mrs. Florence
Skougaard, Washington, D.C.; and 855 specimens collected in Santa
Catarina, Brazil, by Rev. Pe. Raulino Reitz and R. Klein, received
from the Herbirio “Barbosa Rodrigues,” Santa Catarina.

Curator C. V. Morton collected 1,395 plants in boreal Quebec and
Ontario while on a field trip preceding the IX International Botani-
cal Congress at Montreal; and Robert R. Ireland obtained on field
trips 2,678 mosses from Virginia, Missouri, and Kentucky. Trans-
ferred from the U.S. Geological Survey were 1,868 plants of Polynesia
collected by Dr. F. R. Fosberg and 1,848 plants of Alaska collected
by Dr. L. A. Spetzman. Obtained from Dr. M. Jacobs, Leiden,
Netherlands, were 611 plants collected by him in Borneo, and from
the University of Zurich 615 specimens from New Caledonia.

Geology.—Among the important gifts received in the division of
mineralogy and petrology are: A 740.25-carat carbonado diamond,
French Equatorial Africa, from Diamond Distributors, Inc., the
largest mass of black diamond in any museum in the United States and
SECRETARY’S REPORT 13

possibly in the world; kurnakovite, Boron, Calif., from Arch Oboler;
and a fine Australian opal weighing 25.5 carats, a part of the original
Washington A. Roebling collection, from Mrs. Donald Roebling.

Outstanding among the mineral specimens received in exchange are:
Arsenopyrite from Mexico, metaheinrichite from Oregon, inderite
from California, the Ahlfeld collection of Bolivian minerals, and a
selection from the Pennypacker collection of minerals of Cumberland,
England. Newly described species acquired in exchange are: Stron-
tioginorite, Germany; orthochamosite, Czechoslovakia; gastunite,
Arizona; eardleyite, Utah; belyankinite and labuntsovite, U.S.S.R.

About 457 specimens were added to the Roebling collection by pur-
chase from the Roebling Fund and by exchange. Among these the
following are outstanding: Danburite, Mexico; apophyllite and
spodumene, Brazil; and tourmaline, California. Among the speci-
mens of outstanding exhibition quality added to the Canfield collection
by purchase are: Corundum, Tanganyika; hemimorphite, Mexico;
opal, Australia; hubnerite, Colorado; stibnite, California; and the
newly described yoderite.

Gems acquired for the Isaac Lea collection by purchase through
the Chamberlain Fund include a cat’s-eye sillimanite from South
Carolina; a tourmaline cat’s-eye from Brazil weighing 76 carats; a
29-carat yellow apatite from Mexico; a 375-carat rose quartz from
Brazil; a cut stone of microlite weighing 3.7 carats from Virginia;
and a 48.2-carat colorless zircon from Ceylon.

Several meteorites new to the collection were received in exchange:
Lillaverke, Varik, Laughalsen, Muonionalusta II, Ekeby, Follinge,
Hedaskoga, and Homark, all from Sweden; Ramsdorf, Germany;
Raco, Argentina; and Aswan, Egypt. A portion of the Al Rais,
Saudi Arabia, meteorite was received as a gift from the Saudi Arabia
Government, and W. S. Houston donated a portion of the Winkler,
Kans., fall.

The most important gifts received by the division of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany are: 600 Cambrian invertebrate fossils
including types from the Wind River Mountains from Dr. Christina
L. Balk; 2 lots of Cretaceous and Tertiary Foraminifera from Trini-
dad donated by Dr. Hans M. Bolli; 70 figured specimens of pelagic
Foraminifera from the north and equatorial Pacific Ocean from
Dr. John S. Bradshaw; 2,025 invertebrate fossils from eastern
Fiji from the University of Rochester; 226 invertebrate fossils from
MacKenzie Valley, Northwest Territories, Canada, from Alfred Lenz;
9 giant Eocene oysters from North Carolina from Eston Miller;
44 holotypes of Foraminifera from the Cretaceous and Lower Tertiary
of New Jersey from R. K. Olsson; 56 Eocene crabs from Venezuela
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

from Dr. W. M. Furnish; and 13 type specimens of Mississippian
sponges from Montana from Dr. R. C. Gutschick.

Funds from the income of the Walcott bequest permitted the pur-
chase of 37 invertebrate fossils from Czechoslovakia, 1,095 specimens
from the Pennsylvanian of Oklahoma, 189 invertebrates from Nor-
mandy, France, 85 rare brachiopods from Sicily, 1,146 Mesozoic
echinoids from France, and 507 invertebrate fossils from Belgium.

Important exchanges received through the year included 160 Devo-
nian invertebrate fossils from Northwest Territories, Canada, from
Dr. W. G. E. Caldwell; 115 fossil mollusks and corals from the Island
of Pavuvu in the South Pacific from James E. Conkin; and 1,100
Tertiary invertebrate fossils from Japan from Tohoku Imperial
University.

Paleontological fieldwork by Dr. C. L. Gazin and Franklin Pearce
under the Walcott Fund resulted in the collection of 200 fossil
mammals from various Eocene strata of southwestern Wyoming.
Among other outstanding additions to the vertebrate paleontology
collections received as gifts are two record-sized tracks of carnivorous
dinosaurs from Upper Cretaceous rocks in Utah, presented by the
Kaiser Steel Corporation, and a unique skull of the Cretaceous fish
Anamogmius zitteli donated by Dr. J. Lloyd Watkins, Wichita
Falls, Tex.

Science and technology.—An outstanding collection of 21 astrolabes
was acquired by the division of physical sciences through the gener-
osity of the International Business Machines Corporation. These
instruments, representing the craftsmanship of Persia, India, North
Africa, and Europe, date from the 18th to the 19th centuries. An
equally elegant 16th-century instrument, presented by Lessing J.
Rosenwald, is a folding sundial and compass to which several engraved
maps and travelers’ itineraries of central Europe have been added.

Other important additions included the magnetometer used by
Alexander Dallas Bache at Girard College (1840-45), from the Car-
negie Institution; the first cash register of James Ritty (1879), from
the National Cash Register Co.; several examples of the first nylon
produced, from E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.; and a replica of
the experimental furnace used by Dr. Alwin Mittasch in connection
with the development of the commercial synthesis of ammonia (1909-
12), from the Badische Anilin and Soda-Fabrik AG.

The tools and machine of the famous American instrument firm
of Wm. Bond & Son, Boston, were acquired by the division of mechan-
ical and civil engineering. Included are a chronometer dated 1812,
the first made in this country, and an example of William Bond’s
important invention, the chronograph. Other important acquisitions
are a rare wooded-bed engine lathe of about 1830 and several lathes
SECRETARY’S REPORT 15

and associated machine-shop fixtures of about 10 years later. These
items were located in an abandoned Rhode Island shop through the
help of Helen I. Fraser, of the New London Historical Society, and
James Kleinschmidt, of Mystic Seaport, Conn.

Among a number of significant builder’s half-models received by
the division of transportation were two Cape Cod catboats from
Marthas Vineyard, the gift of Manuel S. Roberts. The collections of
the section of land transportation were augmented by the locomotive
“Pioneer” and a Camden & Amboy Railroad coach from the Penn-
sylvania Railroad Co.

The division of electricity received from the National Bureau of
Standards several wavemeters used in the standardization of radio
equipment in the 1920’s, and from the University of Michigan a
Fleming cynometer and several early magnetrons. The Massachusetts
Institute of Technology donated the G. H. Clark collection of docu-
ments and photographs on the history of radio.

Among the accessions acquired by the division of medical sciences
are a 13th-century metal mortar and pestle made in Nishapur, Persia;
an 18th-century microscope made by Dollond of London; a 19th-
century set of brass Troy nested weights; and one of the earliest
types of ionization chambers designed for practicing radiologists.

Arts and manufactures—Among specially noteworthy fabrics ac-
quired by the division of textiles are a collection of Jacquard-woven
pictures, a 19th-century warp-printed scene requiring over 100 blocks
to produce one repeat, and a roller-printed portrait on silk, all pre-
sented by Arthur E. Wullschleger. An interesting lot of 19th-cen-
tury plush, beaded, and embroidered fabrics was presented by Dr.
and Mrs. Leonard Carmichael. George C. Claghorn donated a hand-
woven linen tablecloth. An unusual damask tablecloth, woven in
1860, with scenes from stories in the Old Testament, was presented
by Mrs. Loren E. Souers. The first pair of experimental nylon hose
made in 19387 and several bobbins of the early experimental nylon
yarn were deposited by E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.

From Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower the division of ceramics and
glass received a 13-piece porcelain tea set, produced about 1770 in
Wirtemberg, Germany, by the Ludwigsburg factory, one of the great-
est of the 18th-century porcelain manufactories. The set was pre-
sented to President and Mrs. Eisenhower by His Excellency Theodor
Heuss, President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Another gen-
erous gift of 102 pieces of American and European glass was received
from Mrs. Clara W. Berwick. An outstanding art object in this
group is a dark-blue glass plate with an enameled decoration taken
from the 12th-century mosiac in one of the domes of St. Mark’s Cathe-
dral in Venice.
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Among the particularly fine prints acquired by the division of
graphic arts are an impression of a chiaroscuro woodcut, “David and
Goliath,” by one of the earliest masters of this art, Ugo da Carpi
(1455-1523) ; two color etchings by Johan Taylor (1650-1700), the
earliest pioneer in this medium; a large color mezzotint, “Cupid
Shaping His Bow,” by Edouard Gautier-Dagoty (1717-1785) ; and
a chiaroscuro woodcut, “Pluto,” by the Dutch artist Hendrick Goltzius
(1558-1616). Outstanding gifts of the year included a collection of
255 portrait engravings by European artists of the 16th to 19th cen-
turies presented by Col. and Mrs. Robert P. Hare, III, representing
the work of such artists as Wierex, Bolswert, Leoni, Muller, Audran,
and Nanteuil, and including contemporary portraits of such person-
ages as Philip II, Charles I, Galileo, Sir Thomas Chaloner, and
Thomas Carlyle.

Several specimens representative of the development of oilfield
exploration equipment were acquired by the division of industrial
cooperation, one of these being a 1925 Suess torsion balance. A port-
able pipeline pumping unit as developed by S. S. Smith of the Shell
Oil Co., and first used in the North African campaign of 1942-43,
was transferred from the Department of the Army. Among the
items acquired for the hall of nuclear energy were a diffusion cloud
chamber and a neutrine detection chamber, transferred with the co-
operation of the National Science Foundation. Everett L. DeGolyer,
Jr., presented a memento of his late father, Dr. Everett Lee De-
Golyer, a pioneer in American oilfield development and a former
Regent of the Smithsonian Institution. This electromagnetic detec-
tor for reflection seismographic exploration was developed by Dr. J.
Clarence Karcher with Dr. DeGolyer’s encouragement and is sym-
bolic of the predominance of this technique in oilfield discovery since
1925.

A large number of farm implements and machines were acquired
by the division of agriculture and forest products, many of which came
from farms in Ohio. One of these is an early type of horse-drawn
check-row cornplanter, donated by Clayton Kantner. Another is
the Hart Parr tractor donated by the Oliver Corporation. This ma-
chine is the third tractor made by the Hart Parr Co., which commenced
manufacturing in 1902. It symbolizes the switch from steam to
gasoline on American farms and commemorates the general adoption of
the name “tractor” as descriptive of gasoline traction engines. A com-
panion piece to the big tractor is a Wallis Model K tractor donated by
Massey-Ferguson, Inc. This model appeared in 1919 and is a modi-
fication of the 1913 Wallis Cub, the first of the frameless tractors.
Another item is a McCormick “daisy” self-rake reaper donated by
the Farmers’ Museum of the New York State Historical Association.
SECRETARY’S REPORT Ly

Civil history —The division of political history received a number
of interesting donations. President Dwight D. Eisenhower presented
a group of intricately carved figures, chariots, and horses, in ivory
and sandalwood, representing a scene from the Mahabbarata, given
to him by the President of India. Among the items given this year
by Lincoln Isham were the gold-and-enamel bracelet worn by Mrs.
Lincoln as First Lady and a black onyx lapel watch worn by her after
the death of her husband. The dessert plates from the state china used
at the White House during the administration of President James
K. Polk were given by Mr. and Mrs. B. Woodruff Weaver. Additions
to the collection of American period costumes included a wedding
dress of about 1800, given by Mrs, Susan Iglehart; an 18th-century
woman’s brocade caraco jacket, presented by Mrs. James L. Collins,
Jr.; and two dresses worn in Maryland in Colonial days, donated by
Miss Katherine K. Scott.

From the family of Harry T. Peters the division of cultural history
received the America-on-stone collection, comprising nearly 2,000
lithographs by printmakers other than Currier and Ives. Political
cartoons, sporting pictures, and urban views are only a few of the
many classifications in which the collection has authoritative repre-
sentation. The Cooper Union Museum donated a group of 89
musical instruments, predominantly plucked-string instruments such
as lutes and guitars, which were needed to supplement existing col-
lections. An important transfer from the National Park Service
comprises 37 pieces of mid-19th-century cast-iron architectural ele-
ments from the waterfront district of St. Louis.

Among important accessions received in the division of philately
and postal history is the A. H. Wilheim collection of United States
plate number and position blocks of stamps of the period between
1894 and 1958. Nearly every printing plate used in the production of
United States stamps is represented in all positions. An excellent
reference collection of Japan’s 1-sen value postage stamps of 1872 was
donated by L. W. Christenson. John P. V. Heinmuller presented one
album of Zeppelin covers, completing the transaction started last year.
B. H. Homan, Jr., transferred his previously lent specimens of Saxony
stamps as a gift. Supreme Court Justice John M. Harlan donated
a considerable number of early United States covers extracted from
the papers of his grandfather, Supreme Court Justice John M.
Harlan (1833-1911).

The most important accession received by the division of numis-
matics is the collection of Russian coins and medals struck in the name
of Czar Peter the Great, donated by Willis H. Du Pont. Mr. Du Pont
also presented the 11 volumes of Grand Duke Mikhailovich’s monu-
mental and very rare monograph on Russian coins. The Grand
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Duke’s collection comprises a virtually complete representation of
Russian bronze and silver coins struck since 1700, paralleled only by
the Hermitage collection in Leningrad. Another noteworthy ac-
cession is the anonymous donation of 736 Canadian silver and copper
coins, including the rare and famous 50-cent piece of 1921 formerly
owned by King Farouk of Egypt.

Armed Forces history.—One of the three original 49-star flags
prepared in advance of the new design was presented to the division
of military history by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Two ex-
ceptionally fine swords owned by Gen. Benjamin Lincoln of the Con-
tinental Army were received from one of his descendants, Mrs. Henry
K. Cowen. One was carried by the General during the Revolution
and the other was presented to him by General Washington after
General Lincoln received the surrender of Lord Cornwallis at
Yorktown.

Outstanding among the naval material received during the year
was a collection of 134 builder’s half-models of 19th-century war-
ships, constituting a veritable national treasure by virtue of its ex-
ceptional scope, from the United States Naval Academy. Other
notable accessions included models of the U.S.S. Pennsylvania (the
birthplace of carrier aviation), the aircraft carrier Shangri-La, and
the dirigible Akron, 18 oil paintings illustrating United States Coast
Guard operations in World War II, from the Treasury Department;
and a collection of relics of the Spanish American War and World
War II, from the United States Coast Guard Academy.

The collections were further enhanced by the purchase of the
W. Stokes Kirk collection of United States military insignia and
accouterments, totaling approximately 3,000 items. It is considered
by many authorities to be unmatched in scope, volume, and rarity.

EXPLORATION AND FIELDWORK

In connection with his participation in the 75th anniversary meet-
ing of the Ohio Historical Society, April 27-May 2, at Columbus,
¥. M. Setzler, head curator of anthropology, examined several impor-
tant archeological sites in Ohio, including Mound City, the Hopeton
Works, Cedar Banks Mound, and the site of the original Adena Mound
on the estate of the first Governor of Ohio, Thomas Worthington.
While at Columbus he selected specimens from the study collections
of the Ohio State Museum, to be cast for use in the moderni-
zation of the Smithsonian’s North American Archeology Hall.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of archeology, represented the
Smithsonian Institution at the Darwin Centennial Celebration, held
at the University of Chicago, November 24-26. This was an out-
standing occasion, being attended by worldwide experts in various
SECRETARY'S REPORT 19

fields of evolutionary philosophy who conducted and participated
in panel meetings. The published results are sure to be of interest
to all biologists and other scientists concerned in any way with
evolution and its background. Subsequently, Dr. Wedel attended
the 17th Plains Archeological Conference, in Lincoln, Nebr., where
he reestablished contacts with many of the workers in the area of
his principal interest, conferred with various archeologists of the
River Basin Surveys, and examined recent archeological collections.
Early in May Dr. Wedel attended the 25th annual meeting of the
Society for American Archeology, at New Haven, Conn., presenting
a paper on the progress of research in Great Plains prehistory. He
also studied various important manuscripts in the Western Ameri-
cana collections of the Yale University Library particularly re-
lating to the Missouri River region and the Black Hills.

Dr. Clifford Evans, associate curator of archeology, and Dr. Betty
J. Meggers, research associate, late in December attended the 58th
annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association in
Mexico City, where they delivered a paper on “Archeological Evalua-
tion of Obsidian Dating.” The gathering in Mexico City, they report,
had the flavor of an international meeting, which left a favorable
impression on delegates who seldom attend anthropological meet-
ings outside the limits of the United States. The Mexicans were
considerate hosts, and all visitors were highly impressed with the
Institute of Anthropology and History and the various museums
and exhibits in the Mexico City area. Following the meeting, Drs.
Evans and Meggers spent several weeks in Mexico, examining arche-
ological collections and sites in Tabasco, Chiapas, and Oaxaca, as
well as the environs of Mexico City. Dr. Evans arranged to have
certain important type collections sent to the Smithsonian, saw some
archeological sites of major importance in Mesoamerica, familiar-
ized himself with study and exhibit collections in several regional
museums, and made contact with many colleagues.

Dr. Evans attended the 25th annual meeting of the Society for
American Archeology at New Haven, Conn., May 4-7, and consulted
with various archeologists involved in the Institute of Andean Re-
search program seeking archeological connections between North and
South America and Middle America. This group, including Drs.
Evans and Meggers, will undertake an elaborate research program in
the region during the next few years.

Dr. Evans and Dr. Meggers left on June 25 for extended study
in various European museums, where they propose to do research on
comparative archeological collections from North and South America.
This work is undertaken in connection with their long-term program
of archeological survey and excavation in the tropical forest region
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

of South America and is partially supported by a grant from the
American Philosophical Society.

At a meeting of the American Oriental Society in New Haven,
Conn., late in March, Dr. Gus Van Beek, associate curator of archeol-
ogy, delivered a paper on one of his research projects, “The Multiple-
piece Technique of the South Arabian Potter.” While in New Haven
he also studied the exhibits of the Peabody Museum and the Babylo-
nian Collection in the Sterling Memorial Library, acquiring infor-
mation about the technique of preparing impressions of seals which
will be useful in the modernization of the Old World archeological
exhibits. In May he worked in the library of the Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, preparing a bibliography of major books and
articles dealing with excavated archeological sites in the Republic of
Sudan. This work has been useful in his research on the archeological
potentialities of that part of the Sudan involved in the Nubia Salvage
Project.

Dr. S. H. Riesenberg, curator of ethnology, at the end of December
attended the American Anthropological Association meeting in Mexico
City, where he delivered a paper on “Political Advancement on
Ponape: Theory and Fact.” Subsequent to the meetings he examined
collections in several museums and visited the archeological sites at
Teotihuacan and the village of Toluca. Between February 28 and
March 8, Dr. Riesenberg furthered his Pacific ethnological studies by
working at the Houghton Library of Harvard University and the
Marine Historical Society and Whaling Museum at New Bedford,
Mass. He was particularly concerned with examining and abstract-
ing ethnohistorical materials from 19th-century manuscript records of
the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. At
New Bedford there exist similar records in the important collections
of logs, journals, and manuscripts on early Pacific voyages. These
library studies have enabled Dr. Riesenberg to make further progress
on his projected ethnohistorical study of the Carolines, which is part
of his analysis of Micronesian culture.

Dr. Gordon D. Gibson, associate curator of ethnology, early in
September did research at the American Museum of Natural History
and the Museum of Primitive Art in New York. Subsequently he
attended the meetings of the African Studies Associations at Boston
University and did research in the study collections of the Boston
Museum of Fine Arts and the Peabody Museum of American
Archeology and Ethnology at Harvard University. The collection of
African ethnological materials at the American Museum is an
extensive one, and Dr. Gibson is discussing the possibility of arranging
exchanges that would permit the Smithsonian Institution to improve
its collections and provide material for a new exhibit hall in this
SECRETARY'S REPORT a1

field. He especially studied collections from South West Africa and
Angola, a region he expects to visit in 1960.

Late in December Dr. Gibson attended the annual meeting of the
American Anthropological Association in Mexico City and presented
a paper to the session on African ethnology on “Levels of Residence
among the Herero.” Subsequently, with several other delegates, he
went to Palenque in Chiapas Province, an area of great interest
anthropologically. The visitors examined the famous pyramid con-
taining a tomb which is said to destroy the distinction formerly
drawn between Egyptian and American pyramids. Until the dis-
covery of this tomb, it had been stated that American pyramids were
never tombs, but only the bases for religious structures. Dr. Gibson
also examined anthropological collections in Mexico City.

In preparing for his forthcoming field trip Dr. Gibson visited New
York and Cambridge, Mass., in March to investigate sources of field
equipment. In Cambridge he consulted with Laurence Marshall,
director of several expeditions in southern Angola and South West
Africa, about problems of field maintenance and motion-picture work
in those areas.

Dr. Eugene I. Knez, associate curator of ethnology, attended the
annual meeting of the Association for Asian Studies in New York
City, April 10-12. The scientific papers dealt with the people and
cultures of southern, southeastern, and eastern Asia. In Cleveland,
following this meeting, Dr. Knez examined the pipe collection of
Dr. Leo Stoor and visited staff members of the Cleveland Museum
of Natural History to discuss possible exchange of ethnological
material.

Early in December, Dr. T. Dale Stewart, curator of physical an-
thropology, visited Guatemala to confer with staff members and
advisers of the Institute of Nutrition of Central America and Panama.
The problem involved was the planning of a 5-year program directed
toward the investigation of atherosclerosis in Latin America popu-
lations. Dr. Stewart participated as a consultant in matters of race.

On December 26 Dr. Stewart went to Mexico City primarily to
attend the meetings of the American Anthropological Association,
where he delivered two papers—“The Evidence of Physical Anthro-
pology Bearing on the Peopling of the New World” and “The Chi-
nook Sign of Freedom: a Unique Record of Cranial Deformity.”
With other anthropologists he joined a tour to the Mayan ruin of
Palenque, a ruin which makes it easier for an anthropologist to com-
prehend the problems surrounding the rise and fall of the Mayan
civilization. He also visited Lake Patzcuaro in western Mexico, where
he was able to observe living Tarascan Indians, a group which has
figured prominently of late in the literature of physical anthropology.
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

In continuation of archeological research in Iraq, Dr. Stewart de-
parted for that country on June 1. The 1960 Shanidar Expedition,
jointly sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and Columbia Uni-
versity, extends the collaboration between Dr. Stewart and Dr. Ralph
S. Solecki, formerly on the staff of the division of archeology.
Dr. Stewart plans to work at the Iraq Museum in Baghdad restoring,
casting, and studying the adult skeletal remains recovered in 1957 by
Dr. Solecki in the Mousterian layer of Shanidar Cave, and will then
join the rest of the party at the Cave to help remove other remains.

Several members of the staff of the department of botany, Dr. Ly-
man B. Smith, Dr. Richard S. Cowan, Dr. Velva E. Rudd, C. V. Mor-
ton, and Dr. Mason F. Hale, Jr., with Dr. A. C. Smith, Director of the
Museum of Natural History, participated in the IX International
Botanical Congress in Montrealin August. This important Congress,
which convenes only once every five years, in 1959 attracted more than
3,000 botanists from all parts of the world and was held in simul-
taneous sessions at McGill University and the University of Mont-
real. It was preceded from August 16 to 19 by meetings of the
section of nomenclature, which involved several of the Smithsonian’s
botanists.

In May and June Dr. Lyman B. Smith, curator of phanerogams,
visited several major herbaria in California in pursuit of his studies
of the plant families Bromeliaceae, Xyridaceae, and Velloziaceae.
He also studied a number of collections of living Bromeliaceae and of
the genus Begonia in Los Angeles and conferred with various mem-
bers of the Bromeliad Society and the American Begonia Society.

In June Dr. Richard S. Cowan, associate curator of phanerogams,
visited several American museums to observe natural-history exhibits,
to test audio-commentary systems, and to study exhibition techniques
in connection with the proposed Hall of Plant Life at the Smithsonian.

Continuing her studies of the family Leguminosae, Dr. Velva E.
Rudd, associate curator of phanerogams, visited several herbaria
during the year. Following her attendance at the IX International
Botanical Congress in Montreal, she spent three days at the New
York Botanical Garden examining types and other specimens of
genera closely related to Ormosia, and also the available Mexican
material of papilionate legumes of the tribe Sophoreae. She made
similar studies of the same groups at the herbarium of the Chicago
Natural History Museum in connection with her attendance at the
annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science in December. In May she spent three weeks at California
herbaria examining plant specimens and accumulating data pertaining
to a treatment of the papilionate legumes of Mexico.

In continuation of his studies of the large family Melastomataceae,
Dr. J. J. Wurdack, associate curator of phanerogams, visited the New
SECRETARY’S REPORT 23

York Botanical Garden in May, giving particular attention to the
family as represented in the state of Santa Catarina, Brazil. To
facilitate his continuing studies of the Melastomataceae, he borrowed
numerous specimens for more detailed investigations.

During the first part of August, prior to his attendance at the IX
International Botanical Congress in Montreal, C. V. Morton, curator
of ferns, participated in a field trip to James Bay. This included
explorations in the Laurentian forest, the boreal forest of northern
Ontario, the Hudson Bay lowlands, and a part of the Great Lakes
forest region. A collection of nearly 900 numbers, plus many dupli-
cates, was obtained for the U.S. National Herbarium. Following
his attendance at the Congress, Mr. Morton spent 10 days in the high
Sierra Nevada of California collecting specimens for the Museum.
Subsequently he visited herbaria in the San Francisco region, exam-
ining fern collections and conferring with staff members. Toward
the end of the fiscal year Mr. Morton left for Europe to pursue his
studies of various groups of ferns in several herbaria, beginning in
the herbarium of the Muséum National d’Histoire Naturelle in Paris.

Between March 9 and April 11 Dr. Mason E. Hale, Jr., acting curator
of cryptogams, journeyed to southern Mexico to collect lichens for a
monographic revision of Parmelia. This expedition was sponsored
in part by the National Science Foundation, and Dr. Hale was
accompanied by Thomas R. Soderstrom, a graduate student from
Yale University. During a 30-day period of uninterrupted work,
the two botanists traveled about 2,500 miles in Veracruz, Chiapas,
Oaxaca, and Michoacan, collecting approximately 2,200 numbers of
cryptogams with many duplicates. This was the first significant
exploration for cryptogams in southern Mexico, and many new dis-
tribution records, as well as discoveries of new taxa, were made.
The specimens, which are now being prepared for study in Washing-
ton, will serve as a basis for specialized studies of cryptogams of the
region and particularly as a partial basis for Dr. Hale’s revision of
the large and widespread genus Parmelia. During the first three
days of June Dr. Hale visited the herbarium of Duke University to
study lichen specimens and consult with colleagues on mutual prob-
lems concerning the genus Parmelia, in connection with his mono-
graphic revision.

In mid-July, Robert R. Ireland, Jr., assistant curator of crypto-
gams, collected cryptogams for the National Museum particularly
in the Highlands area in the southwestern corner of North Carolina,
and in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park on the North
Carolina-Tennessee border. He obtained more than 800 specimens,
mostly bryophytes, which will serve as a partial basis for his study
of the moss flora of the southern Appalachians.

579421°*—61——-3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

In December, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, head curator of the depart-
ment of zoology, attended the meetings of the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, in Chicago. As chairman of
Section F, he gave an address on “Current Changes in the Environ-
ment of Zoological Research” at the zoologists’ annual dinner. Dur-
ing the meetings he visited colleagues in the Chicago Natural History
Museum and discussed problems of mutual interest in connection with
his current research.

The detailed survey of the birdlife of the Isthmus of Panama under
Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research associate and retired Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, continued early in January in the
tract of land on the Rio Frijoles near Gamboa that, through a coopera-
tive arrangement with the Naval authorities in the Canal Zone, is
now available as an adjunct to the reserve on Barro Colorado Island.
Dr. Wetmore spent the last half of January investigating several
localities in the Pearl Islands in the Gulf of Panama. Collections
made on the islands of Contadora, Chapera, Saboga, Cafias, Rey,
Santelmo, Malaga, and Bayoneta yielded useful details of distribution.
The remainder of the season from early February to the end of
March he devoted to studies near the Costa Rican boundary in west-
ern Chiriqui. The main station, through the kindness of Pablo
Brackney, was at the finca Palo Santo at 4,200 feet elevation, near
the base of Cerro Picacho. From here collections were made through
the plateau section at Tisingal, around the lakes and elsewhere, and
in the mountains to an elevation of 7,500 feet on Volein Bart. A
brief visit to the Boquete area on the opposite side of the volcano
added to the collections several species of birds not found previously.
During the first part of March the work was concentrated on the
lowland region below Concepcion, where, through the friendly atten-
tion of Félix Espinosa, the party located on a finea at 2,200 feet ele-
vation. Tracts of forest were accessible in the upper valley of the
Rio Escarrea. The main investigations were made lower down
below Alanje, travel being by jeep over the sandy trails of the coastal
plain. The work here extended across savanna country with oc-
casional tracts of forest down to the seashore at Playa Barqueta and
Ensenada Rica. At the end of March, with the season’s work com-
pleted, the party returned to the Canal Zone.

With the cooperation of the Mexican Government, the Smith-
sonian-Bredin Expedition for 1960 undertook to collect for study and
to report on specimens of the marine fauna and flora (algae) occurring
along the coast of Yucatan from Progreso east and south to Espiritu
Santo Bay, Quintana Roo. Five zoologists comprised the scientific
staff: Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, research associate, Dr. J. F. Gates
Clarke, curator of insects, and Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of
mollusks, all of the Smithsonian Institution; Dr. Franklin C. Daiber,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 25

Department of Biological Sciences, University of Delaware, ichthy-
ologist and ecologist, whose chief interest was in making an ecological
study of a mangrove swamp and its associated fish population; and
Dr. Edward L. Bousfield, curator of invertebrate zoology, National
Museum of Canada, a carcinologist specializing on barnacles and
amphipod crustaceans.

The expedition sailed on March 20 from Miami with Drs. Rehder
and Schmitt and the expedition’s collecting outfit, arriving in
Progreso, Yucatan, a few days later. There Drs. Clarke, Daiber, and
Bousfield joined the expedition, which departed on March 26 for
Isla Mujeres, where they spent a few days gathering shallow-water
animal life and algae. From here the party went to San Miguel,
Isla Cozumel, for the first three days of April. At this locality they
made collections on the coast and also along shore by diving and with
the electric light and dipnet over the ship’s side at night. They spent
the next few days reconnoitering Espiritu Santo and Ascensién Bays
and collected at the northern end of Cozumel from shore out to a
depth of two fathoms, by diving, and also at Punta Molas, near the
lighthouse, and in the shallow brackish lagoon at the northern end
of Cozumel.

The period April 10 to 19 was devoted primarily to Dr. Daiber’s
ecological study of portions of the great mangrove swamp in Ascen-
sidn Bay. Concomitantly extensive invertebrate and entomological
collections were made on land and along shore in the vicinity of the
lighthouse, in the swampy areas, on the far shore of the Bay, and
at the northern end of the reef where it joins the mainland. The
shoal waters of the south end of Cozumel Island, particularly about
Punta Santa Maria, also were explored.

Members of the party flew to Mérida on April 24 to meet J. Bruce
Bredin, sponsor of the expedition, and Ernest N. May, both of Wil-
mington, Del. Although Drs. Clarke and Bousfield had to leave the
expedition at this point, the rest spent April 25 to 27 visiting the
Maya ruins at Chichén Itza, and on April 28 those at Uxmal, return-
ing to Cozumel on April 30. They then departed for Georgetown,
Grand Cayman, and after a limited period of collecting on this island,
returned to Miami on May 7.

In the course of the six weeks’ expedition 119 collecting stations
were established, mostly in the marine littoral, and 15 plankton sam-
ples were made with tow and dipnet, the latter with the aid of a
submerged electric light over the ship’s side. Dr. Clarke at 20 dif-
ferent places collected insects, along with other terrestrial arthropods,
and, on Cozumel, a number of bats. The number of marine inverte-
brates obtained may total 10,000. Many of these are small, some of
even microscopic size. Over 500 specimens of fishes were caught, and
in excess of 5,000 insects and terrestrial arthropods were preserved.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Scientifically, the present expedition may be counted as one of the
more productive of the recent expeditions under the sponsorship of
Mr. and Mrs. Bredin. The collections of the Smithsonian Institution
have been greatly enhanced by this important collaboration.

Dr. David H. Johnson, curator of mammals, visited the California
Academy of Sciences in San Francisco, June 13-14, to obtain data
for the proposed dugong group in the new Hall of Oceanic Life of
the Museum of Natural History. He also studied the collections of
mammals in the Academy, finding significant specimens from Annam,
Korea, and Manchuria bearing upon his research projects. Subse-
quently, Dr. Johnson attended the annual meeting of the American
Society of Mammalogists in Tacoma, Wash., where he had an oppor-
tunity to review with colleagues the manuscript report on mammals
collected on Ponape in connection with a project of the Pacific Science
Board.

Dr. Henry W. Setzer, associate curator of mammals, spent the first
few days of December at the American Museum of Natural History,
where he familarized himself with some of the collections of the de-
partment of mammals. His particular interest was to make a survey
and a study of African mammals, particularly those belonging to
the genus Acomys.

Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr., associate curator of mammals, made
a brief trip to Fenwick Island, Del., to obtain for the National
Museum a skull of a young male beaked whale, Ziphius cavirostris,
a species rarely collected. Later in September he spent five days
in Virginia near the mouth of the Rappahannock River, in order
to augment the collection he made in this mammalogically little
known area in May 1959. He collected approximately 70 mammals,
many of which are significant in working out the relationships of the
mammalian fauna of this isolated area, and some of which are rare
in Coastal Plains collections.

During the first week of December Dr. Handley made a very
productive study trip to the Academy of Natural Sciences at Phila-
delphia, the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard Univer-
sity, and the American Museum of Natural History in New York,
his objective being to compare recently acquired Panamanian speci-
mens with types and other specimens in the respective museums. He
was able to develop a large body of valuable notes, and it was dis-
covered, surprisingly, that several of the species represented in the
Panamanian collections are apparently undescribed.

Between January 12 and March 15, Dr. Handley, accompanied
by D. I. Rhymer, of the taxidermy shop, continued his survey of
the mammals of Panama, which is now in its fourth year. This
work is being conducted in cooperation with the Gorgas Memorial
SECRETARY'S REPORT 21

Laboratory. Collecting in Panama this year was entirely in the
province of Bocas del Toro, on the Caribbean coast adjacent to
Costa Rica, a region of heavy rainfall without a distinct dry season.
Collections were made in the great swamps around Almirante and
Boca del Drago and at a cattle ranch near Changuinola. One of
the bats obtained is the third known specimen of a species last
collected in 1896, while another had previously been known only
from southern Mexico and southeastern Brazil. Several of the mar-
supials and rodents appear to be undescribed subspecies, and at least
two of the birds were second records for Panama.

From mid-March to mid-April Dr. Handley and Mr. Rhymer
worked in Venezuela in cooperation with the Ministry of Agricul-
ture of that country, with headquarters in the National Park of
Rancho Grande in the coast range about 50 miles west of Caracas.
They sampled the desert fauna along the Caribbean coast, the cloud
forest on the mountaintops, and the arid savannas around Lake
Valencia in the interior. Most of the species obtained in Venezuela
have been poorly represented in the U.S. National Museum. Several
of the bats and one of the mice have not previously been reported
in Venezuela; one of the bats, although common locally, is the second
known collection of the species, recently described from Panama.
During the course of their work in Panama and Venezuela in 1960
Dr. Handley and his assistant collected and preserved more than 2,500
specimens of mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians, in addition
to a number of invertebrates and a few fishes. This significant ma-
terial includes several species new to the collections of the National
Museum and many others representing extensions of known geo-
graphical ranges.

In his capacity as secretary of the American Ornithologists’ Union,
Herbert G. Deignan, associate curator of birds, attended the annual
meeting at Regina, Saskatchewan, toward the end of August.

Dr. Leonard P. Schultz, curator of fishes, made a trip to Miami, Fla.,
and Bimini, Bahamas, July 6-11, for the purpose of locating molds
and casts of large fishes for the proposed Hall of Oceanic Life. On
October 30 he attended the dedication services for the new building
of the Bingham Oceanographic Laboratory at Yale University and
while there made extensive notes on fish specimens available for study,
with special attention to sharks and various reef-fishes.

Between August 26 and September 5, Dr. William R. Taylor,
associate curator of fishes, and Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide,
collected fishes in the Tennessee River and adjoining river systems in
Virginia, Tennessee, Georgia, and Alabama, a particular desidera-
tum being specimens of fishes of the genus Voturus needed for a re-
vision by Dr. Taylor which is nearing completion. Important ecologi-
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

cal and locality data also were obtained. Continuing their studies,
the two made a similar collecting trip to the Neuse and Tar River sys-
tems of North Carolina, September 16-20. The species under particu-
lar consideration there was Voturus furiosus, of which nearly 100 speci-
mens were obtained from three localities in the Tar River system,
thus increasing the number of known specimens many times and
adequately meeting the needs of the study in progress. These two
expeditions resulted in the addition of about 8,500 specimens of fishes
to the collections of the U.S. National Museum.

O. L. Cartwright, associate curator of insects, in December made
a research trip to the Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia
comparing specimens and examining holotypes of four species of
Onthophagus, a group of scarab beetles he is revising.

Dr. Ralph E. Crabill, Jr., associate curator of insects, continued
his work on chilopods by studies at the Museum of Comparative
Zoology, at Harvard University, July 20-25. He studied specimens
housed in the collection, attempted to collect topotypes of an obscure
species described from that area, and conferred with colleagues con-
cerning biological and curatorial problems. With the aid of a Na-
tional Science Foundation grant Dr. Crabill left Washington on
March 28 for an extended study of centipedes and millipedes in
European museums. He was accompanied by Dr. Richard L. Hoff-
man, research assistant, who is a specialist on millipedes.

Between September 26 and October 4, Charles EK. Cutress, Jr., as-
sociate curator of marine invertebrates, traveled to Buxton and Beau-
fort, N.C., to examine collections of sea anemones at the Cape Hatteras
and Duke Marine Laboratories and to collect and photograph sea
anemones in both areas. Specimens and notes obtained made it pos-
sible to settle problems concerning the anemones of the area.

In continuation of studies on the Pacific marine fauna undertaken
under a contract with the Atomic Energy Commission and the Office
of Naval Research, Dr. Harald A. Rehder, curator of mollusks, studied
collections in Cambridge, Mass. In studying the Pacific mollusks he is
being assisted by Dr. Joseph Rosewater, research assistant. Studies
were made in the Museum of Comparative Zoology; in particular,
specimens of the Tellinidae from the Indo-Pacific area were criti-
cally examined and recorded in order to facilitate the preparation of
a monograph on the members of this large family. Dr. Rehder also
visited Salem, Mass., to confer with Dr. Donald Marshall, an ethnolo-
gist of the Peabody Museum, who during the course of his fieldwork
has made extensive collections of mollusks in the Tuamotus that are
of considerable interest to Dr. Rehder in connection with his Pacific
studies. Dr. Rosewater examined approximately 270 lots of specimens
of the molluscan family Pinnidae at the Museum of Comparative
SECRETARY'S REPORT 29

Zoology and at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia
in furtherance of a monograph on the Indo-Pacific species of this
family.

In mid-February Dr. Joseph P. E. Morrison, associate curator of
mollusks, acted as one of the judges of the annual show of the St.
Petersburg, Fla., Shell Club. The Smithsonian Institution offers an
annual citation for the best exhibit in this display. Subsequently, he
carried on some dredging operations in the upper end of Old Tampa
Bay, and at Long Bayou he found living Polymesoda clams in the
black muck under grass in the intertidal zone, where the local shell
collectors had previously seen only dead shells.

The month prior to June 15 Dr. Morrison, accompanied by James
Watson of the exhibits staff, spent at two southeastern localities
photographing, sketching, and collecting specimens and materials for
shore-line habitat groups for exhibit in the proposed Hall of Oceanic
Life. Included were more than two weeks at the Gulf Coast Research
Laboratory at Ocean Springs, Miss. On the return trip they visited
the University of North Carolina Institute of Fisheries Research, at
Morehead City, N. C., and gathered materials and specimens for the
sand-beach shore-line group. The superb cooperation of the per-
sonnel concerned at both of these laboratories made possible the virtual
completion of this complicated work in considerably shorter time
than was originally planned and the gathering of additional scientif-
ic specimens of mollusks and other animals at various other localities.
For example, previously unknown egg characters and new locality
records of fresh-water mollusks were obtained from Virginia, Ten-
nessee, and Georgia on the way south. Several species and genera
were added to the known molluscan fauna of Mississippi, and topotype
specimens of the brackish-water snail genus Littoridinops were ob-
tained from near Darien, Ga.

From July 6 to August 7, 1959, Dr. G. A. Cooper, head curator of
the department of geology, and Dr. Richard E. Grant, research assist-
ant, conducted fieldwork in west Texas in furtherance of their studies
of fossil] brachiopods, a long-term project that is partially supported
by a grant from the National Science Foundation. They made
extended stays in the Glass Mountains, the Chinati Mountains, the
Sierra Diablo, and the Carlsbad Caverns area. The expedition was a
success in every way, and many fine blocks containing important fossil
brachiopods were obtained that will yield much new information
and permit the correction of possible errors in earlier records. In
mid-June Dr. Cooper visited the American Museum of Natural
History to study a large and valuable collection of fossil corals, some
of which are being offered to the National Museum.
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Between August 17 and September 10 Dr. George S. Switzer, curator
of mineralogy and petrology, visited several institutions in Europe
to examine their mineral collections and discuss future exchanges
with staff members. Subsequently, he attended the first general as-
sembly of the International Mineralogical Association in Zurich,
where he represented the Mineralogical Society of America, and a
meeting of the Museums Commission of the International Mineralog-
ical Association. This highly successful international session was
followed by a 4-day field excursion to classic mineral localities in the
Swiss Alps. During the week following March 4 Dr. Switzer visited
Dr. Mark C. Bandy, of Phoenix, Ariz., to examine a collection of
several thousand mineral specimens comprising an exceptionally val-
uable study set of South American minerals, especially from the tin
mines at Llallague, Bolivia.

In September E. P. Henderson, associate curator of mineralogy
and petrology, accompanied by Grover C. Moreland, physical science
aide, visited the Battelle Memorial Institute in Columbus, Ohio, to
study the techniques developed there for polishing metals, ores, and
meteorites. Mr. Henderson also examined specimens of the New
Concord meteorite in the Ohio State University Museum and some
of the Hopewell material in the Museum of Archeology. In connec-
tion with the annual meetings of the Geological Society of America
in Pittsburgh, November 1-12, he visited the Mellon Institute and
discussed exchanges of meteorites and tektites with staff members.
Subsequently, he discussed problems pertaining to meteorites with
staff members of the Chicago Natural History Museum and the Uni-
versity of Chicago.

Long interested in the study of tektites, Mr. Henderson has
been attempting for some years to acquire a representative collection
of these interesting extraterrestrial objects for the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. One of the principal collectors has been Dr. H. Otley Beyers,
of Manila, who has perhaps the largest privately owned tektite col-
lection in the world. Aided by a grant from the National Science
Foundation, Mr. Henderson left Washington late in January to select
from this collection, with Mr. Beyers’s cooperation, representative
material for the Smithsonian. He spent nearly two months in Manila
at this task, and as a result approximately 10,000 specimens will come
to the Institution as a donation by Dr. Beyers. These very valuable
specimens will greatly augment the material available in the United
States for study by specialists. After completion of his work in the
Philippines, Mr. Henderson visited 15 institutions in Viet Nam,
Thailand, Burma, India, Russia, Austria, Switzerland, Germany,
France, and England, becoming acquainted with specialists on mete-
orites and tektites and making preliminary arrangements concerning
SECRETARY’S REPORT ol

exchanges between the Smithsonian Institution and these various
other museums.

In mid-November Paul FE. Desautels, associate curator of
mineralogy and petrology, visited Rochester, N.Y., to select specimen
materials for the national collections. At the request of the Rochester
Academy of Sciences he gave a talk at the Rochester Museum of Arts
and Sciences entitled “Crystal Growth and Its Aberrations in Mineral
Crystals.”

In June he went to the southern [linois-Kentucky fluorspar mining
district, in the hope that certain deficiences in the museum collections
could be eliminated. The trip proved very successful, resulting in the
acquisition of about 1,000 pounds of top-quality mineral specimens
of fluorite, calcite, barite, galena, and quartz.

On June 1 Dr. Richard S. Boardman, associate curator of inverte-
brate paleontology and paleobotany, left for an extended visit to
Europe to facilitate his studies of fossil Bryozoa of the United States
and their correlation with European faunas. This research is
partially supported by a grant from the National Science Foundation.
Dr. Boardman’s objectives are to collect Ordovician fossils, mainly
Bryozoa, and to visit museums and universities in Great Britain,
France, Belgium, Germany, and other continental countries,

Dr. Porter M. Kier, associate curator of invertebrate paleontology
and paleobotany, spent the period October 11-16 collecting fossil
echinoids on the Chattahoochee River and its tributaries in Georgia,
accompanied by Dr. Norman Sohl, of the U.S. Geological Survey.
The geologists visited all the known echinoid localities in the area
and acquired many excellent specimens for the collections of the
National Museum. In November and in March Dr. Kier visited the
Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia and the Museum of
Comparative Zoology at Harvard University to study the fossil and
recent echinoid collections of those institutions. Many specimens
were seen, and some were borrowed in aid of his work on the Cassi-
duloida, an order of sea-urchins. On June 6 he departed for a brief
European trip, during which he intends to examine collections of
fossil echinoids in the museums at Paris and Liége. This study, which
is part of a project supported by the National Science Foundation, is
to aid in the preparation of a monograph on the Cassiduloida.

Dr. Richard Cifelli, associate curator of invertebrate paleontolog
and paleobotany, joined a group of biologists from the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution in marine studies from August 5 to 19.
After preliminary work at Woods Hole, Mass., the group went to Ber-
muda, whence, aboard the oceanographic vessel 2. V. Chain, they
sailed on a more or less direct line to Woods Hole, stopping at 15 sta-
tions along the way. They made hydrographic observations and took
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

200-meter oblique plankton tows at each station. Also at each of the
stations they took a separate tow for pelagic Foraminifera, using a
specially designed 14-meter net with a guard at the forwardend. This
is a particularly interesting traverse because it crosses diverse water
masses, including the Sargasso Sea, the Gulf Stream, the North
Atlantic Slope Waters, and the Eastern North Atlantic Coastal
Waters. Each water mass appears to be characterized by a distinctive
assemblage of Foraminifera. From this and further scheduled trips
Dr. Cifelli expects to gather more data on the distribution of North
Atlantic pelagic Foraminifera and on factors responsible for their
distribution.

During the first half of June Dr. Cifelli, accompanied by several
members of the U.S. Geological Survey and the Canadian Geological
Survey, visited several western States to examine important marine
Jurassic sections. The party studied the Jurassic stratigraphy at
sites in Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho. Dr. Cifelli collected 130
foraminiferal samples from the shales in the Jurassic formation.

Henry B. Roberts, museum aide, in mid-January visited the Acad-
emy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia to study various primary
types of fossil decapods and barnacles. The Academy’s collections
in these fields contain important historical material particularly use-
ful to Mr. Roberts in his researches.

Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate paleontology, accom-
panied by Franklin L. Pearce, exhibits specialist, devoted about a
month early in the year collecting fossil vertebrates in southwestern
Wyoming and adjacent Utah. Dr. Gazin traced the Sage Creek
White Layer, which marks the boundary between the upper and lower
Bridger formation from the type section of Cottonwood Creek around
the basin to its most easterly point on Twin Buttes. This study has
considerable significance in properly correlating many of the collec-
tions made from various localities in earlier years and correcting
errors On a map prepared by Matthew and Granger about 50 years
ago. Collecting was largely concentrated in the lower or Bridger
“B” levels on both sides of the basin, but localities visited outside the
areal extent of the Bridger formation included a lowermost Eocene
fossil occurrence just south of Bitter Creek Station on the Union
Pacific Railroad, a previously very productive locality for lower
Kocene mammals, about 12 miles north of Big Piney, Wyo., and a
series of nearly barren upper Eocene exposures in Norwood Canyon,
Morgan County, Utah.

After the completion of his fieldwork, Dr. Gazin studied fossil pri-
mates at the Los Angeles County Museum. Later, September 10-12,
in Salt Lake City, he participated in the annual field conference of
the Intermountain Association of Petroleum Geologists. Between
SECRETARY’S REPORT 33

December 6 and 13 he visited research collections at Princeton Uni-
versity and the American Museum of Natural History to study Eocene
creodonts, primates, and rodents. In both institutions he found many
valuable specimens bearing upon his current studies, and paleontologi-
cal problems were discussed in detail with various staff members.
In mid-April Dr. Gazin began an extended tour of various European
countries to carry on both museum research and fieldwork. Begin-
ning in France and Switzerland, he will continue this work in Ger-
many, Austria, Denmark, Belgium, and England, the primary purpose
of the project being to study early Tertiary mammalian collections
and to visit the more important classical localities for early fossil
mammals. It is part of a long-term research project on the early
Tertiary mammals of North America, which is partially supported by
a grant from the National Science Foundation.

Late in May Dr. David H. Dunkle, associate curator of vertebrate
paleontology, spent a week first at the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh
studying examples of Mesozoic fishes from Europe, especially amioids
and oligopleurids, and then at the Cleveland Museum of Natural
History consulting staff members on the reconstruction of dinosaur
skeletons in their new hall with a view to obtaining information of
use in the renovation of halls in our Museum of Natural History.

Dr. Nicholas Hotton III, associate curator of vertebrate paleontol-
ogy, spent the last week of October examining deposits of Dunkard
(Permo-Carboniferous) age in Belmont County, Ohio, for vertebrate
remains. The outcrops visited were those used by members of the U.S.
Geological Survey in stratigraphic studies of Monongahela and Dunk-
ard rocks of that county. He collected vertebrates from 15 localities
from which material had not been previously obtained. Dunkard
outcrops in western West Virginia and more northerly exposures of
the Dunkard in Ohio and Pennsylvania were also studied. Subse-
quently, Dr. Hotton spent some time at the Carnegie Museum, in
Pittsburgh, examining collections of Dunkard material, and attending
the annual meetings of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology and
the Geological Society of America. In connection with the planned
renovation of the Dinosaur Hall in the Museum of Natural History,
Dr. Hotton spent about 10 days in November visiting comparable
presentations in the American Museum of Natural History, the Yale
Peabody Museum in New Haven, the Cleveland Museum of Natural
History, and the Chicago Natural History Museum. The arrange-
ment of dinosaur skeletons and certain lighting effects achieved at these
institutions provided him with useful background information for
planning the Smithsonian’s new exhibits. During the last week of
March Dr. Hotton worked at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at
Harvard University, examining and making sketches of specimens of
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

primitive members of the reptilian order Captorhinomorpha, in con-
nection with his research on the nature and origin of the reptilian
middle ear. The skulls inspected display important morphological
detail which has not yet been recorded.

For a month and a half just before the end of the fiscal year, Dr.
Hotton, accompanied by John D. Gassaway, museum aide, collected
in the Permian areas of Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. They ex-
plored outcrops of the Speiser formation for vertebrate fossils from
Riley County to Cowley County, Kans., and obtained a good collection
of little-known amphibians, including the greater part of an excel-
lently preserved articulated skeleton of Acroplous. Most of the well-
known localities in Texas appear to have been overcollected, but
nevertheless some interesting blocks containing bones of many small
animals were obtained in new localities or less promising areas
around the better-known ones. A marked difference between the
Kansas and Texas deposits was noted, although they are roughly of
the same age.

Exhibits Specialist Franklin L. Pearce spent ten days in June at
the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, the University of Michigan
Museums, and the Chicago Natural History Museum, primarily to
observe their methods of preparation of fossils and the use of new
plastic and metallic materials in the field of vertebrate paleontology.
Some of the new techniques utilized in these museums hold promise
for use in the restoration procedures already in progress at the
Smithsonian.

The Director of the Museum of History and Technology, Frank
A. Taylor, spent two days in New York in July at the American
Museum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum of Art
investigating details of exhibition techniques. He examined repro-
ductions of early European mechanical calculators and met the crafts-
men who are building the model of the da Vinci coining press for the
Smithsonian.

Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, head curator of science and technology,
made trips during the year to several of the eastern States, visiting
museums, other institutions, and individuals to examine scientific
apparatus and antique instruments of possible interest to the Smith-
sonian study and exhibits programs.

In order to accelerate the enlargement of exhibit and study mate-
rials of the division of mechanical and civil engineering, Eugene S.
Ferguson, curator, visited a number of institutions and individuals
throughout the eastern United States. Especially at Winterthur,
Del., Philadelphia, and various localities in New England, he ac-
quired information about specific machines and tools of potential use
in planning various new Smithsonian exhibits. In June he attended
SECRETARY’S REPORT 35

the 68th annual meeting of the American Society for Engineering
Education at Purdue University and presented a paper on “Kine-
matics of Mechanisms from the 'Time of Watt.”

In connection with planned halls in the new Museum of History
and Technology, Edwin A. Battison, associate curator of mechanical
and civil engineering, visited various watch factories, collections,
and individuals throughout the northeastern States. He examined
many chronometers and watches as well as certain historical instru-
ments with a view to acquiring material and information for the
Institution.

During the year Robert M. Vogel, assistant curator of mechanical
and civil engineering, made several trips throughout the north-
eastern States in connection with the exhibits in the new Smithsonian
Hall of Engineering. He examined a large quantity of mechanical
equipment including elevators, engines, railroads and other means
of transportation and made many contacts with interested individuals
and developed plans for the acquisition of desired specimens for the
new hall.

In the continuing development of a program for the construction
of models for the new Museum of History and Technology, Howard
I. Chapelle, curator of transportation, spent May 16-24 visiting indi-
viduals and model manufacturers throughout the northeastern States.
Included were such public organizations as the Museum of the City
of New York and the New Bedford Whaling Museum, where he in-
spected builders’ models of ships.

John H. White, Jr., assistant curator of transportation, made trips
to several eastern States where he visited institutions, libraries, and
individuals to examine historic locomotives and models and other
railroad equipment, as well as catalogs and documents.

During the year W. James King, Jr., acting curator of electricity,
visited various museums and libraries throughout the eastern States,
primarily in connection with Smithsonian study collections and the
proposed new Hall of Electricity. He studied collections in telephone
communications, the various aspects of telegraphy and electronic
equipment, and the history of electrical technology and engineering.

Dr. John B. Blake, curator of medical sciences, made several short
trips to examine historic medical instruments and X-ray apparatus
with a view to enlarging and improving the Smithsonian collections
in this field. Between March 30 and May 15, he visited numerous
museums, universities, and other institutions in Great Britain, Hol-
land, France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Denmark, and Sweden,
principally those containing objects pertaining to medical history.
The historical medical museums in London, especially the Wellcome
Historical Medical Museum, and in Zurich, Rome, Copenhagen, and
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Stockholm were particularly outstanding. He also furthered his
research in dental history in the study collections of these museums.

Early in December Dr. Sami K. Hamarneh, associate curator of
medical sciences, visited the Firestone Library at Princeton Univer-
sity, the College of Pharmacy and Science in Philadelphia, and the
chemistry department of the University of Pennsylvania to study
Arabic manuscripts pertaining to health arts, to consult oriental
published works contained in these various libraries, and to examine
pharmaceutical antiques housed there.

Dr. Philip W. Bishop, head curator of arts and manufactures,
spent two days in West Virginia in November inspecting certain
early oil-pumping equipment. He made a number of contacts with
oil- and gas-well owners which may lead to further acquisitions for
the exhibits of the Museum of History and Technology.

In November Miss Grace L. Rogers, acting curator of textiles,
spent three days in New York City visiting various textile estab-
lishments. She also visited the Fabien Printing Co. in Lodi, N.J.,
where with expert guidance she examined in detail the various steps
in both the screen-printing and roller-printing processes. In May
she attended the first International Textile Machinery Exhibition
sponsored by the American Textile Machinery Association, at At-
lantic City, N.J., where exhibits from 11 foreign countries and the
United States were on display that incorporated new ideas in tex-
tile machinery.

Several trips to museums and other institutions and individuals were
made during the year by Paul V. Gardner, acting curator of ce-
ramics and glass, for the purpose of acquiring materials for Smithso-
nian exhibits. These included visits to the Corning Museum of Glass,
the Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts, the New Haven Colony Histor-
ical Society, and the New Historical Society.

Jacob Kainen, curator of graphic arts, spent five days in Septem-
ber in Minneapolis checking data on John Baptist Jackson and Hen-
drick Goltzius, particularly at the Minneapolis Public Library, the
Minneapolis Art Institute, and the Walker Art Institute. In De-
cember he visited various museums and libraries in Richmond, Va.,
and Raleigh, N.C., in pursuance of the same research projects per-
taining to these artists.

In April, Fuller O. Griffith, 3d, assistant curator of graphic arts,
studied a collection of Hassam lithographs in the Detroit Institute
of Arts. He found several unique examples of Hassam’s work that
were of great interest and value in furthering his research on this
artist.

Charles O. Houston, Jr., associate curator of industrial coopera-
tion, made two trips to Pittsburgh during the year to visit the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 37

Bureau of Mines, the Carnegie Library and Museum, and other
institutions to study references on mine technology and coal-
cutting machinery. An examination of operations connected with
the preparation and shipment of various kinds of coal at the Mathies
Mine on the Monongahela River was useful to Mr. Houston in his
preparation of plans for the new Smithsonian Hall of Coal.

At a meeting of the Agricultural History Society at Louisville,
Ky., E. C. Kendall, associate curator of agriculture and wood products,
discussed the acquisition of various farm implements to supplement
such collections in the Museum of History and Technology and gave
a paper on 18th-century American plows and their European origins.

Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, head curator of civil history, made
several trips in connection with the preparation of a new hall, The
Growth of the United States. Among the institutions visited, and
from which valuable information and suggestions were obtained, were
the Hispanic Society of America in New York, the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and the Ford Museum in Dearborn,
Mich. In May Dr. Garvan attended a meeting of the Board of the
Human Relations Area File in New Haven. The Smithsonian Insti-
tution has recently acquired a set of these valuable files and has been
elected to membership. This research material will be of value to
members of the Smithsonian staff and to other scientists in the
Washington area.

Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, curator of political history, visited
several eastern museums and other institutions in continuance of his
studies of political Americana and to review exhibit techniques in
use elsewhere. At several historical houses he examined collections
referring to American historical figures, including William Henry
Harrison, Henry Clay, Abraham Lincoln, William Seward, and
Franklin D. Roosevelt.

During several trips to various parts of the eastern States, C.
Malcolm Watkins, acting curator of cultural history, examined many
collections in connection with the proposed halls of the Museum of
History and Technology. In the Virginia State Library, in Rich-
mond, and in the Archives of Colonial Williamsburg, he continued
his research on the Marlborough site.

John D. Shortridge, associate curator of cultural history, attended
the sessions of the American Musicological Society in Chicago late in
December. He visited the Chicago Art Institute and the Newberry
Library, to examine harpsichords and other musical instruments of
historical interest.

Rodris C. Roth, associate curator of cultural history, went to New
York and New England in November to study period rooms and
decorative arts collections in various museums and galleries. Her
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

research involves studies in visual materials, such as painting and
prints related to American and English interior decoration of domes-
tic dwellings in the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. Her studies outside
of Washington have enabled her to advance projects on furnishings
and exhibits for a Smithsonian hall of Every Day Life in the Ameri-
can Past.

John N. Pearce, assistant curator of cultural history, visited Wil-
mington, Del., and New York City in April and May to carry out
research on the Meeks family, cabinetmakers in New York in the 18th
and 19th centuries.

George T. Turner, acting curator of philately and postal history,
accompanied by Francis J. McCall, associate curator, attended the
11th annual American Stamp Dealers’ Show in New York, November
18-22. A 12-frame display prepared by the division of philately and
postal history was exhibited and aroused much interest. Mr. McCall,
while in Boston in September, continued research on the establish-
ment of a post office in the Colony of New England; he also examined
Hawaiian missionary correspondence of the period 1820-50 in the
Houghton Library of Harvard University, in connection with his
research on this subject.

In preparation for new exhibits for the Museum of History and
Technology, Dr. Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli, acting curator of numis-
matics, journeyed to New York, Omaha, and Chicago to discuss nu-
mismatic problems with various specialists and to examine laboratory
and exhibit techniques being used by different institutions. Mrs.
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, associate curator of numismatics, has carried
on her bibliographical research on Greek metrology.

Mendel L. Peterson, head curator of Armed Forces history, spent
the first half of July in Havana, Cuba, and Port Royal, Jamaica. In
Havana he examined several Spanish bronze cannons in Cabana For-
tress in connection with his study of the marking and decoration of
early artillery. In Jamaica he joined the underwater explorations
operating from the Sea Diver IJ. United States Navy divers had
been working there for some weeks, devoting most of their time to
removing silt and coral overburden from the site. The material re-
covered led to a probable conclusion that this might have been the site
of a cookhouse of the type known to have been used in Port Royal.
On a subsequent trip to Jamaica, between July 27 and August 11,
Mr. Peterson rejoined the expedition, which by that time had begun
to recover a large number of objects from the site behind Fort James.
It is believed that Port Royal is the richest 17th-century site in the
Western Hemisphere. Several years of hard digging will be required
to exploit it completely. The research sponsored by Edwin A. Link
and the National Geographic Society in this particular area, in which
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

Mr. Peterson has participated, is certain to cast valuable light on the
Colonial period of Jamaica.

Edgar M. Howell, acting curator of military history, visited Sack-
ets Harbor, N.Y., September 13-18, to explore the site of two War
of 1812 forts. The excavations produced results far exceeding ex-
pectations. Mr. Howell continued the preparation of an article on
the career of Harvey Dunn, official combat artist of World War I,
and a catalog of his war paintings. Early in December he visited
New York and vicinity to interview members of the Dunn family
and several of the artist’s contemporaries.

Philip K. Lundeberg, associate curator of naval history, made a
tour of maritime and naval museums on the northeast coast of the
United States, September 21—-October 4, and obtained much informa-
tion that will be of use in preparing the new exhibits in the Museum
of History and Technology of the Smithsonian.

EXHIBITIONS

Modernization of several exhibition halls was continued in 1960.
Two completely renovated halls illustrating “The World of Mammals”
were opened to the public on November 23, 1959. Biological princi-
ples, such as how mammals vary geographically, how they adapt to
different climates and environment, the various structural adapta-
tions for locomotion, how they obtain their food and defend themselves,
are illustrated. Selected groupings of kinds of mammals, such as
cats, dogs, bears, pigs, and primates, are displayed separately.
Habitat groups show, among others, African buffalo, square-lipped
rhinoceroses, lions, zebras, armadillos, proboscis monkeys, and orang-
utans in natural surroundings. Many of the large African mammals
in these halls were collected by President Theodore Roosevelt during
his African expedition of 1909-10, sponsored by the Smithsonian In-
stitution. These exhibits were planned by Dr. Henry W. Setzer, asso-
ciate curator of mammals. Architectural design was by Thomas
Baker, who also supervised the preparation and installation of the
exhibits. Robert C. Hogue painted the backgrounds of the habitat
groups, and Watson Perrygo supervised the taxidermy work and
preparation of accessories. The mural was painted by Art Smith.

Planning for “Oceanic Life,” which will occupy the large west
main hall, advanced during the year, and progress was made on the
construction of a replica of a 92-foot blue whale, which will represent
the largest living form of animal life. Chris Karras designed the
layout of this hall. The contract for the construction of the dis-
play fixtures was awarded in June 1960.

On June 30, 1960, the first comprehensive review of fossil fishes and
amphibians in the U.S. National Museum of the Smithsonian Institu-

579421°—61—__-4
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

tion was presented to the public. The history and development of
these geologically old back-boned animals are traced through mil-
lions of years. Transition from life in the water to life on land and
the development of jaws are illustrated by diagrams and models. A
14-foot skeleton of the predatory Cretaceous fish Xiphactinus, which
had swallowed another sizable fish, the dermal-armored giant
Devonian joint-necked fish Dinichthys, a series of fishes which had
inhabited the seas covering Germany during the Jurassic period, and
a rock slab with the crowded skulls and bones of the amphibian
Buettneria which had been trapped in an evaporating Triassic swamp
within the boundaries of the present state of New Mexico are displayed
in this hall. This exhibit hall was supervised by Dr. David H. Dunkle,
associate curator of vertebrate palentology, and the exhibits design
was coordinated by Gorman Bond.

The most colorful habitat groups for the hall of invertebrate
paleontology and paleobotany were completed by George Marchand
of Ann Arbor, Mich. <A giant cephalopod shell, Parapuzosia, which
was received in many pieces, was restored for a display unit. Scripts
for the paleobotanical displays in this hall were prepared by Dr.
Erling Dorf of Princeton University. Dr. Gustav A. Cooper, head
curator of geology, was responsible for the preparation of the scripts
for the remainder of this hall.

Construction of the display units in the hall for the fossil mammals
illustrating the “Age of Mammals” was completed and installation
commenced. The large fossil mammal skeletons were in place by the
end of the year. This ha!l was designed by Ann Karras in accordance
with the script furnished by Dr. C. Lewis Gazin, curator of vertebrate
paleontology. Included among the mammals added to the previous
exhibit series are skeletons of two horses, Orohippus and Parahippus,
the Oligocene camel Poebrotherium, a composite restoration of the
Eocene primate Smilodectes, and a large primitive rodent,
Ischyrotomos.

Preparation of specimens for the dinosaur display in the large east
main hall was begun near the end of the year. Among these were
the skeleton of the Triassic reptile 7rilophosaurus, remounting the
skeleton of the Permian sail lizard Dimetrodon and restoring the
elongated tail, and restoration of a phytosaur skull from the Triassic
rocks of west Texas. Tentative layouts for modernization of the dino-
saur hall were developed by Dr. Nicholas Hotton ITI, associate cura-
tor, and exhibits designer Ann Karras.

Preparation of exhibits for the first of two modernized halls of
North American archeology was initiated and 17 cases were installed.
Among these were topical exhibits on aboriginal North American uses
SECRETARY'S REPORT 41

of tobacco, agriculture and food crops, methods of shaping stone, and
historic metal trade goods, as well as interpretations of prehistoric
Indian cultures of Alaska, California, and the southwestern United
States. The exhibits were designed by Terrell Bridges. Contract
construction in the second of two halls of North Amerian archeology
was completed in June 1960. Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator of arche-
ology, is responsible for the scientific planning of all exhibits in both
of these halls.

Curator of ethnology Saul H. Riesenberg and Associate Curator
Eugene I. Knez cooperated with Dorothy Guthrie of the exhibits
staff in the development of the architectural layout for the “People
of the Pacific” exhibit, which will interpret the material culture of
Oceania and southeast Asia. Associate Curators Knez and Gordon
D. Gibson also consulted with Mrs. Guthrie in developing a tentative
layout of exhibits in an adjoining hall which will be devoted to Afri-
can and eastern and central Asiatic peoples.

Script for the hall of physics, astronomy, and mathematics was
completed by Dr. Robert P. Multhauf, head curator of science and
technology, with the assistance of Consultants Peter Diamadopoulos
and Julian H. Bigelow. The unit designs were developed by Ben-
jamin W. Lawless. In August 1959 one of the exhibits for this hall,
a full-scale replica of the shop and tools of Henry Fitz, this country’s
first commercial telescope-maker, was installed in the Arts and In-
dustries Building. Special exhibitions presented by the division of
physical sciences during the past year were the first cash register, a
gift of the National Cash Register Co., the development of the py-
rometer (commemorating the inventions of Edward Brown), a loan
display of machinery used in compiling the United States census, an
exhibit of American surveying instruments, and a series of astrolabes
received from the International Business Machines Corporation.

Curator Eugene S. Ferguson supervised the trial erection of a pre-
Civil War machine shop and the restoration of machine tools which
will be shown in this shop in the Museum of History and Technology.
Associate Curator Edwin A. Battison supervised the erection of a
clockmaker’s shop which will be a featured exhibit in the hall of
light machinery.

Curator Howard I. Chapelle, with the assistance of William Geo-
ghegan, drafted drawings and specifications for the construction of
18 models of historic ship types not represented in the Museum’s
collections, and continued to supervise the repair and restoration of
models in the watercraft collection.

The major portion of the hall of electricity script has been com-
pleted by Acting Curator W. James King, Jr., aided by consultants
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Robert A. Chipman and Guenter Schwarz. <A diorama depicting the
broadcast of a program from the studio of pioneer radio station
KDKA in Pittsburgh was also completed during the year.

Throughout the year attention was devoted to the development of
exhibits of medical and pharmaceutical history which were designed
by Ronald Elbert and Fred Craig from specifications furnished by
Dr. John Blake and Dr. Sami Hamarneh, curator and associate cura-
tor, respectively, of medical sciences.

On February 18, 1960, the new farm machinery hall in the south-
east court of the Arts and Industries Building was formally opened.
The exhibits illustrate the progressive mechanization of farm work
since the early part of the 19th century. Actual machines supple-
mented by accurate models record the development of these labor-
saving devices, Associate Curator Edward C, Kendall was responsi-
ble for the planning of this hall and the exhibits were designed by
Ronald Elbert.

On December 9, 1959, the section of the textile hall gallery, tracing
the history of the development of the sewing machine, was opened
to the public. Seven cases show the first United States patents, the
development of a practical machine, commercial treadle and hand
machines of the 1850’s to 1870’s, unusual sewing-machine patents of
the period, and early sewing-machine attachments for special pur-
poses. A section of this gallery was opened on May 17, 1960, for the
display of printing and dyeing techniques from the early painted-
cotton fabrics of India through the tie-dyeing, batik, block printing,
copperplate printing, roller printing, stenciling, and silk-screen
printing.

Theodore A. Randall, professor of ceramics of the New York State
University, served as consultant to Acting Curator Paul V. Gardner
in planning the hall of ceramics and glass. The Seventh Interna-
tional Exhibition of Ceramic Art was held from August 21 to Sep-
tember 23, 1959, in the foyer of the Natural History building. For-
eign ceramics selected and lent by the embassies of the 19 countries
represented supplemented ceramics made by American artists of na-
tional or international reputation, and pieces exhibited by local
artists.

In May 1960 production was completed on the panel exhibits for
the second of two large sections of the hall of graphic arts illustrating
the history and development of photochemical printing. These ex-
hibits, designed by Harry Hart from scripts written by Assistant
Curator Fuller O. Griffith, 3d, will be stored until the Museum of
History and Technology building is completed.

Installation of exhibits in the petroleum hall of the Arts and In-
dustries Building was nearing completion at the end of the year.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 43

Scripts for this hall were prepared by Dr. Philip W. Bishop, head
curator of arts and manufactures. Associate Curator Charles O.
Houston assumed responsibility for the hall of coal. John D. Mor-
row, formerly president of the Pittsburgh Coal Co. and the Joy
Manufacturing Co., is serving as consultant. The planning of the
hall of iron and steel continued with the help of consultant Lowell
L. Henkel of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces. Dr. Clyde
L. Cowan and William C. Cleveland continued in their consultative
capacities in nuclear energy and general manufacturing, respectively.

Dr. Anthony N. B. Garvan, head curator of civil history, assisted
by Peter C. Welsh, associate curator, and Arlene Krimgold, junior
curator, continued the planning for the series of halls which will
interpret the growth of the United States. Dr. Wilcomb E. Wash-
burn, curator of political history, with the assistance of Robert Wid-
der, exhibits designer, completed the design for the units of this
division. Production of exhibits for the hall of American costume,
which was planned by Assistant Curator Anne W. Murray and de-
signed by Judith Borgogni and Virginia Kneitel, was well advanced
at the close of the year. Repair and reconditioning of period in-
teriors for the George Washington drawingroom and bedroom were
in progress,

On January 3, 1960, a special showing of women’s-rights material
was prepared for the delegates to the national convention of the
National Woman’s Party, held in Washington, D.C. During June
1960 a colorful display entitled “America Votes” was presented in
the west hall of the Arts and Industries Building. This featured an
outstanding collection of banners, tokens, Janterns, and other para-
phernalia relating to national political campaigns presented by Ralph
KE. Becker, and political caricatures and cartoons from the Harry T.
Peters collection of American lithography.

A special exhibition of Spanish-colonial silver, principally from
Ecuador, was installed in the lobby of the Natural History Building.
The silver was collected early in this century by Daniel C. Stapleton
and lent by his daughter, Mrs. George W. Renchard of Washington.

In May 1960 two special exhibitions were placed on display in the
coin hall by the division of numismatics. Louis Eliasberg of Balti-
more lent his entire collection of United States coins, including the
specially designed exhibit cases and featuring an outstanding series
of Latin American coins and foreign gold, as well as primitive media
of exchange. A selection from the Willis H. du Pont gift of Rus-
sian coins and medals, formerly owned by the Grand Duke George
Mikhailovich of Russia, was displayed in another exhibition illustrat-
ing the life and military exploits of Peter the Great.

A number of special exhibitions were shown by the division of
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

philately during the year, including one of patriotic covers com-
memorating the approaching Civil War Centennial observances and
another featuring the “Liberty for All” theme used in New York
for the National Postage Stamp Show.

Considerable improvement in existing exhibits was made by Head
Curator Mendel L. Peterson and Acting Curator Edgar M. Howell
by clearing the area in front of the Star Spangled Banner and in-
stalling Naval and Marine Corps uniforms on the west gallery.
Models of the dirigible Akron, the aircraft carrier Shangri-La, and
the armored cruiser Pennsylvania were installed in the hall of naval
history. From November 20 through December 31, 1959, a special
exhibition of the recently acquired and unique W. Stokes Kirk col-
lection of United States military insignia and accouterments was
held in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building. During
January and February 1960 the division of naval history presented
in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building the “Evolution
of U.S. Naval Aviation,” which included carrier and aircraft models,
selected combat paintings, photographs and significant objects ranging
from Eugen Ely’s aircraft propeller to a group of current air-to-air
missiles.

Under the chairmanship of Dr. Herbert Friedmann, head curator
of zoology, the committee coordinating and supervising the moderni-
zation of exhibits in the Natural History Building made a critical
review of this program. The exhibits program of the Museum of
History and Technology, being coordinated by John C. Ewers, assist-
ant director, is concerned primarily with the development of exhibits
for the new building. In fields represented by limited museum col-
lections, the assembling of specimens has been an essential prelude
to the completion of exhibit plans. John E. Anglim continued in
charge of exhibition-hall design and the preparation of exhibits for
the entire museum. Benjamin W. Lawless, with the assistance of
Robert Widder in design, Bela S. Bory in production, and Robert
Klinger in the model shop, supervised the exhibits work for the Mu-
seum of History and Technology. Rolland O. Hower, assisted by
Thomas Baker and Peter DeAnna, supervised the renovation of the
exhibition halls in the Museum of Natural History. Continued
assistance in the design of renovated halls in existing buildings was
given by Richard S. Johnson, design branch chief, and John H.
Morrissey, architectural branch chief of the architectural and struc-
tural division of the Public Buildings Service, General Services Ad-
ministration, and Luther Flouton, Henry R. Kerr, and Charles J.
Nora, design architects of that agency. As lighting consultant,
Carroll Lusk, museum lighting specialist of Syracuse, N.Y., provided
the needed assistance to designers of exhibition halls for the Museum
of History and Technology.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 45
DOCENT SERVICE

The Junior League of Washington continued its volunteer program
of conducting guided tours in modernized Smithsonian exhibition halls
for school children of the Greater Washington area, under the super-
vision of G. Carrol] Lindsay, curator of the Smithsonian Museum
Service, working with Mrs. Clark Gearhart, chairman of the Smith-
sonian Volunteer Docent Committee of the Junior League of Wash-
ington, and Mrs. Dean Cowie, cochairman. At the conclusion of the
tour season, Mrs. Gearhart was succeeded as chairman by her co-
chairman, Mrs. Cowie. Mrs, E. Tillman Stirling will serve as co-
chairman of the Docent Committee for the forthcoming year.

During the 1959-60 season, tours were conducted as before in the
Halls of Power, Indians and the Eskimo, and Everyday Life in Early
America. In addition, two more modernized exhibits were included—
the Hall of Gems and Minerals and the Hall of Textiles.

During the 6-month season from October 1959 to May 1960, 525
tours were conducted, in which 15,658 children participated, repre-
senting an increase of 3,662 over the previous year.

For the first time tours were made available to junior high school
science students. These included, for this group as well as for ele-
mentary school children, the Hall of Gems and Minerals and the Hall
of Power.

In addition to Mrs. Gearhart and Mrs. Cowie, the members of the
Docent Committee were: Mrs. George Armstrong, Mrs. Harrison
Brand III, Mrs. Walter A. Edwards, Mrs. William R. Ford,
Mrs. George Gerber, Mrs. William Graves, Mrs. Frederick Irving,
Mrs. Edward Lamont, Mrs. Robert Larsen, Mrs. Ralph W. Lee ITI,
Mrs. John T. Malone, Mrs. Wiliam Minshall, Jr., Mrs. Minot
Mulligan, Mrs. George Pendleton, Mrs. James T. Rasbury, Mrs.
Robert Rogers, Mrs. John Schoenfeld, Mrs. W. James Sears,
Mrs. John Simmons, Mrs. William D. Sloan, Mrs. James H. Stallings,
Mrs. G. G. Thomas, Mrs. E. Tillman Stirling, Mrs. David Toll,
Mrs. Richard Wallis, and Mrs. Mare A. White.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

In the act of May 13, 1960 (P. L. 86-455) Congress appropriated
funds for the construction of an east wing and the air-conditioning
of the existing Natural History Building of the Smithsonian. The
added space will provide laboratories and workrooms for the scientific
staff, more adequate storage space, and the desired climatic control
for the preservation of the national collections of anthropology, the
natural sciences, and art. Improved facilities for the convenience of
the visiting public will also be afforded by this construction. Mills,
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Petticord & Mills, of Washington, D.C., are the architects, and the
contract for construction will be supervised by the General Services
Administration.

The principal contracts for the construction of the Museum of
History and Technology Building, were awarded September 16, 1959,
and work actually commenced October 5. The contracts were awarded
to the Norair Engineering Corporation, Washington, D.C., for con-
struction of the building. The elevators and escalators will be in-
stalled by the Otis Elevator Co. Within the plan of the building’s
structure, which was carefully reviewed and adopted by the Joint
Congressional Committee on Construction and subsequently approved
by the Commission of Fine Arts, the Smithsonian Institution’s staff
has developed designs for exhibits for approximately 88 major areas
of historical and technological displays. Workrooms for the cura-
torial staff will be located adjacent to the storage areas for the reserve
and study collections of cataloged objects, which provide basic data
for interested visitors, students, and professional workers. Labora-
tories for the preservation and scientific study of materials of
historical significance, and shops for exhibit construction and main-
tenance are included in the plans. The design architects, McKim,
Mead & White, advised the Smithsonian Institution during the year
on details of construction.

Modern-type seating was installed in the auditorium of the Natural
History Building to provide more effective use of this hall. Improve-
ment in the aisle lighting in the auditorium also was accomplished,
with visitors’ safety in mind.

Two metal buildings erected in the west court of the Natural His-
tory Building have provided working space for the exhibits staff as
well as production facilities. Recent improvements include the con-
struction of an extension on the west side of one building for housing
the taxidermy section and a covered storage area along the east side
of the other building to furnish protection to the Northwest Indian
wooden boats stored by the division of ethnology. Remodeling of
the exhibits laboratory includes a partial] second-floor level, design
office, general office, two dark rooms, paint spray room, sanding room,
paint storage room, restoration room, enlarged cabinet shop, and gen-
eral work area. Lighting installations, installation of ventilating
equipment, plumbing and heating revisions, electric service modifica-
tions, and related work are also provided.

Increasing needs for working space made the proper utilization of
available areas imperative. Useful space was gained by the con-
struction of second-floor levels in five rooms on the ground floor of
the Natural History building.

All marble surfaces of the north entrance lobby and vestibule of
the Natural History Building were renovated, the bronze surfaces
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

scoured and coated to retard deterioration, the exterior grille doors
removed, the center revolving door removed and the original bronze
doors rehung, and the ceilings and walls repainted.

A public rest area with shade trees, shrubs, sidewalks, curbs, fences
and permanent-type benches has been constructed along the north
side of the Arts and Industries Building.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Effective May 31, 1960, the division of woods was established in
the department of botany, Museum of Natural History. Dr. William
L. Stern was appointed curator of this division on June 1, 1960.
Concurrently the division of woods in the department of science and
technology was abolished.

Dr. Gus W. Van Beek was appointed associate curator of the divi-
sion of archeology, department of anthropology, on July 1, 1959.

Dr. Richard Cifelli accepted an appointment as associate curator in
the division of invertebrate paleontology and paleobotany on July 1,
1959. Another vacancy in this division was filled by the appointment
of Erle G. Kauffman as assistant curator on June 15, 1960.

Carl H. Scheele was appointed, effective September 29, 1959, assist-
ant curator of philately, and Dr. Sami K. Hamarneh, associate cura-
tor of medical sciences on September 24, 1959.

In the division of cultural history, John N. Pearce was appointed
assistant curator on October 5, 1959. The vacancy in the division of
industrial cooperation was filled on December 28, 1959, by the ap-
point of Dr. Charles O. Houston.

On February 1, 1960, Dr. John J. Wurdack reported for duty as
associate curator of the division of phanerogams.

A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator of graphic arts, resigned
on March 15, 1960, to accept other employment.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, who had retired on April 30, 1946, after serving
50 years on the staff of the United States National Museum, and as
an honorary associate in the division of mollusks since that date, died
at Lebanon, Va., on April 24, 1960.

Dr. J. B. Knight, research associate in invertebrate paleontolog
since January 1, 1955, and from January 1, 1945, to December 31,
1954, associate curator in that division, died at Sarasota, Fla., on
March 21, 1960.

Respectfully submitted.
Remineton Krunoca, Director.
Dr. Lronarp CaRrMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Bureau of American

Ethnolgy

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1960, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection
of the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeo-
logic remains.”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Director of the Bureau, devoted part
of the year to general supervision of the activities of the Bureau and
the River Basin Surveys. In July he inspected the work of excavat-
ing parties operating in the Pomona Reservoir area in Kansas, the Big
Bend and Oahe Reservoir areas in South Dakota, and a portion of the
Oahe Basin in North Dakota. Three of the parties were from co-
operating agencies and three represented the River Basin Surveys.
In addition, he visited two excavations that were not a part of the
salvage program, one conducted by a University of Nebraska field
party and the other by a group from the State Historical Society of
Nebraska. Dr. Roberts was accompanied by Carroll Burroughs from
the Branch of Archeology of the Washington office of the National
Park Service and Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, Chief of the Missouri
Basin Project of the River Basin Surveys. While at Pierre, S. Dak.,
they participated in an informal conference attended by leaders of
all the parties working in the Plains during the summer, many of
their student helpers, and representatives from various universities
and museums in the area. Virtually every phase of Missouri Basin
archeology was discussed.

In November Dr. Roberts went to Lincoln, Nebr., where he reviewed
the operations of the field headquarters and laboratory of the River
Basin Surveys and took part in the sessions of the Plains Archeologi-
cal Conference at the University of Nebraska. At Omaha he met with
representatives of the Corps of Engineers and the Region Two Office

48 |
SECRETARY’S REPORT 49

of the National Park Service to consider various problems pertaining
to salvage operations in the Missouri Basin.

During late December and early January Dr. Roberts represented
the Bureau at the meetings of the American Anthropological Associ-
ation in Mexico City. He also visited various museums and archeo-
logical sites in the surrounding area. Late in January after his
return to Washington he participated in the meetings of the Commit-
tee for the Recovery of Archeological Remains held at the Depart-
ment of the Interior. He presented a summary of the results of the
activities of the River Basin Surveys during the preceding year and
joined in the discussions pertaining to future plans for the Inter-
Agency Archeological Salvage Program.

In April Dr, Roberts went to Lincoln to inspect the operations of
the Missouri Basin project office and met with representatives of
Region Two of the National Park Service to consider the fiscal] situ-
ation and fieldwork to be carried on during the 1960 summer season.
Dr. Roberts assisted in the preparation of budgets and plans for the
various River Basin Surveys parties which were to be leaving Lincoln
early in June.

At the request of the National Park Service, Dr. Roberts was au-
thorized to serve as a member of an advisory group for the Wetherill
Mesa excavations at Mesa Verde National Park. He went to Mesa
Verde late in May and with other members of the group inspected
the work under way at two large cliff ruins and in the project labo-
ratory. The group spent one day discussing various problems pertain-
ing to the project and made a number of recommendations with respect
to the continuance of the investigations.

Dr. Roberts did the technical editing of a series of four reports on
archeological excavations in three reservoir areas. ‘They will appear
as River Basin Surveys Papers Nos. 21-24 in Bulletin 179 of the
Bureau of American Ethnology.

Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthropologist, continued his Eskimo studies
and other Arctic activities. He prepared an article on the native
peoples of the Arctic for a forthcoming edition of the “’ncyclopaedia
Britannica, and his paper on Eskimo art appeared in the first issue
of Dartmouth College’s new journal devoted to Polar research. In
another paper, published in Current Anthropology, he discussed recent
archeological discoveries in Alaska and Siberia and assessed the roles
of local culture growth, diffusion, trade, population movements, tradi-
tion, and geographical patterning as causative factors involved in the
development and continuity of prehistoric Eskimo culture in the
Bering Strait area.

Dr. Collins was elected to the Board of Governors of the Arctic
Institute of North America for a 3-year term. He continued to serve
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

as a member of two Arctic Institute committees: (1) the Publications
Committee, which is responsible for preparation of the Institute’s
quarterly journal Arctic and its two series, Zechnical Papers and
Special Publications, and (2) the Research Committee, which plans
the Institute’s research program by passing upon grant applications,
acting as a scientific advisory group for military agencies engaged
in conduct of basic research in the Arctic and Antarctic, and planning
programs of Polar research which the Institute administers for Gov-
ernment agencies and other organizations.

He also continued to serve as chairman of the directing committee
of the Arctic Bibliography, a comprehensive work prepared by the
Arctic Institute of North America for the Department of Defense.
The purpose of the bibliography is to provide a key to scientific publi-
cations in the principal libraries of the United States and Canada
relating to the Arctic and sub-Arctic areas and to low-temperature
conditions, and to assemble and systematize this material so that it
may be readily available to scientists and others concerned with prob-
lems of northern research and development. In continuation of this
program, Volume 8 of Arctic Bibliography (1,281 pages) was issued
by the Government Printing Office in September 1959. It summarizes
and indexes the contents of 5,622 publications in all fields of science.
Volume 9, containing abstracts of 7,192 publications, is in press, and
work is in progress on Volume 10. Covering the entire range of scien-
tific literature in all languages on the Arctic and subarctic regions of
the world, the Arctic Bibliography to date has abstracted and indexed
the contents of 56,278 publications relating to these areas and to low-
temperature conditions.

In July 1959 Dr. Collins submitted a proposal to the National
Science Foundation for the Arctic Institute of North America to trans-
late Russian anthropological publications relating to northern
Eurasia. Much of the Soviet and earlier Russian anthropological
literature, particularly that on the archeology, ethnology, and physical
anthropology of Siberia, has a direct bearing on problems of American
anthropology. However, this Russian literature is not available to
the great majority of English-speaking anthropologists. English
translations of selected articles and monographs from Russian journals
and series would begin to meet this long-felt need. In March 1960
the National Science Foundation awarded a grant to the Arctic
Institute for the translation project and the work began in April,
under the direction of Dr. Henry N. Michael of Temple University.
An advisory committee, of which Dr. Collins is chairman, selects
materials for translation and advises on matters pertaining to the
publication and distribution of the translations. The translations will
be printed in an inexpensive format, as a special publication series of
the Arctic Institute, and offered for sale at modest prices.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 51

With the support of grants from the American Philosophical So-
ciety and the National Science Foundation, Dr. Collins left for Europe
June 24 to make a comparative study of archeological materials in
European museums and to attend the 34th International Congress of
Americanists in Vienna and the 6th International Congress of Anthro-
pological and Ethnological Sciences in Paris.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. William C. Sturtevant,
ethnologist, was concluding a period of fieldwork begun in February
1959 among the Seminole Indians in Florida. Returning north, he
spent July 8 in and around Charleston, S.C., where he examined
several old Southeastern Indian specimens and a portrait of Osceola,
the famous Seminole leader, in the Charleston Museum, visited Osce-
ola’s grave at nearby Fort Moultrie, and briefly investigated modern
Gullah Negro basketmaking near Fort Moultrie.

On his return to Washington, Dr. Sturtevant spent most of his
time at work on the materials collected during his extended field trip
in Florida. He also prepared a paper on the agriculture of the 16th-
century Taino Indians of the West Indies, which he delivered at the
58th Annual Meeting of the American Anthropological Association
in Mexico City in December. While in Mexico Dr. Sturtevant visited
the impressive Maya archeological site at Palenque and then spent
four days observing the lacquer-making industry at Uruapan, Mi-
choacén, and making a small collection illustrating this craft for
the National Museum.

In mid-November, Dr. Sturtevant spent two days at Newtown,
Cattaraugus Reservation, New York, for the wake and funeral of
Solon Jones, who was a leader of the Longhouse religion, a great
expert on Seneca ceremonies, a well-known orator in Seneca, and in
his younger days a famous lacrosse player. Mr. Jones will be greatly
missed by his many Iroquois friends and coreligionists and also by
anthropologists familiar with his community.

Dr. Sturtevant attended the 12th Conference on Iroquois Research
(Red House, N.Y., in October), the annual meetings of the Associa-
tion for Asian Studies (New York, in April), and the Society for
American Archaeology (New Haven, in May).

Dr. Wallace L. Chafe, linguist, was engaged in fieldwork on the
Tonawanda Reservation in New York State during July, August,
and early September. He collected material for the completion of
a Seneca dictionary and recorded and transcribed several religious
texts which are part of the Longhouse ceremonial pattern. This field-
work was sponsored by the New York State Museum and Science
Service in cooperation with the Bureau of American Ethnology.

Dr. Chafe served as chairman of the 12th Conference on Iroquois
Research, held at Red House, N.Y., October 16-18.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

During the first three weeks of November Dr. Chafe traveled to
North Dakota and Oklahoma to acquaint himself with the present
number and location of speakers of the Caddoan languages. This
language family includes Arikara, Pawnee, Wichita, and Caddo. He
obtained estimates of the number of speakers of each language, col-
lected word lists, and made lexicostatistic comparisons. The trip was
made under a grant from the American Philosophical Society.

He returned to North Dakota for the first three weeks of June to
collect further material on the Arikara language. He obtained
phonological, grammatical, and lexical data which will be used in
a comparative study of the languages of the Caddoan family.

Dr. Chafe published articles on the Seneca language in Language
and the Jnternational Journal of American Linguistics. In March
he completed an index of the journal Language for the years 1955-59.
Under the auspices of the American Philosophical Society, he began
work during the spring on a project designed to obtain estimates of
the present number of speakers of each of the Indian languages of
North America.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

The River Basin Surveys continued its participation in the Inter-
Agency archeological and paleontological salvage program. Its ac-
tivities were in areas to be flooded or otherwise destroyed by the
construction of large dams. The work was carried on in cooperation
with the National Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of the
Department of the Interior, the Corps of Engineers of the Depart-
ment of the Army, and a number of State and local institutions. The
investigations during the fiscal year 1959-60 were supported by a
transfer of $122,055 from the National Park Service to the Smith-
sonian Institution. Of that sum, $98,055 was for use in the Missouri
Basin and $24,000 for investigations along the Chattahoochee River
in Alabama and Georgia. On July 1, 1959, the Missouri Basin Project
had a carryover of $10,764, and that, with the new appropriation, pro-
vided a total of $108,819 for the program in the Missouri Basin. The
grand total of funds available for the River Basin Surveys for 1959-
60 was $132,819.

Activities in the field throughout the year were mainly concerned
with excavations, although some limited surveys were carried on and
one party made a series of studies of skeletal material in museums
and laboratories throughout the Missouri Basin. Because of a reduc-
tion in funds, fieldwork was more limited than in the previous year.
On July 1, 1959, there were three excavating parties working in the
Missouri Basin in South Dakota, and the mobile group was operating
in Nebraska. One of the parties in South Dakota was digging sites
in the Big Bend Reservoir area and the other two were working in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 53

the Oahe Reservoir area. The excavating parties completed their
work and returned to the headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr., in August,
while the mobile party finished its season on August 21, after having
visited 22 institutions and 11 field camps in six Missouri Basin and
three adjacent States.

In December one small party made a brief trip to the Lewis and
Clark Lake above the Gavins Point Dam to examine a site which was
being destroyed by wave action. The same party also visited a mound
group near Mitchell, S. Dak., where unauthorized digging had been
reported. The cooperation of the owner was obtained to prevent fur-
ther destruction of the site which is an exceptional one for that area.
From Mitchell the party proceeded to the Big Bend Dam site and
made an inspection of the construction activities then under way. A
second party returned to the Lewis and Clark Lake in February and
spent eight days salvaging materials from the site which had been
examined in December. In addition to a member of the River Basin
Surveys staff there was a representative from the Laboratory of An-
thropology of the University of Nebraska. These men were assisted
by the area engineer, the reservoir naturalist, and the reservoir man-
ager. The cooperative effort produced materials which identified the
site as being attributable to the Woodland cultures. Activities along
the Chattahoochee River in Alabama-Georgia were resumed in Jan-
uary when a survey-testing party began operations in the Walter F.
George Reservoir area which continued until mid-June when work
was stopped and the head of the party returned to Lincoln, Nebr.
Early in June one party began excavations in the Big Bend Reservoir
area near the dam axis and another started digging at a mound site
near the North Dakota-South Dakota boundary in the Oahe Reservoir
area. <A third party began studies the latter part of the month at the
site of historic Fort Sully north of Pierre in the Oahe Reservoir Basin.
All three were continuing their investigations at the end of the fiscal
year.

As of June 30, 1960, the River Basin Surveys had carried on
reconnaissance work or excavations in 255 reservoir basins located in
29 States. In addition, four canal areas and two lock projects had
also been investigated. The sites located during the years between
1946, when the program started, and the close of the fiscal year total
4,948, and of that number 1,154 were recommended for excavation or
limited testing. Because of the large number of sites and the lack
of sufficient time and funds for the work, complete excavation has
not been possible in any but a few exceptionally small ones. For
that reason, when the term “excavation” is used, it implies digging
only as much of a site as is deemed necessary to obtain a good sample
of the materials and information to be found there,
o4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Preliminary appraisal reports have been issued for most of the
reservoir areas which were surveyed. In a few cases no archeological
manifestations were noted and no general report was distributed.
During the last fiscal year preliminary appraisal reports for the
Oliver Dam, the Walter F. George Dam and Lock project, and the
Columbia Dam and Lock project on the Chattahoochee River were
mimeographed and distributed. Since the beginning of the salvage
program 188 such reports have been issued. The discrepancy between
the number of reservoirs surveyed and that of the reports issued is due
to the fact that in several cases a number of projects located within
a single basin or sub-basin were covered in one report.

By June 30, 1960, 487 sites in 54 reservoir areas located in 19 differ-
ent States had been either tested or dug sufficiently to provide good
information about them. The sites investigated range in age from
those represting hunting and gathering cultures of about 10,000 years
ago to early historic Indian village locations and the remains of fron-
tier trading and Army posts of European origin. The results ob-
tained from some of the excavations have been published in the
Smithsonian Institution Miscellaneous Collections, in Bulletins of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, and in various scientific journals
and historical publications. During the year River Basin Surveys
Papers Nos, 21-24, comprising Bulletin 179 of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, were sent to the printer. The papers consist of a
report on excavations in the Texarkana Reservoir Basin on the Sul-
phur River in east Texas, the Coralville Reservoir area on the Des
Moines River in Iowa, and two detailed accounts about work in vari-
ous sites in the McNary Reservoir area on the Columbia River. The
Texarkana report was written by Edward B. Jelks. The Coralville
paper was prepared by Warren W. Caldwell and the McNary Reser-
voir papers were the work of Joel L. Shiner and Douglas Osborne.
The latter two round out and complete the data which were contained
in Osborne’s River Basin Surveys Paper No. 8, Bulletin 165, “Exca-
vations in the McNary Reservoir Basin near Umatilla, Oregon.” At
the end of the year the editors were working on Car] F. Miller’s
manuscript which gives in detail the results of his excavations at the
John H. Kerr Reservoir basin in the Roanoke River, Virginia-North
Carolina.

On June 30, 1960, the distribution of reservoir projects that had
been surveyed for archeological remains was as follows: Alabama, 4;
Arkansas, 1; California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 8; Idaho, 11;
Illinois, 2; Iowa, 3; Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 2; Minne-
sota, 1; Mississippi, 1; Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1;
North Dakota, 18; Ohio, 2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; Pennsylvania,
2; South Carolina, 1; South Dakota, 10; Tennessee, 4; Texas, 19;
Virginia, 2; Washington, 11; West Virginia, 3; Wyoming, 22.
SECRETARY’S REPORT ao

Excavations had been made or were under way in reservoir areas
in Arkansas, 1; California, 5; Colorado, 1; Iowa, 1; Georgia, 7;
Kansas, 5; Montana, 1; Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota,
4; Oklahoma, 2; Oregon, 4; South Carolina, 2; South Dakota, 4;
Texas, 7; Virginia, 1; Washington, 4; West Virginia, 1; Wyoming, 2.
The preceding figures include only the work of River Basin Surveys
or that where there was direct cooperation between the Surveys and
local institutions. The work done by State and local institutions
under agreements with the National Park Service has not been in-
cluded because complete information about them is not available in
the River Basin Surveys office.

The National Park Service, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Corps
of Engineers and other Army personnel, and various State and local
institutions contributed helpful cooperation throughout the year.
Transportation and guides were provided by the Corps of Engineers
for the reconnaissance in one of the reservoir areas, and invaluable
help was received through the commanding officer at Fort Benning in
Georgia who assigned certain Army personnel to assist in some of the
activities in the portion of the Walter F. George Reservoir Basin
which lies in the Fort Benning Reservation. In addition, the Army
Air Command at Lawson Field furnished a helicopter so that aerial
photographs could be made of major archeological sites and current
excavations, as well as the progress in construction of both the Colum-
bia Dam and Lock and the Walter F. George Dam and Fock. In
the Missouri Basin the project engineers for the Oahe Reservoir pro-
vided storage space for equipment and also space for temporary living
accommodations. Mechanical equipment was lent in several instances
by the construction agency, which accelerated both the stripping of
the top soil from sites and the back-filling of trenches and test pits.
The field personnel of all of the cooperating agencies assisted the
party leaders from the River Basin Surveys in numerous ways and
the relationship was excellent in all areas. Both in Washington and
in the field the National Park Service continued to serve as the liaison
between the various agencies. The Park Service also prepared the
estimates and justifications for the funds needed to carry on the sal-
vage program. Along the Chattahoochee River the Georgia Histor-
ical Commission, the University of Georgia, and various local clubs
and groups of citizens in both Alabama and Georgia assisted the leader
of the River Basin Surveys party in many ways.

General supervision of the program was carried on from the main
office in Washington, while the activities in the Missouri Basin con-
tinued to operate from the field headquarters and laboratory at
Lincoln, Nebr. The latter also provided equipment and office assist-
ance for the Chattahoochee River project. The Lincoln laboratory

679421°—61——_5
o6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

processed the materials collected by excavating parties in the Mis-
souri Basin and also handled those from the Chattahoochee Basin.

Washington office——The main headquarters of the River Basin
Surveys at the Bureau of American Ethnology continued throughout
the year under the direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl
I’. Miller, archeologist, was based at that office and from time to time
assisted the Director in some of the general administrative problems.
Harold A. Huscher, archeologist, worked under the general super-
vision of the Washington office but because of lack of space and labora-
tory facilities continued to work at the field headquarters in Lincoln,
Nebr.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Mr. Miller was occupied with
the technical report on excavations which he previously conducted
at the Hosterman Site in the Oahe Reservoir basin in South Dakota.
In September he attended a conference on eastern archeology held
at Ligonier, Pa., under the auspices of the Carnegie Museum of
Pittsburgh and composed of a group of invited guests. The problems
discussed were mainly concerned with the Paleo-Indian, Eastern
Archaic, and Woodland cultures. In October Mr. Miller made a
survey of the Sutton Reservoir area in West Virginia. In November
he attended the Southeastern Archeological Conference held at Macon,
Ga. He completed his report on the Hosterman Site in February.
During April he made a survey of archeological sites along the Cow-
pasture River in Bath County, Virginia, investigating a number of
small rock mounds and several open sites. During the year Mr.
Miller examined and reported on several collections of artifacts which
were sent in from various areas in the East and Southeast. He also
gave a number of talks before various groups and societies in the
Washington area.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Mr. Huscher was in the Lincoln
office working on maps, records, and collections from the Oliver Dam
and Reservoir, the Columbia Dam and Lock, and the Walter F. George
Dam and Lock in the Chattahoochee Basin between Alabama and
Georgia. In July he attended a field conference held at Pierre, S. Dak.
In November he went to Macon, Ga., and participated in the South-
eastern Archeological Conference held there. On his return to
Lincoln he attended the Plains Conference which was held at the
University of Nebraska. His three appraisal reports on the Chatta-
hoochee projects were completed in October, November, and December.
They were processed at the Lincoln office and were distributed from
the Washington office in April. In January Mr. Huscher returned to
the Alabama-Georgia area where he resumed his field investigations
in the Walter F’. George Reservoir area. He returned to Lincoln late
in June and at the end of the fiscal year was on annual leave.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

Alabama-Georgia.—From January 19 to June 13 a series of test
excavations was carried on at 10 sites in the area to be flooded by the
Walter F. George Dam and Lock project. Six of the sites were in
Georgia and four in Alabama. Because the season was unusually wet,
work was limited for much of the time to sites in the sandy bottoms.
At each loeation a number of pits 10 feet square were sunk through
the deposits to sterile subsoil. At one of the sites in Georgia the main
occupation appeared to have been Early Mississippian, although there
was a thin surface overlay of the late Creek potsherds. There were
some indications that Weeden Island peoples had been there for a
time, and in the bottom levels decomposed flints similar to those which
occur in abundance on the Macon Plateau were present. The various
materials from the site suggest a long period of occupation or several
occupations at intervals covering a considerable span of years. At
two of the Georgia sites there were large plowed-down mounds with
indications of village areas. One of them presumably dates from the
Archaic period, and the other, in addition to Archaic materials from
levels below the mound, also gave evidence of Weeden Island affilia-
tions. Several of the sites contained Woodland materials, and one of
those in Alabama presumably was the location of the Yuchi village
mentioned by William Bartram and Benjamin Hawkins in their re-
ports on travels through the Creek country in the 18th century. Dur-
ing the field season collections were made from a total of 48 sites, 26 of
which had not been previously investigated. Field lots of specimens,
most of which were excavated, numbering 1,680, were added to the
previous 1,086 field lots collected in the 1958 and 1959 seasons. This
makes a total of 2,766 field lots for the three seasons of investigations
along the Chattahoochee.

In addition to the work of the River Basin Surveys parties there
were cooperative projects by the University of Georgia, the Univer-
sity of Alabama, and Florida State University. At the end of the
fiscal year the University of Georgia was excavating a large platform
mound near Stark’s Landing in Georgia. The University of Alabama
was digging in a village site adjacent to a large mound near Upper
Francis Landing in Alabama. The Florida State University party
was beginning investigations at the Spanish Fort of Apalachicola and
the adjacent aboriginal village near Holy Trinity, Ala.

Missouri River Basin—The Missouri Basin Project, for the four-
teenth consecutive year, continued to operate from the field head-
quarters and laboratory in Lincoln, Nebr. Dr. Robert L. Stephenson
served as chief of the project throughout the year. Activities in-
cluded surveys, excavations, analysis of materials, and reporting on
results. During the summer months efforts were mainly concerned
with excavations. Analyses and the preparation of reports received
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

the major attention during the winter months. The special chronol-
ogy program, begun two years ago, continued to receive attention
throughout the year.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the permanent staff, in addition
to the chief, consisted of five archeologists, one administrative assist-
ant, one clerk-stenographer, one part-time file clerk, one clerk-typist,
one illustrator, one photographer, and three museum aides. Tem-
porary employees included one cook and six crewmen.

During the summer field season one archeologist and one physical
anthropologist were temporarily added to the staff. During July, 11
additional crewmen were employed. The temporary archeologist
was terminated on August 28, and the temporary physical anthro-
pologist on August 21. All field crewmen were terminated during
the last week of August.

On September 4, one permanent archeologist resigned to return to
graduate school, and on May 27 one permanent archeologist resigned
to join the staff at the University of Tennessee. On January 2, the
clerk-typist resigned, and on February 5, the clerk-stenographer re-
signed. On February 23, a clerk-stenographer joined the staff but
resigned on April 1 and was replaced on May 2. The file clerk was
transferred from part time to full time on June 27. The temporary
cook was transferred to laboratory assistant on September 1 and to
the permanent staff on January 2. During the period from April 2
to June 1, one archeologist was lent to the National Park Service to
conduct archeological excavations at Colonial National Historical
Park, Yorktown, Va.

At the end of the fiscal year there were three archeologists in addi-
tion to the chief, one administrative assistant, one file clerk, one clerk-
stenographer, one illustrator, one photographer, three museum aides,
and one Jaboratory assistant on the permanent staff, and 12 crewmen
on the temporary staff.

During the year there were nine Smithsonian Institution River
Basin Surveys field parties at work within the Missouri Basin. Two
were in the Oahe Reservoir area, one in the Big Bend Reservoir area,
and one (a mobile party) covered the Missouri Basin area in general
during July and August. Two small parties made investigations
during December and February in the Gavins Point Reservoir area.
Two parties were excavating in the Oahe Reservoir area and one in
the Big Bend Reservoir area during June.

Other fieldwork in the Missouri Basin during the year included
10 parties from State institutions operating under cooperative agree-
ments with the National Park Service and in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Institution in the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage
Program.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 59

Reduction of funds for fiscal year 1960 necessitated a curtailment
of field activities, in comparison with past years, and a shift in the
methods of carrying on the salvage program. Despite the accom-
plishments of previous years in salvaging archeological values from
the many reservoir areas in the Missouri Basin, scores of sites still
remain to be studied and the reservoirs are rapidly nearing comple-
tion. The enforced reduction of activities presented a critical prob-
lem. The shift, or readjustment, in methods of fieldwork seemed
the only reasonable expedient to accomplish the mission set out for
the Salvage Program. This was a shift from major excavation of
key sites and sampling of nearby, related sites, to a mere sampling
of both key and secondary sites. This change in emphasis will be
satisfactory for at least two seasons because of the earlier work in
these same areas when full-scale excavations were possible at a num-
ber of key sites. There is a framework of information from exten-
sively excavated sites against which the data from the newly sampled
sites can be evaluated. There are, however, many major sites, outside
the known cultural framework, that promise to provide an abundance
of new information if excavated, but little or nothing if only sampled.
Another year, these sites must be excavated or lost forever. The
sampling approach, in the face of limited field activities, produced
worthwhile results in the field seasons of 1959 and 1960. Full-scale
excavations of key sites, though, must again be carried on in succeed-
ing years.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Dr. Warren W. Caldwell and a
crew of six were engaged in testing a series of sites in the Big Bend
Reservoir area. The specific locality was that of the construction area
of the dam along the right bank of the Missouri River in Lyman
County, South Dakota, and extending upstream to the area of the old
Lower Brulé subagency, a distance of approximately 12 miles. Sam-
pling investigations were made at 19 of the recorded sites in the area
and two new sites were located, recorded, and tested. A variety of
cultural manifestations is represented.

The first group of these sites is located near the mouth of Good Sol-
dier Creek in the area where the powerhouse and right abutment for
the Big Bend dam is to be built. Site 891.M235 had been partially de-
stroyed by landing-ramp construction but was extensively tested in the
remaining portions. Site 39L.M236 was inundated by extreme high
water of the Fort Randall Reservoir and tests made in it in the latter
part of the season, after the water had receded, again demonstrated the
uselessness of working a site that had been flooded. Sites 391L.M237
and 39L.M2388 were examined with limited test pits. All four sites
consisted of stratified concentrations of refuse material partially ex-
posed in the cut bank along the river and creek. Very little artifact
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

material was recovered this season and the results of the tests proved
to be of small diagnostic value. The first three appear to have been
sporadically occupied camping places. The fourth, the Good Soldier
Creek site (3891LL.M238), previously investigated, is a stratified site of
Plains Woodland affiliation overlain by a Mississippian component.

A series of six sites near the mouth of Councelor Creek was investi-
gated. Site 39L.M240 was briefly tested and proved to be another
sporadically occupied camp site with a few potsherds of the Iona
types suggesting occupation in the later ceramic period of circular
earth lodges. Site 39L.M234 was extensively tested with a series of
10 test pits scattered through the multitude of hummocks and depres-
sions on the surface. Results were disappointing but adequate to
demonstrate that it was the location of a village of one of the late
periods in the area. Sites 39LM88 and 39LMS89, newly located in
1959, and the Tom Rattler site (391.M214) were briefly tested with
very little diagnostic material being recovered. The Useful Heart
site (39L.M6) was extensively tested. There a sterile mantle 3 to 4
feet in depth covered the remains of a village of late circular houses
related to the Stanley Focus. A lower level of occupation at a
depth of 6.5 feet represented an earlier time level with pottery related
to the Over Focus.

The next group of sites upstream (391.M229, 230, 231, and 233)
were all briefly tested with negative results and written off as small,
sporadically occupied camp sites. A fifth site in this group, the Pretty
Head site (891.M232) was not investigated as it was the location of
a large village and is scheduled for more extensive excavation than
time would allow in the 1959 season. It is the only site in that imme-
diate vicinity where additional work is required. The next group
upstream included site 89L.M217, where brief testing produced only
scattered evidence of sporadic occupation, and four significantly
productive sites. The School site (39L.M216) was the remains of a
large village of circular earth lodges and contained pottery of Iona
types. One house quadrant and several test trenches were excavated.
The Crazy Bull site (891.M219) was another large village site of
circular earth lodges and provided pottery of the Iona, Stanley, and
Talking Crow types. Half a house and several test trenches were exca-
vated. Site 89L.M220, likewise, had been a village of circular earth
lodges and it yielded pottery predominantly of the Iona types. There
a half house and seyeral test trenches were excavated. Site 391.M221
was a group of three moderate-size burial mounds. Trenching in them
uncovered burial pits, infant burials, and scattered human bones. The
artifacts were not abundant but were sufficient to demonstrate a prob-
able relationship of the site to the Truman Mound group (389BF224)
excavated by Robert W. Neuman in 1958. Finally a brief investigation
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

of one feature was made at the Hickey Brothers site (89LM4), ex-
cavated by Bernard Golden in 1958. There a probable rectangular
house pattern was partially uncovered, but the data from the site still
are inadequate for a convincing demonstration of the cultural group
to which it belongs.

In all, the Caldwell party examined 21 sites, of which 1 was a burial
mound group, 1 was a large village probably of the rectangular house
period, 4 were large villages of late circular earth lodges, 1 was a
stratified village of rectangular earth lodges overlain by an occupa-
tion of later, circular earth lodges, and 14 sites which were sporadi-
cally occupied camps producing little diagnostic material. Except
for the Pretty Head site (89LL.M282), all others in this area may now
be written off as not requiring further investigation unless something
new is uncovered in the course of construction of the Big Bend Dam.
The Caldwell party terminated the season’s work on August 6, after
9 weeks in the field.

The second River Basin Surveys party in the field at the beginning
of the year was a team of physical anthropologists consisting of
William M. Bass, III, and two assistants. They were engaged in a
survey of human skeletal materials from all the reservoir areas in
the Missouri Basin, as well as skeletal materials from other institu-
tions and areas outside reservoirs for the purpose of bringing together
data on all the presently extant Indian remains from the Plains area.
They visited all the field camps, assisting in the excavation of burials
where needed, and went to all the museums and other repositories of
archeological materials in the general area. They took anthropometric
measurements on the remains of over 2,000 individuals, studying 22
institutional collections and visiting 11 field camps in Oklahoma,
Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota, South
Dakota, and North Dakota. The analyses of the scores of measure-
ments, both cranial and postcranial, taken on each of the 2,000 indi-
viduals, will provide the first broad study of the physical character-
istics of the Indians who occupied the prehistoric villages in the
various reservoir areas in the Missouri Basin. With the data on the
differences between the physical types, the archeologist will be in a
much better position to understand the cultural movements of peoples
between villages and village areas. This field party was materially
assisted, through the kindness of Dr. Wilton K. Krogman, by a grant-
in-aid to Bass from the University of Pennsylvania Child Growth
and Development Center. The party completed its season on August
21, after 9 weeks in the field.

The third River Basin Surveys field party of the 1959 season began
work in the Little Bend area of Sully County, South Dakota, in the
Oahe Reservoir, on July 2. It consisted of a crew of seven under the
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

direction of Dr. Charles H. McNutt. This party, like that of Caldwell
in the Big Bend Reservoir, spent the season making a series of small-
scale test excavations in a large number of sites along a restricted
area of the Missouri River. The crew was supplemented in mid-
season by 5 additional crewmen, making a total party of 12. Sample
excavations were conducted at 18 of the 22 previously recorded sites
in the Little Bend. The remaining four sites are of sufficient eleva-
tion to remain above water and also appear to be of minor significance.
In addition, 11 new sites were located and recorded but only one was
of sufficient value to warrant testing and mapping.

The uniformity of the cultural materials from the Little Bend is
rather remarkable. Only two sites (89SL12 and 39SL13) provided
any evidence of long-rectangular house villages, and that is only in
the form of Thomas Riggs types of pottery. All the other sites had
been small to large villages of circular earth lodges providing sherds
of only two major classes of pottery, Russell Ware and Stanley Ware.
House depressions in all sites are uniformly circular and are usually
either ringed, shallow depressions, or unringed deep depressions.
Russell Ware pottery occurs characteristically with the former and
Stanley Ware pottery with the latter. The consistency of this asso-
ciation is striking. Villages with ringed house depressions and Rus-
sell Ware pottery were usually compact and consisted of 1 large
(presumably ceremonial) house and from 5 to 10 small (presumably
domiciliary) houses. No fortifications were found in association with
any of these villages. Villages with unringed, deep house depressions
and Stanley Ware pottery were either compact or diffuse and may or
may not have had a particularly large (ceremonial) house and a forti-
fication ditch. Some historic material was found in three of the
four sites of this type examined. The individual sites are summarized
briefly.

Site 89SL12 consists of the remains of a large ceremonial house
and at least: seven smaller houses located on a low, bench promontory.
Three midden heaps and three cache pits were tested and the site was
mapped. No defensive ditch could be found. Pottery consisted of
both Russell Ware and Thomas Riggs Ware. Site 39SL13 is likewise
situated on a low bench promontory and consists of some 40 house
depressions, including 2 large ceremonial houses but no defensive
ditch was located. There, 8 house depressions were tested, and 1
midden heap, 10 cache pits, 2 fireplaces, and 8 other test pits excavated,
and the site was mapped. Pottery consisted of Stanley Ware, Russell
Ware, and Thomas Riggs Ware, and a few objects of historic origin
were found. They are the only two sites in the Little Bend area that
suggest occupation during the long, rectangular-house period.

Site 39SL19, located on the floodplain, was a compact village with
deep depressions surrounded by a semicircular fortification ditch.
Secretary's Report 1960 PLATE 1

1. ‘Test excavation in site 39SL19, a large village of circular earthlodges, in the Little
Bend area of the Oahe Reservoir, producing Stanley Ware pottery. [Examples of architec-
tural style, settlement pattern, and artifact materials can be obtained by a series of tests

of this kind at each site. River Basin Surveys.

2. Expanded test excavation in edge of circular house at site 395L13, in the Little Bend

area of the Oahe Reservoir. Center of house is to right of picture. A leaner post of the
house wall can be seen to right of menu board. Large excavated cache pit is shown in
center of picture and an unexcavated cache pit appears as dark semicircle at left. River

Basin Surveys,
Secretary's Report 1960 PLATE 2

i ¥ a7 v2
ee 2

ls CLD OPE BAS BA ee ay, Rims -
1. Section of a large cedar (Juniperus) cut by a Missouri Basin Project-Smithsonian

Institution field party in 1958. The tree stood high on the bluffs overlooking the “‘Grand
Detour,” the great loop of the Missouri now called the Big Bend. ‘The earliest annual ring
dates from ca. A.D. 1770. This log provides a fine illustration of variable tree growth in
response to varying rainfall. The drought years of the 1840’s and the 1930’s are plainly

visible. River Basin Surveys.

Sa eee ; = é Be 4s) Owes Sea “i
2. View of soil profile section in site 39BF2, a deeply buried, multicomponent site in the
Big Bend Reservoir. Soil samples were taken from seven zones in this cut to assist in

determining the geologic-climatic periods of the various occupations. River Basin Surveys.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 63

Tests were made in one midden heap, a cache pit, and eight other test
pits, and the site was mapped. An extensive sample of Stanley Ware
pottery was obtained. Site 39SL3, located on a low terrace, was a
compact area of 26 house depressions but no evidence of a fortification
ditch or large ceremonial house. Four houses were tested and three
cache pits, three fireplaces, and a burial were excavated. The site
was mapped. Pottery was of the Stanley Ware and some historic
objects were recovered. Site 89SL28, located on the low brush prom-
ontory just east of 395112, consisted of one large ceremonial house
depression and at least seven other smaller house depressions. One
house was tested, four middens and two cache pits were excavated,
and the site was mapped. Stanley Ware pottery predominated in
the collections but some Russell Ware was also found. These three
sites and the one multicomponent site listed in the Thomas Riggs
group above were the only sites with a predominance of Stanley Ware
pottery.

At the following sites Russell Ware pottery predominated. Site
39SL8, situated on a low terrace, represents a diffuse village of
numerous house depressions. Three houses were tested, and one
midden, three cache pits, one fireplace, and one test pit were excavated,
and the site was mapped. Site 39S5L30 consisted of two very shallow
house depressions on a low terrace promontory. One house was
tested, and two middens and a fireplace were excavated. A map was
made of the site. Site 895124 was a small, compact village contain-
ing one large ceremonial house depression and at least five smaller
depressions located on the low terrace above the floodplain. Four
houses were tested, a midden, a fireplace, and a cache pit were exca-
vated, and the site was mapped. Site 89SL202, the remains of
another village situated on a low terrace above the floodplain, con-
sisted of two rather large, ringed house depressions. Both houses
were tested, two middens, and two fireplaces were excavated, and the
site was mapped. Site 39SL36 contained only one very faint house
depression on a high (or second) terrace and a small rock cairn.
The house was tested, four middens and a fireplace were excavated,
and the site was mapped. It was a small, poor site but some addi-
tional house depressions may have been present. Site 39SL50, newly
located in 1959, consisted of two shallow house depressions on a small
terrace promontory. One house was tested, a midden and a test pit
were excavated, and the site was mapped. It was a small, unpro-
ductive site. Site 39SL23 consisted of a large ceremonial house
depression and 17 smaller house depressions located on a high (or
second) terrace above the floodplain. A considerable quantity of
collared rim sherds were present in the collections. Three houses
were tested, a midden, four cache pits, and two test pits were exca-
vated, and the site was mapped. Site 39SL21 was a single house
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

depression and two rock cairns located on the high terrace. Tests of
cairns were negative. The house was tested, two cache pits, a fire-
place, and two test pits were excavated, and the site was mapped.
Site 39SL22 was a large ceremonial house depression and three smaller
depressions situated on the high terrace. One house was tested, two
cache pits, a fireplace, and two test pits were excavated, and the site
was mapped. Site 39SL20, consisting of two faint house depressions
on the lower terrace, was a small site and not very productive. One
house was tested, a midden, a cache pit, and two fireplaces were
excavated, and the site was mapped. Site 89SL17 contained a large
ceremonial house and six smaller depressions on the high terrace.
Three houses were tested, two cache pits, a fireplace, and a test pit
were excavated, and the site was mapped. Site 89SL16 was com-
posed of three shallow house depressions and several other irregular
depressions situated on the high terrace. Two houses were tested, a
cache pit and a fireplace were excavated, and the site was mapped.
This was a small and unproductive site. Site 895114 contained two
house depressions on the high terrace adjacent to Site 89SL13. Both
houses were tested, a midden was excavated, and the site was mapped.
Site 395L34, a single house depression on the high terrace and a part
of the 89SL13 and 14 complex, was not productive. The house was
tested, a midden was excavated, and the site was mapped.

Ten sites, newly located in 1959, consisted of only minor-find spots
of specimens, random fire hearths, cache pits, and similar isolated
features. None is of enough significance to warrant further attention,
though surface collections and/or minor tests were made in all of
them. These sites are 89SL47, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, and 57.
Likewise, site 895L25 was examined and written off as of no further
interest. Thus by the end of the season tests had been made to pro-
vide architectural details for 36 circular earth lodges in 17 separate
sites and excavations had been conducted in 25 middens, 33 cache pits,
16 fireplaces, and 26 random test pits. One burial was recovered and
19 sites were mapped. Houses were consistently tested by excavat-
ing a trapezoidal area on the depression edge with the base of the
trapezoid (10-25 feet wide) just outside the house ring and the smaller
base (5-10 feet) near the center. This gave maximal coverage of the
house periphery. In many cases these tests were extended to the
central fireplace, and where the wall post pattern seemed unsatisfac-
tory the outer edge of the trapezoid was extended. The McNutt party
completed its season’s work on August 29, after 814 weeks in the field.

The fourth River Basin Surveys party for the 1959 season was
directed by Dr. Alfred W. Bowers. This crew of five began intensive
excavations at the Anton Rygh site (89CA4), in Campbell County,
South Dakota, on July 13, and continuing the investigations that were
SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

carried on by Dr. Bowers during the previous two summers. The
objective for this final season was the excavation of portions of the
early, long-rectangular house component that underlay at least three
later occupations of circular earth-lodge villages. This objective was
only partially achieved. Portions of a rectangular house wall were
uncovered, and a substantial series of early ceramic types of the
Thomas Riggs-Huff sequence was collected. In addition to this, a
major contribution to an understanding of this type of prehistoric
site was made in the excavation of a sequence of fortifications and
defensive structures especially equipped with bastions and “strong
points.” Two distinctive fortification systems separated by 4 to 5 feet
of fill were identified. The upper one is associated with late Alaska
material and represents one style of fortification in use in earliest
historic times. The lower system is associated with the Thomas
Riggs-Lower Fort Yates material of the rectangular house period of
seven or eight centuriesago. The Bowers party completed its season’s
work on August 22, after six weeks in the field.

Two Missouri Basin Project field parties were in operation for brief
periods during the winter months. In response to notification by the
area engineer at Gavins Point Dam that an archeological site was
being destroyed by wave action at Lewis and Clark Lake, Robert W.
Neuman visited the site in company with Corps of Engineers person-
nel during the period December 2-5. Brief testing of the Miller
Creek site (25K X15) demonstrated that it was a campsite of the period
prior to the sedentary earth-lodge villages in the area and may be of
considerable significance when excavated later in conjunction with
proposed bank stabilization work by the Corps of Engineers. The
fine cooperation of the Corps of Engineers staff was most helpful in
this project. In addition to work at the Miller Creek site, Neuman
visited a burial-mound group near Mitchell, 8. Dak., where unauthor-
ized digging had been reported, and found that one of the mounds had
been destroyed. The landowner agreed to allow no further unauthor-
ized excavation there. The trip was completed with a brief survey of
the construction activities at the Big Bend Dam.

The second wintertime field party in the Missouri Basin also went to
the Miller Creek site (25KX15). This was a cooperative project
between the River Basin Surveys, the University of Nebraska Labora-
tory of Anthropology, and the Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, at the
Gavins Point Dam. The area engineer advised that bank-stabilization
work would begin in the area of this site the week of February 15.
During the period February 12-20, Robert W. Neuman, of the River
Basin Surveys staff, and Thomas A. Witty, of the University of
Nebraska Laboratory of Anthropology, excavated a portion of the
site. They were assisted by the area engineer, the reservoir naturalist,
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

and the reservoir manager of the Gavins Point Dam. The Laboratory
of Anthropology provided a part of the field expenses. This is another
example of the outstandingly fine cooperation between various Federal
and State agencies in the Inter-Agency Archeological Salvage Pro-
gram. The Miller Creek site, on the right bank of Miller Creek at its
confluence with the Missouri River in Knox County, Nebraska, is a
prehistoric Indian campsite exposed at a depth of from 3 to 6 feet
below the surface. Test trenches revealed a moderate quantity of arti-
facts including chopping tools, projectile points with and without side
notches, and a few pottery fragments. The material relates the site to
the Woodland cultures. In addition, a day was spent at a site on the
South Dakota side of Lewis and Clark Lake, collecting some deeply
buried bison bones that appear to be of an extinct species.

The 1960 summer field season in the Missouri Basin began in the Big
Bend Reservoir area on June 8. Dr. Warren W. Caldwell and the
party under his direction, prevented by heavy rains and unexpected
high water from reaching its primary objective of sites in Old Arm-
strong County, Oahe Reservoir, temporarily transferred their activ-
ities for the early part of the season to the area about the mouth of
Medicine Creek in Lyman County, South Dakota. By the end of the
fiscal year Caldwell had a crew of eight men, and excavations were well
underway at Sites 39L.M222 and 39L.M224, two small earth-lodge vil-
lages briefly tested in the 1959 season.

The second Missouri Basin Project field party starting work in June
was under the direction of Robert W. Neuman. It was engaged in the
excavation of a burial-mound site near the North Dakota-South
Dakota State line, in the Oahe Reservoir area, Sioux County, North
Dakota. This site, the Boundary Mound group (82SI1), consists of
several burial mounds of the Plains Woodland period, and is one of
the extensive series of Woodland mound sites in the Oahe Reservoir
area scheduled for excavation by this party during the 1960 season.
By the end of the year excavations at this site were nearly completed.
Mr. Neuman and his crew of six men had cut extensive trenches across
three of the mounds and had dug several test pits in other parts of the
site.

The third Missouri Basin Project field party at work in June was
a crew of three under the direction of G. Hubert Smith in the Oahe
Reservoir area. This historic-sites party planned to begin digging on
June 23 at the site of old Fort Bennett (39ST26) in Stanley County,
South Dakota. When it reached that location, however, it found most
of it already under water and a change was necessary. The party
moved to Fort Sully (89SL45) in Sully County on the other side of
the Missouri River, and on June 28 started an investigation of the
foundations and refuse dumps at that historic military post in order to
SECRETARY'S REPORT 67

verify several ground plans of the post and gather a representative
series of specimen materials of the period.

Cooperating institutions working in the Missouri Basin at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year included a party from the University of Kansas,
directed by Dr. Carlyle S. Smith, excavating at the Stricker Village
site (39L.M1) in the Big Bend Reservoir and testing two nearby sites,
391L.M226 and 39L.M227; a joint party from the University of North
Dakota and the State Historical Society of North Dakota, directed by
Dr. James H. Howard, excavating at the Huff site (82MO11) in the
Oahe Reservoir area; and two parties from the University of Missouri,
directed by Dr. Carl F. Chapman, excavating a series of sites in the
Pomme de Terre Reservoir area and making preliminary surveys 1n
the Kassinger Bluff Reservoir area of west-central Missouri. In July
and August, a party from the Kansas State Historical Society, under
the direction of Roscoe Wilmeth, excavated one site and tested three
others in the Pomona Reservoir area of east-central Kansas. In
October a party from the University of South Dakota, directed by
William Buckles, excavated a cemetery area at the Four Bears site
(389DW2) in the Oahe Reservoir area of South Dakota. In April the
Nebraska State Historical Society had a party, under the direction of
Marvin F. Kivett, surveying sites in the Red Willow Reservoir in
southwestern Nebraska. At the end of the fiscal year, four cooperating
institutions had archeological crews in the field: The State Histor-
ical Society of North Dakota, at the Huff site (832MO11) in the Oahe
Reservoir area, under the direction of W. Raymond Wood; the Uni-
versity of Nebraska, at the Leavenworth site (89CO9) in the Oahe
Reservoir area, directed by Dr. Preston Holder; the University of
Missouri, surveying and testing sites in the Kassinger Bluff Reservoir
area, directed by Dr. Carl F. Chapman; and the Kansas State Histor-
ical Society, in the Wilson Reservoir area in central Kansas, directed
by Roscoe Wilmeth. All these parties were operating through agree-
ments with the National Park Service and were cooperating in the
Smithsonian Institution research program.

During the time that the archeologists were not in the field, they
were engaged in analysis of their materials and in laboratory and
library research. They also prepared manuscripts of technical,
scientific reports and wrote articles and papers of a more popular
nature.

The Missouri Basin Chronology Program, started by the staff
archeologists of the Missouri Basin Project in January of 1958, and
described in the Seventy-sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, continued to operate throughout the year. The
program has continued to have marked success and the entire group
of 34 individuals and 20 research institutions has continued to co-
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

operate in assembling data, under the general direction of the Missouri
Basin Project staff members. Studies by Dr. Paul B. Sears of Yale
University on the pollen samples collected last year have continued
to progress, and at least one profile is being verified. Another group
of 11 radioactive carbon-14 samples has been submitted to the Uni-
versity of Michigan Memorial Phoenix Laboratory, under the direc-
tion of Professor H. R. Crane, to add to the 11 dates already obtained
on carbon-14 specimens. Plans for full-time participation by a dendro-
chronologist made little headway during the year but look promising
for next year. On a part-time basis, the dendrochronologist, Harry
EK. Weakley, continued to prepare materials for study. Alan H.
Coogan, though no longer a member of the River Basin Surveys staff,
continued his studies of the geologic-climatic aspects of the chronology
of the terrace-situated sites in the Fort Thompson region of the Big
Bend Reservoir area. The 11 radiocarbon dates already obtained in
the Missouri Basin Chronology Program are given in their relative
temporal positions in table 1. The dendrochronological material is
illustrated in plate 2, figure 1, and the soil profile of a site near Fort
Thompson, S. Dak., is shown in plate 2, figure 2, to illustrate the
geologic-climatic approach to the dating of archeological materials.

The laboratory and office staff spent its full effort during the year
in processing specimen materials for study, photographing and il-
lustrating specimens, preparing specimen records, and typing, filing,
and illustrating records and manuscript materials. The accomplish-
ments of the laboratory and office staff are listed in tables 2 and 3.

As of June 30, 1960, the Missouri Basin Project laboratory had
cataloged 1,219,563 specimens from 2,097 numbered sites and 58 col-
lections not assigned site numbers in the 14 years of its operation. It
may be noted in table 2 that considerable material from the Chatta-
hoochee River Basin was processed in the Missouri Basin Project
laboratory this year. This reflects collaboration for expediency and
economy between the archeological investigations outside the Mis-
souri River Basin and the facilities for work within the Missouri Basin
and constitutes a major contribution to the effectiveness of the salvage
program in the southeastern United States. In addition to the
processing of these specimens, the Missouri Basin Project facilities
were utilized for a portion of the year in the preparation of maps,
illustrations, and the three mimeographed appraisal reports resulting
from the work in the Chattahoochee Basin last year. Without the
aid of the Missouri Basin Project facilities these researches would
not have progressed so rapidly.

The Missouri Basin Project staff archeologists and archeologists of
the Nationa] Park Service and the cooperating State agencies working
in the Missouri Basin met on July 24 in a roundtable field conference
69

SECRETARY’S REPORT

paean OST+‘'G'¥ GIL 10 ‘pro sxvak OSTtOPZT
‘asnoyu 8 Ut ytd a3ez104S & UT PUNO; [rod
-iByo :atduvug *“(1fOATSsay aye) A.uUNOD
Aatuezyg ut sesnoy avtnsuvzyoor ‘B3uot jo
eBZVT TTA :(uoTzednd00 4Ysaty) a4Tg Uspserg

rvek OSZt‘'a'V BSS 10 ‘pto s1eek OSZtOOTT
‘sasnoy ey}, FO suo worsy 4ysod

-[TeH paurng :atTdueg “(1ToOATasay [[Tepuvy
yatoq) AqyuNoD a[nag uf sosnoy sze[Nsuvy
-Sa1 ‘Zuo, JO asB[[TA et ‘ai}tg uOsUeAS

teak QOtt''a'¥ BSOTIO ‘plo savefk QOZt006
“sasnoy ay} FO suo uf syzsod

ztoddns-jJoor om} Woy TLOoIeYoS :aeTdues
‘(1fOArosey [Tepucy }10q) AQuNOD

O[eygyng ut ‘sasnoy aB[nSurj,Vei ‘SuoT
:(uOtzZedNd90 4SIty) 394TG Yaarg moun

‘asnoy e woly ysod-[[emM pourng

Ajtqzied :atduweg *(1pToarasoy ayeQ) Aqunog
Ad[uB}g uy sasnoy Ay[nNJue,oar ‘B3uo{, jo
OJB{[TFA B@ !(uoyzednd50 puodsas) a4Fg ppog

reek COZ‘ AV 8ZZI 19 ‘PIO sxeak OOZ+HOEL
“zsod-asnoy peutng :atdurg *(1;OArTasay
aueag) Ajyunog seysny ut sasnoy rze[nduey
-0a1 ‘BZuot Jo a3B{T{TaA !a3yTg sS3ty swuoyy

sivok OOZt'a'Y BOET 10 ‘pto sx¥ak OOZtOS9
*ysod-asnoy pournq :atdueg

(1fosressy eyeQ) AzuNaD AstuLig

uy sesnoy IV[nBuBjzosexr ‘JAuol Yo es¥B{[}TAa v
!(uofzednss0 YeITJZ) AITEG reaATy SuUakayD

COAY
: OO@%t''A'V 8STI 10 ‘pto sxevek QOZtOO8

VLOuVd HLAOS

‘Y

SS See) SS ee

caf IEE a I he

-----------|-----------

~---------- rt |-----------

ee | See

Cav) SLva

ee a ear ee! «eae a

meee oO leasace ee

ee AR Tee a eee ae ee

va

sreak 0O0f7‘"'D°'d FLOP

Io ‘pto sivak QOe+eE99

“TUFF 9348 Jo

[SAST Puosas WoIs TeOoIeYO
zetdweg ‘“punoy e190mM sasnoy
ON ‘AquNoD 34Ng UT eVTsdueo
quetToue ue 'a1TS Hoear19 uvZo7

BS SSS

sivek OO%t‘'a'V¥ 8Z8 IO ‘PIO sIBEA OOZTOLIT
*geinjvay 19y20

pus sjsod [e1aAeg wory [BOOIeYS :atTdweg
*(aAfoaressy yYeorQ auTOTPaW) AzuNOD
Iat,uoIg uf ‘sverwe TOOTS AB[NOIFOS YT
sasnoy JO 131sNTO [Ieus v !ETLaSZ e3TS

siv0k OOZt' AV BEII 10 ‘PIO sxvek OOz+Ozs
*asnoy e worsy ys0d 410ddns

-Joo1 pauinq :etTdueg ‘“Ayunog preMmoy
ut sesnoy orenbs fo aZe{[ta B !aztg Teynog

sivof QOZt'-a'V SSPI IO ‘pro sxBek OOZtOOS
*IOOTT

@snoy B WoIy [voorBYyo :atdues (1foAreseay
NO0IQ auTotTpey) AyunoD Jay.UoIg uy sesnoy
e1eunbs fo 19aySsNTO [Tews & !OLLISS 31TS

sIB9k OSTt' GY SOLT IO ‘PTO sx¥ak OSTtOSZ
“uoFzBdNI9O 33BT & gazYUp

!2uyI3tTp [Te12eueSs worsy [Bwooreyos :erdueg
Ayunog péog uy ‘s1aurod pepunoar YyzTA
gsosnoy or1enbs Jo o3v{[T}fA & 'azTS qouaT

yuSVUa

‘wrisolg ASojouoIYD uUlseg linossIJ 94} Aq pauleigo sajep F[-UOqIey— | 2/9",
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

TABLE 2.—Specimens processed July 1, 1959-J une 30, 1960

Number of | Catalog num-| Number of

Reservoir sites bers assigned specimens

processed

MISSOURI BASIN PROJECT
Big Beng Se 2 oie ae tein on ee ee 17 404 ood
Fort Randall se 2 5 82 2s eae 1 7 20
Oahe he ee Gah ee eee ee suas a ah neat oe, 50 5, 098 43, 437
Sitesmotiimireservoirs®- 22-0 oe See ee 3 9 26
71 5, 518 44, 840
Collections not assigned site numbers-_--_-__- 3 5 5
STNG tre Ree he te eRe Ses 2 ek ee ee 5 523 44, 845
CHATTAHOOCHEE BASIN

Columbiay Dame n=. se seks ase ie See OSs at 4, 053 30, 161
Walter F wGeorges 2s. a: oe coe ee cic awec 282 5, 170 65, 779
OUI GR saya a ee pe te Se een Bee ry 128 2, 968
Sites not in reservoirs... -=.-_-]_---22- 2-2. 2 83 1, 254
328 9, 434 100, 162
Collections not assigned site numbers-_---_--- i 29 138
Totallescs 5 ope oe ee eee oe ae ee |e oe 9, 463 100, 300
Combined itotalss2 2222265286224 2222 399 14, 986 145, 145

TaBLe 3.—Record material processed July 1, 1959-June 80, 1960

MISSOURI BASIN PROJECT

Reflex: copiesiof records 25 22 S.a 2 Ae Ee ee eee eee 10, 299
Photographic negatives made... 3! =. 4 =. 22 eae se ee ee ily(fcoh
Photographic’ prints mades=— 22225522 = a ee ae eee 9, 945
Photographic prints mounted: and? filed: Se eee 3, 654
Transparencies mountediniglass==22 2 ee ee eee eee eee 283
Kodachrome pictures.taken: 2222 4s 2230s se Se eee 454
Plate layouts made-for:manuscripts 2!2.< 2) es eee 69
Cartographic tracings and .drattings = 2222-322 oe = 2 = ee ee ee 50
Artifacts sketched" o.= "= 32 ** —_ 22 Se 2 Se ee eee ee 44
Plates lettered 222 3+ Be ee Se eee ene 37

Profiles-drawn set i ee ee ees een 36
SECRETARY'S REPORT ral

in Pierre, S. Dak. This 1614th Plains Conference, now a regular sum-
mer event, and an adjunct of the annual autumnal Plains Conferences,
was devoted to discussions of basic technical problems arising from
current field activities. They centered principally around the se-
quences of cultural groupings in this area and the interrelationships
between the several cultural manifestations represented by excavated
materials. During the Thanksgiving weekend, members of the staff
participated in the 17th Plains Conference for Archeology, held in
Lincoln. On April 23, members of the staff took part in the Seven-
tieth Annual Meeting of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences, held also
in Lincoln.

Dr. Robert L. Stephenson, chief, devoted considerable time to
managing the office and laboratory in Lincoln and preparing plans
and budgets for the 1960 field season. He also worked on a summary
report of the Missouri Basin Salvage Program for the calendar years
1952-60, and on a complete revision of a large technical monograph,
“The Accokeek Creek Site: A Middle Atlantic Seaboard Culture Se-
quence,” previously accepted as his doctoral dissertation at the Uni-
versity of Michigan. He began preparation of an article, “Adminis-
tration in Anthropology,” and started preliminary analysis of the
materials he recovered from the excavations at the Sully site (39SL4)
in the Oahe Reservoir in 1956 to 1958. He aiso continued writing on
the manuscript reporting the “Archeological Investigations in the
Whitney Reservoir, Texas.” Throughout the year he served as chair-
man of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. In July he served
as chairman of the 1614th Plains Conference held in Pierre, S. Dak.,
and during the Thanksgiving weekend served as general chairman for
the 17th Plains Conference held in Lincoln, Nebr. He was a panel dis-
cussant for “The Texas Panhandle and the Southwest” in the session
on “Plains-Southwest Relationships,” and presented an exhibit of
“The History of the Plains Conference” at that meeting. On Janu-
ary 20 and 21, he participated in the annual meeting of the Committee
for the Recovery of Archeological Remains, held in Washington, D.C.,
and on April 23, he attended the Seventieth Annual Meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln, presenting a paper on “A
Ceramic Dichotomy” which was published in abstract in the Proceed-
ings of the Nebraska Academy of Sciences. During the year he pre-
pared a book review of “The Cougar Mountain Cave,” by John Cowles,
for publication in American Antiquity, and a book review of “Arche-
ology of Coastal North Carolina,” by William Haag, for publication
in Ethnohistory. He also gave nine talks on various aspects of Mis-
souri Basin Salvage Archeology at the regular meetings of local civic
organizations and three talks to local school groups in Lincoln. On

579421°—61—_—6
72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

March 1, he became assistant editor of Notes and News in the Plains
Area, for American Antiquity, and on April 29, was appointed asso-
ciate editor for the Plains Anthropologist. Taking annual leave, he
served as part-time assistant professor of anthropology on the faculty
of the University of Nebraska during the second semester of the aca-
demic year (February to June) and taught an upper-division course,
“Prehistory of North America.”

Dr. Warren W. Caldwell, archeologist, when not in charge of field
parties, devoted most of his time to analyses of specimen materials he
had recovered from salvage excavations in previous years. He com-
pleted preliminary analysis of the ceramics and certain other artifacts
from the Black Partizan site (839L.M218) which he excavated in the
Big Bend Reservoir in 1958. He reanalyzed the artifacts and data
from the Hickey Brothers site (38391L.M4), excavated by Bernard
Golden of the Missouri Basin Project staff in 1958, and in collabora-
tion with Lee G. Madison and Bernard Golden completed the final
manuscript, including figures and illustrations, “Archeological In-
vestigations at the Hickey Brothers Site (89LM4), Big Bend Reser-
voir, South Dakota.” He reanalyzed the artifacts and stratigraphic
data from the Wakemap Mound site (45KL26), and prepared intro-
ductory chapters for the final report on the excavations there; com-
pleted the final revision of the report, “Archeological Investigations
in the Hell’s Canyon Area, Snake River, Oregon and Idaho”; revised
and completed the manuscripts and illustrations for a popular photo-
graphic booklet, “Lewis and Clark Lake,” which was published by the
Corps of Engineers, U.S. Department of the Army, Omaha, Nebr., in
January. In collaboration with Charles H. McNutt and G. Hubert
Smith, he contributed chapters to, edited, and completed final revision
of a similar popular booklet, “Fort Randall Reservoir.” The latter
was submitted to the Corps of Engineers in Omaha for publication.
He revised three manuscripts of short articles pertaining to firearms
in the Plains: “Preliminary Notes on Fragments of Firearms and
Related Objects from Fort Atkinson, 1820-1827,” “Firearms and
Related Materials from Fort Pierre II (89ST217), Oahe Reservoir,
South Dakota,” and “Comments on the ‘English Pattern’ Trade
Rifle.” They were submitted for publication in the Missouri Arche-
ologist. Other manuscripts and publications completed by him this
year were: “The Black Partizan Site, A Preliminary Anaylsis,”
accepted for publication in the Plains Anthropologist; review of
“Stone Age on the Columbia,” by Emory Strong, accepted for pub-
lication in Archeology; review of “Archeological Explorations in
Central and South Idaho, 1958,” by Earl H. Swanson, Jr., Donald
R. Tuohy, and Alan Bryan, accepted for publication in American
Antiquity ; “Pacific Coast Clay Figurines: A Contraview,” published
SECRETARY’S REPORT 73

in the Davidson Journal of Anthropology, vol. 3, No. 2; and a mimeo-
graphed statement issued by the Missouri Basin Project, “Missouri
Basin Project, Progress Report No, 4.” On July 24, he participated
in the 1614th Plains Conference in Pierre, S. Dak., and November
26-28 attended the 17th Plains Conference for Archeology in Lincoln,
where he served as chairman of the session on “Field Reports” and
presented a paper, “Excavations in the Lower Brule-Good Soldier
Creek Area, Big Bend Reservoir.” On April 23 he presented a
paper, “Clay Figurines in the Prehistory of the Northwest,” before
the Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln. It was published in
abstract in the Proceedings of the Academy. During the year he
continued to serve as chairman of the dendrochronology section of
the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. In February, he accepted
appointment as collaborator for the Plains area for Abstracts of New
World Archeology, and in April accepted appointment as assistant
editor for Reviews and Literature for the Plains Anthropologist. In
March he addressed the Sigma Gamma Epsilon, national earth-
sciences honorary, on “The Smithsonian Institution and the Archeo-
logical Salvage Program.” On annual-leave time, he served as part-
time assistant professor of anthropology on the faculty of the Uni-
versity of Nebraska during the second semester of the academic year
(February to June) and taught a lower-division course, “The Amer-
ican Indian.”

Dr, Charles H. McNutt, archeologist, when not in the field conduct-
ing archeological excavations, spent much of his time in studying
materials he had obtained in previous seasons and in the preparation
of reports on the results of those excavations. He attended and par-
ticipated in the 1614th Plains Conference in Pierre in July, and the
17th Plains Conference for Archeology in Lincoln in November. At
the latter he presented two papers, “The Thomas Riggs Focus, Addi-
tional Data” and “Comments on Two Southwestern Pottery Types.”
In April he attended the Seventieth Annual Meeting of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences and presented a paper, “Comments on Prehis-
toric Contacts between the Southwestern United States and the Areas
to the Kast.” It was published in abstract in the Proceedings of the
Academy. In September he prepared an article, “The Missouri Basin
Chronology Program,” which appeared in the Progress Report of
the Interior Missouri Basin Field Committee for October-December
1959. In January he collaborated with Warren W. Caldwell and
G. Hubert Smith in the preparation of a popular photographic book-
let, “Fort Randall Reservoir,” to be published by the Corps of Engi-
neers, Omaha. Throughout the year he served as chairman of the
carbon-14 section of the Missouri Basin Chronology Program. Dur-
ing the course of the year he completed manuscripts on “The Okobojo
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Creek Site (39SL9), Oahe Reservoir,” “The Ziltener Site (839SL10),
Oahe Reservoir,” “The Nolz Site (89SL40), Oahe Reservoir,” and
“The Glasshoff Site (89S5L42), Oahe Reservoir.” He also completed
the final draft of the report, “The C. B. Smith Site (89SL29), Oahe
Reservoir.” All five of these are now ready for publication. In
addition, he completed the artifact analyses and portions of the
manuscripts of reports of work at the “Sully School Site (89SL7),
Oahe Reservoir” and “The Zimmerman Site (89SL41), Oahe Reser-
voir.” On his own time during the second semester of the academic
year (February to June), he served as part-time assistant professor
of anthropology on the faculty of the University of Nebraska and
taught a lower-division course, “World Ethnology.” On May 27,
he resigned from the River Basin Surveys to accept a teaching position
at the University of Tennessee.

William M. Bass III, temporary physical anthropologist, attended
and participated in the 1614th Plains Conference in Pierre and after
completion of his fieldwork resigned on August 28. During the re-
mainder of the year he devoted much of his own time to study of the
data collected in the field and to statistical analyses of the measure-
ments taken on the human skeletal material from the Plains. These
data will provide the basis for his doctoral dissertation at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania and also for an extensive handbook on the
physical anthropology of the Plains Indians.

William N. Irving spent the months of July and August in the
Lincoln laboratory completing a first draft of a technical report on
his excavations at the Medicine Crow site (839BF2) in the Big Bend
Reservoir area. He resigned on September 4 to continue his studies
toward a doctorate at the University of Wisconsin.

Dr. Alfred W. Bowers, temporary archeologist, attended and
participated in the 1614th Plains Conference in Pierre in July. He
resigned on August 28 to return to his regular position as professor
of anthropology at the University of Idaho. During the course of the
year he devoted a portion of his time to analysis of the archeological
materials he had excavated during the past three summers at the
Anton Rygh site (89CA4) in the Oahe Reservoir.

Robert W. Neuman, archeologist, when not engaged in field
activities, turned his attention to analysis and interpretation of arche-
ological materials from sites he had previously excavated in the Big
Bend Reservoir area of South Dakota. He completed a manuscript
“The Truman Mound Site (39BF224), Big Bend Reservoir Area,
South Dakota” and a brief article on “Representative Porcupine Quill
Flatteners from the Central United States,” both of which were ac-
cepted for publication in American Antiquity. He prepared and
published a brief article in the Florida Anthropologist entitled “Two
Unrecorded Pottery Vessels from the Purcell Landing Site, Henry
SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

County, Alabama.” He completed the analysis of specimen materials
and prepared final drafts of two manuscripts reporting sites he had
excavated in the 1958 and 1959 seasons: “The Good Soldier Creek
Site (39LM238), Lyman County, South Dakota” and “Two Sites in
the Fort Thompson Area, Big Bend Reservoir, South Dakota.” The
former deals with a stratified site of Plains Woodland occupation
overlain by a Mississippian component. The latter reports the in-
vestigations at a burial mound site of Plains Woodland context and
at a multicomponent village site. In November he attended the 17th
Plains Conference for Archeology in Lincoln, and in April he pre-
sented a paper, “Burial Patterns in Mounds of the Big Bend Area,
Central South Dakota,” at the Seventieth Annual Meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences in Lincoln. This paper was published
in abstract in the Proceedings of the Academy. In March he was
elected to full membership in the Society of the Sigma Xi and was
initiated in May. At the end of the year he was again in the field in
charge of a crew excavating burial mounds in the Oahe Reservoir area.

G. Hubert Smith, archeologist, was on duty at the Lincoln office most
of the year. In July he participated in the 1614th Plains Conference
in Pierre, and in November he attended the 17th Plains Conference
for Archeology in Lincoln, serving as a discussant in a panel forum
on “Plains Ethnohistory.” He visited the State Historical Society of
North Dakota in Bismarck during the period November 9-14 for the
purpose of examining and borrowing field notes and specimens per-
taining to the large technical manuscript he is preparing on the com-
bined researches at the site of Fort Berthold and Like-a-Fishhook
Village (832ML2). The work on this report on four seasons of in-
vestigation by three separate State and Federal agencies at this site
occupied Mr. Smith the major part of the year. It was about two-
thirds completed by June 30, 1960. On April 2, he was lent to the
National Park Service at Colonial National Historical Park, York-
town, Va., where he conducted excavations at the site of an early 18th-
century dwelling and completed a comprehensive technical report of
the results. In April he contributed a paper, in absentia, on “His-
torical Archeology in Missouri Basin Reservoir Areas; Current In-
vestigations” for the Twentieth Annual Meeting of the Nebraska
Academy of Sciences. It was published in abstract in the Proceedings
of the Academy and was accepted for publication in its entirety in the
Plains Anthropologist. As previously mentioned, he collaborated
with Caldwell and McNutt in the preparation of a popular booklet
on “Fort Randall Reservoir.” He wrote a review of “The Indian
Journals of Lewis Henry Morgan—1859-1862,” edited by Leslie A.
White, which was accepted for publication in Nebraska History. In
March he was elected to full membership in the Society of the Sigma
Xi, and initiated, in absentia, in May. He returned to his duties in
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Lincoln on June 1 and began preparations for the summer fieldwork.
At the end of the year he was conducting investigations in historic
sites in the Oahe Reservoir area.

West Virginia.—A survey of the Sutton Reservoir (Cleveland M.
Bailey Reservoir) on the Elk River in West Virginia was made during
the period October 8-19. With the helpful cooperation of the Corps
of Engineers the entire area was covered on foot and by vehicle and no
archeological manifestations were found. This was one of the few
areas investigated where no further work would be required.

Cooperating imstitutions—In addition to the institutions and
agencies previously mentioned in the sections pertaining to Alabama-
Georgia and Missouri Basin, a number of others cooperated in the
Inter-Agency Salvage Program in several areas throughout the
United States. The University of Arkansas made an archeological
survey in the Beaver Reservoir area on the White River and carried
on geological and paleontological investigations in the Greers Ferry
Reservoir basin on the Little Red River. The University of Arizona
continued its excavations in the Painted Rock project area on the Gila
River. The Northern Arizona Museum of Science and Art made
additional studies relating to the archeology, geology, flora, and
fauna of the Glen Canyon project in the lower Colorado and San Juan
Rivers. Southern Tlinois University made a series of excavations
in the Carlyle Reservoir basin on the Kaskaskia River in Illinois. The
University of Kentucky conducted excavations in the Barkley Reser-
voir area on the Cumberland River and at the Barren No. 2 project
on the Barren River. It also conducted a survey of 22 small Federal
projects scattered over the State of Kentucky. The University of
Missouri carried on investigations in the Joanna Reservoir area on the
Salt River in the Upper Mississippi Basin. The Museum of New
Mexico again worked in the Navaho project area along the San Juan
River. The University of North Carolina conducted surveys and
excavations in the Wilkesboro Reservoir area on the Yadkin River.
San Francisco State College conducted excavations at the Black Butte
project on Stony Creek and in the San Luis Reservoir area above the
juncture of San Luis and Cottonwood Creeks in Merced County, Cali-
fornia. The University of Oregon continued its series of excavations
in the John Day Reservoir area on the John Day River in the Colum-
bia basin. Nevada State Museum made a survey of the Peavine
Mountain Water Shed project in Nevada, and Washington State Col-
lege carried on additional excavations in the Ice Harbor Reservoir area
on the Snake River. The University of Texas made surveys in the
Proctor Reservoir area on the Brazos River, the Navarro Mills project
on Richland Creek, and the proposed reservoir areas on Flat Creek,
Farmers’ Creek, and Champion Creek. In addition it conducted
SECRETARY'S REPORT “EL

excavations at the Ferrell’s Bridge project on Cypress Creek at the
Whitney Reservoir on the Brazos River and in the Diablo Reservoir
region along the Rio Grande. It also investigated remains in the
Canyon and Iron Bridge project areas. Kast Texas State College
made paleontological surveys in the Iron Bridge area along the Sabine
River and the Panhandle—Plains Museum made surveys in the Green-
belt Reservoirarea. ‘The University of Utah continued its excavations
in the upper portions of the Glen Canyon Reservoir area on the Colo-
rado River.

During the year various local groups and institutions continued to
cooperate in the salvage program on a voluntary basis. They were
mainly in Pennsylvania, New York State, Ohio, Indiana, Tennessee,
and southern California.

ARCHIVES

The Bureau Archives continued during the year under the custody
of Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker. On November 14 Mrs. Blaker attended
meetings of the American Indian Ethnohistoric Conference in New
York City and while returning to Washington she spent three days
in Philadelphia examining pictorial and manuscript collections relat-
ing to American Indians in the American Philosophical Society
Library and in the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.

MANUSCRIPT COLLECTIONS

The Bureau’s manuscript collections continue to be utilized by
anthropologists and other students. About 285 manuscripts were
consulted by searchers, of whom 60 visited the archives in person and
28 purchased reproductions totaling 2,346 pages. Some 350 manu-
scripts were referred to by the archivist in obtaining information for
90 mail inquiries. In the course of this examination, new and more
detailed descriptive lists of manuscripts were also prepared and are
available for distribution in response to specific inquiries.

The papers of Alice Cunningham Fletcher and her adopted son,
Francis La Flesche, which had been deposited on loan in 1955 by Mrs.
G. David Pearlman of Washington, D.C., were donated by Mrs.
Pearlman in 1959 in memory of her husband, G. David Pearlman.
During the year just ended this collection was arranged and cata-
loged by Nicholas S. Hopkins, summer intern. The collection occu-
pies 36 boxes. In addition to correspondence and other personal
papers of both Fletcher and La Flesche, there is extensive ethno-
graphic material relating to the Omaha, Osage, Pawnee, Dakota, and
Nez Perce tribes, with smaller amounts on the Winnebago, the In-
dians of Alaska, and a number of other North American tribes.
Much of this material has not been published, and should be helpful
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

to anyone studying those tribes. A 20-page outline of the subject
matter of the collection has been prepared, and further information
will be provided on request.

PHOTOGRAPHIC COLLECTIONS

Requests by scholars, publishers, and the general public for ethno-
graphic photographs from the Bureau’s collection continue to in-
crease. The year’s total of 604 purchase orders and written and
personal inquiries concerning photographs is considerably greater
than last year’s total of 504, and the 1,983 prints distributed during
the year through purchase, gift, and exchange represented a marked
increase over the 1,208 of the previous year.

As a result of new lists describing specific portions of the photo-
graphic collections that are frequently being prepared, much infor-
mation about available photographs is gradually being distributed,
with a corresponding increase in the distribution of photographs.
At present about 110 lists have been prepared describing series of
photographs relating to individual tribes or subjects. Since these
are in typed form only, they are not distributed as complete sets, but
copies of the relevant ones are sent in response to specific Inquiries.

The Bureau’s files of photographs are constantly growing through
the generosity and thoughtfulness of interested individuals who
either lend their personal collections for copying or present them as
gifts. Jor example, a series of 160 photographic prints relating to
the Northern Cheyenne Sun Dances of 1958 and 1959, and to the
moving and opening of the Sacred Buffalo Hat bundle in 1958 and
1959, were made from negatives taken and lent by Mrs. Margot
Liberty of Birney, Mont. The Bureau’s set of prints is available for
reference by students, but until 1970 purchase orders for copies will
be referred to Mrs. Liberty who retains the negatives.

Arrangements were made by Dr. William C. Sturtevant for bor-
rowing and copying 69 photographs relating to the Florida Seminole
taken during the first quarter of the 20th century. They were from
the following collections in Florida: Collier Development Corpora-
tion, Everglades; the P. K. Yonge Library of Florida History, Uni-
versity of Florida, Gainesville; the Willson-Cantrell Collection, Uni-
versity of Miami Library, Miami; and the personal collections of
Frank A. Robinson, Robinson Galleries, Miami; Dr. Charlton W.
Tebeau, Miami; and Mrs. M. K. Ashworth, Coral Gables.

Daguerreotypes of Eleazer Williams, Mohawk, and John O’Brien
Skenondough, probably an Oneida, made by Mathew Brady in 1853
and owned by the Long Island Historical Society, Brooklyn, New
York, were lent for copying throngh the courtesy of Miss Helen
Bolman, librarian of the Society.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

Nine photographs relating to various North American Indian
tribes and two made by T. H. O’Sullivan in Colombia in 1870 while
on the Darien Expedition under Commander Selfridge were lent for
copying by James Tubbesing of Winchester, Va.

A collection of 83 photographs relating to St. Francis Mission,
Rosebud Agency, South Dakota, and to other Dakota Indian agencies,
including portraits of agency personnel, Indian police, students, and
agency buildings, were received as a gift from Richard A. Pohrt of
Flint, Mich. Eleven photographs by J. N. Choate pertaining to the
Carlisle Indian School, Carlisle, Pa., were also donated by Mr. Pohrt.

Nine photographs of Spanish Mission churches in the Southwest
and Mexico were donated by George B. Eckhart, Tucson, Ariz.

A large group photograph of a number of Ute Indians who were
camping in the Garden of the Gods, Colorado, in 1913 was received as
a gift from Dr. Sidney Margolin of Denver, Colo.

An important collection of 312 glass negatives consisting of indi-
vidual and group portraits of Indian delegates to Washington photo-
graphed by C. M. Bell in the period 1874-1890 was purchased from
W. T. Boyce of Washington, D.C. Bell’s photographic work was
well known to his contemporaries, and a cartoon in Les/ie’s Weekly
for September 10, 1881, carries the legend, “Photographing an Indian
Delegation, in Bell’s Studio, for the Government.” In recent years,
with the exception of a small series of negatives in the Bureau of
American Ethnology uncertainly attributed to him (an attribution
now confirmed), Bell’s Indian photographs have been little known
or used, and the whereabouts of his negatives was not known. The
plates have not as yet been individually cataloged, but the following
tribes are among those represented: Arapaho, Blackfoot, Cheyenne,
Chippewa, Comanche, Dakota, Hidatsa, Sauk and Fox, and some
of the Plateau tribes.

With the assistance of Kiowa friends and relatives, Dr. Everett
R. Rhoades of Oklahoma City, Okla., identified a number of Kiowa
portraits in the Bureau files. Father Peter Powell of Chicago, with
the aid of John Stands-in-Timber and other Cheyennes, provided
identifications and biographical notes on certain Cheyenne photo-
graphs. During a visit to the archives William Hall, a Winnebago
of Black River Falls, Wis., gave information about a number of
Winnebago photographs.

ILLUSTRATIONS

The Bureau’s staff artist, E. G. Schumacher, continued to do a wide
variety of illustrating for Bureau and other publications of the Smith-
sonian Institution. In addition, he made text drawings for articles
written by staff members on various topics to be issued in local,
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

national, and foreign periodicals. Most of the illustrations were of an
archeological nature, although there was a sizable cross section of
scientific and technical art material undertaken. Approximately 379
halftone plates were mounted, revised, restored, retouched and/or
lettered, 237 text illustrations drawn, and 66 charts, diagrams, and
graphs prepared.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The Bureau’s editorial work continued during the year under the
immediate direction of Mrs. Eloise B. Edelen. There were issued
one Annual Report and five Bulletins, as follows:

Seventy-sixth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1958-59.
ii + 41pp.,4pls. 1960.

Bulletin 143, vol. 7. Index to the Handbook of South American Indians. vi + 286
pp. 1959.

Bulletin 172. The story of a Tlingit community: A problem in the relationship
between archeological, ethnological, and historical methods, by Frederica de
Laguna. x + 254pp., 11 pls., 18 figs. 1960.

Bulletin 173. Anthropological Papers Nos. 57-62. iii + 498, 61 pls. 37 figs.,
2maps. 1960.

No. 57. Preceramie and ceramic cultural patterns in northwest Virginia,
by C. G. Holland.

No. 58. An introduction to Plains Apache archeology—the Dismal River
Aspect, by James H. Gunnerson.

No. 59. The use of the atlat] on Lake Patzcuaro, Michoacan, by M. W. Stirling.

No. 60. A Caroline Islands script, by Saul H. Riesenberg and Shigeru
Kaneshiro.

No. 61. Dakota winter counts as a source of Plains history, by James H.
Howard.

No. 62. Stone tipi rings in north-central Montana and the adjacent portion
of Alberta, Canada: Their historical, ethnological, and archeological
aspects, by Thomas F.. Kehoe.

Bulletin 174. An introduction to Kansas archeology, by Waldo R. Wedel. With
description of the skeletal remains from Doniphan and Scott Counties,
Kansas, by T. D. Stewart. xvii+723 pp., 97 pls., 109 figs. 1959.

Bulletin 177. Archeological investigations in British Guiana, by Clifford Evans
and Betty J. Meggers, xxi+418 pp., 68 pls., 127 figs. 1960.

Publications distributed totaled 31,547, as compared with 27,721

for the fiscal year 1959.
COLLECTIONS

The following collections were made by staff members of the
Bureau of American Ethnology or of the River Basin Surveys and
transferred to the permanent collections of the department of anthro-
pology and the department of zoology, U.S. National Museum:
SECRETARY’S REPORT Sl

FROM BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Acc. No.

228466. 318 items of archeological materials from La Venta, Tabasco, Mexico,
collected by Robert F. Heizer, Philip Drucker, and Robert J. Squier
in 1955.

228740. 183 items of archeological material from Colville River drainage area,
northern Alaska, collected by U.S. Geological Survey members, 1949-
1950. Reported and turned over to Ralph 8. Solecki for transfer.

228741. 351 items of archeological material from along Kukpowruk and
Kokolik Rivers, Alaska, collected by Ralph S. Solecki, 1949,

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

221942. 65 fresh-water mussels from Hughes County, S. Dak., collected by
Richard Wheeler and Harold A. Huscher in 1958,

226498, 228124, 228919, 229853, 229854, 229855, 229856, 229857, 229861, 229862,

230198, 230201, 230203, 230204. Archeological and human skeletal material

collected in Oahe Reservoir, Campbell, Stanley, and Sully Counties,
S. Dak.

229858, 229859, 229860, 230200. Indian skeletal material from Big Bend Res-
ervoir, Buffalo and Lynn Counties, S. Dak.

230199. Indian skeletal material from Gavins Point Reservoir, Yankton City,
S. Dak.

230202. Indian skeletal material from Jamestown Reservoir, Stutsman City,
N. Dak.

MISCELLANEOUS

On January 27, 1960, Miss Jean EK. Carter was appointed tempo-
rarily as museum aide and assigned to the Bureau Archives. She
resigned effective May 4, 1960, and on May 23 Mrs. Caroline R. Cohen
was appointed for a 3-month period to fill the vacancy. Raymond E.
Machoian was also engaged for three months to assist with the clean-
ing, sorting, and processing of archeological materials excavated at
Russell Cave, Alabama.

Dr. John P. Harrington, Dr. A. J. Waring, and Sister Inez Hilger
continued as research associates. Dr. M. W. Stirling, also a research
associate, continued to use the Bureau laboratory in completing reports
on fieldwork undertaken while he was Director of the Bureau.

The following bibliographies and leaflets were issued during the
fiscal year:

SIL-65, 2d rev., 10/59: Introductory bibliography on the American Indian.
6 pp.

SIL-230, 9/59: Selected references on American Indian basketry. Compiled by
William C. Sturtevant. 7 pp.

SIL-231, 8/59: Bibliography of wild food plants of United States Indians. Pre-
pared by F. R. Irvine. 26 pp.

SIL-234, 10/59: Selected references on North American Indian clothing. Com-
piled by William C. Sturtevant. 4 pp.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

SIL-240, 10/59: Manuscript collection, Bureau of American Ethnology Archives.
ip.

Saino ts 11/59: Selected references on federal Indian policy and administra-
tion. Compiled by William C. Sturtevant. 10 pp.

A new bibliographic series titled “Smithsonian Anthropological
Bibliographies” was inaugurated under the auspices of Dr. William C.
Sturtevant of the Bureau staff. This will include bibliographies of
varying length and technicality, both areal and topical, in all fields of
anthropology, and will be distributed to those requesting it. It is
hoped that individuals not affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution
who have prepared bibliographies for class use or other purposes which
might be of general usefulness will submit them to the Bureau for
consideration. No. 1 of the series is “Selected References on the Plains
Indians,” 36 pages, multilithed, compiled by John C. Ewers. As in
other recent Bureau bibliographies, this one includes recordings of
music, sources of illustrations, a list of museums where noteworthy
Plains Indian collections are on exhibition, an index to the references
according to tribe, and an index of the tribes according to State.

An increase of 885 letters over last year brought the total number of
inquiries about the American Indians received in the Director’s office
during the year to 3,644. In addition, staff members received many
letters of a semiofficial nature, but these were not officially recorded.
Leaflets and other printed materials were sent in answer to many of
the inquiries, while information was supplied to others by staff mem-
bers. More than 13,000 informational items, including printed and
typescript articles, bibliographies, and several hundred photographic
lists, were sent out in response to requests for such materials. Numer-
ous specimens either brought to the oflice or sent by mail were identi-
fied for owners and data supplied on them.

Respectfully submitted.

Frank H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.

Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Str: Ihave the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1960:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two divisions: the Division
of Astrophysical Research in Cambridge, for the study of solar and
other types of energy impinging on the earth, and the Division of
Radiation and Organisms in Washington, for the investigation of
radiation as it relates directly or indirectly to biological problems.
Shops maintained in Washington, for work in metals, woods, and
optical electronics, prepare special equipment for both divisions, and
a shop in Cambridge provides high-precision mechanical work. The
field station at Table Mountain, Calif., carries out solar observations.
Twelve satellite-tracking stations are in operation, in Florida, Hawaii,
and New Mexico in the United States, and abroad in Argentina,
Australia, Curacao, India, Iran, Japan, Peru, South Africa, and
Spain.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

The Observatory research staff made significant contributions to our
knowledge of solar astrophysics, the upper atmosphere, meteors, mete-
orites, artificial satellites, and space science. The continued refinement
of observational techniques and the development of new methods
provided valuable data and opened up new areas of astrophysical
investigation.

The Observatory continued its close liaison with Harvard College
Observatory, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and other
research centers, with mutual benefit.

Solar astrophysics—At the Table Mountain station Alfred G.
Froiland, using the atmospheric transmission coefficients obtained
by Smithsonian work, made gratifying progress in his measurement
of the quantity of ozone in the atmosphere and its effects in energiz-
ing the upper atmosphere. He is also studying the possibility of
measuring the quantity and quality of haze. The availability of a
datatron at the California Institute of Technology has broadened and
simplified the scope of the investigation. A more precise and con-
sistent method of measurement is resulting.

Dr. Max Krook, continuing his theoretical work, devised a new and
more powerful method for determining the structure of nongray

&3
84. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

atmospheres. Computation by this new procedure of a number of
model atmospheres has begun, with the collaboration of Dr. Charles A.
Whitney. Dr. Krook continues his investigation of various problems
related to the dynamics of ionized gases, the structure of shock fronts
in the presence of magnetic fields, and the kinetic theory of gases.

Dr. Whitney continued his study of stellar atmospheres, begun in
1956. Under his supervision, work on the theory of the formation
of spectral Jines in moving atmospheres is virtually completed. With
numerical techniques developed for use with electronic computers,
he is constructing first approximations to precise models of stellar
atmospheres, and making preliminary calculations concerning their
dynamic behavior.

Dr. Robert J. Davis completed a study of the spiral structure of the
Milky Way, and the relationship between neutral hydrogen and
stellar clusters and associations, by means of the 21-centimeter radia-
tion of neutral hydrogen. His observations confirm the fact that
the spiral arms are trailing and indicate that neutral hydrogen is
probably concentrated in some stellar aggregates. This work makes
a major contribution to our knowledge of galactic structure, and to
the study of the dynamics, origin and evolution of stars, stellar
clusters, associations, and the galaxy.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek is compiling a revised catalog of stars with
composite spectra. In collaboration with Dr. Werner Kirschoff, using
the 74-inch reflecting telescope of the Radcliffe Observatory at Pre-
toria, South Africa, he has obtained a series of 25 spectrograms of
a number of stars with composite spectra visible only in the skies of
the Southern Hemisphere to add to the catalog.

Dr. Richard E. McCrosky, in collaboration with Dr. William Sinton
of the Lowell Observatory, has begun attempts to detect infrared
radiation from molecular hydrogen in interstellar space, by use of
infrared-sensitive detectors on the 42-inch telescope at the Lowell
Observatory.

Dr. Paul W. Hodge began a study to determine the chemical com-
position, physical characteristics, ages, and distances of selected nearby
galaxies. The work requires exceedingly detailed and accurate
photometry of individual stars in the field and in clusters of certain
extragalactic nebulae, and will provide evidence on the true distance
scale of the universe.

Upper atmosphere—Dr. Luigi G. Jacchia continued his study
of the earth’s upper atmosphere, based on analyses of the motion
of artificial satellites. This work, at the very frontier of knowl-
edge, has revealed startling new facts concerning solar-terrestrial
relationships.

Dr. Jacchia has shown that at heights above 200 kilometers the
density of the atmosphere displays a diurnal variation. As the earth

ee
SECRETARY’S REPORT 85

rotates, the atmosphere of the bright hemisphere, directly subject to
solar radiation, exhibits a pronounced bulge, while that of the night
hemisphere cools and contracts. In addition, the density of the
entire atmosphere above 200 kilometers fluctuates in response to
variations in the 20-cm solar flux, and undergoes transient, relatively
rare variations caused by great storms on the sun. Dr. Jacchia has
constructed a model atmosphere that accounts for these periodic
fluctuations, and has developed a formula that yields the profile of
atmospheric density above any point of the earth at any time, given
the position of the sun and the value of the 20-cm solar flux.

This work has obvious practical application to geophysics and to
space science, and the U.S. Air Force is now partially supporting an
expanded program of research.

Dr. Hynek and George J. Nielson continued their balloon experi-
ments in cooperation with the U.S. Air Force, Oflice of Scientific
Research in Washington, D.C., Air Force Cambridge Research Cen-
ter, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Instrumentation
Laboratories. They now have scheduled unmanned balloon flights
in the late summer, 1960, and plan manned balloon flights at 90,000
feet altitude in the fall of 1960. These flights are designed to deter-
mine the amount of image distortion produced by the atmosphere
at altitudes between 50,000 and 100,000 feet and to study the use of
infrared techniques in stellar photography, and the feasibility of in-
strumenting and manning astronomical observatories in high-altitude
vehicles.

Dr. Hynek and George G. Barton are investigating the possible
application of electronic image-converter techniques to astronomy.
The preliminary system tests have been completed, and a program
begun with the 20-inch Cassegrain telescope at Mount Palomar Ob-
servatory will permit comparison of observations made with image
orthicon techniques with those made by current photographic
techniques.

Dr. A. V. Baez devised a method of obtaining high resolution
photographs with short wavelengths diffracted and focused by spe-
cially constructed Fresnel zone plates. He has also developed a re-
flecting X-ray “telescope” constructed of an array of crossed plane
mirrors which simulate a matrix of collimated pinholes brought to
a common focus. He is now working on an advanced version of this
device which will use curved instead of plane mirrors. These devices
will eventually produce an X-ray telescope for observations in the
extreme ultraviolet and soft X-ray regions above tho earth’s
atmosphere.

The Director and Dr. Davis continued the development of a tele-
scope for use in space, the “Celescope.” Specifications for the vari-
ous components were completed, and the contract was awarded to
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

the Aircraft Armaments Corporation, Cockeysville, Md. Prelimi-
nary experiments are expected to be launched in an Aerobee-hi rocket
early in 1961, and the satellite should orbit in 1962.

This project is of prime importance for the study of stellar and
interstellar radiation in the far ultraviolet and soft X-ray regions
of the spectrum. It should provide spectrograms, and television pic-
tures, at three wavelengths, of the entire celestial sphere.

Meteoritical studies—To stimulate interest in essential earth-based
meteoritical research, the Director has outlined the most important
meteoritical investigations to be carried out in the United States dur-
ing the next few years, and has evaluated their importance, in a re-
port to the National Academy of Sciences. As President of Sub-
commission 22 of the International Astronomical Union, he is
preparing a report on world-wide meteoritical research.

The Director and Dr. Jacchia completed an analysis of the orbits
of 413 meteors photographed simultaneously by two stations with the
Super-Schmidt meteor cameras to determine the physical nature of
meteors and the distribution of their orbits in space. This work
represents the largest amount of precise data yet obtained on meteor
orbits and is vital to an understanding of the origin of meteors, their
possible interaction with space vehicles, and the nature of comets and
the zodiacal light. Analysis indicates that more than 98 percent of
all photographic meteors have a fragile structure, are of cometary
origin, and are members of the solar system. There is no evidence
for an interstellar source for meteors.

In a further analysis of this large amount of photographic mate-
rial, Dr. Jacchia is studying individual meteors to improve the theory
of meteors and to obtain more information on meteor phenomena
such as the fragmentation process and coma formation.

Continuing his study of comets, the Director is carrying out theo-
retical work on the structure of the cometary nucleus, and has nearly
completed calculations relating to the distribution of lifetimes of
long-period comets. He has derived a law for the frequency distri-
bution of cometary lifetimes. This work contributes significantly
to our understanding of the nature and evolution of comets and
meteors.

Dr. E. L. Fireman, Dr. Hodge, Dr, Frances W. Wright, Dr. G.
Kistner, Hai Chin Rhee, and Kenneth Covey continued the analysis
of stratospheric dust collected at high altitudes by aircraft, balloons,
and rockets, to determine the nature and quantity of interplanetary
matter accreted by the earth. Preliminary results indicate that at
heights above 50,000 feet the amount of terrestrial dust is greater
than had been supposed, and that the influx of meteoritic particles
into the earth’s atmosphere is smaller than had been expected. Mzi-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

crometeoritic dust particles have been chemically analyzed and their
composition compared with that of small magnetic particles collected
in the vicinity of the Canyon Diablo and Sikhote-Alin meteoritic
craters. This research contributes to our understanding of the inter-
planetary medium.

The electron-probe microanalyzer designed and developed by Dr.
F. Behn Riggs, Jr., allows the chemical analysis of a meteorite speci-
men without destruction of the sample. It is being used to measure
the concentrations of iron, nickel, and cobalt in magnetic particles
that are assumed to be micrometeorites, ranging in diameter from 50
to 1,000 microns. Particles of similar appearance are found to show
a wide range of chemical content. Nickel concentrations up to 5 per-
cent have been found in most of the particles analyzed. This re-
search will provide more information on the history and mode of
formation of meteorites.

Dr. Riggs designed and built a simple, hand-operated, scanning
spectrometer which makes it possible to measure the elements in
the surface of a sample more rapidly than with fixed-channel
spectrometers.

Jerald P. Annese, with Dr. D. W. Batteau (formerly at Harvard
University), designed and developed an emission-current regulating
system for the electron-probe microanalyzer, which increases the
accuracy of the analyzer.

Dr. Fireman is continuing his measurement of radioactive isotopes
in meteorites. The resulting data provide basic information on the
distribution, intensity, and constancy of cosmic rays in space, and
indicate the probable age and original mass of specific meteorites
found on earth. The time of solidification and the composition of the
primordial gas in meteorites are important problems in the history of
the solar system. By radiochemical methods, Dr. Fireman completed
the measurements on the Aroos and Bruderheim meteorites, and has
derived an estimate of the potassium-argon age of the Canyon Diablo
meteorite. To increase the value of these techniques, Dr. Fireman has
urged the establishment of a large-scale program for the discovery
of freshly fallen meteorites.

Dr. Richard E. McCrosky began plans for implementing such a
program, to locate and recover meteorites as soon as possible after
their fall, by photographing meteors in flight and analyzing the
photographic records to find the place of fall. The program will
also augment our knowledge of the numbers, masses, and orbits of
meteors.

In collaboration with scientists of the Harvard College Observatory,
the U.S. Air Force, the Lincoln Laboratories of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, and the New Mexico College of Agriculture

579421—61——7
S8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

and Mechanic Arts, Dr. McCrosky began experiments with artificial
meteors. Plans include the injection into the atmosphere, at meteoric
velocities, of bodies of sufficient and known size to reproduce the
meteor phenomenon. The work should help calibrate the mass-
luminosity scale of natural meteors.

Dr. McCrosky, in collaboration with Mrs. Annette Posen, completed
a program begun at Harvard College Observatory to determine the
distribution of meteoric material in the solar system, and its correla-
tion with comets. The analysis of the orbits of some 2,500 photo-
graphic meteors strongly suggested new correlations between the
orbits of comets in general and those of meteors in general.

Satellite-tracking program.—The network of 12 satellite-tracking
camera stations, under the supervision of the Director, assisted by Jack
Slowey, astronomer, John Grady, operations officer, and J. Aubrey
Stinnett, engineer, supplied to the Cambridge headquarters some
13,000 photographs of the artificial satellites. Refined techniques
have made possible the better alignment of camera with satellite.
Using the Henize-Moore tracking tables, Mr. Grady developed tech-
niques by which the camera can track a satellite for 5,000 miles of
its passage, almost 30 minutes of continuous photography. In
August 1959, the camera at the station at Woomera, Australia, success-
fully photographed the Satellite 1959 §2 (Explorer VI) at a distance
of 14,000 miles.

The Moonwatch program continued under the supervision of Leon
Campbell, Jr. Moonwatch teams have now transmitted more than
16,000 observations to Cambridge headquarters. These constitute
basic data for correcting ephemerides and for acquiring and re-
acquiring non-broadcasting satellites. During the year, Moonwatch
teams were able to relocate the “lost”? Satellite 1958 Epsilon. Their
observations made valuable contributions to studies of the Russian
Sputnik IIT and the many pieces into which it disintegrated upon the
separation of the “chamber” from the rocket assembly. Moonwatch
now comprises 137 teams in various parts of the world.

Under the supervision of Dr. Karoly Lassovszky, the Photo-
reduction Center in Cambridge processed the 13,000 films received
from the tracking stations; 8,705 contained images suitable for pre-
liminary field determinations of satellite position, and of these some
3,700 images were found suitable for precise measurement and
analysis.

Under the supervision of Dr. Whitney, the Research and Analysis
Division in Cambridge continued to derive precise orbits from optical
and radio data. The Differential Orbit Improvement program de-
vised by Dr. George Veis proved highly valuable for this work.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 89

Space science——Dr. Whitney made a detailed theoretical study of
the tumbling of Explorer IV by numerical integration of the gravi-
tional forces on the satellite. He also carried out theoretical studies
of the thermal balance and nighttime cooling of the ionosphere.

Dr. Yoshihide Kozai investigated the effects of solar radiation on
the motion of earth satellites, and derived general mathematical ex-
pressions for the variations of orbital elements of a close earth satel-
lite moving under the gravitational field of the earth. He has derived
numerical values for the amplitudes of the second, third, fourth, and
fifth harmonics of the earth’s gravity field and has begun work to
derive the coefficients of the tesseral harmonics.

Dr. Don A. Lautman completed work on the determination of the
orbit of Satellite 1958 Epsilon during the lifetime of its telemetry
and during its entire lifetime; the orbit is more precise by an order
of magnitude than previous orbits. He has also found the effects on
the orbit of the third harmonic in the earth’s potential.

Imre G. Izsak is developing a method of orbit determination from
simultaneous Doppler-shift measurements from three photographic
tracking stations. With this method good orbits can be determined
from a single passage, regardless of the weather. From Baker-Nunn
and radio data, he determined definitive elements for an 80-day period
in the lifetime of Satellite 1958 Gamma (Explorer III). By appli-
cation of Jacobi’s elliptic functions, Mr. Izsak seeks to obtain a solu-
tion to Vinti’s dynamical problem, which is closely related to the
perturbations caused by the earth’s flattening.

Rajendra C. Nigam has studied the orbits of Satellites 1959 «1 and
«a2. He has also completed a reanalysis of the orbit of Satellite 1958
Zeta; this work has particular value because of the short lifetime and
low elevation of the satellite.

Dr. Pedro KE. Zadunaisky began an analysis to determine the orienta-
tion of satellites by comparing the drag perturbations on nonspherical
satellites with those on spherical satellites. This work will amplify
our knowledge of atmospheric densities and the motion of a satellite
around its center of gravity.

The measurement of the earth’s albedo and a study of its possible
correlation with meteorological phenomena have continued under the
supervision of Dr. Gustav A. Bakos. An analysis of results obtained
in 1958 has begun.

The Communications Center, under the supervision of Charles M.
Peterson, continues to clear an average of 500,000 words per month.
About 90 percent of the messages sent and received contained satellite
observations, predictions, and orbital elements.

579421—-61—__8
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

At two joint communications meetings held by the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, and the National Space Surveillance Control, steps
were taken to eliminate duplication of transmission of satellite infor-
mation. Teletype distribution lists were exchanged and areas of
responsibility were determined.

PUBLICATIONS

Publications of the Smithsonian Contributions to Astrophysics
included numbers 6 through 9 of volume 3, number 1 of volume 4, and
numbers 1 to 3 of volume 5. The following papers by staff members of
the Astrophysical Observatory appeared in various journals:

Barz, A. V. Graphical derivation of the inverse square law of gravitation from
an elliptical orbit and Kepler’s law of areas. Amer. Journ. Phys., vol. 28,
p. 254, 1960.

Baxkos, G. A. The color-magnitude diagram of visual binaries (abstract).
Astron. Journ., vol. 64, pp. 3238-324, 1959.

Frecnti¢, H., GENTNER, W., and Kistner, G. Riumliche Verteilung der Edelgas-
isotope im Eisenmeteoriten Treysa. Geochim. et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 18,
pp. 72-80, 1960.

FrreMAN, E. L. A program for collecting meteorites. Science, vol. 131, pp. 1824-
1831, 1960.

Fireman, E. L., and DeFetice, J. Argon-39 and tritium in meteorites. Geochim.
et Cosmochim. Acta, vol. 18, pp. 1838-192, 1960.

Argon radioactivity in a recently fallen meteorite—a deep-space probe
for cosmic rays (abstract). Trans. Amer. Geophys. Union, vol. 41, p. 337.

Hynex, J. A. Occultation of the bright star Regulus by Venus. Science, vol.
130, pp. 707-709, 1959.

Hynek, J. A., and Sraneer, P. C. The composite-spectrum star 5 Lacertae.
Publ. Astron. Soc. Pacific, vol. 71, pp. 810-315, 1959.

Jaccut1a, L. G. Corpuscular radiation and the secular acceleration of satellites
(abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 64, p. 335, 1959.

Individual characteristics of meteor families (abstract). Astron.

Journ., vol. 65, p. 53, 1960.

Letter to editor. Sky and Telescope, vol. 19, p. 473, 1960.

Koza, Y. On the motion of a close earth satellite (abstract). Astron. Journ.,
vol. 64, p. 337, 1959.

The motion of a close earth satellite. Astron. Journ., vol. 64, pp. 367-
377, 1959.

Krook, M. Shock fronts in ionized gases. Ann. Phys., vol. 6, p. 188, 1959.

Structure of stellar atmospheres. III. Astrophys. Journ., vol. 130, pp.

286-295, 1959.

Continuum equations in the dynamics of rarefied gases. Journ. Fluid
Mechanics, vol. 6, pp. 528-541, 1959.

Sterne, T. BE. Effect of the rotation of a planetary atmosphere upon the orbit of
a close satellite. Journ. Amer. Rocket Soc., vol. 29, pp. 777-782, 1959.
Vets, G. Geodetic uses of artificial satellites. Smithsonian Contr. Astrophys.,

vol. 3, 95-161, 1960.
Wurertr, F. L. Solid particles in the solar system. Journ. Geophys. Res.,
vol. 64, pp. 1653-1654, 1959.
Fundamental problems in predicting positions of artificial satellites.
Proc. Symp. Applied Math., vol. 9, pp. 36-47, 1959.

SECRETARY'S REPORT OQ]

WHIPPLE, F. L. Meteoritic material in space. Jn “Physics and Medicine of the
Atmosphere and Space,” edited by O. O. Benson, Jr., and H. Strughold, pp.
48-59, 1960.

Sub-commission 22a, Report on meteorites. Trans. Intern. Astr. Union,

vol. 10, pp. 345-353, 1960.

Notes on the immediate feasibility of an orbiting astronomical telescope.
IX International Astronautical Congress, 1958, Springer Verlag, pp. 92-95.

WHyrrrLet, F. L., and Davis, R. J. Proposed stellar and interstellar survey.
Astron. Journ., vol. 65, pp. 285-290, 1960.

Wuirney, C. A. Stellar Thermopauses. Mem. Soc. Roy. Sci. Liége, ser. 5, vol.
3, 1959.

Wricut, F. W., Jaccuta, L. G., and BoruM, B. W. Photographic Lyrid meteors
(abstract). Astron. Journ., vol. 64, p. 349, 1959.

. Photographic Lyrid meteors. Astron. Journ., vol. 65, pp. 40-45, 1960.

The Special Reports of the Astrophysical Observatory distribute
catalogs of satellite observations, orbital data, and preliminary re-
sults of data analysis prior to journal publication. Nos. 28 through
44, issued during the year, contain the following material:

Special Report No. 28, Sept. 16, 1959.

Catalogue of satellite observations for May and June, 1959, by R. G.
Albert.

The orbits of Satellites 1958 Alpha, 1958 g1, 1958 62, 1958 62, 1959 al,
1959 a2, by G. Veis.

Special Report No. 29, Sept. 21, 1959.
Solar effects on the acceleration of artificial satellites, by L. G. Jacchia.
Special Report No. 30, Nov. 12, 1959.

Anticipated orbital perturbations of Satellite 1959 82, by Y. Kozai and
Cc. A. Whitney.

A table of the times of perigee passage for Satellite 1958 82, by R. E.
Briggs.

Note on the secular motions of the node and perigee of an artificial satellite,
by Y. Kozai.

Special Report No. 31, Jan. 18, 1960.

Catalogue of observations of Satellites 1958 al, 1958 61, and 1958 £62, for
July and August, 1959, prepared by R. G. Albert. Osculating elements,
by Y. Kozai.

Special Report No. 32, Jan. 29, 1960,

Catalogue of observations of Satellite 1958 52 for July, 1959, prepared by
R. G. Albert.

Special Report No. 33, Feb. 1, 1960.

On the effects of image motion on the accuracy of measurement of a flash-
ing satellite, by J. A. Hynek.

Special Report No. 34 (C—8), Feb. 2, 1960.

Catalogue of observations of Satellite 1958 62 for the period through Aug.

22, 1959, prepared by R. G. Albert.
Special Report No. 35 (C-9), Feb. 5, 1960.

Catalogue of observations of Satellite 1958 62 for the period Aug. 23

through Aug. 31, 1959, prepared by R. G. Albert.
Special Report No. 36 (C-10), Feb. 8, 1960.

Catalogue of additional observations of Satellite 62 for the period from

May 1 through May 29, 1959, prepared by R. G. Albert.
Special Report No. 87 (C-11), Feb. 10, 1960.

Catalogue of observations of Satellites 1958 62, 1958 Epsilon, und 1958

Zeta, prepared by R. G. Albert.

92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Special Report No. 38, Jan. 15, 1960.
Orbit determination from simultaneous Doppler-shift measurements, by
I. G. Izsak.
Special Report No. 39, March 30, 1960.
A variable atmospheric-density model from satellite accelerations, by L. G.
Jacchia.
Special Report No. 40, May 24, 1960.
Orbital elements for July and August, 1959, for Satellite 1958 Alpha, by
B. Miller; for Satellite 1958 61, by C. A. Martin; for Satellite 1958 62,
by Y. Kozai; for Satellites, 1959 a1 and a2, by R. C. Nigam; for Satellite
1958 Gamma, by I. G. Izsak.
Relative positions of the sun and perigee of an artificial earth satellite, by
P. E. Zadunaisky.
Special Report No. 41, May 24, 1960.
The catalogue of precise satellite positions, by K. Lassovszky.
Preliminary time reduction for the determination of precise satellite posi-
tions, by E. Weston.
The star chart project, by P. A. Pardue.
Explanation of codes used in the catalogue, by E. P. Bullis.
Shutter correction in time for the Baker-Nunn camera, by P. E. Zadunaisky.
Special Report No. 42 (C-12), May 24, 1960.
Catalogue of satellite observations for the period Sept. 1 through Dec. 31,
1959, prepared by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 43 (C-13), May 25, 1960.
Catalogue of satellite observations for the period July 1 through Dec. 31,
1959, prepared by D. V. Mechau.
Special Report No. 44 (C-14), May 25, 1960.
Catalogue of satellite observations, prepared by D. VY. Mechau.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Members of the staff presented papers at meetings of the American
_Astronomical Society, the American Physical Society, the American
Geophysical Union, the National Telemetering Conference, the Ameri-
can Meteorological Society, the American Astronautical Society, the
American Philosophical Society, the Optical Society of America, the
International Association of Geodesy, the Institute of Aeronautical
Sciences, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

The Director and Dr. Jacchia presented papers to the Institute of
Aeronautical Sciences in New York. Dr. Krook participated in
the International Symposium on Fluid Dynamics of the Ionosphere
held at Cornell University. Dr. Hynek led the Astrophysical Observ-
atory’s expedition to Spain to observe the occultation of the star
Regulus by the planet Venus. George J. Nielson led an airborne
expedition to observe the solar eclipse of October, 1960. Dr. Lautman
attended a conference of the Geodesy Committee of the Space Science
Board of the National Academy of Sciences. He also represented
the Smithsonian Institution at the First Interspace Science Sympo-
sium held in Nice, January 9-15, 1960. Dr. Whitney presented a
paper at the Advanced Research Projects Agency symposium in
SECRETARY'S REPORT 93

Florida, and at the International Symposium on Astrophysics, Liége,
Belgium. Dr. Whitney, Carl W. Tillinghast and Charles E. Moore
attended a symposium on orbital computation held at the Jet Propul-
sion Laboratory of the University of California Institute of Tech-
nology. In March, the Director attended the meetings of the Panel
on Science and Technology with the Committe on Science and Astro-
nautics, held at the House of Representatives in Washington. Dr.
Bakos attended the General Assembly of the Royal Astronomical
Society of Canada. Mr. Peterson attended a joint conference held
by the Smithsonian Institution, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, and the National Space Surveillance Control, in
Washington, May 15 to 21, 1960. Dr. Hodge was present at the meet-
ings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and
the Astronomical Society of the Pacific held concurrently in Oregon,
June 13-15, 1960. Dr. Fireman attended a special meeting of the
National Academy of Sciences held in Highland Park, I1., June 19-22,
1960.

CHANGES IN STAFF

Dr. Theodore E. Sterne accepted a position at the Johns Hopkins
University, Office of Operations Research. He left the Observatory
during the summer of 1959.

Dr. Karl G. Henize resigned to join the staff of the Dearborn
Observatory, Northwestern University.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek accepted the position of Head of the Depart-
ment of Astronomy and Director of the Dearborn Observatory,
Northwestern University, and will leave the Observatory in the sum-
mer of 1960.

As of June 30, 1960, 265 persons were employed at the Observatory.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

The Astrophysical Observatory occupies space in six separate leased
buildings. Construction of Harvard University’s new Space Science
Building on the grounds of the Harvard College Observatory has
advanced rapidly, and it is expected that Astrophysical Observatory
offices will occupy the building under lease in December 1960.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

The Division continued its research in the field of photobiology,
using the techniques of biochemistry, biophysics, and plant physiology.
Particular emphasis was placed on understanding the cellular and
subcellular mechanisms involved in photomorphogenesis and photo-
tropism and how these responses are mediated by radiant energy.

Oxidative phosphorylation is the process by which energy is made
available for growth of etiolated plant tissue. Investigations were
Q4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

undertaken to determine the effects of radiant energy on this system by
assaying for high-energy phosphate after treatment with red and far-
red energy. The adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content was assayed
utilizing a luciferin-luciferase method, and the nucleotide phosphate
by absorption on activated charcoal and by the uptake of radioactive
phosphorus. Red, far-red irradiation did not significantly alter the
ATP level in hypocotyl hook tissue, but the light treatment produced
a marked photomorphogenic response as compared to dark controls.
When growth of bean hypocotyls was inhibited 40 percent by dini-
trophenol, the ATP level was also found to be reduced by the same
amount. Thus, it is indicated, although over-all growth response
is dependent on ATP, the ATP alone is not the controlling factor in
influencing photomorphogenic responses.

The effect of inhibitors of protein synthesis on chlorophyll for-
mation and the relationship of protein synthesis to the red, far-red
regulation of photomorphogenesis have been studied. Previous work
with bean plants has shown that, after the initial conversion of proto-
chlorophyll to chlorophyll, the rate of chlorophyll synthesis does not
reach a maximum until after at least 4 hours of continuous irradiation.
This lag period can be considerably shortened if leaves are irradiated
briefly and incubated overnight in the dark before being subjected
to continuous irradiation. Chloramphenicol has been found to abolish
the stimulatory effect of light pretreatment. Unlike nontreated
leaves, chloramphenicol-treated leaves do not show an increase in rate
of chlorophyll synthesis upon extended continuous irradiation. P-
fluorophenylalanine and 6-azauracil appear to affect chlorophyll
synthesis similarly.

Although chloramphenicol inhibits the light-induced increase in
the capacity to synthesize chlorophyll, other photomorphogenic re-
sponses of the bean plant apparently are not inhibited. Leaves
irradiated in the presence of chloramphenicol accumulate considerable
quantities of chlorophyll. Nevertheless, they have not the capacity
to photosynthesize. Chloramphenicol does not affect the photosynthet-
ic ability of leaves greened in its absence. It has been confirmed
that radiant energy (700-1100 mp) which is not effective in promoting
chlorophyll formation can induce the formation of the photosynthetic
enzyme, TPN-linked glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase.
Another photosynthetic enzyme, photosynthetic pyridine nucleotide
reductase, seems to be similarly affected.

Previous studies indicated that the lag phase of chlorophyll
synthesis could be lengthened by irradiation with X-rays of 5 to 10
kiloroentgens and that subsequent exposure to 10 minutes of white
light initiated recovery of the chlorophyll-synthesizing mecha-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 95

nism. A similarity of response between exposure to X-rays and
gamma rays has been established, as well as a similarity of re-
sponse by monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous leaf tissue. <A
maximal effect on chlorophyll synthesis lag phase is obtained with
dosages of 14 kiloroentgens. Experiments in which fresh sucrose
solution is supplied to the tissues subsequent to the X-irradiation indi-
cated that X-rays do not affect chlorophyll synthesis by means of their
action on carbohydrate substrates. Results of exposure to red or
blue broad band radiation indicate that red is effective to a greater
degree than blue. These data imply that there is not a reversal of
ionizing radiation effects, but rather a photomorphogenic response
superimposed on the damaging effects of X-irradiation.

Action spectra of the light-induced and light-inhibited germina-
tion of seeds of Arabidopsis thaliana have been completed. KExcept
for a slight shift of about 10 mp toward longer wavelengths of the
reversal action spectrum, the action spectra correspond to those de-
termined previously for the bean hypoctyl hook. The action spec-
trum for germination has a broad maximum at 660 my with decreased
sensitivity extending through 400 mp. On the long wavelength side,
there is a sharp drop to the isobestic point at 690 mp. The action
spectrum of reversal has a sharp maximum at 720 my and a secondary
peak at 740 my, with little or no activity beyond 780 mp.

The effects of polarized light on the phototropic and light-growth
responses of Phycomyces sporangiophores immersed in paraffin oil
have been investigated in order to determine whether the photo-
receptors in Phycomyces are oriented or nonoriented. The effects
obtained in paraffin oil are not definitive and the data could fit either
possibility. In order to resolve this question, measurements must be
made in an immersion fluid which has an index of refraction between
1.6 and 1.7. Numerous such media have been tested, but all have
proved toxic to the sporangiophores.

Three new members were added to the research staff of the Divi-
sion: Dr. Lars Loercher, plant physiologist; Dr. Richard L. Lat-
terell, cytogeneticist; and John L. Edwards, plant physiologist.
Dr. Loercher and Mr. Edwards came to the Division from the
Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, where they were
working on photomorphogenic responses as affected by photomimetic
substances. Dr. Latterell comes from the Brookhaven National
Laboratory, where he was engaged in genetic studies.

The installation of the radioisotope laboratory and counting room
was completed, and these are in current use. The greenhouse is in
operation, and the control rooms are nearing completion and should
be ready for use in the research program by the fall of 1960.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

PUBLICATIONS

Kern, WitttaAm H. Interaction of growth factors with the photoprocess in
seedling growth. In “Photoperiodism and Related Phenomena in Plants
and Animals.” Amer, Assoc. Adv. Sci. Publ. 55, pp. 207-215, 1959.

Mou, C. C., and WirHrow, R. B. Non-ionizing radiant energy as an agent
in altering the incidence of X-ray-induced chromatid aberrations, III.
Action spectrum of far-red potentiation. Radiation Res., vol. 11, pp. 18-23,
1959.

WitHrow, Rosert B. A kinetic analysis of photoperiodism. In “Photo-
periodism and Related Phenomena in Plants and Animals.” Amer. Assoc.

_ Adv. Sci. Publ. 55, pp. 489-471, 1959.

Wo.rr, JOHN B., and Price, Lronarp. The effect of sugars on chlorophyll
biosynthesis in higher plants. Journ. Biol. Chem., vol. 235, pp. 1603-1608,
1960.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Dr. W. H. Klein and Dr. W. Shropshire participated in the In-
ternational Botanical Congress in Montreal, where Dr. Shropshire
presented a paper, “Action Spectra of the Light-growth and Tropic
Responses of Phycomyces,” and Dr. Klein participated in the exec-
utive committee sessions of the American Society of Plant Physi-
ologists. Dr. Klein also attended the International Symposium on
Growth and Development at Purdue University, and Dr. Shropshire
attended the Fourth Annual Meeting of the Biophysical Society at
Philadelphia and a symposium at the Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore on the subject “Light and Life.”

Dr. E. Sisler, Dr. M. Margulies, L. Price, and V. Elstad attended
the meetings of the American Institute of Biological Sciences at
Pennsylvania State University, and Drs. Sisler and Margulies at-
tended the annual meetings of the Federation of American Societies
for Experimental Biology in Chicago.

Respectfully submitted.

Frep L. Wuteete, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Collection
of Fine Arts

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1960.

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 87th annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in Washington on Tuesday, December 1, 1959. Members present
were Paul Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman ;
Leonard Carmichael, secretary; Gilmore D. Clarke, David E. Finley,
Lloyd Goodrich, Walker Hancock, Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr., Ogden M.
Pleissner, Charles H. Sawyer, Stow Wengeroth, and Andrew Wyeth.
James C. Bradley, Assistant to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, and Thomas M. Beggs, Director, National Collection of
Fine Arts, were also present.

The Commission recommended reappointment of Lloyd Goodrich,
Walker Hancock, Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr., and Douglas W. Orr for
the usual 4-year period.

The following officers were reelected for the ensuing year: Paul
Manship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard
Carmichael, secretary.

The following were reelected members of the executive committee
for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman; Robert Woods
Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, Archibald G. Wenley, with Paul Manship
and Leonard Carmichael ex officio.

Mr. Clarke reported that the subcommittee appointed to advise in
the development of plans for housing the National Collection of Fine
Arts in the Old Patent Office Building consisted of Thomas M. Beggs,
Gilmore D. Clarke (chairman), Walker Hancock, Wilmarth S. Lewis,
Douglas W. Orr, and Ogden M. Pleissner, with Leonard Carmichael
and Paul Manship, ex officio. At a meeting held October 12, 1959,
it was pointed out that the building might be transferred in 1963 or
1964, and would be expected to house the National Collection of Fine
Arts and a national portrait collection as separate units. Following
a tour of the building, it was concluded that it could be adapted to

97
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

the needs of both collections but that a survey by engineers and archi-
tects would be necessary before plans could be drawn for structural
changes.

Dr. Carmichael reported that, in accordance with a resolution
adopted at the 1958 Smithsonian Art Commission meeting, a com-
mittee of the Board of Regents, consisting of Dr. John Nicholas
Brown, chairman, Senator J. W. Fulbright, Representative Frank T.
Bow, and Dr. Caryl P. Haskins, had been appointed by the Chancellor
to assist in the organization of a National Portrait Gallery and to ad-
vise in the development of plans for adapting the Old Patent Office
Building to the needs of such a gallery.

The Smithsonian Institution has a collection of over 125 subjects
designated, since acceptance in 1921 of the gift of 22 paintings from
the National Art Committee, as a National Portrait Gallery. The
National Gallery of Art has many important portraits of distin-
guished Americans, and other government departments have portraits
appropriate for such a gallery.

The site of the Patent Office Building was prominent in L’En-
fant’s plan of Washington. Administrative studies were initiated
preliminary to the formulation of plans for the use of the building.
A study will be made before the next meeting of the Smithsonian Art
Commission concerning the authorized functions of the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts and its relationship to other Government galleries.

The Commission conveyed its greetings and hope for his early re-
covery to A. G. Wenley, Director of the Freer Gallery of Art.

The Commission recommended acceptance of the following objects:

Marble, Seated Nude, by Maurice Sterne (1877-1957). Offered by Lauson
H. Stone, New York City (through the National Gallery of Art).

Oil, An Helogue, by Kenyon Cox (1856-1919). Offered by Allyn Cox, New
York City.

Three oil sketches to scale of a mural painting in the Iowa State Capitol by
Kenyon Cox. Offered by Allyn Cox.

Two oils, Trapped in a Dungeon of Joy, by Atellio Salemme, and Unknown
Subject, by Theodoros Stamos. Offered by the Maritime Administration
through the General Services Administration.

Watercolor, James Smithson (1765-1829). Transfer from the Smithsonian
Institution.

Fourteen pencil drawings by Kenyon Cox. Offered by Allyn Cox.

Three etchings by Gerald K. Geerlings (1897- ): Black Magie (etching
and aquatint), Olympus (drypoint), and Inland Island (soft ground etching).
Offered by the artist, New Canaan, Conn.

Seventeen fans added to the Pepita Milmore Collection of 18th- and 19th-

century French and English fans accepted in 1956. Offered by Henry L. Mil-
more, Washington, D.C.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 99
THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

The following miniatures, watercolor on ivory, were acquired from
the fund established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden

Meyer.
No. 114. Unknown Gentleman, by Thomas Flatman (1633 /7-1688).
No. 115. John (or Uriah) Vaughan, by Christopher Greiner ( —-1864).

No. 116. Robert Parker, attributed to Henry Inman (1801-1846).

No. 117. Self Portrait, said to be by Sarah Peale (1800-1885).

No. 118. Self Portrait, said to be by Edward Savage (1761-1817).

No. 119. Unknown Man, by Richard M. Staigg (1820-1881).

No. 120. Nance de Villers, by Carolyn D. Tyler.

No. 121. Miss Mary Angell, by Carolyn D. Tyler.

No. 122. Elizabeth Moore, by Carolyn D. Tyler.

No. 123. Unknown Man, by Undetermined Artist.
[Nos. 114 through 123 were acquired from Mrs. Ruel P. Tolman through
Edward Kemper, Washington, D.C. ]

No. 124. Joseph Enderlin, by Luise Walther.

No. 125. Mrs. George Willig by Luise Walther.
[Nos.. 124 and 125 were acquired from the Corcoran Gallery of Art,
Washington, D.C.]

No. 126. India ink portrait of a lady, by Foster, from Mrs. Mabel Munson
Swan, Barrington, R.I.

ART WORKS LENT AND RETURNED

Loans
Institutions Loans Returned
American Mederation :0f Aris 222222222222) See eee 1
Atomic ~Hnersy Commissione=2- 2222-52222 ee eee ot
Barney, Neighborhoods Hous@2asasese- ean sen eae ee SS eee 15
DB 02 9 O55 ok Vee me lS | oO 1 at
iBudcete Departmen te ee ee ee er ees 8 8
CorcoraneG allenyOb  Artes= sen ee ee ee 6 6
Federal Communications Commission_____________________ 12 mi
Hederals Lower Commissi 0 ne see ee 4 4
General Services Administration_____________________-_-_ 4
George Washington University___________-__-_______________- 1 1
Interstate Commerce Commission________________-_____________ 8 ff
Internal Re venuels= 24-20 ken oe ee. Sa ae es ae 4 4
Kmnoedlers Gallery 28 eo a ee oe eee eee eee al 1
MeltzersGalleny2= 22a 2 oes hE ce a Ree ee 20 1
Marion Koogler McNay Art Institute_____________________--__- iL il
Post Ofice Departiment22 22s ee ee ee eee 6
Senate ules: Committee ss 2 eee ee ee eee af! 1
SS EDUC EY Oy ER GNI OT Goce eae ra ne cee ee ee ea 7 1
DIStricte COURts ses oa ee ee ee ae ee ee ee eS 6
WES) Military CourtvA ppedls]2 2-2 S288 2 aes ee eee ee Z il
Ue Sse SUDLEMe@MCOUDC== 2 es a a pane eee ee eee 2
WRT TG EN OUS Ce see ea a ee oe Se ee oe eee 4
Wiltttne ys MTuS@ Ui seen a Sete ee a ee eee 1
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

The following 11 oils by Emile Walters were added December 1,
1959:

Haukadal, North Iceland (looking west), site of the home of Hric the Red,
where Leif Ericsson was born.

Haukadal (looking east).

Tirappsey (Island Group where Eric the Red sheltered his ship prior to
his first voyage to Greenland).

Glumbaer, Skaga Fjord (home of Vinland hero, Thorfinns Karlsefni, pur-
chased after his return to Iceland from Vinland in 1006).

View from the Plains of Parliament.

Herolsness Fjord (ikagait Mountain home of the first Viking settlement).

Early Sunshine (Hrics Fjord, southern Greenland).

Church at Hvalsejar Fjord (first Christian Church in the west).

Erics Fjord (glacier ice in summer).

Hrics Fjord (across from Brattahild).

Hjaraqssuiit (second Viking settlement in Greenland).

An oil, Marie Huet, by Alice Pike Barney, lent September 25, 1952,
to the Department of Justice, was recalled for renovation,
The following paintings were lent for varying periods:

To the Internal Revenue Service, Washington, D.C.:

ANE TOG (ee oc ee ea Little Rose by S. Seymour Thomas.
To the Department of State, Washington, D.C.:
Marchids! 1960 3s2 2a ea es Woman with Red Hair by Albert Herter.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

The following paintings, purchased previously but not assigned,
have been allocated to the institutions indicated:
Title and Artist Assignment
213. The Critic (Kermit Lansner, by Mint Museum of Art, Charlotte, N.C.
Aaron Shikler (1922- ).
217. The Painter, Shelley Fink, by University of Oregon, Eugene, Oreg.
David Levine (1926-_ ).

According to a provision in the Henry Ward Ranger bequest, that
paintings purchased by the Council of the National Academy of De-
sign from the fund provided by the Bequest, and assigned to Ameri-
can art institutions, may be claimed during the 5-year period begin-
ning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, the following
paintings were recalled for action of the Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion at its meeting December 1, 1959.

No. 2, Evening Tide, California, by William Ritschel, N.A. (1864-1949), as-
signed to the National Collection of Fine Arts (formerly the National Gallery
of Art) was accepted to become a permanent accession.

No. 29, Smuggler’s Notch, Stowe, Vermont, by Chauncey F. Ryder, N.A. (1868-
1949, assigned to the Memorial Art Gallery, University of Rochester, N.Y.,
was accepted to become a permanent accession.

No. 52, The Enchanted Pool by William Ritschel, N.A. (1864-1949), assigned
to the Minneapolis Society of Fine Arts, Minneapolis, Minn., was accepted to
become a permanent accession.
SECRETARY'S REPORT

101

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as fol-

lows:

Title and Artist

226. Blue Marine, by Henry E. Matt-
son, N. A. (1887- ).

Michigan Landscape, by Louis
Ritman, N. A. (1889- )is

. Sag Harbor, by Nicolai Cikovsky

(1894— pe

. Still Life Epilogue, by Luigi Lu-
cioni, N. A. (1900— Ve

. The Bridge (watercolor), by
Hardie Gramatky, N. A. (1907-

De

Dead Boats, Wellfleet
color), by Thomas
(1927- )e

. High September Tide (water-
color), by Norman Kenyon
(1901- ye

Razing the Old New York Post
Office, by Ernest Fiene, N. A.
(1894- ).

227.

Dee (water-

Sgouros

233.

Assignment
North Carolina Museum of Art,
Raleigh, N.C.
Brooks Memorial Art Gallery, Mem-
phis, Tenn.
(Assignment pending.)

Telfair Academy of Arts and Sciences.

Savannah, Ga.
(Assignment pending. )

Jacksonville Art Museum, Jackson-
ville, Fla.
(Assignment pending. )

Museum of the City of New York,
New York, N.Y.

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

In addition to the 54 exhibits held over from previous years as
indicated, 87 new shows were introduced. The total of 89 of these
were circulated to 246 museums in the United States, two having
been prepared for circulation abroad.

EXHIBITS CONTINUED FROM PRIOR YEARS

1955-1956: Japan I by Werner Bischof; and Chinese Ivories from the Col-
lection of Sir Victor Sassoon.

1956-1957: Contemporary German Prints; Architectural Photograph II; Six
Japanese Painters; Japan II by Werner Bischof; and The World cf Edward
Weston.

1957-1958: The American City in the 19th Century; Recent American
Prints; Japanese Woodblock Prints; Theatrical Posters of the Gay Nineties;
Birds by Emerson Tuttle; 100 Years of American Architecture; Contemporary
Portuguese Architecture; National Ceramic Exhibition, Sixth Miami Annual;
Fulbright Designers; Nylon Rug Designs; Religious Banners; Burmese Em-
broideries; Japanese Dolls; Thai Painting; The Anatomy of Nature; Photo-
graphs of Sarawak; Glimpses of Switzerland; Art in Opera II—Carmen; The
Four Seasons; and Children’s Paintings from Morocco.

1958-1959: Young British Painters; German Artists of Today; Recent Work
by Peter Takal; Advertising in 19th Century America; The Engravings of
Pieter Brueghel the Elder; Three Danish Printmakers; Great European Print-
makers; Charles Fendrich—Lithographer of American Statesmen; Drawings
from Latin America; Contemporary Religious Prints from the Sloniker Col-
lection; Religious Subjects in Modern Graphic Arts; UNESCO Watercolor
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Reproductions; British Artist-Craftsmen; Contemporary Finnish Rugs: Con-
temporary Tapestries; Contemporary Indian Crafts; Stone Rubbings from
Angkor Wat; Shaker Craftmanship; the Unguarded Moment, Photographs
by Erich Salomon; Children’s Paintings from India; A Child Looks at the
Museum; and Swiss Children’s Paintings.

EXHIBITIONS INITIATED IN 1960

Paintings and Drawings

Title Source

20th Century American Paintings__--- Edward W. Root Collection from the
Munson-Williams-Proctor Institute,
Utica, N.Y:

Contemporary American Watercolors Do.

and Drawings.

The Art of Seth Hastman___---------- Prof. John Francis McDermott; private
collectors.

Contemporary Greek Painting-------- Artists ; Greek Embassy.

Early Drawings by Toulouse-Lautrec_-- Albert H. Wiggin Collection; Arthur W.
Heintzelman, Boston Public Library.

Watercolors and Drawings by Thomas Do.
Rowlandson.
Prints and Drawings by Jacques Villon_ Do.

Graphic Arts

American Prints Today_--—--------- Print Council of America; Artists.
Artists; Brazilian Embassy; Organiza-
tion of American States.

Brazilian Printmakers__--------------

Lithographs of Fantin-Latour_--------- Albert H. Wiggin Collection; Arthur
W. Heintzelman, Boston Public Li-
brary.

Drawings from Latin America_-------- Visual Arts Section, Pan American
Union; Artists; Collectors.

Arts and Cultural Centers___.-------- American Institute of Architects.

Bernard Ralp Maybeck_-------------- University of California; College of

Architecture; California Palace of
the Legion of Honor; California
Redwood Association.

Design
Winame) 6 ae ee Museum of Contemporary Crafts, N.Y.;
Artists.
HskimocAtto 2 eee Eskimo Art, Inc., Ann Arbor, Mich. ;
Canadian Bmbassy.
Contemporary French Tapestries II_-- Association des Peintres-Cortenniers de
Tapiseries, Paris; l’Association

Francaise d’Action Artistique;
French Ambassador; Artists.

Greek Costumes and Embroideries_-__-- Benaki Museum in Athens; Greek
Embassy.
Contemporary American Glass_------- Corning Museum of Glass, Corning,

N.Y.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

Title Source
Story of American Glass___----------. Corning Museum of Glass, Corning,
N.Y.
Midwest Designer Craftsmen__---__--_~- Designers and Craftsmen; Joslyn Art
Museum.
Norwegian Tapestries______________~_-. Historical Museum, Bergen University ;

West Norway Museum of Applied
Arts, Bergen; Rohsska Museum of
Applied Arts, Goteborg, Sweden;
Sandvig Collection, Folk Museum,
Lilehammer; Norwegian Folk Mu-
seum, Oslo; Oslo Museum of Applied
Arts, Trondheim, Thorvald Krohn-
Hansen, Director; Thor Furuholmen,
Oslo.

Oriental Art

Bazaar Paintings from Calcutta_____ Victoria and Albert Museum, London;
Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford,
Conn.; W. G. Archer, Victoria and
Albert Museum.

Gandhara Sculpture_____....____-__ Government of Pakistan; Pakistan
Committee of Asia Society ; Embassy
of Pakistan; Consul General of Pak-
istan, New York City; Prof. Ben-
jamin Rowland of Fogg Museum,
Harvard University.

Folk Art

Rumanian Folk Art_---_____________ East-West Cultural Exchange Program,

Department of State; Rumanian
Embassy.

Sardinian Crafts_.__....._..__..-.____ Institute of Sardinian Crafts; Dr.
Francesco Deriu, Museum of Sarrari;
Italian Government; Embassy of

Italy.
Photography
ATCHCMRIVICHR a= a a eae ea Swiss Foundation for Alpine Research;
Museum of Science, Boston.
lhmMagveroneAMer Cal lens 2 ee oe eee Library of Congress.
Photographs of Robert Capa II_-__-_~ Magnum Photos, Inc., New York.
Outer Mongolia2=- === 22 = Asia Society, New York.
RS 1 ies eee ee ee ett Oe ee ta Asia Society, New York.
Portraits of Greatness____.___________ George Eastman House, Rochester,
N.Y.

Children’s Erhibitions

WONTISS(S wae ene rea ee eS Hmbassy of Union of South Africa.
Paintings by Young Africans_________- San Francisco Museum of Art, Dr.
Grace Morley.
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960
INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES

In addition to the 15,414 requests for information received by mail
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the oflice numbered 1,444.
In all, 250 works of art were examined, 174 of this number submitted
at the office, 76 examined by the Director during field trips.

Special catalogs were published for the following traveling exhibi-
tions: Contemporary Greek Painting, Prints by Munakata, Photo-
graphs by Robert Capa, Gandhara Sculpture, The Art of Seth East-
man, Old Master Drawings, Norwegian Tapestries, Greek Costumes
and Embroideries. <A special catalog of Traveling Exhibitions for
1960-61 was also published.

The Director lectured on the “Treasures in the Gellatly Collection,”
“Pending Legislation Regarding Art,” and “The Passion Story in
Washington Pictures.”

Mrs. Pope visited England and several European countries to con-
sult with government officials, museum directors, and collectors con-
cerning new displays for the Traveling Exhibition Service.

Rowland Lyon served as juror for a number of art exhibitions.

Nineteen paintings in oil on canvas from the permanent collections
were cleaned and revarnished, and 28 picture frames were repaired
and refinished with the assistance of Buildings Management Service.
New frames were constructed and finished for seventeen etchings. An
oil, Thomas Watt Gregory of Texas, was cleaned and revarnished
for the Department of Justice.

Two oil paintings, The Three Trees by William Lathrop, and Fish-
ing Boats at Gloucester by John Henry Twachtman, were restored
by Walter Frobos, Athens Lumber Co., Athens, Ga.

Francis Sullivan renovated three paintings, Self Portrait by Ben-
jamin West, Portrait Group by Frank W. Wilkin, and Top of the
Continent, Mt. McKinley, by Sydney Laurence.

The following paintings were relined and restored by Harold F.
Cross: My Children, by Abbott H. Thayer; The Chief’s Canoe, by
Belmore Brown; James Pollard Espy, by Thomas Sully; Portrait of
Admiral S. F. DuPont, by Daniel Huntington; The Peacock, by
Abbott H. Thayer; A Reading, by Thomas Dewing; and Maine Coast,
by Paul Dougherty.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Nine special exhibitions were held during the year:

October 20 through November 11, 1959. The 22d Metropolitan Art Exhibition,
sponsored by the American Art League, consisting of 96 paintings and 21 sculp-
tures. A catalog was privately printed.

December 12, 1959 through January 10, 1960. Norwegian Tapestries, spon-
sored by the Ambassador of Norway and Mrs. Paul Koht, and circulated by
SECRETARY’S REPORT 105

the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of 60 tapestries and
55 objects of folk art. An illustrated catalog was privately printed.

January 17 through February 7, 1960. The 23d National Exhibition spon-
sored by the Society of Washington Printmakers, consisting of 158 prints. A
catalog was privately printed.

February 14 through Mareh 3, 1960. The 638d Annual National Exhibition
sponsored by the Washington Water Color Club, consisting of 119 items. A
catalog was privately printed.

February 18 through March 6, 1960. Three Danish Printmakers (Povl
Christensen, Palle Nielsen, Sigurd Vasegaard), sponsored by the Ambassador
of Denmark and Countess Knuth-Winterfeldt, and circulated by the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of 62 prints. An illustrated brochure
was privately printed.

March 13 through April 3, 1960. The 20th Biennial Art Exhibition of the
National League of American Pen Women, consisting of 206 items including
paintings, sculpture, ceramics, illuminations and decorative arts. A catalog
was privately printed.

April 9 through May 1, 1960. Greek Costumes and Embroideries, sponsored
by the Ambassador of Greece and Mme. Liatis, and circulated by the Smith-
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service, consisting of 240 examples including 22
rare and beautiful costumes and household objects. An illustrated catalog
was privately printed.

May 7 through 30, 1960. The World Premiere of the United States Air Force
Art, consisting of $2 paintings. A catalog was privately printed.

June 5 through July 4. The Tennessee Salon, sponsored by the Tennessee
Art League, consisting of 141 paintings and 9 sculptures.

Respectfully submitted,
Tuomas M. Becas, Director.
Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

Sir: I have the honor to submit the fortieth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 30, 1960.

THE COLLECTIONS

Twenty objects were added to the collections by purchase as follows:

59.14.

60.7.

59.17.

60.1.

60.3.

BRONZE

Chinese, Shang or early Chou, 11th century B.C. Vessel of the type
chih. Light green patination. Design in relief. Six character inscrip-
tion on both the lid and the inside bottom of the vessel. Width: 0.158,
height: 0.243. (Mlustrated.)

. Chinese, Shang dynasty. Vessel of the type ting, with a raised nipple

design on squares of something resembling the thunder pattern. These
squares and the dragon band just below the lip are incised and filled
with some sort of black inlay. The patina is green with traces of
azurite. Inside is an inscription of four characters. Width: 0.167,
height: 0.204.

LACQUER

Japanese, Edo period, ca. A.D. 1650. Spouted bowl] with cover; wood base;
of the type termed Hidehira, with Christian symbol. 0.151 x 0.2385.

PAINTING

Chinese, dated in correspondence with A.D. 1354, Yiian dynasty, by Wang
Meng. Landscape: “Secluded Dwellings in the Summer Mountains.”
Kakemono; ink and touches of light color on silk. One inscription
and 10 seals on the painting. 0.568 x 0.842.

Chinese, Sung dynasty, attributed to Fan-lung, 12th century, Arhats.
Nineteen seals on the painting and traces of one fourcbaracter in-
scription, effaced and illegible. Five colophons, accompanied by a
total of 23 seals. Makimono; ink on paper. 0.305 x 10.625.

Chinese, Sung or Yiian dynasty, attributed to Tzu-wen (Jih-kuan), fl.
mid-13th century, Grapevines. One inscription and two seals on the
painting. Kakemono; ink on silk. 0.425 x 0.984.

Chinese, Ming dynasty, 15th or early 16th century, copy after (7?)
Chao Ling-jang. A pond in autumn. Eleven seals on the painting;
four on the mount preceding the painting, and one on the mount fol-
lowing. Seven colophons, accompanied by a total of 68 seals. Maki-
mono; colors on silk. 0.241 x 1.875.

Chinese, Sung dynasty, or earlier, in the style of Chou Fang. Ladies
playing “double-sixes.” No seals or inscriptions. Fragment of 39.37.
Painted in ink and colors on silk. 0.297 x 0.154.

. Japanese, Edo period. Ukiyoe, Miyagawa Chosun (1682-1752). Festivals

of the Twelve Months. 14.2 x 0.313.

Japanese, Kamakura period, Yamato-e school. Yizi Nembutsu Engi,
dated 1829. Makimono; ink, color and gold on paper. One of a pair:
58.11. 0.267 x 11.161.

106
Secretary’s Report 1960 PLATE

SE RSA iy 7 13s SESS tte i at ee ere

59.14

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.
Secretary's Report 1960 PLATE 4

59.16

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of Art.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 107

59.18. Japanese, Kamakura period. 14th century, Yamato-e school. Ippen
Shoénin Eden (fragment). Makimono; ink and color on paper. 2.058
x 0.305. (Ilustrated.)

60.6. Japanese, Edo period. 18th century, Otsue. A devil playing a samisen.
Ink and color on paper. 0.215 x 0.609.

60.8— Korean, Yi dynasty, Chong Son (Kyémjae), 1676-1759.

60.12. Landscapes, five album Jeaves. Ink on paper. Average size: 0.145 x 0.218.

POTTERY
60.5. Japanese, Edo period. ca. 1650, Kutani (Suisaka). Small dish with

fluted rim, of white clay with brown glaze and maple leaf decoration
in white. 0.150 x 0.038.

59.16. Persian, 8th century, Khurasan. Deep bowl on low base, decorated with
a seated figure on either side of a central tree design, space-filling
birds and floral motifs. Black, yellow, and green pigments on tannish
grounds, colorless glaze. Repaired. Height: 0.106. Max. diameter:
0.269. (ilustrated.)

SCULPTURE

59.11. Cambcdian, Khmer, Angkor period, style of the Kleang (9th-10th century,

A.D.). Standing figure of a female deity carved in reddish brown

sandstone.
REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTION

Forty-nine Chinese and Japanese objects were restored, repaired,
or remounted by T. Sugiura. In addition, he repaired one book for
the library and bound 25 books for the library. Repairs to the col-
lections outside the Freer Gallery were done by Istvan P. Pfeiffer
who completed the regilding of 12 frames for paintings.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions amounted to 468, which were as follows:

American art: Japanese art:

Wrawines 2222. oe 29 Wacguers!=—=. 2 2 2 eee 17
GG gS eee ee ee 9 Metalwork —22 22 a!
Inithographs==22—-— 22 2-2 10 Rantings ee 2k ee eee Ol
CO) Sie seen tLe oo eS 37 PO GCGR Vit ee et 21
Water colors... --_-.=--_ 2 Worean art:

Chinese art: Bronzer. eee ae ee 1
BS TOINZ ree re are eee Se 2 a0 Cea eee eee ae 7
1 03 oo ee ae eee ER 2 Metalwork 222222 2-2 22225 9
Paintings 2-2 22 a Ae ee 7 Pottery {222200 22 222 20
Pottery 22220 ee St 2 3 Near Eastern art:

Christian art: @rystal Seen ee eee 2
@ryStaliaeeee eee te ee 2 JADC sas ae ae eee » |
Classis oe ee 2 ee eee ee 6 Glass: ee esas ae ee eee 1]
C0) 6 | Aen Pea pee ae eS 18 Manuscripts._.__._._..._...--- 26
Manuscripts___.___-___-___. 8 Metalwork, 22222=-22.-<-. == 38
SGN ose eee 14 Pamtings( one sae ae ee soe
Stone sculpture__..________ 2 Pottenyie=e ae eee 33

Indian art: Tibetan art:

Wacquers. 2222-2222 ses. 1 Painting sees eee eee 4
Metalwork ~_......___.____ 2
Paintings ____ Se ae 3

579421—-61—_9
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

LIBRARY

Accessions of books, pamphlets, periodicals, and study materials
totaled 738 pieces of which over one-half were purchases. Unfortu-
nately the cost of publication increases, and the many institutions and
societies that formerly sent their journals freely, in exchange or gratis,
now find it necessary to offer them on subscription basis in order to
assure continuity of publication. Fewer titles were acquired but the
cost of the purchases was greater.

Some important works acquired in a wide bibliography of art in-
cluded Hd-un, nos. 1-386 (1932-1946), Tokyo and Kyoto; Ku Kung
min hua san pai chung (300 masterpieces of Chinese painting in the
Palace Museum collection), selected and compiled by an editorial
committee ...of the National Palace Museum and the National Cen-
tral Museum, Taichung, Taiwan, 1959; six folio pén in tao; Shang-
hat po-wan-kuan ts‘ang-hua chi (collection of paintings from the
Shanghai Museum), Shang-hai jen-min ch‘u-pan-she, 1959; Chinese
painting : leading masters and principles, by Osvald Sirén, 2 sections in
7 volumes, New York, Ronald Press, 1956-58: Chung-hua ta te‘u
tien (Encyclopedia sinica), compiled by Yang Chia-lo, to be complete
in 40 volumes, Taipei. Chinese cultural research institute, 1960;
The 2Maasir-ul-umara, by Nawab Samsam-ud-Dowla Shah Nawaz
Khan Rahim . . . Calcutta, Asiatic Society of Bengal, 1887-1897,
3 volumes in Persian; The Maathir-ul-umara, being biographies of
the Muhammadan and Hindu officers of the Timurid sovereigns of
India from 1500 to about 1780 A.D., by Nawwab Samsam-ud-Daulah
Shih Nawaz Khan and his son ’Abul-Hayy (second edition), trans-
lated by H. Beveridge ... revised, annotated, and completed by Baini
Prasha, Calcutta, Royal Asiatic Society, 1911-52, 2 volumes (Biblio-
theca Indica, Work No. 202); Nishikie no kaiin no kosho (the date
proof marks on prints), by Ishii Kend6, Tokyo, Isehin shoten, 1920.

An exchange of study photographs of Whistler paintings has been
instituted with the University of Glasgow, and the Gallery has re-
ceived 80 study photographs of the little-known Whistler paintings
which Miss Rosalind Birnie Philip gave to the University.

Sam R. Broadbent presented an etching for the study collection,
“Little Quimper,” by Charles A. Platt, the architect for the Freer
Building.

Four locked bookcases of four sections each installed by the cabinet
shop provided much-needed expansion for the Orientalia. Mrs. Hog-
enson and Mrs. Usilton did the reshelving and made an inventory
while doing so. All the cataloged books and pamphlets were ac-
counted for when finished. The folio books were marked with the
proper symbol and the catalog cards marked to correspond.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 109

The year’s record of cataloging is current and included a total of
1,782 entries of which 1,039 were analytics, 280 books and pamphlets
(by title) were cataloged, and 35 titles were recataloged and re-
classified. The original and difficult nature of the cataloging is
emphasized by the fact that only 8 percent of the necessary cards
were found at the Library of Congress.

Tn all, 422 scholars and students not members of the Freer staff used
the library. Twenty-two of these saw and studied the Washington
Manuscripts and five interested persons came to see the library
installation.

PUBLICATIONS

Four publications were issued by the Gallery as follows:

Ars Orientalis, Vol. 8, 12 articles in English, French, or German, 16 book reviews,
1 bibliography, 4 notes, In Memoriam. (Smithsonian Institution Publication
4381.) (263 pp., 187 collotype pls., text illustrations. )

Medieval Near Eastern ceramics in the Freer Gallery of Art, by Richard Etting-
hausen. Illus. cover, 7 pp. text and 31 pp. with 40 illus. (Smithsonian
Institution Publication 4420.)

Occasional Papers, Vol. 3, No. 2: Calligraphers and Painters, by V. Minorsky,
1959. (Smithsonian Institution Publication 4339.) (223 pp., 8 collotype
pls.)

Hokusai: Paintings and drawings in the Freer Gallery of Art, by Harold P.
Stern, Illus. cover, 11 pp. text and 25 pp. with 36 illus. (Smithsonian
Institution Publication 4419.)

Papers by staff members appeared in publications as follows:

CAHILL, JAMES F. Chinese paintings, xi-xiv centuries. New York, Crown Pub-
lishers, 1960. 40 pp. illus., 27 pls. (part col.) (Art of the East library.)

A rejected portrait by Lo Pting; pictorial footnote to Waley’s Yiian

Mei. Asia Major, n. 8., vol. 7, pp. 32-39, 3 pls., 1959.

. Review of “Mindai no kaiga,” by Yonezawa Yoshiho Tokyo, Mayu-

yama Ryisendd, 1956. Revue bibliographique de sinologique, vol. 2, no.

345, 1956.

. Review of “RO Kan no sakuhin ni tsuite,” by Rotani Kenyti, Bunka,

vol. 20, pp. 234-247, 1956. Revue bibliographique de sinologique. vol, 2, no.

342, 1956.

. Review of “The tao of painting,” by Sze Mai-mai. 2 vols., New York,

Pantheon Books, 1956. Revue bibliographique de sinologique. vol. 2, no. 346,
1956.

ETTINGHAUSEN, Ricwarp. Abbasside art: Mural painting; miniatures; dec-
orative arts (pottery, glass and rock crystals, woodwork, textiles). En-
cyclopedia of world art, New York, McGraw-Hill Book Co., vol. 1, cols. 10-
15, pls. 4-13, 1959.

. ‘Abdu ‘S-Samad, or Hviiga, ‘Abdu ‘Samad. Hncyclopedia of world art,

New York, McGraw-Hill Book Co., vol. 1, cols. 15-19, pls. 14-17, 1959.

Bibliography of the writings of J. V. S. Wilkinson. Ars Orientalis, vol.

3, pp. 259-262, 1959.

Bihzad, Kamal al-Din. Encyclopedia of Islam. 2d ed., Leiden, E. J.

Brill; London, Luzac & Co., vol. 1, fasc. 19, pp. 1211-1214, pls. xxxiii-xxxvi,

1959.

110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

ETTINGHAUSEN, Ricnarp. The Bustan manuscript of Sultan Nasir Shah Khalji.
Marg., vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 42-43, illus., June 1959.

Les elements decoratifs tures des objets en or et en argent. Papers

premier congrés international des arts turcs ».4 (Université d’Ankara), p. 89,

1959.

Further comments on the Wade Cup. Ars Orientalis, vol. 3, pp. 197-

200, pl., 1959.

Near Eastern book covers and their influence on European binding:

a report on the exhibition of “History and Bookbinding,” at the Baltimore

Museum of Art, 1957-58. Ars Orientalis, vol. 3, pp. 113-131, pls., 1959.

New light on early animal carpets. In Aus der Welt der islamischen

Kunst: Festschrift fir Ernst Kihnel. Berlin, pp. 93-116, 1959.

On some Mongol miniatures. Kunst des Orients, vol. 3, pp. 44-65,

ilus., 1959.

Tadhhib (Illumination). Urdu encyclopedia of Islam, Lahore, vol. 1,

12 pp., 28 figs., 1959.

Tajlid (Bookbinding). Urdu encyclopedia of Islam, Wahore, vol. 1,

13 pp., 18 pls., 1959.

. Un tissu de la prémiere époque Ottomane. Papers premier congrés

international des arts tures... (Université d’Ankara), pp. 87-88, 1959.

Review of “Iran; Persian miniatures—Imperial Library,” compiled by

UNESCO, Greenwich, Conn., New York Graphie Society, 1956. Ars Orien-

talis, vol. 3, pp. 217-220, 1959.

Review of “Islamic art and archaeology. A register of work published

in the year 1954,” by J. D. Pearson and D. S. Rice, Cambridge, Heffer &

Sons, 1956. Ars Orientalis, vol. 3, pp. 215-216, 1959.

Review of “Islamic pottery from the ninth to the fourteenth centuries
A.D. in the collection of Sir Eldred Hitchcock ...,’’ London, Faber & Faber,
1956. Ars Orientalis, vol. 8, pp. 216-217, 1959.

GETYENS, RurHeRFoRD J. The Freer Gallery Laboratory for technical studies
in Oriental art and archaeology. Studies in Conservation, vol. 4, pp. 140-145,
illus., 1959.

Review of “Studies in ancient technology,” vol. 5, by R. J. Forbes, Lei-
dep, E. J. Brill, 1957. American Journal of Archaeology, vol. 68, p. 285,
1959.

Pope, Joun A. Review of “Chinese celadon wares,” by G. St. G. M. Gompertz,
London, Faber & Faber, 1958. Artibus Asiae, vol. 21, pp. 290-295, 1958.

An early Ming porcelain in Muslim style. In Aus der Welt der isla-
mischen Kunst; Festschrift fiir Ernst Kiihnel ... Berlin, Gebr. Mann, 1959,
pp. 857-375, 9 figs., 14 pls.

STERN, HArotp P. [Arranging and cataloging the Hauge collection for] Jap-
anese art in America: prehistory—A.D. 1900. Scripps College art galleries,
April 18-May 15, 1960, Pomona, Calif., Day Printing Corporation, 30 pp.,
34 pls., 1960.

Japan’s earliest ceramics on tour. Jfuseum News, vol, 38, no. 5, pp.
26-29, illus., Jan. 1960.

——-—. Masterpieces of Asian art in American collections ... (Korean sec-
tion) as shown in Asia House, January-February, 1960. New York, Car-
negie Press, Inc., 64 pp., illus., 1960.

One hundred objects of Asian art from the Avery Brundage collection

(at the) M. H. De Young Memorial Museum, San Francisco, May 10 to

June 12, 1960. Korean and Japanese Sections. San Francisco, H. 8. Crock-

er Co., 122 pp., cover illus., front., pls., 1960.

Secretary's Report 1960

PLATE 5

Art.

Recent addition to the collections of the Freer Gallery of
SECRETARY’S REPORT Big |

STERN, Harotp P. ‘Treasures of Japan; Seattle Art Museum, June 25 through
August 21, 1960. Seattle, the Museum, 1960.

Review of “Hokusai; paintings, drawings and woodcuts,” by J. Hillier,

London & New York, Phaidon Press, 1957. Journal of Asian Studies, vol.

19, pp. 87-88, 1959.

Introduction to: Figure prints of old Japan, a pictorial pageant of
actors & courtesans of the eighteenth century reproduced from the prints
in the collection of Marjorie & Edwin Grabhorn ... San Francisco, The
Book Club of Canada, 1959.

UsitTon, BertHaA M. Compiled Index to Far Eastern Ceramic Bulletin, 1949-
58, 8 pp., issued as separate for the bulletin, Oct. 1959.

WENLEY, ARCHIBALD Gipson. A parallel between Far Eastern and Persian paint-
ing. In Aus der Welt der islamischen Kunst; Festschrift fir Ernst
Kiihnel ... Berlin, Gebr. Mann, 1959, pp. 350-356, 4 pls.

PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY AND SALES DESK

The photographic laboratory made 6,948 items during the year as
follows: 4,816 prints, 567 negatives, 1,383 color slides, 160 black-and-
white slides, and 17 color film sheets. In all, 3,225 slides were lent
during the year.

BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The exterior walls appear to be sound and in good condition. The
bronze doorways and area work surrounding the court were refinished
under contract. The wooden flagpole was replaced with an aluminum
one.

The structural steel in the attic was cleaned of rust and spotted
with aluminum paint, pending the time when the attic can be com-
pletely repainted.

The cleaning of the limestone of the first floor was continued and
is now about 75 percent complete.

The walls in galleries 1X, X, and XI were removed and new plaster
walls installed. The plaster was then covered with a vinyl resin
coated fabric, resulting in a marked improvement.

The auditorium was redecorated and new floor covering installed.

All corridors and storage rooms in the basement were painted.
The north wall of the south corridor leading to the auditorium
was rebuilt. The shelving in the stone storage room was removed
and new metal shelving ordered for this area. Two hand-rails were
installed inside the north side of the building leading to both sides
of the gallery corridors.

In the courtyard replacements were made in the two azalea beds
on the south side, and 14 yards of zoysia grass were replanted on
that side of the building. The plantings around the fountain made
excellent showings. Vinca has been planted for the coming summer
season and appears to be doing well.

579423 —61——10
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960
ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day
except Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the
main entrance was 120,077. The highest monthly attendance was in
August, 16,183.

There were 2,682 visitors who came to the Gallery offices for various
purposes—for general information, to submit objects for examination,
to consult staff members, to take photographs or sketch in the galleries,
to use the library, to examine objects in storage, etc.

AUDITORIUM

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:

1959
October 20. Robert T. Paine, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, “Japanese
Prints of Beauties of the Three Cities.” Attendance,
188.
November 10. Prof. Harald Ingholt, Yale University, “Buddhist Art of
Gandhara, Native and Foreign Influences.” Attendance,
152.
1960
January 13. Prof. W. Norman Brown, University of Pennsylvania,

“Vasanta Vilasa, an Illustrated Spring Poem in Old Gu-
jarati.” Attendance, 85.

February 9. Dr. Sherman E. Lee, Cleveland Museum of Art, “Liang
Ch‘ing-piao: Silent Collector, Eloquent Collection.” At-
tendance, 159.

March 8. Prof. S. Howard Hansford, University of London, “Some
Problems of Chinese Jades and Bronzes.” Attendance,
132.

April 12. Prof. George H. Forsyth, Jr., University of Michigan, “‘By-

zantine Art at the Monastery of St. Catherine on Mt.
Sinai.” Attendance, 234.

On May 8 ceremonies were held in the Freer Auditorium for the
second presentation of the Charles Lang Freer Medal to the Near
Eastern scholar, Prof. Ernst Kithnel of Berlin, Germany, “for dis-
tinguished contribution to the knowledge and understanding of
Oriental civilizations as reflected in their arts.” On the platform
were Minister Franz Krapf, representing the Ambassador of Ger-
many, His Excellency the Ambassador of Iran, Ardeshir Zahedi, in
honor of the [Vth International Congress of Iranian Art and Archae-
ology meeting in Washington, Dr. Richard Ettinghausen represent-
ing the Freer Galley of Art, and Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution, who made the presentation. Professor
Kiihnel responded with an address on the growth of interest in
collections of Near Eastern art. This was followed by a reception
in Gallery XVII. Attendance, 325.
SECRETARY'S REPORT eS

Eight outside organizations used the auditorium as follows:

1959
September 17.

October 29.

November 17, 18.

December 15.

Daughters of the American Revolution special regents’
meeting. Attendance, 272.

Department of Health, Education, and Weifare, Food and
Drug Division meeting. Attendance, 76.

Department of Agriculture, Federal Extension Service,
meetings. Attendance, 117 and 75.

Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Food and
Drug Division meeting. Attendance 25.

1960
January 18. Department of Agriculture, REA conference. Attendance,
118.
January 21. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Micro-

January 25, 26.

biology seminar. Attendance, 56.
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Food and
Drug Division meetings. Attendance, 290 and 169.

February 18. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Food and
Drug Division meeting. Attendance, 72.

March 17. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Food and
Drug Division meeting. Attendance, 72.

April 21. Department of Agriculture. Food and Drug Division

meeting. Attendance, 68.
May 2. The IVth International Congress of Iranian Art and Arch-
aeology, all-day meeting. Attendance, 128.

May 19. Department of Agriculture. Food and Drug Division
of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, meeting. Attendance, 138.
May 23. Indian Embassy, Educational Department, presented Mrs.

Sarada Arundel in Indian dances with a talk given by
Mrs. Rukmini Devi. Attendance, 284.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members was devoted to the study of new
accessions, objects contemplated for purchase, and objects submitted
for examination, as well as to individual research projects in the fields
represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian, Arabic,
and Indian materials. Reports, oral and written, and exclusive of
those made by the technical laboratory (listed below), were made on
10,379 objects as follows: For private individuals, 7,004; for dealers,
1,484; for other museums, 1,891. In all, 1,021 photographs were
examined, and 321 Oriental language inscriptions were translated for
outside individuals and institutions. By request, 24 groups totaling
258 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by staff
members.

Three groups totaling 34 persons were given docent service by staff
members in the storage rooms.

Among the visitors were 95 distinguished foreign scholars or persons
holding official positions in their own countries who came here under
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

the auspices of the State Department to study museum administration
and practices in this country.

During the year the technical laboratory carried on the following
activities :

Objects examined by various methods, including microseopic and microchemical
examination, X-ray diffraction and spectrochemical analysis, examination in
ultraviolet light, and specific gravity determination:

reer. objects; examined 2 22 =~ 2 or re ee es ee 86
Qutside*objectsvexamined]== =) 8 eae ee eee ee ee 135

The following projects were undertaken by the laboratory during
the year:

1. For a period of four weeks in September, Miss Elisabeth West worked as
a guest in the Chemistry Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton,
Long Island, N.Y. Her project of spectrochemical analysis of some 30 inscribed
ceremonial bronzes from the Freer collection, begun in 1958, was brought to
completion.

2. Continued editorship of IJC Abstracts (Abstracts of the Technical Litera-
ture on Archaeology and the Fine Arts) published by the International Institute
for Conservation of Museum Objects, London.

3. Continued systematic collection of data on the technology of ancient copper
and bronze in the Far Hast.

4. Continued studies on the corrosion products of ancient metal objects.

By invitation the following lectures were given outside the Gallery
by staff members (illustrated unless otherwise noted) :

1959

July 14. Mr. Gettens, at the International Institute for Conservation
of Historic and Artistic Works, United Kingdom Group
at the Institute for Archaeology, London, England, “Pre-
liminary Technical Studies on Ancient Bronze Ceremonial
Vessels.” Attendance, 30.

October 20. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Congress of Turkish Art in Ankara,
Turkey. “The Anatolian Mosque” and “The Problems of
Working with Subjects on Turkish Art.”

October 238. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Ankara, Turkey (Ankara University),
to the First International Congress on Turkish Art, “An
Early Ottoman Textile” and “Turkish Elements in the
Decorative Arts.” Attendance, 180 and 200, respectively.

October 25. Dr. Ettinghausen, at banquet given by Governor and Mayor
of Konya, to the First International Congress of Turkish
Art, “The Miracle of Konya.” Attendance, 180.

November 4. Dr. Pope, at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., “Chi-
nese Export Porcelains.” Attendance, 150.

November 6. Dr. Pope, at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., “Angkor.”
Attendance, 250.

November 6. Dr. Ettinghausen, at University of Istanbul, Turkey, “Some
Problems of Early Turkish Art.” Attendance, 45.

November 9. Dr. Pope, J. B. Speed Art Museum, Louisville, Ky., ‘Chi-
nese Export Porcelains.” Attendance, 85.

December 11. Dr. Cahill, at Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio,

“Great Chinese Paintings in Far Eastern Collections.”
Attendance, 55.
1960

January 11.

January 13.

January 14.

March 10.

March 380.

May 9.

May 19.

May 24.

May 25.

May 25.

June 15.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 115

Dr. Stern, in Richmond, Va., to the Council, Virginia Museum
of Fine Arts, “Survey of Japanese Art.” Attendance, 250,

Dr. Pope, at Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C., to Cultural
Affairs Officers, “Charles Lang Freer and the Freer
Gallery of Art.” Attendance, 70.

Dr. Cahill, at Smithsonian Institution Regents’ Annual Din-
ner, Washington, D.C., “Ku-kung (Palace) Museum in
Formosa.” Attendance, 26.

Dr. Cahill, at Princeton University, Princeton, N.J., “On the
Dating and Attribution of Some Early Chinese Land-
scapes.” Attendance, 150.

Dr. Cahill, at American University, “‘The Haiku in Japanese
Poetry.’ Attendance, 20.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Md.,
“Special Exhibition of Persian Objects Arranged for the
Fourth International Congress of Persian Art.” Attend-
ance, 107.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at University of Pennsylvania, Philadel-
phia, “Interrelationship of Near Eastern and Indian Paint-
ings during the Middle Ages.” Attendance, 38.

Mr. Gettens, in Boston, Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum,
“Notes on Museum Laboratories Visited in England and
on the Continent, Summer 1959.” Attendance, 50.

Mr. Gettens, in Boston, at the International Council of Mu-
seums luncheon, “Status and Program of the Rome
Center.” Attendance, 150.

Mr. Gettens, in Boston, to the American Working Party of
the IIJC Abstracts, “Report on JIC Abstracts.” Attend-
ance, 15.

Mr. Gettens, in Chicago, to the Microscopy Symposium for
1960 (held by McCrone Associates), “Microscope Exami-
nation of Art Objects.” Attendance, 150.

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official business

as follows:

1959
June 14-
August 12.

Mr. Gettens began a 2-month trip to Europe in June, visit-
ing museums in Glasgow and Edinburgh. He attended, in
Copenhagen, the Joint Session of the ICOM Commission
for the care of paintings. This meeting was attended by
about 60 delegates from museum laboratories from ali over
the world. A highlight of the session was a visit to the
Carbon-14 Laboratory at Copenhagen University. He
attended meetings of the International Council of Museums
in Stockholm and visited several of the museums there,
paying special attention to the world-famed collections of
Oriental art and the newly established laboratory in the
Museum and Office of Royal Antiquities. He viewed Far
Eastern antiquities in the private collection cf His Ma-
jesty King Gustav VI, at the Royal Palace. He went with
the Conference to Drottningholm Palace where all mem-
bers had been invited to meet the King, see the fine collec-
116

1959

July 23-25.

September 21-
December 11.

October 13-14.

October 16-17.

November 13-17.

December 2.

December 15-21.

1960
January 5-7.
January 6-7.

January 11.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

tion of bronzes, tapestries, Royal portraits and objects of
art, and to attend at the Drottningholm Palace Theatre,
a special performance of the eighteenth-century comic
opera “Il Maestro.” Visits were made by the group to
Skokloster Castle and to Uppsala. In London Mr. Gettens
spent several days visiting laboratories and collections in
the Courtauld Institute of Art, the National Gallery, the
British Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum, and the
Tate Gallery. Of special interest was a visit to Appleby
in Westmorland to discuss business matters with the
printer of IJC Abstracts. Other visits included: Brussels,
the world-famed Institut du Patrimoine Artistique de
Belgique; in Zurich, the newly established Laboratory of
the Swiss National Museum; in Naples, the Museo e Gal-
lerie Nazionali di Capodimonte and the ruins of Pompeii.
Return was via London where more museum visits and
professional contacts were made.

Dr. Stern, in Chicago, examined the following objects for
possible inclusion in the Asia Society Museum Inaugural
Show: 56 Japanese and Korean objects at the Chicago
Art Institute; 30 Chinese and Japanese objects belonging
to a private collection; 100 Chinese and Korean objects in
the Junkung Collection; 24 Chinese jades and paintings
that belong to the Chicago Museum of Natural History ;
and 16 Japanese and Chinese objects belonging to dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Europe and the Near East, attended
the First International Congress on Turkish Art in An-
kara, Turkey, visited Israel, England, France, Germany,
Austria, Italy, Greece, Ireland, Switzerland, Holland, and
Belgium. While in Berlin, he attended the Festschrift
presentation in honor of Prof. Ernst Kihnel.

Dr. Stern, in Toronto, Canada, examined objects at the
Royal Ontario Museum, Hart House, Lee Collection, Uni-
versity of Toronto, and the Canadian Customs Service.

Dr. Stern, in New York City, examined objects at Metro-
politan Museum, New York Public Library, and saw the
Bonnier Exhibition.

Mr. Gettens examined 15 Hgyptian objects (bronzes) in
Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore, Maryland; in New York
attended a meeting of Advisory Council for a Center for
Teaching and Research in Conservation (Institute of Fine
Arts, New York University).

Mr. Gettens, in New York City, examined bronze objects at
Metropolitan Museum of Art.

Dr. Stern, in New York City, examined objects in museums,
galleries, and private collections.

Dr. Stern examined objects at dealers in New York City.

Dr. Stern, in New York City, attended an exhibition of
Japanese art at Asia House, sponsored by Japan Society.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in Baltimore, visited the Persian Art
Exhibition at Walters Art Gallery.
1960

January 15-28.

February 21-
March 23.

March 5-8.

March 11.

March 28.

April 22-30.

May 9.

May 10-19.

May 25.

May 25-27.

June 13-17.

June 3.

SECRETARY’S REPORT Ez

Dr. Cahill, in Geneva, Switzerland, worked on book with
Albert Skira and members of his staff. He visited: Far
Eastern Exhibitions in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam
and in The Hague; in London, Far Eastern exhibits in
the British Museum, at the Percival David Foundation;
and in New York examined Chinese paintings in the hands
of several dealers.

Dr. Stern, in Seattle, San Francisco, Santa Barbara, Los
Angeles, and Chicago, examined objects at dealers and in
private collections.

Mr. Gettens, in New York City, attended meetings of Stand-
ing Committee for Artists’ Oil Paints and examined objects
at dealers.

Dr. Cahill attended Seminar at Princeton University on
Yiian paintings. Attendance 7.

Dr. Pope went to Taiwan where he served as chairman of
the American Selection Committee for the Exhibition of
Chinese Art Treasures, to be held in five American
museums in 1961-62.

Dr. Ettinghausen, in New York, Philadelphia, and Balti-
more, attended the IVth International Congress of Iranian
Art and Archaeology as a member and delegate. Presided
at the session held at the Donnell Library Center in New
York City; also gave the eulogy on L. A. Mayer. Ex-
amined objects at dealers, in museums and private
collections.

Miss West and Mr. Gettens, in Boston, attended the meet-
ings of the International Institute for Conservation of
Historic and Artistic Works held in the Isabella Stewart
Gardner Museum and the Fogg Art Museum.

Dr. Pope, in Manila, studied the collection of Chinese and
Siamese ceramics excavated in the Philippines by Prof.
H. Ottey Beyer. He also visited the excavation sites at
Calatagan.

Miss West and Mr. Gettens, in Boston, attended meetings
of the American Working Party of JJC Abstracts held in
the Statler Hotel. Miss West served as co-chairman of the
Program Committee for the meeting; visited the plant of
Baird-Atomie, Inc. and the Laboratory of the Museum of
Fine Arts. Mr. Gettens examined objects at the Museum
of Fine Arts.

Miss West and Mr. Gettens, in Boston, attended the meet-
ings of the American Association of Museums.

Mr. Gettens, in Chicago, attended the Microscopy Symposium,
1960, held by McCrone Associates; also examined objects
ina private collection.

Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Textile Museum, examined (as
member of the Acquisition Committee) 40 Peruvian objects,
5 Mexican objects, 1 Turkoman, and 30 Indian printed
cottons.
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

As in former years, members of the staff undertook a variety of
peripheral duties outside the Gallery, served on committees, held
honorary posts, and received recognition.

The Freer Gallery of Art again participated in the Wellesley-
Vassar Washington Summer Intern Program designed for students
interested in obtaining a rounded experience in the general operation
and purposes of a gallery, and in broadening familiarity with the
field of art in general. Through our error, the 1958-59 report should
have named Miss Margo Parsons and Miss Elizabeth Chanler as in-
terns for 1958. Miss Nancy Orbison, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie,
served as our volunteer for the program during this summer.

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. WENLEY, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CARMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Air Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1960:

Substantial progress was made on preliminary studies for the new
National Air Museum building. The architectural firm of Harbeson,
Hough, Livingston & Larson assisted in this work and presented
several possible building concepts. One of these has been selected
for further consideration when planning funds for the building are
made available.

Among the many significant accessions received during the year
were: A full-scale replica of the Atlas rocket and nose cone; three
origina] Farre paintings; the C. G. B. Stuart collection of aviation
photographs and books; the Lindbergh Lockheed “Sirius” airplane;
a bronze portrait of Gen. James H. Doolittle; the Ryan X-13 “Verti-
jet”; original letter carried as the first space mail; and the “Able-
Baker” space capsules.

The Aircraft Building was completely renovated and a new ex-
hibit was installed, which was not only an improvement over the
former one but provided much valuable experience in planning the
exhibit for the proposed new Air Museum building. The building
was opened to the public on April 15. By June 30, 292,406 visitors
to this exhibit had been counted.

A number of boxed aircraft were moved from indoor to outdoor
storage, with suitable protection, to provide indoor storage space for
about 30 historic airplanes which have been held for some years for
the Air Museum by the United States Navy.

Information service again increased in scope and volume during
the year, This included the furnishing of technical, historical, and
biographical information pertaining to the development of air and
space flight to Government agencies, schools, research workers, authors,
students, and the public. Many useful acquisitions to the Museum’s
library, reference, and photographic files were received, including
collections of 30,000 aviation photographs and 1,400 volumes of early
aviation history.

The curatorial staff during the year completed the research for and
the writing of approximately 800 labels for the new Aircraft Build-
ing exhibit.

57942161111 119
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960
ADVISORY BOARD

A meeting of the Advisory Board was held on December 16, 1959.
The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution welcomed the new mem-
bers of the Board, Maj. Gen. Brooke C. Allen, U.S.A.F., and Rear
Adm. P. D. Stroop, U.S.N. The Board expressed approval of changing
the name of the National Air Museum to the National Air and Space
Museum, at an appropriate time, to reflect the widening responsi-
bility of the Museum in the field of historic space flight. The Board
also discussed generally the requirements for the new Air Museum
building.

SPECIAL EVENTS

A number of presentation ceremonies of note were held during the
year. Among these were the presentation of a sculpture of James
H. Doolittle by H. S. M. Burns, president of the Shell Oil Co.;
the C. G. B. Stuart collection of aviation books by Richard Fell,
president of the National Aviation Club; and an Atlas rocket and
nose cone by the Secretary of the Air Force, Dudley C. Sharp. The
Atlas ceremony was combined with the Langley Medal award, post-
humously, to Dr. Robert H. Goddard. Senator Clinton P. Ander-
son, regent, presented the medal to Mrs. Goddard, and Congressman
Overton Brooks, Smithsonian regent, accepted the Atlas for the
museum.

A six weeks’ course in air and space science, for graduate credit, was
held at the Air Museum in cooperation with American University.
Funds from the Link Foundation provided scholarships for the seven
mathematics and science teachers who completed the course.

The Director attended the annual conference of the National Avia-
tion Education Council at Denver, Colo., and addressed a panel on the
“International and Economic Aspects of the Space Age.” He also
addressed the annual alumni meeting of the Academy of Aeronautics
in New York.

Paul E. Garber, head curator and historian of the Air Museum, was
honored at the Denver Conference of the National Aviation Education
Council as the recipient of the National Frank G. Brewer Trophy.
This award for outstanding service in aviation education was made by
Jacqueline Cochran, president of the National Aeronautic Association.

Mr. Garber represented the Museum at a number of aviation meet-
ings during the year, including the Air Force Historical Association
and the Honors Night banquet of the American Helicopter Society.
He delivered 30 lectures during the year, including one at the U.S.
Air Force Academy.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 1VAL

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS

The historic “Vin Fiz,” “Winnie Mae,” and “XR-4” airplanes were
completely restored and preserved, the “Phantom” and “Bell X-1”
were renovated, and all have been placed on exhibition in the Aircraft
Building. Also, a dozen famous engines and many other historic
objects were restored, preserved, and placed on display. New methods
of display and protection are being tested in this new exhibit.

REPAIR, PRESERVATION, AND RESTORATION

The facilities for accomplishing proper restoration and preservation
of the Museum’s aeronautical collections were improved considerably
during the year. Utilizing one of the storage buildings at Silver
Hill, Md., the Museum can now undertake the extensive program of
restoration and preservation in preparation for the new building.

ASSISTANCE TO GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS

The Air Museum continued its service to various Government de-
partments during the year. Among these were the Department of
Justice (in patent litigation), the Voice of America, the Department
of the Air Force, and the Department of the Navy.

PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES

Through its information service, the Museum has handled thousands
of requests during the year for technical, historical, and biographical
information from publishers, authors, schools, colleges, research
workers, students, and teachers. The historical research required for
this service requires a substantial part of the time of the curatorial
staff and assistants.

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Many useful and valuable additions to the reference files, photo-
graphic files, and library of the Museum were received during the
year. These records and documents are helpful to the Museum staff in
providing information, authenticating data, and for historical
research.

The cooperation of the following persons and organizations in pro-
viding this material is sincerely appreciated :

Arro Desien & ENGINEERING Co., Bethany, Okla.: A series of 8-x-10’’ photo-
graphs and brochures pertaining to the Aero Commander.

ATR Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, AIR Force Museum, Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base, Ohio: Transfer of 15 reels of varying lengths of film on early flight;
Technical Reports (Army), four boxes of duplicate reports.

Arz PHOTOGRAPHIO AND CHARTING SERvICcE, USAF, Pentagon, Washington, D.C.:
40 photographs of different aviation subjects.
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

AtR PHOTOGRAPHIC SQUADRON, 1350th, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio:
16-mm. film copy of Fokker T-2 coast-to-coast flight, 1923.

ANDREWS, JOHN H., Paradise, Pa.: “The Wise Story.” Items: 3 newspapers,
souvenir booklet, and first-day cover commemorating 100th anniversary of
John Wise’s first airmail flight from Lafayette, Ind.

ARMY BALLISTIO MissiLtE Acency, Huntsville, Ala.: Motion-picture film “Nose
Cone Voyagers.”

ARMY ORDNANCE CoMMAND, Pentagon, Washington, D.C.: Motion-picture films
“Launch of the Jupiter C Explorer” and “Guided Missiles.”

AUTONETICS MoTION Pictures, through A. V. Marruccrt: Motion-picture film
“Tnertical Navigation.”

AVIATION History PusticaTions, Concord, Calif.: Book “U.S. Marine Corps
Aircraft 1914-1959,” William T. Larkins.

Beecu Arrorarr Corp., Wichita, Kans.: News release and 6 photographs with
description of the aircrafts—1960 models.

BELL, Davip R., Caldwell, N.J.: Postal card sent from Europe by Orville Wright
to Miss Hoffman.

BELL Arrcrart, Cour. 8. G. McLENNAN, Washington, D.C.: 2 photographs of “X-9
Strike” missile being launched from B-29.

BRrAINARD, Henry A., Akron, Ohio: Documents relating to Professor Langley.

Breese, Sypnry S., Sarasota, Fla.: Letter received Sept. 17, from Sydney S.
Breese giving history of Breese Penguin plus an 8-x-10’’ drawing by a French
Ace of the type of taxi trainer used in France during WWI, plus a 2-x-4’’
photograph of a biplane built by Breese in 1916 in which the first Lawrence
air-cooled aluminum engine was tested.

Brown, JAMoR KENILEWIGLE S., VSAF, Bedford, Mass.: Tapestry of Lindbergh
and “Spirit of St. Louis.”

CaNaparr Lrp., Montreal, Canada: 3-view drawings of Canadair-Convair 540,
Canadair CL-28, and Canadair CL-44.

Cessna ArrcraFr Co., Wichita, Kans.: 3 8-x-10’’ prints of Cessna 310 being
used for business flying.

CLARK, Miss RosaMonpD, Baltimore, Md.: Booklet, Harvard-Boston Aero Meet,
Aug. 26-Sept. 4, 1911, official program.

Cooxr, Davip C., Valley Stream, L.I., N.Y.: Book, “Transport Planes that made
History,” by David Cooke.

DELEOR, FRANK J., SrKorsky ArrcraFt, Stratford, Conn.: 3 photographs of
Sikorsky helicopters used in Korea and 1 photograph each of 1909 and 1910
helicopters.

Doak Arrorarr Co., Torrence, Calif.: Photographs of Doak VZ4DA VTOL
aircraft.

Dovue.Las Arrorart, Washington, D.C.: 7 photographs of a Douglas DC-3.

Dovuetas, Grorce F., ENGINEERING Norarr, Hawthorne, Calif.: 3 1:72-scale
engineering drawing of Northrop XP56 and 11 20: 20 “blow up.”

Dove, Roger, Srkorsky AtecraFr Division, Stratford, Conn.: 14 8-x-10’’ photo-
graphs, 1 advertisement proof, 2 10-x-12’’ photos.

EMME, EvucEene, Historian, NASA: Book, “The Impact of Air Power,’ Bmme.

FALLA, NELSON, CoNVAIR GENERAL Orrices, San Diego, Calif.: Photographs of
the B-24, Ref. Material on B—24, 800 and 600.

Frat AVIATION Division, Tarine, Italy: 90 photographs of Fiat aircraft.

FoarL, JoHN Martin, Baltimore, Md.: Motion-picture film made by Martin
Aircraft Co. of 7 models borrowed from the National Air Museum.
SECRETARY’S REPORT We

FRANKLIN INSTITUTE, Philadelphia, Pa.: Photographs of Amelia Earhart’s
Lockheed Vega (one is model of plane); 12 sound films “Simalo Streams”
(part of a series of 13 half-hour programs for Educational TV given by Dr.
Lippisch of Collins Radio).

Gibson, R. J., QANTAS Empire AIRWAYS, Lrp., Sydney, AuStralia, also F. R.
Morrison: “The Aeronautical Work of Lawrence Hargrave,” by T. C. Rough-
ley, B.Sc., Bulletin 19, Technological Museum, Sydney, Australia.

GRANT, Dr. RoBerT, JR., San Diego, Calif.: Negatives of photographs taken by
N. IE. Brown of Lincoln Beachey around 1908-10 at Long Beach, Calif.
Grirron, Mict §., THoMrson Propucts Division., Cleveland, Ohio: The Thomp-
son Products Hubbell lithographs for 1941 captioned “Dawn of Wings.” One

set of twelve.

GRUMMAN ArrcrAFT Corp., Bethpage, L.I., N.Y.: Drawings, photographs, and
specifications of Grumman Aircraft from the 1930’s to the present time.

HaJIME Takoal, Editor, Tokyo, Japan: 14 photographs of Japanese aircraft.

HALL, Grorce H., NortH AMERICAN AVIATION, International Airport, Los An-
geles, Calif.: 1 booklet on the “X-15” and 20 pictures of the “X-15” and her
mission.

HALL, Compr. G. M., USN, OFrricE or INFORMATION, Washington, D.C.: 2 8-x-10’’
glossy prints of each of the following: U.S.S. Ticonderoga (CV-14) and
other ships of the fighting fleet in Ulithi Atoll (12-844). Platform of
U.S.S. Pennsylvania (BB-38) completed for Ely’s experiment January 1911;
Ely taking off Pennsylvania (1-18-11), Ely landing on Pennsylvania, front
and side view (1-18-11). USN Neg. 294131, 65693, 418709.

Henry, Lois, HENRY PUBLICATIONS, New York, N.Y.: 2 photographs: Winners
of the 1959 Powder Puff Derby, Sikorsky A/C Ser. No. X802W, operated by
Kane Laboratories, Inc.

Herrorp, Preae, Los Angeles Dept. of Airports, Los Angeles, Calif.: Photo-
graphs of Los Angeles International Airport—(1) 1929, (2) 1959, showing
development.

Howakgp, JEAN Ross, ASSISTANT TO DIRECTOR, HELICOPTER CoUNCIL: Reference
material on heliports.

IMMENSCLUCK, W. T., Ryan AERONAUTICAL Co., San Diego, Calif.: Log books
(copies) of the Curtiss Navy A-1 and B-1 (AH-4) aircraft.

JUERGENS, PHILIP L., Burbank, Calif.: 1 3-view drawing 16-x-23’’ of Lockheed
pings and other memorabilia pertaining to and associated with the life of
XC-35, 5 photographs on 3-view drawing of XC~-35, 5 photographs on 3-view
drawing of the Lockheed Vega; 7 photographs of “X-—7’’ Lockheed missile.

JUPTNER, JOSEPH P., Orange, Calif.: 12 photographs of aircraft.

Key, WILLIAM G., WittiaM G. Key Associates, Washington, D.C.: “Contro-
versy in the Making,” by William G. Key (Pegasus Supplement).

KNABENSHUE, Mrs. Roy A.: Collection of books, blueprints, photographs, clip-
pings and other memorabilia pertaining to and associated with the life of
Roy A. Knabenshue.

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, HxOHANGE AND Girr DIvIsioN: Photographs from
Grover C. Loening papers.

LIGHTEN, R. L., BELL HeEricorrerR Corp., Fort Worth, Tex.: Bell XV-3 Con-
vertplane folder, 8-x-10’’ photograph in color,

Link, Epwin A., Binghamton, N.Y.: Miscellaneous photographic prints.

LOCKWELL, WARREN T., HILLER HELIcopreR, Washington, D.C.: Photograph and
reference material on the X-18 tilt-wing research aircraft.

Lonao, Rosrrt R., Tyler, Tex.: “Stepchild Pilot,” by Joseph Doerflinger.
124 . ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

LuUFTHANSA, DreuTSCcCHE, K6ln, Germany: Photographs of Fokker F-2 and F-3
aircraft as used by Lufthansa.

MARQUETTE CoUNTY HISTORICAL Society, Marquette, Mich.: Collection of early
airline labels, baggage stickers and tags. (Krom Dr. John N. Lowe collection.)

Martin Company, Baltimore, Md.: Motion-picture film, “Project Vanguard,”
color-sound 28 minutes.

MassIN, ALEx, Toronto, Ontario, Canada: 12 commemorative covers (envelopes),
5 aviation magazines (1928-1929.)

Martes, M. A., STANDARD OIL Co. OF CALIFORNIA, San Francisco, Calif.: 8 814-
x-14’’ originals from which the following Standard Oil Co. of California
“Plane Fax’ advertisements show uses of aircraft were derived; “Specialists
in Rugged Flying,” “Flying the Yukon Air Trials for ‘Black Gold,’” “Deliver-
ing Groceries to the Sierra Crest,” “1,184 Hours between Majors—No Repairs,”
“Planting Trout by Air into Cascade Lakes,” “Breaking Trail By Air for
Alaska ‘Train,’” “Flying Life-or-Death Missions in the High Sierra,” and
“300-mile Flight Wins $1,000,000 Job.”

McDonNELL ArgcrAFrT Corp., St. Louis, Mo.: 5 photographs of the XV-1 heli-
copter ; motion-picture film, “The Phantom,” color-sound 15 minutes.

McLENNAN, Cot. 8. G., Washington, D.C.: 2 photographs of “X-—9 Strike” missile
being launched from B-29.

ME.orTi, G., oF FIAT, AVIATION Division, Torino, Italy: 11 blueprints (2 sets)
and 13 photographs (7’’ x 91%’’) pertaining to the AVS-5 airplane.
MorGaNn, LEN, Dallas, Texas: Books, “Sound Barrier,” “Flying Lovers,” “Every-
man to His Post,” “Trans Pacifie Flight,’ ‘“Wingsover the World,” “Fighter
Pilot,” “Air Officers Guide,” Squadron Admin., “Air Warfare”; Popular Flying

magazines.

Morris, Keiru, Sports ILLustrRaATeD: Famed color photograph of Istel making
parachute jump.

MUELLER, Miss Ester, Air Force Museum: 332 photographs, 20 negatives.

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C., BUREAU OF AERONAUTICS: 3-view
and other drawings of 8 naval airplanes: Consolidated NY-1, Boeing
PB-2, Curtiss R3C-1, and R3C-2, Curtiss F6C-3, Martin MS-1, Huff Daland
HN-2, Flias EM-2; 15 drawings of early naval aircraft, Loeing-3. BUREAU
or Navat WEAPONS: 2 copies each log books for Navy Curtiss Flying Boat
No. C-1 and Wright Hydroaeroplane No. B-2.

NortH AMERICAN AVIATION, AUTONETICS Division, Downey, Calif. : Motion-picture
film, “Inertical Navigation.”

O’Dea, W. T., DEPARTMENT OF AERONAUTICS, SCIENCE MUSEUM, London, England:
17 61%4-x-914"’ drawings, 21 61%4-x-91%4’’ photographs, Vickers Vimy cockpit
and controls, 2 2144-x-414’’ drawings of Vickers Vimy cockpit.

O’HeEar, W. M., Unirep ArRiines, Chicago, Ill.: 4 photographs of United
Airlines maintenance base at San Francisco, Calif.

PARRISH, WAYNE W., Washington, D.C.: 3 bound volumes of American Aviation
and 1 American Aviation Daily.

Post OFFICE DEPARTMENT: Copies of texts pertaining to the first balloon airmail
in the U.S.A. authorized by the Post Office Department and carried in the
John Wise balloon “Jupiter” in 1859.

Rice, C. E., Odell, Nebr.: 11 newspaper clippings and 1 reprint of Chicago
Sunday Tribune of May 22, 1927.

Rosinson, Brrr, Cessna Argcrarr Co., Wichita, Kans.: 3 8-x-10’’ prints of
Cessna 310 being used for business flying.

SHEAFFER, Mrs. DanrieL, Wayne, Pa.: Photographs, framed pictures, books,
pamphlets, and other graphic or text items.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

Srxkorsky Arrcrart, Stratford, Conn.: 2 photographs of C. L. Morris, pilot of
Sikorsky XR-4; photographs of Sikorsky’s S-38, S-39, Martin Johnson’s “‘Osa’s
Ark”, and “Spirit of South Africa”; 2 photographs 8’’ x 10’’ of Sikorsky
HSS-2 helicopter.

STANDARD O11 Co., San Francisco, Calif.: 7 proofs of “Plane Fax” advertisements
showing uses of aircraft.

STEPHENSON, Rosert L., Lincoln, Nebr.: Photographs and negatives of the
Nathaniel Dewell collection.

SrrRIcKLER, MervIN K., Director or AVIATION EpucaTIon, Ellington Air Force
Base, Texas: Complete set of textbooks used in C.A.P. cadet training program.

Strrock, Robert D., WeN-Mac Corp., Los Angeles, Calif.: Control line model of
P-38 having a 2-foot wingspan, and equipped with 2 gasoline engines.

STROHMEIER, WILLIAM D., Davis, ParsoNs & STROHMEIER, INCc., New York, N.Y.:
4 brochures illustrated in color, describing the Piper line of aircraft, and 13
8—x-10’’ glossy photographs.

Stuart, C. G. B., Hastings, Sussex, England: Air Britain Digest, unbound copies
dating back to earliest issues.

SULLIVAN, WENDELL R., BEECH AIRCRAFT CorpP., Wichita, Kans.: 11 photographs
and 6 3-view drawings of 1960 aircraft.

Syverson, J. M., NortH American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif.: 9 views
(photographs) of the North American ‘“‘X-10,” and a news release.

Topa, MANNOSAKE, Tokyo, Japan: 25 photographs of aircraft.

Truro CHAMBER oF COMMERCE, North Truro, Mass.: Scrapbook of tests of German
gliders made at Corn Hill, Mass., 1928.

UNITED AIRLINES, Chicago, Ill. : 4 8-x—10’’ photographs, 2 of the Link Electronic
Jet Engine Simulator (first used by United Airlines), and 2 of the United
Airlines DC-8 Jet Mainliner; 2 photographs of Laird Swallow aircraft.

U.S. NAVAL PHOTOGRAPHIC CENTER, Naval Air Station, Anacostia, D.C.: 12 photo-
graphs of A/C carriers operations, 2 photographs of balloon carriers opera-
tions, 1 photograph of R4D operating office.

U.S. NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY, Washington, D.C.: Photographs of Vanguard,
chart of course and related photographs.

VapDNEY, H. A., DEPARTMENT OF THE Navy, Washington, D.C.: Drawings of early
naval aircraft.

Waters, Lt. Cor. JAMES I., USAF, Washington, D.C.: 14 8-x-10’’ glossy photo-
graphs of parachutes being used to lower cargo and to reduce landing roll
of aircraft.

WELLS, FRED T., Pratt & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT, Hast Hartford, Conn.: Pratt &
Whitney JT3D Turbo Fan data, 8-x-10’’ photograph (cutaway view), Pratt
& Whitney booklet, “It’s a Smaller World,” Aviation Week reprint of
January 26, 1959.

WETTING, Dr. OLAR, Olso, Norway: Photographs of Norge and Triggvl Gran and
Roald Amundsen.

ACCESSIONS

Additions to the National Aeronautical Collections received and
recorded during the fiscal year 1960 totaled 287 specimens in 90
separate accessions, as listed below. Those from the Government
departments are entered as transfers; others were received as gifts.
Agro Dresicn & ENGINEERING CO., Bethany, Okla.: Scale model of “Aero Com-

mander” L-26, with color scheme the same as that of President Eisenhower’s
personal plane. (N.A.M. 1104.)
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Atr Force, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C., through RYAN AERONAUTICAL
Co.: Ryan X-13 “Vertijet” airplane, first jet-powered vertical takeoff air-
eraft to demonstrate transition from horizontal to vertical flight and return
to horizontal flight configuration. (N.A.M. 1067.) DaAyTon PROCUREMENT
District, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio: 1 experimental twin-jet
turboprop engine, YT-40-A-6, complete with gear boxes, contrarotating
propellers, and additional duplicate assemblies. (N.A.M. 1135.) 4TH
WEATHER Group, Suitland, Md.: Weather maps and charts used in briefing
flight crew for Vice President Nixon’s flight to Moscow, July 1959. (N.A.M.
1066.) Arm Force Museum, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio: 25
aircraft engines (N.A.M. 1088), complete rocket assembly for V-2 German
guided missile, including combustion chamber and propulsion unit (N.A.M.
1062), 9 turbojet and one turboprop engines (N.A.M. 1133). AiR Force
Muszum, Fairborn, Mich.: Lockheed “Sirius” monoplane, NR-211, formerly
owned and used by Charles A. and Anne Morrow Lindbergh in their historic
trip to the Orient and for their Atlantic survey flights. (N.A.M. 1063.)
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, Washington, D.C.: A static test specimen of an
Atlas ICBM, capable of intercontinental range and from which the first
broadcast from space was made by President Hisenhower. It will be the
vehicle used to launch the Mercury Man in a space capsule. (N.A.M. 1142.)
WaRNER Rozsins AiR Force Bask, Georgia: Complete E-6 radar fire-control
system as used on F-86’s and F-94’s. (N.A.M. 1112.) Park Rince Depot,
Illinois: Collection of World War II specimens collected by order of General
H. H. Arnold, USAF (recorded in National Air Museum Annual Report of
1949). (N.A.M. 1144.)

ALEXANDER, RoLtanp K., Watervliet, N.Y.: Loan of 3 famous World War I
combat aircraft models—the DeHavilland DH, Ansoldo SVA, and the Sop-
with Triplane. (N.A.M. 1131.)

ALEXANDER, W. W., Grand Rapids, Mich.: Scale model of the Salmson 2-A2
reconnaissance bomber used by American Forces during World War I. The
aircraft is of French design and construction. (N.A.M. 1119.)

AMERICAN Hewicoprer Soctety, Ino., New York, N.Y.: Feinberg Memorial
Award which is presented annually to “the outstanding helicopter pilot of
the year.” (N.A.M. 1129.)

ARMY, DEPARTMENT OF THE, BALLISTIC MissitE AcEency, Huntsville, Ala.: 2 com-
plete life-sustaining space capsules and cradles used in the “Able-Baker” ex-
periment. (N.A.M. 1122.) OxpNance, Washington, D.C.: Set of 11 1:24
scale models of U.S. Army rocket missiles. (N.A.M. 1184.)

BEACHEY, Hittery, San Carlos, Calif.: Silver loving cup trophy won by Lincoln
Beachey at the International Aviation Meet held in Chicago, August 12-20,
1911. (N.A.M. 1136.)

Bett ArRcRAFT CorPoRATION, Buffalo, N.Y.: 1:16 scale model of the Bell X-14
jet-powered VTOL. (N.A.M. 1117.)

BELL HELICOPTER CoRPORATION, Fort Worth, Tex.: Model of the Bell XV-3 Con-
vertiplane which embodies the best features of the helicopter and fixed-wing
aircraft. (N.A.M. 1097.)

BLACKALL, Freperick S., Jr., Woonsocket, R.I.: Lougheed engine of very unique
design combining features of both the 2- and 4-cycle operating principles in
an 8-cycle air-cooled V-type engine, designed by Victor Lougheed. (N.A.M.
1110.)

Borrne AIRPLANE Co., Seattle, Wash.: 1:72 scale model of the Boeing B-29
“Bnola Gay” which dropped the first atomic bomb on August 6, 1945 (N.A.M.
1107.) ; model of the Boeing Model 707 aircraft scaled 1:48, representing the
first jet transport of U.S. manufacture to enter airline service (N.A.M. 1060).
SECRETARY’S REPORT 127

BRANIFF INTERNATIONAL AIRWAYS, Dallas, Tex.: 14 equiscale models of aircraft
used by Braniff Airways since the beginning of their operation (N.A.M.
1140) ; 1:48 scale model of the Douglas DC-7C airliner, designed for long-range
and over-ocean flying (N.A.M. 1081).

Bricut, Mr. AnD Mrs. Roy D., Washington, D.C.: 1 complete dinner-service set-
ting from the Graf Zeppelin, including 10 pieces of sterling silverware and 10
pieces of Bavarian china. (N.A.M, 1064.)

Bronte, E. B., Honolulu, Hawaii: Flyer’s helmet worn by donor in flight from
Oakland, Calif., to Molokui, Hawaii, July 14-15, 1927. (N.A.M. 1123.)

CAPITAL AIRLINES, Washington, D.C.: 1:48 scale model of Capital Airlines’ “Vis-
count,” first operational turboprop airliner in the U.S. (N.A.M. 1095.)

CARRUTHERS, Mzs. JOHN, Pasadena, Calif.: Large leather- and cloth-bound scrap-
book of early aviation items on ballooning, mostly 18th and early 19th century.
(N.A.M. 11380.)

Cessna Arrcrarr Co., Wichita, Kans.: Scale model of Cessna L-19 Army liaison
plane. (N.A.M. 1076.)

COCHRAN, JACQUELINE, New York, N.Y.: 2 trophies marking some of the high
points in the distinguished career of this outstanding aviatrix—one from the
Air Force Association (1948) for distinguished service; the other, the Vincent
Bendix Trophy for the speed race from the West Coast to Cleveland (1938).
(N.A.M. 1094.)

Convair, DIVISION OF GENERAL DYNAMICS CoRPORATION, San Diego, Calif.: 1:48
scale model of the all-jet Convair 880 airliner. (N.A.M. 1109.)

CROMWELL, JAMES H. R., New York, N.Y.: Portraits in oil of World War I
aviators, Maj. Lufbery, Capt. Duellin, and Lt. Flauhaire, painted by the
eminent French artist, Henri Farre. (N.A.M. 1059.)

Davis, Mrs. ARLENE, Cleveland, Ohio: 2 aviation trophies from donor, 1 a loving
cup given by the National Intercollegiate Flying Association and the other
the Cessna Trophy for first arrival in the All-Women Transcontinental Air
Race, 1951. (N.A.M. 1098.)

Demick, H. E., Washington, D.C.: Italian altimeter with special barometric-
pressure and temperature feed-in corrective attachments. (N.A.M. 1137.)
Doo.iTrLe, GEN. JAMES H., Los Angeles, Calif.: 59 medals, awards, certificates,
membership cards, ete., from the personal collection of the donor. (N.A.M.

1082.)

Doveias ArRcraFT Co., INc., Washington, D.C.: Model of the Douglas DC-8
turbojet-powered transport. (N.A.M. 1099.)

DowninG, Mrs. FrepericK B., Kinderhook, N.Y.: Flight clothing, consisting of
leather coat and 3 helmets worn by the Jate Rear Adm, J. Lansing Callan
(died 1958), who learned to fly at the Glenn H. Curtiss School in 1911, com-
manded Naval flight operations in Europe during World War I, served with
distinction in World War II, and retired in 1948. (N.A.M. 1056.)

Boxer, Herman A., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.: A “Kingston” carburetor from a
Roberts’ aviation engine, used by the donor in 1911 on his flying boat. (N.A.M.
1073.)

Eicuner, HE. C., Clifton, N.J.: An X strut from girder of “Shenandoah” and a
piece of fabric from gas cell. (N.A.M. 1065.)

FLEMING, WILLIAM N., Passaic, N.J.: Model, 1:16 size, of the Aerial Experiment
Association (Curtiss) “June Bug,” winner of the Scientific American Trophy
Jwy 12, 1908. (N.A.M. 1108.)

FRENCH HMsBassy, Washington, D.C.: 9 French Government medals, duplicates
of those awarded to members of the Lafayette Escadrille. (N.A.M. 1111.)
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

GARBER, Paut E., Washington, D.C.: 1910 edition of Trowbridge’s narrative poem
“Darius Green and His Flying Machine” and 1874 edition of Jules Verne’s
prophetic science fiction “From the Earth to the Moon” (N.A.M. 1075);
contemporary color print of Henson’s “Ariel” shown taking off from tower
on the plains of Hindustan (N.A.M. 1098); scale reproductions of 2 early
aircraft devised by Sir George Cayley, his glider kite and his aerial top.
(N.A.M. 1078.)

GLENN L. Martin Co., Baltimore, Md.: 2 1:48 scale models of the B5d7E and
the B26 “Flak-Bait” (N.A.M. 1105); models of significant early Martin
airplanes—the MB-1 bomber used during the Virginia Capes bombing tests
and the Mail Express, a development of the bomber intended for carrying
U.S. mail during the early part of the Air Mail Service. (N.A.M. 1138.)

Gopparp, Mrs. Rosert, Worcester, Mass.: Loose-leaf album of photographs of
Dr. Robert Goddard and his experiments from 1915 to 1945. (N.A.M. 1072.)

Goop, Dr. WALTER A. and WILLIAM, Bethesda, Md.: A gasoline-engined radio-
controlled model airplane designed, built, and flown by the donors. It is
one of the first successful examples of this type of sport aircraft, and was
winner of the radio-controlled flight events in the U.S. National Model
Airplane meets for 1938, 1939, 1940, and 1947. (N.A.M. 1141.)

GOoDYEAR AIRCRAFT CORPORATION, Washington, D.C.: Model of Goodyear Airship
2PG-2W, cut away to show large radar antenna enclosed in the bag. (N.A.M.
1070.)

Hartwick, HerBert, Marietta, Ga.: Model of Curtiss JN-4D World War I train-
ing plane. (N.A.M. 1108.)

HAWKER AIRCRAFT LIMITED, Surrey, England: Model 1:10 size of the Hawker
Hurricane fighter famous for its performance in World War II, particularly
in the “Battle of Britain.” (N.A.M. 1106.)

Hetnricu, ALBERT §., Fort Ashby, Va.: Trophy awarded to donor by Municipal
Engineers of the City of New York for Aeroplane General Efficiency Test.
(N.A.M. 1085.)

Hinter ArkcRAFT CORPORATION, Palo Alto, Calif.: Scale model of the Hiller
helicopter, Model 12H, with agricultural spray equipment manufactured by
Agravenco. (N.A.M. 1125.)

INSTITUTE OF AERONAUTICAL SCIENCES, New York, N.Y.: Group of specimens in-
cluding 6 aircraft models—1 of the “Akron”; an aileron; an Harhart loving
cup; and 1 propeller. (N.A.M. 1118.)

Istert, J. A., Orange, Mass.: “Skydiver” sport parachute designed and used by
donor in several parachute jumping competitions, both national and inter-
national. (N.A.M. 1068.)

JOHNSON, Harry, JuLius, & Louis, Coral Gables, Fla.: Seale model of Johnson
Monoplane (1911) which incorporated a number of unusual features; also a
trophy cup awarded to the donors in 1912 by the Terre Haute Boosters.
(N.A.M. 1057.)

Layat, Fevrx, Plainfield, N.J.: Message pouch dropped by Maj. H. A. Dargue
at Tacopilla, Chile, during U.S. Army Pan American goodwill flight around
South America. (N.A.M. 1058.)

LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION, Burbank, Calif.: 5 models historically signifi-
cant, designed and built by Lockheed. (N.A.M. 1121.)

Meparis, Mas. Gen. J. B., Huntsville, Ala.: Original letter and envelope carried
in the recovered nose cone on its historic flight, August 8, 1957. (N.A.M.
1090.)

NATIONAL AVIATION CLUB, Washington, D.C.: Approximately 1,400 volumes of
historically significant aviation books covering the field from the year 1700
to the present. (N.A.M. 1148.)
SECRETARY'S REPORT 129

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF THE, Washington, D.C.: Curtiss P—-40 fighter aircraft of
World War II face (N.A.M. 1077). Bureau or Suips, Washington, D.C.:
Dummy Regulus I missile (N.A.M. 1087) ; Upper Darby, Pa.: Allison YJ-—71-
A-4 turbojet engine, one of the first of this series tested operationally
(N.A.M. 1124). Bureau or Weapons, Washington, D.C.: MacDonnell FH-1
“Phantom” carrier-based turbojet-powered single-seat carrier fighter (N.A.M.
1092) ; model of the USN airship “Akron” constructed 1: 80 full size (N.A.M.
1139). Navan AIR MATERIEL CENTER, Philadelphia, Pa.: Antiexposure suit,
ejection seat catapult, lap belt, 2 regulators, helmet, pressure suit, and 2 wing
structures (N.A.M. 1116). TEcHNICAL Data Division, Washington, D.C.:
2 arresting hooks from carrier-borne aircraft, one from an FSU Vought
“Crusader” and the other from an F4D-I Douglas “Skyray” (N.A.M. 1080).

NEVIN, Rosert S., Denver, Colo.: Model of a Bleriot ‘Penguin’? monoplane
trainer used during World War I for the training of pilots, including the
members of the famed Lafayette Escadrille. (N.A.M. 1096.)

NEwcoMB, CHARLES J., Trappe, Md.: Models of historically famous air vehicles,
including the Fokker DR-1, Fokker T-2 (F-IV), and the balloons by Mont-
golfier Brothers, Prof. Charles Wise, and John Wise. (N.A.M. 1126.)

NEWKIRK, THOMAS A., Urbana, Ill.: Aircraft telegraph transmitting set and
single-blade propeller. (N.A.M. 1069.)

NEw Mexico NaTIonaL Guarp, Albuquerque, N. Mex.: Japanese World War
II airplane, Nakajima Ki 438-2 (Oscar II) Army fighter, a development of
the famed Zero fighter. (N.A.M. 1086.)

Norp AVIATION, France: Scale model of the Nord “Griffon II” aircraft used
by Maj. Andre Turcat who became first pilot in the world to exceed mach 2
in a ramjet-powered aircraft, thus winning the Harmon Trophy for 1959.
(N.A.M. 1083.)

Pace, GeorcE A., JR., Reynoldsburg, Ohio: Model of Heinrich monoplane, winner
of efficiency test, Municipal Engineers of New York, November 7, 1914; also
half blade from propeller of Curtiss H-16 “Big Fish.” (N.A.M. 1071.)

Pan AMERICAN WorLD AIRWAYS SySTEM, Inc., New York, N.Y.: 2 models of
historically significant aircraft—The Fokker F-7/3M and the Consolidated
“Commodore” Flying Boat. (N.A.M. 1128.)

PORTUGUESE GOVERNMENT: 1:16 scale model of “Santa Cruz” plane which made
first flight across the South Atlantic in 1922, flown by Portuguese Navy pilots
Cabral and Coutinho. (N.A.M. 1113.)

PRINCE, FREDERICK, H., Old Westbury, N.Y.: American flag given to the Lafayette
Escadrille by President Wilson. (N.A.M. 1115.)

REPUBLIC AVIATION CORPORATION, Farmingdale, N.Y.: Model of the Republic
F-105 “Thunderchief” fighter-bomber which has been described by the USAF
as “The world’s most powerful one-man airplane.” (N.A.M. 1074.)

RyYAn, J. J., c/o Eric Wood, New York, N.Y.: Fulton Airphibian Model FA-3, the
first certificated vehicle to incorporate the desirable features of both the
airplane and the automobile. (N.A.M. 1089.)

ScarrittT, Danret, Gainesville, Fla.: 1 black leather folder containing Pilot’s
Identification Card #10 and Transport Pilot Rating #10 issued in 1927;
Mechanic’s Identification Card #10 and Mechanic’s License #10 issued in
1927. (N.A.M. 1132.)

SHELL O11 Co., New York, N.Y.: Less than life-size bronze bust of Gen. James
H. Doolittle sculptured by Mme. Suzanne Silvercruys. (N.A.M. 1084.)

SHOEMAKER, PETER, Baldwin, N.Y.: 1:16-size scale model of Heinrich Brothers’
first airplane (1910), given by donor, builder of the model, and winner of
a contest held among the students of Baldwin High School. (N.A.M. 1127.)
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

SrKorsky AIRCRAFT, DIVISION OF Unirep Atrorarr CORPORATION, Stratford,
Conn.: Model of the Sikorsky VS-300 helicopter, the first successful U.S.-
built helicopter. (N.A.M. 1101.)

Simmons, Mrs. Oriver, Denver, Colo.: Original letter from Orville Wright.
(N.A.M. 1120.)

SpacetTronics, Inc., Washington, D.C.: Early experimental model of ground
cushion vehicle capable of carrying oneperson. (N.A.M. 1102.)

Sruart, C. G. B., Sussex, England: A collection of approximately 30,000 air-
craft photographs covering in scope all the countries of the world in which
aircraft are manufactured. (N.A.M. 1061.)

Taytor, Mr. AND Mrs. REUBEN, Sz., El Paso, Tex.: Small American flag carried
on the Wright Brothers’ airplane of 1904 at Huffman’s Prairie, near Dayton.
(N.A.M. 1079.)

Tracy, DanieL, Lakewood, Chio: 3 1:16 scale models—a Curtiss R38C-1, a Nieu-
port 11, and a Sopwith “Camel’—purchased from Daniel Tracy (N.A.M.
1100) ; 1:16 scale model of the Curtiss Navy Racer, the R2C-1, winner of the
Pulitzer Trophy of 1923, also purchased (N.A.M. 1055).

VICKERS-ARMSTRONG, LIMITED, London, England: 1:16 scale model of the
famous Supermarine “Spitfire,” backbone of the Royal Air Force in the
“Battle of Britain.” (N.A.M. 1114.)

Wen-Mao Corporation, Los Angeles, Calif.: Commercial plastic 1:12 scale
model of Hiller “Flying Platform’ with special paint Job done at Wen-Mac
plant. (N.A.M. 1091.)

Respectfully submitted.
Puiu S. Horxiys, Director.
Dr. LeonarD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the National Zoological Park

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1960;

GIFTS

The past year was outstanding as far as gifts from foreign govern-
ments were concerned. In November the French community of Afri-
can Republics presented President Kisenhower with “Dzimbo,” a baby
African elephant, which arrived in Washington after having been
flown from the Brazzaville Zoo to the Vincennes Zoo in Paris and
then across the Atlantic. The formal presentation was made on the
White House lawn on October 12 by Dr. Jean Rinjard, associate
director of the Vincennes Zoo.

President Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia presented two of the rare
Dorcas gazelles to Mrs. John Eisenhower when she accompanied
the President on his tour of Europe and North Africa in 1959. Hav-
ing successfully passed through the required quarantine in Europe
and again in New Jersey, these beautiful little antelopes arrived at
the National Zoological Park on June 380, 1960.

The National Zoological Park has long been famous for breeding
pygmy hippopotamuses. The sire, known as “Billy,” died in
October 1955, and efforts to replace him met with no success. It was
therefore with particular appreciation that the Zoo accepted the
offer of President William V. S. Tubman of Liberia to donate a male
pygmy hippo of breeding age. Senior Keeper Charles W. Thomas
was sent to Monrovia to accompany the animal on its journey to the
States. The formal presentation of the hippo, named “Totota” after
President Tubman’s country estate, was made on February 5 by the
Liberian Chargé d’Affaires Francis A. Dennis and accepted on behalf
of the Smithsonian Institution by Dr. Remington Kellogg.

The arrival of an Indian rhinoceros in a zoo is always a very special
event. Since the death of “Gunda” in January 1959, after nearly 20
years here, the National Zoological Park had been without an example
of these great, armor-plated beasts. Early in 1959 the Forestry
Service of Assam wrote to say that they had captured a rhinoceros
for the National Zoo and were presenting it with the understanding
that the Zoo would furnish transportation. The animal was young
and barely weaned, and it was thought advisable to keep it in a

131
132 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

corral in Gahauti, where it lived for nearly a year. It was then
brought by truck from Assam to the Alipore Zoo in Calcutta, and
J. Lear Grimmer, Associate Director of the National Zoological Park,
flew out to accompany it to Washington. He spent a month in India,
supervising the crating of the rhinoceros and getting acquainted with
it, even spending several nights in the Zoo, so that “Tarun” would be-
come thoroughly accustomed to him. They arrived in Washington
on May 25, and “Tarun” by that time tipped the scales at 2,000
pounds.

In addition to the rhinoceros, the Seaboard and Western plane
that flew it to Washington carried the following animals which Mr.
Grimmer had acquired as gifts, purchases, or exchanges:

1 spotted leopard 31 lesser ring-necked parakeets
1 black leopard 5 darters or snake birds
D5 lesser pandas 2 black-backed kallege pheasants
1 langur 12 emerald-winged tree doves
12 blossom-head parakeets 5 yellow monitors
2 gray hornbills 1 water monitor
2 Bhutan or gray peacock pheasants 2 pythons
10 cotton teals 5 wolf snakes

3 greater ring-necked parakeets

The National Zoological Park acknowledges not only the generosity
of the Forestry Service of Assam but also the cooperation of R. K.
Lahiri, director of the Alipore Zoo, and Gordon Mattison, American
consul general in Calcutta, both of whom were most helpful in mak-
ing arrangements.

Mrs. Grimmer, who accompanied her husband to India, was given a
young leopard by Maj. Aubrey N. Weinman, director of the Zoo in
Colombo, Ceylon, which she has recently presented to the National
Zoo.

Dr. Robert E. Kuntz, stationed in Taiwan, continued to send rare
and interesting specimens.

The Washington Post sent two newspaper carrier boys, winners of
a “Junior Diplomat” contest, on a trip to Australia. While they were
there, Sir Edward Hallstrom, president of the Taronga Park Trust,
Sydney, gave them a pair of tree kangaroos for the National Zoological
Park. The day after the kangaroos arrived in Washington, a very
small young was noticed in the pouch. It is now half grown, and the
trio make a most attractive exhibit.

The U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey sent an expedition to little-
known Swan Island, off the coast of Honduras, and collected for the
National Zoological Park 7 Swan Island iguanas, 2 Nelson’s Anolis,
3 Sceloporus spiny lizards, and a Nelson’s gecko.

Ralph S. Scott, Washington big-game hunter, captured a baby tiger
while on a trip to India last year. A contest was held to name it (win-
SECRETARY’S REPORT BS:

ning entry: Mighty Mo), and it was exhibited in various branches of
a restaurant chain before being formally presented to the Zoo by J.
Willard Marriott, Sr. Mr. Marriott also gave the Zoo its first audio
device, 1 magnetic tape repeater sound system which at the press of a
button recites the story of the young Bengal tiger.

James D. Kennedy, American administration personnel adviser to
the Indonesian National Police, stationed in Djakarta, Java, sent a fine
young cassowary. He later secured another one for the Zoo as a gift
from his friend Police Colonel Mohamad Jasin, chief of the Indo-
nesian Police Mobile Brigade, who wished to express his appreciation
for the training he had received at Quantico, Va. Both birds are im-
mature and are valuable additions to the collection.

Robert F. Kennedy gave a young female Californian sea-lion which
had been sent to his children as a Christmas present and had been
living in their swimming pool.

The list of benefactors of the National Zoological Park is a long one,
and the following record of gifts received during 1959-60 mentions
only those of unusual interest :

Berger, Paul, Berwyn Heights, Md., Javan macaque.

Blackwelder, Frank, Washington, D.C., scarlet king snake.

Brower, Charles F., Falls Church, Va., white-breasted toucan.

Cali, Carl J., Silver Spring, Md., pectoral sandpiper.

Cobb, Dr. 8., Boston, Mass., 4 albatrosses.

Crawford, Cecil C., Washington, D.C., Lady Amherst’s pheasant.

Davis, M/Sgt. Dale E., Alhambra, Calif., tovi parakeet.

DePrato, Mario, Langley Park, Md., narrow-mouthed toad, 23 tree frogs (3 spe-
cies of Hyla), king snake, scarlet snake, 2 cottonmouth moccasins, red-bellied
water snake, 4 black racers, 7 brown water snakes, 2 southern banded water
snakes, mud snake, 4 green snakes, chicken snake (Hlaphe), 2 chicken snakes
(Deirochelys), 21 spadefoot toads, 4 American toads, 3 bullfrogs, ring-necked
snake, 2 mud turtles, box turtle, 62 newts.

Devaris, Capt. Dionisios P., Washington, D.C., Javan macaque.

Ereckson, Mrs. Lucy, Arlington, Va., coatimundi.

Fischer, Mrs. Milla, Washington, D.C., ocelot.

Fish and Wildlife Service, Boothbay Harbor, Maine, 6 double-crested cormo-
rants, 6 gulls, 2 harbor seals. In cooperation with the Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice W. Widman, senior keeper at the National Zoological Park, collected at
Kent Island, Eastern Shore, Md., 6 buffieheads, 4 black ducks, 3 pintails, 2 ring-
necked ducks, 6 whistling swans; at Mills Island, Salisbury, Md., 4 American
egrets, 4 Louisiana herons, 2 glossy ibises, 3 great white herons; and at Wash-
ington, N.C., 3 royal terns, 4 gray pelicans.

Garret, Col. E. W., Fort Leavenworth, Kans., night monkey.

Gray, Steven and Loraine, Bethesda, Md., black-and-red tamarin.

Hanson, Charles, Port Clinton, Ohio, massasauga, fox snake.

Harris, Lester E., Takoma Park, Md., 14 timber rattlesnakes, hog-nosed snake,

Harrison, Allen M., boa constrictor.

Hawes, Miss Elizabeth, Washington, D.C., 2 white-throated capuchins.

Isaac, Mrs. Lee, Arlington, Va., Formosan macaque.

Joy, J. E., St. Angelo, Texas, 5 diamond-back rattlesnakes, prairie rattlesnake
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Koltisko, Mrs. Frances M., Falls Church, Va., yellow-naped parrot.

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., Taipei, Taiwan, 2 pangolins, 2 Formosan ferret badgers,
2 Formosan masked civets, 8 Formosan giant flying squirrels, 9 snorkel vipers.
12 Formosan cobras, Pallas’s sea eagle.

Letner, George, Washington, D.C., 5 canaries, peach-faced lovebird.

Munro, George, Calcutta, India, 2 sloth bears.

O'Dunne, David, Baltimore, Md., woolly monkey.

Palmer, Harold C., Atlanta, Ga., 2 Australian black snakes, tiger snake, brown
snake, Australian copperhead, 4 carpet pythons, Australian monitor.

Perz, Miss Louise, Sellersville, Pa., hill mynah.

Royal Zoological Society, Amsterdam, Holland, 6 European cormorants.

Salzman, Aaron, Alexandria, Va., blue-fronted parrot.

Santos, John, Washington, D.C., 9 lineolated parrots, 14 cockatiels.

Schmidt’s Pet Shop, Washington, D.C., 12 jewelfishes, 38 “Jack Dempseys.”

Thomas, Charles, Washington, D.C., 2 European goldfinches, 4 European bull-
finches, 4 slate-colored juncos, mockingbird.

Tuck, Robert, Jr., Point of Rocks, Md., Cuban ground boa.

Xanten, William, Jr., Washington, D.C., pygmy rattlesnake, mangrove water
snake.

PURCHASES

Among important purchases of the year were a maned wolf from
Argentina and a pair of black leopards. The collection of birds of
prey was augmented by the receipt of a white-breasted Philippine sea
eagle, black eagle, red-footed falcon, Lanner falcon, bearded vulture
or lammergeyer, and two imperial eagles. Other purchases of interest
were as follows:

2 pottos 2 white-faced mongooses
2 bush babies 2 zorillas
2 drills 4 crested rats
3 langur monkeys black genet
African pangolin 3 hyrax
2 fennecs 38 California sea-lions
3 jackals 2 painted storks
2 yaks Indian adjutant stork
3 sarus cranes 4 Cuban trogans
2 McBride’s bustards 2 golden woodpeckers
2 starlings 8 crocodile birds
2 touracous 12 sunbirds
12 whydahs 3 ring-necked teal
3 Indian pygmy teals 10 Quaker parakeets
3 red-breasted geese king cobra
2 Tokay geckos Galapagos tortoise
2 ring-tailed genets
EXCHANGES

By the judicious use of exchanges with other zoos and with indi-
viduals the following animals were obtained :
Alipore Zoo, Calcutta, Indla, 5 yellow monitors, 1 water monitor, 2 pythons, 5
wolf snakes, 8 greater ring-necked parakeets, 12 blossom-headed parakeets, 81

lesser ring-necked parakeets, 2 grey hornbills, 5 darters, 10 cotton teal, 2 pea-
cock pheasants, 2 black-headed kaleeges, 12 emerald-winged doves.
Secretary's Report 1960 PLATE 6

1. A margay kitten, shown here with its mother, is the first ever born in the National Zo-
ological Park. (Photograph by Arthur Ellis, Washington Post.)

oh
“a:

at ~%
Pe

2. Maned wolf from the Argentine, a species not hitherto represented in the National Zo-

ological Park for many years.
Secretary's Report 1960 PLATE 7

—

— en on, Satie ae.
+

1. Indian rhinoceros, ““Tarum,” shown here with Senior Keeper Charles Thomas. National

Zoological Park.

2. A pair of dorcas gazelles, gifts from the President of Tunisia to President Eisenhower’s

daughter-in-law. These graceful little antelopes are found in North Africa and South-
west Asia. National Zoological Park. (Photograph by Beall, Washington Daily News.)
PLATE 8

secretary's Report 1960

(40719 Bul

Ly UOUIYSD Af “VINO ydjopury Aq yde 30104)
‘AvIQ, jay Jodaoay Alostajodng fomoyuosiy Juoplsalg +yleg
[PIIsoO|

ff peur l UN out Jo IOJIIN GC] AIVIDOSSY “JOU IIe) 1eo'T |
:007 SIIeq oY Jo AOI a] elI0SsV7 “plvlhey uvo| eral -yleg
IBN yl 1% Jodoay ArlostAtodns ‘opepy ANQ|IA\ syst

‘6S61 “ZT F9qONO ‘uMRT aSNOFT AUYAL 9Y2 UO JOMOY
-UdISI] IUOPISIig O01 luvydaya 1

2q JO uO UdSaIg *7

peut 1 LENT

pane) a vole

[Ry

s|e

pue

Uv OSe

‘smvd

eile

|

“BI

nous Pp

TO[OO

InOA UMOI3-]

|

“yA e

d |

Bol

“UBIID YIM “UM te

BO

I

007
L,

Assoj3

ey YIM oO IESURY 991],

al

Secretary's Report 1960 PLATE 9

ib |

1. Formal presentation of pygmy hippopotamus to National Zoological Park, February 5
1960. Left to right: Dr. Theodore Reed, Director of the National Zoological Park; Dr.
Remington Kel es Assistant Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; Francis A. Dennis,

Liberian Chargé d’ Affaires; Senior Keeper Charles Thomas.

The lammergeyer, or bearded vulture, is mes largest Eyropean bird of prey. National

Zoological Park. (Photograph by McNamee. Washington Post.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT Loo

Berlin Zoo, W. Germany, 2 striped African mongooses.

Cleveland Zco, Cleveland, Ohio, 6 black ducks.

Crandon Park Zoo, Miami, Fla., 2 red-breasted teal.

Deer Forest, Coloma, Mich., 2 aoudads.

Ellison, Robert J., Falls Church, Va., 3 desert iguanas, horned lizard, whip-
tail lizard, desert tortoise.

Hanson, Charles, Fort Clinton, Ohio, 4 Blanding’s semi-box turtles, Butler’s
garter snake.

Houston Zoo, Houston, Tex., 2 coral snakes, coach-whip snake, hognosed snake,
indigo snake, bull snake, speckled snake.

Meade, Richard, Hyattsville, Md., 2 Audubon’s caracaras.

New York Zoo, New York, N.Y., 2 boa constrictors, 2 Japanese water snakes, 2
anacondas, 2 puff adders, 2 mamushi (Ancistrodon).

Payne, Mrs. Edward, College Park, Md., 2 saw-whet owls.

Philadelphia Zoo, Philadelphia, Pa., 2 coscoroba swans, 2 ruddy sheldrakes, 2
South American sheldrakes, 2 Egyptian geese, 2 wood rails, black-faced ibis,
long-eared owl.

Quebec Zoo, Orsainville, Quebec, 6 evening grosbeaks, 2 white-capped sparrows.

Riverside Park Zoo, Scottsbluff, Nebr., 2 golden eagles.

Rochester Zoo, Rochester, N.Y., 3 sika deer.

San Antonio Zoo, San Antonio, Tex., 5 reddish egrets, 4 cattle egrets, 6 roseate
spoonbills, 2 roadrunners, ocellated turkey, 2 white-faced glossy ibises, 2 cha-
chalacas, 2 cacomistles, 3 nine-banded armadillos.

Washington Park Zoo, Portland, Oreg., Columbian ground squirrel, coyote, moun-
tain beaver, 3 murres, raven, 6 Pacific rattlesnakes, 2 rubber boas, bulisnake.

Zoorama, New Market, Va., guanaco, 2 fallow deer, peccary.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

The number of young born in the Zoo was gratifying, although
there were, as always, some disappointments. The pair of Pallas’s
cats, purchased last year, had young but did not raise them. ‘The
snow leopard, which had a cub two years ago that was successfully
hand-raised, gave birth again, and this time the young was left with
the mother and did not survive. For the first time in 30 years, timber
wolves were born here, but none survived. On the other hand, a pair
of margays had a kitten which the mother successfully raised, the first
time for this Zoo. A hybrid macaque born in the Zoo is of interest
because its sire was the famous Philippine macaque that in 1952 soared
37 miles into space encased in an Aerobee rocket shot from the Air
Force Base at Holloman, N. Mex. It and a female (since deceased)
were the first primates to reach such an altitude and survive.

Following the procedure of previous years, all births and hatchings
are listed below, whether or not the young were successfully raised.
In many instances the record of animals having bred in captivity is of
importance. The tree kangaroo previously mentioned (p. 132) is
included because, while it was not actually born here, the date of birth
of kangaroos is customarily listed as the date when they are first
observed in the pouch.

5794216112
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

MAMMALS

Oommon name Scientific name Number
Ratikanvaroo..- 222 2a ee ee ee ‘Potorous-sp2e. 22-5 ee eee ee 2
Galagoic.s eee eee ee Galago crassicaudatus_____--__~_ 1
Potton oe Perodicticus motto == 1
Capuchin22] es soe es Cebus tsps anaes s-s oe ee ee 1
Ey brid -macaquese =e Se ee ee Macaca philippensis * M. irus_- 1
Barbary ia pers tee oe ee Macaca sylwanus.—._._-- = = 1
Sooty, mangabeyae == se ne ees Cercocebus fuliginosus______-_- 1
DeBrazzas cuenonesss-2 === eae Cercopithecus neglectus____-___ 2
Chimpanzees a5) ee eee ee a PON SOLYTUG = noe eee 1
Two-toed sloth ete js sacesees =e === Choloepus didactylus________-__ 3
IPrainierd 0 gens sae ee ee eae Cynomys ludovicianus_____-_---- 11
Miying squirrels. == ss. 2 ne Glaucomys volans___..--.._-.-~ 3
Mour-t0ed jerb0a=- 22s === ae Allactaga tetradactyla____-____- aL
Mat-talleds cerbil 22s = woos Pachyuromys duprasi______---- 3
African porcupine2= = 25-2 == == 2222. Hystrin galeata. 22-2 5
Ding Oe ee ae ee eee Canis antarctious.-2-— = 9
Tmberaw0ltse 22222. Lees _ eee Canis ipus2 eas 2 Seca 4
Cape hunting Gog = = ele ee TYCOON DICtUS 2 W8 oo 6
Huropean: bears." =__ 2-22 Le Ufsusencios = eee 2
Grizzly; Deateon an eee eee Ursus normibitisi 22 se ae 1

ybria bear. eee oe Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus
middendorii. ee 1
Coatimundize=2 2224 Soon see eens INGQSUD NAMICO Ea ane are ee ee 1
Newman's, genet -=. 22 = See eee Genetta’ genett@i=- === 2 8s al
Africanuwater Civets 22 --- 2-~ === ee Atilaw paludinosus____________ DA
Pallags Chtes-as-ese sean asa sere Helis mantl~-- 222 sae al
IN Che he Ro | PR oo A eee = Ei Felis weidii tigrina_____-------- 1
| tabi: Se ee HeCUS CONCOLOT= == 3
HMastern, spODCat.2 eae aoe ee LYNG. TU eee 3
Snows leopard=ss222 0s. See ee Panthera unciazn oS ee ae 1
Grazt’s’ zebrans oe ee ee eee Equus burchelli boehmt__--__-_ 2
cA arn 9) ee soe es See aan Ra a ee Lama; glamases. 2 ee ees 3
Brown fallow deer CAN ee bee ee Damatidamar. Are eee eal { 4
White fallow deer 6
Axis) deer... 2 eee eee AGIs C21 Sse es ee eee eee a
Red: (deers. ss eee eo Cervus claphis=—*-2 = 3
0 0) | repaid Saree ge eee ee Cervus canadensis__.._._.__.-— il:
Sika pdeer! «2-2 a oe ee Cervus nippon_._-~--=_=--- =. 5
Vircinia. deers. a2 ee cee Odocoileus virginianus___----~_- 3
Reindeer 2 222 oe ee ea Rangifer tarandus_...—-.----==- 4
Sitatunga 22-2222 So eae eee Tragelaphus speket_—-——-_-_ 1
BarbaryiaSheepe eae e one eae eee Ammotragus lervia_._-..—---.-_. 3

BIRDS

Mute swans) oo oacc Ss See ere Cygnusioloni a2 Ua oe eke Es 3
Wihooper swan s=-) +22 - Se OlorAcygnusss eee 3
Canada. :go0se= 42.2. e422. Branta canadensis._________---~ 6
SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

Common name Sctentific name Number
Hid C1 duCke2ee see ee ee ee Somateria molissima___.__------ R
Gad walle a ee eee ANS: SULCDCTOs == ae 5
European widgeon*____________-___--. Anas penelope____------------- 5
W000 CG kee eee ees AG DISPONS 0 sae ee ee 36
WEDGES tii hie Ce Ee ee Dendronessa galericulata___-_--~ 5
White-winged scoter__________--_----. Melanitta fusca deglandia____-- 1
Wall dGtuimk@ ya eee eee Meleagris gallopavo_____------- 6
Red junglefowl=2--- 22s i Gallus gallus_____------------- 8
Golden pheasant_____-______----~_-~-. Chrysolophus pictus_____------- 1
CG) 13) Ue eee ee ee Larus dominicanus__.---------- +

*Hatched from eggs imported from Iceland.

REPTILES
Slate water snake____________--______ Enhydris plumbea___---------- 33
Florida water snake________________-- Natrizv pictiventris__.______.___-- 26
Cottonmouth moccasin_______________- Ancistrodon piscivorus__-___---- 1
MAaSSaSatiea is sas ee Soe ee. Sistrurus catenatus____-------- ay
Timber rattlesnake____________-____ Crotalus horridus._......._...... 5
Snapping turtle______________________ Chelydra serpentina_______----- 23
NTO DiC GUT Ce eg ee Pseudemys elegans____-------~-- 52
Painted turtles os ee Chrysemys picta_.______-------- 9
Red-bellied turtles2 22222-2222 ese Pseudemys rubriventris____---- 15
FISHES
White Cloud Mountain fish______.--____ Tanichthys albonubes________-- Many

The importance of a zoological collection rests, to a large extent,
upon the diversity and scope of its taxonomic representation through-
out the whole of the Animal Kingdom. The National Zoological
Park has enjoyed some measure of success in efforts to add representa-
tive species belonging to little-known or absent families.

The total number of accessions for the year was 1,312. This in-
cludes gifts, purchases, exchanges, deposits, births, and hatchings.
Several minor species which are best displayed in large numbers do
not have an individual count, merely being listed as “many.”

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Class Orders Families Species or Individuals
subspecies

Mammals=ss2en 2 suerte oe See 15 iS} 245 625+
IBiTGS eee aa sere ett ee Sa 21 80 362 1, 070+
Reptileseas 222-2 ee este 4 23 176 484+
Amphiblansis.2--2 552055 4255 55 2 10 19 102+
Wishes a= abana ee ee oe 4 8 19 114

IAT COT ODOUSS estes aes toe 3 3 3 Many
Mollusks.-2 22 ote ee 1 af 1 Many

j Ks) 2 Sn eee ee 50 178 825 2, 395+

138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION ON JUNE 30, 1960

MAMMALS
MONOTREMATA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Tachyglossidae:
Echidna, or spiny anteater__--_-_-~~ Tachyglossus aculeatus___.____- 1
MARSUPIALIA
Didelphidae:
Opossum 2_-_-----...-...-----=--==-< Didelphis marsupialis___._-__--- 1
Dasyuridae:
Tasmanian’ devil] 222 ss =e Sarcophilus herrtsii..._....-..-- 1
Phalangeridae:
Lesser flying phalanger_-.---.-..---- Petaurus norfolcénsis_.___.-.- 3
Phascolomidae:
Hairy-nosed. wombati22_2222224252 Lasiorhinus latifrons._____._..--~ 2
Mainland: wombats2222 220-22 Sess Wombatus hirsutus__._..-2iL2- 1
Macropodidae:
Ratukancaroosa + kates econ peiela POlOnOUus Spiano2o a oo 2 6
Ursine tree. kangaroossis-22slekecee Dendrolagus ursinus_._____----_ 8
INSECTIVORA
Hrinaceidae:
European hedgehog---------------- Brinaceus europaeus___._-__---~ 1
PRIMATES
Lorisidae :
Great edlagove ses eens Galago crassicaudatus_________- 2
Scneral galagon 2820-1 eso ee oe Galago senegalensis_____---_--- 3
QiGw Loris a lei ls vo Sieh es Nycticebus .coucang...22.2 1
Common potto--..------=-=---+--=- Perodicticus potto.---_---.----- 2
Cebidae:
Night monkey__-------------------- Aotus trivirgatus_.__.____.....- 6
Rod Wakanie ho eae eee Cacajao rubicundus________-_-- 1
Brown capuchin monkey
White-throated capuchin Cebus capucinug__----------~-- 10
Capuchin
Squirrel monkeys=2 22 se=-oe.———— Saimirt eciurews_.=---2- 5 2s 4
Colombian black spider monkey-_--- Aijeles’ fiusciceps2 2a 2 eee 1
Spidermonkey==s2242 = esssSss seas Ateles*gcoffroyiza 22 eee 2
Woolly “monkeyusso = -s2Seheea ees Lagothrie pygmeea___._--.-.. 2
Callithricidae:
Cottontop;, marmoset===-==2=-==22=== Callithrig jacchue__—--====-=--— 1
Black-and-red tamarin_.....---_~-. Saquinus: nigricollis... ssn 2 |
Cercopithecidae:
Toque, or bonnet monkey_--------~-- Macaca 8imic@ = --s2525255-225 3
Javan macaque__..t_ Bess. be Macaca. irus mordav_...==----- 2
Crab-eating macaque___.___.____-_- Macacd tris o-<..<<sssssec ee ft
Philippine *macaques._= et a Macaca philippinensis____-._--- 2
Maeaque hybridi.s hs eee ee Macaca philippinensis X Macaca
47 UGE SSS Se eee ul
SECRETARY’S REPORT 139

Family and common name Sctentific name Number
Cercopithecidae—Continued
Rhesus monkey__.._______----_---- Macaca mulatta_______________ 4
Formosan monkey____~----------_-- Macaca cyclopigs____._._________~_ 2
Red-faced macaque___--_--_--------- Macaca speciosa_______________ 1
IB aTDaLyed Pessina eae Macaca syivanus________-_.=--- 12
MOOT Ma CAQU Css sane ees ee Macaca maurus.___._______ a
Gray-cheeked mangabey___--_----__ Cercocebus albigena_.___________ 1
Agile. mangabey. 222-2 Cerocebus galeritus agilis______ al
Golden-bellied mangabey_-__--__--- Cercocebus galeritus
chrysogaster-_____-__-______ il
Red-crowned mangabey______-_____ Cercocebus torquatus__________ 1
Sooty: mangzaheyso 222) 2222 eee Cercocebus fuliginosus_________ 5
Crested mangabey_____.___________ Cercocebus aterrimus
opdenboschti_.___.-__________ 2
Black-crested mangabey__._________ Cercocebus aterrimus___._____ 3
Hamadryas baboon________________ Papio hamadryas___.-- 1
Chacma baboon_.___________-___ Papio comatus.________________ ut
GEN V0 beg b Rea ee se eee Mandrillus sphino.---_________ 1
Gelada baboon=222 22. Theropithecus gelada___________ a}
Vervet. guenon.._-- 22. 2.0 ne Cercopithecus aethiops
DYGCTYINTUS —o oso 1
Green) ;-Zuenonses2 22) ee Cercopithecus aethiops
CQ00CCUS ieee ee 2
Guenon) hybrid" eee ea Cercopithecus aethiops X C.a.
pygerythrus —..-_--._._-______ 2
Moustached monkey_______________ Cercopithecus cephus__________ 2
Diana monkey...-+2- 8.0) = Cercopithecus diana___________ BL
Preussi’s guenon! 2202 Cercopithecus Vhoesti preussi__ 1
DeBrazza’s guenon_______________ Cercopithecus neglectus________ 3
White-rosed guenon___.---___ Cercopithecus nictitans__..____ 1
Lesser white-nosed guenon_________ Cercopithecus nictitans
petaurista_....____2___-__ 1
Allen’s: monkey 2.222.222 2 = Allenopithecus nigroviridis_____ Pe
Spectacled, or Phayre’s langur______ Presbytis phayrei__..._.________ 1
Hntellus: monkeys: 8 Presbytis entellus_-...---_-- 2
Pongidae:
White-handed gibbon_____._._._ Hytobates larz 2-2 6
Wau-wau gibbon__-_--_-_____ Hylobates moloch__.___-_______ 1
Gibbon, hybrid we ie ee Se: Hylobates agilis X H. lar
DUCO UE Ra eee eS en en 1
Gibbon, hybrid: wire Gu MN sk Hylobates lar X H. sp__-_______ 2
Sumatran orangutan___.____..____ Pongo pygmaeus_______-_-_ 2
Bornean orangutan_________________ Pongo pygmaeus abelii__.---___ 1
Chimpanzee 2 ot SS Pan satyrus...___--___________ 4
Lo (1) 1 ann an re Gorilla gorilla... 2
EDENTATA
Myrmecophagidae:
Giant anteater... ee Myrmecophaga tridactyla_______ 1
Bradypodidae:
Mwo-toed Sloth o.. 2-2 Choloepus didactylua_.______ 6
Dasypodidae:

Nine-banded armadillo__._._________. Dasypus novemcinctus____ 3
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

PHOLIDOTA
Family and common name Scientific name Number
Manidae:
Giant..pangolin-—=.. 4 Manis temminckii_____--__----~~ 1
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Domestic rabbit 2=s2_ <2 2222224222=— Oryctolagus cuniculus_____-_-_- 4
Jack rabbit_----------------------- Lepus californicus melanotis_-_- 1
RODENTIA
Aplodontidae:
Mountain beaver-—2.=--=--==~—.-=-— Aplodontia rufa__._.____..---- 7
Sciuridae:
Gray squirrel (black) -------------- Sciurus carolinensis, melanistic
phase. 222.35 0k See Jutta ks 2
Gray squirrel (albino) ---------~---- Sciurus carolinensis _.--------- 2
Hox squirre)2s¢2 === = 2S Scturtis nigerec i= .4es faders al
Columbian ground squirrel____----- Citellus columbianus___-------- al
White-tailed antelope ground squir-

TO) See ee Citellus leucurus --._--_..---__- 1
Giant Indian squirrel__-__---------- Ratujatndic. 8
Asiatic: squirrel... 2-22 Callosciurus nigrovittatus_____- 1
Formosan tree squirrel___---------- Callosciurus erythraeus____----~ 5
Asiatic forest squirrel_____-------- Callosciurus caniceps_-_-------- 3
Striped ground squirrel___--------- Loriscus insignis-—.—--2.=-==-=—_ 1
Long-nosed squirrel______=_==_-__--= Dremomys rufigenig__---_------ 1
Woodchuck, or groundhog_--------- Marmota mona ..-—--=2225)2 2
Prairie Gog. 2-22 See Cynomys ludovicianus_____-----~ Many
Wastern: chipmunk._..-- .-===--==== Tamias striatus 2cxsss- 2 25525 1
Eastern chipmunk (albino) —~-------- Tamias striatuSzs<as=——Sa2e5—> 1
Formosan flying squirrel___-------- Petaurista grandis__---_------- 2
Eastern flying squirrel_____-------- Glaucomys volans volans__----- 16

Cricetidae:
Hamster 222.3222. -4 bao Mesocricetus auratus___.__------ 3
Vesper crato. =o oo ee Nyctomys sumichrasti____----- 1
White-footed mouse__-_--.-_-_------ Peromyscus spso222 222 se ee 2
Pinecvoles: nic ee aes Pitymys pinetorum_—----------- al
Muskrat. 22225 aos ee Ondatra zibethicus______-__---- 1
Gerbil ieee cee Gerbillus pyramidum____------- 2
Lesser Egyptian gerbil____-___-----_ Gerbdilius gerbillus_._.____._--_- a
Hat-tail gerbil=.222.2322-28—- 2-5 2 Pachyuromys duprasi _--------- 19
Hairy-tailedsjird--- 52-2 Sekeetamys calurus__--__------ 1
Ui ee es a ee ee a Mertones 8p... <c- eee tes 12
A sett Fists Sees A eee Meriones' sp =.2-—.= =| ees 2

Muridae:
Egyptian spiny mouse____-_--_----- Acomys cahirinus_____--------- 10
Egyptian spiny mouse__-_-------_-- Acomys dimidiatus._______------ Many
Multimammate mouse__-----_------ Mastomys) Splsi22 ee 2
Crested rats222.426s4Ueseseeseces Lophtomys sp..--<==- 22-2 25-2 4
Slender-tailed cloud rat------------ Phloeomys cumingii___-_-------- mt

Gliridae:
African dormouse=2=.— 2-2-2 --o- ee Graphiurus murinus___-----~---- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 141

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Dipodidae:
Lesser, or desert, Jerboa____________ Jaculus jaculus......_.__..-_...__ 1
Hystricidae:
Malayaporcupine@st]2see— = oot ass Acanthion brachyura__--------- af
African: porcupinel—_=- 22 Hystrio gateata._ 22S ea 10
Erethizontidae:
Prehensile-tailed porcupine _-___-~~- Coendou prehensilis__._-._....__- 1
Caviidae:
Guinea= ple asso eee ee ees sane eae Cavia porcellus___________-__-_- 6
Hydrochoeridae:
Capy0ataewan se teee eee eee eee Hydrochoerus hydrochoeris___-. 1
Dinomyidae:
Redea route e ea eee eee Dinomys branickii________._--- 1
Chinchillidae:
Chinchilla 2-2 ee Chinchilla chinchilla__.__..-___~ 2
Peruvian. viscaccia=: .-—- 2-2 ese Lagidium viscaccia___-_------- 1
CARNIVORA
Canidae:
DIN Qe eae ee ee ee ae Canis antarcticus __.--..-...~.. 3
COV O tee ee eee Se ee re Canis latrang ee eee al
Black-backed jackal___________----- Canis mesomelas______--------- 3
Timber .w.0lfs2 22 ae a ee Canis lupus nubilus____-_------ Z
TEXAS Ted: WOlhs sean eee Canis niger rufus__.____--__---. 2
ROC $10 Xe ee ees eee Ss Vulpes ful0da2= nena eee 1
Pia tinuim foxes ee ee ee Wiles (Ulver 2
GTC ee aa at oe eee ee Fennecus 2erda —-- oo ea 2
TV iL O Xe ee eee a er Urocyon cinereoargenteus_____--~ 1
Big-eared 1 OXsos see oo eee ae eee Otocyon megalotis.u- === 2
RACCOON Of eet ane ee eee Nyctereutes procyonoides --_---- 1
Matra ww. Oia ee ee eee se Chrysocyon jubatus _-_-_---_--- 1
Cape hunting dog______________-~-_-. Lycaon pictus. = 3
Ursidae:
Spectacled bear________--____----~-~. Tremarctos ornatus _._--------- if
Himalayan bear-==2-22— 22-2 Selenarctos thibetanus thibeta-
DUES es ee or aD ay Looe sata En ee 2
Japanese black bear___-_____--~--- — Selenarctos thibetanus japoni-
CUS eee ae ee oS ea 1
FLOrean) D@an e292 ass eee eee, Selenarctos thibetanus ussuri-
CUS eee eee See Oe 2
iBlack#Deare see a eee Euarctos americanus__---------~ 2
Alaskan brown bear_.---~---------~- UP 8USUSD een se eee eee 1
European brown bear__------------- OF8U8 OCS ne ee 3
Iranian’ brown: bear 222- sesso: Ursus arctos occidentalis______ 2,
Alaskan Peninsula bear___-------_~_- OL SUS OY US ee ee ee 2
Grizzly beara 22 sess ee Ursus horribilis= 22 ae Pe
Sitka brown bear..._-..=-=2—=---=.=-— Ursus sitkensis -.-.5---.n-<— a 2
Polaribeagr ie seae ss sone ote ee sab S tse Thalarctos maritimus _..------- 7
Hybrid bearsassaes— a2. eo sae eee: Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus
MICDENDOT isan aoeeenen a eeeee 4
Malay sun bear 2222852222 se25 252 Helarctos malayanus__---------~ 3
Sloth bear sass ana ee e eea Melursus ursinus____._--_--_---- 2
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Procyonidae:
Raccoon:.2 22-2 ee tes es eee Procyon, lotorzsk22—3a22e8 ae eS 9
Redicoatimundia 222252 Na@sua nsud__i<.-2=- == tae 1
Coatimundin see eae eee ees NG@SUG NOT1C0.. 3 So eS 5
Cacomistle, or Ring-tailed cat_-_--_-- Bassariscus astutus —-22222-~22— 2
Kinkajouso222220 2. eS as eee Potos flavus 22 eee 4
Olingo = = = ee ee See ais Bassanicyon gabbi.i- esse 2
Besser, Vanda. - 52-2255 aa SS Adlurusipilgens 2-22 ee 6
Mustelidae:
Black-footed ferret2—=24 22-22 eens Mustela nigripes 222282 ca 1
Short-tailed weasel__...-____-__--_- Mustela erminea —-.2- 42822" 1
Misi ter Se Se Martes americana.___.-.--.--+-= 1
Wishers 2 i228 22 SS See Sake ee ee Marites pennant =... ieee — a
(Rayna 2 eee eS ee Hing barborg 222 2 ees zt
Grisons 22 3233 St tee Ce See Galictis vllata= =e al
Zorilla, or Striped weasel_______---_. Ietonyw. capensise._ 2.2 2s see 2
iWiolverine<22 4. 2-22 SS eee: Gulo.tuscuss22 ses eee a:
‘American badgeri22-=. 2. = =—- 26 PR RGNACGHATUS ee eee a
Golden-bellied ferret-badger__------ Helictis moschata subauran-
HiOCO2E 2S ee ee 5
Common:skunk=2 #23 See Mephitis mephitis...-._...-.-~- 4
California spotted skunk_---------_- Spilogale putorius phenaxv__-----~ at
African small-clawed otter_-------- TAU CinereGs aaa 2 ee 1
South American flat-tailed otter_____. Pteronura brasiliensis_______.-~ if
Malayan small-clawed otter__.___--- Amblonyw cinerea._----.------- 1
Viverridae:
Genetssss36 2 a SS Genetia genetta neumanii____._- 6
Genet..(black phase)ifos2ss2 sees. Genetta genetta neumanii_____-- 1
Formosan spotted civet-----+-.----- Vwerricula indica_-.--=-.+-L--- 2
Ground civebs swe ee ease Vwerra tangalunga.=-=--..---- il
hinsangessessss eee Se eee: Prionodon linsang-—=----.---=-+ a:
African: palm: civet..==S823 Sees Nandinia binotata___-__-_-_----- itt
Formosan masked civet__._____.---. Paguma larvata taivana___----- 8
Binturongs--- 2. Fe ie eee Arctictis binturong-.-- 22 22 ee al
African gray mongoose____--------~ Herpestes ichneumon____--.---- a
White-faced mongoose______~--__~_--. Bdecgalexspsa22 = aes 2
Africantwater’ civetis:— 253 Atilaw paludinosus__...-_.....-. 4
Striped African mongoose___-------. Crossarchus fasciatus.___------- 2
White-tailed ‘clyetj 223-222 Ichneumia albicauda__.------- 2
Cry ptoproctidae:
Wossa2sees a2 SRS its Si Oryptoprocta fero@sas===25 22 k= 1
Hyaenidae:
Striped-hyenas..- ee SI FHyaena: hyaen@so lh 2 2 See 2
Spotted hyena 25a. sore ee Crocuta ecrocuta germinans____-- 1
Felidae:
Julgle catsesesess et rr Sa Felis -chaus-ss2 ssss2222 ses 1
Pallagis:cates.2cse- 2 BRA Bee Felis: mantilezoccee ee eee 4
Servalicate. 2 Besar ee see a Meliaservdlinccaw eee SS 3
Oceloters 4. BAR aes BE er De Feiiepardaliscss--222s21s2e 2 2
Marrayicateseesc222. DECOR RS BOI oe Felis wiedii tigrina...__......- 8
Puma soe 28 Se Re Betis concolor 2 So ee 4
Toys see oe SE STS eS Iyn@ canadensis...------.-_--- 1
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Felidae—Continued
OD GH ta re ee ee TS: TAYIUD TAU ALS oe ee 3
TCO MEG oe ee eee er Panthera pardusse 22-22-52 22— 5
Black leopard22225- essen Panthera pardus_..-----------~- B
Vol On See ee eee ee IPONLNCTG \COn ae eee eee 3
Bengal tiger. se eee Panthera vgris2..- = —- 3
C2 CUA aa ee ee ee ere ey PAMtNerd ONCW =. ose eae 1
Snow? leopard. 22222222] eae ee Panthera uncia_.__..-_-_--~----- 3
O@heeta his= aso Seats Mets SS ee Acinony@ jubata._..--==-2_.—- 2
PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae:
California sea-lion_.___.------------ Zalophus californianus__------- 5
Patagonian sea-lion= ==. = = es Otaria flavescens=2= 2 ee 1
TUBULIDENTATA
rycteropodidae:
Aardvark, or antbear________-___-.-- Orycteropus afer______.__-.---- al
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
African elephant. 2222. Loxodonta africana_____.------ 2
Indian elephant22== 222. 242-20 ss. =" Hlephas mazvimus__------------ 1
HYRACOIDEA

Procaviidae:

PVR Ke See ee ne ee ee Procavia syriaca._._.....-...-.. 1
PERISSODACTYLA
Equidae:
Mongolian wild horse______________- Equus przewalskit__...._._.__.... 1
Kiang, or Asiatic wild ass___________ Haquus kiang ..--.-.~..-..._-.~ 1
IBUrrO; Or dOnKey=2 == === ee HMqQuus asinwsu— ua ee 1
Grantis izebras = oa ee Hquus burchelli boehmi ._.-.---- 3
Grevy 8 Zebtacoson eno eee SL OUUS GREELY ee 3
Tapiridae:
IB EaZuven tel ee ee Tapirus terrestris.__.__...--.=+ 1
Rhinocerotidae:
Great one-horned Indian rhinoceros. Rhinoceros unicornis_.......-_- 1
White, or square-lipped, rhinoceros__ Ceratotherium simum_..-_.---~ 2
ABTIODACTYLA
Tayassuidae:
Collared peccary___-____-__--___-__ Se ReCGnt (COCs ae ee 4
Hippopotamidae:
Hippopotamus =" = = 2a se. Hippopotamus amphibius _.--- 3
Pygmy hippopotamus____-_______ Choeropsis libertensigs____._.____ 4
Camelidae:
gO 00s es ee Se gee pee Lama glama, 2-22- -..--..._--- 6
Guana COn2 ease eee eee ee A Lama glama guanicoe____--____ 3
PAN DACA San ane eee ey he Bie Lama pacos___________.____- ras 4
iBactrian camels. 2s eee eee Camelus bactrianus.._..----___ 2
144

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name Sctentific name Number
Cervidae:
Brown: fallow- deers. ae _ Dame damasa2oss se ila
White fallow: deeri 2223522382 sese2 Dama, dames ee 9
Axis deer: 22a Se eer ee ADS A018. 2228 So a eee 4
Red-déer.- =. ee ees. COcrous. eclaphus. = 7
American-elk--- oo Sa eA Cervus canadensis________=.-__~ 5
Sika deer: 23. 22-22 Sei ee ee Cervus nipponiu-- nas 2a 9
Pére: David's: deer eae ee Elaphurus davidianus__-------- al
Virginiaidéeer222-.—22 se seat Odocoileus virginianus___-__--__ 9
Reindeer=22 22225 be ee eee Rangifer tarandus—__--=__---.. 13
Horest caribou-2 2s. oe ee Rangifer caries. 1
Giraffidae:
Okapiica =< 2 eat eel Boe Re, Okapia johnstonic2 2 1
Nubian: giraffe. 24 eeuss bela Giraffa camelopardalis________- 3
Antilocapridae:
Pronghorme22 a2 ase soeae nae Antilocapra americana____----~- 5
Bovidae:
Sitatunga =.= 2 ee Bee Eek Tragelaphus spekit..._.-_______= 2
Panes ee eRe ed eee ee Taurotragus ory@ 2 =- 2 2
AN Bese ea ek ie 5a = Anoa depressicornis__._________- 2
ZOD UW seen Oe foal ee ae sg Bos indicues2 222 eee 1
Wakeo 22 23 foo ee ee ee Poephagus grunniens___--------~ -
Gaur. 225 es eee Se Bi008 CQUTUse seas oe ee 3
ATTICAN DUI @Osee seen ee aes NYUNCerus) CON Cia ae eee ee il
American bison. .- 2-2-2 ee IBiSON 018ON = nee eo eee 2
Wisent, or European bison__________ Bison bonasuss 2 ee 2
Dorcas gazelle. 5S as oe ee Gazella GOnCds=— 2 ee 2
Rocky Mountain goat-_-___________. Oreamnos americanus___-__---- 2
hE i nS el eee ee Hemitragus jemlahicus____---~- al
INA) Sa ao me ee Ue Capra ben? 22. rae eee = 1
Blue. sheep so sot 2st kee ee Pseudo 10 al
AQUG AGS son oe 22s ee Bee eee nee Ammotragus lervia____-_ —-_ 5
Dallisheep..- == eae se es Ovis. (dalizes | See 2
BIRDS
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
King*penzuinies 2 282. eee Aptenodytes patagonica________-~ 4
Adélie-pencuin=-== 2 See Pygoscelis adelide_2 ea se ak 5
STRUTHIONIFORMES
Struthionidae:
Ostrichg=22 2st fear tee Struthio camelusi2a- == a2 se 1
RHEIFORMES
Rheidae:
Rhea= 2 c25e2 eo Se Se ee Rhea americana —.._- === i
CASUARIIFORMES
Casuariidae:
CWaSSOWALY = - ero se ee ere COSUGTIUS SD oan eee 2
Dromiceidae:
Rimes on ee ee Dromicius novaehollandiae____- 4

1
SECRETARY’S REPORT

PROCELLARIIFORMES
Family and common name Scientifio name Number
Diomedeidae:
Black-footed albatross_____-----__-~- Diomedea nigripes____________- 2
MapySanwa DA ELOSS saan ees Diomedea immutabilis______-__-~ 1
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Rose-colored pelican___--_--___----_ Pelecanus onocrotalus___-------~ 2
\ovkites oa bho be a ee Pelecanus erythrorhynchus___-~ 53
Brown. DeliGan= aoe aseen ase ae Pelecanus occidentalis________-~ 5
Phalacrocoracidae:
Double-crested cormorant______-_--- Phalacrocoraz auritus____-_---- +f
European cormorant —~-.--_--------- Phalacrocoray carbo__-----~---~ 6
Anhingidae:
Indiandarterss2ss5 see Sees Plotus melanogaster_________--- 3
CICONIIFORMES
Ardeidae:
Reddish Serre tesa ae eee ee Dichromanassa rufescens______~ 4
Reddish egret (white phase) ________ Dichromanassa rufescens_______ 1
Cattle erretias sao = = ae ee Bubuteus ibis. -- 4
American) Cone tees eee ee Casmerodius albus_______-_____ 1b
SNOWY) Cone tosses see ee ee ee Leucophoys thula__.____-______-_ 2
Great white heron_________________ Ardea occidentalis_____.______-_ 2
houisiana heron. 2222 2522252 = Hydranassa tricolor.__._.__-.--__ 3
Black-crowned night heron___-__--- Nycticoraw nycticorar__________ 12
Pnttle blue heron 22222 en ee Florida caerulea..._.__..-_____ 1
iheast bitter. 2 Ixobrychus eviligs_....-__.____. 1
ager DiItterne ae ee ee Tigrisoma lineatum___.___-____ 3
Cochleariidae:
Boat-billed heron__________________ Cochlearius cochlearius_______- 1
Balaenicipitidae :
SS OC Dy Lee ai ee a ee ed ae Balaeniceps rer.._.._..___-_._- 1
Ciconiidae:
Indian adjutant stork______________ Leptoptilos dubius__.-_-________ al
White-bellied stork_________________ Abdimia sphenorhyncha________ Z
Threskiornithidae:
Winite ibiss 22 i= ee ee Budocimus albus___.____________ 2
Searlet ibis___.__._._.___.______________ Hudocimus ruber ___._____.______- Pe
Black-faced ibis____________________ Theristicus melanopis___.______ 1
Black-headed ibis_.__._______________. Threskiornis melanocephala ____ 1
White-faced glossy ibis_____________. Plegadis mexicana __-------____ 2
Eastern glossy ibis___.______________. Plegadis falcinellus____________ 2,
Roseate spoonbill_____________-_-_- Ajaia adjaja..__.______._.___-... 8
Phoenicopteridae:
Chilean flamingo___________________ Phoenicopterus chilensis________ 2
Cuban flamingo_.__________________. Phoenicopterus ruber___--______ 1
Old World flamingo________________. Phoenicopterus antiquorum_____ 1
ANSERIFORMES
Anhimidae:
Crested screamer_____.._._________- Chauna torquata_______________ -f
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name Scientific name Number
Anatidae:
Coseccroba swan... Sat Sores Coscoroba coscoroba________--__ 2
Mute swans ose 2 ee eee Oygnusiolorsc--=22 See 5
Whooperiswan===2s8s ers See ees Olorecyoniss=22 2 ee 2
Wihistling-swanl2 oss eee Olorcolwmbianus =e vse ee 7
Brum peterwswans.=2 o— ee eee Olonxbuceinator. === Ps
Blacksswats. 2225-923 a eee Ohenopisidireta=-22 2 = 3
Heyptiantgoosess.- 234 S22 ee eek ee Alopochen aegyptiacus____------ Z
White-fronted goose_____________--_ ANS Cr QUOUT ONS aera eee 8
Indian bar-headed goose__-._.-_____ HAUG Nat Ct =n ane 5
HMPCrori ge O08Cs saan aceon one Philacte’ canagica__-_—-__.__.. 2
Blue gO08CL ae a = rae Sees Chen caerulescens 2 -- === 6
esser*snow goose. = + eee Chen hyperborea hyperborea____ 2
Greater snow goose_________-_-_-_-_- Chen hyperborea atlantica______ 5
IROSSISUZ OOSC sen oe ae Chenntss = 4
Red=breasted=go0sel 8 a eee BRONGGTUI CONS aa eee 2
@ana da g00se. =.= 2222222 eae
Lesser Canada goose-—--------—----- Branta canadensis ------___=__- 30
@ackling goose=-— 2 2-2 2. a2 ee
White-cheeked goose._____----_-_---
Canada goose blue goose, hybrid__._ Branta canadensis * Chen
CacrulesCensaa = = ee 2
IWi00d ;\ducki == 202 Sa eae ae ALD 'SDONS OE 22 ee ee = ee Many
Wood duck X Red-headed duck,
laid 01 ot (6 (ie ore a Sa ee eee Aia sponsa X Aythya americana 1
Pintalls duck-s-2 ==- ~ Sos S25! ANOS (OCULO= cca ee eee 4
Chestnut-breasted teal-__._-_-__------ ANGSi COSLOMNE(— ea = eee 2
Ringed, or ring-necked, teal____---- ANGS: LEUCODNTY 8a =e ee ee 3
CEE 1C0 sem at ny la > PE er eT ANtds «StnCD CLG =a = Se eee 5
Muropean, wigeon.—--= ==. 22-52 ANGS NCNClODE e252 22=3. = eae 5
Maillard: duck-=..=2= 2-235 sae Anas platyrhynchos__-___-_---- 19
Mallard duck, albino__.-____..---_ Anas platyrhynchos.._..._.--____ il
Mallard duck X American pintzail Anas platyrhynchos xX Anas
duck, hybrid. CUT Geo ee 2 a 1
Indian spotted-bill duck__-____-_-~-- Anas poecilorhyncha_.____.----- 1
Black dutk=2 2222-22222 eee ee. ANGS: TUUTIDES Ban eee 11
Greater scaup duck.—__- 3.22 = 225222 Ayinhy@ Manassa ee 1
lesser'scaup: duck =. -2--.-=-=-= = AYtNY OAOGUMS sa eee 5
Red-headed' duck===-= 4822-25 2 Aythya americana —__---------- 10
Ring-necked duck.225—— e2"— Sas AVTRYG COUATIS 222252 2— 52 2enee= 2
Canvasback duck= 23 2 2 a Aythya valisinerta —....___ __ a
Bufflehead ducks 22.22 2-2-2 3 =e = Bucephata atbeola —.__._____.____ 3
Black-bellied tree duck __------_----. Dendrocygna autumnalis___---- 8
Kulvous tree duckis==-" == 222 a Dendrocygna bicolor______-_---- al
Mandarin ducks 2.222222 enensesones Dendronessa galericulata____-- 10
PAldNE tC 258 ee Mareca americana___--.-------~ 13
American white-winged scoter_------ Melanitta fusca deglandi__---~-- 1
Rosy-billed ‘pochard..=2--=-- == 2 == Metopiana peposaca____-------- 1
Red-crested pochard__-_------------ NGUG! TUNG. 22232 eee ee ee if
Cotton i teal--<2 aie 2S eset a ae Nettapus coromandelianus___--- 10
Comb. duck 22 5- = eee ee Sarkidiornis melanota_--------- i
Northern elder duck. <-.--==-— === Somateria mollissima borealis__ 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT

147

Family and common name Scienttflo name Number
Anatidae—Continued
American eider duck —_-£=--—_._-__. Somateria mollissima dresseri__ De
South American shelldrake______-__ UWS 07-CG"CONG22- =) ee ye
Ruddy shelldrakes-2s2e2sSe0 2) ooo Casarca ferruginea______--_-_-_ 2
European shell duck_-------------_- Tadorng tado0rng 2-228 ae 1
FALCONIFORMES
Cathartidae:
Andean Condorss= 3222205 eee Vultur gryphus___-_______._---— 1
Kong vulture-=—2= 222s ee Sarcoramphus papa__------_-~- 1
Black yultures-=-2=-22- = 2225222. Coragyps atratus_______________ 6
White-backed vulture_-__.___-___-= Pseudogyps africanus________~ i
Ruppellis) vultures 222222 sa Gyps rueppellii___._-___-...-___ 3
Turkey: vultures— 2-24.26 ee Cathartes aura___________--__- 9
Sagittariidae:
Secretarybird= = 2222 --  eeces Sagittarius serpentarius__._____ 2
Accipitridae:
African yellow-billed kite_.___-.--.-. Milwus migrans_..__--._.-..__- 2
Brahminy kite___._._.____________ ---- Haliastur indus __...--________- 1
iBlack-faced, hawk=22==22= 222 ==-=_ = Leucopternis melanops__-_____~ 1
Wved-talled: hawk=-==—. 222-2 2-222 Buteo jamaicensis______-__---_ 3
Swainson’s hawk_.._-__.._-_------- Buteo swainsont_____.___- ae 1
Great black hawk... ~--_--_--__ Ictinaetus malayensis__..._.-___ il
Crane hawk, or red-footed falcon__._ Falco vespertinugs_.-..__~-._____ 1
Golden eagle 22-9 Aquila chrysactos_._____________ 53
Mmperial eaglezs ss es see ee Aguila, heuaca@= 2-2 Be
White-breasted Philippine sea eagle. Haliactus leucogaster__________ 1
Pallas’s iséa. eagle. a. 22. 252- 452 be2 Haliaetus leucoryphus_________- 1
Bald eagles ss ja ares Were ee eee Haliaetus leucocephalus___.___~ 5
Buzzard. eagles ss=>osse see ees Buteo poecilochrous____-_--_-___ 1
Harpy, eCavles= =a een eases Harpia harpyja-~---~.-----.~ 1
Guianan crested eagle___.-_..-__-___ Morphnus guianensis__.____-__-_ al
Monkey-eating eagle__.._._--_-__-. Pithecophaga jefferyi_____._..-_- i
Batelent ea rlej222 2 a ee ee Terathopius ecaudatus___._____ 3
Bearded -vwulturesi 22. is ae Gypaetus barbatus__.______=__ 1
Pandionidae :
American osprey___._--_----.--_--. Pandion haliaetus carolinensis__ 2
Falconidae:
Large-billed, or lanner, falcon______ Falco biarmicus_______.-_-~-__- 1
sparrow. hawk2- 2222) 58 ae A Falco sparverius...i.___-=-____ 5
Due kghaiwike ae ee ee eee Falco peregrinus anatum__.-___ 1
Worest, falcon ee a eh ee Micrastur semitorquatus___.___ 2
@himang ose ne ee Milvago chimango__-----_._-._- 2
Audubon’s caracara________________ Polyborus cheriway----_------_ 3
South American caracara__________ Polyborus plancus___-_-_-----~- Z
GALLIFORMES
Megapodiidae:
IB DUSDS GULK CY ene Alectura lathami._...._.2.222---2 if
Cracidae:
Blue-cered curassow--_~_._____-__.- Oram albertleancakq teens eee 1
Wattled curassowss2suneenctacee sss Orae globulosd@a ne ee Lk 2
Panama CUrAsSOWseeecaise seeks Orazv panamensis.__o..- as 1
Nocturnal curassow_..--..-----.--- Nothocraw urumutum____.----- il
148 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name Sctentific name

Cracidae—Continued

@hachalacas=t 1.225523 52-25 esses Ortalis vetula mccalli_________

White-headed piping guan______---_ Pipile cumanensis.._____.--—
Phasianidae:

rekel’s francolin..-----= === Francolinus erckeli___________

Hildebrandt’s francolin.._—.-...—- Francolinus hildebrandti_____

Bob-white-2=_<—— 222. 2=—. eee Colinus virginianus______--_-_

Japanese quail]. 22-2 o es eee Coturnia. coturnig__. == ss

Argus; pheasant=s22< 22" Sas es Pee Argusianus arguscou 2

Goldenspheasant=-s2 S22 Chrysolophus pictus

Redisjungletowlen == Musee eS Galhissqalluss= 22s

Nepal pheasant == 2282 eee eas Gennaeus leucomelanus_____--

Black-backed kaleege pheasant__---~ Gennaeus melanonotus____-___

Peato yw ae ai errnt a Ss ee nee PGUONChIStC tis

Ring-necked pheasant__------------ Phasianus colchicus__-_------

Ring-necked pheasant, albino__-_--- Phasianus colchicusz=22-

Bhutan, or gray peacock pheasant__._ Polyplectron bicalcaratum___-

Reeves’s pheasant .i--___2___ 2 Syrmaticus reevesi_._...___.._
Numididae:

Vulturine guineafowl______________- Acryllium vulturinum___-----
Meleagrididae:

Ocellated turkey. 2-22-2222 a Agriocharis ocellata________~-

Wild” turkey 2-22 <s 222 <- eee Meleagris gallopavo______--~-

GRUIFORMES

Gruidae:

Siberian. crane eign ses See Grus leucogeranus___________-

Demoiselle, cranes. Ue eeees_ ees Anthropoides virgo___-_------

Sarusicrane. see el eee Antigone antigone_____-__-~-
Psophiidae:

Trumpeter. SI Psophia crepittans_____--2 2
Rallidae:

Cayenne. wood. rail=—ee_ soe ee Aramides cajanea_____-------

Virgina. rails Ate _ eps Sees Ratlus.umicole—— ee

South Pacific swamp-hen_____-__-_- Porphyrio poliocephalus_____-

American Coote: 220222 2222 22 ee Fulica americana____..~-=--
Eurypygidae:

Sunibittern 2.22 Buropyga helias__._..___~i2=
Cariamidae:

Cariama, -or-seriamattee oe) ae OCariama. cristata... 2 ==
Otididae:

McBride's bustardi 8 we ea Ott tetrag,--2. = ee
CHARADRIIFORMES

Jacanidae:

Common’ jacana. eae JQCaNG $pinosa__ 2a = See
Haematopodidae:

Oystercatcher-.= 22) eee Haematopus ostralegus___---
Charadriidae:

Golden ploverz- 2. ere ae eee Charadrius apricarius______--

Australian banded plover__________-. Zonifer tricolor.___.__.__-.---+

South American lapwing_____-______ Belonopterus cayennensis___--~

Killdeer.2.255=2- 2 aaa BONY Charadrius vociferus____-----

Crocodile: bird.22 4) uit, Bray Pluvianus aegyptus___-------

-—

Number

=
NNFPRWONROWHH RH DO

=

rs

to

NAF bp & bt
SECRETARY’S REPORT

149

Family and common name Sctentific name Number
Scolopacidae:
Pectoral sandpiper._....__________-. Erolia metanotos..___.__------- 1
Recurvirostridae :
Black-necked stilt_22- = 2. Himantopus mevicanus__--.~---- i
Burhinidae:
South American thick-knee_________. Burhinus bistriatus___________. 1
Stercorariidae:
MacCormick’s skua______-__________ Catharacta maccormicki__-_---- 4
Laridae:
Ring billed onlle-ges5) 2 Larus delawarensis___-_------- 3
CL ee ee eee Larus dominicanus___-__----.--- o
ibauehing enll es as Larus atricilia___.___~__._._.__ 1
PAOrri palin ee eee ee Larus argentatus__------------ 3
Great black-backed gull____________. FiGTUS TOT Nae 1
Nilyercmlss. cna eee eee Larus novaehollandiae_____---- 8
Royal terns oe Thalasseus marimus__-_-----~- 2
Alcidae:
Atlantic, or common, murre_____-___ Utit GCs nae aetna 2
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Band-tailed pigeons________________. Columba fasciata__.____________ 2
High-flying Budapest pigeon________. Columba livia____._.__________- 1
Black-billed pigeon_________________ Columba nigrirostris___________ 1
Crowned. pigeon. 2 Goura victoria__.____.._.____- Pe
Indian emerald-winged tree dove____. Chalcophaps indica___-____-___ 11
Bleeding-heart dove_____-__________ Gallicolumba luzonica________-_~ 2
Dinmonded Ovens sa eee ee ee Geopelia cuneata_______._____- 1
Plain-breasted ground dove________- Columbigallina minuta___--_~~-~ 6
Ground d0Vene ssa see eee eee Columbigallina passerina___..-- 5
Ring-necked dove__________________. Streptopelia decaocto__-_______~_ 7
Blue-headed ring dove______________ Streptopelia tranquebarica___.__ 2
White-winged dove_________________ Zenaida asiatica___-__-_________ 1
Mourning dove____________-_-_-_-__ Zenaidura macroura__-__-_____ 3
PSITTACIFORMES
Psittacidae:
SCHR DAT Oba eee ene Nestor notabilis___._ctuu..-______ 2
Red loryisa = see eee Domicella garrula_____-_-_-____ 1
Banksian cockatoo_________________. Calyptorhynchus magnificus____ 1
WihitexcOckatoO een = =e ee Kakatoe alba____-_____-_______ 2;
Solomon Islands cockatoo__________- Kakatoe ducrops___-----__-____ al
Sulphur-crested cockatoo___________- Kakatoe gaterita__._._...-_..___ 4
Bare-eyed cockatoo_________________ Kakatoe sanguinea___-_-_______- 5
Great red-crested cockatoo__________ Kakatoe moluccensis______---_- 1
Leadbeater’s cockatoo______________. Kakatoe leadbeateri___________ 7
Cockatiel a= eames 220 iis Me Wer ats Lee Nymphicus hollandicus________- 15
Yellow-and-blue macaw_____________ Ara araurauna___-__--_~__~_-__- 3
Red-and-blue macaw_______________. Ara chloroptera_____-__________ 3
Red-blue-and-yellow macaw_________ ATO = ACO sae eee ne 2
Petz’s-parakeets..2seete i A Aratinga canicularis___._________ al
Rusty-cheeked parrot_______________ Aratinga pertinap________------ 2
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name &ctentific name Number
Psittacidae—Continued
Yellow-naped*parrotjv2beles Sees Amazona aduropalliata______--_-~ 5
Minsch’s parrot. on toll ass sae ee Amazone (inschti_--_- 22 aes 1
Blue-fronted*parroti22.2 SSeS Amazone aestiva_=..-2--= = ss 1
Red-fronted(parrot=— = ee AmMaZona COdiniz=—=_ ee 1
Double yellow-headed parrot__-_-__- AMaZzOna Oratrigves Sash 3
lineolated parakeetu=----===--=--- Bolborhynchus lineolatus____--_ 7
White-winged parakeet-______-_--_- Brotogeris verstcolurus_______-~ al
Blossom-headed parakeet___-~---~- _ Psittacula cyanocephala____-—_- 12
Greater ring-necked parakeet____--_-_. Psittacuiacupathiag is _ Sau 3
Rose-breasted parakeet_______-__--- Psittacula alexvandri_.._—_-tu == 1
Lesser ring-necked parakeet__------ Psittacula krameri__._----==--~ 6
Barraband’s parakeet.___-_-_-_--_-_-. Polytelis swainsoni___.--_---=-~— i
Quakeriparakeet=2225 os eee Myopsittacus monachus___----~ 20
Budgerigar, or grass parakeet______- Melopsittacus undulatus_____-_-- Many
Rosy-facedlovebirdss2 = esse ee S. Agapornis roseicalligs__...2..--- 1
Masked lovebirds. Bess 24s5 22a Agapornis personata________-__ 2
Yellow-thighed caique______--------. Pionites leucogaster sxantho-
Mend 2 Sa eee al
CUCULIFORMES
Musophagidae:
Purples tOurde02 2 -so- =o eee PGUndcoe persia se = =a eae 1
South African” touraco:==——=="- ooo Tauraco -corythaig__--2_* 2-2 = 2
White-bellied go-away-bird___-_---_- Corythaizroides leucogaster____- j
Plantain-eater=—- = ee ee Orinifer africanus... -22-—__.. 1
Cuculidae:
1 5.0 2) (iipenertee eantart terial fol sth Mn tts, Teel Eudynamys scolopacea______--- 1
Roadrunner =-—2 sate eens ee ae Geococcyx californianus_______- 3
STRIGIFORMES
Tytonidae:
Barn OW Wile 3 on ee eee TT AaptOMOL0 Ge on ee ee 1
Strigidae:
Great horned! Owls22-=2 22 ee Bubo virgintanus__._—-=-.==-——— 6
Screech OWl2222-s2- 222522352 ee Otusastoz 22 las eee 8
Spectacled’.owl=-=--.~=..- Pulsatrin perspicillata__________ dl
Malay. fishing Owl.2- == Ketupa Keuipna eee 2
Snowy OWwle 2-2 = Me ee NigCteG NYUCLEG = = ee ee 3
‘Barred (OWle a2 2-28 eee ea ee SUnN@ Carle ns oe eee 16
Short-eared (owilec<2- = 520. 22 ee AIStO g LOINM CUS ter ee ee it
Saw-whet owlss2222--3- 22222 eee ACgouws 'aCO0iwse= a ee 2
COLIIFORMES
Coliidae :
Mousebird.- 1.242 a os ee ee ; (Coline striatusi2 i= 2S ease 1
TROGONIFORMES
Trogonidae:

Cuban trogan 3s ivet ive are Priotelus temnurus_______------ 3
SECRETARY’S REPORT

51

CORACIIFORMES
Family and common name Scienttfio name Number

Alcedinidae:

Kookaburra. =e oS eee E Dacelo gigas_____._____.----...- 3
Momotidae:

MOCO Ge ee ee Momotus lessoni___._._______.___ 1
Coraciidae:

Lilac-breasted roller_______-___-______. Coracias caudata___-__.-___-_- 2

Indian rollers=t S22 s 22S eee Coracias benghalensis ...____--- 2
Bucerotidae:

Piedwhorn piles aas se ee eee Anthracoceros malabaricus_____ 1

Abyssinian ground hornbill____--_-__~_ Bucorvus abyssinicus___---____ 1

Grey horn Dilla. ee ee eee Tockus birostris.__._________.__ 4

Black-and-white casqued hornbill____. Bycanistes subcylindricus._____ 1

Great black casqued hornbill________- Ceratogymnea atrata_______----_ 1

PICIFORMES

Capitonidae:

Asiatic red-fronted barbet_.-________ Megalaima asiatica____________ 1

Asiatic great barbet.._____.__.._-__- Megalaima virens__-_____-_-_~- i

Toucan barbeta==- 22 =-— seen aa ee Semnornis ramphastinus_______ 1
Ramphastidae:

White-lined toucanet__________-_-_-_ Aulacorhynchus albivitiatus.___ 2

Sulphur-breasted toucan____________. Ramphastos carinatus____-__-___ al
Picidae:

Golden-backed woodpecker__________ Brachypternus benghalensis____ 2

Scaly-bellied woodpecker____________ Picus squamatus__._.....__.___._. 2

PASSERIFORMES

Cotingidae:

Orange cock-of-the-rock_________-____ Kupicola rupicola..___.________ 1
Pipridae:

Long-tailed manakin______________ Chirowiphia linearis___..-______ ye
Tyrannidae:

Kiskadee flycatcher_________________ Pitangus sulphuratus__________ 1
Pittidae:

TTC TAM Lee ere Pitta brachyura__.._._________- 3
Alaudidae:

SH sia EW | 2 a ee Cane ee Alauda arvensigs________._._.._. 1

SNOT g] Si rosea re eee Hremophila alpestris__.___._____ 2
Corvidae:

IVE 21 Ce tee a eee ae ere ee ee (ACO DiC sae ae 2 eee 5

Yellow-billed magpie________________ Picenuttali— ee 1

Asiatic'tree pies =e Crypsirina formosae____._-_____ 2

Maloniey| ays sae ae ae ee ee Calocitta formosa______________ 1

SNe) aay, eee eet elo apes Tos tale Cyanocitta cristata___.--______ 1

Stellen saves eee Cyanocitta stelleri_._-_________ 4

Huropean jays. =o) 2 a ee. Garrulus glandarius_..---_- 2

African white-necked crow__________. COVVUS VAlLOU staan 2

American cCroW. 2-2 eee Corvus brachyrhynchos_.--_-____ 3

1 21215) «Vlg Sg Oe Corvus corag_2_-—_.- === 2

UndiagiCrO wa ee Corvus splendeng______-__-__ at

579421—61——_13
152 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name Scientific name Number

Corvidae—Continued

Formosan red-billed pie_____-_______- Katte caeruled. =~ 9

Hunting:crow2=-2-2--2 eS ae Kitta chinensis___..____. =.=. il

incaijay 22s sos es eee eee Aanthoura ynceas... <<a 2
Cracticidae:

White-backed piping crow_____-__---. Gymnorhina hypoleuca___.__-_-- 1
Paridae:

Red-headed \tites 22 Soa ee eee Aegithaliscus concinnus___.---- 1

Greatitite S26 aes Bee eee POTS MOj OT ae 1

Tufted titmouses=22= 22-2 eee Parus bicolor-_.— 3 3

Chickad Geos ee od ee ee Parus atricapilius === ose 1
Sittidae:

Chestnut-bellied nuthatch__________-_ Sitta castanea_.____.___--_--~~~- 2
Timaliidae:

Rusty-cheeked scimitar babbler__-___. Pomatorhinus erythrogenys___- af

Indian scimitar babbler=~_-=-=— 22-2 Pomatorhinus horsfieldit_______- al

ithbabbler!- 2222 2 ee Yuhina favicollis__.___... 2. 1

Black-headed sibias2225. tena te | Heterophasia capistrata__....-- 2

Silver-eared mesia____.._.__.-______ Mesia argentaurig._..o. =. 3
Pycnonotidae:

Red-vented'bulbulz 22222222 ee Pycnonotus cafér— 2S es at

White-cheeked bulbul_________-___-- . Pycnonotus leucogenys___-_-_---~ 2

White-eared bulbul________________-. Pycnonotus leucotis._..c._...-. 1
Troglodytidae:

Carolinaswren= sess es a ae Thryothorus ludovicianus_____-- ul
Mimidae:

Mocking pind 2. 222s be see 2 eee Mimus potygtottos.___~—_ _---..— 1
Turdidae;

Robin albinod=2 2 22 oe Turdus migratorius_.......-.- a

Clim: cha tise. Se a Thamnolaea cinnamomeiventris_ 2
Sturnidae:

Rose-colored:pastor2sii) So Loe uses ‘Pastor, oscusss = eee 1

Burchell’s glossy starling____________ Lamprocolius purpureus___-__-_- 1

Long-tailed glossy starling.__________- Lamprotornis caudatus_________ al

Amethyst starling= 222 222 222 et Spreosspla aes eee 1

Tri-colored.starling == ese se Rpreo super tus af

Starling. sso 2c sos 2 we Sturnus vulgaris._____....-.... 2

Jungle myng bss BOIS ee Acridotheres tristig........... 1

Lesser hill: mynah 2s 2 Gracula religiosa indica_____--- 1

Greater Indian hill mynah___________ Gracula religiosa intermedia___- 2
Nectariniidae:

Violet-backed:sunbirdj=22- 22 ~ === Anthreptes longuemarei______._ 3

Scarlet-chested sunbird__------__~--. Chalcomitra rubescens___----__- 1

Eastern double-collared sunbird__-___ Oinnyris mediocris____ct___._._ 2

Variablejsunbird2222 2-2-3 — Cinnyris venustus_______& 2

Scarlet-tufted malachite sunbird_____ Nectarinia johnstont__..__...-.. 2

Beautiful sunbird222225225. >. --— >=. Nectarinia pulchella___._._..--. al

Tecassesunbird2 2. ee Nectarinia tacazze_._._....___.. at
Zosteropidae :

Wihite-eyes<=cc=- Sar Si eee Zosterops palpebrosa____-_----~ 8
Coerebidae:

Blue honey-creeper_= 2-2 ee Oyanerpes cyaneus.—_—_ =

to
SECRETARY’S REPORT 153

Family and common name Sctentific name Number
Parulidae:
OvenDitd sane eee eee Seiurus aurocapillus._____---___ 1
Ploceidae:
Red-naped widowbird-_.---------__ Coliuspasser laticauda__________ 11
Giant why danas see easenn sees Diatropura procne___----.----- 2
IDSve Weaver 232. ee PIQCOUS VOY Os0 ees n eee eas 4
Vitelline masked weaver__--------~--. Ploceus vitellinus_______-___--_- 4
Manhaliiweavers.- = oo. oe aeons ee Ploceipasser mahali_______-_____ 1
Red bishop weaver==—-=-=- == 2-2 == Huplectes ortw.__...--........ 2
Yellow-crowned bishop weaver__---- Euplectes afra___.___._..__.___ 4
White-headed nun=2="== ==" = Sass Lonchura maja si------=_ 2. 6
Cut-throat weaver finch____-------- Amadina fasciata________---___ 1
Bavender finch2s=2222222. 222252" 2= Kstrilda coerulescens____-----_- >
Strawberry: finches se. Estrilda amandava___----------~ 1
Red-eared waxbill_____------------- Estrilda astrild___._._____.__---__ if
Common® wax) === eee Rstrilda troglodytes__.____-__-__ 2
Ze Taa fii Geese eee Poephila castanotis_____________ 26
Gouldianiiinch®=s2222-2-22=- 22 22=— Poephila gouldiae_______------- a
JAVA TNC as see ee eee eee Padda oryzivora__.__.—--..-_. 15
Icteridae:
micewerackleseese en eee Psomocolaw oryzivora_____-_--- 1
Purplereracklie@ee.-—— = sen ane Quiscalus quiscula_.__._.__--____ 1
Swainson’s: grackle. 22-2 Holoquiscalus lugubris___-__-__ ll
Boat-tailed “erackle=22==2=2252"—-222— Megaquiscalus major____..---_- 3
Shiny 2cOwvItd=22e2eee see e ee eS Molothrus bonariensis__________ 1
Colombian red-eyed cowbird____-_--- Tangavius armenti______._._____ 1
Blackbird 22° sso e— eae eee a ee Turdus merula______-----_-____ 2
Red-breasted marshbird__---------- Leistes militaris_._.._.cu____.___ 4
Troupiglziae) aoe ee eee eee Icteruse icterug__._..__.____.____ 1
Thraupidae:
Black-and-white tanager____________ Cissopis leveriana___-_._.-____ 1
Yellow-rumped tanager______----_-- Ramphocelus icteronotus_______ 2
Passerini’s tanager______._____-_____ Ramphocelus passerinti__.._____ 1
RCO LANA PD Clee ee Pyrange rubra. 1
Fringillidae:
Ricewroshbes ks 22 ee eee Oryzoborus crassirostris________ 1
Evening grosbeak__________________ Hesperiphona vespertina________ 6
Brazilian cardinal__________________ Paroaria cucullata___________-__ 1
Black-throated cardinal____________ Paroarta gularig__..______-____ 1
Car ira ee 2 Be Pie a a Richmondena cardinalis___..___ 12
European goldfinch________________- Carduelis caniceps______-___--_- 3
European goldfinch X canary, hybrid. Carduelis carduelis X WSerinus
CONGTUUG ao ee eee ce 1
Oana ys ee ao Fe ot PS Serinus canariug__.-__.-.__-_-- 5
Green), finch eee ao os Chloris chtorts__.._.___......... 2
Lesser yellow finch_____-___________ Sicalis luteola____-__-_--_____-_- 2
European bullfinch_____-_-_________ Pyrrhula rubicilla.__._...___._____ 4
Melodious grassquit__.:-..-.-.---..- TAW418 CONOTG 2225253 28 1
CO} sk: 8 1) 01 4 Steg Sn ee i eR i . Fringitla coelebs__________.._.. 2
Slate-colored junco____-___________- Junco hyemalis___.......-...._- 5
Buff-throated saltator_._._._.____._____ Saltator manvimus__._._-._.----— 2
Tawny-bellied seedeater__._.._.._.____ Sporophila minuta_..-..-----__ 4
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960
Family and common name Sctentific name Number
Fringillidae—Continued
SONS sSParrowa ss ee ee Melospiza melodia_________L2_.= al
Wickcissel = sik ese see Spize americana ____. 8
White-throated sparrow____________ Zonotrichia albicolligs___________ 6
White-crowned sparrow____________ Zonotrichia leucophrys_________ 2
REPTILES
LORICATA
Alligatoridae:
Calinan 2234s Hat ivan Ae Caiman sclerops_______________ if
American‘alligator22 =e Alligator mississipiensis________ 10
Chinesealligator. 2-222 22 a ae Alligator sinensig__._.___________ 2
Crocodilidae:
Broad-nosed crocodile_____..________- Osteolaemus tetraspis__________ 2
African crocodiles soo ee Crocodylus niloticus__.__________ 2
Narrow-nosed crocodile___.._________. Crocodylus cataphracius_______ 1
Salt-water crocodile__________ ee haan, Crocodylus porosus________ ae 1
AMEOTICAN Crocodiles. 22 #2222 =n Crocodylus acutus..2-—___ we 2
Gavialidae:
indian ga viel os. 8. es se te Gavialis gangeticus____________ 1
CHELONIA
Chelydridae:
Snapping turtles--2=—2- 22-20. Chelydra serpentina____________ Many
Alligator snapping turtle____________ Macrocheiys temminckii________ 4
Kinosternidae:
Muskiturtles se ee ee Sternotherus odoratug__________ 3
Mudttortle: 22 rs a ee Kinosternon subrubrum_______- 7
South American mud turtle_________- Kinosternon cruentatum________ 2
Emydidae:
Boxturtle: 2. a ee Terrapene carolina___._____ Many
Three-toed box turtle... Terrapene c. triunguis_________ 3
Westernibox- turtles: 224-2 eee Terrapene ornata___...--—-______ 1
Mioridaboxiturtlese tse ee Terrapene baurizice ee 1
IGN spOxtUrtles= =e ee Curora amboinensis____________ 2
Diamondback turtle___________-_____. Malaclemys terrapin___________ 5
Map turtle: == 2. 2-2 ee ee Graptemys geographica_________ 2
Malsemapiturtles-— 22. Graptemys pseudogeographica__ 2
Barbour’s turtles. oe Graptemys barbouri____________ 5
Paintedturtlej2 ose ee Ohrysemys picta sess 2= eee ee Many
Gumberland turtles) = Pseudemys scripta troostii_____ 23
South American red-lined turtle_____- Pseudemys scripta callirostris__ 6
Yellow-bellied turtle__.__-_____-_____ Pseudemys scripta scripta__.____ 15
Red-bellied turtles = ss Pseudemys rubriventris________ 8
Mobile turtles = ee Pseudemys elegans__.____.______ 12
Mloridawaterturtiie.- = Pseudemys floridana___________ 17
Central American turtle___.________- Pseudemys ornata....— = 2
Cubaniwaterturtles= 22) Pseudemys decussata___________ 1
@hickentturtles2 2-22 ns eee Deirochelys reticularia_________ 2
Spottediturtle< ae a eee Clemmys guttata...-_-_______ 2
Wiood turtle Sere 2 eee ee Clemmys insculpta____________- 6
Pactfic pond turtles Clemmys marmorata marmorata_ 1
North African pond turtle__._._______ Clemmys leprosa....—..----=-=— 2
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Family and common name Sctentific name Number
Emydidae—Continued
European pond turtle________-------. Hmys orbicularis._=__ = -_-____— 3
Blanding’s turtle-=2=_- Emys blandingii___------_----_ 3
Indian fresh-water turtle___________- Batagur baska- .--_—.-=-.-____ al
IVCCVES S* CULt C== = 28s oee— ee es Geoclemys 7 eevesiis = 4
Testudinidae:
Giant Aldabra tortoise_________--~--. Tesiudo elephantina_____-_____- 74
Galapagos tortoise___._._-______.--~-- Testudo elephantopus_________-- 1
Galapagos ‘tortoise=22 2222 = Testudo vicina_____._.-----...= 2
Dunean Island tortoise_____-__--_-_- Testudo ephippium_____---_-___ 2
South American tortoise____.___----~ Testudo tabulata_______________ 1
Desert tontoisesa2- esa a oes eS Testudo agassizti_._.._____....— He
HMuropean Cortoisees-seas soe PeSUUCOL0T OCG. mee ae eee uk
Radiated] tortoises22- == == Testudo radiata______----.__.—_ af
Pelomedusidae:
African: water turtles 2-222 oe Pelomedusa subrufa_______--_-- 2
African black mud turtle-___-_--__- Pelusios nigricans __.-_____-____ at
Amazon spotted turtle--________-___ Podocnemis unijilig_______------ 10
Chelydidae:
South American side-necked turtle__. Batrachemys nasuta__.___.____-__ 2
Australian side-necked turtle_____-_ Chelodina longicollis___....____ 3
Small side-necked turtle__.._________ Hydromedusa tectifera__._._.-_~ 2
Large side-necked turtle__...-____ PRGYNODS: Mita ses abl
Kretips turtles 2 o2-— oa Emydura krefftit-_.__._._.___.__..-. 3
Mirra ye tur] Gas a2 ere mene 2 Hmydura macquarrii____.__--___ 6
South American gibba turt]e________ Mesoclemmys gibba___-________- o
Flat-headed turtle.___.__.____________ Platemys platycephala__________ %
Trionychidae:
Florida soft-shelled turtle___._______ Trionya ferow_._.—.._._--_..---- 6
African soft-shelled turtle__..._____ DON D AETV WS ee 2
SAURIA
Gekkonidae:
COST 0 a te ee a ee ae ea Tarentola mauritanica_________ 1
Giants P0CKk0=2se ae = eae See eee Gekko stentor._...._._._.___.__...- 1
INelSOn’s (Zeck 0s=-2 == oe eee Aristelliger nelsoni_________-___ 1
Indian? gecko esse. see a= GeKO) Spa ae eee a
Tguanidae:
Common iguanas 22s a es iguana iguana___-__ 220 3
Swan Island iguana__________-_--__ Iguana delicatissma__..--..-__~ 4
Carolinawdinolees ae eee Anolis carolinensig____.___.---- Many
Nelson’ s"anolis2*=2 52 2= 22 ee ee Anolis nelsoning_-=- 2
Giantanol@res seen oe eae een Anolis equestrig__.._.__.___-.--_- 1
Texas horned lizard_.._-._._-_..... Phrynosoma cornutum____--_-__ 1
Hormede lizard 2236s eee Phrynosoma platyrhinos________ a
@restedimelizard seo ee ee ee Leiocephalus variugs_____-______ 3
Blue sealy lizard 2222222) 2 Sceloporus cyanogenys___-_---- 1
Red scaly Hzard]222 29 ese Sceloporus poinsettii_.____-____ 2
Mencewizardeca sass ee so ees ee ees Sceloporus undulatus... 1
Ameiva’ Vizard. 2222222028 Se. Ameiva a, ameiva_ i __- 1
British Guiana green lizard_________ Centropys striatus_____________ 1
Blacks ievand==- 22a ee a Dee Ctenosaura acanthura__________ 1
DESErGei ganda ee eee Dipsosaurus dorsatis___-.-_____ 3
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name Sctentifio name
Scincidae:
Mourning. skink= == eee Egernia luctuosa_.___----------
White's skink=3 2222-3 esha ee Hoernia- whiter ae
Greater five-lined skink__----___-_~ Eumeces fasciatus___._.__.__--~-
Sand. skink. 22. x S28 Rute alee Scincus officinalis_________---
Stump-tailed skink= 22. 2) 22 eases TliGuaTruges@o 22ers
Malayan:-skink.-85i.2 0 Shah cages Mabuya multifasciata--____--
Gerrhosauridae:
Plated digard=<=-= 4 Se Gerrhosaurus major____------
Teiidae:
Black. teguset<226 262 ee Tupinambis nigropunctatus___
VYellow.it@202 22. =. Tupinambis teguiwin___-__---_-
Wihiptail lizard... See eee Cnemidophorus gularigs______--
Varanidae:
Duméril’s monitor lizard__.___._.___ Varanus dumerili_._t_.ccci...
{Indian monitor Jizardiis 22) ses Varanus flavescens__._--__.---~
Indian. monitor: lizards. sors Varanus). sawatora 222 2a
Australian lace monitor____________ Vaeranus,.variisl 2 See
Clouded: monitor2_ = 2222-222 Varanus nebulosus_______-_---
Helodermatidae:
Mexican beaded lizard______________ Heloderma horridum___---_-
Beaded lizard (black phase) _-__-___ Heloderma horridum___------
Gila monster-— = Se Heloderma suspectum______---
Anguidae:
Glass) lizards 2-2 Sate Stn _ ee Ophisaurus ventralig_____----
SERPENTES
Boidae:
Anaconda). == --26.. - ome een ied Hunectes murinus..2L-2- === =
Tree bogs. =~ oa ile aceon Boa enydris enydris___-_------
Cookisotree  Doadta=* 2 ea Bow enydris cookt_._-_=--- =~ ==
Boa. constrictoris22- 22222 2 2 Constrictor constrictor_______
HmperorD0ge ss ee ee Constrictor imperator__._____-
Rubbetsboas.22 ae See Charina- bottae=_==--===-=2-==
Cuban, ground -boas====1225 2 Ys: Tropidophis melanura___-----
Rainbow: -boas=-c 2S Te eet Hpicrates cenchria..._._._._.--~
Cubantree: boa==--=--+ 2-8 Ppicrates angulifer___________
iBallspythonsses 2 es a eee Pythonsegvie ee
African. python=-<22-- ie Saee Python sebaesas- = See
Indian:rock: python] eae Pythonemnotumis=2 2 22 ess
Regal. python--4—- VPs We Ses Python reticulatus = --
Colubridae:
Watersnake:=2--=->-20is oe Suns Natrin sipedonz=-=4232—=-2 >
European grass snake______________ Natrioniri2 = See
Southern banded water snake_______ Natrio fasciates2—=--_-{---
Diamond-backed water snake_______ Natrin rhombifera___..._____-
Brown-waterssnaket se) SS Natrio tazvispilota._____.___._-
Red-bellied water snake____________ Natriv erythrogaster______-_-
Island water snake_________________ Natriv insularum____-_------
Mangrove-jsnake- oo eee Natriv compressicauda____--_-
Garter-snake==<s0eere sear ween Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis___

California red-sided garter snake___. Thamnophis sirtalis infernalis__

=

HOH aH

_
~_

re a a a a Ca

BORE ND RH NH H
SECRETARY’S REPORT 157

Family and common name Sctentifio name Number
Colubridae—Continued
Eastern hog-nosed snake___-------- Freterodon platyrhinos__________ 1
Ring-necked snake__._.._.-.----~-- Diadophis punctatus edwardsii__ 1
IRCA Geri eke ee eee Coluber constrictor constrictor__ 4
ed PaCe re meen Masticophts fiagellum____--____ a|
Green snakes 2222's 2 2s 22 eo 6S Opheodrys acstivus_______---_- 1
Indico, Snak@22 oso. en ee ee Drymarchon corats couperi____ 1
Texas indigo snake ee tee Drymarchon corais______--_---- 1
Asiatic rat snake____._.___________-- Elaphe taentura__._.___.._-___-___ 2
Lesser Indian rat snake_____---___- Hiaphe carinata__....____..-..=. 2
Pilot black, snakes.) 222) =e Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta________ 7
a OKeae SY) hee ace ect oe ee Elaphe vulpina_____.___._.....___ if
Corns sna kees 2s Se ee ee Elaphe obsoleta guttata_________ 3
Lindheimer’s rat snake______-__-_-- Elaphe obsoleta lindheimeri_____ 1
@hicken, sna kewse see eee eee Elaphe quadrivittata____.______ 1
Aesculapian snake_..___.__________~ Blaphe longissima___--_---- 1
BUSA Ke see ee ee eee Pituophis sayt.._..._..___.__-_ Ps
RNG SN aK Ge ee en ee ee eee Lampropeltis getulus getulus____ 3
Speckled king snake_______-_____-- Lampropeltis getulus holbrooki__ 3
California king snake________-_____ Lampropeltis getulus californiae. 2
Sonoran king snake________________ Lampropeltis getulus snlendida__ 1
Searlet king snake_________________ Lampropettis doliata doliata____ Pe
Mali Sania seer see ee eae Pe Lampropeltis triongulum______— 2
Tropical) king. snake. 2-22 = 2s b= Lampopeltis polyzonus_____-__-- 1
@at-eyed) snakes. 2. 2 Ses Leptodeira annulata______-_--_- 1
Delia yinisna keene see ee ee eee StOnerid? Cehayt2s= a ee 1
Niyinoysngkec= 3 22. eee a ee Chrysopelea ornata____________ 1
Mwie’ or vine; snakes2-- 2-32-22 2 Thelotornis kirtlandi__._________ 1
Green: whip snake. 25-22 eee Dryophis prasinugs____.___-___- 1
Milena ken ee es se es Simocephalus capensis__.___--_— 1
GLOSS VESTS Gee ate ase ere ee ee re ATIZONO CLEU CIS: eee al
European whip snake_______________. Zamenis gemonensis___________ i
IWioltisnak@s 22223 eee ee Lycodon flavomaculatus________ 4
Elapidae:
IGIANCODT Aaa eee Ree ING] Ge NO) Cee eee ee 4
Taiwan CObras= 2222 ee Naja naja atra_..______________ 17
Hevptian COTA 32 Naja hajé=n2- ee 1
NCGif shh eee NERY Oe ek pee egy Sets 2 eS eh a eae ee Bungarus multicinctus___..____ 1
Acrochordidae:
Elephant trunk snake_______________ Acrochordus javanicus___._____ 1
Crotalidae:
Southern copperhead_______________. Ancistrodon contortrix contor-
LAD Saas Be ae ee 1
Northern copperhead_______________. Ancistrodon contortrix mokeson_ 4
Western broad-banded copperhead___. Ancistrodon contortria laticinc-
C1 See a ee ear ee fh ee u
Water moccasin, or cottonmouth_____. Ancistrodon piscivorus_.______ 5
Can til eae ae ere ey Bee de Ancistrodon bilineatus_________ 1
Mamushieesen 2222s. ieee ela Ancistrodon halys blomhoffi_____ 2
Asian snorkel viper_________________ 4 Ancistrodon acutus__--___ 3
Green palmivipera2] 222225 eso Trimeresurus gramineus________ 2
Green palm viper___________________ Trimeresurus stejnegeri__...___ 3)
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Family and common name Scientifio name
Crotalidae—Continued
Wiagleris:pitivipeteesco. eee Trimeresurus waglert_.________
Mamushi, or Asiatic viper___________. Trimeresurus elegans_________
Habu; ornAstatie viper! se Trimeresurus flavoviridis______
Timber:rattlesnakess... = eeneeeee Crotalus horridus__.-=-— =
Southern Pacific rattlesnake_________ Crotalus viridis helleri________
Prairie rattlesnake______ aE a Sl Crotalus viridis viridis_._______
Western diamondback rattlesnake___. Crotalus atror__._____________
AMPHIBIANS
CAUDATA
Amphiumidae:
Congoveel Sse ee CA DAN aS Amphiuma means_____-__--_-
Ambystomidae:
Tiger salamander. sess tea ae ee Ambystoma tigrinum___.-___~
Salamandridae:
Red-bellied! newts shee Bese a Diemictylus pyrrhogaster_____
Red-spotted newt-.-..--.--.-_--_._ Diemictylus viridescens_______
SALIENTIA
Bufonidae:
American, toadsasenees stems cis Bufo .americanus_..._____-2 452
Giantitoad:= = setae Cie oo a see Buyo marinus. 22 ieee 2
Cuban. toad... a ee ee Banke) Bufo peltocephalus___________
Pelobatidae:
Spadefoot; toad. 2 Sheers _ set naeees — NScaphiopus holbrooki_._______
Pipidae:
Surinam: toad. == sw isters Se tenis Pie 0022. eee ee
Leptodactylidae:
Colombian’ horned: frogs2 2 sae Ceratophrys calcarata___--___
Argentine horned frog______________ Ceratophrys ornata_____--___-
Hylidae:
Barkin vetreestroge 2 = = es HY OOT COS 0 == eee
Green, tree cirog: =o. = Bien eres Fyla-cineret-— == ae
Gray tree frog=_- = ee ee ee Hala: Versicolor=-
Microhylidae:
Narrow-mouthed toad__-___________ Microhyla olivacea_—._—......
Ranidae:
African: Dull frog2osket Bohan eases Rana adspersa_.__. ===
American bull froge ses ee see Rana catesbetang2. 2222 a
Greeny frogs ads he ete e ede let Rane clamitans. hase 22 2
heopard otrog=— 2s eee ase ee Rana _oipiens= =.=. eee
ARTHROPODS
DECAPODA
Cenobitidae:
EKand hermitjcrap=— ee ee Coenobita clypeatus_____-__---
ARANEIDA
Theridiidae:

Black-widow spider=-— 2-222 Latrodectus mactans____.----

oO

2 3

_ Many
SECRETARY’S REPORT

ORTHOPTERA
Family and common name Scientific name
Blattidae:
Tropical giant cockroach----_------ Blaberus giganteus_------------
MOLLUSKS
PULMONATA
Planorbidae:
PONG sal ee ee ee ee Helisoma triwolvis______-------
FISHES
NEOCERATODONTOIDEL
Lepidosirenidae :
South American lungfish____________ Lepidosiren paradoza___
Protopteridae:
African lunensn. S284 2S ees Protopterus annectens___
OSTARIOPH YSOIDEI
Characidae:
Metynni sie 2 oo ee Se a ee Metynnis roosevelii_-_._____----
Black tetha 222s ae ee ee ee Gynmocorymbus ternetzi
Gymnotidae:
African knifefish== 222" sw Sternarchella schotti._--
Cyprinidae:
Wi@UTATiS is eee ae pee ee ee Rs Brachydanio rerio__.___-
Clownibanp se eee ee Barbus everetti_.__.______
River pan Desa toes eee ee Puntius partipentazona_

White Cloud Mountain fish__________ Tanichthys albonubes___

CYPRINODONTOIDEI

Poeciliidae:
Milae-tailed Supp Vass. ee Lebistes reticulatus_____
(GoUL TS DY a re ae ee Lebistes reticulatus—-___
Black moOui@2== 222 een ans See ae es Se Mollienisia latipinna___~
Platy. on moontish2a22-) 2-2. .22-.-—s Xiphophorus maculatus—

PERCOMORPHOIDEI

Anabantoidea :
Climbing»perches2 222252 2- 222552222. Anabas testudineus____-

Cichlidae:
iReacocki cichli d= 322222222 Astronotus ocellatus____
Egyptian mouthbreeder____-_----_--- Haplochromis multicolor
ANP CISN= ane oe oe Soe ee a Pterophyllum eimekei__-
wack Dempsey” fish®=2-2-22 222222. Cichlasoma biocellatum_
Jewelfishs 2 = saat ee, Hemichromis bimaculatu

FINANCES

159

Number

bo

Funds for the operation of the National Zoological Park are appro-
priated annually under the District of Columbia Appropriation Act.
The operation and maintenance appropriation for the fiscal year 1960
totaled $1,165,200, which was $211,400 more than for the fiscal year
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

1959. The increase consisted of $41,200 to cover wage-board salary
increases; $19,100 for within-grade salary advancements for both
classified and wage-board employees; $130,600 to establish 28 new
positions; $9,000 increase for the purchase of animal food; $2,500 in
miscellaneous supplies; and $9,000 for the purchase of new equip-
ment.

Of the total appropriation, 82.3 percent ($958,631) was used for sal-
aries and related personnel costs and 17.7 percent ($206,569) for the
maintenance and operation of the Zoo. Included in the latter figure
were $74,000 for animal food; $17,296 for fuel for heating; $32,598
for materials for building construction and repairs; $8,090 for the
purchase of animals; $9,600 for electricity ; $4,871 for telephone, postal,
and telegraph services; and $5,000 for veterinarian equipment and
supplies. The balance of $55,114 in operational funds was expended
for other items, including freight, sundry supplies, uniforms, gasoline,
road repairs, equipment replacement, and new equipment.

In addition to the regular appropriation $180,000 was appropriated
for capital outlay: $44,000 to repair the roofs of the small mammal
house, large mammal house, and reptile house; and $86,000 for safety
lmaprovements.

PERSONNEL

In fiscal year 1960 there were 186 authorized positions at the Zoo
divided as follows: Administrative oflice, 16; animal department, 70,
an increase of 12 over the previous year; mechanical department, 61,
an increase of 11; police department, 30, an increase of 3; and grounds
department, 9, an increase of 2.

Lt. J. R. Wolfe was appointed chairman of the safety committee,
succeeding Dr. James F. Wright, who will continue as a member of the
subcommittee. Lt. C. E. Brink replaced Lt. Wolfe as the police depart-
ment member of the subcommittee.

Capt. William R. James recruited and organized a group of 15 Zoo
employees to receive training at the Civil Defense Fire School. First-
aid classes were organized with Pvt. C. S. Grubbs of the police depart-
ment and L. Ratliff of the animal department as instructors.

Ernest Cook, supervisory animal keeper, retired on March 9, 1960,
after serving the Zoo since December 1, 1930. During most of those
years he worked in the bird house.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

“Friends of the National Zoo,” a group of civic-minded District
residents, were active again this year. On September 26 and 27 they
earried out a two-day “Salute to the National Zoo,” which drew 53,000
visitors. Embassies and State societies donated flags which were flown
SECRETARY’S REPORT 161

in front of many of the cages, indicating the country of origin of the
animal on exhibit. Special labels set in laminated plastic were writ-
ten for 16 exhibits. On the second day of the “Salute” a new flagpole
was formally dedicated “in warm admiration for Dr. William M.
Mann, former Director.” Max Kampelman, president of the Friends
of the National Zoo, made the presentation, which was accepted by Dr.
Remington Kellogg, representing the Smithsonian Institution. Zoo
Park Police Officers Trautman, Ellerbe, and Moore formed a mounted
color guard as the new 49-star flag was raised to the top of the flagpole
at the Connecticut Avenue entrance to the Zoo.

On December 14 at the Chancery of the Israeli Embassy in Wash-
ington the National Zoological Park received a set of 50 plaques de-
signed as labels for zoo animals mentioned in the Old Testament.
These are replicas of the labels used in the Biblical Zoo in Jerusalem
and have, besides the name of the animal, the appropriate text quoted
in both English and Hebrew. The plaques themselves are of laminated
plastic in soft shades of blue, green, and bronze, with the lettering in
white. They have been installed in the Zoo and will later be sent as
a traveling exhibit to other interested zoos in the States, returning to
Washington asa permanent exhibit. At the ceremony at the Chancery,
the plaques were presented to the Director of the National Zoological
Park by Machael Arnon, Counselor of the Embassy. Among those
present were Dr. John L. Keddy, representing the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, John Perry, president of the Friends of the National Zoo, J.
Lear Grimmer, Associate Director of the Zoo, and Dr. William M.
Mann, former Director.

INFORMATION AND EDUCATION

The Zoo continues to handle a large correspondence with persons
all over the world who write for information regarding animals.
From every part of this country citizens write to the Zoo as a national
institution. Telephone calls come in constantly, asking for identifica-
tion of animals, proper diets, or treatment of disease. Visitors to
the office as well as to the animal exhibits are constantly seeking
information.

The Director spent seven weeks (August to October) in Europe,
attending the meeting of the International Union of Directors of
Zoological Gardens in Copenhagen, Denmark, and visiting zoological
parks in Russia, Germany, Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, France,
and the British Isles. Particular studies were made of new construc-
tion and methods of management. On his return he lectured before
various civic and scientific groups and showed his pictures of the
European zoos. He also gave one radio interview.
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Dr. James F. Wright, veterinarian, went to Senegal, West Africa,
at the request of the Forestry Department of that country to instruct
its officers in the use of the “flying syringe.” ‘The Senegalese Gov-
ernment was interested in this method of immobilizing animals be-
cause of the necessity of relocating some of the herds of game, which
they wished to do with as little loss of individual animals as possible.
While in Senegal, Dr. Wright captured a defassa kob, which was sent
to the Zoo in Brazzaville, Congo. As far as is known, this is the first
example of a wild animal being captured by the projectile syringe for
exhibition in a zoo.

Dr. Wright participated in a “Symposium on the Automatic
Projectile Syringe” at the University of Georgia, Athens, Ga., in
April 1960. He spoke on “The Projectile Delivery of Drugs in Zoo
Work” and (with Dr. Warren R. Pistey of the University of Virginia)
on “Immobilization of Captive Wild Animals with Succinylcholine.”

Malcolm Davis, associate headkeeper, spoke to civic and church
groups, and also to the Northern Virginia Ornithological Society.
He continued to write a weekly nature column for the Herndon-Chan-
tilly Times and to edit the publication “Capsules” for the Woodard
Research Corporation in Herndon, Va.

Keepers Burgess, DePrato, Maliniak, and Widman brought Zoo
animals to the television screen repeatedly. Many of these programs
were broadcast on the “Time for Science” series from station WTTG,
sponsored by the Greater Washington Educational Television Asso-
ciation, and watched by 50,000 students in the District of Columbia,
Maryland, and Virginia. The same program also made a film in the
Zoo of mammals, birds, and reptiles, which was shown over WTTG.

Ordinarily the Zoo does not conduct guided tours of the Park, but
exceptions were made for groups of handicapped children—orthopedic
cases, a small group of blind children from Hyattsville (Md.) Ele-
mentary School, and 30 deaf children from Gallaudet College. The
largest of these groups consisted of 60 handicapped children who were
brought to the Zoo by the Kiwanis Club. In all cases police and
keepers escorted them.

The Department of Zoology, University of Maryland, brought a
class of 12 students of vertebrate zoology to study the living animals.
This course, which was under the direction of Dr. Howard Winn, in-
cluded four visits to the Zoo, and studies were made of mammals, birds,
and reptiles. Tape recordings of sounds of small mammals and of
bird songs were made, to be played back later in the classroom.

The Virginia Herpetology Society met in the reptile house on No-
vember 14, 1959, and members were given a guided tour by Senior
Keeper Mario DePrato. Mr. DePrato also spoke to a class of students
from Taylor School who visited the reptile house.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 163

A group of 1,620 foreign exchange students visited the Park on
July 16, 1959; and 16,785 School Safety Patrol children, in 420 buses,
came to the Zoo on May 14, 1960, from many parts of the United States.

While the Zoo does not conduct a regular research program as such,
effort is made to study the animals and to improve their health, hous-
ing, and diet in every way possible.

REPORT OF THE VETERINARIAN

As reported in previous years (1958, 1959) the projectile type of
syringe proved its usefulness in providing medication for captive
animals. With this method it is not necessary to rope, manhandle,
trap, or cage animals or exhaust either animals or keepers. As the
operator seldom needs help in using it, a considerable saving in man-
hours is also effected.

With the use of the projectile syringe and the immobilizing tech-
niques, three interesting surgical operations were performed. One
was the removal of a large goiter from a male spotted hyena
anesthetized with a new barbiturate. A survey of the available rec-
ords indicates that this type of thyroid enlargement has been found
in the past in hyenas in the National Zoological Park. The animal
had been treated medically for six months prior to surgery without
noticeable improvement. A small fibroma was removed from the
back of an Alaskan brown bear, using pentobarbital sodium intra-
venously as an anesthetic and succinylcholine chloride intramuscularly
as a pre-anesthetic. The pre-anesthetic facilitated a smooth and quick
induction of the intravenous barbiturate. A broken tooth was re-
moved from one of the female Malay sun bears with succinylcholine
chloride and a local anesthetic. With the newer techniques, this op-
eration was completed in a few minutes instead of the more usual
several hours.

A preliminary report on the use of succinylcholine chloride was
published in Veterinary Medicine (vol. 54, p. 446, Sept. 1959), and
a more complete paper was presented by Dr. Warren R. Pistey at a
symposium on the automatic projectile syringe at the University of
Georgia in April 1960.

To the animals listed in last year’s report as successfully immo-
bilized with this drug, the following can be added: Alaskan brown
bear, spectacled bear, Peninsula bear, hybrid bear, Formosan macaque,
rhesus monkey, European brown bear, sloth bear, and Malayan sun
bear.

Work with alkaloidal nicotine as an immobilizing agent was con-
tinued on native white-tailed deer in cooperation with Dr. Vagn
Flyger of the State of Maryland Department of Research and
Education.
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

Capchurbarb was used for the first time on captive wild animals
this past spring with excellent results. Depending on the dosage, this
drug may be used for immobilization, sedation, or for anesthesia by
the intramuscular route. The following species were successfully
immobilized with this drug: peccary, tahr goat, white fallow deer,
Formosan macaque, spotted hyena, and Nubian ibex. Results so far
indicate that this drug will have a far greater application than any of
the others for immobilization.

During April 1960, Maj. Patrick Bromfield, game control officer of
the Bechuanaland Protectorate, spent some time in the National
Zoological Park studying the use of the automatic projectile syringe
and methods of immobilization, in order to translocate game in the
Protectorate. He also conferred with game officials in Maryland,
Georgia, Tennessee, and the National Park Service.

Tuberculosis remains the most important health problem in our
hoofed animals. In the recent past, animals that have not reacted
to the intradermic tuberculin test were found infected with tubercu-
losis at necropsy. ‘This loss of sensitivity to tuberculin is apparently
not uncommon in the later stages of the disease. Arrangements were
made with the U.S. Department of Agriculture to determine the
presence of serum antibodies for tuberculosis in suspect animals.
Accordingly, two elands and a giraffe, all suspect but not reacting to
the intradermic test, were immobilized with succinylcholine and blood
samples were obtained for serology.

A hybrid Philippine and Javan macaque with severe central nervous
system symptoms showed, upon pathological examination, to have had
cerebral and pulmonary forms of cryptococcosis. Seven other
monkeys of various species were sent to the Armed Forces Institute
of Pathology since last year, all of which, during life, had shown signs
of acute amaurotic epilepsy as described by Langdon and Cadwallader
in 1915 and Van Bogaert and Scherer in 1935. Some of these
monkeys were sent for euthanasia in the last stages of the disease.
Keepers in the monkey house state that this condition has occurred
there for years without an apparent change in morbidity or severity.
The pathologists’ report is not completed at this time, but it is felt
that the disease is not contagious, 1f indeed infectious.

Dr. F. R. Lucas, Livestock Sanitary Laboratory, Centreville, Md.,
provided the following laboratory services: bacterial cultures and
identification, urinalysis, dark field examinations for Leptospira, and
microscopic tissue reports.

Hearts and large vessels of necropsy specimens not needed by the
Armed Forces Institute of Pathology were delivered to Dr. Thomas
Peery of the George Washington University School of Medicine for
his study of comparative pathology.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 165

Parasitological identifications were conducted by Mrs. Mabelle
Chitwood and Allen McIntosh of the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture’s Animal Disease and Parasite Research Division. A. P. Can-
non of the University of Kansas, currently at the University of
Maryland, made blood smears from 55 snakes revealing 12 individuals
of 8 species harboring hemogregarine blood parasites. The subject
of these blood parasites in snakes would support a full-time research
project for investigation.

A cooperative investigation was originated with Dr. William L.
Straus, W. J. Young, and T. Merz, of Johns Hopkins University to
study chromosomes in primates by obtaining blood samples from the
available subjects. Mr. Young is also interested in studying the gen-
etic structure of the hybrid bears, Ft and F?, by working with blood
samples which can now be easily obtained by immobilizing the ani-
mals.

Several alligators, both small and medium sized, were provided to
Dr. A. G. Morrow and Dr. L. J. Greenfield of the National Heart
Institute, for anatomical and physiological studies on the cardiac
system, since these reptiles have normal hearts which are similar in
construction to the hearts of children with congenital heart defects.

Two Indian pythons and two American alligators were taken to
the Department of Biophysics at Walter Reed Army Medical Cen-
ter to assist Maj. K. T. Woodward in determining the muscle mass
of various animals by the use of a scintillating counter which meas-
ures muscle potassium.

Following are the statistics for the mortality rates during the past
fiscal year and a table of comparison with the past six fiscal years:

Mortality, fiscal year 1960 Total mortality, past 6 fiscal years

po os ea Pi 25 anes er ene Seeag 735
Depth tion* 1956.22 32-3 See 618
Miami a] See eee eee 114 g9 | 1957--------------------------- 549
Birdies et os ae 140 =. 35_—s« | 1958__-------------_----_._----- 550
Reptiles. 2<. 200 112 92) | 1999__-----------_------.------ 472
eek? POGOL Seas Ae eee 532

366 166

*Attrition is the term used for those losses due mainly to the trauma of shipment and
handling after accession at the Zoo, or before an animal can adapt to cage habitation
within the collection.

Animals that had been in the collection for a relatively long time
and died this year were: A Swinhoe’s pheasant (Gennaeus swinhoit)
received August 11, 1931, died August 10, 1959, after 28 years; an
Indian crow (Corvus insolens), received September 28, 1937, from the
National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institution Expedition to
the Netherlands East Indies, died November 4, 1959, after 22 years
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

1 month 7 days; a short-tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda), which
usually does not live in captivity, was exhibited from December 27,
1957, to March 28, 1960, a total of 2 years 3 months 1 day; and a
marabou stork (Leptopilus erumeniferus), received from the Victor
J. Evans estate on February 20, 1931, died May 19, 1960, after 29

years 3 months.
COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Federal and State agencies, private concerns and individ-
uals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result, the
Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable animals, and
in turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, animals it
does not need.

Special acknowledgment is due George Kirk and John Pulaski, in
the office of the U.S. Dispatch Agent in New York City, and Stephen
E. Lato, dispatch agent in San Francisco, who are frequently called
upon to clear shipments of animals coming from abroad, often at
great personal inconvenience. The animals have been forwarded to
Washington without the loss of a single individual.

When it is necessary to quarantine animals coming into this country,
they are taken to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s station in
Clifton, N.J. During the past year Dr. B. C. Swindell and Andy
Goodel, two of the officials stationed there, have been most cooperative
in keeping the National Zoological Park informed as to the well-being
of animals and birds held there for quarantine.

Animals that die in the Zoo are offered to the United States National
Museum. If the Museum does not need them, they may be sent to re-
search workers in other institutions. During the past year the
Museum accepted 41 mammals, which are to be preserved as scientific
specimens.

The Zoo cooperated with the National Capital Parks and lent small
animals to Park naturalists and to the Nature Center in Rock Creek
Park for demonstration. A collection of reptiles was loaned to
Walter Reed Army Medical Center in order to have a film made of
poisonous snakes. Senior Keeper W. Widman trapped a number of
sea gulls for a research project at the National Institutes of Health.

Gifts of plants were received from Mount Vernon, the Botanical
Gardens, St. Elizabeths Hospital, the Naval Observatory, and the
Soldiers’ Home.

VISITORS

Attendance at the Zoo this year reached a total of 4,059,804. In
general, this figure is based on estimates rather than actual counts.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 167

Estimated number of visitors for fiscal year 1960

July (U9o0)e is 25 8s Oe 516, 829| January (1960)_-.--.------ 127, 900
PAU DUS Gees oe eer eee AAG; O00 Be bnuarya2 a= eee 86, 150
September. _22 220-22") 2s 364,,500)| Marche 22225. ees ae 216, 425
Octo pense 2 ae eee S027 SOO A Dre ae eee eee 515, 400
INOvemnbereeea senses ae PSO, ADC Maye o2.02 2ecceae aces 632, 200
December_ = ==------2.--- O31 600) | UnGee a kee ee a Se 578, 100

BG) -') page env eee ear ee 4, 059, 804

Number of bus groups

Locality Number | Number Locality Number | Number
of groups | in groups of groups | in groups
Alabama......-----. 16 546 || Nebraska____-__---- 1] 40
Connecticut___------ 23 950 |} New Hampshire----- 4 130
District of Columbia_ 131 5, 714 || New Jersey.__.----- 23 1, 166
Delaware=...2 22.8: 7 320 || New York__-.------ 154 6, 054
Wloridg-=-= 2222-26 28 2,911 || North Carolina__-_-_-_- 204 8, 943
Georgia. scoes-2.-2- 31 620200) OMOcecs ten etic ewes 35 | 2,031
PINGS eee 3 PSO el) Oks homage 3405 22 1 60
indtangee 2 22 =-2 == 5 224 || Pennsylvania_-__-_--- Ze alse sia,
WOWS 232-225 ee ee 1 48 || South Carolina____-- 51 2, 164
Kentucky_.....--.- 14 578 || South Dakota-_--.---- 1 31
Massachusetts______ 6 318 || Tennessee___-_-_--- -- 70 3, 040
Migine2 2222222535 1 Son lehexaAs eee ees 1 690
Maryland___.__.-_-- 554 2,222 || West Virginia___---- 35 1, 667
Michigan___-_-_-_-- 5 174 || Wisconsin_---_------ 3 228
Minnesota_-_-----_-- 9 oo {| Virginia.....0.--4=2- 413 | 29, 436

Mississippi---_------ 4 116
Lovee soe 2,045 | 89, 491

Groups from foreign countries
Number} Number Number} Number
of in of in
groups groups groups | groups

AS ai = Seem Se ana Se 2 1NOA| |) Koreas oe 2 eee ete 2 105
Beuagor: <a st ess 1 Tal WNorwayeaia2 2550422 5 161
Foreign officers_.______ 2 91 || Sweden__-..-.-------- 1 28
International exchange Phavlend 2222 oee ceo 1 35

students. 2222-0222. Js) 1,620
Japanitesh sce ls 1 15 Total. 2 =. 42222 16: 2,172

579421—61——-14
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1960

About 2 p.m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which
they come. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the
Zoo but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance by States
of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia, Mary-
land, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from other
States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1960 is as follows:

Percentage Percentage
Marylang®2222.) eee Soo }Califormmia= 2] 2a =e eee OF7;
Wibroin laces oer es eee 2320 | Connecticutses. aoe eee nee ene 56
District of: Columbia2====—=====—= 20:'5-| Michigan==-22--=<24-<2s--2--—= U
Pennsylvanideses =) ee 335¢]\south Caroling] === s—— a= a6
New VOrk:2. 3 ete) eee 2 OH MNOS oh es oe ee .6
Northi@arolingdt=a 1.26 ssh aso ones 2°0"|*Tennessee= a2 eee eee eee 6
ING Wad Crs@y esac a. =a 8 oe 1. Gitex se ee ae ee 4
Ohlosses ss ee Se 1. biliGeorglal2. 22s eee .4
Wiest Virginiaon 3.2 ssl eee a Lege Wal Bao bet ok) aay ese on 4
DENK) od 0 Fh cd cate SS et a | ee
Massachusetts: 2 ===. seuss aie eat Total ssusc l= bese Tee 95.1

The remaining 4.9 percent came from other States, Arabia, Azores,
British Columbia, Canal Zone, Cuba, England, France, Guatemala,
Germany, Japan, Manitoba, Mexico, Morocco, New Brunswick, New-
foundland, Nova Scotia, Okinawa, Panama, Puerto Rico, Virgin
Islands, and Yugoslavia.

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and
foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about 22
States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign countries;
and during the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent not
less than 34 different States, Territories, and countries.

Parking spaces in the Zoo now accommodate 1,079 cars when the
bus parking place is utilized and 969 cars when it is not used.

At the request of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion and the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, a survey
was made during the year to determine the residence of the visitors by
percentage. The work was done by the Zoo police under the guidance
of Albert Mindlin and Samuel Rosenthal, analytical statisticians of
the Management Office of the District of Columbia.

Three categories of residence were listed : District of Columbia, sub-
urbs (the surrounding four counties), and the rest of the country.
Mr. Mindlin set up a method of sampling that was scientifically de-
signed and conducted to produce statistically valid and reliable re-
sults. To accomplish this a random sampling of all visitors in the
Zoo was to be taken from one spot in the Zoo. Following pre-test sur-
veys made in several spots scattered throughout the Zoo at various
times of the day, the spot finally selected was at the water fountain
SECRETARY’S REPORT 169

between the bears and the hardy cats. To insure that the police offi-
cers doing the interviewing were completely unable to affect, either
intentionally or unintentionally, the random sampling of the visitors,
a chalk line was drawn on the sidewalk and the interviewer given a
mechanical hand counter. It was specified that he should interview
every tenth person coming down the hill, with the exception of babes
in arms. During those portions of the year when visitor attendance
was very light, every fifth person was interviewed.

To insure random sampling, one Sunday was selected at random
from all the Sundays of the month, one Saturday at random from
the Saturdays, and two weekdays at random from the available week-
days. The day selected was divided into four 2-hour periods; in each
period 1 hour was selected at random. The police officer to make
the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

day of the sampling, The police officer asked each interviewee a
poriou L LUUL Was CELEGU abl LALLUOVLII, 41110 pylice VIUUCOL LU Llano

the interviews was randomly selected from those available on the

., Pars |e Pe. eee Ett Peewee 2 PERL be Oe ee, fo Se) One. eS Pee A
