ae

BD vig PES.

ie

aan 5

hak q ii,
if

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30

L944

cae INCRS

(Publication 3776)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1945

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Price $1.50 cents
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SmirHsonian InstiTuTION,
Washington, November 20, 1944.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and conditions of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1944. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
A. Wetmore, Acting Secretary.
0
CONTENTS

| STC Jae) ZO EU IE ean ea eg Real Eon) eo yy
Wartime activities of the Institution... 2... 2.2222 2. -lees
Summary of the year’s activities of the branches of the Institution. aay NS
Ebherestablishmentis ews else Bie Si ae Pe Se ee ee ee ei
Maa ey NLC ARENSON ble eg ee
UM ATI COS he Nese ee Leo ee he Le ee aA eS ed oo Sale et
Breicen Arc hur IGChuree eco) ele dete ee eke he yk eg
TEESE AT FST a No Pg cS eg pn Pg = Sue
PM er ee ees eee heh as AS Mee sae Loot
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum_-.__._____
2. Report on the National Gallery of Art___-_______-___----
3. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts________-_--
4. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art___-_--.--------------
5. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology_____-__---_--
6. Report on the International Exchange Service_____-__-_-_-
7. Report on the National Zoological Park --_--_-_---.---------
8. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory-----------------
Oo aLOpOrb GM une MBTAny. 2p ho oe en ee eee ee oe
Os epore OF PUDHCaulOns =). 222! foe ee ae
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents__-_-__~--- wiles

GENERAL APPENDIX

Solar variation and weather, by Charles G. Abbot_._______-_-__-____-_-
Astronomy in a world at war, by A. Vibert Douglas-_-----_-__--_--___-
The structure of the universe, by Claude William Heaps_-_-----_-_---_--
Industrial science looks ahead, by David Sarnoff__________-______- emnee
The new microscopes, by R. E. Seidel and M. Elizabeth Winter-___-_____
Radio acoustic ranging (R. A. R.), by Commander K. T. Adams-_-_____-___
The David W. Taylor Model Basin, by Rear Admiral Herbert 8. Howard_
Research for aeronautics—its planning and application, by W. S. Farren__
Human limits in flight, by Byran H. C. Matthews___-_---_---_---_----
Trans-Arctic aviation, by Lt. Elmer Plischke---_-_-___---...--._-_-_-_--
Our petroleum resources, by Wallace E. Pratt__...---.----------------
Woods and trees: Philosophical implications of some facts of science, by
Hredenic kere ticree KET Meet aera tee eye pas sere lef eee Sie
Biology and medicine, by Asa Crawford Chandler_-_-______---_--_---__--
Pre eienet pinepes Dy ba. WALOVe cerca) Sek ss leS See ee
mine coding meth. by uAceorer. 6 oo. 22 oe. eee eel. eee
Grassland and farmland as factors in the cyclical development of Eurasian
PRECOET Vid treme iii Me Sees et oe Lee
Southern Arabia, a problem for the future, by Carleton S. Coon
The New World Paleo-Indian, by Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr__-_-_-_____--
Radtenisiand. by Alran (Motraum. 298 0 oo Ue a
min row crisy Oe er CN am se Cee Ne oe Ee ee os a
The development of penicillin in medicine, by H. W. Florey and E. Chain_
Recent advances in anesthesia, by John C. Krantz, Jr__.-____________--
Aspects of the epidemiology of tuberculosis, by Leland W. Parr-_--------

119
155
165
183
193
221
239
251
273
285
297

307
317
331
347

357
385
403
435
453
461
467
477
LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s Report:

Plates 1, 22200 20 22 Shh ere ee en ee

Solar variation and weather (Abbot):

Plates 1°) ooo 2822 ois ee ee eee ee eee eee

The new microscopes (Seidel and Winter):

Plates’ l=5 5222523 522s 2e see Se ee eee ee eee

Radio acoustic ranging (Adams):

Taylor Model Basin (Howard):

Plates: 14) on oo a ee eee

Human limits in flight (Matthews) :

Plates: 13s ee a a ate ee ee

The codling moth (Porter):

D2 Fer =X~ hal 6 emmy rc SW SS Te FO Dd fay dT ea

Grassland and farmland (Smith):

New World Paleo-Indian (Roberts) :

Pistes VV se eo a ree See ee

Easter Island (Métraux):
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
June 30, 1944

Presiding Officer ex officio—FRaNKLIN D. Roosrvett, President of the United
States.
Chancellor.—HAr.Lan F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
FRANKLIN D. RooSeEvELtT, President of the United States.
Henry A. WALLACE, Vice President of the United States.
HARLAN F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States.
CorRDELL HULL, Secretary of State.
Henry MorgentHav, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury.
Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of War.
Francis Brppie, Attorney General.
FRANK C. WALKER, Postmaster General.
JAMES V. FoRRESTAL, Secretary of the Navy.
Harrop L. Ickes, Secretary of the Interior.
CLAUDE R. WICKARD, Secretary of Agriculture.
JESSE H. JONES, Secretary of Commerce.
FRANCES PERKINS, Secretary of Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
HARLAN F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
Henry A. WALLACE, Vice President of the United States.
ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Member of the Senate.
BENNETT CHAMP CLARK, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
Foster STEARNS, Member of the House of Representatives.
Epwakrp E. Cox, Member of the House of Representatives.
Freperic A. DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Ro.tanp S. Morgis, citizen of Pennsylvania.
Harvey N. Davis, citizen of New Jersey.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Illinois.
VANNEVAR BusH, citizen of Washington, D. C.
FREDERIC C. WALCOTT, citizen of Connecticut.
Executive Commiitee.—F Reprric A. DELANO, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLARENCE CANNON.
Secretary.— CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary. HARRY W. DOBSEY.
Treasurer.—NIcHOLAs W. DorsEy.
Chief, editorial division.—WEBSTER P. TRUE.
Librarian.—LeiLa F. CLARK.
Personnel officer. —B. T. CARWITHEN.
Property clerk.—JAMES H. HILL.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Director.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Associate Director.—JOoHN E. GRAF.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

SCIENTIFIC STAFF

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, chief preparator.

Division of Archeology; Neil M. Judd, curator; Waldo R. Wedel, associate
curator ; R. G. Paine, scientific aid; J. Townsend Russell, honorary assistant
curator of Old World archeology.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; Arthur P. Rice, collaborator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator ; M. T. Newman,
associate curator.*

Collaborator in anthropology : George Grant MacCurdy.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY:
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist;
Aime M. Awl, illustrator.

Division of Mammals: Remington Kellogg, curator; D. H. Johnson, associate
curator* ; H. Harold Shamel, scientific aid ; A. Brazier Howell, collaborator ;
Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Alexander Wetmore, custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collec-
tions; Arthur C. Bent, collaborator.

Division of Reptiles and Batrachians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; BE. D. Reid, scientifie aid.

Division of Insects: L. O. Howard, honorary curator; Edward A. Chapin,
curator; R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator.*

Section of Hymenoptera: S. A. Rohwer, custodian; W. M. Mann, assist-
ant custodian; Robert A. Cushman, assistant custodian.

Section of Myriapoda: O. F. Cook, custodian.

Section of Diptera : Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Section of Lepidoptera: J. T. Barnes, collaborator.

Section of Forest Tree Beetles: A. D. Hopkins, custodian.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: Waldo L. Schmitt, curator; James O.
Maloney, aid; Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, collaborator ; Max M. Hllis,
collaborator; J. Percy Moore, collaborator; Joseph A. Cushman, collabo-
rator in Foraminifera.

Division of Mollusks: Paul Bartsch, curator; Harald A. Rehder, associate
curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison, assistant curator.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

Division of Echinoderms: Austin H. Clark, curator.

Division of Plants (National Herbarium) : W. R. Maxon, curator; Ellsworth
P. Killip, associate curator; Emery C. Leonard, assistant curator; Conrad
V. Morton, assistant curator; Egbert H. Walker, assistant curator; John
A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological collection.

Section of Grasses: Agnes Chase, custodian.

Section of Cryptogamie Collections: O. F. Cook, assistant curator.
Section of Higher Algae: W. T. Swingle, custodian.

Section of Lower Fungi: D. G. Fairchild, custodian.

Section of Diatoms: Paul S. Conger, associate curator.

Associates in Zoology : Theodore S. Palmer, William B. Marshall, A. G. Boy-
ing, W. K. Fisher, C. R. Shoemaker, E. A. Goldman.

Associates in Botany: Henri Pittier, F. A. McClure.

*Now on war duty.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY VII

DEPARTMENT OF BroLtogy—Continued.
Collaborator in Zoology: Robert Sterling Clark.
Collaborators in Biology: A. K. Fisher, David C. Graham.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY :
R. S. Bassler, head curator; Jessie G. Beach, aid.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, curator; E. P. Hender-
son, associate curator; B. O. Reberholt, scientific aid; Frank L. Hess,
custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Invertebrate Paleontology and Paleobotany: Gustay A. Cooper,
curator.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: T. W. Stanton, custodian of
Mesozoic collection ; J. B. Reeside, Jr., honorary custodian of Mesozoic
collection; Paul Bartsch, curator of Cenozoic collection.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: Charles W. Gilmore, curator; C. Lewis
Gazin, associate curator* ; Norman H. Boss, chief preparator.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, S. H. Perry.

Associate in Paleontology: T. W. Vaughan.

Associate in Petrology: Whitman Cross.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Carl W. Mitman, head curator.

Division of Engineering: Carl W. Mitman, head curator in charge; Frank A.
Taylor, curator.*

Section of Transportation and Civil Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in

 charge.*

Section of Aeronautics: Paul E. Garber, associate curator,* F. C. Reed,
acting associate curator.

Section of Mechanical Engineering: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.*

Section of Electrical Engineering and Communications: Frank A
Taylor, in charge.*

Section of Mining and Metallurgical Engineering: Carl W. Mitman, in
charge.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: Frank A. Taylor, in
charge.*

Section of ‘Tools: Frank A. Taylor, in charge.*

Division of Crafts and Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, curator; Elizabeth
W. Rosson, assistant curator.

Section of Textiles: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.

Section of Woods and Wood Technology: William N. Watkins, associate
curator.

Section of Chemical Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.

Section of Agricultural Industries: Frederick L. Lewton, in charge.

Division of Medicine and Public Health: @harles Whitebread, associate
curator.

Division of Gruphic Arts: R. P. Tolman, curator.

Section of Photography: A. J. Olmsted, associate curator.

DIvision or History: T. T. Belote, curator; Charles Carey, associate curator ;
J. Russell Sirlouis, scientific aid; Catherine L. Manning, assistant curator
(philately).

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. Bryant.
Assistant chief of correspondence and documents.—L. E. COMMERFORD.

*Now on war duty.
VIII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—lL, L. OLIVER.

Assistant superintendent of buildings and labor.—CHARLES C. SINCLAIR.
Editor.—PAvuL H. OEHSER.

Accountant and auditor.—N. W. DORSEY.

Photographer.—G. I. HIGHTOWER.

Property officer.—A. W. WILDING.

Assistant librarian.—ELISABETH H. GAZIN.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Trustees:
THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES, Chairman.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
DAvID K. E. BRUCE.
FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
DUNCAN PHILLIPS.
SAMUEL H. Kress.
CHESTER DALE.
President.—Davip K. E. Bruce.
Vice President.— FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—Davip EH. FINLey.
Administrator.—H. A. McBrRIDE.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—JoHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MaccILL JAMES.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Acting Director.—RvEt P. ToLMAN.
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.
Assistant Director.—GRACE DUNHAM QUEST.
Associate in research.—J. A. Pope.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Chief.—MATTHEW W. STIRLING.

Senior ethnologists.—H. B. Cotxins, Jr., JOHN P. HarrineTon, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Senior archeologist. FRANK H. H. Roserts, Jr.

Senior anthropologist.—H. G. BARNETT.

Senior ethnologist.—W. N. FENTON.

Editor.—M. HELEN PALMER.

Librarian.—Miriam B. KETCHUM.

Illustrator.—EpWINn G. CASSEDY.

INSTITUTE OF SociAL ANTHROPOLOGY.—JULIAN H. STEwarRD, Director; ALFRED
METRAUX, Assistant Director.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Secretary (in charge).—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Acting Chief Clerk.—F. E. Gass.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Ix

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MAnn.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH: Loyal B. Aldrich, assistant director;

William H. Hoover, senior astrophysicist.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS: Earl S. Johnston, assistant director;
Edward D. McAlister, senior physicist; Leland B. Clark, engineer (precision
instruments) ; Robert L. Weintraub, associate biochemist ;*Leonard Price, junior

physicist (biophysics).
1
uM

a

vr

nS on : Hi Pv ee ‘ie : Po

he (uh J Ae , ber ys Hhy
VAT eine ch wee ia M4 Pipa at Set pl
, Atay ann ae es inane

oy, pu eke ai nae Raat

‘-

4 Uy CHIN i Spring eh
seg) bon ties Ki gta
He init Ltda fe poe 1 anh ti
' dees ri
Wen ae - wat
' : :
“ ‘ . fa
vi ’
om Re hs em a dae: .
F ae < ; wy Jie el, a Ce ae oe ee rn aA
| Vers). OY eee y SE
, 14. { > A Rs iD bia Peat:
| i 4 ’ ¥ " as a a Sy
5 Arta ©, Le ney 1 > pee
fiju oe Bs hha Rieke Ah
+ A ie) 3 i i q
a ee | } mr
ye ae og
; ie} , ‘date le
t »
: ;
’ 4 ”
' Mic ie a
aa U , e i
i re ; a
1 if * ;
* f MERE ROC et ale
5 ; ' ‘4
‘ ee | 1 NRURMOREAG A ya
Nia ‘ *, Ayes orth ed
oF A + ’ A vie os Pi + % ’ As a
J ’ Yiu van rriets
ant ‘ m : f
BE i ai. ati " Ce A
r Pata ’ 4 7)
A x ,
~* ;
wa ° # ,
"
f >
Nyy, W Pop
[ Y ial
\

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

C. G. ABBOT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1944

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

GENTLEMEN: [I have the honor to submit herewith my report show-
ing the activities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and the
Government bureaus under its administrative charge during the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1944. The first 12 pages contain a summary ac-
count of the affairs of the Institution ; it will again be noted that many
activities usually included in this section are missing, wartime con-
ditions having forced their suspension. Appendixes 1 to 10 give more
detailed reports of the operations of the National Museum, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the National Collection of Fine Arts, the
Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the Inter-
national Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the Astrophysical
Observatory, which now includes the divisions of astrophysical re-
search and of radiation and organisms, the Smithsonian library, and of
the publications issued under the direction of the Institution. On
page 110 is the financial report of the executive committee of the Board
of Regents.

Change in the Secretaryship—This will be my last report, as on
June 20, 1944, I addressed the following communication to the Board
of Regents:

Having occupied the post of Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution since
February 1928, and of Acting Secretary for one year prior to that, and having
passed the age of 72 years, I wish to resign from that office, my resignation to take
effect as of July 1, 1944.

I feel that it would be quite unfair to the Institution to continue in this re-
sponsible position when in the nature of things my capacity must gradually begin
to decline. In tendering my resignation, I wish to express my gratitude to the
Board for its kindly and helpful attitude, and my desire to be of any service
which the Board or my successor may feel disposed to suggest.

Accordingly on July 1, 1944, I ceased to be Secretary of the In-
stitution, and Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Assistant Secretary, took over
the duties of the position as Acting Secretary. I wish to record here
publicly my appreciation of the unfailing helpfulness and support

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

accorded to me by the staff of the Institution, and to bespeak for my
successor and for the Institution their continued loyalty and devoted
service.

WARTIME ACTIVITIES OF THE INSTITUTION

During another full year of war, the Institution again utilized its
capabilities to the fullest extent in aiding the Army and Navy and the
various war agencies. Its normal peacetime research and exploration
program was largely abandoned except for those projects designed
to promote better cultural relations with the other American re-
publics, and its publications were restricted almost entirely to papers
having a bearing on the war or on the other Americas. To visitors
to the Institution, these changes would not be apparent, as its visible
features—museums and art galleries—have continued to operate on
full schedule. In fact, hours of opening have been expanded to in-
clude Sundays for the benefit of the large numbers of service per-
sonnel stationed around Washington and passing through. But the
time of the staff—aside from necessary curatorial work and the
recording of observations the cessation of which would result in gaps
in the scientific record—has been devoted largely to furnishing tech-
nical information and assistance urgently needed by Army, Navy,
and war agencies.

Strategic information to Army and Navy. _The scientific staff of
the Institution and its branches includes specialists in many branches
of biology, geology, anthropology, astrophysics, engineering, and
technology, and these scientists have been called upon constantly since
Pearl Harbor to answer questions confronting Army and Navy
officials. The present war, covering as it does widely scattered
regions of the earth, many of them little known to Americans, has
required the assembling of large amounts of data on the peoples,
geography, disease-harboring insects, animals and plants, and other
features of these far-flung regions. The Smithsonian Institution has
been able to furnish, both directly and through the Ethnogeographic
Board, described below, replies to hundreds of urgent questions of this
nature, and some staff members have been in almost constant con-
sultation with Army and Navy officials. Furthermore, a number of
war-connected research projects have been assigned to the Institution,
and its laboratory facilities have been utilized from time to time for
Army and Navy investigations.

Ethnogeographic Board.—As stated in my last report, the Ethno-
geographic Board is a nongovernmental agency, set up jointly by
the Smithsonian Institution, the National Research Council, the
American Council of Learned Societies, and the Social Science Re-
search Council, to serve as a clearinghouse between the Army, Navy,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

and war agencies on the one hand, and the scientific and educational
institutions of the Nation on the other. Many urgent reports and
items of strategic information have been furnished by the Board prin-
cipally on the peoples, geography, and related features of war areas.
The offices of the Board are in the Smithsonian building, and three
members of the Institution’s staff were assigned to assist the Director,
Dr. William Duncan Strong. The Army and Navy found the ser-
vices of the Board so useful that each appointed liaison officers to
facilitate contact. The Board plans to continue in operation as long
as needed during the coming fiscal year.

Inter-American Cooperation.—Through invitation by other agen-
cies and through its own initiative, the Institution engaged in a
number of activities designed to promote better cultural relations with
the other American republics. Work on the monumental Handbook
of South American Indians, under the editorship of Dr. Julian H.
Steward, was advanced materially. Volume 1, “The Marginal
Tribes,” and volume 2, “The Andean Civilizations,” went to the
printer toward the close of the fiscal year, and the manuscripts of
volumes 3 and 4 were well on toward completion. The editorial work
on this project is financed by the State Department, and the printing
costs will be borne by the Bureau of American Ethnology, Smithsonian
Institution, as the Handbook will appear in the Bureau’s Bulletin
series.

In September 1943 Dr. Steward was appointed Director of the
Institute of Social Anthropology, an autonomous unit of the Bureau
of American Ethnology reporting to the Secretary, created to carry
out cooperative training in anthropological teaching and research
with the other American republics as part of the program of the
Interdepartmental Committee for Cooperation with the American
Republics. The work of the Institute in Mexico was begun in co-
operation with the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia of the Instituto
Nacional de Antropologia e Historia, and plans were pending for
work in several other American republics. Dr. Steward also served
on the Temporary Organizing Committee of the Inter-American
Society of Anthropology and Geography, which had been started on
his initiative during the previous year. Dr. Ralph L. Beals served
as secretary of the committee and editor of the quarterly journal of
the Society, Acta Americana. Paid membership in the Society from
all parts of the Americas reached a total of 800.

A valuable biological project is the publication by the Institution
of a “Checklist of the Coleopterous Insects of Mexico, Central America,
the West Indies, and South America,” by Dr. R. E. Blackwelder.
No list of this important insect group now exists, and entomologists of
all the Americas will find it indispensable in future researches. The
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

first and second parts appeared in print during the year, and the
third part was in press.

A number of scientists on the Institution’s staff made trips to other
American republics during the year in the furtherance of cooperative
scientific projects in biology, geology, and anthropology.

Other wartime activities —As stated above, for the benefit of mili-
tary and naval personnel and war workers the Smithsonian and
National Museum buildings have again been kept open all day on Sun-
days. To accomplish this with available funds, it was necessary to
have the buildings closed on Monday mornings. Sunday Museum
tours for service personnel were arranged in the Natural History
building through cooperation with the U.S. O. <A Field Collector’s
Manual in Natural History was published and distributed free on
request to Army and Navy personnel. One thousand copies each were
turned over to the Army and Navy for distribution through their own
channels,

War Committee.—The Smithsonian War Committee appointed early
in 1941, after canvassing fully all the possibilities of increasing the
Institution’s usefulness in the war and embodying the results of this
study in recommendation for action, felt that its function was fulfilled
and asked that it be dissolved. In assenting to the dissolution of the
committee, I wrote to the chairman, C. W. Mitman, as follows:

I beg to express, for myself and on behalf of the Institution, a deep sense of
the value of the work of the committee in these several years, and the feeling

that those of its recommendations which have been carried through cannot but
have been very helpful to the war effort.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE BRANCHES OF THE
INSTITUTION

National Museum.—Again this year the time of the scientific staff
has been largely occupied with conferences on war problems with
Army, Navy, and war agency officials and with furnishing technical
information on requests to military and naval organizations. The
Museum buildings have again been kept open all day on Sundays for
the benefit of service personnel, and Sunday Museum tours were ar-
ranged for them in cooperation with the U. S. O. New accessions
for the year totaled 239,640 specimens, an increase of more than
9,000 over last year. Among the outstanding additions to the col-
lections were the ‘following: In anthropology, an important lot of
material from Indian sites on DeSoto’s route through the south-
eastern United States in 1539-42, a collection pertaining to the Huichol
Indians of northern Jalisco, Mexico, and an assemblage of Moro and
Indonesian brasses and Philippine metalwork presented to the Tafts
during their residence in the Philippines; in biology, 2,000 mammal
specimens from Colombia collected by Philip Hershkovitz, a bird
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

collection from the same country numbering 3,281 specimens, more
than 10,000 mosquito specimens from the sanitary and medical corps
of the armed forces, a molluscan collection of 51,000 Jamaican Neri-
tidae, the valuable Chickering herbarium of 10,550 plant specimens,
and the Albert Mann diatom collection, which with the other material
on hand in this field makes the Museum diatom collection one of the
most important in the world; in geology, a number of important gems
and minerals obtained through the Roebling, Chamberlain, and Can-
field funds, 7 new meteorites, 6 of them undescribed falls, and 500
specimens of rare Paleozoic fossils collected by the curator during field
work in Mexico; in engineering, a jeep, the prototype of these vehicles
made famous by World War II, and a Winton automobile of 1903, the
first automobile to be driven across the United States; in history, a
number of Army and Navy medals and decorations of types estab-
lished during the present war. The few expeditions that were in the
field during the year were related directly or indirectly to the war.
Visitors for the year numbered 1,532,765, an increase of 177,496 over
last year; approximately 40 percent were service personnel. The
Museum published an Annual Report, 3 Bulletins, 1 Contribution from
the National Herbarium, and 14 Proceedings papers. Staff changes
included the loss by death of the curator of invertebrate paleontology,
Dr. Charles E. Resser; Dr. G. Arthur Cooper was appointed curator
to succeed him.

National Gallery of Art.—Visitors to the Gallery totaled 2,060,071
for the year, the largest attendance since its opening. Thirty percent
of the visitors were men and women in the armed services. Features
of particular interest to service personnel were the Servicemen’s
Room, which provides a place of relaxation for them, the Sunday
. evening concerts, and the special exhibitions. The Board of Trustees
was directed by the Treasury Department to assume custodianship of
all works of art and exhibition material sent to this country for various
exhibitions by the former French Government, and several officers
of the Gallery were appointed to serve as officers of the American Com-
mission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Mon-
uments in War Areas, the headquarters of which are located in the
Gallery building. In March 1944, at the request of the State De-
partment, the Gallery established the Inter-American Office to act
as the official Government clearinghouse for the exchange of informa-
tion concerning art activites in the American republics. The Gallery
accepted a number of gifts of paintings, prints, and drawings, in-
cluding 8 paintings and 196 prints and drawings from Lessing J.
Rosenwald. Among the 18 special exhibitions held during the year
were a number relating to war subjects. More than 72,000 people
attended the various programs conducted by the Gallery’s educational
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

department; these included Gallery tours, discussions of the “Picture
of the Week,” and lectures on special topics.

National Collection of Fine Arts—The annual theeting of the
Smithsonian Art Commission was again omitted because of war con-
ditions. The Commission lost one eee by death—Dr. Frederick P.
Keppel, a member since 1932. Four miniatures were acquired through
the Catherine Walden Myer fund. Several proffered gifts of art
works are being held for action of the Art Commission at its next
meeting. A number of paintings and other art works have been ac-
cepted by the National Collection as loans; other paintings and
miniatures belonging to the Collection have been lent to museums and
art galleries, mostly for special exhibitions. Only one painting was
purchased from the Henry Ward Ranger fund, “Fifteenth Century
French Madonna and Child,” by Harry W. Watrous. Eight special
exhibitions were held during the year, as follows: Oil paintings and
other art works by Ceferino Palencia, of Mexico; water colors of
Mexico by Walter B. Swan, of Omaha, Nebr.; miniatures by 52 artists
of the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature Painters; water colors and
block prints by Ralph H. Avery, United States Navy; paintings by
John Mix Stanley, Jane C. Stanley, and Alice Stanley Acheson; paint-
ings and other art works by the National League of American Pen
Women; “Portraits of Leading American Negro Citizens,” by Mrs.
Laura Wheeler Waring, of Philadelphia, and Mrs. Betsy Graves
Reyneau, of Washington; and mural paintings from the caves of
India and other paintings of India by Sarkis Katchadourian, of New
York City.

Freer Gallery of Art.—Additions to the collections included Chinese
bronzes, ceramics, jade, and painting; Japanese lacquer and painting;
and one Armenian manuscript. Much of the time of the staff was de-.
voted to war work for several Government agencies, including Jap-
anese translations, compilation of a glossary of Chinese geographical
and topograhpical terms, and the examination of Japanese documents.
The Director attended a meeting in New York of the Committee of
the American Council of Learned Societies on Protection of Cultural
Treasures in War Areas. Visitors to the Gallery totaled 62,462 for
the year. Fifteen groups received instruction by staff members.

Bureau of American Ethnology—Emphasis on activities concerned
with Latin America has continued during the year. Dr. M. W.
Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, directed the Sixth National Geographic
Society-Smithsonian Institution expedition to Mexico, locating sev-
eral new archeological sites in southern Veracruz, Tabasco, and
Campeche. Dr. J. R. Swanton read the proof of his extensive work
on “The Indians of the Southeastern United States,” and completed
a manuscript on the much discussed Norse expeditions to America.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY f

Dr. Swanton retired at the end of the year after 44 years of service.
In continuation of his studies of Indian languages, Dr. J. P. Harring-
ton discovered evidence that the two South American languages
Quechua and Aymara are related to the Hokan of western North
America, the first time a linguistic relationship between North and
South America has been indicated. Dr. F. H. H. Roberts, Jr., in-
vestigated a prehistoric Indian burial near Abilene, Tex., his studies
indicating that the burial was made about 10,000 years ago. Dr.
Roberts also assembled and edited a manual, “Survival on Land and
Sea,” which was prepared for the Navy by the Ethnogeographic
Board and the staff of the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. J. H.
Steward continued work on the Handbook of South American Indians.
He was appointed Director of the Institute of Social Anthropology,
an autonomous unit of the Bureau reporting to the Secretary, on
September 1, 1943. Dr. Alfred Métraux, of the Bureau staff, was ap-
pointed Assistant Director of the above Institute on September 18,
1943. Dr. H. B. Collins, Jr., served as Assistant Director of the
Ethnogeographic Board, conducting researches connected with
regional and other information requested by the Army, Navy, and
war agencies. Dr. W. N. Fenton served as research associate of the
Board and participated in a survey of area and language teaching
in the Army Specialized Training Program and the Civil Affairs
Training Schools in American universities and colleges. Dr. H. G.
Barnett, who joined the Bureau staff in December 1943, served as
executive secretary of a committee formed under the sponsorship of
the Ethnogeographic Board for the purpose of assembling data upon
the existing state of our scientific knowledge of the Pacific island area.
Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau completed a
manuscript on “Omaha Music.” The Bureau published its Annual
Report and six Bulletins during the year.

International Exchanges.—The International Exchange Service
acts as the official agency of the United States Government for the
interchange of governmental and scientific publications between this
country and all other countries. The total number of packages of
such material handled during the fiscal year was 407,764, weighing
243,180 pounds. Shipments to foreign countries continued to be
greatly curtailed by war conditions. All countries in the Western
Hemisphere received shipments as usual, but in the Eastern Hemi-
sphere, the only countries to which shipments could be made were
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Portugal, the U. S. S. R., Union
of South Africa, India, Australia, and New Zealand. In normal
times 93 sets of United States official publications are sent abroad
through the Exchange Service. At present, however, only 58 sets
can be sent, the other 35 sets being held until after the war.

619830—45——2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

National Zoological Park.—In spite of expected difficulties in
obtaining food and supplies and those resulting from manpower
shortages, the Park and the animal collection were maintained in good
condition and continued to be used and appreciated by large numbers
of visitors. The total for the year reached 1,803,532, including a large
proportion of service personnel. Many requests for information on
biological problems were received from the Army and Navy and other
Government agencies, and numerous schools and medical and other
groups came to study the collections. Very few animals could be
obtained by purchase, but a number of desirable specimens were
received by exchange and as gifts from Army personnel and others
interested in the Park. Births and hatchings at the Park totaled 73
mammals, 180 birds, and 126 reptiles. Losses by death included the
African rhinoceros, the maned wolf, and other animals, birds, and
reptiles, including a large python that measured well over 25 feet
in length and weighed 305 pounds. At the close of the year the col-
lection totaled 2,626 animals representing 696 species and subspecies.

Astrophysical Observatory—In the division of astrophysical re-
search, secret war research problems occupied most of the time of two
members of the staff; the other members were engaged in reducing
and determining the statistical correction for the solar-constant work
of the three Smithsonian observing stations at Montezuma, Chile,
Table Mountain, Calif., and Tyrone, N. Mex., since 1939. Most of
the Director’s work consisted in the study of solar-constant variation
and associated solar changes in connection with the weather, resulting
in the publication of a paper entitled “Weather Predetermined by
Solar Variation.” As unusual weather conditions are expected dur-
ing the coming year following a predicted depression of the solar con-
stant, every effort was made to keep the three observing stations in
operation. In spite of manpower shortages, this was accomplished
by the assistance of the wives of the field directors in observing and
computing. In the division of radiation and organisms, the staff
was occupied mainly with war research projects.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian
Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress determined that the Federal Government was without
authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore, constituted
an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the President, the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive

departments.”
THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The Board suffered the loss by death of one member, Senator Charles
L. McNary, of Oregon, who died on February 25, 1944. He had served
as a Senatorial regent since January 28, 1935.

The roll of regents during the fiscal year was as follows: Harlan
F. Stone, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor; Henry A.
Wallace, Vice President of the United States; members from the
Senate—Alben W. Barkley, Bennett Champ Clark; members from
the House of Representatives—Clarence Cannon, Foster Stearns, Ed-
ward E. Cox; citizen members—Frederic A. Delano, Washington,
D. C.; Roland S. Morris, Pennsylvania; Harvey N. Davis, New Jersey ;
Arthur H. Compton, Illinois; Vannevar Bush, Washington, D. C.; and
Frederic C. Walcott, Connecticut.

Proceedings.—The annual meeting of the Board of Regents was held
on January 14, 1944. The regents present were Chief Justice Harlan
F. Stone, Chancellor; Vice President Henry A. Wallace; Representa-
tives Clarence Cannon, Foster Stearns, and Edward E. Cox; citizen
regents Frederic A. Delano, Roland S. Morris, Harvey N. Davis,
Arthur H. Compton, and Vannevar Bush; and the Secretary, Dr.
Charles G. Abbot.

The Secretary presented his annual report covering the activities
of the parent Institution and of the several Government branches,
and including the financial report of the executive committee, for the .
fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, which was accepted by the Board.
The usual resolution authorizing the expenditure by the Secretary
of the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1945, was adopted by the Board.

The Secretary stated that in order that the employees paid from
Smithsonian funds might share the same liberalized retirement ad-
vantages as the Government-paid employees in the Institution, a bill
covering this matter (S. 1558) had been introduced by Senator Bark-
ley and referred to the Senate Committee on the Civil Service.

Owing to the exigencies of wartime travel, the annual meeting of
the Smithsonian Art Commission, usually held in December, was
again omitted.

The Board formally ratified certain resolutions adopted by a mail
vote authorizing the Secretary to.execute an indenture dated March
31, 1943, by Samuel H. Kress and the Samuel H. Kress Foundation
modifying and amending an indenture dated June 29, 1939, by the
same parties, and further authorizing the Secretary to accept the
offer of additional art objects by these parties for the collections of
the National Gallery of Art.
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

A resolution was adopted providing for the appointment of com-
mittees to handle matters connected with the proposed celebration
in 1946 of the centenary of the founding of the Institution.

In his special report the Secretary outlined to the regents some
of the more important wartime activities carried on by the Institution
and its several branches.

FINANCES

A statement on finances will be found in the report of the execu-
tive committee of the Board of Regents, page 110. _

TWELFTH ARTHUR LECTURE

Under the terms of the will of the late James Arthur, of New
York, the Smithsonian Institution received in 1931 a fund, part of
the income from which should be used for an annual lecture on some
aspect of the science of the sun.

The twelfth Arthur lecture was given by Secretary C. G. Abbot
on February 29, 1944, under the title “Solar Variation and Weather.”
The lecture will be published with illustrations in the Report of the
Smithsonian Institution for 1944.

The 11 previous Arthur lectures have been as follows:

1, The Composition of the Sun, by Henry Norris Russell, professor of
astronomy at Princeton University. January 27, 1982.

2. Gravitation in the Solar System, by Ernest William Brown, professor
of mathematics at Yale University. January 25, 1933.

3. How the Sun Warms the Earth, by Charles G. Abbot, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. February 26, 1934.

4. The Sun’s Place among the Stars, by Walter S. Adams, director of
the Mount Wilson Observatory. December 18, 1934.

5. Sun Rays and Plant Life, by Earl S. Johnston, assistant director of
the division of radiation and organisms, Smithsonian Institution.
February 25, 1936.

6. Discoveries from Eclipse Expeditions, by Samuel Alfred Mitchell, di-
rector of the Leander McCormick Observatory, University of Vir-
ginia. February 9, 1937.

7. The Sun and the Atmosphere, by Harlan True Stetson, research asso-
ciate, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. February 24, 1938.

8. Sun Worship, by Herbert J. Spinden, curator of American Indian Art
and Primitive Culture, Brooklyn Museums. February 21, 1939.

9. Solar Prominences in Motion, by Robert R. McMath, director of the
McMath-Hulbert Observatory of the University of Michigan. Janu-
ary 16, 1940.

10. Biological Effects of Solar Radiation on Higher Animals and Man, by
Brian O’Brien, professor of Physiological Optics, University of
Rochester. February 25, 1941.

11. The Sun and the Earth’s Magnetic Field, by John A. Fleming, Depart-
ment of Terrestrial Magnetism, Carnegie Institution of Washington.
February 26, 1942.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 11
PUBLICATIONS

The Institution’s publication program has again emphasized ma-
terial pertaining to the war or to Latin America as a part of its
endeavor to make every phase of its activities serve a useful wartime
purpose.

The papers in the series Smithsonian War Background Studies
continued to be in great demand, particularly from Army and Navy
organizations and personnel. Seven numbers were issued during the
year—Nos. 13 to 19—and No. 20, on China, appeared soon after the
close of the year. A list of these, as well as other publications of the
year, will be found in appendix 10. The demand for the War Back-
ground papers continued to increase until it became necessary to make
a charge for copies requested by civilians and for large lots of copies
ordered by service organizations, while continuing the free service
distribution of single copies and small lots. Soon after the close of the
year the total number of copies of Nos. 1-20 printed by the Institution
had reached 203,500, and 211,525 additional copies have been ordered
for the Army and Navy, a grand total of nearly half a million books.

A pocket-size field collectors’ manual was published with the aim
of providing a worth-while activity for service personnel stationed in
areas not actually in the fighting zones. The manual gives detailed
directions for preparing, preserving, and packing specimens of
animals, plants, and minerals. This book also is given free to service
personnel and sold to civilians.

In the Miscellaneous Collections series, a paper intended chiefly
for the use of medical officers was issued under the title “The Feeding
Apparatus of Biting and Disease-carrying Flies: A Wartime Con-
tribution to Medical Entomology,” by R. E. Snodgrass. Several
hundred copies were made available to Army and Navy medical per-
sonnel. Also for use in connection with wartime medical problems
in the Pacific theater, it was necessary to reprint an edition of a
previous paper, “Molluscan Intermediate Hosts of the Asiatic Blood
Fluke, Schistosoma japonicum, and Species Confused with Them,” by
Paul Bartsch.

Many papers in all series of Smithsonian publications dealt with
studies in biology and anthropology of the other American republics,
as a part of the Government’s program of improving cultural rela-
tions between the Americas. In the Miscellaneous Collections a sur-
vey of existing archeological knowledge of the Andean region ap-
peared under the title “Cross Sections of New World Prehistory: A
Brief Report on the Work of the Institute of Andean Research, 1941-
1942.” by William Duncan Strong. The Smithsonian Annual Report
included a comprehensive papér on the “Past and Present Status of
the Marine Mammals of South America and the West Indies,” by
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Remington Kellogg. National Museum publications included a num-
ber of Proceedings papers on various phases of biology in Latin
America and a Bulletin entitled “Checklist of the Coleopterous In-
sects of Mexico, Central America, the West Indies, and South Amer-
ica,” parts 1 and 2, by Richard E. Blackwelder. This last will be an
essential tool for all future entomological work in Latin America.
In the series Contributions from the United States National Her-
barium appeared “Taxonomic Studies of Tropical American Plants,”
by C. V. Morton. The Bureau of American Ethnology published four
Bulletins on the archeology of Mexico, among them one entitled “Stone
Monuments of Southern Mexico,” by Matthew W. Stirling.

The total number of publications issued during the year was
67, and 172,027 copies of the various series were distributed.

LIBRARY

The Smithsonian library has been increasingly used by the Army,
Navy, and war agencies. In the Museum branch library alone, 520
requests for information from these sources were recorded. The
branch libraries of the Bureau of American Ethnology and the Astro-
physical Observatory were also frequently called upon, and the
staff of the Ethnogeographic Board used all the branch libraries in
search of material needed to aid the armed services and war agencies.
Through the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian library is co-
operating with the American Library Association in collecting material
to aid libraries in war areas. The gradual decline in the receipt of
publications from abroad has continued, but domestic scientific series
showed very little decline. Changes in library procedure shortened
the interval between the receipt of new publications and their avail-
ability for use. Statistics of the year’s activities show 194 new
exchanges arranged, 4,422 “wants” received, 6,673 volumes and pam-
phlets cataloged, 11,360 books and periodicals loaned, and 1,683 vol-
umes sent to the bindery.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Ansor, Secretary.
APPENDIX 1
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operation of the National Museum for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1944.

Appropriations for the maintenance and operation of the National
Museum for the year totaled $929,999, which was $37,369 more than
for the previous year.

THE MUSEUM IN WARTIME

Visitors during the year numbered 1,532,765, an increase of 177,496
over those of the previous fiscal year; approximately 40 percent of
all visitors were men and women in uniform.

Although the possibility of enemy attack on Washington became
steadily less, measures for safeguard of visitors, collections, and build-
ings were continued in force. The air-raid defense organization re-
mained in operation under the direction of the general defense co-
ordinator, F. M. Setzler, head curator of anthropology. Collections
removed from the buildings as a precaution against enemy attack
were inspected regularly, and careful guard was maintained over
them.

Asa result of a recommendation by the Smithsonian War Committee
a free guide service through the National Museum for members of
the armed forces was arranged through the U. S. O. groups of Wash-
ington. Under the direction of F. M. Setzler a route was estab-
lished within the Natural History building and a script was pre-
pared describing the exhibits selected for the tour. Classes for in-
structing the volunteer hostesses were held on Sunday afternoons
from August 22 to October 17, 1948, and during February 1944. On
October 24 the first U. S. O. guide service for men and women in
uniform was inaugurated. Tours were conducted each Sunday at
15-minute intervals from 11 a. m. to 3:30 p. m. Each tour required
approximately 45 minutes. From October 24, 1948, to June 25, 1944,
5,825 military visitors were escorted through the building. Credit
for the success of this service is due to the excellent cooperation of
U. S. O. headquarters, to the chairman and head receptionist, Miss
Margaret Bledsoe, and to other U. S. O. hostesses.

13
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Requests for information from the various war agencies continued
to come to the staff during the year, and numerous war services
were rendered by most of the laboratories and by many individuals
on the staff,

Dr. Remington Kellogg, curator of mammals, served as chairman
of the American delegation at the International Conference on the
Regulation of Whaling in London during January 1944. At the
request of the National Research Council, Dr. Kellogg prepared text,
keys, distribution maps, and illustrations of monkeys known to be
susceptible to infection by malarial parasites to aid in studies of
malaria in man. Other services provided by the personnel of the
division of mammals to officers of special Army and Navy units
and other agencies concerned with the war included the furnishing of
information relative to the distribution and identification of mam-
mals involved in the transmission of diseases. Herbert G. Deignan,
associate curator of birds, assisted in work on maps and on geographic
names of the Far East and in a compilation of literature dealing with
parts of that area. Dr. Doris Cochran, associate curator of reptiles
and amphibians, assisted the Surgeon General’s Office in the prepara-
tion of lists of Asiatic reptiles. Personnel of the division of fishes
furnished information in response to numerous inquiries relative to
dangerous, poisonous, and useful fishes, methods of fishing, sound-
making fishes, and emergency fishing equipment. Many identifica-
tions were made in the division of insects, particularly of mosquitoes,
mites, and ectoparasites, and information was supplied on the habits of
these forms, at the request of the Army and Navy. About 1,200
specimens of insects and Acarina were specially mounted on pins and
approximately 450 slide mounts were made for use in Army and Navy
training centers throughout the country in training programs in
which health problems are involved. In addition, nearly 200 officers
assigned to malaria survey or control units, or to similar activities,
received instructions or other help from personnel of the division, and
information on the disease-bearing insects of specific foreign areas
was furnished the Division of Medical Intelligence of the Surgeon
General’s Office. At the request of the National Research Council,
Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, served as a member of a com-
mittee charged with the preparation of a list of helminth parasites of
the Southwest Pacific and their intermediate hosts. Dr. E. H. Walker,
assistant curator of plants, prepared an account of the emergency
food plants of the Tropics. Paul S. Conger, associate curator of the
section of diatoms, studied samples of material involved in the fouling
of ships, mines, and other marine structures. He likewise prepared a
bibliography of literature concerning the value of plankton as food.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

Services of the department of anthropology dealt with a wide variety
of subjects relating to people in the Caribbean islands, Pacific and
Indonesian areas, Oceania, Micronesia, Burma, Japan, China, the
Philippine Islands, Central America, Europe, and Africa. The in-
formation furnished included suggestions for Tropical and Arctic
clothing, and footgear for aviators, water supply, population, primi-
tive weapons, house types, degree of western influence, physical char-
acteristics, and leather products. The collections of the division were
used in a study of the resources of particular strategic geographical
areas with a view to conservation of shipping space. Dr. T. Dale
Stewart was granted a 6-month furlough to teach anatomy to Army
and Navy medical students at the Washington University School of
Medicine in St. Louis, Mo. Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, associate curator
of archeology, was detailed for special services to the Military Plan-
ning Division, Office of the Quartermaster General, War Department,
from September 1943 to March 1944. The division of physical
anthropology supplied the Office of Strategic Services with photo-
graphs of various eastern physical types. It also supplied detailed
data on average body weights of Europeans and various peoples of
the Far East to the Office of the Quartermaster General.

In the department of geology, two members of the staff, in coopera-
tion with the Geological Institute of Mexico, have continued field
studies in the economic geology of that country as a part of the war
effort. Curator W. F. Foshag spent the year on detail from the
Museum in a continuation of the supervision of surveys for strategic
minerals in Mexico. Dr. G. A. Cooper, similarly, spent 3 months in
the field in Sonora concluding studies begun last year on the stratified
rocks. The results, soon to be published, will be useful in the location
of new mineral areas. Dr. Cooper also concluded field work on the
project dealing with the subsurface geology of the Devonian rocks
of Illinois, obtaining information for use in the oil development of
that and neighboring States.

Members of the geological staff in the home office have been more
occupied than ever before in furnishing information to the various
war agencies. These services have included such diverse items as the
preparation of analyses, assisting in selecting and grading calcite for
the War Production and other Boards, editing a scientific volume for
an allied country, and furnishing information of all kinds to an ever-
increasing number of service men and women visiting the Museum.

Other services, especially from the department of engineering and
industries, have included the following:

Construction of two demonstration models of new ordnance devices
for the National Inventors’ Council; transfer of a series of model
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

buildings to the War Department, Corps of Engineers, Camouflage
Section; information on revolving airfoils to the Technical Data
Laboratory, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio; furnishing photographs
for Navy training films; identification of woods; also information on
properties and uses of woods for Navy Department, War Production
Board, Foreign Economic Administration, and Inter-American De-
velopment Commission; methods of preserving specimens of dehy-
drated foods for War Food Administration; advice on disposition
of hemp produced in Kentucky to Commodity Credit Corporation ;
assistance in drawing up contract specifications involving a true lock-
stitch in sewing safety seams, to United States Maritime Commission ;
suitability of palmyra fiber as a substitute for rattan for stiff brushes
to the Navy Department; and aid in the training of document in-
spectors of Federal Bureau of Investigation in identification of various
printing processes.

COLLECTIONS

Accessions, for the year numbered 1,159 separate lots, totaling
239,640 specimens. This was an increase over those received last year
of 9,409 specimens, but a decrease of 18 in the number of accessions.
Specimens were accessioned by the five departments as follows: An-
thropology, 852; biology, 229,546; geology, 3,466; engineering and
industries, 1,888; history, 4,388. Most of the accessions were gifts
from individuals or specimens transferred from other Government
agencies. The more important of these are summarized below.
Catalog entries in all departments now total 18,098,775.

Anthropology.—The division of archeology received an important
gift of 115 lots of potsherds and other materials from various Indian
sites, many of which are on or near the presumed route of De Soto’s
expedition of 1539-42 through the southeastern United States. Two
gold-and-silver book ends, reflecting the Tiahuanacan style of archi-
tecture and sculpture, were presented by Vice President Henry A.
Wallace, who received them as gifts from the Chamber of Commerce
in Bolivia, on the occasion of his visit to La Paz. The division of
ethnology was presented with a documented collection (159 speci-
mens) pertaining to the Huichol Indians of northern Jalisco. Two
other important collections received by the division were 26 oil por-
traits of Navaho, Apache, and Pueblo Indians of Arizona and New
Mexico, painted by Carl Moon, and an assemblage of excellent ex-
amples of Moro and Indonesian brasses and Philippine metalwork,
which had been presented to the late President and Mrs. William
Howard Taft, during their residence in the Philippines.

Biology.—The largest single collection received by the division of
mammals in the past 25 years consisted of about 2,400 specimens from
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 17

Colombia, collected by Philip Hershkovitz during his tenure of the
Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Scholarship of the Smithsonian
Institution. From the Fish and Wildlife Service came by transfer
the year’s second-largest mammalian accession, 624 mammals from
various North American localities. A beaked whale foetus, about 7
feet long, the largest in the National collections, is also notable.

As in the division of mammals, the largest accession of the year
to the division of birds came from Colombia. This collection com-
prised 3,281 specimens, sufficient to give the Museum a reasonably
complete representation of the bird life of northeastern Colombia.
A smaller avian collection, 85 specimens, also from Colombia, repre-
sents localities not included in the larger collection first mentioned.
Another collection included 20 species of birds hitherto unrepresented
in the study series.

As a result of exchanges with other institutions, several species '
of reptiles and amphibians hitherto unrepresented or poorly repre-
sented in the Museum have been added to the collections. Specimens
from the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Jamaica, and Hon-
duras were received, and 60 turtles, lizards, snakes, and frogs were
contributed by Philip Hershkovitz, through the Walter Rathbone
Bacon Traveling Scholarship.

Exchanges consummated during the year brought much valuable
material, including 321 cotypes, to the division of fishes. Smaller
ichthyological collections, received as gifts, also included type ma-
terial and some specimens from type localities not previously repre-
sented in the National collections.

The vital and significant role played by entomology and entomol-
ogists in the war is reflected in the host of mosquitoes and mosquito
larvae received from the sanitary and medical corps of the armed
forces—more than 10,000 specimens. About 67,000 bees, butterflies,
and insects, including some holotype and paratype material, came as
gifts and by transfer from other Government departments.

Seven of the year’s accessions in the division of marine invertebrates
included type material. Especially noteworthy is the fact that dur-
ing the past year seven accessions, totaling 2,380 specimens, many of
them rare, were collected and donated to the Museum by men in the
armed forces.

The collection of Mexican land shells in the division of mollusks
was materially enhanced by three gifts, totaling 1,490 specimens. The
largest known single collection of Jamaican representatives of the
molluscan family Neritidae, consisting of 51,000 specimens and ac-
companying 850 microscopic slides, came as a gift.

Several valuable accessions in the form of types and cotypes came
to the helminthological collections as gifts. These included species of
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

the genera Ochoterenella, Choledocystus, Choricotyle, Diphylloboth-
rium, Hexostoma, Cyclocotyla, and Raillietina.

Among the 89 echinoderms accessioned were 6 undescribed species,
6 paratypes of new ophiurans, and 2 interesting abnormal starfishes.

Outstanding among the 36,240 plants received during the year was
the Chickering herbarium of approximately 10,550 specimens. This
herbarium, formed by the late John White Chickering, Jr., is a valu-
able addition as it includes material of historical importance from
collections not at all or scantily represented previously. Also in-
cluded are numerous specimens from the District of Columbia, of
which many were collected in plant habitats now destroyed. Most
of the smaller collections received came from South American or
West Indian localities. Of special importance among these were
about 2,500 specimens of bamboos, including an unusually good repre-
sentation of vegetative structures important to the field identification
of the bamboos.

The Albert Mann diatom collection, consisting of approximately
8,000 slides of mounted specimens, more than 10,000 samples of crude
diatom material, and over 200 negatives and 300 lantern slides, trans-
ferred from the Carnegie Institution of Washington, was formally
accessioned during the year. In combination with the other material
this makes the Museum collection of diatoms one of the most im-
portant in the world.

Geology—tIncome from the Roebling fund, provided for the pur-
chase of important gems and minerals, was used to procure 31 gem
stones of rare quality and high exhibition value and 2 mineral acces-
sions, consisting of 4 unusually formed quartz crystals and 8 trans-
parent colorless scheelites. A beautiful pink Brazilian topaz of 34.1
carats was acquired through the Frances Lea Chamberlain fund, and
the Canfield endowment fund provided two specimens of libethenite
and acovellite. Several important single accessions came as the result
of the associate curator’s efforts to interest people in making collec-
tions for the Museum. By transfer from another Government de-
partment the division of mineralogy and petrology received specimens
of weinschenite (yttrium phosphate), representing the first occurrence
of this rare mineral in the United States.

Seven new meteorites were added to the collection, six of them being
undescribed falls.

The largest addition to the ore collection consisted of a series of
manganese and chromium ores from world-wide foreign deposits.

The most important new material received by the division of in-
vertebrate paleontology and paleobotany consisted of 500 specimens of
rare Paleozoic fossils collected by the curator during his field work
in northwestern Sonora, Mexico.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

Plaster casts of type fossils today have great scientific value, in
view of the destruction taking place in foreign museums. Such a
cast, an important English Carboniferous crinoid, the holotype and
only specimen of which was in the ill-fated Bristol Museum, was
received as a gift. Numerous types and holotypes of foraminifers,
bryozoans, mollusks, echinoids, cephalopods, and corals were welcome
additions to the collection. Important among the acquisitions of
specimens of fossil vertebrates was a composite skeleton of an extinct
antelope, as well as casts of the following: Complete skull of a curious
three-horned antelope; type specimen of a flying reptile; and skeleton
of a rare Triassic armored reptile. The ichnite collection was en-
riched by nine slabs containing the trails of Paramphibius didactylus,
once considered a vertebrate animal but now regarded as a horseshoe
crab.

Engineering and industries—From the standpoints of historical
merit and of popular appeal first honors among the acquisitions of
the year in this department are bestowed upon two automobiles. One
of these is a U. S. Army 14-ton, 4 x 4 truck, one of the first of 62 of
these vehicles built in 1940, and the prototype of these vehicles
made famous by World War II. The other is a Winton, 1903, the
first automobile to be driven across the United States, a trip that re-
quired 63 days on the road. Outstanding among the gifts to the
watercraft collection was an original kerosene-burning brass bulk-
head lantern of the first S. S. Mauretania, 1907-87, presented by Presi-
dent Franklin D. Roosevelt. The lantern now stands in the exhibi-
tion case containing the handsome model of this famous vessel pre-
“sented to the Museum by the President several years ago.

Through the Textile Color Card Association of the United States,
the textile section received the ninth edition of the Standard Color
Card, with its two supplements, the United States Arms and Serv-
ices Color Card and the United States Army Standard Thread Card.
The Association is supported by textile manufacturers and representa-
tive firms of almost every industry using color. These firms agree to
have their products match the colors included in the official standard
card, resulting in a great saving of time to consumers in obtaining
exact shades of colors in materials that are to be used together. This
standardization is especially valuable to the United States Arms and
Services, each service having an official color requirement for its uni-
forms, trimmings, badges, and similar equipment. The Standard
Thread Card is furnished by the Quartermaster General’s office to
quartermaster depots and contractors making clothing or equipage
for the United States: Army.

An important accession in the section of chemical industries was
an exhibit illustrating the chemistry and applications of refined alpha-
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

cellulose derived from wood pulp. Since the military services’ re-
quirements for ordnance purposes cover practically all the annual
production of cotton linters, the manufacturers of rayon found it
necessary to turn to alpha-cellulose for their raw material. The appli-
cations of the wood-pulp cellulose shown in the exhibit include rayon,
molded and laminated plastics, cellophane, artificial leather, rayon
tire-cord fabric, and electric-arc welding rods.

An interesting addition to the collection of commercial furs was
a gift from Vice President Henry A. Wallace of two robes made
from strips of vicufia skins. The robes were presented to him by
Miss Rosa Prado, daughter of the President of Pert, on the occasion
of Mr. Wallace’s good-will tour.

In the division of medicine and public health the most valuable
items were added to the section of pharmacy. These included a com-
plete exhibit illustrating the manufacture and use of dried blood
plasma now effectively employed by our armed forces; a series of ob-
jects picturing the method of obtaining penicillin, the recently dis-
covered miracle-performing bacteriostatic drug; and a collection out-
lining the life history of Carl Wilhelm Scheele, the internationally
famous apothecary. To the history of medicine section was added
the first portable X-ray machine known to have been operated suc-
cessfully on a battlefield.

The outstanding accession in the section of graphic arts was a French
color print of the eighteenth century, “L’Amant Surpris,” by C. M.
Descourtis after F. Schall. This type of print, the estampe galante,
is highly prized and much sought after by collectors. Descourtis
was one of the important engravers of the period, and it is said that .
“L’Amant Surpris” is one of his masterpieces. Walter Tittle, a well-
known drypoint artist, presented the section with 19 examples of his
work, following his special exhibition in the Museum. VOKS, the
Soviet Russian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
gave the section six war posters produced by the hand-stencil process.’
No printing equipment is necessary in making posters of this kind,
which the Russians have developed to a high degree. Guerrilla artists
have used this method extensively in occupied territories where the
absence of printing and transportation facilities eliminates other
methods.

History.—The collection of civil, naval, marine, and military medals
and decorations was increased by specimens of several awards of
these types established during the present war. Among these were
specimens of the Air Medal, awarded to members of the armed forces
of the United States who have distinguished themselves since Sep-
tember 8, 1939, by meritorious achievement in flight. It is second only
to the Distinguished Flying Cross. They include also specimens of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 2}

the decorations representing the four degrees of the Legion of Merit,
namely, Chief Commander, Commander, Officer, and Legionnaire.
These decorations are for award to the personnel of armed forces of
the United States and the Philippines, and of the armed forces of
friendly foreign nations. The recipients must have distinguished
themselves by exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance
of outstanding services since the Presidential proclamation of emer-
gency, September 8, 1939. These decorations are the first to be
founded by the United States Government for award to foreigners.
Other specimens illustrate the Merchant Marine Distinguished Serv-
ice Medal and the Mariner’s Medal. The first of these was established
for award to any person in the American Merchant Marine who on
or after September 3, 1939, “has distinguished himself * * * in
the line of duty.” ‘The second is awarded to any seaman who, while
serving on a ship during the war period, is wounded, suffers physical
injury, or suffers through dangerous exposure as the result of an act
of an enemy of the United States.

The collection of uniforms was increased by the addition of several
United States Army and United States Military Academy uniforms
of the early part of the twentieth century. Uniforms of the types
worn by Army nurses and officers and members of the Women’s Army
Corps were received from the War Department. A series of German
and Japanese uniforms captured in Italy and the Aleutian Islands
was received as a loan from the War Department.

An interesting gift to the philatelic collection was a series of
Aguinaldo (Philippine) stamps totaling more than 2,000 specimens.
A cover franked with a 2-cent red Aguinaldo stamp postmarked
Bataan, the locality famous for the valiant fight against the Japanese
of the American forces under the leadership of Gen. Douglas Mac-
Arthur, is included. Among the stamps transferred by the Post
Office Department was a special series of 12 United States stamps
commemorating the European countries that have been overrun and
occupied by the Axis powers—Albania, Austria, Belgium, Czecho-
slovakia, Denmark, France, Greece, Luxembourg, Norway, The Nether-
lands, Poland, and Yugoslavia. Each stamp bears in color the na-
tional flag of the country concerned. The Soviet Union presented a
30-kopeck and a 3-ruble stamp showing the Russian, British, and
American flags, commemorating the recent historic conference at
Tehran. Among the stamps emanating from enemy countries that
found their way into the Museum collections were 2 Japanese stamps
commemorating the fall of Bataan and Corregidor, 11 stamps issued
by the Japanese military authorities for use in the occupation of the
Dutch Indies, and 14 varieties of Japanese stamps for the army of
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

occupation in the Philippine Islands. A large number of German
stamps also were received.

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCH

Although field explorations for the year were concerned principally
with the conduct of the war, important research. was accomplished
along many other collateral lines.

Anthropology.—During his assignment as teacher of anatomy to
Army and Navy medical students at Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis, Mo., studies were carried on by the curator,
Dr. T. Dale Stewart, on age and sex changes in the human skeleton.
This was possible because the skeletal collections preserved in the
university’s department of anatomy were obtained from the dis-
secting rooms and therefore were accurately identified. During the
course of this work Dr. Stewart took the opportunity also of studying
arthritic changes in the skeleton. Since arthritis is closely correlated
with age, it was hoped that the university’s identified material would
aid in the interpretation of the condition in the groups in the Museum
collections where exact age is unknown. In addition to his work at
the university, Dr. Stewart spent some time in studying Indian skele-
tons excavated in Illinois by Dr. P. F. Titterington, a St. Louis physi-
cian. Two cultural horizons are represented by these Indian re-
mains, the Hopewell and the Jersey County bluff focus of the Middle
Mississippi.

Up to the time of his death on September 5, Dr. AleS Hrdlicka
continued the work of analyzing his data on the human tibia. The
year also saw the publication by the Museum of the seventh and
last part of Dr. Hrdlitka’s “Catalog of Human Crania in the United
States National Museum Collections,” a work on which he had been
engaged for many years. The final part covers the non-Eskimo
people of the Northwest Coast, Alaska, and Siberia and includes
measurements of all skulls of this provenience deposited in the Na-
tional Museum as well as of many supplementary ones in various
Russian institutions. The entire series of catalogs presents measure-
ments of more than 7,500 non-White crania and has been described
as constituting “one of the most valuable sources of basic anthropo-
metric data in existence.”

Biology.—Under the auspices of the Division of Cultural Relations
of the Department of State, Ellsworth P. Killip, associate curator of
plants, visited Colombia during April, May, and June for consulta-
tions and work in botanical centers in Bogota and Cali. In working
over the Museum’s South American material, which includes large
recent collections of plants, as well as a considerable accumulation of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

specimens received for identification in the past, Mr. Killip assembled
much valuable data for the proposed “Flora of Colombia.”

Philip Hershkovitz, holder of the Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholar-
ship for 1941-43, returned from Colombia in October, after an absence
of almost 2 years. The collection he amassed forms the largest single
accession of mammals received by the Museum during the past 25
years.

Under the W. L. Abbott fund, M. A. Carriker, Jr., continued
ornithological field work in Colombia until October. He brought to
the Museum the results of two seasons’ work, one of the finest collec-
tions of birds that has ever been made in that area.

Dr. Remington Kellogg, curator of mammals, served as chairman
of the American delegation to the International Conference on the
Regulation of Whaling held in London during January. Between
sessions of the conference he studied at the British Museum in prepara-
tion of a report on the recent porpoises. Dr. Kellogg spent part of
September at the Museum of Comparative Zodlogy examining a col-
lection of cetacean remains from Polk County, Fla. Also, at the re-
quest of the National Research Council, for the Board for the Co-
ordination of Malarial Studies, in collaboration with Major E. A.
Goldman of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Dr. Kellogg prepared
the first of a series of descriptive accounts of the kinds of monkeys
that may carry malarial infections.

The curator of birds, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, completed part 10,
the gallinaceous birds, of Ridgway’s unfinished monograph, “The
Birds of North and Middle America,” and began the revision of his
own previously completed manuscript on the falconiform birds.
H. G. Deignan, associate curator of birds, completed his monograph
on “The Birds of Northern Thailand,” now in press.

The associate curator of reptiles, Dr. Doris M. Cochran, reports
further substantial progress in her studies on South American frogs.
She also undertook to expand her popular handbook on “Poisonous
Reptiles,’ Number 10 of the Smithsonian War Background Studies,
into a treatise on “Dangerous Reptiles,” nonpoisonous, as well as poi-
sonous, for the general appendix to the Smithsonian Annual Report.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, curator of mollusks, has worked in close coopera-
tion with a special committee of the National Research Council, in
preparing a list of known or suspected molluscan intermediate hosts
of human parasites.

In connection with the preparation of survivor manuals, Dr. L. P.
Schultz, curator of fishes, and Earl D. Reid, scientific aid, demonstrated
to members of the U. S. Navy the use of derris root for securing
fish for food in emergencies.

619830—45——3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Dr. Schultz also made notable progress with his studies on the
extensive material that he collected in Venezuela, finishing a report on
the Characinidae and completing manuscript for the families Gymno-
tidae, Cichlidae, Cyprinodontidae, Dasyatidae, Tetradontidae, and
Centropomidae.

The curator of insects, Dr. E. A. Chapin, made further progress
with the manuscript embodying the results of his investigations
on the beetle genus Hippodamia and continued work on other sections
of the Coccinellidae.

Dr. R. E. Blackwelder, associate curator of insects, continuing his
work on Bulletin 185 of the National Museum, “Checklist of the Col-
eopterous Insects of Mexico, Central America, the West Indies, and
South America,” submitted the manuscript for part 3. Parts 1 and 2
were published during the year.

Austin H. Clark, curator of echinoderms, completed part 4 of Bul-
letin 82, “Monograph of the Existing Crinoids,” except for assembling
the plates. He also published “Iceland and Greenland,” the fifteenth
of the Smithsonian’s War Background Studies, and, in collaboration
with Dr. E. H. Walker, assistant curator of plants, prepared material
for the biological section of another volume of this series dealing with
the Aleutian Islands.

All divisions in the department contributed to the Navy’s “Survival
on Land and Sea,” published in December, to “A Field Collector’s
Manual in Natural History,” recently issued by the Smithsonian, and
to the preparation of nine mimeographed leaflets for distribution to
correspondents inquiring about the animal and plant life of the
Southwest Pacific.

Geology—As in the other departments of the Museum, several
members of the staff of the department of geology are on military
detail. The researches of the head curator, Dr. R. 8. Bassler, have
been limited to three projects; first, his monographic study of Lower
Paleozoic corals; second, a paper on the giant Paleozoic Ostracoda
known as the Leperditiidae; and third, a continuation of researches
on American Ordovician crinoids and cystids contained in the
Springer collection. The manuscript and illustrations of all three
have been more than half completed.

Curator William F. Foshag was occupied the entire year in Mexico
with his supervisory work for the Geological Survey in surveys for
strategic minerals. In addition, he spent some time at the Paricutin
Volcano making observations and collecting material for the Museum
exhibition series.

E. P. Henderson completed several analyses of new meteorites.
“The Metallography of Meteoric Iron,” a monograph by Dr. Stuart H.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

Perry, associate in mineralogy, was published during the year as a
- Bulletin of the National Museum.

Dr. G. A. Cooper, in collaboration with Prof. A. S. Warthin, of
Vassar College, completed his survey of Illinois Devonian oil strata,
and, in collaboration with the Instituto Geolégico de México, con-
tinued field and laboratory studies of the geology of northwestern
Sonora. A month and a half of field work in Sonora, in association
with his Mexican colleague, Ing. A. R. V. Arellano, resulted in note-
worthy paleontological collections and considerable increase in knowl-
edge of the structure and stratigraphy of the area.

Under the Walcott fund of the Smithsonian Institution, in collabo-
ration with Drs. Myron N. Cooper and R. 8. Edmundson, of the Vir-
ginia Geological Survey, Dr. Cooper made an investigation of the
relationships of the limestones that occur on the flanks of Clinch
Mountain in southwestern Virginia and northern Tennessee.

Before his untimely death Dr. Charles E. Resser was engaged in the
study of the Lower Ordovician trilobites of Vermont and adjacent
areas and was continuing his Cambrian Summary and Bibliography.
Many years of work by Drs. Walcott and Resser have gone into this
summary and bibliography, both of which when finished will be valu-
able contributions to science.

Field work in vertebrate paleontology, usually one of the best sources
of striking exhibition material, was necessarily restricted. In a
short trip to the nearby Calvert Cliffs on Chesapeake Bay, Curator
C. W. Gilmore and his assistants had the good fortune to excavate a
sirenian skeleton of Miocene age, a fossil sea cow over 10 feet long.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors.—The number of visitors to the Museum buildings during
the year showed an increase of 177,496 over the previous year. The
total number, 1,532,765, is, of course, far below the peacetime record
of 2,408,170 in 1937-38, but the increase does indicate a salutary up-
trend in the degree to which the National Museum exhibits and col-
lections are being viewed and studied by the people even in wartime.
August 1943 and April 1944 saw the largest number of visitors, 162,016
and 164,221, respectively, being recorded for these months. The
attendance in the four Smithsonian and Museum buildings was as
follows: Smithsonian building, 301,212; Arts and Industries building,
566,496 ; Natural History building, 493,239; Aircraft building, 171,818.

Since a considerable proportion of the visitors consisted of men and
women in the armed forces, special services were proffered this group
and every effort was made to enhance their visits. In the Natural
History building a program of Sunday docent service, for guiding
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

parties through the Museum, was inaugurated. A number of women
U. S. O. volunteers were especially trained to act as guides, and the
“tours” conducted by them have proved very popular. During the
period covering the last 35 Sundays of the fiscal year, over 5,000 mem-
bers of the military personnel took advantage of this guide service.

Publications and printing.—The sum of $30,000 was available dur-
ing the fiscal year for the publication of the Annual Report, Bulletins,
and Proceedings of the National Museum. Twenty publications were
issued—the Annual Report, 4 Bulletins, 1 Contribution from the
National Herbarium, and 14 Proceedings papers. A list of these
publications is given in the report on publications, appendix 10.

The distribution of volumes and separates to libraries and individ-
uals on the regular mailing lists aggregated 40,817 copies.

Special exhibits—Seventeen special exhibits were held during the
year in the foyer and adjacent space of the Natural History building,
under the auspices of various educational, scientific, recreational, and
governmental groups. In addition the department of engineering and
industries arranged 28 special displays—5 in engineering, 12 in graphic
arts, and 11 in photography.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

There was no major change in the organization of the National
Museum, but some work has been done in allocating positions to their
proper grades under the Classification Act on the basis of the duties
of each position.

Honorary appointments were conferred on Maj. Edward A. Gold-
man as associate in zoology on August 1, 1948, Dr. Floyd A. McClure
as research associate in botany on April 21, 1944, Dr. J. B. Reeside, Jr.,
as custodian of Mesozoic collection on June 19, 1944, and Clarence R.
Shoemaker as associate in zoology on April 1, 1944.

In the department of biology, Dr. David H. Johnson, associate
curator, division of mammals, was furloughed for military duty on
November 15, 1943, and Dr. Richard E. Blackwelder, associate cura-
tor, division of insects, was furloughed temporarily for war work on
August 238, 1943. Other changes were the resignation on March 22,
1944, of Walter A. Weber, assistant curator, division of birds; the
retirement of Clarence R.-Shoemaker, associate curator, division of
marine invertebrates, and Julian S. Warmbath, taxidermist. The
latter vacancy was filled by the promotion of Watson M. Perrygo on
December 9, 1948. In the section of diatoms, Paul S. Conger was
appointed associate curator on March 9, 1944.

In the department of geology, Dr. G. Arthur Cooper was advanced
to the curatorship of the division of invertebrate paleontology and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

paleobotany on October 2, 1943, to succeed Dr. Charles E. Resser, who
died on September 18, 1948. Miss Marion F. Willoughby, scientific
aid, transferred to the United States Geological Survey on October
31, 1943. :

In the department of engineering and industries, Dr. A. J. Olmsted,
for a number of years chief photographer of the Museum, was relieved
of the duties of that position on November 9, 1943, and was appointed
associate curator in charge of the section of photography. Gurney I.
Hightower succeeded Dr. Olmsted in charge of the photographic
laboratory on January 9, 1944, with Floyd B. Kestner as assistant.

Other changes in the administrative staff during the year were the
retirement of Royal H. Trembly, superintendent of buildings and
labor, who was succeeded by Lawrence L. Oliver on December 10, 1943.
Anthony W. Wilding was appointed property officer on December 21,
1948. The vacancy created by the death of Miss Helen A. Olmsted,
personnel officer, was filled by the appointment of Mrs. Bertha T.
Carwithen on February 1, 1944; and Mrs. Margaret L. Vinton was
appointed personnel assistant on March 9, 1944.

Employees furloughed for military duty during the year were as
follows: Robert L. Bradshaw, on October 12, 1943; Joseph R. Burke,
Jr., on October 13, 1943; John Carl Carter, on May 5, 1944; Walter
McCree, on April 3, 1944; and David H. Johnson on November 15,
1943.

Ernest Desantis returned to duty from military furlough on Oc-
tober 18, 1943.

Eleven persons were retired, three having reached retirement age,
five on account of disability, and three by optional retirement, as fol-
lows: For age, William Rice, laborer, on September 30, 1943, after 15
years, 3 months of service; Thomas J. Shannon, guard, on April 30,
1944, after 18 years, 6 months; and Clarence R. Shoemaker, associate
curator, on March 31, 1944, with over 33 years, 4 months of service.
For disability, Eugene C. Miller, guard, on December 9, 1943, with 6
years, 1 month of service; Cecil R. Mulnix, guard, on March 31, 1944,
with 13 years, 7 months service; Arthur G. Rodgers, guard, on Novem-
ber 10, 1943, with 8 years, 5 months service; Ann M. Stokes, laborer,
on October 4, 1943, with 18 years, 6 months service; and Charles O.
Watson, laborer, on April 5, 1944, with 35 years, 3 months service.
By optional retirement, Royal H. Trembly, superintendent of build-
ings and labor, November 30, 1943, with over 49 years of service; Bertie
Turner, attendant, on November 30, 1943, with 32 years, 6 months
service; and Julian S. Warmbath, taxidermist, with 15 years of service.

Through death, the Museum lost during the year five employees
from its active roll: Dr. Charles E. Resser, curator, division of in-
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

vertebrate paleontology and paleobotany, on September 18, 1943, after
29 years, 5 months; Miss Helen A. Olmsted, personnel officer, on Jan-
uary 11, 1944, after 48 years, 9 months; Benjamin F. Coe, guard, on
March 1, 1944, after 25 years, 5 months; George E. Matheny, guard,
on July 20, 1948, after 24 years, 6 moriths; and Cornelius S. Jones,
laborer, on March 17, 1944, after 32 years, 6 months.

From its honorary staff, the Museum lost by death on September 5,
1943, Dr. AleS Hrdlicka, associate in anthropology since April 1, 1942;
and on February 22, 1944, Dr. E. O. Ulrich, associate in paleontology
since June 9, 1914. :

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER Wetmore, Director.

THE SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2

REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees
of the National Gallery of Art, the seventh annual report of the Board
covering its operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944. This
report.is made pursuant to the provisions of the Act of March 24, 1987
(50 Stat. 51), as amended by the public resolution of April 18, 1939
(Pub. Res. No. 9, 76th Cong.). |

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

During the fiscal year ended June 80, 1944, the Board was comprised
of the Chief Justice of the United States, Harlan F. Stone; the Sec-
retary of State, Cordell Hull; the Secretary of the Treasury, Henry
Morgenthau, Jr.; and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
Dr. C. G. Abbot, ex officio ; and five general trustees, David K. E. Bruce,
Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Samuel H. Kress, and
Chester Dale. Mr. Dale was elected as general trustee on November 1,
1943, to succeed Joseph E. Widener, who died on October 26, 1943.

At its annual meeting, held on February 14, 1944, the Board re-
elected David K. E. Bruce, President, and Ferdinand Lammot Belin,
Vice President, to serve for the ensuing year. The executive officers
continuing in office during the year were:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.

David E. Finley, Director.

Harry A. McBride, Administrator.

Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.

John Walker, Chief Curator.

Macgill James, Assistant Director.
Donald D. Shepard continued to serve during the year as Adviser to
the Board.

During the year E. Roy Bergholz was appointed as Assistant Treas-
urer to succeed Charles Zinsner, who resigned; John A. Gilmore was
appointed as Assistant General Counsel; Hanns Swarzenski was ap-
pointed Curator of Sculpture; and Porter A. McCray was appointed
Chief of the Inter-American Office.

The Board of Trustees during the year was authorized and directed
by the Foreign Funds Control of the United States Treasury Depart-
ment, and at the request of the State Department, to assume custodian-

29
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

ship of all works of art and exhibition material sent to the United
States under the auspices of the former French Government for exhi-
bition purposes at various places in the United States, including the
World’s Fairs at New York, N. Y., and San Francisco, Calif.

On August 20, 1948, The American Commission for the Protection
and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in War Areas was
organized, and several executive officers of the Gallery were appointed
to serve as officers of the Commission. The headquarters of the Com-
mission are located in the Gallery building.

In March 1944 the Gallery, at the request of the State Department,
established the Inter-American Office. This office was created to act
as the official Government clearinghouse for the exchange of informa-
tion concerning art activities in the American Republics.

The three standing committees of the Board, provided for in the
bylaws, as constituted at the annual meeting of the Board, held Febru-
ary 14, 1944, were:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Harlan F. Stone, chairman.
David K. E. Bruce, vice chairman.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. C. G. Abbot.
Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Duncan Phillips.

FINANCE COMMITTEE uae

Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau, Jr., chairman.
David K. E. Bruce, vice chairman.

Secretary of State, Cordell Hull.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Samuel H. Kress.

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

David K. E. Bruce, chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, vice chairman.
Duncan Phillips.

Chester Dale.

David HE. Finley, ex officio.

The permanent Government positions of the Gallery are filled
from the registers of the United States Civil Service Commission or
with its approval. On June 30, 1944, the permanent Government staff
numbered 243 employees. Since the beginning of the war, 58 mem-
bers of the staff, or approximately 25 percent, have entered the armed
services.

The operation and maintenance of the Gallery building and grounds
and the protection of the works of art have been continued through
the fiscal year 1944 at as high a standard as possible with the reduced
staffs now available. These staffs have been cut to a minimum owing
to the fact that the Gallery has desired to reduce expenditures and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

the use of manpower to the greatest possible extent during the war
period. That it has been possible to maintain a fairly high standard
is due solely to the intensive efforts, efficiency, and interest of the main-
tenance staff and the guard force. However, it will be necessary
to increase both the maintenance staff and the guard force as soon
as possible in order adequately to operate and maintain the Gallery
building and grounds and to enable the Trustees to carry out their
duties in the protection and care of the works of art in the Gallery’s
collections.
APPROPRIATIONS

For salaries and expenses for the upkeep and operation of the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the protection and care of works of art acquired
by the Board, and all administrative expenses incident thereto as
authorized by the Act of March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51), and amended
by public resolution of April 13, 1939 (Pub. Res. No. 9, 76th Cong.),
the Congress appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1944,
the sum of $623,365.00. This amount includes the present appropria-
tion of $541,365.00 and a supplementary deficiency appropriation
amounting to $82,000.00 for the payment of “overtime compensation”
as authorized by Public Law 49, 78th Congress. From these appro-
priations the following expenditures and encumbrances were incurred:

EXPENDITURES AND ENCUMBRANCES

IPETSON ale SETS VACE Se oem eee eee ere a rirene Brent Maree ae $510, 665. 00

Printing sandsbind ines ee ee ae ieee 4, 047. 22
Supplies and equipment, etel22--2 22 103, 315. 03
Unencumbered)palance.2 oe 42 but Stee SN es 5, 337. 75

"POtal Ss Sete eh Ss Se ek 623, 365. 00

In addition to the above-mentioned appropriations, the Gallery re-
ceived $15,932.16 from the Federal Works Agency, Public Buildings
Administration, to cover expenses incurred in connection with the
special protection of paintings and sculpture evacuated from the
Gallery.

ATTENDANCE

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, the visitors to the
National Gallery of Art totaled 2,060,071, the largest annual attendance
since the opening of the Gallery. This compares with 1,508,081 dur-
ing the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948, or an increase of 551,990 or
36.6 percent. The increase in popularity of the Gallery is evidenced
by the fact that the average daily attendance during the fiscal year
1944 was 5,659 visitors, as compared with 4,143 for the fiscal year 1943.
On Sunday, December 21, 1943, there were 22,248 visitors, the greatest
number in any one day.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Contributing to the public’s increasing interest in the Gallery
are the evening hours on Sunday, the special exhibitions, particularly
those of wartime art, the Sunday evening concerts without charge, and
the Servicemen’s Room, which provides a place of relaxation for men
and women in the armed services. Approximately 30 percent of the
visitors to the Gallery are men and women in the armed services,

PUBLICATIONS

The Information Rooms in the Gallery continue to offer an in-
creasing variety of fine, although moderately priced, colored repro-
ductions of paintings in the Gallery’s collections, as well as post cards,
illustrated catalogs, and a general information booklet that is of
great assistance to visitors and which may be obtained without charge.
With the acquisition of the Lessing J. Rosenwald collection of prints
and drawings, a large illustrated catalog of this collection and a set
of 32 post-card reproductions of some of the prints and drawings in
the collection have been added to the publications now available.

During the past year there has been a great increase in the number
of orders for the Gallery’s publications from servicemen overseas, who
are purchasing color prints and catalogs for use in recreation rooms
at military posts all over the world. There has also been an unusual
demand from public schools throughout the United States for color
reproductions and text material descriptive of the Gallery’s collections.
These publications also are in demand in the Latin-American
republics.

WORKS OF ART STORED IN PLACE OF SAFEKEEPING

Early in January 1942 a limited number of fragile and irreplace-
able works of art in the Gallery’s collections were removed to a place
of greater safety. These works, stored in a place adapted for the pur-
pose, have since been under constant guard by members of the Gal-
lery’s guard force and under supervision and inspection by a member
of the curatorial staff of the Gallery.

ACQUISITIONS
GIFTS OF PRINTS AND DRAWINGS

The Board of Trustees, on December 4, 1948, accepted six etchings
from David Keppel, five by Piranesi and one by Ugo de Carpi. Also
on December 4 the Board accepted a gift of two drawings, “Seated
Figure,” by Pascin, and “Head of a Girl,” by Puvis de Chavannes,
from Lessing J. Rosenwald. On May 20, 1944, the Board accepted an
additional gift of approximately 196 prints and drawings from Mr.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 33

Rosenwald. The Index of American Design, consisting of 22,000 or
more drawings and water colors, which was accepted by the Board on
June 7, 1943, from the Works Progress Administration, was received in
the Gallery during the fiscal year 1944.

GIFTS OF PAINTINGS

On December 4, 1948, the Board of Trustees accepted eight paintings
from Lessing J. Rosenwald, viz:

Title Artist
AM GE), TSO LG EUG CVS eS Te A I ala EAE Se 8 a Forain.
EP ROWE ShitOMeG ie sat en eee Sige ee ya Oe ee ea Forain.
CASTS ETS ty SRT CV HC Ce se ees Se eS 2d ee Forain.
IBeDINMGLEN EAS CONES eee. es ce S Ne ee Ea 2 Forain.
Meast ror pnenGOus soe cre eee ee Ce ee ee Daumier.
aH aVAC OY ay he) ae te eshte CIR pee ee RE JLT ee Daumier.
CCE ES LOSS 0 Tia aie Ese SE Te ee Ps ie Aid Whistler.
PANO] CPE aT anya eee eee eA eae Whistler.

On the same date it also accepted the painting entitled “Breezing Up,”
by Winslow Homer, from the W. L. and May T. Mellon Foundation.
On December 18, 1943, the Board accepted the portrait of “Commodore
John Rodgers,” by John Wesley Jarvis, from the Misses Christina and
Nannie R. Macomb. On February 14, 1944, the Board accepted two
paintings, “The Stream,” by Courbet, and “The Eel Gatherers,” by
Corot, from Mr. and Mrs. P. H. B. Frelinghuysen. From the children
of the late Rt. Rev. William Lawrence, the Board on the same date
accepted the painting entitled “Amos Lawrence,” by Chester Harding;
and on May 20, 1944, the Board accepted the painting of “Horace
Binney,” by Gilbert Stuart, asa gift from Dr. Horace Binney.

SALE OR EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

During the year no works of art belonging to the Gallery were sold
or exchanged.
LOAN OF WORKS OF ART TO THE GALLERY

During the year the following works of art were received on loan:
From Mrs. John C. Clark of New York, N. Y.:

69 etchings by Pennell.

‘From Mrs. Cary Grant, Pacific Palisades, Calif. :

Title Artist
PAROLE RIDA Vet V CLUE seis een eee ee gf en a Canaletto.
The Courtyard, Doge’s Palace, with the Procession of the Papal
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944
LOAN OF WORKS OF ART BY THE GALLERY

In the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, the Gallery loaned the fol-
lowing five paintings to the Lyman Allyn Museum, New London,
Conn., for exhibition purposes :

From the collection of the National Gallery of Art:

Title Artist
BellP orate) oe 2h. ane eee Benjamin West.
Major Thomas Biddle_--_---_--_-__. Thomas Sully and Thomas Wilcocks Sully.

From the loan collection of The A. W. Mellon Educational and
Charitable Trust:

Title Artist
Anna’ Cora, Mowatt: (2) 22025 2a attributed to John James Audubon.
Gilbert Stuart’s Family (?)---_--__---___ attributed to Washington Allston.
Peter; RR; Livingston, (2) eee ee attributed to Abraham Delanoy.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

During the year the following works of art lent to the Gallery by
Chester Dale of New York, N. Y., were returned to him:

Title Artist
Gronehing Tutons 328g ANN OT eee aed OE oe ee a ae Delacroix.
Nude Woman Seated) ‘ona Beds. 22 sel ee Forain.
Woman; Seated ona: Chairss 2 22 eee eee Forain.
Monsietr Touts Oy oe ee a ae ae eae en Se eo eg Gauguin.
Cottage Interior with Woman and Little Girl___-_________________. Millet.

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944:

Group of political caricatures by French and British artists, from
the Lessing J. Rosenwald collection, from July 31 to September 5,
19438.

Nineteenth- and twentieth-century drawings and water colors from
French museums and private collections (2d showing) from August
8 to September 5, 1943.

“Art for Bonds,” by American artists and sponsored by the Treasury
Department’s National Committee of Honorary Patrons, in connec-
tion with the Treasury’s Third War Loan Campaign, from September
12 to October 10, 1948.

Marine water colors and drawings by officers and enlisted men of
the U. S. Marine Corps, through cooperation of the Division of Public
Relations, U. S. Marine Corps, from September 12 to October 10, 1943.

Navaho pollen and sand paintings. Selections from a group of
paintings executed by Miss Maud Oakes, and accompanied by a group
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

*

collected by Miss Mary Wheelwright, from October 17 to November
14, 1943.

Paintings of naval aviation by American artists. From the Abbott
Laboratories and in cooperation with the U. S. Navy, from November
21 to December 12, 1943.

Prints and drawings from the Rosenwald collection. The first
general exhibition of prints and drawings from the Lessing J. Rosen-
wald collection, comprising a group of selections from the fifteenth
century to the present time, from December 19, 1943, to February 13,
1944.

Etchings and lithographs by Goya from the Gallery’s collection,
from January 23 to February 13, 1944.

“The Army at War,” paintings and drawings by American artists
at Army bases throughout the world. Exhibition lent by the War
Department to the Treasury Department, and shown at the National
Gallery of Art from February 20 to March 19, 1944.

Index of American Design. First exhibition of a selection of draw-
ings and water colors (from the Metal Work and Hooked Rug sec-
tions), from March 26 to April 23, 1944.

Nanteuil engraved portraits. A selection of 35 of Nanteuil’s works,
from the Lessing J. Rosenwald collection, from March 26 to June 21,
1944,

British war paintings. An exhibition of official British war paint-
ings, recording military operations and civilian activities in wartime
Britain. Lent by the British Ministry of Information, from April 23
to May 20, 1944.

Rembrandt prints and drawings. A survey of the work of the great
Dutch master, selected from the Rosenwald, Widener, Rice, and
Nowell-Usticke collections, from April 30 to June 21, 1944.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, the following drawings,
water colors, and prints were placed on exhibition:

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

Exhibition made up from the documented drawings and water colors con-
tained in the Index of American Design. Six drawings, together with data sheets,
for use in an Exhibition of Maine Art, opening April 14, 1944, were shipped to
Colby College, Waterville, Me., and were returned to the Gallery June 15, 1944.

Ninety-five duplicate data sheets of Texas material contained in the Index,
from which to make a selection of photographs, were shipped to the University
of Texas, Austin, Tex., on June 27, 1944.

ROSENWALD PRINTS

A traveling exhibition, consisting of 35 prints from the Lessing J. Rosenwald
collection. Sent on May 6, 1944, to Brooks Memorial Art Gallery, Memphis,
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Tenn.; then to the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Va., on June 12,
1944, from where it will be returned to the National Gallery of Art about August 1,
to be held for further bookings.

VARIOUS GALLERY ACTIVITIES

In the period from July 1, 1943, to June 30, 1944, a total of 53 con-
certs were given, of which 52 were in the East Garden Court on Sun-
day evenings and one on Saturday afternoon in the Auditorium. The
concerts were free to the public, and were attended to capacity. The
National Gallery Sinfonietta, under the direction of Richard Bales,
played 13 concerts. An American Festival of works of native com-
posers was held during March and April, 1944, when five perform-
ances were given.

The Sunday night suppers for servicemen have been continued
during the year, approximately 35 being served each Sunday in the
cafeteria at the Gallery. Funds to defray the cost of the suppers were
contributed by members of the staff and by friends of the Gallery.

A total of 195 special permits to copy paintings in the National
Gallery of Art were issued during the fiscal year 1944, and 72 special
permits were issued during the same period to photograph paintings.

CURATORIAL DEPARTMENT

During the year the work of the curatorial department consisted
mainly of installing a large number of gifts and additional works of
art from the Widener collection; arranging 17 temporary exhibitions;
cataloging paintings, sculpture, and prints; assisting the American
Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic
Monuments in War Areas by providing information on damaged and
looted works of art in war areas; and the assumption of additional
responsibility resulting from the appointment of the Trustees of the
Gallery as custodian of works of art and exhibition material sent to
this country under the auspices of the former French Government.

Two publications, “Great American Paintings from Smibert to
Bellows,” edited by John Walker and Macgill James, and “Master-
pieces of Painting from the National Gallery of Art,” edited by Hunt-
ington Cairns and John Walker, were prepared with the assistance of
members of the curatorial department. One book, two catalogs, and
three pamphlets were issued by the curatorial and educational depart-
ments in collaboration. Six members of the staff contributed eight
articles to several periodicals and pamphlet series.

During the past year approximately 622 works of art were sub-
mitted to the acquisitions committee (the largest individual gift being
490 prints and drawings to be added to the Rosenwald collection) with
recommendations regarding their acceptability for the collections of
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

the National Gallery of Art; 45 private collections were viewed in
connection with offers to the Gallery of gifts or loans; 94 consultations
were held concerning 139 works of art brought to the Gallery for
expert opinion; and 58 written replies were made to inquiries in-
volving research in the history of art.

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

With the authorization of the Board, and the approval of the Direc-
tor and Chief Curator, the necessary restoration and repair of paint-
ings and sculpture in the Gallery’s collection were made by Stephen S.
Pichetto, Consultant Restorer to the Gallery. All the work was com-
pleted in the Restorer’s studio in the Gallery with the exception of
several paintings that required restoration before shipment to Wash-
ington, and one where the work was of such a delicate and complicated
nature that it was necessary for the work to be done in Mr. Pichetto’s
New York studio.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

More than 72,000 people attended the various programs conducted
by the educational department during the year. The Gallery tours
of the collection attracted nearly 15,000 people, while 22,000 attended
the “Picture of the Week,” a 10-minute discussion of a single painting
given twice daily on Mondays through Fridays. More than 9,000
attended the regular lectures on special topics delivered by the educa-
tional staff and guest speakers.

During the first 4 months of the fiscal year, a new project undertaken
by the educational department was that of an automatic program
(no speaker) employing 2 x 2 Kodachromes and titles on slides, en-
titled “What To See in the National Gallery of Art—A Suggestion
for Your First Visit.” This program was accompanied by recorded
music, and more than 15,000 people attended.

LIBRARY

The most important contribution to the library during the year was
the art library of the late Joseph E. Widener. This gift consisted of
1,373 books and 579 periodicals.

As a gift from Solomon R. Guggenheim, the library received the
_ Richter Archives, consisting of over 60,000 photographs and reproduc-
tions. Mr. Guggenheim also gave 975 photographs of art objects in
the Solomon R. Guggenheim collection. A number of books on works
of art were also added to the library collection through funds donated
by Capt. Paul Mellon.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

PHOTOGRAPHIC DEPARTMENT

During the fiscal year 1944, the photographic laboratory of the
Gallery made 6,037 black-and-white prints and 510 black-and-white
and 1,117 color slides.

OTHER GIFTS

In the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, gifts of books on works of art
and related material were made to the Gallery library by the Honor- »
able Solomon Bloom, Mrs. Juliana Force, Mrs. Victor Harris, Macgill
James, Pvt. Lincoln Kirstein, Leander McCormick-Goodhart, Capt.
Paul Mellon, Lamont Moore, John H. Morgan, W. Francklyn Paris,
Duncan Phillips, and Maj. Ray L. Trautman. Gifts of money were
made to the Gallery during the year by Mrs. Florence Becker, David
EK. Finley, Mrs. Deering Howe, Mr. and Mrs. Macgill James, Life
Magazine, Mrs. H. A. McBride, Capt. Paul Mellon, Donald D. Shep-
ard, Col. and Mrs. O. J. Troster, and the late Joseph E. Widener.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit is being made of the private funds of the Gallery for the
year ended June 30, 1944, by Price, Waterhouse & Company, public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be submitted
to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted. i
F. L. Brewin, Acting President.
THe SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Si: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1944:

APPROPRIATIONS

For the administration of the National Collection of Fine Arts by
the Smithsonian Institution, including compensation of necessary em-
ployees, purchase of books of reference and periodicals, traveling
expenses, and other necessary incidental expenses, $17,486 was allot-
ted, of which $6,364.74 was expended in connection with the care and
maintenance of the Freer Gallery of Art, a unit of the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts. The balance was spent for the care and upkeep
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, nearly all of this sum being
required for the payment of salaries, traveling expenses, purchase
of books and periodicals, and necessary disbursements for the care
of the collection.

THE SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

Owing to crowded transportation conditions and lack of proper
hotel facilities, it was decided to omit again the December annual
meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission. Several proffered gifts
of art works have been deposited with the National Collection of Fine
Arts to be passed upon at the next meeting of the Commission.

The Commission lost one member by death during the year. Dr.
Frederick P. Keppel, a member of the Commission since 1932, died
September 8, 1943.

THE CATHERINE WALDEN MYER FUND

- Four miniatures, water color on ivory, were acquired from the fund
established through the bequest of the late Catherine Walden Myer,
as follows:

42. “Charles Carroll,” by Henry Inman (1801-1846); from Mrs. Dora Lee
Curtis, Arlington, Va.
43. “William E. Dickson,” by Rembrandt Peale (1778-1860) ; from Mrs. J. J.
Hooper, Washington, D. C.
619880—45-—_4 39
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

44. “Katherine Douglas Dickson,” by Raphael Peale (1774-1825) ; from Mrs.
J. J. Hooper, Washington, D. C.

45. “British Officer,” by Alfred T. Agate (1812-1846) ; from Miss HDlizabeth A.
DuHamel, Washington, D. C.

LOANS ACCEPTED

A miniature, “Otto, Count de Mosloy,” by Charles Willson Peale,
1779, was lent by Dr. L. P. Shippen on September 24, 1943.

An oil painting, “Portrait of Mrs. Stephen Decatur, nee Susan
Wheeler (1776-1860),” by Gilbert Stuart (1755-1828), and four
crayon drawings on paper, “Portrait of Ann Decatur Pine,” “Portrait
of Capt. James McKnight,” “Portrait of Capt. Stephen Decatur, Sr.,”
and “Portrait of Ann Pine McKnight Decatur,” by Saint-Memin
(1770-1852), were lent by Mrs. William F. Machold, nee Sarah Morris,
on November 22, 1943.

Thirty Chinese jade ornaments were lent anonymously on March 1,
1944,

A miniature, “Col. Nathaniel Darby,” by an unknown artist, was
lent by Dr. L. P. Shippen on March 25, 1944.

Two miniatures, “John Church Hamilton,” and “Unknown Lady,”
by Alfred T. Agate (1812-1846), were lent by Miss Elizabeth A.
DuHamel on April 7, 1944.

A miniature, “William Parsons, 2nd, of Gloucester, Mass.,” by
Washington Blanchard (ac. 1831-43, Boston), was lent by Mrs. Alba
Walling on May 18, 1944.

An oil painting, “Portrait of Lt. Gen. Mark W. Clark,” by M. Arnold
Nash, was lent by Mrs. Mark W. Clark on June 7, 1944.

LOANS TO OTHER MUSEUMS AND ORGANIZATIONS

The following 13 paintings were lent to the Civilian Medical Di-
vision, Office of the Secretary of War, Dr. F. C. Smith, Medical Di-
rector, Room 1 E 356, Pentagon Building, on July 21, 1943, with the
understanding that they can be recalled at any time.

“Street Scene in Ajmere,” by William S. Bagdatopoulos.
“Peshawar City from the Fort,” by William §S. Bagdatopoulos
“Peachbloom,” by Alice Pike Barney.

“Landscape with Pond,” by John L. Bennett.

“The Woodland Way,” by William Baxter Closson.

“Joyous Childhood,” by William Baxter Closson.

“Near the Ocean,” by Robert Swain Gifford.

“On the Lagoon, Venice,” by Robert Swain Gifford.
“Landscape with Windmill,” by E. Landseer Harris.

“Great Silas at Night,” by Robert C. Minor.

“The Brook,” by Clinton Ogilvie.

“The Patriarchs, Zion National Park,’ by Gunnar Widforss. _,
“The Artist’s Children,” by John Wood.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 41

A marble statue, “Greek Slave,” by Hiram Powers (without the
pedestal), was lent to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York
City, for an exhibition “The Greek Revival in the United States,”
November 8, 1943, to March 1, 1944. (Returned March 7, 1944.)

_ Two oil paintings, “Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wymoing

Territory,” by Thomas Moran, and “Fired On,” by Frederic Reming-
ton, were lent to The Museum of Modern Art, New York City, for an
exhibition of “Romantic Painting in America,” November 17 through
February 6, 1944. (Returned February 18, 1944.)

An oil painting, “Thomas A. Edison Listening to his First Per-
fected Phonograph,” by Col. A. A. Anderson, was lent to the Depart-
. ment of Engineering and Industries, United States National Museum,
on February 11, 1944, to be used in connection with a special exhibition
commemorating the ninety-seventh birthday of Edison. (Returned
March 3, 1944.)

The following five miniatures were lent to the Lyman Allyn Museum,
New London, Conn., to be included in the exhibition of John Trum-
bull and his contemporaries from March 5 to April 16, 1944. (Re-
turned April 19, 1944.)

“Mr. Nichol,” by John Wesley Jarvis. |

“Hlizabeth Oliphant,” by James Peale.

“Blizabeth Knapp,” by James Peale.

“Robert Oliphant,” by Raphael Peale.

“Rubens Peale,” by Raphael Peale.

An oil painting, “Portrait of Frank B. Noyes,” by Ossip Perelma,
was lent to the artist to be shown in connection with his exhibition of
portraits held at the Mayflower Hotel, Washington, D. C., May 9 to
June 1, 1944, (Returned June 5, 1944.)

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

The following six paintings, lent by the Rev. F. Ward Denys, were
withdrawn November 3, 1943, by the executor of his estate, the Ameri-
can Security and Trust Company. .

“The Salutation,” copy after Albertinelli.

“Holy Family,” copy after Del Sarto.

“Gathering Flowers,” by E. Keyser.

“St. Michael and the Dragon,” copy after Guido Reni.

“Madonna and Child,” copy after Perugino.

“St. Anthony and the Lions,” by unknown artist.

The bronze statue of Lincoln, by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, lent by
the estate of Mrs. John Hay, was withdrawn December 13, 1943.

An oil painting, “Portrait of a Dutch Girl,” by Jan Victoors, was
withdrawn December 31, 1948, by Mrs. Feroline Perkins Wallach,
Administratrix of the Estate of Cleveland Perkins.
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Two oil paintings, “The Windmill,” by Salomon Ruysdael, and
“Portrait of a Dutch Girl,” by Paul Moreelse, were withdrawn May
15, 1944, by Mrs. Feroline Perkins Wallach, Administratrix of the
Estate of Cleveland Perkins.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND PURCHASES

No. 118 entitled “Fifteenth Century French Madonna and Child,”
by Harry W. Watrous (1857-1940), was assigned by the Council
of the National Academy of Design to the Coker College for Women,
Hartsville, S. C., on August 4, 1948.

THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS REFERENCE LIBRARY

A total of 651 publications (829 volumes and 322 pamphlets) were
accessioned during the year. This number includes 171 volumes and
52 pamphlets added by purchase, and 60 volumes of bound periodicals.
The Parke-Bernet priced catalogs accounted for 31 volumes and 45
pamphlets among the purchases. The other accessions were publica-
tions received in exchange or as gifts.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

The following paintings have been cleaned or restored since July 1
1948:

“Portrait of Andrew Jackson,” by Thomas Sully. Property of the United
States Capitol.

“Portrait of Commodore Oliver H. Perry,” by John Wesley Jarvis (or after).
Property of the division of history, United States National Museum.

“City of St. Louis,” by George Catlin. Property of the division of ethnology,
United States National Museum.

“Ha-won-je-tah, the One Horn. Sioux (Dah-Co-Ta),” by George Catlin. Prop-
erty of the division of ethnology, United States National Museum.

“View on Upper Missouri—Back View of the Mandan Village,” by George
Catlin. Property of the division of ethnology, United States National Museum.

“Buffalo Hunt under the Wolf-skin Mask,” by George Catlin. Property of
the division of ethnology, United States National Museum.

“Portrait of Robert Morris,” by Gilbert Stuart (or after), offered to the Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts by the Medical Society of the District of Columbia.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held:

October 6 through 31, 1943.—Exhibition of 13 oil and 2 varnish
paintings, 4 water colors, 1 gouache, 4 pencil drawings and 2 etchings,
by Ceferino Palencia, of Mexico, was sponsored by the Mexican Am-
bassador and the Pan American Union. A catalog was published by
the Pan American Union.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

December 8, 1943, through January 2, 1944.—Exhibition of 74 water
colors of Mexico, by Walter B. Swan, Omaha, Nebr., was sponsored
by the Mexican Ambassador and the Pan American Union. A catalog
was published by the Pan American Union.

December 14, 1943, through January 16, 1944.—Exhibition of 82
miniatures by 52 artists, by the Pennsylvania Society of Miniature
Painters. Reprint of catalog was published by the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts.

January 6 through 30, 1944.—Exhibition of 21 water colors and 20
block prints, by Ralph H. Avery, C. Sp. (P.), United States Navy.

February 4 through 27, 1944—Joint exhibition of paintings by
John Mix Stanley (1814-72), his daughter-in-law, Jane C. Stanley
(1863-1940), and her daughter, Alice Stanley Acheson, consisting of
30 oil paintings, 3 chromolithographs, and 7 small lithographs by
John Mix Stanley, a photograph of John Mix Stanley, and a book
entitled “John Mix Stanley and his Indian Paintings,” by W. Vernon
Kinietz; 40 water colors by Jane C. Stanley, and 28 oils by Alice Stan-
ley Acheson. A catalog was privately published.

April 29 through May 2, 1944.—Biennial Art Exhibition of 20
water colors, 41 oils, 4 etchings, 2 pastels and 4 pieces of sculpture, by
the National League of American Pen Women. A catalog was pri-
vately published.

May 2 through 28, 1944.—Exhibition of “Portraits of Leading Amer-
ican Negro Citizens,” 8 by Mrs. Laura Wheeler Waring, of Phila-
delphia, Pa., and 15 by Mrs. Betsy Graves Reyneau, of Washington,
Dac.

June 2 through 28, 1944.—Exhibition of 78 mural paintings from the
caves of India, and 16 paintings of modern India, by Sarkis Katcha-
dourian, of New York City. A catalog was published by the State
Department.

| PUBLICATIONS

Totman, R. P. Report on the National Collection of Fine Arts for the year
ended June 30, 19438. Appendix 3, Report of the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the year ended June 30, 1943, pp. 35—40.

WeEnLEy, A. G. Report on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30,
1943. Appendix 4, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ended June 30, 1943, pp. 41-46.

Respectfully submitted.
R. P. Totman, Acting Director.
THe SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Srr: I have the honor to submit the twenty-fourth annual report
on the Freer Gallery of Art for the year ended June 30, 1944:

THE COLLECTIONS
Additions to the collections by purchase are as follows:

BRONZE

43.9. Chinese, 12th century B. C. Shang dynasty. Ceremonial vessel of the type
ku. Light green patina with patches of silvery gray inside and out;
incrustations of cuprite and native copper inside and out. Surface
design incised and filled with a reddish pigment. A two-character
inscription inside the foot. 0.293 x 0.167 over all.

44.1. Chinese, 12th century B. C. Shang dynasty. A ceremonial vessel of the
type tsun. Light green patina; incrustations of cuprite and azurite
inside. Traces of red and black pigments in the design. A three-char-
acter inscription with ya hsing inside on the bottom. 0.297 x 0.281 over
all. (Illustrated.)

44.3. Chinese, Han dynasty (206 B. C-—A. D. 221). Mirror. Surface: a black
patina with overlay of green aerugo on the face and on the rim of the
back. Decoration in low relief with four characters around the boss.
Diameter: 0.142.

44.4. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-907). Mirror. Surface: a bright
silvery patina with patches of green aerugo. Decoration of birds, ani-
mals, insects, and flowers in relief. Diameter: 0.192.

44.5. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-907). Mirror. Surface: a silvery
patina with occasional patches of green aerugo. Decoration of grapes,
birds, and animals, in bold relief. Diameter: 0.212.

44.6. Chinese, early Han, 8d century B.C. Mirror. Surface: a tarnished silvery
patina with patches of green aerugo. Decoration: fine incised back-
ground with designs in flat relief superimposed. Diameter: 0.100.

44.7. Chinese, Sui dynasty (A. D. 581-618). Mirror. Surface: a bright silvery
patina with remains of green lacquer spilled over the edge; boss incrusted
with green aerugo. Decoration in relief with additions of red and
green pigment. Inscription of 27 characters. Diameter: 0.184.

44.8. Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-907). Mirror. Surface: a tarnished
silvery patina covered with patches of green aerugo. Decoration:
lacquer inlaid with silver and gold. 0.159 x 0.159.

44.9. Chinese, 3d-2d century B.C. Mirror. Surface: a black patina with patches
of green aerugo. Decoration: background incised, with a smooth circular
band and a seven-pointed star superimposed in countersunk relief. Di-
ameter: 0.190.

44.10. Chinese, 3d-2d century B.C. Mirror. Surface: a black patina with patches

of green aerugo. Decoration in low linear relief. Diameter: 0.142.

44 .
Secretary's Report, 1944.—Appendix 4 PLATE 1

A

$s
co

RATT

ised

a

44.14

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
Secretary's Report, 1944.—Appendix 4 PLATE 2

af

een

44.17

44.20

RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTION OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

CERAMICS

44.11. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Ko ware. Dish with sloping sides and six-foil
rim. Body of hard, dark gray clay showing brown on the foot-rim, coy-
ered with an opaque, buff-gray glaze with a medium crackle and some
small iron spots. 0.031 x 0.132.

44.12. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Yiieh ware. Round, covered box with a design
of three flowers carved in low relief on the top. Body of hard, fine-
grained medium-gray clay, covered with a transparent, greenish-gray
glaze which shows green in thicker areas. 0.052 x 0.187.

44.13—- Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, Ch‘ien Lung period. Pair of bowls, each with

44.14, a stem attached into a free-moving reticulated base. The body of
each is of white porcelain, covered with a pure white glaze upon which
the decoration is painted in overglaze enamels. The base of each is
glazed in celadon. On the foot of each stem a six-character mark of
the Ch‘ien Lung period in underglaze blue. 44.13, 0.131 x 0.164 over all;
44.14, 0.185 x 0.163 over all. (44.14 illustrated. )

44.15. Chinese, Sung dynasty. Ting ware. Small plate, with a slight concavity
and a narrow rim, bound in brass. The body is of white porcelanous
clay, covered with a lustrous, cream-white glaze. The decoration of
ducks, lotuses, and water plants in slight relief under glaze. 0.017 x 0.140
(diameter).

JADE

44.18. Chinese, 18th century. Ch‘ien Lung period (1736-95). A tripod vessel of

a-b-c. the ting type with a cover surmounted by a lion sejant; annular handles
depending from dragon heads in relief; all carved from a single piece of
white nephrite. Wood stand. 0.250 x 0.283 over all.

LACQUER

44.19. Japanese, late 17th century. Writing box (swzuri-bako) in polished black
lacquer (rd-iro) decorated in gold and pewter. Bronze water box (mizu-
ire) and an ink stone; two trays. 0.051 x 0.226 x 0.221.

44.20. Japanese, 14th century. Late Kamakura. Small cabinet (kodansu) in
polished black lacquer (76-ir0) now turning brown. Decorations of
chrysanthemums, grasses, butterflies, and vines executed in gold and
mother-of-pearl. Six drawers and two doors; lock, hinges, ete., in dark,
chiseled bronze. 0.280 x 0.3384 x 0.218. (Illustrated).

44.21. Japanese, 16th century. Painter’s box (e-bako) in two parts with cover
and tray in upper part. Polished black lacquer (7r6-iro) inlaid with
closely set small chrysanthemums of mother-of-pearl, whose surfaces are
engraved with the lines of the petals. 0.203 x 0.172 x 0.358.

44.23. Japanese, late 17th century. Letter-box (fu-bako) with gold-flecked ground
(nashi-ji) upon which the decoration is executed in varying tones of
gold and silver. Silver fittings. 0.075 x 0.250 x 0.096.

44.26. Japanese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1844. By Yamamoto Shun-
sho. Medicine chest (yakur6). Polished black lacquer (rd-iro) con-
taining six drawers; silver corner mountings. Decorations executed in
black lacquer in relief, and in gold and red. Inscription of 11 characters
including date, signature, and kakihan. One seal. 0.338 x 0.328 x 0.198.

44.22. Japanese, 17th-19th century. Three writing boxes (suzuri-bako).

44.24.

44.25.
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

44.27- Japanese, 17th-18th century. Eighteen medicine cases (inro) of varying
44.44 types and designs.
incl.
MANUSCRIPT

44.17. Armenian, 13th century. The Gospel according to the four Evangelists.
Original binding of tooled brown leather, the top cover adorned with a
cruciform design executed in silver nailheads; at its center a square
crystal containing a Greek cross cut into it from underneath ; other small
silver appliqués (some missing). The text is written on 582 parchment
leaves in double columns, in bolorgir or “round hand,” in black, gold, and
occasional blue, red, and green. Initials, paragraphs, title pages, arcades,
and four full-page miniatures with figures of the Evangelists—executed
in colors and gold. Dated colophons. 0.244 x 0.179 over all.
0.240 x 0.169 average page. (Page 28 illustrated.)

PAINTING

43.10. Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1541. Ming dynasty. By
Wén Pi (Chéng-ming), 1470-1559. Chrysanthemums and pine tree. Ink
painting on a paper scroll. Dated and signed by the artist; two colo-
phons, one by the artist; 20 seals. 0.755 x 0.315.

44.16. Chinese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1684. Ch‘ing dynasty. By
Tao-chi (fl. circa A. D. 1662-1706). Landscape. Ink and slight color on a
paper scroll. Inscription, signature, and four seals on the painting; in-
scription and three seals on the mount. 0.264 x 3.182.

44.45. Japanese, dated in correspondence with A. D. 1773. Attributed to Okyo.
Pilgrims going to Hase-dera in the springtime. Color and ink on a
silk kakemono. Inscription, signature, two seals. 0.447 x 0.812.

STONE SCULPTURE

44.2. Chinese, 8th century. T‘ang dynasty. Head belonging to the dancing
figure in the processional relief 24.2 (reattached). 0.115 x 0.068 x 0.068.
The work of the curatorial staff has been devoted to the study of
new acquisitions and of other objects submitted for purchase, from
the fields of Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Persian, and Indian fine arts.
Such work involves comparative study, reading of inscriptions and
seals, written reports, and so on. In addition to the work within the
collection, reports, either oral or written, were made upon 658 objects
and 122 photographs of objects submitted for examination by their
owners, and 44 inscriptions were translated. A large part of the time
of staff members has been given to work directly contributing to the
war effort, summarized as follows:

WAR WORK

Members of the staff devoted many hours both inside and outside
regular hours to work for several Government agencies. Five
hundred forty-two typed pages-of Japanese translations were made
for the Office of Strategic Services; and a revised translation of a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

Guide to Signs and Symbols used on Chinese military maps were made
and a compilation of a glossary of Chinese geographical and topo-
graphical terms was edited and revised for the Army Map Service.
The Chinese character for “Victory” was made for an artist to be
used in connection with a publication on the United Nations. Photo-
graphs made by the Freer Gallery field staff in China were reproduced
for the Military Intelligence Division of the War Department (27
prints). For another agency, several Japanese documents were ex-
amined.

Other services have been given to various persons. For example,
63 photographs of Chinese paintings were presented to Dr. Shih-
chieh Wang, Secretary General of the People’s Council and Central
Planning Board of China and a member of the Chinese Goodwill
Mission; 557 photographs were given to members of the armed ser-
vices who visited the offices; 24 military students of the School of
Foreign Service, Georgetown University, were shown through the
Chinese exhibition galleries; and in Santa Fe, N. Mex., a lecture on
“Flower Painting in the Near and the Far East” was given by a staff
member using Freer Gallery material, for the benefit of the Indian
Service Club.

CHANGES IN EXHIBITION AND REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTION

Six hundred eighty-eight changes in exhibition have been made, as
follows:

American paintings:
Oils, 79; water colors, 35; pastels, 22.
American prints (Whistler) :
Etchings, 32; lithographs, 21.
Biblical manuscripts, 6.
Coptic book covers, 4.
Chinese arts:
Bronzes, 47; bronze and jade, 4.
Ceramics, 40.
Jade, 152.
Marble, 2.
Paintings, 117.
Silver, 36.
Sculpture, bronze, 32.
Sculpture, stone, 30.
Korean pottery, 27.
Syrian glass, 2.

Repairs to the collection were as follows:

One Chinese bronze repaired; 1 Persian painting remounted; 5 Japanese paint-
ings remounted ; 31 Chinese paintings bound in portfolio form.

Sculptured head 44.2 cemented upon its original place on the figure of the
dancer of the Chinese Buddhist relief 24.2.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944
ATTENDANCE

The Gallery has been open to the public every day from 9 untii
4:30 o’clock with the exception of Mondays and Christmas Day.

The total attendance of visitors coming in at the main entrance
was 62,408. Fifty-four other visitors on Mondays bring the grand
total to 62,462. The total attendance on weekdays was 35,610; Sun-
days, 26,798. ‘The average weekday attendance was 137; the average
Sunday attendance, 515. The highest monthly attendance was in
August, with 6,789 visitors, the lowest in December with 3,394 visitors.

There were 1,279 visitors to the main office during the year; the pur-
poses of their visits were as follows:

For ;j general:-information222. ree 4 Pi reel Be i eee ee 180
To.see, members) of, the, Staite! = 30 2s a Ee ee ee Be 505
To: réadvin, the library. 2 2) 2 2 ees ee ee ee ee 213
To make tracings and sketches from library books________-___________--__- 5
To'seeipullding and installations 22225 2 Ae ee eee 37
To make'photographs, and sketches2o= 22-1) tess C7 eas ae eae 15
To see exhibition galleries:on, Monday... 214: Si0ae) Ss) h cee i eee 0
To examine or purchase photographs and slides__________-___-______ 378
To; submit objects) tor examination] 22022 2 e ses ee ee ee 96
To See: ODJECtS| Mi SOLA Cis SE aks ak De Eee 209
Washington Manusenipte seo tee pe ee eee ce 56
Nari Hastern paintings and textiles 22225 2a 2 ean es a 36
Near Eastern paintings and manuscripts_______________________-__ 26
Baibetem’ para tir yee e kMe fea eE La 1
Fndian) spain ings. esse ee RNs ep ee eee ae ab
American)? painting see ie ts) Ck 2s ee ee eee 8
Oriental pottery, jade, bronze, lacquer and bamboo_____________-____ 72
Gold'treasures2 220 Sue oe ee eR 2 ee ee ee 3
Alls seul turrets ses lo ese The EAE a en mens ae PUA, 5
Syrian’ Class, ete Se ee a 1

DOCENT SERVICE, LECTURES, ETC.

By request, 2 groups met in the study rooms and 18 groups in the
exhibition galleries for instruction by staff members. Total num-
ber of persons, 321.

January 21,1944: The Director attended a meeting in New York
of the Committee of the American Council of Learned Societies on
Protection of Cultural Treasures in War Areas.

February 10,1944: A lecture by Miss Guest, on “Flower Painting in
Persia and China,” before the American Association of University
Women. |

Two lectures by members of the Civil Service Commission were
given to supervisors in the auditorium. Total attendance, 224.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49
PERSONNEL

Weldon N. Rawley resigned from the Civil Service position of
superintendent of building (CAF-8) August 15, 1943. He was ap-
pointed by the Freer Gallery as superintendent of building, court
and grounds, August 16, 1943.

Rita W. Edwards resigned from the Civil Service position of senior
clerk-stenographer (CAF-5) October 8, 1943. She was appointed
by the Freer Gallery as administrative secretary to the Director,
October 9, 1948.

Ruth W. Helsley appointed senior clerk-stenographer (CAF-5)
October 9, 1943.

K. Harriet Link, clerk-stenographer (CAF-4) transferred from the
Library of the Smithsonian Institution October 9, 1948.

Grace C. Griffith appointed librarian for a period of 1 year October
25, 1943.

Elizabeth Hill Maltby, former librarian, trained Miss Griffith for
the position of librarian October 25—December 13, 1943.

Thomas R. Fullalove, painter, who was retired on account of dis-
ability February 15, 1937, died on November 22, 1943.

Bertie Turner, attendant at the Gallery since November 17, 1920,
retired on November 380, 1948.

Ruth W. Helsley, senior clerk-stenographer, resigned on December
4, 1943. She first came to the Gallery on November 22, 1920, resigned
on February 28, 1922, and was reinstated on May 5, 1930.

Alice Copeland appointed attendant (CPC-2) December 9, 1943.

E. Harriet Link promoted to senior clerk-stenographer (CAF-5)
December 9, 1943.

Grace C. Griffith, librarian, was married to Charles Maxwell Bar-
nett, United States Army Air Forces, on April 15, 1944.

Burns A. Stubbs resigned from the Civil Service position of chief
scientific aid (SP-8) April 23, 1944. He was appointed by the Freer
Gallery as assistant to the Director on April 24, 1944.

Glen P. Shephard was appointed museum aid (SP-4) from guard
(CPC-4) April 24, 1944.

Grace T. Whitney worked intermittently at the Gallery in the
Near East section between December 2, 1948 and June 21, 1944.

Other changes in personnel are as follows:

Appointments.—Alfred Hewitt, a guard on the day watch since
August 1, 1936, promoted to sergeant (CPC-5) July 1, 1943. Glen
P. Shephard, guard (CPC-4), from military furlough, July 1, 1943.
Charles W. Frost, guard (CPC-4), by transfer from Airport Detach-
ment No. 5, Gravelly Point, Va., August 27, 1943. Ethel Anderson,
charwoman (CPC-2), by transfer from the United States National
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Museum, December 9, 1943. George Jonathan, guard (CPC-4), ap-
pointed December 15, 1943. Pearl Fisher, charwoman (CPC-2),
appointed December 23, 1943. Milton Williams, laborer (CPC-2), ap-
pointed May 1, 1944. Victoria L. Dickerson, charwoman (CPC-2),
appointed May 4, 1944. George S. Young, cabinetmaker, appointed
by the month for special help in the shop, May 8, 1944.

Separations from the service—George 8. Young finished temporary
employment as cabinetmaker, November 4, 1943. Julia A. Robinson,
charwoman (CPC-2), transferred to the United States National
Museum, December 8, 1943. Pearl Fisher, charwoman (CPC-2), re-
signed March 22, 1944. Walter McCree, laborer (CPC-2), on in-
definite furlough for naval duty, April 4, 1944. 3

Respectfully submitted.

A. G. Wentey, Director.

Tue SEcRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Amer-
ican Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress of June 26, 1948, which pro-
vides “* * * for continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii and the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains. * * *”

During the fiscal year emphasis on activities concerned with Latin
America has continued.

Dr. W. D. Strong, Director of the Ethnogeographic Board, planned
to return to his duties at Columbia University soon after the close of
the fiscal year, and the work of the Board will thereafter be conducted
entirely by members of the Bureau staff.

As the war continues and the need for specialized information grows
less it is expected that the Bureau may gradually assume more of its
normal duties.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

On January 28, 1944, Dr. M. W. Stirling, Chief of the Bureau, left
Washington on the Sixth National Geographic Society-Smithsonian
Institution expedition to Mexico. The month of February was spent
in the states of Michoacan and Jalisco, where ‘a photographic record
was made of lacquer working in Uruapan and vicinity, and of pottery
making in Tlaquepaque. Ethnological pictures were made depicting
the activities and customs of the Tarascan Indians of Lake Patzcuaro.

From the beginning of March until the middle of May, an archeo-
logical reconnaissance was conducted in southern Veracruz, Tabasco,
and Campeche, with the principal objective of finding the extent of
the early La Venta culture in this area. Several new sites were located
as a result of this survey, and photographic records were made of a
number of private archeological collections.

Dr. Stirling returned to Washington on May 22, 1944.

During the year a report by Dr. Stirling, “Stone Monuments of
Southern Mexico,” was issued as Bulletin 138 of the Bureau.

During the year just passed, Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist,
completed the reading of proof for Bulletin 137, “The Indians of the
Southeastern United States.”

51
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

A study of the much discussed Norse expeditions to America was
undertaken and a manuscript completed embodying the results.

During the course of the year Dr. Swanton furnished to the Navy
Department more than 1,000 Indian tribal names and names of prom-
inent Indians, to be used for naming war vessels. Approximately 200
of these have been used.

On June 30, 1944, Dr. Swanton retired from the Bureau after
almost 44 years of service.

Dr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, continuing his American In-
dian linguistic studies, discovered evidence suggesting that Quechua
and Aymara, the languages of the two most highly civilized groups
of aboriginal South America, are related to the Hokan stock of western
North America. This is the first time that a linguistic relationship
has been indicated between North and South America. In addition
to this Dr. Harrington has reduced the number of linguistic stocks in
South America by establishing the relationship of many groups previ-
ously considered to be separate.

Because of his unique knowledge of languages, Dr. Harrington has
been called upon daily by the Office of Censorship to translate letters
written in little-known languages from all over the world. .

During the year several short papers on linguistic subjects have been
published in scientific journals.

On July 5, 1948, Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., senior archeologist,
went to Abilene, Tex., where he spent 5 days investigating a prehistoric
Indian burial which had been exposed 21 feet below the surface in a
bank of the Clear Fork of the Brazos River by floodwaters and which
was in danger of being washed away by a new rise. Studies of the
deposits at the site showed that the burial had been made during the
closing days of the Pleistocene or the beginning of the Early Recent
geologic period about 10,000 years ago. The skeleton was turned over
to the division of physical anthropology of the United States National
Museum, where it has received careful study and has added to the
knowledge of the physical type of the early Texas Indians.

Returning to Washington, Dr. Roberts spent the remainder of the
summer and the months of early autumn preparing contributions
to, obtaining pictures for, editing the manuscript, and reading proof
of a manual, “Survival on Land and Sea,” which was prepared for
the Publications Branch of the Office of Naval Intelligence, United
States Navy, by the Ethnogeographic Board and the staff of the
Smithsonian Institution. He later worked on a revision of this man-
ual for a second edition and also served as a consultant for a similar
manual being prepared for the Army Air Forces. During this period
he also furnished information to several other branches of the armed
services and some of the war agencies.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

Dr. Roberts also worked on his final report on the excavations at
the Lindenmeier Folsom Man site in northern Colorado, a project
completed shortly before the outbreak of the war, and also wrote a
number of articles for publication in scientific journals. On March.16,
1944, Dr. Roberts was appointed a member of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution’s Committee on Personnel Utilization and from that date until
the close of the fiscal year devoted considerable time to the activities
of that committee.

During such periods as the Chief was absent from Washington,
Dr. Roberts served as Acting Chief of the Bureau.

On September 1, 1943, Dr. Julian H. Steward, anthropologist, was
appointed Director of the Institute of Social Anthropology, an autono-
mous unit of the Bureau, reporting directly to the Secretary. His
work as editor of the Handbook of South American Indians also con-
tinued concurrently. <A brief statement on these two projects will be
found later on in this report.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Alfred Métraux, ethnologist,
was teaching in Mexico City, through an arrangement with the Na-
tional University of Mexico. He returned to duty on August 1, 1943,
and assisted Dr. Julian H. Steward in the preparation of the Hand-
book of South American Indians. Dr. Métraux was appointed Assist-
ant Director of the Institute of Social Anthropology on September 18,
1948. He completed four papers for the Handbook, and also gathered
bibliographical material for several other contributions and assembled
notes for the articles of the Handbook’s fifth volume.

During the fiscal year Dr. Henry B. Collins, Jr., ethnologist, con-
tinued his work as Assistant Director of the Ethnogeographic Board.
As in the previous year, the activities of the Board for which he was
responsible concerned research in connection with regional and other
information requested by the Army, Navy, and other war agencies.
He represented the Smithsonian Institution and the Ethnogeographic
Board as a technical adviser to the Emergency Rescue Equipment Sec-
tion of the Navy and wrote the Arctic section for the booklet “Survival
on Land and Sea.” Some 750,000 copies of this official Navy survival
manual have been distributed to the fleet and shore stations.

Dr. Collins contributed the sections on geography, history, and
anthropology for an article on the Aleutian Islands, which will be
published as one of the series of War Background Studies of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

During such time as was available, Dr. Collins continued his re-
searches on the Eskimo and the southeastern Indians.

Dr. William N. Fenton, ethnologist, continued to serve as research
associate of the Ethnogeographic Board. With the assistance of

«
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Miss Mae W. Tucker, he has maintained for the Ethnogeographic
Board the world file of area and language specialists, which has
grown to include more than 10,000 entries for all continents and island
areas. This file has been extensively used by the military and other
war agencies in their search for specialized personnel. From this
file a series of five studies were prepared, together with maps and in-
dexes, showing domestic sources of photographs on strategic areas
of interest particularly to the Navy Department. At the request
of the Army Specialized Training Division, the Ethnogeographic
Board commenced a survey of area and language teaching in the Army
Specialized Training Program and the Civil Affairs Training Schools
in 25 American universities and colleges. Dr. Fenton participated
in the survey, visiting 13 institutions between December 1943 and
March 1944, and since that time has been occupied in writing up ob-
servations and preparing reports for the proper offices.

In addition to this work, Dr. Fenton continued his studies on the
League of the Iroquois, translating a number of texts collected by
J.N.B. Hewitt and A. A. Goldenweiser. Dr. Fenton’s publications for
the year were: “The Last Passenger Pigeon Hunts of the Corn-
planter Senecas” (wth M. H. Deardorff), and “The Requickening
Address of the Iroquois Condolence Council” (of J. N. B. Hewitt), in
the Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences; and an obituary,
“Simeon Gibson: Iroquois Informant, 1889-1943,” in the American
Anthropologist; also several book reviews and notes in scientific and
literary journals.

Since joining the staff in December 1943, Dr. Homer G. Barnett, an-
thropologist, has served as executive secretary of a committee formed
under the sponsorship of the Ethnogeographic Board for the purpose
of assembling data upon the existing state of our scientific knowl-
edge of the Pacific Island area. The committee includes representa-
tives of the geological, geographic, linguistic, political science, and
anthropological disciplines. As executive secretary Dr. Barnett
has served chiefly as organizer and coordinator of the committee’s ac-
tions. Since some of the committee members are located outside of
Washington, considerable correspondence has been necessary as well
as meetings both in Washington and New York.

When not engaged in the above activities, Dr. Barnett has worked
on the organization of field notes on various Salishan and Northwest
Coast tribes, having in project a series of publications stressing cul- _
tural change among the Yurok, the Tsimshian, the Yakima, and the -
Makah. He has just completed one manuscript dealing with the
Indian Shaker cult of the northwestern United States.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY nD
INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGY

As stated above, Dr. Julian H. Steward, anthropologist, on Septem-
ber 1, 1948, became Director of the Institute of Social Anthropology,
an autonomous unit of the Bureau reporting directly to the Secretary.
As Dr. Steward was instructed in the official order establishing the
Institute to report to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
there are presented here brief abstracts from Dr. Steward’s reports
to Dr. Wetmore, Acting Secretary.

The Institute of Social Anthropology was first conceived in July
1942 and a project for its work was placed before the Interdepartmen-
tal Committee for Cooperation with the American Republics in Au-
gust of that year. Its stated purpose was to carry out cooperative
training in anthropological teaching and research with the other
American republics. For the fiscal year 1944, $60,000 was made avail-
able for the work of the Institute by transfer of funds from the State
Department appropriation.
~ In September 1943 the Director visited Mexico and established the
terms of an agreement for the work of the Institute with the authori-
ties of the Escuela Nacional de Antropologia and the Instituto
Nacional de Antropologia e Historia, submitting this to the Depart-
ment of State in late September. After some months of delay encoun-
tered in completing the agreement, Dr. George M. Foster, engaged by
the Institute as anthropologist in charge of the work in Mexico, pro-
ceeded to that country in May and started work in cooperation with
the organizations mentioned above. Dr. Donald D. Brand also repre-
sented the Institute in Mexico as cultural geographer.

No formal agreement has yet been entered into for similar work
in Peru. Nevertheless, Dr. John Gillin, appointed by the Institute in
January 1944 as anthropologist, commenced work in that country on
an informal basis. The remaining 6 months of the fiscal year were
devoted to reconnaissance and teaching at Cuzco and Trujillo.

A memorandum agreement for cooperative work in Colombia was
submitted early in 1944, but at the close of the fiscal year it had not
yet been reported out.

A new series in social anthropology entitled “Publications of the
Institute of Social Anthropology” was started with two papers, which
went to the printer just before the close of the fiscal year. No. 1 was
on “Houses and House Use of the Sierra Tarascans,” by Ralph L.
Beals, Pedro Carrasco, and Thomas McCorkle; No. 2 was entitled
“Cheran, a Sierra Tarascan Village,” by Ralph L. Beals.

619830—45——5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

HANDBOOK OF SOUTH AMERICAN INDIANS

The editing of the Handbook of South American Indians, begun
some years ago, was continued during the year by Dr. Julian H.
Steward after September 1, 1948, under his appointment as Director
of the Institute of Social Anthropology. Funds for the preparation
of the manuscript are transferred to the Smithsonian Institution from
the State Department appropriation for “Cooperation with the Ameri-
can Republics,” and the Bureau will pay the cost of publication in its
Bulletin series.

Volume 1, “The Marginal Tribes,” and volume 2, “The Andean Civil-
izations,” were completed during the year and sent to the printer. The
manuscripts of volumes 3 and 4 were nearly completed.

The Handbook is a truly cooperative project, as one-half of the
100 contributors are scientists of the other American republics.

SPECAL RESEARCHES

Miss Frances Densmore, a collaborator of the Bureau, continued
her work on the study of Indian music by writing a manuscript enti-
tled “Omaha Music,” with transcriptions of 64 songs. This manu-
script was based upon research in Nebraska in 1941 and included re-
recordings of several songs that were recorded for Miss Alice C.
Fletcher by the same singers. The date of the previous recordings
was said to have been 1887 to 1890 and the songs are included in Miss
Fletcher’s “Study of Omaha Indian Music,” published by the Peabody
Museum of Harvard University, and in “The Omaha Tribe,” by Miss
Fletcher and Francis La Flesche, in the Twenty-seventh Annual Re-
port of the Bureau. Many songs in Miss Fletcher’s work were recog-
nized by men who had not the tribal right to sing them. The present
manuscript includes old songs of Omaha military and social societies,
songs connected with the First World War, and songs of legends and
the hand game.

Miss Densmore compiled and presented to the Bureau a chronology
of her study and presentation of Indian music from 1893 to June 1944.
This chronology was based on diaries, scrapbooks, and Reports of the
Bureau. During a portion of the year she was engaged in completing
the handbook of the Smithsonian-Densmore collection of sound record-
ings of American Indian music for the National Archives.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editorial work of the Bureau continued during the year under
the immediate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. There were
issued one Annual Report and six Bulletins, as follows:
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

Sixtieth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1942-1943. 9 pp.
Bulletin 133. Anthropological papers, numbers 19-26. ix+615 pp., 34 pls.,
62 figs. :

No. 19. A search for songs among the Chitimacha Indians in Louisiana, by
Frances Densmore.

No. 20. Archeological survey on the northern Northwest Coast, by Philip
Drucker; with appendix, Early vertebrate fauna of the British
Columbia Coast, by Edna M. Fisher.

No. 21. Some notes on a few sites in Beaufort County, South Carolina, by
Regina Flannery.

No. 22. An analysis and interpretation of the ceramic remains from two
sites near Beaufort, South Carolina, by James B. Griffin.

No. 23. The eastern Cherokees, by William Harlen Gilbert, Jr.

No. 24. Aconite poison whaling in Asia and America: An Aleutian transfer
to the New World, by Robert F. Heizer.

No. 25. The Carrier Indians of the Bulkley River: Their social and religious
life, by Diamond Jenness.

No. 26. The quipu and Peruvian civilization, by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 136. Anthropological papers, numbers 27-32. viii+375 pp., 32 pls.,
5 figs. :

No. 27. Music of the Indians of British Columbia, by Frances Densmore.

No. 28. Choctaw music, by Frances Densmore.

No. 29. Some ethnological data concerning one hundred Yucatan plants, by
Morris Steggerda.

No. 30. A description of thirty towns in Yucatan, Mexico, by Morris
Steggerda.

No. 31. Some western Shoshoni myths, by Julian H. Steward.

No. 32. New material from Acoma, by Leslie A. White.

Bulletin 138. Stone monuments of southern Mexico, by Matthew W. Stirling.
vii+84 pp., 62 pls., 14 figs.

Bulletin 139. An introduction to the ceramics of Tres Zapotes, Veracruz, Mexico,
by C. W. Weiant. xiv-+144 pp., 78 pls., 54 figs., 10 maps.

Bulletin 140. Ceramic sequences at Tres Zapotes, Veracruz, Mexico, by Philip
Drucker. ix+155 pp., 65 pls., 46 figs.

Bulletin 141. Ceramic stratigraphy at Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz, Mexico,
by Philip Drucker. viii+-95 pp., 58 pls., 210 figs.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 187. The Indians of the Southeastern United States, by John R.
Swanton.

Bulletin 142. The contemporary culture of the Céhita Indians, by Ralph L.
Beals.

Bulletin 143. Handbook of South American Indians. Julian H. Steward,
Editor. Volume 1. The Marginal Tribes. Volume 2. The Andean Civilizations.

List of Publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, with index to
authors and titles. Revised to June 30, 1944.

Publications distributed totaled 14,903.

In addition to the regular work, the editorial staff of the Bureau
edited the first two publications of the Smithsonian Institution’s
Institute of Social Anthropology, now in press.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944
LIBRARY

Accessions during the fiscal year totaled 190. There has been a
sharp decrease in accessions owing to war conditions.

The routine work of accessioning and cataloging new material has
been kept up to date. About half of the cards withdrawn from the
catalog for reclassification have been returned to the catalog, with the
new numbers added and subject headings corrected.

The library has been used considerably for the work of the Ethno-
geographic Board and other war agencies.

ILLUSTRATIONS

During the year E. G. Cassedy, illustrator, continued the prepara-
tion of illustrations, maps, and drawings for the publications of the
Bureau and for those of other branches of the Institution.

MISCELLANEOUS

During the course of the year information was furnished by mem-
bers of the Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the
North American Indians, both past and present, and the Mexican
peoples of the prehistoric and early historic periods. Various speci-
mens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them furnished
for their owners.

Personnel.—Dr. Julian H. Steward, anthropologist, was appointed
Director of the Institute of Social Anthropology, Smithsonian
Institution, on September 1, 1943, by transfer from the Bureau, and
Dr. Homer G. Barnett was appointed as anthropologist on December
30, 1948, on the Bureau roll, to fill this vacancy. The work on the
Handbook of South American Indians was continued under the
Interdepartmental Committee for Cooperation with the American Re-
publics after September 1, 1948. Anthony W. Wilding, clerk-stenog-
rapher, was appointed Property Officer of the United States National
Museum on December 20, 1943, by transfer from the Bureau, and
Mrs. Catherine M. Phillips was appointed to fill this vacancy on De-
cember 22, 1948, by transfer from the editorial division, Smithsonian
Institution. Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, retired on June 30,
1944.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Sririine, Chief.

Tuer SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Sir: Ihave the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1944.

From the appropriation “General Expenses, Smithsonian Insti-
tution” there was allocated for the expenses of the Service, $26,137.

No money was allotted to the Institution this year by the Depart-
ment of State for use in mailing packages to Argentina and Brazil,
so that the cost of such mailings had to be met from the regular
Exchange allotment. These are the only two American countries with
which there are no reciprocal arrangements for the exchange of pub-
lications under governmental frank.

The number of packages received during the year for distribution
at home and abroad was 407,764, a decrease from last year of 105,696.
These packages weighed a total of 243,180 pounds, a decrease of 5,468
pounds. This material is classified as follows:

Packages Weight

Received Received
en from Few ron
abroad abroad

Pounds | Pounds

United States parliamentary documents sent abroad _-_--.-.---- 30d; 003) [ees eee p71) Oh eee

Publications received in return for parliamentary documents__-_|____------ (Ay ial (ASRS stew 1, 544
United States departmental documents sent abroad-___-------- 52)'968) [oo ae ee C1 1) by Al | ae Se
Publications received in return for departmental documents_-_-_-|_-.._--__- B79 fet 2s tees 1, 530
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad__| 46,700 |....---_-- 621768 hence ee
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from
abroad for distribution in the United States__._._.._.--_--_--]---------- Ri Al Ee eee 6, 320
HN UES SE See eee ees Ree A oe eg 402, 771 4,993 | 233,786 9, 394
Granditotalee® 2 Fe seit etek. 22 ER ees OnE Sd 407, 764 243, 180

Packages are forwarded abroad partly by freight to exchange
bureaus for distribution, and partly by mail directly to their destina-
tions. The number of boxes shipped abroad was 649, an increase over
last year of 6 boxes. Of these, 385 were for depositories of full sets of
United States governmental documents. The number of packages
sent by mail was 89,688.

59
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

War conditions have made it necessary for the Institution to suspend
shipments to many foreign countries. The countries to which
shipments were being made at the close of the year were as follows:

Eastern Hemisphere:
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Portugal.
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
Union of South Africa.
India
Australia.
New Zealand.
Western Hemisphere: All countries.

In the report for 1941 it was stated that the British Museum, Depart-
ment of Printed Books, had requested the Institution to discontinue
the sending of the full set of United States governmental documents
for the duration of the war because of the possibility of destruction
of the material through bombings of London. About the middle of
the current year the British Museum asked that the forwarding of
the Government sets be resumed as numerous requests had been re-
ceived for information contained in many of the documents. Accord-
ingly, all accumulations of official documents for the British Museum
were sent and regular transmissions have since been made.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
for transmission abroad through the International Exchange Service
is 93 (55 full and 38 partial sets). On account of war conditions it is
possible at this time to forward only 58 of these sets. The remaining
35 are being withheld for the duration.

During the year Iran and Iraq were added to the list of those coun-
tries receiving partial sets. The depository in Iran is the Ministry
of Education at Tehran, and in Iraq, Public Library at Baghdad.

The partial-set depository in Afghanistan has been changed to the
Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul. The depository of the
partial set sent to Bengal has been changed to Library, Bengal Legis-
lature, Calcutta.

A complete list of the depositories follows. Under present condi-
tions, consignments are forwarded only to those countries listed on
tions, consignments are forwarded only to those countries listed above.

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Direccién de Investigaciones, Archivo, Biblioteca y Legislacién
Ixtranjera, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, Buenos Aires.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 61

AUSTRALIA: Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH WaALxgEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.
SourH AUSTRALIA; Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.
VictTori14: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
BeuieIuM: Biblothéque Royale, Bruxelles.
Brazi.: Instituto Nacional do Livro, Rio de Janeiro.
CanapA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Manrropa: Proyincial Library, Winnipeg.
ONTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.
QUEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.
CoLoMBIA :. Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.
CusA: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA : Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Eeyper: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.
ESTONIA: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Tallinn.
FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.
FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.
GERMANY: Reichstauschstelle im Reichsminsterium fiir Wissenschaft, Erziehung
und Volksbildung, Berlin, N. W. 7.
Prussra : Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
GREAT BRITAIN:
ENGLAND: British Museum, London.
Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository
of the London County Council.)
Huncary: Library, Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.
Inp1A: Imperial Library, Calcutta.
IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.
ITALY: Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale, Rome.
JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.
LATVIA: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.
LHAGUE oF NATIONS: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Mexico: Direccién General de Informacioén, Secretaria de Gobernacién, Mexico,
D. F.
NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
NORTHERN JRELAND: H. M. Stationery Office, Belfast.
NorwAy: Universitets-Bibliothek, Olso. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)
PERU: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones Ex-
teriores, Lima.
PoLAND: Bibliothéque Nationale, Warsaw.
PorTUGAL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.
Rumania: Academia Romani, Bucharest.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Spain: Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Avenida de Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.
SwebDen: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.
TURKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education,
Istanbul.
UNIon or SoutH Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Union or Soviet Soctarist Rerusrics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow 115.
UKRAINE: Ukrainian Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries,
Kiev.
Urvucuayr: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA : Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
YuGosiavia: Ministére de l’Education, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORBIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.
Botiv1a: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

MinAs GerAES: Directoria Geral e Estatistica em Minas, Bello Horizonte.
BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA:

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

British CotumMpia: Provincial Library, Victoria.

NEw BRUNSWICE: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

Nova Scorra: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PRINCE HDWARD ISLAND: Legislative and Public Library, Charlottetown.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

Cryuton : Chief Secretary’s Office, Record Department of the Library, Colombo.
CuHiInA: National Library of Peiping.
DoMINICAN ReEPvusLic: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.
Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala.
HarttI: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:
Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.
INDIA:

BENGAL: Library, Bengal Legislature, Assembly House, Calcutta.

BIHAR AND ORISSA: Revenue Department, Patna.

Bompay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-

ment, Bombay.

BurMa: Secretary to the Government of Burma, Education Department,

Rangoon.

PunsaB: Chief Secretary to the Government of the Punjab, Lahore.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
IrnAN: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.

Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
Liseria: Department of State, Monrovia.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 63

Matra: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Home Affairs, St. John’s.
Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PanaMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
Paracuay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asuncién.
SALVADOR :
Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
THAILAND: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
VATICAN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad only 58 copies each of the Con-
gressional Record and Federal Register, the number having been
reduced on account of the war from 71, as fully reported on last year.
The Library of Congress has arranged to have an extra copy of the
Register furnished for transmission to Dr. Fermin Peraza for use in
connection with his work as director of several pan-American organ-
izations at Habana, Cuba.

A list of the countries and depositories to which these journals are
being forwarded follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA :
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Camara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
Boletin Oficial de la Repfiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruccién
Pablica, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA }
Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH WateEs: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALLA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
BRAZIL:
Biblioteca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Amazonas: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Mandos.
BaniA: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sao Salvador.
Espirito Santo: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.
Rio GRANDE po Sut: “A Federacio,” Porto Alegre.
Sercire: Biblioteca Publica do Hstado de Sergipe, Aracaja.
BririsH HonpurAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CusA: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
GREAT Britain: Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.
GUATEMALA: Bibiloteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.
Harr: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
Honpvurkas: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

InpIA: Legislative Department, Simla.
In1isH Free STATE: Dail Hireann, Dublin.
MExIco:
Direcci6n General de Informaci6én, Secretaria de Gobernacién, Mexico, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, Mexico, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del. Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CuIaPas: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutierrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
CoaHuILA: Periddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CoLtImA: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DUEANGO: Gobernador, Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
GuaANnAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
JALISco: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Lower CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
Mexico: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHoacANn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacan,
Morelia.
MoRELOs: Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NAYARIT;: Gobernador de Nayarit, 'Tepic.
NvEvo LEON: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacio de Gobierno, Oaxaca.
PUEBLA: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QuERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luis Potosi: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
SrnALoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacdn.
Sonora : Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
TABASCO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién 3a, Ramo de Prensa, Villa-
hermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLAXCALA: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.
VeRAcCRUZ: Gobernador del Hstado de Veracruz, Departmento de Goberna-
cién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucaTAn : Gobernador del Estado de Yucatan, Mérida.
NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Peru; Camara de Diputados, Lima.
UNION or SoUTH AFRICA:
Library of Parliament, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.
_ State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.
Urucuay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE AGENCIES

There is given below a list of bureaus or agencies to which consign-
ments are forwarded in boxes by freight when the Service is in full
operation. To all countries not appearing in the list, packages are
sent to their destinations through the mails. As stated previously,
shipments are forwarded during wartime only to those countries listed
on page 60.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

LIST OF AGENCIES

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

AZORES, via Portugal.

BetgiuM: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de
Belgique, Bruxelles.

Canary ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange, Ministry of Education, Chungking.

CzECHOSLOVAKIA: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de 1’As-
semblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

DenMARK: Service Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Kongelige Danske
Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen V.

Eaypt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Kasirngatan 24,
Helsinki.

FRANCE: Service Francais des BWehanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GrrMANy: Amerika-Institut, Universitaitstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 721 North Circular Road, Willes-
den, London, N. W. 2.

Huncary: Hungarian Libraries Board, Ferenciektere 5, Budapest, IV.

INDIA: Superintendent of Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

ITaty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero dell’Educazione Nazionale,
Rome.

JAPAN: International Exchange Service, Imperial Library of Japan, Uyeno Park,
Tokyo.

Latvia; Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Eitat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LUxEMBo0vkRG, via Belgium.

MApDAGASCAR, via France.

MAperrRA, via Portugal.

MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Library,
The Hague.

New SoutH WatLgs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité Royale, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

PotanpD: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuGaL: Secefio de Trocas Internacionaes, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Ministére de la Propagande Nationale, Service des Echanges Inter-
nationaux, Bucharest.

SoutH AvsTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern:
ment Printing and Sationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisicién de Libros y Revistas para Biblote-
cas Publicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo, 20,
Madrid.

SweEpEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

SWITZERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Centrale

Fédérale, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.
TuRKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, Istanbul.
UNIon oF SouTH AFRICA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,

Cape of Good Hope.

UNIoN oF Soviet SocraList ReEPuBLIcs: International Book Exchange Depart-

ment, Society for Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries, Moscow, 56.
Victor1A: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
YucostaviA: Section des Echanges Internationaux, Ministére des Affaires

Etrangéres, Belgrade.

M. A. Tolson, who was appointed under the Smithsonian in March
1881, resigned December 31, 1943, after having been connected with
the Institution over 62 years. Mr. Tolson was retired from the gov-
ernment roll in 1934, but has since been employed by the Smithsonian
Institution. He continued to perform his regular duties until his
resignation.

Clayton L. Polley was, at his own request, retired July 1, 1943.
Mr. Polley was a veteran of the volunteer forces of the United States,
having served in the Spanish-American war and the Philippine
Insurrection.

Paul M. Carey, who enlisted in the Army in August 1942 and who
was discharged therefrom on account of disability, was, owing to that
condition, retired from the Exchanges February 24, 1944.

Respectfully submitted.

F. E. Gass, Acting Chief Clerk.

Tue SECRETARY,

Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 7
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1944.

The regular appropriation made by Congress was $277,130, of which
$34,732 was expended for overtime under the special legislation in
effect for this purpose.

GROUNDS, BUILDINGS, AND ENCLOSURES

The primary function of the Zoo is to maintain and exhibit its col-
lection of animals. To accomplish this under wartime conditions, it
has been necessary to limit other activities strictly to maintenance
work. No extensive improvements have been made during the year,
and because of the difficulty in obtaining critical materials, even the
maintenance work has frequently been of a temporary nature. The
gates of the Zoo have been open from daylight to dark, and many
visitors come to the Park after their working hours. In general, the
Park and the collection are in good condition and continue to be used
and appreciated by large numbers of visitors.

PERSONNEL

There has been a fairly consistent shortage of manpower in the Zoo
of about 20 percent. This has necessitated the employment of tem-
porary labor when it could be obtained, which has thrown a heavy
burden onto supervisors to whom such untrained personnel was
assigned. The additional supervisory burden has been well carried
out, with the result that the care of the Park and of the animals
has not been seriously neglected.

On December 31, Head Keeper W. H. Blackburne retired. For 17
years past the retirement age he had been retained by Executive
order, and on December 31 completed service of 53 years. He came to
the Zoo in 1891 as Keeper, and was made Head Keeper the following
year. In 1913, accompanied by Mrs. Blackburne, he went to Egypt to
bring back a collection from the zoo at Gizah. Jumbina, the National
Zoo’s large African elephant, was one of the specimens he brought
back; also the pair of cheetahs that lived in the Zoo for nearly 15

67
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

years. On his retirement the Smithsonian Institution appointed Mr.
Blackburne consultant to the Director for life. In his more than half
a century of continuous service, Mr. Blackburne saw the Zoo grow
from the original lot of 124 specimens that he brought to the Park from
the Smithsonian grounds in a wagon borrowed from the Humane
Society to its present size.

WARTIME PROBLEMS

All zoos have faced wartime difficulties in obtaining food and sup-
plies. The National Zoo, however, has received valuable assistance
from the managers of some of the large Safeway, A. and P., Giant,
and other stores, who have put aside for the Zoo trimmings from vege-
tables. These are picked up by truck each day and provide the Zoo
with greens and certain types of vegetables. Through the United
States Marshal’s Office there have been obtained considerable quan-
tities of food condemned for one reason or another as not fit for human
consumption, including several tons of peanuts, quantities of soy beans,
and other products, which have been of material aid.

ATTENDANCE

The attendance for the year was:

ye ot ee ee ee a I 172,300) ‘Mebrnary, 2. 280 ee 538, 200
PURE eS ee Oe eae 204, SOO! March a. eae ale 97, 450
Sepcemipen Laks sw ee Na 228, OOO Ayn | ieee ee ee eee 207, 982
Getober fh) a KS SPE: ae 142\950" Mary 25 a eRe ea 269, 500
November ss tee= 502) oles 143, 400) James (es ath. Fas eee 169, 000
December 45 ois. As eee 42, 850 ——
SAT Yop a 72, 300 Total); 22. eee eee 1, 808, 532

Although no actual tabulation was made, it was apparent that mili-
tary and naval personnel constituted a very substantial proportion of
the total number of visitors.

There has been a good attendance from various schools and groups
who have come by whatever means of transportation were available.
It is interesting to note that the number of visitors is more even
throughout the week than hitherto, although naturally the attendance
reaches its peak on Saturday afternoons, Sundays, and holidays. The
number of family picnic parties has greatly increased.

Medical groups have come to the Zoo for the purpose of studying
certain types of animals, and the Zoo office receives many requests from
the War and Navy Departments and other agencies of the Govern-
ment for information on biological problems. The Zoo continues to be
a regular study ground for art and biology classes, as well as a focal
point for inquiries about animals by mail, by telephone, and in person.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

ACQUISITION OF SPECIMENS

The animal market has naturally been restricted by the small num-
ber of shipments being made from abroad, but a moderate number of
desirable specimens have been obtained by purchase or exchange.
Among these are a trio of Dama wallabies, the two females of which
have produced young since their arrival from the San Diego Zoological
Society ; a Diana monkey, also from the San Diego Zoological Society ;
a pair of cotton-headed marmosets, a pair of scarlet cocks-of-the-rock,
and a young male jaguar.

GIFTS

Through the Army a number of interesting and valuable specimens
have been obtained. Among these are a pair of those rare birds, the
kagus, presented by the Free French Government of New Caledonia
through Lt. Gen. A. M. Patch and brought to Washington by Lt. John
H. Fulling while on leave. On a subsequent voyage, Lieutenant Full-
ing obtained for the Zoo a pair of flying phalangers and a fine carpet
python.

The Army of the U.S.S. R. presented to the Persian Gulf Command,
United States Army, through Maj. Gen. Donald H. Connolly, a young
Russian bear from the southern Caucasus. This bear, “Mischa,” was
brought from Persia to Washington under the care of Lt. A. J. Miller.

From the Medical Section, India China Wing, Air Transport Com-
mand, through Col. Don Flickinger, came a collection of Indian rep-
tiles, including cobras, kraits, Russell’s vipers and a monitor lizard.
These were brought to Washington by Corp. Wesley H. Dickinson.

Another interesting addition was a baby howling monkey.

A complete list of donors and their gifts follows:

DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

W. Alderson, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

Ord Alexander, Washington, D. C., red-bellied turtle.

Army of the U. S. S. R., through Commanding General, Persian Gulf Command,
Maj. Gen. Donald H. Connolly, U. S. Army, Old World brown bear.

W. H. Aughinbaugh, Arlington, Va., 3 Reeves’ pheasants.

Mrs. C. A. Baker, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Jack Baldwin, Washington, D. C., alligator.

George Ballou, Bethesda, Md., raccoon, short-tailed shrew, sparrow hawk, 30
white mice, crow, fence lizard.

Mrs. Nell Barger, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Dr. Paul Bartsch, Washington, D. C., chain or king snake.

Mrs. G. N. Bates, Alexandria, Va., raccoon.

J. H. Benn, Silver Spring, Md., worm snake.

Mr. Berg, Fredericksburg, Va., red fox.

Mrs. John P. Bressler, Bethesda, Md., nine-banded armadillo.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

James G. Brunzos, Washington, D. C., 2 Pekin ducks.

S. M. Call, Mocksville, N. C., through North Carolina State Museum, Raleigh, N. C.,
albino opossum.

Donald A. Campbell, Chapel Hill, N. C., vervet monkey.

T. L. Canby, Silver Spring, Md., barn owl.

Dr. H. J. Carter, Washington, D. C., great blue heron.

Miss Margaret Carter and Miss Doris M. Rice, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Miss Frances Chatfield, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Peter Chittick, McLean, Va., spotted turtle, 3 milk snakes.

Robert Clagett, Landover, Md., Pekin duck.

Dr. Marie B. Clark, Cardozo High School, Washington, D. C., garter snake,
hog-nosed snake.

Tom Collingwood, Washington, D. C., tarantula.

Mrs. Edward Costello, Washington, D. C., red fox.

K. L. Curtis, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Gordon Daiger, Washington, D. C., 2 Cumberland terrapins.

James Daphney, Washington, D. C., 2 alligators.

Claudine DeHaven, Glasgow, Va., corn snake, black snake.

Glenn Dixon, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

Joanne V. Dyke, Washington, D. C., anolis.

_J. E. Ennis, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

Colonel Evans (address unrecorded), red-tailed hawk.

William L. Foster, Rockville, Md., barn owl.

F. F. Fox, Hyattsville, Md., 2 box turtles.

John Francis, Jr., Washington, D. C., opossum.

Mrs. Jean B. Fraser, Takoma Park, D. C., 5 American toads.

Free French Government of New Caledonia, through Lt. Gen. A. M. Patch, U. S.
Army, 2 kagus.

Mrs. Freeman, Washington, D. C., ring-necked pheasant.

Lt. John H. Fulling, U. S. Army, carpet python, 2 flying phalangers.

Stephen Gatti, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

Gordon Gaver, Thurmont, Md., indigo snake. ;

William C. Gawler, Bethesda, Md., 3 Pekin ducks.

Roger Granum, Washington, D. C., white rabbit.

Mrs. William S. Green, through C. Purcell McCue, Appledore Orchard, Greenwood,
Va., 2 sika deer.

Mrs. Charles Greer, Alexandria, Va., 3 Pekin ducks.

Granville Gude, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Willie Haltzman, Alexandria, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

John N. Hamlet, Fish and Wildlife Service, College Park, Md., 4 meadow mice, 2
northern ravens, 7 pine lizards, 2 blue-tailed skinks, 4 six-lined race runners,
pilot black snake.

Ernest O. Hammersla, Washington, D. C., howling monkey.

Mrs. H. Hanford, Washington, D. C., 3 canaries.

Maj. D. Elmo Hardy, U. S. A., 1 Hoolock gibbon.

Richard A. Harman, Alexandria, Va., alligator.

J. W. Harrison, Mt. Rainier, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Richard T. Heckman, Washington, D. C., 2 white mice.

Dr. Roy Hertz, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md., 18 American toads.

Mrs. Hibben, Vienna, Va., pilot snake.

Thomas M. Hopkins, Laurel, Md., water snake, snapping turtle.

Thomas M. Hopkins and Cylde T. Miles, Jr., Laurel, Md., 3 snapping turtles,
spotted turtle, 2 box turtles.

C. S. Howell, Remington, Va., guinea pigs.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 71

Gordon L. Jessup, Potomac Heights, D. C., black snake.

Miss J. M. Jones, Washington, D. C., yellow-naped parrot.

Mrs. W. A. Justice, Edgewater, Md., double yellow-headed parrot.

Mrs. Kanthal, Washington, D. C., white squirrel.

James G. Keller, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Alfred Kendall, Washington, D. C., cardinal.

Mrs. I. A. Kniazev, Silver Spring, Md., Cuban conure.

Mrs. Alta Brill Kremer, Maurertown, Va., 2 Pekin ducks.

Mrs. Martha Lawty, Washington, D. C., Texas horned lizard.

Ralph D. Lindsey, Silver Spring, Md., snapping turtle.

Miss Margaret Love, R. R., Leon, Kans., great horned owl.

Mrs. Lorraine Lowe, Washington, D. C., gray fox.

Francine Lee Lyons, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

M. K. Macknet, Takoma Park, Md., pilot snake.

Medical Section, India China Wing, Air Transport Command, through Col. Don
Flickinger, M. C., king cobra, Indian cobra, banded krait, common krait,
2 monitors, 2 tree snakes, Russell’s viper, 2 rat snakes, 5 pythons.

Mrs. John C. Meikle, Washington, D. C., 2 zebra finches.

George J. Merrick, Washington, D. C., barn owl.

W. H. Meserole, Washington, D. C., black-crowned night heron.

B. Miller, Washington, D. C., horned lizard.

Billy Monroe, Washington, D. C., opossum.

Benjamin Muller, Washington, D. C., pilot black snake.

National Capital Parks, Washington, D. C., water snake, tadpoles, Gambusia
holbrooki.

Harry Neuman, Washington, D. C., 2 alligators.

Fred Orsinger, Fish and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C., 4 hellbenders,
10 diamond-back terrapins, mud turtle, 4 mudpuppies.

Joseph Pignataro, Washington, D. C., 6 ring-necked snakes.

Freeman Pollock, Washington, D. C., timber rattlesnake.

Scott Price, Washington, D. C., green racer.

Anna M. Rager, Washington, D. C., 3 paradise fish, three-spot gourami, 4 blood-
fins, 100 Trinidad guppies, catfish, 300 snails.

Miss Anna Rees, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck, mallard duck.

R. H. Riggs, Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Lt. Laurance §S. Rockefeller, Washington, D. C., European goldfinch, white
zebra finch.

Mrs. M. L. Rue, Washington, D. C., 4 muscovy ducks.

Migual A. Ruiz, Washington, D. C., hog-nosed snake.

D. R. Sampson, Brentwood, Md., 2 red-shouldered hawks.

Miss Eugenia Sasa, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Miss Katherine Sater, Washington, D. C., black snake.

Daniel Schroeder, Washington, D. C., 2 blue tanagers, 3 Pekin robins, 2 diamond
doves, Cuban bullfinch.

Alfred L. Schwoser, Washington, D. C., red fox.

Sandra Seymour, Riverdale, Md., great horned owl.

Charles P. Shaeffer, Jr., West Haven, Md., alligator.

Pfc. A. W. Sharer, United States Army, pilot snake, black snake, 2 copperheads,
2 blue racers.

Patsy and Linda Shaw, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Robert B. Sherfy, Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Robert Shosteck, Washington, D. C., 2 fence lizards, spotted turtle.

619830—45—-—_6
#2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Mrs. J. R. Skinner, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

David W. E. Smith, Washington, D. C., De Kay’s snake.

Mrs. W. R. Smith, Cottage City, Md., 3 ring-necked doves.

Melvin Snyder, Washington, D. C., Cumberland terrapin.

Mrs. Rebecca Spitler and Dian Suunbrun, Bethesda, Md., 4 Pekin ducks.

K. H. Spivey, Washington, D. C., Pekin duck.

Mrs. L. D. Staver, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mrs. George Strawbridge, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Ralph Swiggard, Washington, D. C., worm snake.

Mrs. Taylor (address unrecorded), 5 opossums.

Edward M. Traylor, Washington, D. C., titi monkey.

James H. Turner, Dunn Loring, Va., coatimundi.

Dr. H. R. van Houten, Bethesda, Md., garter snake.

Ralph C. Wainoskey, United States Army, rhesus monkey.

Frank J. Walker, Arlington, Va., 2 flying squirrels.

R. E. Walker, United States Navy, Hydrographic Office, Washington, D. C.,
painted turtle, diamond-back terrapin, praying mantis.

T. Wampler, Washington, D. C., 2 crows.

Ward Farms, Amelia Court House, Va., red fox.

Theodore Weiner, Washington, D. C., pine lizard.

Mrs. H. J. Wells, Washington, D. C., diamond-back terrapin.

Richard Wells, Washington, D. C., desert tortoise.

J. A. Wheeler, Washington, D. C., sparrow hawk.

J. H. White, Washington, D. C., gray squirrel.

Margie, Mary Lu, and June Aileen Wilkin, Washington, D. C., cottontail rabbit.

C. W. Williamson, Washington, D. C., cottonmouth moccasin.

Ray E. Wooldridge, Washington, D. C., alligator.

J. C. Wright, Washington, D. C., wood frog.

(Donor unknown), 2 bobwhites.

NATURAL REPRODUCTION

Four sets of twins of the common marmoset were born during the
year.

A cub was born dead to a pair of Polar and Alaska brown bear
hybrids which were born in the National Zoological Park in 1936.

Births and hatchings during the year included:

MAMMALS

Scientific name Common name Number
ACTOCOMIG MINGIC0 = ean a Bee eee ABIatIC  tapire se oo ee ee ee 1
Ammotragus lewvia + Ee es FCO (6 E2Y) pee ee Pn ene eS 5
SU0O8: \QOAUTUS nat a ee 6:11 U a een eS eee Ah il
ESUSON: OLS ONES eos he eet ee ee Ee TESS WF a a a ee 1
BOS AN GiCUSa ak ste eee Seep YA, 2\ 0} \ RSmip ee Snel mana ES Peg TE es Seek We 1
USOS;  EOAUTUG 22 a oe OEE 1s ea a British Park cattle]. ae 1
Callithiia gaccnus. 22>. eee Common, marmoset== 252 ea es 8
Cametus, bactrianus._=—__ Bactrian .camelea = ae ee 1
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus_____ __~ Green ,suenoni2 Sete ee 1
Cervus CON Gdensisa On Sao ae TAS i eyo de Da Sea 1

Choeropsis liberiensis________________ Pigmy, hippopotamus] = 1
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

Mallow: deere 220s he ee 4
gy fale i Lh SIS ttre fees fallow deer____--_-------- 6
Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha__-. Agouti —--______________+____-_-_.. 1
Dolichotis patagona_______-__-___-___- Patagonian) cavy==222=- 322. ee 2
CUES RCONLCO LOT etre ne ne Se ee, | cb boat; Pomel he ae CML a SYS AS Se 4
Hemitragus jemlahicus________----__- OD a) CO Co PR ES oa ih a Sem a
Microtus pennsylvanicus_____--_--__- Mendows mouse ss ee eee 4
PIAIOCE STON (COU =e 2 er Covi = see Baten Ae 5
IVES NONICO ia aS ee ek Con tina an irene ee 5
Neotoma floridana attwateri_______-_~ Round-tailed wood rat---_----__- 3
ONCUEIS GeO TOUt = ee CGeottroy's cata ese ees. pee ee 2
DEES. SARC, a sae ape Raga Woolless or Barbados sheep_---__-- 1
PTOCUON TL OVOT a oan ee a ee ee Blgekwaccoon!s a. ae ee we al
PULA CLOS ON UT SUS a a2 oe ee a ee EV DL dient. ea Oe eee al

BIRDS
Anas platyrhynchos__—_-_-------~----~ Mallard duck ese ces sou Wie ae at 70
Branta canadensis_-.-—- 2-2 = Canadas. 2OOSeiiie sae ene 50
Branta canadensis occidentalis_______-~ White-cheeked goose_____________ 20
Curing. Moschatg22a! fees ee Muscovy) (Gueks228. bse Peis 8
Fulica americana_.—.—--—=-=-~-------= AAMCHICAN CODES ee ee 10
Larus novaehollandiae_____________-_ Silver. pulles ee Jee. Se. Oe ee 2
Nycticoraz nycticorar naevius_________ Black-crowned night heron________ 18
PAG LUTE TTS ONMIER ae eae eee die 2c ee Ring-necked. dove. .=2.22-2 34s 2
REPTILES
Agkistrodon mokeson___.___.____-__. Copperhead snake_______________ 8
Gerrhonotus coeruleus principis_______ Allizator (izard jee ee 1
Natrivx septemvittata_____.___________ Queen or moon snake____________ 15
INGE Sinedonn 22 Ee ie Pity Banded water snake______________ 51
LTA LOLS DIOL ae re ee Brown water snake____--_____-___ 39
Thamnophis: sivitalise Midwest garter snake____________ 12
LOSSES

Losses include the African rhinoceros, which died after 13 years in
the Zoo; a slow loris, after 5 years and 10 months; a mandrill, after
18 years and 7 months; and the maned wolf, after 10 years and 6
months.

A scarlet ibis died after 19 years 11 months; a roseate spoonbill,
after 9 years.

A large reticulated python, deposited for exhibition by Clif Wilson,
died during the winter. A cast has been made of this snake for
permanent exhibition in the United States National Museum. When
the dead snake was sent to the Museum, it measured 24 feet 8 inches.
Since 8 or 10 inches of the tail was missing, this specimen was well
over 25 feet in length, and the dead body weighed 305 pounds,
making it one of the largest snakes ever exhibited.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Statement of accessions

. Mam- Rep- F : Arach
How acquired Birds : phib- Fishes = verte- Total
m tiles or nids ates
Presented => 5.2 se ey 67 85 122 28 14 1 1 318
Born or hatched____________- 73 180 1679) pee esi PAPE “EE ae) [eS | (Ee 379
Received in exchange________ 6 41 34 1G | or hl Do? |S 95
Purchased 2 ey ey 15 23 4 Seid tease SE SR PS NA 77
Oni deposits: 254 e ou) ie 23 9 sce sae | SA | Ae ee a ne 57
Gellected in the: Park. <0. 11 (isa seeks ee yo ea cae 1
Totals. Geek cise ee 185 338 311 77 14 1 1 927
a a el
Summary

Animals on band Jigly 1 10450 3 2. fea ene EL Wine age 2, 485
Aecessigns diving he year! 7c Mesa 1 ee a eo me 927
Total animals in collection during year______....___ 3, 362

Removals from collection by death, exchange, and return of animals on

MOPOSIE veces ee aiken 736
In collection’ June’ SO, tone! E80 ed aaa iy te RO ea 2, 626

Status of collection

ae a te eee

Species . Species e
Olass atta sub- individ: Class and sub- Individ

species a species
Vig morrigic tet ihasat sree obits 210 Guia PATAChnIgss+25 ose oe eons 2 5
Birds ee hee eee Petit ve 312 O09! insacts 2.5 Se 2 ee 1 100
Reptiles Sos sie 114 447 LL
Amphiblans!22. 20) ees 20 120 Tota lease eta se 096 2, 626
Hishes soa s ey 37 368
a at eh Sis

A list of the animals in the collection follows:

ANIMALS IN THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK JUNE 30, 1944

MAMMALS
MARSUPIALIA
Scientific name Common name Number
Didelphiidae:
Didelphis virginiana______________ Opossam (2 sae Eire a area 4
Phalangeridae:
Petaurus breviceps__._______________ Lesser flying phalanger_______ 2
Petaurus norfolcensis_______________ Australian flying phalanger_______ 2
Trichosurus vulpecula_____.______ Vulpine or brush-tailed opossum_. 1
Macropodidae:
Dendrolagus inustus____________ New Guinea tree kangaroo________ 2
Dendrolagus inustus finschi__-______ Finsche’s tree kangaroo_________ ea.
LECT O DEES” STOR Sn es ee an Great gray kangaroo_____________ 1
Thylogale eugenii_.___...... Dama. whllaby.- = scla e a 5
Phascolomyidae:

Vombatus ursinus___...... | Flinders Island wombat__________ 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

INSECTIVORA
Scientific name Common name Number
Soricidae:
Blarina, brevicauda__.__.--_----__-- Short-tailed shrew __-______-__-__ 1
CARNIVORA
Felidae:
Acinonyx jubatus___---__-_-_____-_- @heetaliyy ase ee a eae ae eee i)
CLES EGIL See ae a eee eaves DUNS IST CAT eae ys ee se 1
CLI S ER COMCOLOT ree ee ee PUI yee ete es eer Ane 5
Felis concolor patagonica_______--_~ Pataconian pumas sss il
Felis concolor X Felis concolor pata- North American X South American
GONCU Ree a ES Se cee DUM ee eee eS 4
EV SLO mers No ee ee eee (ON eS ee ee ee 6
i PF 112) abnor ce Bea fe ae ek 5
Melis onca_—-—_——----—~-------=---— tae si Pelf Sab Ee gin. ® ss pal a AVR pete N 2
CUSED UNA GUS Sate en LORS) (0) rate ama aL Lik Ey agit lata 3
: Indian) leopardsaee oe 3
Felis pardus__-------------------~ Black Indian leopard______-______ >
CLS LEG NES ee te ee ee ee Bengaly tiger aie eee 2
Felis tigris tongipilis_--—--_=- Sibetianttigenrac: * © 22202 to ee if
Felis tigris sumatrae___----------_-. Sumatran'tizerd Or ek Se 4
UTD RIES ee eee Ee, 57 2a) Erg 0 pe cae cea nse Na bs Ed a 2,
AGYND) VU fuUs OGleyicw= = Ase eee. Batley Sly nx ee ee eee coe oe ce at
TUONO es eS See et ee BODCA Sees Sea ee eee 1
Neofelis nebulosa—-—-=* 2-2 Cloudedvleopard=) Me ses2 slr al
Oncifelis geo noyie. 2 eee Geottroy'sweati 2) oe ee eee 4
Profelis temmincktic_-_-----222-___- Gold enwca tetas. ee ai eee ane 3
Viverridae:
APCliCHis{DINEUTONG== ~~. eee ee. Binturon ee 2222 ere eee 24
Otvettictis civetian 2222-2 eee AErIcancivet a= = es eee ee ees 1
Miyonarsanguineus-—— = Es eee. Wart Cly Glee ee eee eee 1
Paradovurus hermaphroditus__-__--_- Small-toothed palm civet-__--_____ 1
Hyaenidae:
Crocuta crocuta germinans___-_----- East African spotted hyena__-___~ 1
Canidae:
Canisvlatronssa seis see Seo oe, Coyotes sso is. Vass eee es ae 2
Canis latrans X familiaris___-__-_-_- Coyote and dog hybrid__----_-_-- iL
Ganis lupus nubilus——_---- =. Plains woltsee sees =r ee ee 2
Canis nufuss se see 2 Me eee Mexas red! wolf2s 2-8 ee ee 5
Cuon javanicus sumatrensis______--- Sumatran wild dog_------______-- al
Dusicyon culpaeus___—_-—--- --—__ South American foxes] 20s ees 2
Dusicyon (Cerdocyon) thous___-----. South) American foxs 22222222 222 t
Nyctereutes procyonoides_____-____-. Raccoon idog=== et heee sae 2
Urocyon cinereoargenteus_______---- GED Var LOK ee ie een eee ee 9
VATU TEES OTD SES, Se ae SO SLID TS 1 81276 Ips 0S haere Wet Ay Lita Sh) aay ocr es 11
Procyonidae:
NESTE RTT ACU a tea Fy tes es Coatimnn Gis soe Slee se 10
INESUGCISON As necator eee INelson’s: coatimundi==22- 2 of
CTE 121, SS a he aaa a sei Se WINKS) 00S ar eee ee ee 7
RACCOONS see seine eee Se ee 5
ET OCTONMIOLON ee ore Ss | Black TAacCcoons.- tore ees 1
AlbinOsFACCOONE eee eee al
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

CARNIVORA—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Bassariscidae:

Bassariscus astutus_.22 2 —---e Ring-tail or cacomistle____________ 3
Mustelidae:

Arctonya  COuariss= Ses mes Bae Foe badger scueres Bia Ne 1

Grisonella huronagw—___ == _ GRR S Oa a An ao 1

Lutra canadensis vaga______________ Mloridaotterias Ge wee he 1

Intra (Micraonyx) cinerea____-____ Small-clawed otter____-____________ i\

Martes (Lamprogale) flavigula hen-

FB ty | RUE SA OP IG tan ER NED en Asiatic: martensite 2 1
Meles meles leptorhynchus_________-. Chinese badger:2 2-2 as a eye al
Methvora cCapensis=.2 22 5 ae REGGE Le ae boo eee er ie ee ae 1
Mephitis mephitis nigra__-_________- S191 60) ( earn eee oe ER EO PANS 4
Mustela campestris_.___.____-_.__-- Plains least weasel or ermine_____ iL
Mustela eversmanni____.____________ Merre bie. 2 a 2
Tayra barbara barbara_____________- White: tayrasc 22) ee ae 2
T'ayra barbara senilis__________-__-. Gray-headedsitayra-=2= eee 1

Ursidae:
Huarctos americanus 2-2 ee Black bear:222 2432 ae 5
Huarctos thibetanus __---___-__.-___ Himalayan, bears] = eee 2
Helarctos malayanus __________-____ Malay or sun: bear. - = tenes il
MevITsUus: Unseen 8 eee SlothVb@at) 222=< Sos sa ee 1
Thalarctos maritimus___-_--____--___ Polar bear: 2223 12 epiees ee eee
Thalarcitos maritimus X Ursus mid-

CONGO SU) aaa sees ie ae ae ee ae Hybrid'bearleo23- 2 eee eae 4
Tremarcios ornatus ____--_____-____ Spectacled bear 229222412 aie es al
UT SUS ROTCLOS 22 Lee Ree ee 2 ee European brown bear__-----__-_- 1
Ursus arctos meridianalis___________ European brown bear____--___-__ 1
CSS OU CS =. ee Oa seh ee ee Alaska Peninsula bear____-_______ 3
Ursus middendorffi _..__-.--____----__ Kodiak bear #2252223 on eee 3
Ursus: sitkensiss= 22 ee Sitka brown bear== == - uses 3

PINNIPEDIA
Otariidae: |
Zalophus californianus____--_-----_- Sea lion) S222 See ee 2 |
Phocidae:
Phoca vitulina richardii__________-__ Pacific harbor seal__-__-_--_-____- 3
PRIMATES
|
Lemuridae: ;
GCTUUT, AMONG OG oe ok 2, Deere ee ee Mongoose jemur=- 222 = ho ee 2
Callitrichidae:
Oallithrin: jacchusso-=_ = White-tufted marmoset__________-_ 8
Callithriz penicillata_______________. Black-tufted marmoset ___------__ 5
Tamarin (Oedipomidas) geoffroyi___ Geoffroy’s tamarin_--_____________ 1
Tamarinimnidaes2 2.2 eae ee Yellow-handed tamarin___________ 4
Tamarin (Oedipomidas) oedipus____ Cotton-top tamarin-____________-- 3
Tamarin (Leontocebus) rosalia _____ Lion-headed or golden marmoset____ 1
Saimiridae:

Saimirivecvired = 28a ee ee Titi or squirrel monkey_________-_ 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY iw

PRIMATES—Ccontinued
Scientific name Common name Number
Cebidae:
Alouatia palliata mewvicanus______-- Howling monkey ~--__--__-_______ 1
Agia tiivirgatus. aos OE eee ee Douroucouli or owl monkey_____~~ 6
PATECLEST VELLCTOSUS nn ae ne ee Spider*monkeyoec ee eee 9
CEUs TODC Eas en ee Gray? capuchin se ases serine ste 2
Ceuta CODUCIINS == ae ee White-throated capuchin__________ 2
COOVS HT GLCLUUS ne ee Weeping capuchin________________ 5
Lagothria lagotricha ~.-.--_~-__-__- Woolly?monkeyt sss (2 eee 1
Cercopithecidae:
Cercopithecus aethiops pygerythrus__ Vervet guenon —__________________ zi
Cercopithecus aethiops sabaeus______ Greenvenenon yess See eee 6
Cercopithecus diana_._-_-_--_____-_ ‘Diana MEnkey so ee ee ee 1
Cercopithecus diana roloway_______- Roloway monkey]. —=-— 222 a if
Cercopithecus neglectus ________-___ De" Brazza’s) snuenon. 2 1
Cercopithecus nictitans petaurista___ Lesser white-nosed guenon________ al
Cercopiihecus Spits— ee West African guenon________-____ 1
Gymnopyga maurus => Moor macaquets.22 nee 1
MCCCACIES AESCOLG = Coe oe es Japanese macaque______--_______-_ 2
Macaca trus mordav_.-——----- ~_____ Javan macaques e- eee 6
MGCCCR MUA oe as Oe ee Rhesus "macaques. eee ee 6
Macaca mulatta lasiotis ____________ Chinese macaque_________---__-_~ 1
Macaca nemestrina_________------_- Pig-tailed macaque__---__-_----__ 2
CCU CONSTI aan ee ae ee Toque or bonnet macaque_________ al
MaCaRG Speciosa- 2262 ee Red-faced macaque —-----_______- ui
Mondriltus spling ie eee Mandrill= 2 ee 2
BORON CONULUU Gee ne ee ee (HACIA ce So Ne eon ee af
Papio cynocephatis—_—— =~ —-- Golden baboons. 22) see al
Hylobatidae:
HALON ES AGilis = ee ee ees Sumatran gibbon--~ 2. == il
HlOvGtes MOGLOCK a2 > s- ae HHoolockcibbpon! 222 soa eee 1
Hylobates tar pileatus_ Black-capped gibbon_——_—- == 1
Symphalangus syndactylus______--_- Sigamans cibbone sa sss. ee ib
Pongidae:
IE ET OU UO YL CR = te ee ae Chimpanzees 225 icor ee See 2
Pam troglodytes verus__.-.__-_-__... West African chimpanzee________ 3
PONGOM OCU sae ae eel eee Sumatran orangutan-___________-_ 1
PONTO. DUGG CURD ees eerie Bornean orangutans ee 2
RODENTIA
Sciuridae:
Citeilns townsendti= 2 Soft-haired ground squirrel______ al
Citellus tridecemlineatus___________ 13-lined ground squirrel__________ 2
Oynomys ludovicianus______________. Piains: prairie: dogs ee 55
Glaucomys volans__—_-_- Mlying squirrels 22. 2 2 seeneee See 6
MGTINOLG MONOD — = nn en eee Woodchuck or ground hog_________ if
Scirus carolinensis____________-___. Eastern gray squirrel (albino)____ 1
BOUTS 7NIIysont._—- Lesser white squirrel____________ 3
DEOL LOLS RA 5 Ma ee i AE na Hastern’ -chipmunk=-2 2-2 a
Heteromyidae:
Dipodomys merriami_________--_-~_. Merriam’s kangaroo rat___________ af

Dipodomys Ondo. Orns, Kanearen Pato 3
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

RODENTIA—Ccontinued
Scientific name Common name Number
Cricetidae:
Mesocricetus auratus______.------_-. Goldent hamsters!) tut as eee 15
Microtus pennsylvanicus___--_------ Meadow (mouses= 22 ae 11
Neotoma floridana attwateri________. Round-tailed wood rat-_-_______~_ 8
Onychomys leucogaster____________- Grasshopper mouse_______________ if
Peromyscus crinitus auripectus____-~ Golden-breasted mouse___________ 1
Peromyscus leucopus_____-__-_------. White-footed or deer mouse______ 2
Peromyscus truei______.-_______--_- True’s white-footed mouse________ 1
Sigmodon hispidus___________--____-- Cotton rates see ae ae 2
Muridae:
MALS 18 CUTTS eS es White and other domestic mice_____ 8
Rattus alecandrinus_______--------- Roof rat and black rat___________ 1
Rattus norvegicus.____.______.._-~_ White and pied-colored rats______ 2
Hystricidae:
Acanthion brachyurum____-------_-- Malay: porcupine:=22 22 a 8
Atherurus africanus__.___-_-_--__--_- West African brush-tailed porcu-
yy bo; Rope eros eae oes ee pene eR io
Hysirin galeatinioes hee le African: porcupine=222- ee 1
Thecurus crassispinis sumatrae____-- Thick-spined porcupine___________ ill
Myocastoridae:
Maochstor copy. 23 Ot se POL ARLE EN PSPS AS i 16
Cuniculidae:
Cuniculus paca virgatus_____-_-____ Central American paca___________ 1
Dasyproctidae:
TIBI FOGHD Ce ei ese as nek Speckled: agoutl 45) kta 4
Dasyprocta croconota prymnolopha__-— Agouti __----_-_---_____________-_ 2
Caviidae:
COviC DOT Celluse 2 Sur rs Sime eee ae Seles neat Ts TTT Te a eee 10
Angoratguined pigel 22 eee ee il
Dolichotis patagona______________~_ Patagonian cavyes ae soe 5
Hydrochoeridae:
Hydrochoerus hydrochoerus_________ Capybard223 23 es See we eee a
LAGOMORPHA
Leporidae:
Oryctolagus cuniculus ___--_-_----___ Domestie rabbite se. oe ee 13
ARTIODACTYLA
Bovidae:
Ammotragus lervia_.__._._._._.___-_.--— AOuUdad) 2622205 Se ae ee 12
Anoa depressicornis____- 5 ATA 8a er a dE ee. al
"AMO iGUATELSE. Lee tis eS ee Mountain anoge. tee ee eee 1
BiDOS sO CAUTUS = oie ei 2a ee ea CE: fa bpm Ia eS ai kad re 3
LEH oR Rene eee DSO ieee se ile cee 15
A DINOPDISON ese eee eae 1
BOS ATUL CUS hee 5 20a Res a ee ZEDUE Se ees Sale re Aad he ee 6
BOS LOUIS ere os Se ete Texas longhorn steer. -2 = = = al,
BOSMGGUTUS 2208s eee ees West Highland or Kyloe cattle____ 2
EB OS PCQAUTALS) sora es Sree ee British’ Parks Gatblessa ase oe ee 4
Bubalis bulalisea- 21s ee eee Tidian: buffaloes Nate eo
Cephalophus marwellit _____________ Maxwell's: (duiker234222 = eae al

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

ARTIODACTYLA—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Bovidae—Continued.
Cephalophus niger _-___-_-_---------- Blackiduiker.--2- eo 1
Cephalophus nigrifrons _--____------~ Black-fronted duiker__.-_------- ea
Connochaetes, qnows 2-2 a White-tailed gnut.2-=22 esses 1
Hemitragus jemlahicus____-__----~-~- Mah pies 2S 2 RN ee eee 8
Oreotragus oreotragus_______------~ Kdinspringer— a
Oryx beisa annectens____-__-------- Thean Deisa\ OLY Xe eee 2
GE CCS See nee ares drs PN Woolless or Barbados sheep__----- 3
CUPS CUTODMCUS Nae 8 ee Mouflon=2 2222 eae 2
Poephagus grunniens______-------_- SV gt Ee ee See eee ee ee 5
IPSCUAOISINOYOUT =o ee OIE Bharal or blue sheep__------------ 3
mencercs Caper African: buffalo ...-.--.=-----.-- 2
Taurotragus ory@® —__-____-_--_------ AY Sav Chl ee a Se he 3
Cervidae:
PAIR UY Digi eee ma Sh Se ea eS ARIS IMeGG I ee en ee 4
Cervus canadensis ___~---.------+-—_ American, Glee S22 se oe ee ee ee 5
Cervusnelapnus 2282s 222 Red deer eect. ote 6
Rallowndeers-202 22 2S eee 14
ae Se | White fallow deer____------------ 12
Muntiacus muntjak _.--_-__-_-_-------- Rib-faced or barking deer_____--_- 1
Odocoileus virginianus ____--------- Virwinta deer 25 2 eee 2
Pan mmpOn cose oe Japanese deer. 22652 4 4
Giraffidae:
Giraffa camelopardalis _____-------- Melba piraie: Wo Se ee 4
Giraffe reticulata. --_ 22 Reticulated giraffe _._____-----_.- 1
Camelidae:
Camelus bactrianus ~..---=--=—.-+== Bactrianyeamel). 2242 ee 4
Camelus dromedarius _-_----------- Single-humped camel ~------------ 1
TG: SOV a ee ee EN Tere eee 3
Lama glama guanicoe___----------- Guanacoe ht ne ees ee 2
GT: ULCOS aa ee Sd ee Alngen jbo. eee 2
ViCignay DlCUgN@ 220k os 2s oe ee WiL@ ANTE Aer i as 2
Tayassuidae:
Pecuri angulatus... 2... Collared pecearye =e 2
Mayassw (pectin. — a2.) Oo. Se White-lipped peccary______------- 1
Suidae:
Babirussa babyrussa_____-._-__----_ BaD IRUSSAi Les oe 2
Phacochoerus aethiopicus aeliani___._ East African wart hog-----~-~--~- s
BISA ROMO Oe 88 ye Sos ES European wild boar__----—_---_--- 1
Hippopotamidae:

Choeropsis liberiensis________------ Pigmy hippopotamus___~--------- 5
Hippopotamus anvphibius___-------- Hippopotamus — =.=. 24. 2
PERISSODACTYLA

Equidae:
Equus burchellii antiquorum___-----~ Chapman’sizebra 2 4
IOUS TOUY ta Nee ee A Grevy's) Zepras sa ee ee 1
Hquus grevyi x asinus___----------- Fepra-aAss) Dy pr esse i
Equus grevyi x caballus____--------- Zebra-horse shy bridsa.c2 222 ak oe 1
ETOMALB ICU QTUG on ote) oe eae a ogee tay Asiatie wild ass or kiang-_-----_ 2
Equus przewalskii_______-__-------- Mongolian wild horse___---_--~--- 3

LIFE LAS CTA AT 1 ha ela ODA ae el wikopebeyesubar Anyi Bo Sos il
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

PERISSODACTYLA—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Tapiridae:
ACHOCOGIG Antica) 22 ee eae Asiatio tapite 22 cain, a aa 2
TOpiurus CErnest rise Wea he South American tapir____________ 3
Rhinocerotidae:
Rhinoceros wunicornis_______________ Great Indian one-horned rhi-
TOCOT OS sate aia ee 1
PROBOSCIDEA
Elephantidae:
Elaphas maximus sumatranus____-__ Sumatran elephant_______________ 1
Lozodonta africana omyotig________ African’ elephant20. 3 bs aoe 1
HYRACOIDEA
(PROCHULG CUPensig=a = sae fy rae 2 ha 2
EDENTATA +
Choloepodidae:
Choloepus didactylus__.__._______.._- Two-toed: sloth = 1. eee 2
Dasypodidae:
Chaetophractus villosus_________--~ airy. armadillo s== 2s eee at
Huphractus sexcinctus_____-_____-_- Six-banded armadillo_____________ 1 |
BIRDS
CASUARTIFORMES |
Casuariidae: |
Casuarius bennetti papuanus______-- Papuan cassowary——__-__---__--_ 1 |
Casuarius casuarius aruensis________ Aru cassowary 2 22 Bae eae 1 |
Casuarius uniappendiculatus occipi- |
BETA GS ose Li Nae a eh ph ee hn Island cassowary__--—____ 2-4 1 4%
Casuarius uniappendiculatus uniap- )
mendioula ts =. 6.2. PE One-wattled cassowary_________-- 1 |
Dromiceiidae: |
Dromiceius novaehollandiae________- Common! emus 2.2 = = ee 2 }
SPHENISCIFORMES
Spheniscidae:
Aptenodytes forsteri____._________-_- Emperor penguine 222 3
Spheniscus demersus_______-_-__-_-- Jackass PensiiNoe = 2s = eee 4
Spheniscus humboldti______-_______- Humboldt penguin________________ 2 i]
TINAMIFORMES
Tinamidae:
Hudromia elegans______-________-__. Crested tinamou or martineta_____ 2
PELECANIFORMES
Pelecanidae:
Pelecanus californicus_____________- California brown pelican_____--__-_ 4
Pelecanus conspicillatus____________- Australian pelican-_______--___-- 2
Pelecanus erythrorhynchus__________ White. pelicantc2th2. 2 Sra eee 4
Pelecanus occidentalis__.__.__________ Brown pelican.c2 2 Sa es 3

Pelecanus onocrotalus_________-____. Huropean: pelicani2ivi 22s sss es 2
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 8]

PELECANIFORMES—Ccontinued

Scientific name Common name Number
Sulidae:

MM OFUSMODSSO TG Le 2 eew oe US US Gane Gee se UE a 1
Phalacrocoracidae :

Phalacrocoraz auritus albociliatus__. Farallon cormorant—-----~ ---~--~- 1
Anhingidae:

Anhinga anhingas 222) 420k a ayo SE ee ee 3
Fregatidae:

EP EG OCONOTLCU SS. oo TOS ee re SEN et Lesser frigate bird____----------- 1

CICONIIFORMES

Ardeidae:

Arded: NeVvogtas a2) eee oe eee Great blue heron____-------~--~-~-. 2

ACCA OCGLUCNLGII Sa. aes es eee Great white heron--___- ---------- al

DUAGPRARIOR TA OTT eee ee ee eee Snowy, eeret._ 2 ee ee 9)

OMG COC ALCO esas ee ae ittle blue vyheronhss22 225s ae 14

Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis______-. ignisiana heron. 2.) ees oats

Notophoys novaehollandiae______~~-. Wihite-faced heron= === -=sess es al

Nycticoraxr nycticoraw naevius____—-_- Black-crowned night heron___---~- 30
Cochleariidae:

Cochlearius cohlearius_________----- Boatbill heron 2222s a eee 2,
Ciconiidae:

Dissound eniscopus.—. — =e saa Woolly-necked stork __----------- 1

THOUS CINGT CUS ee Bd 2 a Malay ‘storkicce: ise cas ees 2

Leptoptilus crumeniferus___----~---~- Mamabous 2 5 Te en gs 1

Leptoptilus dubius_____-_----+-+---- Indian adjutant={=42-- 1

Leptoptilus javanicus____--_-------~-- lesser adjutant. 2-2 eee Z

Mycteria americana_____-_---------. Woodwibis 2a... eh ee ee 1
Threskiornithidae: 2

Cudrnanalow ae 22 ge ee Wihiteubis 24. oe ee eee 8

Guara alba X G. rubra___-__----_-- Hybrid white and scarlet ibis______ a}

Gung reOTWsA lares F peo neiya eld Scarletsibis){ 2.2 2 vse all 1

Threskiornis aethiopica________----- Sacred: ibis A= 24.2 iia eee 1

Threskiornis melanocephala_____-_-- Black-headed\ ibis —.—-—.-—— 2222225 4

Threskiornis spinicollis__________--- Straw-necked ibis _2_2+-/---=-==~» 2
Phoenicopteridae:

Phoenicopterus chilensis_____------- Chilean: flamingo#2322s sees Z

Phoenicopterus rubra___-___-_-__----- Cuban flamingo __-_- LAL ks yest EN 3

ANSERIFORMES

Anhimidae:

ORAUNG Cristatas 22) ase ser eas @rested| screamer === 222 Sse 7
Anatidae:

PART RDONSO) 2s) 2 2 tpt} te tdi te AE Wood) duck 2) 222 i eee ‘G

Alopochen aegyptiacus______---__--- Keyptian zooses2 =. 42 =e ae

ANUS DTASITLCNSIS wes tote anti) ae St Brazilian) teal pce cee eee ee 2

ANG S u@OMme SACU 2st os ba ek 8 a Peking; ducks)- 2 oe eee Se 12

Anas platyrhynchos 1 ~-~------=--- Mallard (duck 202022 ew eee 50

ANTS PUOTUDES 2 os ete 8 Fh yh at Oe Bila le: dich th ee eae ees tye Blas lin 6

VAQISCTMBLOI TONS 222 oe American white-fronted goose____- 3

Anser cinereus domestica______----- Toulouse GOOSesse see ea eae ee 3

Anseranas semipalmata __---------- Australian pied goose __.____--__- 2
82

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

ANSERIFORMES—continued

Scientific name
Anatidae—Continued.

Branta canadensis minima____----__
Branta canadensis occidentalis _____
Cairima moschata ——_-
Oasarca vartegata. 22 228s ee
Cereopsis novaehollandiae _-________
Cen cant tC ies Sa ee ees

Chenopieatvatae 2 ee
Chloephaga leucoptera__________-___
Cygnopsis cygnoides________-_______
Cygnus columbianus_______-__-_--__
Cygnus melancoriphus_________-____
Cygnus olor 222 See
Dafita acute 2. ae
Dafa spiicauida. oe eee
Dendrocygna arborea_____-_-_______
Dendrocygna autumnalis ___--_-_--_-_—
Dendrocygna viduata____-___-_-_--_--
Dendronessa galericulata________-_~
Mareca americana. 222-2 ee
Marla gins ao 2 ey a eae
Manitacollaris. 222 Se esures eines
Neochen jubate 2023 ee a eS
Nettion carolinense________-________
Nettion formosum_______._.-_-_--~~_
WyrOen) Seas nea Ces Ne Ce
Nyroca valisineria____.___________-__
Philactercanggicd 2 ee eee
Querquedula discors________________
Cathartidae:
CAOMOrLES GUT oe ed ere seen
Coragyps atratus ioe
Gymnogyps californianus___________
Gypohieraz angolensis_____.________
Gyps ruppellit 2
Sarcoramphus papa_____-_-__--____
Torgos’ “trachneuows=- 222 sae ee
Accipitridae:
AICCIPILer \COONETIiA 22 ees Se ee
Buteo.,poredliss 225. ee De
Buteo lineatus elegans_____-____---
Buteo lineatus lineatus________-_____
Buteo melanoleucus______--________
Buteo: platypterue_- 2
Buteo poecilochrous_..-- 2s

Common name Number
Canada, goosees sce aie aay, 25
Huatchin’s go0se. 2 Su hier nape 4
Cackling goose___________________ 8
White-cheeked goose__________-___ 25
Muscovy duck2= + 2225s ae a |
Paradise duck 222. 22s ee es. 1
Cape Barren goose________-_____-_ 2
SHO ww? SOOSG22 2" Slee aie a ae 3
Blue go0oses aa 2 eae oe Bae 2
Black ‘swale... 222 ae 4
Magellan goose______-___________- 2
Domestic goose-2- 22 See ee 2
Whistling swan). 2222 ae ee 2
Black-necked swan __-__-_________ 1
Murte Swans 2222 2 Re eee NR Ee aM 5
Pintall e223 Se ei ey es 8
Chilean’ pintall2 eee ees 5
Black-billed tree duck ____________ 3
Black-bellied tree duck_____-___--_ 2
White-faced tree duck___-________ 4
Mandarin iduck: 2223232 ee 4
Baldpate 2-33 eee 1
Lesser: SCAUDEM GEL ee 1
Ring-necked duck ~.-._-___-__-___ i
Orinoco, 200se2 4 ee aes 2
Green-winged teal________________ 1
Baikal. teal.22 «2 ot eee ig 5
Hybrid. ducks... ea
Canvasback. duck? } 2 an es 1
Emperor) goosesa2 22-3. Saws oe 3
Blue-winged, tealess.tos sseeha eee 8
Turkey . vulturess ee) sae te 2
Black’) vultures-22.) Seesaw mt
California, condort]= 225s) Sees 1
Nish-eating, yultures 2252 eee 1
Ruppellis) vulture=2 = 1
ine Vvulcuree ee a 1
African eared vulture__-_________ iL
Cooper's: hawk2os: 2855222 ees 1
Red-tailed . hawk: 22.222 -.esG8h 268
Southern red-shouldered hawk_-____ 1
Red-shouldered hawk__--___--_-_- 2
South American buzzard eagle____ 2
Broad-winged hawk___--__-_-____ 1
Red-backed. buzzard_.__________~- al

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

ANSERIFORMES—continued

Scientific name Common name Number
Accipitridae—Continued.
Haliaeetus leucocephalus____----- rot. Bald), Cael e ae esa ata il an Ae ae et 6
HIGROSCUT ANOUS 2a oo ee ee Brahminy, kitetsues = oo ean 5
Harp. harpy@s ete se ee ee Harpy’, eagle dias ak eee 2
Hypomorphnus urubitinga___--_-_--- Brazilianweacle weiss a eeas eek al
Milwwago chimango____------------~ CO} a Fonts at-<e paurenmnuoeee st Oe RN aay rah 3
Milvus migrans parasitus____-___--_- African yellow-billed kite_--_---- 2
Pandion haliaetus carolinensis_____~ Osprey or fish hawk__-__--------~ 1
Parabuteo unicinctus____-_-_--_------ One-banded hawk__--~----------- al
Falconidae:
Cerchneis sparverius________-___--- Sparrow, hawk2222 see 5
Daptrius americanus______________. Red-throated caracara__-------~-- 3
Falco peregrimus anatum___----~---~ Duck (hawkun l= 2 wae | eee 1
Polyborus plancws__---_.-_+---__-_- South American caracara____--~-~ 1
GALLIFORMES
Cracidae:
OE LO SCHOLGT naam ere a eee oe Crested curassow__---------_-~-- 2
CF AD IT UWOT = ee an eS, Panama curassow. sees oe 1
(Baie WE SLAs: SE SEE AE aa SOON Sclater’s curassow__---__----_--- 5
MG Nila Razor-billed curassow____------__ 2
Phasianidae
Argusianus argus—=--- == 2-2 oeesk Argus! pheasant-23 oe eee 2
Catreus walichit— 22 ee ES Cheer pheasant 222 522 see 3
Chrysolophus amherstiae___-_------ Lady Amberst’s pheasant________ al
Chrysolophus pictus____.----------- Golden pheasant_________________ 5
Cotinus cristatuss. 220. ee ae Crested: quail. 424 sue 2
Colinus virginianus_______-__---_--- Bobwhite: 2225 2-4. ae ae al
Galins (OG MAs oe a ee Red) jungle: fowl. =e eee ee 4
Gallus (Ofayettiaan 2s he Ceylonese jungle fowl_____________ af
Gallus Spe 22222 ee Lee eee Bantam ‘chickens: 292 Wea ee 1
GOLNIS Spas fae ee ae Mighting, Towls}2- 2322 Soe 1
Gales Spee ae a ea 2 Ronzg-tailed) fowle 22 eee 1
Gennaeus albocristatus_______---__- White-crested kaleege____________ 3
Gennaeus nycthemerus________--___ Nilver pheasa ities oe wane 6
Hierophasis swinhoti____.___.____---_ Swinhoe’s pheasant___-__-_______ 2
Lophophorus impeyanus____-__-_--_ Himalayan Impeyan pheasant____- 1
Lophortyx californica vallicola_____ Valley)quails: 3.22 Ae eee 2
POCO AMCUSEOEUNS 22 OE St eT TES, Peaifowill 228 2a bee ae Pharr: !
' Ring-necked pheasant____________ 6
Phasianus torquatus_——------------ White ring-necked pheasant_______ 3
Phasianus torquatus (var.)_._.__._.____ Melanistie mutant ring - necked
pheasantijc2 22 6 aan ete 3
Phasianus versicolor_______________- Green Japanese pheasant_________ 1
Polyplectron napoleonis____-__-_-- _. Palawan peacock pheasant________ il
Syrmaticus reevesi___________-.._--. Reeves’ pheasants 22 so 2
Numididae:
Acryllium vulturinum____-------~-- Vulturine guinea fowl_____-___-__ 1

IV OUITIOTERD IS 2s al ke Lid LO Guinea fowl_---______---
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

GRUIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Rhinochetidae:
Rhinochetos jubatus________________ Wags 5 el teehee kek ae 1
Gruidae:
Anthropoides paradisea____________- Stanley or Paradise crane________ 8
Anthropoides virgo_—2-_ Demoiselle crane____..___________ 5
Balearica pavonina_____—___-—______ West African crowned crane______ 3
Balearica regulorum gibbericeps____ Hast African crowned crane______ a
Grus canadensis canadensis________- Little brownicrane 2 ae sai i
Grus leucauchen=_2 2224 ae ees White-naped crane_______________ af
Grus leucoger anise ee ese ae Siberian crane... eek P2
Rallidae: p
Amaurornis phoenicurus_______ _____ White-breasted rai]_______________ 2
Fulica americana == a AMETiICAN COO 2a Se aan be sips 6
Gallinula chloropus cachinnans______ Florida gallinule_________________ 2
Gallinula chloropus orientalis_______ Sumatran gallinule_._____________ 2
Limnocorar flavirostra_____________. Atrican black taile a2 eee 3
Porphyrio poliocephalus____________- Gray-headed porphyrio___________ 2
Cariamidae:
Cariama. cristata ee aes Cariama or seriama______________ 2
CHARADRIIFORMES
Haematopodidae:
Haematopus ostralegus_____________. European oyster catcher__________ 2
Charadriidae:
Belanopterus chilensis_____.________ Chilean lapwings2=*2)2 20 ea 2
Laridae:
Larus argentatus_.______-_-_________- Herring gulls <2. eee 1
Larus delawarensis__________-_____- Ring-billed ‘gull 22 See es 1
Larus dominicanus—______-----___--— Kelp -gulliccee ot EN EE 2
LAvUusVGUaucesCens aa eae aa taken ea Glaucous-winged gull_____________ ail
Larus novaehollandiae____-_-------- SLL Ver eee Uh ee eer ataree A EAD 15
Glariolidae:
Glareola pratincola__________--__-_- Collared pratincole_______________ 1
COLUMBIFORMES
Columbidae:
Columba guimedan.. 2248 nee ee Triangular-spotted pigeon_________ 1
Columba Vintdess = ees ee Domestic pigeon__--~_____________- 3
Columba maculosa_______~---------. Spot-winged pigeon_______________ 1
Dioula; dence. 22a eee ee Green imperial pigeon_____________ 1
Gallicolumba Wzonica____------~-~~-- Bleeding-heart dove__-___________ 4
Gourwcristate. 2g oe aa Sclater’s crowned pigeon__________ il
Goura wictoniese 3 ee eae Victoria crowned pigeon______-___ 1
Deptovila)) COSSNi a Se eee Cassin’s/dove.c2o0 uit Si ay eae il
Muscadivores paulina________------ Celebian imperial pigeon________- al
Streptopelia chinensis_____________- Asiatie collared dove_____________ al
Streptopelia chinensis ceylonensis__ Lace-necked or ash dove________- 3
Streptopelia tranquebarica________- Blue-headed ring dove__________-__ Pe
Tartu (tSOviiss =>. eS seas Ring-necked dove___-____________ 12
Zenaida auriciulata._.-_______=.__— South American mourning dove___ 5

Zenaidura macroura.——--—-—-__-_ = Mourningdoyeso eae ee 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

PSITTACIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number

Psittacidae:
Agapornis pullaria-_._______---+-._ Red-faced) lovebird=222 2522s 3
Amazona auropalliata______---_---- Yellow-naped parrot__---_--_---_- 4
Amazona ochrocephala____---_------ Yellow-headed parrot-----------~- 1
AMaZOnd “OTGtrig on Double yellow-headed parrot_---__ _ 2
Anodorhynchus hyacinthinus____---- Hyacinthine macaw___-2 = = iL
ing OTNT CUNO Yellow and blue macaw---------- 2
PAS Co me OTE CUO eee seer aca ee ees Red, blue, and yellow macaw-__--- 2
AT SNAVELOTIG ss 2 Mexican green macaw____-------- 1
ARENT | CUOD S22 woe a ee GCubanrconures= 2222225222 22 ae 2
Calyptorhynchus magnificus__—__---- Banksian cockatoo..——_——---.———-- il
COVE CODSISW TAG O ss ae Lee eee ee Lesser vasa- parrots =o. 1
Cyanopstitacus spixi___________-_=~ SpixsSvima Ga wie ke et ee 1
Ducorpsis sanguineus____---------- Bare-eyed) cockatoo-—— = 22 =—- === iL
HICLEGLUS | PECLOTOUISea = nee ene eee Helectus parrot] 22222 eee 1
Eolophus roseicapillus________------ Roseate cockatoo________________ 3
UK OtOC Cl0G. ewe, Fetes AD ee White: cockatooss ies 2
Kokatoe galeritas2 eee! eee Large sulphur-crested cockatoo__-__ 2
Kakatoe leadbeateri____________--__ Leadbeater’s cockatoo____--____-- 2
Kakatoe moluccensis_____-____---__ Great red-crested cockatoo____--___ 1
Kakatoe sulphuneq_____-__. Lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo____ _ 5
GTS! QCOMACC Os 2 bes ee BRS ny OT yee ee 2
TOTALS OOTTALLUS as etn eee ae eS Rede lonyes sh 2 ke ace eee 1
Melopsittacus undulatus____________ Grass) paroguet{ ius ee rs 12
Myopsitia monachus__________-____ Quaker paroquet_________________ 1
NGG DYUS ULI eee ee ee Nanday) paroquet-42225 as era iy
INIGSEOT: ANOUGUULLS a= ae RE AR NCC s5 5 tenes lt Ree OR oe ss eee ES 1 ee i
Nymphicus hollandicus____________ Wockatich: 2s: ) Saag: es: al
Pionites wanthomeria______________ Amazonian:  Caique= 22ers sees rae 2
Psittacula. eupdiria. 22S nee Red-shouldered paroquet___-__-_- 3
Psittacula, krameri_i2____- 2s Kramer’s paroquet_______-__--__- 2
Psitiacula longicauda______________ Long-tailed paroquet_________-___ 2
Tanygnathus muelleri_____________- Mugeller's; parrot. 2s bss hee al

CUCULIFORMES

Cuculidae:
Hudynamis scolopaceus____________ NOG 2 262 a3 ks eee ae sen aa 1

Musophagidae:
Turacus livingstoni_._i- Ll Livingston’s turacou________-----_ il

STRIGIFORMES

Tytonidae:
Tyto alba pratincola______________ Barn Owls Ses i erie eas 3

Strigidae:
Bubo virgumianis_- {eA eee Great horned owl_-__--_---_--_-- if
KEUNG Ketipis ol oth. Tatl Waeeee) Malay (fishvowl. =o eae obec 1
NAT OL CH PUIG ae tee ay SHOWY ; OWlas222.2 ee Se ee ar 1
Ote GatO. Vu Nk fel ge i Screech, Ow) 5 veer ee} oor 3

Sie varia varia... Barred) i Owe ees eS 4
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

CAPRIMULGIFORMES
Scientific name Common name Number
Podargidae:
Podargus strigoides____—_-__-----~_ Tawny. fropmouthye es. oy A 1
COLIIFORMES
Coliidae:
Colius: striatus... a2 Streaked mouse bird or coly_______ 2
CORACIIFORMES
Alcedinidae:
DD GCCCLO WN GEG Se ae ee aaa re ees Kookaburra) tot hh 2 pus fue ees 2
ALCyOn “SCN C U8 ee eee eee Sacred “kingfisher2=22 2) al
Momotidae:
MOMOtUS LESSON ae a a ee ere ee Motnot) 2228s See ae ae eee il
PICIFORMES
Ramphastidae: .
Aulacorhynchus sulcatus sulcatus_.__ Groove-billed toucanet____________ 1
Pieroglossus aracari 2 22223 es Black-necked aracari____________- 2
Ramphastos carinatus____-____-__-__ Sulphur-breasted toucan________-- Tf
Ramphastos culminatus_____-___--- White-breasted toucan____________ 1
Ramphastos piscivorus_______-_---- Toco. toucan 1212 ooo Wey 1
PASSERIFORMES
Cotingidae:
Melanotis caerulescens______-_-__--- Mexican \catbind j2s222 sea 2
Rupicola peruviana sanguinolenta___ Scarlet cock-of-the-rock___________ 2
Corvidae:
Callocitia  formosd@22- 2-2-2 ee Se Mexican Ways 232 jhe ee 1
Cisse; CRInensis Base) we Sie Chinese’ cissaes bse 2> . eins 2
Oissilopha yucatanica______________ Yucatan blue jaye ae ee 4
Corvus albuss obese ee ee White-breasted crow___-_________ 2
Corvus brachyrhynchos_______----~- American’ Crowes en eee q
Corvus coraxz principalis____________ Northern \rayen sii 2 ee eee 3
COrvis;,.COTNID Ls ew ais ea ee Hooded) crows ts2see2 baths Seu 2
Corvus cryptoleucus.—_ White-necked raven_____-________ al
Corvus) imsolens 2-22. eee Inqian| \GrOWwe 2) ios ae eee 3
OCyanocoraz chrysops._—__-_-_____..— Urracajay=<2 22.82 eee al
Cyanocorax mystacalis_________.___ Moustached.) jaya sea tias Se 1
CUCTODICH), CY ONG art ae eee ere Azure-winged pie________________ 1
Gymnorhina hypoleuca_______-___-__ White-backed piping crow______-__ 2
Urocissa caerulea____._--- Formosan red-billed pie__________ 2
Urocissa occipitalis___—__ Red-billed blue magpie___________ il
Paradiseidae:
Ailuroedus crassirostris___.______.__ Australian catbird 222) 93)n_ 4 af!
Epimachus fastuosus_______________ Sickle-billed bird of paradise______ al
Ptilonorhynchus violaceus___.__-____ Satin bowerbird _._______________ 1
Seleucides, niger. 32) a ae 12-wired bird of paradise________ a
Pycnonotidae:
Pycnonotus, analis. 2 ts Re Yellow-vented bulbul___________ RAG
Trenidae:

ETENG PUelige oss RA aes Pairy blue; bird sess ee wee eres 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

PASSERIFORMES—Ccontinued

Scientific name Common name Number
Mimidae:
Melanotis caerulescens________-_--__ Blue mockingbird.2*2-=- = 4s al
TODOStOMA TUFUN ee ae Brown) thrashers- 2s. eee 1
Turdidae: . : '
Garrulagx pectoralis picticollis_______. Chinese collared laughing thrush__ 1
Garrulagw perspicillatus________-__-_. Spectacled laughing thrush_______ 1
Letothria luteus: teckel Pekin roping: 2 aie ko ee ee ae’
PUrdUs: GTOYtR 28. ts ee als Bonaparte’s! thrush=:= = a 1
Tundus TUnventris soos is kd Argentine: ropin =a ee ae 3
Sturnidae:
Cosmopsarus regius._.___.________---. Splendid starlingse232s-e) ae al
Oreatophora cineréa__.2 Wattlede starlings. ase eee 1
Galeopsar salvadorit_i2-8 2 a Orested starlings. ass 2 1
Graculipica melanoptera_______.______. White, starling2 22 Skee 1
Ploceidae:
Diatropura procne.—2 2 22 Glant: whydah) 2. be ve
Lonchura leucogastroides___________ Bengallee sew 20 ek ee ee 5
MUTA UDG O22 Re hadi Fee ge White-headed munia______________ 2
Muni Malaecda ts 2 eae ee Ls Black-throated munia______._____- il
MuUntiG: OTYAVOTU= > sees Be ee Java SDArvOWw. 22s ie es ese 1
Munia punctulatus.___-____-________. Rice bird or nutmeg finch_________ 2
IPLOGCUS) COO 222 22 Ae aa eee Ba Vel Wea Vere = 22 ie aa et 3
Ploceus intermedius_._..__- Black-cheeked weaver_______-__-- 5
Ploceus rubiginosus______---_______. Chestnut-breasted weaver_________ at
Poeniiia acuicauda ==) 22h eee Eong-tailed) finch= = 22220 et sas aft
Poephila, gouldiae = 2 = freuldianyfineh* ow Ae 2
Quelea sanguinirostris intermedia___ Southern masked weaver finch____~ 2
Sieganura paradisea_____-_______- Paradise whydah.- 22-220 220 5
: : : Zepra, sfinen 22 = = 2 BP eee 3
Taeniopygia castanotis_____------~-. { Wihiitevccbrn, aceon hupeNl 1
Coerebidae:
Gyanerpes eyoncas 2 eee Blue honeycreeper____----__--____ 6
Icteridae:
AVELQINS GSSUMALIS= 2Us ee eee Cuban red-winged blackbird_______ om
Cassiculus melanicterus_____________ Mexican cacique® “ss eee at
Gymnomystax mexicanus___________ Giant orioles<.2 2 ee Ee il
NCleMUSTOULLOCK 2s Be eee. Bullock's: troupial2= eee 2
RGCCRUSHICLET UL See eee Ea a ee Troupials< 2-0 SUES SO BRAS if!
Molothrus bonariensis___________-__ Shiny, cowbird2242 eee Eee 1
Notionsan, euraeus. 2 Chilean blackbird--________--_____ 2
Frupialis defilippin 8 2 Military (starlings= 22222282 SOAS
Thraupidae:
EAVang as videntatas= sos 2 Oringe:. tanagens—— 9-22 -) = ES EES i
Ramphocelus dimidiatus____________. Grimson: fanager== === SPUN eee 1
Ramphocelus flammigerus__________- Yellowitanaeer 22 ese Sea 4
Ramphocelus icteronotus____________ Yellow-rumped tanager___________ 2
“ERT OUTS EDIsCOpuse: 2 Se _ aaa Bluettanager: seek 2
Fringillidae:
Amandava amandava________----_-_- Strawherry ‘finches: 22) _ofserer ys 10
Carduelis carduelis_______.__._ 1 European gold finch___-______-___ 1

619830—45——_7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

PASSERIFORMES—Ccontinued

Sceloporus undulatus______________ Pine or fencelizarda 2 ee ee 8

Scientific name Common name Number
Fringillidae—Continued.
Carpodacus mexvicanus__--____-~--~~- Mexican house finch______________ 4
Coryphospingus cucullatus_________ Red-crested finch__.______________ 2
Cyanocompsa argentina____________ Argentine blue grosbeak__________ 2
Diuea ie Gc Bi MOE at SE A Ge) Diucas finch 22a ORG PE eA 2
Erythrura psittacea__________-_____ New Caledonian parrot finch_____ 1
Lophospingus pusillus_____-_-----_~ Black-crested finch______________ 3
Melopyrrha nigra ____-— = Cuban.» builfinch).. 22.24 /)9_ 445s 1
Paroaria cucullata__.______----_--___ Brazilian. eardinal-2/ ies) 1a 3
Passerina cyanea_____---------_--- Indigo: bunting2 55." j4e we 2
Passerina leclancherii_______-_-____ Leclancher’s bunting_____________ 6
Passerina versicolor__.______________ Blue: bunting ee eae 2
Phrygilus fruticett__.2 2 822) Mourning finch). ones) 8
Phrygilus gayi___.__________________ Gay’s gray-headed. finch__________ 4
Serinus canariws________--_--_-_-__--_ Canary: 232 ee eee 4
Sicalis: flaveolan a= AE eed Mysto ..finch.._ ... Sea ee ul
Sicalis® Witteol@ sae eo PE Saffron «finch! 22 auh ie Beneege 8
Sicalia-minop 22 ee Rees Lesser yellow finch_______________ 4
Spinus uropygiahss eee Chilean..siskin—_.- S95 Di eae as 3
Sporophila auritacee =. Ss ee aN Hick’s seed-eater_________________ 2
Sporophila gutturalis______-________ Yellow-bellied seed-eater__________ 2
PEQTDS  OUDACEG eo en LIT SEO RE Mexican.erassquitis i aes ay
Volatinig: {acarint 2s eee a Blue-black grassquit_____________ 1 |
Zonotrichia capensis_______________ Chingolo_..-2 2... a OiOia Sake 2 |
REPTILES |
LORICATA j |
Crocodylidae:
Alligator mississipiensis____________ Ai Paton 2222 Ses eee een eee 22 |
Alligator sinensis_____-_.______-___ Chinese. alligatora2o223 2) eae 3 |
Caiman latirostris2 a es Broad-snouted caiman___--_______ 1 |
Caiman sclerops__-_ 3 Spectacled caiman_________ ener 3 |
Crocodyluss Geuluses se ee eae American crocodile___________-__- +
Crocodylus cataphractus_._________ Narrow-nosed crocodile___________ al
Orocodylus nilotieus_____- 2 a African ‘crocodiles 2222 Z
Crocodylus palustrisx_____________ “Toad?” Crocodiles) sya) ake Ps |
Crocodylus porosus_—_____ = 5 Salt-water crocodile______________ 1 |
Crocodylus rhombifer_______-_______ Cuban: crocodiles) ees) Baas 1 |
Osteolaemus tetraspis.— 2-2 Broad-nosed crocodile____________ 2
SAUBIA
Gekkonidae: —
GEKKO GECKO a iP te sel aici ed cgay Gecko eh eu aed hae 2
Iguanidae: )
Anolis carolinensis______-_-=_---.=+ False ‘“chameleon”___-__________ 20
Basiliscus: spi seis es ee eee cies: Banded basilisk 22s ease eee 4
Ctenosaura acanthura_______-__-___ Spiny-tailed iguama__.____________ 2
Phrynosoma cornutwm____--_--____ Horned slizard ss aee: ae eee 17
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

SAURIA—continued
Scientific name Common name Number
Anguidae:
Ophisqurus Gpushoececes esos European glass snake_________--__ 1
Ophisaurus ventralis_______-_ ------ Glass snake or legless lizard___--- 6
Gerrhonotus coeruleus principis_____ Alligator lizard2 se 42e4 tee 935 yes 2
Helodermatidae:
Heloderma horridum —__------__----_ Mexican beaded lizard___________-_ 2
Heloderma suspectum ____----___-_- Gila monster 2252 32 hia as aed 7
Teiidae:
Cnemidophorus sezlineatus _____-___ Six-lined race runner__---________ 5
Crocodilurus lacertinus_____-_------- Crocodile izard2220%e. (oh e a:
Tupinambis nigropunctatus_____-_-- Black “tegyy 2: 22 et eee 1
Scincidae:
Egernia cunninghami __------------ Cunningham’s skink_____-_---__-_ 2
Eumeces fasciatus _____-__--_-_----- Blue-tailed! skink sa s.cest ek oot te 3
TAN GUG, SCINCOIDESiaa os ae ee Blue-tongued lizard __-_____--____ 2
Varanidae:
Varanus komodoensis __-__-__------ Komodo: dragon=224-- 2-22 1
Varanus monitor__________-----_- Indian monitors ssc. 2s a ea 2
Varanus niloticus. _ = -aa4s 2 aes Nilesmonitors 22302) Sus a eet 3
VaEnanus Sulvdtoneas eee wes SLs Sumatran’ monitore 2 ee 5
OPHIDIA
Boidae:
BOG COGKUL ea ILO tn 222 eee ae Cook's: tree )0a 2-2-2222 ees 1
ORO SUOTIOG aa ee oe ean UD Der DOae = hee tee ane Wee il
Constrictor constrictor___*.______-_--_ Boa constrictor 2 os.) oe ae 3
Constrictor imperator_______------_—_ Central America boa.--—-----==_= 2
Ppterates CONChTIse = —— = Rain Dow: bOaf] 22.0202. ee 6
Hiperates crassusioe ees oo Sailamaniias = 2c os eee Ne 1
Epicrates sivas ee aitian oa. oS eee 1
Eunectes murinus ____-------------- ATIACONGA” 22s a =e 1
Lichanura roseofusca______-___----- California rosy boas. ==2--822 2. 22s 1
IPULTON NOUNS = =e eS indian rock pythons 2. 2s see 9
PCR OV COVE a2 ee RO ee eee Balllepy thon se ee 3
Pythonrenculatus 2-2 egal) python 2222-2 Bae 3
Python variegatus____________-___—- Carpet: pyWnOn #22 225 ts re ete al
Tropidophis melanurus _-_---------- Cuban boas. se eee 1
Colubridae:
Carphophis amoena _--__----------- Worm) snake__- 3. . a!
Coluber constrictor. ea =ae WS LV GKeE STAC ae ee eee aes Bk Zoe 1
CUCIUDT ORG IG US sae ee Cobra de: Paraguay 2 es 1
Diadophis punctatus___---__-------- Ring-necked snake __-_--_____-___ A!
Drymarchon corais couperi__-_------ Indigo. snakes este ce 2
Mlaphe quiteta: 22-25 232 eo ee Gorn: snake ese he 3
Hlapheobsoletat 2. 8 IPA OtISMAKe ee es hee as ee 6
Elaphe quadrivittata____.___-_-_-_---- Yellow chicken snake_____________ 1
Heterodon contortrig ____----------- Hog-nosedisnake ers net Lhe 4
Lampropeltis getulus floridana ___--_-_ Mioridavkine snake 2 22 oni 1
Lampropeltis getulus getulus __--___- Chain or king snake) 1

NGHAD pIsCalOre = ee te eee Walter aia Cee ee 15
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

OPHIDIA—continued
Scientific name Common name | Number
Colubridae—Continued.
Natria septemvitiata _...___________ Queen or moon snake___________ 3
Natrig Speech ual Neem ee rey Water snakeii2s ee nge erie fe 1
Pituophis catenifer___-___________-_ Western bull snake__-__-_________ 2
Pituophis catenifer annectans______~ San Diego gopher snake___________ 2
Pituophis melanoleucus_____________ Bull...snake. cs see pare aly al
Ptyas: maucoste a8. See Be Rat snake Uo! Soe Moree tent pean Dee
Rhinocheilus ltecontei_______________ Long-nosed snake __-_____________ 1
Storeria dekaytss oes ee De. Kay’s snakeii.22. 24a ino il
Thamnophis ordinoides________-____ Western garter snake_____________ 26
Thamnophis sirtalis_________.______ Garter ‘snake:-eats te een +
Hlapidae:
Naja Naja eae 2 Indian: cobra. sees Sms on al
Onybelis fulgidus__- -—-___ 2 Green tree snake____________-_____ 1
Crotalidae :
Agkistrodon mokeson___________ =...) Copperhead snake: 2s) aia 4
Agkistrodon piscivorus_____________ ‘Water. moccasin!) ei Ate ll
Crotalus adamanteus_____-__-__-___ Florida diamond-backed rattlesnake 1
Vipera Trusses a Russell’s:+viper=. = Oh ere al
TESTUDINATA
Chelydidae:
BAtrachemys NASUlis= = es ee South American side-necked turtle. 1
Chelodina longicollis ____________ a. Australian snake-necked turtle___. 1
YA OSDISE USD ee a ee ee ee eee South American snake-necked
turtle sao) ee Ee ee ae eee 3
Hydromedusa tectifera___________-_ Snake-necked turtle_______-______ 16
Platemys platycephala_____________ Mlat-headed turtle: 2 ik
Platysternidae :
Platysternum megacephalum_____-__ Large-headed Chinese turtle______ 1
Pelomedusidae :
Pelomedusa gateata________________ Common African water tortoise__. 2
Podocnemis expansa______________-- South American river tortoise_____ 1
Kinosternidae:
RAN OSLOVNOT Ss See es ee es Central American musk turtle____ 1
Kinosternon subrubrum___-------__ Musk turtles] 2-2 ee ae 4
Chelydridae:
Chelydra serpentina________--____-_ Snapping, turtle. 2 ee 8
Macrochelys temminckii____________ Alligator snapping turtle__________ 1
Testudinidae:
Chrysemys marginata_______________ Western painted turtle___________ 5
ORTYSCMNYS  DICLOL == eee oe ee Painted torte ee oe es 3
Clemmys\ guiitta i222 ee ee Spotted turtle) 22 eee eee 6
Clemmys imsculpta_——=________ Wood turtle ____--~ sla baadensonil, Tiitoe xt if
Clemmys muhlenbergit______-__----_- Muhlenberg’s tortoise_____________ al!
Cyclemys amboinensis______________ Sure Kira NO xe c it ble eee 4
Bn Ss MOLONOANG eee Blanding a) hustler ees ee 1
Geoclemys subtrijuga______________ Siamese field turtle] 2s} 2 = et 1
Graptemys barbourt-__.____________ Barbour’s) curve® 22s. eee ff

Graptemys pseudogeographica_____- Kalse map tories eee ees 1

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 91

TESTUDINATA—Ccontinued

Scientific name Common name Number
Testudinidae—continued.

Kiniavys erosa____----_----________ West African back-hinged tortoise. 1

Malaclemys centrata___.____.___-__._ Diamond-back turtle--__--------_ 24

Pseudemys concinna________-_____-_ CMeoters 2s koi es eee eet yu

Pseudemys elegans__________-______ Cumberland terrapin_____-~__-~-- 2

Pseudemys ornata_ 2 ae Central American water turtle-___ 1

PREUREIUYUS) TUG OSC. ae = 2 = ee Cuban: terrapin] 2222 eee ib

Terrapene carolina._____...-_ = ESOS CUT EL soe ee ee 50

HEPTANeNe “Major Ae ee es Mlorida, boxsturtie=—— 2s see 4

SR GWINMNORO OU oot oe Mexican box turtle___.___________-_ 2

Testudo: Chiulensise 2.2 ee Chilean land tortoise________._ -__ 1

Testudoe aenvioulata.22 8 South American land tortoise__-__ 2

HESTUGO! ELEGANS AON ca a Star ilortoises see e2 kee ee 2

Testudo ephippium____________-_-__ Duncan Island tortoise___-_______ 1

MeEstudo NOOCCNSise ee Hood Island tortoise_____________ 3

CSPUaG CONNECT a ee ee, Soft-shelled land tortoise_______- ee

TR CSEULO) PACING hes eee ee ee Albemarle Island tortoise_________ 3
Trionychidae:

AINA) OU OR OD eat bia cath obeee ss ee Soft-shelled turtle___.__.______--___ 6

AMY AG TTVUNGUIS 22 oS 2 West African soft-shelled turtle... 1

AMPHIBIA
CAUDATA

Salamandridae:

Triturus pyrrhogaster______.- = Redtsalamander: 22-22 eee 3

PTUs LOVOSUS oe ee ee Giantimewte 22s 2 eee ass 16

Triturus viridescens_______-__.____- Gommon newt. se ee a 4
Amphiumidae:

Amphiuma means. 232 Blind eel or Congo snake_____-__--~ il
Cryptobranchidae:

Cryptobranchus alleganiensis________ Helibender222 222 ae ee 4
Necturidae:

NECtUrus MaCUlOsuUs— == === oe Mudpuppy 2-322 ee ee 1

SALIENTIA

Dendrobatidae:

Dendrobates auratus____-_____-___- Arrow-poison frogs. 222 ee eee 3
Bufonidae:

IBALONQMeTICANUS 2 oe Common) toads ak ae eee ee 25

BUT O\CMDUSUS =e a Se Sapo'deiconchas == =ss aes 8

IBUTO MONINWS = ee ee Marine toad = 3 2 2ee 2 See a a 6

Bufo, peltocephalsee. =n Cuban: lant toade ee ee ee 3
Ceratophrydae:

GELalonniis OTRO = 2 ae ee DEorned frogss se 5
Hylidae:

PACT SNOT) LADS asc Ok de “Waisted <2) rs oy ea eee 20

EADIEVOP GONG ET ss prea frees en Res 3
Pipidae:

(PADOMIMCTICONG. 25028 eo ee Sorinam Condes es eee 3
a

92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944
SALIENTIA—Ccontinued
Scientific name Common name Number
Ranidae:
Rana catesbeiana_______-____.---_-__ Bullfrog oe el ee vA 3
ean Clamitans wis) See eine aie) Green frog: Wa aed 3
Rang, occipitalis. = = ae West African, bullfrog____________ 1
Rana pipiens t52 se owen hie weenie? Leopard frogia-. Ss we sue yer ee 5
Rand sylvatica los: aia BE Nea iar WOO) frog. = 2 e Speer Peal se 3
FISHES
Acanthophthalmus kuhli_______------~ AGE Was oe ete re ee ene. 1
Aequidens portalegrensis _____________ BIWOWACAT a 822 sO Ne RE Biren ee 1
Aphysemion australe _________________ hyre-tavledo nish os ae ee cee 74
ASENONGEUS OCEUGTUS Ere ee Pier ops cise mic any Sasane lh godt Jie /e eh wing il
BOrouseven cee Soe Sat ee eee eee Clown: barbers ee eee 8
Barus OUgolepiss 2 ene shee rere een), eee Ite ee ee oe eee eee 3
SOE OUR SUNLESS Oe 2
Calamarichthys malabaricus __-_______ West African ganoid______________ 6
Cichlasoma festivum'_-__--___---_____ Banded’ acara**= 2 20 “net se 10
Corydoras melanistius____________-____ Armored enthsh 0s tia 1
Corydoras abate ee ee Rabant) cattish!=2een ene iee i
COry CONS Sia ere EArt Mt nies ees Cathisheet 21ee saan Pweioun eck 2
Epalzeorhynchus talopterus___________ Black-fin sharks) 222 owes eee 1
Gymnocorymbus ternetzi______________ Blads tetra see a eee ei 4
TENOR OINNTIS Spea eae ee Tetra Buenos Aires__-_____________ 6
Hyphessobrycon inmnesi__________-_--__-_- Neon tetra fish rrntas: ieee 3
Kryptopterus bicirrhus_________-._____ Glass \eatiishe 223 eh ee 3
Tevistes reticulatus 3 2 GUpDY ssa ee ae la 100
Lepidosiren paradowa_________________ South American lungfish _________ 3
MQCKOPORUS (Spon eee ee Paradise ishys 32622 ee ae 20
Mollienisia sphenops _________________ Sailfint molly 2222S ee eee 10
NGNNOStOMUS MATQINAlWs) = 22 8 ee ee eee ee Ware
NGanostomitartrtUnedtsics 2 oan See eo ae Weare AT A ae a 2
PLOY DOCCHIUS (men Ul Le ae De ere ee Red ym OON) Lees eee ee ee 50
Platypoecilus maculatus_____-________ Black wag-tail moon __-__________ 30
Platypoecilus maculatus______________ Goldplaties <= Sethe 2 nse ye a2
PLCCOSLOMNU SIS 2 betes eee eee Armored catfish — 22) + sete ee 1
Prisbell eta lei ent Bes or fa Se 2 Oe a2 ee 1
Protopterus annectens______________-_ African) lungish—— =e 2
Pterophyllum scalare____--__- Angel tiigh asset ee Sane 2
Puntius partipentazona________-______- Red=finnedibarbie=22)= eee 8
Hasbotaiheteramorpnaeen 2s ee ne, Se ee ee eee 2
Serrasalmus ternetzi _____ pbs eee A Pace Nha Piranha or cannibal fish_ _________ 1
Tanichthys albonubes ________-_______ White Cloud Mountain fish________ 30
Talaniaispec sheets VNR UE ie, Pees Mouth-breeding “frshe 2a 2,
Triehogasterleerti. a _. Three-spot gourami_________ eee 2

Xiphophorus helleri__.___._-_-______ Rediswordteills saneeuer sso hire 6

Sword tail: 2eu eal AE a See 15
Tuxedo Swordtail=+ cee Se ee 12

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

ARACHNIDS
Scientific name Common name Number
UP UD CUO RSD a ee a PAT ATIC Ug ee eee Sete ee 2
Latrodectus macians____-_____-______ Black widow spiders. 2222 ses 3
INSECTS
LDCR SP ee SS re Giant cockroaches ies See ee ee 100

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.
THE SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

_ Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Astrophysical Observatory, including the Division of As-
trophysical Research and the Division of Radiation and Organisms,
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944:

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

No male assistants could be retained at the three solar-constant ob-
serving stations, Montezuma, Chile, Table Mountain, Calif., and Ty-
rone, N. Mex., on account of war conditions. In this situation the
wives of the three field directors, Greeley, Warner, and Moore, have
stepped into the breach and are assisting with observing and comput-
ing. It has therefore been possible to keep the three stations in opera-
tion in this exceptionally interesting period.

As pointed out in last year’s report, the predicted march of solar
variation through 1945 indicates a large depression of solar radiation
beginning in October 1944, comparable to that which occurred 23
years earlier, beginning in 1921. Figure 1 shows that the observations
made at Montezuma observatory up to the middle of the year 1943
support thus far the trend of the prediction published in figure 14 of
volume 6 of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory. It is there-
fore confidently expected that the depression of the solar constant
will begin with October 1944. It is not yet possible to forecast what
exact effects this depression (similar to that of 23 years ago) may
produce in weather, but as stated in an article a generation ago by
Abbot,’ unusual weather conditions may be anticipated.

Most of the time of Mr. Hoover, Mrs. Bond, and Miss Simpson at
Washington, and part of that of Mr. Aldrich has been occupied with
the reduction and determining of the statistical corrections for the
solar-constant work of the three observing stations since 1939. Ad-
ditional types of observing, namely, polarization of the sky, and energy
spectrum observations limited to the ultraviolet region, have accumula-
ted in these recent years. Their bearing on the determination of the
solar variation is of great interest.

Mr. Aldrich has been largely occupied with special secret war
problems, and part of Dr. Abbot’s time has been thus spent also.

1 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., vol. 9, No. 6, pp. 194-198, June 1923.
94

95

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

*pearesqo ‘gq ‘ pejorperd ‘vy

‘NOIJVIPVA JO JUBISUOD IB[OS sy [—T Pano,

Ww gsc 32 IO OV wr WV TF rdw FH 90

ees

6 aeer

win {wo seo. "enwtSnOo wv70s
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

A major part of Dr. Abbot’s work has consisted in the study of
solar-constant variation and associated solar changes in connection
with the weather. A paper entitled “Weather Predetermined by Solar
Variation” has resulted, and appeared just at the close of the fiscal
year. In the course of these studies it was found that variations of
the areas of clouds of calcium vapor (calcium flocculi) as photographed
at the Spanish Observatory of Ebro since 1910 were associated in the
same way as solar-constant changes in predetermining the weather.
This led to an attempt to weaken the light of the sun’s disk by excessive
spectral dispersion so far as to make visible variations of the bright
lines of hydrogen or helium in the chromosphere. Doubtful evidences
of such chromospheric lines were indeed recorded, but though the
dispersion of the third order of a grating of 15,000 lines to the inch, a
battery of prisms, and a path of 55 meters of travel of the spectrum
rays were employed, the photospheric spectrum was still too bright
to disclose plainly the chromospheric lines or their variation.

’

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

As in the preceding year the work of this Division was mainly
concerned with secret problems relating to the war. However, a
paper entitled “The Influence of Light and of Carbon Dioxide on the
Respiration of Etiolated Barley Seedlings” was prepared and
published by Drs. Weintraub and Johnston.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Axzor,
Director.
Tue SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the ac-
tivities of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1944:

From the point of view of use, the year has been an outstanding
one. Never before in the history of the world have books played so
significant a part in the successful waging of war. As the war goes
on, the potential importance of all recorded items of human knowl-
edge through integration with others becomes increasingly evident,
and often is strikingly demonstrated. It seems a far cry from the
bookstacks of a scientific library to the battlefields of Africa or the
South Pacific, but this is a scientific war, and many lives have been
saved by the exactly right bit of information about an insect, a plant,
an animal, the shore line of a far-away island, or other natural
features of strange lands found in little-known journals and docu-
ments on library shelves.

In the Smithsonian library examples of the conversion to wartime
uses of the published results of peacetime scientific investigations and
explorations might be multiplied almost indefinitely, for the library
has been increasingly used by the war agencies and by individuals in
the armed forces. In the Museum library alone, where a count of
reference questions coming from these sources was kept, there were
520 requests for information, many of which required a very consider-
able amount of research to answer. The library of the Bureau of
American Ethnology was frequently called upon, and the resources
of the Astrophysical Observatory library were often in demand, es-
pecially through the loan of scientific journals to other libraries. The
staff of the Ethnogeographic Board constantly searched all the branch
libraries for material useful to its various projects in aid of the war
agencies.

War use also accounts for the rise in the number of interlibrary
loans from 687 in 1948 to 1,363 during the year just past.

The library’s large collection of duplicates, too, has been drawn
upon by other departments of the Government, and many publications
no longer needed have been sent to fill gaps in sets in the older de-
partmental libraries or to help build up special collections in the more

recently established war agencies..
97
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Through the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian library is co-
operating with the American Library Association in its program of
collecting material for aid to libraries in war areas, and has already
contributed 20,806 parts of periodicals from its stock of duplicates.
The ultimate destination of some of the longer runs of journals is
known.

The library has continued to be the collection center for books for
service men and women, and by the kindness of members and friends
of the Institution, has been able to send about 300 well-selected con-
temporary books, mostly novels, to the United Nations Service
Center, and to the Public Library for distribution.

Whether in war or peace, the continuing purpose of the Smithson-
ian library with its branches is primarily to serve as a tool in the
scientific work of the Institution. The guiding principle of its

growth is not to make it a museum of fine books, but an active working

reference collection. Its main function is to put into the hands of
the scientific investigator the publication containing the information
he needs, as nearly as possible at the moment he needs it. All the
detailed and sometimes complicated processes of book selection, ac-
quisition by purchase and exchange, classification, cataloging and ar-
rangement, as well as the functioning of its reference and loan services
are planned and carried on with this ultimate objective in mind.

Many of these processes are measurable statistically, and the num-
ber of books purchased, received by exchange and gift, cataloged,
circulated, and so on, can be given, like the production figures of auto-
mobile parts. Such figures are useful indicators of material added
and work done, but beyond this, the comparison with industrial out-
put breaks down, for these library production figures cannot be finally
reduced to a countable entity like a finished automobile. On the con-
trary, the most important end-products of the library’s functioning are
diffused and intangible. They become an integral part of the scien-
tific accomplishment of the Institution itself, for they go into all its
investigations in the laboratory and the field, into the identification,
description, and exhibition of artifacts and specimens, into the books
and papers published to advance the boundaries of scientific knowl-
edge. The final test of successful library accomplishment is use.
The mere numbers of books acquired and cataloged mean little unless
the books have been discriminatingly selected for the purposes they
must serve, and well and fully cataloged so that the information they
contain can be easily found.

ACCESSIONS

Since the first abrupt drop in the receipt of publications from abroad
after war was declared, there has been a continuous small gradual

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY ~ 99

decline in the numbers received. In 1942 there were 425 packages
delivered through the International Exchange Service, in 1943 there
were 355, and during the year just past, 340. From England, the
South American countries, New Zealand, Australia, and South Africa
the receipt of publications by mail, while somewhat fewer than before,
was steady and continuous. From other allied and neutral countries
mail arrived less regularly. It was especially gratifying to receive
several exchange sendings of considerable numbers of current publica-
tions from the Akademiia Nauk of the U. S. S. R. and its branches.
Losses of material actually shipped were extremely few.

The publication of domestic scientific serials declined very little.

The reorganized accessions division functioned smoothly in handling
both exchanges and purchases. The total number of volumes pur-
chased was 1,448, and subscriptions for 240 different periodicals were
entered.

A few of the most important purchases were:

For the Bureau of American Ethnology, William Coxe’s “Account
of the Russian Discoveries between Asia and America,” 1780; “La
Pérouse’s Voyage round the World Performed in the Years 1785, 1786,
1787, and 1788 by the Boussole and Astrolabe,” 2 volumes and atlas,
1798; ‘and the accompanying “Voyage in Search of La Pérouse...
during the Years 1791, 1792, 1793,” by J. J. Labillardiére, 1800.

For the National Collection of Fine Arts, J. J. Foster’s “Miniature
Painters, British and Foreign, with Some Account of Those Who
Practiced in America in the Eighteenth Century,” 2 volumes, 1903;
F. Norfleet’s “Saint-Mémin in Virginia, Portraits and Biographies,”
illustrated with 56 crayon portraits and 142 engravings by Saint
Mémin, 1942; T. H. Ward’s “Romney, a Biographical and Critical
Kssay, with a Catalogue Raisonné of His Works,” 2 volumes, 1904.

For the National Museum, J. B. Jackson’s “An Essay on the Inven-
tion of Engraving and Printing in Chiaroscuro as Practiced by Albert
Diirer, Hugo di Carpi, &.. .” 1754; “Bibliografiia Russkii Pe-
riodicheskoi Pechati,” 1703-1900, by N. M. Lisovskii, 1915; the third
edition of Mare Rosenberg’s “Der Goldschmiede Merkzeichen,” 4 vol-
umes, 1922-1928; Prince Nobusuke Takatsukasa’s “The Birds of Nip-
pon,” parts 1-7, 1932-1939; “The Aztec and Maya Papermakers,” by
V. W. Von Hagen, 1943.

GIFTS

No large gifts of special collections were received, but members and
friends of the Institution, as always, were generous in making con-
tributions of important books and papers. Donors were: Dr. C. G.
Abbot, R. S. Adamson, the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, the American Association of Museums, the American
4
100 § ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Council of Learned Societies, Glenn D. Angle, Miss A. Margareta
Archambault, Miss Mary Dorsey Ashton, the August E. Miller Labor-
atories, Silvan F. Baldin, the Balfour Library, Dr. R. S. Bassler,
Alexander Bierig, Miss Edna Billings, Mrs. Carl W. Bishop, Bitumi-
nous Coal Research, Inc., Col. Lawrence B. Bixby, H. H. Bloomer,
Dr. Gregoria Bondar, the Book Farm, Hattiesburg, Miss., Fernando
Bourquin, Dr. Adam Bégving, Dr. E. Lucy Braun, Manuel Quirdés
Calvo, the Canadian National Railway System, Senator José Manuel
Casanova, Dr. Edward A. Chapin, Austin H. Clark, J. M. Cotelo Nieva,
Mariano Cuevas, William F. Davidson, H. G. Deignan, The Honor-
able Frederic A. Delano, Dr. Cecil H. Desch, Dr. Horace R. Descole,
The Detroit News, Dr. Harold Edward Dickson, H. N. Dixon, Lauren
R. Donaldson, Dr. C. J. Drake, the Engine Service and Mfg. Co.,
William Bacon Evans, Dr. William N. Fenton, Dr. Clarence E. Ferree,
George E. Folk, Dr. Herbert Friedmann, Per K. Frolich, Dr. Samuel
Wood Geiser, Haydn Thomas Giles, Ivon M. Glenne, William B.
Goodwin, Jayme Fernandes Guedes, Dr. David R. Iriarte, Auguste
and Edesio Irmao, Bernard Jaffe, Jewish War Veterans of the U. S.,
O. A. Jones, N. G. Kaye, Leon Kelso, Edwin Kirk, Laurence M.
Klauber, Capt. A. M. Klum, A. J. Kupzow, Lankenau Hospital Re-
search Institute, Gabriel Lasker, Mrs. M. P. LeRoy, H. L. Ludowyk,
Miss Margaret C. McCulloch, the Manchester University Press,
Ernesto Marcus, Eveline duBois-Reymond Marcus, Dr. Carlos A.
Marelli, C. EK. Marshall, Dr. William R. Maxon, Dr. Riley D. Moore,
Pére Léo-G. Morin, W. C. Muenscher, Miss Helen Munroe, Joaquim
Nabuco, the National Research Council, the New York Trust Co.,
F. J. North, Dr. T. L. Northup, Thornton Oakley, Paul H. Oehser,
Dr. A. J. Olmsted, Dr. Victor Oppenheim, Dr. Charles Owens, Parke,
Davis & Company, The Pennsylvania Railroad, the Pepperell Manu-
facturing Co., José Perez de Barradas, William H. Phelps, the Phila-
delphia Child Health Society, Dr. H. Pittier, Adrien Questel, Charles
D. Radford, Dr. Frank Raw, Milton Ray, Sr. Dr. Don Adrian
Recinos, C. F. Richter, R. Ringuelet, Alpheus J. Roberts, B. Sahni,
F. Schmid, Dr. Waldo Schmitt, J. F. Schofield, T. J. J. See, Thorvald
Solberg, J. M. Stanley, H. Stehlé, Carlos Stellfeld, John R. Theaman,
Dr. J. F. Torrealba, Dr. C. H. T. Townsend, the Union Diesel Engine
Co., the U. S. Rocket Society, Inc., Maunsell Van Rensselaer, Dr.
Egbert H. Walker, Mrs. Fiske Warren, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, Mrs.
Eleanor White, W. Whittard, the Willard R. Jillson Library, the
William Mitchell Printing Co., Sgt. Henry J. Young.

CATALOGING

The cataloging of current material was well kept up. Some changes
in procedure and in work distribution were effective in shortening the

SS eer eee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 101

interval between the receipt of new publications and the completion of
their preparation for use in the various libraries.

By way of a beginning in taking accurate stock of the large amount
of uncataloged material in the library, three small collections of
books on miscellaneous subjects, received some years ago as gifts, and
numbering 2,906 volumes in all, were roughly classified and listed on
cards.

PERSONNEL

There were a number of changes on the staff. Miss Josephine A.
McDevitt retired on November 80, 1948, after many years spent in the
service of the Institution, chiefly in the office of the International Cata-
logue of Scientific Literature, but after its discontinuance, in the
library. Miss Elizabeth Harriet Link, the librarian’s secretary, was
transferred to the Freer Gallery of Art on October 9, 1943, and Mrs.
Margaret K. Young was appointed to succeed her on November 16. On
September 1, 1943, Mrs. Margaret L. O’Keef was appointed library as-
sistant in the cataloging division. Mrs. Daisy F. Bishop resigned her
position as library assistant on January 25, 1944, and Mrs. Marie H.
Boborykine succeeded to her duties at the periodical entry desk on
March 14.

Temporary appointees were Miss Ruth Newcomb, who served as
library assistant in the Museum from August 24 to September 6, 1943,
and Mrs. Carmen G. Randall who succeeded her on September 20.

There were upward reclassifications of the positions of Miss Miriam
B. Ketchum, librarian in charge of the Bureau of American Ethnology
library, of Mrs. Mary A. Baer, librarian in charge of the Arts and In-
dustries branch of the Museum library, of Miss Marie Ruth Wenger,
in charge of cataloging in the Museum, and of Samuel Jones,
messenger.

STATISTICS
Accessions
Total hold-
Volumes | ings June
30, 1944

Astrophysical Observatory (including Radiation and Organisms) ---------------- 214 11, 508
Bares OM Almoenicanebunnolopyss sss csos stesso ee neon eee oe ener nam eta 190 34, 001
Loe (CP eG ey Wak te COA Ee TE NE a ne ee Se EE i eee. 105 16, 636
ianpieyveAeronauticalitlprary: 2222. le oe ee Se eet on ea eee eo. 18 3,610
VARINA MC OlleChiON OM MINGTATOS -.0 00 hon sean caster ae tea conse coe sean e eens 651 9, 748
National Museum__-------- a eS SG hans on Sa ee cee 3, 726 230, 693
National Zoological Park 7 220-26. ss. eels aL ee ee A ee ree 44 4, 087
SMIGuUSOUIANG DepOsit seat ce sees on ede eee meee CASE re a! eee ose eee 812 571, 840
Smithsonian Ofice.-- Sse as ee eee Lubec Cee eee 211 31, 493
CSE Cab ee SVE eis 3 ee Be ee eee eek Seen Aes ek Or ee 5, 971 1913, 616

1 Neither incomplete volumes of periodicals nor separates and reprints from periodicals are included in
these figures.
4

-

102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Exchanges
New. exchanges: arrangedes iste Bliss Sere a ean 194
44 of these were assigned to the Smithsonian Deposit.

SWV ants? TRCOLVOG a. sok hen ok eee hee te eee eee a eee eee 4, 422
656 of these were obtained to fill gaps in the Smithsonian Deposit sets.
Cataloging
Volumes and: pamphlets cataloged] 22222352 Be Se ae ee eee 6, 673
Cards ‘filed'in'catalogs and Shelflists: 222202 te 41, 929
Periodicals
Periodical: parts entered 22 222 eo ies a ee ee 11, 480

3,181 of these were sent to the Smithsonian Deposit.
Circulation
Loans of books and periodicals____-__-___-_______ 2 eee creel tay Nees 8 NS 11, 360

This figure does not include the very considerable intramural cir-
culation of books and periodicals assigned to sectional libraries for
filing, of which no count is kept.

Binding
Volumes:ssent; to: the bindery: 22 2 5 ee ee eee 1, 683
Respectfully submitted.
Lema F. Crarn, Librarian.
Tue SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON PUBLICATIONS

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the pub-
lications of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government branches
under its administrative charge during the year ended June 30, 1944.

The Institution published during the year 4 papers in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections; 7 papers in the War Background
Studies series; 1 Annual Report of the Board of Regents and pam-
phlet copies of 20 articles in the Report appendix; 1 Annual Report
of the Secretary; 2 special publications; reprints of 2 papers in the
Miscellaneous Collections and 1 special publication, and additional
copies of 1 volume of tables.

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report; 14
Proceedings papers; 4 Bulletins; 1 separate paper in the Bulletin
series of Contributions from the United States National Herbarium.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and
6 Bulletins.

The Freer Gallery of Art issued 1 pamphlet.

Of the publications there were distributed 172,027 copies, which
included 54 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge, 12,966 volumes and separates of Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections, 21,416 volumes and separates of Smithsonian
Annual Reports, 75,749 War Background Studies papers, 4,911 Smith-
sonian special publications, 23 reports on the Harriman Alaska Expe-
dition, 40,817 volumes and separates of National Museum publications,
14,903 publications of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 9 catalogs
of the National Collection of Fine Arts, 2 pamphlets of the Freer
Gallery of Art, 23 Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, and
1,124 reports of the American Historical Association.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Four papers in this series were issued, as follows:

VOLUME 104

No. 1. The feeding apparatus of biting and disease-carrying flies: A wartime
contribution to medical entomology, by R. E. Snodgrass. 51 pp., 18 figs. (Publ.
3732.) July 19, 1943.

103
619830—45——-8
104. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

No. 2. Cross sections of New World prehistory: A brief report on the work
of the Institute of Andean Research, 1941-1942, by William Duncan Strong. 46

pp., 33 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 3739.) December 21, 1943.

No. 3. A 27-day period in Washington precipitation, by C. G. Abbot. 4 pp., 1
fig. (Publ. 3765.) February 3, 1944.

No. 4. The influence of light and of carbon dioxide on the respiration of
etiolated barley seedlings, by Robert L. Weintraub and Earl §. Johnston. 16 pp.,
2 pls., 8 figs. (Publ. 3769.) June 28, 1944.

The following Miscellaneous Collections papers were reprinted:

VOLUME 86

Smithsonian Meteorological Tables. Fifth Revised Edition. First Reprint
(additional copies printed without change). Ixxxvi+282 pp. (Publ. 3116.)

VOLUME 95

No. 5. Molluscan intermediate hosts of the Asiatie blood fluke, Schistosoma
japonicum, and species confused with them, by Paul Bartsch. 60 pp., 8 pls.
(With description of 2 new species, 5 pp., 2 figs.) (Publ. 3384.)

VOLUME 104

No. 1. The feeding apparatus of biting and disease-carrying flies: A wartime
contribution to medical entomology, by R. E. Snodgrass. 51 pp., 18 figs. (Publ.
37382.)

WAR BACKGROUND STUDIES

In this new series of Smithsonian publications, there were issued
during the year the following 7 papers:

No. 18. Alaska: America’s continental frontier outpost, by Ernest P. Walker.
21 pp., 21 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 3733.) July 8, 1943.

No. 14. Islands and peoples of the Indies, by Raymond Kennedy. 66 pp., 21
pis., 7 figs. (Publ. 3734.) August 5, 1948.

No. 15. Iceland and Greenland, by Austin H. Clark. 103 pp., 21 pis, 2 figs.
(Publ. 3735.) August 19, 1948.

No. 16. Island peoples of the western Pacific: Micronesia and Melanesia, by
Herbert W. Krieger. 104 pp., 21 pls., 2 figs. (Publ. 8737.) September 15, 1943.

No. 17. Burma—Gateway to China, by H. G. Deignan. 21 pp., 16 pls., 1 fig.
(Publ. 3738.) October 29, 1943.

No. 18. Peoples of India, by William H. Gilbert. 86 pp., 21 pls., 3 figs. (Publ.
3767.) April 29, 1944.

No. 19. The peoples of French Indochina, by Olov R. T. Janse. 28 pp., 25 pls.,
1 fig. (Publ. 3768.) June 12, 1944.

War Background Studies No. 20, “China,” by Archibald C. Wenley
and John A. Pope, was in press at the close of the fiscal year.
SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1942.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of the
Board of Regents for 1942 was received from the Public Printer on
September 24, 1943.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1942. xiii+421 pp., 83 pls., 44 figs. (Publ. 3705.) 1948.

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 3706-
3725) : ;

The 1914 tests of the Langley “aerodrome,” by C. G. Abbot.

The problem of the expanding universe, by Edwin Hubble.

Galaxies, by Harlow Shapley.

Is there life on the other worlds? by Sir James Jeans.

Solar radiation and the state of the atmosphere, by Harlan True Stetson.

The sun and the earth’s magnetic field, by J. A. Fleming.

Ultraviolet light as a sanitary aid, by Louis Gershenfeld.

Trends in petroleum geology, by A. I. Levorsen.

Meteorites and their metallic constituents, by H. P. Henderson and Stuart
H. Perry.

Philippine tektites and the tektite problem in general, by H. Otley Beyer.

Chemical properties of viruses, by W. M. Stanley.

Industrial development of synthetic vitamins, by Randolph T. Major.

The nutritional requirements of man, by C. A. Elvehjem.

Past and present status of the marine mammals of South America and
the West Indies, by Remington Kellogg.

The return of the musk ox, by Stanley P. Young.

Inseet enemies of our cereal crops, by C. M. Packard.

The geographical aspects of malaria, by Sir Malcolm Watson.

The bromeliads of Brazil, by Milford B. Foster.

Canada’s Indian problems, by Diamond Jenness.

Dakar and the other Cape Verde settlements, by Derwent Whittlesey.

Report for 1943.—The Report of the Secretary, which included the
financial report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
and which will form part of the Annual Report of the Board of
Regents to Congress, was issued Decen ber 21, 19438.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of
the executive committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1948. ix+95 pp.,2 pls. (Publ. 3740.) 1948.

The Report volume, containing the general appendix, was in press
at the close of the year.

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

Classified list of Smithsonian publications available for distribution October
1, 1943, by Helen Munroe. 47 pp. (Publ. 3736.) October 1, 1943.

A field collector’s manual in natural history, by members of the staff of the
Smithsonian Institution. 118 pp., 66 figs. (Publ. 3766.) April 26, 1944.

The following special publication was reprinted:

Handbook of the National Aireraft Collection, by Paul E. Garber. Fifth
Edition. 43 pp., 26 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 3635.)
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944
PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The editorial work of the National Museum has continued during the
year under the immediate direction of the editor, Paul H. Oehser.
There were issued 1 Annual Report, 14 Proceedings papers, 4 Bulletins,
and 1 separate paper in the Bulletin series of Contributions from the
United States National Herbarium, as follows:

MUSEUM REPORT

Report on the progress and condition of the United States National Museum
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1948. iii+-108 pp. January 1944.

PROCEEDINGS: VOLUME 91

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i-viii, 521-529. October 26,
1943.

VOLUME 92

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i—viii, 621-668. November 29,
1948.

VOLUME 93

No. 3167. New species of buprestid beetles of the genus Agrilus from Trin-
idad, by W. S. Fisher. Pp. 375-880. July 26, 1943.

No. 3168. Some fungus beetles of the family Endomychidae in the United
States National Museum, mostly from Latin America and the Philippine Islands,
by H. F. Strohecker. Pp. 381-392, fig. 12. August 5, 1943.

No. 3169. Summary of the collections of snakes and crocodilians made in
Mexico under the Walter Rathbone Bacon traveling scholarship, by Hobart M.
Smith. Pp. 393-504, figs. 13-15, pl. 32. October 29, 1943.

No. 3170. The North American parasitic wasps of the genus Tetrastichus—A
contribution to biological control «f insect pests, by B. D. Burks. Pp. 505-608,
figs. 16-21. October 26, 1948.

Title page, table of contents, and index. Pp. i—viii, 609-647. April 13, 1944.

VOLUME 94

No. 3171. Catalog of human crania in the United States National Museum
collections: Non-Eskimo people of the Northwest coast, Alaska, and Siberia, by
AleS Hrdli¢ka. Pp. 1-172. April 6, 1944.

No. 3172. The catfishes of Venezuela, with descriptions of thirty-eight new
forms, by Leonard P. Schultz. Pp. 173-338, figs. 1-5, pls. 1-14. February 11,
1944,

No. 3173. Revisions of two genera of chalcid-flies belonging to the family
Eupelmidae from North and South America, by A. B. Gahan. Pp. 339-369.
November 26, 1943.

No. 3174. New speties of American scolytoid beetles, mostly Neotropical, by
M. W. Blackman. Pp. 371-399, pls. 15-17. November 22, 1943.

No. 3175. A revision of the Embioptera, or web-spinners, of the New World,
by Edward §S. Ross. Pp. 401-504, figs. 6-156, pls. 18-19. January 19, 1944.

No. 3176. Twelve new species of Chinese leaf-katydids of the genus
AXiphidiopsis, by Ernest R. Tinkham. Pp. 505-527, fig. 157. April 29, 1944.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

VOLUME 95

No. 3178. New American cynipids from galls, by Lewis H. Weld. Pp. 1-24,
pls. 1-2. April 15, 1944.

BULLETINS

No. 183. Archeological investigations in Platte and Clay Counties, Missouri,
by Waldo R. Wedel. With appendix, Skeletal remains from Platte and Clay
Counties, Missouri, by T. Dale Stewart. viii+284 pp., 22 figs., 50 pls. October
1, 1943.

No. 184. The metallography of meteoric iron, by Stuart H. Perry. diceaione
pp., 9 figs., 78 pls. February 15, 1944.

No. 185, part 1. Checklist of the coleopterous insects of Mexico, Central Amer-
ica, the West Indies, and South America, compiled by Richard E. Blackwelder.
xii+188 pp. March 7, 1944.

No. 185, part 2. Checklist of the coleopterous insects of Mexico, Central
America, the West Indies, and South America, compiled by Richard BE. Black-
welder. Pp. 189-341. June 30, 1944.

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL HERBARIUM
VOLUME 29

Part 1. Taxonomic studies of tropical American plants, by C. V. Morton. Pp.
i-xi, 1-86. March 23, 1944.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the Bureau has continued under the immedi-
ate direction of the editor, M. Helen Palmer. During the year there
were issued 1 Annual Report and 6 Bulletins, as follows:

REPORT

Sixtieth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
1942-1943. 9 pp. January 1944.

BULLETINS

133. Anthropological papers, numbers 19-26. ix+615 pp., 34 pls., 62 figs.
1943.

No. 19. A search for songs among the Chitimacha Indians in Louisiana,
by Frances Densmore.

No. 20. Archeological survey on the northern Northwest coast, by Philip
Drucker; with appendix, Early vertebrate fauna of the British Columbia
coast, by Edna M. Fisher.

No. 21. Some notes on a few sites in Beaufort County, South Carolina, by
Regina Flannery.

No. 22. An analysis and interpretation of the ceramic remains from two
sites near Beaufort, South Carolina, by James R. Griffin.

No. 23. The eastern Cherokees, by William Harlen Gilbert, Jr.

No. 24. Aconite poison whaling in Asia and America: An Aleutian trans-
fer to the New World, by Robert F. Heizer.

No. 25. The Carrier Indians of the Bulkley River: Their social and
religious life, by Diamond Jenness.

No. 26. The quipu and Peruvian civilization, by John R. Swanton.
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

136. Anthropological papers, numbers 27-32. viii+375 pp., 32 pls., 5 figs.
1948.

No. 27. Music of the Indians of British Columbia, by Frances Densmore.

No. 28. Choctaw music, by Frances Densmore.

No. 29. Some ethnological data concerning one hundred Yucatan plants,
by Morris Steggerda.

No. 30. A description of thirty towns in Yucatan, Mexico, by Morris
Steggerda.

No. 31. Some western Shoshoni myths, by Julian H. Steward.

No. 382. New material from Acoma, by Leslie A. White.

138. Stone monuments of southern Mexico, by Matthew W. Stirling. vii+84
pp., 62 pls., 14 figs. 1948.

139. An introduction to the ceramics of Tres Zapotes, Veracruz, Mexico, by
C. W. Weiant. xiv+144 pp., 78 pls., 54 figs., 10 maps. 1943.

140. Ceramic sequences at Tres Zapotes, Veracruz; Mexico, by Philip Drucker.
ix+155 pp., 65 pls., 46 figs. 1943.

141. Ceramic stratigraphy at Cerro de las Mesas, Veracruz, Mexico, by Philip
Drucker. viii+95 pp., 58 pls., 210 figs. 19438.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

The Freer Gallery of Art issued 1 pamphlet, as follows:

The Freer Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution. 12 pp., 5 pls., 2
figs. January 1944.

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress, as provided
by the act of incorporation of the Association. The following report
volumes were issued this year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1942.
Volume 1, Proceedings and list of members; Volume 2, Letters from the Berlin
Embassy.

The following were in press at the close of the fiscal year: Annual
Report for 1942, Volume 3 (The quest for political unity in world
history) ; Annual Report for 1943, Volume 1 (Proceedings) and Vol-
ume 2 (Writings on American History).

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Forty-sixth Annual Report of the National
Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted to
Congress, in accordance with law, November 15, 1943.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109
. ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING

The congressional allotments for the printing of the Smithsonian
Annual Reports to Congress and the various publications of the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administration of the Institution were
virtually used up at the close of the year. The appropriation for the
coming year ending June 30, 1945, totals $88,500, allotted as follows:

SMH SOM AM MNSTLE HELO TI ee ee eS eee nt ee es $16, 000
Da Uoy oF WT ANY GRC Le% bcs UR emp epee Sareea Ne VU LIOR S) See researc US a Oe a NP 43, 000
Bureau of American Ethnology__-_---___-_ peeps acer aa Rs ay 17, 480
National’ Collection: of MineyArtsi 2202 Le eee ee 500
International) MW xchangses se seas os Ss es 200
INatOn al ZOOlOR eH) atria thee Ae SOR A aA Rr Se 200
Astrophysical (@bservateryst oes es id ei eed As 500
American Historical Association____--_-_-_____-__= gp et bo 10, 620

Ma Bg oi) COC a Ss a ed UE se et 88, 500

Respectfully submitted.
W. P. True, Chief, Editorial Division.
THE SECRETARY,
Smithsonian Institution.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1944

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following report
in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together with
a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Government
bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—$508,318.46.
Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim, freights, insurance, etc.,
together with payment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been with-
held during the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the amount
of $550,000.

Since the original bequest the Institution has received gifts from various
sources chiefly in the years prior to 1893, the income from which may be used
for the general work of the Institution. These, including the original bequest,
plus savings, are listed below, together with the income for the present year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS

(Income for unrestricted use of the Institution)

Partly deposited in U. S. Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested in stocks,

bonds, etc.
Income pres-
Investment ent year

Parent fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings)________- $728, 845. 38 $43, 700. 77

Subsequent bequests, gifts, etc., partly deposited in the U.S. Treasury and

partly invested in the Consolidated Fund:

Avery, Robert S. and Lydia, bequest fund. .-_......_.-._.____.___---- 50, 766. 70 2, 133. 13
Endowment, from gifts, income, etc.-....-.......-..---.-------------- 283, 751. 87 9, 988. 86
Habel} Dr:'8:: bequestfund: S30 ele ee a 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline, bequest fund_____...___._______- 3, 971. 01 139. 66
Hamilton, James; bequest funds ie er ae ae 2, 898. 60 164. 00
Henry, ‘Caroline: bequest fund 2222 a a ees 1, 194.17 41, 98
Hodgkins,‘ThomasiG:; fund (general) 2-200 ee ee eee 145, 841. 56 8, 009. 54
Rhoees! William’ Jones: bequestitund==0 = as eee 1, 057. 12 51. 80
Sanford: |Georze:H., memorial finds ee ee ee ee 1, 978. 97 96. 89
Witherspoon, Thomas A., memorial fund__....___._._...--__________-- 127, 421. 29 4, 481. 58
Special fund, stock in reorganized closed banks_____________-_--_______ 1, 400. 00 70. 00
620, 781. 29 25, 207. 44
Total soso hoses yee Ie eh kee gr ee oa oe 1, 349, 626. 67 68, 908. 51

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 111

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date,
are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Income
Investment present
year
Abbott, William L., fund, for investigations in biology_-...._._._________- $104, 598. 38 $3, 348, 29
Arthur, James, f und, for investigations and study of thesun and lecture on
SENTRA A a ey ee en a 39, 488.56 | . 1, 388. 87
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, fund, for traveling scholarship to investigate
fauna of countries other than ‘the MnitediStaves-.2: oe ke ee ete 49, 468. 47 1, 739. 86
Baird, Lucy H., fund, for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird_______._- 23, 772. 94 841.19
Barstow, Frederick De fund, for purchase of animals for the Zoological
TEEN ol: Sot St RS at ec det 9 See en A a oe on pr ea 751. 09 26. 40
Canfield Collection fund, for increase and care of the Canfield collection
Gur ere ate) gS) ee ee ae ee ae nee eee eee a ee 37, 764. 34 1, 328. 20
Casey, Thomas L., fund, for maintenance of the Casey collection and pro-
motion of researches relating tol @oleopteratetoner tee eee os een na renee 9, 056. 38 318. 52
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, fund, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea
collection of gems and Fn Gf Meee SO Eas Ei ea CN 27, 805. 06 977.94
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, fund, for preservation and exhibition of
ph hotographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, pL a yo lel a Nea ee Oey She 500. 92 4, 43
Hillyer, Virgil, fund, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of
Lip NPE Cte see ce see cee eee Bi Sey Son ee ee os a ee 6, 489, 28 228. 20
Hitchcock, Dr. Albert S., Library fund, for care of Hitchcock Agrosto-
logical Library esate ote eee ee eee NT CRORES Gat ee SEES 1, 459. 30 51. 30
Hodgkins fund, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge
in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air_.._____-___----__-_.- 100, 000. 00 6, 000. 00
Hughes, Bruce, fund, to found Hughes alcove---_---.--------- ..----------_- 18, 899. 72 664. 70
Myer, Catherine Walden, fund, for purchase of first-class works of art for
the use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts_._--_..__.__-. 18, 716. 49 658. 29
National Collection of Fine Arts, Julia D. Strong bequest, for the benefit
DlLNauonal Collection of Mine Arts= 2 —- 2s5 22 be etre ee a 9, 871. 78 347.18
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, fund, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell
Gailoctinnte: Ltn tss Sun be Ch eet UES eRe NSE Meee) TAIT 7,318. 99 257. 40
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., fund, for general use of the Institution
when principal amounts to the sum of $250,000.00______--._-----__---.--- 92, 266. 68 3, 907. 33
Reid, pogieen T., fund, for founding chair in biology in memory of Asher
PTEIUS Soles rae ten ED EEA PSY SR PN ae eS wey 29, 868. 86 1, 390. 37
Roebling fund, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling collection
GUINIHCTSISs S206. TERRE. CaS Ue A ee ae eee NE Es 119, 165, 01 4,191. 20
Rollins, Miriam and William, fund, for investigations in physics and
HO IELIS ET Vee ones een ee ee et eee ee ee ee ee ey 92, 724. 31 3, 249. 78
Smithsonian employees retirement fund _-____._..._..._...-._......--!-.-.. 45, 195. 31 1, 589. 57
Springer, Frank, fund, for care, etc., of Springer collection and library_---- 17, 706. 50 622. 75
Walcott, Charles iD} and Mary Vaux, research fund, for development of
geological and paleontological studies and publishing results thereof___-- 427, 479. 27 138, 024. 00
Younger, Helen Walcott, fund, held in trust_._._.__.---_.--_-----_-_---_- 49, 628. 70 2, 396. 33
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, fund, for endowment for aquaria _._--___---._-- 751. 47 26. 40
Special research fund, gift, in the form of real estate (No income)-----_.-_--- 20) 046100123 ae ee
NG) Beet ee 2 Se EEE oe et eee 2 ae le oe een eee ie .-| 1,351, 693, 81 48, 578. 50

The above funds amount to a total of $2,701,820.48, and are carried
in the following investment accounts of the Institution:

U. S. Treasury deposit account, drawing 6 percent interest______ $1, 000, 000. 00
Consolidated investment fund (income in table below) —-__-_-__-__- 1, 372, 516. 41
eal vestatessmorteages, Clee = 358 ae Zig itlo.ot
Special funds, miscellaneous investments______________________ 51, 028. 70

2, 701, 320. 48

CONSOLIDATED FUND

This fund contains substantially all of the investments of the Institu-
tion, with the exception of those of the Freer Gallery of Art; the
deposit of $1,000,000.00 in the U. S. Treasury, with guaranteed income
of 6 percent; and investments in real estate and real estate mortgages.
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

This fund contains endowments for both unrestricted and specific use.
A statement of principal and income of this fund for the last 10 years
follows:

aE sc IT RE BI en a eR

Per- Per-
Fiscal year Principal Income cent- Fiscal year Principal Income cent-
age age
1OSGFS 2h oye $706, 765. 68 | $26, 808. 86 BEEN AR 2” 1 eae re $1, 081, 249.25 | $38, 673.29 3. 47
1O362)- 2254222 728, 795. 46 , 836. 61 Bye pLOsaces sce Seen o 1, 093, 301. 51 41, 167. 38 3. 76
1 t Ea p rete A. 738, 858. 54 33, 819. 43 4°57. | 10422 ee 1, 270, 968. 45 46, 701. 98 3. 67
1938) 24. ae cue 867, 528. 50 34, 679. 64 4.00 || 1943_..._.___--__] 1, 316, 533. 49 50, 524. 22 3. 83
1980ivs. 2 ele 902, 801.27 | 30, 710.53 540. i 1944 eae yee 1, 372, 516.41 | 50, 783. 79 3. 69

CONSOLIDATED FUND

Gain in investments over year 1943

Investments made from gifts and savings on iNCOMe@2 22222 ee $46, 061. 80
Investments of gain from sales., etc., of securities______...__________ 9, 921.12
55, 982. 92

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by Whist-
ler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave funds for
the construction of a building to house the collection, and finally in his
will probated November 6, 1919, he provided stock and securities
to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment fund for the
operation of the Gallery.

The above fund of Mr. Freer was almost entirely represented by 20,-
465 shares of stock in Parke, Davis & Co. As this stock advanced in
- value, much of it was sold and the proceeds reinvested so that the
fund now amounts to approximately three times the original value,
or $5,881,402.17, in a selected list of securities classified later.

The invested funds of the Freer bequest are under the following
headings:

Court and ieroundsiitin dae See ees $658, 864. 68
Court and grounds maintenance fund_______________ 165, 479. 65
Curator, favre ENE ET ERIS ees ene ee 670, 500. 62
Residuaryslera cy sek era a eee aia 4, 386, 557. 22

dl a.) 1 NO Ro a a en he Sate lg de ees alk y 22 PRA. 5, 881, 402. 17

Statement of principal and income for the last 10 years

Per- Per-
Fiscal year Principal Income cent- Fiscal year Principal Income cent-
age age

_——— | | | | | | EE

1985. =. ses to. $4, 769, 362. 53 | $257, 510. 33 5.39 |} 1940__...__ 2 $6, 112, 953. 46 | $242, 573. 92 3. 96
1 ht aa ht 4, 651, 867.07 | 259, 420. 73 5. 57 || 1941____._...._] 6, 030, 586.91 | 233, 079, 22 3. 86
1987.2 ts-235 4, 881, 986.96 | 280, 969. 53 5. 75), |) $942. 2 oe 5, 912, 878.64 | 241, 557. 77 4. 08
1938E ELS 4, 820,777.31 | 255, 651.61 6.00) || "NOES Es eos 5, 836, 772.01 | 216, 125. 07 3. 70
i ee 5, 075, 976.76 | 212, 751. 78 4.1 1944 Jo <.2bs3 5, 881, 402.17 | 212, 395. 27 3.61

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HS

FREER FUND

Gain in investments over year 1943

Investment of gain from sale, call of securities, ete___________---- $44, 630. 16
SUMMARY

Invested endowment for general purposes________-______-__----- $1, 349, 626. 67
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer endow-

SEE STE ORS a ah UP SN TTC, VIE SE OO SE A SY eee Pea 1, 351, 693. 81

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment-_-_ 2, 701, 320. 48

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes_______-_-_-__-__ 5, 881, 402. 17

Total invested endowment for all purposes_______-__-__-- 8, 582, 722. 65

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS

Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as author-

ized in the United States Revised Statutes, sec. 5591___---____ $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value

at date acquired) :

Bonds (15 different groups) --_-------------- $592, 791. 43
Stocks (43 different groups) -_---_-----_----~- 801, 420. 91
Real estate and first-mortgage notes_________ 206, 604. 24
Uninvested: capitals. ts ey See gehen ee 503. 90

————— 1, 701, 320. 48

Total investments other than Freer endowment____---~-_ 2, 701, 320. 48
Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date

acquired) :

Bondsn (25: different/sroups)) e225 22 ee $2, 617, 447. 75
Stocks (52 different groups) -----_---_---____-_ 3, 250, 673. 19
Real estate first-mortgage notes______________ 7, 000. 00
WHinvestedcapibalia. 325 12 Ses ae ee 6, 281. 23

$5, 881, 402. 17

Total imveStMments 22228) oes tI Sa oe SUE | oe 8, 582, 722. 65

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE
FISCAL YEAR*

Cash balanee onshand) June'30) 19432 3 oe $671, 698. 43
Receipts :
Cash income from various sources for general
WOrksOL blew mMstituilOn=—--=) ase a $85, 5380. 75
Cash gifts and contributions expendable for spe-
cial scientific objects (not for investment)_---_ __75, 419. 86
Cash income from endowments for specific use
other than Freer endowment and from miscel-
laneous sources (including refund of temporary

DOVANCES)) oe re ee ee ee ee 127, 460. 84
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, etc.
(flonmanvestment)22 282 Se eae 220, 962. 85
Total receipts other than Freer endowment_____.--_____ 509, 374. 30

17This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING THE
FISCAL YEAR—Continued

Receipts—Continued.
Cash income from Freer endowment___--______ $210, 663. 89
Cash capital from sale, call of securities, ete. (for
AN VERSUS) ja ee a ey VT, ee ae 710, 039. 26
Total receipts from Freer endowment__________________ $920, 703. 15
132 Re Sa a ei eee DS EON DD Kops Soe te A bY he 2,101, 775. 88
Disbursements:
From funds for general work of the Institution:
Buildings—care, repairs, and alterations___ $3, 246. 87
Furniture ang fixtures) 7 00 ton 33. 90
General administration ?7_______.___________ 34, 955. 20
Libraryesd2k 5 soy wee ian, sya tsgy Se ie ea 3, 025. 26
Publications (comprising preparation, print-
ing, and distribution) 2200 eee 4 31, 948. 79
Researches and explorations____._._________ 11, 703. 21
——— $84, 908. 23
From funds for specific use, other than Freer
endowment:
Investments made from gifts and from sav-
ings Om income sw aire ee 46, 061. 80
Other expenditures, consisting largely of |
research work, travel, increase and care
of special collections, etc., from income
of endowment funds, and from cash gifts
for specific use (including temporary ad-
Valices) ate lie i be eae ree 118, 461. 61
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
of (Seenrities, ete. Witt ay eee 226, 609. 13
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
bonds ‘purchused 2 2-32. ee 2, 971. 51
————_ 394, 104. 05
From Freer endowment:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries,
field. @xpenses; * ets >> hee 45, 764. 82
Putchase’ of art. objects2=.0 sa ee 126, 774. 81
Reinvestment of cash capital from sale, call
OF BECUILICS. Ctl a rene eee — 709, 947.31
Cost of handling securities, fee of invest-
ment counsel, and accrued interest on
bonds purchased) - 2) ee 20, 962. 18
— 903, 449. 12
Cash balance, June 30; 1944 ee ee ee ee 719, 314. 48
POCA a a enn ee ee 2,101, 775. 88

Included in the above receipts was cash received as royalties from
sales of Smithsonian Scientific Series to the amount of $21,150.31.

2 This includes salary of the Secretary and certain others.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 115

This was distributed as follows:

HNGOWINCH TATUNG soe ao ere eee os bee $9, 127. 36
Smithsonian Institution emergency fund_--___________ 2, 281. 84
Smithsonian Institution unrestricted fund, general_____ 6, 845. 51
SETS SS ea aC ee EE LU ST he Lee ak Oe a aye 2,895. 60

21, 150. 31

Included in the foregoing are expenditures for researches in pure
science, publications, explorations, care, increase, and study of col-
lections, etc., as follows:

Expenditures from general funds of the Institution:

BUD GATIONS == oe ee ee a ek i ea $31, 943. 79
Researches and explorations»______--___-___-_____- 11, 703, 21.
$43, 647. 00
Expenditures from funds devoted to specific purposes:
Researches and explorations_________-_-_-_________ 29, 355. 18
Care, increase, and study of special collections______ 7, 422. 06
TELE G LO TING Seruee eee terete, Mae Sov, eee Yee 7, 984. 60
44, 761. 84
A DG 1) A tae SES BP ee EE A ee Rae) a 88, 408. 84

The practice of depositing on time in local trust companies and
banks such revenues as may be spared temporarily has been continued
during the past year, and interest on these deposits has amounted to
$657.15.

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts or bequests from the
following:

Carnegie Institution, for the support and maintenance of diatom studies.

’ Thomas G. Corcoran, toward the purchase of portrait of George Washington
Carver.

Edith F. B. and George B. Engelhardt, for assistance in publication of bulletin
by the late George B. Engelhardt.

Friends of Dr. Albert S. Hitchcock, for the Hitchcock Agrostological Library.

John A. Roebling, further contributions for research in radiation.

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues are
deposited to the credit of the same account. In many instances depos-
its are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later are with-
drawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the
Institution.

The following annual appropriations were made by Congress for
the Government bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1944.

SaIAIGsEA nC (xX DENSCS) 1044. 7. Seve ee es Bee $1, 129, 040. 00
Naonal Zo0lozical Park, D.C., 10d422 222 270, 180. 00

Cooperation with the American Republics (transfer to the Smith-
SOMIAM CO MMNStICUtION);, 19446. oo el ee 77, 000. 00
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

A deficiency appropriation of $57,000 was also made by Congress to
pay Federal employees for overtime work.

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds is given
below:

SEPTEMBER 30, 1944.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF REGENTS,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Sirs: Pursuant to agreement we have audited the accounts of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, and certify that the balance
of cash on hand, including Petty Cash Fund, June 30, 1944, to be ‘$721,214.48.

We have verified the record of receipts and disbursements maintained by the
Institution and the agreement of the book balances with the bank balances.

We have examined all the securities in the custody of the Institution and in
the custody of the banks and found them to agree with the book records.

We have compared the stated income of such securities with the receipts of
record and found them in agreement therewith. My

We have examined all vouchers covering disbursements for account of the
Institution during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, together with the authority ~
therefor, and have compared them with the Institution’s record of expenditures
and found them to agree.

We have examined and verified the accounts of the Institution with each trust -
fund.

We found the books of account and records well and accurately kept and the
securities conveniently filed and securely cared for.

All information requested by your auditors was promptly and courteously
furnished. ‘

We certify the Balance Sheet, in our opinion, correctly presents the finan-
cial condition of the Institution as at June 30, 1944.

Respectfully submitted.

WILLIAM L. YAEGER,
Certified Public Accountant.

Respectfully submitted.
Freperic A. DELANO,
Vannevak BusH,
CLARENCE CANNON,
Executwe Committee.

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1944

117
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the GrnEraL AppEeNprx to the Annual Report of the |
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a*return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1944.

118

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER?

By CHaArtes G. ABBOT
Former Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

[With 2 plates]

NATURE OF THE SUN

The sun is a gaseous body 860,000 miles in diameter of about 330,000
times the mass of the earth. Though so hot that neither solids nor
liquids exist in it, the force of gravity due to its enormous mass com-
presses the sun’s gaseous substance to an average density nearly 1.5
times that of water, or nearly 1,100 times that of air at sea level. This
density prevails, notwithstanding that the great temperature not only
gasifies the chemical elements, but still further subdivides them by ion-
izing them strongly. They are no longer composed of molecules, like
gaseous substances that we find in the laboratory, or even complete
atoms, for the atomic nuclei have lost some of the ions which at lower
temperatures would surround them to make up complete atoms. The
surface temperature of the sun is of the order 6,000° Centigrade, or
10,800° Fahrenheit, nearly twice as hot as the are light. Within the
sun the temperature rapidly rises, and at the sun’s center it is supposed
to be many millions of degrees. At such enormous temperatures and
with its immense surface, the sun is a tremendously powerful radiator,
so powerful that at the earth’s mean distance, 93,000,000 miles, the
sun’s average radiation in free space measures 1.94 calories per cm.? per
minute. This value is called the solar constant of radiation. It im-
plies that the earth, which is about 8,000 miles in diameter, receives
all the time from the sun the heat equivalent to a quarter of a quadril-
lion horsepower (1075/4 hp.)

SOLAR ROTATION

The sun, like the earth, rotates on an axis. The sun’s axis is not
exactly parallel to the earth’s, but inclines toward a point halfway be-
between the Pole Star and Vega at 26° from the North Pole. It has

1The twelfth Arthur lecture given under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution,
February 29, 1944.

119
619830—45-—-9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

been observed by spectroscopic methods that the angular rotation of
the sun’s surface is much faster at the Equator than near the Poles.
Adams found the following times of rotation as viewed from a fixed
star:
Solar latifude+ i220.) Sit 0° 30° 45° 60° 80°
Rotation) period! 24,7 26. 7 28. 0 81.2 35. 3
The earth revolves about the sun in 365% days, and approximately in
the same direction that the sun rotates on its axis. Consequently the
solar rotation appears slower as viewed from the earth, which adds over
7 percent to the sun’s apparent time of rotation. The effective mean
period of solar rotation viewed from the earth may be taken as 27
days.

FACULAE AND SUNSPOTS

In a telescope, as shown in plate 1, the sun’s surface is seen to be
mottled, but at some places to show decidedly brighter areas called
faculae which are most prevalent in the neighborhood of sunspots.
Sunspots appear as darker dots on the sun’s surface, but they are
dark only by contrast. Langley compared the faculae to white-hot
steel in a converter, which made the molten steel look like chocolate.
Though sunspots appear small on the enormous disk of the sun, actually
many of them are so large that the earth, 8,000 miles in diameter,
would only occupy a corner of one. Sunspots are seldom within 10°
of the sun’s equator or more than 30° away from it. They, of course,
rotate along with the surface of the sun at such latitudes, and their
average time of rotation is about 27 days, as viewed from the earth.

SOLAR VARIATION AND SOLAR ROTATION

Sunspots are like machine guns shooting electric ions into space.
These ions plentifully strike and are captured by the earth’s atmos-
phere. With ions from other sources they make up that high-level
electrical reflecting surface in our atmosphere which causes radio rays
to bounce along the surface of the earth for thousands of miles, in-
stead of losing themselves at once into limitless space. As the sun
rotates on its axis the conical! columns of flying ions sent out from sun-
spots sweep through space. The columns from those spots which are
nearly central on the sun’s apparent disk encounter the earth for the
short time of 2 or 3 days. From certain observations we made in
March 1920, it seems that such a column of ions, 93 million miles long
between the sun and the earth, by scattering the sun’s rays sometimes
reduces the intensity of the sun beam at the earth by as much as 5
percent. Ordinarily such effects are much less, seldom exceeding 1
percent. But it is easy to see that the rotation of a spotted sun, by ionic
scattering, may produce successions of small variations of the solar

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 121

constant of radiation. The presence of areas of faculae, hotter and
more radiative than the adjoining solar surfaces, will also, as they
march around with the sun’s rotation, produce variations of the solar
constant.

THE EARTH’S TEMPERATURE

The earth as a planet is kept in its present approximately constant
state at the mean temperature of 14° Centigrade by the balance of its
receipt of heat from sun rays against the outgo of heat caused by the
earth’s emission to space. This earth emission arises in the invisible
long-wave rays which lie between the gamut of visible light and the
gamut of rays of very great wave length, which are used in radio
transmission. To fix ideas in terms of the centimeter, the unit of
length in the metric system, visible light rays have wave lengths
between 4 and 7 hundred-thousandths (0.00004 and 0.00007), earth rays
between 4 and 40 ten-thousandths (0.0004 and 0.0040), and radio rays
between 10 and 1 million (10 and 1,000,000) centimeters. But all of
them are of the same fundamental nature of transverse vibrations.

Since the earth’s mean temperature keeps within fairly definite
bounds because the total receipt of heat from the sun is in approxi-
mate equilibrium with the total escape of heat from the earth, it is
plain that if the sun’s contribution should change permanently, the
earth’s mean temperature would change to a new state of equilibrium.
However, the sun is so immense that no considerable general change
of this kind is to be apprehended in thousands, or even millions, of
years. Nevertheless, in what follows it will be shown that temporary
changes of the order of 1 percent do frequently occur in the sun’s
output, and that these affect weather locally so much that solar changes
must be rated as major meteorological factors.

SMITHSONIAN SOLAR-CONSTANT WORK

_ For many years the Smithsonian Institution has maintained ob-
servatories for measuring the intensity of solar rays. Our best sta-
tion is Montezuma, in the Atacama Desert of northern Chile. It
is located on a mountain 9,000 feet high, where years frequently go
by without a drop of rain. The observers must be supplied from the
city of Calama, 12 miles away, with water, as well as all other ne-
cessities. The sun shines from an unclouded sky on nearly 80 percent
of alldays. As it is very trying to the nervous system to live in such
isolation under constantly cloudless skies, it is necessary to relieve the
observers at intervals of 2 or 8 years. Indeed, great loyalty to the
objects of the work, excellent ability as observers, much tact in dealing
with the people of the vicinity, and conscientious honesty and industry
are absolute requirements of the observers for the successful operation
122

of the station.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

seldom been lacking in our representatives there.

Solar radiation, by being absorbed on black surfaces, is converted
into heat. Its intensity is measured by its heating effect. The ob-
servatories for measuring the solar constant of radiation have no
telescopes. To insure constant temperature surroundings, highly fa-

Ay
a
ate
Ultre-vielet——>

ee ee ey i)

-
=a.

ead
PS er PS Ee aarti Ate BC: oe pee Be or ea
Ingra— red See Sane ee ee Visible

«-fe+--—-

a ee pen epee pet

se,
SAS

rrr
att osTas

:
Bran
Sent

?
z
z

Figure 1.—Bolographic energy curves of the solar spectrum made at Montezuma, Chile. The

We have been fortunate that these qualities have so

upper set made between early morning and noon of a very dry day; the lower set simi-

larly made on a moist though cloudless day.

vorable to exact measurements, they consist of horizontal tunnels
about 10 feet wide and 7 feet high driven into the mountain some 40

feet.

We located the tunnels on a south slope in the Northern Hemi-

sphere, and on a north slope in the Southern Hemisphere. Within the
tunnel is installed a large prismatic spectroscope, whereby the sun ray
reflected into the tunnel by the coelostat outside (shown in pl. 2)

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 123

is cast into an intense spectrum, which comes to focus on the bo-
lometer. The bolometer, originally invented about 1880 by Dr. Samuel
P. Langley, is an electrical thermometer so sensitive that a change of
a millionth of a degree in temperature can be registered. A clockwork
causes the solar spectrum to drift slowly across the fine hairlike re-
ceiver of the bolometer, and at the same time causes a photographic
plate to drop slowly past the tiny spot of light reflected from the
mirror of the magnetic-needle system of the sensitive galvanometer
connected to the bolometer. Thus is produced in less than 10 minutes
a bolograph, or curve showing the distribution of energy of radiation in
the spectrum of the sun from far up in the ultraviolet to far down
in the infrared. Several such energy curves are taken with appro-
priate intervals during a morning as the sun rises higher and higher.
A group of them is shown in figure 1. Simultaneously with each bolo-
graph the total heating effect of the rays is measured outside the
tunnel with an instrument called the pyrheliometer (heat-of-the-sun-
meter). Also the altitude of the sun above the horizon is taken simul-
taneously with the theodolite to indicate the slant thickness of the
atmosphere. From this combination of observations it is possible
to compute the intensity of the solar radiation as it is outside our
atmosphere in free space at mean solar distance. This is the solar
constant of radiation.

DAILY VARIATIONS OF THE SOLAR CONSTANT

For 25 years the Smithsonian Institution has been collecting daily
measurements of the solar constant, when practicable, with a view to
determining the march of the variations of the sun’s output of radia-
tion. These fluctuations are small in percentage, rarely exceeding 1
percent. Figure 2 gives the still smaller variations of the monthly
mean solar-constant values, 1920-1939. It therefore requires very
great accuracy of observing to disclose and evaluate them, hampered
as we are by the superincumbent highly variable atmosphere. We are
at a disadvantage compared to astronomers who measure variable
stars, for they can compare the star investigated with other similar
stars nearby, all of which suffer equal percentage losses of light from
atmospheric hindrances. The sun is unique and can be compared
with nothing near it in the sky. One can only compare an absolute
solar measurement of today against an absolute solar measurement of
tomorrow, trusting altogether to the accurate determination of atmos-
pheric transmission on each day to make the measurements comparable.

The Institution maintains three solar-constant observatories, two
in the Northern and one in the Southern Hemisphere, all on high moun-
tains in desert lands. The following table and summary shows how
well the solar-constant daily measurements at great distances apart,
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

1920 21 22.23 2% 2 26 27 2 29 930 3) 32 33 3% 3% 3% BS 38 39 194

Pog te are tan ten iid IA BES,
i Fee | Ahtta —h | fy |
HAE a eI

a a

S LYE A 1 a DOR Eat PvE

& Low TA I AB ATT ly Pi Ae a a

8 Hk ew OG FR Ye SR | HE 2 ae

Sa ER OA kA

~ CUTIE TT Ay a NT Red a

S OC LY il Nk

a ee ft +t IA} tA (OE LA SSE | st]

8 EAL ee ets ovallesloadll Jeliges eal ot JRC ay, 21 2 a SA ae al
(hr lf ta Ei a Daca ita LA wis

EOS, COE EN  ea SW W Eee a a

RE RE BEN RE DY FPN ETT We a: ES

eee a DF i a a i a a a Ge eT I Ss

LET PORTO Shs ON OCR IS [25] Aa ISG ae ARSE dea

cae verb We Diels ly anit Dia ade ee eed ieee

pt} ft tt 7} tf} tf tf tf tt

(OUR EES PER WR De ice LP ST Sk

ae babe le depeche eea e a e

; SV 1 * Mca Png WAT Pea pt Fed Se Rag a

Figure 2.—March of monthly values of solar constant of radiation, 1920 to 1939,
A, observed; B, synthesis of 14 regular periodicities, all approximately aliquot
parts of 273 months.

and in opposite hemispheres, agree in the 5-year interval from Jan.
uary 1932 to December 1936. All days simultaneously observed, good
and bad alike, are included.

These results we arranged in groups in order of their divergence, as
shown in the table. The unit is 1/1,000 calorie. Most of the values
concern Montezuma and Table Mountain, but there are a great many
in which Mount St. Katherine figures with one of the other stations.

TaBLeE 1—Numbers of daily differences between stations having certain

amplitudes

Amplitudes, A=--L2.--+ 22-28 20-22 18-20 16-18 15 14 13 12 at 10
Number of days_____---_ 17 12 10 35 13 15 22 20... 22 27
Product lines 1 x 2____ 391 252 190 595 195 210 286 240 242 270
Amplitudes, A--------- 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
Number of days_____--_ 34 30 35 43 51 55 55 387 48 £35
Product lines 1 x 2____ 306 240 245 258 255 220 165 74 48 0

Total’ days 2ouit Lise he 2) ee ee Se ee eee ee 616

Total oft products= 23222 Se ee eee 4, 682

WALES UCD CCA 7, see SO be eS Sage So eS eS Se 7.6

29

30

31

NOON FON FONT

eee
ww

Station

a=

SOLAR VARIATION

388
491
533
557
587
425
458
521

67
100
89
79
279
214
179

182
153
122
358
291
214

84

78

75
217
198
165

«
; ws 2
uti a alien est py as = z
z ue BF ee oc eon, An ba
cc) a eae Aa ae eves
1934
1013 M 220 18A 1 499
13 200 18A -3 515
p 14 150 17A -2 600
5 K 250 10A-25 483
6 200 10 A-27° 546
7 150 11A-21 614
d 45
1114 M 150 58B 36 530
(re 14 145 58B 39 538
gd (26 14 140 61B 37 546
16 T 250 318-67 430
16 200 30B-74 501
cH et 7 150 29B -83 568
5 K 249 13A-31 475
aq 639 6 199 14A -34 532
7 150 13 A -33 602
¢ 1213 M 220 55B 13 441
13 200 57B 17 463
x 14 150 54B 20 538
¢ iss 16 T 250 34B-70 430
16 200 31B-75 497
17 160 32B-72 545
5 K 249 8A-21 499
6 200 11A~-29 547
P 7 150 16A -32 608
c 4l 1313 M 220 54B 27 440
13 200 538 22 467
14 150 54B 23 536
€ 16 T 250 19A-13 462
16 200 21A-13 520
17 150 22A-17 583
d 6 K 200 16A 36 520
6 175 16A 42 553
7 150 16A 36 579
b 42 1413 M 220 53B 59 427
13 200 478 48 465
14 150 48B 41 540
6 K 200 26B 26 475
4 6 176.28 B 24 517
7 150 31B 14 556
a 1512 M 252 29A 11 432
pb (te 13 200 30A 12 498
14 149 27A 8 575
é 1613 M 220 15A-l6 514
13 200 14A-20 537
14 50 13A-13 613
rn 6 K 200 28B 11 493
6 180 31B 7 517
7 150 308 1 563
b 45 17 5° K 250 35B -1 419
6 200 378 2 483
7 150 37B 2 556
é 1813 M 200 27A 39 488
e 13 180 26A 39 519
Fy He 14 150 24A 32 568
5 K 250 25A-17 440
6 200 25A-12 504
7 150 22 A -24 578
c
1913 M 220 12A-14 510
13 200 13A-14 536
c 14 150 11A~-10 607
5 K 249 25 A -37° 436
6 200 24A -33 507
dy’ (48 7 150 +32 A -45 567
20 12° M 220 17A-14 505
4 13 200 18A-12 532
14 150 17A .1 604
16 T 250 98D %8 371
dae 16 200 95D 27 439
17 150 96D 25 509
b 5 K 250 21A-34 451
6 200 20A-31 516
7 150 32A-25 566
b 47

Figure 3.—Facsimile of page 133, volume 6, Annals of the

Observatory.

AND WEATHER—ABBOT 125

Pyrn.

C
Grade
Pid. S.C,®

48

50

46

82 45 ¢ St

Astrophysical
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

The weighted divergence between stations being 0.0076 calorie,
the weighted average departure of one station from the mean solar
constant derived from two stations is 0.0038 calorie.

Although it is not fair to Montezuma to suppose that the stations
are of equal merit, yet if we make that assumption, and proceed as
usual, we find the weighted mean percentage probable accidental error
of a single day of observation of the solar constant at one station
to be:

100 x 0.0088 X 0.84 1.94=0.164, or 1 of 1 percent.

In volume 6 of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory of the
Smithsonian Institution are contained in table 24 nearly 19,000 meas-
urements of the solar constant observed through the years 1924 to 1939.
Several thousand earlier observations of the years 1920 to 1928 are con-
tained in other publications. Figure 3 is a facsimile of a part of page
133 of the Annals, which includes the work of September 1934. The
several observing stations are distinguished by letters M, K, T, meaning
Montezuma, St. Katherine, and Table Mountain. The solar-constant
values in columns “S. C.” and “Pfd. S. C.” are to be understood as pre-
fixed with 1.9. Thus for “50” read “1.950.” Using the result of Monte-
zuma and St. Katherine only, which are more accurate than those of
Table Mountain, there was apparently an increase in the column “Pfd.
S. C.” from the 1st to the 5th and from the 10th to the 14th of Sep-
tember, and a decrease from the 14th to the 19th. These changes had
an amplitude of the order of 0.5 to 0.9 percent, that is about 0.010 to
0.018 calorie in the solar constant of radiation.

SEQUENCES OF RISING AND OF FALLING SOLAR ACTIVITY

I give in table 2 a summary of nearly 500 of the best supported in-
stances of rise and of fall in the solar constant of radiation selected
from table 24 of volume 6 of the Annals. The table is arranged by
months and will readily be understood by an example. Thus, “Janu-
ary, Rising, 24, 12” means that a case of the solar constant rising for
a few days appeared to occur beginning January 12, 1924.

It is of interest and importance to note that the solar variation
increases in percentage toward shorter wave lengths. It is six times
as great at 3500 A. in the ultraviolet as in the total solar constant.

EFFECT OF SEQUENCES OF SOLAR CHANGE ON TERRESTRIAL
TEMPERATURES

Using this tabulation of the dates whereon sequences of rise and of
fall of the solar constant apparently began, I have sought to determine
whether such phenomena were associated with special behavior of the

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT Iai

departures from normal temperature and normal barometric pressure
at numerous cities. For this purpose I tabulated the departures, let
us say of temperature, to illustrate, for 5 days before, and for 14 days
after, each date included in table 2. Figure 4 is a facsimile of such a
tabulation of temperature departures covering the months of
January, February, and March for Washington, D. C. Two curves
of temperature departures are shown for each month. One corre-
sponds to the average influence of sequences of rising solar activ-
ity, the other to the average influence of sequences of falling solar
activity over the years 1924 to 1939. It is to be understood that these
curves show temperatures only, not solar constants. One knows only
that on the zeroth day of each line of the table a 3- to 4-day sequence
of solar changes began. The upper curves of the figure show the
average march of temperature departures at Washington in the months
of January, February, and March, each associated with 19 or more cases
of rising solar sequences, and the lower curves show the average march
of temperature departures at Washington in January, February, and
March, each associated with from 16 to 21 cases of falling solar
sequences.

TABLE 2.—Dates when sequences of rise and fall of the sun’s emission of radiation
began

January February March April

Rising Falling Rising i Rising
24 #4 27. 13 24 17 24 «8 24 62

27 25

128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

TABLE 2._Dates when sequences of rise and fall of the sun’s emission of radiation
began—Continued

September October November December

1
7
8
24
2
2

Lom Sd

NJOn

AND WEATHER—ABBOT

SOLAR VARIATION

A

Ae| 34
ab b | Ale
Bor's- Hy zs i 1 61 Jor
. “1 fi A, lal
i
ay te
t
bai = <

‘ShEL ‘Wouvy puv ‘Aivnaqag ‘Aiwnuve J0J sSoinjivdep s1njvrsduie} UoJSuIGSeAA JO UOTVING’y—PF aAITNDIT

@ f-| 7) or) 8 att f,

me Scan Zara a LEA OCA CG Eo

y
a

aap sunweohg she]. raypee § aK AG ip

248

Cay y ees bal ba Oa NLP 8e! |E5'O [ce] +e Jy
ox. 36 oe ts- Te-len is sy a4 a atwor-
AD) £6 ts | AS L-| a/|t9)s/| go wT is)
wee 9-|) 2% | irl S’-Le psl tla] tie v4 i
west B12 | elas sia vl ALbl
eat- or-)Ol |z)el|epti ols t-| €-| 0!
6 o/- MO |W) £/| 6) &/|) Be | A-| o-] £-| b-| 1g dey
2'> Slerler) a | all bz} |_| or |e] ar
regs #\ An zi z-lé-2| er) ©| A-| t-| AQ
oe is) k£ 1 @lehko sc tz ¢ Exe
a 2 se Of te I~ @° 6 he Ue ir
Te vw ri is 4 | 2 t % 2 €p- [APO pee [rst lec oc-/|senloe9 ug StAANT LET IZ [ele] nb7i eet | Lee ay de
UD Ss smal eo q
/- c-| 2] cf a! M\|o}L Avités 20D - - 2 y rr wD
” x 5 : 9/\ba | orla as|xs|szlor| oAlaziaz4 ce
nt ug oi f| P| 3-4. A VF T-gelt\e) — = Lif on ox bert
we a wy € zz Sf) A- nm “ys = | Onl ase?
al €- a | e/| b|A A IND lar io- 1 €
vs he Zi (YR re] s- Yb | 2 N-O-19- lbs 4
we u 1 at t-Ye-| 2 o's Ge tii +)
a $ er b-\B/- 4/4! 5 U-' 9- 9/-,
eles o f-. -9 % B/- Ol- 91- BWI
a2}Z7 ¢ sry fyi 4 nt] Ola | 71 Le
wal I-|9-) 7 &-| 9- | or-| 07 ¢ | diqar-| Al os wierd | pal | ae
‘ Alprirzp us > lM) 9/-| 4-| b-| AIA 8 gt Atel
' Oinft| O| ©} “A Z| 91) 07) C| | Ody 26!
gee| r- pry - larg ee. 28 lAreleen ie weol ej,oursa 21> | cr] re] ke | tiger Ooty
oe 9 RI ee 2-fb-| oe] tz] t 4 £14) [b-l2 bey
TP IAN ASA me or-/99 ‘te fades Spit} 1) é4 0 nELALLZ [OF] 215 ay
EE |r eras 1) Lae ad Si Ziziluwi¢g Plahals izie 7)
wo-|L-| 2 | ata “4 eiz Of) | %) bu ols “bS. iE Wali
Q
A|T- tect 1-| of-| 21-| oF
oes t te é- Te ee i- ti
wt-| of oi £-| oF
e 2 - a a or Bs a
. é = a ef ie?
orf! 5 ars 2 aa aE,

Ld PSE Line OLE|AbO| ta) Ge 1-1he: 102) eld 92t-]99 1) ts “G)

sorliay

?
y
e

“SxS hav
orp Py, Pron re rome ree

IO See Gani e

wos

mo Loage?| Lah we'e| set-less-prt-[bL:o4 bc'/] 9a%| tbe les7 [tee pse-l'haLee-|zh1 | 94 SRY «
2 'mLe/-| 6/86) 9A Je ite As URE) 89) Tals Lib 8S | -|0t | br] sc
St) Or 91) Osler L Gh-|11-| OC |b) be! BL) CF] mi] SA Le- Og] If | tH
O14 4 $-| cf st . 1 le-| v-lLs-| A fe tbl a | cla dle mau
Li-| t-| At Left=} CYS ft b&b Tes
i £/ Syl i N “1 itl ay) ar wu ic seh
oi Sf i Af) oF ik bi, - wa
Ts U £-| A +
yl h|3| of 0} ?-1z 19- £ c
jas | ei lie | 31) A hte L 6
vil A | eels 9 |S) b/| # 4 eae
g “ zt) </ §)t444 0 z= ae
Wt 9-| €| 5-| p Ales) €f a Ze 4]
- Sije NY s-[f 2

eb BD & gy- fe b
ose! | €-| €2- 4\er|z4-l¢
1
aepqdro| 201 zee lees leet ser ery
—s4ey | at ALl abla | os a
ry “As $+ hoi] BOA ners A341 34 t
aet!| Or | se 122 211 8|0 [s- g Lt] t-l ot
ust 6) ZI 4-18 or it? [es 9 /te-
Gein pags g
raya We ,, Al Ar sie if
sSZ) at St) ez] ier! a | 97
po} /-| Bs O-| 9/-| Bi-
CA Gr 4 Bld bl-|_se-]
PVs
Te a7 i hr 8
S¢| jtayp ed | ery_s
SlajL{[€jsio
Sie pale é.
I-
or} ex] FT ay
aan

ae

: ected fl
Tht ate | oe) £7 lbo'o-ll4-|160
ond
Ah \6F |b 9) 98) B-jal-| iz
nh4 28+] bet] 994 Ate] TH IS ay
eb s-l lst te 19 | 1 ie
Vi S-lA |i) t- l= | F
z1A4 PY |e" |S ear
PG Rare a i Pa he
TE, Az] D |e Gl |e ELcay
b= gf] 2)-| (s-| 4 | ar- I—Jns
C-,d-] d-ly-] 2 Je |.s Wsebr
bbz] all VAIL S Jam
S-nth O10 9-0 DIK sep
z b\s- WW
%
A

ae

i °
f | or | or) 9
¢ 7)
Oe ¢

Sl- a

926)

: TeSthi
at

es

Suey,

fl eto ee ere Te el ca

arp

Bia apy LOLI. GEM OO

@. bHet StL | 4D NUD

proeroberp pepo GRY
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

CONTROL OF TEMPERATURES BY SOLAR SEQUENCES OF VARIATION

With this method of investigation clearly set forth, I now give
in figures 5 to 7 results for temperatures for all months of the year at
Washington, Albany, and Helena, and point out several characteristics
of these curves.

1. At every station, and in every month, the temperatures depart in
opposite directions, attending, respectively, rising and falling solar
activity. Thus comes about an axial symmetry of the pairs of curves
such, for instance, as subsists with one’s right hand and one’s left.

2. The march of the curves differs from month to month, and differs
for the same month from station to station, yet the right and left
symmetry always prevails.

3. The effects are large. Differences of temperature of the order
of 10 degrees Fahrenheit, or more, depend on whether a rising or a
falling sequence of solar activity preceded them many days before.

4. The effects of solar changes on temperature persist for many
days. They may surely be traced from 8 days before to 14 days after
the zeroth day of the solar sequence.

5. The coefficient of correlation of these curves for the three stations
and the 12 months of the year, and from 3 days before to 14 days
after the solar change, is found to be r= —61.2+1.7 percent.

6. Since far-separated cities respond in a similar manner to the com-
mon system of dates given in table 2, this system of dates must have
a cosmic significance. The system of dates, in other words, betrays
an extra-terrestrial selection, harmonious to the claim that on these
dates changes in radiation occurred in the sun.

SUPPORTING EVIDENCES OF SOLAR WEATHER CONTROL

Doubters, however, may argue to the contrary as follows:

The changes claimed in solar radiation, they may say, are so small
in percentage that it is improbable that observation, however accurate,
can distinguish them from accidental errors, and from the influences of
atmospheric sources of error. May it not more probably be that the
series of dates was selected by chance? They were, indeed, dates on
which, in the average, large variations of temperature followed over
periods of 17 days, but this was merely accidental. It would then
naturally occur that sequences of dates closely following those at-
tributed to rising solar radiation would show opposite temperature
tendencies, since whatever goes up must come down. That far-sep-
arated cities would react to the same systems of dates, though not identi-
cally, is not surprising. For, as is well known, weather travels in
waves from west toward east, so that a disturbance arrived at Wash-
ington would have passed by stations to the west some days earlier.

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 131

i a a
je 1 i al, RA
Ada a
7 AE NA
SAN INE
be Aa TE

ALA

i SA
a
FS a Pa
a a a ae a a
a

AGE Lan
kiN CU ile

Ee

le

mes
LeERSs= aa

aA

Rae
oe ee

ae
fs
e
>
=

\

=

zi

gi

ie

a

Laeece

Ex SeG5eRe
Er eae ce
SSeS eames)
ZEcceReee
EEG

&
Hn SRERRS eae
BRP ARBRE Caeee
ERRRERSES Ree:

RAR a ROE Fa
ea a
SCA
Aa}
ae Vis Rie
i aes 2 ee

a
a a A a

A

ami

ie Nm Ae,
AN
Cl OO

a bal

S|
ae
Pe
Ge ial
Ste]
lial
ia
iii
mi:
am

a a a
Fe
OLY 0 aN BE, a Wed Ba
Ficure 5.—Average marches of temperature departures, Fahrenheit, at Washing-

ton, D. C., accompanying sequences of variation of the solar constant, January
to December.

132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

PS eile
Beehews

B

BERS ESas2e

Pa i,
fap yee

De

Bent SER

SEE ESSERE SEE

| | py
BREBSEREMES
ER IERRE

FiaurE 6.—Average marches of temperature departures, Fahrenheit, at Albany,
N. Y., accompanying sequences of variation of the solar constant, January to
December,
SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 133

210,12

OT

4.6

DAN PE) FS
as EW CT ls

rag
By ee ae
MAES 2
Sr aes

= +

» OND AAAARA SO

6 dw 10.2, 45.6 La/0 se 4
Ca Rs a ce
ea EZING pa
pete EN Tie Ae
"OE PF PS ES
fie fate al a

Figure 7.—Average marches of temperature departures, Fahrenheit, at Helena,
Mont., accompanying sequences of variation of the solar constant, January to
December.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

These plausible arguments may be confuted, but it is doubtful if so
complex a proposition could be made altogether clear to the lay reader.
The simpler course is to show that these same marches of temperature,
at these same cities, are associated with another common system of dates
in another series of years, which system of dates has an undoubted solar
connection. This I shali now show.

THE SPECTROHELIOGRAPH AT THE OBSERVATORIO DEL EBRO

The eminent astronomer, Dr. George E. Hale, in his youth invented
the beautiful instrument which he named the spectroheliograph. This
device photographs the clouds of vapors of individual chemical ele-
ments, such as hydrogen, helium, iron, or calcium which float above the
sun’s surface. Hale’s spectroheliograph found instant favor all over
the world, and many observatories were equipped with it. Among
them is the Observatorio del Ebro in northern Spain, which is main-
tained by the Jesuits. Every available day from 1910 to 1987 the
monks at Ebro photographed the calcium clouds on the solar surface
with their spectroheliograph. And not only did they observe, but they
measured the areas of these clouds as well as their mean distances from
the center of the sun’s disk, and they published all the measures.

CHARACTER FIGURES OF THE SOLAR-FLOCCULUS ACTIVITY

With the help of my assistants, Mrs. Bond and Miss Simpson, I have
used these Spanish measurements of every day of observation from
1910 to 1937 to compute character figures. These represent the solar
activity of a given day as measured by the summation, according to cer-
tain weights, of the areas of the calcium clouds, or “flocculi,” photo-
* graphed that day on the sun’s disk. These character figures having
been assembled by months in 12 groups, it was seen at once that they
showed sequences of rise and of fall, for intervals of a few days each,
just as the solar-constant values do.

Going over the tables with care, I selected dates in each of the 12
months in the years from 1910 to 1937 when the best examples of se-
quences of rise and sequences of fall occurred. The period of 28
years is so long that there was no difficulty in finding enough excellent
sequences without including doubtful cases. I thus tabulated the
zeroth dates of the rising and the falling sequences of flocculus char-
acter figures for each of the 12 months covering the years 1910 to 1937.
Then the Washington temperature departures from 5 days before to
14 days after each zeroth date were tabulated in the same way as for
solar-constant correlation.

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 135

CONFIRMATION OF SOLAR-CONSTANT RESULTS BY WORK AT EBRO

Mean values were taken, and often in these tabulations more than 30
cases entered in each mean. I show in figure 8 a computation and

Mrs ne 15H Nebep aved Wark” Taw abipeastiis. Ar ves.
ES CnS20RR0S6CRCR0o00

ae ce 13 “2-4 1/ (2:
912 I- La pag i tA.
-2 - - a Si

ave Barly

Hegre
abe
cite ess

‘
i)

eB

~~

Shs ops

“4 +

st

alee

eee Tapas
Sia

'
~
=

1
Ay
w

‘
mele Paste

ee ace
papa S

vere -/0
gfe -
WEN
“119. 1S
2 0 -s-|-¥|-9 2)
11) 73| /0| 12] 3 “2
34 3 |-/o |-/4| ~10|-5 ~7 4 sj-/3 |\-4 7) 7)

62 o\V76 $6 133 |-/4|-76|-31 33 5/7 be \-18| SSL EC | 44) 72
. £8 \-111 27) 69) $2 |/24| 92139 |- ¥|-4¥0|251-27 -/2|-/t] 41. 137| 724 50|78
$23 T5748 | 1.17 | 296) 226) 599] 4.00) 1.70 | <IS ELPA. 09) - 1/7116} -.52| 52] 4H | 1-61) 39.19 | 207 | 3.99

Ficure 8.—Temperature departures, Fahrenheit, at Washington, D. C., in October,
accompanying sequences of rise and of fall of the character figures of solar
calcium flocculi, beginning zeroth day.

graphical representation of the results at Washington for the month
of October. Finally I show in figure 9 the march of temperature de-
6198304510 "
Oo 2

AT AS
Ae A) eT ANS

ZINN Cela
ZN TOV
PA aa ea |!

“s.
RES OND ARRON AD ®D |

/

2 0 10 f2 /4\ \é6 PLIOT fer rGr 26 Wome
i Bos iC AL om ele
ikl BNR AA Is *
in Bm XN
ra Mt ais A
CNY Paes ming
mes SS a Ra eg a Pa EC!
i fess afl ALS alah etalk dl ak 1S 1]
al OW aa nhs earl
ms. NIA NIZE fh
A a IA
aa rT RAIN OL
= We SW |
Bc
ES
lel
wpuE
Shin
eT
Bt ail BB
Parl 7
ees
ew
in Ss
ibe
an
Pa ale|
4.2 0 2 4 6 8 WH l28 64 2 0 2 4 6 8 WLM
(ie bsb! le | Sey Relat ae eps
CECA i = CAN
a a a SE TANK Ge
ak ATI) BORN A ANE
Pa Va EAA Goo NGA Oa
NZ WANA Ieee
Sa BER cd EN ed a =
rolesbeal betes ble bokila MLC
SN at AC ee
SCR AO Y Oe Sd Mop alel Naliae Fol Tahal
PSL AACA] RN
? [ \ 4 ; \ } z
bee al | Ne hotie lenshle tp ln epditel ics Lianslo i

Figure 9.—Average marches of temperature departure, Fahrenheit, at Washington,
D. C., accompanying sequences of solar change (a) of the solar constant in
years 1924 to 1939; (b) of character figures for solar calcium flocculi in years
1910 to 1937, for months January to December. Ordinates are temperature
departures; abscissae are days from beginning of solar-constant sequence.
Flocculi area curves are displaced 2 days to right.

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 137

partures at Washington for the 12 months, as associated both with
solar-constant sequences and with flocculus character-figure sequences.

It is at once apparent that similar curves of temperature resulted,
but that the curves based on flocculus character figures show 2 days’
lag in phase compared to the curves based on solar constants. The two
kinds of solar change, in other words, are not exactly simultaneous.
The reader will see in the diagram that for comparison purposes the
flocculus temperature curves are all moved to the right 2 days with
respect to the solar-constant-temperature curves. This phase dif-
ference allowed for, the correlation coefficient between solar-constant
and flocculus temperature curves for Washington is r=59.7+1.9 per-
cent. It will be noted that the two systems of dates used for the two
determinations have almost nothing in common. They are spread
over two different series of years, one interval 1910 to 1937, the other
1924 to 1939. Owing to differences in days lost for cloudiness in Spain
and northern Chile, only a few of the dates in the two intervals are
adjacent. In short, in method, in the years observed, and in detail,
the two determinations have only this in common: both purport to
show the influence of changes of solar activity on Washington tem-
perature. One of the methods uses photographic phenomena univer-
sally admitted to be solar. Since the results of the two methods are
well-nigh identical, how can critics longer reasonably deny that in the
basis of the other method (the solar-constant variation) is also
a truly veridical solar phenomenon ?

I therefore claim for the Smithsonian Institution the discovery and
measurement of variations of the solar constant of radiation, and the
proof that these solar variations are major factors in the control of
terrestrial temperatures.

SOLAR SEQUENCES AND BAROMETRIC PRESSURE

We have investigated also the dependence of barometric pressure
on the solar variations tabulated in table2. I will not enter extensively
into this branch of the subject, nor show further examples of the tem-
perature effects, because I have much else to present in this lecture. I
will only draw attention to the march of barometric pressure at Denver
and Ebro (figs. 10, 11) for the 12 months, as associated with rising and
falling sequences of solar-constant changes. It will be seen that the
curves, while not so consistent as the temperature curves, already
shown, still generally display that right-and-left symmetry which has
been referred to in temperature.

POSSIBILITIES OF DETAILED LONG-RANGE FORECASTING

I now turn to the question whether these solar variations, since indi-
vidually they apparently produce major changes of weather for inter-
FIcureE 10. Ficuke 11.

Figures 10 Anp 11.—Barometric departures associated with sequences of solar-
constant variation for 12 months, January to December, at Denver, Colo. (fig.
10) and Observatory of Ebro, Spain (fig. 11). Full curves, rising sequences;
dotted curves, falling sequences.

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 139

vals of nearly 20 days, may give hope that a method of forecasting for
many days in advance may be evolved therefrom. I have, indeed, made
a preliminary test of this possibility.

It will be apparent that after computing basic curves of the tempera-
ture effects of solar variation for a given station, it may be assumed that
when a sequence of rise of the solar constant is descried in the daily
observations, one may write down in a column for some 2 weeks there-
after the departures in temperature expected to follow this sequence of
rising solar activity. As other sequences occur, some rising, some
falling, other parallel columns of expected temperature departures are
written down on the proper dates, appropriate to each.

i] 213] 4|5]6]7]8 [9 rope [re] e3 i Fee ele: cite s|2|3|4 siclalsialie Wa Jia lagi sre 7 [refi] ~

i SUV ATAAMGUATARAAAHUGUGGNGUNGAOUOOTOOIOTOHAEROTIL
OO lor ea suntmenaten OCC FD LRU EV RRR EI seb

“{-——Observed.. PTET TT

i PTET

: Se a ert

LETT ee A HEHEHE HER

SMAFAHGNONGGEARUNOGAGSUGROAGNAOAEALOTOTT WM GT

CTT ST TT EE REET HHH
NALA PANETT Tad |

-4

L
SETAC ean MTA TPAREUH ELBE HUFL AEEETL ASH
© SMV PAGE La
nf HTECECEEPE CMe CP AH MNEOFAPALOLSUAL |
ye BEPHANENEEHALAUATRDOER AZADA HUR GEO ARRREDEREE
Snares TTT:
20-9 SUCCeCCcUnReeeceEHEE tea EERE ETE
ie TT SORUUDEMRRRE( AGERE TT:
48 ieee £499 oa LEAHAOTOWOWOVGWOTOWOQGAHQ4/NOTOTSGEAHEE ,
: oh HEHE CePebeeeeeereeel |

Tem per ature Departures Wash ae

we

i!

Resch 12.—Forecast and verification of Washington temperature departures.

By the summation of all of these columns day by day, one finds an
expression of the total influence of solar variation. This summation
may go on continuously, always for as much as 10 days, in advance of
the calendar. Figure 12 gives such a summation for September and
October 1935, prepared from solar-constant basic curves for Wash-
ington and Ebro dates.

Unfortunately the solar-constant daily values of first-class quality
are too scattered as yet, with only our two first-class stations observing.
However, I have found several months in the long record of calcium-
flocculi measurements kept at Ebro when the breaks were so rare
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

that a fair estimate of the dates of changes in solar activity could be
made. With allowance made for the difference of 2 days in phase, the
basic curves used were those derived for Washington temperatures
' from solar-constant work. The general result was as summarized
below:

Days
"Potals .predieteg. 2.54. hl Fs es Ne a ks 201
Observed and: predicted; sameysign 2 5s es ee ee ee eee 139
Observed and predicted, opposite Sign 22S ee ee eee 62
Observed departures: Plus 65, minus 136.
Predicted departures: Plus 64, minus 137.
Num- Percent-
bers ages
Differences: VO lta ways ie eee 2 ee ee nee 66 82.7
aT RO BA: dg ese Eber ae ees Pa ES ee alt Se bale eh 43 21.3}6°, 69.8%
Be CON i Gee Fae EN ae ok Dp RM ee Ba ae 82 15.8
General ici 00 og SR RR a) a CO A 33 16.3
mean = Ba WHR fo ny A oe i ee SE 8 A sO OS eae 20 10.06°, 30.3%
5°.35. 16 (ee a as i 8 NHR Ge AL EE ae Es SE ON a BS 8 4.0

Correlation coefficient=56.9+3.2 percent.

This preliminary test, which is a forecast based on solar data alone,
gives some ground for hope that with more accurate and continuous ob-
servation of solar-constant values, when these are obtained every
single day, such solar forecasts, supplemented and corrected by the ex-
tensive knowledge of terrestrial influences now available to meteorolo-
gists, may in that combination greatly promote longer-range weather
forecasting. Since solar changes are a major weather factor it is
difficult to see how long-range weather forecasts can be made if they
are neglected as always heretofore.

THE 27-DAY PERIOD IN WASHINGTON PRECIPITATION

I now present a curious result of investigation of the sunspot rota-
tion period of 27 days in connection with the precipitation at Wash-
ington. In the year 1942 I collected values of the daily precipitation
at Washington from 1924 to 1941. These values I arranged in cycles
of 27 days. Since 27 such cycles fill 2 complete years, lacking 1 or
2 days depending on leap year, it was convenient to tabulate the values
in nine 2-year tables, and take the mean values for each of them.

I was immediately struck by the circumstance that for the mean of
every 2-year tabulation, the 11th day of the cycle in the earlier years
and the 12th day of the cycle in the later years was from 2 to 3 times
as rich in precipitation as the 6th and 7th day. The cycle, whose true
period seems to be 27.0074 days, was always taken in the phase as of
January 1-27, 1924. On taking the general mean of 243 cycles, the
characteristic of high values about the 12th day was very marked, but
other parts of the cycle also were conspicuous as high or as low in

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 141

precipitation. I then divided the data into three sections representa-
tive of dry years, 54 cycles; intermediate, 108 cycles; wet years, 81
cycles. The results are given in figure 13.

A VERIFIED PREDICTION ONE YEAR IN ADVANCE

In March 1943 I informed the Chief of the Weather Bureau that on
a certain list of dates the average daily precipitation would be higher
than on the remaining dates of the year. I recently tabulated the re-
sults: Using curve 3, applicable to years of intermediate precipitation,
the selected dates of 1943 were expected to show 166 times the average

I { P p a pope tt
HA nt SGU OE EESSE Saneee ane

i sjusseed eeeeeeeS ESRETiaddguasaseeapeeeeeeeeeEeeETTRRETUTRTTTaeeeeeet EEE
fo) EEE sede
/ 3 Ss 7 9 “ 43 1S /7 19 2/

Figure 13.—27.0074-day period in Washington precipitation. Curve 1, general
mean, 248 cycles; curve 2, dry years, 54 cycles; curve 3, intermediate, 108 cycles ;
curve 4, wet years, 81 cycles.

rainfall of the nonselected dates. The actual ratio, for the 175 selected
dates compared to 191 nonselected (the work included December 31,
1942) was 1.58.2. The 27-day cycle has continued so consistently for
20 years at Washington that one is inclined to think it may be trusted
to hold for some years to come.

MONTHLY MEAN SOLAR CONSTANTS

We will now consider monthly mean values of the solar constant
of radiation, the variations they disclose, the periodicities found

I might add that the 2 days of large rainfall in January 1944 fell on selected dates
also.
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

therein, and the effects of these long-term solar variations on weather.
Figure 2 gives the monthly mean solar-constant values from 1920 to
1939. The curve shows fluctuations which appear to be wholly irregu-
lar. If one asks, are these fluctuations really true changes in solar
radiation, their very magnitudes give a strong presumption that they
areso. For inthe comparison of daily values given above it was shown
that the probable error of the result of a single day of observation
from one station is but 14 of 1 percent. A monthly mean includes from
30 to 80 such values. Hence, recalling that the probable error of a
mean is the probable error of the individual value divided by the
square root of the number of values entering into the mean, we see
that the probable error of a monthly mean value is from a thirtieth
to a fiftieth of 1 percent. Yet the fluctuations in figure 2 range up to
more than 1 percent. Hence probably many of them are veridical.

PERIODICITIES IN SOLAR VARIATION

Although seemingly irregular, the march of solar variation shown
in curve A, figure 2, like the characteristic voice of the violin or of
the trumpet, comprises a long wave with many simultaneously active
shorter waves related to it by simple ratios. However in the solar
variation the simple relationships appear to be only approximate,
not quite exact, to the master cycle of 2234 years, or 273 months.
Nevertheless it is very interesting that this master period, so nearly
a least common multiple of 13 shorter ones, is approximately double
the well-known sunspot cycle of 1114 years, and thus equal to Hale’s
period of magnetic changes in sunspots. Strangely enough, though,
the sunspot cycle does not appear among the 13 submultiples of the
solar-constant master period, for no evidence of this 1114-year period
can be found in the variation of the solar constant.”*

Here are the observed periods, and their approximate relationship
to 273 months:

1 % % % Ys Va %
273 91 68 54 4514, 39% 34

% Mine is th Va ths Ve4

30% 2514 21 11.87 11.29 9.79 8.12
Curve B of figure 2 is made up by adding together the separate
influences of these 14 periodicities as they were determined from
curve A by numerical analysis. The fit of the observed curve by
the synthetic one is so good that in figure 14 of the Annals, pub-
lished several years ago, the curve B was carried on as a prophecy
of solar variation to the end of 1945. Four years of observation
have become available from Montezuma station, though only in a
provisional, not the final, reduction. Figure 14 shows a comparison
between the prophesied and actually observed solar variation. Not

2a See, however, L. B. Aldrich, Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 104, No. 12, July 2, 1945.

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 143

bated as
sso BSA gt Noe eet a |
se Rea aah
nner fet on]

A, predicted ; B, observed.

Fiqure 14.—The solar constant of radiation.

144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

only in general, but in many details, there is much similarity. We
await with very great interest the crucial test to come in the latter
part of 1944 and 1945. If the prophecy is then verified, we may
expect, as I pointed out occurred about 1922-23 unusual weather
conditions in 1945-46.

EFFECT OF LONGER SOLAR VARIATIONS ON WEATHER

Among the shorter periods found in solar variation, as indicated
by Smithsonian solar-constant measures, are periods of approxi-
mately 8, 934, and 1114 months. I have sought to determine how
these and the longer periods of solar variation affect temperature
and precipitation in many cities. To fix ideas I give a tabulation
(tables 3 and 4) for 8, 934, and 1114 months at Copenhagen to show
how these influences are examined.*

TABLE 3.—Copenhagen temperature departures, smoothed. Test of 8-month period

[Values of January to August only. Unit: 1/10 degree C.; for means, 1/100 degree C.]

Year Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug
1800____ __.._-_._]| —19 | —17 | —47 33 29 | —12/} — 4 15
Oro 0) ag ci ag a ae se a ay 22 10 | —15 | —17 | —83 6
DS OA eee oh, oe ae 18 | —21 | —25); — 8 11 3 5 11
TSOG22 20 fiat gs ee AL, 17 19 | — 4] —19 8 | —20} —15 9
USO Se NG ae ee 8 | —1l1 |} —19 | —17 9 9 24 26
ALS ST Qe ns Coty ieee eee 1}—5]— 2] —16 | —27| — 4 8 6
1 fail I ae wa rete an SD Gal ae a | 138 | —18 | —82 |} —14 | — 4] —21 2
1814.02.02 22 2S 635 — 53 je — 29 4 {| —30 | —15 10 — 2
PSG el 7b eee a 4) —22} —4]|-— 6] —27 | —15 2 —14
BS is a ees oe ITC 14 15 20 | —21 |} — 3 11 14 — 2
LS ZOOM SS eee nal Laren eer — 32 1|/— 4 12 0; —15|— 7 — 3

Mean________._| —53 | —64 |—100 | —39 | —54 | —72 | —15 +49

1800 to 1820_____-_-_- —53 | —64 |—100 | —39 | —54 | —72 | —15 +49
1822 to 1842________ = |} — 6 105 42 8 eo oe 18
1844 to 1864_______- —10 ae Sede i Oe i ee — 30
ES66'to 1886225 2222 127 115 44 8a 7 27 4 35 24
Sse to VO0S. 2 ie 123 59 25 EM ic ne 17 26 — 64
1LOLO tO.1 980 tes 74 108 133 96 58 | —59 46 —16

The maximum appears to shift 11 months and the minimum 19 months to the right in 110 years. With
such large shifts one cannot exactly determine the proper correction to the period with one trial. These

+ 19X8 1
shifts however indicate: By the maximum, we month; by the minimum, ae esi month.

110X129
Further trials led us to fix on the correction 44 month, and to prefer the period 836 months.

3 Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., vol. 9, No. 6, June 1923.
4In this publication I give only the tabulation for the 8-month period, and its
correction to 8144 months for Copenhagen. Others were shown at the lecture.

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 145

TaBLE 4.—Copenhagen temperature departures, smoothed. Test of 8%-month period
[Values of all months employed. Means only given. Unit: 1/100 degree C. throughout.]

Years November-December beginnings
7A ey od ERS en —19 24 21 7 84 11 18 —=6
1833 to 1868_-_.__-_ —153 | —55 | —48 —4{-—10| —75 | —4l — 66
fSs68 10/1903. ..-2-— 20 85 88 103 33 77 | —23 —3
L903 te 193722 222. —102 20 36 44 29 —4 —5 — 20
i795 to 1937... -_- —79 22 29 65 41 | 3 | —15 — 29

1798 to 1937

Nov. and Dec------- —79 22 29 65 Al 3 | —15 —29
aan. ang, Feb. .—. ...- + —3 | —32 34 59 —l1 —7 —6
Mar. and Apr-_-_-_-_-__- —29 | —29 | —64 |} —19 | —66 | —39 | —29 15
May and June_------| —1 45 44 4] —12 24 33 46
suly and Aug... - -. - 29 38 | —24 —1|—-—12 16 8 —3l
Sept. and Oct. -_----- 24 32 52 6 5 18 40 42

That there is here no progressive secular displacement of the phases of means of groups beginning at a
constant season of the year, is shown by the extended table for November-December. But groups begin-
ning at different seasons of the year do show displacement of phases with respect to one another.

I soon found that while there seemed to be some tendency to perio-
dicities in weather corresponding to the solar changes, these weather
periodicities, unlike their solar counterparts, fluctuated in phase. It
occurred to me, however, that this instability of phase is but a natural
seasonal effect for the periods of shorter duration like 8, 934, or 1114
months. For the phase of terrestrial response to a solar cause must
evidently depend on local terrestrial circumstances. For instance,
there will be a longer lag with stations under oceanic control than for
those in cloudless deserts. Pursuing this thought it occurred to me
that the phase, for example, of an 8-month period of response to solar
change in weather must be different if the solar cause occurs in
summer than if it occurs in winter. I investigated this idea for several
periods and many stations. Figure 15 shows that my surmise was
a correct one.

Hence terrestrial responses to solar periods of moderate lengths
should be expected to be in the same phases only when the solar causes
occur at the same time of the year. If a solar period of exactly 8
months existed, we must compare its terrestrial effects 2 years apart,
for then their solar causes would occur exactly at the same seasons of
the year.

I will not delay to show exactly how we make use of the calendar to
eliminate seasonal phase changes, but will content myself with show-
ing for three stations, Copenhagen, Vienna, and New Haven (see tables
3 and 4), that when this complication is properly allowed for, and when
the exact length of the solar period is determined, the terrestrial re-
sponse is proved to be exactly in phase from the year 1700 to the present
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

time. Figure 16 shows how necessary it is in such a long term
of years to select the exact period. Using 8 months there is but small
amplitude, even when seasonal influences are eliminated, but with

Mia nee sey
SOOmMaw Er) Oo

E
i, eae
aCe

aa

Agee
ae

ee

alan
ae
Keka

Ben

ral

SE] |

4LBANY
M3 Mo.

ese
GREENWICH |
8 Mo.

IS
GREENWICH | NY
92 Mo. iss
BIS2FE

ie '
eee a

/
/
]
7
5
3

/

POSTS SO SHLNOW

8/4 months all three stations show a strong periodicity, with ampli-
tudes of 1°.38 C., 1°.1 C., and 1°.3 F., respectively, over nearly a cen-
tury and a half. In this way we have been able, by using tempera-

MONTHS OF YEAR
Figure 15.—Phase relations of periodicities in terrestrial responses to solar variations, depending on seasons of the

year,

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 147

ture records at terrestrial stations, to obtain more exact periods of the
solar changes than could be fixed by solar-constant measurements ex-
tending only since the year 1920.

New Haven

aL, } Not
aaa A CCK)
] Ms Bo

Figure 16.—A periodicity of 8144 months in temperatures at ese a Vienna,
and New Haven, Conn., since the year 1700. Seasonal phase disturbances are
excluded.

PERIODICITIES IN WEATHER

Since the 14 periods® simultaneously active in solar variation are
approximately aliquot parts of 273 months, we may anticipate that
the many weather features occurring at a station in this interval of
nearly 23 years will tend to repeat with some measure of similarity
in successive 23-year cycles. Experience shows that this influence
is more effective at some stations than at others. Figure 17 shows
what has happened at one of the most responsive stations, Peoria, IIl.
It will be seen that especially in the last half of the cycles the tendency
of features to repeat in Peoria precipitation is quite marked. Two
attempts to forecast, made in 1934 and in 1938, are shown by heavy
dotted lines, and by light full lines, respectively, in figure 17.

I have made use of this 273-month master period to predict
precipitation for some years in advance at a number of limited
regions of the United States. I reduced the prediction to a purely
routine computation, and used the percentages of normal precipi-
tation smoothed by 5-month consecutive means. Thus for March

5To them must be added the sunspot cycle of approximately 743 months. For though

it does not appear in variations of the solar constant, the ionic: bombardment of the earth
from sunspots is not negligible as a weather factor.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Jan. + Feb.+Mar.+ Apr.+ May
5)

, etc. Then for the expected smoothed

use the summation

Feb. + Mar.+Apr.+May+June
5

percentage precipitation value for January of a future year, take the

smoothed value for April 46 years previously, plus the smoothed value

for February 23 years previously, and divide by 2. This simple rule

works very well for some stations. Thus for Eastport, Maine, from

1935 to 1942, inclusive:

, and for April,

For 96 months, average observed minus predicted___-___________ 16 percent.
Number observed and predicted on same side of 100 percent__________-__-___ 78
Number observed and predicted on opposite sides of 100 percent___-_-____ 18
Number, though observed and predicted on opposite sides of 100 percent,
their difference observed minus predicted, less than +16 percent___--____ 6
ecole Ati
\ be had it 7) SG Se HY MS a ad Ta ps PO
2 a [GL A oe GR OL Oe Oe a ae)

RSE Fae WRN CER LR |, a Se Wd | Ps! DT

a pee A gy EY DB nH LAL
(a Say Fei Faia Tyan TAM TW WNT
AL) ER A | lah na a He a ME ea |
Bus) ey, | Se ee ee ee) ae are
K re gt Sh Py Aan th gt th

hes |b Th Nee In 5s a BE
COE 1 PY A A, !
TVA TN, TT TW AUAVNZIV AT YY NY AWE Wet |_|
RE AY ETA eV PN a a PY

Sia A mi ee BU LS ae, LT

PRY oP ae
Ba Oe De Pa |e Pe | De ae
eT AA No Pf 2: in ff \(
es I\ fb ATM ALT Ve Tha TT Tet LS ft A Es
Pee WoT ot yc aRuIm IY Whew 7 | VW
AL i UM YT ea Be ANI /O ele
SRN RT a RR PR LO 0) PRR A, 2 lh FS PES ee
Bis eo RG) IR al fan WR i! iL Ain led den 1 | sl a Bot has Mi We

|
Ficure 17.—Precipitation at Peoria, Ill, smoothed by 5-month running means, :
arranged in 23-year cycles. Letters represent similar features in successive |
cycles. Forecasts (dotted line, from 1934; thin line, from 1938) made by con- |
sideration of preceding cycles. |

From these figures one may fairly claim that of 96 months predicted
84 were useful predictions, or a measure of success of 87 percent.
For 12 New England stations similarly evaluated, 807 were useful,
845 unsatisfactory months’ predictions. :

Several years ago, at the resquest of a Colonel of Engineers I
made in this way from records of 10 stations a prediction for 3
months of the expected precipitation in the Tennessee Valley region.
My prediction of precipitation was 84 to 87 percent normal. The
event was 87 percent normal.

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—-ABBOT 149

Ne
q
ie

<i

\

|

ma

2

Bt

23-YEAR PERIOD IN TREE RINGS
FROM 5 GROUPS, SO. CALIFORNIA
YEARS > 10 15

Fiaure 18.—The 23-year period as found in the thickness of tree rings from five
southern California groups, 1829 to 1920.

20
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

The double and quadruple master periods of about 46 and 91 years
seem even more prominent than the 23-year cycle in precipitation.
In further illustration of the effects of the 23-, 46-, and 91-year perio-
dicities I give figures 18, 19, and 20. They show, respectively, the 23-
year period in the growth of trees in California, the 46-year period
in the precipitation at Bismarck, N. D., and the 23-, 46-, and 91-year
periods in the level of Lake Huron. It seems probable that large de-

tes rao 2
Noe NDT SS
OF a Ps
SE Ee I Se

A SCIC oA ir
: WN TU EME —
WAN YT |

mM

4 188s 6 7 8 9

PERCENTAGE OF NORMAL PRECIPITATION
o

fe)
5 1930 | 2 3 4 1935 6 7 8 9 1940 ' 2 3 1944
BISMARCK, S.DAKOTA. PRECIPITATION AT EPOCHS SEPARATED 46 YEARS.

Ficure 19.—The dotted line in the lower curve, from 1937 to 1943, was drawn in
1937 as a prediction.

clines in the Great Lakes levels, accompanying great droughts in the
Northwest, will begin about the years 1975 and 2020.

THE 14 SOLAR PERIODICITIES REFLECTED INDIVIDUALLY IN
WEATHER

There is another method of making long-range weather forecasts
based on solar variation. With strict attention to the seasonal in-
fluences on phase already referred to, one may compute from monthly

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT L5I

weather records of the past what are the effects of each of the 14
solar periodicities on temperature and on rainfall for any desired sta-
tion. Then, assuming that these influences will continue with the
same effects in future, and still paying close attention to the seasonal
changes of phase, one may add together all these effects, and also the
sunspot-cycle effect, similarly determined from records of the past,
and thus prepare a forecast for several years in the future.

With the aid of my assistant, Miss McCandlish, I have made such
forecasts of temperature and a otiention for en cities in the

1837 39 SI 43) 45... AT S48" Sh 57 i 65 67 69 7 73 75 77 79 =) «1683

|
>

|
6

eet

Ht
a
alc
nis i

noe
aaron eal
INS
oe ina ass
ae Se aA
pois |
ee ee eae
|
rae
fa]

en aa
EhGsr.saseeeceaes

Figure 20.—Levels of Lake Huron (minus 581 ft.). Note the cycles of 23, 46, and
91 years. (Yearly means.) Great droughts in the Northwest following 1838,
1886, and 1929 recessions. The grand cycle is 92 years (or better, 91.2). Minor
droughts following 1859, 1906, and to be expected following 1952.

United States. They have been very successful in some cases, not so
much so in others. Figure 21 shows one of the most successful, again
dealing with the precipitation at Peoria, Ill. We employed ae pre-
cipitation records prior to 1930 to determine the outlines of the pe-
riodic terms, and then synthesized the expected precipitation through
1944. As will be seen, 10 years out of the 13 show both in phase and
amplitude considerable similarity to the event. The later years betray
an increasing tendency for the prophecy to anticipate in phase. This
may indicate that some adjustment of length of periods is desirable.
619830—45——11
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

SERRRRDGeE DORE 2

1943
Ee
a! ae
Ea
Ea
Synthesis of 15 Let

194/

meee esle

1940

\

ie
Vcore es | elise ot

1938

Es
|
rm
[Ee

eries

eet

1936

determined from records for 1856 to 1929.

1935

amQEOuhs.
eer Te
CCPC rss
MBREGRMABHL: a6 ae
===

_—-

: Bis
chaste tak

1934

1933

1930
Fieure 21.—Precipitation percentages at Peoria, Ill., predicted (dotted curve) and observed (full curve).

SOLAR VARIATION AND WEATHER—ABBOT 153

However, if one were content with 5- or 7-year predictions, such
shifts of phase could be corrected from time to time.

CONCLUSION

I have brought together many evidences which seem to indicate
that the small percentage changes observed in the solar emission of
radiation are effective factors in the domain of weather. Many others
have been published by H. H. Clayton. The solar measurements in-
volved are exceedingly difficult and require installations on high moun-
tains in desert regions, where the largest percentages of clear skies
with low wind velocities prevail. Three stations maintained by the
Smithsonian Institution are now engaged in day-to-day measure-
ments of the solar constant of radiation. On account of the variable
obstruction occasioned by the atmosphere, laden as it is with clouds,
dust, ozone, and water vapor, these three stations are insufficient
adequately to follow and record the sun’s variation. About three
times as many mountain stations, widely separated in the most cloud-
less and calm regions of the earth are needed. They could be installed
for $500,000, and operated for $250,000 per annum.®

I think there is a great probability that if such additional solar
stations were in operation they would furnish information of major
value to meteorology. I believe that with the solar data that would
then be available, and using the rich store of information regarding
terrestrial factors now familiar to meteorologists, great progress
would ensue. The neglect of solar variation, which seems to be a
major factor in weather, cannot continue if meteorology is to progress
as it should. It would be like the play “Hamlet” with Hamlet’s part
omitted.

«Very recent developments of the research, however, give hope that another approach
to the problem not requiring additional stations may be successful.
¥ lee eh

Pace gehys te Tease
ee y haE i

th ty e
fj } b
in
j 4 ‘
§
4
%
‘ J
a ——.
‘
’
‘
< ‘
1) -_
ae ; - ‘

PLATE 1

Smithsonian Report, 1944.—Abbot

AND PROMINENCES.

SOLAR PHOTOGRAPH BY MOUNT WILSON OBSERVATORY, SHOWING SUNSPOTS,
FACULAE
Smithsonian Report, 1944.—Abbot

PLATE 2

THE COELOSTAT AND THE PYRHELIOMETER JUST OUTSIDE THE TUNNEL AT |
MONTEZUMA, CHILE. 1

ASTRONOMY IN A WORLD AT WAR’

By A. VIBert DovucLas
Queen’s University
Kingston, Ontario

I

Science has advanced during the last 4 years both because and
in spite of war. Some of the sciences have made tremendous strides
as a direct result of the challenge of war necessities. Physics, chem-
istry, metallurgy, and all the branches of medical science are in this
category; some day the full story of their great achievements may
be made known. Other branches of knowledge, while far from being
unaffected by the war, have continued to advance largely in spite
of the upheavals in the life of nations and individuals which world
war inevitably brings. Astronomy is in this latter class.

Astronomy and astronomers are playing an important part in the
war chiefly along the two lines which have always presented funda-
mentally stellar problems—direction and time. But the main ad-
vances in astronomy in these last 4 years have been made in spite
of the war. It is right and fitting and indeed very encouraging that
this is the case. When so much that is of intrinsic beauty and of
fundamental value is being destroyed by war, and when so many
worthwhile activities have to cease, it is good indeed to know that
there are astronomers on this continent, and even in some parts of
Europe, and in Australia, Africa, India, and probably in Japan,
who are able to carry on the continuity of observations on stars and
starlight, sun and moon, planets and asteroids, comets and meteors.

If the continuity of observation in many branches of astronomical
work were to be completely broken, it would be an irreparable loss
to science. Thus it is with satisfaction and great admiration that
we read in the Reports of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, that
damage done by enemy action to one of the buildings and to
the Airy transit circle has been largely made good, and observations
recommenced with that instrument upon Sun, Venus, and the stars

1 Address of the president of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, January 1944.

Reprinted by permission from The Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada,
vol. 38, No. 3, March 1944.

155
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

in the clock and azimuth lists; that parallax determinations are going
on; that solar photography and observations of chromospheric erup-
tions in Ha are continuing; and that the two Time Service Stations
have operated continuously. During this period the exhaustive work
on the solar parallax was brought to completion.

In France solar, planetary, and stellar research have been carried
on, and in Holland galactic problems, long-period variables, dark
nebulosity, and theoretical astrophysics have been under investiga-
tion even in these tragic years. In the U. S. S. R., where at least
three observatories have been destroyed and another dismantled, plans
are already made for resumption of activity and for the erection of
new observatories to further the study of latitude variations and solar
research. From two observatories east of the farthest battle front we
know that papers have been published recently on photoelectric calo-
rimetry and on color temperatures.

Similar records of observations and measurements carried on des-
pite air raids, despite reduction of staff, despite pressing war problems
and difficulties of all kinds, could be quoted from many observatories
in countries deeply involved in fighting for their very existence.

-In these and in countries like our own—at war, but far removed
from the main theaters of conflict—there has been a very important
contribution made by astronomers in the adaptation of astronomical
observations and calculations to the problems of air ngvigation. The
Director of the Glasgow University Observatory, W. M. Smart, has
produced three books on nautical astronomy since this war began, and
under his instruction, R. A. F. pilots and cadets are learning the art
and science of navigation. Scores of astronomers, including Canadian
men well known to many of us, are doing similar work, giving all
their time, skill, and energy, and often risking their lives in the air
with student pilots, in order to impart this so necessary instruction
in alr navigation.

In the Koran, it is written: “God has given you the stars to be

guides in the dark, both by land and sea.” Homer tells of Ulysses.

on his raft that he sat at the helm and “marked the skies, nor
closed in sleep his ever watchful eyes.” But navigation from the
back of a camel or from the bridge of a ship can be a relatively
leisurely performance. Not so in a modern airplane! The naviga-
tor takes a sight on a star or planet, he reads his chronometer, and
then if his calculations take him 5 minutes to perform, he and his
plane are already perhaps 25 miles away from the ascertained posi-
tion. Every minute that astronomers have been able to cut off the
time for computation of position is of the greatest value to airmen
flying over seven seas and six continents, across enemy lines, with

objectives a mere dot on the map—a railway yard, a factory, an
airfield.

ASTRONOMY IN A WORLD AT WAR—DOUGLAS 157

II

Turning to the subject of time measurement, it is worthy of note
that during these war years an accuracy never before dreamed of
has been attained. It was in April 1938 that Essen described before
the Royal Astronomical Society the researches at the National Physi-
cal Laboratory which had resulted in the new quartz clock, of which
so much was hoped. This clock makes use of the properties of the
crystal oscillator, one of the most reliable and perfect mechanical
systems known to man. Essen describes quartz clocks briefly as “con-
sisting of phonic motors controlled via frequency dividers by vibrating
quartz crystals.” In a paper presented to the Royal Astronomical
Society last June, Greaves and Symms record the intercomparisons
of three Greenwich free pendulum Shortt clocks, two National Physi-
cal Laboratory quartz clocks, and three quartz clocks at the Post
Office Radio Branch Laboratories.

They analyze clock errors into three classes: (a) erratic varia-
tions in phase, (b) erratic variations in rate, (c) a combination of
phase and rate variations, producing a cumulative effect. They show
that two Shortt clocks and two quartz clocks may indicate approxi-
mately the same mean absolute second differences of relative clock
error, but the distribution of errors between the three classes is differ-
ent—the quartz clocks show very little error of (b) and (c) relative to
Shortt clocks, and errors of class (a) do not affect the long-period
performance of a clock.

The famous Shortt clocks are now known to be incapable of giving
the precision demanded, but the Astronomer Royal hastened to pay
them a deserved tribute:

Twenty years ago we had several papers dealing with the performance of
the Shortt clocks, then looked upon with great expectations. In this clock was
achieved in a simple and beautiful manner what horologists had been striving
after for years, namely, a pendulum designed solely for the purpose of beating
time whilst being called upon to perform no mechanical work. But if the subse-
quent performance of this type of clock did not fully come up to our high expec-
tations, the Shortt Free Pendulum has one thing to its everlasting credit—it
forced the astronomers to adopt the use of Mean Sidereal Time where formerly
True Sidereal Time had been adequate. During the intervening 20 years since
this type of clock was installed in many observatories, new requirements have
sprung up. In the past the main purpose of a time service was to provide absolute
time with an accuracy sufficient for navigational and surveying requirements.
But the new use of frequency standards has raised a demand for 24-hour intervals
correct to the very high accuracy of a millisecond.

It will be seen then that as absolute standards at Greenwich, Shortt clocks
have become obsolete. Our long-range predictions are now based entirely on
quartz clocks, free pendulum clocks being used only for extrapolation over an
interval of 24 hours.
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944
III

Let us turn our thoughts to cosmology and recall that it was during
the first World War that Einstein’s general theory of relativity ap-
peared. Two years later, in the war year 1917, came the first sugges-
tion of an expanding universe. This was one interpretation of de
Sitter’s modification of Einstein’s cosmology, implying as it did red
shifts of the spectrum lines of faint distant objects. Incidentally, we
may turn aside to remark that while de Sitter was then working in
a Holland that had been allowed to remain neutral, his spirit is living
on in the occupied and battered Holland of this war, and he, though
dead, yet speaketh, inspiring his successors at Leiden and Amsterdam
to carry on the tradition of astrophysical research in spite of all ex-
ternal difficulties—thus Verweij has produced a theoretical discussion
of Stark effect in stellar spectra which was published in Holland and
found its way to the United States of America just before the entry
of that country into this war. Perhaps I may add that Verweij in
that paper dealt a hard blow at a paper by a McGill colleague and
myself, though I do not accept it as a knock-out blow. Further re-
search on this controversial subject is now in progress at the Dominion
Astrophysical Observatory.?

De Sitter had also deduced from Einstein’s theory the four con-
clusions which offered a hope of observational confirmation. One
of these four crucial tests was whether radiant energy passing close
to a body with an intense gravitational field surrounding it, would be
deflected in accordance with Newton’s law of gravitation or with Ein-
stein’s modification of that law. It was Prof. A. S. Eddington who
realized the great importance of making this test at the first favor-
able opportunity, namely, at the time of the total solar eclipse which
was to occur on May 29, 1919, with the Hyades as background. War
or no war, all the plans and preparations were pushed ahead and thus
it was that when the eventful day arrived, even though the Treaty of
Versailles had not yet been signed, two British expeditions were in
readiness to take the crucial photographs. I often reread the passage
written by a learned mathematician and philosopher in which he
described the meeting of the Royal Society when the results of these
eclipse expeditions were announced, verifying as they did the theory
of Einstein:

The whole atmosphere of tense interest was exactly that of the Greek drama;
we were the chorus commenting on the decree of destiny as disclosed in the
development of a supreme incident. There was dramatic quality in the very

staging ;—the traditional ceremonial, and in the background the picture of
Newton to remind us that the greatest of scientific generalisations was now, after

2 Recent work at the D. A. O. points to a confirmation of the work of Foster and Douglas
on the interpretation of helium profiles.

ASTRONOMY IN A WORLD AT WAR—DOUGLAS 159

more than two centuries, to receive its first modification. Nor was the personal
interest wanting: a great adventure in thought had at length come safe to shore.
[A. N. Whitehead.]

De Sitter’s expanding universe suggested an outward motion of
the stellar bodies within the framework of space as defined by his
modification of the Einstein equation of spacetime geometry. Ten
years later, Lemaitre, who had fought with the Belgian army in the
war years and afterward entered Louvain University, brought for-
ward his theory of expanding space. This made the radius of cur-
vature of space a function of time, and gave a new stimulus to the
astronomers in those great observatories equipped to probe most
deeply into space. In the following years, at Mount Wilson and
Harvard particularly, the exploration of space was carried on with
vigor, and methods were found of estimating the distances of the
remote galaxies. A special lens was designed to obtain their spectra
at Mount Wilson, and thanks to the broad, strong H and K lines of
ionized calcium, red shifts could be measured to distances estimated
as 250,000,000 light-years. The correlation between distance and red
shift has provided a remarkable confirmation of the theory of the
expanding universe. Recessional velocities up to one-seventh the
velocity of light have now been observed. In the years between the
wars a few voices were heard to question the interpretation of the red
shift as a Doppler displacement, but since no alternative explanation
suggested itself without postulating some entirely new law of Nature,
the expanding universe remained as a working hypothesis in the back-
ground of most astronomers’ minds.

One of the interesting things that these recent war years have
brought is the reopening of this question by E. P. Hubble. Is the
universe expanding? Is the red shift actually indicative of motion?
Or is the framework of the universe static? And if static, what is
the explanation of the displacement of all spectrum lines to the
red for distant galaxies? Hubble’s analysis of all available data
based on the assumption that the universe is expanding, necessitates
the calculation of a dimming factor due to recession. When cor-
rection is made for this in the estimation of distances, he claims
that a map results which is not of homogeneous density, which
implies an increasing rate of expansion with distance, and therefore
an “age” of the universe totally inadequate. On the other hand
when he assumes a static framework for the universe, the analysis
of all the data gives a map that shows a linear relation between
red shift and distance, and a homogeneity of density. This map
has more to commend it than has the former map, and hence the
assumption of a static framework appears to be favored. But, as
various astronomers have pointed out, the weakness of this result
lies in the large probable errors of the quantities involved, so that
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

even an apparent divergence of 30 percent from uniformity of den-
sity is not evidence weighty or certain enough to overthrow the
Lemaitre theory of an expanding universe.

IV

Important advances have been made recently by Gamow and
Bethe in our understanding of the sources of energy within stars
which permit them to radiate energy as they do. Bethe has given
an exposition of a cyclical sequence of atomic changes and interac-
tions whose net result leaves a star with fewer hydrogen atoms, but
with more helium and the liberation of excess nuclear energy in the
form of gamma rays. This is now generally referred to as the carbon
cycle and it is too beautiful not to be recorded here, for though
published a few months before the war, it has been during the war
years that it has become a part of astronomical thinking. Of the
six stages, four result from collisions with hydrogen atoms in the
deep, hot interiors of main sequence stars, and two are spontaneous
disintegrations of unstable nuclei.

1.C#+H! = N®+y

2,.N%— C® + _ positron
9.018 <A a) NPA ey
4.N"+H! = O¥ 4 y¥
5.0% > N'® + positron
6. N2 cb Bt =. CM let

The two positrons rapidly interact with electrons to give rise to
gamma radiation. Thus is produced the penetrating radiation, most
of which in the course of its progress toward the boundary of the
star becomes transformed into the heat, light, and ultraviolet radiation
that pour out from the photosphere. The central temperatures of
the cool giant stars are insufficient to maintain this active cycle, but
theory can explain their radiant energy in terms of atomic collisions
and transmutations which are, however, noncyclical. Hydrogen,
deuterium, lithium, beryllium, boron are slowly transformed into
helium.

If the central regions of the hottest stars are not the crucibles of
nature wherein the elements are built up, where and under what
conditions were they formed? A highly speculative answer is to be
found in an intensely interesting piece of theoretical research carried
out during the early years of this war by Chandrasekhar and Heinrich.
They have been inquiring under what conditions of nature the basic
units of matter—electrons, protons, neutrons, positrons—could be ex-
pected to come together to form, in their various proportions, the
atoms of all the isotopes of the elements familiar to the chemist. As

ASTRONOMY IN A WORLD AT WAR—DOUGLAS 161

these elements compose all stellar bodies as well as all things ter-
restrial, their synthesis is a cosmic problem. They find that such
tremendous extremes of high temperature and high density would be
required that it is necessary to suppose that all the matter of the
known universe was once confined to a volume of radius only about
twenty times that of the solar system. Such a sphere drawn around
our sun as center does not now contain a single other star. Yet into
such a volume there may once have been packed not’ only all the
thousand million stars of our own galaxy, but all the millions of
other galaxies. This is indeed a picture reminiscent of the “giant
molecule” of Lemaitre. Since stars and galaxies are not now thus
packed, expansion must have taken place some time very long ago.
The present rate of expansion is such that galactic distances are
doubled every 1,800 million years. This gives the time elapsed, since
the expansion began, as several thousand million years which is in
satisfactory accord with the age of the earth as determined by other
physical lines of approach and regarded necessarily as a lower limit
for the age of the universe.

The last chapter on these cosmological problems is not yet written—
indeed there may well be many chapters yet to come and still no last
chapter in sight. It is the glory of the quest that as men seek the
unexplored horizon the margin fades forever and forever as they
move.

V

An investigation of very recent date has led to positive conclusions
about planetlike bodies associated with stars other than our sun.
There is strong evidence for this in the case of 61 Cygni and 70
Ophiuchi. This may be the beginning of a new search and a new
certainty in a field of astronomy hitherto theoretical and speculative.
Already several astronomers on two continents are studying the im-
plications.

Another astrophysical problem that has been worked upon with
considerable success during these war years, is the old backlog prob-
lem since 1869 of the solar corona. At Uppsala, Edlén has been
examining the X-ray and ultraviolet spectra of some very highly ion-
ized atoms, and a year ago his 1942 paper was received in England and
also in the United States of America. He uses his laboratory data as
basis for calculation of forbidden lines and altogether he identifies 17
coronal lines with lines of Fe X, XI, XIII, XIV, XV, Ni XII, XIII,
XV, XVI, Ca XII, XIII, A X; and two other lines less certainly with
Ca XV and A XIV. The ionization potentials required to produce
such atoms are very high, actually 233 volts for Fe X, 655 volts for
Ca XIII, and at first this seemed to offer an insuperable obstacle to
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

acceptance of Edlén’s proposals. The age-old question of Nicodemus
arose—how can these things be? These atoms are many thousand
miles from the photosphere of the sun; and to produce such ionization,
temperatures of 2,000,000 degrees are necessary. Speculation and
calculation have followed. A few months ago an explanation was
given in a letter to Nature by V. Vand of London. Even higher tem-
peratures he shows to be possible in the low-density regions of the
corona as a result of collisions of high-velocity atoms falling toward
the sun from interplanetary space. With the greater density of the
inner corona and consequent increase in radiation losses, he believes
conditions may be favorable to just those transitions postulated by
Edlén.

VI

The numbers 136, 187, 256 will awaken in the minds of many of
you memories of a kindled interest, of perplexity, doubt, expecta-
tion, and perhaps of moments of great thrill, as you think back
over the last 15 years. One name alone stands central among these
memories—that of Sir A. S. Eddington. This has been his play-
ground pre-eminently. Some of us have stood fascinated at the edge
of the field watching this illusive game played patiently, skillfully,
brilliantly by one man, a master juggler with the elements of the
theory of groups, with quantum mechanics, and with the basic units
of measurement, producing, as from the proverbial hat, physical con-
stants both atomic and astronomical. Some there have been who
paused to watch briefly, to smile or even ridicule the Aristotelian
tour de force. But steadily and doggedly the theory has been pushed
forward, several papers having appeared in the last 3 years until
now the evidence is overwhelmingly great that, with no observational
data other than three basic constants, namely, the velocity of light
and the Rydberg and Faraday constants for hydrogen, it is possible
to calculate theoretically the following 13 physical constants: charge
e; Planck’s constant; masses of electron, proton, hydrogen atom;
gravitation constant; fine structure constant; nuclear range-constant ;
nuclear energy-constant; mass of universe; number of particles in
universe; Einstein radius of space; nebular speed. This is a striking
achievement.

Let us look briefly at just two of these constants. The recessional
velocity of the spiral nebulae is calculated to be 572.36 km. per sec-
ond per megaparsec. The observational value of Hubble and Huina-
son is 560. When the great 200-inch reflector comes into action, we
shall expect to see the observational value come closer to Eddington’s
determination.

The number of independent quadruple wave functions at any point
is 2X 186 X 2” or 3.15 X10” and in his earlier work Eddington iden-

ASTRONOMY IN A WORLD AT WAR—DOUGLAS 163

tified this with the number of particles in the universe. Since 1939 he
has found that a question of nonintegrability in spherical space
necessitates a reduction of 25 percent; so the number given in his
1942 paper is 2.36 X 10”.

This theortical approach has now reached a point where its author
can write “I think the theory now deserves to be the accepted theory—
my definition of an ‘accepted theory’ being that it is the theory which
is so far right that everyone is interested in trying to discover what
is wrong with it.” Can we wonder that he pauses in his work to refer
to “the devastating beauty of quantum arithmetic.” This entire in-
vestigation must surely rank as one of the great adventures of the
human mind exemplifying Blake’s stately metaphor—“Imagination
goes forth in its uncurbed glory.”

Vil

This brief survey of a few fields of astronomical research, incom-
plete as it obviously is, will serve nevertheless to indicate that pure
science is not dormant, much less is it dead, during the terrible years
when the vile demoniacal God of War stands astride the earth. For
many years the International Astronomical Union has been an in-
fluence for understanding, and for cooperation in the search for
knowledge with mutual respect and trust. It is temporarily in abey-
ance, but it will once again rise to carry on its good work. The
lesson of astronomy down the centuries has been one of international
interdependence and mutual indebtedness.

The problems facing mankind are very complex—the dealings of
man with man, the attitude of nation to nation. No solutions making
for international good will and world peace will be achieved by men
of narrow mind, myopic sight, and dwarfed soul. The far vision
in time and space, the winged imagination that leaps the barrier
of here and now—these are the qualities of mind and spirit needed in
every walk of life and needed superlatively in the leaders of every
nation if in the years just ahead of us progress is to be made toward
the great ideal of international unity. How can the eyes of the
blind be awakened to the dazzling vision of the City of God? For
some it may be by the contagious enthusiasm of a great teacher or
leader, for others the illumination from poetry, for some the spark
is kindled by the study of history, or of philosophy, and for yet others
it is through natural philosophy and astronomy. Mankind needs the
perspective of the cosmic background. “The great values,” said
Field Marshal Smuts, “retain their unfading glory and derive new
meaning from a cosmic setting.”

There is a challenge to the scientists and to the lovers of science
to teach the boys and girls, the young men and women of today and
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

tomorrow, the ideals, the aims, the methods, and the integrity of the
scientific approach to facts and to problems.

We do not forget the dictum of Rabelais, “Science without con-
science is damnation.” Wartime drives this home with bitter and
tragic intensity. But we may say with great assurance that science
with conscience has an essential part to play in procuring and main-
taining world conditions in which peace can endure.

All who have the ideal of world citizenship at heart, all who have
the far vision of things that have been and of things that may be,
and the realistic grasp of things that are, must cooperate in the great
task of bringing into the affairs of mankind upon this earth some
semblance of the order, beauty, and harmony of the universe of
stars. Toward this end, both directly and indirectly, astronomy and
astronomers can play a part; and it may prove to be a part which
no one else can play for them because they, the astronomers, are the
people with the fullest understanding of the cosmic background.
THE STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE!

By CLAupE WILLIAM HEAPS
Professor of Physics, The Rice Institute

It may seem, at first sight, presumptuous to attempt the discussion,
in one hour or less, of such a comprehensive topic as the structure of
the universe. Actually the subject is not as big as it sounds. There
are, in one sense, as many universes as there are individuals; but the
universe in this personal sense will be ruled out of the present discus-
sion. A tremendous simplification is at once achieved when we limit
our topic to the physical universe. We now inquire, what is the phys-
ical universe?

Eddington has defined it as the “theme of a specified body of know]l-
edge, just as Mr. Pickwick might be defined as the hero of a specified
novel.” Such a definition emphasizes the epistemological point of
view and therefore it suffers from lack of definiteness and simplicity.
There is beautiful directness and decisiveness in the attitude of the
mathematician who wrote an equation on one line in one of his pub-
lished papers and said, “This equation contains everything we know
about the physical universe.” The conciseness of the language of
mathematics is probably nowhere better exemplified than in this equa-
tion. On the other hand, the universe, if it can be described in terms
of mathematical symbols and with one equation, may not seem like
such a big subject after all.

To the physicist, matter, space, and time exist outside the human
mind. The physical universe is an objective, dynamic arrangement
of all matter, space, and time. In discussing the structure of the
universe we merely attempt to describe some of the features of this
arrangement.

Before beginning such a description it seems necessary to indicate
just how it is related to human welfare—since the general title of
this series of lectures is “Science and Human Welfare.” I am ventur-
ing to interpret the phrase “human welfare” in the broadest possible
sense. There are many types of scientific investigation which do not
appear to have any direct bearing on the pleasures or pains of the

1Public lecture delivered at The Rice Institute in the spring of 1943. Reprinted by
permission from The Rice Institute Pamphlet, vol. 30, No. 4, October 1943.

165
166 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

human race. The discovery of the planet Pluto cannot be said to have
done very much toward raising the sum total of human welfare, in
the ordinary sense. But in the broadest sense, it may be said that
the welfare of a nation is closely tied up with the capacity of that
nation for untiring search after truth. Intellectual unrest, intellectual
curiosity is, we like to think, essential to the true growth and develop-
ment of a people. A dairy company advertises that its milk comes
from contented cows. A rival company is perhaps more progressive
in its views when it advertises that its cows are not contented—they are
always trying to do better.

The thesis is, then, that the pursuit of pure knowledge is indicative
of a healthy national mind; that full development of intellectual
activity, whether it be in the matter of investigating the stars or in
building a better radio, is essential to the true welfare of a nation.
The Russians asked a captured Nazi why he came into their country.
He replied, “I am just a little man, I do what the Fiihrer says.” A
nation is facing tragedy when free speculation is discouraged, when
science is devoted solely to control of men and machines and to the
production of a workable mass of “little men.”

To begin this discussion of matter, space, and time we will try first
to systematize our ideas of space, or size, in relation to matter. Im-
agine a long, horizontal line drawn so as to represent the “the x-axis.”
Let all objects in the universe be placed along this line in the order of
their sizes. The smallest objects will be placed near the beginning of

MICROSCOPIC REGION MACROSCOPIC REGION

Zero

size Electron Solar Spiral
Positron Neutron Stone Mountain Earth system nebula

Neutrino Mesotron Proton Atom

FIGurRE 1

the line, at its left end. Larger and larger objects will be placed
farther and farther to the right. We next divide the line into two
parts by a vertical line. All objects to the left of this vertical line
are too small to be seen with the naked eye, so this region is called the
microscopic region. In it are placed different kinds of particles such
as molecules, atoms, the proton, the neutron, the mesotron, the electron,
positron, and neutrino. These particles are placed nearer and nearer
to the origin of the line as they become smaller and smaller. It is
worth noting that nature seems not to have given us anything smaller
than the electron, in spite of the fact that there is plenty of room for
particles between the electron and the origin of the line.

To the right of the vertical dividing line we place all objects large
enough to be seen with the naked eye. This region is called the
macroscopic region. We might put in here, stones, mountain, earth,

|
STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE—HEAPS 167

solar system, spiral nebulae. The farther end of the macroscopic
region may be given a special subtitle, the astronomical region.

We have arranged here various matter elements in a certain spatial
relationship. The time concept is involved because this is an arrange-
ment which may be correct only at one instant of time. It is possible
that the position of some of these entities on the line is constantly
changing. When an electron gets into rapid motion its mass is
changed a little and it shortens one of its dimensions. It thus shifts its
position on the line slightly to the left whenever it has a high velocity.
The solar system may be slowly running down so that the planets grad-
ually approach the sun. If this is the case the position of the solar
system on the line is slowly shifting to the left.

Certain segments of this line have occupied the attention of various
specialists. Astronomers deal with everything listed to the right of
earth. Thousands of specialists work on the section from earth to
atom. Physicists in recent years have concentrated intensively on the
segment from atom to zero. The discovery of the positron, the neutron,
and the mesotron within the last decade, has opened up a most fruitful
field of research in physics. In this region, forever beyond the reach
of the human eye, is probably contained most of the mystery of the
entire universe. As K. K. Darrow has expressed it, “This field is
unique in modern physics for the minuteness of the phenomena, the
delicacy of the observations, the adventurous excursions of the
observers, the subtlety of the analysis, and the grandeur of the
inferences.”

It is not too much to say that if some American physicist could only
make the right kind of discovery in this domain our entire oil and coal
industries would become more or less obsolete and World War II
would be won in a matter of days. It should also be said that such a
discovery is possible but not probable.

Returning now to our linear lay-out for the universe we may note
that everything to the right of proton is constructed out of the mate-
rial included in the range from proton to zero. All matter in the uni-
verse exists in the form of bunches or aggregates of smaller parts.
Protons, neutrons, electrons bunch to form atoms; atoms group into
molecules; molecules group into stones and mountains; stones and
mountains form the earth. In the astronomical field, planets group
about the sun to form the solar system—a solar system which in the
astronomical field is remarkably like the atom in the microscopic field.

The important unit of structure in the astronomical field is a sun.
Practically all the stars which we can see on a clear night are distant
suns, much like our own, althotgh it is thought that only an extremely
small fraction of these suns have planets around them like our own.

619830—45—12
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

All these suns which can be recognized distinctly are grouped in a
sort of flattened, disklike bunch which is whirling in empty space.
Our own sun and planetary system is a member of this group, being
located about 30,000 light-years? distant from the center, or hub, of
this gigantic disk. When we look into space along the plane of the
disk the stars seem to be distributed very densely. We see the milky
way. This bunch of suns is called a spiral nebula. It is sometimes
called a galaxy, or an island universe. The word “universe” in this
sense has a restricted meaning because our island universe is not the
only one in existence. There are millions of others distributed
throughout space as far as our most powerful telescopes have been
able to penetrate.

The nebulae are by no means recent discoveries. Sir William
Herschel, 150 years ago, suspected that they were distant groups of
stars. The philosopher Kant believed that they were “systems of
many stars, whose distance presents them in such a narrow space
that the light which is individually imperceptible from each of them,
reaches us, on account of their immense multitude, in a uniform pale
glimmer.” They have been described as looking like “candlelight seen
through horn.” A rough diagram, not drawn to scale, is given in
figure 2 to indicate the total extent of the entire universe which has
been observed, up to the present, with our most powerful telescopes.

We might now indicate on the linear lay-out of figure 1 the approxi-
mate size of the largest bunch of matter, the spiral nebula, as 100,000
light-years. Also we might speculate as to the possibility of nebulae
themselves forming still larger groups. Extensive surveys have been
made by the astronomers at Harvard and Mount Wilson, of the dis-
tribution in space of the nebulae, and there is, indeed, evidence of
grouping of nebulae. It is legitimate to add another bunch of matter
to the line lay-out—the supernebula, or supergalaxy.

The supergalaxy is the largest known aggregation of matter in
the universe. Its diameter may be of the order of a million light-
years. At least that is the estimate made by Harlow Shapley of
the diameter of the group of nebulae in which our own is located.
Our local group contains perhaps 15 or 20 nebulae, but in some super-
galaxies there are hundreds of members.

So far, then, our picture of the universe reveals a granular, or
atomic structure. We start near the zero point of size, with a particle
of definite size. A fundamental law of attraction operates to cause
the small particles to group together to form larger particles, these
larger particles again group to form still larger particles, and so on
until we reach the limit of observation, the enormous supergalaxy.

2A light-year is the distance which light travels in one year. It is approximately
6,000,000,000,000 miles.

STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE—HEAPS 169

We are unable to put a stop at the right-hand end of our line, as we
have done at the left end. Space may go on into infinity—possibly
matter may go on bunching up into larger and larger aggregates
with no limit as to the ultimate size of any final bunch, because there
may never be any final bunch. Speculations of this kind may be
interesting but they are not of much significance otherwise, because
they take us outside the realm of possible human experience.

M = 1,000,000
NUMBER OF NEBULAE: 100M
STARS PER NEBULA= 100,000M

_ SOO MLY —

AVERAGE

Fiaure 2.—Sphere of view of the 100-inch telescope. Distances are in light-years,
L. Y., and the diagram ig not to scale. Our earth is about 30,000 L. Y. away
from the center of the central nebula above.

It seems probable that in detecting the supergalaxy man has reached
the limits of observation in his probing of the depths of space. The
new 200-inch telescope will be doing a fine job in helping to chart and
analyze these enormous groups of matter.

The line diagram of the universe, limited at one end by the electron,
at the other by the supergalaxy, has given a rather simple picture in
terms of two variables, space and matter. The third variable, time,
must now be considered. We have to consider the relationship be-
tween the various units of our structure as this relationship may
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

change from time to time. Newton’s Law of Universal Gravitation
says that every particle of matter in the universe attracts every other
particle. If forces of attraction cause matter to bunch up into aggre-
gates of various sizes, why may not the various bunches themselves
start coming together until eventually there results just one large,
static bunch of matter floating quietly in an infinity of space? Such
an end result seems logical, but it cannot happen until the kinetic
energy of matter, the energy of motion, has been converted into
radiation and transferred to infinity. Such a transfer of energy
appears, in fact, to be going on.

A study of the motions of the various aggregates may be expected to
throw some light on this question. We start with the smallest par-
ticles, electrons, for example. In addition to random motions caused
by collisions with other particles, all electrons are supposed to spin.
They may be thought of as being like tops which never run down.
When an electron helps to form an atom, in addition to spinning
it also revolves about the nucleus, just as the earth revolves about
the sun. The aggregations of matter between atom and earth on
the diagram of figure 1 may have various kinds of motion but when
earth is reached we again have the spin about an axis and the revolu-
tion about the sun. Our sun, together with all the other suns in its
group, forms a nebula which spins with high speed about a central
axis. The spin velocity is very high, but the size of our nebula is
so great that it takes about 2 million centuries for it to make one
revolution. As Shapley puts it, this is the time required to “click off
one cosmic year.”

The motion of the supernebula is not known in accurate detail.
It is possible that some sort of gigantic spin is present here also, but
so far such a spin has not been detected. Instead, a very surprising
sort of motion has been discovered, a motion which is just contrary
to what we expect if matter is to agglomerate into one big bunch.
The supernebulae appear to be receding from us. The supernebula
to which our galaxy belongs maintains its fixed dimensions, and be-
haves more or less as a unit, but all the other supernebulae appear
to be flying away from ours with high speeds. The farther away
from us they are, the faster they seem to recede. There seems to be
no good way of explaining such a phenomenon. One might assume
that a primeval explosion started all matter out in all directions
from an original concentration, but there are serious difficulties
involved in such a theory.

The whole question of the expanding universe is definitely con-
troversial. The consequences of accepting or rejecting the theory
are so great that it will be worth while to review briefly the evidence.

STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE—HEAPS iw

Suppose the lights of a very distant city are observed at night
through a telescope. The various spots of light all look much alike.
However, they are not all the same in character. Some may be caused
by incandescent lamps, some by neon signs, some, perhaps, may be
due to the newer type of yellow sodium lamp used for illuminating
highways.

We now put a glass prism in front of the telescope objective. The
telescope must be deviated sideways, if we are to see the city through
the prism and the telescope. When we do see it, each spot of light
appears to be smeared out into a band of color. The colors present
in each spot of light are separated and spread out and we can see
just what colors are present in the light from each source. The neon
signs are characterized by definite colors in the orange and red; the
sodium lamps can be recognized by the fact that only one oe
yellow, is visible.

If we were to photograph the lights of an enormous city from an
enormous distance the whole city would appear as a small, luminous
spot. The prism would smear out the separate lights of which the
spot is composed, but they would all be superposed in a single
smeared spot for the whole city. However, if there were a large
number of sodium lamps one point in the smear would be brighter
than the rest because there would be an excess of the yellow sodium
light.

A nebula, consisting of millions of suns a long distance away, be-
haves like our hypothetical city except for one small difference.
Light from a sun has dark absorption lines or bands from which
color is missing as a result of absorption in the sun’s atmosphere.
There is a dark line in the spectrum of our own sun, corresponding
to absorption of hydrogen in the sun’s atmosphere. This dark line
always appears at the same place in the spectrum no matter what
kind of a source, and always means that hydrogen is present. Dark
lines appear in the nearer nebulae about where they should be in the
spectrum. For the more distant nebulae, however, they are shifted
toward the red end of the spectrum.

There is only one known explanation for such a shift of a spectral
line. If the source is moving away from an observer the light re-
ceived appears redder than when the source is stationary. This
phenomenon is called the Doppler effect. It is a matter of common
experience in the field of sound. The pitch of an automobile horn
is lowered as the horn passes rapidly by an observer and recedes
from him.

The photographs of the nebulae show that the hydrogen absorption
line is shifted farther and farther away from the normal position as
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

the pictures go to more and more distant nebulae. The amount of the
shift gives the velocity of recession. Many nebulae have been ob-
served and the conclusion is reached that for every million light-years’
distance from the earth the velocity of recession is increased by
about 100 miles per second. The farthest nebulae observed are flying
away from us with a speed of about 25,000 miles per second.

It is well to weigh critically the evidence for results like these. As
regards estimates of nebular distances, the methods used by astrono-
mers seem entirely adequate. In the nearest nebula individual stars
can be seen. Some of these stars fluctuate in brightness with a period
of 514 days. Similar stars, known as Cepheid variables, are found in
our own nebula, and the distances of a few of them have been deter-
mined by ordinary engineering methods. It is found that these stars
are all of about the same size, so that if one Cepheid variable is much
fainter than another its faintness may be attributed solely to its greater
distance. The distance of the nearest nebula can thus be determined
with considerable accuracy by comparing the brightness of one of its
Cepheid variables with the brightness of a similar star in our own
galaxy—a star whose distance has been measured by reliable methods.
Having a good estimate of the distance of one nebula it is legitimate to
infer that other nebula of the same type are fainter and smaller only
because they are farther away. It is thus possible to estimate their
distances. The results of these estimates might give occasional large
errors, but when a great number of observations are made the indi-
vidual errors must average out fairly well.

As regards the shift of the absorption line toward the red, a good
many attempts have been made to explain it in some other way than
by the Doppler effect. So far, all these attempts have failed or en-
countered logical difficulties. During the last few years, however,
certain evidence has accumulated which has brought about a para-
doxical situation in the theory of the expanding universe. There are
some very serious objections to the theory. First, let us suppose that
our explosion hypothesis is more or less in accord with the facts. After
all, if the nebulae are now observed to be scattering they must at some
previous time have been more closely bunched. It is not difficult to
calculate how long ago it was when the nebulae were all together and
touching each other. We know how far away they are now, we know
how fast they are receding, and how their velocity of recession varies
with the distance from us. These data enable us to calculate the time
when they must have started. According to Hubble, after all correc-
tions have been made this starting time was about 1,000 million years
ago. Unfortunately this is only a fraction of the age of the earth—
indeed there is evidence that life actually existed on earth that long
ago. It is difficult to see how our earth could exist in its present form

a eg rg re ee,
STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE—HEAPS 173

at a time when all matter in the universe was assembled and ready for.
a cosmic blow-out of such tremendous proportions.

So much for objection number one. The second objection arises as
follows. When a source of light moves away from an observer there
are two effects produced. The first, the Doppler effect, has been
mentioned as a change of color, a reddening of the light. A second
effect is a decrease of brightness, known as the “dimming factor.” It
is easy to see why a light should appear to be dimmer when the source
moves away from the observer. Suppose a stationary machine gun
is firing bullets at a fixed target at the rate of five per second. Then
every second five bullets hit the target. However, if the gun is moving
away from the target, still firing five shots a second, there will not be
five bullets hitting every second. The bullet discharged from the gun
at the end of a given second will have had to traverse a greater distance
than the bullet which was fired at the beginning of the second, so it
will take a longer time to reach the target. Perhaps only four bullets
will hit the target in one second. The extra bullet has gone to fill the
extra space in the bullet stream—the extra space created by the reces-
sion of the gun. The case of a light source is exactly analogous.

Now in estimating the distance of a nebula its brightness is taken as
a criterion of the distance. The question arises as to whether the dim-
ming factor should be applied when making the distance estimates.
If the nebulae are actually moving away from us then the factor must
certainly be applied. If the reddening of the light is not caused by
a velocity of recession then the dimming factor must not be applied.
With such tremendous speeds of recession this factor makes quite a
big difference in results.

The following discussion is very largely quoted from the annual
Sigma Xi lecture delivered in December 1941 at Dallas by E. P.
Hubble of the Mount Wilson Observatory. Dr. Hubble is one of the
world’s foremost authorities on the subject of nebulae.

Let us first suppose that the reddening of the light is not caused by a
velocity of recession. It may be due to some hitherto undiscovered and
unknown phenomenon. We can then estimate distances without any
dimming factor and a survey can be made to find out how the nebulae
are distributed throughout the region of space within our present
range of view. Such surveys have been made at Mount Wilson and
Mount Hamilton, out to a distance of 420 million light-years. Data
have also been obtained and analyzed at Harvard, and the net result
indicates a fairly uniform distribution of nebulae throughout the
observable regions of space. There are, on the average, just as many
per unit volume at great distances as in the immediate neighborhood
of our own group.
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

This result is intellectually very satisfactory. In fact, it agrees
with a fundamental principle of cosmological theory, a principle
which has been postulated by theorists for no other reason than its
appeal to our sense of order and the fitness of things. This principle
states that the universe, on a grand scale, will appear much the same
from whatever position in space it may be viewed or explored. This
principle of cosmology is satisfied, therefore, if the nebulae are not
assumed to be receding.

We next investigate the consequences of assuming the red shift to
be due to a real velocity of recession of the nebulae. The dimming
factor must now be applied in estimating distances, with the result
that the most distant cluster is actually about 13 percent fainter than
it would be if it were stationary. The scale of distances is thus
altered, so that when we make our space survey to find out how the
nebulae are distributed it turns out that they are no longer scattered
uniformly. The number per unit volume increases steadily with
their distance away from us. Here is a result which is intellectually
very disquieting. The cosmological principle of no favored position
is violated. We might be willing to accept this violation if it went
the other way, that is, if the density of nebulae decreased with dis-
tance. Then we would conclude, very happily, that we had discovered
another super-supergalaxy, another big matter bunch to put out on the
right-hand end of our linear lay-out. No such interpretation can be
given when the nebulae are found not to thin out at big distances, but
actually to become more dense in numbers.

It may seem obvious to the layman that we ought to discard the
idea of an expanding universe. It makes us worry about the short
time which has elapsed since the original cosmic explosion occurred ;
it bothers us with an increasing density of matter as we proceed far-
ther and farther into the depths of space; and the only evidence we
have to go on is a series of pictures, rather hazy, smeary pictures, in
fact, with a light patch shifted too far to one side.

The physicist and the astronomer, unfortunately, cannot treat these
fuzzy pictures in such a cavalier manner. There is no denying the
existence of the shifted light patch in the pictures, hazy though it
may be. There is no denying the fact that all such similar shifts of
color have been explained satisfactorily by the Doppler effect and by
the Doppler effect alone. One is reminded of the saying of the old
colored man, whose years of experience had developed a certain ripe
philosophy of life. “It ain’t so much what you don’t know that gets
you into trouble, it’s what you do know and ain’t so!”

There are several ways, more or less unsatisfactory, of escaping
from the dilemma of the expanding universe. The first way is not

ne er ee eee

STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE—HEAPS 175

a good way, but like other escapist philosophies it must be consid-
ered and estimated for what it is worth. It involves spatial curvature.

The idea of curved space is now quite a familiar idea to most
people. Eddington, Jeans, Einstein, and others have written books
for popular consumption and the sales have been very gratifying.
Even the pulp magazines do not hesitate to invoke the fourth dimen-
sion as a mode of escape for the hero or the villian. A simple way
of approaching the concept of spatial curvature is as follows. Think
of a straight line along one dimension. Given a second dimension
at right angles to the first, then we have the possibility of curving the
line into the second dimension. Think of a plane surface, like a sheet
of paper flat on a desk. Given a third dimension, at right angles
to the desk, we have the possibility of curving the paper sheet into
this third dimension. Think of a solid filling three dimensions. Give
a fourth dimension at right angles to the other three, we then have
a possibility of curving the solid into the fourth dimension. It is
only because we have three-dimensional minds that we cannot see
this fourth dimension.

A mathematician may speak of space itself as being curved without
reference to any solid matter in it. For example, consider the earth
to be perfectly smooth. If we were two-dimensional creatures instead
of being three-dimensional, we might draw a big circle on the earth’s
surface, measure its diameter and its circumference, and then find
that the circumference was not equal to z times the diameter. We
would not know that the circle was not flat (since we are assumed
to be two-dimensional), but we could certainly infer a curvature
of our flat space and even determine its radius if we knew enough
about ordinary Euclidean geometry, which would work pretty well
for small circles on the earth’s surface.

The mathematical description of the universe to which allusion
was made at the beginning of the lecture involved curving of three-
dimensional space in somewhat the same fashion as described above
for the two-dimensional space. If space actually is curved in this
way our ordinary solid geometry, Euclidean geometry, would not
be quite correct. In order to find out whether it is correct, measure-
ments of certain kinds must be made. For example, if a negative
parallax could ever be observed for a single star, a spherically curved
space would be implied. The mathematician Schwarzschild, a good
many years ago, attempted to find what curvature of space would
be possible according to certain types of non-Euclidean geometry.
In dealing with these geometries he said, “One there finds oneself,
if one but will, in a geometrical fairyland, but the beauty of this
fairy tale is that one does not know but that it may come true.”
176 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

Schwarzschild’s results need not be considered here because his data
were limited and because we have at present more detailed modes of
procedure than he used. There are at least two mathematicians who
have achieved the unique distinction of having a universe named
after them. They are Einstein, and a Dutchman named de Sitter.
Both universes are non-Euclidean and the Einstein universe appears
to be the more popular. The curvature of the Einstein universe is
determined by the amount of matter in it, and if it is not a static
universe, by certain other factors. A chunk of matter produces quite
a large local curvature, which is evidenced to us by what we call
gravitational attraction.

This universe is not infinite in extent. It is a closed universe with
a finite volume but having no boundaries, just as the surface of a
sphere is a closed surface of finite area yet has no bounding edges.
In this universe one might expect to see a star in two directions, first
by looking directly at it, second, by looking in the exactly opposite
direction at light rays which have gone completely around the circuit
of the universe in the opposite direction. Star images have not been
seen in this way, possibly because their light is too faint after the
long trip around the universe. There is also the possibility that the
theory is wrong. It has, however, been seriously suggested that two
very faint nebulae, observed in a certain direction, may actually be
the backs of two of our nearest neighbors, as seen the long way
around.

The theory of a finite, closed universe is very attractive in many
respects. We may again use the term “intellectually satisfactory”
in this connection, largely because this universe can be given a concise
mathematical description and in terms that explain the gravitational
effects of matter. There is also, in many individuals, a. definite
Tepugnance to the idea of infinite space. In discussing the stars
Kant, in 1755, says, “There is here no end, but an abyss of real
immensity in presence of which all the capability of human concep-
tion sinks exhausted.” The finite mind likes to set up a blank wall
somewhere, in order to end it all. It is probably intellectually satis-
factory to know that one can start out in imagination and not have
to get farther away forever and ever, but will eventually get back to
the good, old, familiar region of the starting point.

With this picture of a finite, closed universe in mind we may now
return to the question regarding the nebulae. Why should they
appear to be crowded together at great distances from us? The
answer might be that the curvature of space appears to make them
crowd into smaller and smaller volumes as their distance increases.
If this is true it is possible to calculate what radius of curvature of
the universe would give the observed apparent crowding of the

STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE—HEAPS 177

nebulae at great distances. Such calculations have been made and
the universe turns out to be remarkably small. In fact, it is so
small that our largest telescopes would allow us to see about one-sixth
of the way around it. This small universe is required in order to
explain the apparent nonuniform distribution of the nebulae. How-
ever, if we calculate the radius of the universe in this way we are
‘obliged to have only a certain amount of matter in it, since, according
to Einstein, the radius is determined by this total amount of matter.
Hubble has made surveys to find out whether the observed amount
of matter will fit in with the radius as determined above. He esti-
mates that if all observable stars and nebulae were smeared out
uniformly there would be a maximum of about one hydrogen atom
per cubic meter. This density of matter is far too small. In other
words, there is not enough matter in the universe to give it a curvature
great enough to spread out the nebulae uniformly. The theory of
curvature of space has, therefore, failed to resolve the problem.

Another way out of the dilemma is to suppose that the observa-
tions of the astronomers are in error. Here is what Hubble has to say.

These questions have been carefully reexamined during the past few years.
Various minor revisions haye been made, but the end results remain substan-
tially unchanged. By the usual criteria of probable errors the data seem to be
sufficiently consistent for their purpose. Nevertheless, the operations are deli-
cate, and the most significant data are found near the limits of the greatest
telescopes. Under such conditions it is always possible that results may be
affected by hidden systematic errors. Although no suggestion of such errors
has been found, the possibility will persist until investigations can be repeated
with improved techniques and more powerful telescopes. Ultimately the prob-
lem should be settled beyond question by the 200-inch reflector destined for
Palomar.

This telescope will have about twice the range of the best one now
in use. Work on it has been stopped by the war, so it is impossible
to predict just how soon it can be put to work on this problem.

The last way which may be suggested for escaping from the
dilemma is to suppose that in the region of astronomical magnitudes
some new principle of nature is operative—some principle which we
have not yet discovered in the ordinary macroscopic field. Such a
principle would have to free us from the necessity of using the Dopp-
ler effect, and we would no longer have to say that experimental
observation shows the universe to be expanding. This new principle
would, therefore, have to explain why the light from nebulae gets
redder and redder as it travels greater and greater distances. Per-
haps light which has been traveling for 100 million years in a straight
line exhibits its senility by a decrease in the frequency of its vibra-
tions. We do not know of any possible reason such as this why old
light should be different in any way from new light. The only place
178 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

from which we can get really old light is from the distant nebulae,
so our chances of establishing by experiment a new principle of
physics like this seems at present to be involved in a vicious circle
from which there is no escape.

It appears, therefore, that our knowledge of the structure of the

universe at the limits of the astronomical range is unsatisfactory.
We have to recognize that there are discrepancies between theory and
experimental observations. Hubble says that “a choice is presented,
as once before in the days of Copernicus, between a strangely small,
finite universe, and a sensibly infinite universe plus a new principle
of nature.”

We may now go back once more for a comprehensive view of what
we have called the linear lay-out of the universe in figure 1. The
three components, or variables, were assumed quite simply to be space,
matter, and time. At the right-hand end of the scale we have become
embroiled in some rather questionable speculations regarding the
nature of space and the behavior of light. In this region, where a
light-year is the unit of distance and a nebula the unit of mass, we
have good reason for suspecting that the mechanics of the universe
cannot be described or explained in such a simple way as in the region
of miles and mountains.

Peculiarly enough, if we go from the enormously great region to
the extremely small region, the region of the electron and the posi-
tron, we encounter similar difficulties. You will remember that Dar-
row characterized the microscopic region as unique because “of the
adventurous excursions of the observers,” and “the grandeur of the
inferences.” One or two of these inferences and excursions may be
cited here, and it will appear that the simple concepts of space and
matter have suffered in the microscopic field in much the same way
that they have suffered in the astronomical field. As the result of
investigations in the field of the small particles it has become neces-
sary to broaden our ideas as to the nature of matter. Cloud-chamber
pictures have allowed us practically to see two particles of matter
created in space from the energy contained in radiation.

The thing that happens is that a photon, an atom of radiant
energy traveling with the speed of light, somehow gets itself into a
peculiar situation in a microscopic field of:some kind. The result
is that the photon changes into two particles with electric charges,
a positron and an electron.

In the macroscopic size range an equivalent phenomenon would be

for a quantity of sunshine, passing by an iron ball, to change sud-
denly into a couple of buckshot.

Needless to say, no one has ever seen anything like this happen. It
is only when sizes become so small as to prevent direct observation

STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE—HEAPS 179

that the event occurs. We may well say that something peculiar is
going on in the microscopic field. Something is happening which is
foreign to our ordinary experience.

Technically this phenomenon is known as pair production by a
photon. The reverse process, conversion of matter into radiation,
can occur when an electron and a positron come together under proper
conditions. They disappear and two photons of radiation are shot
out with the speed of light in opposite directions.

Matter and energy can now be thought of as practically synony-
mous. It thus becomes possible to make certain grand inferences
with the object of saving the universe from running down. Millions
of suns are slowly but surely converting their matter and their
energy into radiation and this radiation is constantly escaping into
infinity. Perhaps somewhere in space radiation may be changed back
into matter. Perhaps the universe is engaged in a reversible cycle,
instead of an irreversible one, as is commonly supposed.

As an illustration of what Darrow calls an “adventurous excursion”
of an observer we may take the Dirac theory of the positron. Dirac
is a brilliant young Englishman, a mathematician who has demon-
strated a high degree of daring and originality in his handling of
theoretical physics.

His theory of the positron starts out with two peculiar assumptions.
First, a particle may have a negative kinetic energy. Second, all
space is filled with particles of negative kinetic energy. There is a
distribution of electrons of infinite density everywhere in the world.
A perfect vacuum is a region where all the states of positive energy
are unoccupied and all those of negative energy are occupied.

When an electron, by some means or other, gets knocked out of
this state of negative energy into a state of positive energy, it is
observed as an ordinary electron; the hole which was left is a
positron. This hole may wander around for a short time, but there
are so many more electrons in the universe than holes that it is not
long before some electron drops into the hole and both hole and
electron disappear from the view of normal people. The very short
life of the positron is thus explained, as is also the phenomenon of
pair production and the conversion of matter into radiation.

I have given this hasty outline of the theory, not that I expect
anyone to understand it—it is hardly to be expected that negative
energy can be understood—but because it illustrates the lengths to
which a theorist has to go in creating physical explanation in this
field. In the microscopic range of sizes a quite perfect explanation
of things is given by a specialized type of mathematics called wave
mechanics. It is only when this mathematical symbolism is explained
in terms of physical symbolism that we call it an adventurous
180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1944

excursion. Dirac showed great courage in even trying to give a
physical picture of his mathematical theory. The fact is that in
the microscopie field things may behave in a way entirely foreign to
the way in which we have always seen large objects behave, hence they
cannot be explained in the old familiar ways.

There is in most people a strong tendency to label as “bunk” that
which is not understood. This tendency is, on the whole, a healthy
one. Skepticism is preferable to credulity if one is thinking in terms
of the struggle for existence. The radio listeners who believe all the
remarkable statements made about cough syrups, breakfast foods,
cigarettes, etc., must certainly be struggling very hard for existence.
However, skepticism based upon a lack of understanding is a danger-
ous attitude of mind. Prof. P. W. Bridgman of Harvard has this to
say in his book, “The Logic of Modern Physics”:

It is difficult to conceive anything more scientifically bigoted than to postulate
that all possible experience conforms to the same type as that with which we
are already familiar, and therefore to demand that explanations use only elements
familiar in everyday experience. Such an attitude bespeaks an unimaginative-
ness, a mental obtuseness and obstinacy which might be expected to have
exhausted their pragmatic justification at a lower plane of mental activity.

The explanation of microscopic phenomena, then, utilizes concepts
which are not familiar to everyday experience. For that reason the
microscopic tends to undermine any smug complacency we may have
regarding our knowledge of nature and the universe. Take, for
example, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. This principle states
that we can never know accurately both the position and the velocity
of asmall particle. It is easy to see why this is true. We can see the
small particle because light has bounced off of it into our eye. We see
it in the direction from which the light bounced.

But the light, in bouncing from the particle, must have given it a
push so that either its position or its velocity will have been changed
by the mere fact that light must be used to observe it. By the time the
light photon gets to the eye of the observer the particle will not be at
exactly the spot from which the photon appeared to bounce.

This uncertainty principle has been given an exact mathematical
formulation. It turns out that if the position of an electron is known
to within 0.004 inch then the speed of its motion is uncertain to within
about 3 feet per second—the speed of a slow walk.

The tendency, at first, is to consider this as rather a superficial
principle. I can easily imagine a particle to have both position and
momentum simultaneously; why bother so much about a mechanism
for determining them? “However, a thorough study of the situation,
with an analysis of every conceivable means afforded by nature for
making determinations, impresses one with a feeling that here is a

with an analysis of every conceivable means afforded by nature for
making determinations, impresses one with a feeling that here is a

with an analysis of everv conceivable means afforded by nature for

ee

