\\

satan

\\
\\

Dy
——

\

i rateia x C Ketek, " 1A

fee ee ee ee ee
oe yee we
ay J, y fe oan wy ft A LA

.*
<a
is
ea
ss
te
ate

a if dal . a's oe oe
7 re Me ® te See oy
fi e Te - a ee Ps me ie we we bu me -
ye ca a i ee Mw aT ‘ 5 B. es bs Shy a a A ae

f
2
ee oats Sits ma 1 ” . . Py ie a ate
L
+e,
f

a a eee a 2s 8 ‘* we as 2 uw? Ps fs ie
ee x x pote: * oe RE Be eww, crototeey
fie ne ay, Ok PE ty a ae se oe he hgh bd a  s ‘et a
CREME TELE. i. eee eek
ae ae ae ae te ae a “a a ee ee ene e ep Bt
a Pes ie. ie a: 1, al ee 23: apy ee e. eS bud wy te Me ‘ Pg 4 aid P at -. We we Ps ,
ba ot 6 SS ARS AA as se
ielaralelatel alata eta ies ot

yes
bi, x
or

He hh AM ie a ee Oe We ee
+ ae mn oe om ae ‘ie > x Por ‘* be et eo ee a ae a
hee Ree ee ee me oe ee ee ee ele a
tg ag tea ea oe me ee eek we Ave
‘i ee we: & ae Ae &, (Sy Ps ; 5 Ye 4 an. : , me © " an mans "ae | » :
a he 1 yan) ae 6 ee ee de

a ek a: We ee eH Ue, 2, if
ia ‘ie ae ax’ ay ie: 7. ‘” ew Ww ++ . ctateta® bP J
ic i yt ri hy at a me tae b f a ek w

iw .: | . ee Pe fe i
ee ta, we ek ‘ee ew L*. ate

of AY
t

Ay mm Ltt ewer ve PP PE Bie B ,,
Sonne wees oe Oe
nen eh eee ee se eee ape

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE

OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND
CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

BO

(Publication 2879)

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON
1927
as oe em

ADDITIONAL COPIES
OF THIS PURTICATION MAY BE PROCURED FROM
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF DOCUMENTS
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON, D. C.
AT y

$1.75 PER COPY (Bound)

LETTER

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SUBMITTING

THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1926

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, November 18, 1926.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1926. I have the honor to be,

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. D. Watcort,
Secretary.

Tit
CONTENTS

Page.
Het AOr Gmelin ls a ee ee ie _ Xi
‘The: Smithsonian’ Mstitunion. olan se sits nee ye Sete eS eo Saher 1
her estaplishment === ese OE a eng Se aR ees 1
The Board of Regents Ses 22 let Nib yen ie 2 eee Bera ee ey 2
General considerations = 4—4 = ee ES LE ee ye
BESTT ER Y1G GS farted nae Se ene ta SEU Fok a ed Sieh he) ee BY 5
Researches’and explorations! 222% Siu sey) At bees ieee 8
Geological explorations in the Canadian Rockies____--_-__--__- 8
Collecting fossil footprints: in Arizonal2 tees se pee Bae 9
Biological collecting in western China__~-_-__-_--___-____---_- 10
Study of the crustacean fauna of South America____------_-~-~ 11
Anthropological studies in southern Asia, Java, Australia, and
South Aare Os SUR ae aE TS A AEE ee 12
Archeological studies -in--Mississippi_——-—-.-..=.--.---. 2222 15
Smithsonian “Pa iO Cages tee SO kh as YR ee ee Oa 16
Smithsonian exhibit at the Sesquicentennial_______________-____---- 18
Publications. "2 ee. Sel eRe Sie ee eS OA ed 19°
SN a fo ea Vy a I Ge Es ST PU VES Ee AE TD al
INGTON AL? MES Gury ee 2 REL PETE Rte ES ELISE Dey Pry ee 22
NatonaleGalleryOf cA Tha) ene eh oe SEP Ck 24
Hreer Gallery Of Ag ta Sh nd a BI TE ee ae 25
Bureauo. American Hthnology =~ =~ ee ee ee a 26
international lH xchangese <3 Ueeeek Or ES a Se eee ee fe 28
Nationals Zoological Parikr 22 2300. be CEU aie SOE a Sik Pe 29
ASLLOPHYSical- Observatory oes: = tht Eee Ta ets SE OTE th Sy oo 3
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature____________________-__-_ 31
TO KEKCA OS COPA pes Bh ee nh Pd SS Ba ap 1 SE oA YD ESE Se ge SS pees 32
Appendix 1. Report on the United States National Museum_________-_~_ 34
2. -Report, on-the National Gallery. of Arte s- Vout wus wrth 50
3. Report, on the Freer Gallery of ‘Artus_.o {Wu te 61
4. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology____________-_ 63
5. Report on the International Exchanges___________________ 18
6. Report on the National Zoological Park_______ EAL. See 91
7. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory_________________ 108
8. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific
DOr ey Pel epee — See See ee Oe ee ee Semen an euey PORE eee ct 119
SPE VOLEO Uy Pes ORI yee es ee oe 2?
LOS VEpPOLl (OM | PUDMCATONS 2s. 1 She a 131
VI CONTENTS

GENERAL APPENDIX

Mhewnew, Outlook in «COSMoOsOny Dydd CONS a= ae eae ee eee
Influences of sun rays on plants and animals, by C. G. Abbot__--__-_-----
Onithe evolutionvot theistans, DyiC.. GaAbDOls=—- === ee eee
Excursions on the planets, by Lucien Rudaux—___-_________________-_-
High frequency rays of cosmic origin, by R. A. Millikan______________-
The present status of radio atmospheric disturbances, by L. W. Austin_-
Ole T Ayu HavIN CWE ON EMAL V CU ee ce ee es Bee
Scientific work of the Maud expedition, 1922-1925, by H. U. Sverdrup___-
iMherromancer ot, carpon by Atthury DD.) Wattles a= a eee
The cause of earthquakes; especially those of the eastern United States,

Dye Walliampelerbert ob bse 2 seo pee ees 2 a ee ee ee
ithe locssob Ohineg.. by George. DAaTNOUR2 = 222s eee
A visit to the gem districts of Ceylon and Burma, by Frank D. Adams__-
The history of organic evolution, by John M. Coulter____________--____
Barro Colorado Island Biological Station, by Alfred O. Gross___---------
Geography and evolution in the pocket gophers of California, by Joseph

CUTE T Gk hE a Se pel a a el a eg ak ae
How beavers build their houses, by Vernon Bailey_______--_-_--_----.--
The mosquito-fish (Gambusia), and its relation to malaria, by David

ASU SUITS eh TLR TD ge LE ak Sa ee hs Sb Dee ee al
The effect of aluminum sulphate on rhododendrons and other acid-soil

plants oby,Hrederick: Vi. Cowles cee ots le oe 2 ae ae a
Eastern Brazil through an agrostologist’s spectacles, by Agnes Chase___-
Our heritage from the American Indians, by W. E. Safford____________-
The parasite element of natural control of injurious insects and its control

YAMS cy plo OR EVO Warde 2 22 ONS ee a ee ge
Hracrant pucteriies: by Austin He Clark= 22 sees 2 Se ae
hesritualpulliight; by Cow. Bishopia22. 0) 22 as eee eee ee
The bronzes of Hsin-Chéng Hsien, by C. W. Bishop________-__-__-
The Katcina altars in Hopi worship, by J. Walter Fewkes___-__________
Omaha bow and arrow makers, by Francis La Flesche_________________
The National Park of Switzerland, by G. Edith Bland___________________
Samuel Slater and the oldest cotton machinery in America, by Frederick

Pen oe wt0n 2... eee SA te 2 oe ahh OP a ee =
reventive medicine: by Mark i), Boyd its 42. eee
Maltiom:’ Bateson, by !T.. Fi. Morgans auntie. ne te loa eee
Euakamerlingh Onnes; by. (vA. dtreeti~ 2 te ple os eee ee ye
LIST OF PLATES

Sun Rays (Abbot):
Plates tose eee see
Evolution of Stars (Abbot) :
Plates Gate. 2 he eee
Excursions on the Planets
(Rudaux) :
PlALeS) 11 Aer ee 0s Tene ee
Loess of China (Barbour) :
LEA ESy ekg LS ola ee a
Gem Districts of Ceylon and
Burma (Adams) :
et aCS i = One eee ee ee
Barro Colorado Island (Gross) :
elaiesil— Gs Slee Sees
Pocket Gophers (Grinnell) :

Beavers’ Houses (Bailey) :
Jel C2) 2s el 9S Sc i A pee
Mosquito Fish (Jordan) :
Biantesenl Aue See ens te
Acid-soil Plants (Coville) :
PiAtes) el lee eo
Wastern Brazil (Ohase) :
Plates) dO ease oe oo

Page

Heritage from American Indians
(Safford) :
Plates. Aeon 2 eae ee
Fragrant Butterflies (Clark) :
j Sel o's Riot a I ahi cata ee
Ritual Bullfight (Bishop) :
Plates Saou hao ie ele
Bronzes of Hsin-Chéng Hsien
(Bishop) :
1 Eg ES) Wel HOM Ie’ Meee ame belega gan ECan a
Hopi Katcina Altars (Mewkes) :
Paes Pel ae ee
1 2) Ea yA Aaa ge Ae
Bistends= S2e 2 = ea
Omaha Bow and Arrow Makers
(La Flesche) :
IPTates) dae ee ee ee
Swiss National Park (Bland):
LCOS Slt eae ee
Oldest Cotton Machinery (Lew-
ton) :
Plates oe == ees oS

VII

468
469
470
474

494

504
yeeath ‘ Phare

} ae ;

! a BRR
ees

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONTAN
INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1926.

SUBJECTS

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1926, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents,
exhibiting the financial affairs of the Institution, including a state-
ment of the Smithsonian fund, and receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1926.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1926.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous
memoirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Insti-
tution, teachers, and, others engaged in the promotion of knowledge.
These memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1926.

IX
208387—27T———2
' pe ke on
ALOE SE

r

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1926

Presiding officer ex officio—Catvin Cooniper, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—Witt1aAM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.

Members of the Institution:
CALVIN CooLipar, President of the United States.
CHarLes G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States.
Witt1aM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States.
FRANK B. Kettoae, Secretary of State.
ANDREW W. MELton, Secretary of the Treasury.
Dwieut Fury Davis, Secretary of War.
Joun G. Sargent, Attorney General.
Harry S. New, Postmaster General.
Curtis D. Wi~pur, Secretary of the Navy.
Hupert Work, Secretary of the Interior.
Wiuu1amM M. Jarpine, Secretary of Agriculture.
HERBERT CLARK Hoover, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES JOHN Dayis, Secretary of Labor.

Regents of the Institution:
Witt1amM Howarp Tart, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
CHARLES G. DAWES, Vice President of the United States.
REED Smoot, Member of the Senate.
GEORGE WHARTON PrEpPPER, Member of the Senate.
WoopsripcE N. Ferris, Member of the Senate.
ALBERT JOHNSON, Member of the House of Representatives.
R. WALTON Moore, Member of the House of Representatives.
WALTER H. Newton, Member of the House of Representatives.
CHARLES F, CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
Henry WHITE, citizen of Washington, D. C.
Rosert §. BRooKines, citizen of Missouri.
IRWIN B. LAUGHLIN, citizen of Pennsylvania.
FRrepDERIC A, DELANO, citizen of Washington, D. C.
DwicHt W. Morrow, citizen of New Jersey.
Executive committee —HENRY WHITE, FrRepERIC A. DELANO, R. WALTON Moore.
Secretary of the Institution—CHARLES D. WALCOTT.
Assistant Secretary.—C. G. ABBOT,
Assistant Secretary.—ALEXANDER WETMORE.
Chief Clerk.—Harry W. Dorsey.
Accounting and disbursing agent.—N. W. Dorsey.
Editor.—W. P. TRuE.
Librarian.—WILL1AM L. Corsin.
Appointment clerk.—JAMES G. TRAYLOR.

Property clerk.—J. H. Hitt,
xI
XII ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

NATIONAL MUSEUM

Keeper ex officio —CHARLES D. WAtcort, Secretary of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

Assistant Secretary (in charge).—ALEXANDER WETMORE.

Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head curators.—WA.tTER HoucH, LEONHARD STEJNEGER, GEORGE P. MERRILL.

Curators.—PAUL BartscH, R. 8S. Basster, T. T. BeLtotr, Austin H. CLarkK,
Ff, W. CiLarKE, F. V. Covitte, W. H. DALL, CHARLES W. GILMORE, WALTER
Hovueu, L. O. HowaArp, ALES HrpLticKa, Nem M. Jupp, H. W. Kriecer, F'rep-
ERICK L. LEWTON, GEORGE P. MERRILL, GERRIT S. MILLER, jr., CArL W. Mit-
MAN, RopertT Ripeway, WaALpo L. SCHMITT, LEONHARD STEJNEGER.

Associate curators.—J. M. ALpRIcH, W. R. Maxon, CHARLES W. RicHMonpD, J. N.
Rosg, PAuL C. STANDLEY, DAVID WHITE.

Chief of correspondence and documents.—H. S. BRYAN’.

Disbursing agent.—N. W. Dorsey.

Superintendent of buildings and labor.—J. 8S. GoLpsMITH.

Hditor—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Photographer.—ARTHUR J. OLMSTED.

Property clerk.—W. A. KNOWLES.

Engineer.—C. R. DENMARK.

Shipper.—L. Ki. PErry.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Director.—WILLIAM H. HouMEs.
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Curator.—JOHN ELLERTON Loner.
Associate curator.—CarL WHITING BISHOP.
Assistant curaior.—GRACE DUNHAM GUEST.
Associate.—KATHARINE NASH RHOADES.
Superintendent.—JOHN BUNDY.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN BTHNOLOGY

Chief.—J. WALTER FEWKES.

Hthnologists—JOHN P. Harrineton, J. N. B. Hewitt, Francts LA FLEScHE,
TRUMAN MICHELSON, JOHN R. SWANTON.

Editor.—StTANLEY SEARLES.

Librarian.—ELuaA LEARY.

Illustrator.—DeE LANCEY GILL.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES
Assistant secretary (in charge).—C. G. ABBOT.
Chief clerk.—C. W. SHOEMAKER.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant director.—A. B. BAKER.
ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Research assistant.—¥. E. Fow es, Jr.
Research assistant.—L, B, ALDRICH.

REGIONAL BUREAU FOR THE UNITED STATES, INTERNATIONAL
CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE

Assistant in charge-—Lronarp C. GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

CuHar.tes D. Watcotr

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1926

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit herewith the customary
annual report showing the activities and condition of the Smith-
sonian Institution and the Government bureaus under its adminis-
trative charge during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1926. The
first 833 pages of the report contain an account of the affairs of the
Institution, and in Appendixes 1 to 10 are given more detailed sum-
maries of the operations of the United States National Museum, the
National Gallery of Art, the Freer Gallery of Art, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the International Exchanges, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the United States
Regional Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture, the Smithsonian Library, and of the publications issued under
the direction of the Institution.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, according to the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America, “ to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and therefore con-
stituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926
THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of
Regents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the
Chief Justice, three Members of the Senate, and three Members of
the House of Representatives, together with six other persons other
than Members of Congress, two of whom shall be resident in the
city of Washington, and the other four shall be inhabitants of some
State, but no two of them of the same State.” One of the Regents
is elected chancellor by the board; in the past the selection has
fallen upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice; and a suitable
person is chosen by the Regents as secretary of the Institution, who
is also secretary of the Board of Regents and the executive officer
directly in charge of the Institution’s activities.

The following changes occurred in the personnel of the board
during the year: The Hon. George Gray, of Delaware, died August
7, 1925, and Mr. Dwight W. Morrow, of New Jersey, was appointed
a citizen Regent on January 7, 1926, to fill the vacancy thus created.

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as iol-
lows: William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United States, chan-
cellor; Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of the United States;
members from the Senate—Reed Smoot, George Wharton Pepper,
Woodbridge N. Ferris; members from the House of Representa-
tives—Albert Johnson, R. Walton Moore, Walter H. Newton; citizen
members—Charles F. Choate, jr., Massachusetts; Henry White,
Washington, D. C.; Robert S. Brookings, Missouri; Irwin Bb.
Laughlin, Pennsylvania; Frederic A. Delano, Washington, D. C.;
and Dwight W. Morrow, New Jersey.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

The Smithsonian Institution is a private establishment given to
the American people by a philanthropic English gentleman for the
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. Out of its private
investigations and collections grew up activities of immense public
value. They have been the foundation of nine prominent Govern-
ment bureaus. Of these, seven are still, by direction of Congress,
administered by the Smithsonian Institution for the use of the public
and for these public bureaus Congressional appropriations are
made. ‘These appropriations are strictly limited to these special
objects. It was out of investigations made by the Smith-
sonian Institution, not out of any Government initiative,
that these valuable public bureaus, including the Weather Bureau
and the Fish Commission, grew up. Similarly, it is logical to
suppose that out of the free activities of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion great public benefits would arise in future if it had means

*
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 3

appropriate to its position as the national research institution. But
in these days of high wages, high salaries, and high prices, the small
income from the Smithsonian endowment, $65,000 annually—only as
much in a year as the Carnegie Institution has for research in two
weeks—is quite insufficient to make any considerable showing.

This is what the Smithsonian Institution does:

1. It carries on original scientific investigations by its own staff.

2. It prints large memoirs and smaller original papers, publishes
useful tables and formulas, and reprints informing articles on scien-
tific progress suitable for the intelligent general reader, and dis-
tributes these free to scientific and learned societies throughout the
world.

3. It answers by mail an average of 8,000 inquiries on scientific
subjects annually, gratis.

4. It gives occasional lectures and courses of lectures by eminent
scientists.

_5. It confers medals of honor on eminent discoverers.

6. It subsidizes, if funds can be secured, approved researches by
outside workers.

7. It procures foreign diplomatic and learned recognition and
assistance for expeditions going abroad.

8. It fosters scientific development of schools, museums, and insti-
tutions throughout the world by cooperation in the loan of research
men, in the free distribution of over a million specimens, and in giv-
ing its advice and its publications.

9. It is the headquarters of the American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science. Until 1924 it was the headquarters and meet-
ing place of the National Academy of Sciences.

10. It is the official channel of exchange of scientific intelligence
between the United States and the world.

11. It contributes continually to the Library of Congress a large
flow of foreign periodical and occasional scientific literature, which
has now accumulated to over 500,000 volumes.

12. It administers seven public governmental bureaus besides the
reer Gallery.

18. It disburses annually funds from four sources:

(a) The income of its endowment, $65,000.

(6) Sums intrusted by private individuals for special objects.
Average five years—$70,000.

(c) The income of the Freer bequest. Average five years—
$190,000.

(d) Congressional appropriations for seven public bureaus—
$850,000.

What the Smithsonian desires to do and be-—The Smithsonian In-
stitution, ward of the American Nation, desires to bring out the hid-
4. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

den treasures of knowledge from the great collections under its care;
to prosecute vigorously for the ultimate benefit of mankind its re-
searches in astronomy, physics, chemistry, mathematics, geology,
meteorology, and the life sciences; to publish amply, both for the
specialist and the general reader; to answer generously those who
seek its information. The Smithsonian Institution desires to con-
tinue worthy of being, as it must forever be, the national institution
for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. With these
objects, it is unfitting that the endowment of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution should be inadequate and so far inferior to the endowments
of first-rank private institutions having no national status.

In the report for 1925 I called attention to the fact that a sub-
stantial addition to the Institution’s resources was imperative. The
support of the few major researches at present carried on through
gifts for specific investigations is becoming more and more precari-
ous and the publications of the Institution are reduced to one-third
ot their former number. To meet this situation, a direct effort was
determined upon to increase the permanent endowment, and one
step mentioned last year was an agreement made with the William
T. De Van Corporation, of New York, to issue the Smithsonian
Scientific Series, a series of illustrated popular science books to be
written by members of the staff, describing in attractive form the
activities of the Institution and the bureaus under its direction in
many branches of science. The method at first proposed of pub-
lishing the series was found to be impractical, and toward the close
of the past fiscal year a new method was evolved which it is believed
will be more successful.

It was further noted in last year’s report that another project
for imcreasing the Institution’s resources was under consideration
but had not been definitely entered into by the close of the year.
This project has since taken shape, and in November, 1925, the
Board of Regents announced publicly that the Institution would go
before the American public to raise an addition of $10,000,000 to its
endowment fund. Since that time the officials of the Institution
have been engaged in laying the necessary groundwork for such a
campaign, and it is expected that the actual raising of money will
begin during the coming autumn. The official announcement of the
Board of Regents called attention to the totally inadequate present
income of the Smithsonian, outlined briefly its past achievements
and world-wide reputation, and mentioned the many important
projects in the realm of pure science which it was equipped to
undertake but had not the means for. The announcement concluded
as follows:

Current history proves that nations climb to higher standards of living
on the ladder of science. It was Pasteur who claimed that “science is the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 5

soul of prosperity of nations and the living source of all progress. What really
leads us forward are a few scientific discoveries and their application.” It is
the recognition of this fact and of the part which the Smithsonian is called
upon to play in contributing to the prosperity of the nation which leads the
Board of Regents to turn to the people of the country for an addition of
$10,000,000 to the Institution’s endowment.

A number of major expeditions in the interests of science went
out during the year under Smithsonian direction, through funds
provided by friends of the Institution for these special projects.
There should be mentioned particularly the Smithsonian-Chrysler
expedition to East Africa for the purpose of obtaining live wild ani-
mals for the National Zoological Park; the National Geographic So-
ciety Solar Radiation Expedition Cooperating with the Smithsonian
Institution, to equip and maintain for a period of years a solar radia-
tion station in the Eastern Hemisphere to cooperate with the two now
operated by the Smithsonian; Dr. AleS Hrdlitka’s anthropological
expedition to southern Asia, Java, Australia, and South Africa,
which covered over 50,000 miles, under the joint auspices of the Insti-
tution and the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences; and the first
award of the Smithsonian’s Walter Rathbone Bacon Traveling Schol-
arship, under which Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, of the National Museum,
conducted an extensive survey of the crustacean fauna of South
America. All of these expeditions are briefly described elsewhere

in this report.
FINANCES

The permanent investments of the Institution consist of the follow-
ing:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States_______._________ $1, 000, 000. 00

CONSOLIDATED FUND

Miscellaneous securities, etc., either purchased or acquired by
ott SCOSG Or. Value, at, date ,acguineg—. 2. 2=- =. 25 — 7
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund, stock (gift) ;

218, 186. 50

11, 520. 00

The sums invested for each specific fund or securities, etc., acquired
by gift are described as follows:

2 United G@onsolie Walcott
Fund ee tae Y dated fund peneeren Total
PROUIEVETTEN es opens ns oe ee ee $14, 000. 00 | $34, 690.87 |...._____-_- $48, 690. 87
WAteinig Purdy Bacon Tul. 2- sone acer een eee 62s DVDs OO RS. eto cd b 62, 272. 93
TARY es ulran perat sks EE eed A OE 2 Oe PS2S/OO Cas art. eH 1, 528. 09
Chamberlain fusd sett og Tp be tS el tite ee 90;(000:,00)| 2 ne ta 35, 000. 00
PPR DEMIR se ee oe siege sgl ne Oe EO OD io) ae carey co ee Na 500. 00
LS LENCE TE i ST SIS (ETH (6 Ce a ae ae eee Na 2, 500. 00 DOO DO eae cee =o 3, 000. 60
ATONE TELGE EL VRieIET atone en Pe A ene et nr nn 6 oe i Be L, QBghasry ee ese 1, 223. 33

6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

United 7 Walcott
Fund States Paige ean Total
Treasury fund

Hodgkins fund:
Goneralies he Wit Aline Rel ae ate a $116;000;.00) | $379275./00) || eo $153, 275. 00
Smeckicne ss cami te eke a freee eae TOO BO0SU0 5] Sea 2ak he mers Sere ore 100, 000. 00
Bruce:Hughesdund!. Jb2: - yates Wise dS 0b ee ee ee 13):839,90),|-> 22-22? 13, 839. 90
ING OONIS EGG Dy LLM rae ag ane ES Be fash ae ae gale De SOLO OOM sees 2 ee 3, 519. 00
Lucy T. and George W. Poore fund --__.._...--_--- 26, 670.00 | 18, 586,42 |.....______- 45, 206. 42
Addisons ReidMnundeee = asses) s- e aeeee 11, 000. 00 1209-016 | see 2 Lod 18, 299. 16
PUN GSS LUT: 4S Sees OE Ly phe ee eg Se a 590. 00 fay Ace | mee Se 947, 34
George: Sanford tond ee see. ee eee 1, 100. 00 C752, [22 A 1, 775, 72
Smithson fund 262 2! savas es Se 2 727, 640. 00 Lj AOSH 74 ae 888s 729, 108. 74
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund_-}_..-.--...-.--|------------ $11, 520. 00 11, 520, 00
Total telat feeb ea Se We en Loe aE 1, 000, 000, 00 | 218,186.50 | 11, 520,00 1, 229, 706. 50

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts from the following
donors:

American Association for the Advancement of Science, for botanical ex-
plorations in Jamaica.

Mr. Oakes Ames, for botanical explorations in Costa Rica.

Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey, for expenses in connection with Casey collection
of Coleoptera.

Mr. Walter Chrysler, for expedition to Africa to collect animals, ete. for
the National Zoological Park.

Mr. BE. W. Marland, for Missouri Historical Society, for study of the language
of the Osage Indians.

National Academy of Sciences, for paleontological researches.

New York Botanical Garden, for botanical explorations in Jamaica.

Mr. John A. Roebling, for solar researches, ete.

Mr. Washington A. Roebling, for purchase of minerals, ete.

Mr. Charles T. Simpson, for work on West Indian shells.

Dr. Frank Springer, for publication of “American Silurian Crinoids.”

Mr. B. H. Swales, for purchase of specimens.

University of Pennsylvania, department of botany, for botanical explorations
in Jamaica.

The Institution has also received contributions from the following
friends for the funds as listed below:

Endowment campaign expense fund: Dr. Charles G. Abbot, Mr. Robert S.
Brookings, Mr. Frederic A. Delano, Hon. Andrew W. Mellon, Dr. Charles D.
Walcott, and the Hon. Henry White.

Endowment fund: Mr. John Baker, Mr. H. E. Bouwknegt, Miss Elizabeth
W. C. Campbell, Mr. J. M. Chadwell, Mr. L. French, Mr. Leo Henle, Mr. Sol.
Isler, Mr. William F. Kemble, Mr. D. Kinnear, Mr. George G. Marshall, Mr.
Harold M. Mayo, Master Orrin F. Nash, Mr. John H. Powers, Mr. Henry S.
Ritter, Dr. Rudolf Ruedemann, Dr. Charles 8. Schuchert, Mrs. Hleanor H.
Wheelwright, Mr. George McLane Wood, and Mr. F. R. Wulsin.

Smithsonian Scientific Series: Mr. Wyllys W. Baird, Mrs. Elizabeth B. Blos-
som, Hope Natural Gas Co., Mr. William W. Laird, Mr. James H. Lockhart,
Peoples Natural Gas Co., Philadelphia Company and Affiliated Corporations, and
Mr. George M. Reynolds.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

The Institution wishes to express its gratitude to Mr. John Poole
for his deep interest and help in connection with the endowment fund
campaign and also to the following gentlemen who, through him, ex-
tended very welcome aid to the same:

Mr. Byron S. Adams, Mr. Thomas P. Bones, Mr. Alexander Brit-
ton, Mr. Charles I. Corby, Mr. John Dolph, Mr. T. C. Dulin, Mr.
William John Eynon, Mr. W. T. Galliher, Julius Garfinckel & Co.,
Mr. Fred. S. Gichner, Mr. William F. Ham, Mr. Morton J. Luchs,
H. L. Rust Co., Mr. James Sharp, Mr. H. C. Sheridan, and Mr.
George I. Walker.

Freer Gallery of Avt—The invested funds of the Freer bequest
are classified as follows:

Court and crounds fundies ao ee a $278, 825. 50
Court and grounds; ‘maintenance fund.—-— 8.8. 2252 oe et 69, 683. 75
CRETE ICG Fes ELH 0g (ACN a SEES A EE Se 278, 825. 50
1 E-LEsS VEOH Gi wh peel a2 Ne et a tec taal oe) tee mth ya Dignan abedg Dep wees aie. Eee 2, 842, 080. 19
Reeth OMe feper Chee ae a aE SEL hs AAA TO CAE ERED EE Le 350, 261. 25

eh MO ee og = Rs PN ee a a oe a Ce Nase Sees 3, 819, 676. 19

The practice of depositing on time, in local trust companies and
banks, such revenues as may be spared temporarily, has been con-
tinued during the past year, and interest on these deposits has
amounted to $1,748.21. The income during the year for current
expenses, consisting of interest on permanent investments and other
miscellaneous sources, amounted to $61,171.52. Revenues and princi-
pal of funds for specific purposes, except the Freer bequest, amounted
to $166,214.79. Revenues on account of Freer bequest amounted to
$255,354.66, amount received from sale of stocks and bonds $988,510,
aggregating a total of $1,471,016.97.

The disbursements, described more fully in the annual report of
the executive committee, were classed as follows: General objects of
the Institution, $60,782.56; for specific purposes (except the Freer
bequest) , $181,647.45; and expenditures pertaining to the Charles L.
Freer bequest, $1,265,884.31. The balance on hand on June 30, 1926,
was $134,889.40.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the fiscal year 1926:

ntemniaional Micha nes: sail pi Robe bBo Pele nies Shp Lewes ey ee 2 $46, 260
AUTEN CEP TOWRA OL AAD ALO) Vote ipso haste elm eee Ce ly Ng me oD 57, 160
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___.__.__-______-_-_--_- 8, 000
Astrophysical, Observateryee 22 ee 2 es Oi Si OMe ee te AE 31, 180
AGGITIONALSASSIStAn tiIseCnetarypen 22. te ral ye al pe pO le 6, 000
National Museum:

PIPE eh hUON sa as, ns ey ee ee a $21, 800

Heatineandelichting= te 2 hes cet Lie coe ol ide: yo aah, 77, 560

Preservation of collections..2.-8.22 222-2040 441, 082
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

National Museum—Continued.

Buildings Tena 53s leon ee ele ec I ee ed $12, 000

EG Oe eee tie ete et pe aes eee aE Ws ea ae 1, 500

D BTOYS| fete ch IAs oer ieee REIT ER En whe SI 8 perce SO Gree Oa 450
———_—_$554, 392
NEON AAG AMET yO fe TT see SAE SEE ie BT we DS Ee SE 21, 028
NationalZovlogical, Park. cra) (geri dR eee Ed ene eed) 3 157, 000
Printing tang winning 2.5 Fs Peek BE SES OE yb eee AP ee 90, 000
ANG (ce) eerste 8 RS Neen rece Nae VOG ee (A ee TG acre eee tye ae I 971, 020

RESEARCHES AND EXPLORATIONS

Field expeditions play an important part in the work of a research
institution. The Smithsonian, although handicapped particularly
in this phase of its work by inadequate income, sends out or partici-
pates in many such expeditions each year. It is often found advan-
tageous to cooperate in field work with other institutions, thus divid-
ing the expense and enabling the participating institutions to share
the collections and other benefits resulting from the expedition. The
Smithsonian’s explorations cover biology, anthropology, geology, and
astrophysics, and in addition to furnishing important new facts in
these sciences, the material brought back by the explorers has done
much toward building up the collections of the National Museum
and filling in gaps in the scientific study series. During the past
year the Institution has engaged in about the usual number of field
expeditions. These have conducted scientific exploration or field
work in many States of the United States, Canada, Haiti, several
regions in South America, Europe, southern Asia, Java, Australia,
South Africa, and China. Some of these are described in the reports
of the National Museum and the Bureau of American Ethnology,
appended hereto, and a few of the others will be mentioned briefly
here in order to show the character and diversity of the Institution’s
field work.

GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATIONS IN 'THE CANADIAN ROCKIES

Your secretary continued during the 1925 field season his geological
field work in the Canadian Rockies, starting from Lake Louise Sta-
tion in Alberta on July 9 with a pack train bearing the camp outfit.
The season was unusually unfavorable, forest-fire smoke interfering
with photography and the large number of snow squalls making
field work extremely difficult. Regarding the progress of the geo-
logical work, I wrote at the close of the season:

Only eight camps were made while on the trail. It was more through good
fortune than favorable conditions that a fine series of fossils from critical
horizons in the great lower Paleozoic section north of Bow Valley was dis-

covered and collected. These fossils increase our knowledge of the history and
life of the Cordilleran Sea of this time and afford the data for comparison with
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 9

life and conditions in the Appalachian Trough and the great upper Mississippi
embayment of Upper Cambrian time.

In the interval between the snow storms of September 5 and 9 several new
fossil zones were found in the Lower Ordovician rocks of the Johnston-Wild
Flower Canyon Pass section, and also in the Upper Cambrian west of Badger
Pass. The latter find enabled Doctor Walcott to identify the Arctomys forma-
tion of the Glacier Lake section and to clear up the uncertainty as to the posi-
tion of the strata hitherto referred to the lower portion of the Bosworth
formation.

* * * * * * *

This year probably completes the field work in the Canadian Rockies. A few
of the problems encountered have been cleared up in the past nine years, but
many remain to be studied by young, well-trained men with strong hearts,
vigorous muscles, and the high purpose of the research student seeking to dis-
cover the truth regarding the development of the North American Continent
and of the life of the waters in which the miles in thickness of sands, clay,
and limey muds accumulated during a period of several million years of lower
Paleozoic time.

Your secretary was engaged at the close of the year, during such
times as he was able to spare from administrative duties, in preparing
for publication the geological results of many seasons of work in the
Canadian Rockies. This summary of the Canadian work will
appear as one of his series on Cambrian Geology and Paleontology
in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

COLLECTING FOSSIL FOOTPRINTS IN ARIZONA

Through a cooperative arrangement with the National Park Serv-
ice, Mr. C. W. Gilmore, curator of vertebrate paleontology in the
National Museum, visited the Grand Canyon during the past field
season for the double purpose of preparing a permanent exhibit of
fossil footprints in the rock along the Hermit Trail, and of making
for the National Museum a collection of these footprints to send back
to Washington. Mr. Gilmore succeeded in both of these projects,
and in his preliminary report on the work, he writes:

A series of slabs, some 1,700 pounds in weight, carrying good examples of
the various kinds of imprints occurring there, were collected and shipped to
the Museum. The tracks occur in the Coconino sandstone in Hermit Basin,
on the trail down to Hermit Camp, and from 900 to 1,080 feet below the rim
of the canyon. Their excellent preservation and variety of kind, coupled with
their great antiquity, make this collection of more than usual interest. Pre-
liminary study of the tracks has demonstrated that they represent not only
a new Ichnite fauna but probably the best preserved and most extensive series
of Permian footprints known anywhere in the world.

It was found that the natural conditions were most favorable for the prepara-
tion of an exhibit of fossil tracks in situ. The rather steep slope of the
sandstone on whose surfaces the tracks are impressed stands at an inclination
of 30° facing toward the Hermit Trail, over which in the course of the year
hundreds of tourists travel on mule back in making their pilgrimage to the
bottom of the Grand Canyon. The upper layers of the sandstone cleared off
in large sheets, thus uncovering whatever tracks and trails there were to be
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

found beneath. The work of preparing this exhibit consisted, therefore, of
removing the overburden of loose dirt and broken rock, then quarrying off the
loose upper laminae until a solid and continuous face covered with footprints
was reached. This was done, and a smooth surface 8 feet wide and 25 feet
long was carefully uncovered.

At the side of the slab leading up from the trail a series of stone steps was
laid in order to facilitate examination by those interested in the footprints
eovering its surface. Although this slab constituted the main exhibit, other
large surfaces were similarly uncovered, so that in all there are several hun-
dred square feet of rock surface showing imprints of feet, thus forming a
permanent exhibit of the various tracks and trails to be found here.

The great antiquity of these footprints is clearly demonstrated at this locality,
for it is evident that since the day when those animals impressed their feet in
what at that time was moist sand more than 1,000 feet of rock-making ma-
terials were piled up in successive strata above them, and this does not take
into account many hundreds of feet more that have been eroded off the present
top of the canyon wall.

The great length of time necessary for the cutting away or erosion of the
rock to form the deep canyon and the even longer time necessary for the
original deposition of this great vertical mass of stone when translated into
terms of years, if that were possible, would be so stupendous as to be almost
beyond human comprehension.

BIOLOGICAL COLLECTING IN WESTERN CHINA

The collecting of biological material for the National Museum was
coutinued in the Province of Szechwan, western China, by the Rev.
David C. Graham. Various trips which he had proposed to take
had to be abandoned because of the presence of numerous bandits in
certain areas, and his work was greatly handicapped by civil-war
conditions in that part of China. Nevertheless, Mr. Graham suc-
ceeded in making large collections of valuable biological material
for the Museum.

While still undecided as to his summer’s plans for collecting, Mr,
Graham received notification that all foreigners were requested to ga
together to Kiating, with a heavy military escort for safety. Re-
garding his activities after this, a brief account prepared from
Mr. Graham’s letters reads in part as follows:

The party reached Kiating on July 7, and having gone thus far, Mr. Graham
decided to try for Washan Mountain, and had actually started, when on the
12th a messenger arrived with a letter saying conditions were getting worse
down the river, that many British subjects were leaving Szechwan, and that
all foreigners might be ordered to leave, also advising that he abandon his
plan to visit Washan. He notes: “It is a keen disappointment, but it seems
unwise to go on, so to-morrow I’ll go back toward Mount Omei and spend the
summer as profitably as I can.” On July 14 he received a letter stating that
conditions were improving and that the foreign community withdrew its request
that he should not attempt the trip to Washan. He thereupon again headed
for that mountain, and on July 23 reached the summit, which he says is the
highest point in central Szechwan. On every side “it is a sheer cliff several
thousand feet high, with only one road to the top and back * * * The road
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY it

made a few circles, and soon I found myself walking along the edge across the
top of that cliff, with only a foot or more of dirt and some small bushes between
me and the precipice. Later the road leads a long way on the edge of a narrow
ridge, on each side a sheer precipice of thousands of feet. In one spot the path
is about 3 feet wide, and I think a little less. It took all the grit I had to cross
that place, and I’d hate to attempt it in rainy weather when the rocks are
slippery. There is one place where there is no place to get a foothold, and the
precipice is bridged by poles placed side by side; under the bridge is a chasm
that one does not like to look at. To cap the climax, near the top are long
ladders. It is practically perpendicular at these points, and without the
ladders no one could reach the top.”

z * * * * s s

In preparing for his return journey, Mr. Graham decided to pack his sum-
mer’s accumulation of specimens and mail them from the village of Shin Kai
Si, to reduce the danger of loss from robbers. Over 70 parcels were packed
and mailed from this place, after which he set out for Kiating, where he was
to try and arrange for the safe transport of the Suifu foreigners from Kiating
to Suifu.

Mr. Graham’s return from Kiating to Suifu was filled with exciting inci-
dents, due to war, brigands, and lack of food. He writes: “With over 100,000
troops engaged in civil war in the Province, with bands of robbers everywhere,
and with the serious complications between China and the foreign powers, it
may be considered a victory to have carried through the collecting trip and to
have secured more specimens than were collected in any previous year.”

STUDY OF THE CRUSTACEAN FAUNA OF SOUTH AMERICA

During the past year the first award was made of the Walter
Rathbone Bacon scholarship of the Smithsonian Institution, created
by the will of Virginia Purdy Bacon for the study of the fauna of
countries other than the United States. The award was made to
Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates in the Na-
tional Museum, for the purpose of undertaking a comprehensive
study of the crustaceans of South America. He began work at Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil, where museum collections were examined and
some preliminary collecting done. The following extract is taken
from a preliminary account of his work prepared at the National
Museum:

On September 17, accompanied by Doctor Luderwaldt, Doctor Schmitt
started for S&o0 Sebastiao, arriving the next morning after a most uncomfort-
able night on a small boat. The collecting here was good and many varieties
of crustacea were obtained. Night collecting yielded valuable tow-net hauls.
Upon this island several species of fresh-water shrimps were obtained. Doctor
Schmitt is of the impression that these shrimps can travel considerable distances
overland through the woods should their parent stream go dry. He states that
tiny Euphausids produce a magnificent phosphorescence at night in the waters
around the island.

He returned to Santos September 28, where several cases of specimens
were prepared for shipment to Washington.

Passing down the coast, collections were made at Sao Francisco Island,
then at Castro where several fresh-water streams were visited. Here, amongst
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

other things, two species of an anomuran crab of the genus Aeglea were
obtained. These Doctor Schmitt considered a great find, as they are rather
rare in collections and there has been some uncertainty as to their status.

He left Castro October 21 and traveled by auto over the mountains to
Blumenau. Here he met Fritz Schmitt, son-in-law of Fritz Miiller, the
celebrated naturalist, visited Miiller’s former home, and saw the very simple
microscopes with which he did such excellent work.

He returned to Sio Francisco October 27, when several cases of specimens
were packed for shipment to Washington. The weather and tides being
favorable, some excellent collections of shrimps and amphipods were made
at this station, and he says “ I’ve extended the ranges of a number of species,
and surely found a couple of new ones here.”

He arrived off Itajahy at 8 p. m. November 2, after a cold, rainy trip,
and early the next morning anchored off Florianopolis. Some tow-net hauls
and shore collecting here produced excellent results.

Owing to the many unavoidable delays, Doctor Schmitt has not been able
to progress as rapidly as he had hoped, but the ground has been as thoroughly
worked as possible, and several cases of specimens have already been received
at the Museum. His collections at this time comprise several thousand speci-
mens and consist chiefly of Crustacea, Coelenterates, Porifera, Echinoderms,
Annelids, Bryozoa, and Fishes.

ANTHROPOLOGICAL STUDIES IN SOUTHERN ASIA, JAVA, AUSTRALIA, AND
SOUTH AFRICA

The most far-reaching expedition of the year was that undertaken
by Dr. Ale’ Hrdlitka in the interests of physical anthropology,
which covered some 50,000 miles through Europe, India, Ceylon,
Java, Australia, and South Africa. The primary purpose of the
expedition, under the joint auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
and the Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, was to make a thor-
ough survey of the subject of ancient man and fossil apes in these
regions.

Doctor Hrdlitka’s work began in the region of the Siwalik Hills
of northern India, which he regards, as the result of his survey, as
the richest and most promising region in the world in remains of
fossil anthropoid apes. The following extracts from Doctor
Hrdlitka’s first published account of his trip will give an impression
of the vast amount of territory covered and of the importance and
interest of the work:

From Simla Doctor Hrdlitka proceeded to the Tibetan border to observe the
types of the Tibetans who made their homes in Darjeeling or its vicinity,
or come there from over the mountains, and who occasionally show types that
resemble most closely the American Indian. At Darjeeling, with generous help
from the Government, it was possible in a short time to see large numbers
of the native population, consisting of mongoloid tribes who have overflowed
into the northernmost parts of India, and a good many Tibetans. There is
seen amongst these Tibetans, Chinese admixture—for the Chinese have been

lords of Tibet for a long time—yet frequently true American Indian types are
also to be found, so true that if they were transplanted into America nobody
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 13

could possibly take them for anything but Indian. They—men, women and
children—resemble the Indians in behavior, in dress, and even in the intona-
tions of their language.

* * * * * * *

From Calcutta the journey led to Madras, where Doctor Hrdlitka wished
to inspect the collections, and to see what could be learned of traces of the
Negrito in the Indian population. One of the biggest problems in anthropology
is the presence of the Negrito in the Philippines, the Andamans, and else-
where in the far southeast. He is there—a clear but enigmatic type, without
connection now in any direction. His nearest relatives are apparently the
pygmies of Central Africa, but a great unbridged space has till now separated
the two. The problem is, How did the Negrito get to his present homes? If
he extended from Africa, he must have left traces of his passing in Arabia
and India, from which, however, there has hitherto come no clear evidence
of his presence. Such traces, so far at least as the Indian coast lands are
concerned, Doctor Hrdlitka became satisfied do exist. They occur in Parganas
(northwest of Calcutta), in at least one area along the eastern coast, here and
there among the Dravidians, and along larger parts of the western coast,
more especially in the Malabar Hills. This brings unmistakable traces of the
Negrito a long way farther to the westward and so much nearer to Africa,
making his derivation from that continent so much the more probable.

A great collection of paleolithic implements is preserved in the museum at
Madras. These implements are similar to those of other parts of India. They
are all of one general class, so that there can hardly be a question as to
their contemporary origin in the different parts of India, their connection
with people of the same race, and belonging to the same, though perhaps a
long, cultural period. They do not show great variety. They resemble some
of the paleolithic implements of western Europe, but on the whole can not be
associated with any one of the Huropean cultural periods. In certain parts
of India, such as the Santal country north of Calcutta, such implements have
been collected in thousands. In other parts, especially near Madras, they
are partly on the surface soil, partly from 1 to 4 or 5 feet and even deeper
below the surface. In places they occur in the alluvium of the rivers and
occasionally in the “laterite,” a talus-like débris resulting from the disinte-
gration of older rocks.

In short, there are plentiful paleolithic implements over large portions of
the country, but as yet they do not definitely indicate a man of geological
antiquity.

With regard to the bulk of the present population of India, Doctor Hrdlitka
believes he can say with confidence that it is mainly composed of three ethnic
elements—the Mediterranean, the Semitic, and in certain parts the “ Hamitic”
or North African. The “Aryans” show everywhere either the Semitic or the
Mediterranean type. There was seen nothing that could be referred to the
types of central or northern Europe: It would seem therefore that the Aryans
came from Persia and Asia Minor rather than from or through what is now
European Russia.

* * * * * * *

The visit to Java was made chiefly for the purpose of inspecting the site of
the Pithecanthropus, but Doctor Hrdlitka also desired to satisfy himself as
to any possible cultural traces of early man, and as to the present population.
As a result of the generous assistance given by the authorities, he was able
to see the natives in practically the whole of the island and especially to
examine that important region which gave the precious remains of the Pithe-
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

canthropus—the valley of the Bengawan or Solo River, a fairly large river,
beginning in the south of the island and running north and then east to
Surabaya. Here exists a veritable treasure house for anthropology and
paleontology where nothing has been done since the Selenka expedition of
1910, which was the only one since the work of Doctor Dubois in 1891-1893.
The lower deposits along the river are full of the fossil bones of Tertiary
and Quaternary mammals, but among them at any time may be remains of
greater value. Many of the fossils fall out of exposed strata every year and
lie in the mud, where the natives occasionally gather them and take them to

their homes.
ok * * * a * *

The data obtained in Australia, supplemented by those on the Tasmanian
material in the College of Surgeons, London, throw a very interesting and, to
some extent, new light on the moot questions of both the Australian and the
Tasmanian aborigines. According to these observations, the Australian
aborigines deserve truly to be classed as one of the more fundamental races
of mankind, and yet it is a race which shows close connections with our own
ancestral stock—not with the negroes or Melanesians (except through admix-
ture), but with the old white people of postglacial times. They carry, however,
some admixtures of the Melanesian blacks, which is more pronounced in some
places than in others.

* * * * * * *

The two main objects of the visit to South Africa were the investigation on
the spot of the important find of the Rhodesian skull and of the recent dis-
covery of the skull of a fossil anthropoid ape at Taungs, which had been
reported as being possibly a direct link in the line of man’s ascent.

* * * * * * *

The discovery in 1921 at Broken Hill in southern Rhodesia of the skull of
the so-called “‘ Rhodesian man” was an event of much scientific importance.
The find, moreover, is still enigmatic. The skull shows a man so primitive in
many of its features that nothing like it has been seen before. The visit to
the Broken Hill mine, in which the skull was discovered, proved a good dem-
onstration of the necessity of a prompt following up by scientific men of each
such accidental discovery. The impracticability of such a following up in this
case has resulted in a number of errors and uncertainties on important aspects
of the case, some of which have already misled students of the finds. It was
possible to clear up some of the mooted points, but others remain obscure and
can be definitely decided only by further discoveries.

As one of the results of the present visit, it was possible to save and bring
for study a collection of bones of animals from the cave, the lower recesses
of which gave the Rhodesian skull, and also two additional mineralized human
bones belonging to two individuals, all of which, to facilitate the study of the
whole subject, were deposited with the earlier relics in the British Museum.
The mine is by no means exhausted; and since the interest of everybody on the
spot is now fully aroused to these matters, there is hope that more of value
may yet be given to science from this locality.

* * * * * * *

Doctor Hrdlitka has returned deeply impressed with the opportunities for
and the need of anthropological research offered by all these distant parts of
the world and the openings everywhere for American cooperation. The story
of man’s origin, differentiation, spread, and struggle for survival is evidently
greater, far greater, than ordinarily conceived, and a vast amount of work
remains for its satisfactory solution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 15

ARCHEOLOGICAL STUDIES IN MISSISSIPPI

Mr. Henry B. Collins, jr., assistant curator of ethnology in the
National Museum, was detailed during the summer of 1925 to the
Bureau of American Ethnology to conduct an archeological explora-
tion of the region in Mississippi formerly occupied by the Choctaw
Indians. In describing the scope of the work, Mr. Collins says:

The region selected for investigation was the eastern part of the State, the
former center of the Choctaw Tribe. Here are found not only the village sites
known to have been occupied by the Choctaw within historic times, but also
a number of prehistoric mounds similar to those found throughout the Missis-
sippi Valley and in other parts of the South and Hast, denoting a still earlier
occupancy of this region by either the Choctaw themselves or by related tribes.

At the time of first contact with Europeans, the Choctaw were the most
numerous of all the southern Indians. They are also generally regarded as a
basie type, culturally and physically, of the great Muskhogean linguistic stock.
In any consideration of the ethnic problems of the South, therefore, the
Choctaw must assume a place of importance, but as yet very little work has
been done among them. It was decided. therefore, that operations for the
summer should be confined to definitely known Choctaw territory, devoting
part of the time to exploration of historic village sites and part to the
excavation of prehistoric mounds in an attempt to establish as far as possible
the relation of the two.

From Jackson, Miss., Mr. Collins made a thorough reconnaissance
of the ancient mounds in some nine counties of the State. The
most important mound examined was the famous Nanih Waiya,
which is regarded by the Choctaw as the place of their origin. This
large, well-preserved earthwork plays an important part in the
legendary history of the Choctaw.

The first mounds to be excavated by Mr. Collins were a group of
eight near Crandall, in Clarke County. These proved to be burial
mounds, and numerous skeletons were found in them, some of them
showing evidences of cremation. The next mound opened, near the
town of Increase, was of a different type and much larger. Although
containing no skeletons and but a few artifacts, the mound proved of
unusual interest because of a peculiar stratification encountered.
Regarding this stratification and the relationships of the mound,
Mr. Collins writes:

This stratification consisted of a series of brilliantly colored sand layers,
yellow, brown, orange, blue-gray, and pure white, from which, at the center
of the mound, there suddenly arose a dome-shaped structure of compact yellow
clay. This clay dome and the succession of colored sand strata probably
had a ceremonial significance, haying been placed on the floor of what had
very likely been a temple, the site of which was later covered over with a
mound of earth, on the top of which, still later, there probably stood a temple
or council house. Colored sand strata in much the same arrangement have
also been found in the effigy mounds of Wisconsin.

Within this small inner mound or clay dome was found a rectangular
ornament of sheet copper and silver inclosing a core of wood. Both copper
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 192

and silver are shown by analysis to be native American, probably from the
Lake Superior region. Silver and copper ornaments practically identical to
this have been found in small numbers in Florida, Tennessee, Ohio, and
Michigan,

Thin, flaked knives, struck with a single blow from flint cores, were found
both in the mound and in the adjoining field. ‘These are identical in every
respect with the flaked knives from Flint Ridge in Ohio which, while abundant
in the Ohio mounds, are rarely found in other localities.

With the most significant features of the McRae mound so strongly suggest-
ing northern influence, we must conclude that the builders of this Mississippi
mound maintained at least a close trade relationship with the northern tribes.
While undoubtedly the many mounds and various other earthworks of North
America were built by Indian tribes of diverse stocks, there are certain
resemblances between even the most distant of them which suggest a contact
something more than sporadic.

Another group of seven small mounds near Hiwannee, Wayne
County, proved to be similar in contents and construction to the burial
mounds near Crandall. Upon completing their study, Mr. Collins
examined the cemetery of the historic Choctaw village of Coosha,
near Lockhart, Lauderdale County. This was found to be compara-
tively recent, dating probably from the first 30 years of the nineteenth
century, and the burials indicated that the Choctaw had by then lost
most of their native culture and adopted the ways of the whites.

Mr. Collins concluded his season’s work with a series of measure-
ments and observations on 58 adult Choctaw living at Philadelphia,
Miss.

SMITHSONIAN RADIO TALKS

The Institution continued to make use of radio broadcasting as
an effective means of carrying out its purpose—the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge. The Smithsonian talks on scientific subjects
continued to increase in popularity as indicated by the interest shown
in them by magazine editors, news writers, and others. The talks
were given on a regular weekly schedule from Station WRC, of the
Radio Corporation of America, Washington, D. C., beginning
October 1, 1925, and continuing until May 20, 1926. Thirty-two
talks were given in all, of which 14 were presented by members of
the staff of the Institution and its branches, and the other 18 by
representatives of the Department of the Interior, the Department
of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, and Harvard College
Observatory, speaking under the auspices of the Institution. 'Through
the cooperation of Prof. J. McKeen Cattell, many of the talks have
been published with illustrations in the Scientific Monthly.

Through a system of exchanges, seven of the Smithsonian talks
were sent to Station WBZ, of Springfield, Mass., for rebroadcasting
there under the auspices of a series similar to that of the Smith-
sonian, and certain of the talks from the New England series, which.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY té

is under the direction of Dr. Edward Wigglesworth, were rebroad-
cast in Washington. A number of talks on astronomy, given from
Station WEEI, Boston, under the auspices of the Harvard College
Observatory, were also rebroadcast from Washington as part of the
Smithsonian series, through the courtesy of Prof. Harlow Shapley
and Station WEEI.

A second series of talks of a somewhat different nature, entitled
“Radio Nature Talks from the National Zoological Park,” was
inaugurated during the year. This series is described in detail in
the report on the National Zoological Park, which forms Appendix
6 of this report. The direction of both of these series under the
auspices of the Institution was in the hands of Mr. Austin H. Clark,
curator of echinoderms in the National Museum.

A list of the talks in the regular Smithsonian series follows:

August 5, 1925: Butterflies. Mr. Austin H. Clark, National Museum (given
from Station WBZ).

October 1, 1925: Flies. Dr. J. M. Aldrich, National Museum.

October 8, 1925. Our Lighthouse Service. Hon. George R. Putnam, Director
of Lighthouses.

October 15, 1925: Plant Lice and Scale Insects. Mr. Harold Morrison, Bureau
of Hntomology.

October 22, 1925: Earthquakes, Commander N. H. Heck, Coast and Geodetic
Survey.

October 29, 1925: Our Alaskan Fisheries. Hon. Henry O’Malley, Commis-
sioner of Fisheries.

November 5, 1925: The Work of the Bureau of Standards. Dr. George K.
Burgess, director, Bureau of Standards.

November 12, 1925: Turtles. Miss Doris M. Cochran, National Museum.

November 19, 1925: Studying the Sun in Chile. Mr. L. B. Aldrich, Astro-
physical Observatory.

November 26, 1925: Comets. Prof. Edward 8. King, Harvard College Observa-
tory (read by Mr. Austin H. Clark).

December 3, 1925: The Ups and Downs of the Earth. Maj. William Bowie,
Coast and Geodetic Survey.

December 10, 1925: The Story of Time Keeping. Mr. Carl W. Mitman,
National Museum.

December 17, 1925: The Numbers, Motions, and Sizes of the Stars. Dr.
William J. Luyten, Harvard College Observatory (read by Mr. Austin H.
Clark).

December 24, 1925: How the Insects Spend the Winter. Mr. S. A. Rohwer,
Bureau of Entomology.

January 7, 1926: How Men Learned to Fly. Mr. Paul E. Garber, National
Museum.

January 14, 1926: New Stars and Variables. Dr. Annie J. Cannon, Harvard
College Observatory (read by Mr. Austin H. Clark).

January 21, 1926: The American Sword. Mr. T. T. Belote, National Museum.

January 28, 1926: Measuring the Universe. Prof. Harlow Shapley, director,
Harvard College Observatory (read by Mr. William M. Sweets).

February 11, 1926: Archeology in the Southern States. Mr. Henry B. Collins,
jr., National Museum.
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

February 18, 1926: Our Ancient Seas. Dr. Charles E. Resser, National
Museum.

February 25, 1926: Some Aspects of the Development of Printing. Mr.
R. P. Tolman, National Museum.

March 4, 1926: Birds from the Rocks. Mr. Charles W. Gilmore, National
Museum.

March 11, 1926: Household Pests. Dr. HE. A. Back, Bureau of Entomology.

March 25, 1926: Some Aspects of Northwest Coast Indian Art. Mr. Herbert
W. Krieger, National Museum.

April 1, 1926: Bug versus Bug. Mr. R. A. Cushman, Bureau of Entomology.

April 8, 1926: Eclipses. Mr. Leon Campbell, Harvard College Observatory
‘read by Mr. Austin H. Clark). :

April 15, 1926: Spring Flowers. Dr. Hdgar T. Wherry, Bureau of Chemistry.

April 22, 1926: What Are the Stars? Prof. Harlow Shapley, director,
Harvard College Observatory (read by Mr. Austin H. Clark).

April 29, 1926: How Fossils got into the Rocks. Dr. Wendell P. Woodring,
Geological Survey.

May 6, 1926: Spiders. Mr. Clarence R. Shoemaker, National Museum.

May 138, 1926: Crabs, Lobsters, and Their Relatives. Dr. Waldo lL. Schmitt,
National Museum.

May 20, 1926: Bright Stars and Constellations. Dr. William J. Luyten,
Harvard College Observatory (read by Mr. Austin H. Clark).

SMITHSONIAN EXHIBIT AT THE SESQUICENTENNIAL

Since 1855 the Smithsonian Institution has taken advantage of
nearly every prominent exposition to be held in this country and
many abroad to advance, through its carefully planned exhibits,
the increase and diffusion of knowledge. The Institution has taken
part in 33 expositions, and in addition to thus reaching millions of
people through its scientific exhibits, there has resulted the further
advantage of bringing to the National Museum a large amount of
exhibition materia] at the close of certain of these expositions. In
fact, the Museum received its greatest stimulus when it was still in
the formative stage, as a result of the Centennial Exposition in
1876, from which over 40 carloads of valuable material were received
as gifts from foreign governments and other exhibitors.

With the funds available for the purpose, the Institution has
endeavored at the Sesquicentennial Exposition in Philadelphia to
represent in its exhibit as many as possible of the varied scientific
activities under its direction. In anthropology, biology, geology,
and arts and industries, the exhibits are taken from the National
Museum. Anthropology exhibits include nine models in miniature
of Indian village groups—Iroquois, Sioux, Pawnee, Wichita,
Chippewa, Seminole, Navaho, and Pujunan. A particularly edu-
cational exhibit portrays the evolution from simple beginnings to
modern form of objects of household use, such as the lamp, the cup,
knife, fork and spoon, the hammer. saw, and drill, and the ax.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 19

The arts and crafts of the American Indian are represented by life-
size models of Zufi potters, Navaho silversmiths, and Navaho
blanket weavers at work at their tasks. The work in biology is
typified by a mounted group of the interesting Bighorn, or Rocky
Mountain sheep, shown in lifelike poses, which has proved to be a
most attractive exhibit. Both educational and interesting are the
geological exhibits, which include a series illustrating how rock is
weathered to form soil; the gems and precious stones which occur
in America and the minerals in which they are found; a number
of interesting fossil forms such as fossil turtles, a giant fossil fish
which had swallowed another fish, both being preserved in the rock,
fossil plants from the coal measures of Pennsylvania, and fossil
algae or seaweed, among the earliest known forms of hfe on the
earth.

The vast collection of American historical material in the National
Museum is represented in the Institution’s Sesquicentennial exhibit
by a selected series of arms, insignia, uniforms, medals, and decora-
tions, and by models of Columbus’ ships, of the Mayflower, and
of the Constitution. Mechanical technology is represented by a very
complete exhibit showing the development of the steam engine and
of the steamboat. The progress in photography is illustrated by ex-
amples of this art from the days of the first daguerreotype to the
finest modern work, and this graphic arts exhibit also includes ex-
amples of etching, intaglio engraving, the halftone process, and
other methods of artistic expression and reproduction.

The Institution’s work in astrophysics, especially on the study of
the variation of the sun’s heat, is represented by the instruments
used in this investigation—the bolometer, an instrument so sensitive
that it will measure a change in temperature of one-millionth of a
degree centigrade; the pyrheliometer, which measures the heat
received on the earth from the sun; and the pyranometer and the
melikeron, devices which permit the determination of the heat lost
in passing through the earth’s atmosphere.

The Smithsonian exhibit contains also a complete set of its publi-
cations and those of the bureaus under its direction, numbering in
all nearly 900 volumes, which illustrate one of the Institution’s
principal means of diffusing knowledge. The entire exhibit was
brought together and arranged in Philadelphia under the direction
to Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, administrative assistant to the secretary.

PUBLICATIONS

The 11 series of publications issued under the direction of the
Institution form its chief means of accomplishing “the diffusion
of knowledge among men,” one of its primary functions. These
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

publications, all on scientific subjects with the exception of the cata-
logues of the National Gallery of Art, are distributed for the most
part free to libraries, learned societies and institutions, and special-
ists throughout the world. For the general reader interested in
keeping up with the march of scientific progress, the Institution
presents in the Smithsonian Annual Reports a series of carefully
selected articles, some specially prepared, some reprinted, covering
as far as possible recent advances and interesting developments in all
branches of science.

During the past year 88 volumes and pamphlets have been pub-
lished by the Institution and the Government bureaus unders its
administrative charge. There were distributed 168,932 publications,
which included 96,804 volumes and separates of the National Museum
series, 35,671 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Annual
Reports, 20,222 volumes and separates of the Smithsonian Miscel-
laneous Collections, 12,993 publications of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, and smaller numbers of the various other series.

Among the eight papers to appear in the Smithsonian Miscellane-
ous Collections there may be mentioned as of special interest one
entitled ““ An introduction to the morphology and classification of the
foraminifera,” by Joseph A. Cushman, which has proved of great
value to petroleum geologists; “ Fossil footprints from the Grand
Canyon,” by Charles W. Gilmore, describing a large and valuable
series of fossil tracks of extinct creatures collected for the National
Museum by Mr. Gilmore; and “Music of the Tule Indians of
Panama,” by Frances Densmore, a paper which describes for the first
time the songs and instrumental music of the so-called “ white In-
dians ” of the Isthmus of Darien, Panama.

Allotments for printing—The congressional allotments for the
printing of the Smithsonian report to Congress and the various
publications of the Government bureaus under the administration
of the Institution were practically used up at the close of the year.
The appropriation for the coming year ending June 30, 1927, totals
$90,000, allotted as follows:

Annual Report to the Congress of the Board of Regents of the Smith-

Sonian ;institwtions See ees ale hl aye EEE hes les era pie egy Ee $12, 500
TNS ERO risa MEE CU ee et ee eee 42,500
Bureau occAmericannnthnolopy oo 2 be ee eee 25, 600
National Gallery jOtpattos ce Cee 2 ee ee eee 1, 200
International Dxchanzes= sts 220i bicd UG oD ae eee 300
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___.___________________ 100
National: Zoological ‘Parka ox.) et teh i eels ede ee eee 300
Astrophysical Observatory ses se) Eee eo ee eee 500

Annual Report of the American Historical Association____---___-_-~ 7, 00°
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY mt

Committee on printing and publication.—All manuscripts submit-
ted to the Institution for publication, both papers by members of
the staff and those by outside authors, are referred for consideration
and recommendation to the Smithsonian advisory committee on
printing and publication. The committee also considers matters
of publication policy. During the past year seven meetings were
held and 96 manuscripts were considered and acted upon. The mem-
bership of the committee is as follows: Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, head
curator of biology, National Museum, chairman; Dr. George P.
Merrill, head curator of geology, National Museum; Dr. J. Walter
Fewkes, chief, Bureau of American Ethnology; Dr. William M.
Mann, director, National Zoological Park; Mr. W. P. True, editor
of the Institution, secretary; Dr. Marcus Benjamin, editor of the
National Museum; and Mr. Stanley Searles, editor of the Bureau of
American Ethnology.

LIBRARY

The most important change in personnel was the appointment of
Miss Isabel L. Towner to the position of assistant librarian in the
National Museum to fill the vacancy caused by the retirement and
subsequent death of Mr. Newton P. Scudder. Mr. R. Webb Noyes
succeeded Miss Sara Young as junior librarian. The death is regret-
fully recorded of Mr. Francis H. Parsons, for 25 years assistant in
charge of the Smithsonian Division of the Library of Congress.

The growth of the Smithsonian library is due almost entirely to
the exchange of publications of the Institution for those of learned
societies and institutions throughout the world. During the year,
30,541 packages of publications came to the library direct by mail,
and 7,852 through the International Exchange Service of the Insti-
tution. The accessions of all publications totaled 10,125, which
brings the estimate of the number of volumes, pamphlets, and charts
in the Smithsonian library to 677,483, to say nothing of the many
thousands of parts of volumes awaiting completion of the volumes.

The sets of publications of learned societies in the Museum library
were gone over and the missing numbers listed. It was found that
many of these could be supplied from the duplicates in the Library
of Congress, and an effort is being made to obtain the rest from
other sources. The shelves of the main collection in the Museum
library were arranged, a task that had not been done for years. An
intensive effort was made to bring the filing of the Concilium bib-
liographicum cards up to date, and much progress was made.
Nearly 1,800 volumes were prepared for binding during the year.

20837—27——3
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926
NATIONAL MUSEUM

During the past year the total appropriations received for the
maintenance of the National Museum were $598,392, an increase of
$13,600 over the previous year. This additional amount was applied
to the increase of salaries, mostly through reallocation of positions
by the Personnel Classification Beard, for the employment of spe-
cial watchmen to allow the opening of the Arts and Industries
Building on Sundays, and to the fund for printing and binding.
The Museum was benefited by these increases, but they are only a
small part of those needed. As pointed out in last year’s report,
much more generous appropriations are needed to enable the
Museum to properly reward efficient service by its employees and to
maintain the collections at their greatest usefulness to thie ever-
increasing public that they serve. It is also most important that
representation of many natural forms that are rapidly disappearing
under the spread of civilization should be secured for the benefit of
future generations.

In the series of Smithsonian radio talks, now an established
feature of the winter program of Station WRC, the Museum con-
tributed 12 speakers. Many of the talks have been published in the
Scientific Monthly through the interest of its editor, Dr. J. McKeen
Cattell.

The total number of specimens added to the Museum collections
during the year was 254,032, and more than 1,000 lots of material
were received for examination and report. Three thousand eight
hundred and fifty-seven objects were given to schools and other
educational agencies and 387,682 specimens exchanged for other
material, while many thousands of specimens were loaned to
specialists for study.

A detailed account of the accessions in all departments of the
Museum is given in the Report of Assistant Secretary Wetmore,
Appendix 1, but a few of the more noteworthy may be mentioned
here.

In the department of anthropology, the division of ethnology re-
ceived an excellent series of ethnological and cult material from the
Rev. D. C. Graham as a result of his explorations for the Smithsonian
Institution in western China and eastern Tibet, and a collection of
105 artifacts obtained in Young’s Canyon, Ariz., by J. C. Clarke,
transferred by the Bureau of American Ethnology. The division of
physical anthropology received valuable skeletal. material of Aus-
tralian aboriginals by exchange with the Adelaide Museum and
through personal collection by Doctor Hrdlitka.

In the department of biology, the division of insects was greatly
enriched by the purchase, with private funds raised by Dr. William
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 23

Schaus, of the Dognin collection of lepidoptera, which adds about
82,000 specimens, including 3,000 types, to the collection. The divi-
sion of marine invertebrates received large additions through the
collections of Dr. W. L. Schmitt in South America, and also benefited
through the transfer from the Bureau of Fisheries of further ma-
terial taken on the Albatross expedition of 1911 to Lower California,
which, included many new crustaceans as well as birds and fishes.
The division of birds was presented, through Dr. W. L. Abbott, with
a valuable collection of birds made in Siam and the Mentawi Islands
west of Sumatra by C. Boden Kloss, and through Mr. B. H. Swales
and Dr. Casey A. Wood with 65 bird skins of genera and forms not
previously represented in the collections.

In the department of geology, the accessions have included very
choice and much-needed materials. The outstanding contribution
to the division of geology was a collection of approximately 5,000
specimens of ores of rarer metals, assembled by Mr. Frank L. Hess
and received by transfer from the United States Geological Survey.
The late Col. W. A. Roebling continued his generous contributions
to the mineral collections, and other important additions were pre-
sented by the United States Mint at Philadelphia, Mr. Jack Hyland,
and the Government of British Guiana through Sir John Harrison.
Of greatest interest for exhibition purposes was a large group of
fluorite crystals presented by the Benson Fluorspar Co., of Cave-in-
Rock, Ill., and thought to be the most unusual yet brought to public
attention in America. The division of stratigraphic paleontology
was enriched through the field explorations of its staff, which added
invertebrate fossils from England, Canada, and Europe, as well as
the United States. In continuation of his work of last year, Mr.
C. W. Gilmore added a new series of shale and sandstone slabs
containing the tracks of extinct animals to the collections of verte-
brate fossils. Fossil mammal material of unusual value was collected
in Florida by Dr. J. W. Gidley.

The accessions in the department of arts and industries showed an
increase over last year. In the section of mineral and mechanical
technology, the outstanding accession was the airplane Chicago, the
flagplane of the world flight. of 1924, which was transferred to the
Museum by the War Department. The textile collections were en-
riched by the addition of many new fabrics. Several models were
installed illustrating the production of certain industrial articles,
such as methyl alcohol, coke, casein, and condensed milk. Examples
of etching, wood-engraving, lithograph, and other forms of graphic
expression have been received by the division of graphic arts. The
section of photography has received a valuable set of machines and
material illustrative of the growth of the motion-picture industry.
24. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

The Loeb collection of chemical types was increased by 165 speci-
mens, and the historical collection by 17,256 specimens.

A number of field expeditions were participated in during the
year by members of the Museum staff cooperating with private or-
ganizations or with other governmental agencies. The bulk of the
accessions to the collections was derived from these activities, which
are described in Appendix 1. The lecture rooms and auditorium of
the National Museum were used for 110 meetings covering a wide
range of activities. Visitors to the Smithsonian Building totaled
110,975; to the Arts and Industries Building, 355,762; to the Natural
History Building, 581,563; and to the Aircraft Building, 58,005.
The Museum published 8 volumes and 49 separate papers during the
year and distributed 96,804 copies of its publications.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Attention is again called in the director’s report to the urgent need
of a separate building for the National Gallery, the estimated cost
of which would be $8,000,000. Without such a building, and with
the art works now belonging to the gallery crowded into temporary
quarters in the National Museum, there has been a marked de-
crease in gifts and bequests to the gallery in recent years. With a
suitable building, not only would the people of America again begin
to add their art treasures to the national collection in Washington,
but the collections of graphic arts, ceramics, textiles, and American
history, now exhibited in scattered places in the National Museum,
could be shown in association with the paintings and sculpture,
thereby releasing many thousand feet of floor space needed for the
natural sciences.

The National Gallery Commission held its fifth annual meeting on
December 8, 1925. The various affairs of the gallery were con-
sidered, and attention was given to the year’s accessions, to the pur-
chases made through the Ranger fund, to the proposed National
Portrait Gallery, and to the method to be followed in considering
the acceptance of art works given or bequeathed to the gallery. The
present officers and members of committees were reelected for the en-
suing year. The marble statue, the “Libyan Sibyl,” by William
Wetmore Story, and a marine painting, “The Sea,” by Edward
Moran, were accepted by the commission as permanent additions to
the gallery collections.

A very generous offer was made to Congress by Mrs. John B.
Henderson during the year, of a large tract of land on Sixteenth
Street for a national gallery building site.

Special exhibitions held in the gallery included a loan exhibition
of early American portraits, miniatures, and silver; an exhibition
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 25

of portrait busts in marble and bronze, by Moses Wainer Dykaar;
and an important assemblage of modern Italian art collected and
exhibited under the patronage of His Majesty, the King of Italy.

Hight paintings were purchased and assigned to various institu-
tions during the year from the fund provided by the Henry Ward
Ranger bequest. It will be recalled that any of these paintings may
be reclaimed by the National Gallery of Art during the five-year
period beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented.

Accessions of art works during the year, subject to the approval
of the advisory committee of the gallery commission, were 10 paint-
ings to be known as the George Buchanan Coale Collection, 1819-—
1887; a portrait of Rear Admiral Robley D. Evans, United States
Navy; two portrait busts by Moses W. Dykaar; and three paintings
by Edward Moran. A number of art works were accepted as loans
during the year, and several previously accepted were withdrawn.
Nineteen paintings belonging to the gallery were loaned for exhibi-
tion by other institutions.

The gallery’s library has increased to over 1,400 volumes and
pamphlets. A second number of the gallery’s catalogues of collec-
tions was issued during the year.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

The year’s work in the preservation of the collection included

work on 10 American oil paintings and the reconditioning of the
ceiling of the Peacock Room, half of the latter work being com-
pleted at the close of the year. The study of a considerable number
of Japanese paintings, including classification and the translation
of signatures, seals, and inscriptions upon them, was accomplished
during the year. The collection of Near Eastern pottery also was in-
tensively studied and considerably revised.
- The library was increased by 500 volumes, of which 462 are in
the Chinese and Japanese languages, 72 periodicals, and 142 pamph-
lets. ‘There has been an increasing demand for photographs of
objects in the collection, and 518 subjects are now available for
purchase at cost. Over 1,400 photographs were sold during the year.
Several hundred copies each of the three publications issued by the
gallery—the descriptive pamphlet, gallery books, and the Synopsis
of History—were also sold.

The total attendance at the gallery for the year was 108,310. Of
this number, several hundred came for special purposes such as
to examine objects not on exhibition, and to make copies or photo-
graphs of objects in the collections, and six groups varying in num-
ber from 20 to 148 made appointments for special study or instruc-
tion regarding: the collections.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

The work of the gallery’s archeological expedition in China was.
practically at a standstill during the year because of the disturbed
conditions in that country.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The bureau has continued to conduct ethnological researches
among the American Indians and to excavate and preserve ruins of
prehistoric Indian structures, in accordance with the act of Congress
authorizing the work. Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, chief of the bureau,
selected as a promising region for study that part of Arizona west
of the Little Colorado River, an area practically unknown arche-
ologically.. After a brief reconnaissance of the region, Doctor
Fewkes chose for excavation a large mound near Flagstaff, Ariz.,
which revealed an ancient rectangular building 145 by 125 feet in
size, containing nearly 40 rooms and a large kiva, or ceremonial
chamber. Besides clearing and repairing the walls in order to make
this interesting ruin available to tourists and to students of arche-
ology, Doctor Fewkes unearthed and brought back to Washington
a large collection of characteristic pottery of diversified form and
color, and a number of skeletons of the former inhabitants. As
a result of this work, it will be possible to draw conclusions re-
garding the culture and relationships of the ancient dwellers in this
little-known region.

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt was occupied during the first part of the
year in transliterating, amending, and translating the Chippewa
text of “ The Myth of the Daymaker.” Later he undertook the task
of reclassifying and recataloguing the valuable collection of linguis-
tic and historical ethnological manuscripts in the bureau archives.

Dr. John R. Swanton completed his papers on the “ Social Organi-
zation and Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy,”
“Religious Beliefs and Medical Practices of the Creek Indians,”
and “'The Culture of the Southeast,” and these works are now in
course of publication. He completed the editing of a paper on
the “'Trails of the Southeast,” by the late William EK. Myer. Doctor
Swanton continued his work in compiling a card catalogue of the
words of the Timucua language, and also his investigations on the
aboriginal trail system of North America.

Dr. Truman Michelson conducted researches among the Algon-
quian Indians of Iowa, studying especially the festivals of the
Thunder and Bear gentes of the Fox Indians. He later carried on
linguistic investigations among the Ojibwa, Ottawa, and Pota-
watomi. In Washington, Doctor Michelson prepared for publication
two papers on sacred packs of the Fox Indians.

Mr. J. P. Harrington was occupied during: the year in rescuing
all that could be learned of the vanishing culture of the Mission
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 27

Indians of California. Extensive excavations were made at several
ruined village sites which revealed two distinct coast Indian cul-
tures—an earlier and a later. Under the direction of one of the few
survivors who still knows how to make the Mission Indian houses, or
jacals, Mr. Harrington succeeded in building one of these structures
and excellent photographs were obtained showing each step in the
construction. A large amount of valuable information regarding
the Mission Indians was brought together by Mr. Harrington, and
this material will later be published by the bureau.

Dr. Francis La Flesche was engaged during the year in classifying
the personal names of the full-blood members of the Osage Tribe
according to their places in the gentes of the tribe. Each name
refers cryptically to the origin story of the gens to which it belongs.
Nearly 2,000 names were recorded, but their translation has not been
completed. Doctor La Flesche, in collaboration with Doctor Swan-
ton, began a vocabulary of the Osage Tribe, some 3,000 words having
been recorded with translations thus far.

Miss Frances Densmore continued her studies of Indian music,
collecting during the year extensive material among the Menominee
of Wisconsin, and completing her manuscript on Papago music,
which is now in shape for publication. Mr. Gerard Fowke con-
ducted for the bureau during the period February to April, 1926, a
survey and exploration of a group of aboriginal remains near Marks-
ville, La. The mounds excavated and the methods of burial dis-
closed differentiate this group of remains from any other known to
the bureau. Mr. Fowke submitted to the chief a full report, with
illustrations and map, on the work.

During the last three months of the year, Mr. H. W. Krieger of the
National Museum was detailed to the bureau for the purpose of
studying the archeology of the Upper Columbia River Valley, and to
undertake the restoration of the old Haida Indian village, Old
Kasaan, a national monument in southeastern Alaska. A reconnais-
sance trip along the upper Columbia River in Oregon and Washing-
ton resulted in the selection of an old Indian camp site at Wahluke
Ferry as the most promising station for excavation. Several hun-
dred objects were unearthed, most of which had been ceremonial
offerings accompanying the cremation form of burial. At Kasaan,
it was found that most of the fine totem poles and all of the houses
of the old village had either decayed beyond recall or had been
burned in a recent fire. A few poles were scraped and the rotted
wood removed. On the return trip, Mr. Krieger completed a map of
archeological sites on the upper Columbia River, and undertook
excavation at eight stations along the river.

Mr. Henry B. Collins, jr., of the National Museum, was detailed to
the bureau to carry on archeological work in Louisiana and Mis-
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

sissippi, particular attention being given to 21 mounds on Pecan
Island in Vermilion Parish, from which considerable cultural mate-
rial and a number of skulls were obtained. Mr. Collins then located
the sites of several historic Choctaw villages in eastern Mississippi,
and secured physical measurements on 72 living Choctaw.

Dr. J. W. Gidley conducted for the bureau an exploration of the
fossil beds near Melbourne and Vero, Fla. Many fossil bones were
collected, including some new forms, and a number of Indian mounds
were visited and examined.

Dr. Ale’ Hrdlicka was sent to Alaska for the purpose of studying
the archeology of Seward Peninsula, in the vicinity of Nome, but
this part of his work did not begin until the close of the fiscal year
and the results will be reported on next year.

The bureau issued one publication during the year—the Fortieth
Annual Report, containing a number of papers on the Fox Indians
by Dr. Truman Michelson—and a number of publications were in
press or in preparation at the close of the year. There were distrib-
uted 12,993 copies of bureau publications.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

The number of packages of governmental, scientific, and literary
publications handled by the International Exchange Service during
the fiscal year 1926 was 480,776, an increase of more than 12,000 over
the preceding year. ‘These packages reached a total weight of
558,493 pounds, representing more than 10 per cent increase in
weight over last year. Over 2,500 boxes were required for the ship-
ment of publications to foreign exchange agencies for distribution
abroad.

The depository of United States governmental documents in China
has been changed from the American-Chinese Publication Exchange
Department in Shanghai to the Metropolitan Library in Peking.
Iceland and the Dominican Republic have been added during the
year to the list of depositories of partial sets of our governmental
documents. Steps were taken by the exchange service, at the request
of several depositories, to have the regular series of governmental
documents delivered more promptly than has been customary, and
several letters of appreciation of this action were received from
abroad by the Smithsonian Institution. Sets of United States offi-
cial documents are now sent to 101 foreign depositories, and 75 copies
of the Congressional Record are exchanged for similar proceedings
of foreign parliaments.

In the report on the exchange service, appended hereto, is repro-
duced a circular describing the service and presenting the rules
under which packages are received for distribution.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 29
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Although the number of animals in the park remains practically
the same as in the previous year, the value of the collection has
decreased somewhat through the loss of a number of the larger
mammals which are expensive and therefore difficult to replace.
Among the 150 animals presented to the park may be mentioned
six specimens of the rhea, the ostrich of South America; a very
interesting collection of birds and snakes from Sumatra; a three-
toed sloth; an ocelot; a fine pair of Canada lynx; a Tasmanian walla-
by; and four giant salamanders. One hundred and one mammals,
birds and reptiles were born or hatched in the park during the year.
The mammals included Rocky Mountain sheep, moufion, Alpine ibex,
American bison, Indian buffalo, yak, guanaco, various deer, Javan
and Japanese monkeys, raccoon, rock kangaroo, and beaver. The
animals lost by death included a number that had been in the park
for long periods, the longest record being that of a sloth bear, which
had lived in the park for 21 years and 6 months. The total number
of animals at the close of the year was 1,619, including 461 mammals,
1,042 birds, and 116 reptiles and batrachians.

The number of visitors for the year was 2,512,900, slightly less
than the year before, but more than in any previous year. Schools
and classes visiting the park numbered 309, comprising 24,309
individuals. General improvements included grading along the new
western boundary of the park near Cathedral Avenue, a large amount
of needed repairing to roofs, rebuilding the roadway to and around
the administration building, and putting in a new drainage system
for the cages and walks on the south side of the lion house.

It is gratifying to report that provision is made in the appropria-
tion for the coming year for a bird house, for which there has been
urgent need for several years. It is planned to begin construction in
the spring of 1927. This structure will enable the officials of the
park to assemble a collection of birds worthy of the National Zoologi-
cal Park. Funds were made available during the past year for fur-
nishing uniforms to the park policemen, making possible the main-
tenance of a better standard of personal appearance. Similar pro-
vision should also be made for the keepers, who are brought to a
considerable extent into contact with the public.

In connection with the Smithsonian series of radio talks, a new
series was begun during the year entitled “ Radio Nature Talks from
the National Zoological Park.” In this series, thirty-one 15-minute
talks were given through station WRC, each preceded by a brief
statement of current news of the park.

Through the interest and financial support of Mr. Walter P.
Chrysler, automobile manufacturer, an expedition was sent to Tan-

20837—27——_4
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSLITUTION, 1926

ganyika Territory, Kast Africa, to secure for the park certain large
and important African animals needed for the collection. This
Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition left New York March 20, headed
by Dr. W. M. Mann, director of the park, and at the close of the year
a report was received of the capture of the first animals in the field
by the expedition.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

A grant of $55,000 to Doctor Abbot was made during the year
by the National Geographic Society for the purposes of: selecting
the best site in the Eastern Hemisphere and of establishing and
maintaining for about four years a third solar-observing station
to cooperate with the two now operated by the Astrophysical
Observatory for the measurement of solar variation. To select
the best site for the new station, Doctor Abbot visited and ex-
amined promising localities in Algeria, Egypt, Baluchistan, and
South West Africa, finally giving preference to Brukkaros Mountain
in South West Africa. Although extremely isolated, this mountain is
otherwise most promising for the investigation. Two-thirds of the
314-1Inch average annual rainfall occurs in February and March,
when better conditions prevail at the two American stations, and
good months may be expected at Brukkaros Mountain when observ-
ing weather is poorest in America. Work was begun in April on
the construction of the observing tunnel, dwelling, shop, reservoir,
and garage, and the expedition is expected to leave this country in
the autumn. The station will be manned by Mr. W. H. Hoover,
director, and Mr. F. A. Greeley, assistant.

Through the continued generosity of Mr. John A. Roebling, the
station maintained for five years on Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz., was
transferred to Table Mountain, Calif., in order to obtain better sky
conditions. Mr. A. F. Moore, director of the Harqua Hala station,
designed and superintended all of the construction of the new sta-
tion, and regular observations were begun from Table Mountain in
October, 1925. The high quality of the observing conditions has
amply justified making the change.

Mr. Roebling felt in 1924 that his part in supporting the solar
radiation work should end with June 30, 1925. Letters were
addressed to the National Academy of Sciences, the Chief of the
Weather Bureau, and the director of the meteorological office of the
Air Ministry of Great Britain, asking whether in their opinion the im-
portance of the solar observations warranted asking for increased
Government appropriations to cover the support of the Montezuma
station. The replies were emphatic in stating that the work was of
the highest value and importance, and Congress granted the necessary
increase to continue the Chilean station.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 31

The daily solar constant values have been cabled to Washington
from the Montezuma station as heretofore, and since January 1, 1926,
the solar constant data have been published on the daily weather map
at the request of the Chief of the Weather Bureau. On that date,
the Institution made public announcement that it would furnish
“through the United States Weather Bureau, through either of the
telegraph companies, or through the Associated Press, or Science
Service, if any or all of these organizations shall request it for the
use of their clients, daily or 10-day mean values of the solar constant
of radiation as early and as frequently as results are available from
its field stations in Chile and California.”

The staff of the observatory at Washington have been largely oc-
cupied during the year with a complete revision of all of the Mount
Montezuma data. As a result of this extensive work, the newly
derived solar constant values show a new and higher order of ac-
curacy than ever reached before.

A new proof of solar variability was devised by Doctor Abbot, on
the basis that if the atmosphere had uniform temperature, trans-
parency, and humidity, and if the pyrheliometer observations were
made always at the same altitude above the horizon, the readings of
the pyrheliometer would be directly proportional to the intensity of
the solar rays. Testing this idea on all observations made in the
months of July at Mount Wilson, from 1910 to 1920, excluding the
years 1912 and 1913 as well as many individual days of unusual
atmospheric conditions, Doctor Abbot plotted a full curve from the
remaining observations. Then using the identical days, the mean
solar constant values as heretofore published were plotted as a dotted
curve. Both curves agree very closely except in 1914, when they
differ by about 1 per cent. Both curves indicate a range of solar
variation in July of 1910 to 1920 of over 2 per cent. With them was
plotted in a double line the variation of sun-spot numbers. Even in
details the agreement is quite remarkable.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE

Attention is again called to the urgent need of financial support
to enable the organization to resume publication. The United States
is the only country sufficiently prosperous to furnish this support,
and no bibliographic enterprise more worthy of assistance could be
found than this great international cooperative undertaking which
for so many years was the only complete bibliographic aid to students
and investigators in all branches of science. More than ever before,
commercial enterprises depend on scientific work, and as it is through
the literature of science that all such work is announced and re-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

corded, every effort should be made to have these records exact, com-
plete, and available. It was this field that was covered by the
International Catalogue.

NECROLOGY
GEORGE GRAY

Judge George Gray, member of the Board of Regents of the
Institution for over 30 years and chairman of its executive committee
for the past 10 years, died on August 7, 1925. Judge Gray was born
at New Castle, Del., on May 4, 1840, and graduated from Princeton
University in 1859. He studied law at Harvard and was admitted
to the bar in 1863. After practicing for 16 years, he was appointed
attorney general of Delaware in 1876. This office he held for six
years, when he was elected United States Senator for the unexpired
term (1885-1887) of Thomas F. Bayard, who had been appointed
Secretary of State. Judge Gray was twice reelected to the Senate,
and at the end of these two terms, he was made United States circuit
judge, third judicial circuit, which office he held from 1899 to 1914.
From this time until his death, Judge Gray was a member of a
number of important peace commissions and international arbitra-
tion commissions. Tor several years preceding his death he had
served as a trustee and vice president of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.

Through his long period of service on the Board of Regents and as
chairman of the executive committee, Judge Gray had a real interest
in the activities of the Institution and a thorough knowledge of its
affairs, and his wise counsel will be greatly missed in the meetings

of the board.
FRANCIS HENRY PARSONS

Francis Henry Parsons, assistant in charge of the Smithsonian
Division of the Library of Congress for 25 years, died July 25, 1925.
Although Mr. Parsons was an employee of the Library of Congress,
his close association with the Smithsonian makes it fitting that his
career be briefly reviewed here.

Born January 23, 1855, in Cleveland, Ohio, Mr. Parsons was the
son of Charles Henry and Sarah Rice Parsons, both of New England
ancestry. In September, 1862, he came with his parents to Wash-
ington, where the remainder of his life was spent. Due to delicate
health, his education was acquired from private instruction, sup-
plemented by extensive reading.

In January, 1872, he was appointed by Commander James H.
Gillis, United States Navy, as his clerk, and sailed with him on the
store ship Supply from New York to Rio de Janeiro: he was mus-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 50

tered out of the Navy August 8, 1872. From 1873 to 1894 he served
with the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey; on one of its
expeditions he discovered some rare Indian pottery, which is now
in the United States National Museum. While connected with the
survey he was selected to assume the duties of chief of library and
archives, and reorganized that branch of the service. From 1894
to 1900 he was a computer in the United States Naval Observatory.

In April, 1900, Mr. Parsons was appointed assistant in charge
of the Smithsonian Division of the Library of Congress, and it
was here that his major life work was accomplished. ‘The division
had been established in the same year to care for the valuable col-
lection of the publications of institutions and societies comprising
the Smithsonian deposit (dating from 1866) and the Library of
Congress accessions.

In the 25 years of his incumbency he saw the collection grow into
a great library, perhaps unequalled anywhere for purposes of scien-
tific research. Mr. Parsons brought to his task infinite care and
patience, and a wide knowledge of learned societies and their meth-
ods of publication, and his colleagues in the Library of Congress
learned to depend upon the fullness and accuracy of his records.
His contribution to the care and upbuilding of the collection, which
he carried on with the constant cooperation of the Smithsonian
Institution, will be a lasting memorial.

Respectfully submitted.

Cuarites D. Waxcort, Secretary.
APPENDIX I
REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1926.

The total appropriations for the National Museum for the fiscal
year amounted to $598,392, an increase of $13,600 over the previous
year. The additional sums available include $7,600 for increases in
salaries, of which $5,100 came through reallocations of positions by
the Personne] Classification Board; $1,000 for increase in salaries of
employees in the shops, and $1,500 for employment of special watch-
men to allow the opening on Sunday of the Arts and Industries
Building. The sum of $6,500 was added to the funds for printing
and binding. ‘The appropriation for the purchase of books for the
Museum library was decreased by $500, leaving only $1,500 available,
an amount insufficient for the purpose in view of the present output
of scientific publications.

Though the increases noted have afforded a certain measure of
relief, particularly in the important matter of publications, the funds
available for administration above the total of the pay roll are in-
adequate for the needs of the Museum. The amounts now in hand
for operation are barely sufficient for routine expenditure for needed
supplies when handled with the greatest possible economy, leaving
only small sums available for the purchase of specimens and little
or nothing for explorations.

The collections of the National Museum grow steadily in size
and importance through transfers from other governmental agencies,
from collections or single specimens presented by outside agencies,
or through participation by members of the staff in expeditions
financed from outside sources. This support is fully appreciated
but it should be supplemented by appropriations that will permit
the development of the many opportunities that come to us to obtain
new information and material through direct field investigation.
Further, the Smithsonian Institution, through the National Museum,
should be in a position to develop useful researches of its own in
many lines. Augmented funds for the purchase of specimens are
also necessary since many gaps exist in our series. Though occa-
sionally a gap is filled by gift, there should be funds for making

34
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 35

purchases when desirable specimens are offered at reasonable prices,
as there can be no question but that every opportunity should be
utilized to complete the collections of the Museum. Civilized man
is occupying increasing areas of the surface of the earth, and with
his occupation come such vast changes from the original condition
that natural conformations are destroyed and hundreds and thou-
sands of species of animals and plants must disappear. Only those
remain that are sufliciently adaptable to fit into the modified scheme
brought about by man’s presence, and those at all sensitive to change
or that require special conditions for their existence inevitably dis-
appear. The next 50 years will offer the last opportunities to secure
many forms of nature for preservation for the information and
study of future generations, so that yearly it becomes more and more
important, in fact a duty, to secure such material. Opportunities
now neglected may never offer again. Certainly the National
Museum of one of the greatest countries in the world should not
fall behind in such matters.

Another matter deserving most serious consideration is that of the
status of pay of the members of the staff. When the general re-
classification act went into effect on July 1, 1924, it included provision
for increase in pay at regular rates in the various grades. During
the present year the third survey of the efficiency of the entire staff
has been made with the result that it has been found that the
majority have attained an efficiency rating sufficient to warrant pro-
motion. The majority still stand at the entrance salaries in their
respective grades. The financial assistance already accorded the
staff has been greatly appreciated but it should be supplemented now,
after a lapse of three years, as indicated. It is important that pro-
vision be made to make the promotions indicated to maintain the
morale of the personnel. Such promotion is required especially in
the many low salaried positions since these do not afford a proper
living wage.

Modern developments in transportation, particularly the automo-
bile, have’ brought to the National Museum a greatly increased
attendance, one drawn from a broader area of our country than
ever before. Parking spaces near the Museum are crowded daily,
except during the colder months, with cars bearing license tags from
every State in the Union. The educational function of the collec-
tions has thus been broadened and extended and personal contact has
been established with a larger body of the public. Interest in mat-
ters that pertain properly to the sphere of a museum has also in-
creased, with a resultant growth in number of inquiries by mail and
in amount of material forwarded for identification or for informa-
tion regarding it.
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

The radio program of the Smithsonian Institution organized two
years ago has continued as a regular winter feature of the pro-
gram of Station WRC, and has attained marked popularity as
indicated by growing interest in the subject matter of the various
talks. Thirty-two talks were given during the year from August
5, 1925, to May 29, 1926, through the medium of 30 speakers, 14 of
whom were members of the Smithsonian staff, including 12 from
the National Museum. Seven of these talks reached a broader audi-
ence than usual as they were broadcast also from station WBZ
in Springfield, Mass. ‘The subjects covered a wide range of topics
from butterflies to earthquakes, and turtles to comets. The subject
matter of a number has been given permanent preservation by
means of publication in the pages of the Scientific Monthly through
the interest of its editor, Prof. J. McKeen Cattell. As an educa-
tional factor for the spread of authentic scientific information the
radio has a steadily increasing importance, and is a means for the
diffusion of knowledge among men wholly in accord with the aim
and ideals of the Smithsonian Institution.

COLLECTIONS

The growth in collections housed in the National Museum, while
not so extraordinary as last year, has brought rich additions to our
material. The total number of specimens received amounted to
254,032, while there came to hand in addition more than 1,000 lots
of material for examination and report. ‘These included approxi-
mately 28,000 individual specimens in the department of biology
alone. Gifts to schools and other educational agencies included 3,857
objects, while 37,682 specimens were sent out to institutions or to
private individuals in exchange for other materials. Loans of many
thousands of specimens were made to specialists for study.

Following is a résumé of the more important accessions for the
year in the various departments and divisions of the Museum:

Anthropology.—Among noteworthy accessions there may be men-
tioned an excellent series of ethnological and cult material acquired
by the Rev. D. C. Graham in western China and eastern Tibet,
during his explorations in that region for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. The specimens obtained are especially valuable in completing
collections previously at hand of the Miao aborigines, a native race
whose culture will be lost as they are replaced by Chinese. Maj.
Edward D. W. Dworak, formerly governor of the island of Min-
danao, loaned a fine collection of Moro brass work for exhibition.

The Bureau of American Ethnology transferred a collection of
105 artifacts obtained in Young’s Canyon, Ariz., by J. C. Clarke,
a welcome addition to the collections in American archeology. An
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 37

ancient maskette from Mexico, beautifully carved from hard stone,
was presented by Dr. W. H. Holmes. Considerable additions to the
collections of ancient stone implements from France, collected by
members of the American School of Archeology in France, were
deposited through the Archeological Society of Washington.

Tn the Division of Physical Anthropology, valuable human skeletal
material of Australian aboriginals was obtained by exchange with
the Adelaide Museum and through personal collection by Doctor
Herdlitka. There came also miscellaneous Indian skeletons from
Mississippi collected by H. B. Collins, jr., and a cast of a Neander-
thaloid skull presented by the Instytut Nauk Anthropologicznych
of Warsaw. H

The fine collection of laces gathered by the late Mrs. H. K. Porter
remained on exhibition in the section devoted to art textiles through
the kindness of Miss Annie May Hegeman.

Biology.—Though the total of accessions in this department was
smaller than last year, much of the material was of such high quality
as to offset its lessened amount. The greatest single contribution was
that of the Dognin collection of lepidoptera purchased by a special
fund of $50,000 assembled from friends of the Institution by Dr. W.
Schaus, honorary assistant curator of insects. This collection, mainly
of New World forms, adds about 82,000 specimens, including 3,000
types, to the collection. The addition of this material gives the
National Museum what is undoubtedly the best representation of
American species in this group to be found in any museum in the
world. Doctor Schaus, accompanied by Mr. J. 'T. Barnes as assistant,
went personally to France to pack the collection for transfer to
Washington.

The Hamfelt collection of microlepidoptera, secured through the
United States Department of Agriculture, is another contribution
of great importance to this group.

Collections obtained by Dr. W. L. Schmitt from South America
form large and important additions to the division of marine
invertebrates. Through the Bureau of Fisheries, further series of
specimens taken on the Albatross expedition of 1911 to Lower
California have been transferred to the National Museum. The ma-
terial recently received includes birds, fishes, and crustaceans, with
a number of type specimens.

Considerable contributions have come from China and southeastern
Asia, excellently supplementing earlier collections from this general
region received mainly through the generosity and interest of Dr.
W. L. Abbott. A valuable collection of birds collected by C. Boden
Kloss in Siam and on the Mentawi Islands west of Sumatra, pre-
sented by Doctor Abbott, adds material from a new field. Important
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

collections of mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, crustaceans, and.
mollusks, have come from Dr. H. M. Smith, fisheries advisor to the
Government of Siam, while Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy,
detailed by the Navy Department to accompany the United States
Navy eclipse expedition of 1925 to Sumatra, has returned with
valuable series of mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fishes, marine
invertebrates, and other material; from Rev. D. C. Graham in west-
ern China have come additional collections of mammals, birds, bird
skeletons, reptiles, amphibians, fishes, mollusks, crustaceans, and
insects, including particularly important series from the Wa and
Omei Mountains in western Szechwan.

Mr. B. H. Swales, honorary assistant curator of birds, presented
45 skins to the bird collections, a donation of importance, since all
represent genera or forms not previously represented in the
Museum. Among birds of especial interest may be mentioned a
peculiar roller from Madagascar, Uratelornis chimaera, a flamingo
Phoeniconaias minor, the only form of the family lacking in the
collection, a starling Leucopsar rothschildi from the island of Bali,
the streaked breasted tinamou Vhynchotus maculicollis and a dipper
Cinclus schulzi from Argentina, together with a rare finch /diopsar
brachyurus, long known only from the type specimen, which came
to the National Museum in 1864. Mr. Swales’ donations include
also a specimen in alcohol of Mesoenas variegatus, a highly peculiar
form, and seven skeletons of North and South American birds.

Dr. Casey A. Wood, collaborator in the division of birds, pre-
sented 20 bird skins from the Fiji Islands and 2 skins and 32 alco-
holic specimens from Ceylon.

Geology.—The records in the department of geology show a
decided increase in the number of accessions; and although the sum
total of specimens received is less than last year, very choice and
much-needed materials are included.

In the division of geology the bulk of material received was by
transfer from the United States Geological Survey, of particular
note being a valuable reference collection consisting of approxi-
mately 5,000 specimens of ores of the rarer metals. This collection,
which was assembled by Mr. Frank L. Hess during many years of
field work, comprises unquestionably the most complete series of
such ores in existence. Many other suites of described material are
included in these transfers. Additions to the meteorite collection
were acquired chiefly through exchanges, with examples of 13 falls
registered as new to the collection.

The late Col. W. A. Roebling, by his generous donation of money
for the purchase of minerals, was the chief contributor to the mineral
collections, 11 accessions, comprising choice exhibition and study
specimens, being recorded in his name. Other important additions
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 39

are nuggets of gold formerly in the numismatic collection of the
United States Mint at Philadelphia; a collection of Bolivian tin
minerals, in part presented and in part deposited by Mr. Jack
Hyland; and a rare palladium amalgam from British Guiana pre-
sented by the government of that country through Sir John Har-
rison. Of outstanding importance for exhibition is a large group
of fiuorite crystals thought to be the most unusual yet brought
to public attention in America. This was presented by the Benzon
Fluorspar Co. of Cave-in-Rock, Ill. Rare minerals from foreign
countries were acquired by exchange, and 387 cut stones were added
to the Isaac Lea collection of gems through the Chamberlain fund.

Material of inestimable value to the study series in stratigraphic
paleontology was added chiefly through field explorations by mem-
bers of the staff. Invertebrate fossils from the Cambrian and
Ozarkian rocks of British Columbia, from the Lower Paleozoic of
Great Britain and the continent of Europe, from the Middle and
Upper Paleozoic of the Central States, and from the Devonian of
New York, all selected with the museum’s special needs in mind, are
among the collections thus secured. Gifts and transfers added im-
portant type specimens, as well as vast collections of Cenozoic fos-
sils. Although purchases were necessarily few in number, a few
excellent exhibition specimens were thus procured; exchanges added
valuable foreign material.

Notable among the accessions of vertebrate fossils is a series of
shale and sandstone slabs containing tracks of extinct animals, ob-
tained from the Hermit and Yaki trails in Grand Canyon National
Park by Mr. C. W. Gilmore in continuation of his work of last
year. The present collection considerably exceeds in number of
specimens the one obtained last year, and is of unique interest in
containing faunas from three distinct levels, through a geological
thickness of 950 feet, and from three distinct formations. Their
great age, variety, and excellent preservation, as well as unusual
occurrence, are features endowing these tracks with particular value
in throwing light upon the character of the animal life of the
Permian period. Fossil mammal material collected in Florida by
Dr. J. W. Gidley is of unusual value as evidence for consideration
in working out the problem of early man in that State.

Arts and industries —The aggregate collections in this department
indicate a fair increase over the previous fiscal year.

In the division of mineral and mechanical technology the most
important accession has been the airplane Chicago, the flag plane
during the round-the-world flight of 1924, which was transferred to
the Museum by the War Department. The Collier trophy of the
National Aeronautic Association, awarded annually for some out-
standing development in aeronautics, which was presented this year
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

to Dr. S. Albert Reed for his development of a high-speed metal
propeller, has been placed on exhibition by Doctor Reed with the
aeronautical exhibit.

An exhibit to illustrate the modern watch industry was installed
by the Elgin National Watch Co.

In the textile collections 150 specimens of cotton fabrics of various
types were presented by the Pacific Mills through Lawrence & Co,
An interesting series of casement material of different weaves illus-
trating forms of curtains was presented by the Quaker Lace Co., and
the North American Lace Co. presented a set of cotton and rayon
laces made by machines in imitation of types of hand-made laces.

The Ford Motor Co. installed a model illustrating the process of
production of methyl alcohol with specimens of the main products
derived from the distillation of wood, including charcoal, briquets,
tars, oils, acetate of lime, methanol and many others. Another model
loaned by the same company illustrates part of a battery of by-
product coke ovens.

The Karolith Corporation contributed 262 specimens of articles
manufactured from casein according to a basic process developed by
chemists at the Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh.

In the food exhibits there was installed a large model of a milk
condensary, gift of the Borden Sales Co. (Inc.), designed to illus-
trate the production of milk and its manufacture into a condensed
product. The Kroydon Co. presented a series of 10 specimens show-
ing the manufacture of golf clubs from hickory and persimmon
wood. The latter wood has been found especially suitable for the
heads of clubs because of its unusual density and toughness.

In the division of graphic arts the most important accession for
the year was a work by John Evelyn entitled “ Sculptura,” published
in England in 1662, in which is given the first account of the art of
mezzotint engraving. Mr. J. Frank Wilson supplied a series of
etchings, wood engravings, lithographs, and paintings, many of them
especially fine examples that had been on exhibition in the division
many years ago, and that now come as a permanent accession. An-
other important accession of specimens of engravings, proofs, tools,
and materials has come from Mrs. G. F. C. Smillie, whose husband
was long chief portrait engraver at the Bureau of Engraving and
Printing.

Through the cooperation of Mr. Will Hays, president of the
Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America (Inc.), there
has been presented to the Museum a valuable set of machines and
material to illustrate the growth of the motion-picture industry.
The exhibits in this industry are assuming increased importance and
it is planned to make them as complete as possible. There have
also come to the exhibits in photography many additions in pictorial
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY |

photographs from some of the foremost workers in the world in this
field, including a bromide print entitled “ Damp and Cold,” by Floyd
Vail, and prints by many others.

The Loeb collection of chemical types, established to preserve
samples of the rarer chemical compounds, has been increased by
165 specimens. The collection is broadening its usefulness through
contacts with a steadily increasing circle of chemists.

History——During the year 17,256 specimens were added to the
historical collections, a considerable increase over last year. Addi-
tions to the military and naval collections were of especial interest
and value. Mrs. Beulah Hepburn Emmet presented a collection cf
131 American and foreign military and naval swords dating back
to 1750, forming the collection of Dr. Alfred J. Hopkins and known
by his name. There are included many fine and ornate examples of
the sword-makers art. In addition to swords of the Continental
Army during the Revolution, there are many showing the develop-
ment of the sword in the American Army through the nineteenth
century to the close of the Civil War. The set of naval swords covers
a like period of naval history. A large and interesting series of
relics of Gen. Philip H. Sheridan was donated by Mrs. Philip H.
Sheridan.

In the numismatic collections, 65 modern coins and tokens were
received as a bequest from the late Col. Thomas L. Casey through
Mrs. Laura Welsh Casey; 112 Chinese coins, many of them very old,
were received from Rev. D. C. Graham; and 68 French coins, tokens,
and paper currency of the period of the World War were presented
by Capt. Charles Carey.

The philatelic collections received large additions from the Post
Office Department including a set of 12,314 varieties of precanceled
stamps from 1895 to the present date. Transfers from the Post
Office Department to this collection have included all of the new
stamps, both regular and commemorative issued by the 278 govern-
ments in the Universal Postal Union. Commemorative stamps of
our own government have included three issues, the centenary of
the arrival of Norwegians in Minnesota, the Sesquicentennial of the
signing of the Declaration of Independence, and the erection of a
memorial to John Ericsson, inventor and engineer, builder of the
Monitor.

EXPLORATIONS AND FIELD WORK

The bulk of the accessions to the collections during the year came
from expeditions and explorations organized under private auspices
or by other governmental agencies.

In biology, important field work was carried on by Dr. Waldo L.
Schmitt, curator of marine invertebrates under an award of the
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Walter Rathbone Bacon Scholarship of the Smithsonian Institution.
Doctor Schmitt collected from August, 1925, to February, 1926, at
various stations on the coast of eastern South America from Brazil
south to Buenos Aires, devoting his attention especially to the crus-
tacean fauna, but collecting specimens in many other groups. The
material secured is highly valuable and includes many species
not previously in the National Museum, as well as many new to
science.

Rev. David C. Graham continued his zoological explorations in
Szechwan, western China, and though his travel in this region was
hindered to some extent by civil warfare and the activities of brig-
ands, he secured highly valuable collections in various branches of
natural history. During the summer he visited Mount Omei and
Washan where a number of new forms were procured and extensions
made in the known ranges of others. The new material procured
speaks well for Mr. Graham’s skill as a collector, since the region
had been visited by other naturalists who had» collected there
extensively.

During April and May, 1926, Dr. J. M. Aldrich visited Guatemala
for the purpose of collecting important diptera needed in the study
of the Museum collections. His work was financed from personal
funds and by a small contribution from the Museum. He crossed
from Puerto Barrios to Guatemala City, and at the request of the
Guatemalan Government went also to Coban as advisory member of
a party to study locust infestations and possible means for their con-
trol. His specimens have included many important additions to the
collections. Mr. C. T. Greene, honorary assistant custodian of
diptera, visited Panama from March to May in the interests of the
Federal Horticultural Board mainly in connection with studies of
the fruit flies of the genus Anastropha. Mr. Greene made extensive
collections of diptera which have added extensively to the Museum
series.

Through the cooperation of the Navy Department, Dr. H. C.
Kellers, United States Navy, was detailed to the United States Naval
Observatory Eclipse Expedition to Sumatra that he might, while
serving as surgeon to the members of the party, have opportunity to
collect zoological material. The expedition was established in the
village of Kepahiang, inland from the seaport of Benkoelen,
Sumatra. During the period from October to January, Doctor
Kellers procured a rich collection of marine invertebrates, fresh-water
crustacea, insects, fishes, reptiles, amphibians, birds, mammals, and
plants. Considering the time available for the work the collections
made are extensive and contain many interesting forms new to the
Museum. They are marked by careful preparation. The coopera-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 43

tion of the Navy Department in this matter has been greatly
appreciated.

Dr. Hugh M. Smith, honorary associate curator in zoology, at
present fisheries adviser to the Siamese Government, through
arrangement with the National Museum and with some outside
assistance, has secured valuable collections from Siam that have
added especially to the series of fishes, reptiles, amphibians, birds,
and mammals. The material received is especially important since
there has been little previously in the Museum from this region.
Preliminary examination has shown several previously unknown
species, some of which have been already described. The region
is one of considerable importance since it connects the Malayan
region with China, from both of which we have great series of
specimens.

Prof. M. M. Metcalf, of Johns Hopkins University, presented to
the Museum extensive series of batrachians collected during work
on opalinid parasites in that group in South America.

The National Geographic Society has transferred to the National
Museum specimens collected by Dr. Walter Koelz during the expedi-
tion of 1925 to Greenland under Capt. Donald B. MacMillan. Capt.
Rk. A. Bartlett forwarded an interesting series of marine inverte-
brates collected during a visit to the coast of Labrador, and Mr.
J. Morgan Clements sent collections of marine invertebrates and
fishes secured during travels in Polynesia.

Mr. Paul C. Standley, associate curator of plants, through coopera-
tion with Mr. Oakes Ames and the United Fruit Co., visited the
Canal Zone and Costa Rica, making extensive collections of plants.

A week was spent at the Barro Colorado Island Biological Station
gathering data for a list of the plants of the island. In Costa Rica
Mr. Standley visited the Canton de Dota, where are found the first
paramos north of Colombia. A month in the mountains of Guana-
caste and work in other upland sections as well as in the Atlantic
lowlands gave important data to be utilized ultimately for a report
on the flora of Central America.

Dr. W. L. Abbott, through his continued interest in the National
Museum, financed an expedition by Mr. Emery C. Leonard, aid in
the division of plants, to northern Haiti for a period extending from
November to March. The 9,000 specimens procured will supplement
material previously in hand for a report on the botany of the island.

Dr. AleS Hrdliéka, curator of physical anthropology, in the depart-
ment of anthropology, under the joint auspices of the Buffalo Society
of Natural Sciences and the Smithsonian Institution, made an ex-
tensive journey that included areas where remains of fossil or ancient
man had been discovered in southern Asia, Australia, and Africa,
and returned with series of photographs, specimens, and first-hand
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

information of great value. Mr. H. W. Krieger carried on field
work among the Indians of the State of Washington, and on the
coast of southeastern Alaska, through a cooperative arrangement
with the Bureau of American Ethnology. Mr. H. B. Collins, jr.,
under the same auspices, visited a number of Indian village sites
in Mississippi and Louisiana to study ancient Choctaw, Attacapa,
and Muskhogean cultures.

Investigations at Pueblo Bonito under the auspices of the National
Geographic Society by Mr. Neil M. Judd, curator of American
archeology, were continued for another season since it had not been
practicable to complete the work in five years as originally con-
templated. Mr. Judd left for the site of the excavations in May and
will continue his work through the summer. Mr. Judd, as chairman
of the Research Committee of the Archaeological Society of Wash-
ington, guided researches carried on by Dr. Manuel Gamio, for the
society at pre-Columbian village sites in the highlands of Guate-
mala.

Under grants from the O. C. Marsh and Joseph Henry endowment
funds of the National Academy of Sciences, Secretary Walcott,
assisted by Mrs. Walcott, continued field work in the early geological
strata of Canada during the season of 1925, beginning at Lake
Louise Station in Alberta on July 9. Work this year included dis-
covery of new fossil deposits in the great lower Paleozoic section
north of Bow Valley, and in the lower Ordovician rocks of the John-
ston-Wild Flower Canyon Pass section. Results from this work
have been considerable though the season was unfavorable because
of forest fires, whose smoke hindered photographic work, and fre-
quent snow falls that interfered with field investigations.

Dr. Charles E. Resser and Dr. E. O. Ulrich were members of the
Smithsonian-Princeton expedition to Europe during the summer of
1925 to study important outcrops of the lower Paleozoic beds. The
route included more than 7,500 miles by automobile through Eng-
land, Wales, Scotland, the Scandinavian countries, Germany, Czecho-
slovakia, Austria, Switzerland, and France. As a result of this
work many important fossils were secured and arrangements were
perfected for valuable exchanges.

During August and a part of September, 1925, Dr. R. S. Bassler,
in cooperation with the Tennessee Geological Survey, continued his
geological studies in the central basin and highland rim areas of
Tennessee. His work this season covered stratigraphic surveys of
approximately 250 square miles divided among four areas. Mr. B.
R. Pohl was occupied for several weeks in 1925 in critical studies
of the Devonian formations in the State of New York. This work
was continued in May and June, 1926, in western New York and
in Ontario with resultant information that enables a more correct
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 45

idea to be formed as to the proper stratigraphic horizons for many
series of fossils whose previous position had been unsatisfactorily
known.

Under an allotment from the Marsh fund of the National Academy
of Sciences, Mr. Charles W. Gilmore visited the Grand Canyon in
Arizona and in cooperation with the National Park Service con-
tinued work on beds containing fossil footprints. As an outcome
of this season’s investigation there are now known three distinct
series of these tracks that serve to indicate the animal life of the
Permian world. ‘The beds in which the tracks are found are espe-
cially notable for the graphic picture that they give, through their
exposure in the canyon walls, of the enormous reach of time during
which vertebrated animals have had their evolution.

Dr. James W. Gidley, under the auspices of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, continued work in the vicinity of Melbourne, Fla.,
in investigating evidence as to early man in Florida and in study of
the Pleistocene deposits in that region. In October, 1925, Doctor
Gidley was detailed to examine a spring deposit in southwestern
Oklahoma, where he secured a number of specimens of ethnological
and geological umportance.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

Minor repairs to the various buildings housing the Museum have
kept them in good condition during the year.

It was necessary to replace a space of worn-out concrete roadway,
slightly more than 87 feet in length, leading from B Street to the
east entrance to permit the entry of trucks with coal and other
supplies. Other repair work on the Natural History Building con-
sisted of the usual painting required on window frames, repairs to
the concrete water table, and pointing of joints in the stone steps at
the south entrance.

In the Arts and Industries Building the wooden floor on the south
end of the gallery of the south hall was replaced by terrazzo, a great
improvement that lessens fire risk. Much paint and repair work
was required for the exterior of the building. In the Smith-
sonian Building the public portion of the disbursing office was
remodeled to give greater security during the handling of funds
on pay days.

Minor repairs were required in the Freer Gallery and the aircraft
building.

In the heating plant the consumption of coal amounted to 3,465
tons, the excess over last year being due to the longer period of
continuance of cold weather. Considerable repairs were made to the
plant and more will be required annually since it has now been in
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

operation for 17 years. The boilers were inspected by the Steamboat
Inspection Service of the United States and found to be in good
condition. The elevators have been regularly inspected by the build-
ino inspector of the District of Columbia and certain additional
safeguards installed to protect passengers as fully as possible. The
total electric current produced amounted to 493,295 kilowatt-hours,
manufactured at a cost of 2.82 cents per kilowatt including labor,
material, interest, and depreciation on the plant.

The ice plant produced 344.1 tons of ice at a cost of $3.51 per ton.
The increased cost is due to a new compressor installed during the
year and some other changes in the plant that will lead to increased
efficiency and will reduce the expense of operation for succeeding
periods.

In the shops there were made during the year 11 exhibition cases
and 117 storage cases and other pieces of laboratory furniture. In
addition, 40 pieces of storage, laboratory, and office furniture were
acquired by purchase.

MEETINGS AND RECEPTIONS

The lecture rooms and auditorium of the National Museum were
used for 110 meetings covering a wide range of activities.

Governmental agencies using the lecture and meeting rooms in-
cluded the United States Tariff Commission for an exhibition of
motion pictures depicting methods employed in shipping living
birds, the Extension Service of the United States Department of
Agriculture for an exhibition of motion pictures, and the Federal
Horticultural Board for various hearings, particularly with regard
to quarantine regulations for certain bulbs. Members of the Forest
Service held a series of meetings during the year dealing with various
phases of their work.

Scientific societies that met regularly in the meeting room included
the Entomological Society of Washington, the Society for Philo-
sophical Inquiry, the Anthropological Society of Washington, and
the American Horticultural Society. Meetings were held also by the
National Parks Association, the Federation of Music Clubs of the
District of Columbia, the Vivarium Society, the Wild Flower Preser-
vation Society, the Audubon Society of the District of Columbia,
the Art and Archaeology League of Washington, the Washington
Society of Engineers, the National Soy-bean Growers’ Association,
and by the Biological Society in cooperation with the Audubon
Society.

The School of Foreign Service of Georgetown University conducted
a series of 15 lectures on the American Constitution and ideals as
compared with the Communist ideals manifested in Bolshevism.
The second national spelling bee, organized by the Courier-Journal,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 47

of Louisville, Ky., held June 17, was won by Miss Pauline Bell, of
Clarkson, Ky.

The second Industrial Conference of Women under the auspices
of the United States Department of Labor, held from January 18
to 21, included at its initial session on January 18, the reading of
a letter from President Coolidge and addresses by Hon. James J.
Davis, Secretary of Labor; Mrs. John Jacob Rogers, Member of
Congress from Massachusetts; and Mrs. Julius Kahn, Member of
Congress from California.

An illustrated address on the collections in the National Gallery
of Art was delivered by Dr. Gertrude R. Brigham on December 5.
On January 25 under the auspices of the Twentieth Century Club
there was an illustrated lecture on the National Gallery of Art by
Mrs. Porter R. Chandler.

Educational and other organizations holding meetings in the build-
ing included the Associate Alumnae of Vassar College, the depart-
ment of superintendents of the National Educational Association,
the Smithsonian Relief Association, the National League of Girls
Clubs, the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, Federal
Post No. 824, the Girl Scouts, the Nature Study Corps of the public
schools of the District of Columbia, a class in bird study from George
Washington University, and a class in parasitology from Howard
University.

On October 21 Dr. AleS Hrdlicka gave to the staff an account of
his studies of ancient man during his journey in southern Asia,
Australia, and Africa. There were also several exhibits of pictures
and talks for members of the staff, including one by Mr. Rollin R.
Winslow, United States Consul at Surabaya, Java.

On November 5 there was a iecture by M. Georges Plasse on
the making of aquatints in color, illustrated by motion pictures
taken in the studio of the speaker in Paris.

On February 20, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution,
M. Henri Correvon of Geneva, Switzerland, gave an address on
Alpine plants and their use in rock gardens.

On June 4 Dr. Johannes Schmidt, Director of the Physiological
Division, Carlsberg Laboratorium, Copenhagen, Denmark, delivered
an illustrated address on Danish Oceanographic Expeditions—Kel
Investigations, before a meeting held under the auspices of the
Carnegie Institution of Washington, the Washington Academy of
Sciences, the Biological Society of Washington, and the Smithsonian
Institution.

EXHIBIT AT THE SESQUICENTENNIAL

Considerable time was devoted during the year by members of
the Museum staff to the preparation of material to form part of the
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Smithsonian exhibit at the Sesquicentennial Exposition in Philadel-
phia. The anthropological exhibits include miniature models of
Indian village groups, life-size models of Indian potters, silver-
smiths, and weavers at work, and a series to illustrate the evolution
of the lamp, cup, knife, fork, spoon, hammer, saw, drill, and ax.
The chief exhibit in biology is a mounted group of the Bighorn, or
Rocky Mountain sheep. Geology is represented by a series illustrat-
ing the weathering of rock to form soil, a collection of gems and
precious stones found in America with the minerals in which they
occur, and a number of interesting fossil forms including fossil fish,
turtles, plants, and algae. The Museum’s historical exhibit com-
prises a series of arms, insignia, uniforms, and medals, and models
of Columbus’ ships, of the Mayflower, and of the Constitution.
Mechanical technology is represented by an extensive exhibit illus-
trating the development of the steam engine and of the steamboat.
In graphic arts are shown examples illustrating the progress in
photography from the days of the daguerreotype to the present, and
other forms of graphic expression. The entire Smithsonian ex-
hibit was prepared and installed in Philadelphia under the direction
of Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, administrative assistant to the Secretary.

MISCELLANEOUS

Visitors to the buildings under the National Museum show a
steady annual increase, in the present year registering a total of
1,106,305. The attendance in the several buildings was recorded as
follows: Smithsonian, 110,975; Arts and Industries, 355,762; Natural
History, 581,563; Aircraft, 58,005. The average daily attendance,
including Sunday, was approximately 2,500. The exhibition halls
were closed on Christmas Day and New Year’s.

The Museum published 8 volumes and 49 separate papers during
the year, while its distribution of literature amounted to 96,804 copies
of its books and pamphlets.

Additions to the Museum library have included 1,660 volumes and
1,466 pamphlets, obtained mainly by exchange or donation. In the
considerable progress made in library matters during the year, men-
tion may be made of binding and of the checking of sets of periodi-
cals and of the attempt to fill existing gaps in these series.

Dr. Casey A. Wood, well known as an ornithologist, was given
honorary appointment as collaborator in the division of birds on
January 9, 1926. Doctor Wood has shown deep interest in the col-
iections of that division for a number of years.

Dr. H. H. Bartlett, director of the botanical garden of the Uni-
versity of Michigan, who will collect specimens in Formosa and
Sumatra on behalf of the National Museum and the University of

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 49

Michigan, was appointed collaborator in the division of plants for
two years beginning March 17, 1926. Dr. William H. Longley, of
Goucher College, who is working in cooperation with the Museum,
was made collaborator in the division of marine invertebrates on
March 20, 1926. The honorary appointment of Dr. George Grant
MacCurdy as collaborator in the department of anthropology was
extended for one year beginning February 14, 1926.

Earl D. Reid was promoted from clerk to aid in the division of
fishes on August 1, 1926. Miss Isabel L. Towner was appointed
assistant librarian of the Museum in January, 1926, succeeding the
late Mr. N. P. Scudder, in charge of the Museum hbrary. Miss
Hortense Hoad, aid in the division of history, resigned on January
31, 1926. Mr. Paul G. Van Natta left the service by resignation on
May 6, 1926. It may be noted that turnover in the watch force has
become so great that in the last year the 61 positions of guard were
held by 80 persons.

Dr. Brayton H. Ransom, assistant custodian of the helminthologi-
eal collections of the Museum since January 5, 1905, died September
17, 1925, after a brief illness. Other deaths among members of the
Museum force were those of Mr. J. H. Williams, laborer, on Septem-
ber 4, 1925; Mr. Henry Gibson, laborer, November 21; Mr. Sylvester
W. Baldwin, laborer, December 24; Mr. John E. Johnson, watchman,
March 26, 1926; and Mr. Marston R. Carey, mail carrier, April 1.

Respectfully submitted.

ALEXANDER WETMORE,
Assistant Secretary.
Dr. CHartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 2
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the affairs
of the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1926.

In the annual report of the director of the gallery for the fiscal
year 1924-25 a list of the personnel of the staff was given, and the
nature of their activities was briefly indicated. No noteworthy
changes have been made during the present year. Reference was
made to a decided falling-off in the acquirement of art works in
recent years, a result attributed to the lack of available space for
the accommodation of additions save of the most limited kind.
The dire need of a gallery building was there explained, and the
sketch plans for such a building, prepared under the direction of
the Regents of the Institution, by Mr. Charles A. Platt, architect
of the Freer Gallery, were discussed in some detail. The estimated
cost of the structure, which when completed, would be worthy of
a people who aspire to bring together in Washington a representa-
tive collection of the art treasures of the world, is $8,000,000,
although there appears no reason why this large expenditure, if
approved by Congress, should not extend over a number of years.
Such a building would not only make additions by gift and bequest
possible, but would permit the assemblage, in association with the
paintings and sculptures, of the collections of graphic arts, ceramics,
textiles, etc., now installed for lack of gallery space, in several sepa-
rate branches of the Museum. It would accommodate the National
Portrait Gallery and the extensive collections of American history
which now occupy nearly 80,000 feet of floor space belonging to and
much needed by the natural sciences.

THE GALLERY COMMISSION

The fifth annual meeting of the National Gallery Commission was
held in the Regents’ room of the Smithsonian Institution, December
8, 1925. The members present were: Gari Melchers, chairman; W.
H. Holmes, secretary; Herbert Adams, Joseph H. Gest, John E.
Lodge, Charles L. Moore, James E. Parmelee, Edward W. Redfield,
Edmund C. Tarbell, and C. D. Walcott. The varied activities of the
gallery were considered, and attention was given to the accessions for
the year, to the Ranger fund purchases and their disposition, to the

50

ee

ee ee eee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 51

problems of the proposed national portrait gallery, and to the pro-
cedure to be adopted in considering acceptance of gifts and bequests
of art works. After discussion of the latter topic the following
resolution was adopted :

Resolved, That the advisory committee of the National Gallery of Art
Commission shall consist of the full membership of the commission; that in
carrying out the functions of the advisory committee a quorum shall consist of
seven members, four of whom shall be artists or museum directors.

The commission considered at some length the agencies now
enlisted in the promotion of the prospective gallery building, with-
out developing any plan of procedure. The activities of the Ameri-
can Federation of Arts and the Federation of Women’s Clubs in
appealing to the American people for support of the gallery build-
ing project were brought to the attention of the commission and
encouragement was found in the assurance that appreciation of art
is growing rapidly in all sections of the country.

The expiration of the terms as members of the commission of
W. K. Bixby, W. H. Holmes, and Herbert L. Pratt was announced.
The secretary was directed to cast the ballot of the commission
recommending to the Board of Regents the reappointment of these
members for the ensuing term of four years. It was stated that Mr.
A. Kingsley Porter, elected to the commission in 1921, had thus far
not attended any meeting of the commission and that, in accordance
with section 3 of Article V of the plan of organization of the com-
mission, his membership -automatically terminated, December 8,
1925. To fill the vacancy thus created, the commission passed a
resolution recommending to the Board of Regents, the appointment
of Mr. John Russell Pope, architect. The appointment was declined
by Mr. Pope in a letter dated January 5, 1926.

The Regents’ plan provides for the election of officers and members
of committees at the annual meeting, and the secretary of the com-
mission was directed to cast the ballot of the commission for the
reelection of the present incumbents.

At 12 o’clock the commission adjourned and at 2 o’clock met in the
National Gallery as the advisory committee to consider the offerings
of art works for the year. The Libyan Sibyl, a statue in Carrara
marble, heroic in size, by William Wetmore Story, and a marine
painting, The Sea, by Edward Moran, were accepted by the com-
mittee as additions to the National Gallery collections.

CATALOGUE

Early in the year a second and enlarged edition of the catalogue
of the gallery collections was submitted to the Public Printer. Page
proofs were read in November and the volume appeared in May.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

It contains 118 pages and 104 plates. The permanent accessions
number 98 and the artists represented 228.

MRS. HENDERSON’S OFFER

_ Decided impetus has been given recently to the gallery’s building
project by the very generous offer to Congress by Mrs. John B.
Henderson of a valuable tract of land containing between 4 and 5
acres, on Meridian Hill, facing Sixteenth Street, as a gallery build-
ing site.

ACTIVITIES OF THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF ARTS AND THE FEDERATION
OF WOMEN’S CLUBS

The American Federation of Arts and the Federation of Women’s
Clubs continued their work on behalf of the gallery, furthering its
interests with propaganda and lectures, with the use of lantern slides
and photographic prints.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS HELD IN THE GALLERY

Loan exhibition of early American portraits, miniatures, and
silver.—The loan exhibition season was opened by a noteworthy
display of early American art treasures comprising portrait paint-
ings, miniatures, and silver, on view from December 5, 1925, to
January 31, 1926. The exhibition, which was drawn from all avail-
able sources, was conceived and assembled by the Washington loan
exhibition committee, the members of which are as follows:

Mrs. William C. Eustis, chairman.
Mr. Frederick H. Brooke, vice chairman.
Mrs. Porter R. Chandler, secretary.
Mr. James Parmelee, treasurer.
Mrs. William Penn Cresson.

Mr. Frederic A. Delano.

Mrs. Peter Goelet Gerry.

Dr. William H. Holmes.

Mrs. McCook Knox.

Miss Leila Mechlin.

Mr. C. Powell Minnigerode.

Mr. Dunean Phillips.

Mrs. Duncan Phillips.

Mrs. Coreoran Thom.

The very excellent illustrated catalogue of the exhibit was prepared
by Miss Leila Mechlin and is introduced by a short historical sketch
of the National Gallery.

The portrait exhibit, representing nearly every portrait painter
of distinction previous to the year 1840, was organized and assembled

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 53

at the cost of much exacting effort on the part of the subcommittee
on portraits, the membership of which follows:

Miss Leila Mechlin, chairman.

Mrs. Porter R. Chandler, vice chairman.

Mrs. William Penn Cresson.

Mrs. W. M. Grinnell.

Mrs. McCook Knox.

Miss Sarah R. Lee.

Mr. Lynch Luquer.

Mrs. David A. Reed.

The portraits, 103 in number, were shown to excellent advantage,
occupying the walls of the central rooms of the gallery, and sur-
rounding the exhibits of silver and miniatures, which occupied
the floor spaces. A four-page résumé of the portrait art of America
is given, with brief mention of the masters, and much valuable bio-
graphical data regarding the painters is given in the catalogue.

The collection of miniatures was of surpassing interest and was in
charge of the subcommittee on miniatures, the membership of which
is as follows:

Miss Helen Amory Ernst, chairman.

Miss Hlizabeth Allen White.

Mrs. John Hill Morgan.

Mrs. Minnigerode Andrews.

Mrs. Rose Gouverneur Hoes.

Mrs. Henry Leonard.

Mrs. Orme Wilson, jr.

Mrs. William Cabell Bruce.

Miss Lilian Giffen.

Mrs. J. Madison Taylor.

Mrs. William FE. Wharton.

The installation, a most exacting task, was made by Miss Ernst,
and was unusually attractive and of very wide interest. The cata-
logue of 208 numbers was introduced by a few interesting para-
graphs on early American miniatures, by Mr, Albert Rosenthal.

The collection of silver was shown to excellent advantage in six
large gem cases in the central room of the gallery. Maj. Gist Blair,
chairman of the subcommittee, being unable to take part in the instal-
lation, the work was taken up by Mrs. John Henry Gibbons, aided by
other members of the committee, which was constituted as follows:

Maj. Gist Blair, chairman.

Mrs. John Henry Gibbons.

Mrs. Breckinridge Long.

Mr. Hollis French.

Mrs. Miles White, jr.

Mr. Luke Vincent Lockwood.

Mr. R. T. H. Halsey.

20837-—27——5
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

The collection, numbering 255 examples of the art of early Ameri-
can silversmiths, was generally regarded as one of the most interest-
ing and valuable ever brought together. The catalogue was intro-
duced by a four-page story of the development of the art by Miss
Elizabeth B. Benton.

The Dykaar exhibition —An exhibition of portrait busts in marble
and bronze, with certain other pieces, by Moses Wainer Dykaar was
installed in the middle room of the gallery March 5 to March 20.
The exhibit made a very favorable impression and included the fol-
lowing subjects.

Calvin Coolidge. Carolyn Harding Votaw
Mrs. Calvin Coolidge. Dr. Charles D. Walcott
Warren Gamaliel Harding. Rabbi Stephen 8. Wise
Dr. Alexander Graham Bell. A Young Teacher.
Abraham Cahan. The Modern Woman.
Eugene V. Debs. Nude Girl: Primavera
Samuel Gompers. Once Upon a Time.
Hudson Maxim. Satyriec Mask.

Gen. George Owen Squier. An American Student.
Justice Wendell P. Stafford. W. H. Holmes.

A bust in marble of Abraham Cahan, well-known author and
editor, and one of W. H. Holmes, director of the gallery, were pre-
sented to the Smithsonian Institution by the sculptor.

The Italian exhibit of paintings, sculpture, etc.—The third exhibit
of the season was an important assemblage of modern Italian art,
collected and exhibited under the patronage of His Majesty the
King of Italy. It was assembled on the invitation of the Italy-
America Society of New York City by the Italian Minister of Public
instruction, the works being chosen largely under the personal super-
vision of Arduino Colasanti, director general of fine arts, Italy.
The collection, installed under the competent direction of Dr. Lauro
de Bosis, occupied the entire central series of rooms and connecting
spaces in the gallery, with a running wall space of 430 feet. This
display attracted more than ordinary attention. The excellent cata-
logue was prepared by the Italy-America Society and comprises 24
pages of text and 34 plates representing selections from the 290
items of the exhibit. The exhibit was opened to the public on the
afternoon of March 25, with a reception given by the Secretary and
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and was closed on April 24,
1926. An especially noteworthy feature of the catalogue is the four-
page “ Foreword” by Christian Brinton. His admirable character-
ization of the exhibit follows:

The aim of the present exhibition is to offer a balanced and comprehensive
picture of current Italian artistic activity. The picture opens with the work

of the great protagonists, Boldini, Mancini, and Medardo Rosso, and closes
with a courageous presentation of Futurist painting and decorative art. Every

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 55

movement of consequence finds place on these walls, with special emphasis
upon the work of certain painters and sculptors who have risen to prominence
as the result of postwar influences. You will hence be able to adjudge the
merits of what may be termed the living art of Italy. You will be able to
trace in line, color, and form the artistic physiognomy of a country recently
fired to new effort yet ever mindful of its heroic heritage.

Very appropriately the frontispiece of the catalogue is a three-
quarter photographic portrait of Vittorio Emanuele, King of Italy.

THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

Since the paintings purchased during the year by the council of
the National Academy of Design from the fund provided by the
Henry Ward Ranger bequest are, under certain conditions, pros-
pective additions to the gallery collections, the list, including the
names of the institutions to which they have been assigned, may be
given in this place.

Since it is a provision of the Ranger bequest that paintings purchased
from the fund and assigned to favored American art institutions
may be reclaimed by the National Gallery during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, it is
appropriate that the death of Ben Foster, N. A., which occurred on
January 28, 1926, should be noted.

Title Artist igs Assignment
52. The Enchanted Pool---_. William Ritschel, N. A_..| Mar. 28,1926 | The Minneapolis Society of
Fine Arts, Minneapolis,
Minn.

53. From a Window-.-----_-- Carl W)- we eversso eee Pans Moe 2. eee Witte Memorial Museum, San

| Antonio, Tex.

DABHSpring esse le de, ere H. Bolton Jones, N. Ateis| et do___._..| Mills College, Oakland, Calif.

DOs Passi eo ys Mee te E. Martin Hennings____-_- |-----do.......| Museum of Fine Arts of Hous-

ton, Tex.

56 Southaven Mill_-___-___- W.Granville-Smith, N. A-|____- docwatecs Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo,

Ohio.
57. Circe and Anatol_____-_- Robert Reid N.. Ales. . 225/228) Gosh aie The Akron Institute, Akron,
Obio.

58. Clifis of the Upper Colo- | Thomas Moran, N. A____|__-_--_-.-____- Louisville Free Publie Li-
rado River, Wyoming brary, Louisville, Ky.
Territory.

59. Days of Sunshine_______- WotlliamnVendt. Awe Asoo 2 soul oo Malden Public Library, Mal-

den, Mass.

The paintings purchased from the Ranger fund during the past
fiscal year and unassigned at its close (1924-25) have subsequently
been assigned as follows:

45. The Wood-Cart, by Louis Paul Dessar, N. A.; to the museum of the school
of fine arts of Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

46, A Reading, by Thomas W. Dewing, N. A.; to the Cincinnati Museum
Association, Cincinnati, Ohio,
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

47. Dawn, by Dwight W. Tryon, N. A.; to the Carnegie Institution, Pittsburgh,
Pa.

48. The Prodigal Son, by Horatio N. Walker, N. A.; to the Buffalo Fine Arts
Academy, Albright Art Gallery, Buffalo, N. Y.

49. Storm Birds, by Armin Hansen; to the Norfolk Society of Arts, Norfolk,

Va.
50. Helen, by Jerry Farnsworth; to the Isaac Delgado Museum of Art, New

Orleans, La.
51. Across the Valley, by Hobart Nichols, N. A,; the Des Moines Association
of Fine Arts, Des Moines, Iowa.

ART WORKS ADDED DURING THE YEAR

Accessions of art works by the Smithsonian Institution, subject
to transfer to the National Gallery on approval of the advisory com-
mittee of the Gallery Commission, are as follows:

Ten paintings, to be known as the George Buchanan Coale collec-
tion, 1819-1887:

Portrait of Thomas Hopkinson (1709-1751), attributed to Robert Feke.

Portrait of Mary Hopkinson (wife of Dr. John Morgan), by Benjamin

West, 1764.
Portrait of Thomas McKean, Signer from Delaware, by Charles Willson

Peale.

Portrait of Abigail Willing Coale (Philadeiphia, 1809), by Thomas Sully.

Portrait of Jan Uytenbogaert, by Jan Van Nes (or Nees (1685) ).

Self Portrait, by Thomas Vivien (1657-1735).

The Vintage, by A. R. Veron (1858).

The Continentals, by Frank B. Mayer (1875).

Sheep, by Balthasar Pauwel Ommeganck, Antwerp (1755-1826).

Flora, attributed to Beechy or Verbruggen.

Presented by Mrs. Mary Buchanan Redwood (Mrs. Francis T.
Redwood), of Baltimore, Md.

Portrait of Rear Admiral Robley D. Evans, United States Navy,
by August Franzen, N. A.; presented by Horatio S. Rubens, New
York City.

Two portrait busts in marble by Moses W. Dykaar: Abraham
Cahan, author and editor; and William H. Holmes, scientist and
art director; presented by the sculptor.

Three paintings by Edward Moran (1829-1901): Riding Out a
Gale, The Sea, and Life Saving Patrol; bequeathed to the United
States National Museum by the late Mrs. Clara L. Tuckerman.
Deposit.

LOANS ACCEPTED BY THE GALLERY

Noon, an oil painting, by Luigi Chialivi; lent by Mrs. Marietta
Minnigerode Andrews, of Washington, D.C. Withdrawn before the
close of the year.

Portraits of Dr. William Shippen, jr., and of Thomas Lee Shippen,
by Gilbert Stuart; lent by Dr. L. P. Shippen, of Washington, D. C.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 57

Six pieces of sculpture, by Moses Wainer Dykaar; lent by the
sculptor. They are as follows:

Calvin Coolidge, President of the United States.
Mrs. Calvin Coolidge.

Dr. Alexander Graham Bell.

Justice W. P. Stafford.

Dr. Charles D. Walcott.

“The Modern Woman.”

Portrait of Mrs. Sherman Flint, by Philip A. de Laszlo; lent by
Mrs. Sherman Flint, of Washington, D. C.
Sixteen examples of the works of old masters:

Portrait of a boy, Sir Henry Raeburn.
Portrait of Irish gentleman, John Hopner.
Portrait of Viscountess Hatton, Sir Peter Lely.
Portrait of a gentleman, Sir Godfrey Kneller.
Portrait of Judith von Volbergen, P. Moreelse.
Landscape (31 by 26), Richard Wilson.
Landscape (21 by 16), Gainsborough.

Small landseape (11 by 13) Gainsborough.
Landscape (12 by 21), Constable.

The Doctor’s Visit, Jan Steen.

Scene in Venice (8 by 13), Guardi.

Portrait of Sir Wm. Boothby, Sir Joshua Reynolds,
Portrait of Mrs. Price, Sir Joshua Reynolds.
Portrait of woman, Drost or Vermeer.
Turkish scene, Diaz.

Grand Canal Venice, Canaletto.

Lent by Mrs. Marshall Langhorne, of Washington, D. C.

Five paintings by Old World masters and four by American
painters:

Portrait of Admiral Vernon, Thomas Gainsborough.

The Ford, J. B. C. Corot.

Garden at Giverny, Claude Monet.

Saskia as “ Minerva,” Rembrandt Van Rijn.

Children on the Beach, T. Sorolla.

Sunset, George Inness.

Olive Trees at Corfu, John Singer Sargent.

Portrait of Mrs. Samuel Miller, John Wesley Jarvis.

Portrait of Sarah Cresson, Thomas Sully.

Lent by Mrs. Breckinridge Long, of Washington, D. C.

Portrait bust in marble of Mrs. William C. Preston, by Hiram
Powers; lent by Mr. James Quentin Davis, of Durham, N. C.,
through Mrs. Anne Davis Thorn (Mrs. J. C. Thorn), of New York
City.

Portrait of Mrs. Charles Eames, by Gambadella; lent by Mrs.
Alistair Gordon-Cumming.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Six oil paintings and a bas-relief in bronze lent by Miss Sarah
Redwood Lee, of Washington, D. C., as follows:

Madonna and Child, Francesco Bissolo.

Portrait of Mrs. Richard Eaton, Charles Willson Peale.

Spanish Interior, Juan Galves, 1598.

Holy Family, attributed to Francesco Francia.

Portrait, Man in a Red Coat, attributed to Thomas Hudson, master of Sir
Joshua Reynolds.

Portrait, Man Holding a Lily, artist unknown.

Portrait, Sarah Redwood Lee (bronze bas-relief), Augustus Saint-Gaudens.

Portrait bust in plaster of the Hon. Frederick H. Gillett, Speaker
of the House of Representatives, by Joseph Anthony Atchison; lent
by the sculptor.

LOANS BY THE GALLERY

Two paintings, The Georgian Chair, by Childe Hassam, and
Musa Regina, by Henry Oliver Walker, were lent to the American
Federation of Arts, to be sent out with paintings from other sources
on an educational circuit under the auspices of the federation.

Twelve paintings, mostly from the William T. Evans collection,
were lent to the American Federation of Arts for exhibition in Chat-
tanooga, Tenn., February 15, 1926:

June (the Rose), John W. Alexander.
At Nature’s Mirror, Ralph Albert Blakelock.
Birch Clad Hills, Ben Foster.

Portrait of Walter Shirlaw, Frank Duveneck.
An Interlude, Wm. Sergeant Kendall.
Moonrise at Ogunquit, Hobart Nichols.
Landscape, Chauncey Ryder.

November, Dwight W. Tryon.

The Cup of Death, Elihu Vedder.

Autumn at Arkville, Alexander Wyant.
Conway Hills, F. Ballard Williams.

The Island, Edward W. Redfield.

Five paintings (by members of the National Academy of Design)
were lent to the academy for its centennial exhibition held at the
Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., October 17 to November
15, 1925, and at the Grand Central Art Galleries, New York City,
December 1, 1925, to January 3, 1926. These were:

The Lesson, Hugo Ballin.

Sunset, San Giorgio, W. Gedney Bunce.

The Siren, Louis Loeb.

Illusions, Henry B. Fuller.

The Monarch of the Farm, Wm. Henry Howe.

Three paintings, portraits of Field Marshal Haig and Marshal
Joffre, by John C. Johansen, and portrait of Her Majesty Elizabeth,

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 59

Queen of the Belgians, by M. Jean McLane (Mrs. J. C. Johansen),
from the National Art Committee’s collection of war portraits, were
lent to the Corcoran Gallery of Art to form part of a joint exhibition
of the works of these artists held in that gallery during the month

of January.
DISTRIBUTIONS

Paintings lent to the gallery have been withdrawn by their owners
during the year as follows:

Portrait of Francois Paul de Grasse de Rouville, Amiral Comte
de Grasse, by Largilliere; portrait of Theodosius O. Fowler, by
G. P. A. Healy; portrait of St. Bernard dog “ Hero,” by Benjamin
West; withdrawn by Miss Silvie de Grasse Fowler.

Series of 13 historical marine paintings by Edward Moran, lent
by Theodore Sutro, of New York City, were withdrawn by the
trustees of Mr. Sutro, Frederick C. Sutro, Basking Ridge, N. J.,
Victor Sutro, New York City, and Paul E. Sutro, Philadelphia, Pa.,
for shipment to Los Angeles, Calif., as follows: The Ocean—The
Highway of All Nations; Landing of Lief Ericson; the Santa
Maria, Nina, and Pinta; the Debarkation of Columbus; Midnight
Mass on the Mississippi; Henry Hudson Entering New York Bay;
Embarkation of the Pilgrims from Southampton; First Recognition
of the American Flag; Burning of the Frigate Philadelphia; the
Brig Armstrong Engaging the British Fleet; Iron versus Wood;
the White Squadron’s Farewell Salute to the Body of Capt. John
Ericsson; Return of the Conquerors.

Noon, by Luigi Chialiva; withdrawn by Mrs. Marietta Minni-
gerode Andrews.

Mrs. Siddons in The Tragic Muse, copy by Rembrandt Peale of
Sir Joshua Reynolds’s celebrated painting, and Milton Dictating to
His Daughter, by Rembrandt Peale; withdrawn by Mrs. John Biddle
Porter.

Portrait of Franklin Pierce, by A. G. Powers; withdrawn by Mr
Joseph Stewart.

Portrait of Admiral Thomas Holding Stevens, by Robert Hinck-
ley; portrait of Mrs. Thomas Holding Stevens, by an unknown
artist; portrait of Hon. Eben Sage, by Chester Harding; A Ma-
donna, by Honario Marinari; and A Madonna, by Carlo Mahratta;
withdrawn by Mrs. Pierre C. Stevens.

LIBRARY

The gallery library is steadily growing from a modest beginning
in 1920 to upwards of 1,400 volumes and pamphlets, acquired by
gift, exchange, and purchase. Notable accessions for the year were
the gift of a large number of volumes from the library of the director,
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

and of 11 bound and 29 unbound catalogues of notable art collections,
by Dr. William Schaus.

PUBLICATIONS

Holmes, W. H. Catalogue of Collections, II, National Gallery of Art. Govern-
ment Printing Office, 1926. 8vo, pp. i-vi, 1-118, 42 plates and 38 ground
plans.

This is the second number of the catalogue series of the gallery which
is to be issued from time to time as conditions warrant. It follows in
general the form of Catalogue of Collections I, N. G. A., 1922, with additions
of works received to date of printing. It contains an introduction by
the director, giving a brief account of the development of the art interests
of the Institution and an outline of the organization of the gallery. This
is followed by a list of the art works acquired previous to November,
1925, with brief biographies of the artists.

Report on the National Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30,
1925. Appendix 2, Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ending June 30, 1925, pp. 48-56.

Catalogue of an exhibition of early American paintings, miniatures, and silver,
assembled by the Washington Loan Exhibition Committee, December 5, 1925-
January 31, 1926, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. Washington,
1925, pp. 1-107, plates 15, with introductions on early American portraits by
Miss Leila Mechlin, Washington; early American miniatures by Mr. Albert
Rosenthal, Philadelphia; and early American silver by Miss Elizabeth B.
Benton, Boston.

Catalogue of a collection of busts of prominent personages in marble and
bronze by Moses W. Dykaar, exhibited in the central room of the National
Gallery, Natural History Building, United States National Museum, March
5 to 20, 1926. Washington, D. C., 1926, pp. 1-4.

Catalogue: Exhibition of modern Italian art under the patronage of His
Majesty the King of Italy, organized by the Italian Ministry of Public
Instruction. Introduction by Arduino Colasanti, director general of fine
arts, Italy; foreword by Christian Brinton. Auspices of the Italy-America
Society, Grand Central Art Galleries, New York, 1926. New York, 1926,
24 pp.; 34 illustrations.

Respectfully submitted.
W. H. Hoitmns, Director.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX 3
REPORT ON THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sir: I have the honor to submit the sixth annual report on the
Freer Gallery of Art for the year ending June 30, 1926:

THE COLLECTION

The work continued during the year in the preservation of the
collection includes the work upon 10 American oil paintings and
the work of reconditioning the ceiling of the Peacock Room. Half
of the latter work has been successfully completed at the date of
this report. In the oriental section 2 Chinese panels, 3 Japanese
screens, and 1 Chinese scroll have been remounted and restored.

Work within the collection has included the study of a consid-
erable number of Japanese paintings, involving their proper classi-
fication and the translations of signatures, seals, and inscriptions
found upon them. All this matter has been recorded in the folder
sheets. Every object in the collection is represented by such a
dossier, and the work of compilation goes forward from year to year.
The collection of Near Eastern pottery has also undergone an inten-
sive study and considerable revision.

Changes in exhibition during the year involved 9 Japanese screens,
7 Chinese panels, 2 Chinese scrolls, and 10 Persian potteries.

An addition to the collection of Chinese paintings is as follows:
26.1. Dllustration to a Buddhist siitra: The Buddha addressing Yamaraja at

KuSinagara. Ink, color and gold on paper. Sung Dynasty.

Additions to the library by gift and purchase include 500 volumes,
of which 462 are in the Chinese and Japanese languages, 72 periodi-
cals, and 142 pamphlets. A list of these accompanies this report as
Appendix A (not printed).

The work of photographing objects for registration continues. In
the meantime an increasing demand for photographs of objects in
the collection has caused a rapid development of that part of the
work. Five hundred and eighteen subjects are now available for pur-
chase in sizes 5 by 7, 8 by 10, or 11 by 14, at cost price; 5 subjects
are issued in post-card form to be sold at 10 cents each. During
the past year 1,467 photographs, 28 lantern slides, and 115 post cards
have been sold. Of the publications issued by the gallery, there have
been sold during the year 698 copies of the descriptive pamphlet,

20837—-27——6 61
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

391 copies of gallery books, 449 copies of the Synopsis of History,
and 3 floor plans of the building.

During the past year 76 objects have been submitted for examina-
tion and identification, and several Chinese and Japanese texts have
been submitted for translation.

Repairs to the building during the year include work on the roof,
the repointing of stonework at the entrance, the resetting of a stone
architrave, and many minor repairs. A full report of shopwork
accompanies this report as Appendix C (not printed).

ATTENDANCE

The gallery has been open every day, with the exception of
Mondays, Christmas Day, and New Year’s Day, from 9 until 4.30.
The total attendance for the year was 108,310. The aggregate
Sunday attendance was 30,372, making an average of 584; the week-
day attendance amounted to 77,938, with an average of 249. Of
these visitors, 342 came to the study rooms to see objects not on
exhibition or to consult books in the library, 15 to make copies or
photographs, 52 to examine the building or equipment, 32 to submit
objects for information concerning them, 33 for general informa-
tion, and 261 to examine photographs. Six groups varying in num-
ber from 20 to 148 made appointments for special study or instruc-
tion regarding the collections.

PERSON NEL

Miss Katharine N. Rhoades, associate, was granted leave of ab-
sence for a year, dating from October, 1925.

Mr. Herbert E. Thompson, Boston, worked on the preservation
of oil paintings and the Peacock Room.

Mr. Y. Kinoshita of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, worked
at the gallery during the winter months on the preservation of
oriental paintings.

Mr. A. G. Wenley, field assistant, returned to the gallery in the
spring of 1926 for a four months’ stay before resuming field work.

FIELD WORK

Owing to disturbed conditions in China, archeological work in
the field has been practically impossible. A detailed account of the
activities of the field staff is contained in Appendix B submitted
herewith (not printed).

Respectfully submitted.

J. E. Lover, Curator.
Dr. CuartEes D. Watcort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,

APPENDIX 4
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the
researches, office work, and other activities of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1926, conducted
in accordance with the act of Congress approved April 22, 1925.
The act referred to contains the following item:

American ethnology: For continuing ethnological researches among the
American Indians and the natives of Hawaii, including the excavation and
preservation of archeologic remains, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, including the necessary employees and the purchase of necessary
books and periodicals, $57,160.

In pursuance of the requirements for the excavation and preserva-
tion of ruins contained in the above item, considerable work has
been done in the region near Flagstaff, Ariz. Arizona shows many
evidences of a prehistoric aboriginal population and is a State par-
ticularly favorable to the study of prehistoric ruins. Thus far very
few ruins have been excavated in northern Arizona and very scanty
material has been obtained for a study of the objects illustrating the
former culture of this region.

Research in this line was inaugurated by the bureau in 1907 at
Casa Grande and has been continued in successive years at the Mesa
Verde National Park, Colo. Formerly walls of ruins were destroyed
in the search for small specimens, such as pottery, and thus work of
great archeological value was lost. The method adopted by some
institutions of burying the walls after objects have been extract-d
from the rooms, while intended as a means of preservation, is not
satisfactory. The Bureau of American Ethnology, however, when
the walls are not so mutilated that they can not be repaired, has
endeavored to preserve them for future students.

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

The chief of the bureau has headed an expedition to determine
the western extension of the pueblo area in Arizona, where com-
paratively little attention had been given to the character of the
sedentary life of the Indians in prehistoric times. This includes the
region west of the Little Colorado River which is archeologically a
terra incognita. The site chosen by the chief to be excavated is

63
64 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

situated about 6 miles from Flagstaff on the National Old Trails
Highway. The work was begun on May 27 and was unfinished at
the close of the fiscal year.

As a result of this excavation there has emerged from the ground
near Elden Mountain a rectangular building measuring 145 by 125
feet, containing nearly 40 rooms and a large kiva, from a study of
which a good idea can be obtained of the aboriginal architecture of
this neighborhood. The building was a compact community house
in places two stories high, whose upper walls, judging from the
amount of stones found in the rooms, were formerly 4 or 5
feet higher than at present. No walls were visible when the work
began, but since the earth has been removed, they rise to a height
of 4 to 10 feet.

The rooms are comparatively large and compactly united without
any visible outside entrances, being formerly entered by ladders
and a hatchway in the roof. No windows or lateral doorways
are visible in the walls now standing. In order to protect this large
building from the elements its walls have been repaired where neces-
sary and their tops covered with Portland cement to prevent erosion.

The most striking result of the work has been the accumulation
of a large collection of characteristic pottery from the two ceme-
teries which were discovered a short distance from the northern and
eastern walls and which extended over a considerable area, but never
very distant from the pueblo itself. A number of skeletons were
found, some of which were nearly perfect, others more or less
fragmentary. Several of these skeletons have been brought back
for the study of specialists. They appear to have artificially de-
formed skulls. There was no common orientation, although a
majority were interred with heads to the east.

The distinction of the kinds of pottery would naturally be re-
served for a more complete report which will appear later. As a
rule, however, the number of varieties was rather limited and there
were very few intrusions from outside, all of which goes to show
the ancient character of the ruin and the isolation of its people from
others in the Southwest. The typical specimens of pottery may be
grouped under a few characteristic types. Perhaps the most abun-
dant is colored dull red on the exterior with glossy black interior.
The exterior surface is corrugated or smooth. From its abundance
this type may be known as the Flagstaff ware. It is never deco-
rated with painted designs. A more striking type is white with
black decorations, mainly geometrical figures, which is widely dis-
tributed in Arizona. There occur also a few specimens of red ware
with black interiors, which bear indubitable evidence of having
been derived from the settlements on the banks of the Little Colo-
rado or near Tuba City.

a
ee Ee

Fn PR RTE
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 65

The forms of the Elden Pueblo pottery are food bowls, ladles,
dippers, vases, mugs, and ollas. Several very characteristic pieces
of the black and white ware are effigy forms. There occur remark-
able bracelets made of clamshell (Pectunculus), with incised orna-
mentation, from the Pacific coast, and there are ornamented bone
objects which may be mentioned among the rare specimens. Tur-
quoise beads and shells, which when strung formed strands of a
necklace several feet in length, were sifted out of the soil found
near the necks of skeletons. There were undoubted examples of
shells set with turquoise mosaics, but they were more or less dam-
aged by long presence in the ground. Stone implements were ex-
cavated more commonly in the rooms of the building, and there
were several different forms of paint grinders, which enrich the col-
lection. There is nowhere a larger or better collection from Ari-
zona than that excavated from Elden Pueblo.

One of the most significant discoveries at Elden Pueblo was a
room called the kiva or ceremonial chamber about midway in the
length of the ruin on its east side. The kiva has thus far not been
described from the Flagstaff area and its existence has been denied
in the ruins of this area.

The kiva of Elden Pueblo is very large and rectangular in form
with round corners. It is partly subterranean and has a banquette
extending wholly around the wall of the room, but no pilasters;
it also has a ventilator opening externally in the east wall, peculiari-
ties which occur in the ruins at Marsh Pass and elsewhere in northern
Arizona. It thus appears that the legend of the modern Hopi that
certain of the Hopi clans formerly lived on the San Juan and its
tributaries is not fanciful, but that what they recount of the southern
migration of these clans before they settled on their present mesas
is supported by archeological evidences in architecture as well as
ceramics.

Several Hopi visitors retold their legends, published by the chief
many years ago, that the ruins under Mount Elden were settlements
of the Hopi in their ancient migrations, and as far as it goes the
archeology of Elden Pueblo supports these legends which are some-
times very vague, differing somewhat in minor particulars. These
legends differ in the names of the Hopi clans that lived at Elden
Pueblo, but the Snake, Badger, and Patki are all mentioned as former
inhabitants.

The particular claim of this pueblo for popular consideration is
that it is easily accessible and not far from the city of Flagstaff.
It bids fair to be visited in the future by many tourists who now
pass through northern Arizona to visit its attractions, such as the
Grand Canyon and the great bridges, and to attend the ceremonial
survivals of the ancient religious rites of the Hopi. The number
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

of visitors to Elden Pueblo during its excavation was very large
and consisted not only of a large number of residents of Flagstaff
but also of tourists from distant States.

Before commencing the archeological work, the chief assisted by
Mr. John P. Harrington, ethnologist, cooperated with Mr. J. O.
Prescott, of the Starr Piano Co., Richmond, Ind., in the recording
of some of the Hopi songs. Through the kindness of the Office of In-
dian Affairs, four of the older Hopi were brought from Walpi to
the Grand Canyon, where 11 katcina songs were recorded. It was
particularly fitting that the records were made at the Grand Canyon,
as it holds such a prominent position in Hopi mythology.

The chief was also assisted in the archeological work by Mr. Har-
rington and by Mr. Anthony W. Wilding, stenographer. Their
assistance was invaluable and did much to make the field work a
success.

During the past year, the bureau has had in the field a larger num-
ber of investigators than in any previous year during the last decade.
Field-work has been done in various parts of our country, from
Alaska to Florida, and although the line of research has in some in-
stances been more or less limited in its nature, the total results have
brought into the office much new data regarding the Indian life and
a larger number of specimens illustrative of it than has resulted
from field-work in comparatively recent years.

It is recognized by the chief that the time that can be devoted to
rescuing data regarding the life and habits of the American Indians
is more or less restricted; that is, Indian culture is rapidly fading
away and is doomed in a short time to utter extinction. While this
is true of ethnological data it is not necessarily true of archeologi-
cal material. In fact the antiquities of our country belonging to the
past of the Indian are yearly attracting more and more attention,
and in order to keep pace with this interest the bureau has chosen to
represent it in the field a considerable proportion of archeological
problems.

At the beginning of the fiscal year, Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnolo-
gist, took up anew the work of transliterating, amending, and trans-
lating the Chippewa text of The Myth of the Daymaker, by Mr.
George Gabaoosa, and also that of an Ottawa version of a portion of
the Nanabozho cycle of myths by John L. Miscogeon.

In October Mr. Hewitt began the work of reclassifying and re-
cataloguing the linguistic, historical, and other ethnological manu-
scripts in the archives of the bureau. In this work he was assisted
by Miss Mae W. Tucker. The card index consists of 2,924 items,
with approximately 6,150 cross-reference cards.

During the fiscal year Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, made
final additions to his papers on the Social Organization and Social

H
i
Fy
i
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 67

Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy, Religious Beliefs
and Medical Practices of the Creek Indians, and The Culture of the
Southeast. These papers are now going through the press. He has
also finished the scientific editing of a paper on the Trails of the
Southeast, by the late William E. Myer, which, with those just men-
tioned, is to appear in the Forty-second Annual Report.

With the help of Miss Mae W. Tucker, stenographer, Doctor
Swanton made a considerable advance in compiling a card catalogue
of the words of the Timucua language previously extracted from
missionary publications of the Spanish fathers Pareja and Movilla.

Doctor Swanton also continued his investigations bearing on the
aboriginal trail system of North America.

Dr. Truman Michelson, ethnologist, continued his researches among
the Algonquian Indians of Iowa, concentrating on the gens festivals
of the Fox Indians, especially those of the Thunder and Bear gentes.
He also revised in the field the list of Fox stems incorporated in the
Fortieth Annual Report of the bureau. In August he went to
Odanah, Wis., to gain further first-hand information on the Ojibwa
Indians and enough material was secured to show decided dialectic
differences from the western Ojibwa dialects. The social organiza-
tion of the Ojibwa is relatively simple as compared with that of the
Foxes, and the various gentes lack rituals peculiar to themselves, in
sharp contrast with Fox customs. At Baraga and L’Anse, Mich.,
Doctor Michelson located one Stockbridge (Mahican) family in the
vicinity, but unfortunately none spoke their native language. The
Ojibwa dialect, though not identical with that spoken at Odanah, is
closely allied to it. He also made a preliminary survey of the Ojibwa,
Ottawa, and Potawatomi, finding that the various languages still per-
sist and that their ethnology is better preserved than might be
expected.

Doctor Michelson returned to Washington on September 19, when
he prepared for publication by the bureau two papers on sacred
packs of the Fox Indians and their appurtenant gens festivals, one
called A'peniwané‘a‘ belonging to the Thunder gens; the other
Sdgima'kwiwa belonging to the Bear gens. Doctor Michelson
also completed typewriting the English translation and Indian text
of a Fox sacred pack belonging to the Thunder gens formerly in
possession of Pyitwiya. A fuller text than this on Pyiitwiiya’s pack,
written in the current syllabary, was restored phonetically, as was
an Indian text on the Thunder Dance of the Bear gens, a complete
version having been worked out previously, and a fuller redaction
was obtained.

Mr. J. P. Harrington, ethnologist, was engaged during the fiscal
year in the important work of rescuing what can still be learned of
the vanishing culture of the Mission Indians of California. Work
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

was continued at ruined village sites of the Santa Ines, Ojai, and
Simi Valleys and at several of these sites extensive excavations were
made revealing an earlier and later coast Indian culture. Picto-
graphs were discovered and photographed; also rocks which were
“first people” petrified, and which figure in Indian legends still
extant. Spirit footprints on the rocks, both of moccasined and bare
feet, made by these “ first people ” when the earth was still soft and
muddy, were found at several places and photographed. At San
Marcos the bowlders on a hillside represent the warriors of a mythic
battle; some are standing with the blood from wounds running down
their sides, seen as stains on the rock. A curious medicine rock was
also visited, the size of a man and standing erect and surrounded
at least at the present time by a bunch of opuntia cactus which keeps
the curious at a respectful distance. At Rincon were photographed
a couple of tall bowlders which stand six feet apart. To have good
luck in hunting, so that one would be able to jump successfully among
the rocks in the mountains, it was the custom for Indian boys to
spring from one to the other of these bowlders. They also were
called “ medicine.”

Mr. Harrington also discovered at Rincon the ruins of a medicine
house formerly used by the island wizards for secret ceremonies.
An enormous bowlder is supported on several rocks forming a nat-
ural cave, still smudged on the interior by the smoke of ancient fires.
In front of this chamber on the east is a circular corral or parapet
18 feet in diameter and rising to a height of 3 feet. From the
top of this stone wall rafters had formerly extended to the roof of
the cave chamber, and on these thatch had been placed. It is
believed by the Indians that if a person comes upon this place by
mistake, thunder, lightning, and rain will immediately result.

The construction of a Mission Indian house by one of the few
survivors who still know how to make them was next attempted
under the direction of Mr. Harrington, and an excellent series of
photographs was obtained, showing the house in all the successive
stages of building. The jacal is slightly elliptical in shape, with
the door, less than 4 feet high, at one end. Door leaves, both of
woven tules and of jarilla, were constructed. The diameter of the
structure is 13 feet, and it is only 7 feet high, with an unduly
ample smokehole at the top.

Post holes a step apart and the same distance in depth were dug
with a short bar of willow, the earth being scooped out with the
hand. ‘Tall and slender willow poles were selected with the greatest
care from a place where the growth was thick. These poles were
burnt down. Eight of them were first erected in the post holes,
forming a Greek cross. Opposite pairs of poles were then arched
and lashed together with yucca tyings. Only after the complete

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 69

framework of uprights had been constructed were the “latas” or
horizontals lashed on at intervals of a foot apart. On these a thick
thatching of deerbrush was sewed, the bottom layer being stem down
but all the higher layers tip down, the inverted leaves better shed-
ding the water. The sewing was done with yucca shreds, using a
great needle of wood called “raton” in Spanish, which is poked
through the thatch; the sewing was performed by two Indian
workers, one outside and one inside.

- An expedition to the Cafiada de las Uvas proved rich in discovery
along several different lines. At several of the sites the old hut
circles could still be traced on the surface of the ground and proved
that our recently constructed house was about normal size. The old
fireplaces in the center were also discovered.

Special attention was given by Mr. Harrington to the site of the
old rancheria of Misyahu. This place resembles a giant citadel when
viewed from down canyon. A great rocky hill was completely
covered with wigwams, 12 to even 20 feet in diameter. At the base
of the cliff a strong flowing spring bursts forth from an otherwise
dry arroyo, 75 feet below the Indian city. It was discovered that the
Misyahu cemetery has unfortunately been washed away by the
freshets of the arroyo. Choriy village was located, also Sikutip, a
mile distant. Four large springs with pictographs traced on their
rocky walls were located in the vicinity of Choriy. At Sikutip the
Indian huts were formerly clustered at the southwest border of the
clenega.

In May Mr. Harrington proceeded to Flagstaff, Ariz., where he
assisted in bringing four Hopi singers to the Grand Canyon for the
purpose of recording their songs. At Flagstaff Mr. Harrington also
assisted the chief in the excavation of the Elden Pueblo ruin.

During the fiscal year Dr. Francis La Flesche, ethnologist, was
engaged in classifying the personal names of the full-blood members
of the Osage Tribe according to their places in the various gentes
that comprise the tribe. Each name refers, cryptically, to the origin
story of the gens to which it belongs. Thus the name Star-radiant
is itself meaningless until some one who is versed in the tribal rites
explains that it refers to the story of the people who, when they
came from the blue sky to earth, came suddenly upon a stranger
whose dignified appearance and bearing immediately struck them
with awe and reverence. When the people asked “ Who art thou?”
the stranger replied, “I am Star-radiant, who has brought for you
from the starry regions peace and brotherly love.” This and other
star names belong to the Wa-tse-tzi (people of the stars) gens, in
whose keeping are the House of Refuge and the Fireplace of Peace.
The meaning of the name Pi-si (Acorn) is also obscure until it is
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

explained that it points to the story of the people of the Tsi-zhu gens
and subgentes, who when they came from the sky to the earth,
alighted upon seven red oak trees. The alighting of the people on
the tops of the trees sent down showers of acorns, and a voice spoke,
saying, “ Your little ones shall be as numerous as the acorns that
fall from these trees.” About 1,991 gentile names have been recorded,
covering 83 pages. The translations of the names are yet to be made.

Doctor La Flesche also spent three weeks assisting Mr. De Lancey
Gill, illustrator, in classifying negatives of photographs of Ponca;
Omaha, and Osage Indians.

A vocabulary of the Osage language has also been started by Doc-
tor La Flesche and Dr. John R. Swanton. So far some 3,000 or more
words have been recorded with translations.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES

The research in Indian music by Miss Frances Densmore during
this fiscal year has been marked by the collecting and developing of
extensive material among the Menominee of Wisconsin, and the com-
pletion of the book on Papago music which is now ready for publica-
tion. The proof of the book on The Music of the Tule Indians of
Panama was read, and the text of Pawnee Music (apart from
analyses) was retyped, putting it in final form.

The titles of the manuscripts furnished to the bureau during the
fiscal year are as follows: “ Songs connected with ceremonial games
and adoption dances of the Menominee Indians,” ‘“‘ Menominee songs
connected with hunting bundles, war bundles and the moccasin
game,” “ Menominee songs connected with a boy’s fast, also dream
songs, love songs, and flute melodies,” “ Dream dance songs of the
Menominee Indians,” “Songs used in the treatment of the sick by
Menominee Indians,” and “ Menominee war songs and other songs.”

The Menominee Indians have been in contact with civilization for
many years but retain their old customs to a remarkable degree.
Miss Densmore attended a meeting of their Medicine Lodge (corre-
sponding to the Chippewa Grand Medicine), at which two persons
were initiated. She witnessed the ceremony for about four hours,
listening to the songs, and presented tobacco which was received in a
ceremonial manner. She was also present at a gathering where a
lacrosse gr.me was played “in fulfilment of a dream,” and witnessed
the similar playing of a “dice and bowl” game by a woman who had
dreamed of the “ four spirit women in the east” and been instructed
by them to play the game once each year.

The songs of the Dream Dance received extended consideration, the
dance having been witnessed in 1910.

Among the interesting war songs were those connected with the
enlistment and service of Menominee in the Civil War, with the

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 7

songs ‘of the charms (“fetiches”) by which they believed that they
were protected. Songs of the warfare against Black Hawk were
obtained, and one very old war song with the words “The Queen
(of England) wants us to fight against her enemies.”

Mr. Gerard Fowke, special archeologist, was engaged for three
months, February to April, in making a survey and explorations of
a group of aboriginal remains near Marksville, La. The works con-
sisted of 3 enclosures, 20 mounds, 8 lodge sites, and several village
sites, extending a distance of 2 miles along the bluff overlooking
Old River and in the bottom land bordering that watercourse.
Eight of the mounds are of the flat-topped, domigiliary type; the
others are conical or dome-shaped, usually classed as burial mounds.
Six of the last were fully excavated. Two of them contained
evidence of many interments; two were house sites indicating
at least three periods of construction; the remaining two yielded
nothing that would show the reason for their building. All were
singularly barren of contents. Only traces of bones were found in the
graves. The manner of construction of these mounds and the
methods of burial were of a character which differentiates them from
any others that have so far been reported to the bureau. They do
not seem to belong with those to the east of the Mississippi, or with
those which are so numerous to the westward.

A full report, with map and illustrations, has been prepared.

During the months of April, May, and June, Mr. H. W. Krieger,
curator of ethnology of the National Museum, was detailed to engage
in field work for the Bureau of American Ethnology. He was
authorized by the chief of the bureau to proceed to Walla Walla,
Wash., and vicinity for the purpose of studying the archeology of
the upper Columbia River Valley, thence to proceed to southeastern
Alaska to undertake the restoration of Old Kasaan, a national monu-
ment on Prince of Wales Island.

A careful inspection was made of the various collections of archeo-
logical material gathered by members of the Columbia River Archeo-
logical Society at Walla Walla, Wenatchee, Quincy, and other points
in the State of Washington.

Accompanied by Mr. H. T. Harding, a local archeologist, who
had spent over 20 years in archeological investigations along the
upper Columbia, a reconnaissance was undertaken from The Dalles,
in Oregon, to Wenatchee, Wash., for the purpose of plotting a map of
the known archeological sites and selecting likely stations for ex-
cavation. The old Indian camp site at Wahluke Ferry, located at
the extreme southern extent of the big bend of the Columbia, was
selected as the most promising. There were no traces of previous
disturbance by curio hunters. The ruins of the old Indian camp
site and the cemetery near by yielded several hundred objects, most
Fy!) ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

of which had been placed in the group burials as ceremonial offer-
ings accompanying the cremation form of burial. No objects were
found in the more deeply-placed graves where no cremation practices
had been observed.

The restoration of the national monument of Old Kasaan, south-
east Alaska, has long been the ambition of the chief of the bureau,
but conditions at this unique old Haida village were found to be very
discouraging. Rainfall reaches a total of 235 days annually at the
town of Ketchikan on Revillagigedo Island near by, and the process
of rotting and disintegration is practically continuous throughout the
year. Many of the fine old carvings on the totem poles and memorial
columns still standing are either partially or entirely obliterated,
and every house in the village has either fallen into decay or was
burned in the recent fire which destroyed the major portion of the
village. ‘The house (“big doings”) and the totem pole erected by
the former Haida chief Skay-al were among the objects consumed in
this fire.

Several of the house sites at Old Kasaan, Tongass, Village Island,
and Cape Fox village were excavated in an attempt to determine the
relative age of the settlements of extreme southeastern Alaska. But
few objects were obtained which might indicate a culture older than
the Hudson Bay Co. post at Fort Simpson, British Columbia, or the
Russian settlement at Sitka, Alaska, on the north. The few poles
worthy of restoration at Old Kasaan were scraped and rotted wood
was removed. The tall alder brush was cut from the immediate
vicinity of the poles. Information relative to house, totem, and place
names was obtained from a few survivors of the old village still
living either at Wrangell, Ketchikan, or at the recently established
Indian village of New Kasaan, about 40 miles from the old
abandoned village.

Upon returning to the United States, the task of completing the
map of archeological sites on the upper Columbia River to the
Canadian border was completed. Excavation was undertaken at
eight different stations along the river between Wenatchee, Wash.,
and the mouth of the Okanagan River.

Mr. Henry B. Collins, jr., assistant curator of ethnology of the
National Museum, was detailed by the bureau to carry on archeo-
logical work in southern Louisiana and Mississippi, a region in
which scarcely any work of this nature had previously been done.
A reconnaissance of the field was begun in April, first in southern
Mississippi, where a number of mounds were examined, and then
along the low-lying Gulf coast of Louisiana. Many earth mounds
and shell heaps were found throughout this latter region, indicating
the existence there in prehistoric times of an advanced culture of
fairly uniform type. Particular attention was given to the 21

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 73

mounds on Pecan Island in the lower part of Vermillion Parish.
This part of Louisiana was occupied in historic times by the Atta-
capa, a cannibalistic tribe of comparatively low culture. The build-
ers of the Pecan Island mounds, however, were apparently not
Attacapa but an earlier and more advanced people who made an
excellent type of pottery and who were skilled workers in stone,
shell, and bone. The presence in these Pecan Island mounds of
native copper and galena, as well as slate and other kinds of stone
not native to the section, indicates that at a very early date the
Indians of lower Louisiana had trade relations with other tribes to
the north and east. In addition to the cultural material collected,
a number of undeformed skulls were obtained from Pecan Island,
and these will be of particular value since skeletal material from
Louisiana is scarce.

Upon completion of the work in Louisiana in the latter part of
June Mr. Collins proceeded to eastern Mississippi and located the
sites of several of the historic Choctaw villages and secured physical
measurements on 72 living Choctaw in the vicinity of Philadelphia,
Miss. The latter phase of the work was in continuation of similar
studies on the Choctaw begun in the summer of 1925, and was made
possible by an appropriation from the American Association for the
Advancement of Science.

Dr. J. W. Gidley, assistant curator of vertebrate paleontology in
the National Museum, was detailed to the bureau for a continuation
of work begun in the summer in conjunction with Amherst College,
in exploring the fossil beds in the vicinity of Melbourne and Vero,
Fla., for fossil bones and possible human remains. Mr. C. Wythe
Cook, of the United States Geological Survey, aided Doctor Gidley
in a determination of the geologic formation of the bed. Most of
the work of this expedition was to verify the geological observations
of the previous expedition and to obtain if possible more evidence
on the subject. More than 100 specimens of fossil bones were added
to the collection and some new forms were represented, the most
important of which were fossil remains of a large extinct jaguar
and teeth of an extinct species of Termarctos, a genus of bear living
now in South America and having never been found before in North
America. Several Indian mounds were visited and examined, a
survey was taken of the Grant Mound 14 miles south of Melbourne,
and a plot made of the general structure of the shell heap, burial
mound, and connecting ridges. Doctor Gidley also visited some
mounds near Sarasota that had been reported to the bureau, but found
that they had been dug into by curio hunters. He also examined the
region at Lake Thonotosassa, 14 miles northeast of Tampa. Here he
secured a few Indian artifacts that had been picked 'up by Mr. Samuel
Conant. Mr. Conant also guided Doctor Gidley to an ancient work-
74. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

shop which covers several acres and seemed to be a very favorable
location for future investigation.

Dr. AleS Hrdlitka, curator of physical anthropology in the Na-
tional Museum, was detailed to the bureau and sent to Alaska in May
for the purpose of studying the archeology of Seward Peninsula
in the vicinity of Nome. As he did not reach the site of his work
until the close of the fiscal year, a consideration of the results of
his expedition is reserved until next year.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

The editing of the publications of the bureau was continued
through the year by Mr. Stanley Searles, editor, assisted by Mrs.
Frances S. Nichols, editorial assistant. The status of the publica-
tions is presented in the following summary:

PUBLICATIONS ISSUED

Fortieth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Mythical Origin of the
White Buffalo Dance of the Fox Indians; The Autobiography of a Fox
Indian Woman; Notes on Fox Mortuary Customs and Beliefs; Notes on the
Fox Society Known as “Those Who Worship the Little Spotted Buffalo”;
The Traditional Origin of the Fox Society Known as ‘“ The Singing Around
Rite,” by Truman Michelson. 664 pp., 1 pl., 1 fig.

PUBLICATIONS IN PRESS OR IN PREPARATION

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British
Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Roberts,
and Teit) ; Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer).

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy; Religious Beliefs
and Medical Practices of the Creek Indians; The Culture of the Southeast
(Swanton) ; Indian Trails of the Southeast (Myer).

Bulletin 82. Archeological Observations North of the Rio Colorado (Judd).

Bulletin 83. Burials of the Algonquian, Siouan, and Caddoan Tribes West of
the Mississippi (Bushnell).

Bulletin 84. The Language of the Kiowa Indians (Harrington).

DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLICATIONS

The distribution of the publications of the bureau has been con-
tinued under the immediate charge of Miss Helen Munroe, assisted
by Miss Emma B. Powers. Publications were distributed as follows:

 dReport (volumes and (separates se 522 ae Daria 2s kee 5, 729
Bulletins) and | Sepate tes ce aka Nie we ieee es el A kl ae 6, 582
Contributions 'to,‘North ‘American evnnology et ae 33
TOG UCTIONS.2 SL LG OES eee EM ee AMSA SC OAR DUE aly Aro bb raaads
Miscellaneous publications: tsituvs rt ieee Dol Weert pred ean 637

12, 993

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY G5

As compared with the fiscal year ended June 30, 1925, there was
an increase of 5,639 publications distributed. This was due partly
to the fact that more publications were issued by the bureau than
in the previous year, and partly to an increase in demand for the
works.

Five addresses were added to the mailing list during the year
and 37 taken from the list, making a net decrease of 32. The list

now stands at 1,738.
ILLUSTRATIONS

Mr. DeLancey Gill, illustrator, continued the preparation of the
illustrations of the bureau. A summary of the work follows:

Negatives of ethnologic and archeologic subjects_______-__-_-_---_-_- 34
Neraiive milms: from! Held “exposures. 2 | Seen te ae 15
Boritalinesatives! (OL indian sees sues ee See beta ee ee 5
TEVAVOT@ ETE OLAUVED Toe Dah Spe oe re eee 466
Drawines prepared, for, book illustrations ..—-—=______ 41
Illustrations prepared for engraving (Bureau American Ethnology) ---- 567
Illustrations prepared for engraving (other Smithsonian Institution

Te PAPSED )aea e  eS Se e ee  ae S e eee Seeeee 681
DUDEN ATW Erase aTeoyor ey rely hoes Soy ee eee 635
Edition prints of colored plates examined at Government Printing

Rap epee ee ce ne soins ig pee a Nate ae ean a a oe le i 17, 000

On the Ist of February, 1926, the services of a photographer were
discontinued and the work was taken over by the photographer of
the National Museum in cooperation with the Bureau of American

Ethnology.
LIBRARY

The reference library has continued under the immediate care of
Miss Ella Leary, librarian, assisted by Mr. Thomas Blackwell. Dur-
ing the year 560 volumes were accessioned, and 200 pamphlets were
received and catalogued; also 2,992 serials, chiefly the publications of
learned societies, were received and recorded. Of these 155 were
acquired by purchase, 207 by binding of periodicals, and the re-
mainder through gift and exchange. The library now contains
26,661 volumes, 15,712 pamphlets, and several thousand unbound
periodicals. During the year there were sent to the bindery 207
volumes. In addition to the use of its own library, which is becom-
ing more and more valuable through exchange and by limited pur-
chase, it was found necessary to draw on the Library of Congress for
the loan of about 200 volumes. The purchase of books and periodi-
cals has been restricted to such as relate to the bureau’s researches.
Although maintained primarily as a reference library for the bu-
reau staff its value is becoming better known to students not con-
nected with the Smithsonian Institution who make frequent use of it.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

During the year the library was used also by officers of the executive
departments and the Library of Congress. The library is greatly
indebted to many private individuals for numerous donations of
publications. Mention may be made of a collection given by Mrs.
Safford, consisting of 50 books and one manuscript belonging to her
husband, the late Dr. W. E. Safford.

During the year the cataloguing has been carried on as new ac-
cessions were acquired and good progress was made in cataloguing
ethnologic and related articles in the earlier serials.

The library, among other representative libraries, is cooperating
with the Library of Congress in checking up the Union List of
Serials of the United States and Canada, compiled by the H. W.
Wilson Co. This necessitates the checking up of the entire collection
of periodicals.

COLLECTIONS

88232. Two plaster casts made by Mr. Egberts of an amulet sent to the bureau

for identification by W. W. C. Dunlop, Codrington College, Barbados,
British West Indies.

90380. Two chert rejects, four potsherds, and one small arrow point found in
a gravel pit about one-half mile west of the Grand River, near Prior,
Okla., and presented to the bureau by Grant Foreman.

90604. Archeological and skeletal material collected by H. B. Collins, jr., at
various localities in Mississippi during 1925. (78 specimens.)

90652. Collection of 44 archeological specimens from graves at Vantage Ferry,
Wash., purchased by the bureau from Harle O. Roberts.

90813. Collection of eight stone and shell implements found by Charles T. Earle
on the beach at Shaws Point, Fla., and presented by him to the
bureau.

91825. Collection of about 19 lots of human skeletal material collected in
Florida by Dr. J. W. Gidley.

92317. Archeological specimens collected in Louisiana by Gerard Fowke. (108
specimens, )

PROPERTY

Furniture and office equipment were purchased to the amount of

$750.

MISCELLANEOUS

Clerical.—The correspondence and other clerical work of the office
has been conducted by Miss May S. Clark, clerk to the chief, assisted
by Mr. Anthony W. Wilding, stenographer. On May 15, Mr. Wilding
accompanied the chief to the field, acting as general assistant. Miss
Mae W. Tucker, stenographer, was engaged in assisting Dr. John
R. Swanton in compiling a Timucua dictionary and in assisting Mr.
Hewitt in reclassifying and recataloguing the manuscripts in the
bureau archives. Mrs. Frances S. Nichols assisted the editor.

Personnel.—Mr. James E. Connor, who received a temporary ap-
pointment as minor clerk February 4 to assist in the cataloguing of

i

a
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY TF

the archives of the bureau, was dropped from the rolls June 15, there
being no further need for his services.

Mr. Gerard Fowke was given a temporary appointment as special
archeologist in the bureau from February 9 to June 30.

Mr. Albert E. Sweeney, photographer, resigned January 31.

Respectfully submitted.

J. Wattrr Frewxes, Chief.
Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 5
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the International Exchange Service during the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1926:

The appropriation granted by Congress for the support of the
service during the year was $46,260. While this amount is $3,290
less than the appropriation for the fiscal year 1925, the actual money
available for the running of the service for 1926 was the same as that
for 1925, the salaries of two of the personnel that were carried on
the exchange roll during 1925 having been transferred to other ap-
propriations. In addition to the above appropriation, an allotment
of $300 for printing and binding was allowed. The repayments
from departmental and other establishments aggregated $4,883.75,
making the total resources available for carrying on the system of
exchanges during the year, $51,443.75

The total number of packages handled in 1926 was 480,776, an
increase over the number for the preceding year of 12,045. The
weight of these packages was 558,493 pounds, a gain of 52,329
pounds. For statistical purposes the packages handled by the ex-
change service are divided into several classes. The number and
weight of the packages in these classes are given in the following

table:

Packages Weight

Sent |Received| Sent |Receivedc
Pounds | Pounds
United States parliamentary documents sent abroad ----------- 193:'598)\|_ 2 nae 99: 60 LSs22 eee
Publications received in return for parliamentary documents-__--|_--._----- 5; 169) 2-2 =o seeee 20, 626
United States departmental documents sent abroad_-_---------- 145 O12" |= eee 156;'836)|2 232232225
Publications received in return for departmental documents--_-__|..-------- 6; 280)\== note ee 26, 703
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent abroad_.-| 97,483 |_.-------- 185;\ 170) Leese
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications received from

abroad for distribution in the United States_......-----------|---------- BY AO RE Fl Wee eee 69, 557
Totals es ooh eek ee ee en ee ae a aan ae 436, 993 43,783 | 441,607 | 116, 886

Grand totale ee et oe eee ee ee eos oe 480, 776 558, 493

78

|
|
)
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 79

A comparison of the figures given in the above table with those
in the report for last year will show a substantial gain in the number
of packages received from abroad. This is gratifying, because the
packages received from abroad have always been fewer in number
than those sent; although, as referred to in previous reports, this
disparity is not so great as would appear, for many foreign publica-
tions reach correspondents in this country direct by mail and not
through exchange channels.

On account of many complaints of delay in the distribution of
packages sent to China through the American-Chinese publication
exchange department of the Shanghai Bureau of Foreign Affairs,
shipments to that country were suspended May 18, 1925. In De-
cember, 1925, all packages on hand for China were forwarded to the
Zi-ka-wei Observatory near Shanghai, the director of that observa-
tory, Rev. Father L. Froc, 8. J., having kindly signified his willing-
ness to undertake their distribution. The Zi-ka-wei Observatory, it
might be added, acted as the Smithsonian exchange agency in China
before the work was taken over by the Shanghai Bureau of Foreign
Affairs. The Government of the Chinese Republic recently adhered
to the Brussels Exchange Conventions of 1886 and organized a
Bureau of International Exchange of Publications as a department
of the Ministry of Education in Peking. The first consignment of
exchanges to this newly established bureau was forwarded May 4,
1926.

During the year 2,521 boxes were used in forwarding exchanges to
foreign agencies for distribution—an increase of 196 over the number
for the preceding 12 months. Of the total number of boxes
shipped abroad, 389 were for the foreign depositories of full sets of
United States governmental documents and the remainder (2,132) in-
cluded departmental and other publications for depositories of par-
tial sets and for miscellaneous correspondents.

As was stated in the report for 1925, the Smithsonian exchange
service, as a rule, forwards its consignments to other countries in
boxes, but sometimes the packages that accumulate for a particular
country are not of sufficient bulk to warrant their transmission by
freight, this latter material being mailed directly to its destination.
In addition, a number of packages are forwarded by mail to remote
places which can not be reached through existing exchange channels.
During the year the number of packages sent abroad in this manner
was 49,087.

The number of boxes sent to each country is given in the table
following.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Country pruber Country Neer
Argentine Repiblic=2-.s5 sass eee 66) ||) Javelin = have ee eee or eee 1
PATIS GS = ee eae ee PIR, 73 (| DiGViS sos bene ae eee eee ee ee 6
Belginmes tosh See ee te es 60}/ Mexiceo: fo ee eee. “ae Saee 7
Bra 7a esac sae pee Pee 41 Netherland s:2222 see saseues ose 80
IBTCISHYO Oloniess-= 222. sae ee es 16°|| INew South Walest=s2---25--2-s-seeae 35
BritishtGuiang tes pea 1 ye 2. || (New Aealandt <2 seiespire ourgeyey _ genera 27
(BU garig sete ee eee tae 4°:||) NOL Wey ae ee eee ee 43
Canadal 2.4 re See ie Se 28: ||, Palestin@es-s.ce seat eae roe eee 60
@hilest a: Sherk prea A eee we 26-1 Pert sy ese a ye APE Sheep eh ESE URN 15
CB) bie}: Capone Grad ened AUS ie eee | 54 ||. Poland eas he eg sete eae 34
Colomib igs | eee ey eect 16)! (POvtgu eal aeec oe nee ten gee ee 14
GostatRice eye ee Cees 44 WL i Queenslang: 2 pepeyy es ave ve soe y a ene 16
Cups ce ste a iene ied 2 a 3 manips ees ee ee ee ae 10
@zechoslovakise eos eam ee eee ay ad UD Sab ETT LMA ied cleat Beueh Ab 9 PD agi Dig ye 67
BD YoY At Aidan De Bebe ira fre BAe LE ORE ae Ba 5) || South: Australians sere Lee ee ee 18
AO Yoaycatsb eg: ceamphaeramoanan tyre My. IGGL SCs Siena cae 46 i)|) SPAM Seek’. CUE ee Sepa ees 29
CUA Ofer aero Une EMI A nA AL me. & DZ NMSWGCEN= eee. non Skee ae seen Moe ae ree ee 91
B Of 2ss7g 9) meee be ee du ONE oh sy ele OS UT eee 2S witzerlan Guz vs 21 22 a eee ee ee ee 67
HS} 4 n6) ots Meneame cae Gu RL NAN eon PAL Shy ats em eas Cee ee RMU RE SA A Do 4
AC OREWa(o epee SLES ON SA Ee a a 207 TaSTilsrigs st esos eee emer eee | 17
ARAN CO oui Sens A elie ad ok atk 190; "Purkey 5202. sash: Bieter ey peed 44
Germany ses ee ee 372 ||. Union of South: Africas 21. _ 32-23 es oe 35
Great Britain and Ireland_-.___._.-_.-_- O14. | OTUs yo ee eee ee ee re 14
Greece oi ee hh tree ae EP esa 19" || Venezilela5 reser rica is Bt eT 9
1S Ont Bene oe sce Mae AA ae Set ere le ae 25) Viletonish- a Skat ae Leas Pe 42
ERIN Par yee ns aR eae es 46'|| Western Australia__*="-_..---- ~~ ~~ _- 18
Tndige cee ae ees al tec ea 48 ll Yugoslayiat.tasrevetoeen ee bo 14
NT: ) hemes Oe re pets Es Se ae a 92 || _————
fie) osha aca Abe EN STs te Fa Oh 79 || Hf Bo) 10 bell lye vena eles MUN Micon Scns 2, 521

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

In last year’s report the statement was made that 18 countries had
joined the exchange conventions of 1886. Notification was received
through diplomatic channels that China had adhered to both con-
ventions in December, 1925. It should be added that China is the
first country to take this action since the question of haying a
larger number of countries join those conventions was taken up at
Geneva in the summer of 1924 by the committee on intellectual co-
operation of the League of Nations.

The depository in China has been changed from the American
Chinese Publication Exchange Department in Shanghai to the
Metropolitan Library in Peking. During the year depositories of
partial sets have been established in Iceland and the Dominican
Republic. In the former the name of the depository is National
Library, Reykjavik, and in the latter, Biblioteca del Senado, Santo
Domingo.

Several of the depositories have asked that steps be taken to have
the publications forming the regular series of governmental docu-
ments delivered more promptly in order that the information con-

Se hn il a ng i alan SE ae tin ei

eee ee eee

a ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 81

tained therein may be available for use as soon after publication
as practicable.

The publications forming the full series, therefore, instead of being
held three months until a sufficient number accumulates to fill a large
packing box, will be shipped in small boxes at monthly intervals.
Furthermore, arrangements have been made with the Public Printer
to have the publications supplied either in paper covers or depart-
mental binding instead of withholding them to be bound as a part of
the special congressional series, this latter practice often delaying the
delivery of the documents to the Institution for many months.
Several letters of appreciation of this action on the part of the
Institution have been received. As an example of the tone of these
letters there is quoted below a portion of one received from the
Library of the League of Nations at Geneva:

I am very glad indeed that steps have been taken to expedite the delivery of
these documents. They are of the greatest value to us, and it is important
for us to get them as soon as possible after issue.

The following references to certain resolutions and acts of
Congress concerning the International Exchange Service are made
here as a matter of record:

Resolution approved March 2, 1867 (Stat. XIV, 573), setting aside 50 copies
of each United States official document for exchange with foreign govern-
ments through the agency of the Smithsonian Institution.

Printing act approved March 2, 1901 (Stat. XX XI, 1464), increasing to 100
the number of copies of documents for the use of the Library of Congress
and for international exchanges, this number being increased to 125 by act
of March 3, 1925 (Stat. XLIII, 1106).

Resolution approved March 4, 1909 (Stat. XXXV, 1169), setting aside 100
copies of the daily issue of the Congressional Record for exchange, through
the Smithsonian Institution, to the legislative chambers of such foreign
governments as may agree to send to the United States current copies of their
Parliamentary Record or like publication. The act of March 3, 1925, in-
creased to 125 the number of Congressional Records provided for this purpose.

Tn accordance with the terms of the first Brussels convention, sets
of United States official documents are forwarded through the
Exchange Service to 101 foreign depositories. The governments re-
ceiving these documents send to the United States, in return, copies
of their own publications, which are deposited in the Library of
Congress. By the terms of the second convention, copies of the
daily Congressional Record are forwarded by the Institution directly
by mail to foreign parliaments, those bodies sending in return copies
of their own proceedings. In accordance with the latter convention,
75 copies of the Congressional Record are now being transmitted
abroad, a statement concerning which will be found on a subsequent
page of this report.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926 |

A list of the foreign depositories is given below:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC: Ministerio de Relaciones Hxteriores, Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

AuUSTRIA: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.

BaveNn: Universitiits-Bibliothek, Freiburg. (Depository of the State of Baden.)

BavakiA: Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

BetciumM: Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

BraziL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Buenos Arres: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata. (Deposi-
tory of the Province of Buenos Aires.)

CANADA: Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

CHILE: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Metropolitan Library, Pei Hai, Peking.

CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

CusBa: Secretaria de Estado (Asuntos Generales y Canje Internacional),
Habana.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.

DENMARK : Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

ENGLAND: British Museum, London.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.

FRANCE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Guascow: City Librarian, Mitchell Library, Glasgow.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

HunGary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

InpIA: Imperial Library, Calcutta.

Ir1saH FREE STATE: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

ITaLty: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

Lonpon: London Sehool of Economics and Political Science. (Depository of
the London County Council.)

MANITOBA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

NETHERLANDS: Bibliotheek van de Tweede Kamer der Staten-Generaal, The
Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NORTHERN IRELAND: Ministry of Finance, Belfast.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo. (Depository of the Government of
Norway.)

OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Paris: Préfecture de la Seine.

PERU: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

POLAND: Bibliothéque du Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.

PortuGAL: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Prussia: Preussische Staatsbibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.

QuEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec, Quebec.

QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Shipments temporarily suspended.

Saxony: Sichsische Landesbibliothek, Dresden—N. 6.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 83

SoutH AUSTRALIA: Parliamentary Library, Adelaide.

Sparn: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Faculta-
tivo de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arquedlogos, Madrid.

SweDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwITzZERLAND: Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

SwitTzZERLAND: Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

TuRKEY: Shipments temporarily suspended.

Union oF Sourtu Arrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Vicrorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

WURTTEMBERG: Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

YucostaviaA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

DEPOSITORIBS OF PARTIAL SETS

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

ALSACE-LORRAINE: Bibliothéque Universitaire et Régionale de Strasbourg,
Strasbourg.

Botivia: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz.

BreMEN: Senatskommission fiir Reichs- und Auswirtige Angelegenheiten.

BritisH CoLtuMBIA: Legislative Library, Victoria.

BRITISH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.

BuiesRIA: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Sofia.

CryYLon: Colonial Secretary’s Office (Record Department of the Library),
Colombo.

Danzie: Stadtbibliothek, Free City of Danzig.

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.

Hcvapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Eeyet: Bibliothéque Royale, Cairo.

FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsingfors.

GUATEMALA: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

HAtrTr: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

HAmMBuRG: Senatskommission ftir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegen-
heiten.

Hesse: Landesbibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honpuras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

IcELAND: National Library, Reykjavik.

JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

LATVIA: Bibliothéque d’Etat, Riga.

Liperta: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lovrgenco MARQUEZ: Government Library, Honrenee Marquez.

Litgeck: President of the Senate.

MADRAS, PROVINCE oF: Chief Secretary to the Government of Madras, Public
Department, Madras.

Matra: Minister for the Treasury, Valetta.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Colonial Secretary, St. John’s.

NEw ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Nicaracua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

PANAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

PaRraGuay: Seccién Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Hixteriores, Hstrella 563, Asuncidn.

PRINCE Epwarp IsLAnp: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

Rio DE JANEIRO: Bibliotheca da Assemblea Legislativa do Estado, Nictheroy.

RuManiA: Academia Romana, Bucharest.

Satvapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

SASKATCHEWAN: Government Library, Regina.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

STRAITS SETTLEMENTS: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.

THURINGIA: Rothenberg-Bibliothek, Landesuniversitiit, Jena.

UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OuUDH: University of Allahabad, Allahabad.

VIENNA: Biirgermeister-Amt der Stadt, Wien.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF OFFICIAL JOURNAL

During the year the governments of 25 foreign states have entered
into the immediate exchange of the Official Journal with the United
States Government. The names of these states are: Aguascalientes,
Anhalt, Argentine Republic, Braunschweig, Chihuahua, China,
Coahuila, Colima, Dominican Republic, Durango, Dutch East Indies,
Germany, Guerrero, Jalisco, Lower California Territory, Mexico,
Nuevo Ledn, Oldenburg, San Luis Potosi, Sinaloa, Sonora, Tabasco,
Tamaulipas, Vera Cruz, Yucatan.

To the above statement I may add that the Ministére des Affaires
Etrangéres, Bucharest, has been listed to receive a copy of the daily
issue of the Congressional Record. The interparliamentary exchange
of the Official Journal was entered into with the Government of
Rumania in 1909, and since that time one copy of the Record
has been transmitted to the Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés.

The total number of copies of the daily issue of the Congressional
Record now forwarded abroad through the Institution is 75. A com-
plete list of the states taking part in this immediate exchange is
given below, together with the names of the establishments to which
the record is mailed:

AGUASCALIENTES: GOobernador del Hstado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
ANHALT: Anhaltische Landesbiicherei, Dessau.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC:
Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.
Cimara de Diputados, Oficina de Informacién Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires.
AUSTRALIA: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.
Austria: Bibliothek des Nationalrates, Wien I.
BADEN: Universitats-Bibliothek, Heidelberg.
BELGIuM: Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Représentants, Brussels.
Borivia: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, La Paz.
BRAUNSCHWEIG: Bibliothek des Braunschweigischen Staatsministeriums,
Braunschweig.
BRAZIL: Bibliotheca do Congresso Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.
Burnos AIRES: Biblioteca del Senado de Ja Provincia de Buenos Aires, La
Plata.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 85

CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua.
CuINnA: Metropolitan Library, Pei Hai, Peking.
CoAHUILA: Periédico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo.
CoLtiIMA: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José,
CUBA:
Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Habana.
Biblioteca del Senado, Habana.
CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bibliothéque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague.
Danzic: Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.
DENMARK: Rigsdagens Bureau, Copenhagen.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC: Biblioteca del Senado, Santo Domingo.
DurRANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.
DutcH Hast Inpies: Volksraad van Nederlandsch-Indié, Batavia, Java.
Esronra: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.
FRANCE:
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, au Palais Bourbon, Paris.
Bibliothéque du Sénat, au Palais du Luxembourg, Paris.
GERMANY: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin, N. W. 7.
GREAT Britain: Library of the Foreign Office, Downing Street, London, S. W. 1.
GREECE: Library of Parliament, Athens.
GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Oficina Internacional Centro-Americana, 8a Calle
Poniente No. 1, Guatemala.
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.
Hartt: Secrétaire d’Ktat des Relations Dxtérieures, Port-au-Prince.
Honpuras: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.
Huncary: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Budapest.
Inpr1a: Legislative Library, Simla.
MATS:
Biblioteca della Camera dei Deputati, Palazzo di Monte Citorio, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato del Regno, Palazzo Madama, Rome.
JAtisco: Biblioteca del Hstado, Guadalajara.
Latvia: Library of the Saeima, Riga.
LirBertA: Department of State, Monrovia.
Lower CALIFORNIA TERRITORY: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali, B.C.
Mexico: Secretaria de la Camara de Diputados, Mexico, D. F.
New SoutH WALES: Library of Parliament, Sydney.
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Stortingets Bibliotek, Oslo.
Nugrvo Lre6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterey.
OLDENBURG: Oldenburgisches Staatsministerium, Oldenburg i. B.
Peru: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Lima.
PoLtaNnpD: Ministére des Affaires Dtrangéres, Warsaw.
PorTUGAL: Bibliotheca do Congresso da Republica, Lisbon.
Prussia: Bibliothek des Abgeordnetenhauses, Prinz-Albrechtstrasse 5, Berlin,
Se Wot
QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Department, Brisbane.

20837—27. 7

86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

RUMANIA:
Bibliothéque de la Chambre des Députés, Bucharest.
Ministére des Affaires Htrangéres, Bucharest.
San Luis Potost: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.
SrvaLtoa: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacan.
Sonora: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
SPAIN :
Biblioteca del Congreso de los Diputados, Madrid.
Biblioteca del Senado, Madrid.
SWITZERLAND:
Bibliothéque de Assemblée Fédérale Suisse, Berne.
Library of the League of Nations, Geneva.
Tapasco: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccidn 38a Ramo de Prenso, Yilla-
hermosa.
TAMAULIPAS: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
Union or SouruH Arrica: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
Urucuay: Biblioteca de la Camara de Representantes, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Camara de Diputados, Congreso Nacional, Caracas.
Vera Cruz: Gobernador del Estado de Vera Cruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacion y Justicia, Jalapa.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.
YucaTAN: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatéin, Mérida, Yucatan.
YucGosiaviA: Library of the Skupshtina, Belgrade.

A complete list of the foreign exchange agencies or bureaus is given
below. Those in the larger countries and many of those in the
smaller countries forward to the Smithsonian Institution reciprocal
contributions for distribution in the United States. Correspondents
desiring to make use of any of the exchange agencies in the forward-
ing of consignments to the United States should make application
directly to the respective bureau.

ALGERIA, via France.

ANGOLA, via Portugal.

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC: Comisi6n Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares, Calle
Cordoba 931, Buenos Aires.

AvusTRIA: Bundesamt fiir Statistik, Schwarzenbergstrasse 5, Vienna I.

AZORES, via Portugal.

BreLagium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Rue des Longs-
Chariots 46, Brussels.

BottviA: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, La Paz.

BrRaAziL: Servicio de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de
Janeiro.

BRITISH CoLoNIES: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.

BRITISH GUIANA: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.

BritTIsH HonpuraAs: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Butearia: Institutions Scientifiques de 8. M. le Roi de Bulgarie, Sofia.

CANARY ISLANDS, via Spain.

CHILE: Servicio de Canjes Internacionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: Bureau of International Exchange of Publications, Ministry of Educa-
tion, Peking. .

CoLoMBIA: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,
Bogota.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 87

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, San
José.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Service Tchécoslovaque des Echanges Internationaux, Biblio-
théque de l’Assemblée Nationale, Prague 1-79.

Danzig: Amt fiir den Internationalen Schriftenaustausch der Freien Stadt
Danzig, Stadtbibliothek, Danzig.

DENMARK: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.

DutcH GuIANA: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.

Ecuapor: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Eeyrt: Sent by mail.

Estonia: Riigiraamatukogu (State Library), Reval.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies of Finland, Helsingfors.

France: Service Francais des Echanges Internationaux, 110 Rue de Grenelle,
Paris.

GERMANY: Amerika-Institut, Universititstrasse 8, Berlin, N. W. 7.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Messrs. Wheldon & Wesley, 2, 3, and 4 Arthur
St., New Oxford St., London, W. C. 2.

GREECE: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

GREENLAND, via Denmark.

GUATEMALA: Instituto Nacional de Varones, Guatemala.

Harti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port-au-Prince.

HonpurAs: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Huneary: Service Hongrois des Echanges Internationaux, Musée National
Budapest, VIII.

IcELAND, via Denmark.

InpIA: Superintendent of Stationery, Bombay.

Iraty: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio
Hmanuele, Rome.

JAMAICA: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

JAPAN: Imperial Library of Japan, Tokyo.

JAVA, via Netherlands.

KorEA: Government General, Seoul.

Laty1a: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque d’Etat de Lettonie,
Riga.

LIBERIA: Bureau of Exchanges, Department of State, Monrovia.

LITHUANIA: Sent by mail. ¢

LOURENCO MARQUEZ, via Portugal.

LUxEMBURG, via Belgium.

MADAGASCAR, Via France.

MADETIRA, via Portugal.

MozAMBIQUE, via Portugal.

NETHERLANDS: Bureau Scientifique Central Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de
lVAcadémie Technique, Delft.

NEw SoutH WatsEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

NEw ZEALAND: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

NICARAGUA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.

Norway: Universitets-Bibliotek, Oslo.

PALESTINE: Hebrew University Library, Jerusalem.

PaNAMA: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

PARAGUAY: Secciédn Canje Internacional de Publicaciones del Ministerio de
Relaciones Exteriores. Estrella 563, Asuncion.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdésito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima.

PoLAND: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque du
Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Warsaw.
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

PortucaL: Seccfio de Trocas Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Sec-
retary’s Department, Brisbane.

RuMANIA: Bureau des Echanges Internationaux, Institut Météorologique Cen-
tral, Bucharest.

Russia: Academy of Sciences, Leningrad.

SatvaporR: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Sram: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

SourtH AusTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

SPAIN: Servicio del Cambio Internacional de Publicaciones, Cuerpo Facultativo
de Archiveros, Bibliotecarios y Arqueélogos, Madrid.

ScmMATRA, via Netherlands.

SwEDEN: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.

SwITZERLAND: Service Suisse des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale, Berne.

Syria: American University of Beirut.

TASMANIA: Secretary to the Premier, Hobart.

TRINIDAD: Royal Victoria Institute of Trinidad and Tobago, Port-of-Spain.

TUNIS, via France.

TURKEY: Robert College, Constantinople.

Union oF SournH Arrica: Government Printing Works, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Urvucuay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Carfcas.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

Western AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yucostavia: Académie Royale Serbe des Sciences et des Arts, Belgrade.

RULES GOVERNING THE TRANSMISSION OF EXCHANGES

For the information of any who may desire to make use of the
Smithsonian system of exchanges in the forwarding of publications
to foreign correspondents, there is reproduced below a revised edi-
tion of a circular containing a brief description of the service and
the rules under which packages are received for distribution.

In effecting the world-wide distribution of its first publications, the Smith-
sonian Institution established foreign agencies by means of which it was
enabled to materially assist institutions and individuals of this country in the
transmission of their publications abroad, and also foreign societies and indi-
viduals in distributing their publications in the United States.

In more recent years the Smithsonian Institution has been charged with the
duty of conducting the official Hxchange Bureau of the United States Govern-
ment, through which the publications authorized by Congress are exchanged
for those of other governments; and by a formal treaty it acts as intermediary
between the learned bodies and scientific and literary societies of this and other
countries for the reception and transmission of their publications.

Attention is called to the fact that this is an international and not a domestic
exchange service, and that it is designed to facilitate exchanges between the
United States and other countries only. As publications from domestic sources
for addresses in Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, Porto Rico, and other territory
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States do not come within the desig-
nation “ international,’ they are not accepted by the Institution for trans-
mission through the service.

Packages prepared in accordance with the rules enumerated below will be
received by the Smithsonian Institution from individuals or institutions of

le
:
'
a

4 le
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 89

learning in the United States and forwarded to their destinations abroad
through the various exchange bureaus or agencies in other countries. Many of
those bureaus and agencies will likewise receive packages of publications from
correspondents in their countries for distribution as gifts or exchanges to corre-
spondents in the United States and its dependencies and will forward them to
Washington, after which the Institution will transmit them to their destina-
tions by mail free of cost to the recipients.

On receipt of a consignment from a domestic source it is assigned a “ record
number,” which number is, for identification purposes, placed on each package
contained therein. After the packages have been recorded they are packed in
boxes with publications from other senders and are forwarded by freight to the
bureaus or agencies abroad which have undertaken to distribute exchanges in
those countries. To Great Britain and Germany shipments are made weekly;
to France and Italy, semimonthly; and to all other countries consignments are
forwarded at intervals not exceeding a month.

The Institution assumes no responsibility in the transmission of packages in-
trusted to its care, but at all times endeavors to forward exchanges safely and
as promptly as possible. Especial attention should be called in this connection
to the time ordinarily required for the delivery of packages sent through the
exchange service. To Great Britain and Germany, for example, where weekly
shipments are made, the average time for a package to reach its destination is
about six weeks. ‘To those countries to which shipments are made at semi-
monthly and monthly intervals, the time of delivery is, of course, somewhat
longer, depending on the distance and also whether packages are received at
the Institution immediately before or after a shipment. If, therefore, advance
notices are mailed by senders, mention should be made of the above facts in
order that consignees may expect some delay between the receipt of notices
and the arrival of packages. In cases where greater dispatch is desired,
publications should be forwarded by the senders to their foreign destinations

direct by mail.
RULES

The rules governing the Smithsonian International Exchange Service are as
follows:

1. Consignments from correspondents in the United States containing pack-
ages for transmission abroad should be addressed—

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
International Exchanges,
Washington, D. C.

and forwarded with carriage charges to Washington prepaid.

Qin forwarding a consignment the sender should mail a letter to the
Institution stating by what route it is being shipped, and the number of
boxes or parcels comprising the shipment. A list giving the name and address
of each consignee should also be furnished. It is important that this request
be complied with in order that a detailed record of the contents of consign-
ments may be kept in the files of the exchange office for use in answering
inquiries concerning the forwarding of packages.

3. Packages should be legibly and fully addressed, using, when practicable,
the language of the country to which they are to be forwarded. In order
to avoid any possible dispute as to ownership, names of individuals should
be omitted from packages intended for societies and other establishments.

4. Packages should be securely wrapped, using cardboard, if necessary,
to protect plates from crumpling.
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

5. Letters are not permitted in exchange packages.

6. If donors desire acknowledgments, packages may contain receipt-forms
to be signed and returned by the establishment or individual addressed.
Should publications be desired in exchange, a request to that effect may be
printed on the receipt-form or on the package.

7. The work carried on by the International Exchange Service is not in
any sense of a commercial nature, but is restricted to the transmission of
publications sent as exchanges or donations. Books sold or ordered through
the trade are, therefore, necessarily excluded.

8. Specimens are not accepted for distribution, except when permission
has been obtained from the Institution.

Respectfully submitted.
C. G. Assor,

Assistant Secretary, in charge of Library and Hechanges.

Dr. Cuartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

§
h
APPENDIX 6
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sir: I have the honor to submit herewith the following report
on the operations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1926.

The appropriation made by Congress under the bill for the Dis-
trict of Columbia for the regular maintenance of the park was
$157,000, and there was the usual allotment of $300 for printing and
binding. Virtually the entire appropriation was required for
maintenance, so that very little could be done in the way of per-
manent improvement, and some much-needed repairs had to be
deferred.

While the collection of animals on exhibition has not decreased
in numbers it has lost somewhat in value, as several serious gaps
have occurred during the year which it has not been possible to fill.
There is especial lack among the larger kinds of mammals which are
expensive and, therefore, difficult to include in the present budget.

ACCESSIONS

Gifts——There were added to the collection by gift a total of 150
animals. The Canadian Government, through Hon. J. B. Harkin,
commissioner of Dominion parks, presented a splendid male Rocky
Mountain sheep as a new head to the little herd that has bred here
so successfully for nine years past.

Six fine specimens of rhea, the ostrich of South America, were
received as a gift from Dr. Daniel Garcia Accevedo, of Montevideo,
Uruguay; and a fine collection of South American snakes, includ-
ing specimens of bushmaster and fer-de-lance, was presented by
Dr. Vital Brazil, of Sao Paulo, Brazil. All these came from South
America under the special care of Dr. W. L. Schmitt of the Na-
tional Museum.

Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, who accompanied the
department’s solar eclipse expedition to Sumatra, brought back for
the park a very interesting collection of birds and snakes, including
hornbills, fruit pigeons, various other birds, and two Philippine
green snakes. ‘These reached the park in excellent condition and
make valuable additions to the exhibits.

91
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Mr. Samuel Kress, of Port Limon, Costa Rica, presented a three-
toed sloth and a paca; Miss Elizabeth Clayton, Pedro Miguel, Canal
Zone, an ocelot; Mr. P. W. Shufeldt, Belize, British Honduras, a
margay; and Mrs. G. J. Schirch, Washington, D. C., a Guatemalan
deer.

A nice pair of Canada lynx was received from Mr. A. L. Jones,
of Juneau, Alaska.

Mr. M. K. Brady, of Washington, D. C., presented four giant
salamanders, a Loochoo terrapin and a leprous terrapin.

A Tasmanian wallaby, a bay lynx and an alligator, that had been
presented to the President, were placed in the park.

Among the miscellaneous donations also were several species new
to the collection.

The complete list of donors and gifts is as follows:

Dr. Daniel Garcia Accevedo, Montevideo, Uruguay, througik Dr. W. L.
Schmitt, United States National Museum, 6 rheas.

Mr. S. M. Alvis, Fisherville, Va., gray spider monkey.

Dr. W. E. Balderson, Washington, D. C., water snake.

Mr. Herbert Barber, Washington, D. C., little blue heron.

Mr. Oscar E. Baynard, Plant City, Fla., sandhill erane.

Miss Martha M. Beattie, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Private P. S. Bender, United States Army, alligator.

Mr. M. K. Brady, Washington, D. C., Loochoo terrapin, leprous terrapin,
and four giant salamanders.

Dr. Vital Brazil, Sao Paulo, Brazil, through Dr. W. L. Schmitt, United
States National Museum, 22 Brazilian snakes.

Mr. L. B. Brooks, Remington, Va., barn owl.

Mr. Robert F. Burgess, Washington, D. C., coyote.

Lieut. W. A. Burgess, Manila, P. I., Philippine heron.

Mr. W. B. Byrd, jr., Washington, D. C., screech owl.

Canadian Government, through Hon. J. B. Harkin, Rocky Mountain sheep.

Carnegie Institution, Washington, D. C., Gila monster.

Miss Elizabeth Clayton, Pedro Miguel, Canal Zone, ocelot.

Miss Colley, Washington, D. C., ringed turtle dove.

President Coolidge, White House, alligator, rufus-bellied wallaby, and bay
lynx.

Miss Nellie M. Darling, Utica, N. Y., yellow-and-blue macaw.

Miss Virginia Davin, Palmyra, Va., alligator.

Mr. Charles F. Denley, Rockville, Md., sharp-shinned hawk.

Miss Sybil J. Disney, Takoma Park, D. C., brown capuchin.

Capt. John R. Edie, United States Navy, gray fox and three English
pheasants.

Mr. A. T. Hisenger, Washington, D. C., double-yellow-head parrot.

Mr. C. L. Fagan, Rahway, N. J., two Inca terns.

Mr. N. H. Field, Washington, D. C., sulphur-crested cockatoo.

Miss Alice T. Flynn, Washington, D. C., grass paroquet.

Mr. Charles R. Grant, jr., Washington, D. C., tortoise.

Rev. H. J. Head, Hickory, N. C., banded rattlesnake.

Mr. Emmett H. Heitmuller, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. J. Henderson, Washington, D. C., red-tailed hawk.

k
4
4
4
:
in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 93

Mrs. William Herbertson, Frederick, Md., two alligators.

Mr. George Hofer, Tucson, Ariz., red-shafted flicker, two Harris’ ground
squirrels, and gray fox.

Mrs. E. L. Hoffman, Washington. D. C., grass paroquet.

Mr. W. F. Humme, Henderson, Va., two peafowls.

Mr. H. M. Ingram, Addison, Va., alligator.

Mr. Victor Jaffe, Somerset, Md., corn snake.

Mr. A. L. Jones, Juneau, Alaska, two Canada lynxes.

Mr. Neil M. Judd, Washington, D. C., prairie rattlesnake.

Dr. H. C. Kellers, United States Navy, two Philippine green snakes, two
hill mynahs, four bleeding-heart doves, six necklaced doves, two Malayan
wreathed hornbills, two fruit pigeons.

Mr. S. Kress, Port Limon, Costa Rica, paca and three-toed sloth.

Messrs. Lansburgh & Bro., Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

Mrs. Robert E. Lee, Washington, D. C., ring-necked dove.

Legation of Holland, alligator.

Mr. W. B. Lovett, Washington, D. C., three bald eagles.

Mr. E. B. McLean, Washington, D. C., alligator, five muscovy ducks, three
Chinese geese, and Canada goose.

Mrs. R. J. Mayer, Washington, D. C., hedgehog.

Mr. John J. Murphy, St. Cloud, Fla., diamond rattlesnake.

Miss S. M. Perry, Staunton, Va., gray fox.

Dr. John C. Phillips, Washington, D. C., brant.

Mr. J. H. Polkinhorn, Washington, D. C., marmoset.

Mr. B. V. Roberts, Washington, D. C., Virginia rail.

Mr. W. F. Roberts, Washington, D. C., Pennant’s paroquet.

Mrs. Geo. J. Schirch, Washington, D. C., Guatemalan deer.

Mr. Edw. S. Schmid, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Mr. BE. W. Scott, Washington, D. C., great horned owl.

Mr. P. W. Shufeldt, Belize, B. H., margay.

Mrs. C. F. Spradling, Athens, Tenn., woodchuck, banded rattlesnake, and six
western painted turtles.

Dr, H. R. Street, Washington, D. C., Santo Domingo parrot.

Mr. J. EH. Tylor, Washington, D. C., raccoon.

Mr. Allen Underwood, two Java finches and Gouldian finch.

Miss Minnie Warner, Washington, D. C., barred owl.

Mr. J. R. Whipple, Washington, D. C., common canary.

Mrs. N. J. Wiley, Washington, D. C., yellow-head parrot.

Miss Genevieve Wimsatt, Washington, D. C., crested mynah.

Mr. Charles Wilson, Washington, D. C., white-throated capuchin.

Mr. W. VY. Wilson, Rockville, Md., red fox.

Mr. Hiram Yoder, Tuleta, Texas, 17 turtles.

Mr. Joe Zoffin, Washington, D. C., alligator.

Unknown donor, bare-jawed troupial.

Births —During the year 101 mammals, birds, and reptiles, born
or hatched at the park, were added to the collection. Among the
mammals were Rocky Mountain sheep, moufion, Alpine ibex, Ameri-
can bison, Indian buffalo, yak, guanaco, various deer, Javan and Jap-
anese monkeys, raccoon, rock kangaroo, beaver, and several other
rodents. The birds included blue goose, white-cheeked goose, rosy-
billed pochard, sacred ibis, and 6 other species; and of snakes, the

20837—27——_8
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

fer-de-lance and Bothrops alternatus. Two eggs were produced
by the pair of California condors but failed to hatch.

Eachanges——From the Zoological Garden of Wellington, New
Zealand, were received 4 rock-hopper penguins, 2 paradise ducks,
2 lesser rails, and 2 specimens of tuatera, a lizard-like animal that
is of great interest as being the oldest type of reptile now living.
The penguin, lesser rail, and paradise duck were species new to the
collection. Three female sea lions were received from the Zoological
Society of San Diego, Calif.

Purchases.—A_single-wattled cassowary, Humboldt’s saki, Abys-
sinian lynx and alligator lizard (Dracena guianensis), all new to
the collection, were purchased during the year, also a black leopard,
2 prong-horns, an Australian cassowary, and a small lot of finches
and other cage-birds to replenish the collections in the bird house.

Deposits—Among the animals received on indefinite deposit
were an orang and a pair of white fallow deer from Mr. Victor J.
Evans, a chacma baboon from Mr. E. R. Grant, and a silver-black
fox from the Keystone Fox Ranch.

The Biological Survey, United States Department of Agriculture,
transferred to the park a number of animals taken by field agents of
the bureau, including ravens, magpies, western porcupines, 2 Mexi-
can pumas, and 13 white pelicans.

REMOVALS

Fifty-five mammals, birds, and reptiles were sent away in exchange
to other zoological gardens during the year. Among these were
two American bison, an elk, six Japanese deer, four fallow deer, a
guanaco, a hippopotamus, an European bear, some small mammals,
and a few birds and reptiles.

Losses by death were mainly either of animals that had been long
in the collection or of those very recently received. Among the
former were a sloth bear that had lived in the park 21 years and
6 months; a cinnamon bear, 17 years; a yak, 18 years and 3 months;
a sambar deer and a Bactrian camel, each 14 years and 3 months;
a male Rocky Mountain sheep, 8 years and 4 months; a rhea, 16
years and 5 months. A male mona monkey, survivor of the pair,
the female of which died a year earlier after having borne 10
young, had been in the collection 16 years. A male Grevy’s zebra
that died October 9, 1925, was received February 11, 1913, from the
United States Department of Agriculture, where it had been used
for breeding purposes. Other important animals that had lived for
shorter periods were a snow leopard, two sea lions, a female Rocky
Mountain sheep, a female Rocky Mountain goat, a capybara, two

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 95

ostriches, and a kiwi. Loss of reptiles was large as compared with
their total number, owing to the lack of quarters that afford suitable
conditions for them.

Post-mortem examinations were made by the pathological division
of the Bureau of Animal Industry. The following list shows the
results of autopsies, the cases being arranged by groups:

CAUSES OF DEATH
MAMMALS

Marsupialia: Pneumonia, 1; gastroenteritis, 1; gastric ulcer, 1; pericar-
ditis, 1; fatty degeneration of liver, 1; infection of jaw, 3.

Carnivora: Enteritis, 1; gastroenteritis, 3; intestinal parasites, 2; abscess
of lungs, 1; abscess of shoulder, 1; old age, 1. ;

Pinnipedia: Pneumonia, 1.

Rodentia: Enteritis, 1; intestinal parasites, 1; difficult parturition, 1.

Primates: Pneumonia, 2; enteritis, 2; gastroenteritis, 1; intestinal para-
sites, 3; degeneration of heart, 1; osteomalacia, 1; no cause found, 2.

Artiodactyla: Pneumonia, 2; intestinal parasites, 1; impaction of rumen,
1; abscess of lungs, 1; cystic degeneration of liver, 2; necrosis of lip, 1; old
age, 3; accident, 1.

Perissodactyla: Internal hemorrhage, 1.

Hdentata: Enteritis, 1.
BIRDS

Ratite: Abscess of leg, 1; accident, 1.

Ciconiiformes: Pericarditis, 1; no cause found, 2.

Anseriformes: Aspergillosis, 3; internal hemorrhage, 1.

Falconiformes: Aspergillosis, 1.

Gruiformes: No cause found, 1.

Psittaciformes: Aspergillosis, 1; enteritis, 2; internal abscess, 1.

Such animals, lost by death, as were of particular scientific inter-
est, or of value for museum purposes, were transferred to the
United States National Museum for preservation. These numbered
40 mammals, 44 birds, and 23 reptiles. A number of rare birds’
eggs, including two eggs of the California condor mentioned above,
also were sent to the Museum.

Five mammals especially needed by the Carnegie Laboratory of
Embryology, Johns Hopkins Medical School, Baltimore, were sent
after death to that institution; and five mammals were sent to St.
Elizabeths Hospital, Washington, D. C., for special study of the
brain.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

ANIMALS IN THE COLLECTION JUNE 30, 1926

MAMMALS

MARSUPIALIA

Virginia opossum (Didelphis virgini-

Tasmanian devil (Sarcophilus  har-
ABUL) ee a a
Flying phalanger (Petaurus breviceps) —
Brush-tailed rock wallaby (Petrogale
DONIC) ae ee ee
Rufous-bellied wallaby (Macropus bil-
LAN Atertt)) eae
Red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) —-----
Wombat (Phascolomys mitchelli) —---

CARNIVORA

Kadiak bear (Ursus middendorji) ——--
Alaska Peninsula bear (Ursus gyas) —~
Yakutat bear (Ursus dalli) -_--_-_---
Kidder’s bear (Ursus kidderi) --------
European bear (Ursus arctos)—----~-
Grizzly bear (Ursus horribilis) _------
Apache grizzly (Ursus Apache) ------
Himalayan bear (Ursus thibetanus) —-
Black bear (Huarctos americanus) ~~~
Cinnamon bear (Huarctos americanus

CINNEMOMAMN?): Seer eee
Glacier bear (Huarctos emmonsii) —---
Sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) —~--~-
Polar bear (Thalarctos maritimus) ~~~
Dingo: (Canisvdingo)———— =
Gray wolf (Canis nubilus)--------~~
Florida wolf (Canis floridanus) ~---~-
Texas red wolf (Canis rufus) —--------
Coyote (Canis latrans)—-—--_--__—_--
Hybrid coyote (Canis latrans-rufus) —_
California coyote (Canis ochropus) ——-
Black-backed jackal (Canis mcesome-

1ag) fe 2rd epee ae eye ee
Rough fox (Cerdocyon cancrivorus) ~~
Red" fox” (Vulpes julva) 2222-22
Silver-black fox (Vulpes fulva)------
Huropean fox (Vulpes vulpes) ——------
Rat fox. CVuines Velompa—— eae
Gray fox (Urocyon cinercoargenteus) —
Bush dog (Icticyon venaticus) ~------
Cacomistle (Bassariscus astutus) —----
Panda (Ailurus fulgens) ~---------—-
Raccoon (Procyon. loton) =. =
Florida raccoon (Procyon lotor elu-

Cus) stents _ oho’ ep eee ne eee cee
Gray coatimundi (Nasua narica)—----
Kankajou (Potes flavas) — = - =
Mexican kinkajou (Potos flavus az-

CECUS)) 22 So a ee
American badger (Tawidea tarus)—---~
Florida otter (Lutra canadensis vaga) —
Palm civet (Paradogurus hermaphrodi-

CUS) Se Os Se Se Ee
Egyptian mongoose (Herpestes ich-

MEUMON) soe. Uae Ee See See ee
Aard-wolf (Proteles cristatus)—-------
Spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta)-—---
Striped hyena (Hyena hyena) ------

ie)

ms

HBRORHAwWNHeRD

Tt
HrPob FPHNFPRNRHPNHRE

bo wnwre

ee ee

Ree eH oTb eH bb

African cheetah (Acinony# jubatus) —-
ion, \CHelis seo) jae = ee
Bengal tiger (Felis tigris) __--------
Manchurian tiger (felis tigris longi-

Leopard .(Felis pordius))——__- === ==
Black leopard (Felis pardus)—-------
Jaguar’ ‘(Felis anced) 222-2 2422222
Serval) (felis) serval)— 2 _ ee
Ocelot (Felis: pardalis)i-—----—- == =- ==
Brazilian ocelot (Felis pardalis brasil-

4eneis) 20 Hees 2 Es
Mexican puma (Felis azteca)_-----~-
Mountain lion (Felis hippolestes) ~~~
Abyssinian caracal (Lynz _ caracal

nubicd) ee ae eee oe ae
Canada lynx (Lyn#z canadensis) ~—-~~-~
Northern wild cat (Lyne uinta)—-----
Bay yn: (oyna Peps) ee ee
Clouded leopard (Neofelis nebulosa) ~~

PINNIPEDIA

California sea lion (Zalophus califor-
nianws) 2222254 eee
San Geronimo harbor seal (Phoca
richardi&i geronimensis) —_~-----—--_—--—

RODENTIA

Woodehuck (Marmota monaz)_--~-~-~-
Prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) —-
Harris’s ground squirrel (Ammosper-

mophitts Rarrist) =222—— eee
Honduras squirrel (Sciurus boothi@) -_
Albino squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis) —
American beaver (Castor canadensis) —
Grasshopper mouse (Onychomys leu-

cogasten) j= 22 228 Se eee
Jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius) —---
African porcupine (Hystrix africeaus-

tralis) 22c-he ese te ee eee
Malay porcupine (Acanthion brachyu-

Tree poreupine (Coendouw prehen-
SAAS) ae a a ee
Western porcupine (Hrethizon epixan-
bei) 22 ee oe eet oe De eee eee
Viscacha (Lagostomus  trichodacty-
TALS \ ee Se ee
Central American paca (Cuniculus paca
WING OUULS) ee a a
Sooty agouti (Dasyprocta fuliginosa) —
Speckled agouti (Dasyprocta punc-
1 AOD, ne ee
Azara’s agouti (Dasyprocta azare) ——~
Trinidad agouti (Dasyprocta rubrata) ~

Guinea pig (Cavia porcellus) --------

Capybara (Hydrocherus hydroche-

Me) ea ee Se ee ear Sa
LAGOMORPHA

Domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cunicu-
(is) ee eS eee

BO eee ee eo

HorDeH

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

INSECTIVORA

European hedgehog (Hrinaceus euro-

PRIMATES

Ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)_----~-
Red-fronted lemur (Lemur rufifrons) —
Black lemur (Lemur macaco)—-----~--
Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)—-------
Gray spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) —
Mexican spider monkey (Ateles neg-

lectus) 2 = see ee ee) ete
White-throated capuchin (Cebus ca-

DUCHIIB) = ee eee that eee
Brown capuchin (Cebus fatuellus) ~~

Margarita capuchin (Cebus mar-
CUP TERE)) teens eee ele oe ee ee
Gelada baboon (Theropithecus  ob-
SCUTUS) pose ete Oe yes eo ers ay

Chacma (Papio porcarius)—--.----~-_
Anubis baboon (Papio cynocephalus) —
East African baboon (Papio ibeanus) —
Mandrill (Pupio sphingz)_--.------_-~
Drill (Papio leucopheus) ~--.2.----4-
Moor macaque (Cynopithecus maurus) —
Barbary ape (Simia sylwanus) —-----~--~
Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata) —-—
Pig-tailed monkey (Macaca nemes-

CPUC) soa h8 we career het vey hepa AS Lda
Burmese macaque (Macaca andaman-
Rhesus monkey (Macaca rhesus) ----~
Bonnet monkey (Macaca sinica) _-----
Crab-eating macaque (Macaca irus)_-~~
Philippine macaque (Macaca syrichta) ~
Javan macaque (Macaca mordar) —-_-

Black mangabey (Cercocebus  ater-
ATIRAE SS) aes ep te
Sooty mangabey (Cercocebus fuligi-
NOSUS ye Bes epg AS eg, La Le
Hagenbeck’s mangabey (Cercocebus
TUCO CIDE GIGS) as aso 8 ees ec ey gn bile
White-collared mangabey (Cercocebus
COT QMOELUS) 32 ons Sone Sesto)
Green guenon (Lasiopyga calli-
EIA ATBU BN) eos > ee SN a Se Bab

Mona guenon (Lasiopyga mona)
De Brazza’s guenon  (Lasiopyga

OF OSS?) 25 OE Gaye RS. een alot
Lesser white-nosed guenon (Lasiopyga

DCUVUSIST OR) oe of ea Ok | ri ©
Chimpanzee (Pan satyrus) ~--.--____
Orang-utan (Pongo pygmeus)

ARTIODACTYLA

Wild boar (Sus scrofa) -___________
Collared peceary (Pecari dngulatus) __
Hippopotamus (Hippopotamus amphi-

LIT) apie a Ml hela pe cll Ae

Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) —

be FP NRPNER Or

wnmnwmnroeortrwre Li

—

OrHEHHNEH

| Tl aed

Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius) —
Guanaco (Lama huwandchus) —~-------~-~-
Liama (Lama glamajesa-—- ==
Reindeer (Rangifer tarandus)—~-----~-
Fallow deer (Dama dama) —----------
White fallow deer (Dama dama)_~-~-~
Axis. deer, (A wis (amis) i222 t Ls
Hog deer (Hyelaphus porcinus)—---~-
Sambar (Rusa unicolor)--_----_---~
Barasingha (Rucervus duvaucelii) ~—-~
Burmese deer (Rucervus eldii)
Japanese deer (Sika nippon)
Red deer (Cervus elaphus) —-----~--~~-~
Kashmir deer (Cervus hanglu)—-----~~
Bedford deer (Cervus ranthopygus) —~
American elk (Cervus canadensis) ~~~
Virginia deer (Odocoileus virginvianus) —
Guatemala deer (Odocoileus sp.)-----
Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) —---~
Brocket (Mazama sartorii) -_.__------
Prong-horn (Antilocapra americana) —~
Blesbok (Damaliscus albifrons)—--_~-~
White-tailed gnu (Connochetes gnu) —-
Brindled gnu (Connochetes taurinus)—
Lechwe (Onotragus leche)----—-~---~
Sable antelope (Hgocerus niger) ~~~
Indian antelope (Antilope cervicapra) —
Nilgai (Boselaphus tragocamelus) ---~
Gensbok"(Orya gazelig) 22 ees ee
East African eland (Taurotragus oryr

LEBINTSCONI) eee ee ee ee ee
Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) —
Tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus)
Alpine ibex (Capra iber) --_______~
Aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)
Rocky Mountain sheep

GENSIS ene ee re ee ee
Arizona mountain sheep (Ovis cana-

GESTS GUAT ET) oe ee ee
Mouflon (Ovis ewrop@us) ——__-__-_____
Greenland musk-ox (Ovibos moschatus

ECOL Oris eee ee ee ee ee ee a
ACD CHOS MLOICUS ae a ee ee
Yak (Poéphagus grunniens)—~---~--~
American bison (Bison bison) _---_~~
Indian buffalo (Bubalus bubalis)

(Ovis cana-

PERISSODACTYLA

Malay tapir (Tapirus indicus) —---_~
Brazilian tapir (Tapirus terrestris) ——
Baird’s tapir (Tapirella bairdii)_--__
Zebra-horse hybrid (Equus grevyi-ca-

ballus)
Zebra-ass

hybrid (Hquus grevyi-asi-

PROBOSCIDEA

Abyssinian elephant (Lozodonta afri-
CONDAODY OCIS no 5 coe nme
Sumatran elephant (Hlephas suma-
Wanus)~=ssesSses ius eee suas

oe;
~J

_

BRNWHE HEE RD HEE RP PROD ROR AHP W ROTH OW

Row We

©
98

RATIT AD

South African ostrich (Struthio aus-
trQlis) = ae ee ee See ee ee
Somaliland ostrich (Struthio molybdo-
DRGNES)), 2a ee ee
Nubian ostrich (Struthio camelus) —---
Rhea (Rhea americana) ~~-----------
Australian cassowary (Oasuarius daus-
EF GIGS) RR eee
Single-wattled cassowary (Casuwarius
uniappendiculatus) —~-._--~----------
Selater’s cassowary (Casuarius phil-
int) Seeks eee

SPHENISCIFORMES

Rock-hopper penguin (Catarrhactes pa-
chyrhynchius) 2252) ee see

CICONIIFORMES

American white pelican (Pelecanus ery-
ERGOT RU ICNOS, a ee
European white pelican (Pelecanus
OTLOCTOEGUIUG)) a eee ee ee a
Roseate pelican (Pelecanus roseus) —--~
Australian pelican (Pelecanus conspi-

TAH ATE) COLD LERS DEY ES ee eee
Brown pelican (Pelecanus  occiden-
TTA IE) Wades la a ye ER
California brown pelican (Pelecanus

COU FONG U8) ee
Florida cormorant (Phalacrocoraz auri-
TALS [UOT ACCME)
Great white heron (Ardea _ occiden-
ELDER) a ea oe
Great blue heron (Ardea herodias) —--~
Goliath heron (Ardea goliath) _-----~
American egret (Casmerodius egretta) —
Black-crowned night heron (Nycticorar
nycticoray nevius) ———_-—--_-____—
Boatbill (Cochlearius cochlearius) ———~
White stork (Ciconia ciconia) _-__-----
Black stork (Ciconia nigra) ----------
Marabou stork (Leptoptilus crumenif-
Pie) Hf) pearance
Wood ibis (Mycteria americana) —~----
Sacred ibis (Threskiornis ethiopicus) —
Black-headed ibis (Threskiornis mela-
MOCCDIVOUIUS yore a= ee a
Australian ibis (Threskiornis  stricti-
GHD SS) pans Bs ee ee
White ibis (Guarda atta) === =
Searlet ibis (Guara rubra) ----------

ANSERIFORMES

Crested screamer (Chauna cristata) ~~~
Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) —~~-----
Black duck (Anas rubripes) --_------
Australian black duck (Anas supercili-

ORG) See ee PA ae ee
Gadwall (Chaulelasmus streperus) ~~~
Faleated duck (Hunetta falcata) _----

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

BIRDS

ww

ee 1

oe

bo le

European widgeon (Mareca penelope) —
Baldpate (Mareca americana) ~----~-~-
Green-winged teal (Nettion caroli-

MONUS EC) ate es 2 oS 2 See
Huropean teal (Nettion crecca) —-----
Baikal teal (Nettion formoswm) —_----~
Blue-winged teal (Querquedula_ dis-

COTS) eae _ Se Sees
Garganey (Querquedula querquedula) —
Paradise duck (Casarca variegata) —-~
Shoveller (Spatula clypeata) ~~------_
Pintail) (Dafiila acutayess2. ee
Bahaman pintail (Dajila bahamensis) —
Wood. duck’ (Atv sponsa) 2-2 ES
Mandarin duck (Dendronessa galericu-

fata) ==2--22. =e eee ee
Canvasback (Marila valisineria) __----~
Huropean pochard (Marila ferina)_—_-~
Redhead (Marila americana) __~-~---_-
Ring-necked duck (Marila collaris) ~~~
Tufted duck (WVarila fuligula)—------~-
Lesser scaup duck (Marila affinis) ---~
Greater scaup duck (Marila marila) —-
Rosy-billed pochard (Metopiana pepo-

6ac@) ~~. see neh ee ee ee

$18) jen ie Von ee
Snow goose (Chen hyperboreus) ----_--
Greater snow goose (Chen hyperboreus

NIVGUS)) — ee eee
Blue goose (Chen cerulescens) —~~----~-~
White-fronted goose (Anser albifrons) —
American white-fronted goose (Anser

albifrons gambeli) u-- 222k 2 eee
Bean goose (Anser fabalis) _-_-_-_------
Pink-footed goose (Anser brachyrhyn-

Chasis) 3 eee
Chinese goose (Cygnopsis cygnoides) —-
Bar-headed goose (Hulabeia indica) ~~~
Canada goose (Branta canadensis) _--~
Hutchins’s goose (Branta canadensis

hutehinstiyis . i SoC eee
White-cheeked goose (Branta canaden-

Sistioccidentalis) shat! Rate
Cackling goose (Branta canadensis

mining) 2c Sees See
Brant (Branta bernicla glaucogastra) —
Barnacle goose (Branta lewcopsis) --__-
Museovy duck (Cairina moschata) _-__
Pied goose (Anseranas semipalmata) —
Black-bellied tree duck (Dendrocygna

autunnals) See eee
Eyton’s tree duck (Dendrocygna ey-

toni)! Zoot 2 PP ea eee
Mute swan (Cygnus gibbus)-------~--
Trumpeter swan (Cygnus buccinator) —
Whistling swan (Cygnus columbianus) —
Black swan (Chenopis atrata)_---_-~~

FALCONIFORMES

California condor (Gymnogyps califor-

MAGNUS) eee Ss Se eee
Turkey vulture (Cathartes aura) —----
Black vulture (Coragyps urubu) -----

_
ae OHH OH

a fo
wb oO Ww Ne ade hb bo o BRR ROW OAS

w

10

i) Bre 1m bw

i

Him oo

.
7

a

——
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

King vulture (Sarcoramphus papa) —--
Secretary bird (Sagittarius serpen-

bars) Les C ee ee  EE
Griffon vulture (Gyps fulvus)-------
African black vulture (J'orgos trache-

liotus)
Cinereous

vulture (M#gypius mona-

Wedge-tailed eagle (Uroaétus audag) -
Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaétos)_-_--_-
White-bellied sea eagle (Cuncuma leu-

covasten) ne See eee eee
Bald eagle (Haliwetus leucocephalus
leucocephalia) (24 SU eee ek

Alaskan bald eagle (Haliwetus leuco-

cephalus alascanus) —— 2 Se Se
Bateleur eagle (Helotarsus ecaudatus) —
Broad-winged hawk (Buteo platyp-

Red-tailed hawk (Buteo borealis) _-__-~
Pigmy falcon (Poliohieragw semitorqua-

Fa, FIER) | ha ae i a ta a se el eta eee a
Sparrow hawk (Falco sparverius) _-_-

GALLIFORMES

Panama Curassow (Crax panamen-
Razor-billed curassow (Mitu mitu)_-
Crested guan (Penelope boliviana) ——_
Mexican guan (Ortalis vetula)_-_---
Vulturine guinea fowl (Acryllium vul-

LOEP VLU 1) SS St ears ar Rea Sea Ee EY
Peatow!l (Pavo cristatus) —-_._._...--
Albino peafowl (Pavo cristatus)—--__
Silver pheasant (Gennewus nyctheme-

WAGB Ute oes Ah art De ee
Lady Ambherst’s pheasant (Chrysolo-

UUs OMmbersie)
Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus tor-

quatus)
Hungarian partridge (Perdiz perdiz) _—
Chukar partridge (Alectoris chukar)_—
Valley quail (Lophortyr californica

UGUACOLE DS | haat on AD he 8
Scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) —_
Massena quail (Cyrtonyx montezu-

LOGS See SA eee ee RS eet a ee ee

GRUIFORMES

East Indian gallinule (Porphyrio cal-

wus)
Pukeko (Porphyrio stanleyi)__._____
Black-tailed moor hen (Microtribonyx

ventralis)
American coot .(Fulica americana) ___
Lesser rail (Hypotenidia philippen-

South Island weka rail (Ocydromus
TT TASTS SAAT) ie Stas ie le oan SL eT
Short-winged weka (Ocydromus brach-
Tp TRAE ce TEM Viget, Mees LN pS ath Leet dD
Sandhill crane
1S 7 1 ete ENE i Latte lay Pate a a a ia ee
Little brown crane (Megalornis cana-
PERSIA). oe he a eee ee

NrRwh

White-necked crane (Megalornis leu-

cauchen)
Indian white crane (Megalornis leu-

cogeranus )
Lilford’s crane (Megalornis lilfordi) ——
Australian crane (Mathewsena rubi-

CUR yee Se a
Demoiselle crane (Anthropoides virgo) —
Crowned crane (Balearica pavonina)_
Kagu (Rhynochetos jubatus)________

CHARADRIIFORMES

Ruff (Philomachus pugnar)__-_______
Lapwing (Vanellus vanellus) =.
Yellow-wattled lapwing (Lobivanellus

ING Os Wiesel sariad agit.
South American stone-plover ((C@dic-

nemus bistriatus vocifer) _________
Pacific gull (Gabianus pacificus)____
Great black-backed gull (Larus mari-

Nuss Naehe as) __ tan by fee ives
Herring gull (Larus argentatus)_____
Silver gull (Larus novehollandie) ___
Laughing gull (Larus atricilla) _.-__~
Inca tern (Noddi inca)

toria)

Australian crested pigeon (Ocyphaps-
LODROCES) orore eyes bY oR lee Reser le
Bronze-wing pigeon (Phaps_ chalcop-
COT Vet SI ie rl yas elt pe A el ly

Marquesan dove (Gallicolumba rubdes-

CON BN OS oe ea SOO kA nary bee eal fo
Bleeding-heart dove (Gallicolumba lu-

RONICO) Bae aoe a eg eA 4 oles ve
Wood pigeon (Columba palumbus)____
Mourning dove (Zenaidura macroura) —
Mexican dove (Zenaidura graysoni) __
White-fronted dove (Leptotila fulvi-

ventris brachyptera)____._______. _
Necklaced dove (Spilopelia tigrina) ___
Ringed turtledove (Streptopelia — ri-

Zebra dove (Geopelia Sata) —-= 4
Bar-shouldered dove (Geopelia humer-
CLE) SNES SERIA ATI atin apo)
Inca dove (Scardafelia AOD) > oe,
Cuban ground dove (Chemepelia pas-
Senna. Ofavida) 2 ee

TRC Oa a BOE ek aye ee el a
Superb fruit pigeon (Lamprotreron
euperba)eiaeissse ks Slay al uae
Bronze fruit pigeon (Iuscadivores
@ne@)) 228 iepek i. beeiol font
PSITTACIFORMES

Kea (Nestor notabilis)_.___________
Roseate cockatoo (Kakatoe roseica-

PAL ED) eae POR MORI EES Bee eae
Bare-eyed cockatoo (Kakatoe gym-
CC Fo) ge eat pl ps pe aie gaa
Leadbeater’s toekntoo (Kakatoe lead-
DECTETT enna Sa et enenrahe Seren erie reo pore

White cockatoo (Kakatoe alba)_______
Sulphur-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe
OGleTitG) (a2 Oe aed ie Se ce eee te

99

hoe RH bo
100

Great red-crested cockatoo (Kakatoe

moluccensis)'—.- ==" = = ee
Mexican green macaw (Ara mezi-
CORG) PSs a2 2 Ue CN Se pr

Severe macaw (Ara severa)—-_-_-___

Blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara ara-
PUAUIIAE)) ter oe Seu
Red-and-blue-and-yellow macaw (Ara

NUGCEO) ARs EA PATN Torta aay
Petz’s paroquet (Hupsittula canicu-

CLG SY ca a ce a ts a re Se
Golden-crowned paroquet (Hupsittula
GQUiED)) San ae Be as ee
Weddell’s paroquet (Hupsittula wed-
ellis) <2 Ne tnt SF See ot,

Blue-winged parrotlet (Psittacula pas-
SOPTUON SS ane ete be OS
Golden paroquet (Brotogeris chryso-

Tovi paroquet (Brotogeris jugularis) —

Orange-winged paroquet (Brotogeris
ChAtitt) .22eheeen sun \W Sie
Yellow-naped parrot (Amazona au-
SONALI ata) Leese se en py eee

Mealy parrot (Amdazona farinosa) —---
Orange-winged parrot (Amazona ama-
ZONA ase ee ee ee ee ee
Blue-fronted parrot (Amazona ewstiva) —
Red-crowned parrot (Amazona viri-
digenalis so 4eeer l= era eee Ss
Double yellow-head parrot (Amazona
OT CERI) Sa gO ek
Yellow-headed parrot (Amazona ochro-
Cepiiala) es Oe RS Tie eee
Festive parrot (Amazona festiva)_-_~
Lesser white-fronted parrot (Ama-
zone albifrons nana) —---__-_=-
Santo Domingo parrot (Amazona ven-
tration! U— Sate oe ee
Cuban parrot (Amazona leucocephala) —
Maximilian’s parrot (Pionus wmazi-
ATWELL CA) ATE aE SE sae eee ee ne
Dusky parrot (Pionus fuscus)------_~
Blue-headed parrot (Pionus men-

Meri a) sae LE Ae eee Se
Black-headed caique (Pionites melano-
Cephala) =s22222eeS2 Sel See
Lesser vasa parrot (Coracopsis nigra) —

Greater vasa parrot (Coracopsis
POSG)) vee eee sb Lanne Se
Red-faced love-bird (Agapornis pul-
lariat) pe eee pee eg
Gray-headed love-bird (Agapornis ma-
dagascartensis) 2s a a ae eee
Abyssinian love-bird (Agapornis ta-
LICL) Fe ere me ee
Blue-bonnet paroquet (Psephotus
FEENULLORT ROUG) en ee ee te ee,
Pennant’s paroquet (Platycercus ele-
(HTL) alate ie adem ee Eig ae ret ial eps

King paroquet (Aprosmictus cyanopy-
OTN oe ea ee Bae De en pe

Re bh

13

Oo

eo

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Crimson-winged paroquet (Aprosmic-
tus,.erythropterus))_2 = 4-22 ae
Ring-necked paroquet (Conurus torqua-
E008) = ole 2 eR eee a! es eee

S18) ee ee
CUS) > ee eevee se

CUCULIFORMES

Donaldson’s touraco (Turacus donald-
80ND) a eee ne nt Soe

CORACITFORMES

Giant kingfisher (Dacelo gigas) --_----
Groove-billed toucanet (Aulacorham-
DIVUS I SULCOTUS)) a a ees
Malayan wreathed hornbill (Rhytido-
COV OST Un Gules) = ee eee ee
Morepork owl (Spiloglauz noveseelan-
Oe)! S222 ee eee
Barred owl’ (Striz varia) —--_.------_
Florida barred owl (Striz varia al-

Snowy owl (Nyctea nyctea) _-__-----~
Sereech owl (Otus asio)----___----
Great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) —
Eagle owl (Bubo buwbo) -2---~------_=
American barn owl (TJ'yto alba pratin-

cola) ~~ Shee SiGe oe ee
Red-shafted flicker (Colaptes cafer col-

PASSERIFORMES

Cock of the rock (Rupicola rupicola)_—
Silver-eared hill-tit (Mesia argentau-

Red-billed hill-tit (Liothriz luteus) —--~~-
Black-gorgeted laughing thrush (G@ar-
rulax’ pectoralis))_—— 2 eee
White-eared bulbul (Otocompsa leuco-
fis SHO) eh eee
Red-eared bulbul (Otocompsa jocosa)-—
Black-headed bulbul (Molpastes he-
morrhous yt oe ee ee ees
Piping crow-shrike (Gymnorhina tibi-
C@n) 2- 2222-2 Sates eee eee
European raven (Corvus corar) —------
American raven (Corvus coraz sinua-
tus) 22282 ste eee eee
Australian crow (Corvus coronoides)_—
American crow (Corvus brachyrhyn-
CHOS)) 2 Sees eee
American magpie
SONAD): 2 a et Dc
Yucatan jay (Cissilopha yucatanica) —
Blue jay (Cyanocitta cristata) ---_----
Green jay (Xanthoura luruosa) —_--~--
Laysan finch (Velespyza cantans)—--~
Blue honey-creeper (Cyanerpes cya-
NeUS) ia aa ne
Blue-winged tanager (7anagra cyanop-
terG) 23 Soe oe ee

HM Omeh ae

ay

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

Blue tanager (Thraupis cana) —-~------
Giant whydah (Diatropura progne)--
Paradise whydah (Steganura paradi-

Sea) sates Ea ae
Shaft-tailed whydah (Tetrenura regia) -
Napoleon weaver (Pyromelana afra) —-
Red-billed weaver (Quelea quelea)-—--
Buffalo weaver (Textor albirostris) ——
Madagascar weaver (Foudia madagas-

COTiCNsis) joes ena a a ek
St. Helena waxbill (Hstrilda as-
Crile eee ee
Rosy-rumped waxbill (Hstrilda rhodo-
PY GAD) ware re re
Nutmeg finch (Munia punctulata) —---
White-headed nun (Munia maja)_---~
Black-headed nun (Munia _ atrica-
DAU) es ee a a ee
Chestnut-breasted finch (Munia cast-
ONCItHOTOD) (22S So

Java finch (Munia oryzivora) —_-------
Masked grassfinch (Poéphila perso-
CEL AU) ent: ela ace ep neh «+ ena OS, Boece ee Ae
Black-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila
COuUlmiGy o 5-2 == ee
Red-faced Gouldian finch (Poéphila
MiP Gottee) = = SS
Diamond finch (Steganopleura gut-
ALLO) i is kee
Zebra finch (Teniopygia castanotis) —_
Cutthroat finch (Amadina fasciata) __-
Red-headed finch (Amadina erythro-

CHES OAT) A eS Se a ee eed
Yellow-headed marsh-bird (Agelaius
ECRETOCEDRUIUS) == 2a 2 e= Se ce

Alligator (Alligator mississipiensis) _-
Tuatera (Sphenodon punctata) —--_-_~
Horned toad (Phrynosoma cornutum) —
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum)_—
Beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum)-
Gould’s monitor (Varanus gouldii) ---
Philippine monitor (Varanus_ salva-

Alligator lizard (Dracena guianensis) —
Rock python (Python molurus) _-_-__-
Regal pytaon (Python reticulatus) —--_
Anaconda (Hunectes muwrinus)—---_--
Boa constrictor (Constrictor constric-

Ui? 7) ie Oe. 2 Se AE Pee ener eee eee
Cuban boa (Epicrates angulifer) _-____
Brazilian tree-boa (Hpicrates crassus) —
Black snake (Coluber constrictor) ~~
Chicken snake (Hlaphe quadrivittata) —
Corn snake (Hlaphe guttata)-----_--_
Pine snake (Pituophis melanoleucus) —
Water snake (Natriz sipedon) —--__--
Cordate pit-viper (Bothrops alterna-

Fer-de-lance (Bothrops lanceolatus) ~~~
Florida rattlesnake (Crotalus adaman-
Feta) i= Spe eee ee ee sey ch We!) os of
Western diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus
EV OD Ee RE? SA LIEN) EER

oe

oe ee bo

9

mee ore bo rp

wee ee

Wehr hte hk

Australian gray jumper (Struthidea

CUICT CO) 25 oe ee ee
Starling (Sturnus vulgaris) ----~--_~
Shining starling (Lamprocorax metal-

UTE), Oe Sees Sener ope ere Sees eee oe SR Pe
Malay grackle (Gracula javana) —-----
Bare-jawed troupial (Gymnomystagv

melanicterus) ——.—— == See
Hooded oriole (Jcterus cucullatus) --_~
Yellow-tailed oriole (Icterus mesome-

DAS) Fee ee a a
Purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) ~~~
Greenfinch (Chloris chloris) ---_--__~
European goldfinch (Oarduelis  car-

CALC LER) se ee ee ee oe ee
Brambling (Ffringilla montifringilla) ——
Yellowhammer (Hmberiza citrinella)_—
House finch (Carpodacus megicanus

PROUCOLES)) poe se ee ee
San Lucas house finch (Carpodacus

mexicanus ruberrimus) ——~.-~-_-__~
Canary (Serinus canarius)__.__.___--
Gray singing finch (Serinus leucopyg-

HULLS Vi ates a ae ce a ee eee ee
Gay’s finch (Phrygilus gayi) ---------~
White-throated sparrow (Zonotrichia

ALOTCOLLE ST) hE a ae SS Wa eed ee
San Diego song sparrow (Melospiza

melodia “coopert) === — ===" 2- Se
Saffron finch (Sicalis flaveola)_______
Seed eater (Sporophila gutturalis) ____
Blue grosbeak (Guiraca cerulea)_--~~
Red-crested cardinal (Paroaria cucul-

COt0) et Ed ee eh ae 28

REPTILES

Banded rattlesnake (Crotalus horri-

(Chelydra  serpen-

Musk turtle (Sternotherus odoratus)_—
Mexican musk turtle (Kinosternon
SONOTDENSE) "So a= 3 Soe ak Be a
South American musk turtle (Kinos-
ternon. scorpioides).————=——-— 54.8
Pennsylvania musk turtle (Kinoster-
nom eubrubrum) eso St ea
Wood turtle (Clemmys insculpta) —__~
Leprous terrapin (Clemmys leprosa) —~
European pond turtle (Hmys orbicu-
Page)! A EY A Ek Th
South American terrapin (Nicoria
punctularia) 2222 2 iL ey
South African turtle (Homopus areo-
LLCS) oe en Ae ee ee
Reeves turtle (Geoclemys reevesi) __--
Loochoo turtle (Geoemyda spengleri) —
Painted turtle (Chrysemys picta)—---~
Western painted turtle (Chrysemys
Wel) ae ba eee eer oe tt A
Central American cooter (Pseudemys
CENA he ee | eee RPE EN ALAR ot

101

© om 6 bo

bo

ee

i
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Gopher tortoise (Gopherus  poly- African tortoise (Testudo hermanni) — 1
DLONAUS)) asco s rre eare e 2 | Angulated tortoise (Testudo  an-
Dunean Island tortoise (Testudo Gulitta) ee see Get “ee 1
ephippiun)” .orr i eas ses eee 1 | South African tortoise (Y'estudo sp.) 2
Indefatigable Island tortoise (Testudo Chicken turtle (Deirochelys  reticu-
portent) os Corie Bae ee il CORTE) LS See spre AY 9) ence aie ee 1
Albemarle Island tortoise (Testudo BATRACHIANS
VIENNA) = Oa eee 2
South American tortoise (Vestudo den- Giant salamander (Megalobatrachus
ticulate@) soe 1 japonicus) 222 e oS i 4 Se 2

Statement of the collection

a peg
am- ; an
alk Birds hatras Total
| chians
DEF sis 0a5 4 =) 6 Wied p ae aie tel teal a elie Daas ke Ned he oe 25 69 55 149
Born and hatehed in National Zoological Park____._..--___---- 39 42 22 103
Received in OxChanger snc. orc < amet wertewe ete prey eC 2 Al Rn 4 13 4 21
d Sb ae) 0: 0212) 6 Reperapeerl ania ie aa pg NL ales Lok Oo Re ee 24 90 | 9 | 123
Transferred from other Government departments_-_____-_-----_- 10 42 1 53
Deposited 22 Cus: eae wee ee een ete oer eee Serene eM 2a 10 5 | 15 30
|
112 261 106 479
|
SUMMARY
Animalssonvhand juliyuly dons a faa 0 SE a ee eee 1, 620
PAC CESSI ON SHCNIEI Skt ERY Co rite eer 212 NE Ls ole hE ee Eley ln he ee 479
Total-animais handled]. twigs [0 te! Ames eo ha eee 2, 099
Deduct loss (by death, return of animals, and exchange) —__--_---______- 480
1, 619
Status of collection
* Individ-
Species us
IMagrmimisiss 70 Us CP Ca sea Ra Pe see ETAT RPS Aes Fe ST 1s BIR Pe TO 178 461
HSV of 0 kegel NL 2 P,P doe A ae ae ee eee ulate 291 1, 042
Reptiles‘and: Datraeh iss ks ae eh ee OA A Do ee 48 116
MO tal cee Leh / mae, 2) ad Peat abet 517 1,619

Examination of the list of animals shows that the collection is
now weak in large and important forms; and, taking into considera-
tion, further, the fact that many of those still included are very old,
it is evident that greater expenditure for new stock must be made
in the near future if the park is to keep its place among the principal
zoological collections of the country.

VISITORS

The attendance record as determined by daily estimate was slightly
less than that of 1925, but exceeded the attendance of any other
previous year.

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 103

The attendance by months was as follows:

SR ye eee: ee ee ee ne A ee ee ee ee ae ee 231, 754
SAI OES Gt SEAL AES SEITE SI SEE) EMR OEMS Ae ee a ae 357, 300
Sentenineiy eat eb ees ee 98 es ee 2 tye gl 249, 600
(QT tite ee ee Eee Se Es 8 ee es ee ee es Sener? ae 108, 000
INCh Cale) ese So Boe SEA oe ee ed ee ee es en eee! ean 138, 300
I DYES TA Oy a aot ARS RO ke ae NO RA Ee a 79, 925
SPRUE REEMA as ie aah ph a aw etn yt ea a SE eae dE de abn 68, 200
LSS GWU O EN a I a ee Rie Sy a Se 112, 825
WS WeCE SY bs cee Si OM Ey OR ig ols are glk ae Sid Bag pda be oe BY eee ee Sy 147, 950
AN| OY eA WS SES Ss eee a en ee ee ee ee ee eee ee 397, 300
INTER 72 = ape se Mbt otar en sa NAS htecerc 5 Aileen RES toy seated cies) Seat Wet Saleen saber se Retiae 343, 500
syiUnnereen seek SlAR «NDS OM INDE CLE . AG SOL hg a 2838, 250

ANG BTI TSR OO eh he ee eee ee ee eee 2, 512, 900

Schools, classes, and similar organizations, recorded among the
visitors, number 309, with a total of 24,309 individuals. Schools
came from points as far distant as Maine and Illinois.

IMPROVEMENTS

The necessity of making extensive repairs to buildings and other
structures and to roads, during the year, allowed only a small
expenditure to be made for new work.

A new toilet building for men was constructed near the Adams
Mill Road entrance to replace one which had become inadequate and
unfit for use.

The boundary fence of the park was rebuilt for a distance of about
1,360 feet.

A new drainage system for the cages and walks on the south side
of the lion house was put in and 300 feet of large pipe laid to connect
it with the main sewer, the original drain being now altogether
inadequate.

The roadway from Adams Mill Road entrance to and around the
administration building was rebuilt, with some modification to pro-
vide a better grade.

A large amount of repair to roofs was done during the early part
of the year, the felt with which they are covered having deteriorated
with age. Several of the buildings, especially the bird house, leaked
badly.

Grading was begun along the new western boundary of the park,
near Cathedral Avenue. The highway which forms the boundary
there had been excavated in connection with building operations on
adjacent land, leaving for several hundred feet along the park line
an abrupt bank 10 to 30 feet high. A survey of the region showed
that at least 9,000 cubic yards must be cut from the bank to make
a slope that would be permanent, while considerably more excavation
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

would be required in order to make the land suitable for the purposes
of the park. By cooperating with the Office of Public Buildings
and Public Parks, which needed the excavated material for fill along
the new Rock Creek drive, it was possible to do a considerable
amount of grading at comparatively small cost to the park. It is
hoped that the grading can be completed within the next year, so
that the fence can be established on the new boundary line.

UNIFORMS FOR POLICE

A provision of the appropriation act made available the sum of
$1,000 during the year for furnishing uniforms to the policemen
of the park. This makes it possible to maintain a standard of per-
sonal appearance that could not well be required of such employees
when compelled to equip themselves.

Tt is highly desirable that similar provision be made for keepers.
In caring for the animals they are brought into contact with the
public to a considerable extent, are often called on for information,
and at times have to caution and restrain visitors. They should
therefore be distinctly recognizable as belonging to the personnel
of the park.

BIRD HOUSE

For several years past attention has been called in each successive
report to the urgent need of a suitable building in which to exhibit
the collection of birds. It is a great satisfaction therefore to note
that the appropriation act for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1927,
carries an item of $49,000 for beginning the construction of such a
building, and authorizes the making of contracts for it to a total
cost not exceeding $102,000. This is for the house only, and the
cages, interior and exterior, which it is estimated will cost $25,000,
are to be provided for in a subsequent appropriation.

A scheme of arrangement for the new building was proposed by
the late Mr. Howland Russell, a well known architect, and final
plans on which contract may be based at the present writing are
being made in the office of Mr. A. L. Harris, the municipal architect
of the District of Columbia. The first appropriation is contemplated
to permit necessary excavation, and construction of the foundation
and walls. It is planned to begin construction in the spring of 1927
so that the entire building may be finished that year with the addi-
tional appropriation for its completion estimated in the appropria-
tion bill for this coming year. The completion of such a building

will be hailed by all with the greatest satisfaction, for the present

structure is antiquated, unfitted for modern needs, and in such bad
repair that it is difficult to keep it in proper condition to house ex-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 105

hibits. 'The new building will give opportunity to form a collection
of living birds worthy of a national organization. The interest
of the District Commissioners in its development is greatly ap-
preciated.

RADIO TALKS

The popular appreciation of the Smithsonian series of radio talks
having brought a request in March, 1925, for a second course, it was
thought that the wide interest taken by the public in the National
Zoological Park made that a suitable starting point for a series of
nature talks. Accordingly such a series was planned and given
under the title “Radio Nature Talks from the National Zoological
Park.” Thirty-one talks were given between October 3 and May 22,
through the cooperation of station WRC. Each opened with a brief
statement of current news of the park, usually by the director, who
then introduced the speaker of the evening. A 15-minute talk fol-
lowed on some subject related to the work of the park. The 23
speakers who participated were mainly from the several bureaus of
the Smithsonian Institution and the United States Department of
Agriculture, but several others also contributed. It is expected that
the series will be resumed in September.

The program for the year was as follows:

October 3, 1925: Introduction to the Zoo and to Doctor Mann, by Mr. Austin H.
Clark. The nature and purpose of this series of talks, by Dr. William M. Mann.

October 10, 1925: Zoo notes and answers to questions, by Dr. William M.
Mann. The Gorilla at Home, by Mr. C. R. Aschemeier, National Museum.

October 17, 1925: Zoo notes and answers to questions, by Dr. William M.
Mann. Giant Tortoises, by Miss Doris M. Cochran, National Museum.

October 24, 1925: Behind the cages at the Zoo, by Dr. William M. Mann.

October 31, 1925: What a small boy wants to know about the Zoo; a dialogue
between Master Hugh U. Clark of the Cook School and Dr. William M. Mann.

November 7, 1925: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. The Musk Ox at
Home, by Mr. Edward A. Preble, Biological Survey. ;

November 14, 1925: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. Our Autumn Birds,
by Mr. Frederick C. Lincoln, Biological Survey.

November 21, 1925: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. Howlers and
Spider Monkeys, by Maj. Hdward A. Goldman, Biological Survey.

November 28, 1925: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. The Reptiles of the
District of Columbia, by Mr. Maurice K. Brady.

December 5, 1925: Collecting living Animals in South America, by Dr.
William M. Mann.

December 12, 1925: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. Whales, by Mr.
Austin H. Clark, Smithsonian Institution.

December 19, 1925: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. Our Winter Birds,
by Mr. Clarence R. Shoemaker, National Museum.

December 26, 1925: Parrots at Home, by Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant
secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

January 9, 1926: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. The Natural History
of Paradise Key, Fla., by Dr. Thomas . Snyder, Bureau of Entomology.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

January 16, 1926: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. The Bears of
Okefinokee Swamp, by Dr. Francis Harper, secretary of the Boston Society of
Natural History (read by Mr. Austin H. Clark). This talk was received in
exchange through the courtesy of Mr. Thornton W. Burgess and stations WBZ
at Springfield and WBZA at Boston, Mass.

January 23, 1926: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. Bird Life in
Kamchatka, by Mr. Austin H. Clark, Smithsonian Institution.

January 30, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. Bird Life in Venezuela,
by Mr. Austin H. Clark, Smithsonian Institution.

February 13, 1926: The Origin of the Harth, by Prof. Harlow Shapley,
director of the Harvard College Observatory (read by Mr. Edward B. Husing
of the staff of station WRC). This talk was given through the courtesy of
Professor Shapley and station WEEI, Boston.

February 20, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. Experiences in
South America, by Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, National Museum.

February 27, 1926: Announcement of the Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition
to Tanganyika Territory, by Dr. William M. Mann. Hunting Bighorns with a
Camera, by Dr. Vernon L. Kellogg, secretary, National Research Council.

March 18, 1926: Zoo notes, by Dr. William M. Mann. Winter Butterflies, by
Mr. Austin H. Clark, Smithsonian Institution. Farewell address by Dr. Mann.

March 20, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. Some Animals of Tan-
ganyika Territory, by Mr. A. Brazier Howell, Biological Survey.

March 27, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. The Educational Value
of the Zoo, by Dr. Frank W. Ballou, superintendent of public schools, Washing-
ton, D. C.

April 10, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. Toads, by Dr. Remington
Kellogg, Biological Survey.

April 17, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. My Trip to Africa for
Animals, by Mr. Arthur B. Baker, acting director, National Zoological Park.

April 22, 1926: Reading, by Mr. Austin H. Clark, of a letter from Dr. William
M. Mann which was written on board the steamer Llanstephan Castle and
posted at Marseille.

May 1, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. Ferns, by Dr. William R.
Maxon, National Museum.

May 8, 1926: Zoo notes. Our giant Moths, by Mr. Austin H. Clark, Smith-
sonian Institution.

May 15, 1926. Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. The American Bison, by
Dr. Edward W. Nelson, Biological Survey.

May 22, 1926: Reading, by Mr. Austin H. Clark, of a letter from Dr. William
M. Mann which was written on board the steamer Lilanstephan Castle and
posted at Aden. The Mammals of the District of Columbia, by Dr. Vernon
Bailey, Biological Survey.

May 29, 1926: Zoo notes, by Mr. Austin H. Clark. Birds of the Chaco of
Argentina, by Dr. Alexander Wetmore, assistant secretary, Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

SMITHSONIAN-CHRYSLER AFRICAN EXPEDITION

The absence at the park of certain large and important African
animals that are usually considered essential to a zoological collection,
was brought by the director to the attention of Mr. Walter P.
Chrysler, automobile manufacturer. He became interested and
agreed to finance an expedition to Africa to secure some of the ani-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 107

mals needed. ‘Tanganyika Territory, in eastern Africa, which
seemed to afford the best conditions, was selected as the field of opera-
tions and an expedition was organized and equipped which left New
York March 20, in charge of Dr. W. M. Mann, director of the park.
Just at the close of the year a report was received of the first opera-
tions in the field and the securing of some valuable animals.

Respectfully submitted.

A. B. Barer,
Acting Director.
Dr. CHartes D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Str: The Astrophysical Observatory was conducted under the

following passage of the independent offices appropriation act ap-
proved March 3, 1925:

Astrophysical Observatory: For maintenance of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, including assistants,
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, apparatus, making necessary
observations in high altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings and mis-
cellaneous expenses, $31,180, of which amount not to exceed $26,840 may be
expended for personal services in the District of Columbia.

The observatory occupies a number of frame structures within
an inclosure of about 16,000 square feet south of the Smithsonian
udministration building at Washington, and a cement observing sta-
tion and frame cottage for observers on a plot of 10,000 square feet
leased from the Carnegie Solar Observatory on Mount Wilson, Calif.
Since October, 1925, the observatory building on Mount Harqua
Hala, which we have occupied since 1920, has been closed because the
work has been removed to Table Mountain, Calif. By the generosity
of Mr. John A. Roebling, a tunnel for instruments, a dwelling for
the field director, a shop, and a garage have been constructed at
the new site. A dwelling for the assistant is also contemplated
within Mr. Roebling’s grant.

During the year the Astrophysical Observatory has assumed part
of the cost of the maintenance of the observing station at Monte-
zuma, Chile, which was erected in 1920, with means furnished by
Mr. Roebling. The constructions there comprise a tunnel for instru-
ments, a dwelling, shop, and garage, and a telephone line 12 miles
to Calama.

The present value of the buildings and equipment for the Astro-
physical Observatory owned by the Government is estimated at
$50,000. This estimate contemplates the cost required to replace
the outfit for the purposes of the investigation.

WORK OF THE YEAR

A new station—The National Geographic Society, having become
interested in our efforts to obtain an accurate series of measurements
of the variation of solar radiation, made a grant in March, 1925, of

108

|

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 109

$55,000 to be expended by Dr. C. G. Abbot for the following
purposes :

1. To select the best location in the Eastern Hemisphere for a
solar-radiation station to cooperate with the two now operated by
the Astrophysical Observatory for the measurement of solar
variation.

2. To equip the station selected.

3. To send an expedition to be known as the National Geographic
Society Solar-Radiation Expedition Cooperating with the Smith-
sonian Institution to continue solar-radiation observations as long
as the grant permits, estimated at four years.

In furtherance of this project, Mr. W. H. Hoover, hitherto direc-
tor of the Argentine solar-radiation observatory at La Quiaca, and
Mr. F. A. Greeley, hitherto assistant at Harqua Hala and at Monte-
zuma, were engaged as director and assistant for the new station.
Apparatus was ordered, and Mr. Andrew Kramer, instrument maker
to the Astrophysical Observatory, was transferred to construction
work under the National Geographic Society’s grant. Mr. Aldrich
undertook the finer work of constructing galvanometer, pyrheliom-
eter, bolometer, and pyranometer parts, and of standardizing them
as well as oversight over the preparations.

Doctor Abbot went abroad to Algeria, Egypt, Baluchistan, and
South West Africa to select the location. Preference was given to
the Brukkaros Mountain in South West Africa (Jong. 17°-48’ E., lat.
25° 52’ S.). This is an isolated cup-shaped peak 5,002 feet in ele-
vation, rising precipitously from a level plateau of 3,000 feet eleva-
tion. The average yearly rainfall in the vicinity is 314 inches. A
Hottentot reservation surrounds the mountain, and the nearest town
is Berseba, 7 miles south, where there are only two white inhabitants,
the others Hottentot. Supplies would come from Keetmanshoop, 60
miles distant by auto. Water in small but sufficient quantity is
found on Mount Brukkaros.

The construction is undertaken by the public-works department of
South West Africa under Mr. A. Dryden, inspector. It is proposed
to have a tunnel for instruments, a small dwelling for observers, a
shop, a reservoir, and garage. Wire telephones will be installed by
the Government of South West Africa and rented to the expedition.
Work was begun in April and it was hoped to send the expedition
in early autumn.

Though so isolated, the location is in other respects very promising.
The average rainfall of only 314 inches occurs as a rule one-third in
February, one-third in March, and the rest scattering. Doctor
Abbot was in the vicinity 12 days in March, of which 11 would have
been favorable for observing. If this is characteristic of the rainy
season, it promises well for the year as a whole. It is also favorable
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

that the greatest cloudiness comes in the months of February and
March, rather than December and January, as is the case in the two
American stations. Good months may be expected in Africa when
the poorest observing weather occurs in America. The clearness of
the sky in that part of South West Africa is extraordinary, and the
wind velocity is usually very low.

New station at Table Mountain, Calif—Actual experience over —
five years at Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz., has proved less satisfactory
than was expected. Although the number of days when it was possi-
ble to observe averaged above 70 per cent, there were many months
when most of the days were extremely hazy. Especially is this apt
to occur in June, July, August, and early September, months when
in former years we were accustomed to obtain excellent conditions at
Mount Wilson. These unfortunate conditions required the discard-
ing of many observations made at Harqua Hala. Though recently
means have been found, as will be explained below, to minimize this
disadvantage, yet it was very unfavorable to the morale of the ob-
servers to be required to stay in so extremely isolated a spot, and yet
to know that the results in some parts of the year were not as good
as might have been obtained in very much more agreeable living
conditions.

After consulting all available records, and after having special
observations made during the autumn, winter, and spring months,
it was decided that Table Mountain in California (long. 117° 41’ W.,
lat. 84° 23’ N., alt. 7,500 feet) would be preferable at all times of
the year from the point of view of the sky conditions. Its excellent
status for summer was well known already, because it lies only 30
miles away and almost in sight from Mount Wilson, where the sum-
mer observations of Messrs. Abbot and Aldrich for many years were
reliable guides. As for comfort of the observers, Table Mountain is
remarkable, for it lies near a good auto road, only four hours from
Los Angeles, and is in a grove of great pine trees, forming part of
the Los Angeles County Park. A store and amusement hall are with-
in a mile, and many cottages are still nearer.

Mr. John A. Roebling added to his generous gifts a sufficient sum
to defray costs of construction of road, tunnel-shaped observatory, a
cottage for director, a second cottage for assistant, a shop, garage, and
other accessories. The members of the board of supervisors of Los
Angeles County were exceedingly helpful and cordial, especially in
their approval of the sole occupancy of a site within the park for
the observatory, in constructing an auto road and water service to
connect with existing roads and reservoirs at Camp McClellan, and
in cooperating with the Smithsonian Institution in erecting a tele-
phone line to connect with the outside world.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 1h

Mr. A. F. Moore, field director at Harqua Hala and Table Moun-
tain, designed and superintended all the construction, the removal
from Harqua Hala, and the installation at the new site. He, him-
self, did no small share of the actual labor involved. Since October,
1925, the observations have been going on regularly at Table Moun-
tain. The high quality of the sky conditions has been found to
amply justify the removal, and despite an unusually stormy spring
in that part of the United States, the number of observing days
- thus far has kept on a par with the average of five years at Harqua
Hala.

From the beginning of the work at the new station, the methods
of observing and reduction have been put in the most complete accord
with latest experience and with those employed at Montezuma.
Furthermore, as it had been found that on very hazy days the bright-
ness of the sky around the sun contributed an amount not negligible
to the reading of the pyrheliometers, there were substituted on those
instruments new vestibules of four times the former length. In this
way the cone of sky, as seen from the sensitive part of the instru-
ment, is cut down from a diameter of 10° to a diameter of 314°. Had
this improvement been devised and made in 1920 a good many now
worthless observations made at Harqua Hala might have been saved.

Montezuma station.—When, in the year 1924, Mr. Roebling in-
formed the Institution that he felt that his part in developing
the solar radiation work should be ended with June 30, 1925, it was
necessary to procure other support, or abandon the Chilean observa-
tory. Accordingly, letters were prepared asking the National
Academy of Sciences, the Chief of the United States Weather
Bureau, and the director of the meteorological office of the Air
Ministry of Great Britain whether in their judgment the public
value of the observations warranted asking for sufficient increase of
the governmental appropriation for the Astrophysical Observatory
to carry on the Montezuma station.

President Michelson of the National Academy of Sciences ap-
pointed a committee consisting of Dr. W. W. Campbell, chairman,
Dr. R. A. Millikan, and Dr. G. N. Lewis, to consider the matter.
Their report, which was unanimously adopted by the Academy,
follows:

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES,
Washington, D. C., April 30, 1924.
Prof. A. A. MICHELSON,
President National Academy of Sciences,
Washington, D. C.

Dear Siz: Your committee, charged with the duty of considering the proposed
program of the Smithsonian Institution for measuring the heat radiations of
the sun, begs to present the following report:
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Dr. C. G. Abbot, Director of the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smith-
sonian Institution, several years ago made the notable discovery that the
intensity of the heat received by the earth from the sun varies in remarkable
extent and manner. Through the last two years, beginning with February,
1922, the sun’s heat radiations to the earth have been continuously subnormal.
The consequences of this deficiency in heat received can not be predicted at
this time, but the general subject is undoubtedly one of great importance. We
regard it as a national duty and a national opportunity that the observations
be continued for a long time to come, and certainly through two complete sun-
spot cycles of 11 years each.

The principal stations for securing these observations have been located

at points noted for their pure skies and their very great number of clear days
in the year: At Mount Harqua Hala in Arizona, in the Northern Hemisphere,
and at Montezuma in Chile, in the Southern Hemisphere.
The observing station in Chile has been operating successfully since August,
1918, but funds are not in sight to continue its activities beyond July, 1925.
For the reasons briefly stated above, this committee recommends that the
National Academy of Sciences advise and request the National Government,
through the Director of the Bureau of the Budget and the Appropriation Com-
mittees of Congress, to make financial provision for maintaining the Smithso-
nian Institution’s Observatory in Chile without interruption of service.
Respectfully submitted,
GILBERT N. LEWIS,
R. A. MILLIKAN,
W. W. CAMPBELL, Chairman.

Tn transmitting it to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
President Michelson himself wrote:

NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES,
June 5, 1924.

My Dear Mr. Secretary: Your communication of April 12, 1924, and that of
the assistant secretary of the Institution in regard to funds for the mainte-
nance after July, 1925, of the Chilean observatory under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution were referred to a special committee of the National
Academy of Sciences, and I am inclosing, for your information and such use
as you may desire to make of it, a copy of the report presented by that commit-
tee and approved by the academy.

It will be noted that this report recommends that the National Academy of
Sciences “advise and request the National Government, through the Director
of the Bureau of the Budget and the Appropriation Committees of Congress, to
make financial provision for maintaining the Smithsonian Institution’s observ-
atory in Chile without interruption of service.’ Assuming that the Smith-
sonian Institution will communicate direct with the Bureau of the Budget, the
academy will take no further action unless you find that it can serve you fur-
ther in the matter.

The value of knowing the variations in heat available from solar radia-
tion to the earth can not be overestimated. I am glad that the academy has
been given this opportunity to aid in your efforts to secure funds from Congress
for the purpose, and hope that your efforts in this direction will be successful.

Very respectfully yours,
A. A. MicHetson, President.

Hon. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.

ee a

I )

ee he” ep ee
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY bs

Professor Marvin, Chief of the United States Weather Bureau,
replied:
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF, WEATHER BUREAU,
Washington, April 28, 1924.
Dr. CHARLES G. ABBOT,
Assistant Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.

Dear Doctor Apsot: Replying to your letter of the 12th instant, I am very
glad of the opportunity of expressing my views regarding the desirability of
continuing the solar radiation station at Montezuma, Chile, after July, 1925.

When we remember that without the heat and light received from the sun, life
on the earth would be impossible, it becomes evident that any facts that can be
established relative to the sun, and especially as to the rate at which it radiates
heat and light to the earth, are of fundamental importance.

With reference to the work of the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smith-
sonian Institution, I have already made the following statement in the Monthly
Weather Review for March, 1920, page 150:

“The solar radiation investigations conducted by Doctor Abbot constitute a
monumental research of the highest possible order and command only the
admiration of all. * * * The whole question of short and long period solar
variability, and the terrestrial response thereto in terms of weather, is obvi-
ously one of great importance to applied meteorology and to science generally.
It is very necessary, therefore, that the splendid observational work done by the
Astrophysical Observatory be generously supported and extended.”

At this point I would like to say emphatically that I consider the systematic
and continuous observation of the intensity of solar radiation to be of basic
and fundamental importance, and I think it is a mistake to try to justify these
observations on the ground that they will enable us to improve the forecasting
of the weather from day to day. We do not know as yet what may be the
ultimate practical value of the knowledge to be gained by a long series of
observations, but the collection of the observations is necessary because the data
constitute important facts of a fundamental, scientific character, and are pretty
certain ultimately to have important practical applications to the welfare of
man. The basic research is fully justified on its own merits, leaving the practi-
cal application of the information gained to be developed in the future.

For the determination of the law of the variability of solar radiation continu-
ous observations are required for a long period of years at two or more stations
as widely separated as possible. The stations of the Astrophysical Observatory
at Montezuma, Chile, and on Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz., seem tc be admirably
adapted for this observational work, and the observatory staff has the requisite
skill and experience to handle the delicate apparatus required and make the
necessary complicated reductions. The small sum required to maintain the
station at Montezuma, now that it is equipped, will in my opinion be money
well invested.

Very truly yours,
C. F. Marvin, Chief of Bureau.

Doctor Simpson, director of the Meteorological Office of the Air
Ministry of Great Britain, replied:

METEOROLOGICAL OFFICE, AIR MINISTRY,
ADASTRAL HOUSE, KINGSWAY,
London, W. C. 2, May 14, 1924.
DeEsR Doctor Appot: I have received your letter dated April 12 asking for
my opinion regarding the desirability of maintaining the Montezuma solar
station after July, 1925.
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Surely on this matter there can be no two opinions. The fluctuations in the
amount of radiation emitted by the sun, which you and your collaborators
have demonstrated, are of such fundamental importance to astronomical, geo-
physical, and meteorological science that I can not imagine scientific opinion
resting satisfied unless arrangements are made for observing and recording
these fluctuations. That we are not able at the moment to apply the knowl-
edge gained to clearly demonstrated, practical, and economical purposes does
not weigh at all with scientific opinion. If astronomical research is a fit sub-
ject for the expenditure of money, the branch of astronomy concerned with
the variation of solar radiation can not be allowed to suffer for want of funds.
I realize that this view is open to the attack that if the work is of so much
importance to the rest of the world why should America be called upon to
provide all the funds. My only reply is that, in the existing state of the world,
if America does not supply the funds the work will cease. This is a fact
and must be recognized as such.

There is still the question as to the necessity for two stations. Past experi-
ence affords the best answer to this question. When you first observed the
large fluctuations they were so contrary to general expectation that they could
not be credited until they had been confirmed by entirely separate ob-
servations, taken under largely different climatic conditions. The simultaneous
observations at Montezuma and Harqua Hala have demonstrated the reality
of the changes.

In the future when other changes are investigated, especially the smaller
day to day changes, the same desire for confirmation will be felt if only one
station is in operation. I, therefore, think that it will be a great loss to science,
to civilization itself, if the Montezuma station is closed before another equally
good station is established to check the observations made in Arizona.

Yours sincerely,
G. C. Srmpson.

Although disallowed by the Bureau of the Budget, the increase
was favorably acted upon by the Congress. Hence from and after
July 1, 1925, the salaries and part of the other expenses of Monte-
zuma Observatory have been carried on the Astrophysical Observa-
tory appropriation. The costs of maintenance of the solar radiation
work as a whole are still supplemented to the extent of about $5,000
per annum from the income of the Hodgkins fund of the endowment
of the Smithsonian Institution.

As heretofore the daily solar constant values from Montezuma
have been received at Washington by cable. Until December 31,
1925, they were forwarded daily to Mr. H. H. Clayton at Canton,
Mass., to promote his studies of the dependence of weather on solar
variation. Beginning January 1, 1926, at the request of the Chief
of the United States Weather Bureau, the solar constant data have
been published upon the daily weather map. Also they have been
furnished to Science Service, and, whenever requested, to the tele-
graph companies in accordance with the following announcement:

Beginning January 1, 1926, the Smithsonian Institution will furnish gratis
through the United States Weather Bureau, through either of the telegraph

companies, or through the Associated Press, or Science Service, if any or all
of these organizations shall request it for the use of their clients, daily or 10-

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 115

day mean values of the solar constant of radiation as early and as frequently
as results are available from its field stations in Chile and California. In
general, results are available about 24 hours after the field observations. The
Institution declines, however, to furnish regularly data of this kind to in-
dividuals who may request them, since this would be in the nature of dis-
crimination as between citizens, and, besides, too burdensome for the Institu-
tion’s staff.

Hitherto the values sent out daily have been stated to be “ Pre-
liminary.” Since October, 1925, they have come from Montezuma
alone. Considerable time must yet elapse before the data will have
accumulated at Table Mountain sufficiently to permit of the statisti-
cal study requisite before daily values can be received from that
station. A definitive revision of all work since 1920 is now in prog
ress, and when it is done all values hitherto published, and all those
hereafter to be published, will be, it is expected, in their final form.

Washington work—Revision of data.—As already remarked, much
of the time of the director, Doctor Abbot, of Mr. Aldrich, and of
the instrument maker, Mr. Kramer, was employed in connection
with the preparations for the National Geographic Society Solar-
Radiation Expedition Cooperating with the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. This expedition will result in a very great increase of the
value of the work of the two existing stations, by confirming or
correcting their indications of solar variability.

The remainder of the staff at Washington, comprising Mr. F. E.
Fowle and Mrs. Bond, aided lately by Miss Marsden, who is em-
ployed at the cost of private funds, have been at work on a com-
plete revision of all Mount Montezuma data. The reasons for this
are: (1) That with improved apparatus the basis for the existing
“ short method ” tables had been modified; (2) that various improve-
ments of methods of reduction have been discovered; and (3) that
with a longer series of observations now available it is possible both
to draw better curves for the “short method,” and to more accu-
rately determine the systematic corrections required to eliminate
traces of error still remaining, on account of atmospheric haziness
and humidity.

For these purposes about 125 days were entirely remeasured and
fully rereduced by Langley’s fundamental method, used with newly
devised precautions for exact results. From the excellent values
of atmospheric transmission coefficients resulting, combined with a
newly contrived function of atmospheric brightness and humidity,
from which all influences of solar variation were removed by intro-
ducing for the first time the pyrheliometer reading as a factor, a
new basis was laid for the “short method.” Among other very
valuable improvements the corrections for those regions of the spec-
trum, not daily observed, which lie in the far ultra-violet and far
infra-red were redetermined.
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

As a result of all this painstaking work, the newly derived solar
constant values show in their accordance, as well as in the various
internal evidences which their computations afford, that they are
of a new and higher order of accuracy than ever reached before.

A new proof of solar variability—Many writers having expressed
doubt as to the certainty of variations of the sun, either of short or
long interval, a new and simple proof has been formed by Doctor
Abbot, and will be published in the Monthly Weather Review
for May, 1926. It rests on the basis that if the atmosphere
had uniform temperature, transparency and humidity, and if the
sun was observed by means of the pyrheliometer, always at the same
altitude above the horizon, then the solar constancy or variation
would exhibit itself directly, without recourse to the complex obser-

Fic. 1.—Solar variation confirmed by results of selected pyrheliometry.

Mount Wilson data of July, 1910-1920, excluding 1912, 1915, when volcanic dust from
Mount Katmai made sky conditions not comparable.

Thin full curve, pyrheliometry of selected days.

Dotted curve, solar constant values hitherto published.

Double curve, sun-spot numbers,

vations and computations associated with the bolometer. In other
words, at such times the atmosphere could be regarded as a screen
of unchanging influence, and the readings of the pyrheliometer
would be directly proportional to the intensity of solar rays.

Testing this new idea on all the observations made in the months
of July at Mount Wilson, Calif., between the years 1910 and 1920,
Doctor Abbot found it necessary to exclude the years 1912 and 1913
on account of the veiling effect of dust from the volcano, Mount
Katmai. Many individual days were excluded also from each July,
because the atmospheric conditions differed too much from the usual
ones.

From the remaining observations was plotted the full curve of
Figure 1. Taking the identical days used in this study, the mean

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 117

solar constant values as heretofore published in Volume LV of the
Annals give the dotted curve.

Both curves agree very harmoniously except in 1914, when they
differ by about 1 per cent. They unite to indicate a range of solar
variation in July, 1910, to 1920, of over 2 per cent. Along with
them is plotted in a double line the variation of sun-spot numbers.
Kven in details the agreement is quite remarkable.

T’rom another arrangement of the same data, Doctor Abbot found
that those individual days on which the sun’s rays appeared to the
pyrheliometer more intense (when observed through unchangingly
transparent atmospheres), appeared to yield on the average higher
solar constant values, as heretofore published. Similarly low days
for the pyrheliometer were low for the solar constant. Thus is con-
firmed by this new test the reality of both long and short interval
solar variations. The test is not, however, as satisfactory in the
latter as in the former application. As the new method has other
valuable applications, it is being used also with all Montezuma and
Harqua Hala observations since 1920.

Personnel.—The present personnel of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory is as follows:

Director, Dr. C. G. ABBOT. Field director, Mr. H. B. FrReemMan.
Research assistani, Mr. F. H. Fowre. Assistant, Mr. KF. A. GREELEY.
Research assistant, Mr... B. AtpRicH. Assistant, Mr. BH. E. Smiru.

Field director, Mr. A. F. Moore. Instrument maker, Mr. A. KRAMER.

Computer, Mrs. A. M. Bonn.

Summary.—tin three promising directions the work of the ob-
servatory, aimed to secure accurate determinations of solar varia-
bility, has been promoted. 1. The National Geographic Society has
undertaken to equip and support for several years a cooperating
solar radiation station at the best location available in the Eastern
Hemisphere. This project is rapidly going forward, and observa-
tions may begin at Mount Brukkaros, South West Africa, by October,
1926. 2. By Mr. J. A. Roebling’s generosity, the station at Mount
Harqua Hala has been removed and reestablished on Table Moun-
tain, Calif., 2,000 feet higher, and much more favorable for obsery-
ing as well as much less isolated than Mount Harqua Hala. Improved
apparatus and methods were introduced there from the beginning
of observations, in October, 1925. 3. A complete revision of all
Montezuma observations is well advanced. New methods of meas-
urement and reduction are employed identical with those introduced
at Table Mountain. The results thus far reached show greatly
superior accuracy.

By a new and simple test, the reality of solar variation is confirmed.
At the recommendation of the National Academy of Sciences and

20837—27——_9
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

of eminent astronomers, physicists, and meteorologists, the Congress
has increased its appropriations for the Astrophysical Observatory
sufficiently to enable the Smithsonian Institution to continue the two
field observatories at Montezuma and Harqua Hala.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. Assot, Director.
Dr. Cuartes D. WaALcorrT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 8

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the United States Regional Bureau of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1926.

Attention was called in the last annual report, as well as in a
number of those preceding, to the urgent need of a suflicient sum
to again set in motion the work of the central bureau of the In-
ternational Catalogue in order to resume actual publication. As
the United States is at present the only nation sufficiently
prosperous to aid undertakings of this character it is urgently hoped
that an effort be made to obtain a sufficient grant in this country
to at least publish the current volumes of the catalogue after which
the accumulation on hand from 1914 to date could be published,
possibly as a cumulative index. é

Briefly, the status of the organization is this: When the work
was begun in 1901, authorized by an international conference held
in London in which all of the principal countries of the world
were represented, no capital fund was available but through the
influence and generosity of the Royal Society sufficient credit was
established to enable the central bureau to begin publication.
Material for the catalogue was furnished by the various countries
through regional bureaus without charge, the cost of collecting
being borne, then, as now, by each participating country. At first
the income from the catalogue did not meet current expenses, but
in 1914, just before the beginning of the war, the actual cost of
publication and receipts approximately balanced. This was a de-
cidedly encouraging condition, and the many friends of the enter-
prise looked forward with hope that the near future would show
a sufficient income over the cost to repay the Royal Society for
funds advanced. All these conditions were changed at the beginning
of the war, and when printing was stopped in 1921 the Royal Society
had advanced £7,500, in addition to gifts received from the British
Government and the Carnegie Corporation of New York, which sum
and interest is still owing the society. Should publication be re-
sumed by means of a loan or gift, the large stock of completed

119
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

sets of the catalogue, now in the hands of the central bureau in
London, could be disposed of to new subscribers of the catalogue
wishing to complete their records to the date of the beginning of
the enterprise, and if these sets were sold for even half of their
original price the receipts would be suflicient to repay the amount
advanced by the Royal Society. The money needed to resume pub-
lication would not be expected to include payment of these obliga-
tions, but would be used solely to defray the necessary costs of
printing and publishing until subscription receipts were sufficient
to pay expenses.

The International Catalogue was never intended to be a commer-
cial enterprise, but rather the means whereby investigators and
students might be supplied at cost with data necessary to keep them
in touch with scientific progress throughout the world. No
private undertaking publishing an index of 10,000 pages annu-
ally, in editions of 1,000, could possibly assemble, classify, index,
and print approximately 250,000 references, which was the average
number contained in each annual issue, and afford to sell the finished
work at anywhere near the price charged by the International
Catalogue, for the cost of all the clerical and technical labor involved
in preparing the original manuscript was borne by the regional
bureaus as their contributién to the need of scientific bibliography.

Material for the catalogue is collected by the various regional
bureaus supported in every case by the countries they represent, this
support being mainly derived through governmental grants. The
work of editing and publishing the material furnished by the various
regional bureaus was intrusted to a Central Bureau in London whose
support was derived from the sale of the catalogue to subscribers.
The subscription price was $85.00 for each annual issue containing
about 10,000 pages assembled in 17 volumes varying in size to meet
the requirements of the several sciences.

The cost of printing and publishing alone has to be met through
funds derived from the sales of the catalogue. This cost was, in
1914, approximately $35,000 which in 1922 was estimated, on account
of war conditions, to have increased to more than twice this sum.

However, based on the offer of a large and reliable commercial
printing house in the United States it is estimated that the cost
would be no greater now than it was in 1914, provided not less than
10,000 pages per year were printed and the work were distributed
evenly throughout the year. Assuming this estimate to be approxi-
mately correct it is believed that with a capital fund sufficient to pay
for two annual issues the catalogue would again become self-support-
ing, for the current income, even if less than half the edition
were sold, would be sufficient to pay the running expenses of the

gn ON
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 131

central bureau together with a large part of the printing cost and
two years would be sufficient time to advertise and establish the
enterprise on a permanent financial basis.

Respectfully submitted.

Lronarp C. GUNNELL,
Assistant in Charge.
Dr. Cuartrs D. Watcort,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX 9
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1926.

FRANCIS HENRY PARSONS

Mention should be made at the outset of the death on July 25,
1925, of Mr. Francis Henry Parsons, who had retired a few months
before from the position of assistant in charge of the Smithsonian
division of the Library of Congress, after 25 years of service. (A
brief sketch of Mr. Parsons’ career is given under the heading
Necrology on page 82 of this report.)

CHANGES IN STAFF

There were a number of changes in the library staff during the
year. The most important was the appointment of Miss Isabel L.
Towner to the position, newly classified by the Personnel Board,
of assistant librarian in the National Museum, to fill the vacancy
caused by the retirement, and subsequent death, of Mr. Newton P.
Scudder. Miss Towner was appointed from the civil service list
after reinstatement by Executive order. Her training and experi-
ence fit her well for the duties of the position, for she is a graduate
of Goucher College and of the New York State Library School, and
has spent nearly 20 years in practical library work, chiefly in Gov-
ernment and scientific libraries.

Miss Sarah Young, junior librarian, resigned in October, and was
succeeded by Mr. R. Webb Noyes, a graduate of Bowdoin College
and for some time a student at the New York State Library School.
His experience was gained chiefly in university and State libraries,
especially the New York State Library, where he collaborated with
Miss J. Dorcas Fellows in preparing the twelfth edition of the
Decimal Classification, by Melvil Dewey.

Miss Minnie Murrill, who for several years had been a cataloguer
in the Museum, resigned to accept a position in the library of the
University of Alabama. Her position was filled temporarily, and
will be filled permanently as soon as the person chosen becomes
available.

122

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 128

Miss Agnes Auth was promoted, at the close of the year, to the
position of minor library assistant, one of the two new positions
that were granted to the library by Congress as of July 1, 1926.

Miss Auth’s former position as messenger was reclassified to that
of library aid, and was filled by the appointment of Mrs. Mary
Arnold Baer.

The vacancy in the position of assistant messenger, occasioned by
the appointment of Mr. Johni Anderson to a position elsewhere in
the Institution, was filled by the transfer of Mr. William Helvestine
from another Government department.

At different times during the year various persons were employed
temporarily. Among these were Miss Ellen D. McBryde, Miss Mary
Martin, Mrs. Victoria B. Turner, Mrs. M. Landon Reed, Mrs. Mada-
line Amphlett, Miss Helen Turnbull, Mr. William P. Wright, Mr.
Clarence Gunther, Mr. Walter Jaeger, and Mr. Carl Haardt.

EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS

As is well known, the growth of the Smithsonian Library is due
almost entirely to the exchange of publications between the Institution
and its branches and other learned institutions and societies through-
out the world. These publications come to the library direct, or
through the International Exchange Service, which is administered
by the Institution. During the past year 30,541 packages, of one or
more publications each, came to the library by mail, and 7,352
through the exchange. The number of the latter was more than
three times that of the year before. The special effort to complete
broken sets, by listing wants and writing follow-up letters, which
was begun the previous year, was continued with vigor. Exchange
relations were opened with many new societies. Most of the 1,225
letters written by the library had to do with the exchange of publica-
tions.

MAIN LIBRARY

The publications sent to the Smithsonian deposit, which is the
main library of the Institution, numbered 5,088, comprising 3,649
complete volumes, 843 parts of volumes, 175 pamphlets, and 421
charts. Documents of foreign governments, more or less statistical
in character, to the number of 7,305, were also sent, without being
stamped or entered, to the Document Division of the Library of
Congress.

Many dissertations were received from the universities of Basel,
Berlin, Bern, Breslau, Cornell, Erlangen, Giessen, Greifswald,
Halle, Heidelberg, Johns Hopkins, Kiel, Konigsberg, Liége, Lou-
vain, Lund, Neuchatel, Pennsylvania, Strassbourg, Utrecht, Vene-
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

zuela, Warsaw, and Ziirich; and from technical schools at Berlin,
Charlottenburg, Geneva, Karlsruhe, and Ziirich. Fewer disserta-
tions than usual came from Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.
Instead, the library received from the universities in those countries
hundreds of abstracts, each giving merely the author’s name, the
subject of the paper, and a brief summary of its contents.

OFFICE LIBRARY

The office library, which consists chiefly of some of the more fre-
quently used society publications, the aeronautical collection, the art-
room collection, the employees’ library, and various books, mainly of
a reference nature, in the administrative offices, was increased during
the year by 243 volumes, 1 part of a volume, and 18 pamphlets. Of
these, 54 were added to the aeronautical collection. It may be stated
in passing that this collection, owing to its rapidly growing impor-
tance, will soon be raised to the dignity of a division—the tenth by
number—of the Smithsonian library and named the Langley Aero-
nautical Library in memory of the third secretary of the Institution,
whose researches and experiments marked the successful beginning
of aeronautics in the United States.

Many important books were received during the year, but the out-
standing one was probably the North American Indian, volume 13, by
Edward S. Curtis, presented by Mrs. E. H. Harriman. This was
deposited with others of the series in the library of the Bureau of
American Ethnology.

The circulation, which showed a considerable gain over the previ-
ous year, was 2,618. Of this number, 2,183 were magazines. A
corresponding increase was apparent in the number of books and
periodicals consulted in the reference room, those most in demand
being the aeronautical collection and the transactions of the learned
societies.

It is gratifying to report that, after a lapse of nine years, binding
was resumed for the office library. Of the 172 volumes bound, 41
belonged to the exhibition set of Smithsonian publications.

The work done in connection with the general catalogue of the
Smithsonian library, which is kept in the office reading room, was
as follows:

Wiolumes*eataloeued Late peg Wit eM re eae eee LAI LS 3, 495
Volumesi;recatalosueduis. 22 iio Maina ee Se ee ee 134
Charts } Cavallo ime dss eh le ay ew A Beye Ae ee pa aide SY bre eae ag en ee 403
TOS Eye ie aN NU SI I a, a a ee 1, 525
Libpary sor \;Congress.:eands) file@ si 4s sxe eh ee el _ a 688

INGW. BULDOFS' Paes oe TL pale ah INN ae fd ANCA Vet ae 348

REPORT OF THH SECRETARY 125

MUSEUM LIBRARY

During the year the library of the National Museum was increased
by 1,660 volumes and 1,466 pamphlets, making a total of 66,808 vol-
umes and 104,417 pamphlets. Most of the accessions were, of course,
obtained by exchange, but some were obtained by purchase and an
unusually large number by gift. The largest gift was from the
Library of Congress. This comprised 606 volumes and 808 parts
of volumes from its collection of duplicates—some stamped Smith-
sonian Deposit, others Library of Congress—and was sent to the
Museum library to help complete its sets of society publications per-
taining mainly to natural history. Generous gifts were also received
from Secretary Walcott, who, as usual, contributed hundreds of items
to the library, particularly to the section of geology and paleontol-
oxy; Dr. W. H. Holmes, who gave 83 volumes and 363 pamphlets to
the general collection; Dr. W. H. Dall, who added 178 titles to the
section of mollusks; Dr. C. W. Richmond and Mr. J. H. Riley, who
gave many books and pamphlets, some of them very rare, to the main
collection, as well as to the section of birds and other sections; and
Mr. N. M. Judd, who contributed 18 volumes to the section of Amer-
ican archeology. Among other donors were Assistant Secretary
Wetmore, Mr. A. N. Caudell, Mr. John Gallagher, Dr. O. P. Hay,
Dr. A. Hrdlicka, Dr. W. R. Maxon, Dr. G. S. Miller, Mr. S. A.
Rohwer, and Dr. W. Schaus.

The number of sectional libraries in the Museum is now 87. These,
while in a measure independent working units, are in a real sense
very important parts of the general library. During the year the
study of their resources and problems that was begun the year before
was continued, with a view to strengthening their collections and
making them more available. The sectional libraries are as follows:

Administration, Mechanical Technology.
Administrative assistant’s office. Medicine,

American Archeology. Minerals.

Anthropology. Mineral Technology.
Biology. Mollusks.

Birds. National Gallery of Art.
Botany. Old World Archeology.
Wehinoderms. Organie Chemistry.
Editor’s office. Paleobotany.

Hthnology. Photography.

Fishes. Physical Anthropology.
Foods. Property clerk’s office.
Geology. Reptiles and Batrachians.
Graphie Arts. Superintendent’s office.
History. Taxidermy.

Insects. Textiles.

Invertebrate Paleontology.

Mammals.
Marine Invertebrates,

20837—27-———10

Vertebrate Paleontology.
Wood Technology.
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926
TECHNOLOGICAL LIBRARY

The technological library, located in the old Museum Building,
consists chiefly of material having to do with the arts and industries,
together with certain classes of the natural history collection that
are little called for, or for which there is not room in the new build-
ing. During the year, in addition to keeping up the current work,
the assistant in charge, with the help of those who from time to
time took his place, continued the reorganization that was begun
the year before. About 1,500 cards were added to the shelf list.
The loans were 245. It is hoped that the work of reorganizing this
library can be finished in the course of the next fiscal year.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY LIBRARY 2

The library of the Astrophysical Observatory was increased by
105 volumes, 17 parts of volumes, 86 pamphlets, and 4 charts. The
number of volumes bound was 124. The loans are included with
those of the office library.

A beginning was made in checking up the various series of
astrophysical periodicals and supplying the missing numbers. This
work will soon be completed. The shelf list will also be finished
and an inventory taken.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY LIBRARY

The activities of the library of the Bureau of American Ethnology
are described in the report of the chief of that bureau, by whom the
library is administered.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

Although the library of the National Gallery of Art is adminis-
tered as a sectional library of the National Museum and will prob-
ably continue to be as long as the National Gallery is housed in the
Natural History Building, it is usually thought of as one of the nine
divisions of the Smithsonian library. As such it is given a place
by itself in the annual report. Its accessions during the year were
155 volumes, 479 parts of volumes, and 180 pamphlets. It now totals
581 volumes and 665 pamphlets, a small but carefully chosen and
valuable nucleus for the larger library soon to be collected.

FREER GALLERY OF ART LIBRARY

The library of the Freer Gallery of Art is restricted to the inter-
ests represented by the collections of art objects pertaining to the
arts and cultures of the Far East, India, and Persia and the nearer
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 127

East; by the life and works of James McNeil Whistler and of cer-
tain other American painters whose pictures are owned by the
gallery; and, further, to a very limited degree, by the Biblical
manuscripts of the fourth and fifth centuries, which, as the posses-
sion of the Freer Gallery, are known as the Washington manuscripts.

During the year, 735 persons visited the library, of whom more
than 100, including a number of college teachers and students, came
for the purpose of serious study, many being especially interested
in the facsimiles of the Biblical manuscripts. The library was
increased by 500 volumes, of which 462 are in the Chinese and
Japanese languages, and by 72 parts of volumes and 142 pamphlets.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK LIBRARY

While this library is still quite small, numbering about 1,500 vol-
umes and pamphlets, it has been so carefully selected that it repre-
sents a very valuable working collection. It increased the past year
by only 9 volumes, but two of these were volumes 3 and 4 of the
monumental work, A Natural History of the Ducks, by John C.
Phillips. Five volumes were bound.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS

The accessions for the year, with the exception of those to the
library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, may be summarized
as follows:

Other
Library Volumes} publica- | Total

tions
PANTFODUVSICG OOSOLVELOLYS sao ta- eeene ens ee ae aD AE Seay ee 105 57 162
LUb(ar) CTE) A720) i e\) «| el On oS Ae ec ee Oe See ae | 500 214 714
NFTTOR IMCS HALO VOL AT te cere een ees pn SS ee Bae ie ek 155 609 764
National OULOPiCAr Parke snot 5 4 A AEE RII SORE AED. oe ed SLE 8 PRS. Ba 9
Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress. __..................-..---_-_-- 3, 649 1, 439 5, 088
Borat SO PISA) OTC Cette ee 2 vee SM RAL es en We ee 243 19 262
United States National Museum, including the technological library_-____- 1, 660 1, 466 3, 126
Ge: eS ok SE OS Ore PRES ae eee 6, 321 3, 804 10, 125

An estimate of the number of volumes, pamphlets, and charts in
the Smithsonian hbrary, including the Smithsonian deposit in the
Library of Congress, on June 30, 1926, was as follows:

Waa lho tensile ic U2 tee ra espe ete le ee 8 als WEST es Oe 2 Cee 2 aL) RE eRe ee ae 514, 071
Pamphlet siss soe Soe Pio PS Ei ll Tin eh pita hE ah Be le oe 139, 525
(OVE SLAM Ae 30S oe ee ed BE Cae SC ae OS RT eS CSO eS ee STC RE 23, 887

pSpeU Lea REE EO EI pe Pa Op ee ata ee yrs ie 677, 4838

This number does not include the many thousands of parts of
volumes in the library awaiting completion of the volumes.
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

The regular staff, with the aid of a number of trained temporary
employees, undertook many special tasks that required attention as
a condition to carrying out further plans for reorganization and
development.

The sorting of the large accumulations of miscellaneous material
in the Museum library, begun the previous year, was practically
completed.

In the Museum library, too, the sets of society publications were
checked up and missing numbers listed. Many of these were sup-
plied from the duplicates in the Library of Congress, as has been
said in an earlier part of this report. It is hoped that most of the
others can be obtained by exchange, either from the societies them-
selves, or! from other libraries. To this end, toward the close of
the year hundreds of want-letters were written; and many dupli-
cates were taken out and transferred to the west stacks of the
Smithsonian Building, where they were added to those from other
divisions of the library and put in order. Later they will be listed
and disposed of by exchange or by gift. This work of checking
up and supplying numbers lacking in the various series in the
library will continue to receive special attention from the staff.

It should be mentioned in this connection that the six sets of the.
publications of the Institution and its branches that are kept in the
Smithsonian library were found upen examination to have many
gaps. These it was still possible, in the main, to fill, so that the sets
are now nearly complete.

The shelves of the main collection in the Museum library were
arranged, a task that occupied months, as they had not been arranged
for a long time and were in a very confused state. This was pre-
liminary to taking an inventory of the library, which will be begun
as soon as the shelf list, on which much progress was made during
the year, is finished.

There was an intensive effort to bring the filing of the Concilium
Bibliographicum cards up to date, with the result that the whole of
the alphabetic set and part of the methodical set were filed. In all,
16,906 cards were filed. This work involved the rearrangement of
the cards already in the cases. Many cards remain unfiled, but the
outlook is hopeful, and the current cards are being filed as they come
in. The two sets referred to are the only ones now being received,
as the systematic set was discontinued toward the close of the year.

Another activity that required no little time was the preparation
of 1,793 volumes for binding, of which 1,497 were for the Museum,
172 for the office, and 124 for the Astrophysical Observatory. ‘This
was more than double the number bound in any year during the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 129

previous six years, and almost as many as were bound altogether
during the previous five years. When these volumes return to the
shelves they will greatly improve the appearance and increase the
usefulness of the library.

Preliminary steps were taken toward modernizing and expanding
the catalogue, a work that during the coming year will be especially
emphasized, for one of the chief needs of the library now is a dic-
tionary catalogue, both of the main collections and of the sectional
libraries.

Mention might be made, too, of the fact that the exhibition set
of Smithsonian publications was packed and sent, together with the
corresponding sets of the publications of the National Museum
and the Bureau of American Ethnology, to Philadelphia, for exhi-
bition at the Sesquicentennial. These sets, with the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, comprise nearly 900 volumes.

INTERLIGRARY LENDING

The library of the Smithsonian Institution is primarily for the
use of those employed in the Institution and its branches, and of
others who come to it from outside for the purpose of research, but
it extends the privilege of borrowing from its collections to all
libraries. For many years this privilege has been taken advantage of
increasingly.

No restrictions are placed on the loans, except that the librarian
who borrows the material is expected to take the usual care of it and
return it in a reasonable time. He also, of course, pays express
charges both ways, for it is customary to send material and have it
returned either by messenger, as in the case of Washington libraries,
or by express.

Some books, especially duplicates, are occasionally sent out on
semipermanent charge, to be used as an aid in special research, and to
be kept as long as needed, or until called for. Rare and valuable
books are seldom lent, but they may always be consulted at the
library. Photostat copies of parts of them may also be made if
desired.

The library not only lends material; it borrows it, too, and that
almost daily. Some of this, especially from the Library of Con-
gress, is sent to the library on semipermanent deposit, and consti-
tutes a very important addition to its regular working collections.

The libraries with which the Smithsonian library carries on most
regularly this exchange of material are, besides the Library of Con-
gress, those of the Department of Agriculture, the Geological Sur-
vey, the Hygienic Laboratory, the Army Medical Museum, the
Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Bureau of Fisheries, the Weather
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Bureau, the Bureau of Mines, the Air Service, the National Research
Gincicil the National Advisory Committee ae Aeronautics, and the
principal learned societies, colleges, universities, museums, and art
galleries of the East and Middle West. It also lends to public libra-
ries, and sometimes borrows from them.

Respectfully submitted.

Wii14m L. Corsin,
Librarian.
Dr. Cuartes D. WatcortT,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

Ay
i
APPENDIX 10
REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution and the Government bureaus
under its administrative charge during the year ending June 30, 1926:

The Institution proper published during the year 8 papers in the
series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 1 annual report,
and pamphlet copies of the 22 articles contained in the report
appendix, and 1 special publication. The Bureau of American
Ethnology published 1 annual report. The United States National
Museum issued 1 annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 3 com-
plete bulletins, 1 part of a bulletin, and 3 parts of 2 volumes in the
series of Contributions from the United States National Herbarium,
and 45 separates from the proceedings. The National Gallery of
Art issued Catalogue of Collections, IT.

Of these publications there were distributed during the year
168,932 copies, which included 147 volumes and separates of the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 20,222 volumes and sepa-
rates of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, 35,671 volumes
and separates of the Smithsonian annual reports, 1,945 Smithsonian
special publications, 96,804 volumes and separates of the various
series of National Museum publications, 12,993 publications of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, 251 publications of the National
Gallery of Art, 68 volumes of the Annals of the Astrophysical
Observatory, 48 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 738
reports of the American Historical Association, and 65 publications
presented to but not issued directly by the Smithsonian Institution
or its branches.

SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS

Of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, volume 73, 1 paper
was issued; volume 77, 5 papers; volume 78, 2 papers; in all, 8
papers as follows:

VOLUME 73

No. 38. Opinions Rendered by the International Commission on Zoological
Nomenclature. December 16, 1925. 40 pp. (Publ. 2880.)

VOLUME 77

No. 4. An Introduction to the Morphology and Classification of the Fora-
minifera. By Joseph A. Cushman. July 21, 1925. 77 pp., 16 pls. 11 text
figs. (Publ. 2824.)

131
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

No. 8. The Morphology of Insect Sense Organs and the Sensory Nervous
System. By R. E. Snodgrass. February 16, 1926. 80 pp., 32 text figs.
(Publ. 2831.)

No. 9. Fossil Footprints from the Grand Canyon. By Charles W. Gilmore.
January 30, 1926. 41 pp., 12 pls., 23 text figs. (Publ. 2832.)

No. 10. An Archeological Collection from Young’s Canyon, near Flagstaff,
Ariz. By J. Walter Fewkes. January 12, 1926. 15 pp., 9 pls., 3 text figs.
(Publ. 2883.)

No. 11. Musie of the Tule Indians of Panama. By Frances Densmore.
April 16, 1926. 39 pp., 5 pls. (Publ. 2864.)

VOLUME 78

No. 1. Explorations and Field Work of the Smithsonian Institution in 1925.
April 8, 1926. 182 pp., 128 text figs. (Publ. 2865.)

No. 2. Mexican Mosses Collected by Brother Arséne Brouard. By I. Thériot.
June 15, 1926. 29 pp., 14 text figs. (Publ. 2867.)

SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1924.—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1924 was received from the Public Printer
November 12, 1925.

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, show-
ing operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ending June 80, 1924. xii+-535 pp., 103 pls., 43 text figs. (Publ. 2795.)

The appendix contained the following papers:

The origin of the solar system, by J. H. Jeans.

The electrical structure of matter, by Prof. Sir Ernest Rutherford.

The physicist’s present conception of an atom, by R. 8. Millikan.

The vacuum—there’s something in it, by W. R. Whitney.

The use of radium in medicine, by Antoine Béclcre.

Ylear fused quartz made in the electric furnace, by Hdward R. Berry.

The drifting of the continents, by Pierre Termier,

The probable solution of the climatic problem in geology, by William Ramsay.

A modern menagerie; more about the National Zoological Park, by N. Hollister.

Nests and nesting habits of the American eagle, by Francis H. Herrick.

The breeding places of the eel, by Johs. Schmidt.

Cankerworms, by R. E. Snodgrass.

A botanical trip to Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, by A. 8. Hitchcock.

Orchid collecting in Central America, by Paul C. Standley.

Sketches from the notebook of a naturalist-traveler in Oceania during the year
1923, by Casey A. Wood.

Historical tradition and oriental research, by James Henry Breasted,

Shamanism of the natives of Siberia, by I. M. Casanowicz.

Bgypt as a field for anthropological research, by Prof. P. H. Newberry.

North American Indian dwellings, by T. T. Waterman.

The nature of language, by R. L. Jones.

John Mix Stanley, artist-explorer, by David I. Bushnell.

Herluf Winge, by Th. Mortensen.

Report for 1925.—The report of the executive committee and pro-
ceedings of the Board of Regents of the Institution, and the report

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY 133

of the secretary, both forming parts of the annual report of the
Board of Regents to Congress, were issued in pamphlet form in
December, 1925.

Report of the executive committee and proceedings of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1925. 11 pp.
(Publ. 2835.)

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending
June 80, 1925. 122 pp. (Publ. 2834.)

The general appendix to this report, which was in press at the
close of the year, contains the following papers:

The spiral nebulz and the structure of space, by Carl Wirtz.

Immensities of time and space, by A. Vibert Douglas.

Certain aspects of high-pressure research, by P. W. Bridgman.

Lightning and other high-voltage phenomena, by F. W. Peek, jr.

Chemical elements and atoms, by G. Urbain.

The manufacture of radium, by Camille Matignon.

The chemistry of solids, by Cecil H. Desch.

Terrestrial magnetism in the twentieth century, by Daniel L. Hazard.

Some causes of volcanic activity, by Arthur L. Day.

Geology in the service of man, by W. W. Watts.

The yeasts: A chapter in microscopical science, by A. Chaston Chapman.

Tropical cyclones and the dispersal of life from island to island in the Pacific,
by Stephen Sargent Visher.

Isolation with segregation as a factor in organic evolution, by David Starr
Jordan.

The biological action of light, by Leonard Hill.

Animal life at high altitudes, by Maj. R. W. G. Hingston.

The nest of the Indian tailor bird, by Casey A. Wood.

The needs of the world as to entomology, by L. O. Howard.

From an egg to an insect, by R. BH. Snodgrass.

The role of vertebrates in the control of insect pests, by W. L. McAtse.

Carnivorous butterflies, by Austin H. Clark.

The potato of romance and of reality, by W. E. Safford.

The relation of geography to timber supply, by W. B. Greeley.

The historical geography of early Japan, by Carl Whiting Bishop.

The excavations of the sanctuary of Tanit at Carthage, by Byron Khun de
Prorok.

The Smithsonian Institution.

Sir Arehibald Geikie, by Sir Aubrey Strahan.

Ned Hollister (1876-1924), by Wilfred H. Osgood.

SPECIAL PUBLICATION

North American Wild Flowers. Vol. 1. By Mary Vaux Walcott. 1926.
Quarto, portfolio binding, 80 piates in color, 1 page descriptive text for each.
(Not for general distribution; issued through subscriptions.)

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The publications of the National Museum are: (a) The annual
report, (>) the Proceedings of the United States National Museum,
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

and (c) the Bulletin of the United States National Museum, which
includes the contributions from the United States National Herbari-
um. The editorship of these publications is vested in Dr. Marcus
Benjamin.

During the year ending June 30, 1926, the Museum published 1
annual report, 2 volumes of proceedings, 3 complete bulletins, 1 part
of a bulletin, 2 complete volumes and 3 parts of 2 volumes in the
series Contributions from the United States National Herbarium, and
45 separates from the proceedings.

The issues of the bulletin were as follows:

Bulletin 100. Contributions to the Biology of the Philippine Archipelago and
Adjacent Regions. Volume 2, part 4. Silicious and Horny Sponges collected
by the United States Fisheries steamer Albatross during the Philippine
expedition, 1907-1910. By H. V. Wilson.

Bulletin 131. The Minerals of Idaho. By Har] V. Shannon.

Bulletin 132. Revision of the North American Moths of the Subfamilies Laspey-
resiinae and Olethreutinae. By Carl Heinrich.

Bulletin 133. Observations on the Birds of Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, and
Chile. By Alexander Wetmore.

Of the separate papers of the Contributions from the United States
National Herbarium the following were issued:

Volume 22, part 9. Studies in American Phaseolineae. By C. VY. Piper.

Volume 24, part 6. A Bibliographic Study of Beauvois’ Agrostographie. By
Cornelia D. Niles. With introduction and botanical notes, by Agnes Chase.

Volume 24, part 7. The North American Species of Stipa. Synopsis of the
South American Species of Stipa. By A. 8. Hitchcock.

Of the separates from the proceedings, 4 were from volume 66,
13 from volume 67, 25 from volume 68, and 3 from volume 69.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

The editorial work of the bureau has continued under the direction
of the editor, Mr. Stanley Searles.
During the year one annual report was issued.

Fortieth Annual Report. Accompanying papers: The Mythical Origin of the
White Buffalo Dance of the Fox Indians; The Autobiography of a Fox In-
dian Woman; Notes on Fox Mortuary Customs and Beliefs; Notes on the
Fox Society Known as “ Those Who Worship the Little Spotted Buffalo”;
The Traditional Origin of the Fox Society Known as “The Singing Around
Rite,’ by Truman Michelson. 664 pp., 1 pL, 1 fig.

Publications in press or in preparation are as follows:

Forty-first Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Coiled Basketry in British
Columbia and Surrounding Region (Boas, assisted by Haeberlin, Roberts,
and Teit); Two Prehistoric Villages in Middle Tennessee (Myer).

Forty-second Annual Report. Accompanying papers: Social Organization and
Social Usages of the Indians of the Creek Confederacy; Religious Beliefs
and Medical Praetices of the Creek Indians; The Culture of the Southeast
(Swanton); Indian Trails of the Southeast (Myer).

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY Lo

Bulletin 82. Archeological Observations North of the Rio Colorado (Judd).

Bulletin 83. Burials of the Algonquian, Siouan, and Caddoan Tribes West of
the Mississippi (Bushnell).

Bulletin 84. The Language of the Kiowa Indians (Harrington).

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are communicated by him to Congress as provided
by the act of incorporation of the association.

The annual report for 1920 and the supplemental volume to the
report for 1922 were issued during the year. The annual reports
for 1921 and 1922, and the supplemental volume to the report for
1923 were in press at the close of the year.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Twenty-eighth Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was trans-
mitted to Congress, in accordance with the law, on December 15,
1925.

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian
advisory committee on printing and publication, to which are re-
ferred for consideration and recommendation all manuscripts offered
to the Institution and its branches. Seven meetings were held during
the year and 96 manuscripts acted upon.

Respectfully submitted.

. W. P. True, Hditor.

Dr. CHartEes D. Watcort,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
oe “ybbhmtoden dé labtibieitt
File dl is hige

ibd. nhrro ti, nlit oy Ws ‘trees aavite *aaamneCbef
10, SO apie mggbiiath ints sansa, ae ‘ins per

eal wee DEK

pci ag MOREAU ON re suis ial vanes

Ve Rie i at baw 10
iat ue " ty bo BO 0
add of Siitilor about aa ‘ed fina ‘odor’ 40% ros {aun cerny
oer fine ott! vndy sty wea Hike balant wiser G2er: hist

pe fet Lars EOE big

Oy, Hod Sy BAT OF wcaitloy” tritvatiiotce

Lins fh dig A PO 39, aol oily da eoradh it

BAPTA be SRR. SA) cae Lapnarapn th EPA i See,

MARS ( fl mau eh

rea Ty Pay

cake on bo ipeote fly hea wioan'T ‘ond to fob Lau CEES 5
Pig! saat Rr Ae depear pant, att £2 qotde 1ibacl, eigen, Nagi

a cual walt ali. poxinbapes ht 22a at at bot

vorrei sina * veh ines “athe eerenticds Stet “va

me ee Bak 7a 4,

finicors dior ws to’ om itharsnaise's Hite OP Dai Hides incl “doc? |
ar oi btw: OF “Wnotted aig fires’ ai he HO Hobtunirtod wee
iorvsto sha iineiiteny Le io itehaimumoost hin woe tebiatiee
slapd iyhinatadt wascktonitt iors? Oaodbaorkt ae hae WOME
ae ae gteg en Det 4 qinoest st airy 00 bits

Marae A8 a i pagans: Races
amy fay rat ‘a |

a a) a Penh RHE

Der RL SEU AT ERTL Cie
Bhatia Py a vino, as vibeong te? - sgn
A POR SP Oa bev jane i Wail om NONI PAD Ram VER ater a 4

yin é ‘ VAS One pay a hs) y
Cee MeAIB rms MRR acim ANN span adh

ey ny (a ett “ipl ah bhi NOS ee he
are Sy AUR MRN ANAM nat A (Bp Baer ae aor hgh f
ey rt Ca ane Oe ERY obs f Hk Bi f i h hey
, is Muri ' iy shisha Mra hae rari ‘oh ae i
teh Pe a as Seer ie Mast si ined ,M salad Ms chee evar
SURREY SAGO date, MERE i BUS NY Ke CAI eae tb oo hs ay ik Wee? “OLY
On Ey! hte Prec pty ree 4 Wa OED. ee bia Aer
BEF a ere Ee SD SE OF Sr ac PPE LT EL, ee eel Re ha caf
ayia eR oa MERCER Lee ae ML a De, Charing
Miia Es ee a Ta eee ea a hun. van
Finieant ok EU Si) er isa he Vitatae? vot ee tala
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1926

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following
report in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the following Government bureaus in the administrative charge of
the Smithsonian Institution: The National Museum, the Interna-
tional Exchanges, the Bureau of American Ethnology, the National
Zoological Park, the Astrophysical Observatory, the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, and the National Gallery of Art;
also for an additional assistant secretary and for printing and
binding for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1926.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Condition of the endowment fund July 1, 1926

The sum of $1,000,000 deposited in the Treasury of the United
States under act of Congress is part of a permanent endowment
fund, which includes the original Smithson fund and additions
accumulated by the deposit of savings and bequests from time to
time. Subsequent bequests and gifts and the income therefrom,
when so required, are invested in approved securities. The several
specific funds so invested are now constituted and classed as follows:

Consolidated fund

AE TR LEn EE EL LS eon arene nis Pe me eoaetnne meOneliee Dae LMR inlA ps AeD Acai. we fae eh eel! SAN OOO Re
Virose urd y acon tun Ge. oak mn ee ay penne a eee a ae G2 22.98
LETTE 1S tad Boe shred g ts 00 Flap es pu alata eta ge eo eae eS ees 1, 528. 09
CT RCD TCG OSV EW ape UG UEP Rs SES SS I A a SR, ET 35, 000. 00
TESTER FOP a. 9 bao eae EOS A te Spe a SE en eee ae 500. 00
MO ANT PRTI Or ER@TEN: Var CULE eee oc ee. oe Mt eee See ce NOR oe UP RA SR
CIOS FE) aay Spe Sree) ected VAR FO AN el gt LS Sa a 37, 275. 00
ESE CCPEN IS ES 2 TIT cee ee eee een en pete ee De ere Wd NUN 13, 839. 90
DNC TRIES! TCE) 6d CY 0 EAM See I Bk IE SL SES SERS a 3, 519. 00
UC VL in GeUree uy. E OOLG, LUMO. tee hae ts oe ee ee Se 18, 586. 42
Pa AGA O 7 8 Nes 1 SST E huh UY 6 (A SR a a 7, 299. 16
TESTERS fs VU 0 Ls ne ib all at ae ee a 357. 34
EEO PERE S Dla gS oi ac C0 c(h Lag 90 fn ak 5 le ae Bt aN 675. 72
STGRU He ESfop ea ofa ae Leh gk A ge a Tae ag No MN a 1, 468. 74

Potalconkoweatem finden. ue se es ad 218, 186. 50
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott research fund_..-_-__________ 11, 520. 00

137
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

The total amount of dividends and interest, etc., received by the
Institution trom the Freer estate during the year for all purposes
was $255,354.66 and the amount received from sale of Freer estate
stocks and bonds was $988,510.

The itemized report of the auditor, the Capital Audit Co., certi-
fied public accountants, is filed in the office of the secretary.

DETAILED SURVEY OF FINANCIAL OPERATIONS

Parent fund

~

Balance on*hand or’ ‘in’ time’ deposits; duly: a, WO25 22.4 Ys tee $7, 062. 45
Receipts:
Income, consisting of interest and receipts from mis-
cellaneous sources available for general purposes__ $56, 287. 77
International exchanges, repayments to the Insti-

(HUW RICO 0 piel Un Grid eet a acpi eal el a ae dk Galea 4, 888. 75
TNO Gal NEC GIG 2a, Se UY elo ee a ee A 61, 171. 52
Total’ resources for general purposes22- 2222. eee eee ae 68, 233. 97
General expenditures:
Carevand: repair or buildings 22 22 ae es 8, 087. 04
Hurniture and fixtures see eee Ree eee ae ee 610. 08
General administrations 25 2s eee ee 25,.298. O1
NGF) Oh so ta ee epee ND slice eis bi esr eR eaecmyre, Beem 3, 225. 03
Publications (comprising preparation, printing, and
CUTTS Reh DUES U0 0) ee NSE aE CSO he ae 15, 168. 60
Researches and explorations 2220 aes. oa ee 4, 526. 05
International exchanges: Rats ies) hikis 2a 2) es 3, 871. 95
Dabaleeenerat (exPemd Ures: pees ee ee 60, 782. 56
Balance JumersOy LODO Ls eee AES AA eek ST A A ee 7, 451. 41

Funds for specific objects, including payment and return of funds advanced
for field expenses and other temporary transactions during the year

Balance on hand or in time deposits July 1, 1925__-____-___________ $86, 773. 19

Receipts :
ASOT Ys PUNTA a ee Ye oe ca ae on 2, 817. $0
Varcinia, Purdy, Bacon und! ~22 ees aoe oe eee 3, 849. 96
BEV (ich oO & TB 27259 G0 Wika ob mn ea a na a ln pa 87. 21
Maura: Welsh Casey funde 22 ss 2s28 Sees oe ees 5, 000. 00
Frances Lea Chamberlain fund___-______-_______ 1, 995. 00
Costa Rica’ botanical’ explorations=-22"2" 225" seas" 800. 00
Endowment campaign donations__________________ 417. 00
Endowment campaign expense fund______________- 25. 500. 00
Hindow ment: Lure: cere ens tee ea ee a ee 20. 80
Dr. W. L. Abbott Haitian botanical expedition____ 10,00
ERS NEOTEL ee ws ee we ee reat Be 178. 50
EER SD TST UTI Y ea Nh: GIULSS Go, MTN ss ra eee eee er 12, 815. 00
Caroline Henry funds =o 222 ee 70. 68
Hodgkins fund, specific — Sct) st aie ee as 6, 300. 00

dO aTL Ce Me & AD Fea (cr fi 7 Ue (0 Romeo apne nes AHERN pieaipan gt ee paeeta tenant L 788. 88

es

ee

f
.
$
,
:
4
7

REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 139

Receipts—Continued.

Jamaican botanical exploration-__---___--__+____ $550. 00
a Rope t-te Otoye) of heh odo MB skl Ae ST ee ee ee ee eae See ee 8, 684. 39
National Gallery of Art building plans fund___-_-~ 20, 89
North American Wild Flowers publication fund___ 29, 706.19
CAF Fe eee D112 (6 Ce seep ee ee a 500. 00
EBAleontoloviaals mesearches.- = 42, sae 1, 200. 00
huey: T.ands George; W..2oore fund=.2- 4... 2, 657, 20
AdgisonmiyReidhhinGg-eaee ees Pe ee 1, 076. 10
Ja ReKeYCC 9 10001 6 AROMA een empe ks MaMC Lev 2 7. RAUL a eae SN See 54. 78
JOnmeAS OCD UNeNNOse. oa ee 3, 696. 45
W. Ay Roebling mineral fund. -5 aa ee 1, 000. 00
Georseqkiepantordvennds. 2-2 oe ‘ 104. 76
American Silurian Crinoids Vol. fund, Springer____ 2, 000. 00
CharlestD Simpson: funds +2. 42e2--24 4 eee eee e 750. 00
Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition_________________ 40, 000, 00
Smithsonian Scientific Series fund________________ 10,300.00
SS vuretiL co Sm sID Yd (hee eae oe ee Eee 800. 00
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund_______-__ 720. 00
Refund of temporary advances, etec_-_-__----_---- 6, 748. 10

Mota]: TECCUPES st ek LPT PETS OPEL ESS See a $166, 214. 79

ARO LEESIILS SuveySHOy bh eCeCe:S) ues Sb Et * IN Aas Sa Oy a ee a Ce eg Ta eg er 252,987.98
Hxpenditures:

Avery fund, invested and expended___-_-____-___ 2, 038. 32

Virginia Purdy Bacon fund, expended_-___--___-- 8, 241. 97

Laura Welsh Casey fund, expended___-_-___-___- 766. 57

Chamberlain fund, for specimens, ete., expended___ 738. 42

Costa Rica botanical explorations, expended______ 800. 00

Endowment campaign expense fund, expended____ 26, 859. 28

Haitian botanical explorations, expended_________ 510. 00

Harriman trust fund, for researches and speci-

TET Sy GPT CC Ole ee eee ee ee ae Jee een Cee 11, 069. 82
Hodgkins fund, specific for researches, expended__ 3, 909. 61
Bruce Hughes fund, expended__--___=--_---_____ 7. 00
Jamaican botanical explorations, expended_______ 550. 00
Morris Loeb: fund, ‘expended... oe eee 4, 380. 95
North American Wild Flowers publication fund, ex-

ro erard ey BS ee ee a a 58, 146. 10
Manso TiN. OXPCNUed aaa e en ks oe eee i 14. 32
Paleontological researches, expended______-______ 505. 00
Luey T. and George W. Poore fund, invested and

“epi pono fey) RAMU eet ka SEC al ee pe 2 ee 4, 377. 28
Addison T. Reid fund, invested and expended_____ 663. 00
Hocket investigation, Goddard. == 2 750. 00
John A. Roebling fund, solar research, ete., ex-

pended hie sth. ANON A. AITLER Oth FO Beery 16, 188. 95
W. A. Roebling mineral fund, expended__________ 588. 84
George H. Sanford fund, invested____.._________ 60. 40
Charles T. Simpson fund, expended__--__________ 338. 38
Smithsonian-Chrysler expedition, expended_______ 39, 334. 51
Smithsonian Scientific Series, expended__________ 1, 391. 25

Swales fund, for specimens, expended_..__________ 353.21
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Expenditures—Continued.
Charles D. and Mary Vaux Walcott fund, ex-

MTN LEC epee a re a Smo at Re me $111. 00

Temporary advances for field expenses, ete_____.... 3, 953. 26
Hl Woy fe MR. 01 ey 0 BF 0 By 2) = BMRA a Sg a aa dap a ce cg $181, 647. 45
Balance Juners0, 19262. 222 oe ee nascy Tlie 71, 340. 53

Charles L. Freer bequest
Balance on hand or in time deposits, July 1, 1925__.___________ $78, 117.11

Receipts:
Dividends, interest, and miscellaneous receipts__ $255, 354. 66
Sale of stocks’ and Dongsssese2=2nss sane le 988, 510. 00
"POtaL | MARS pte ole 2 ei 1 Sa AR Aras oe ee ai ee le ae 1, 243, 864. 66
TOGA PESOUT CES Ss state Ni GS Te AS a el Sea ns A ee) De Wd

Hixpenditures:
Operating expenses of the gallery, salaries, pur-
chase of art objects, field expenses, and inci-
(6 (2) 0110629) (se ARPS UE: 9 Aion aU $153, 934. 37
Investments in sinking fund, including interest_ 127, 602.50
Reinvestment of funds from sale of stocks and

NOCRERGL Si, Seat Das Ue ue eS On ee ear ne 984, 347, 44
PPO Gall Eee G UAT CS ia see a a 1, 265, 884. 31
MS ysMEs avers vel fin y ak epucs 0 pe 4g wb fell ates ee pele Cee ee Rll aE a OE 56, 097. 46
SUMMARY
Total balanceszotvall funds, duly td 192D 3 ss 171, 952. 75
Receipts during year ending June 30, 1926:
Parent fund! for general expenses. 2 ee ee 61, 171. 52
Revenue and principal of funds for specific objects, except
PCOr DCUMGSRM As Ae veo Den ea a ae Sey 166, 214. 79
OO IDC GTS ames es ele ee es ae 1, 243, 864. 66
PUL oy 12 MOMS sand as AN i fee elas jen lie cae scot aac Al wi dil ie eA abi 2 1, 648, 208. 72
Expenditures:
General expenses of the Institution_.__._.___.___-___________ 60, 782. 56
Specific objects, except Freer bequest2_22- 222 sn 222l 2 sce 181, 647. 45
1p) eV ey oY er 0 AY 2} acer Pam eile i ch os ee Ea eho en ig ae eek it foo Lot ANd 1, 265, 884. 31
Total balances oL all funds June 0, 1020 soe ee ee 134, 889. 40
ol A) i) RS i ae Rl ESR DT ag he Se UA een PO Apri CRE 1, 648, 203. 72

All payments are made by check, signed by the Secretary of the
Institution, on the Treasurer of the United States, and all revenues
are deposited to the credit of the same account. In some instances
deposits are placed in bank for convenience of collection and later
are withdrawn in round amounts and deposited in the Treasury.

The practice of investing temporarily idle funds in time deposits
has proven satisfactory. During the year the interest derived from
this source, together with other similar items, has resulted in a
total of $1,748.21,
REPORT OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 141

The following appropriations for the Government bureaus in
administrative charge of the Smithsonian Institution were made by
Congress for the fiscal year 1926:

Bureau: Appropriation
PUCEPH atl on ale HC Am Genes: le EUS Sh ee a Na $46, 260
ey TEAVEN RHEL FOUN OBE Eh WYO) AD) La oes SN ES ae oe ne eee aes eters 57, 160
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature_______________-_- 8, 000
ASTrOp MySites RO PSEGyeil OMe ee es ee a 31, 180
IADOIMONRIOANSIStANE SeCreloitye aaa nate ie Se ee a ee 6, 000
National Museum—

LEMEID ghar sp Ge yee 6 UMD a Iss 52 ee ee $21, 800
SNe eats 22 Es ee eS a 77, 560
PPEservaLlonic OL veOMer bons een tim. he ue eee ree eS 441, 082
Building) repairs einer sei. oot eee 12, 000
EONS es Ro Taek Papa 2 ties ee ts he bea 1, 500
BEY] if Vd cy meets See A aes Sepa A TE OO ee ea, SRP TIS SNS 450
————. 554, 392
Nationale Gralleryeoh, (A tit woke wee ee ee ee ee 21, 028
NENT OO LOOT Gre dea kee we erates ee ee a ee ke 157, 000
ARS edn Pa ee 0.0 CAE) Da CRIN ccs cpm ye Pe 90, 000
"fer CUS Sem ere es es REEMA REL ER (ANE TSE OU a ORE EE SEY Coe 971, 020

Respectfully submitted.
Henry Wuirr,
Frepertc A. DELANO,
R. Wauron Moorr,
Executive Committee.
eM HHP aby
ued Sbipls ey cit me |

itis ere Ui ey Raa PD

6 SE nn mec ani Se tail 2 ik ' Bayes vibe
in GOR OF Reid hate il hala Y J Hamat Moe a yak pe ars DL dere psig user i a a )
wr peeve: ; Ls Seailedd suas eAW Fo sgial +h ake,

WD ings soya ~-aeuiets SO RBOLR Yo onigoliioc (icolad

ane ane esih ien “oi ULL RO Hew treba
PR are da. tou: iit i sino cain a RI Sew ielect. [alte

Apa ea AES oop ts emetaty Be isnt
an Cisieeerashs Re ee aS Y Cah ee och diana envi genyticrit'

a ‘Oa ste Hail A ciletonnm taht almiaginns AES ERRE, HI Buia ht

MEY Tash Bekah antngefelhannting Le uC IQE ee tone te a lit

ee ) bee eco ara see RE a woubtit
be yee, tite “ sks seen ver aoa ue sherbet ihr eet ee ee

“a aa a Mish whorls ae nb ind ne Godel Sigs ey = og Aa a Pes Me en is deal Mle donee

Coes
Poa

PRAWG

ED: aye is oi mae pc er lege oho beens apa ta ah
Hr, si LB i WARES ae Sylulbonys Ria ccginte Pe ite

hele te
ALN ai ete tin

Pa ray ern

tm

Ata ee |
Fs brain ans OE CERT

yl ota te {ei ak mil tai af sot: MS See
. eke sciggaak: mibeddes ee 4 nh 4
Re . CHO Fee para ‘caeeem
He evans anh obiacin’ of elke ty
Pe MP re 0. higesliaa saben tk te pew amet aig

Be) Diag ae), pa aed ae Soules ingles yd aaa

be. Tn Pte A

Pad en cose

APPR Gate Pan ie gia Mg sinh
Gonera) Karidis vit ti Preeti,
Ret Ae io ‘is UE Pore Bigeye
e teae Be arena A inkl bbe penne
oa nalelptaa’ al ily inte Sea %

(tn ae ny f a ry 8 f
Ba sae Od Pewee ene leew Soe Sop mae aa, obi Joly Sa th ash salle Yack

AL paynvante ate. gas fs “Ny ae an hi" the Begvenaa
Tnitation, + fis the Tekaenray ink tw By eLnis Prats, sapuake HM;
ate Casmated io clue ceets' ot Te RON 248
depth Bee. pinned fs eld ide Ct ee at aise
ie, Wakhiira win | Ail iu a ‘erence wae ol snes fia’

Ri Pe ation, a doseage ‘terns, aE: aise, * ‘oti oth
hits uiowan natiatiitory,. Dusting thw, Ske fa Laka

bila: SOR, togiot hier wth pales ata: nee Me Sy
tka ef #03. ON AON |

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED
JUNE 30, 1926

ANNUAL MEETING DECEMBER 10, 1925

Present: The Hon. William H. Taft, Chief Justice of the United
States, chancellor; the Hon. Charles G. Dawes, Vice President of
the United States; Senator Reed Smoot; Senator Woodbridge N.
Ferris; Representative Albert Johnson; Representative R. Walton
Moore; Mr. Charles F. Choate, jr.; Mr. Henry White; Mr. Robert
S. Brookings; Mr. Frederic A. Delano; and the secretary, Dr.
Charles D. Walcott.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENTS

The secretary reported the following appointments: Ex officio,
March 4, 1925, Vice President Charles G. Dawes; by the President
of the Senate, March 11, 1925, Senator Woodbridge N. Ferris, of
Michigan, to fill the vacancy caused by the expiration of the term
of Senator A. O. Stanley; by joint resolutions of Congress, citizen
regents for six years, January 7, 1925, Mr. Robert S. Brookings;
February 26, 1925, Judge George Gray.

DEATH OF JUDGE GRAY

The secretary announced the death of the Hon. George Gray on
August 7, 1925, who was first appointed as a senatorial regent on
December 20, 1892, serving until the expiration of his term on March
2, 1899. He was next appointed as a citizen regent on January 14,
1901, and served until August 7, 1925.

Throughout this long service, the last 10 years of which he was
chairman of the executive committee, Judge Gray was an active
supporter of the work of the Institution and always ready to give
time and thought to its interests. He was a valued member of the
board and will long be missed both personally and officially.

Mr. Choate offered the following resolutions, which were adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution having learned
of the death on August 7, 1925, of the Hon, George Gray, a member of the
board for over 30 years, the last 10 of which he served as chairman of the
executive committee: Be it therefore

Resolved, That the board here place on record an expression of their pro-
found sorrow at the passing away of their colleague, whose deep interest and

143
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

wise judgment in the affairs of the Institution, to which he was always ready
to devote his great learning and experience, made him a valued coworker in its
behalf, and one whose loss will be keenly felt.

Resolved, That while Judge Gray’s distinguished career as United States
Senator, jurist, and public-spirited citizen had won for him a high and secure
position on the roll of our country’s honored men, it is desired to add a
tribute to his personal qualities, his never-failing courtesy, and his charm of
manner, which endeared him to his colleagues on this board.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be transmitted by the secretary to
the family of our deceased associate, with the respectful sympathy of the board
in the loss they have sustained.

VACANCY IN THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

The secretary stated that Judge Gray’s death had caused a vacancy
in the membership of the executive committee, which the chancellor
had filled by an ad interim appointment of Mr. Moore; and, further,
that at a recent meeting of the committee Mr. White had been elected
chairman.

Mr. Johnson offered the following resolutions, which were adopted :

Resolved, That the temporary appointment of the Hon. R. Walton Moore
as a member of the executive committee be approved and made permanent.

Resolved, That the election by the executive committee of Hon. Henry White
as chairman be confirmed.

RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE

Mr. White, as chairman of the executive committee, submitted the
following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1927, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by
the secretary with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion
on the part of the secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Mr. White submitted in print the annual report of the executive
committee, showing the financial condition of the Institution at the
close of the fiscal year 1925.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE

Solar radiation researches.—As stated previously, this work is under the
direction of Dr. Charles G. Abbot, assistant secretary of the Institution and
director of the Astrophysical Observatory; and his report shows satisfactory
progress at the stations at Mt. Montezuma, Chile; Table Mountain, Calif.; and
at Washington, D. C. The operations have been financed by an annual grant
of $5,000 from the Hodgkins fund of the Institution, and through the gener-
osity of Mr. John A. Roebling.

National Geographic Society grant—This organization has recognized the
necessity for a new solar radiation station in the Hastern Hemisphere, to
cooperate with those of the Astrophysical Observatory in Chile and California,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 145

and has generously made a grant of $55,000 to Doctor Abbot for the purpose
of installing such a station. Doctor Abbot recently sailed for Europe and
Africa for the purpose of selecting the best possible site for the new station.

Freer sinking fund.—This fund, as has been explained, was established for
the purpose of safeguarding the principal and income of the Freer Founda-
tion. Under the plan of reinvesting a certain excess of the income, the fund
has now reached the sum of $262,347.50.

Consolidated fund.—This fund consists of bequests, gifts, and interest earn-
ings, in excess of the $1,000,000 authorized by law to be deposited in the United
States Treasury at 6 per cent interest. It now amounts to $218,186.50.

Increase of endowment.—Under the authority of the board, the permanent
committee has inaugurated a movement for increasing the endowment of the

Institution.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

In presenting his printed annual report to June 30, 1925, the
secretary said that since the last annual meeting of the board, 132
publications have been issued, 67 of these by the Institution proper,
62 by the National Museum, and 3 by the Bureau of American Eth-
nology. During the fiscal year 1925 the Institution distributed 171,-
865 copies of its publications. 'Two papers by your secretary have
summarized several seasons’ work on certain of the life forms of the
Cambrian and Lower Ozarkian rocks of the Canadian Rockies;
three papers by Assistant Secretary Abbot and his associates, pre-
senting a résumé of 20 years’ work on the sun’s radiation and the
present status of the investigation on the relation of solar radiation
to weather, have attracted wide and favorable attention from meteor-
ologists throughout the world; a paper by Doctor Cushman on the
foraminifera, which are minute fossil forms now used in locating
and defining oil strata, has been in constant demand by the oil com-
panies and by universities for training the much needed young oil
geologists.

It was stated in the 1924 report that an effort would be made to
issue two Smithsonian annual reports in order to bring them up to
date. This was accomplished, the reports for 1923 and 1924 having
both appeared, and the manuscript for the 1925 volume is now ready
to go to the printer.

The National Museum issued the usual number of proceedings,
papers, and several bulletins, including the monographic work on
the Spider Crabs of America, by Mary J. Rathbun, and another
of the popular series on Life Histories of North American Birds,
by A. C. Bent. The outstanding publication by the Bureau of
American Ethnology was the Handbook of the Indians of California,
by Kroeber, for which there is an increasing demand.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART COMMISSION

The fifth annual meeting of the commission was held December 8, 1925.
The report of the secretary of the commission for the calendar year 1925
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

stated that additions to the collections fell short of the average of previous
years, not greatly exceeding a hundred thousand dollars in estimated value,
which was attributable in large part to the lack of suitable housing space.
The most noteworthy accessions were: A statue of Carrara marble, entitled
the Lybian Sibyl, by W. W. Story, gift of the Henry Cabot Lodge estate; and
a marine painting by Edward Moran, a bequest of Mrs. Clara L. Tuckerman;
also an important collection of art objects and ceramics, presented and
bequeathed by the Rey. Alfred Duane Pell, of New York .

The commission was of the opinion that it would be advisable to assemble
at the National Gallery at intervals of five or more years all of the paintings
purchased through the Ranger fund, in view of the provision that the National
Gallery may reclaim any picture so purchased during the five-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented. By thus as-
sembling the pictures a more intimate knowledge could be gained of them,
and the wisest selection would thus be assured. Fifty-two paintings have
been acquired and distributed to various institutions in accordance with the
terms of Mr. Ranger’s will during the four years since the bequest became
operative.

Consideration was given to the matter of procedure in considering acceptance
of bequests and gifts of art works, and after discussion the following resolution
was adopted:

“ Resolved, That the advisory committee of the National Gallery of Art
Commission shall consist of the full membership of the commission; that in
earrying out the functions of the advisory committee a quorum shall consist
of seven members, four of whom shall be artists or museum directors.”

The present officers, Mr. Gari Melchers, chairman, and Dr. W. H. Holmes,
secretary, and the executive committee, were then reelected for the ensuing
year.

The report of the commission was accepted and Mr. Johnson
submitted the following resolutions, which were adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents hereby approves the recommendation
of the National Gallery of Art Commission that W. K. Bixby, W. H. Holmes,
and H. L. Pratt be reelected as members of the commission for the ensuing
term of four years, their present terms having expired.

Resolved, That the board also approves the recommendation of the com-
mission that John Russell Pope, architect, be elected a member of the com-
mission to fill the vacancy caused by the termination of the appointment of
A. Kingsley Porter.

ADMINISTRATIVE APPOINTMENTS BY THE SECRETARY

The secretary announced the appointment of Dr. Alexander
Wetmore as assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, and
of Dr. William M. Mann as superintendent of the National
Zoological Park.

GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES UNDER THE INSTITUTION

The secretary made a comprehensive statement regarding the esti-
mates and appropriations for the Government branches under the
administrative charge of the Institution.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE REGENTS 147
INVESTMENTS OF THE FREER FUND

The board adopted the following resolution as submitted by Mr.
Moore:

Resolved, That the permanent committee be, and it is hereby, authorized to
sell any part of the stock * * * held under the will of Mr. Freer at such
price as it may think desirable, after ascertaining all the facts that are avail-
able, and invest the proceeds in high-grade bonds and mortgages.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

The National Geographic Society having made a grant of $55,000
to Doctor Abbot to select and install a new solar radiation station
in the Eastern Hemisphere, to cooperate with those of the Astro-
physical Observatory in Chile and California, Doctor Abbot sailed
on October 31 via Engiand and France on this mission.

Inspection of weather records show that three suitable regions
remain distinct from those occupied and from each other. These
are southwest Algeria, northeast Baluchistan, and South Africa.
Doctor Abbot will examine these and install the new observatory in
the most promising one.

Having found from five years’ experience that summer conditions
are unfavorable at the solar station on Mount Harqua Hala, Ariz.,
that station has been removed to Table Mountain, Calif., at a cost
of about $10,000, defrayed by Mr. John A. Roebling. The new loca-
tion has an altitude of 7,500 feet, being 2,000 feet higher than Harqua
Hala, and is more accessible. Observations during the past 10
months indicate that it will prove superior to Harqua Hala.

Mr. Roebling, who has given over $123,000 to promote the Smith-
sonian solar investigations and the studies of world weather based
thereon, has withdrawn further support, as he thinks that the time
has come for others to carry on the work.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Karly in October word was received from Mr. Carl W. Bishop,
associate curator of the Freer Gallery and leader of its archeological
expedition to China, that Governor Yen Hsi-siang, of Shansi, had
given him permission to operate anywhere within the boundaries of
his Province. This constitutes by far the most important forward
step taken since the work began, two and a half years ago; and for
the first time in history the difficult task of prosecuting archeolog-
ical research in China openly and on a basis of cooperation with the
Chinese authorities was begun. This is the only method from which
results of full scientific value may be reasonably expected.
ie bl Bye Woy Hy eae SG Be TRIAS RG a oy.

ot Pain. Suh wn a Pay Pie at ar 9 Bohn ati auld 3 wt ang
hatte tin’ Fen"L “aM Jo, dha. ott 38) igh blot oF A Fae ort Yo hea, %
rttere, sin aut Biot add ip Birighuaeen ‘pat aM ee sb dite? zeae ate
eae ana oe. AbALa a. Be Bb rdccs ask Tage, tdi

be P ? ve dag

Vk caiinn in. OTA RL ARORA

if * 7). *§ BN
ie at su/tay

BO eae te Aner . aioe ‘aesiyadk eecad marlagrgcet) Leoite

sotige ‘nopstiucr wsloa whe aetna dooles ob ioddh 464508
woth ett Te sadn 2 givin a” asorty fhuntohy Wisdasek
Boltta homey. ee fetotite®” Baz aluey’ it Yroleye cisely {9
Pi aes moiaeln Bub ap sonst h bag bortatl six 18 sedon
artoreners olde: Vise. poet dost; ona. Divtoses soi ine. tonsa
Bess sao dove seein nad sera ccc pee ret do cnhh ths: i

yer Na sauntnerva ded engi aes Pica oer i: sie A hnalale ae
exch sali gapsalt davoth'ao naiinta’ seater od} tu olietorah
Peer a dee, Tel ne HaET OP bavomat ned acd Te
Migeat warm nfL amides. A astel. 2M ad bexertoh 000,018 fi tit te
iiprrn HT aad torial Io POU S wri ahi 99% OG T 10" oS iat alee aie
«OF ane one Meiely? Buen eAO: aliens OER: ab hs |
ey RE apa ol tolsigns troxg thiw dk dat sanity
x "Ne ie ad yaiticnetg OF ONES 1090 AOViS etd ON “yale don7
‘fognd satvey hkiow 1h sibite vdr haw acdingt err! altos
ane ai ae Hehe ad 38, Arpaia’ wires’, py. ohldiay and, w

Ligatnes SMe ahs ns as ay ‘gine at axorbto at
et. mits Be as il es iis PPASE << ee on bi Fas -- i oe
He Biba ES rete ls pies $s TAN “ay eaiaaAs AU

pode RP aR aut “ener ete? ‘end Dow idBbaRY. ae ;
Pk gece eis 19. 4% Hest bay. 12 ne reat oil toy 5
A yee | Psat ped a. ate

x izived a ee
a airahayod a aiden, Geties, : pid 93 Lovateatet
bate wok dg f oct daour ahh vat” ne dino ald aot
‘aot bias tone Binoy tad w ‘fink out’ aongod akrow orl) sone
-apolosdors. griauadeoty, Fe akeae sti
ot ative noiisysqyes to: sisad 9 a0 hie Yglaeqo auint), ge ae
we tet ee WMO! eid ete

REI ey Aways aie dwtroenios a pect Atay. festens Bie
Steger: iene a Ee et, ee bipceptaiie
: isa da nay

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1926

20837—27——11 149
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Grnrrat Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
vemarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and, during the greater part of its history, this
purpose has been carried out largely by the publication of such
papers as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific
progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geol-
ogy, meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology,
and anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not alto-
gether satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them origi-
nal) embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and
discussion. This method has been continued in the present report
for 1926.

150
THE NEW OUTLOOK IN COSMOGONY?
By J. H. JEANS

Astronomy has always stood aloof from the other sciences; her
field of research is apart, her methods are entirely her own, and,
most significant of all, her results have different values from those
of other sciences. While these reward mankind by utilitarian gifts,
new methods for the production of wealth, the increase of pleasure
or the avoidance of pain, astronomy has so far given us only food
for intellectual contemplation. This is preeminently true of cos-
mognony, the branch of astronomy which is concerned with the prob-
lem of how the astronomical bodies come to be where they are and
as they are.

From the practical standpoint, the outstanding difference between
astronomy and the other sciences is the difference of scale. Most
sciences progress by pursuing nature into the realms of the infinitely
small, but for astronomy and cosmogony progress les in the direc-
tion of the infinitely great, or, to be more exact, of the unthinkably
great. For we now know with fair certainty that there is no in-
finitely great. A number of considerations combine to show that
the universe is finite, and it is just because we know this, and are
beginning to discover the actual limits to the size of the universe,
and to its duration in time, that the present position in astronomy
and cosmogony is of quite unusual interest. These sciences stand
to-day somewhat in the position in which geography found itself
when the world had been circumnavigated and the limits of what
remained unexplored first begun to be known.

It was not until 1888 that the distance of a star was measured,
-and the scale of structure of the universe revealed. In that year
three astronomers, Bessel, Henderson, and Struve, independently
measured the distances of three different stars. In each case the
method employed was the “ parallactic”” method: the motion of the
earth in its orbit causes the near stars to appear to move against the
background formed by the remote stars, and from observations of
the amount of this apparent motion the distances of the near stars
can be deduced. But it has long been clear that the majority of

1Reprinted by permission from The Nineteenth Century and After, Vol. XCVIII, No,
586, December, 1925,

151
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

stars are much too far away for their distance to be measured in this
manner, and in no event could the method tell us the distances of the
most remote stars in the universe, for it can not succeed unless the
star under observation is seen against a background of even more
distant stars. It is only quite recently that other methods have
provided a measure for sounding the furthest depths of the universe.

The most fruitful of these methods depends on the special proper-
ties of a certain class of stars called “Cepheid variables,” after their
prototype, the star 6 Cephei. These stars do not shine with a steady
light; at intervals which are always perfectly regular, but may range
for different stars from a few hours to several days, they flash out
to two or three times their original brightness. Just as the mariner

recognizes a highthouse from amongst a crowd of other lights by the

regular succession of its flashes and the nature of these flashes when
they come, so the astronomer recognizes a Cepheid variable by the
regularity, period, and nature of its light variations. In 1912 Miss
Leavitt, of Harvard Observatory, discovered a simple relation be-
tween the periods and the luminosities of the Cepheids which occur
in the Smaller Magellanic Cloud; the slower the light variation of
the Cepheid the more luminous it is—broadly speaking, its lumi-
nosity varies inversely as a definite power of its period. More re-
cently Doctor Shapley, the present director of Harvard Observa-
tory, has shown that this relation, now generally known as the
“ period-luminosity law,” is true of Cepheid variables in general.
Whenever the astronomer detects a Cepheid variable and can meas-
ure the length of its period, he can deduce the amount of light it
emits. By comparing this with its apparent brightness, as observed
through a terrestrial telescope, it is easy to determine its distance
from us. The method is simply that of a mariner who estimates his
distance from land by identifying a lighthouse, looking up its candle-
power in a book of reference, and noticing its apparent brightness
at the spot where he happens to be. The analogy to the parallactic
method would of course be if the mariner, knowing the speed of his
ship, should try to estimate his distance from land by noticing the
rate at which a church spire or chimney on the coast appeared to
move against a background of distant hills. This method does not
demand the existence of a lighthouse of known candlepower, but
would obviously be useless for a mariner far out at sea, and, as we
have already noticed, it could in no case give the distance of the
most remote objects visible.

The discovery of the “ period-luminosity law” opened up a new
world as regards exact survey of astronomical distances. It was
first used by Doctor Shapley himself to determine the distances of
the remarkable objects known as “globular star clusters.” These,

COSMOGONY—JEANS 153

as their name implies, are closely packed groups of stars of approxi-
mately globular shape; seen through a powertul telescope, they lool
rather like a swarm of bees, and produce the impression of being
nests or birthplaces of families of stars. Only 69 of these objects
are known, and, as practically no new ones have been discovered
since the time of the Herschels, it is likely that there are none left
to discover. They are all rich in Cepheid variables. Doctor Shap-
ley finds that the distances of these 69 clusters range from 21,000 to
216,000 light-years. In this and similar measurements the light-
year is taken as the unit of distance because it is futile to express
astronomical distances in terms of miles or other ordinary terrestrial
standards of measurement. Light takes some eight minutes to travel
from the sun to the earth, so that in one year it travels about 64,000
times the distance from the earth to the sun; this is the distance that
the astronomer describes as one light-year and takes as his unit of
length. We begin to realize what is meant by the distance of a star
cluster being hundreds of thousands of light-years if we reflect that
what our telescope shows us is not the star-cluster as it now is, but
the cluster as it was when primeval man dwelt on earth. Through
the long prehistoric ages, through the slow dawn of civilization, and
through the rise and fall of empires and dynasties, the light which
left the cluster in remote ages has been traveling toward us at the
rate of 186,000 miles every second and has only just reached us.

Quite recently Doctor Hubble, of Mount Wilson Observatory, has
discovered Cepheid variables in certain of the spiral nebule, and
so is able to estimate the distances of these nebule. The most
remote of the nebule so far discussed proves to be the well-known
“ Andromeda nebula” (M. 31), at a distance of 950,000 light-years;
others are at comparable distances. Using a slightly different
method, Doctor Shapley has estimated the distance of the star cloud
N. G. C. 6822 as being about a million light-years.

The two objects just mentioned are the most remote at present
known. Are we to suppose that they fix the approximate limits of
the universe, or must we look forward to a continual expansion of
the observed size of the universe as the power of our telescopes
continually increases? It is not possible to give a final answer to
this question, but a considerable mass of evidence points to the
former alternative as being probably the true one. Our sun is
one of a group of some two or three thousand million stars which
form a disk-shaped or biscuit-shaped structure girdled by the Milky
Way. It has long been understood that this particular star group
can not be of infinite extent. If it were, the sky would appear as a
continuous blaze of light, and the gravitational force produced by
this infinite mass of stars would be so intense that our sun and
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

other stars would move with almost infinite velocities. The star
field can not even be of uniform density as far as our telescopes can
reach, for if it were the number of stars visible in different tele-
scopes would be proportional to the cubes of their apertures. This
is not in actual fact found to be the case; a 2-inch telescope has ten
times the aperture of our naked eye, but does not reveal a thousand
times as many stars. Thus the stars must thin out quite per-
ceptibly even within the distances we can sound with a 2-inch tele-
scope. By a refinement of this method it has been found possible
to explore the limits of size of the star field of which our sun is
a member and to estimate the number of stars it contains.

This star field, although it may quite possibly be the largest
single object in the universe, is by no means the whole universe.
Outside it, or possibly on its outer confines, lie a variety of other
objects, in particular the star clusters, all of which are much smaller,
and the spiral and other nebule, the largest of which approximate
to itin size. The theory of “ island universes ” which was originally
propounded by Sir W. Herschel, but subsequently fell into disfavor,
seems to be reinstated by recent observational work, and we now
get the best picture of the universe by thinking of it as consisting of a
number of subuniverses, detached from one another like islands on
an ocean. We can form a rough estimate of the extreme distance
of some of these islands from a consideration of the extreme faint-
ness of the individual stars; but the Cepheid variables, the lght-
houses on these islands, enable the astronomer to map out their
positions with comparative accuracy. Our own star system is a
very big island indeed, with the sun not far from its center; the big
nebula in Andromeda is another big island, smaller but of com-
parable size; while the star clusters and smaller nebule are islands
on a smaller scale. Considerations similar to those already men-
tioned, which enable astronomers to assign limits to the size of
our star field, show that we must also fix limits to this ocean of
island universes, and it seems probable that the limits do not he
very far beyond the two most remote objects whose distances have
so far been measured, namely, the spiral nebula M. 381 at 950,000
light-years, and the star cloud N. G. C. 6822 at about 1,000,000
light-years.

To fix our ideas we may suppose, agevciih it is little more than
a guess, that the most remote objects of all in our universe are at
four times the distance of these two remote objects, and so at 4,000,-
000 light-years from us. We may now attempt to get these ideas
into focus by constructing a mode] of the complete universe on
the scale of a million million miles to the foot. The amount of
reduction involved in such a scale is best visualized, perhaps, by
COSMOGONY—JEANS $55

thinking in terms of motions rather than of distances. Light,
which can circle the earth seven times in a second, would move in
our model with a speed rather below that at which a blade of grass
grows in the spring. On this scale the whole universe will be
represented by a sphere of the size of our earth, the star cloud of
which our sun is a member will be an island of about the size of
Yorkshire, while the big Andromeda nebula will be rather larger
than the Isle of Wight, although with very ill-defined boundaries.
The whole solar system in this model can be easily covered by a
grain of sand, while our earth, now shrunk to less than a ten-
millionth of an inch in diameter, is hardly larger than a single
molecule in this grain of sand.

Such is the universe which the astronomer hands over to the
cosmogonist for interpretation. The cosmogonist, accepting the
universe as it is, must try to discover why it is thus and not other-
wise. What the astronomer regards as a compilation of observed
facts is for the cosmogonist the last link in a long chain of processes,
a crosscut through the warp and the woof of cause and effect.
While the astronomer is satisfied if he can see the universe as it is,
the cosmogonist must ever strive to see it as it has been and as it
will be. Just as one of the astronomer’s main problems is to assign
limits to the universe in space, so one of the main problems for the
cosmogonist is to assign similar limits in time.

There must be such limits. The universe can not go on for-
ever as it now is, and neither can it have existed in its present
condition from all eternity. KEvery star is continually radiating
energy away into space, and we have no knowledge of any appre-
ciable part of this radiation coming back or of the stars replenishing
their sources of energy in any way. The universe is running down
like a clock which no one winds up.

The sun has some ten thousand million million million square
inches of surface, and every square inch is radiating away energy
at a rate which represents the energy output of a 50-horsepower
engine. If this energy were supplied to the sun from a power
station, coal would have to be burned at the rate of about a million
million million tons a minute. This makes it clear that the sun’s
energy can not, as was at one time thought, originate in the combus-
tion of the sun’s mass. At a later date Meyer suggested that the
sun’s energy might be continually replenished by the infall of meteor-
ites, while Helmholtz subsequently propounded his well-known
contraction theory, according to which the energy of the sun’s radia-
tion is provided by the falling in of the sun’s mass under his own
gravitational attraction. Both these theories implied limits to the
duration of the sun’s radiation, and both limits were far too short
to accord with known facts. Meteorites could not have been falling
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

into the sun forever, or the sun would already be of infinite mass;
in actual fact it was shown that meteorites could not have been fall-
ing into the sun at the requisite rate for more than about 20,000,000
years, or the sun would by now have become more massive than it
actually is. Similarly as regards the Helmholtz theory—the sun
can not have been contracting to the requisite extent for more than
about 20,000,000 years, or it would have shrunk already to less than
its present dimensions.

Such periods of time are impossibly small for the sun’s life.
Geologists find evidence that things have been much as they now
are on our earth for periods of at least hundreds of millions of
years, while physical research on the radioactive contents of certain
Canadian rocks fixes their age at 1,400,000,000 years at the least,
and analysis of other rocks gives confirmatory evidence. If, as is
generally accepted, the sun is the parent of our earth, the sun must
at least be older than the oldest of terrestrial rocks. It was at one
time thought possible that radioactivity could provide our sun with
energy for an almost unlimited span of radiation, but the possibility
did not materialize. Sir Ernest Rutherford calculated that even if
the sun started life in the most radioactive state possible, namely as
a sphere of pure uranium, its radioactivity could provide for at
most 5,000,000 years of radiation at the present rate. It was by now
abundantly clear that the true source of the sun’s energy must be such
as to provide the sun with a length of life of a different order of
magnitude from anything hitherto thought of.

In 1905 Ejinstein’s first theory of relativity appeared. ‘This
required that an increase in the energy of any material system should
be accompanied by an increase in its mass. It had for some years
been recognized as a special property of electrified bodies that their
mass increased pari passu with their energy; the theory of relativity
now showed this to be a general property of matter in all states and
conditions. The converse must of course also be true, so that a body,
such as our sun, which is losing energy by radiation must also be
losing mass. When the rate of loss of energy of any body is known,
it is easy to calculate the corresponding rate of loss of mass; from
the sun’s known rate of radiation it is found that its mass must be
diminishing at the rate of about 250,000,000 tons a minute.

This statement does not necessarily imply that there are fewer
atoms or molecules in the sun at the end of the minute than there
were at its commencement. If the sun were merely cooling down,
like a red-hot cannon ball suspended in space, the heat agitation
of each molecule would be less at the end of each minute than at
its commencement, so that, on the average, the molecules would
be moving more slowly and so have smaller mass. The aggregate
of the decreases of mass of all the innumerable molecules in one

le cea OT Sa Nf A ee Ee

——
COSMOGONY—JEANS 157

minute would amount to exactly the 250,000,000 tons in question.
The crux of the situation lies in the circumstance that at most a
millionth part of the total mass of the sun is of this easily shed
kind, and that if this were the only part of its mass of which the
sun could dispossess itself, its radiation could not possibly last for
more than a few millions of years. Suppose, however, that proc-
esses are at work in the sun’s interior by which the molecules can
be not merely slowed down, but actually annihilated. In such a
case the whole mass of the annihilated molecule is turned into en-
ergy, and the whole mass of the sun—two thousand million million
million million tons—becomes available for transformation into
radiation. At the present rate of radiation, represented by 250,-
000,000 tons a minute, the total mass of the sun would provide
radiation for fifteen million million years.

The most likely way in which mass could be compietely trans-
formed into radiation would be by the positive and negative electric
charges of which all matter is constructed rushing into one another
and mutually annihilating one another. When the two terminals
of a charged Leyden jar are brought into contact, we see a spark
and hear a snap—a thunderstorm in miniature—which show that
energy has been set free somewhere. In actual fact we know that
the energy came from the rushing together of electric charges of
opposite sign which have neutralized one another. Recent research
has shown quite conclusively that a hydrogen atom consists of two
electrically charged particles, one, the electron, being negatively
charged, and the other, the proton, being positively charged; there
is nothing else. If these two charged particles could be brought
into actual contact it is fairly certain that the charges would neu-
tralize one another, and, as we have no experience of uncharged
electrons or protons, it may reasonably be supposed that the electron
and proton would annihilate one another also. It is even more prob-
able that there would be nothing left to annihilate, for it is already
known that the whole mass of the electron comes from its electric
charge, so that to speak of an uncharged electron is a contradiction
in terms, and the same is almost certainly true of the proton. Thus,
in the falling together of the electron and proton of the hydrogen
atom, the whole mass of the atom ought to be transformed into
radiation. It hardly seems likely that more complex atoms would
annihilate themselves in a single process of the kind; more prob-
ably there would be a successive falling in of electrons one at a
time, so that the atom would gradually diminish its mass, and, of
course, also its complexity. But the details of the process are un-
important; in whatever way the annihilation of mass is achieved,
the final result is the same, as also, of course, is the total amount of
radiation which is set free.

20837—27——-12
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

In 1914 Professor H. N. Russell, of Princeton, propounded a
scheme of stellar evolution whose main features at least have won
general acceptance. According to this scheme, all the stars are
moving down the same evolutionary ladder. Some start at the top,
some perhaps join in part of the way down, but all pursue the same
course and all end in the same way. At the top of the ladder are
stars of the very highest luminosity, radiating perhaps ten thousand
times as much light and heat as our sun. Moving down the ladder,
the luminosity of the stars decreases, we pass stars like Sirius
radiating some forty times as much as our sun, then, well down on
the ladder, our sun and stars of similar luminosity; finally, on still
lower rungs, are stars so faint as to be almost invisible. No doubt
there are even lower rungs occupied by stars which have become
perfectly invisible, but these need not concern us here.

Since the appearance of Russell’s theory, it has gradually emerged
that the stars on the highest rungs are of far greater mass than
those on the lowest rungs. Not only so, but all the stars on any
one rung—i. e., all stars having the same luminosity—are of approxi-
mately equal mass, and there is a gradual diminution of mass as
we pass down the ladder. If, then, as there is no serious reason
for doubting, the stars are all moving down the ladder as their
evolution progresses, it follows that they must all the time be di-
minishing in mass. Having reached this conclusion, it becomes
natural to conjecture that the diminution of mass precisely repre-
sents the output of radiation. The hypothesis becomes something
more than a conjecture when it is found that it satisfies every quan-
titative test which can be applied to it.

Since the rate of radiation of the stars on each rung of the ladder
is known, it becomes an easy matter to calculate the rate at which
they would be moving down the ladder on the hypothesis that their
diminution of mass is the exact equivalent of their radiation. A
simple addition then gives the time which a star would take, on
the same hypothesis, to pass from any one rung of the ladder to any
other. . It is found, for instance, that the time from Sirius to our
sun is about 6,400,000 years; from the brightest of known stars to
the faintest is of the order of two hundred million million years,
while from the brightest to our sun is rather over seven million mil-
lion years. It is significant that these hypothetical ages for different
types of stars fit in well with estimates that can be made from certain
purely astronomical evidence which is wholly independent of any
hypotheses as to the source of steller radiation. Unfortunately the
evidence is all too technical for discussion here, but it leaves little
room for doubt that the long-standing problem of the origin of stellar
radiation has been solved, and that the solution is the amazingly sim-
COSMOGONY—JEANS 159

ple one that the origin of a star’s heat is the star’s mass. He lives by
transforming his mass into radiation; we can estimate his present age
by noticing how much of him is left, and another calculation, based
on the same datum tells us how much longer a life he may expect.
The interval from top to bottom of the evolutionary ladder, about
two hundred million million years, is the total life of a star, and
stars differ one from another mainly in being merely higher or
lower on the ladder, younger or older.

The ages of the stars are not the same thing as the age of the
universe, nor even are they necessarily comparable with that age.
The stars may be likened to icebergs coming down from the North
and melting as they drift into tropical waters. We can estimate
the ages of the icebergs within our vision, but we can not say for
how long the stream of icebergs has been drifting down from pole
to equator nor for how long new icebergs will continue to form
and come down to replace those that pass southward to their
doom. Over the polar regions where the icebergs are born a veil
of fog is drawn, and we do not know how to look behind that veil.
But the problem of the ages of those stars which are now in being
is a comparatively simple one, and for all practical purposes these
constitute the universe for the astronomer and cosmogonist alike.
To each star can be assigned a total span of life of the order of a
hundred million million years followed by darkness and _ possibly
ultimate extinction; to our sun we can assign a past life of about
seven million million years, so that as regards time, although not
as regards magnificence, the greater part of his life is yet to come.

The ages which we must now attribute to our sun and the other
stars are many hundreds of times longer than was, until quite re-
cently, thought probable or even possible. This extension of the
time scale will call for a rearrangement of ideas in many depart-
ments of cosmogony and astronomy. Many of the questions involved
are of a highly technical nature, but one is comparatively simple as
well as of great interest. Of the various theories which have been
put forward to explain the origin of our earth and the other planets,
the so-called tidal theory seems (to the present writer at least) to offer
enormously more advantages and to be open to far fewer objections
than any of the others. According to this theory, our sun, some time
in the past in his voyage through space, must have encountered a
star more massive than himself traveling on a course which came so
near to his own that enormous tides were raised on his surface, tides
of such colossal height that the tops of the tidal waves lost all con-
tact with the underlying parts and started on independent careers
of their own as planets. When submitted to mathematical treat-
ment this theory shows itself able to account for the main features of
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

the arrangement of the solar system in a very gratifying way. It
was, however, until quite recently, open to one very serious objection.
The distances of the stars from one another are enormously great in
comparison with their dimensions. If we take six cricket balls and
place one each in Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, North America,
and South America, we have a model showing the arrangement of
the six stars nearest to our sun and their distances apart relative to
their dimensions. Since the stars are generally very many of their
diameters apart, it must be a very rare event for their tracks to come
to within a few diameters of one another, and yet the tidal theory
requires an approach to within less than two diameters before planets
can be born. Under the old views as to the ages of the stars it was
exceedingly unlikely that a specified star such as our sun should have
experienced so close an approach throughout the whole of his life,
and this constituted a serious objection to the tidal theory. But the
recent extension of the ages of the stars has removed this reproach;
stars which have wandered about amongst other stars for millions
of millions of years must be expected to have had several fairly close
approaches to their neighbors. Jiven now, however, approaches of
the extreme closeness necessary to give birth to planets must be
counted as somewhat rare; a small proportion only of the stars in
the sky are likely to be surrounded by families of planets and so to
form possible abodes of life.

At one time it seemed possible that cosmognony might come down
from her lofty pedestal and make good for her former deficiency in
the matter of utilitarian gifts by bringing the most utilitarian gift of
all—the secret of obtaining free energy. Jor if the stars are inces-
santly turning matter into energy, there would seem to be no reason
why mankind should not learn their secret, and obtain mechanical
power by annihilating small quantities of matter instead of labori-
ously winning, transporting, and burning millions of tons of coal;
the total consumption of coal in the British Isles produces less heat,
light, and energy than could be obtained by the annihilation of an
ounce of matter per day. But, so far as can at present be seen, this
dream is not destined to be fulfilled. An analysis of the facts of
astronomy suggests that there must be all sorts and types of matter
mixed together in the stars; some only, not all, of these types are
changing into energy at an appreciable rate, and these particular
types, for good or for bad, are absent from our earth. They prob-
ably consist of elements heavier than uranium, the heaviest element
known on earth; it is even possible that the capacity for spontaneous
disintegration shown by the atoms of uranium and the other radio-
active elements, the heaviest of terrestrial substances, may represent
the surviving vestiges of an earlier power of these same atoms to
lessen their mass by throwing off radiation.
INFLUENCES OF SUN RAYS ON PLANTS AND ANIMALS

By C. G. ABBOT

[With 5 plates]

The delight which we take in the lovely shapes, colors, and odors
of the many species of flowering plants suggests a different emphasis
on a famous argument. Hardly any work was more celebrated in its
time than Dean Paley’s “ Natural Theology,” although it is little
read now. The author conceives one to be wandering upon a
desolate moor remote from human habitation. He chances to strike
his foot upon a round object so curious as to arouse his careful
attention. It is, in short, a watch, provided with the little wheels,
the springs, the hands, the hour marks, and all the intricate parts
that we know so well. Although there is no man in sight, nor indeed
any habitation for many miles, there arises this conclusion: The
plain evidence of complex contrivance for a sagacious purpose
demands the previous existence of a highly intelligent contriver.
The watch could not just have happened to come into being.

We need not follow the logical unfolding of the theme, in which
the able Dean argues from the evidences of design in the human
body to the existence of an intelligent creator. Paley’s argument
was indeed illustrated mainly from the animal kingdom, but, as we
shall see, plants exhibit adaptations almost equally curious.

Our present thought, however, is slightly different. Such con-
trivances as the human eye and ear, and others which Paley refers
to, are plainly suitable means to attain certain objects of utility. If
they be evidences of design, the character of the Designer that seems
to be suggested is the careful Parent providing necessary things
for the use of His children. But a rose or a violet seems to turn
our thought differently. It might well be the expression of a beauty-
loving, benevolent, pleasure-providing Creator, designing not merely
necessities, but delicately refined joys and pleasures, for the promo-
tion of graces of character in His noblest creatures.

The sun’s place in plant life is more extraordinary by far than
it is in the animal economy. Growing vegetation is a laboratory
where sun rays unite carbonic acid gas of the air with watery fluid
brought up through the roots of the plant, building up from these
two simple materials some of the most complex substances known
to organic chemistry. Although consisting mainly of water, traces
of the other chemical elements are dissolved in the fluid which the

161
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

roots imbibe, sufficient to complete those complex compounds so
indispensable to life.

It has been estimated that a square mile of dense hardwood forest
may use over 500 tons of carbonic acid gas and over 1,000,000 tons
of water in a season for such chemical activities. In dry countries
such prodigality with water would be, of course, impossible. This
figure represents a depth of nearly 114 feet of quid water over
the whole area, which is from one-third to one-sixth of the total
yearly rainfall of very moist climates, and exceeds by fivefold the
yearly rainfall of some of the great deserts.

Only a small part of the imbibed water is retained by vegetation.
The leaves have a multitude of little mouths, called stomata, which,
when under the influence of light, suck in carbonic acid gas and
exude oxygen and water vapor. In darkness, plants exude carbonic
acid gas slowly. This seems to be an attribute of all living cells, plant
as well as animal. It no doubt goes on in the light with plants
also, but is obscured by the opposite reaction just mentioned. The
combined area of all the stomata hardly amounts to 1 per cent of
the area of the leaves, so that it is hard to see how so much material
can pass through such tiny orifices. It has, indeed, been shown that
if one-half the leaf area were kept wet with fresh, strong caustic
potash solution, it could not absorb carbonic acid gas faster than
the stomata.

Brown and Escombe resolved the puzzle. They showed by lab-
oratory experiments that when carbonic acid gas is admitted through
a small orifice into a medium which absorbs it as fast as admitted,
the amount transmitted is proportional, not to the area, but to the
diameter of the orifice. For example, the same area of opening, if
split up into four parts, will admit twice as much carbonic acid gas
as when forming only one orifice, since the diameter of the large
orifice is but twice the diameters of the four small ones. This
paradox, of course, depends on a more rapid rate of flow of the gases
through the smaller apertures.

Nature avails herself of this strange secret by crowding stomata
something like 1,000,000 to the square inch. She thus adapts her
leaves to suck in their sustenance and give out the waste products
almost as rapidly as if the whole leaf were one aperture, while really
about 99 per cent of its surface is closed to protect the delicate cells
within.

Even this is not the whole story. The stomata, like mouths of
animals, may be either wide open, shut, or partly open, and they go
through all of these variations. It is not known exactly how they
are regulated. We, at least, do not suppose that the plants use
volition as men do in opening their mouths. Yet it is conceivable
SUN RAYS—ABBOT 163

that, if sunlight was exceedingly bright on a hot summer day, the
evaporation of water could be so great that the chemical products
left behind would exceed the requirements of the plant, and kill it
by overfeeding. Against such a possibility perhaps the stomata
might need to be partially closed. On the other hand, if the air was
very free from clouds and moisture, and a strong cool breeze blow-
ing, the plant might become chilled by excessive evaporation unless
the stomata were partly closed. There are, at all events, automatic
devices within the leaf mechanism which attend to this needful
regulation of the stomata. Beside these regulating devices, the
leaves themselves, under the influence of changing sunlight, turn
face toward or edge toward the sun according to the plants’
requirements.

If the penetration of gases through the stomata in such profusion
was a great puzzle, the ascent of the sap is, perhaps, even more ex-
traordinary. For imagine a forest of gigantic Eucalyptus trees,
which sometimes reach heights of 500 feet, and conceive of the en-
ergy demanded to lift in a single summer hundreds of thousands
of tons of water on each square mile from the ground to the leafy
tops. A common vacuum pump, it is well known, can not lft water
above 33 feet, so that we dismiss at once the thought that the air
pressure is working for the trees. What form of energy and appli-
cation of force are these which the tree commands to do this lifting?

The energy is the heat of sun rays, and the forces at work are
the capillary attraction and surface tension of water. By means of
the capillary tubelike network of cells, which run from the roots up
through the trunk of the tree, there is formed a connection between
the stomata of the leaves and the water of the ground. These enor-
mously numerous capillary passages are filled with fluid, partly li-
quid, partly gaseous. At their orifices, which are the stomata of the
leaves and twigs, the sun’s heat produces a continuous evaporation
of pure water, leaving behind in the tree the traces of chemicals
which the soil furnishes with the water and which yield plant food.

We seldom think of the forces of capillarity and surface tension
which come into play, though they are the same that raise kerosene
oil in a lamp wick, and that make drops of oil spread over a wet
pavement. These forces are limited in their action to distances far
less than the thickness of a single sheet of tissue paper, but are ex-
tremely powerful in circumstances where they are at their maximum
strength. For instance, a single drop of water introduced between
two flat glasses slightly inclined to each other, will run rapidly to
the narrowest spaces, and will draw the two plates together so
strongly as even to bruise or crush the glass. Similarly, two blocks
of ice placed loosely together, and so that the water which melts
from them can drain away, will be drawn together by the remaining
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

water so closely that the two ice blocks become united into one by
cohering together. ‘This process is called regelation. On the con-
trary, the fluid, mercury, which does not wet glass, will, on account
of surface tension escape from between two glasses, even if by doing
so it must create a vacuum gehind.

The rise of water and other liquids 1 in very fine tubes is a conse-
quence of surface tension, which in this connection is often called
capillary force. ‘The heights to which a column of liquid will rise in
a tube which it wets is inversely proportional to the diameter of
the tube. The extreme fineness of the porous structure of the trunks,
twigs, and leaves of trees, therefore, is adapted to convey the liquids
imbibed by the roots to very great heights. The evaporation of
water from the stomata of the leaves and twigs makes place for the
continuous renewal of liquid by capillary action from below. This
upward current is conveyed by the interior part of the tree stem.
As it has been observed to reach great heights in dead trees, we must
adopt some such physical explanation as has been given, and not
invent a mysterious “life force” for the purpose, as older botanists
were prone to do.

The soft, live, outer part of the plant, just within the bark, has
another function. It is to carry downwards to the extremities of
the roots the chemical products built up im the leaves and green
parts under the action of sunlight.

Thus, in a live plant, as in a live animal, there is a fluid circulation.
The manner of it, to be sure, is exceedingly different. Instead of the
force pump, which we call the heart, there is substituted in the
plant the force of capillary action, lifting the watery fluid to the
tops of majestic trees. It brings, dissolved, the chemical plant foods
from the ground, and so feeds the trees. ‘The return current, much
less in volume, is probably maintained by still another modification
of surface tension which we call osmotic pressure. This is a force,
which often greatly exceeds atmospheric pressure. It is always ex-
isting between watery solutions of chemical substances in different
concentrations, tending to drive the more concentrated solution into
the one less concentrated. Thus, the force of osmotic pressure tends
to produce a uniform mixture. In a tree, it takes the more concen-
trated products of solar chemistry from the laboratory of the leaves,
and conveys them downward through the living layers under the
bark to the roots, to nourish these, and to be laid up, beyond the in-
fluence of wintry frost, for the renewal of the leaves in the spring.

The reader should not conclude from what has been said that the
life processes of a tree are wholly understood. On the contrary,
the best informed plant physiologists admit that they are confronted
by a maze of mysteries which become more bewildering with addi-
tional research. They are becoming convinced that the simple proto-
SUN RAYS—ABBOT 165

plasmic living cells in plants and animals have much in common.
A plant, like an animal, is to be looked upon as a colony of cells.
Just as in a society of bees, or of ants, some individuals are told off
and become modified in structure to perform certain duties neces-
sary to the life of the society as a whole, so in plants and in animals
the protoplasmic cells are, as physiologists say, differentiated, some ~
for one function, some for another. By what physical agencies this
is done is the mystery of hfe. ‘Thus, we have in the plant the root
with a variety of cells, some for imbibing ground water, others for
storing food during’ wintry cold, still others forming a protecting
covering. Again in the stem are some adapted for mechanical resist-
ance to pressures like those of winds, others promoting the passage
of foodstutis, and still others protecting the interior from exposure.
In the leaves there are the variety of special cells, adapted for the
several different functions involved in nature’s solar chemistry.
Finally, in the flowers and ripening fruits are other varieties of
cells set apart for the many functions associated with reproduction.
All of these modifications of the primordial cell work together in
admirable harmony to promote hfe and growth of the cell colony
which we call a plant. One may be apt to think of it as very inferior
to the cell colony which we call the animal. Tor does it not lack
a nervous system for communication, and also the capacity for
motion? But the latest researches seem to show that the plant is
not so deficient in these respects as might be supposed. What, for
instance, causes a bending of the stem toward the light, and the
development of rudimentary buds into growing shoots when the
terminal bud is lost, if there be no communication of useful impulses
through the body of a plant? What leads to the great storage of
food in the root system, to prepare for the dormant period of winter,
and for the uprush of the sap in spring, to cause the leaves and buds
to burst forth? These are but a few of the great mysteries which,
the closer they are studied, the higher they tend to raise our admira-
tion. Finally, the plant kingdom has the great superiority over
the animal that, like the farmer among men, it furnishes by its
unique employment of solar radiation, not only the means to feed
its own living cells, but all those of the animal world besides.
Already, therefore, we have discovered in the plant two indis-
pensable activities of the sun. The first is the mysterious combining
influence of certain solar rays, which, acting in green leaves, build
up the most complex life chemicals from such simple materials as
carbonic acid gas of the air and weakly impregnated water from
the ground. This is an action as yet inimitable in the laboratory.
We have yet to learn its intricacy and causation. The second indis-
pensable action of solar energy is to evaporate from the leaves and
twigs enormous quantities of water. Thus are left behind, in suit-
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

able concentration for the use of the chemistry of plants, the various
needful chemicals brought up in extremely diluted form in the
water imbibed by the roots.

But this is not all. In producing this immense evaporation, the
sun counteracts its own influence to unduly heat and scorch the
delicate leaves. ‘Turning lquid water to vapor requires a very
large supply of heat. So the sun-heat absorbed by the leaves is
safely dissipated. Indeed, as in the human body, there is a rough
uniformity of temperature preserved in plant leaves, and largely
by the regulatory action of evaporation. Some plants, indeed, have
automatic mechanisms which turn their parts toward the sun,
or edgewise to its rays, according to requirement. ‘These plant mo-
tions are well known, as we see them in the sunflower and the nastur-
tium, and are, indeed, very common in the plant realm.

Fourthly, the sun maintains a suitable temperature. Plant growth
requires a state of temperature whose range is practically limited
between 0° and 50° C. (82° and 122° F.). It is this state of affairs
which the sun maintains constantly in the tropics, and through a
part of the year in temperate and polar zones. Later we shall note
some curious effects which temperature regulation may produce in
plants.

Such are the four great services of sun rays to plants, but in their
response to these influences the plants exhibit a most interesting
variety. Astonishing changes in growth and texture may be brought
about merely by altering the temperature of environment, the dura-
tion of sunlight, and the intensity and spectral quality of sun rays.
Changes in the water ration, the chemistry of the soil, and the con-
centration of carbonic acid gas in the air, also produce profound
effects, but as these are but indirectly affected by the sun, we shall
not discuss them, but turn our attention to the direct influences
first mentioned.

Col. Boyce Thompson has munificently established in Yonkers,
New York, a laboratory splendidly equipped for the investigation of
such effects, as well as for the study of plant diseases. In basement
rooms there are provided cooling pipes and automatic regulators
adapted to keep plants for as long as desired at definite tempera-
tures and under powerful batteries of electric lamps adapted as a
substitute for sun rays. The potted plants are mounted on little
perambulators so that when the desired time of exposure in one
temperature has elapsed, they may be removed to different tempera-
ture surroundings. Instances of the curious results are shown in
the accompanying illustrations.

In another part of the laboratory is a glass-roofed hothouse. But
the glass is not all the same. One part is tinged with violet, another
SUN RAYS—ABBOT OS ae

with blue green, another with yellow orange, another with red, and
one is of clear glass. Thus the rays of sun and sky are modified
by the absorption of the glass so that different regions of the spec-
trum are most effective for the several little gardens. It is very
curious to see the changes of color in a lady’s dress as she passes
from garden to garden under the control of these different colored
lights. These conditions change remarkably the character of the
plant growth as shown by the accompanying illustrations.

There is also a great movable roof which can be rolled over the
hothouses. This is provided with clusters of powerful electric lamps
sufficient to be a substitute for sunlight. With this apparatus,
experiments in the effect of continuous and partial time illumination
are performed. Some of the results are shown in the illustrations.
This field has also had much attention by Doctor Garner and associ-
ates of the United States Department of Agriculture.

_ Everyone knows how a potato in a dark cellar in springtime sends

out its white sprouts, which stretch away sometimes a yard or more
toward some feeble crack of light. Here we see two things of
importance. First, that the healthy green development necessary
to sound growth can not take place without adequate light, and,
second, that insufficient light leads to monstrous elongation of plant
stems.

In the solar chemistry of the leaves, their green coloring matter,
called chlorophyl, seems to be indispensable. Yet it does not itself
join permanently in the reactions, but rather seems to be what is
called a catalyst, which in chemistry means some substance that is
necessary to cause reactions to happen, but is not itself a part either
of the original materials or of the end products. What must happen
in plant chemistry is the joining of each molecule of carbonic acid
gas with a certain number of molecules of water, and the removal
from the mixture of one molecule of oxygen, leaving the compound
a single stable molecule of the type called a sugar. There are many
sugars and near sugars. Of these our ordinary cane-sugar molecule
includes 12 atoms of carbon with 11 atoms of oxygen and 22 atoms of
hydrogen. Much simpler sugarlike substances exist, but all, as we
remarked above, have the general formula C,O,,H.n, where C, O, H,
stand for atoms of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, and n and m stand
for numbers which may run up nearly to a score.

The sugars are closely allied to the starches, whose molecules
have the same general relations of numbers of the three chemical
constituents, but contain several or many times as many atoms as
the sugars. Starches are stored up by the plants in great profusion
in their roots, tubers, and fruits. They break up readily into sugars.
Starches, sugars, and, in addition, cellulose, in whose molecules are
also found the same general proportions of the three constituents,
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, as in starch and sugar, compose the
main part of plant substance. Some of the other chemical elements,
to be sure, are necessary to healthy plants, though in very small
proportions. The chemical formulae of some of these compounds
are excessively complicated, and raise our admiration for plant
chemistry.

As plants must have light in order to grow, they strongly com-
pete for it by stretching toward the sky. Where light is inadequate
the stems lengthen. ‘This is called by botanists etiolation. Its effect
is very marked in the comparative shapes of two pines, one growing
alone on a clearing, the other in a thick wood. Another well-known
effect of scarcity of light is to thin and broaden the leaves. This
is taken advantage of by some tobacco growers, who by erecting
semitransparent tents over their crops produce a higher grade of
tobacco.

It is at first sight quite surprising, but after all quite in harmony
with the facts of etiolation, that plants grow tall faster in the night
than in the day. Their maximum rate of growth is just after sunset,
when it is apt to be over twice as rapid as in midday.

There is also a curious expansion and contraction of plant stems
in growing. The contraction seems to be caused by the rapid evapo-
ration of water from the leaves during the daylight hours, and a
resulting upward tension of the liquid in the conducting channels
of the stem, which relieves the horizontal pressures to some extent.

When we inquire which of the spectrum rays, and in what inten-
sity, are required for plant growth and for seed formation, we find
that a great gap in exact knowledge exists here. Most of the experi-
ments hitherto made relate to plants of little or no commercial value,
and lack exactness both as to the intensity and the quality of the
rays used. It would be, indeed, diflicult and costly to employ the
spectroscope to select rays for such experiments, because the use of
a slit and numerous optical pieces so greatly reduces the intensity
of the rays of every color. Most experimenters, therefore, have made
shift to employ colored glasses to give certain rough separations of
color.

These experiments indicate that the blue and violet and ultra-violet
rays are the most important for plant growth. Deep red rays also
are very active to promote photosynthesis, but the green rays lying
between these spectral regions seem to behave as darkness to the
plant. It is greatly to be hoped that more exact measurements of
wave length and intensity may soon be associated with studies of the
growth and fruiting of the valuable food crops and the favorite
flowers. It will be necessary to use very large and costly apparatus
in such an investigation, because not more than 10 per cent of the
intensity of sun rays may be expected to remain after the rays have

Se ge eS eee ee

LS

Ce te
SUN RAYS—ABBOT 169

been collected and accurately selected by the optical spectroscopic
train. It may be that specific functions like flower bearing, seed de-
veloping, leaf growing, and stem expansion may be found to require
different and very special qualities and intensities of rays for opti-
mum conditions. The experiment is fascinating, for perhaps new
and remarkable varieties of the most useful plants may be developed
by controlling their radiation supply.

With the higher plants, it must be sunshine or death. With man
and the higher animals, it must be sunshine or sickness. 'To be sure,
there is nothing in the life of man or animals like the photosynthesis
of the food of all plants and all animals which goes on in green
leaves. That is unique with plants. But child humanity in dusky
cities, shut in by smoke and dust from receiving the ultra-violet rays
of the sun and sky, is afflicted by rickets and other ills which yield
to the healing influence of exposure of the body to full sun rays in
the manner that nature intended.

The outstanding exponent of this solar therapy is Doctor Rollier of
Switzerland, who has maintained a sanitarium for sun treatments
since 1903. Of later years, he has been imitated in other countries.
One would hardly think of sun rays as dangerous, but the patients of
Doctor Rollier commence their treatments on the first day with only
20 minutes exposure, and of the feet alone. From this gentle begin-
ning there is a gradual progress to the stage of complete exposure of
the person for hours. Naturally there accompanies this course a
gradual darkening of the skin. The patients become brown and
hardy looking. Skin sores disappear.

Two principal diseases successfully treated by solar therapy are
rickets and surgical tuberculosis. Rickets, as everyone knows, is a
sort of lack of stamina, apt to invade the whole body of children.
A weak digestion, a poor appetite, emaciation, profuse night sweat-
ing, weakness of the limbs, tenderness of the bones, enlargements of
the wrists and ends of the ribs, bow legs, curvature of the spine,
misshapen head, contracted chest—all these deformities and miseries
may come in the early years of the poor little patient.

The layman is apt to think of tuberculosis as a disease of the lungs,
but essentially the same malady attacks many other parts of the
body. Glands of the neck, skin, bones, joints, mucous membranes,
intestines, and liver are commonly infected by the tubercle-bacillus.
In cases of superficial tuberculosis, recognizing how the germs may
pass from one part to another in the blood stream, the surgeon is
frequently called in to excise the infected part before it does its fatal
mischief in a less accessible organ of the body. ‘This gives rise to the
term surgical tuberculosis.

It appears to be definitely proved that ultra-violet rays of less
than 3,200 Angstréms in wave length are the active agents in the
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

cure of rickets by ray therapy. As the ozone of the higher air cuts
off solar radiation at about 2,900 Angstréms, it leaves but a narrow
band of solar rays available. Not only in rickets but in certain
superficial skin diseases, physicians have used with advantage the
quartz-mercury vapor are light, which is rich in ultra-violet rays
of these and shorter wave lengths. Recent experiments in poultry
raising at the Maine Agricultural Experiment Station are exceed-
ingly instructive in this line, though it would be rash to carry over
the results unquestioned to human pathology.

In the summer of 1924, about 250 one-week old chicks were sepa-
rated into six groups for different treatments. Those of Group 1
ran about in the open sunlight as they pleased, but came indoors to
eat. The remaining five groups lived in a glass-roofed greenhouse.
Groups 2 and 3, however, in addition to the light which reached
them from sun and sky, were exposed for 20 minutes each day to
the rays of a quartz mercury vapor lamp, rich in the ultra-violet.
The remaining three groups had only the sun’s light as it came
through their glass-roofed house.

All the groups had the usual regular food, composed of chick
grain, dry mash, sour milk, and rock grit, and had access to fresh
water and sand bath. Groups, 3 and 4 were given, in addition to
the regular diet, chopped alfalfa and grass, and Group 6 had, in
addition to the regular diet, a small ration of cod-liver oil.

What was the result? Groups 1, 2, 3, which had either full sun-
hight or glass transmitted sunlight plus ultra-violet rays, all thrived.
Groups 4 and 5 began to act less vigorously than these other's by
the end of the fourth week. They ate with less appetite and scratched
less. Chickens of Group 6, which had the cod-lver oil, although
they did not relish this medicine, yet thrived better than Groups 4
and 5, but not as well as Groups 1, 2, 3. These differences became
more and more marked. The chickens of Groups 4 and 5 developed
weak legs. They remained smaller in size. Their plumage looked
rough. By the end of the ninth week, the fowls of Groups 1, 2, 3,
all having developed normally, were about double the weight of
the spindling chicks of Groups 4 and 5. The chicks of the first
three groups had their bones well set and full sized, while the bones
of Groups 4 and 5 were small, curved and weak. Chickens of Group
6 were intermediate in their development. Fifteen deaths occurred
in groups 4 and 5, and only one in Groups 1, 2, 3.

Why this difference? Evidently it was solely due to some defi-
ciency in radiation. Figure 1 shows graphically what the differ-
ence was. A narrow band of rays in the extreme ultra-violet-—far
beyond the extreme limit visible to the eye, and exactly in the
region, by the way, where the ozone of the upper air begins to
work absorption on solar rays—this little group of feeble sun rays
SUN RAYS—ABBOT 171

was cut off by the glass cover of the greenhouse. These indispensable
rays were supplied in sufficient measure by the daily 20 minute
exposures to the mercury vapor are. The want of them was partly
made up to Group 6 by the medicine of cod-liver oil. Groups 4
and 5, lacking both the saving medicine and the rays, languished.

It is astonishing to remember that this very group of rays, thus
proved so indispensable to the development of growing creatures,
just misses being cut off from sun rays by the trace of ozone which
exists in our upper atmosphere. So near, apparently, as this is
the world to lacking a condition favorable to life, that if the ozone
band, which cuts off the spectrum of the sun and stars completely
at 2,900 Angstréms of wave length, had extended to 3,200 Ang-
stréms in full force, the mischief would have been done. And yet
the solar spectrum has little energy there but runs on through the
visible and infra-red regions in great strength to 20,000 Angstréms.

z——Light transmitted by Glass— _(Groups4, Sand 6)— — — a
osm = SuMight (Group 1)
<—— —Mercury Arc in Quartz _ _(Groups 2 and 3)

Wave-lengths in Micvons 97 0.6
Infra-red
Spectral

Colors

Red Yellow Biue Vitra-
Oronge Green Volet Violet

Fie. 1.—Spectral colors arranged according to wave length, showing spectral limits
of the light received by groups of chickens

Another astonishing thing has lately been discovered. Doctors
Steenbock and Daniels, experimenting with rats in the years 1922
and after, were testing the value of butter fat and cod-liver oil for
the prevention or cure of rickets. Their experiments also involved
the use of ultra-violet light. Some of the animals having been
radiated upon and others not, they were confined in cages in com-
mon. The doctors were surprised to find that both sets of rats
grew alike, except in one instance where some nonirradiated animals
began to grow only when, after five weeks, irradiated rats were
for the first time put into their cage.

It seemed as if the irradiated rats were able to supply to the
nonirradiated ones something that hitherto they had lacked. On
trying various experiments, it was found that irradiating the air,
or touching nonirradiated rats with their irradiated brethren did
not give the magic curative influence. The effect was indirect, not
a consequence of direct action on the outside of the body. Finally
the secret appeared. Some bodily excretions of the irradiated ani-
mals were eaten by the others and preduced the extraordinary result.
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Various articles of diet were then tried in irradiated and non-
irradiated condition. It was proved that many, but not all, grains,
fats, and oils, when shined upon by ultra-violet rays receive and hold
curative properties adapted to conquer the disease of rickets. Cod-
liver oil, then, is by no means alone as a carrier of the curative agent.
Some modification takes place in many other kinds of foods, if
irradiated, which makes them effective to cure rickets by indirect
ray-therapy, fully as effectively as by the direct application of the
rays to the skin of the patient himself. The irradiated oil may indeed
be boiled with strong alkali and reduced to a soap and still retain
its curative property unimpaired.

It appears that while there are several rare chemical substances
in cod-liver oil which possess this curative virtue when irradiated,
the most active of them is one named cholesterol. While this sub-
stance does not occur in plant foods, there are certain somewhat
similar chemicals in the grains which are named phytosterols, and
some of these have simiJar value against rickets. Not only in rickets,
but in some allied disorders, this new discovery may prove of high
medical value.

As regards light therapy and rickets, the conclusions so far arrived
at are these:

(1) Exposure of an animal to light of wave length less than about
3,200 Angstréms will cure rickets and also prevent its occurrence on
a diet, that normally will produce rickets.

(2) Cod-liver oil will act just like ultra-violet light in curing and
preventing rickets.

(3) Some other substances have a slight curative value in rickets,
but most other oils—such as cottonseed oil—have no antirachitic
value.

(4) These oils without antirachitic value can most of them be
made antirachitic by exposing them to ultra-violet light.

(5) A large number of solid food materials also become anti-
rachitic on exposure to ultra-violet light.

(6) Cholesterol—a practically universal constituent of animal
cells—becomes activated by ultra-violet light. So also does phytos-
terol which is a constituent of plant cells, so that presumably food
materials are made antirachitic by activating the cholesterol and
phytosterol in them.

(7) Since the human tissues contain cholesterol, the skin on ab-
sorbing ultra-violet light has its cholesterol activated, and this acti-
vated cholesterol, being absorbed into the blood, acts just like
cod-liver oil absorbed from the intestines in promoting bone
formation.

SUN RAYS—ABBOT 173

The striking results obtained in the treatment of surgical tuber-
culosis by Doctor Rollier at his Swiss solar sanitarium are indicated
by the following table:

Results of light treatment in surgical tuberculosis (Rollier)

Cured Improved

Per cent Per cent

Skin tuberculosis 81. 25 18.75
Bone and toint. =. .2-5=-2- 75. 98 7. 80
Glandular_..__-.- 89. 80 5. 20

Peritonitis---..- 80. 30 8. 20
Uenito-urinary_- 77. 80 22. 20
Tare Tie ge el ee ee ee ee ae er oe ae 52, 94 33. 00

Total mortality 0.9 per cent.

X-ray photographs, after the light treatment, give striking evi-
dence of the effect upon bone formation. According to Rollier,
finger bones that have entirely disappeared may be so completely
recalcified as to be indistinguishable, in radiographs, from normal
tissue, and adults seem to be as easily affected as children. This
means that, for early cases at least, the disease can be checked,
and motion preserved in the affected joint, the gradual establish-
ment of motion going hand in hand with the healing process.

Rollier insists on the fact that the benefit is always proportional
to the degree of pigmentation. Without knowing accurately which
wave lengths are responsible for pigmentation, and which are most
beneficial in the treatment of tuberculosis, it is not possible to be
very sure in this matter, and here as in plant physiology an alliance
between the doctor of medicine and physicists, expert in isolating
rays and exactly measuring radiation intensities, would be of great
advantage.

The subject of the influence of sun rays on plants and animals
has only recently come to the fore. Doubtless the future holds
in store for us here, as in other lines, highly wonderful and inspir-
ing revelations of the importance of sun rays in the welfare of man.
Haw Ya
hy png Ay

Ki

Iie mith p's mh win:

ean

18 | Sod[puBo JOO] LO ¢

“It 141
o}eUl I 2 I I *O0I ‘OUBID 9 TO SK

L alwid yoqqV—'9Z6| ‘Wodey uvjuosyiWS
Smithsonian Report, 1926.—Abbot PLATE 2

THE EVENING PRIMROSE IS A TYPICAL “ LONG-DAY PLANT ’’

The specimen on the right, exposed to a 10-hour day, is unable to develop flowering stems.
nae on the left, exposed to the full length of a Washington summer day is nearly ready
to flower
Smithsonian Report, 1926.—Abbot PLATE 3

THE KLONDIKE COSMOS IS A TYPICAL ‘‘ SHORT-DAY PLANT ”’

The specimens on the right, exposed to full-length Washington summer days, were unable
to flower. Those on the left, exposed to an 8-hour day, flowered at a height of a few inches
WOOL OY} Ul poov[d Wey. S2AVO| 991] 10 OM} Bultveq sued [[VUIs 91am puB ‘SkVp gE WOOL YYSIT 9Y4 UT
udeq eavy AoUL, “ABP AMoY-fZ AOA UI UOTJEUTUIMI[I Jo SIMoY FZ PUB “BT “LT “ZI “2 “G AJOATPOOdSOI PAATIOI SJULTq

ATaYyILNS LHOI7]
TWIOIILYY YSGNMQ WOOY LHDIT LNVLSNOD AHL NI NMOUF) SLNVId SONLLAT] 40 SSIYaS V7

Nt. tee eae | AO ge
HNOH 61 Ludy YNOH ZI unoH §

b ALV1d 1oqqv—'9Z6| ‘WWodey uBlUOsSU IWS
SoATS (f eSNOY) SABI oN[G PUB JO[OLA OY} YO ZUQIND Jey} pu ‘Yo Ind AjaiUe SI It UayYM pu po} Wy]
oY} Ul esUBYO 9]}II[ AIOA ST ao} JBYI SMOYS 9INQoId OY, }Us1TUns pue
aseq, “SUOIOTUNIT[ [TM 9ZG 07 A[UO s}iUIsUBIy JI—U9—IF OT} JO J 910 PUB ‘ONT “Jo[OIA “JOTOLA-B1A[N 9Y4 Jo TR
“SUBI] JI—onTq oY} JO Jed pUB JoTOTA-vAY[N at JO [[e YO syno F ‘SuOAO MATT TUT YF} ATWO S}IUISUBIY PUB JOTOTA-t

IN S,SUTMIOD SI ¢ ‘suoOIOTUT OFSITMSUB.LY TOIT “SSBIS F|—-98—-4) S,SUTUIOD SIZ ‘SUOLOLUMIT [IU ZTE 01 Sy1UIS

A-BI[N 9Y) UNM 4L
US SULMdAOD UI posn a
oO synod ¢ NUIT [IM [2p 02s
] no yor *
11] OTM “Sse[s asNOYUeIS St | ano

SASNOH SSV1H) 1WHLOAdS 4O SSIYSS NI NMOUYS SLNV1d JO S3IYas

G aLlvid

yoqqy—'9z6| ‘YWodey ueRIUOSyUyIWS
ee
cate

yb i

MWh 7

ON THE EVOLUTION OF THE STARS?

By C. G. ABBot

a

[With 6 plates]

1. There are 92 chemical elements, beginning with hydrogen ana
ending with uranium. Oxygen is the eighth, iron the twenty-sixth,
silver the forty-seventh, gold the seventy-ninth, and radium the
eighty-eighth. Nearly all of them are found on the earth, and a great
many of them in the sun and stars. There are many ways of identi-
fying them on the earth, but only one way in the sun and stars. The
spectroscope reveals the signs of the chemical elements in the light
of the heavenly bodies.

The spectrum is a band of beauty. Its colors blend from violet
through indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, to red most charmingly.
But in the spectrum of light from the sun, or from the stars, one sees
the band of color shot across with many dark lines. It is these lines
which tell the chemical story.

Here are the lines of green color that iron gives when heated in
the electric arc. Here are the dark lines that are produced when
light shines through iron vapor. Here are those very lines in the
spectrum of the sun. Hence, there is iron in the sun. The proof is
just as plain as that which tells us that ages ago a queer-toed animal
walked in the mud of Massachusetts, for we have found fossils of
his tracks.

In such ways the spectroscope has told us that all of the stars are
composed of the same chemical elements as our earth. This is the
first conclusion in our study of stellar evolution. The chemical com-
position of all parts of the universe, however distant, is the same.

2. The atoms of the 92 chemical elements are made up of two
and only two ingredients. These fundamentals are called the protons
and the electrons. The protons are unit positive electrical charges.
The electrons are unit negative charges exactly equal but opposite in
nature to the protons.

In a single atom of hydrogen there are one proton and one electron.
In a single atom of oxygen there are 16 of each, and in heavier atoms
many more. This is the way they are arranged: The protons and

1 Lecture delivered at Columbia University, July 15, 1926.

175
176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

part of the electrons form a central nucleus about which gyrate the
remaining electrons at tremendous speeds, and in characteristic orbits.
The nucleus is like the sun, controlling its family of planets—
electrons. So we may say that astronomy begins within the atoms.

As all things are made of atoms, and all atoms are made of
electric charges, we see that what we call matter, the substance of
the earth, the stars, and all that in them is, is after all electricity.

Consider a hydrogen atom. It is just one proton with one
electron revolving about it, comparable to the earth with its one
moon. The two units of electricity attract one another very power-
fully because they are so very close together. If the motion that
holds them apart could be stopped, the electron would fall in upon
the proton. What would result? Apparently annihilation. Simi-
larly, all of the chemical atoms—that is, the whole universe—if de-
prived of all the inner atomic motions, would apparently be an-
nihilated. In place of the universe would be a void. If the process
were reversed, a void, separated into positive and negative unit
electrical charges, and endowed with immense energy of motions in
characteristic orbits, would become a universe. That would be the
primary step in evolution itself.

3. How did that primary step take place? Science does not pre-
tend to know.

The Hebrew scripture says: “In the beginning God created the
heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void;
and darkness was upon the face of the deep. * * * And God
said, Let there be light: and there was light.”

In this there is nothing which contradicts what science has dis-
closed.

The Zuni Indians had also an account of creation:

Awonawilona, the Maker and Container of all, existed before the
beginning of time in the darkness which knew no beginning. Then
he projected his thinking into the void of night and evolved fogs
of increase—mists potent with growth. He took upon himself the
form and person of the Sun, the Father of men, who thus came to
be, and by whose light and brightening the cloud mists became
thickened with water, and thus was made the world-holding sea.
By the heat of his rays there was formed thereon green scums, which
increasing apace, became “The Four-fold containing Mother—
earth,” and the “All-containing Father—sky,” parents of all that is.

4. Our study of stellar evolution can not begin at the beginning.
Existing processes do not help us to form a conception of how the
void became the atoms. We have to assume that the atoms in tre-
mendous numbers came into being in some unknown way. That is
our starting point.

EVOLUTION OF STARS—-ABBOT 177

5. The telescope with its photographic plate shows us that the
vast spaces of the universe hold cloudhke matter called nebulae.
Some of these clouds are bright, some dark. ‘The star, Theta Orionis,
near the base of Orion’s sword is really nebulous. It is involved in
the great nebula of Orion. The Pleiades stars are also surrounded
by nebulosity. In fact, nearly every one of the irregular nebulae
is associated with a bright star. Hubble has suggested that it is
these stars which cause the nebulae to glow.

This view is the more probable because many of the nebulae do
not glow. Thus in the Milky Way are many dark patches devoid of
faint stars, apparently because a cloudy veil of nebulous matter lies
between us and the starry background. <A very striking example of
this sort of thing is in the horse-head shaped blackness in the con-
stellation of Orion. Then there is the lacelike nebula in Cygnus,
which we suppose extends farther than it glows, because the fainter
stars are absent on one side of it.

Thus we see that among the stars lies much cloudlike, unorganized
substance which may seem to be suitable raw material to make up
into stars. The spectroscope shows little complexity in the chemistry
of such nebulae. Hydrogen is prominent, and some other gases
whose spectra are unfamiliar. Perhaps these strange gases are
really of some common variety whose unfamiliar spectra depend
on an unknown means of exciting light.

6. The stars themselves show much variety. [iven ordinary eye-
sight can tell a difference between the blue star Rigel and the red
Betelgeuse in Orion; or between the white Sirius and the yellow
Procyon of the two Dogs. The spectrum gives this distinction more
precisely. It shows a regular gradation of complexity from the
blue Rigel, with its few lines revealing the presence of the gas
helium; to the white Sirius, with hydrogen lines predominant; to
the yellowish Procyon, which faintly shows evidences of many
metals; to the yellow sun whose light is considerably dimmed
by the very numerous dark absorption lines of its many chemical
elements; to the reddish Aldebaran in whose spectrum, as in
the light of sun-spots, evidences of compound molecules appear; and
finally to the deep red Antares, from whose rays most of the visible
strength is cut off by powerful bands of absorption, due to compounds
of carbon, nitrogen, and various gases.

These differences of spectrum are associated with temperature
differences. Many years ago at the Harvard College Observatory,
as the observers noted the spectrum peculiarities we have just spoken
of, they named the various star types by an irregular sequence of
letters that still prevails. The table shows the characteristic spectra
and temperatures of 99 per cent of all the stars arranged after the
Harvard type-letter system.
178 ANNUAL REFORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1926

Characteristics of typical stellar spectra

Spectral class B A F

Sample star__.-.___- Ripe eh 2b 2s he Ae ee Sinise ee ee a Procyon.

Constellation _______ Orion 0. ere eae Canis! Maj * 2b eee? | Canis (Mim.

Colorist sei ye Bee Abe Ne EE ne he WV Ge ition ae Pale yellow.

Surface temperature! 16,000°--..___....-._____-- AL 000 Moe BA SOD 8,000°.

Charaeteristics_-____ The few Fraunhofer lines | Hydrogen lines predomi- Metallic lines conspicuous.
are mainly of hydrogen nate. Helium lines dis- Are lines of metals
and helium. Oxygen, appear. Lines of metals appear.
nitrogen show less con- come in faintly, espe-
spicuously. cially spark lines.

Spectral class G Kk M
rk |

Sample star____ Sun__._ Rp Ame buss ae sae he 2's! Betelgeuse,

Constellation__ 2 eae eh BoGtes_ .-| Orion.

Color 223 258 Yellow. Ly IRGC Gas hv eas wep eae | Jeg Red.

Surface temperature CRC i pd A Ba NO ATS otal SUDO Osten ee ters 2,700°.

Characteristies_____- Solar type. Metallic arc | Sun-spot type. Are lines | Flame lines prominent.
lines predominate. strong. Flame lines also Heavy absorption bands
Flaming arc lines also conspicuous. Bands of appear and are the con
conspicuous. compounds appear. spicuous feature, indicat-

ing spectra of molecules,
notably titanium oxide.

7. We must think of the brightness and distances of the stars.
Nearly 2,000 years ago, in that great fifteenth chapter of St. Paul’s
Epistle to the Corinthians, he penned the expression, “ For one star
differeth from another star in glory.” Very accurate measurements
of this difference have now been made, and it is found that a range
of more than a billion of billionsfold occurs between the brightness
of the sun and that of the faintest stars which have been photo-
graphed with the largest telescope. The accompanying chart (fig. 1)
shows what an enormous range it is.

Part of this difference depends on distance. We may express
these tremendous distances in light-years. Light travels 6,000,000,-
000,000 miles per year. It takes hght only eight minutes to reach
us from the sun, four years from the nearest star, and thousands of
years from the vast majority of them.

When we know, as we do, the distances of great numbers of the
stars, it is found that the real brightness of them differs very greatly
from that which is apparent. Hertzsprung and Russell discovered
that when ranged in terms of real brightness the different spectrum
classes behave very differently. The later work of Adams and of
J ackson and Furner shows this even more in detail. Of deep red

——— aos rege eee rg tot Oe ee ee gee

classes behave very differently. The later work of Adams and of
J ackson and Kurner shows this even more in detail. Of deep red

——— aos rege eee rg tot Oe ee ee gee

classes behave very differently. The later work of Adams and of
J ackson and Kurner shows this even more in detail. Of deep red

——— aos rege eee rg tot Oe ee ee gee

classes behave very differently. The later work of Adams and of
J ackson and Kurner shows this even more in detail. Of deep red

——— aos rege eee rg tot Oe ee ee gee

classes behave very differently. The later work of Adams and of
J ackson and Kurner shows this even more in detail. Of deep red

——— aos rege eee rg tot Oe ee ee gee

dishes behave very differently. The later ion of Kade and of
