. a aa ;
4 te ”? o ?
SK «
., 4 ? “a
.) a
i

<i es ik
ae Te Se et Ae
meet ae ae
ie ee Te 8 ee Se
ieee a ew eh 2 * J» tn i cn

. : | aa, VR Sep ae
tae titaratats

we aa y S Wa Ye; om - tt

‘ie ay wy ay % Te i = ey ;

| 3 a as ee on » e an:

Ck Ee

A ne = ¥? xt ees a ne EL nee

riya oo ew reteset

& a5 Pe reetgtat eet n'y

i an we ‘a . i. i #!
atte! a. oe i‘ hoy aes, ete! ae ae
—— Dass Wel ns -tniun-hgen Rog chuthetselieMabetenen
He i“ — ) Op ae Sollee liga, thn twa theta lin Sled: * ~ eee - wintmiheutrhsDaheha faked Seb wieibstrbchetchath
rae hglhedetiets Aetetictinth-te i tullakee nt NE eri tee . - 7 eek tn, te te ee ot

RW Wah ar NCO wh pe ss 2 Reve os Ser tie ara betta bated ns

Rear tate

Oey

ste

Litem ae

* leet deh

iO ert t
casei ero ~

in
Py

Rn
=P
oF

Po s bance
ee A tpn SNe AS Cgh iy —
ep LA TR rd RES

$

S

LISNI_ NVINOSHLIWS

we

ANS
SSI1YVYaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

iG
NVINOSHLIWS

\
SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLIWS

NVINOSHLIA

NI

NOILNLILSNI
NOILNLILSNI
NOILNLILS

-1ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SAluvadl |

SAINVHYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

Poa =

S S 6

= EF =

pe |

Rs = Fe

re ~ es
ILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31IMYVYAIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

RNS
&

: *

21ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS saruvugi

NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYSIT_LIBRARIES

MITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLIWS
aS

SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN

S

LIBRARIES
LIBRARIES

ILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYGIT LIBRARIES

5

RfES SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
SAINVUSIT LIBRARIES

S3i1y¥Vvud!l
eae

yy di

“pp

Ssa1evydl

INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S314¥Vudl

ts Yih
Wig
NVINOSHILIWS
SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLIWS
NVINOSHLIWS

SMITHSONIAN

ILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

sa wn Le pas
a N o as
& Se SY | Se
= NS a =
fe) “SS fe) re)
“ae = Fa
RIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

NVINOSHLIWS

INSTITUTION

SS NS
Sa1uVNGIT LIBRAR
INSTITUTION
S3IYVYGIT LIBRARIES
INSTITUTION

‘if

JLSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IMUVHUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
| Feel \. sar, 2 eal tid,
NX § s NAS 8 3 YU
NSE = Ag, 2 2 &
BN = = WYN >" = >"
VLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS SAIUVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _
— Fr ef zz ns =
VY.
oe 2 “ = Uy"
4 £ o x Dp 4
= mM a om” Ped =v
g ie S - S
i a |
ZARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31uvy
| FS S FS a eee z
= me] oa Sx o
ee a = a aN OE
rae tf , > > i ra
- Gp = = 2 WO, =
. = (2p) = ” 2 es
ALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVYA!IT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
= wo = Roe Y z
| = = ¥ a Na <
Is r, . ~ : oH
= 2 “iy = ee E
RARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31YVe
ep) = = : 12)
et at a a uw
eas puff : = = =
tig = ac Cc oc
a UG % : : :
a z= a — _ =
NVINOSHLINS SJiy¥VY@IT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUT
re = a = f a
- INN E a E =
a Nx AN i a4 = a
ee WS ¥ 2  ,. ena
eae i Z a
ARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMIILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS, $3 hy
\ ae ih = gy, : = he
be 2 Z = Wy 2 :
SN 3 Z 8 Yh 2 g
KE’ 2 iF A ey a = z.
~~ = 2 eS oe = ES
NLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS “S31YVYEIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUT
| a a z - ; Zz
2) yi ” a Ww
c re fa < vies
4 5 = = =
ee : = i
owl
ARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31uV4
= Se z
WO O nes fe) Pas oe e)
4) ra sa = as WW SS E
ra > = andes NS =
a a iE > =
, = : 2 SS 5
2 D Zz a ee
ALILSNI NYVINOSHIIW

Soa aro: PARP AoOLVEC 6 SHMITHCONIAN ANSTITED
P at ,
Oa ay)
j lay) a
mci)
N PL) i ;
a a a Fae Uy ae a

ro oe ue al eres him ,

-
at 7

ae ways e bet in ie
ex i PA:

py

Bs,

ve { ;

ee
: Hl
ei)
i :

ie
Fei Bowel

ew wn ide a
a 7 a ae a An. | yi, Rly ee
7 7 aan

Me ip ey a 5 ae el ua ? 7 ", i) 7 ) ’ : :
le sn an ” ie mi ah W a ae . y ag hp 7 ‘el a fue
it iv i iV i a ie 4 bah ‘i a

¥ u a at Bea

Ai fo

hae
i iyo a
hae 4 Wa walt

mi 7 at a my ee inah

ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF

THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

SHOWING THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES
AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30

1909

WASHINGTON
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

1910

hail co 7 aC \ . .
Re etscita. ah nar ate? 7
a,

RAWOATeR he Ay

iy

oy ae a0 trae

co hls

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

ACCOMPANYING

The Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1909.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, June 2, 1910.
To the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, in behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the Annual Report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1909.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Cuartes D, Watcortt,
Secretary.
IIL

10427
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1909.

SUBJECTS.

1. Annual report of the secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions and condition of the Institution for the year ending June 30,
1909, with statistics of exchanges, etc.

2. Report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial
affairs of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithsonian
fund, and receipts and expenditures for the year ending June 30,
1909.

3. Proceedings of the Board of Regents for the sessions of Decem-
ber 15, 1908, and February 10, 1909.

4, General appendix, comprising a selection of miscellaneous mem-
oirs of interest to collaborators and correspondents of the Institution,
teachers, and others engaged in the promotion of knowledge. These
memoirs relate chiefly to the calendar year 1909.

IV
CON PEN rs |

Letter from the Secretary submitting the Annual Report of the Regents to

MAROON Se amis oo oro tes sae a see eo dave ciate se cec tiles st os saccineeadse se
ienoralsubjects of the annual report... .- 2-2-2 <0 s- ls - 25. sco sence onesie eis
Olen sfOrerneTOPORb!— -- «esas oo cab eae dees cease ctec coos cosasascaees
MAIO MIACR eS oto ae nose css oss aso sa 2 ass So asc swale ace se sess ae
Oficials of the Institution and its branehes.....-5..........-..-..-.--------

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

SRM CHSOMIAT ANSLOUtION jor Sci- emcee = Here ais see ee cia tan ane ae emcee
(jhe) aHS(RE LOUIS Loin VSS 0) Ai 9a a a OR a eer ee ere eee
IME PS OArOOMRCOCMtS as ene es meme ne ate a enn mars Ie nay ee ayo arate
SENEERMCOMSO CRALIOUS Soi) 4e ee see a ea se Bee ea eee ecnins Sess saeco
EMCI LEA ROMS Benet site cae Sis ei cle ero be aa Same aecalaiela rele Se el ale
Buia CO GBs Saye ayn te eras oo Sain hee cise oie sisieisersinisieeaciecs\ semen cic
Explorations and researches—

Smithsonian Airican Expedition 2. 22. 2585530225... 5205255225. 52-
Studies in Cambrian geology and paleontology ......-.-.-----------
Geological investigations in the Far East............-..------------
Boramcnitegleciausee imei e scans oo ccna ee ers ae oat em aes Seem etis
Inivestications under the Hodgkins Fund. /.--.-2.--.-.-.0-c-.------<2-
Researches on-atmospherie aires... 5.2526. 2c--5--cgasche- acces ccee
International standard pyrheliometers_..........--.---------------
Publications under Hodgkins Fund... .o2.22 <2... =<epeas-cno-- 5 2c
Smithsonian table at Naples Zoological Station..........---------------
PMUCHONSe ah cece ome eee aes e ose a = eee eng ae ani oases Selassie crs
Advisory committee on printing and publication......-----..-.----
Ri eweWranyr ss oe sae nas soca nc Sea See mene bate sane anew es ene s
iInneservatron Of American antiquitles.---..22-s0--2scle< conceals
Congresses, celebrations, and expositions............------------------
ikaneleyv-medal.ang memorial: tablets... 22. os2s25-+ 5. 2m sssasesce sos se
Nittseell neous sss me meee as oe ce eee oem eee een eras ciacmice caiancinae

NeationalgiViuseulnr ess ates cares sane saan = eee ee ceca sean sms ciate
WakrondleGallery OlATL N22) sane eae neine seem eae Soca sues sana see

RorcaulorAmerican Nhimology 2+ o2— ossens tea es Sewoces = asic ce once <> coceme

POE Ona KC NAN PCRs sane Se ce a na eh ec ccriacineitcsmece ones. on

Penna OGlOrlent PAN Ki: ota s cere cele o aceasta asec nie <n aca eee

Peeunopliy sical OMSERVALOny sano s ose seme eee anes Tae emeana oe ane cn ee sae

International Catalogue of Scientific Literature............-.---------------

“LIE LGC oc ge eee gabe I a Pe Soy SC eR ee

Appendix I. Report on the United States National Museum.......-.--.------

II. Report on the Bureau of American Ethnology -.....-----------.
III. Report on the International Exchanges.-........--.---.-------
IV. Report on the National Zoological Park........--.------------

V. Report on the Astrophysical Observatory .......---------------
Wa ere ponb onthe tiilotary Cores stan co en ae cee. ances = aeos So

VII. Report on the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. - -
Whe deport Om the Eubhcabons. -o2- 4-255. <50s ssc nese —se- pana ae an
IX. Report on Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition.-....-.--.---------
X. Report on Pan-American Scientific Congress......-------------

58
VI CONTENTS.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Condition:ef the fund July 1, 1909. c22. 52-2 - tooo: Soe oases sete sos .cces

Receipts and disbursements July 1, 1908, to June 30, 1909 -...-.....-.------

Summary of appropriations. by. Congress... ---.--55-0-s222css2-ccc 22 secu
PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD OF REGENTS.

Meetings of December 15, 1908, and February 10, 1909--........-------.-----
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS.

Acts of Sixtieth Congress, second session, relative to the Smithsonian Institu-
fion and-its branches. -. ..5 22-2355. = sac6 se 5 seen esa aos see oeseseeeee
GENERAL APPENDIX.

The future of mathematics; by Henri Poincaré 2.22 s550------ 5-4-4202 s5 eee
What constitutes superiority in an airship, by Paul Renard ...-....-...-----
Researches in radiotelegraphy, by J. A. Fleming.-.-..----.-.--------.-----
Recent progress in physics, by Sir J. J. Thomson.............-.------------
Production of low temperatures, and refrigeration, by L. Marchis------ - Beas
The nitrogen question from the military standpoint, by Charles E. Munroe. - -
Simon Newcomb; by Ormond Stone <22.<25.ccs22s0scecnce aces sco =-se5seee
Solar-radiation researches by Jules César Janssen, by H. de la Baume Plu-

NE) | a Seg a ee ee ee hale Ol mene es IS ce ee ema ee aS
The return of Halley’s Comet, by W.W. Campbell...............=...--.---
Ehewpper air by HE: Gold and W:-A. Harwood ..:5. 23.5.2) 2-445. 522 2-2 aee
The formation, growth, and habit of crystals, by Paul Gaubert........------
The distribution of the elements in igneous rocks, by Henry 8. Washington. -
The mechanism of volcanic action, by H. J. Johnston-Lavis---...--....---.-
Conservation of natural resources, by James Douglas........-.-.-.----------
The antarctic land of Victoria, by Maurice Zimmermann...-........-.--...--
Some results of the British antarctic expedition, 1907-9, by E. H. Shackleton. -
The oceanography of the Sea of Greenland, by D. Damas.......-..----.-..--
From the Niger, by Lake Chad, to the Nile, by Lieut. Boyd Alexander... --.-
Mesopotamia: Past, present, and future, by Sir William Willcocks. -....---..-
Albert Gaudry and the evolution of the animal kingdom, by Ph. Glangeaud..
Charles; Darwin} by Aucust Weismann. 2> 22... Soc 222 lees eee
Present problems in plant ecology: Problems of local distribution in arid

ReSIONG wove Olney oN. Spalding. a5-0s6ece8 Asch baie sce catsaameae omer
The instinct of self-concealment and the choice of colors in the crustacea, by

ROHL OB NETIC WACZ amis sere eee Sse aie eee a aie eas areca ees 8 eee
The origin and development of parasitical habits in the Cuculide, by C. L.

ETE CLG 1S om aes Pao ne rn fege hor eee aig ea Yt I Se ey

Lo GITISTY = AAAs gee Sk hee crane tte evar cm toes neo ne Shan ae Pneme ey!
An inquiry into the history of the current English names of North American

landuomosmoy. Spencer Erotter's. 2222.0 occ. ceccs wu cde saces S228 eck 2. eee
Condition of wild life in Alaska, by Madison Grant............-..---.------
Recent discoveries bearing on the antiquity of man in Europe, by George

CRIME ECO TAY ss Pa A he ce AAA rep NR ad cng Ses nase alata ere ans oe
European population of the United States, by W. Z. Ripley.......-.-...-.--
The Republic of Panama and its people, by Eleanor Yorke Bell...--....-_--
Ceramic decoration: Its evolution and its applications, by Louis Franchet..-.
Some notes on Roman architecture, by F. T. Baggallay .............--.--.. :
The relation of science to human life, by Adam Sedgwick.._........-..-----
Intellectual work among the blind, by Pierre Villey............-.....---.--
The relation of mosquitoes, flies, ticks, fleas, and other arthropods to pathol-

Opspa OY Acum NEAROLO Ie me A eee Meo et or carats oes c eg ae eae, Stee
Natural resistance to infectious disease and its reinforcement, by Simon Flexner.
LIST OF PLATES.

SECRETARY’S REPORT:
TBA W ney fa LRA cae
RIDGeSH OO e Se
RADIOTELEGRAPHY (Fleming) :
Tate melee: See ae ee ee

SotarR RESEARCHES (Pluvinel) :
I SiG all fas = Ap et oes ee =
HALLEY’s CoMeET (Campbell) :
lates) ala oe a ee ee
VoLcANIC ACTION (Johnston-
Lavis) :
ACS) 1B) a! ee een 2
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION (Shack-
leton) :
ate Sple she ee ee
ACSA ec AS
Platespo Gree. ee
WIEN OFS} = 0 0 AE ee See
OCEANOGRAPHY OF GREENLAND
SEA (Damas) :
I Bte Sis 2 Pa Se
Nicer TO NILE (Alexander) :
Plater ees eo Sn ae oe Se

MESOPOTAMIA (Willcocks) :
ote epee Ae See ae Bo

316

HABITS IN CUCULID (Barrett) :
Plater: se seek eso
Pl atere tae eee ee eee eee
PROTECTIVE RESEMBLANCE ( Haag-
ner):
Platesel Oe ee Sie rhe
WILD LIFE IN ALASKA (Grant) :
1 ea ret ga Meee ces ceo St cei eee
ANTIQUITY OF MAN (MacCurdy) :
] E211 ed Lae tae sp ae
latest 2-4 eee Se ee
Plater 22- 2 eee ees
IAtCSiO ii eer
Plates Sal 222
Plated eee ee
Plate: die eee eee
124 CT i ea, hs hee ear Se
Pate fas et = Bee ae
2) Ea eye if eae oe Vien ee
PINES AGHA i 2. Se ee
Plater) 2. = act 2 Lee es
PEOPLES OF PANAMA (Bell) :
Plate plip: Siete 2S eS ae
Plate yes See ee
IPIAteSiSH A tenes aes
Plates b=)? 22 eke ee
RPilatesalS a4 p ee
ROMAN ARCHITECTURE (Baggal-
lay):
| 2a E21 e981 lp RRO Peas a rea ee cul «Oe

Page.

488
a poe

4 } 7 ,

Hai

AS / ¥
Venu Wis :

cn yt

t
' i

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

JUNE 30, 1909.

Presiding officer ex officio —WILLIAM H. Tart, President of the United States.
Chancellor.—MELVILLE W. FULLER, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
WILLIAM H. Tart, President of the United States.
JAMES S. SHERMAN, Vice-President of the United States.
MELVILLE W. FULLER, Chief Justice of the United States.
PHILANDER C. KNnox, Secretary of State.
FRANKLIN MAcVeEaGuH, Secretary of the Treasury.
JAcoB M. DickINsSoN, Secretary of War.
GEORGE W. WICKERSHAM, Attorney-General.
FRANK H. HircHcock, Postmaster-General.
GEORGE VON L. Meyer, Secretary of the Navy.
RicHarD A. BALLINGER, Secretary of the Interior.
JAMES WILSON, Secretary of Agriculture.
CHARLES NAGEL, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.
Regents of the Institution:
MELVILLE W. Fuuuer, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
JAMES S. SHERMAN, Vice-President of the United States.
SHELBY M. CuLLom, Member of the Senate.
Henry Casot Loper, Member of the Senate.
A. O. Bacon, Member of the Senate.
JOHN DaLzELL, Member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES R. MANN, Member of the House of Representatives.
Witt1aAM M. Howarp, Member of the House of Representatives.
JAMES B. ANGELL, citizen of Michigan.
ANDREW D. WHITE, citizen of New York.
JOHN B. HENDERSON, citizen of Washington, D. C.
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, citizen of Washington, D. C.
GEORGE GRAY, citizen of Delaware.
CHARLES FE, CHOATE, Jr., citizen of Massachusetts.
Executive Committee —J. B. HENDERSON, ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL, JOHN
DALZELL.
Secretary of the Institution.—CHARLES D. WALCOTT.
Assistant Secretary.—RIcHARD RATHBUN.
Chief Clerk.—Harry W. Dorsey.
Accountant and Disbursing Agent.—W. I. ADAMS.
Editor.—A. HowarpD CLARK.

-
x THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Assistant Secretary in charge.—RicHARD RATHBUN.

Administrative Assistant.—W. DE C. RAVENEL.

Head Curators.—F. W. TRur, G. P. MERRILL, WALTER HovueH (acting).

Curators.—R. S. BASSLER, A. HowarpD CLARK, F. W. CLARKE, F. V. CoviILte,
W. H. Datt, B. W. EverMANN, J. M. Fuint, U. S. N. (retired), W. H.
HouMEs, L. O. Howarp, RicHARD RATHBUN, ROBERT RIDGWAY, LEONHARD
STEJNEGER, CHARLES D. WALCOTT.

Associate Curators.—J. N. Rosr, DAvID WHITE.

Curator, National Gallery of Art.—W. H. HoitmMEs.

Chief of Correspondence and Documents.—RANDOLPH I. GEARE.

Superintendent of Construction and Labor.—J. S. GoLDSMITH.

Editor..—Marcus BENJAMIN.

Photographer.—T. W. SMILLIE.

Registrar.—_S. C. Brown.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.
‘ Chief.—W. H. Hormes.
Ethnologists.—J. WALTER FEWKES, J. N. B. Hewitt, F. W. Hover, JAMES
Mooney, MATILDA CoxE STEVENSON, JOHN R. SWANTON, Cyrus THOMAS.
Philologist.—FRANZ BOAS.
Illustrator. —DrE LANCEY W. GILL.
INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.
Chief Clerk.—F. V. Berry.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Superintendent.—F RANK BAKER.
Assistant Superintendent.—A. B. BAKER.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Director.—C. G. ABBOT.
Aid.—F. HE. Fow te, Jr.

BUREAU OF INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

Chief Assistant.—L. C. GUNNELL.
REPORT

OF THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1909.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit a report showing the oper-
ations of the Institution during the year ending June 30, 1909,
including the work placed under its direction by Congress in the
United States National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
the International Exchanges, the National Zoological Park, the
Astrophysical Observatory, and the regional bureau of the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

In the body of this report there is given a general account of the
affairs of the Institution, while the appendix presents more detailed
statements by those in direct charge of the different branches of the
work. Independently of this the operations of the National Museum
and of the Bureau of American Ethnology are fully treated in
separate volumes.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
THE ESTABLISHMENT.

By act of Congress approved August 10, 1846, the Smithsonian
Institution was created an establishment. Its statutory members are
“the President, the Vice-President, the Chief Justice, and the heads
of the executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

The Board of Regents consists of the Vice-President and the Chief
Justice of the United States as ex officio members, three members of
the Senate, three Members of the House of Representatives, and six
citizens, “two of whom shall be resident in the city of Washington,
and the other four shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two
of them of the same State.”

1
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

There has been no change in the personnel of the Board since my
last report.

Meetings of the Regents were held on December 15, 1908, and on
February 10, 1909, the proceedings of which will be printed as cus-
tomary in the annual report of the Board to Congress.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.

I deem it proper here to point out the fact that the activities of the
Institution are greatly restricted by the very limited annual income
at its disposal.

The influence of the Institution in the development of science in
this country is too well known to require comment. Its advice is
daily sought on scientific matters, not only by other establishments of
learning but by individuals all over the land, and that its usefulness
has been by no means restricted to this country is evidenced by the
- fact that the name of the Smithsonian Institution is equally as well
known and respected abroad as at home.

But the means derived from the interest on the Smithson fund
and other private funds for keeping up the work of the Institution
proper have not kept pace with the growth of the country and the
constantly increasing demands upon them. The original amount of
the Smithson fund of about half a million dollars meant many
times over in 1846 what it does to-day, even with the half million
which has been gradually added since then. Its income has been
economically administered, but it is too limited to carry on any ex-
tensive investigations. There are many researches and explorations
which the Institution is peculiarly well fitted to organize and super-
vise, on which the income from an endowment of twenty millions
could be wisely and effectively expended.

The Institution has in the past few years received a number of
noteworthy gifts in the Harriet Lane Johnston, Freer, and Evans
art collections, and an endowment for the fine arts would give a great
return for centuries to come by making possible the fostering and
stimulating of the fine arts in all its branches.

Under the general plan of organization adopted by thé Board
of Regents in 1847, the work of the Institution in the “ increase of
knowledge” is not limited to investigations in the field of science
and art, but historical and ethnological researches, and statistical
inquiries with reference to physical, moral, and political subjects, are
enumerated as objects for which appropriations should be made. ©

In the humanities there is need of a fearless, thorough, scientific
study of the elements entering into the great race problems of the
Americas. Until the fundamental tendencies of the differing races
now within these areas are intelligently understood, not only by the
few, but by the many, a practical understanding of threatening social
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 3

conditions is impossible. The uplift of the physical, mental, and
moral nature of the peoples of the Americas will come only through
the increase and diffusion of such knowledge as will stimulate sound
reasoning on existing conditions and racial limitations. Ethnology,
anthropology, psychology, preventive medicine, education, are some
of the tools that must be used in the shaping of the national, com-
munity, and individual life of the future. In this great work the
Smithsonian Institution will take such active part as opportunity
and means permit.

An article on “The Smithsonian Institution,” published in the
North American Review, summarizes the history and work of the
Institution, and concludes as follows:

Such has been the result of a single benefaction of half a million of dollars,
and perhaps no such result has ever been accomplished by so limited an en-
dowment. Were the great sums given to swell the almost infinite endowments
of some of our universities diverted to this unostentatious establishment, its
power for good would be immeasurably increased, but, as it is, the bounty of a
stranger and an alien has given the American people an agency for good whose
influence is incalculable. It presents an opportunity to those who wish to
bestow money for some beneficent purpose such as is given by no other on

earth, and its scant means and petty endowment are a reproach to our rich
and generous nation.?

ADMINISTRATION.

The affairs of the Institution proper have progressed in a satis-
factory manner during the year. All communications have received
prompt administrative consideration, and everything possible has
been done to carry out the fundamental purposes of the Institution,
“the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”

In the administrative work of the various branches of the govern-
ment service placed under the direction of the Institution, it has
been the custom to fully avail myself of the assistance of the officers
in charge of those branches, and I am glad to say that the business
of the year has been carried on vigorously. The extended and com-
plicated operations of the National Museum, including the National
Gallery of Art and the erection of the new building, have been effect-
ively managed by the assistant secretary in charge, Mr. Richard
Rathbun. The International Exchanges, the brary, and the Inter-
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature continued under the effi-
cient charge of Dr. Cyrus Adler, until his resignation on October 1,
1908, when he removed to Philadelphia to assume the presidency of
the “Dropsie College for Hebrew and Cognate Learning.” Doctor
Adler entered the service of the Institution in 1888 as an assistant

@The Smithsonian Institution, by Charles Minor Blackford, jr., M. D., North
American Review, January, 1909. Reprinted as Senate Document No. 717,
Sixtieth Congress, second session.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

curator in the National Museum. In 1892 he was appointed libra-
rian of the Institution, and in 1905 became assistant secretary. His
service of twenty years was marked by a remarkable grasp of the
affairs of the Institution, in the administration of which his advice
has been of great assistance to the secretaries.

The affairs of the Bureau of American Ethnology have continued
in charge of Mr. W. H. Holmes, as chief, who has also acted as
curator of the National Gallery of Art. Mr. C. G. Abbot, director of
the Astrophysical Observatory, has carried forward the work of this
branch both in Washington and on Mount Wilson, California, where
duplicate observations have been carried on at a branch station, and
the care of the National Zoological Park has continued under the
management of Dr. Frank Baker, its superintendent. Although
greatly hampered for adequate funds the Park has proved a great
attraction to the people of Washington, over 125,000 persons having
visited it in a single month.

The advisory committee on printing and publication, appointed in
pursuance of executive order of January 20, 1906, is composed of rep-
resentatives from the Institution and its branches, and has rendered
valuable assistance in examining manuscripts proposed for publica-
tion, and in the consideration of various matters connected with
printing and publication.

The current business of the Institution has been conducted with
promptness, and it is gratifying to note that no arrearages in the
work of the government branches under its direction were reported
in the quarterly statements to the President and in the annual state-
ment which, in accordance with law, accompanied the estimates
transmitted to Congress.

FINANCES.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it was derived are as follows:

Deposited in the Treasury of the United States.

Resnesteor Smithson, 1846522229. * soe ee Pees 2S ela $515, 169. 00
Residuary lezacy, of Smithson, 18672 =-- = +S. he 26, 210. 63
Deposit tromesavines OL incomes 1 SG(lo === ae eee 108, 620. 37
JexeoRNSE Gre dew) Ish horhnon, ake viaje ee $1, 000. 00
Accumulated interest on Hamilton fund, 1895_________ 1, 000. 00

eo 2, 000. 00
Bequest of wsimeon. Habel, 18802. 22.2222 Het ee ee 500. 00
Deposit from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881_______________-___- 51, 500. 00
Gifttzot Lhomas Gs Hodgkins) 1S9lss2s2 ee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894____________ 8, 000. 00
Deposit trommsavines Olsincomes (O03 Se= ea ee 25, 000. 00
Residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins__-___.._________------- 7, 918. 69

Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury___---~~ 944, 918. 69
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 5

Held at the Smithsonian Institution.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Com-

pany (par value), part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins_______ $42, 000. 00
Rotalepermanent, cungs =o - Seas = ee Skee eee ee 986, 918. 69

In addition to the above there are four pieces of real estate bequeathed to
the Institution by the late R. S. Avery, some of which yield a nominal rental
and all are free from taxation.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United
States bears interest at 6 per cent per annum, under the provisions
of the act organizing the Institution and an act of Congress approved
March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore Railroad
bonds is 4 per cent per annum.

The income of the Institution during the year, amounting to
$84,769.82, was derived as follows: Interest on the permanent fund,
$58,375.12; contributions from various sources for specific purposes,
$20,250, and from other miscellaneous sources, $6,144.70; all of which
was deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of
the current account of the Institution.

With the balance of $18,766.41 on July 1, 1908, the total resources
for the fiscal year amounted to $103,536.23. The disbursements,
which are given in detail in the annual report of the executive com-
mittee, amounted to $71,359.53, leaving a balance of $32,176.70 on
deposit June 30, 1909, in the United States Treasury.

The Institution was charged by Congress with the disbursement
of the following appropriations for the year ending June 30, 1909:

MATA TN AT OLY eA Mea S CL EVI CS ee ea eee oe ee Lp ee wee LP Te ee $32, 000
PATHVCIL Campy CTO LO Siyp eke eee eo eR TE ae ee ee 42, 000
AS LLODMYSI Cals ObServatOry=—os= = sa ee oe ee ee ee 13, 000
National Museum:
MUCH iURe Ran Gah tunes === = slat se ea a oe ee ee ee 50, 000
Leave iin Sepa Get on Ginn oe see aE a ae ers as ee 22, 000
ErescnyatlonnoLicollectionS2 === == =e seksi eee See 190, 000
OOS Be eae 6 Rice eS SE SN eR ye Pe A A a ae 2, 000
POS EAS ep tetees aes eae eer eee Pipe le Se Se 500
RET GO lee WiO TEST) © [0S eer a ae ce ee ee eal et ee ee ee ee 4, 580
USOT Lapses SEE oz ef A a re a a 15, 000
Nationals ZA00lOg ical Parks: Ss eee) eee ee ee 95, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature______________________ 5, 000
Rranster or Greenough statue of Washing tone 22222222.) ee 5, 000
Temporary occupancy of government buildings for tuberculosis con-
SECS Se wee ee ee Se a ee te ee a ee 40, 000
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Estimates.—The estimates forwarded to Congress in behalf of the
government branches of the Institution and the appropriations based
thereon for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1910, are as follows:

Estimates. MppTeGE
International MXCHAN Sess. =. cascade c cea clewelol a =e sees one seine sin sm ~nee mins $32, 000 $32, 000
/Nsti@ru(Omay, 10)A 0800) fora ogee a pacosas BS OOOO bea oe C060 DOBOO SUB ESECdEES Joecouseneessc. 52, 000 43, 000
Reimbursement) of Belli Coss enone ae eta wala ale lwee een inlalele == bys Foooaadecc
Astrophysical Observatory... ..-.-.-.------- 2-0-0 - 2 ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eens 17,000 13, 000
National Museum:
Tyibian tiyebrs\Ehov bitb-yvbNs sjonooeeon aco cn caoDNc OOOH Do cenc Q00dO. codon sODEoseDCnS 200, 000 200, 000
TSIGHY Huayee hale Mhv=d ek nbey ee Soo cgsoseconoSheos Ss oobobuSHSSHSnooousnopSonaocenass 62, 000 60, 000
Preservation of collections. ........--.2.-------- 202-20 ee ee essen ee en no --- == 400, 000 250, 000
BOG sao seeccosmaconcooEsece Spots so cod ae sece Se SO RS Se Fs 22 Sb OOS SeSciae 5, 000 2,000
IHOSGr 2 Sapp cceo GORD OUOE BOgU OE a doen Sa se EbU So CNOOd soe nos OsEoCooncODDScacasa7 500 500
Rent of workshops. ~~. <- 22-2 = wee w ene ccc vinnie ne enna eine aman ninn === GA O80) senate
Bail ine POPAirs soe ape ocala ate te a mite mle lm elem Welw in niall abel alelclatnlelele -bimteleiel=fals === =i=16 = = 15, 000 15, 000
Moving collections << << <icc < ameisteoe nein ~ om wtiwielait ee » sae eae se om on nee nin 10, 000 4,000
Inorneyavenl En Mera Ot ee Se sc ocoosscoos seecouobds sees 7 sod Sboe Se ooeoseoSssstce GOAT esonscncec
INI ALOE | Yayo) Oy LEP eo So pec essseccess son soon secoossessoseesessssaso5scossc 110, 000 95, 000
ReadjuUshmentof POUNGAIIES: <--)- 22 22m4- - ers bebe om aint ae eee elena 40000! |s53 detae
J spine [Out ebhers = sone sonsoeoceosode seaondese co JocesocHeansesdasaoonesgs2sbscC 80,000 |....00 caee
TRG GaMe chal Ale oe (oo sag pea gal one CouCO Daa nu CoOnDEaSCane sogudeaeae= 125000 Iie cterncaete
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature-..........-..-.--.--.----------- 7, 500 6, 000
ARS Ns al ee ee a ae eet eee See emp BEpaeecraremeaacaack 1,108,105 | 720,500

«The request was made to the Appropriations Committee that this item be eliminated, as
rented buildings would be vacated by June 30, 1909.

The Institution is required each year to submit to Congress,
through the Secretary of the Treasury, estimates for the support of
the several branches placed by the Congress under its administrative
charge. The estimates for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1911, were
submitted to the Secretary of the Treasury on May 1, 1909, instead
of in the fall of the year as heretofore, it being the desire of the
President, expressed through the Treasury Department, that more
time be given to their examination.

In preparing these estimates I found it imperative that consider-
able increases should be made in several directions, as follows:

For the Bureau of American Ethnology I have asked an increase
of $10,000, to be allotted for the exploration and preservation of
antiquities, researches among the tribes of the Middle West, and for
researches in Hawaii and Samoa.

To properly carry on the work of the Astrophysical Observatory
likewise requires a greater appropriation. The furnishing and main-
tenance of the new building for the National Museum necessitates, in
general, a large increase in annual appropriations. For the National
Zoological Park I have asked a considerable increase, in order that
it may be properly maintained and become in greater measure what its
name would lead the public to expect and demand in a national park.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 7

Hstimates for the year ending June 30, 1911.

fnterna tionally six Changes ss koe esse ee ee ee ee ee $32, 000
AMeTI CAN EANOLO Sys. soos ae et eee SER ee ee Se 52, 000
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature____________________ 7, 500
ASELOD My SiCala ODSCL YAO y= = es ee eens oe ee ee 18, 000
National Museum:
UE CHneS ands fi ctuneSe o-oo ee nee Ee oe $125, 000
eating and lie htine= 22 a aaa ee ee ee ee 60, 000
Preservation of collections==—— 22-2 22522256 —2 2a 2 ae 400, 000
BOOKS ies Soe oe oe ee eee ea ne ee eee 5, 000
ES ed Chama gee AN Gee ee eS ee ee ee 15, 000
IR OStAS Cpe ee eek ee ae 2s oe 500
————___ 605, 500
National Zoological Park:
NiaviMmben am Cel CCl sae ss ae ey ee ee $110, 000
AVIA GY SDULLOIN S22 eS os Se eke ee 80, 000
RRO ACW ay Shan de WalicS esa e es ee ee ee 14, 000
ReVaIstment OL VOUNGATICSS =] = oes eee eee 40, 000
————__ 244, 000
Printing and binding for the Institution and its branches___________ 72, 700
HN) Getler res ee eae ee ees ec A ee ee 1, 031, 700

EXPLORATIONS AND RESEARCHES.

The resources of the Smithsonian Institution are at present too
limited to permit of large grants for extensive explorations or inves-
tigations, but as far as the income allows aid is given in various lines
of research work, and it is sometimes found possible to engage in ex-
peditions likely to accomplish important results. If funds could be
obtained to be administered under the Institution, the scientific work
of the Government might often be supplemented by original re-
searches of a character that would hardly be undertaken by the Gov-
ernment, and which would be of great service to humanity and to
science.

Through the National Museum, the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and the Astrophysical Observatory the Institution has been enabled
to carry on various important biological, ethnological, and astrophys-
ical researches, which are mentioned elsewhere in this report.

SMITHSONIAN AFRICAN EXPEDITION.

Through the generosity of friends of the Smithsonian Institution,
there was provided during the past year a special fund to pay for the
outfitting and to meet the expenses of the naturalists on a hunting
and collecting expedition to Africa under the direction of Col. Theo-
dore Roosevelt. No part of the fund was derived from any govern-
ment appropriation or from the income of the Institution. The spe-
cial interest of the Institution in the expedition is the collection of
biological material for the United States National Museum,

45745°—sm 1909——2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

In June, 1908, the following letter was received from President
Roosevelt:

THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON.
OystTER Bay, N. Y., June 20, 1908.

My Dear Doctor Watcotr: About the 1st of April next I intend to start for
Africa. My plans are of course indefinite, but at present I hope they will be
something on the following order:

By May 1 I shall land at Mombasa and spend the next few months hunting
and traveling in British and German Hast Africa; probably going thence to or
toward Uganda, with the expectation of striking the Nile about the beginning
of the new year, and then working down it, with side trips after animals and
birds, so as to come out at tide water, say, about March 1. This would give
me ten months in Africa. As you know, I am not in the least a game butcher.
I like to do a certain amount of hunting, but my real and main interest is the
interest of a faunal naturalist. Now, it seems to me that this opens the best
chance for the National Museum to get a fine collection not only of the big
game beasts, but of the smaller mammals and birds of Africa; and looking at it
dispassionately, I believe that the chance ought not to be neglected. I will
make arrangements to pay for the expenses of myself and my son. But what I
would like to do would be to get one or two professional field taxidermists, field
naturalists, to go with me, who should prepare and send back the specimens we
collect. The collection which would thus go to the National Museum would be
of unique value. It would, I hope, include specimens of big game, together with
the rare smaller animals and birds. I have not the means that would enable
me to pay for the field naturalists or taxidermists and their kit, and the cur-
ing and transport of the specimens for the National Museum. Of course the
actual hunting of the big game I would want to do myself, or have my son do;
but the specimens will all go to the National Museum, save a very few personal
trophies of little scientific value which for some reason I might like to keep.
Now, can you, in view of getting these specimens for the National Museum,
arrange for the services of the field taxidermists, and for the care and trans-
port of the specimens? As ex-President, I should feel that the National Mu-
seum is the museum to which my collection should go.

With high regard, sincerely yours,
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.
Hon. CHartes D. WALcorT,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.

To which I replied from camp in Montana, where I was carrying
on geological investigations for the Institution :

Betton, Monvt., June 27, 1908.
To the PRESIDENT,
Oyster Bay, N. Y.

DEAR Mr. PRESIDENT: Your letter of June 20, with a copy of a letter Dr. Cyrus
Adler wrote you in reply, just received.

I am immensely pleased at the thought of your collections coming to the
National Museum, and it will give me the greatest pleasure to provide two
taxidermists and their kit, and to arrange for the curing and transport of the
specimens.

I leave in the morning for the Kintla Lake region and the Continental Divide,
as most of the geological work has to be done above timber line.

Thanking you most heartily and sincerely for the opportunity of securing the
African material, I remain,

Sincerely yours, CHARLES D, WALCOTT.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 9

At the next meeting of the Board of Regents on December 15, 1908,
the following resolutions were adopted, formally recording the ac-
ceptance of the President’s generous offer and expressing the Board’s
appreciation of the contributions of the friends of the Institution
which made this expedition possible:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution express
to Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, its appreciation of his
very generous offer contained in his letter of the 20th of June, 1908, to the Sec-
retary of the Institution, with respect to his expedition to Africa; and that it
accept the same.

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution be conveyed by the Secretary of the Institution to the donors who have
so generously contributed funds to meet the expenses of the naturalists who will
accompany Mr. Theodore Roosevelt upon his expedition to Africa, the results
of which will be presented by the President to the Smithsonian Institution for
the National Museum,

The party sailed on March 23, 1909, from New York on the steamer
Hamburg for Naples, whence steamer was taken to Mombasa, British
East Africa. Those accompanying Mr. Roosevelt were his son Ker-
mit and three naturalists—Lieut. Col. Edgar A. Mearns, surgeon,
U. S. Army; Mr. Edmund Heller; and Mr. J. Alden Loring. The
expedition arrived in Africa on April 21.

A letter from Mr. Heller, dated at Nairobi May 31, announced the
shipment of 20 barrels of large mammal skins in brine, comprising
Colonel Roosevelt’s first month’s collection. The shipment consists
of 82 specimens, as follows: Lion, 7; leopard, 1; cheetah, 1; spotted
hyena, 1; Cape hartebeest, 14; white-bearded wildebeest, 5; Neumann
steinbuck, 5; Kirk dik-dik, 1; common waterbuck, 3; Chanler reed-
buck, 4; Grant gazelle, 9; Thomson gazelle, 5, impalla, 2; eland, 1;
Cape buffalo, 4; giraffe, 3; hippopotamus, 1; wart hog, 6; Burchell
zebra, 7; black rhinoceros, 2. While no new species, so far as is
known, is included in this first shipment, the collection will supple-
ment materially the specimens already in the National Museum.

Together with this shipment are expected a large number of speci-
mens of small mammals, and also of birds gathered by Lieut. Col.
Mearns and J. Alden Loring, of the expedition party.

Through the Smithsonian African expedition the National
Zoological Park has been presented by Mr. W. W. McMillan, of
Juja farm, near Nairobi, British East Africa, with an exceptional
collection of live African animals. A letter from Lieut. Col. Edgar
A. Mearns, dated May 20, states that the collection includes 11 large
mammals and 3 large birds, all in fine condition and for the most
part well broken to captivity, as follows: A male and female lion,
2 years old; a male and two female lions, 17 months old; a female
leopard, a pet of Mrs. McMillan; two cheetahs; a wart hog, 2 years
old; one Thomson and one Grant gazelle, well grown; a large
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

eagle of unusual species; a small vulture; and a large buteo. Speci-
mens of none of these, except the lions and leopard, are at present
contained in the park.

STUDIES IN CAMBRIAN GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY.

In my reports for the past two years reference has been made to
studies of the older sedimentary rocks of the North American Conti-
nent, which I have been carrying on as opportunity offered for more
than twenty years. This work was continued in Montana and the
Canadian Rockies during the field season of 1908.

Outfitting at Belton, Mont., the last of June, 1908, the party pro-
ceeded with saddle horses and pack mules north past Lake McDonald
and on up the valley of the North Fork of the Flathead River to the
Kintla lakes. From the Continental Divide northeast of Upper
Kintla Lake beautiful views were obtained of the higher peaks, deep
canyons, and snow fields north and south of the international bound-
ary. Numerous photographs and notes on the geology were taken.

The party crossed the forty-ninth parallel and moved north up the
valley of the Flathead, in British Columbia, making several side
excursions into the mountains. The farthest point reached toward
the northeast was about 20 miles south of Crows Nest Pass. From
there the route led along a trapper’s trail up Johnson Creek to the
Continental Divide, thence to the town of Pincher Creek and south
to Waterton Lake. An examination was made of the oil fields west
of Waterton Lake on Cumberland Creek, which is about 15 miles
north of the international boundary. From this point the party
followed a trail along the western side of Waterton Lake and thence
up Little Kootna Creek to the Continental Divide at the head of
Mineral Creek, a tributary of McDonald Creek. A few days were
spent in taking photographs and examining the geological structure
in this vicinity before returning to Belton, on August 1, for supplies.

A trip was next made by the way of Lake McDonald to Gunsight
Pass on the Continental Divide, above Upper St. Mary Lake. But
smoke from forest fires became so dense that the party returned to
Belton and proceeded southward up the South Fork of the Flat-
head River for about 100 miles. Examinations were made of Gordon
Mountain and vicinity and during the return journey several geo-
logical sections were examined along the western side of the Conti-
nental Divide. Belton was again reached early in September and a
trip was made to Marias Pass, which afforded a very fine view of
the main range of the Rocky Mountains along the line of the Great
Northern Railway.

The scientific results of the 950-mile trip through the forests and
on mountain trails will aid materially in the solution of several prob-
lems connected with the stratigraphy and structure of the main ranges
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 11

of the eastern Rocky Mountains and of the geological position and
age of many thousands of feet of the sandstones, shales, and lme-
stones forming the mountains in northern Montana, British Colum-:
bia, and Alberta.

On the return an examination was made of the geological forma-
tions in the vicinity of Helena, Mont., and of the Wasatch Range,
southeast of Salt Lake City, Utah.

Three additional papers giving a summary of the results of my
studies in Cambrian Geology and Paleontology were published dur-
ing the year: No. 3, Cambrian Brachiopoda: Descriptions of new
genera and species; No. 4, Classification and terminology of the
Cambrian Brachiopoda; and No. 5, Cambrian sections of the Cordil-
leran area.?

GEOLOGICAL INVESTIGATIONS IN THE FAR EAST.

In May, 1909, a Smithsonian grant was made to Prof. Joseph P.
Iddings, of the United States Geological Survey and the University
of Chicago, for geological investigations in Japan, eastern China,
and Java. Professor Iddings, who was graduated in the Columbia
School of Mines in 1878-79, and in microscopic petrography by the
University of Heidelberg in 1879-80, is well fitted for a research of
this kind. His connection with and acquaintance in various foreign
scientific societies will be of assistance in prosecuting this remote
investigation, which will be reported fully as it progresses.

BOTANICAL COLLECTIONS.

Work under a small grant to Miss Alice Eastwood, for re-collect-
ing the botanical species secured by the botanist Thomas Nuttall in
1836 in the region of Santa Barbara, Cal., has been successfully prose-
cuted, as mentioned in the last report. Asa result, Miss Eastman has
sent to the National Museum two sets of plants, one of 341 desirable
specimens, which have been mounted for the National Herbarium.
The second, and by a few specimens the smaller set, will be used for
exchange purposes, many valuable additions to the Herbarium being
frequently secured in this manner.

INVESTIGATIONS UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

As stated in the last report, I have given consideration to the use
of the portion of the Hodgkins fund devoted to the increase and
diffusion of more exact knowledge of the atmospheric air in rela-
tion to the welfare of man. While much valuable work has been
done under this fund, it appeared to me that it would be more in
consonance with the ideas of the founder, if at least a portion of it
might be employed in some way to aid in the knowledge of the

h2_ 99

@ Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. LIII, pp. 55-250.
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

prevention of disease and its cure. In following out this sphere of
work the Institution issued a circular, under date of February 3,
1908, offering a prize of $1,500 for the best treatise on “ The relation
of atmospheric air to tuberculosis” that should be presented at the
international congress on tuberculosis, which was held in Washington
from September 21 to October 12, 1908. This prize aroused wide-
spread interest among the students on this subject and resulted in
the receipt by the Institution of 81 papers submitted in competition.
All of these have been referred to the committee on awards, whose
report is expected in a short time.

Grants from the Hodgkins fund, although not numerous during
the past year, have been the means of furthering important investiga-
tions which are still in progress.

RESEARCHES ON ATMOSPHERIC AIR.

A Hodgkins grant was approved in October, 1908, for the erection
of a small stone shelter on the summit of Mount Whitney, California,
for the use of investigators during the prosecution of researches on
atmospheric air, or on subjects closely related thereto.

The pioneer trip to the summit of Mount Whitney in the summer
of 1881 by the late Secretary Langley, at that time director of the
Allegheny Observatory, will be recalled in this connection as well
as his earnestly expressed conviction that in no country is there a
finer site for meteorological and atmospheric observations than the
United States possesses in Mount Whitney and its neighboring peaks.

As emphasized in the report of the Langley expedition, a per-
manent shelter on the peak is an absolute necessity for the prose-
cution of continued observations there, and the erection of such a
shelter has now been made possible by the extension of railway
facilities toward the base of the mountain and the improvement
of the trails to the summit.

Mr. C. G. Abbot, who succeeded Secretary Langley as director of
the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution, and
to whose immediate suggestion and earnest personal efforts the prep-
aration for and the establishment of this important post on Mount
Whitney are largely due, began his observations there in the summer
of 1909, and obtained important data in the determination of the
solar constant.

The cooperation of Prof. W. W. Campbell, the director of Lick
Observatory, University of California, at Mount Hamilton, has been
most helpful during the erection of the shelter, and the interest of
many of the citizens of Lone Pine, near the border line of the govern-
ment reservation, has been heartily and patriotically expressed. It
is easily seen that the local feeling in favor of the station will make
its occupation more readily and comfortably available by members
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 13

of the research parties who will from time to time desire to work
there.

The class of researches to be prosecuted at this exceptionably fa-
vorable station are not only of great scientific interest, but are ex-
pected also to prove of value in determining questions having a direct,
practical influence on the preservation and progress of human life on
our globe.

INTERNATIONAL STANDARD PYRHELIOMETERS.

A limited grant from the Hodgkins fund was approved in Feb-
ruary, 1909, for the construction of several silver disk pyrheliometers.
These instruments are to be placed in charge of scientific investi-
gators in widely separated localities for the purpose of establishing
an international scale for the comparison of observations on solar
radiation. The varying results published by observers have made
the need of international cooperation in this connection apparent,
and the matter has received considerable attention at conferences of
the Solar Union.

These simple and comparatively inexpensive instruments are to be
constructed after a design by Mr. Abbot. Similar pyrheliometers
have been employed in the researches of the Astrophysical Observa-
tory for several years and have proved entirely satisfactory.

PUBLICATIONS UNDER THE HODGKINS FUND.

Bibliography of aeronautical literature——An exhaustive bibliog-
raphy of aeronautical literature, compiled by Mr. Paul Brockett,
assistant librarian of the Smithsonian Institution, has been com-
pleted to July 1, 1909, and is now in course of publication. This
work contains references to about 13,500 published articles and is
designed to render available the voluminous literature in all lan-
guages, on aviation.

Mechanics of the earth’s atmosphere.—In 1891 the Institution pub-
lished a volume of translations of important foreign memoirs on the
“ Mechanics of the earth’s atmosphere,” which was prepared by Prof.
Cleveland Abbe. There was put to press during the past year a sec-
ond collection of papers on this subject.

SMITHSONIAN TABLE AT NAPLES ZOOLOGICAL STATION.

The occupants of the Smithsonian table at Naples during the past
year were Dr. C. A. Kofoid, of the University of California and the
San Diego Marine Biological Station, and Dr. F. M. Guyer, of the
University of Cincinnati. Dr. Kofoid is studying the question of
sexual reproduction among Dinoflagellata and carrying on experi-
mental work on autotomy in Ceratium, with reference to temperature
and vertical distribution in the sea. Their investigations covered a
period of seven months.
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

The present lease of the table expires December 31, 1909, but its
renewal for another term of three years has been decided on, so that
applications for the seat may now be submitted at any time.

As in former years, the cooperation of the members of the advisory
committee has been of great value in the examination of applications
for the seat, and is always thoroughly appreciated.

PUBLICATIONS.

The publication work of the Smithsonian Institution has from its
beginning been one of its most important functions. It has been
the principal medium for the “ diffusion of knowledge ” throughout
the world. The Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, and the Smithsonian Annual
Reports are publications widely known, and the demand for copies
of these works has constantly been much in excess of the possible
supply. The editions of the “ Contributions ” and the “ Collections ”
are necessarily restricted by the limited income of the Institution,
and their distribution is almost entirely to public institutions rather
than to individuals. The Annual Reports, however, are public docu-
ments, issued at the expense of a congressional appropriation.
Although this permits of editions of several thousand copies, yet the
entire number is each year exhausted soon after the date of
publication.

Besides the publications of the Institution proper there are issued
under its direction the Bulletins and Annual Reports of the United
States National Museum and of the Bureau of American Ethnology,
and the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory. The details
relating to these various series during the year will be found in the
appendix to this report.

In the series of “ Contributions” no new volume was published,
although there was issued a new edition of Professor Langley’s
memoir on “ The internal work of the wind,” originally printed in
1893. To this new edition was added, as an appendix, a translation
of the “Solution of a special case of the general problem,” by Réné
de Saussure, which appeared in 1893 in Revue de l’Aéronautique
Théorique et Appliqué, Paris, in connection with a French reproduc-
tion of the above memoir by Professor Langley.

The quarterly issue of the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections
has now reached its fifth volume. Twenty papers were published in
this series during the year. One of these papers, “Some recent con-
tributions to our knowledge of the sun,” was a lecture delivered at
Washington April 22, 1908, under the auspices of the Hamilton fund
of the Srithsonian Institution. Another paper, by Dr. Cyrus Adler,
tells of the relation of Richard Rush to the Smithsonian Institution.
Mr. Rush was agent of the United States to secure the bequest of

’
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

James Smithson. He successfully completed the legal steps neces-
sary to establish the claim of the United States in the English courts,
and in August, 1838, arrived in New York with half a million dollars
in gold sovereigns which were formally transferred to the Treasurer
of the United States. Mr. Rush later rendered important service in
the organization of the Institution and was one of its first Regents,
serving on the Board from 1846 until his death in 1859.

The continued demand for the Smithsonian Physical Tables, pre-
pared by the late Prof. Thomas Gray, necessitated the reprinting of
a fourth edition from the stereotype plates. A thorough revision
of these Tables is in preparation to bring the work within the range
of the important advance made in the science of physics during the
last decade.

The volume of “Smithsonian Mathematical Tables: Hyperbolic
Functions,” prepared by Dr. George F. Becker and Mr. C. E. Van
Orstrand, which was in press at the close of the last fiscal year, has
been completed as a “ special publication.”

Three papers descriptive of my researches in Cambrian Geology
and Paleontology have been added to those mentioned in my last
report. These are: No. 3, Cambrian Brachiopoda: Description of
New Genera and Species; No. 4, Classification and Terminology of
the Cambrian Brachiopoda; and No. 5, Cambrian Sections of the
Cordilleran Area. The last-named paper is accompanied by a num-
ber of illustrations of various parts of the Rocky Mountains showing
the Cambrian Cordilleran sections which had been examined to a
total thickness of more than 12,000 feet.

Among the works in press at the close of the year was a paper on
“Landmarks of Botanical History,” by Dr. Edward L. Greene, and
a work on the “ Mechanics of the Earth’s Atmosphere,” comprising a
selection of important French and German papers translated and
edited by Prof. Cleveland Abbe.

There was practically completed, ready for press, at the ciose of
the year a Bibliography of Aeronautics containing references to
about 13,500 books and papers on that subject, dating from the earli-
est days of printing down to the publications of the present year.

The greater part of the Annual Report for 1908 was in type at
the close of the year, but press work could not be completed. The
volume contains 27 papers showing progress made in astronomy,
physics, biology, geology, and other branches of knowledge.

To meet the demand for copies of papers by Secretary Langley on
aerial navigation, there was reprinted a special edition, under one
cover, of four articles that had appeared in the Smithsonian Reports
from 1897 to 1904, as follows: “ Story of experiments in mechanical
flight ” (1897); “The Langley aerodrome” (1900); “The greatest
flying creature ” (1901) ; and “ Experiments with the Langley aero-
16 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

drome” (1904). The introduction to this reprint, written by As-
sistant Secretary Adler, reads as follows:

The international fame of Samuel Pierpont Langley rests primarily upon his
epoch-making researches in solar physics, but during the last ten years of his
life his name was best known to the world at large by his experiments in
mechanical flight.

Mr. Langley was the first to produce a machine heavier than air which, sup-
ported and propelled by its own engine and possessing no extraneous lifting
or sustaining power, actually made an independent flight for a considerable
distance, this being accomplished for the first time on May 6, 1896. He after-
wards constructed other models driven by both steam and gasoline engines,
which made frequent successful flights, and was thus the first to demonstrate
by actual experiment the possibility of mechanical flight.

In addition to building various models and machines, most of which are now
on exhibition in the United States National Museum, Mr. Langley recorded his
studies and experiments in two technical works—“ Experiments in Aero-
dynamics,” published originally by the Smithsonian Institution in 1891, and
“The Internal Work of the Wind,’ the original edition of which was issued
by the Institution in 1893. The copious and painstaking notes made by Mr.
Langley in connection with his latest experiments in mechanical flight are
now in course of preparation for publication and will be issued by the Institu-
tion on completion, thus forming the third volume of this more technical series.

Mr. Langley also wrote a few occasional popular papers relating to this same
class of experiments, which were published in the Smithsonian reports and else-
where, the editions of which are now quite exhausted. In order to meet the
ever-increasing demand for information on a subject which is now claiming uni-
versal attention, and in which Mr. Langley was the pioneer, some of these less
technical articles are here brought together and reprinted under a single cover.

The publications of the National Museum during the year included
a large number of papers in the Proceedings, and several Bulletins,
the general contents of which are enumerated in the appendix.

The Bureau of American Ethnology published its Twenty-sixth
Annual Report and a number of Bulletins. One of the Bulletins,
No. 42, by Dr. Ales Hrdlicka, gives the results of his study of tuber-
culosis among certain Indian tribes.

The Annual Reports of the American Historical Association and
of the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion were received from those organizations and were communicated
to Congress in accordance with their national charters.

The allotments to the Institution and its branches, under the head
of public printing and binding during the past fiscal year, aggrega-
ting $72,700, were, as far as practicable, expended prior to June 30.
The allotments for the year ending June 30, 1910, are as follows:

For the Smithsonian Institution for printing and binding annual re-
ports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes___________ $10, 000
For the annual reports of the National Museum, with general appen-
dixes, and for printing labels and blanks for the Bulletins and Pro-
ceedings of the National Museum, the editions of which shall not ex-
ceed 4,000 copies, and binding, in half turkey or material not more
expensive, scientific books and pamphlets presented to and acquired
byethe National Museum) ibtary== 22) oa = se eee ee 34, 000
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. aby)

For the annual reports and bulletins of the Bureau of American Eth-
nology and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau___ $21, 000
For miscellaneous printing and binding:

Antena On AlebINCRAN GCS) 2a ae Ne ee ee 200
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature___.____.__________ 100
Nai onuale ZOOlog Cals Parkes 2 SS a See ea 200
ASCrODHY SICAL ODSCLVATORY: 22 == = a ee eS ee ee 200
For the annual report of the American Historical Association_________ 7, 000
BTS (21) oem ene ee ete ee Se ee ee he ee ee 72, 700

The practice of sending out abstracts of the publications of the
Institution and its branches to newspapers throughout the country
has been continued, and in this way many millions of readers, who
would not have ready access to the scientific information in the
papers themselves, have been reached.

ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION.

The committee on printing and publication has continued to ex-
amine manuscripts proposed for publication by the branches of the
Institution and has considered various questions concerning public
printing and binding. ‘Twenty-seven meetings of the committee were
held during the year and more than a hundred manuscripts were
passed upon. Upon the resignation of Dr. Cyrus Adler, chairman
of the committee, as assistant secretary of the Institution, the com-
mittee was reorganized as follows: Dr. Frederick W. True, head
curator of biology, United States National Museum, chairman; Mr.
C. G. Abbot, director of the Astrophysical Observatory; Mr. W. I.
Adams, of the International Exchanges; Dr. Frank Baker, superin-
tendent of the National Zoological Park; Mr. A. Howard Clark,
editor of the Smithsonian Institution; Mr. F. W. Hodge, ethnologist,
the Bureau of American Ethnology; Prof. O. T. Mason, head curator
of anthropology, United States National Museum; Dr. George P.
Merrill, head curator of geology, United States National Museum;
and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger, curator of reptiles and batrachians,
United States National Museum.

In order to prevent duplication of work in the examination of
papers, the Museum advisory committee on publications was discon-
tinued and its duties transferred to this committee.

THE LIBRARY.

The additions to the Smithsonian Library during the year aggre-
gated 29,729 complete volumes and parts of volumes, besides over
34,000 parts of periodical publications. Of the accessions more than
20,000 were placed in the Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Con-
egress, and the remainder were divided among the libraries of the
Secretary’s office, the Astrophysical Observatory, the National Zoo-
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

logical Park, the International Exchanges, and the National Museum
library. The library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, which
is administered separately from the general library, has also had
numerous additions. The Institution has continued the policy of send-
ing to the Library of Congress public documents received in exchange
for its publications.

During the last two years special efforts have been made to com-
plete the sets of the publications of scientific societies and learned
institutions in the Smithsonian deposit, including serial publications
in the main collection, resulting in the receipt of nearly 4,000 parts,
an increase of more than 2,000 over the previous year.

The reference books in the Institution and the general library,
together with the sectional libraries in the National Museum and the
library of the Bureau of American Ethnology, have been very freely
consulted.

The importance of the collection of scientific works in the hbrary
of the Institution is becoming more and more appreciated each year
by the scientific investigator, as 1s evidenced by the increase in the
number of publications withdrawn for consultation, especially the
proceedings and transactions of the scientific societies and learned
institutions.

The assistant librarian has been engaged in preparing a bibliog-
raphy of aeronautical literature, which includes the indexing of about
13,500 papers in periodicals and proceedings of aeronautical socie-
ties, books and separate pamphlets on the subject, and comprises
all available titles, domestic and foreign, published before July 1,
1909. At the close of the year the manuscript was ready for the
printer.

PRESERVATION OF AMERICAN ANTIQUITIES.

Under the terms of the act of Congress approved June 8, 1906,
uniform regulations for the preservation of archeological and other
objects on the public domain were prepared by the Secretaries of the
Interior, War, and Agriculture, with the cooperation of the Smith-
sonian Institution. Under rule 8 of these regulations applications
for permits to carry on explorations or researches are referred to
the Smithsonian Institution for recommendation, and during the
year a number of such applications were acted on by the Institution.

CONGRESSES, CELEBRATIONS, AND EXPOSITIONS.

International Congress of Orientalists—At the Fifteenth Inter-
national Congress of Orientalists, held in Copenhagen, Denmark,
August 14 to 20, 1908, the Smithsonian Institution and the National
Museum were represented by Dr. Paul Haupt, professor of semitic
philology in Johns Hopkins University, and associate of the National
Museum in historic archeology. At the suggestion of the Institution,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

Doctor Haupt, Dr. C. R. Lanman, of Harvard University, Prof.
Morris Jastrow, jr., of the University of Pennsylvania, and Prof.
A. V. W. Jackson, of Columbia University, were designated by the
Department of State as delegates of the United States Government
to this congress.

Congress of Americanists—Dr. Franz Boas, of Columbia Univer-
sity, was representative of the Institution at the Sixteenth Inter-
national Congress of Americanists, held at Vienna September 8 to
14, 1908, and the Department of State, at the suggestion of the Insti-
tution, designated, besides Doctor Boas, the following delegates on
the part of the United States Government: Prof. Marshall H. Saville,
of Columbia; Dr. George Grant McCurdy, of Yale; Dr. Charles
Peabody, of Harvard; and Dr. Paul Haupt, of Johns Hopkins.

Fisheries Congress.—The International Fisheries Congress was held
in Washington September 22 to 26, 1908, delegates being present from
a large number of countries and from various societies and clubs
interested in fisheries. The Institution was represented by Dr. T. N.
Gill and Dr. F. W. True; the National Museum by Mr. W. de C.
Ravenel and Dr. Leonhard Stejneger. Dr. Richard Rathbun, Assist-
ant Secretary of the Institution, served as delegate at large from the
Government. In connection with this congress the Smithsonian
Institution had offered a prize of $200 for the best essay or treatise
“ On international regulation of the fisheries on the high seas: Their
history, objects, and results.” This prize was awarded to Mr. Charles
H. Stevenson, of the United States Bureau of Fisheries.

Tuberculosis Congress—In compliance with the direction of the
President, the new building for the National Museum was selected
for the meetings of the International Congress on Tuberculosis,
$40,000 being placed at the disposal of the Secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the necessary arrangements in this connection.

The plans for the adaptation of the building to this purpose were
put in the hands of the superintendent of construction, Mr. Bernard
R. Green, and the work necessary was conducted by him to a success-
ful conclusion. About 100,000 square feet of the building on the first
and second floors, exclusive of the south wings, were used for the
purposes of the congress. In order to make the space as attractive
as possible, muslin was used to cover the rough places and many flags
of the United States and of foreign nations were gracefully festooned
about the halls. The Institution is indebted to the War, Navy, and
Treasury departments, and also to the Bureau of American Republics,
for the use of the flags. The temporary arrangements for the illumi-
nation of the building required 600 lamps of 80 candlepower each,
consuming about 40,000 feet of wiring.

The congress opened on September 21, 1908, and adjourned on
October 12. By November 3 all traces of the convention had been
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

removed and the building was again ready for the resumption of
construction operations. About $25,000 was expended in fitting up
the building for the congress ($15,000 being thus unused from the
appropriation).

Thirty-one independent nations and forty-five States of the Union
were represented. There were 488 contributors, of whom 312 were
citizens of the United States. The total attendance at the congress
was approximately 148,000.

Among the contributors to the exhibits the Smithsonian Institu-
tion presented results of an investigation among certain of the Indian
tribes for the Department of the Interior, with a view to showing the
actual amount of tuberculosis existing. This work was done by Dr.
Ale’ Hrdlitka, of the National Museum, who visited the Menominee,
Sioux, Quinault, Hupa, and Mohave tribes. The exhibit occupied a
space amounting to 18 by 40 feet, and the congress expressed its
appreciation of it by awarding the Institution a gold medal.

As already mentioned in the paragraphs on the Hodgkins fund, the
Institution offered a prize of $1,500 for the best treatise on “ The
relation of atmospheric air to tuberculosis.”

Anniversary of birth of Torricelli.—At the exercises commemorat-
ing the three hundredth anniversary of the birth of Evangelista
Torricelli, held at Faenza, Italy, in November, 1908, Professor
Senator Giovanni Copellini was requested to act as the representative
of the Institution.

American Mining Congress——Dr. George P. Merrill, head curator
of geology, United States National Museum, represented the Institu-
tion and the Museum at the eleventh annual session of the American
Mining Congress, held at Pittsburg, Pa., December 2 to 5, 1908.

Pan-American Scientific Congress.—The first Pan-American Scien-
tific Congress was held in Santiago, Chile, December 25, 1908, to
January 6, 1909. The Smithsonian Institution was represented by
Mr. William H. Holmes, Chief of the Bureau of American Ethnology
and curator of prehistoric archeology in the National Museum, who
presented a paper on “ The peopling of America.” An account of the
congress, by Mr. Holmes, is given as an appendix to the present
report.

Aeronautical exposition.—The Institution sent seven large photo-
graphs of the Langley aerodrome to the International Aeronautical
Exposition held at Frankfort on the Main, Germany, February 27,
1909.

National Academy of Sciences—As has been the custom for many
years, the Institution afforded facilities for the meetings of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, April 21 to 23, 1909. One of the halls
of the National Museum was used for the public meetings of the
academy, the council meetings being held in rooms in the Smithsonian
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

building. The programme of the meetings included the usual num-
ber of papers covering a wide field.

Congress of photography.—The Smithsonian Institution accepted
an invitation to participate in the International Congress on Pho-
tography at Dresden, Germany, May to October, 1909, and sent a
number of enlarged photographs and transparencies.

International Archeological Congress.—Upon the recommendation
of the Smithsonian Institution Mr. A. M. Lythgoe, of the Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art, and Prof. Paul Baur, of Yale University, were
designated by the Department of State as delegates on the part of
the United States to the Second International Archeological Con-
gress, which was held at Cairo, Egypt, Easter, 1909.

Darwin celebration—It was my pleasure, by resolution of the
Board of Regents, to represent the Institution at the one hundredth
anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin, held at Cambridge
University, England, June 22 to 24, 1909, when the university con-
ferred upon me the degree of Sc. D. In this connection a bronze
bust of Darwin, a gift of many of Darwin’s admirers in America,
was presented to the university.

University of Geneva anniversary.—Prof. J. M. Baldwin, of Johns
Hopkins University, was appointed to represent the Smithsonian
Institution at the three hundredth anniversary of the founding of
the Geneva University, which was held at Geneva July 7 to 10, 1909.

University of Leipzig anniversary.—The Institution accepted an
invitation to participate in the five hundredth anniversary of the
University of Leipzig held July 28 to 30, 1909, and Dr. William
H. Welch, of Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., consented
to act as its representative on that occasion.

Congress for the History of Religions——Dr. Paul Haupt, of Johns
Hopkins University, and Prof. Morris Jastrow, jr., of the University
of Pennsylvania, were designated, at the suggestion of the Institu-
tion, as delegates on the part of the United States to the Third Inter-
national Congress for the History of Religions, held at Oxford,
England, September 15 to 18, 1909.

Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition—In the act of Congress ap-
proved May 27, 1908, an appropriation of $200,000 was made for
an exhibition by the Government at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Ex-
position held at Seattle, begining June 1 and closing October 1,
1909. Mr. W. deC. Ravenel, administrative assistant in the United
States National Museum, was designated by the Secretary as Repre-
sentative of the Smithsonian Institution and the National Museum. An
allotment of $24,000 was made for an exhibit by the Institution and
the Museum to illustrate our national history, especially with refer-
ence to Alaska, Hawaii, the Philippine Islands, and the United
States west of the Rocky Mountains. Mr. Ravenel’s account of
this exhibit is given in an appendix to the present report.
99 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Mr. Ravenel was also appointed by the President as a member of
the United States Government board of managers of the exposition.

LANGLEY MEDAL AND MEMORIAL TABLET.

As a tribute to the memory of the late Secretary Samuel Pierpont
Langley and his contributions to the science of aerodromics, the
Regents on December 15, 1908, adopted the following resolution:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution establish
a medal to be known as the Langley medal; to be awarded for specially meri-
torious investigations in connection with the science of aerodromics and its
application to aviation.

Following the establishment of this medal a committee on award,
composed of the following gentlemen of recognized attainments in
the science of aerodromics, was appointed by the Secretary:

Mr. Octave Chanute, of Chicago, chairman.

Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, Washington, D. C.

Maj. George O. Squier, U. S. Army.

Mr. John A. Brashear, Allegheny, Pa.

Mr. James Means, formerly editor of the Aeronautical Annual,
Boston, Mass.

The obverse of the medal is the same as in the Hodgkins medal
and was designed by M. J. C. Chaplain, of Paris, a member of the
French Academy. It represents a female figure, seated on the globe,
carrying a torch in her left hand and in her right a scroll emblematic
of knowledge, and the words “ Per Orbem.” The reverse is adapted
from the seal of the Institution as designed by Augustus St. Gaudens,
the special inscription being inserted in the center instead of the map
of the world. The medal is about 3 inches in diameter.

The committee recommended that the first medal be bestowed on
Wilbur and Orville Wright, and the medal was awardeu to these
gentlemen under the following Tesolubion, adopted by the Board of
Regents on February 10, 1909:

Resolved, That the Langley medal be awarded to Wilbur and Orville Wright
for advancing the science of aerodromics in its application to aviation by their
successful investigations and demonstrations of the practicability of mechanical
flight by man.

At the meeting of the Board of Regents on December 15, 1908, the
following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be requested to
report to the Board of Regents as soon as practicable upon the erection in
the Institution building of a tablet to the memory of Secretary Langley, setting
forth his services in connection with the subject of aerial navigation.

Designs for this tablet are now being prepared by a well-known
architect of this city, whose advice I have requested.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

MISCELLANEOUS.
GREENOUGH STATUE OF WASHINGTON.

The Greenough statue of Washington, which was transferred to the
custody of the Institution by joint resolution of Congress of May 22,
1908, introduced by Representative Mann, was removed from the
plaza east of the Capitol in November, 1908, and has been installed
in the west hall of the Smithsonian building.

MEMORIAL CONTINENTAL HALL.

Under date of April 30, 1909, the president-general of the National
Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution communicated
with the President, offering to place at the disposal of the Smith-
sonian Institution the use of the auditorium in Memorial Continental
Hall. The President transmitted this offer to the Secretary of the
Institution, and its thanks were expressed in a statement that the
needs of the Institution at present are of a special nature and require
particularly facilities for laboratory and research work, for which
Continental Hall is not well adapted, but should there be need in the
future for additional space for lecture purposes and the like, the
Institution would be glad to avail itself of the courteous proposal of
the Daughters of the American Revolution.

NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The operations of the National Museum are discussed in detail by
the assistant secretary in the appendix to this report and also in a
separate volume, and need not therefore be fully treated here.

It was expected that the new building would be ready for occu-
pancy before June 30, but delayed contracts and other circumstances
prevented its completion. The entire stonework of the outer walls
was, however, finished, as were also the roofs and skylights of the
building. Much progress was made in the interior and it is expected
that some of the halls and workrooms will be ready for use early in
the autumn. A large part of the first and second floors and of the
basement were utilized in the autumn of 1908 for the meetings and
exhibition halls of the Sixth International Tuberculosis Congress,
an appropriation having been made by the Government for the erec-
tion of necessary partitions and other fittings.

It was found to be in the interest of economy to install in the new
building a central heating and electrical plant of sufficient capacity
to serve the needs of the older buildings as well, the pipes and wires
to be carried through a small connecting tunnel.

Over 250,000 specimens were added to the Museum collections dur-
ing the year, about 200,000 of them pertaining to biology and the re-
mainder to geology and anthropology. One of the most important

45745°—sm 1909——3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

additions to the division of ethnology was a contribution from Dr.
W. L. Abbott, consisting of about 500 objects from southwestern
Borneo. I may also mention a number of Chinese velvets and em-
broideries of the Chien-lung period (1736-1795), presented by the
Baroness von Sternberg as a memorial to her husband, the late Baron
Speck von Sternberg, German ambassador to the United States. To
the technological collections were added more than 200 objects trans-
ferred from the United States Patent Office. These included a num-
ber of rifles, muskets, revolvers, and pistols, making the firearms ex-
hibit in the National Museum one of the finest in the country. Many
other objects of interest are enumerated by the assistant secretary in
his detailed report. The department of biology received a noteworthy
gift of about 1,200 European mammals and 61 reptiles from Mr. Old-
field Thomas, of the British Museum, and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, of
this Museum. This has so greatly increased the importance of the
National Museum collection of the mammals of Europe that it now
ranks as one of the largest and most valuable in the world. I may
also mention a contribution of about a thousand mammals and birds
of Borneo, received from Dr. W. L. Abbott.

In connection with the work of excavation and repair of the Casa
Grande ruins in Arizona, under the direction of the Smithsonian
Institution, as authorized by act of Congress approved March 4,
1907, there were collected and placed in the National Museum about
650 stone axes and hammers, rubbing and grinding stones, earthen-
ware bowls and vases, pieces of basketry and textile fabrics, shell
ornaments, and wooden implements. From similar excavations in
the Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, there were received about
500 objects of like character. The department of geology received
a large series of Cambrian fossils from the Rocky Mountains, col-
lected during my field studies in that region. There were also added
to the collections many interesting objects pertaining to mineralogy
and paleobotany. Eighty-two regular sets of geological specimens
to the number of 7,739 were distributed during the year for educa-
tional purposes, besides 1,300 specimens of geology, marine inverte-
brates, and fishes arranged in special sets.

In my last report mention was made of a loan collection of laces,
embroideries, rare porcelains, enamels, jewelry, and other artistic ob-
jects, temporarily installed in the hall occupied by the gallery of art.
This collection was brought together by Mrs. James W. Pinchot with
the assistance of a committee of ladies of Washington. The extent
of the collection is limited on account of present lack of space. The
lace exhibit is specially noteworthy in variety and value. It is ex-
pected that this temporary collection will lead to a permanent exhibit
of art objects that may help to elevate the standard of American art
workmanship.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

Two field parties in which the Institution and Museum are greatly
interested left this country during the year for important collecting
regions, from both of which especially valuable results may be ex-
pected. The first, which will explore Java and some of the adjacent
islands, is being conducted by Mr. Owen Bryant, of Cohasset, Mass.,
entirely at his own expense. He is accompanied by Mr. William
Palmer, of the Museum staff, and will present to the Museum a
large share of the specimens obtained. The party sailed at the be-
ginning of the calendar year 1909. The second expedition is that
under the direction of Col. Theodore Roosevelt into British East
Africa and more inlands districts. This expedition is more fully
mentioned on another page.

In the near future it will be possible to give the national collections
adequate space and more systematic arrangement. In the new build-
ing it is proposed to exhibit collectioms representing ethnology,
archeology, natural history, and geology, while the older buildings
will be more specially given up to the arts and industries. The
Museum thus amply provided with space will enter upon a new era
of prosperity and usefulness.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

Some notable accessions have been made to the National Gallery of
Art as enumerated in the appendix. I may specially mention addi-
tions to the Charles L. Freer collection, consisting of a number of
oil paintings, pastels, 247 pieces of oriental pottery, and 25 miscella-
neous examples of oriental art. Mr. William T. Evans has also in-
creased his generous gift of works of contemporary American artists
so that it now numbers 84 oil paintings, representing 58 artists. This
collection, which had been exhibited for some months at the Corcoran
Gallery of Art, was transferred to the Museum building during the
first week of July, 1909.

Congress having failed to authorize the adaptation of the large hall
of the Smithsonian building for the exhibition of the rapidly in-
creasing collection of works of art, it has become necessary to make
temporary use of one of the halls in the new Museum building and its
adaptation to that purpose will soon begin.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

The Bureau of American Ethnology during the year has been
engaged mainly in making summaries of the information resulting
from many: years of study, both in the field and office, of the lan-
guages, social organization and government, systems of belief, reli-
gious customs, and arts and industries of the Indians, as well as their
physical and mental characteristics.
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

The bureau has collected data relating to 60 families or linguistic
stocks and upward of 300 tribes. It does not expect to study all of
the tribes in detail, but rather to investigate a sufficient number as
types which may stand for all. The results of the work heretofore
accomplished are embodied in 26 published reports, 36 bulletins, 8
volumes of contributions, and in many manuscripts preserved in the
archives of the bureau. It has seemed wise at this stage of the re-
searches to prepare a summary of our knowledge of the tribes, and
this has taken the form of a Handbook of the Indians, of which one
large volume is published and the second nearly through the press.
In order to keep this summary within the compass of an easily con-
sulted handbook many important subjects are treated merely in out-
line. Other handbooks dealing with the more important branches
of the work are in course of preparation. The first is the Hand-
book of Languages, which is now in press and will form two volumes.
The arts and industries are also being treated in separate volumes,
and handbooks relating respectively to religions, folklore, social cus-
toms, government, sign language, pictography, esthetic arts, phys-
ical and mental characters, pathology and medicine, archeology, geo-
graphical names, etc., are in prospect.

The people of the United States have two great obligations which
the bureau is trying to fulfill: (1) That of acquiring a thorough
knowledge of the Indian tribes in the interests of humanity; (2)
that of preserving to the world an adequate record of the American
race which is so rapidly disappearing. The work is of national,
even of world-wide, importance, and unless steadfastly carried for-
ward by the Government can never be completed.

Recently much popular interest has been manifested in the antiqui-
ties of the country, more especially in the great pueblo ruins and
cliff dwellings of the arid region, and the Fifty-ninth Congress
enacted a law for the preservation of these antiquities. A first step
in making this law effective is their exploration. A second is the
excavation and repair of the more important ruins to insure their
preservation and to make them available to the public and for study.

Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of American Ethnology, has
continued the work of excavation and repair of the ancient ruins in
the Mesa Verde National Park, in cooperation with the Department
of the Interior. During the year the repair of Spruce Tree House
was completed, and at the end of June he had made excellent progress
in uncovering and repairing the crumbling walls of Cliff Palace, the
greatest of the ancient ruins of its kind in this country.

There is need also for ethnological work in the Hawaiian Islands
and Samoa, for the following reasons: It is regarded as most im-
portant that the Government should have definite and detailed in-
formation regarding the native inhabitants of these islands, which
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Oy

are under its control and for whose welfare it is responsible. It is
not less a duty of the nation to preserve some record of this peculiar
race for the purposes of history and science, as neglect will become
a source of deep regret. An experienced ethnologist should make
investigations regarding the history, social institutions, religion, and
general culture of the people, and a physical anthropologist should
study their physical and mental characteristics.

A work by Dr. N. B. Emerson—Unwritten Literature of Hawaii:
the Sacred Songs of the Hula—is now in press, and there is also be-
ing prepared by Dr. Cyrus Thomas, of the bureau’s staff, and Prof.
H. M. Ballou, of Boston, Mass., a catalogue of books and papers re-
lating to the Hawaiian Islands.

Another field for research that should be developed is among the
tribes of the Middle West. There is now a strong sentiment among
historical societies and educational institutions of this section in favor
of prosecuting more vigorously the studies of the tribal remnants of
the Mississippi Valley, for it is realized that when the old people of
the present generation have passed away the opportunity for collect-
ing historical and ethnological data will be lost forever.

Mr. J. P. Dunn has been engaged as a collaborator of the bureau
on a study of the linguistics of the Algonquian tribes of this region,
and Prof. H. E. Bolton, of the University of Texas, has continued
his studies on the tribes of Texas.

Other collaborators of the bureau have been making special
investigations relating to various tribes in different parts of the
country.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

For the purpose of more fully carrying into effect the provisions
of the exchange convention concluded at Brussels on March 15, 1886,
and proclaimed by the President January 15, 1889, a resolution was
passed by Congress during the year setting aside a certain number of
copies of the daily Congressional Record for exchange with the
legislative chambers of foreign countries. Under the authority
contained in this resolution arrangements for the exchange of the
parliamentary record have been entered into with 21 governments,
and the matter has been taken up with a number of other countries.
It should be stated in this connection that the convention here re-
ferred to was the second exchange agreement concluded at Brussels
between the United States and other countries on March 15, 1886.
The first convention was for the exchange of government documents
and scientific and literary publications, while the articles of the second
agreement made it obligatory on the contracting States to transmit,
immediately upon publication, a copy of the official journal to the
legislatures of each. The full text of the resolution, together with
28 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

further details concerning this exchange, will be found in the ap-
pended report on the exchanges.

The increase in the number of packages handled by the bureau
during the past year was the largest in the history of the exchanges—
25,777 more packages having passed through the service than in
1908, the total number being 228,875. The weight of these pack-
ages was 476,169 pounds, a gain of 40,884 pounds over the preceding
year.

The congressional appropriation for carrying on the system of
exchanges during 1909 was $32,200 (the same amount as was granted
for the preceding year), and the sum collected on account of repay-
ments was $3,777.33, making the total available resources $35,977.33.

The results of the efforts of the bureau to procure larger returns of
publications from abroad for the Library of Congress and the several
departments and bureaus of the Government have been more than
satisfactory—in fact, they have far exceeded my expectations, in
some cases hundreds of volumes having been received.

The Japanese department of foreign affairs, which has in the past
been good enough to distribute exchanges sent in its care for cor-
respondents in Japan, has recently signified its willingness to for-
ward to the Smithsonian Institution consignments bearing addresses
in the United States.

A bureau of exchanges has been established by the Kingdom of
Servia and placed under the direction of the department of foreign
affairs at Belgrade, and the Argentine exchange bureau has been
separated from the National Library and connected with the super-
vising commission of public libraries at Buenos Aires.

The total number of full sets of United States official publications
now sent regularly to depositories abroad is 55, and the number of
partial sets 33, Servia having been added during the year to the
former and Alsace-Lorraine to the latter.

The number of correspondents has increased from year to year
until the aggregate is now 62,630, or 2,507 more than at the conclu-
sion of the fiscal year 1908.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

The National Zoological Park during the year added 576 new
animals to its collections, which offsets a loss of 562 by exchange,
death, and return of animals, and brings the number of individuals
on hand June 30, 1909, up to 1,416. There were 564,639 visitors, a
daily average of about 1,547, the largest number in any one month
being in April, when 127,635 were counted, a daily average of 4,254.

The entire support of the park was derived from an appropriation
of $95,000 for general purposes, including the purchase, transporta-
tion, care, and maintenance of animals; the care and improvement
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

of grounds; the construction and repair of all buildings, inclosures,
roads, walks, and bridges. Of this amount the increased price of
necessary provisions and labor brought the cost of maintenance alone
to about $85,000. It was therefore possible to do little toward per-
manent construction or improvement of the more or less temporary
shelters, roads, walks, and inclosures which lack of adequate funds
at the time of the inception of the park made it necessary to build.
It has not been possible as yet to develop the park to the standard
that such institutions usually attain at the capitals of great nations.

The improvements made during the year were for the most part
those necessary for the safety of visitors. A series of yards for bears
and ten new yards for foxes and wolves were constructed, however,
and many of the roads treated with tar preparations to prevent dust
and abrasion. The superintendent of the park states that there are
needed: A new aquarium, the present building being originally a hay
shed, now in a most dilapidated condition; a general aviary and out-
of-door shelter for hardy birds; an inclosure for sea lions and seals;
an antelope house; a more centrally located office building; a restau-
rant and retiring rooms for visitors; and further improvements to
roads and walks.

Of the 576 accessions to the collections during the year, 124 were
gifts to the park, 12 were received in exchange, 307 were purchased,
9 were deposited, 110 were born and hatched in the National Zoolog-
ical Park, and 14 were captured in the Yellowstone National Park.
It is expected that the collections of the Zoological Park will benefit
either directly or indirectly through the Smithsonian African expe-
dition under Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, which left this country in
March and is at present engaged in gathering specimens of fauna
in Africa.

The appropriations during the eighteen years since it was estab-
lished have permitted of the erection of only three permanent build-
ings, all of the others having necessarily been constructed cheaply
and as temporary makeshifts to meet the successively urgent require-
ments of the growing collections. The result is that at the present
time most of the animals are housed in poor wooden buildings and
exposed cages, which are not only inadequate and unsightly but also
entail a larger annual expense for repairs and maintenance than the
dictates of economy would seem to justify. Elaborate and ornate
buildings are not called for, but the necessity for substantial struc-
tures adapted to the requirements of the different groups of animals
can not be too strongly urged.

It is also to be borne in mind that the Zoological Park is a part of
the great park system extending through Rock Creek Valley. Its
main roads are continuous with those leading up the creek and are
traversed by the same vehicles, including heavy automobiles, which
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

makes it necessary to maintain these roads on a better basis than
would be required if they were intended solely as entrances to the
Zoological Park. The heavy expense which this involves falls upon
the appropriation for the park, a fact which, it is felt, may not have
been fully realized by the Congress in considering the park estimates.

Attention has heretofore been called to the importance of acquiring
the narrow tracts of land lying between the park boundaries and the
recently established highways on the southeast and west. The high-
ways were located as close to the park as the topography would per-
mit, so as to reduce these tracts to a minimum width, with the
expectation that they would be acquired by the Government. Prop-
erty in this vicinity is gradually increasing in value, and in the inter-
est of economy the tracts should be secured now so that the park
boundaries may be permanently established and guarded against
injurious encroachment by adjacent grading.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

The work of the Astrophysical Observatory during the year con-
sisted :

(1) Of bolometric observations carried on at Washington on the
brightness of different parts of the sun’s image; also some experi-
mental work on the transparency of the air for long-wave rays, such
as the earth radiates. A computation of the results of these experi-
ments is now far enough advanced to show their satisfactory quality.
Precise knowledge of the selective absorption of our atmosphere for
earth rays is still lacking, and contradictory views are still being
expressed about this important subject; hence it is hoped that these
experiments will be useful in the study of the dependence of the
earth’s temperature on radiation.

(2) Spectrobolometric measurements of the solar constant of radia-
tion have been continued at the Mount Wilson observatory in Cali-
fornia. As in former years, evidences of a fluctuation of solar radia-
tion were found in the results of the measurements thus far obtained.
A new and improved standard pyrheliometer was found to be more
satisfactory than the one used in 1906, and great confidence is felt
in the results obtained with it. Efforts have also been made to
carry the bolometric measurements much farther in the ultra-violet
through the use of a large quartz prism, a large ultra-violet glass
prism, and two magnalium mirrors. Mr. Abbot, the director of the
Astrophysical Observatory, visited the summit of Mount Whitney
(14,502 feet), where the institution is preparing to erect a shelter
house for the use of observers. This is the mountain upon which
Mr. Langley carried on his well-known observations in 1881, and it
is believed that the location will prove to be of great value in the
further study of the solar constant of radiation.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ol

As stated in the two preceding annual reports, it is highly desirable
to continue the solar observations throughout the year, and this can
be accomplished by observing during the winter and spring months
in southern Mexico, where a cloudless sky and high altitude of the
sun may be had, although during those months bad observing condi-
tions occur in the United States. Hitherto lack of funds has pre-
vented a Mexican expedition.

The work of the observatory is receiving highly favorable notice
both in this country and abroad, its results being employed by our
own Weather Bureau and by foreign investigators as a basis for
their measurements on the radiation of the sun.

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITER-
ATURE.

The purpose of the International Catalogue of Scientific Litera-
ture is to collect and publish in 17 annual volumes a classified
index of the current scientific publications of the world. This is
accomplished by the cooperation of 32 of the principal countries
of the world, each having a regional bureau which prepares the
data necessary and indexes all scientific literature published within
its domain. The material thus prepared is forwarded to a central
bureau in London for publication in the annual volumes.

The various subscribers throughout the world bear the entire cost
of printing and publishing by the central bureau, each country tak-
ing part in the enterprise bearing the cost of indexing and classify-
ing its own publications. The 17 annual volumes combined contain
between 10,000 and 12,000 printed pages.

The regional bureau for the United States furnishes yearly about
30,000 classified citations to American scientific literature, which is
between 11 and 12 per cent of the total work.

Millions of dollars are being spent each year in scientific investiga-
tion and many of the foremost men of the day are devoting their
entire time to such work. The results of their labors find publicity
through some scientific journal of which there are over 5,000 being
regularly indexed by the various regional bureaus, and over 500 in
the United States alone. In addition to these periodicals are hun-
dreds of books and pamphlets, all of which the International Cata-
logue aims to index in its yearly work.

The International Catalogue furnishes in condensed, accurate, and
permanent form a minutely classified index to all of these publica-
tions. It is necessary for each paper to be carefully studied by a
person competent to thoroughly understand the subject treated, as
the method of classification actually furnishes a digest of the con-
tents in addition to the usual bibliographisal data. The catalogue
is to science what the legal digest is to law.
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

During the past year 34,409 classified index cards of American
scientific literature were prepared and forwarded to London, as
compared with 28,528 during the year preceding. The publication
of the sixth annual issue was completed during the year and 9 of the
17 volumes of the seventh annual issue were received from the Central
Bureau and distributed to the subscribers in this country.

NECROLOGY.
OTIS TUFTON MASON.

It is with deep regret that I have to announce the death, on Novem-
ber 5, 1908, of one of our strong men, Prof. Otis T. Mason, who had
been associated with the Institution since 1873, first as a collaborator -~
in ethnology, next as curator of that branch, and finally as head
curator of the department of anthropology. I may say, indeed, that
this association and influence dates much farther back, when, at 12
years of age, in 1851, he began his education in Washington when
the activities of the Institution affected every intelligent citizen.

Professor Mason was born in 1888, so that his life has been almost
contemporaneous with the Smithsonian Institution, and he bears an
honorable share in its history. He says in his autobiography:

My first studies were in the culture of the eastern Mediterranean peoples,
which I followed persistently until the early seventies, when a chance acquaint-
ance with Professor Henry and Professor Baird, of the Smithsonian Institution,
opened the Western Hemisphere to my mind and changed the current of my
life.

His agreeable qualities as a man, his earnestness in his work, and
his contagious enthusiasm render this loss a most severe one to the
Institution.

Respectfully submitted.
Cuartes D. Watcort, Secretary.
APPENDIX I.

REPORT ON THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

Str: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of
the United States National Museum for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909:

BUILDINGS.

Although it had been fully expected, as explained in the last report, that the
new building would be completed before the close of the year, delayed contracts
and other circumstances interfered so greatly with the progress of the work
that no part of the structure was in condition for occupancy at the end of
June. The entire stonework of the outer walls of the building, including the
porch, columns, and front of the south pavilion in which the main entrance
is located, was, however, finished, as were the roofs and skylights of the build-
ing generally. The placing of the slate on the dome of the rotunda and on the
adjacent roof of the south pavilion was under way, but the laying of the
extensive granite approaches, for which the stone has been delivered, had not
been begun.

Much remains to be done in the interior of the rotunda, but as it is the main
part of the building which is most urgently needed for the accommodation
of the collections and laboratories, it is there that the work has been most
energetically prosecuted. Except for some special items, such as metal doors,
transoms, etec., the construction of which will require several months, it is
expected that at least some parts of the building will be ready for use and
that the moving from the older buildings may be started before autumn.

It is interesting to mention that the building has already been made to
serve a commendable purpose as the meeting place of the Sixth International
Tuberculosis Congress, held in the early autumn of 1908. Being then in a very
unfinished condition, it was necessary to make special arrangements, authorized
by an act of Congress, for such partitions and other fittings as were required
for the accommodation of the several sections and for the display of the exten-
sive collections that were brought together. A large part of the first and second
floors as well as of the basement was given over to the congress, and while
the progress of construction on the building was thereby much retarded, the
delay may be regarded as fully sanctioned by the exceptionally important
nature of the event which occasioned it.

The reconstruction of the main roofs of the old Museum building was com-
pleted during the summer of 1908, when the slate covering of the rotunda was
replaced with tin. The use of slate on these roofs in the beginning had been
a mistake in view of their generally slight pitch and the relatively light charac-
ter of the supporting iron framework. ‘The old roofs had always leaked badly,
but up to the present time the new ones have shown no weakness of any kind,
and it is felt that they have been built in a proper and substantial manner.
Other important repairs interfered with the work of filling in the large arch-
ways between the halls of the old building, intended, as explained in previous

3°
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

reports, to provide against the spread of fire, though something was done in
this direction. A much-needed alteration in the arrangements and conveniences
of the photograph gallery was in progress at the end of the year.

Much work was done in the preparation and construction of furniture for
the new building, more especially for the storage rooms and laboratories, in
which it is important that fireproof material be employed to the greatest ex-
tent possible. There is already in use a large amount of wooden furniture of
modern and appropriate design which it would be extravagant to dispense with,
and it is therefore being sheathed with sheet steel to conform to the required
conditions.

In regard to new storage furniture, an effort is being made to obtain all
metal work, and in view of its recent reduction in cost, due to competition, it
now appears feasible to provide for the protection of the immense reserve col-
lections on a basis in keeping with the substantial character of the building.
There were on band at the close of the year 2,407 exhibition cases, 3,184 storage
eases, and 1,645 pieces of office and laboratory furniture.

The boiler and electrical plant installed in the new building, embodying the
latest improvements, is found to be of sufficient capacity for also heating and
lighting the older buildings, and, in the interest of economy, it has been de-
cided to make this one plant serve for all. Plans for carrying this arrangement
into effect were nearly completed at the close of the year, and it is expected
that the connections can be made before autumn. It will be necessary to con-
struct a small tunnel for carrying the pipes and wires from the new building
to the Smithsonian building, where they will enter the existing conduits. While
the new building will be heated by hot water, steam will be carried to the
older buildings, the latter being the medium for which their pipes and radiators

are now adapted.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART.

By a third deed of gift, dated May 10, 1909, Mr. Charles L. Freer, of Detroit,
Mich., added to his large donation of American and oriental art the following
examples acquired since the transfer of the previous year, namely: Four oil
paintings and 1 pastel, by Dwight W. Tryon; 3 oil paintings and 1 pastel, by
Thomas W. Dewing; a portrait of ex-President Roosevelt, by J. Gari Melchers;
2 oil paintings, 1 water color, 4 drawings and sketches, 1 album of sketches,
and 8 etchings and dry points, by James McNeill Whistler; 4 oriental paintings;
247 pieces of oriental pottery; and 25 miscellaneous examples of oriental art.

Mr. William T. Evans, of New York, also continued to make important addi-
tions to his collection of the works of contemporary American artists, which,
at the close of the year, numbered 84 oil paintings received in Washington, rep-
resenting 58 artists. As the Corcoran Gallery of Art required for its own use
the space which has been occupied by the Evans pictures, the transfer of the
latter was arranged for in June and carried into effect during the first week
of July, 1909. The walls and screens of the picture gallery in the Museum
building were entirely given over to this collection, and the new installation
displays the paintings to much better advantage than the previous one. This
change, however, necessitated the removal of the paintings which have hitherto
been hanging in the gallery to temporary quarters in the Smithsonian building.

It has now become imperative to provide some place where the paintings be-
longing to the National Gallery of Art can be segregated, and since the fitting
up of the second story of the Smithsonian building has so far failed to secure
the approval of Congress, it has been decided to make temporary use of one of
the skylighted halls in the new Museum building. Its adaptation to this pur-
pose will be taken up early in the new fiscal year.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

It should be mentioned that the full-length portrait of Guizot, the French
statesman and writer, by G. P. A. Healy, belonging to the Government, has beep
recalled from the Corcoran Gallery of Art. An important addition to the
historical-portrait series is a full-length painting of Rear-Admiral George W.
Melville, U. S. Navy, by Sigismond de Ivanowski. This portrait was executed
on the order of a number of friends of the distinguished naval officer and pre-
sented through the American Society of Mechanical Engineers at their annual
meeting, held in Washington, in May, 1909.

ART TEXTILES.

The loan collection of art textiles and other objects begun in May, 1908, by
Mrs. James W. Pinchot, with the assistance of a number of ladies of Washing-
ton, has ‘received much attention, and its importance has been greatly increased
by many valuable additions. The limited amount of space which could be
allotted to this subject in the picture gallery tended to restrict the number of
contributions, but as soon as the removal of the paintings to another hall has
been effected the entire area of the present one will become available. The col-
lection is now contained in 24 cases, of which 9 are devoted to laces, 7 to other
art fabrics, 4 to porcelains, 2 to enamels, and 2 to fans. With these are also
exhibited numerous examples of silverware, jewelry, and wood and ivory
carving. There have been 22 contributors since the last report. The assemblage
of lace constitutes the most noteworthy part of the collection, being exceeded
in variety and value only by the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art
of New York and the Boston Museum of the Fine Arts. This art movement, so
auspiciously inaugurated and so earnestly supported, if it be sedulously fol-
lowed up, is certain to prove an important factor in the future history of the
National Museum. It was started with the definite purpose of stimulating the
formation of a permanent exhibit, which should be valued not only on account
of its attractiveness and historical interest, but more especially as furnishing
motives and designs which may help to elevate the standard of art workman-
ship in this country. Its growth has been exceptional, and it is hoped that its
intent will be fulfilled.

ADDITIONS TO THH COLLECTIONS.

The total number of accessions to the Museum during the year was 1,358,
comprising 254,787 specimens, distributed among the three departments, as fol-
lows: Anthropology, 26,400; biology, 216,324; and geology, 12,063.

Department of Anthropology.—The most important contribution in ethnology
consisted of about 500 objects illustrating the handiwork and domestic arts of
the natives of southwestern Borneo, collected and presented by Dr. W. L.
Abbott, to whom the Museum was already indebted for several large gifts of a
Similar character from the Malaysian region. Next should be mentioned a
valuable collection obtained by Dr. AleS Hrdlicka in the course of his investiga-
tions relative to tuberculosis among the Indians of the southwestern United
States, and many objects from the northern coast of Alaska, donated by Mr.
E. de K. Leffingwell, who is conducting extensive explorations in that region.
Ethnological material was also received from the Philippine Islands, Africa,
and Central and South America.

Most noteworthy among the additions in prehistoric archeology were the
collections resulting from the work of Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, of the Bureau of
American Ethnology, in the excavations and repairs, conducted first at the
Casa Grande ruins in Arizona, under a special appropriation by Congress to
the Smithsonian Institution, and, later, at the Spruce Tree House in the Mesa
36 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Verde National Park, Colo., under authority from the Department of the In-
terior. The number of objects forwarded to Washington from the former
locality was 662 and from the latter 501. In these important undertakings,
justified by the great historical and scientific significance of the ruins, every-
thing that formed an integral part of the structures or could be safely left at
the sites was allowed to remain, only such objects being taken away as would
tend to attract looting or would be likely to fall into the hands of unwarranted
collectors.

The division of historic archeology was enriched by a manuscript of the
Mahabarata, the great epic of India, containing 90,000 couplets, written in
Sanscrit characters on palm leaves, a gift from the learned Rajah Sir Sourindro
Mohun Tagore. Several interesting additions were made to the very valuable
loan collection of Jewish ceremonial objects by the generous friend of ie
Museum, Haidji Hphriam Benguiat, of New York.

The collections of physical anthropology, which are not restricted to the
human race, but also extend to other groups of the higher vertebrates, received
important additions from many widely separated regions. Mention should
especially be made of the generous action by the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
of New York City, in allowing the National Museum to share, without expense,
in the results of its Egyptian excavations, which are in charge of Prof. Albert
M. Lythgoe. ‘The skeletal remains of the ancient Egyptians found in the tombs
uneovered by the explorations, and hitherto not generally preserved, are now
being saved and in greater part turned over to the National Museum, where
their study should result in interesting contributions on the physcial character-
istics of these peoples. A large number of remains were received during the
year, and, on the invitation of the Metropolitan Museum, Doctor Hrdli¢ka,
assistant curator in charge of these collections, had the opportunity of visiting
Hgypt last winter for the purpose of instructing the excavators as to the best
methods of preserving and packing the remains for shipment and of making
studies on the spot.

The division of technology received numerous accessions, including many
objects transferred from the Patent Office. The subjects principally represented
were firearms (of which the Museum collection is now the finest in the coun-
try), electrical devices, calculating machines, printing presses, the early history
of the aeroplane, and watch movements.

Two gifts of exceptional beauty and value from the Government of China
were added to the collections in ceramics. One was a celadon vase of large
size and graceful shape, the other one of the famous peachblow vases from the
imperial treasure house at Mukden. :

To each of the divisions of graphic arts and musical instruments a few addi-
tions were made. Plans were begun for broadening and enlarging the collec-
tions of medicine so as to meet the requirements of the recent extensive inves-
tigations into this subject, and they will be carried out as soon as additional
space becomes available.

Among many gifts and loans to the division of history, mention should be
made of a number of valuable presents to the Hon. Gustavus Vasa Fox by the
Czar of Russia during his mission to that country in 1866, and bequeathed to
the Museum by his widow;; also interesting relics of the Jeannette arctic expedi-
tion of 1879-1881, and memorials of Gen. Judson Kilpatrick, U. S. Army,
and Commander Harry H. Hosley, U. S. Navy.

Department of Biology.—The largest amount of zoological material from any
single source was derived from the Bureau of Fisheries, and especially from
the explorations of the steamer Albatross among the Philippine Islands, in
which Dr. Paul Bartsch, assistant curator of mollusks, participated for about
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. a

a year, being detailed as a member of the scientific staff of that vessel. A
part of the collections obtained on this expedition, including over 100,000 speci-
mens of mollusks and other groups of marine invertebrates, was transferred
directly to the Museum for working up. Doctor Bartsch was also enabled
to make some important collections of birds and reptiles. The same bureau
likewise turned over to the Museum other important collections of marine
invertebrates and fishes, chiefly from explorations in various parts of the
Pacific Ocean.

Among important gifts were about 1,200 Huropean mammals presented by
Mr. Oldfield Thomas, of the British Museum, and Mr. Gerrit S. Miller, jr.;
about 700 mammals and 200 birds collected in Borneo by Dr. W. L. Abboit;
about 600 specimens, mainly of invertebrate animals obtained in Labrador, by
Mr. Owen Bryant; and a large collection of Peruvian reptiles, mollusks, crusta-
ceans, and sponges from the Peruvian Government. The large collection
of birds secured during the expedition of Mr. Robert Ridgway to Costa Rica
was received in the summer of 1908. Besides those mentioned above the prin-
cipal accessions of reptiles came from the Philippines and Panama, and of
fishes from New South Wales and Florida.

The division of insects received over 32,000 specimens, including several
accessions of special value. Mr. William Schaus added to his previous note-
worthy donations about 16,000 specimens of Lepidoptera from Costa Rica and
other tropical countries. Mr. H. L. Viereck, of the Bureau of Entomology, and
Mr. J. C. Crawford, of the National Museum, presented their private collec-
tions of Hymenoptera, amounting to over 5,000 specimens in all. Lord Wal-
singham and Mr. F. D. Codman contributed many Central American species
described in the Biologia Centrali Americana. The balance of the accessions
consisted mainly of transfers from the Department of Agriculture, and repre-
sented many parts of the United States.

The additions to the collections of mollusks and other marine invertebrates
were mainly derived from the explorations of the Bureau of Fisheries, as else-
where described. A notable gift from the Zoological Museum of Copenhagen,
Denmark, consisted of several hundred crabs from the Gulf of Siam, including
20 genera and 66 species new to the Museum.

The herbarium received extensive collections, coming mostly from Mexico,
New Mexico, Oregon, and the Philippines.

Department of Geology.—Nine series of rock specimens, the results of field
work in as many parts of the United States, were transferred by the Geological
Survey. In invertebrate paleontology the more noteworthy additions were a
large series of Cambrian fossils from the Rocky Mountain region, resulting
from the explorations of Secretary Walcott during the summer of 1908; a large
collection of Paleozoic fossils from the Appalachian Valley and central Ten-
nessee, made by the curator of the division; and a collection of Tertiary fossils
from the Coalinga district, California, received from the Geological Survey. A
large amount of material from the Fort Union beds of Sweet Grass County,
Mont., representing many new and little known mammalian species, constituted
the principal accession in vertebrate paleontology.

CARB AND PRESERVATION OF COLLECTIONS.

The collections have been maintained in good condition notwithstanding the
overcrowding in all the divisions. Much of the routine work was planned with
the view of placing the collections in such shape as to permit of their removal
to the new building in systematic order, but the delay in the completion of
the building has made this part of the task especially difficult. With the assur-
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

ance that the new structure would be finished during the winter or spring of
1909, no appropriation was requested or obtained for continuing the occupancy
of the rented buildings, in which, for many years, large quantities of museum
specimens and other property have been housed. As these buildings had to be
surrendered at the end of the year it became necessary to transfer nearly all of
this material in bulk to the new building, where it occupies a large part of one
of the exhibition floors. Under more favorable circumstances it would have
been unpacked and assorted beforehand.

AS good progress was made in the sorting, classifying, labeling, and cata-
loguing of the accessions of the year as was possible under the adverse condi-
tions and with the relatively small staff of experts attached to the Museum.
The examination of the collections resulting in many important scientific con-
tributions, in which a number of specialists connected with other establishments
have participated.

The exhibition collections have been added to and changed only in minor
ways, principally in connection with the loan collection of art textiles, tech-
nology, history, and historic archeology.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Of duplicate material, chiefly natural history, separated from the collections
in the course of recent studies, over 9,000 specimens arranged in classified sets
for educational purposes were distributed to many high-grade schools and
colleges throughout the country. About 10,000 duplicates were used in making
exchanges with museums and other scientific establishments, from which an
equivalent in new material has been or will be received. To specialists in
different fields connected with other institutions, both at home and abroad,
about 19,000 specimens were sent for examination, all of which, except some
of the duplicates, will be returned to the Museum. A large part of the work
on these loan collections is being carried on directly in the interest of the Na-
tional Museum.

The number of visitors to the public halls was a little less than a quarter of
a million, which is about the annual average. This is in striking contrast with
the records of Jarge museums in other places, where the hours of opening are
extended to evenings and Sundays for the benefit of the working people. While
the additional cost involved in the extra. hours of heating and the employment
of a few more watchmen would be inconsiderable, the means at the disposal of
the museum have never been quite sufficient to accomplish this worthy purpose.
It is hoped that this matter may be satisfactorily adjusted in connection with
the- new building.

The publications issued by the Museum consisted of the annual report for the
year ended June 30, 1908; volumes 34 and 385 and part of volume 36 of the
Proceedings; 3 bulletins and parts of 2 other bulletins. They comprised
91 separate papers and memoirs, all of which except the administrative report
were descriptive of Museum collections. In addition, a number of papers of the
same character were printed in the Quarterly Issue of the Miscellaneous Col-
lections of the Smithsonian Institution and elsewhere.

The additions to the library, which is restricted to the subjects covered by
the activities of the Museum, consisted of 2,680 books, 3,671 pamphlets, and 227
parts of volumes, which increased the total contents of the library to 36,244
volumes and 56,010 unbound papers. The annual appropriation of $2,000 for
the purchase of books, periodicals, and pamphlets required for the classification
of collections, is wholly inadequate to meet the needs of this work, and should
be at least doubled. For a large part of its increase the library is dependent
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

upon gifts and exchanges, but even these means combined with the purchase
fund are not nearly sufficient to satisfy the important demands in this direction.

In conjunction with the Institution, the Museum is participating extensively
in the government exhibit at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacifie Exposition at Seattle,
which opened on June 1 and will close on October 16. The general subject
which, in accordance with the law, the Institution and Museum were directed
to illustrate is that part of the national history of the United States which re-
lates to Alaska, the Philippine Islands, and that section of the country lying
west of the Rocky Mountains. Samoa and Guam have also been included. The
collections assembled for this purpose, obtained partly from original sources
and in part selected from the Museum exhibits, consist of models, pictures, and
actual objects, representing the peoples, conditions, etc., from prehistoric to
modern times. The exhibit is interesting and instructive and has been attrac-
tively arranged.

The Museum, in conjunction with the Bureau of American Ethnology, also
sent to the International Photographic Exhibition at Dresden, Germany, a
series of enlarged photographic prints and transparencies covering a variety of
subjects, but designed to illustrate the perfection to which the art of photog-
raphy has attained in this country in the portrayal of scientific subjects.

Respectfully submitted.

RICHARD RATHBUN,
Assistant Secretary in charge of U. S. National Museum.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

45745°—sm 1909——4
APPENDIX II.
REPORT ON THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

Sir: The operations of the Bureau of American Ethnology for the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1909, conducted in accordance with the act of Congress
making provision for continuing researches relating to the American Indians,
under direction of the Smithsonian Institution, were carried forward in con-
formity with the plan of operations approved by the Secretary June 18, 1908.

As in previous years, the systematic ethnologiec work of the bureau was in-
trusted mainly to the regular scientific staff, which comprises eight members.
As this force is not large enough to give adequate attention to more than a
limited portion of the great field of research afforded by the hundreds of
Indian tribes, the deficiency was supplied in a measure by enlisting the aid of
other specialists in various branches of ethnologic work. By this means the
bureau was able to extend its researches in several directions at a compara-
tively modest outlay.

The work of the bureau for the year comprised: (A) The continuation of
various unfinished researches among the Indian tribes and (B) the summar-
izing for publication of available data from all sources.

(A) The unfinished researches were in continuation of systematic investiga-
tions already in hand and were essential to a reasonable rounding out of the
work among the tribes. These researches were distributed as follows:

Regular force: Matilda Coxe Stevenson, the Pueblo tribes; James Mooney, -

the Great Plains tribes; J. N. B. Hewitt, the Iroquoian tribes; J. R. Swanton,
the Southern tribes; F. W. Hodge, literary researches for the Handbook of the
Indians; J. W. Fewkes, archeology of Southwestern tribes; W. H. Holmes,
technology of the tribes; Cyrus Thomas, bibliography of Hawaii.

Collaborators: Franz Boas and eight assistants, the languages of the tribes;
AleS Hrdlitka, the physical anthropology of the tribes; Frances Densmore,
ceremony and songs of the Ojibwa tribes; J. P. Dunn, linguistics of the Algon-
quian tribes of the Middle West; N. B. Emerson, the Hawaiians; H. M. Ballou,
the Hawaiians; H. EH. Bolton, the tribes of Texas; J. P. Reagan, Northwest
Coast, tribes; Alice C. Fletcher, the Omaha tribe; Francis La Flesche, the
Omaha tribe; W. F. Gerard, etymology of Indian names.

(B) The summarizing of the materials now available relating to the tribes
was initiated by the preparation of the Handbook of the Indians, which assumes
to cover the whole ground in brief articles arranged in alphabetical order.
Its preparation has led to a clearer understanding of the work done and to be
done, and the researches now in hand contemplate the preparation of a series
of handbooks, each to be devoted to a full presentation of a single branch of
the subject, as follows:

(a) Handbook of the Tribes: History, distribution, settlements, population,
ete., of each stock, tribe, and minor group. Preliminary assemblage of the
data is embraced in the present Handbook of American Indians, of which Part
I is published and Part II almost ready. ;

(6) Handbook of Languages: Volume I now in press, Volume II in prepa-
ration. As several hundred languages are to be considered, a number of years
will be required to complete the work.

40
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

(c) Handbook of Race History: Physical and mental characters, physiology,
pathology, medicine, etc. Researches in hand, but requiring extensive addi-
tional investigation.

(d) Handbook of Social Systems: Organization and customs of society, the
family, clan, tribe, confederacy, government, etc. A large body of material is
already in hand, but much additional research is necessary.

(e) Handbook of Religions: Religious customs, rites and ceremonies, folk-
lore, etc. The large body of data in hand requires much elaboration, with
additional research.

(f) Handbook of Technology: Arts, industries, implements, utensils, manu-
factures, building, hunting, fishing, ete.

(g) Handbook of the Hsthetic Arts: Painting, sculpture, ornaments, music,
drama, etc.

(h) Handbook of Sign Language.

(i) Handbook of Pictography.

(j) Handbook of Treaties and Land Cessions,

(k) Handbook of Games and Amusements.

(1) Handbook of Burial Customs.

(m) Handbook of Economics: Food resources, culinary arts, medicinal re-
sources, etc.

(n) Handbook of Archseology. The extensive researches of past years need
to be supplemented by much additional exploration.

(0) Handbook of Geographical Names.

(p) Handbook of Hawaii. Researches initiated by the preparation of a bib-
liography of 6,200 titles now nearly ready and a work on mythology now in
press.

(q) Bibliographies.

(vr) Dictionaries.

(s) Grammars.

(t) Portfolios of portraits, ete.

The body of data in hand relating to the Indians probably surpasses that
heretofore obtained relating to any primitive people, but still falls short of the
rounding out that should characterize the work of the American nation, dealing
as it does with a race and a culture which are rapidly disappearing.

During the year researches were carried on in Arizona, New Mexico, Col-
orado, Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, South Carolina, Indiana, and Oregon, and
were incidentally extended to the Argentine Republic, Chile, Bolivia, Peru,
California, Washington, and British Columbia.

The chief devoted his time while in the office to the administrative work of
the bureau, giving the necessary attention to his duties as curator of the Section
of Prehistoric Archeology and to the National Gallery of Art in the National
Museum. During the year considerable progress was made in the preparation
of a work already well advanced, on the stone implements of North America.

Having been designated by the Department of State to represent the Smith-
sonian Institution at the First Pan-American Scientific Congress, held at San-
tiago, Chile (at which he represented also the George Washington University),
on October 29 the chief took passage on the Hamburg-American steamer
Amerika for England, sailing thence by way of Vigo, Spain, and Lisbon, Portu-
gal, to Buenos Aires. After spending ten days in the Argentine capital with
members of the delegation, making official visits and pursuing studies in va-
rious public institutions, he traversed the pampean country by rail to Mendoza,
and thence up the Mendoza River to Las Cuevas at the base of the cumbre
or crest of the Andes. Taking coach at this point he crossed to the Chilean
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

side and soon reached Santiago. The three weeks spent in Santiago were taken
up largely with affairs of the delegation, including official duties and attend-
ance on meetings of the Congress. The section of the natural sciences, includ- —
ing anthropology, met daily, and on December 28 the chief acted as chairman
of the section. His contribution to the programme of the congress was a
paper on “ The peopling of America,” an abstract of which follows:

Discussion of the problem of the origin of the American aborigines involves
consideration of several important questions, as follows:

(1) Evolution of the human species from lower forms.

(2) Geographical location of the original home of the race.

(8) Dispersal to the different land areas of the globe.

(4) Differentiation of the subraces physically and culturally.

(5) Chronology of the racial history.

In the present state of our knowledge we can not assume to dispose finally
of these several questions. It is most important, however, that the whole sub-
ject should be passed under review at frequent intervals, and the data as-
sembled, classified, and critically examined. The writer’s views, formulated
after careful consideration of the various phases of the subject presented, con-
sidering more especially the North American evidence, are expressed in the
following summary of probabilities:

(1) That the human family is monogenetic; that is to say, the present sub-
races have been derived by differentiation from a common stock.

(2) That the precursor—that is to say, man before he reached the human
status—occupied a limited area.

(3) That this area was tropical or subtropical and was situated in the Old
World rather than in the New.

(4) That multiplication of numbers led to wide distribution, and that isola-
tion on distinct land areas finally led to the differentiation of the subraces.

(5) That the separation into distinct groups began at an early period, but
not until after the typical human characters had been developed.

(6) That the human characters were acquired in Tertiary time, and that
dissemination extended to distant continents, mainly in Quaternary time.

(7) That the pioneers of the present American race belonged to the well-
differentiated Asiatic subrace and that they reached America by way of Bering
Strait. :

(8) That the early migrations included few individuals and occurred at
widely separated periods; that the movements were slow and by means of the
ice bridge in winter or by skin boats in summer.

(9) That the culture of the immigrants in all cases was very primitive, not
rising above the hunter-fisher stage.

(10) That successive migrations involved numerous distinct groups or tribes,
so that the American race is a composite of diversified Asiatic elements more
or less completely amalgamated.

(11) That the result was a new people and a new culture, essentially
American.

(12) That the Eskimo—forming a widely distributed ethnic group occupying
the northern shores of both continents—acquired their physical characteristics
and peculiar culture under the influence of Arctic conditions, and that they are
the descendants of marginal tribes early forced to the northward from southern
Eurasian sources of population. Y

(18) That occasional accessions of population may have resulted from the
accidental arrival of voyagers from other lands, though not in numbers large
enough to affect the race perceptibly.

(14) That in the present period prior to the Columbian discovery occasional
voyagers from southern Asiatic culture centers or from Japan or China may
have reached American shores and left an impress on the culture of middle
America. ; '

(15) That the peopling of America with the present race was accomplished
in late Glacial or post-Glacial time rather than in early Glacial or Tertiary
time.

(16) That much of the recorded geological evidence of great human antiquity
in America is unreliable and requires critical revision.

(17) That the aboriginal peoples will soon disappear as the result of inter-
minglings with other races and failure to accommodate themselves to new con-
ditions; that America will be fully occupied by a cosmopolitan people embody-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

ing the best elements of every civilization—a race of superior capacity and
force, destined in its full fruition to surpass all others in the grandeur of its
achievements; and that the activities of the present and of future Pan-Ameri-
ean scientific congresses will contribute a worthy share in the accomplishment
of this grand result.

At the closing session of the congress the chief was made a member of a com-
mittee of five to arrange for the next meeting of the congress, to be held in
Washington, D. C., in October, 1912.

While in Santiago much attention was given to the national museum, which
contains a great deal of material illustrating the ethnology and archeology of
Chile, and a number of private collections, rich chiefly in Peruvian antiquities,
were visited.

The homeward trip from Santiago included excursions to Bolivia, where the
small national museum was visited and where studies were made of the ruined
city of Tiahuanaco; to Peru, where a brief period was devoted to a study of
the rich collections of the national museum; and to Panama for a short stay.
Washington was reached on February 11, and reports were then prepared for
the institutions which the chief represented as delegate and for publication in
scientific journals.

The services of the chief were enlisted during the early months of the year
in the preparation of the Institution’s exhibit to illustrate the history of the
Pacific Coast States and the Pacific islands at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposi-
tion at Seattle. Before leaving for South America in October he designed a
number of lay-figure family groups, which were elaborated by the sculptor
during the winter months; and on his return from the South he attended to the
completion of these groups and to the construction of a model of the Santa Bar-
bara mission establishment, California, for the exposition. On May 4 he pro-
ceeded to Seattle to assist in setting up the exhibits, stopping en route to select
a site on the southern rim of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado suitable for the
erection of the monument to the late Maj. J. W. Powell recently provided for by
the Congress; at Los Angeles, to examine the collections in the Southwestern
Museum; at Santa Barbara, to study the plan of the mission; and at San
Francisco, to visit the museum of the University of California. While in
Seattle visits were made to Tacoma, Wash., and to Victoria, British Columbia,
for the purpose of examining collections of ethnological and archeological
material preserved in these places. The chief returned to Washingéon on
June 11.

During the year the chief made studies of a more or less elaborate nature in
the following museums:

Blackmore Museum, Salisbury, England.
University of La Plata Museum, Argentine Republic.
Faculty of Philosophy and Letters Museum, Buenos Aires, Argentine
Republic.

National Museum, Buenos Aires.
National Museum, Santiago, Chile.
National Museum, La Paz, Bolivia.
National Museum, Lima, Peru.
California University Museum, San Francisco.

_ Southwestern Museum, Los Angeles.
Ferry Museum (Tozier collection), Tacoma, Wash.
University of Washington Museum, Seattle, Wash.
Provincial Museum, Victoria, British Columbia.
Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago.
Academy of Sciences Museum, Philadelphia.
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Early in the year the bureau was urged by the officers of the Mississippi
Valley Historical Association to contribute data relating to the history of the
Indian tribes of the region for the meeting of the association convened in
St. Louis June 15, 1909. ‘The chief contributed a paper entitled ““ Remarks on
the aboriginal history of the Mississippi Valley;” and Mr. James Mooney and
Dr. John R. Swanton were designated to attend the meeting and present papers
dealing with kindred subjects.

Mrs. M. C. Stevenson, ethnologist, remained in the field, in New Mexico,
during the entire year. Having established headquarters at Espafiola, she
devoted her time largely to investigations among the local Pueblo tribes, inter-
rupting the work for short periods to record valuable data communicated by
visiting members of the Zufi tribe. Her researches included detailed studies
of the history, social organization and customs, religion and religious prac- -
tices, and arts and industries of the Santa Clara and San Ildefonso tribes; and
progress was made in the comparative study of these varied subjects among the
numerous pueblos.

Aside from the more systematic ethnological work, Mrs. Stevenson gave much
attention to her unfinished papers on “The preparation of cotton, yucca, and
wool for the loom by the New Mexican tribes” and on the ‘“‘ Medicinal and food
plants used by the Zuni Indians.”

Mr. EF. W. Hodge, ethnologist, was engaged chiefly in continuing the editorial
work on Part 2 of the Handbook of American Indians, carrying along the proof
reading toward the close of the alphabet and writing and inserting many ar-
ticles on lesser subjects that it had been found essential to include. In this
work he had the assistance especially of Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, who prepared
articles pertaining chiefly to the Iroquois tribes; of Mr. William R. Gerard, of
New York, who revised and rewrote numerous articles involving the etymology
of Indian terms; and of Dr. Herbert H. Bolton, of the University of Texas,
who continued to supply, to the end of the alphabet, articles relating to the
tribes of Texas. The work of completing the second part of the Handbook
of American Indians did not proceed as rapidly as was hoped at the beginning
of the year, owing to the fact that the burden of the administrative work of
the bureau devolved upon Mr. Hodge when the chief was called to South
America and later to the Seattle Exposition, as previously mentioned. In the
handbook work Mr. Hodge had the clerical assistance of Mrs. Frances Nichols.
It is now expected that Part 2 will be ready for distribution in the near
future. Mr. Hodge represented the bureau on the Smithsonian advisory com-
mittee on printing and publication, and served also as a member of the sub-
committee on bibliographical citations. In addition he prepared answers to
many inquiries from correspondents, oftentimes requiring considerable research.

Dr. Cyrus Thomas, ethnologist, devoted his time during the year to work
on the catalogue of books and papers relating to the Hawaiian Islands. This
catalogue, in the preparation of which Prof. H. M. Ballou, of Boston, Mass.,
is joint author, has grown to an extent not anticipated at the outset. During
the last and next preceding fiscal years Professor Ballou examined, for this
purpose, the libraries of Boston and other cities of New England, and also
of New York. He also visited Hawaii, where he made a careful examination
of the public and private libraries of Honolulu, obtaining thereby considerable
early mission and official material of a bibliographical nature not found else-
where. During the same period Doctor Thomas visited Boston and Worcester
twice, searching the libraries chiefly along special lines to which Professor
Ballou had not given exhaustive attention; he also devoted considerable time
to an examination of the libraries of Washington. In addition to these
researches considerable bibliographical material has been obtained by corre-
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

spondence. As a result of this work the number of titles in the catalogue
(which is now about finished) reaches some 6,200—more than eight times the
number in the largest catalogue in the same field hitherto published. Hon.
George R. Carter, former governor of the Territory of Hawaii, has given much
encouragement to this work; in fact, with Professor Ballou, he formed the
leading spirit in its inception, though the beginning of the work for the bureau
was undertaken quite independently. Doctor Thomas has appended a subject
or cross-reference catalogue of about 38,200 titles, which is so nearly complete
that it is hoped the entire work will be submitted for publication before the
end of August, 1909. In addition to this work Doctor Thomas assisted to some
extent in the preparation of Part 2 of the Handbook of American Indians, and
attended to such official correspondence as was referred to him.

Mr. James Mooney, ethnologist, during the entire year was occupied chiefly
in an investigation of the subject of the Indian population north of Mexico at
the period of first disturbance and occupancy of the country by the whites.
A preliminary study was condensed for introduction into Part 2 of the Hand-
book of the Indians. The final work is expected to appear as a bulletin of
the bureau. The investigation is being carried out in detail for each well-
defined geographic section, and for each tribe or tribal group separately, from
the earliest period to the present, with careful sifting of authorities and con-
sideration of Indian habits of living. No such detailed and extended study
of the subject has ever before been attempted, and the result must prove of
interest and importance. The usual share of attention was given also through-
out the year to the preparation and proof reading of various articles for the
Handbook of the Indians and to routine correspondence. On request of the
Mississippi Valley Historical Association, Mr. Mooney, together with Doctor
Swanton, attended the meeting of that body at St. Louis, June 17-19, as repre-
sentatives of the bureau, and presented papers on the ethnology of the central
region.

During the year Dr. John R. Swanton, ethnologist, was engaged as follows:
The months of October, November, and December, 1908, were spent in Okla-
homa, Texas, and Louisiana. In Oklahoma the Natchez linguistic material
collected by Gallatin, Pike, Brinton, and Gatschet was gone over with one of
the four surviving speakers of the Natchez language, and about fifty pages of
text were recorded. In Texas the Alibamu Indians were visited in an en-
deavor, partially successful, to determine the relationship of the Pascagoula
tribe, formerly resident near them. In Louisiana the linguistic material col-
lected by Gatschet and Duralde was gone over with some of the surviving
Attacapa, Chitimacha, and Tunica. On the way to Washington Doctor Swan-
ton visited Columbia, S. C., to examine the early archives of that State. The
most important result of the expedition, however, was the discovery at Marks-
ville, La., of a woman who remembers a large amount of the Ofo language
formerly spoken on Yazoo River. As large a vocabulary of this language as
possible was recorded.

In the office Doctor Swanton completed the proof reading of his work “ Tlin-
git myths and texts,’ which was ready for the press at the close of the year.
He completed also a bulletin on ‘The Indian tribes of the lower Mississippi
Valley and northern coast of the Gulf of Mexico,” and read proofs of the same.
Additional work was accomplished as follows: The editing of the late J. O.
Dorsey’s material on the Biloxi language (in press), and the proof reading of
the same; the copying of texts collected during the field expedition above
referred to, and incorporating the linguistic material then obtained with the
material previously collected in the Natchez, Attacapa, Chitimacha, and Tunica
languages, and the copying on cards of the Ofo vocabulary; the reading of
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

galley proofs of sketches of the grammar of the Haida and the Tlingit for
the Handbook of Indian Languages; assistance rendered Doctor Thomas in
preparing for publication his bulletin on the languages of Mexico and Central
America, and work incidental to the preparation for publication of Byington’s
Choctaw Dictionary (in press).

Mr. J. N. B. Hewitt, ethnologist, was occupied in the office during the entire
year. For a large portion of the time he was engaged in amending and
transcribing the Onondaga text which, with a long supplement, is to form
Part II of his Iroquoian Cosmology, and in supplying an interlinear rendering
and a free translation of the text. From his researches in connection with the
preparation of articles for the Handbook of the American Indians he arrived
at facts which greatly modify hitherto accepted views regarding the location
and interrelations of the tribes around lakes Huron and Michigan. In this
connection he pursued extended studies of the early history of the Potawatomi,
Mascoutens, Kickapoo, Sauk, Foxes, Miami, and the “ Nation de la Fourche,”
or ‘Tribe of the Fork,” in an effort to identify these tribes with those known
to the early Hurons by names which occur in the writings of Champlain,
Sagard, and the Jesuit Fathers. The expulsion of the Potawatomi, Sauk,
Foxes, and the Tribe of the Fork from their earliest known habitat in Michigan
by the Neutrals and their Ottawa allies—not by the Iroquois, as commonly
asserted—was determined, and the most probable course of their retreat fixed.
Similar research was conducted among early records to determine as far as
possible the identity of the tribes whose names are recorded on the Dutch
“Carte Figurative” of 1614, which represents them as living along the middle
and upper Susquehanna River and its western affluents. As these names were
erroneously identified as Spanish in origin, and as such adopted without ques-
tion, much confusion and many inaccuracies have arisen in recent historical
works.

Mr. Hewitt continued the collection and elaboration of linguistic data for the
sketch of Iroquois grammar as exemplified in the Onondaga and the Mohawk,
with parallel illustrative examples from the Seneca, Cayuga, and Tuscarora.
He also partially rewrote the articles “Seneca” and “Sauk” for the Hand-
book of American Indians, and endeavored, so far as was feasible, to incorporate
in the remaining galley proofs of this work the results of his later researches.
Mr. Hewitt was also called on to prepare data of an ethnologic nature for
official correspondence.

At the beginning of the year Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, ethnologist, was in the
field, having just completed the excavation and repair of the cliff ruin known
as the “ Spruce-tree House,” in Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado. Before
the close of July he returned to Washington and commenced the preparation of
a report on this work, and undertook to complete the reports of unfinished
researches of previous years. During his stay in Washington his services were
enlisted in the building of a number of large models of the ruins for the Alaska-
Yukon-Pacific Exposition at Seattle and in supervising the painting of pano-
ramic views of the Cliff Palace in Mesa Verde National Park for the same
purpose.

In June Doctor Fewkes again took up his work among the Mesa Verde ruins,
and by the close of the year had made excellent progress in uncovering and
reenforcing the crumbling walls of Cliff Palace, the greatest of the ancient
ruins of its kind in the arid country.

The funds for the actual work of excavation and repair of these ruins were
furnished by the Department of the Interior, which has control of the park.
Being the essential feature of the park, it is most fortunate that these impor-
tant and interesting ruins are now receiving adequate care and protection,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

since in recent years the progress of destructive agencies, especially the activi-
ties of relic hunters, has been very rapid.

SPECIAL RESEARCHES.

As in former years, a number of collaborators were engaged in conducting
researches of a special nature in various fields. Dr. Franz Boas, honorary
philologist of the bureau, continued his labors on the Handbook of Languages,
assisted by a number of students. Prominent among these is Dr. Leo J.
Frachtenberg, who at the close of the year was engaged in studying the lan-
guage of the Siletz tribe on its reservation in Oregon. Volume I of the Hand-
book of Languages is now in press, and the work of Doctor Boas for the year
included the proof reading of this volume as well as the preparation. of the
text of Volume II.

Miss Frances Densmore continued her researches relating to the music of
the Chippewa, and a paper dealing with this subject was submitted for pub-
lication as Bulletin 45. A number of valuable phonographic records were
obtained.

Mr. J. P. Dunn, who was assigned the linguistic work among the western
Algonquian tribes left unfinished by the late Doctor Gatschet, continued the
study of the Miami language among tribal remnants in Indiana and Oklahoma,
and submitted a number of preliminary papers,

COLLECTIONS.

The collections acquired by the bureau and transferred to the National Mu-
seum during the year comprise fifteen accessions, the more important being as
follows:

Collection of West Indian antiquities, purchased from C. W. Branch, St.
Vincent, British West Indies.

Indian relics from Moosehead Lake, Maine, presented by Mr. J. D. McQuire.

Cache of flaked stone objects from Moosehead Lake, Maine, purchased from
T. Wilson.

Collection of bones, pottery fragments, ete., obtained by Mr. J. D. McGuire
and Dr. AleS Hrdlitka at Piscataway, Md.

Archeological objects collected by Dr. J. W. Fewkes, ethnologist, during
the excavation and repair of Spruce-tree House in the Mesa Verde National
Park, Colorado.

Pottery fragments from Coden, Ala.

Stone implements from Tiahuanaco, Bolivia, and an earthenware vessel
from Nazco, Peru, collected by Mr. W. H. Holmes.

Fragments of earthenware of the variety known as “salt vessels,” from
the vicinity of Shawneetown, Ill., presented by Mr. R. Moore, of Equality, M1.

Ethnologica of the Chitimacha Indians, collected by Dr. John R. Swanton.

PUBLICATIONS.

The editorial work remained in charge of Mr. J. G. Gurley, who for a short
period had the assistance of Mr. Stanley Searles.

Work on the publications of the bureau during the fiscal year may be briefly
summarized as follows: The proof reading of the Twenty-sixth Annual Report
and of Bulletin 34 was completed, and these publications were issued. The
Twenty-seventh Annual Report and Bulletins 39, 41, 42, 48, 46, and 47 were
prepared for and submitted to the Government Printing Office. Of these at
the close of the year Bulletin 42 was issued, while Bulletins 39 and 41, also
Bulletin 38 (the proof reading of which occupied much time during the year),
were substantially ready for the bindery. The Twenty-seventh Annual and Bul-
letin 43 were in galley form, and considerable progress had been made in the
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

composition of Bulletins 46 and 47. The preparation of nearly all the manu-
script of Bulletin 40, Part I, was finished, and most of the volume was in type.

At the close of the year manuscripts duly approved for publication as bu-
reau bulletins were on hand, as follows:

Bulletin 37 (partially edited). Antiquities of central and southeastern Mis-
souri, by Gerard Fowke.

Bulletin 44 (partially edited). Linguistic families of Mexico and Central
America, by Cyrus Thomas, assisted by John R. Swanton.

Bulletin 45. Chippewa music, by Frances Densmore.

The distribution of publications continued as in former years. The Twenty-
sixth Annual Report was issued in July, and Bulletin 34 in December. During
the year 1,676 copies each of the Twenty-sixth Annual Report and Bulletin 34
were sent to regular recipients, and 3,000 volumes and pamphlets were trans-
mitted in response to special requests, presented largely by Members of Con-
gress. The number of requests for the bureau’s publications greatly exceeded
those received during any previous year.

ILLUSTRATIONS.

The preparation of illustrations continued in charge of Mr. De Lancey Gill,
with Mr. Henry Walther as assistant. Illustrative material for six bulletins
and one annual report was completed during the year; of this material 498
illustrations were photographic prints and 77 were drawings. Proofs of the
illustrations of three bulletins were examined and approved. Portrait nega-
tives of 22 visiting Indian delegations to the number of 196 were made. ‘The
total output of the photographic laboratory was as follows: New negatives, 473 ;
films exposed in the field and developed in the office, 454; photographic prints,
3,498.

LIBRARY.

The library continued in charge of Miss Ella Leary, librarian. During the
year 1,459 volumes and about 700 pamphlets were received and catalogued, and
about 2,000 serials, chiefly the publications of learned societies, were received
and recorded. As the law now permits the binding of miscellaneous publica-
tions belonging to the library at the expense of the allotment for general print-
ing and binding, it was found possible to bind a much larger number of vol-
umes than in previous years, and thus to save many valuable works that were
threatened with destruction. During the year 2,194 volumes were sent to the
bindery, and of these all but about 500 had been received before the close of
the fiscal year. In addition to the use of its own library, which is becoming
more and more valuable through exchange and by limited purchase, it was
found necessary to draw on the Library of Congress.for the loan of 5138 vol-
umes. The library of the bureau now contains 15,511 volumes, about 11,000
pamphlets, and several thousand unbound periodicals.

LINGUISTIC MANUSCRIPTS.

Mr. J. B. Clayton served as custodian of manuscripts. The bureau now pos-
sesses 1,678 manuscripts, mostly linguistic, 19 having been added during the
year, mainly by purchase. All of these are of great value, and the number in-
cludes four by Miss Frances Densmore on Chippewa music, four by Mr. J. P.
Dunn on Miami and Peoria linguistics, one each by Miss Alice C. Fletcher on
the Omaha Indians, Mr. D. I. Bushnell on the Choctaw Indians of Louisiana,
and Mr. Paul Radin on the Winnebago Indians. The card catalogue of manu-
scripts is complete to date.

Respectfully submitted.

W. H. Hortmes, Chief.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX III.
REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

Sir: I have the honor to submit a report on the operations of the Interna:
tional Exchange Service during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909.

The most noteworthy event in connection with the service during the year
was the passage of the following resolution:

Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, That for the purpose of more fully carrying
into effect the provisions of the convention concluded at Brussels on March
fifteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-six, and proclaimed by the President on
January fifteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, the Public Printer is hereby
authorized and directed to supply to the Library of Congress such number as
may be required, not exceeding one hundred copies, of the daily issue of the
Congressional Record for distribution, through the Smithsonian Institution, to
the legislative chambers of such foreign governments aS may agree to send to
the United States current copies of their parliamentary record or like publica-
tion, such documents, when received, to be deposited in the Library of Con-
gress. (Approved March 4, 1909.)

Though the Smithsonian Institution has endeavored on previous occasions to
have the Congress set aside a number of copies of the daily Congressional Record
for exchange with foreign governments, it has only now been possible to have
the matter favorably acted upon—twenty years having elapsed since the rati-
fication by this Government of the Brussels convention for the immediate ex-
change of the official journal.

Upon the passage of the above resolution, the Congressional Record was at
once sent to the following countries, the parliaments of which already transmit
their official journal to the Library of Congress or have agreed to do so:

Australia. Greece. Portugal.
Austria. Guatemala. Roumania.
Belgium. Honduras. Russia.
Brazil. Hungary. Servia.
Canada. Italy. Spain.

Cuba. New South Wales. Switzerland.
France. Prussia. Uruguay.

The subject has been brought to the attention of other countries, and it is
anticipated that during the coming year this proposed exchange, which is of so
much importance to the members of the various national legislatures, will be
entered into with a number of additional governments. It should be stated, in
this connection, that the exchange here alluded to is separate and distinct from
the exchange of official documents which has existed between the United States
and other countries for a number of years. It is interparliamentary, and pro-
vides for the immediate transmission, direct by mail, of the official journal as
soon as published.

That the Smithsonian system of exchanges is appreciated by governmental
and scientific establishments and men of learning throughout the world is indi-
cated by the large number of packages intrusted to its care for distribution.

49
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

During the past year 228,875 packages were handled, being an increase over
the number for the preceding year of 25,777-—the largest annual increase in
the history of the service. The total weight of these packages was 476,169
pounds, a gain of 40,884 pounds.

The handling and recording of these parcels has taxed to the utmost the
limited force engaged in conducting the service, and it has only been possible
to keep abreast of the work by the diligent application of each employee.

The appropriation by Congress for the support of the service during 1909
was $32,200 (the same amount as was granted for the preceding year), and the
sum collected on account of repayments was $3,777.33, making the total avail-
able resources for carrying on the system of international exchanges $35,977.33.

In the last report it was stated that the bureau had entered upon an active
and definite campaign to secure reciprocal returns from abroad for the ex-
changes sent by this Government and its departments and bureaus. Though
this work has added greatly to the correspondence of the office, it has been
pursued with unabated vigor during the past year, and the results have been
more than satisfactory. In some cases the returns have exceeded all expecta-
tions, hundreds of volumes having been received.

While the Japanese department of foreign affairs at Tokyo has, for a number
of years, been good enough to distribute exchanges sent in its care for corre-
spondents in Japan, the department has only recently signified its willingness to
act in the full capacity of a bureau of exchanges—forwarding to the Smith-
sonian Institution consignments for distribution in the United States, as well
as transmitting to their addresses in Japan exchanges sent in its care.

Reference was made in the last report to the fact that the Kingdom of
Servia, which was one of the signatories to the Brussels convention of 1886,
had not established a bureau of exchanges and that the good offices of the
Department of State had been solicited in bringing the matter to the attention
of the Servian officials. JI am gratified to state that these efforts have resulted
in the establishment of a bureau under the department of foreign affairs at
Belgrade. Packages received for Servia in the future will therefore be sent to
that department for distribution instead of being forwarded through the Smith-
sonian agent in Germany, as formerly. In the communication from Servia
regarding this subject, it is stated that copies of all of the official, scientific,
and literary publications will henceforth be forwarded to the United States,
and a request is made for similar documents of this Government. Servia has
accordingly been added to the list of those countries receiving full sets of official
publications, the first shipment, consisting of 20 cases containing a collection
of documents published since 1901, having been made on June 22, 1909.

In response to a request forwarded to the Library of Congress through the
Department of State, Alsace-Lorraine was added to the list of foreign coun-
tries receiving partial sets of official documents of the United States. The first
shipment, composed of 6 cases, was made under date of April 29, 1909.

Just before the close of the year a communication was received from the
director of the Biblioteca Nacional at Buenos Aires, stating that by decree of
his Government the Argentine bureau of exchanges had been withdrawn from
the national library and connected with the comisi6n protectora de bibliotecas
populares, Buenos Aires, which is under the direction of the department of
public instruction. Consignments intended for that country will therefore be
forwarded to the commission in the future. The Institution desires to record
here its grateful acknowledgements for the services rendered in the past by
the national library in the distribution of exchanges in the Argentine Republic.

In spite of the extra efforts put forth by this bureau in making shipments to
all countries at least once a month—in some instances, two, three, and even
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

51

four times a month—complaints regarding delay in the delivery of packages to

addresses in other countries have been received by the Institution.

These de-

lays, aS a rule, occur in the various foreign exchange bureaus after consign-

ments have passed beyond the control of the Institution.

An improvement in

the service in this respect can therefore be brought about only by the societies
and individuals in other countries themselves taking the matter up directly

with their own governments.

this course has been suggested.
So far as reported to this office, the service has not suffered the loss of any

of its consignments during the past year.

Whenever such complaints have been received

When it is considered that nearly

2,000 boxes were shipped to every quarter of the globe, this statement is worthy

of note.

INTERCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND OTHER COUNTRIES.

The statement which follows shows in detail the number of packages re-
ceived for transmission through the International Exchange Service during
the year ending June 30, 1909:

Country.

PATADLAS seemic ec a's niels se siaiciercinie
AMON seems caicisecelecicisie ce
Austria-Hungary............
LTO ime GQ DOBC ODO DOR CMOCOSe

IBETMAUGAS| <5 oc ccicleicisicineec sis.
MOM eeeee ar aes sete see
Bismarck Archipelago -....-..
Boliviais-neejssce ae - cicisoecese
IBOINCOlauis sist cise secs fnceecse

ibalptloy lejbhom ee asoeoueceeso se
British Central Africa.......
British East Africa ..........
IBTitish GUIANA. sos... s2scs<s

UIP ATID io ciais cnc =a ceciesisc ss
Wanary Islands ...2-..------
Cape Colony: as<. 2 = <csse 505

Cape Verde Islands.......... |

(CEATIGIN sth ae SHER es ae me

Packages. Packages.
Country.
For. From. For. From.

146 G35] eDominicageen-oeeeeeeseseeccs 4B) epicesesee
Sul ects eeccee DutehiGuidnaresaseeesee seas Spl eeeeesnaoo
AGA Sarectesist= = WCUACOLar eae see esas ens 247 31
23) |e pocodaace Heyipiieresccj cee scccaeccisise sc 369 282
3, 378 464 || Falkland Islands..........-- Bilicscseemens
8, 003 POOR) |W) Wp TIER Rc a osoeco aoasesos S8ulee soos ee ae
89 |loosacoseas TAN COrsese eset erie Se 3, 074 5, 969
383i llbadogaoase French Cochin China....... 41 7
Ibi) | ASeS5ecace MrenchiGwiandess-eeeecee cee Biilc~menesee
17) |lsasooasocc German East Africa......... 22. catrejnacem's
4,535 2yOog|| RG CrMAllVie= seer eeeseeeeeranice 24, 821 8, 763
i ees ee Gibraltar ssseccoerasscesees 4 i
Ne Soecnpadd Gold'iCoast: sien cccsicccacre sc Geil eases
I essasodasa Grenadateucececscc = tice csies 7 |esteeeees
UG) Ta Soanecads Great Britain and Ireland ..| 22,808 8, 427
Gil eeiseccreecie (TE CCEn eo stan eocio ooo wtelelele 1,548 3
2, 718 AS6ullEGreenlandsaseasoaecseciacecn SP) sosceelce se
7, 306 446 || Guadeloupe ...-...-.....-.... PAY gosencede >
47 2al\KGusttemalaycececcissee sine ose B84 rarest wee
Was ceccnads DSU i ite see oe eee nee OADM ee emteeterae
aN aletnreratetareyat= Hawaiian Islands ........... 46) Socios
Be! llaceesocose FON GUTAS HS sees seca teisoe BIE | eecccoceco
(4b oesscosone On PON SS wpe ieee Sacre sien ieieie 188 I
215 TSU hicelandeeeseccce wens cee aise. 60 37
SA Rretertesereere TMG Ay esc eeaciccciseecce ee 2,710 176
1, 663 22 || Italy ...... alehate fasaleisisieiens spewose 7, 458 1, 352
eee eeeeneee JAMAICA eaee et seioecises icc ase 261 68
263) |/<nisin2c%si<1 JaMeMs eas eesee ones acme scl 3, 244 1, 646
2, 461 DADO PAV oree so -mee ewe eeceaccceccs 220 128
1, 088 65 || Kongo Free State.........-.. Di ltee ck mastmece
1,348 ME || PROLEA secs ciss sclaccloc Socewic ees (8) |(Saasosdoss
1, 672 AA WE AS OS = a oeacsclelsissteiesisvelnsie ce 2% | soocoacoos
1, 544 260) | PILI DErI Aiea sae so - aes Setectelios 527 1
Meo Secaagococ Lourenco Marquez.......... PANN saconnocce
Gb isegctione Toei setetete sella relelelejai=t 84 41
2,022 MOLD MMA CH OR teicrecisiis cele ciernisios as ilpecaoaee aoe

52

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Packages. Packages.
Country. Country.
For. From. For. From.

Mad arascanecescecce os. eie =e BON ewseencce St. Rubtsy.. sscsues se ceeee eer 4 oa cee
Madeira: ofoscccscscsesces Sal secececice St) buciae. <n eeces ce saee see 12) | cimictareteteets
Mia enya ood siecle osisesicisie ce xis Bijiossmeres sb. Martin! 2tecce-e- seeeese cee 125 | eee
Maltare saccsscscscecescsncse 128 1 || St. Pierre and Miquelon..... 14 | s2acdeeee
Mantini que ssassneecce cas = ccs 14 Se tekiece Siahomash: aaaceceseee tenes Ay |} eaneeeeae
MaMITILIMS Sees occeecteitaoe tae 1) escce nonce Stavincentiie-seeeeeeeee ners Alls Semele
IMIGXAG Oli. a sicisaccie seicins eeisisivie 1, 768 QO AtAlVad OLA Asse cceeaeee ner eaees 186 83
MontenerrOmeceerenscesceeeee NUD Masenecoad Samoa. ast sees ee eee LT: conte eee
MONtSErralb) a smencseess secre Dla werateatalatew Santo Domingo.............. BD 5<oeeeceee
IM OFOCCOM ERE Cte tee scismcinaesc ag er eeeseaic Sarawiales. 5.5 aes seeoescaceee 3) || Seemecesine
INSiballene cc acnme cic ctciocseacs 248 Gu |liSemerallen a. sees eit Gill Seremteerernte
INGEIETIHMOSEeeeeeenece reeset 8, 226 pinGH fall iistesare eae acoscaro nc ooborAoHe 735 il
ING VASeer wea te ciaeaniccls secs cele Bal eS Rcee SisM serosa oe cleo see ae 1,193 76
Newioundland= = - ==: 2222 s-.- 152 39)|tSierra Wueone eee seeeesseeeee re ease aGcoS
NewaHebridess-s-2- == -maccee DS a aden Ne Society Islands.............. 20 'lKasee eee
New South Wales............ 2, 955 462 || South Australia ............. 1, 605 439
News Zien an Gneceises ceric eee 1, 880 243) iG paimeseecessecseeacc- eee ccse 2,599 185
NCAT AP UIAE escsocaeeenee ase 230 1 || Straits Settlements.......... 224 4
NortolkalslandSseceses = sos 1 | eee res Sudan seeeeereceensceecnaae 34 1
IN ORW.E Veeco selsceinesieice 2, 670 5225 ||| Sumiatrarsses-- sesso aeens (| Gacenases:
Orange River Colony........ 129 TES WeEGeNh asses c sic a ane 8,366 50
(DATTA Meas elena ee eee cleo GON eee tee llwswalbzerl any Gast css a eene 4, 348 1,540
PALER UAV sem scecieiseeree ee cise ore 170 2h ASMA ates Sms oye mesa ee 1, 321 11
IRCTS1 8 een ae ssfatc tary eee Abe er ae Mransvaalsceean ak seems cese 1,407 10
Jee) Ula Gees ASB ONE Rane aan 1, 562 7610) trinidad eeee.scee essere ee IPA londcoo=bo5
Philippine Islands .......-.. OOH Eis ees MUMIS Se cones esa eee ce Stee 39 8
BOnOVRACOZ ese tek cise ceee tees 7D Ot asa ae Munkeyis-pesseceeseiaccces see UFO leBaneonco-
Ronhup alee sesessereseeeeene 1,800 2) |ehunks elanaseeeesesseeeeeee 20) eee eee
Portuguese West Africa ..... 33) eae eens United!/Statesss2----seeeee eee 52, 524 180, 292
Queensland! eee -cecee-=acce 1, 589 261) || Umugtaynaaseeaeee eens ceees 1, 965 867
REUMION: tee ce csstceccncccee Agfa) Wa eae ee VENCZUCI AS 2. nose eceeeeeeee 1, 289 2
RINGO eSigieee eo ee aseteee cee atl [gee ennai WiCtOriaisesce-cacnaecee carers 38, 329 208
ROUMANIA seo eee ee eee ee 536 12 || Western Australia........... 1, 463 551
EVUISSIA oieeijstorsgnciec see tesco 5, 3389 pe Bisyll| VAchiWAll eh ue Gat oaemonesboose V7 sete ecases
St. Croix. .-....-....--22-...- 4 fe.e--ee ees Motels eee ee "228,875 | 228, 875
Susetelenamascseses jones sele Sileaenisacects

During the year there were sent abroad 1,963 boxes (an increase over 1908 of
54 boxes), of which 236 contained complete sets of United States Government
documents for authorized depositories and 1,727 were filled with departmental
and other publications for depositories of partial sets and for distribution to
miscellaneous correspondents.

EXCHANGE OF GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

The number of packages sent abroad through the International Exchange
Service by United States Government establishments during the year was
122,340, an increase over the number forwarded during the preceding twelve
months of 19,646; while 20,216 packages were received in exchange, an increase

of 3,363.

This disparity between the number of packages received and those

sent may be accounted for largely by the fact that many returns for the publi-
cations forwarded abroad are not made through the exchange service, but are

sent to their destinations direct by mail.

This difference is further due to the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 53

practice of sending consignments to the Library of Congress intact, in many
cases a whole box of publications being entered on the records of this office as
one package.

FORHBIGN DEPOSITORIES OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

In accordance with treaty stipulations and under the authority of the con-
gressional resolutions of March 2, 1867, and March 2, 1901, setting apart a cer-
tain number of documents for exchange with foreign countries, there are now
sent regularly to depositories abroad 55 full sets of United States official pub-
lications and 33 partial sets—Servia having been added during the year to the
list of countries receiving full sets and Alsace-Lorraine to the list of those
receiving partial sets, the details concerning which will be found above. ‘The
recipients of full and partial sets are as follows:

DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS.

Argentina: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Buenos Aires.

Argentina: Biblioteca de la Universidad Nacional de La Plata.

Australia: Library of the Commonwealth Parliament, Melbourne.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Baden: Universitits-Bibliothek, Freiburg.

Bavaria: Konigliche Hof- und Staats-Bibliothek, Munich.

Belgium : Bibliothéque Royale, Brussels.

Brazil: Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Canada: Parliamentary Library, Ottawa.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Santiago.

China: American-Chinese Publication Exchange Department, Shanghai Bureau
of Foreign Affairs, Shanghai.

Colombia: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depésito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.

Cuba: Department of State, Habana.

Denmark: Kongelige Bibliotheket, Copenhagen.

England: British Museum, London.

England: London School of Economics and Political Science, London.

France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

France: Préfecture de la Seine, Paris.

Germany: Deutsche Reichstags-Bibliothek, Berlin.

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Haiti: Secrétairerie d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Hungary: Hungarian House of Delegates, Budapest.

India: Home Department, Government of India, Calcutta.

Ireland: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

Italy: Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Emanuele, Rome.

Japan: Department of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo.

Manitoba: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

Mexico: Instituto Bibliografico, Biblioteca Nacional, Mexico.

Netherlands: Library of the States General, The Hague.

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Sydney.

New Zealand: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Storthingets Bibliothek, Christiania.

Ontario: Legislative Library, Toronto.

Peru: Biblioteca Nacional, Lima.

Portugal: Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.
54 | ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Prussia: K6nigliche Bibliothek, Berlin.

Quebec: Legislative Library, Quebec.

Queensland: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

Russia: Imperial Public Library, St. Petersburg.

Saxony: Konigliche Ceffentliche Bibliothek, Dresden.

Servia: Ministére des Affaires Etrangéres, Belgrade.

South Australia: Parliamentary Library. Adelaide.

Spain: Depdsito de Libros, Cambio Internacional y Biblioteca General del
Ministerio de Instruccién Publica y Bellas Artes, Madrid.

Sweden: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

Switzerland: Bibliothéque Fédérale, Berne.

Tasmania: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.

Turkey: Department of Public Instruction, Constantinople.

Uruguay: Oficina de Deposito, Reparto y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Montevideo.

Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.

Victoria: Public Library, Melbourne.

Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Wiirttemberg: Konigliche Landesbibliothek, Stuttgart.

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS.

Alberta: Legislative Library, Edmonton.

Alsace-Lorraine: K. Ministerium fiir Elsass-Lothringen, Strassburg.

Bolivia: Ministerio de Colonizacién y Agricultura, La Paz. -

British Columbia: Legislative Library, Victoria.

Bremen: Kommission fiir Reichs- und Auswiirtige Angelegenheiten.

Bulgaria: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sofia.

Ceylon: United States Consul, Colombo.

Heuador: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

Egypt: Bibliothéque Khédiviale, Cairo.

Guatemala: Secretary of the Government, Guatemala.

Hamburg: Senatskommission fiir die Reichs- und Auswiirtigen Angelegenheiten.

Hesse: Grossherzogliche Hof-Bibliothek, Darmstadt.

Honduras: Secretary of the Government, Tegucigalpa.

Jamaica: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourengo Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Malta: Lieutenant-Governor, Valetta.

Montenegro: Ministére Princier des Affaires Iitrangéres, Cetinje.

Natal: Colonial Governor, Pietermaritzburg.

Newfoundland: Colonial Secretary, St. John.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, St. John.

Nicaragua: Superintendente de Archivos Nacionales, Managua.

Northwest Territories: Government Library, Regina.

Nova Scotia: Legislative Library, Halifax.

Orange River Colony: Government Library, Bloemfontein.

Panama: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.

Prince Edward Island: Legislative Library, Charlottetown.

Paraguay: Oficina General de Informaciones y Canjes y Commisaria General
de Inmigracion, Asuncion.

Roumania: Academia Romana, Bucarest.

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 55

Straits Settlements: Colonial Secretary, Singapore.
Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.
Vienna: Biirgermeister der Haupt- und Residenz-Stadt.

CORRESPONDENTS.

The record of exchange correspondents at the close of the year contained
62,630 addresses, being an increase of 2,507 over the preceding year. A table
showing the number of correspondents in each country at the close of 1907 will
be found in the report for that year.

LIST OF BUREAUS OR AGENCIES THROUGH WHICH BXCHANGES ARH TRANSMITTED.

Following is a list of bureaus or agencies abroad through which the distribu-
tion of exchanges is effected. Those in the larger and many in the smaller
countries forward to the Smithsonian Institution in return contributions for
distribution in the United States:

Algeria, via France.
Angola, via Portugal.
Argentina: Presidente de la Comisién Protectora de Bibliotecas Populares,

Ministerio de InstrucciOn Publica, Buenos Aires.

Austria: K. K. Statistische Central-Commission, Vienna.

Azores, via Portugal.

Barbados: Imperial Department of Agriculture, Bridgetown.

Belgium: Service Belge des Echanges Internationaux, Brussels.

Bermuda. (Sent by mail.)

Bolivia: Oficina Nacional de Inmigraci6n, Hstadistica y Propaganda Geografica,
ha Paz.

Brazil: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Rio de

Janeiro.

British Colonies: Crown Agents for the Colonies, London.?

British Guiana: Royal Agricultural and Commercial Society, Georgetown.
British Honduras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.

Bulgaria: Institutions et Bibliothéque Scientifiques de S. A. R. le Prince de

Bulgarie, Sofia.

Canada. (Sent by mail.)

Canary Islands, via Spain.

Cape Colony: Government Stationery Department, Cape Town.

Chile: Servicio de Canjes Interracionales, Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.
China: Zi-ka-wei Observatory, Shanghai.

Colombia: Oficina de Canjes Internacionales y Reparto, Biblioteca Nacional,

Bogota.

Costa Rica: Oficina de Depdésito y Canje de Publicaciones, San José.
Cuba. (Sent by mail.)

Denmark: Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen.
Dutch Guiana: Surinaamsche Koloniale Bibliotheek, Paramaribo.
Ecuador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Quito.

Egypt: Director-General, Survey Department, Giza (Mudiria).
France: Service Francais des changes Internationaux, Paris.
Friendly Islands. (Sent by mail.)

Germany: Karl W. Hiersemann, K6nigsstrasse 29, Leipzig.

@This method is employed for communicating with several of the British
colonies with which no medium is available for forwarding exchanges direct.

45745°—sm 1909——5
26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Great Britain and Ireland: Messrs. William Wesley & Son, 28 Essex street,
Strand, London.

Greece: Bibliothéque Nationale, Athens.

Greenland, via Denmark.

Guadeloupe, via France.

Guatemala: Instituto Nacional de Guatemala, Guatemala.

Guinea, via Portugal.

Haiti: Secrétaire d’Etat des Relations Extérieures, Port au Prince.

Honduras: Biblioteca Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

Hungary: Dr. Julius Pikler, Municipal Office of Statistics, City Hall, Budapest.

Iceland, via Denmark.

India: India Store Department, India Office, London.

Italy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Biblioteca Nazionale Vittorio Eman-
uele, Rome.

Jamaica: Institute of Jamaica, Kingston.

Japan: Department of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo.

Java, via Netherlands.

Korea. (Shipments temporarily suspended. )

Liberia: Department of State, Monrovia.

Lourengo Marquez: Government Library, Lourenco Marquez.

Luxemburg, via Germany.

Madagascar, via France.

Madeira, via Portugal.

Mexico. (Sent by mail.)

Montenegro: Ministére Princier des Affaires Htrangéres, Cetinje.

Mozambique, via Portugal.

Natal: Agent-General for Natal, London.

Netherlands: Bureau Scientifique Central’ Néerlandais, Bibliothéque de l’Uni-
versité, Leyden.

Newfoundland. (Sent by mail.)

New Guinea, via Netherlands.

New Hebrides. (Sent by mail.)

New South Wales: Board for International Exchanges, Public Library, Sydney.

New Zealand: Dominion Museum, Wellington.

Nicaragua: Ministerio de Relaciones Extericres, Managua.

Norway: Kongelige Norske Frederiks Universitet Bibliotheket, Christiania.

Paraguay: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Asuncion.

Persia: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York City.

Peru: Oficina de Reparto, Depdsito y Canje Internacional de Publicaciones,
Ministerio de Fomento, Lima. .

Portugal: Servico de Permutacdes Internacionaes, Bibliotheca Nacional, Lisbon.

Queensland: Board of Exchanges, Brisbane.

Roumania, via Germany.

Russia: Commission Russe des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Im-
périale Publique, St. Petersburg.

Saint Christopher. (Sent by mail.)

Salvador: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.

Santo Domingo. (Sent by mail.)

Servia: Department of Foreign Affairs, Belgrade.

Siam: Department of Foreign Affairs, Bangkok.

South Australia: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

Spain: Depésito de Libros, Cambio Internacional y Biblioteca General del Min-
isterio de Instruceién Ptblica y Bellas Artes, Madrid,

Sumatra, via Netherlands,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 57 -

Sweden: Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Akademien, Stockholm.
Switzerland: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Fédérale Cen-
trale, Bern.
Syria: Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, New York.
Tasmania: Royal Society of Tasmania, Hobart.
Transvaal: Government Library, Pretoria.
Trinidad: Victoria Institute, Port of Spain.
Tunis, via France.
Turkey : American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, Boston.
Uruguay: Oficina de Depésito, Reparto y Canje Internacional, Montevideo.
Venezuela: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas.
Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.
Western Australia: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
Zanzibar. (Sent by mail.)
Dr. Cyrus Adler resigned his position as assistant secretary in charge of
library and exchanges on September 380, 1908.

Respectfully submitted.
F. V. BERRY,

Chief Clerk, International Exchange Service.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX IV.
REPORT ON THE NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the condition and
operations of the National Zoological Park for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1909.

RESOURCES.

The entire support of the park was provided for by an item in the sundry civil
act approved May 27, 1908, appropriating $95,000 for general purposes, includ-
ing the purchase, transportation, care and maintenance of animals; the care and
improvement of grounds; the construction and repair of all buildings, inclosures,
roads, walks, and bridges. A sum of equal amount has been appropriated
annually for several years past. The considerable increase in the prices of the
necessary provisions and labor has made it increasingly difficult to do any-
thing toward developing the park to the standard that such institutions usually
attain at the capitals of great nations. The expenses of maintenance alone
amounted to about $85,000, so it will be seen that there was but little margin
left for additional works.

It should be remembered that at the inception of the park the funds provided
for buildings and improvements were entirely inadequate for its proper equip-
ment and that consequently the management was forced to construct cheap,
temporary shelters, roads, walks, and inclosures. These have now arrived
at about their limit of usefulness and do not admit of further economical repair.
It is not for the interest of the Government to continue to erect structures of this
class, and it would certainly be advantageous to have sufficient appropriations
to replace them with satisfactory permanent buildings.

BUILDINGS AND INCLOSURES.

The principal improvements made during the year were the completion of a
series of bear yards and the construction of a series of 10 new yards for wolves
and foxes. i

Bear yards.—Six yards of the series had been built up to the beginning of
the year. During 1908-9 the terminal yard, 42 feet wide and 26 feet deep, at
the east end of the series, was built, and the north end of the series was com-
pleted by the construction of three yards from 32 to 36 feet deep and 382, 24,
and 40 feet wide, respectively. All of the yards have floors of rock and con-
crete except the large one at the north end, where most of the area has been
left in the original hard clay over which is spread a thick layer of sand. A
concrete walk 12 feet wide was constructed in front of all the new yards, and
a trellis of steel bars was built over the walk and in front of the cages, over
which vines will be trained, to afford shelter until trees are large enough to
give sufficient shade. The cost of the work on the bear yards during the year
was about $6,000. The steep bank adjoining the’ yards was graded and a
macadam walk with stone steps was built to furnish a convenient approach.

58
|

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 59

The completion of the series of yards made it possible to transfer all of the
bears from the temporary wooden cages that they have been occupying to their
permanent quarters. The cages were then removed, and the area which they
had occupied was graded and planted.

Wolf and fox yards.—Since the occupation of the park the wolves and foxes
have been kept in temporary yards near the lion house. This has been unsatis-
factory in several respects, the yards being of an irregular and unsightly
character, rather obtrusive, and not as secure as desirable. A better site for
them was selected at the foot of the steep acclivity, where the stream from the
beaver valley empties into Rock Creek. There were constructed here a series
of ten yards having a tota! frontage of 230 feet, with a depth varying from
16 to 36 feet. The fence was constructed of heavy wire netting with square
mesh, on steel posts, and has a height of 6 feet 6 inches. A retiring den for
each yard was excavated in the hill at the rear of the cages and arranged with
a door outside the inclosure for the keeper’s use. ‘These cages, as well as the
bear yards, were completed and occupied in the late autumn of 1908.

An entirely pleasant feature of this site is its secluded, woodland character,
enhanced by the little stream flowing down over rocks to the creek. Consider-
able planting was done here, using the material indigenous to the neighborhood
in order to retain as far as possible the original character of the forest.

The cost of this series of yards was about $2,600.

ROADS AND WALKS.

Lack of funds prevented the continued prosecution of the repair of roads
and walks in the park, only such work being done as was absolutely necessary
for the public safety. The Adams Mill road and part of the road along the
banks of the creek were treated with a coal-tar product known as “ terracolio,”
to obtain freedom from dust and prevent the washing of the roadbed during
heavy rains. This was fairly successful. Some of the walks were treated
with another coal-tar preparation known as “tarvia.” This, too, proved an
excellent preventive of dust and abrasion.

The shaded walk and stairway from the Adams Mill entrance to the lower
levels of the park was completed and a small rest house and shelter built at
the upper end. It is believed that this walk can be made one of the most
attractive features of the park. In spite of the careful watch, some difficulty
is experienced in preventing the uprooting and carrying away by visitors of
the ferns and other specimens that have been planted in profusion along its
sides. The amount expended on the walk during the present year was about
$700, while the rustic shelter, 20 by 25 feet, cost approximately $400.

ACCESSIONS AND LOSSES.

Gifts included 5 chamois from Bernese Oberland, received through the De-
partment of the Interior from the Swiss Government as a gift to the United
States Government; 3 young Alaskan brown bears from Mr. George Mixter, 2d,
of Boston, Mass.; 3 Barbados woolless sheep, from the United States Department
of Agriculture; a large grizzly bear and female black bear with 2 cubs were
received from Lieut. Gen. S. B. M. Young, superintendent Yellowstone National
Park; also 2 mule deer and 2 prong-horn antelopes from Maj. H. C Benson, who
succeeded General Young at the Yellowstone Park. Ten beavers were also
obtained in the Yellowstone Park through the cooperation of General Young.

A lioness, a pair of Sarus cranes, 2 European flamingoes, and a fishing cat
were received in exchange for surplus animals.
60 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Purchases included a pair of Rocky Mountain sheep, an Arabian camel, a
reindeer from Alaska, a cassowary, 2 South American condors, 2 jabirus, ete.

Births numbered 110, and included a Brazilian tapir, 3 American bison, a
yak, 4 tigers, 2 black bears, a llama, 6 Barbary sheep, 17 deer of 6 species,
kangaroos, armadillos, ete., also various birds.

The deaths included the Philippine water buffalo, which died from peri-
tonitis resulting from the bursting of an abscess of the rumen; a young orang,
which died from leukemia; and a leopard, which, also, died from peritonitis.
A Rocky Mountain goat, which was deposited in the park, died thirty-seven
days after its receipt, from tuberculosis, which evidently had been contracted
while it was kept in confinement near the place of capture in British Columbia.
An Huropean flamingo, a crowned pigeon, and several other birds died from
aspergillosis, and five storks from cercomonad roup.

One hundred and thirty-eight autopsies were made by the pathologists of the
Bureau of Animal Industry and two by the Laboratory of Hygiene, which gave
the following results:

Cause of death, 1908-9.

ETN TIAN OT eee ee a 20M Eiydnrophilosigi a ss =:. arene 1
TMObereulOSiS = see ts Sa eee 16 | Subcutaneous acariasis.__________ 1
Pulmonary Gonuzestion= saan 80 -Uncinariaisig, Mae ele ee 2
SER OUILOSI Se: = oo ote ae Ga SBroteus bacilosishaa ass. 3
Pnteritis (and gastro-enteritis).._._ 20 | Echinococcosis____-__-________ al
INGDHTICIiSSe. ae swe coe Aes Dee 6 | Porocephalus infestation_________ 2
INGCCEOSIS/ OLmivier= == == seen 2) | Rapes Se We 3
PC DAbiG See 2A ee A | Vivo fibroma ste eee ee il
Parenchymatous degeneration of Goiter 222.22 952 SE ee if

iL ,C Teen EE ns AN es Se 2 oh Se ae it \WOsteomalacia= ===. se a ee 2
Fatty degeneration of liver______- 15) Simpacrionvor bowelas= === 3
PSRIhOMUG SM cure See Ne BAN ay |) IbonoeveiKorm Ort (Crtoy)en oo alt
IRERICATOIt Ses =a ate eae we a 2 | Urinary concretions in cloaca_____ 1
Fatty degeneration of heart and Brokenvecesinelod Gia =.= aa all

a ViGTire haem Sa Se ee ee PEPE were es Ll Starvation Se 5
Valvular obstruction of heart____ 1 | Starvation resulting from cystic
Septicemiial 2s es ee eee LM raboarere aloy Tdoywor ees Ve ee al
lmeukemila. 222k So ee Li) Stillbornpes = 22 ee aes = see ee 4
Cercomonad | roup ee 4") Necident=- 2b. 5 ee io
Infectious entero-hepatitis_______ i JNO cause found === 4
Coccidialityphlitis== =a aaa iL |

VISITORS.

The number of visitors to the park during the year was 564,639, a daily
average of about 1,547. The largest number in any month was 127,635, in April,
1909, a daily average of 4,254.

During the year there visited the park 148 schools, Sunday schools, classes,
ete., with 4,611 pupils, a monthly average of 384 pupils. While most of them
were from the city and the immediate vicinity, 25 of the schools were from
neighboring States, and classes came from Lowell, Warren, Boston, Fall River,
and Dover, Mass.; Portland, Augusta, and Auburn, Me.; and Wallingford, Vt.

NEEDS OF THE PARK.

Aquarium.—The present building was originally a hay shed of ordinary Vir-
ginia pine lumber. It is now in a most dilapidated condition, the foundation
PLATE 1.

Secretary's Report.

Smithsonian Report, 1909

BEAR YARDS IN NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.
a he

’ j | VP eed ;
f eG Nias ta Lee ‘OP aoe
» : f 5 : 7 ie

1 ie

"MUVd IWOIDO100Z IVNOILVN NI SGYVA XOJ4 GNV JSIOM

paces

ert

poday s,AreyaineG—'606| ‘Hodey ueluOsY}IWUS

"Sg aLV1d
te" oy wT. Ne ey : b aa)
4 AA : ' vie iy zi r sf wy hat?
me ik patel al 2 en retire Ww a L* o.

yy i A Lae hee, ewe we Us ei ae ee a

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 61

having sunk so much as to crack the glass of the fish tanks, thus causing them
to leak. It will be necessary to close this building temporarily unless some
means are found for totally reconstructing it. An exhibit of fish and other
marine animals is one of the most attractive that can be given in a zoological
collection, and it is very desirable that it should be maintained.

General aviary.—The need for a structure of this character is evident to any
intelligent visitor to the park. Only a part of the collection can now be exhib-
ited to the public because of lack of room. A number of outdoor shelters and
cages should also be provided for the exhibition of hardy birds.

Inclosure for sea lions and seals.—A proper pool for these animals, with suit-
able shelter, should be built as soon as possible. A good site for such an ex-
hibit would be just above the wolf and fox dens in the beaver valley.

Antelope houwse.—The inadequacy of this building has been mentioned in
previous reports. If any considerable additions of ruminant animals are re-
ceived at the park, it will be necessary to enlarge it.

Office building.—It is greatly to the disadvantage of the park to have the
superintendent’s office at so great a distance from the general working force.
A suitable structure should be built near the center of activity.

Restaurant and public comfort——The park is becoming more and more a
place of frequent resort for the public, as is shown by the number of visitors.
The present arrangements are totally inadequate. A good restaurant building
is urgently needed. Shelters and addition public comfort quarters for visitors
are also wanted. At present, whenever a quick rainstorm occurs, many visitors
are unable to get proper shelter. ‘

Roads and walks.—It is highly desirable that the construction of roads and
walks, which was commenced under the appropriation of $15,000, made in 1907,
should now be continued. .The general appropriation for the park is insufficient
for this purpose.

STATEMENT OF THE COLLECTION,

Accessions during the year:

SEES CTC Cl pee an eae re es asia aly lat ee ed eel ok Ce ee 124
RECEIV EG TMU EX CHATS Cs a= ae ae ee a ee ee ee ee ee 12
EU CHaS Cee ee e e  e 307
IMB) POS TU a a ee BB ke Eee re ee Se 9
Born and hatched in the National Zoological Park__________________ 110
CapturediineYellowstonesNatlon allie ait: kee ee eee 14

PAOCG EST) le as ae Be oN ee aR EN a sees Lae aad Sate Se NE 576

Presented.

Diamond rattlesnake, Cl RR. kWwappone; Cairo) Gases). ee
Rhesus monkey, F. N. Meyer, Department of Agriculture________________
ANU OTES IY SCG EM CH Geo) asa 0 pe pee ee ete Ae ey ee ae ee a
Common canary, William J. Myatt, Sharon Hill, Philadelphia, Pa________ 27
Chapman’s curassow, C. H. Jones, Campeche, Mexico____________________
Burplishyuan CH sones: Campeche Mexicous a2. = ates eee ee
Barbados sheep, experiment station, United States Department of Agri-

UDG UIT ee ce re es ee Pe ho A a
Alaska peninsula, brown bear, George Mixter, 2d, Boston, Mass__________
Common canary, R. L. Beard, 1018 H street NW., Washington, D. C__-_--
Unidentified bird, Wm. J. Myatt, Sharon Hill, Philadelphia, Pa__________
Chickenysnake; Hen Carrico Stithton, (Ny2ese cess oneness eee eee

Bebe

pt pe

He EOD OD
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Etog-nosed snake, Hii. Carricoy Stiehton wy a ee ees
Capuchin monkey, Miss M. Alexander, Moorefield, W. Va__--------------
Coyote) theseresident,. Washington; Di C3=22 Se Se ee
Banded rattlesnake, Dr. Prentiss Wilson, 2024 O street NW., Washing-

Spotted lynx, Mr. Hunt, superintendent registry division, city post-office__
Blackibearstherbresident. Washington, Dy C222.
Cooper’s hawk, Russel Meredith, 1219 Girard street, Washington, D. C_-_
Hog-nosed snake, Capt. J. Walter Mitchell, the Evening Star, Washing-

Gray fox, Miss M. P. Offterdinger, 330 A street NE., Washington, D. C___
Riza Ose Ni ChOlsonee Orleana ofp Hol ee ee
Diana monkey, Nikolai Sokoloff, 14 Park lane, Jamaica Plain, Boston,

Sharp-shinned hawk, W: A. Sherman, Vienna, Va-=-===-_--__=--==-=2_—2
English rabbit, Mrs. John R. MeLean, Friendship, D. C_--------------_-
Common ferret: Mrs; John Re Mclean) briendship Ds C222 22222
Alligator, Miss Sarah Leon, 1183 Fourteenth street, Washington, D. C____
Yellow-trontedsamazon, Hy AwkWacess Cratvon, baa se eee
Rabbit, J. B. Henderson, jr., 1306 Euclid place, Washington, D. C__-___--
Brown capuchin monkey, Hon. S. B. Elkins, United States Senate-______
Pine snake, George V. Green, 304 Tenth street NW., Washington, D. C___
shea, Oyadl, Cleats Gull, A kesclave heel, Wels
Mallard duck, Mrs. L. E. Johnson, 1007 L street NW., Washington, D. C__
Red-tailed hawk, Jesse Hand, jr., Belleplain, N. J------___-____-----_--
Belgian hare, J. H. Fellows, 5504 Wisconsin avenue, Washington, D. C__-
AIMerICAnETAVeH Jepke. 2 Gates IweOkeen Viale 2 ee eee
lesen Ohyaly Hobe han J rooney ANSI Mobi eal, Weel ee a ee eee
laynraeeyel Oval TIL IK Sine INKY, Wilelslautisrearoa, ID), (C2 2
Sereech owl, W. S. Hinman, 2700 Thirteenth street NW., Washington,

Bullfinech, attaché of the Austrian embassy, Washington, D. C___-___---
Common"opossum, the President, Washington, D. ©_-2-_-—
Common opossum, W. L. McAtee, Department of Agriculture___________
Mule deer, Maj. H. C. Benson, superintendent Yellowstone National

IEE edits eau VAY © AMT Os ee ee ee ee eee
Prong-horn antelope, Maj. H. C. Benson, superintendent Yellowstone

INGGLOM ai earl aaa OMIN Ses 2 eae tee ae) eee ee
Raccoon, Charles H. Smith, Piedmont, Va____________— ie ernie te. Pape ek
RACCOON ME a Clanbkaelmvines ian.) Been Se eee ee eee
Common opossum, Pink Cherry Market Company, Atlanta, Ga___-_--___-_
Alligator, Mr. Widderfield, 1217 Connecticut avenue NW., Washington,

Commongskunk, HOM SON. Wits es CO Tey) © een ee
Great horned owl, F. Johnson, Washington, D. C_______________________
Alligator, attaché of the Austrian embassy, Washington, D. C__________
Alligator, Harry Williams, 418 E street NE., Washington, D. C_________
Bald eagle, C. F. Brock, 53 I street NE., Washington, D. C_____________
CHATHOIUS RIS WASS 4 GOVINO pst aa ee UE ae ae ee
Common canary, George Hawkins, 2316 First street NW., Washing-

11

See ee ee eee ee

Anwnrrewpore ie) Oo Se eS bo im) BP wee

ary
| REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 63

Bidckesnake wh. ©; Harley, Wasnineton Ds ©2222 202 2 es oe ee 1

Black muscovy duck, J. H. Holmead, 3531 Thirteenth street NW., Wash-
iT LC Ti pe UBD oy (0) eee sk ee epee Se a ee 1
Alligator, John H. Knight, 1410 Chapin street NW., Washington, D. C___ il
Common canary, A. L. Brandon, 2130 G street, Washington, D. C________ 1

Common goat, Louis Brandt, 400 New Jersey avenue NW., Washington,
STB 0) eee renee ts SRS ee a ea ee eh De oe le AL ee 1
CoucarmpeA. EVE roctor, News VOrki Citys 2 = 22252 ee ee eee if!
124

SUMMARY.

AANA SoMa Gh byeelis MOS 2a sxe lee le ea Pe ee 1, 402
PRECESSION Sm (iinsli Om GIN Cie yy, Cae sp a 576
ONDE em ee ae a a at EE oe 9k ea oe 1, 978
Deduct loss (by exchange, death, and returning of animals)____________ 562
OnphandyIuMe~s OOOO S ase See i ee ee ee eee 1, 416
Species pees
VATE BIS Sees alo ainiejse ore ieiaisiosre © piss Gra sisi siecle ise em Wealsiajarsiclsjnioia = ciajejeiie ciapeleissleletaiere 143 578
Bins eee a NR La ee tines he Ok Dai gu, | Wa ks wien! UC Se cc ce Pe aM ol 173 711
IRGIOHMNIGE peop case acaaseesorongoe seas peubdoSsacHoocecobasacdescs J eioie etelsiclstececis/sreic lars es 38 | 127
PING ea eae gene eteyeseie ie etcetera tale nin ie icine aie Slee arclaisicina cisteieicta lacie cise Sinieinieis 354. 1, 416

Respectfully submitted.
FRANK BAKER, Superintendent.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX V.
REPORT ON THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

Str: During the past year the temporary wooden shelters used for observing
on Mount Wilson, California, in 1905, 1906, and 1908 have been torn down and
replaced by a structure of cement blocks. This was erected at a cost of $2,200
on a plot of ground 100 feet square in horizontal projection, leased for a term
of ninety-five years by the Smithsonian Institution from the Mount Wilson
Solar Observatory. The new observing shelter is shaped in plan, 36 feet long,
27 feet wide, and with the two branches of the L14 and 10 feet wide, respec-
tively. Four tall piers are provided for the future erection of a tower over the
south end of the structure. The proposed tower is intended for use as a vertical
telescope in solar observations and also as a suitable station for making meas-
urements of the brightness of the sky and clouds. Within the new building is
a chamber of constant temperature in which is the spectro-bolometrie outfit,
and also a dark room for photographie work and a small office room. ‘The site
leased is on the edge of a preciptous ridge overlooking canyons about 1,000 feet
deep on the east, south, and west. It is thoroughly isolated from disturbances
caused by electric service, gas engines, or traffic, and seems to be peculiarly
well adapted for the work in hand.

The personnel of the observatory has continued principally unchanged. Mr.
L. B. Aldrich completed his temporary service as bolometric assistant on Sep-
tember 20, 1908. Dr. L. R. Ingersoll was engaged temporarily as bolometric
assistant on Mount Wilson beginning June 21, 1909.

WORK OF THE YBAR,

i. Work at Washington.

Mr. Fowle has continued bolometric observations of the brightness of dif-
ferent parts of the sun’s image whenever conditions favored. No measure-
ments of the solar constant of radiation were attempted at Washington, as that
branch of the work can seldom be done there successfully, on account of smoke
and clouds.

A most interesting piece of experimental work on tthe transparency of air
for the long-wave rays, such as the earth radiates, had been begun by Mr. Fowle
early in 1908. Results have been obtained by him for the transmission of all
rays between wave-lengths Ju and 10y, through a column of air 400 feet long,
containing various known amounts of water vapor. Computation of the re-
sults from these experiments is so far advanced as to show their satisfactory
quality. Many additional experiments with still longer columns of air and other
amounts of water vapor, and extending as far down in the spectrum as wave-
length 17, are in preparation.

The late Secretary Langley stated,“ as a result of his Mount Whitney ob-
servations: ‘‘I consider that the temperature of the earth under direct sun-
shine, even though our atmosphere were present as now, would probably fall

“Report of the Mount Whitney Expedition, p. 128.
64
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 65

to —200° C. if that atmosphere did not possess the quality of selective absorp-
tion.” <A little later his experimental results on the temperature of the moon
led him to change this view, for he said:% ‘As between my observations and
my inferences, I hold to the former; and since later and long-continued ob-
servations * * * show that the temperature of the sunward surface of the
moon (which is certainly nearly airless) is almost certainly not greatly below
zero (centigrade), I have been led to believe myself mistaken in one of my
inferences drawn from former experiments.” Precise knowledge of the select-
ive absorption of our atmosphere for earth rays is still lacking, although two
decades have elapsed since this was written, and contradictory views are still
being expressed about this very important subject by able writers. It is hoped
that Mr. Fowle’s experiments will add much definite information, useful in the
study of the dependence of the earth’s temperature on radiation.

Computations of the results of Washington and Mount Wilson observations
have gone on steadily, but it has not been possible to keep the reductions
abreast with the numerous observations now being obtained. It has been con-
sidered desirable to make daily observations of the “solar constant of radia-
tion’ during the observing season at Mount Wilson, and the reduction of each
day’s observations requires several days of measurements and computations

at Washington.
2. Work at Mount Wilson.

Spectro-bolometric measurements of the ‘‘ solar constant of radiation ’’ were
continued by Mr. Abbot (with the assistance till September 20 of Mr. Aldrich)
on every favorable day until about November 20, 1908. The expedition was re-
newed late in the following spring by Mr. Abbot, and observations begun on
June 1, 1909. As in former years, evidences of a fluctuation of solar radiation
were found in the results of the measurements of 1908 thus far obtained.
Various improvements in the modes of observing have been made, especially
in the bolometric measurements of the ultra-violent region of the spectrum, and
also in pyrheliometry. A new and improved standard pyrheliometer was tried
repeatedly on Mount Wilson. Its action is more satisfactory than the one used
in 1906, and great confidence is felt in the results obtained with it. Appar-
ently the results published on the provisional arbitrary scale of pyrheliometry
employed in Volume II of the Annals are several per cent higher than they
would be if expressed on the scale of the standard calory. On the other hand,
the results of the year indicate that a larger allowance of increase should have
been made for solar rays in the ultra-violet and extreme infra-red regions of
the spectrum not observed in 1905 and 1906 by the bolometer, and this increase
will probably nearly or quite compensate the change of scale in pyrheliometry,
leaving the mean “solar constant” value very near to 2 calories per square
centimeter per minute, as stated in Volume II of the Annals. Great efforts
have been made this past year to carry the bolometric measurements much
further in the ultra-violet. For this purpose a large quartz prism, a large
ultra-violet glass prism, and two magnalium mirrors have been procured and
are now in use on Mount Wilson, and daily observations are now carried as far

as wave-length 0.335.
8. Mount Whitney Expeditions.

In August, 1908, with Director Campbell, of the Lick Observatory, Mr. Abbot
spent about twenty-four hours-on the summit of Mount Whitney (14,502 feet).
This mountain, which was the objective point of the famous expedition of Mr.
Langley in 1881, was recommended by him to be reserved by the Government

@ The Temperature of the Moon, p. 193.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

and used as the site for an observatory. The reservation was in fact made,
but no observatory has been established there. Mr. Abbot carried with him
to Mount Whitney a pyrheliometer and wet and dry thermometers, and made
observations on the summit both in the afternoon and morning hours. Both
he and Mr. Campbell were favorably impressed with the advantages of the place
for observing, and with the relative convenience of ascending the mountain,
considering its great altitude. Fine building stone, sand, and water were found
at the summit. Messrs. Campbell and Abbot, therefore, recommended to the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution that a grant from the Hodgkins fund
should be made for the purpose of erecting on the summit of Mount Whitney
a stone and steel house to shelter observers who might apply to the Institution
for the use of the house to promote investigations in any branch of science.
This recommendation was approved, and the house is now in course of con-
struction (July, 1909).

It has been held by some astronomers that measurements of the “solar
constant of radiation ”’ by high and low sun observations from a single station
at a low altitude, or even at the altitude of Mount Wilson, are subject to a
great error by reason of the impossibility of correctly allowing for loss in our
atmosphere. In order to ascertain if this objection is well founded, an expe-
dition to Mount Whitney by Mr. Abbot is planned for August, 1909. He will
earry a complete spectro-bolometric outfit, for which Mr. Kramer has con-
structed the mechanical parts in the shop of the Astrophysical Observatory at
Washington. This apparatus will point directly at the sun, so as to dispense
with reflections at a coelostat. A quartz prism and two magnalium mirrors
constitute the sole optical parts of the spectroscope, as it will generally be
used, but a glass prism and silvered mirrors will also be employed in the
examination of the water vapor bands and of the infra-red spectrum. With
the quartz and magnalium outfit it is expected to measure the energy of the
spectrum from about wave-length 0.304 in the ultra-violet to wave-length 4y
in the infra-red. Simultaneously with these “solar constant” measurements
on Mount Whitney complete observations of the same kind will be made on
Mount Wilson by Doctor Ingersoll, and if the results of the two shall agree it
is thought that there will be left no ground for reasonable doubt of the accuracy

of the method.
SUMMARY.

The principal work of the year comprises frequent spectro-bolometriec exam-
inations of the relative brightness of different parts of the sun’s disk for rays of
several different wave lengths; measurements of the transmission of long-wave
rays, such as the earth emits, through very long columns of moist air; the
steady continuation of the reduction of Mount Wilson and Washington observa-
tions; six months of almost daily observation on Mount Wilson for the deter-
mination of the variability of the sun; a preliminary observing expedition to the
summit of Mount Whitney; and the complete preparation of apparatus and ar-
rangements for a series of observations of the “ solar constant” by the spectro-
bolometric method, to be me*e simultaneously at Mount Wilson and Mount
Whitney in August, 1909.

Respectfully submitted.

C. G. ABBot, Director.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
"13A37] VAS ZAO8V 1334 ZOG'HL LHDISH “VINYOSINVD ‘ASNLIHAA LNNOI) NO SYSANSSESO HOS YALTSHS NVINOSHLINS

"§ 3LV1d ‘uoday s,Aiejainag—'606| ‘HOdey uBluosyyIWS
ee Poh Aya
;

Pal eet) ge eee

Vga ere

= }
a
ra
;
: ’
uy
1 3 '
j
: i
".
ra vu y = 1
a ;
a
}
= ~ |
“4
‘
: -~-
ot
"A =
1 - -
— a “
it i si _
, Aa
- mt ‘ea - ist
Le
be ae
2p ey 7
‘ a? pe
“49 ‘
7 U ¢
‘he .
q er S
} 4 I .
hd sy
i @ rs
: fr
has
Te . 1 ‘
La Pans i
¥ a wy 1 b
i ' l
Mh ats my 4
ie i 7 1
View's ? i
7 a ‘ j ay. ae
r
a , ; ’ : ;
:
. \g rf
1 eee : j
} A
\
3
- ¥ i
x
- ‘
4% 4
at i

WINYOSITVD SASNLIHAA LNMOI] NO SHSAYSSEO HOS YSLTISHS NVINOSHLINS

“p ALVid ‘poday s,Airjaisag—'6Qe| ‘Hoday ueluosyyiWS
aL on ne ee

a Rae

i } ay Af f
i AAS Hi be

q ;
ney j
fi . i
"hae : ;
}
z :
‘
‘ ’ yf ¢
j t
ene
ral
| | | ae
‘oe oa ;
’ .
a xy x .
J rie |
; )
} Fr
1
>
il “4
: —
. ;
i, a
; '
a
A
4 +
;
on
oe
i :
® - r
~ ry 4
n t 7
. J
4 ~*
Lary ;
Acre
she
*
i *e ‘ - i
ny
f iy +
i
7 ‘
1
.
Y

Mi

PLATE 5.

Secretary's Report.

Smithsonian Report, 1909.

SMITHSONIAN SHELTER FOR OBSERVERS ON MOUNT WHITNEY, CALIFORNIA.
"1954 ZOG‘hL LHDISH = VvINYOSIIVD SAANLIHAA LNOOW

"9 ALVId ‘poday s Aiejainas—'6Q6| ‘Hodey ueiuosy}IWS
Wala tite ae
i pe 2

APPENDIX VI.
REPORT ON THE LIBRARY.

Str: I have the honor to present the following report on the operations of the
library of the Smithsonian Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909:

The retirement early last fall of Dr. Cyrus Adler, librarian of the Institution
and later assistant secretary in charge of library and exchanges, in order to
assume the presidency of the Dropsie College for Hebrew and Cognate Learning,
of Philadelphia, Pa., was a serious loss to the library. His loyalty, his knowl-
edge of library science at home and abroad, his love of books, and his intimate
acquaintance with the workings of this library were invaluable not only to the
Institution but to investigators at large.

The accessions recorded for the Smithsonian deposit, Library of Congress,
numbered 1,623 volumes, 11,947 parts of volumes, 2,987 pamphlets, and 777
charts, making a total of 17,284 publications.

The accession numbers run from 488,289 to 495,195. These publications were
sent to the Library of Congress as soon as received and entered, and in their
transmission 166 boxes were required, which, it is estimated, contained the
equivalent of 6,640 volumes, while the number of pieces sent, which includes
parts of periodicals, pamphlets, and volumes, was 29,679. This does not include,
however, about 3,888 parts of serial publications secured by exchange to com-
plete sets transmitted separately.

The policy of sending to the Library of Congress public documents presented
to the Smithsonian Institution, without stamping or entering, has been contin-
ued, and the number of publications given above does not include these, nor does
it include other publications sent to the Library of Congress which are received
through the International Exchanges.

The libraries of the Smithsonian office, of the Astrophysical Observatory, and
the National Zoological Park have received 294 volumes and pamphlets and
1,690 parts of volumes and charts, making a total of 1,984, and a grand total,
including the publications for the Smithsonian deposit, of 28,151.

The parts of serial publications entered on the card catalogue numbered
26,640, and 1,119 slips for completed volumes were-made, together with 477 cards
for new periodicals and annuals, which were added to the permanent record
from the periodical recording desk.

Inaugural dissertations and academic publications were received from univer-
sities at the following places:

Basel. Heidelberg. Philadelphia.
Bern. Jena. Rostock.

Bonn. Kiel. St. Petersburg.
Breslau. Konigsberg. Strassburg.
Dresden. Leipzig. Warsaw.
Hrlangen. Lund. Wurzberg.
Freiburg-im-Breisgau. Marburg. Ziirich.
Giessen. New York.

Halle-an-der-Saale. Paris.

67
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Similar publications have been received fiom the technical high schools at—

Budapest. Karlsruhe. Prague.
Darmstadt. Louvain. Upsala.
Hannover. Paris. Wiesbaden.

In carrying out the plan to effect new exchanges and to secure missing parts
to complete sets, 2,396 letters were written, resulting in about 477 periodicals
being added to the lists and the receipt of about 3,883 parts lacking in the sets,
which partially filled or entirely completed the various series of publications
in the Smithsonian deposit. In writing for the missing parts of publications
the library has had assistance from the International Exchanges of the Institu-
tion, but the results of these requests can not be definitely stated, as the replies
from them were still coming in at the close of the year. In addition, the
library has cooperated with the International Exchanges in sending out lists of
government documents and serial publications of that class needed to complete
the sets in the Library of Congress to the following: Argentine Republic,
Austria-Hungary, Baden, Bavaria, Belgium, Bolivia, Bremen, Province of
Buenos Aires, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Department of the Seine and city of
Paris, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Free City of Hamburg,
Grand Duchy of Hesse, Honduras, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Malta, Mexico, Monte-
negro, Newfoundland, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Portugal, Prussia, Roumania, Russia, Sweden, Salvador, Saxony, city of
Vienna, Uruguay, Wurttemberg.

A decided increase has been noted in the number of persons consulting the
publications in the reading room, and in addition there were issued, for office
use, 80 bound volumes of periodicals and 3,706 parts of scientific periodicals and
popular magazines, making a total of 3,786. While the consultation has been
chiefly by members of the staff, the various bureaus of the Government have
availed themselves of the opportunity to use these publications and those in
the sectional libraries of the Institution.

The mail receipts numbered 28,059 packages. The publications contained
therein were stamped and distributed for entry from the mail desk. About
4,980 acknowledgments were made on the regular forms, which are in addition
to those for publications received in response to the requests of the Institu-
tion for exchange.

The employees’ library.—The books added numbered 19, and of these 18 were
purchased, while 110 volumes of periodicals were bound. The number of books
borrowed was 1,922, and the sending of a selected number of books from this
library to the National Zoological Park and the Bureau of American Ethnology
has been continued.

Art room.—tThe cataloguing of the collection of engravings in the art room
received attention as time would allow, but there still remains a great deal to
be done.

Bibliography of aeronautics.—The bibliography of aeronautical literature,
which includes the indexing of papers in periodicals and proceedings of aero-
nautical societies, together with books and separate pamphlets on the subject,
was completed, bringing the work up to July 1, 1909. At the close of the year
the manuscript was ready for the printer. :

American Historical Association.—The exchange of the annual reports of the
American Historical Association from the allotment agreed upon for that pur-
pose has resulted in a number of publications of historical societies throughout
the world being added to the Smithsonian deposit at the Library of Congress.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The library of the Museum has received many gifts of importance during the
year. Dr. Charles A. White, Dr. William Healey Dall, and Dr. Charles W.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 69

Richmond have added scientific publications which are of value in completing
sets and filling in of the series of authors’ separates. From the estate of Dr.
Otis Tufton Mason, through the executor, Dr. E. B. Pollard, the Museum has
received Doctor Mason’s working library of anthropological publications, to-
gether with a collection of his manuscript notes. Dr. Wirt Tassin, for some
time assistant curator of the Division of Mineralogy, contributed about 1,000
pamphlets relating to mineralogy and kindred subjects. There has also been
secured by purchase from the estate of Dr. William H. Ashmead a complete
collection of his writings, together with his manuscript notes.

Acknowledgments are also due to Dr. HE. A. Schwarz, Mr. Wilfred H. Os-
good, Dr. O. P. Hay, and Dr. W. P. Hay for collections of publications which
they have presented. Additions have also been received to the William Schaus
eollection and a special bookplate engraved for it is now being placed in the
books.

In the Museum library there are now 386,244 volumes, 56,010 unbound papers,
and 110 manuscripts. The additions during the year consisted of 2,680 books,
8,671 pamphlets, and 227 parts of volumes. There were catalogued 1,280 books,
1,400 complete volumes of periodicals, and 4,218 pamphlets.

Special attention has been given to the preparation of volumes for binding,
with the result that 1,783 books were sent to the government bindery.

The number of books, periodicals, and pamphlets borrowed from the general
library amounted to 20,266, including 9,000 which were assigned to the sec-
tional libraries. This does not include, however, the large number of books
consulted in the library but not withdrawn.

The sectional libraries established in the Museum have remained the same,
the complete list now standing as follows:

Administration. History. Palzobotany.
Administrative assistant. | Insects. Parasites.
Anthropology. Invertebrate palzontol- Photography.

Biology. ogy. Physical anthropology.
Birds. Mammals. Prehistoric archeology.
Botany. Marine invertebrates. Reptiles.

Comparative anatomy. Materia medica. Superintendent.
Editor. Mesozoic fossils. Taxidermy.

Ethnology. Mineralogy. Technology.

Fishes. Mollusks.

Geology. Oriental archeology.

SUMMARY OF ACCESSIONS.

The following table summarizes all the accessions during the year except for
the Bureau of American Ethnology, which is separately administered :

Smithsonian deposit in the Library of Congress, including parts to com-

PONENTS Ss ES PR ES at Fe LT Vt a 21, 167

Office, Astrophysical Observatory, National Zoological Park, and inter-
BCT edt TT ANT ee KC aT Se GS aa ns ees a Se es Se Oe ode 1, 984
unitede States: National) Museum’ Jibraryo222-22 2-22 ee 6, 578
BTS) Teel peas oc an gs ee AAA RO a ee toe ee rie Le 29, 729

Respectfully submitted.
PauL BROCKETT,
Assistant Librarian,
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX VII,

REPORT ON THE INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC
LITERATURE.

Srr: I have the honor to submit the following report on the operations of the
United States Bureau of the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909.

The United States Regional Bureau is one of the 32 regional bureaus now
cooperating, through a central bureau in London, in the production of the
International Catalogue of Scientific Literature. The aim of the enterprise
is to index and classify all current published scientific papers and by means
of 17 annual volumes publish and distribute the data thus prepared to the
various subscribers to the catalogue throughout the world. The methods em-
ployed in indexing and classifying each paper result in what is practically
an analytical digest of the subject of each paper, this being accomplished by
means of references to classification schedules which are arranged to include
in systematic order each minute subdivision or subject of all the recognized
natural and physical sciences. The regional bureaus are supported by the
countries in which they are established, thus allowing all funds derived from
subscriptions to be used to defray the actual cost of printing and publishing.
The bureau in this country is supported by a direct congressional appropriation.

The allotment for the present fiscal year was $5,000, the same as for previous
years; the number of the staff has remained the same, namely, five persons.
During the year there were 34,409 classified index cards prepared by this bu-—
reau and forwarded to London as follows:

Wwiterabure: OF UOOM gar ao Se ee ed Ber a Sa Bn Seep 133
Miterature Of NWNOODS ele 2 oo a eel ale a eS a 235
Literature’ of) 19032225. 2. Se ey hie Sea 2 SEB ae
Titerature of 904i. c05. 3.1 2 a lee I 309
Literature of W905 - = 28 254 2k ee ee ae rg ee oe 1, 656
Literature of W906. 2.24 2-2 SEE Re eel Ne ee 4, 410
Titterature of 1007 ==. ee 2 a ee eee 8, 509
iteraturesote 908.22 ae eee tLe ee eee 18, 784
10D 621) La Se oR he Rae NE I Se ty gr ee 34, 409

The corresponding total for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908, was 28,528,
thus showing an increase of 5,881, or over 20 per cent. There has been an in-
crease also in the number of citations furnished by other bureaus, for since the
beginning of the enterprise in 1901 the number of pages in the combined 17 an-
nual volumes has increased nearly one-third, as shown by the following table:

Pages
SU ent ME SS 0 ee la mk a Dane ap gL 7, 763
SGCONMCMRUSS UGS en ads oN ne ie ea Pe gS Ee 2 8, 826
EPUEVD TGS SS Ul Cee ee 9 etek ye aeRO ate BE ee a 8, 493
DROUIN lata SS Wl Cone oe a ea ee eee ee 8, 681
Beir SS Te asa he eae SS ee ee Oe eA 10, 785
Six threes et see Be ret Ne ek ok. EE ea 10, 049

70
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. fal

The number of cards sent from this regional bureau has increased as follows:

ime (Ggenll spear: TGA ee eee 6, 990
TBvOae tmysceendl yc TU 14, 480
iMoie (seal seni. TS ee ses Se ee 2415 213
Bare ingeal syeeliy 1180 se ee ee ee 24, 182
Par SOR Syh@RIP SIGN = ee ee eee 25, 601
Hee SColmsy.e crn OO eae ere oe ee ae ee ee ee Ue ee eee ooo 28, 629
URE SCONMBY.Ca oul OO Gere ee = ee Se he Se eee ee ee ES 28, 528
SOULS Cras Gals 1 O 0) Gise teeel. Poe eed Ree Se a es 34, 409

Should this increase continue it would add largely to the cost of publication,
and as there would be no corresponding addition to the receipts a decided
deficit would result, for the subscription price to the catalogue, namely, $85 a
year for 17 volumes, was fixed on a basis of the size and cost of the first an-
nual issue. It appears not only desirable, but necessary, to condense the refer-
ences aS much as possible, though condensation, without loss of usefulness,
necessitates much greater care on the part of the classifier in preparing a di-
gest. It can not be hoped that much change in the present methods can be
made without increasing the force of the bureau.

The following-named volumes of the catalogue were received and delivered
to subscribers in this country, as follows:

Sixth Annual Issue—Physics, Chemistry, Paleontology, General Biology,
Botany, Anthropology, Physiology, and Bacteriology, completing the issue.

Seventh Annual Issue—Mathematics, Mechanics, Physics, Astronomy, Miner-
alogy, Geology, Geography, Paleontology, and Zoology.

Through the resignation of Dr. Cyrus Adler, assistant secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution, who was in charge of the United States branch of the Inter-
national Catalogue, both this bureau and the organization as a whole met with
a great loss, notwithstanding the fact that Doctor Adler still remains one of the
members of the International Council, the body vested with the supreme con-
trol of the catalogue. Doctor Adler was closely identified with the work from
the time the original ways and means were being discussed, and it is not too
much to say that had it not been for his interest and efforts Mr. Langley, the
late Secretary of the Institution, would not have aided the enterprise as he did
with the private funds of the Institution. Had not this aid been forthcoming
at the time the whole undertaking would have failed, for cooperation on the
part of the United States was essential, and, this Government failing at first
to lend its aid, there remained no other body than the Smithsonian Institution
in a position to become responsible for the work in this country.

It is felt that this International Catalogue of Scientific Literature is but a
beginning of what will be eventually a great cooperative international index and
digest of all records of human achievement. There is no question of the need
for such a publication and, with the satisfactory beginning already made, it
is a question of cost alone which limits the field of the present enterprise to
include only the literature of pure science to the exclusion of the extensive and
valuable literature of the applied sciences and other technical literature.

There have been no losses of property during the year, excepting those caused
by ordinary wear and deterioration.

In the sundry civil bill approved March 1, 1909, $6,000 was appropriated to
earry on the work for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1910. This sum is an in-
crease of $1,000 over the appropriation for previous years.

Respectfully submitted. LEonarp C. GUNNELL,

Chief Assistant, Bureau of International

Dr. CHartes D. Watcort, Catalogue of Scientific Literature.

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
45745°—sm 1909——6
APPENDIX VIII.

REPORT ON THE PUBLICATIONS.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publications
of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1909:

There have been distributed a total of 757 volumes and separates in the series
of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, 15,080 in the series of Smithsonian
Miscellaneous Collections, 22,991 in the series of Smithsonian Annual Reports,
and 4,022 in the series of Special Publications. In addition thereto there were
sent out by the Institution 1,313 publications not included in the Smithsonian
series, making a grand total of 44,163, a decrease of 15,732 from the previous
year. The total number of letters relating to publications received amounted
to 6,825, an increase of 280 over the previous year.

I. SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE.

In the series of Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge there appeared
during the year no original papers, but there was published in August, to meet
the increasing demand for the work, a reprint of Mr. Langley’s memoir on
The Internal Work of the Wind, originally published in 1893 in quarto form
as No. 884, Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. ‘To the present edition
was added as an appendix a translation of the ‘“ Solution of a special case
of the general problem,” by Réné de Saussure, which appeared in 1893 with
“Le Travail Intérieur du Vent” in Revue de l’Aéronautique Théorique et
Appliqué, Paris, pages 58-68.

II. SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS.

In the series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Volume LII, there
were published 20 papers in the quarterly issue, volume 5, parts 2 and 3; and
in the regular series, Volume XXXYV, a fourth revised edition of the Smith-
sonian Physical Tables by Thomas Gray; and in Volume LIII of the regular
series, 3 papers by Charles D. Walcott.

In the quarterly issue the following papers were published :

1813. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Quarterly issue. Volume 5,
part 2 (containing Nos. 1814-1823). Octavo. Pages 121-276, with Plates
IX-XVIII.

1814. The Nettelroth Collection of Invertebrate Fossils. By R. S. Bassler.
Published September 23, 1908. Octavo. Pages 121-152, with Plates IX—XI.

1815. A New Opuntia from Arizona. By J. N. Rose. Published October 6,
1908. Octavo. Page 153, with Plate XII.

1816. The Story of the Devil-Fish. By Theodore Gill. Published October 15,
1908. Octavo. Pages 155-180.

1817. Indians of Peru. By Charles C. Eberhardt, American consul at Iquitos,
Peru. Published October 24, 1908. Octavo. Pages 181-194, with Plates XIII,
XIV.

1818. On Opuntia Santa-Rita, a Species of Cactus of Ornamental Value. By
J. N. Rose, associate curator, division of plants, United States National Museum.
Published December 29, 1908. Octavo. Pages 195, 196, with Plate XV.

72
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 73

1819. Two New Species of Abronia. By Anton Heimer], University of Vienna,
Austria. Published December 23, 1908. Octavo. Pages 197, 198.

1820. Preliminary Notice of a Collection of Recent Crinoids from the Philip-
pine Islands. By Austin Hobart Clark, collaborator, department of marine
invertebrates, United States National Museum. Published December 23, 1908.
Octavo. Pages 199-234.

1821. The Relation of Richard Rush to the Smithsonian Institution. By
Cyrus Adler. Published January 16, 1909. Octavo. Pages 235-251, with
Plate XVI.

1822. Descriptions of Some New Species and a New Genus of American
Mosquitoes. By Harrison G. Dyar and Frederick Knab, of the United States
Department of Agriculture. Published January 12, 1909. Pages 253-266.

1823. Notes to Quarterly Issue. Volume 5, part 2. Octavo. Pages 267-273,
with Plates XVII, XVIII.

1860. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Quarterly issue. Volume 5,
part 3 (containing Nos. 1861-1868). Octavo. Pages 277-401, with Plates XIX-—
XXXVITI.

1861. The Archer-Fish and Its Feats. By Theodore Gill. Published March
25, 1909. Octavo. Pages 277-286.

1862. The Peoples of Formosa. By Julean H. Arnold, American consul to
Formosa. Published March 25, 1909. Octavo. Pages 287-293, with Plates
XIX-XXIT.

1863. Our Present Knowledge of Canal Rays: A Detailed Bibliography. By
Gordon Scott Fulcher. Published March 25, 1909. Octavo. Pages 295-324.

1864. Observations on Living White Whales (Delphinapterus Leucas) ; with
a Note on the Dentition of Delphinapterus and Stenodelphis. By Frederick W.
True, head curator of biology, United States National Museum. Published
April 28, 1909. Octavo. Pages 325-830, with Plate XXIII.

1865. Some Recent Contributions to Our Knowledge of the Sun. Hamilton
Lecture. By George E. Hale, director of solar observatory of Carnegie Insti-
tution of Washington, at Mount Wilson, California. Published May 8, 1909.
Octavo. Pages 331-860, with Plates XXIV-XXXVI.

1866. Some New South American Land Shells. By William H. Dall, curator,
division of mollusks, United States National Museum. Published May 11,
1909. Octavo. Pages 361-364, with Plate XXXVII.

1867. The American Ferns of the Group of Dryopteris Opposita contained in
the United States National Museum. By Carl Christensen, Copenhagen. In
Press. Octavo. Pages 365-396.

1868. Notes to Quarterly Issue. Volume 5, part 38. Octavo. Pages 397-3899.

In the regular series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections the following
have been published:

1038. Smithsonian Physical Tables. Fourth revised edition. By Thomas
Gray. Octavo. Pages xxxv, 301. Part of Volume XXXV.

In this edition, published on account of the increased demand for the tables,
Professor Gray made a few corrections, particularly in the tables of equivalents
of metric and British imperial weights and measures, which were here brought
up to date.

1810. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. No. 3, Cambrian Brachiopoda:
Descriptions of New Genera and Species. By Charles D. Walcott. Published
October 1, 1908. Octavo. Pages 538-187, with plates 7-10. Part of Volume
1ONUOE

1811. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. No. 4, Classification and Ter-
minology of the Cambrian Brachiopoda. By Charles D. Walcott. Published
October 18, 1908. Octavo. Pages 139-165, with plates 11, 12. Part of Vol-
ume LIII,
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

1812. Cambrian Geology and Paleontology. No. 5, Cambrian Sections of the
Cordilleran Area. By Charles D. Walcott. Published December 10, 1908.
Octavo. Pages 167-230, with plates 138-22. Part of Volume LIII.

Publications numbered 1810, 1811, and 1812 were in continuation of the
studies of Cambrian Geology and Paleontology, by Charles D. Walcott, the
series of which began with Nos. 1804 and 1805, Nomenclature of Some Cambrian
Cordilleran Formations and Cambrian Trilobites.

There were in press in the regular series of Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col-
lections at the close of the fiscal year, publication No. 1869, The Mechanics of
the Earth’s Atmosphere (a collection of translations), second collection, by
Cleveland Abbe, and No. 1870, Landmarks of Botanical History, Part I, by
Dr. Edward L. Greene. There were in manuscript form, approved for publi-
cation, a Bibliography of the Occurrence and Distribution of Tin, by Frank L.
and Eva Hess, and a Bibliography of Aeronautics, by Paul Brockett, assistant
librarian of the Institution.

Ill. SMITHSONIAN ANNUAL REPORTS.

The Annual Report for 1907 was largely in type at the beginning of the fiscal
year, but owing principally to a delay in the securing of paper the report was
not finally published until late in the fall:

1824. Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
showing the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the
year ending June 30, 1907. Octavo. Pages lvii, 726, with 79 plates.

The following papers, included in the Annual Report of the Board of Regents
for 1907, and enumerated in the report on publications for 1908, were issued
separately in pamphlet form:

1825. Proceedings of Board of Regents for the year ending June 30, 1907.
Report of Executive Committee, Acts and Resolutions of Congress. Octavo.
Pages xi-Ivii.

1826. The Steam Turbine on Land and Sea. By Hon. Charles A. Parsons,
C. B., M. A., D. Se, F. R. S., M. R. I. Octavo. Pages 99-112, with 8 plates.

1827. The Development of Mechanical Composition in Printing. By Prof. A.
Turpain, University of Poitiers. Octavo. Pages 113-129, with 3 plates.

1828. Some Facts and Problems Bearing on Electric Trunk Line Operation.
By Frank J. Sprague. Octavo. Pages 131-161, with 7 plates.

1829. Recent Contributions to Electric Wave Telegraphy. By Prof. J. A.
Fleming, M. A. D. Se., F. R. S., M. R. I., Pender professor of electrical engineer-
ing in the University of London. Octavo. Pages 163-198.

1830. On the Properties and Natures of Various Hlectric Radiations. By
W. H. Bragg, M. A., F. R. 8., elder professor of mathematics and physics in the
University of Adelaide. Octavo. Pages 195-214.

1831. Progress in Electro-Metallurgy. By John B. C. Kershaw. Octavo.
Pages 215-230, with 10 plates.

18382. Advances in Color Photography. By Thomas W. Smillie, F. R. P. S.
Octavo. Pages 231-237, with 1 plate.

1883. The Structure of Lippmann Heliochromes. By S. R. Cajal. Octavo.
Pages 2389-259.

1834. Bronze in South America before the Arrival of the Europeans. By
Adrien de Mortillet, honorary president of the Société Préhistorique de France.
Octavo. Pages 261-266.

1835. Some Opportunities for Astronomical Work with Inexpensive Appara-
tus. By Prof. George E. Hale, director of the Mount Wilson Solar Observatory
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Octavo. Pages 267-285, with 6
plates.

1836. The Progress of Science as Illustrated by the Development of Meteor-
ology. By Cleveland Abbe. Octavo. Pages 287-809.

1837. Geology of the Inner Earth.—Igneous Ores. By Prof. J. W. Gregory,
D. Se, F. R. S. Octavo. Pages 311-830.

1888. The Salton Sea. By F. H. Newell, Director United States Reclamation
Service. Octavo. Pages 331-345, with 9 plates.

1839. Inland Waterways. By George G. Chisholm. Octavo. Pages 347-370.

1840. The Present Position of Paleozoic Botany. By D. H. Scott, F. R. S.,
lately honorary keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Octavo. Pages 371-405, with 2 plates.

1841. The Zoological Gardens and Establishments of Great Britain, Belgium,
and the Netherlands. By Gustave Loisel, director of the Laboratory of General
Embryology at the School of Hautes Etudes, professor of zoology in the second-
ary courses of the Sorbonne, Paris. Octavo. Pages 407-448, with § plates.

1842. Systematic Zoology: Its Progress and Purpose. By Theodore Gill.
Octavo. Pages 449-471, with 14 plates.

1843. The Genealogical History of the Marine Mammals. By Prof. O. Abel.
Octavo. Pages 473-496. :

1844. The Mediterranean Peoples. By Theobald Fischer, University of Mar-
burg. Octavo. Pages 497-521.

1845. Prehistoric Japan. By Dr. HB. Baelz, 1876-1902, professor Imperial
Japanese University of Tokyo. Octavo. Pages 523-547, with 2 plates.

1846. The Origin of Egyptian Civilization. By Edouard Naville, D. C. L.,
LL. D., ete. Octavo. Pages 549-564.

1847. The Fire Piston. By Henry Balfour, M. A., curator of Pitt-Rivers
Museum, Oxford. Octavo. Pages 565-593, with 5 plates.

1848. The Origin of the Canaanite Alphabet. By Franz Praetorius. Octavo.
Pages 595-604.

1849. Three Aramaic Papyri from Elephantine, Egypt. By Prof. Eduard
Sachau. Octavo. Pages 605-611, with 2 plates.

1850. The Problem of Color Vision. By John M. Dane. Octavo. Pages
613-625.

1851. Immunity in Tuberculosis. By Simon Flexner, M. D., Rockefeller Insti-
tute for Medical Research, New York City. Octavo. Pages 627-645.

1852. The Air of the New York Subway Prior to 1906. By George A. Soper.
Octavo. Pages 647-667.

1858. Marcelin Berthelot. By Camille Matignon, professor of mineral chem-
istry at the Collége de France; former assistant professor to Berthelot at the
Collége de France. Octavo. Pages 669-684, with 1 plate.

1854. Linnean Memorial Address. By Edward L. Greene. Octavo. Pages
685-709, with 1 plate.

The Report of the Executive Committee and Proceedings of the Board of
Regents of the Institution, as well as the Report of the Secretary for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1908, both forming part of the Annual Report of the
Board of Regents to Congress, were printed in pamphlet form and published at
the December meeting of the Board of Regents, as follows:

1855. Report of the Executive Committee and Proceedings of the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ending June 30, 1908.
Octayo. Pages 3-18.

1856. Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
ending June 30, 1908. Octavo. Pages iii, 86.
76 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

The greater part of the Smithsonian Report for 1908 was in type at the close
of the fiscal year. The General Appendix contains the following papers:

The Present Status of Military Aeronautics. By Maj. George O. Squier,
U.S. Army.

Aviation in France in 1908. By Pierre-Roger Jourdain.

Wireless Telephony. By R. A. Fessenden.

Phototelegraphy. By Henri Armagnat.

The Gramophone and the Mechanical Recording and Reproduction of Musical
Sounds. By Lovell N. Reddie.

On the Light Thrown by Recent Investigation on Electricity on the Relation
between Matter and Ether. By J. J. Thomson.

Development of General and Physical Chemistry During the Last Forty Years.
By W. Nernst.

Development of Technological Chemistry During the Last Forty Years. By
O. N. Witt.

Twenty Years’ Progress in Explosives. By Oscar Guttmann.

Recent Research in the Structure of the Universe. By J. C. Kapteyn.

Solor Vortices and Magnetism in Sun Spots. By C. G. Abbot.

Climatic Variations, Their Extent and Causes. By J. W. Gregory.

Uranium and Geology. By John Joly.

An Outline Review of the Geology of Peru. By George I. Adams.

Our Present Knowledge of the Earth. By H. Wiechert.

The Antarctic Question. By J. Machat.

Some Geographical Aspects of the Nile. By Capt. H. G. Lyons.

Heredity and the Origin of Species. By Daniel Trembly MacDougal.

Cactaceae of Northeastern and Central Mexico, together with a Synopsis of
the Principal Mexican Genera. By William Edwin Safford.

Angler Fishes, their Kinds and Ways. By Theodore Gill.

The Birds of India. By Douglas Dewar.

The Evolution of the Hlephant. By Richard S. Lull.

Excavations at Boghaz-Keui in the Summer of 1907. By Hugo Winckler and
O. Puchstein.

Malaria in Greece. By Ronald Ross.

Carl von Linné as a Geologist. By A. G. Nathorst.

Life and Work of Lord Kelvin. By Sylvanus P. Thompson.

The Work of Henri Becquerel. By André Broca.

Owing to the unusual demand for the paper, there was published in March
a reprint of number 1688, Parental Care among Fresh-water Fishes, by Theo-
dore Gill, which appeared originally in the Annual, Report of the Board of
Regents for 1905.

IV. SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS.

Five special publications were issued during the year, as follows:

1808. Catalogue of the Botanical Library of John Donnell Smith, presented in
1905 to the Smithsonian Institution. Compiled by Alice Cary Atwood. Im-
perial octavo. Pages 94.

The catalogue was printed in an edition of 200 copies on Old Stratford paper,
imperial octavo size, from the original stereotype plates used in its first publi-
cation by the National Museum as Part I of Volume XII of Contributions from
the National Herbarium.

1809. Researches and Experiments in Aerial Navigation. By S. P. Langley.
Reprinted from the Smithsonian Reports for 1897, pages 169-181, with 1 plate;
1900, pages 197-216, with 6 plates; 1901, pages 649-659, with 7 plates; 1904,
pages 118-125, with 1 plate. Octavo.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. ie

The occasion for this reprint of Mr. Langley’s papers, which was issued in
August, is stated in the introduction. The articles were as follows:

I. Story of Experiments in Mechanical Flight. By Samuel Pierpont Lang-
ley. From the Smithsonian Report for 1897, pages 169-181 (with PI. I).
Published originally in the Aeronautical Annual, 1897.

II. The Langley Aerodrome. From the Smithsonian Report for 1900. pages
197-216 (with Pls. I-VI). Slightly abridged from an article published origi-
nally in McClure’s Magazine, June, 1897.

Ill. The Greatest Flying Creature. By S. P. Langley (introducing a paper
by F. A. Lucas). From the Smithsonian Report for 1901, pages 649-659 (with
Pls. I-VI1).

IV. Experiments with the Langley Aerodrome. By 8S. P. Langley. From the
Smithsonian Report for 1904, pages 1138-125 (with Pl. I).

1858. Contributions to the Life Histories of Fishes. By Theodore Gill.
Volume I. 1904-1907. Reprints from Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,
Smithsonian Annual Report, and Proceedings United States National Museum.
Octavo. 323 pages (pagination as in originals), with 28 plates (numbered as
in originals).

The contents of this volume is as follows:

I. A Remarkable Genus of Fishes—the Umbras. April 11, 1904. Smiths.
Mise. Coll., Vol. 45, No. 14538.
II. The Sculpin and its Habits. January 31, 1905. Smiths. Mise. Coll., Vol.
47, No. 1552.
III. The Life History of the Angler. May 6, 1905. Smiths. Mise. Coll., Vol.
47, No. 1569.
IV. The Tarpon and Lady-fish and their Relations. May 18, 1905. Smiths.
Misc. Coll., Vol. 48, No. 1576.
VY. The Life History of the Sea-horse. July 6, 1905. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,
Vol. 28, No. 1408.
VI. The Family of Cyprinids and the Carp as its Type. September 8, 1905.
Smiths. Mise. Coll., Vol 48, No. 1591.
VII. Flying Fishes and their Habits. October 5, 1905. Rep. Smiths. Inst.,
1904, No. 1629.
VIII. Parental Care among ITresh-water Fishes. January 21, 1907. Rep.
Smiths. Inst., 1905, No. 1688.
IX. Some Noteworthy Extra-European Cyprinids. February 4, 1907. Smiths.
Mise. Coll., Vol. 48, No. 1662.
X. Life Histories of Toadfishes (Batrachoidids) compared with those of
Weevers (Trachinids) and Stargazers (Uranoscopids). May 4, 1907.
Smiths. Mise. Coll., Vol. 48, No. 1697.

1859. Classified List of Smithsonian Publications Available for Distribution
March, 1909. Octavo. Pages 39.

1871. Smithsonian Mathematical Tables. Hyberbolic Functions. Prepared
by George F. Becker and C. E. Van Orstrand. Octavo. Pages li, 321.

The advertisement explains the purpose and scope of this publication:

“Among the early publications of the Smithsonian Institution was a very
important volume of meteorological tables by Dr. Arnold Guyot. They were
so widely used by geographers and physicists, as well as by meteorologists,
that when the fourth edition was exhausted it was decided to recast the entire
work and publish three separate volumes—Meteorological Tables, Geographical
Tables, and Physical Tables—each of which have now passed through several
editions.

“Tn the application of the data of these volumes to the study of natural phe-
nomena certain mathematical fables beside those included in ordinary tables
78 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

of logarithms are urgently needed in order to save recurrent computation on the
part of observers and investigators. It was therefore decided to publish the
present volume of Mathematical Tables on ‘ Hyperbolic functions.’

“ Hyperbolic functions are extremely useful in every branch of pure physics
and in the application of physics, whether to observational and experimental
sciences or to technology. Thus whenever an entity (such as light, velocity,
electricity, or radioactivity) is subject to gradual extinction or absorption the
decay is represented by some form of Hyperbolic functions. Mercator’s pro-
jection is likewise computed by Hyperbolic functions. Whenever mechanical
strains are regarded as great enough to be measured they are most simply
expressed in terms of Hyperbolic functions. Hence geological deformations
invariably lead to such expression, and it is for that reason that Messrs. Becker
and Van Orstrand, who are in charge of the physical work of the United States
Geological Survey, have been led to prepare this volume.”

VY. PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATDPS NATIONAL MUSEUM.

The publications of the National Museum are: (@) The annual report, form-
ing a separate volume of the Report to Congress by the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution; (0) The Proceedings of the United States National
Museum; (c) The Bulletin of the United States National Museum; and (d) the
Contributions from the United States National Herbarium. The editorship of
these publications is in charge of Dr. Marcus Benjamin.

The publications issued during the year are enumerated in the Report on
the National Museum. ‘These included Volume XXXIV of the Proceedings,
containing Museum papers numbered 1610 to 1630; Volume XXXV, papers
numbered 1631 to 1658; and Volume XXXVI, papers numbered 1659 to 1694.
Three bulletins were issued:

62. Catalogue of the Type Specimens of Mammals in the United States Na-
tional Museum, including the Biological Survey Collection. By Marcus Ward
Lyon and Wilfred H. Osgood.

638. A Monographie Revision of the Coleoptera belonging to the Tenebrionids
Tribe Eleodiini inhabiting the United States, Lower California, and Adjacent
Islands. By Frank H. Blaisdell, sr.

64. A Critical Summary of Troost’s Unpublished Manuscript on the Crinoids
of Tennessee. By Elvira Wood.

In the series of Contributions from the United States National Herbarium
there appeared:

Volume XII, part 4. The Mexican and Central American Species of Sapium,
by Henry Pittier; Volume XII, part 5, New or Noteworthy Plants from Colom-
bia and Central America, by Henry Pittier; Volume XII, part 6, Catalogue of
the Grasses of Cuba, by A. S. Hitchcock; Volume XII, part 7, Studies of Mexi-
can and Central American Plants, No. 6, by J. N. Rose; Volume XII, part 8,
The Allionacee of the United States, with notes on Mexican Species, by Paul C.
Standley; Volume XII, part 9, Miscellaneous Papers, by J. N. Rose, N. L.
Britton, and William Maxon; and Volume XIII, part 1, Studies of Tropical
American Ferns, No. 2, by William Maxon.

VI. PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN BTHNOLOGY.

The publications of the bureau are discussed in detail in another appendix
of the Secretary’s report. The editorial work is in charge of Mr. J. G. Gurley.
The Twenty-sixth Annual Report was issued during the summer, together with
the usual number of separates of the accompanying papers, and also Bulletins
34, Physiological and Medical Observations Among the Indians of Southwestern
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 719

United States and Northern Mexico, by AleS Hrdliéka, and 42, Tuberculosis
Among Certain Indian Tribes, by AleS Hrdli¢éka. At the close of the fiscal year
there were largely in type or at the bindery the Twenty-seventh Annual Report,
and Bulletins 38, 39, 40, part 1, 41, 48, 46, and 47.

VII. PUBLICATIONS OF THD SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY.

As an addenda to the Annals of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory,
Volume II, a short note on the Reflecting Power of Clouds was issued, as
follows:

1738a. Note on the Reflecting Power of Clouds. By C. G. Abbot and F. E.
Yowle, jr. (Addenda to Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, Smithsonian
Institution, Vol. II.) Octavo. Pages 3.

VIII. REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.

Volumes I and II of the Annual Report of the American Historical Associa-
tion for the year 1906, by law approved and communicated to Congress by the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, were published in August, 1908.

Volume I contained the following: Report of Proceedings of Providence
Meeting, by Charles H. Haskins; Report of Proceedings of Pacific Coast Branch,
by Max Farrand; The Renaissance of the Twelfth Century, by D. C. Munro; A
Medizval Humanist, by H. O. Taylor; Report of Conference on Teaching of
History in Schools, by J. A. James; Report of Conference on History in Col-
lege, by Max Farrand; Third Report of Conference on State and Local His-
torical Societies, by F. H. Severance; Comparison of Virginia Company with
Other English Trading Companies, by Susan M. Kingsbury ; The Colonial Policy
of Great Britain, by G. L. Beer; William Penn, by Edward Channing; Some
Aspects of the English Bill for the Admission of Kansas, by F. H. Hodder;
The Attitude of Thaddeus Stevens Toward the Conduct of the Civil War, by
J. A. Woodburn; History of Indian Consolidation West of the Mississippi, by
Annie H. Abel.

Volume II contained the Seventh Report of the Public Archives Commission,
with discussions of the following subjects: Summary of present state of legis-
lation of States and Territories relative to the custody and supervision of
the public records, by Robert T. Swan; public archives of Arkansas, by John
Hugh Reynolds; public archives of Connecticut, by N. P. Mead; state and county
archives of Delaware, by Edgar Dawson; state archives of Florida, by David
Y. Thomas; archives of Augusta, Ga., and of Richmond County, by Julia A.
Flisch; state archives of Ohio and of Ross County, by R. C. Stevenson; local
archives of Tennessee, by St. George L. Sioussat; bibliography of public archives
of the thirteen original States to 1789, by Adelaide R. Hasse.

The manuscript of Volumes I and II of the Annual Report for 1907 was sent
to the Public Printer September 10, 1908, but the work had not been published
at the close of the fiscal year. The manuscript of Volume I for 1908 was trans-
mitted on June 17, 1909.

IX. REPORT OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

The Hleventh Report of the Daughters of the American Revolution was re-
ceived from the society in accordance with section 8 of the act of incorporation,
which reads that “said society shall report annually to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution concerning its proceedings, and said Secretary shall
communicate to Congress such portions thereof as he may deem of national
interest and importance.” After revision the report was communicated to
Congress on June 1, 1909.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

X. SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PRINTING AND PUBLICATION.

The editor has continued to serve as secretary of the Smithsonian advisory
committee on printing and publication. To this committee have been referred
the manuscripts proposed for publication by the various branches of the Insti-
tution as well as those offered for printing in the Quarterly Issue of the
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

Upon the resignation of Dr. Cyrus Adler, chairman of the committee, as
assistant secretary of the Institution, the Secretary on October 21 reorganized
the committee as follows: Dr. Frederick W. True, chairman; and Messrs. C. G.
Abbot, W. I. Adams, Frank Baker, A. Howard Clark, F. W. Hodge, Otis T.
Mason, George P. Merrill, and Leonhard Stejneger. At the same time the Mu-
seum advisory committee on printing and publication was discontinued and the
responsibilities theretofore devolving upon it were transferred to the Smith-
sonian committee.

Twenty-seven meetings were held during the year and 110 papers and 6
printed forms were reported on.

: XI. PRESS ABSTRACTS OF PUBLICATIONS.

Although the pressure of routine editorial work claimed most of the time
of the editorial staff, abstracts of a number of the more popular publications,
as well as articles on the work of the Institution and its branches, were fur-
nished to a large number of newspapers, in continuance of the policy inau-
gurated in March, 1907.

Respectfully submitted.
A. Howarp CuarKk, Hditor.
Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX IX.
REPORT ON ALASKA-YUKON-PACIFIC EXPOSITION.

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report of the participation of
the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum in the Alaska-Yukon-Pacifie
Exposition at Seattle, Washington:

The act of Congress approved May 27, 1908, authorizing an exhibit by the
departments and bureaus of the Government at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacifiec Expo-
sition appropriated the sum of $200,000, to be expended under the direction of
the United States Government board of managers, composed of three persons
in the employ of the Government, one to be designated by the President as
chairman, and one as secretary and disbursing officer. This board was charged
with the selection, purchase, preparation, transportation, arrangement, safe-
keeping, exhibition, and return of such articles and materials as the heads of
the several departments and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, respec-
tively, should decide to be embodied in the government exhibit thus author-
ized. There was also appropriated the sum of $125,000, to be expended under
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, to aid the people of the district
of Alaska and the Territory of Hawaii in providing and maintaining appro-
priate and creditable exhibits of the products and resources of Alaska and
Hawaii; and $25,000 was appropriated, to be expended under the Secretary of
War, to aid the people of the Philippine Islands in providing and maintaining
an appropriate exhibit of the products and resources of the Philippine Islands.
In addition to this, the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to erect suitable
buildings for the government exhibit, including an irrigation and biograph
building; also a fisheries building, and buildings for the exhibits of the district
of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii, and the Philippine Islands, for which an
appropriation of $250,000 was made. Mr. Jesse H. Wilson, Mr. W. de C.
Ravenel, and Mr. W. M. Geddes were appointed members of the government
board of managers; Mr. Wilson, chairman; Mr. Ravenel, vice-chairman; and
Mr. Geddes, secretary and disbursing officer.

The act also provided that the Smithsonian Institution and National Museum
should exhibit such articles of material of an historical nature as would impart
a knowledge of our national history, especially that of Alaska, Hawaii, and
the Philippine Islands, and that portion of the United States west of the
Rocky Mountains. The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution designated
Mr. W. de C. Ravenel, administrative assistant, United States National Museum,
as representative of the Institution and National Museum. Of the total appro-
priation, $24,000 was allotted to the Smithsonian Institution and National
Museum and about 10,000 square feet of space in the main government building.
The preparation of this exhibit was begun as soon as possible after the board
was organized, in accordance with plans submitted by the representative, and
was practically installed in the government building by June 1, when the
exposition opened.

In the preparation of the exhibits by the Institution and the Museum the
principal idea kept in view was to present an outline of our national achieve-
ments and progress, and of the facts connected with the development of the

81
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

western part of the United States, Alaska, Hawaii, and the Philippine IsJands.
The exhibits were classified as follows:

1. Portraits of eminent persons associated with the discovery and history of
America.

2. Portraits of eminent persons connected with the history of the Pacific coast
Alaska.

3. Portraits of eminent persons connected with the history of the Hawaiian
Islands.

. Portraits of eminent persons connected with the history of the Philippine
Islands. ‘

tS

5. Historic scenes and landmarks.
6. History of the Capitol.
7. Historie vessels.
8. Early American steamboats.
9. History of land transportation.
10. History of the contributions of Henry and Morse to electricity and the
telegraph.
11. Medallic history of the United States.
12. History of American cartography.
13. History of the territorial expansion of the United States.
14, History of the Pacific coast and Alaska:
The Spanish missions in California.
The Russian Orthodox Church in Alaska.
The Church of Latter-day Saints.
Modern pueblos of Arizona and New Mexico.
Ancient pueblos of Arizona and New Mexico.
The aborigines of California.
The aborigines of the North Pacific coast and Alaska.
Paintings and photographs of Alaska.
15. The Philippines:
Civilized and uncivilized peoples.
Series of photographs.
16. Hawaii:
Model of village.
Series of photographs.
Emerson ethnographic collection.
Chureh mission work in Hawaii.
17. Samoa:
The natives.
Paintings and photographs.
18. The Mariannes:
Series of photographs.
19. The history of photography.
20. The history of medicine in America.

The portion of the exhibit representing persons prominently connected with
the discovery and history of America, Alaska, the Hawaiian Islands, and of
the Philippine Islands consisted of 190 portraits, and there were also portraits
and paintings representing historic scenes and landmarks.

Models of historic vessels were exhibited, including a Viking ship, the Santa
Maria, the Half Moon, the Mayflower, and the Constitution; also models illus-
trating the development of the steam vessel, including John Fitch’s steamboat,
which plied on the Delaware in 1786; the Clermont, first used by Fulton in
1807 on the Hudson; the Phoenix, the Savannah, and others of great public
interest.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 83

In the exhibit of land transportation were shown the various early methods
of transporting passengers and supplies, arranged in sequence and including
models of the early locomotives, such as the John Bull and the Stourbridge
Lion.

The collection of electrical and telegraphic apparatus was designed to demon-
strate some of the more important features connected with Prof. Joseph Henry’s
researches in electrical science, and included five of his original instruments
and reproductions of other pieces of apparatus.

The medallic history of the United States was portrayed by a series of bronze
eopies of 23 medals which were struck in honor of the Presidents of the United
States frem Thomas Jefferson to Theodore Roosevelt, and other medals com-
memorating special acts and events of historical importance in the development
of the country.

American cartography and the story of the territorial expansion of the
United States were illustrated by maps and by facsimiles of a number of
treaties.

The history of the Pacific coast and Alaska was shown by means of paintings,
by a model of the Santa Barbara mission building, relics from the different
missions, and other interesting objects, an excellent model of St. Michael’s
Cathedral in Sitka, a large number of photographs of churches, clergy, and a
collection of primers, liturgies, manuals, and other religious works connected
with Russian missionary efforts in Alaska.

The history of the Mormon Church was illustrated by a collection of portraits
of more than 40 persons conspicuous in its establishment and growth; albums
containing pictures of Mormon temples and other buildings; and models of the
temple and tabernacle in Salt Lake City; also a chart showing the migrations
from Vermont to Illinois and other points.

An exhibit which attracted much attention consisted of models and paintings
of ancient pueblos of Arizona and New Mexico. The style of buildings adopted
by the ancient people of southern Arizona was graphically illustrated by a
painting presenting a bird’s-eye view of the prehistoric ruin of Casa Grande,
situated in the desert about 50 miles southeast of Phoenix. The ruin com-
prises blocks of buildings, reservoirs, and ditches, fortified inclosures, and other
constructions. The original settlement was composed of rectangular structures
known as “compounds,” illustrated by models A, B, and C. Some of these
buildings were used for the performance of sacred rites and as habitations for
medicine men and chiefs. The Smithsonian Institution has made extensive
excayations and repairs of the Casa Grande ruin.

The characteristics of cliff-dwelling architecture were well portrayed in the
model of Mummy Cave, a ruin in northeastern Arizona, and a painting of the
Cliff Palace, the largest known of the cliff dwellings, situated in southeastern
Colorado. Modern pueblo family life and dwellings were depicted by a group
of Zuni Indians of New Mexico, and by the well-known Hopi pueblo of Walpi,
Ariz. A life-sized family group of Hupa Indians engaged in their customary
occupations was selected to illustrate the aborigines of California.

The culture of the aborigines of the North Pacific coast and southeastern
Alaska was represented by objects carved in wood, such as chests, totem poles,
and humerous other specimens.

The industries of the western Eskimo of southeastern Alaska were represented
by a model of a log house, lay figures of a man and woman, a collection of
Spears, harpoons, snowshoes, and boats; also specimens of basketry and other
objects connected with their domestic pursuits.

A number of historical paintings lent by Mr. T. J. Richardson, and photo-
graphs by Lieut. George T. Emmons, U. S. Navy, portrayed the early history
of Alaska.
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

The groups and other objects showing the life and habits of the Philippine
Islanders formed a most attractive exhibit. Among these was a family group
of the Negritos of Zambales, a small, black people inhabiting several isolated
places in various islands of the Philippines. Their houses are nothing but
rude shelters, and are scattered throughout the country. There was also ex-
hibited a typical collection of specimens showing the arts and industries of this
tribe.

The Igorot of Bontoe were represented by a family group of four figures.
This people is of Malayan stock and pursue agriculture and other peaceful
vocations. Until quite recently, in contrast to their pacific dispositions, they
were addicted to the barbarous practice of head-hunting. Their arts were
represented by a number of objects, including articles of personal adornment
and carved wooden figures.

The arts and industries of the Moro and Bagobo tribes of Mindanao were
shown by specimens of baskets, shellwork, ornaments, metal work, and
costumes.

The Tagal, the most progressive of the native tribes, having been in contact
with Spanish civilization for several centuries, were represented by articles
of pottery, cups, bowls, cloth, costumes, arms, and a lay figure of a weaver
at work.

The general history of the Philippine Islands at the close of the war with
Spain was portrayed by a series of photographs of the natives, family life,
occupations, dwellings, churches, and of historic scenes.

The exhibit illustrating the history of the Hawaiians comprised a model of
a village of the early Hawaiians, who formerly lived in grass-thatched houses,
grouped into villages, constituting the home of a clan, presided over by a chief
and a priest. The exhibit also included a large series comprising several hun-
dred ethnological objects collected by Mr. N. B. Emerson, and of photographs
representing buildings, ancient and modern, and various data illustrative of
ehurch, settlement, and school work.

The Samoans, who are a robust and active people, living in comfortable
palm-roofed houses, were represented by a family group. Oil painting of a
Samoan man and woman and photographs of native houses formed a part of
the exhibit, as well as a number of objects connected with their social life.

The Guam and Marianne Islands exhibit embraced photographs of some
of the natives and their houses.

The evolution and history of photography was well illustrated by a collection
prepared by Mr. Thomas W. Smillie, beginning with the earliest permanent
photographs, and including examples of nearly all of the most important dis-
coveries and inventions up to the present time. Many of the specimens were
made by the inventors of the processes and others in the Museum laboratory.
The collections of color photographs are especially fine, beginning with the
tinting and then an elaborate coloring of the photograph by hand, and the
patented processes for transferring the film to a colored base, which finally
led to the almost perfect photographs in color, as made by Ives, Wood, Lippman,
Miley, and the autochromes made in our own laboratory.

The history of medicine, prepared by Dr. ¥. M. Flint, consisted mainly of
photographs and biographical sketches of noted doctors, beginning with the
Physician who accompanied Capt. John Smith to America and covering the
twentieth century up to and including experiments conducted by Major Reed
for the prevention of yellow fever in Cuba in 1891.

These exhibtis by the Institution and the Museum were prepared by the
representative, with the assistance of Mr. W. H. Holmes, of the Bureau of
American Ethnolgoy; Dr. Walter Hough, acting head curator of anthropology;
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 85

Dr. I. M. Casanowicz; Mr. T. T. Belote; Mr. T. W. Smillie; Mr. G. C.-Maynard;
and Dr. J. M. Flint, U. S. Navy. The groups were designed by Mr. Holmes
and modeled by Mr. U. S. J. Dunbar. The models of Casa Grande were made
by Mr. H. W. Hendley, under the direction of Dr. J. Walter Fewkes, and the
model of the Hawaiian village by Mr. I. B. Millner. :

The Museum is indebted to Mr. George Wharton James for the assembling
of the exhibits from the California missions; to Rev. A. P. Kashevaroff for
designing and collecting the exhibit of the Russian Orthodox Church in Alaska ;
to a committee of the Church of Latter-day Saints, of which Mr. O. F. Whit-
ney was chairman, for an exhibit illustrating the history of that church; to the
Board of Hawaiian Evangelical Association for a series of photographs show-
ing mission work in Hawaii; and to Mr. H. W. Henshaw, Lieut. G. T. Emmons,
U. S. Navy; Mr. T. J. Richardson; Dr. C. H. Townsend; and Mr. W. EH. Safford
for the loan of photographs and paintings.

Special acknowledgement is made of the cordial assistance rendered by the
Department of State, the War Department, the Signal Corps, the Bureau of
Fisheries, and the American Museum of Natural History.

The exhibit as a whole has attracted much attention, being of especial
interest to students of history, and one of the most creditable sent out by the
Institution. 'The exposition will close October 15, 1909.

Respectfully submitted.

W. DE C. RAVENEL,
Representative Smithsonian Institution
and National Museum.

Dr. CHARLES D. WALCOTT,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
APPENDIX X,

THE FIRST PAN-AMERICAN SCIENTIFIC CONGRESS, HELD IN SAN-

TIAGO, CHILE, DECEMBER 25, 1908-JANUARY 6, 1909.

By W. H. HoLMEs,
Delegate of United States Government representing the Smithsonian Institution.

The first Latin-American Scientific Congress, which was convened in Buenos
Aires in 1898, was projected by the Argentine Scientific Society of that city and
successfully carried out. It was attended by representatives of twelve Latin-
American republics, and yielded results of such importance that a second con-
gress was convened at Montevideo in 1901; and this was followed by a third at
Rio de Janeiro in 1905. Arrangements were made for a fourth meeting at San-
tiago, Chile, in 1908, and the Chilean organization committee,” feeling that the
activities of the congress, which had been limited to the discussion of the Latin-
American problems and interests chiefly, should be extended to a fully Pan-
American scope, decided that the Santiago meeting should be known as ‘* The
First Pan-American Scientific Congress.”

The organization committee, through the medium of the Chilean Government,
extended to the Government of the United States an invitation to participate.
Secretary Root brought the matter to the attention of President Roosevelt,?

@The organization committee was constituted as follows: Honorary presi-
dent, Marcial Martinez; President, Valentin Letelier ; vice-presidents, Manuel EH.
Ballestros and Miguel Cruchaga; general secretary, Eduardo Poirier; assistant
secretary, Augusto Vicuna §.; treasurer; Octavio Maira; Alejandro Alvarez,
José Ramon Gutierrez, Alejandro del Rio, Miguel Varas, Luis Espejo Varas,
Anselmo Hevia Riquelme, Vicente Izquierdo, Domingo V. Santa Maria.

o’THE PRESIDENT: The Government of Chile has invited the Government of
the United States to join in and to be represented by delegates at the Pan-
American Scientific Congress, which is to assemble under its auspices at the
eapital city of Santiago during the ten days beginning December 25, 1908.
The work of the congress will comprehend nine sections, devoted, respectively,
to pure and applied mathematics, physical sciences, natural sciences, engineer-
ing, medicine and hygiene, anthropology, jurisprudence and sociology, peda-
gogics, and agriculture and animal industry.

Latin-American scientific congresses were held in 1898 at Buenos Aires, in
1901 at Montevideo, and in 1905 at Rio de Janeiro. Growing out of these pre-
vious conferences the congress of 1908 will be for the first time Pan-American.
It will study and discuss many great subjects in which all the American re-
publics have in common special interests; and its aim is to bring together the
best scientific thought of this hemisphere for the scrutiny of many distinctively
American problems and for an interchange of experience and of views which
should be of great value to all the nations concerned.

It is therefore eminently appropriate that the United States should be ade-
quately represented at this important First Pan-American Scientific Congress

86
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 87

and the President transmitted the invitation to Congress, accompanied by a
commendatory message.* In due course the invitation was officially accepted
and a liberal sum appropriated for the purposes of the congress. The com-
mittee of organization also extended invitations, through the Department of
State at Washington, to a number of universities and other institutions and
societies. AS a result a large delegation was accredited to the congress. The
membership of the delegation and the institutions represented are as follows:

Government delegates.

L. S. Rowe, University of Pennsylvania.
Paul 8. Reinsch, University of Wisconsin.
Hiram Bingham, Yale University.

A. C. Coolidge; Harvard University.

and should embrace this opportunity for cooperation in scientific research with
the representatives of the other American republics. It is worthy of con-
sideration that, in addition to the purely scientific interests to be subserved by
such a congress and in addition to the advantages arising from an interchange
of thought and the intercourse of the scientific men of the American countries
and the good understanding and friendly relations which will be promoted,
there are many specific relations arising from the very close intercourse be-
tween the United States and many Latin-American countries, incident to our
expanding trade, our extending investments, and the construction of the
Panama Canal, which make a common understanding and free exchange of
opinion upon scientific subjects of great practical importance.

To make our representation possible I have the honor to recommend that the
Congress be asked to appropriate the sum of $35,000, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, to enable the United States to send a number of delegates
corresponding to the number of sections into which the congress is to be di-
vided, together with a secretary and disbursing officer, and to pay other neces-
sary expenses.

Inasmuch as it is desired that all communications or scientific works to be
presented to the congress be received before September 30, it is much to be
hoped that provision for the participation of this government may be made at
an early date and that the appropriation be made immediately available.

Respectfully submitted.

Exinvu Root.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, December 19, 1907.

“To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith for the consideration of the respective Houses of the
Congress a report of the Secretary of State representing the appropriateness
of early action in order that in response to the invitation of the Government
of Chile the Government of the United States may be enabled fittingly to be
represented at the First Pan-American Scientific Congress, to be held at San-
tiago, Chile, the first ten days of December, 1908.

The recommendations of this report have my hearty approval, and I hope that
the Congress will see fit to make timely provision to enable the Government to
respond appropriately to the invitation of the Government of Chile in the
Sending of delegates to a congress which can not fail to be of great interest
and importance to the governments and peoples of all the American republics.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

THE WuitEe House, December 21, 1907.

45745°—sm 1909——7
88 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Col. William C. Gorgas, U. S. Army.

W. H. Holmes, Smithsonian Institution.
Bernard Moses, University of California.
George M. Rommel, Bureau of Animal Industry.
W. R. Shepherd, Columbia University.

W. B. Smith, Tulane University.

University and society delegates.

C. H. Hall, University of Minnesota.

Bernard Moses, University of California.
Albert A. Michelson, University of Chicago.
J. Lawrence Laughlin, University of Chicago.
W. R. Shepherd, Columbia University.
Thomas Barbour, Harvard University.

A. C. Coolidge, Harvard University.

J. B. Woodworth, Harvard University.
Adolph Hempel, University of Illinois.

W. H. Holmes, George Washington University.
Orville A. Derby, Cornell University.

H. D. Curtis, University of Michigan.

W. F. Rice, Northwestern University.

L. 8S. Rowe, University of Pennsylvania.
Webster E. Browning, Princeton University.
William B. Smith, Tulane University.

Paul S. Reinsch, University of Wisconsin.
Hiram Bingham, Yale University.

D. EF. Salas, National Education Association.

In June, 1908, meetings of the government delegates were held at the State
Department, Washington, under the tutelage of Secretary Root, who conveyed
to them such instructions as were deemed necessary. Arrangements were made
for the preparation and translation of papers dealing with appropriate subjects
for presentation at the congress, and for the disposal of the sum allotted by the
Department for the purposes of the congress. The organization of the delega-
tion was completed by the selection of Dr. L. S. Rowe as chairman and Prof.
Paul 8. Reinsch as vice-chairman.

Under the guidance of Doctor Rowe a number of the delegates assembled in
Buenos Aires early in December, where they were the recipients of the hospi-
tality af the President of the Republic and the members of his cabinet, and of
the ministers of the United States and Chile. Visits were made to numerous
institutions of learning, hospitals, municipal buildings, parks, etc., and the visit
to the University of La Plata was signalized by an exceptionally cordial inter-
change of courtesies. On December 10 the party crossed the Andes and estab-
lished headquarters in the Hotel Oddo in Santiago. Here, before and during the
sittings of the congress, the delegation held frequent meetings to plan and dis-
cuss their work in the congress. Meantime other delegations, representing seven
North American and Central American and nine South American republics, were
on hand; and the meeting for the selection of officers for the congress was held
at the University of Chile on December 24.4 It is a noteworthy fact that the

@ The result was as follows: President, Enrique R. de Lisboa, Brazilian minis-
ter; vice-presidents, Lorenzo Anadon, Argentine minister; Federico Surveila S.
Quash, delegate from Uruguay, and Matias Manzanilla, delegate from Peru;
secretaries, Emilio Fernandez, delegate from Bolivia; Melchior Lazo de la Vega,
delegate from Panama; and Enrique Martinez Sobral, delegate from Mexico.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 89

president and vice-president of the congress were the envoys of their respective
countries to Chile, thus giving to the congress a somewhat political aspect. This
aspect was also imparted in a measure by the naming of representatives of a
number of the governments in Chile as chairmen of the national delegations in
the congress.

At 10 p. m. on Christmas Day the opening session was held in the spacious
Municipal Theater, and proved a most impressive ceremony. The President of
the Republic, SeNor Pedro Montt, was present, and addresses were made by
various officials of the congress and by chairmen of the various national delega-
tions. The address of Doctor Rowe, chairman of the American delegation, deliv-
ered in Spanish, was enthusiastically received.@

@ ADDRESS OF DR. L. S. ROWE AT THE OPENING SESSION.

Your EXCELLENCY, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: This congress possesses an his-
torical significance which it is difficult for us to appreciate at the present time.
It marks an epoch in the intellectual development of the American Continent.

Complete isolation from one another has characterized the situation of the coun-
tries of this continent. This isolation has been one of the greatest obstacles to
progress. The failure to develop a spirit of intellectual cooperation has resulted
in a great loss of energy and has been one of the most important obstacles to
the solution of many problems which would long ago have been solved had we
been able to unite our energies and profit by each other’s experience. The true
scientific spirit has a far deeper significance than the mere desire to conduct
investigations. It can not reach its highest expression if there exist petty rival-
ries or jealousies. For this reason the development of the scientific spirit con-
tributes so much to the growth of a true international fraternal spirit. A vig-
orous spirit of cooperation, developed amongst the scientists of the American
Continent, will enable us to destroy the last traces of the epoch in which the
words ‘“‘stranger” and ‘“ enemy” were synonymous.

The industrial development of the last century offers lessons of much im-
portance to the scientific world. A study of the economic growth of modern
countries clearly shows that the principle of competition is gradually giving way
to the principle of cooperation.

The formation of trusts as well as the growth of trades’ unions constitutes
the concrete expression of these new tendencies. The eighteenth century and a
considerable portion of the nineteenth were dominated by a spirit of individual-
ism. During more than four generations, it was taken for granted that human
pregress is dependent on the struggle for existence and the conflict between indi-
vidual and individual. During the nineteenth century the application of bio-
logical _ rinciples to human society strengthened this idea. It is the mission of
the twentieth century to demonstrate that we must regard the principle of
cooperation rather than that of competition as the fundamental principle of
social pregress.

In this congress it is our high privilege to inaugurate a new epoch giving con-
erete form to the idea of intellectual cooperation. In the International Bureau
of American Republics we have a central organization admirably adapted to
contribute toward the realization of this idea. We need such a center in order
to place investigators in different portions of the American Continent in con-
tact with one another, and in order that the results of such investigations may
be made the common property of all the nations of America.

In the name of the delegation of the United States of America, I desire to
express our sincere thanks for this opportunity to take part in the deliberations |
of this congress. No better opportunity could have been offered to become ac-
quainted with our colleagues and fellow-investigators. The ties here formed
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

The committee on organization was prompt in the preparation of the pro-
gramme of meetings, and the press of the city was most generous and helpful
in its treatment of the congress. The sectional meetings, which continued dur-
ing eight days, were held separately under the following heads:

1. Mathematics, pure and applied.
. Physical and chemical sciences.
Natural sciences—biology, paleontology, geology, anthropology, ete.
. Engineering.
. Medicine and hygiene.
. Jurisprudence.
Social sciences.
. Pedagogie sciences.
. Agriculture and zootechny.

The programme was followed, with necessary modifications from day to day.
The majority of the papers were read in full or in extended abstracts, and dis-
cussion was free and often spirited. Naturally, popular interest centered largely
about the sections dealing with practical problems, as education, sanitation,
social science, and engineering; but the more abstract sciences were not neglected.
Owing to the great range of the work of the congress and the multiplicity of
papers presented in the various sections, no attempt can be made in this place
to present the work and results in detail. The list of papers presented by mem-
bers of the American delegation and forwarded by the other contributors from
the United States is as follows: @

Astronomical Problems of the Southern Hemisphere. By H. D. Curtis.

The Electronic Theory of Matter. By W. B. Smith.

Recent Progress in Spectroscopy. By A. A. Michelson.

Statistics of the Use of Nitrate of Soda in the United States. By Charles
EK. Munroe.

The Economy of Fuels. By William Kent.

Recent Studies in Experimental Evolution. By Thomas Barbour.

Notes on the Origin of the North American Prairies. By C. H. Hall.

Origin of the Minnesota Iron Ores. By C. H. Hall.

The Peopling of America. By W. H. Holmes.

The Newer Geological Views Regarding Subterranean Waters. By James F.
Kemp.

The Mineral Wealth of America. By W. R. Ingalls and R. W. Raymond.

The Shaler Memorial Expedition. By J. B. Woodworth.

The Application of Electricity to Railways. By Frank J. Sprague.

Sanitation in the Tropics with Relation to Malaria and Yellow Fever. By
W. C. Gorgas. $

Frequency and Prevention of Yellow Fever. By C. J. Finlay.

Notes on the Sanitation of Yellow Fever and Malaria from Isthmian HWxpe-
rience. By H. R. Carter.

Plagues: Methods of Control. By J. C. Perry.

America in the Pacific. By A. C. Coolidge.

9

ONMNADUA WD

possess a significance far deeper than the personal satisfaction they imply. This
visit can not help but enlarge our mental horizon, broaden our scientific: activ-
ity, and strengthen the influence of our university instruction. We congratu-
late ourselves on the privilege of being present, and desire also to express our
appreciation of the great service performed by this Republic in giving such vig-
orous impulse to the spirit of scientific solidarity.

@7This list is in part a translation from the Spanish, and may be somewhat
imperfect.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 91

America’s Contributions to International Law. By Paul S. Reinsch.

Public Opinion as a factor in our American Democracies. By L. 8S. Rowe.

Reasons why the English Colonies on Achieving their Independence Became a
Single State, whereas the Latin-American Colonies did not Form a Federation
or even a Confederation. By Hiram Bingham.

Geological Work in Brazil. By Orville A. Derby.

Foundations of the Spanish and English Colonial Civilization in America.
By Bernard Moses.

Gold and Prices. By J. Lawrence Laughlin.

Uniformity and Conformity in the Census Methods of the Republics of the
American Continent. By S. N. D. North.

The Influence of Urban Environment on the Life and Thought of the People.
By L. S. Rowe.

The Treatment of Indian Tribes of the United States. By Francis E. Leupp.

Race Degeneration. By W. B. Smith.

The Reclaiming of Arid Lands in the United States. By F. H. Newell.

Instruction in Animal Husbandry in the Agricultural Colleges of the United
States. By George M. Rommel.

National Sanitary Animal Police in the United States. By George M. Rommel.

The Tendencies of Female Education and its Bearing on the Social Mission
of the Women of America. By Wm. F. Rice.

Standard Time System. By Prof. David Todd.

Adaptation of Instruction to the American Social Medium. By W. R.
Shepherd.

Nurses as Assistants in the Medical Inspection of Schools. By Dora Keen.

Recent Advances in the Study of Typhoid Fever. By M. J. Rosenau.

Pensioning Mothers who Depend on the Labor of their Sons, to Enable the
Latter to Pursue their Studies. By Dora Keen.

Plans and Gauges of Intercontinental Railways. By Wm. J. Wilgus.

Some Phases of the Early History of Mexico and Central America. By Alcée
Fortier.

The Writing of History in the United States. By W. M. Sloane.

The Value of Gas Power. By Charles KE. Lucke.

Uniformity of Commercial Law throughout the American Continent. By
Roscoe Pound.

Pan-American Terminology. By C. O. Mailloux.

Car Lighting in America. By R. M. Dixon.

Reinforced Concrete Construction for South America. By Wm. H. Burr.

The New Philippine Currency System. By H. W. Kemmerer.

Water Supply of Cities and Towns. By Allen Hazen.

Use of Tertiary Coals in General Metallurgy and in the Manufacture of
Coke. By Wm. Hutton Blauvelt.

The Supply of Potable Water. By Rudolph Hering.

An Analysis of Five Hundred Cases of Epidemic Meningitis Treated with the
Antimeningitis Serum. By James W. Jobling and Simon Flexner.

American Agriculture in its Relation to Chilean Nitrate. By Wm. 8. Myers.

The Processes for the Concentration of Ore. By Robert H. Richards.

Future Supply of Iron Ore. By Henry M. Howe.

These papers, with the exception of a small number which did not arrive in
time to find a place in the programme, were presented in Spanish, which was
the almost exclusive language of the congress.

The concluding session of the congress was held at the university in the
forenoon of January 5, and various matters of general interest were disposed of.
These included a discussion of methods of procedure, policy, and scope of future
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

congresses, relation of the congress to government and science, etc. A number
of resolutions, passed by the sections or presented by the delegations, were offered
and adopted. An agreement was reached to urge upon the legislative bodies
of the various countries represented the adoption of uniform laws dealing with
commerce, citizenship, etc., and a plan providing for such uniformity was
adopted and will be submitted to the several governments.

By a practically unanimous vote it was decided to hold the next meeting in
Washington in October, 1912. This action was cabled to the State Department,
and Secretary Root responded in the following message:

“Please express to the Pan-American Scientific Congress the satisfaction with
which this Government receives the announcement that Washington has been
selected as the meeting place of the congress in 1912.”

A committee of five members ° was appointed to arrange with the Department
of State at Washington for the appointment of a permanent organization com-
mittee for the prospective meeting.

A. farewell session was held in the Municipal Theater on the afternoon of
January 5, at which fitting addresses were made by officials and delegates; ¢

“ Resolution, extending to the governing board and director of the Interna-
tional Bureau of the American Republics the thanks of the Pan-American Sci-
entific Congress for the offer of cooperation :

Whereas the Pan-American Scientific Congress has received with much satis-
faction the cordial message of greetings from the Bureau of the American Re-
publics and the kind offer of cooperation; be it

Resolved, That the formal thanks of the congress be transmitted to the govern-
ing board and director of the bureau, and that it be recommended to the mem-
bers of the organization committee of the next Scientific Congress to avail them-
selves in every possible way of the valuable services which the bureau can
render.

Resolution, recommending the establishment of a section of American bibli-
ography in the International Bureau of the American Republics:

Recognizing the importance of establishing closer relations between investi-
gators throughout the American continent and of disseminating the results of
scientific investigations, the Pan-American Scientific Congress

Resolves, To recommend to the governing board of the International Bureau
of the American Republics:

1. That a special section be established in the International Bureau of the
American Republics to be known as the ‘Section of American Bibliography.”

2. That the director of the bureau invite authors and investigators to send
their publications to the bureau, on receipt of which notice thereof will be pub-
lished in the Bulletin, which notice shall include at least a brief summary of the
contents of such publication and the price thereof.

8. That the bureau secure for investigators any such publications at a price
to be indicated in the Bulletin.

4. That the bureau endeavor so far as practicable to secure official publica-
tions for investigators.

5. That the bureau keep a record of the published progress of larger schemes
of scientific investigations of Pan-American bearing; and that it strive to bring
into closer contact investigators in the same or related fields.

oL. S. Rowe, George H. Rommel, W. H. Holmes, John Barrett, director of the
Bureau of American Republics, and Elmer H. Brown, commissioner of education.

C CLOSING ADDRESS OF DR. L. S. ROWE.

Mr. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: The honor conferred upon my coun-
try through the designation of Washington as the next meeting place of this
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 93

and at night a dinner was given in the hall of the university, at which there was
a generous expression of good feeling and a striking display of oratory.

great assembly is the more significant because of its spontaneous character.
For this demonstration of confidence, good will, and fraternal solidarity I want
to thank you, not only in the name of the delegation of the United States of
America, but also on behalf of that larger body of scientists and investigators
who are imbued with the same spirit that has actuated this congress, and who
now look forward to the privilege of welcoming to our shores the men upon
whose efforts the progress of this continent depends. We can not hope to surpass
the hospitality of this great republic, but we can assure you that the welcome
will be no less sincere, and the determination to place every possible facility at
your disposal, no less effective than has been the case here in Chile.

Viewed in its proper perspective, this congress has been one of the most
extraordinary assemblages of modern times; more extraordinary in many re-
spects than either The Hague or the Pan-American conferences. That a large
group of men, representatives of every section of a great continent, should be
able to get together and, casting aside all petty prejudices, freely and frankly

exchange the results of their careful investigations and ripe experience, is not
only a tribute to the culture of this continent, but is also an indication of the
extent to which our ideas have advanced beyond those which we inherited from
our European mother countries.

The fact that we have met to place the results of the best scientific thought
at the disposal of all the countries here represented, and through them at the
service of the civilized world, contains a lesson of deep and lasting import
which no other assembly of modern times has been able so clearly to impress
upon the civilized world.

The historian of the intellectual development of the American continent, in
reviewing the work of these assemblies, will probably give to the Santiago
congress the honor of having clearly demonstrated that the republics of the
American continent, because of their geographical position; because of the
peculiar conditions under which they were settled; and because of the special
racial problems which they present, are confronted by a series of problems
distinctively American. The mere fact of the existence of these problems in-
volves an obligation not only to ourselves, but to the civilized world to concen-
trate our efforts upon their solution. Through their solution we can make that
contribution to the progress of mankind which the world has the right to
expect of us.

We can best hope to do this by carrying to our respective countries the
spirit that has hovered over this congress—that of service in its broadest and
highest sense. This spirit of Service must be made the keynote of our national
and of our international relations. The republics of the American continent
must demonstrate to the civilized world that the willingness and determination
to be of service to our fellow-men is the corner stone of a philosophy which the
nations of this continent are determined to make the guiding principle of their
conduct.

I can see a time, not far distant, when with each conquest of science the
question will immediately arise in the mind of every American, “ How can
these results be made of service to the democracies of this continent? ”’—a time
when in every field of endeavor the American republics may call upon one
another for counsel in the solution of their problems, and be certain to receive
the best expert advice. Then, and not till then, shall we have developed a real
continental spirit; then, and not till then, shall we have fulfilled the obligations

94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

The social features of the congress were most noteworthy. The President of
the Republic, besides giving the usual official reception, entertained the foreign
delegates at dinner, invitations being extended to a limited number each day
during the congress. Receptions were given under government auspices at the
principal social clubs. The American minister, the French, Brazilian, and
Argentine ministers, and numerous prominent citizens entertained the delegates.
Members of the American and other delegations were guests at a number of
charming haciendas in the vicinity of Santiago; and the American delegation
entertained at dinner members of the organization committee, chairmen of
various national delegations, and others. Visits were made to institutions of
learning, museums, art galleries, hospitals, and manufacturing establishments,
and no effort was spared by the officials of the congress to make the visit of
the foreign delegates enjoyable and profitable. The writer wishes to express
his personal appreciation of these courtesies and attentions, and to say that he
approached South America somewhat oppressed by the thought that he should
find himself a stranger in a strange land, but that, on the contrary, there was
not a day of the two months spent in the Latin-American countries on which
he was not made to feel entirely at home and among appreciative and generous
friends.

The universal feeling at the close of the congress was that the meeting had
fully justified the plans of its projectors; and the story is not entirely told
when it is stated that the elaborate programme, covering nearly every branch
of science, was successfully carried out. The more thoughtful find in this and
in kindred assemblages much that is of significance for the future of the
American republics. This congress was a decided step in the direction of bring-
ing about a better understanding among the nations represented. It was a step
toward a fuller appreciation of the common interests of each and every Ameri-
ean nation. It was an appreciable forward step in the development of the
means and methods of promoting the common interests of the continent. It
was a step toward making the experience and the accumulated wisdom of each
people represented the experience and wisdom of all. In the section of peda-
gogy the best that has been developed in the theory and practice of teaching
was made the common property of all the American republics. In the section
of sanitary and medical science the latest achievements of each nation in the
battle with disease were made familiar to every participant. In the section of
agriculture and zootechnics steps were taken in the direction of properly utiliz-
ing and conserving the resources of the continent in these important realms. In
the section of engineering the best methods of overcoming the various physical
obstacles to progress and of winning the riches of the earth were explained for
the benefit of all America. In the section of government and law the principles
of statecraft and the administration of justice were discussed for the benefit of
every American government. In the section of the fiscal sciences practical
methods of conducting the monetary affairs of the nations were presented and

which our privileged position in the world’s affairs has placed upon us. I can
imagine no greater distinction for the next congress than the possibility of
marking a further step in the development of this spirit of service and of con-
tinental solidarity.
And, now, in closing, let me again extend the thanks of the delegation of the
United States of America to you, the members of the organizing committee, for
your broad grasp of the purposes of the congress and the skill with which these
purposes have been made real and effective; to you, our colleagues, for your
cordial reception of newcomers in your midst, and finally to the Government
and people of Chile for the warm-hearted hospitality which we have enjoyed.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 95

explained. And in every other branch of science, practical and abstract, the
various forces and agencies that contribute toward progress and enlightenment
were in a measure the subject of serious attention. The congress was an initial
step toward making the best of all the peoples of the Western Hemisphere. It
was an initial step in making the best, for to-day and for all time, of the
resources of the continent. It was an initial step which in many ways must
make for the peace and prosperity of the continent. It was a noteworthy step
in conformity with manifest destiny as expressed in the phrase “America for
Americans.”

The success of the congress of 1912 depends upon the interest displayed in it
by the scientific world, and on the support accorded by the Pan-American goy-
ernments. The time is ample, and the appointment of an organization commit-
tee representative of a wide range of scientific interests is the first step in
making the Washington meeting an event worthy of the nation and its capital.
a) ee
: * iD i > a i
. ’ bei Rh ai ital
iit ik ral a
Big sani Kee
ro, my Maia t

i

Vv

Bi os ah WA 8
mi 3 it? Ay AT d
sae! hel be

Bt Day OV)
Bihrtadet pitt fi

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF
REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

For THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1909.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian stitution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following
report in relation to the funds, receipts, and disbursements of the
Institution, and a statement of the appropriations by Congress for
the National Museum, the International Exchanges, the Bureau of
American Ethnology, the National Zoological Park, the Astro-
physical Observatory, and the International Catalogue of Scientific
Literature for the year ending June 30, 1909, together with balances
of previous apprcpriations.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
Condition of the fund July 1, 1909.

The permanent fund of the Institution and the sources from which
it has been derived are as follows:

DEPOSITED IN THE TREASURY OF THE UNITED STATES.

Pee OU STAT GNSON SI SAG oo era c.ais's cine aisisciad - smie & sels ole Geiss wa eelelenes $515, 169. 00
Pe esemary lesacy Of Smithson, 1867.02 .2<002%552 ences cece e esses teens 26, 210. 63
mapusittrom savings of income, 1867 ......2..5 <5 ese ot eee Seances 108, 620. 37
Bequest of James Hamilton, 1875.. See See Se 1 OOONO0
Accumulated interest on Hamilton ead 1895. Recetas sti acumen ve etree 1, 000. 00
——§ 2,000.00
Beemeniousuncon Habel, 1SSO0s. . ccc. ccccciese cic ovece cave sajs-mecneess 500. 00
Deposits from proceeds of sale of bonds, 1881.............------------- 51, 500. 00
Peeaiubnomasts. Hodgkins, 18915... 2... l.52 52-5. ecseseecesssoesee 200, 000. 00
Part of residuary legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins, 1894....-...-..-------- 8, 000. 00
Bepocimironlsavines-oL income, JO0Sss2..c562 a0 = co he cec ts Soe eke ee 25, 000. 00
Peeetauary legacy of Thomas G. Hodekins.......22-2-22--.c0cnse220--- 7, 918. 69
Total amount of fund in the United States Treasury............--- 944, 918. 69

OTHER RESOURCES.

Registered and guaranteed bonds of the West Shore Railroad Company,
part of legacy of Thomas G. Hodgkins (par value)............-----.-- $42, 000. 00

Maem METI GHINGe oer ar ase as Se es olan Ses At ara, cieie cies wes 986, 918. 69

Also four small pieces of real estate bequeathed by Robert Stanton Avery, of Wash-

ington, D. C. se
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

That part of the fund deposited in the Treasury of the United States
bears interest at 6 per cent per annum under the provisions of the
act of August 10, 1846, organizing the Institution, and act of Congress
approved March 12, 1894. The rate of interest on the West Shore
Railroad bonds is 4 per cent per annum. ‘The real estate received
from Robert Stanton Avery is exempt from taxation and yields only
a nominal revenue from rentals.

Statement of receipts and disbursements from July 1, 1908, to June 30, 1909.

RECEIPTS.
Cash on deposit in the U.S. Treasury July 1, 1908. ...........-....-.-- $18, 766. 41
Interest on fund deposited in the U.S. Treasury, due July 1,
AQOS anid emery ls, WOOD seen ee aye carers my mee ene ye $56, 695. 12
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds to January 1, 1909.... —_1, 680. 00
Repayments, rentals, publications, etc.................---.- 6, 144. 70
Contributions from various sources for specific purposes... .. . 20, 250. 00
——— 84, 769. 82
103, 536. 23
DISBURSEMENTS.
Boaldines, carevand -Tepalts £9... seme jee eee oe Oe oe eee $4, 445. 31
Peanibonerand txctures. 2523. 6So he one haa eee ae cocince peeks 512. 38
General expenses:
SAIC Sars core) SE se co aero elec a Iie ee nL a $14, 468. 19
IMC Gio GS Se ise ros 2 aco ese Myatt ca en ee ee ES 305. 00
IOUCDY 3 orice ayt) title oes cee ieee aera oe ae 664. 21
Postage, telegraph, and telephone...............-..---- 324. 02
Precio een oe ee eae t= ile Oc e ete ree cae eee 124. 55
imercdentalls eee ceesaemeace sere ns cakes Seo elie eetine 1, 153. 59
(CPE eee Se eine ne Sty Sere Peers ieee Meee yee ees er te @ 4, 342.77
21, 382. 33
BUI oo oo cox iti neiai ciara ep aarcic oe oss vale isk ea ee ORE aCe 1, 938. 64
Publications and their distribution:
Miscellancoustcollections=--eaeee oc eee tee see eeee eee 2, 430. 79
NE PONIS Sie Gree ke © kate pawapia> Se heceereccen eee cee 496. 89
Special publeations..< 250 5c soe sels c Sse seinen seh eeS 3, 260. 75
Publication sipples ss o.2<e sel. ose Sask ens ee eae oe 206. 26
Dalaricsusnsee wea eisai hE ote lee eae 5, 884. 58
_  ————— 12,279.27
Hxplorations; researches, and collections) ...-2..2-222 4.022228 0n2 - shs62 20, 810. 43
Hodgkins specific fund, researches and publications...........-.-.------ 3, 053. 50
feinomational Mxehanees: ai. dclscne cose eee See eee ere ec re eee 4, 216. 78
ere MPCNSES® 2 cic oma ae peters woe Bae See eae eee rece ein eee 2ST deoe
JOT CI TSE pace baasoebaeee copes sesS4 266 15a 5ias th aa oect sedis ns cease ee 3. 27
71, 359. 53
Balance June 30, 1909, deposited with the Treasurer of the United States. 32,176.70
103, 536. 23

@ Includes purchase of automobile in February, 1909, and marntenance, and also
expenses of stable until abolished.
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 99

By authority, your executive committee employed Mr. William
L. Yaeger, a public accountant of this city, to audit the receipts and
disbursements of the Smithsonian Institution during the period
covered by this report. His certificate of examination supports
the foregoing statement and contains the following, which is hereby
approved:

402 Westory BuILpING,
Washington, D. C., September, 1, 1909.
The Executive Commirrrce, Boarp or REGENTs,
Smithsonian Institution.

Sirs: I have examined the accounts and vouchers of the Smithsonian Institution
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1909, and certify the following to be a correct
statement:

PE MBLC CCEMESers. 2 scjsces ese ek sees 222s ne ee we tees es ese $84, 769. 82

NOTGUSHUTSEMTeMESes- 5.52 sc 502 a0 c02e. be sa anemenesesss see 71, 359. 53
Hixeess of receipts over disbursements..........--.-+------2--+-+-+-00-- $13, 410. 29
momount trom. July 1, 1908.........---...-..- 2 EI a Neo te eer 18, 766. 41
Basnee-on hand June sO) 1909. 2 2. fess oe es se cence scans 32, 176. 70

Balance shown by Treasury statement June 30, 1909.......- $34, 804. 91

menemimistandine Checks. .-- 22... cccce ese sc oe sctecn sects ee PWS aA

32, 051. 70

Cash overdrawn on pay roll June 30, 1909..............-....- 125. 00
MTT eR pakance UME! SOs LOOkO=s see me eran ee ee oe eee Oe liGs10

The vouchers representing payments from the Smithsonian income during the
year, each of which bears the approval of the secretary, or, in his absence, of the
acting secretary, and a certificate that the materials and services charged were applied
to the purposes of the Institution, have been examined in connection with the books
of the Institution and agree with them.

Yours, respectfully, Witiiam L. YAEGER,
Public Accountant and Auditor.

All moneys received by the Smithsonian Institution from interest,
sales, refunding of moneys temporarily advanced, or otherwise, are
deposited with the Treasurer of the United States to the credit of
the Institution, and all payments are made by checks signed by the
secretary.

The expenditures made by the disbursing agent of the Institution
and audited by the Auditor for the State and other departments are
reported in detail to Congress, and will be found in the printed
document.

Your committee also presents the following summary of appro-
priations for the fiscal year 1909, intrusted by Congress to the care
of the Smithsonian Institution, balances of previous appropriations
at the beginning of the fiscal year, and amounts unexpended on
June 30, 1909.

{jo427
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Summary of appropriations.

Available

after July 1, Balance June

1908. 30, 1909.

Smithsonian Institution, balance July 1, 1908...............0..---<eseercece $18,766.41 |. oc emcees
Smithsonian Institution, receipts to June 30, 1909...--.........-.......--.-- 84,769. 82)... seca
103, 536. 23 $32,176.70

Appropriations committed by Congress to care of the Institution:
Internationaliexchan ges) (O08 ee sce acme cece ae eee cece econ aeee cease 2, 667.88 nal
Intermationallexchanpes, 19002 joecsnaseeaseeee esate ee eee ce eeeerecer 32, 000. 00 2, 23251
PmericangethnOlogys1 90 t/<\o. class ae een eee eee eee ae ace oae 10. 26 @ 10.26
American Chn ology O08 Naja sias seen asercice maa ceeecine besassneee ne ceeee 947. 64 1.78
PAGnenic aml thn O10 pry) 909 ees eee eee eee a 42, 000. 00 1,175.47
AStrophysicaliObsenvatony,d90d ans sas -ceee aber an eee eae seeene eset eres 36. 50 @ 34.35
Astropiysical/ Obsernvatony, 1908S. - ses saaeae sae eeenee ees eee eee 2,155.35 81.19
Astrophysical: Observatory, 1909s. esse ese tae ieee seers coe 13, 000. 00 1,571.01
infermational Catalopuewlo0ta=--eaas=c sere ee een escre eens eeeaencececeee 11.24 a 11.24
international! Catalogue 1908s-eee oe aac sccc aces co oer aero eee ee 145. 37 6. 44
TntemationaliCataloguesl909!sssac-e-2 se eseseaemocmce sect eCe oe Pelee eens 5,000. 00 75.11
RuiniofCasaGrandexlo0y ste - occeesnewene seco anise ae mace cieeseoee eee «53 @ 53
Ruiniofi Casa} Grande; Q0Sesce Ses ace eee se ae reo ese sie serene esis 7.98 7.98

National Museum:

Humifure andehixbures wl OO fone acces ceecesceere oe ca ceacee teoneee aes 133.79 @ 133.79
lopina bee Haye ib qabieetsy 1S ROA e Mae a aa oroeannee scooeecdasocaecue sone 1,813.83 30.98
Hurniture and axXtuEes; A G09 san. ace ee ieee se meee arenes eee 50, 000. 00 22,397.16
Heating andy lehbin gO. sass salen cat sooo mee epee aaceinaos 137.70 a 137.70
iHeatingiandilightinp; dQ08s22./55co- has senianaece ceeceec on oe eescee eee 1,345.14 43. 80
TECeio bales ha Vol MYA OYRbONES NEO soe bode ssodcasaupdsaubacacknesssoasenose 22, 000. 00 2, 967. 48
iPreservationionecollections 90% sescseene see eee eee een ace een eee 471.89 a 409. 28
Preservation Oncolections, p1908c1.- <6. 25 a-ctsa dee seen ee anesee ene 4, 767.33 496.78
Preservation Of collections 791 909|-yv a =)--1 ae ae =e oie =i eateries eee 190, 000. 00 4,869.31
BOOKS 190 fiers, yess nants aoe eine ates Oe see bee oe Aerie sans cee er eS 31.31 a 15.81
BOOKS 1908 cre weaaa eee emote dae eee sae ouee See een sere se 935. 04 92.21
BOOKS #1900 = eo sea acose merece ceteris cee meee see eae ee 2,000. 00 1,083.34
Postage, 909. entice ete ets cisrsieiasteisiaiaicie ele nis wile nie cision cemasueinee 500.00) [222 ececee seers
Building repairs MOO i concmia se soc secar ei ewe sewerc cee acs aeneeaeee 35. 88 a 35.88
Building repairs 908 cc... sas aeecccecee ese see ce tock cochicas teens 555.90 5.83
Building we pairs 1909 paeceesossce cece ace se caterer nee eee cee nee 15, 000. 00 6, 028. 68
Rentiolworksh opssy1 90 f2s-- stance neeecose ne see ne oe eee eee eee 08 a .08
RentiOfworkShops;;19082s. cc ec ascn ce scien se = ncree Sack Pen reais ee ee - 08 -08
RentOLWOLksShops sl 909 sacte ss seckaes os oe ae eo eee ee ee a eee 4, 580. 00 08
printing and bindings 1000: ..sese2. sas. -. 228s eek ee see lus 72, 600. 00 9,398. 58
NationallZoological Park: 1907 ecemsses eee ee cee an eee el ae eee 1.82 a 1.82
National 7oolocical Park, 1O08 Enea cane anon eee eee nee eee oes 4,821.57 11. 41
INational:Z oological Park: (1909 oer na. asec sole ease ee eee 95, 000. 00 2, 443. 69
Temporary occupancy of government buildings for tuberculosis congress. 40, 000. 00 15, 678. 92
Transfer of Greenough statue of Washington..............-.........---- 5, 000. 00 409.74
713 ;250534 pa eee eee 3

a Balance carried June 30, 1909, to the credit of surplus fund, Treasury Department, under provisions of
section 3691, Revised Statutes,
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 101

Statement of income from the Smithsonian fund and other revenues, accrued and pro-
spective, available during the fiscal year ending June 80, 1910.

Bel aime@ Imes) AY 0S esate cee sieve ee er Se eee $32, 176. 70
i ermec pestis 10r Specific PUrPOSeS....-- 2 <- 222. eee cee eee secs seee esos 1, 000. 00
31, 176. 70
Interest on fund deposited in the U. S. Treasury, due July 1, 1909, and
ELIE Lhe, LISI 8 SSR ea Oca a tg Ra a ee ee ee 56, 695. 00
Interest on West Shore Railroad bonds, due July 1, 1909, and January 1,
© coe bee ECE Sa ea 1, 680. 00
Exchange repayments, sale of publications, rentals, etc.................. 4,245.00
Total available for year ending June 30, 1910....... RS ae een os 93, 796. 70

Respectfully submitted.
J. B. HENDERSON,
ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL,
JOHN DALZELL,

Executive Committee.
Wasuineton, D. C., November 8, 1909.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITH-
SONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 380, 1909.

At the annual meeting of the Board of Regents held on January
22, 1908, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution shall
hold an annual meeting on the Tuesday after the second Monday in December and
another meeting on the second Wednesday in February.

In accordance with this resolution the board met at 10 o’clock a. m.
on December 15, 1908, and on February 10, 1909.

ANNUAL MEETING, DECEMBER 15, 1908.

Present: Hon. M. W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United States
(chancellor), in the chair; Hon. Charles W. Fairbanks, Vice-President
of the United States; Senator S. M. Cullom, Senator Henry Cabot
Lodge, Senator A. O. Bacon, Representative James R. Mann, Rep-
resentative William M. Howard, Hon. John B. Henderson, Dr. James
B. Angell, Dr. Andrew D. White, Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, Mr.
Charles F. Choate, jr., and the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

APPOINTMENT OF REGENT.

The secretary announced the appointment, by joint resolution
approved by the President February 24, 1908, of Mr. Charles F.
Choate, jr., of Massachusetts; as a Regent to succeed Mr. Richard
Olney, resigned.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT FROM MR. RICHARD OLNEY.

The secretary read the following letter from Mr. Richard Olney
in acknowledgment of the action of the Board of Regents upon his
resignation as a Regent:

Boston, January 25, 1908.
Hon. CHar.es D. WALcort,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

My Dear Sir: I beg to acknowledge your favor of the 23d instant and to thank
the Board of Regents through you for the complimentary terms of the resolution,
copy of which you inclose.

I am also greatly obliged to you personally for your courteous and friendly expres-
sions and remain,

Faithfully, RIcHARD OLNEY.

102
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 103
RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO INCOME AND EXPENDITURE.

Mr. Henderson, chairman of the executive committee, offered the
following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the income of the Institution for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1910, be appropriated for the service of the Institution, to be expended by the secre-

tary, with the advice of the executive committee, with full discretion on the part
of the secretary as to items.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,

Mr. Henderson submitted the report of the executive committee —
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1908, which, on motion, was
adopted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PERMANENT COMMITTEE.

Mr. Henderson, chairman of the permanent committee, presented
the following report:

Hodgkins fund.—In addition to the sum of $100,000 bequeathed
to the Institution by Thomas G. Hodgkins upon condition that the
income be devoted to the increase and diffusion of knowledge regard-
ing the nature and properties of atmospheric air, which sum is on
deposit in the Treasury of the United States, there is now deposited
in the Treasury to the credit of the Smithsonian fund the sum of
$157,918.69 received from the Hodgkins estate, the income from
which is, in accordance with the direction of the testator, devoted
to the general purposes of the Institution. Besides the regular
income of 6 per cent per annum on these portions of the fund,
the Institution has received semiannually a dividend of 4 per cent
on the West Shore Railroad bonds, of the par value of $42,000,
accruing to the Institution from the Hodgkins estate. A number
of grants have been authorized from the Hodgkins fund during the
year for the promotion of researches relating to subjects embraced
within the expressed purposes of the foundation, and a prize of
$1,500 has been offered, in connection with the recent International
Congress on Tuberculosis, for the best treatise ‘On the relation
of atmospheric air to tuberculosis.”

Andrews estate—The decision of the supreme court of New York,
appellate division, in April, 1907, affirming the decree below, which
gave the residue of the estate of Mr. Wallace C. Andrews to the
Andrews Institute for Girls, at Willoughby, Ohio, was, upon appeal
by the Smithsonian Institution, affirmed on February 25, 1908, by
the New York court of appeals. On motion of Mr. Frank W.
Hackett and Mr. Edmund Wetmore, counsel for the Smithsonian
Institution, a writ of error has been allowed by Mr. Justice Peckham,

45745°—sm 1909——8
104 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

of the Supreme Court of the United States, to the supreme court of
the State of New York, the contention of counsel being that the
court of appeals did not give full faith and credit to the constitution
of Ohio in respect to prohibiting the general assembly of that State
from passing special acts conferring corporate powers.

Avery estate——The Institution has continued in possession of four
parcels of real estate in Washington City, received under the bequest
of Mr. Robert Stanton Avery. Three of these parcels are improved
with frame dwellings, under rental.

Sprague and Reid bequests—As has been previously stated to the
board, the residual legacies accruing to the Institution under the
wills of Mr. Joseph White Sprague and Mr. Addison T. Reid are sub-
ject to the demise of certain enumerated legatees, and it is probable
that no actual income will be received from these bequests for some
years to come.

On motion, the report was accepted.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The secretary presented his report for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1908, explaining that it had been already transmitted to the
members of the board.

On motion, the report was accepted.

NATURAL HISTORY EXPEDITION TO AFRICA.

The secretary read the following letter:

THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON,
Oyster Bay, New York, June 20, 1908.

My Dear Doctor Watcort: About the 1st of April next I intend to start for Africa.
My plans are of course indefinite, but at present I hope they will be something on the
following order:

By May 1 I shall land at Mombasa and spend the next few months hunting and
traveling in British and German East Africa; probably going thence to or toward
Uganda, with the expectation of striking the Nile about the beginning of the new year,
and then working down it, with side trips after animals and birds, so as to come out
at tide water, say, about March 1. This would give me ten months in Africa. As you
know, I am not in the least a game butcher. I like to do a certain amount of hunt-
ing, but my real and main interest is the interest of a faunal naturalist. Now, it seems
to me that this opens the best chance for the National Museum to get a fine collection
not only of the big game beasts, but of the smaller mammals and birds of Africa; and
looking at it dispassionately, I believe that the chance ought not to be neglected. I
will make arrangements to pay for the expenses of myself and my son. But what I
would like to do would be to get one or two professional field taxidermists, field natural-
ists, to go with me, who should prepare and send back the specimens we collect. The
collection which would thus go to the National Museum would be of unique value.
It would, I hope, include specimens of big game, together with the rare smaller animals
and birds. I have not the means that would enable me to pay for the field naturalists
or taxidermists and their kit, and the curing and transport of the specimens for the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 105

National Museum. Of course the actual hunting of the big game I would want to do
myself, or have my son do; but the specimens will all go to the National Museum, save
a very few personal trophies of little scientific value which for some reason I might
like to keep. Now, can you, in view of getting these specimens for the National
Museum, arrange for the services of the field taxidermists, and for the care and trans-
port of the specimens? As ex-President, I should feel that the National Museum is
the museum to which my collection should go.
With high regard, sincerely yours,
THEODORE RoosEVELT?.
Hon. CHartes D. WALcorTT,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D. C.

The secretary went on to say: “A copy of this letter was forwarded
to me in Montana, and I telegraphed that we would endeavor to
provide the necessary funds. On my return to Washington I put
myself in communication with several public-spirited men who are
friends of the Institution, and succeeded in obtaining sufficient money
to equip and send the expedition to Africa; and there are assurances
of additional sums to meet the further expenses that will necessarily
be incurred.

‘As to the personnel of the expedition, the following gentlemen
have been selected by the Institution to accompany the President:

“Maj. Edgar A. Mearns, a retired officer of the Medical Corps of the
Army, will be in charge of the Smithsonian party. He will be the
physician of the trip; he has had twenty-five years’ experience as
an army doctor, and is also well known as a naturalist and collector
of natural history specimens; while on service in the Philippine
Islands, he made large collections of birds, mammals, and other
material for the National Museum.

“Mr. Edmund Heller, a graduate of Stanford University, is a
thoroughly trained naturalist, whose special work will be the prepara-
tion and preservation of specimens of large animals. His former
experience, when associated with Mr. D. G. Eliot and Mr. Ackley, of
the Field Columbian Museum, in collecting big game animals in
the same portions of Africa which Mr. Roosevelt will visit, will be
a valuable asset to the expedition. Mr. Heller has had large expe-
rience in animal collecting in Alaska, British Columbia, United States,
Mexico, Central America, and South America. In the year 1898 he
made a collecting trip of eleven months to Galapagos Islands, start-
ing from San Francisco. He is a born and enthusiastic collector
and a well-equipped naturalist. He is also the author of scientific
papers on mammals, birds, reptiles, and fishes. At present he is
assistant curator of the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology of the Uni-
versity of California.

“Mr. J. Alden Loring is a field naturalist whose training comprises
service in the biological survey of the Department of Agriculture
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

and in the Bronx Zoological Park, New York City, as well as on
numerous collecting trips through British America, Mexico, and the
United States. He is of ardent temperament and intensely energetic.
In August, September, and October, 1898, he made the highest
record for a traveling collector, having sent to the United States
National Museum 900 well prepared specimens of small mammals in
the three months journey from London through Sweden, Germany,
Switzerland, and Belgium.”

In regard to the matter of funds for the expedition, the secretary
said that in addition to the statement he had just made he would
read the following notice which had appeared in the public press:

“President Roosevelt decided last spring upon the proposed hunt-
ing trip to Africa, and during the summer Secretary Walcott learned
that the President was willing to have one or two naturalists accom-
pany him from the Smithsonian Institution, provided their expenses
could be met; and also that the collections made by the President
and these naturalists were to come to the Smithsonian Institution
and be deposited in the United States National Museum.

“Mr. Roosevelt will pay all the expenses of himself and his son,
Kermit, in connection with the proposed trip, including outfitting
and transportation.

“The expenses of the three naturalists sent out from the Smith-
sonian Institution will be paid by funds provided for the purpose, no
part of which is derived from any government appropriation or from
the income of the Smithsonian fund. |

“Mr. Roosevelt will not receive one penny of the fund for his own
or his son’s use or expenses; on the contrary, he makes a gift to the
Government of specimens worth many thousands of dollars, and
possibly of a value that can hardly be expressed. He will get nothing
from the Government; he will give much of value to the Govern-
ment; the Government’s share will be limited to receiving the gift.”

After discussion, the Vice-President offered the following resolu-
tion, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution express to
Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, its appreciation of his very
generous offer contained in his letter of the 20th of June, 1908, to the secretary of
the Institution, with respect to his expedition to Africa, and that it accept the same.

Doctor White said that he thought it might be well to complete the
resolution which had been offered by the Vice-President by adopting
another, in which the secretary should be requested to return the
thanks of the board to the gentlemen who had so generously con-
tributed to relieve the Smithsonian Institution of the expenses of
the expedition. He spoke of the misunderstanding that had arisen
by reason of the first published statement that the expedition would
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 107

be outfitted by the Institution, and he thought a resolution of thanks
due the gentlemen who had displayed such public spirited citizenship.
On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
be conveyed by the secretary of the Institution to the donors who have so generously
contributed funds to meet the expenses of naturalists who will accompany Mr. Theo-
dore Roosevelt upon his expedition to Africa, the results of which will be presented
by the President to the Smithsonian Institution for the National Museum.

PROPOSED LANGLEY MEDAL AND TABLET.

The secretary read the following letter:

Beinn BureaGuH, NEAR Bappeck, Nova Scorta,

December 5, 1908.
Hon. C. D. Watcort,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.

Dear SECRETARY WatcotT: The Wright brothers are being deservedly honored in
Kurope. Can not America do anything for them? Why should not the Smithsonian
Institution give a Langley medal to encourage aviation?

Yours, sincerely,

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL.

The secretary ‘said that Secretary Langley was undoubtedly the
founder of the present school of aviation; that all the students of the
subject were now adopting the principles which he announced, and
it would appear to be a proper action on the part of the Board of
Regents to recognize his work in this subject by the establishment of
such a medal.

After discussion, the following resolution was adopted on motion
of Senator Cullom:

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution establish a
medal to be known as the ‘‘Langley medal,’’ to be awarded for specially meritorious

investigations in connection with the science of aerodromics and its application to
aviation.

Senator Bacon said that further recognition should be given Sec-
retary Langley by the erection in the Smithsonian building of a
memorial tablet setting forth his services in this important subject,
and, after discussion, Senator Lodge offered the following resolution,
which was adopted:

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be requested to report
to the Board of Regents as soon as practicable upon the erection in the Institution

building of a tablet to the memory of Secretary Langley, setting forth his services in
connection with the subject of aerial navigation.

-

SECRETARY'S STATEMENT.

Resignation of Assistant Secretary Adler.—I greatly regret to report
to you that Dr. Cyrus Adler, assistant secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, in charge of the library and exchanges, resigned that
108 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

position on October 1, 1908, removing to Philadelphia to assume the |
presidency of The Dropsie College for Hebrew and Cognate Learning.

Doctor Adler entered the service of the Institution in 1888 as an
assistant curator in the National Museum. In 1892 he was appointed
librarian of the Institution, and in 1905 became assistant secretary.
His service of twenty years was marked by a wonderful grasp of detail, |
and he was an invaluable aid to the secretary in all matters pertain-
ing to the scope of the Institution’s work as well as to its administra- |
tion. He was a man of keen judgment and wide culture and an |
exceedingly useful member of the Institution’s executive force.

Death of Prof. Otis T. Mason.—It is with deep regret that I have |
to announce the death, on November 5, 1908, of one of our strong |
men, Prof. Otis T. Mason, who had been associated with the Institu-
tion since 1873, first as a collaborator in ethnology, next as curator |
of that branch, and finally as head curator of the department of
anthropology. Professor Mason was born in 1838, so that his life has
been almost contemporaneous with the Smithsonian Institution, and
he bears an honorable share in its history. His agreeable qualities
as a man, his earnestness in his work, and his contagious enthusiasm
render this loss a most severe one to the Institution.

Tuberculosis Congress —In compliance with the direction of the
President, the new building for the National Museum was selected for
the meetings and exhibits of the International Congress on Tubercu-
losis, $40,000 being placed at the disposal of the secretary for the
requisite arrangements in this connection.

The plans for the adaptation of the building to this purpose were
put in the hands of the superintendent of construction, Mr. Bernard R.
Green. About 100,000 square feet of the building on the first and
second floors, exclusive of the south wings, were used for the congress,
and indebtedness is acknowledged to the War, Navy, and Treasury
departments, and also to the Bureau of American Republics, which
supplied the flags of the United States and of foreign nations for deco-
rating the halls.

The congress opened on September 21 and adjourned on October
12. By November 3 all traces of the convention had been removed
and the building was again ready for the resumption of construction
operations. The amount expended in fitting up the building for the
congress: was $24,321.08.

Thirty-one independent nations and 45 States of the Union
were represented. There were 438 contributors, of whom 312 were
citizens of the United States. The total attendance to the congress
was approximately 148,000.

Among the contributors to the exhibits, the Smithsonian Institu-
tion presented the results of an investigation among certain of the
Indian tribes, for the Department of the Interior, with a view to
| \

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 109

showing the actual amount of tuberculosis existing. This work was
prepared by Dr. Ales Hrdlitka, of the National Museum, who visited
the Menominee, Sioux, Quinault, Hupa, and Mohave tribes. The
congress expressed its appreciation of it by awarding the Institution
a gold medal.

The secretary added that the prize of $1,500 offered by the Institu-
tion for the best essay ‘“‘On the relation of atmospheric air to tuber-
culosis”’ had aroused widespread interest among the students on this
subject, and had resulted in the receipt by the Institution of eighty-
one papers submitted in competition. All of these had been referred
to a committee for consideration, but the award had not yet been
made.

Use of B street north of National Museum as a market place-—The
secretary stated that the new building for the National Museum
would be occupied during the coming summer; that the occupation of
B street north of this building as a market place was a serious ob-
jection and that it was very desirable that the street be vacated by
hucksters and market men. On behalf of the executive committee he
offered the following resolution, which, after discussion, was adopted:

Resolved, That in the judgment of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, provision should be made at the earliest practicable moment for the abolition of

the use of B street north of the National Museum, between Ninth and Twelfth streets,
as a market place.

Tt was suggested that the Commissioners of the District of Columbia
be communicated with before calling the attention of Congress to the
matter.

Prize essay on fisheries —In response to an invitation from the
International Fishery Congress, the fourth session of which was held
in Washington, September 22 to 26, 1908, the Institution made an
allotment of $200 from the Smithsonian fund for the best essay or
treatise on ‘‘ International regulation of the fisheries on the high seas;
their history, objects, and results.”

As announced by the general secretary of the congress, the award
was made to Mr. C. H. Stevenson, statistician, U.S. Bureau of Fish-
eries, and the amount has been paid to him.

Transfer of Greenough’s Washington statue to the Smithsonian
Institution —The secretary said that on January 31, 1908, Repre-
sentative James R. Mann introduced in the House a joint resolution
(H. J. Res. 124) for the presentation to the Smithsonian Institution
of the Greenough statue of Washington, located in the Capitol
grounds, “to aid that Institution in its efforts to establish a national
gallery of art in the city of Washington.” The resolution was referred
to the Committee on the Library, from which it was reported, striking
out the reference to the national gallery of art. The joint resolution
was agreed to in the House on March 17, 1908, and later reported
110 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

from the Senate Committee on the Library, with amendments,
changing the words ‘presented to’’ to “transferred to the custody
of,” and modifying the title accordingly. The amendments were
agreed to by the House and the measure received the President’s
approval in this form May 22, 1908.

The general deficiency act as approved May 30, 1908, appropriates
$5,000 for the transfer of the statue from the plaza in front of the
Capitol to the Institution, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution and the Superintendent of the Capitol
Building and Grounds. The expense of construction of a foundation
and a marble base is to be provided from the sum named.

The statue has been moved to the lawn to the south of the west
wing of the Smithsonian building, where it is now temporarily housed.
It will be permanently placed as soon as the necessary foundation
has been constructed in the hall at the end of the west wing of the
building.

Freer collection —The secretary stated that in response to a sugges-
tion from him, Mr. Charles L. Freer had sent him a condensed list
of art objects, the title to which had already been passed by him to
the Smithsonian Institution. The list follows:

Pictures by D. W. Tryon in oil, water color, and pastel............-....-...- 33
Pictures by Thomas W. Dewing in oil, water color, pastel, and silver point... . 24
Pietures by Abbott-H:.. Thayer in-oiland watercolors coe. 5.225522. seeeeee 10
Pictures by J. McNeill Whistler in oil, water color, pastel, pen and pencil
drawings, engravings, etchings, and lithographs. ....... Jacdecitd soeunieee 1, 079
Oriental paintings:
DCLCCUSS os sicr a owiesdee eise,t se aime eiels aie teo asieie eres a ies eto esse Cr area peer 148
Pamelaue. sas aeh, Shee en accord aie ete et ota ee ena ae eet eet eee, rao 64
Keikemono de seater ie aes Coes emiock Geta a het a ee eee 309
Makimon oss Sey cranes sehen ee ot hice fee emis cea ee eae en ee 13
PAGS URIS Son A ko Be yO I ote aa oe ea et = Ss 4
SibetamspakMtIN GS ees sem. oe aes ore eer oie eee eee 13
OriemtAlMUL bey se enee toe oe eects Seve echt ers Sree eae ee 1, 140
[ERO WAGERS ese A SONS then Uae ae ae ee ena been aon Ae tae adits 13
Miscellanéous:Heypiian and other objects:-.-.22-55.25 2 esa 22 2 28
Totalnumber ovo ectsscectcie sere. Sea ee ee ere eee eee eee 2, 873

The secretary continued that during the past year Mr. Freer had
secured a great deal of valuable material that would be added to the
collection, and it was very probable that with these additions the
entire collection at present represented a total cost to the donor of
about $1,000,000.

Use of Smithsonian building for national gallery of art—The secre-
tary said that in the coming spring and summer it was expected to
begin the removal of material to the new building for the National
Museum, which would be devoted to the natural history collections.
The present Museum building would be assigned to the industrial art
PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. Lt

exhibits, and the Smithsonian building would be used for the fine
arts, if suitable provision for the reception of the paintings could be
made.

At its last meeting the board recommended that an appropriation of
$60,000 be asked of Congress to be used in adapting the large anthro-
pological hall of the Smithsonian building to this purpose. The
estimate was submitted but had not been acted upon by Congress.
It was hoped that the matter would be taken up at an early day, as
it was becoming more and more necessary to make adequate provision
for the collections that were being presented to the national gallery
of art.

REGULAR MEETING, FEBRUARY 10, 1909.

Present: Hon. M. W. Fuller, Chief Justice of the United States
(chancellor), in the chair; Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Representa-
tive James R. Mann, Dr. James B. Angell, Hon. George Gray, and
the secretary, Mr. Charles D. Walcott.

AWARD OF LANGLEY MEDAL.

The secretary stated that since the adoption of the resolution es-
tablishing the Langley medal he had appointed a committee of award
composed of the following gentlemen of recognized attamments in
the science of aerodromics:

Mr. Octave Chanute, of Chicago, chairman.

Dr. Alexander Graham Bell.

Maj. George O. Squier, U. S. Army.

Mr. John A. Brashear, Allegheny, Pennsylvania.

Mr. James Means, formerly editor of the Aeronautical Annual, Bos-
ton, Massachusetts.

Senator Lodge said that the results attained by the Wright broth-
ers would certainly entitle them to the Langley medal. He had been
in Paris last summer during the flights of Wilbur Wright and had
noticed the great interest aroused by them and the marked recogni-
tion given Wright by foreign nations. He thought that the United
States should also honor these citizens for their great work in this
science, and he was very anxious that they should be the first recip-
ients of the Langley medal. Therefore, while he did not desire to
interfere with the committee of award appointed by the secretary,
he was anxious that immediate action be taken, and he thought that
the committee’s hands might be strengthened by a formal expression
of the board. He therefore offered the following resolution, which,
after discussion, was adopted:

Resolved, That the Langley medal be awarded to Wilbur and Orville Wright for ad-

vancing the science of aerodromics in its application to aviation by their successful
investigations and demonstrations of the practicability of mechanical flight by man.
112 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.
CHANGE OF DAY FOR MEETING.

The secretary spoke of the practical impossibility of getting a full
attendance of the Congressional Regents on Wednesday, owing to
committee engagements. It was then suggested that Thursday be
substituted for Wednesday, and Senator Lodge offered the following
resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That hereafter the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution shall

hold their annual meeting on the Tuesday after the second Monday in December, and
another meeting on the second Thursday in February.

DARWIN CELEBRATION.

The secretary stated that in June next the University of Cam-
bridge would celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the birth of
Charles Darwin, and that he had thought of attending the com-
memoration as the representative of the Smithsonian Institution.

Doctor Angell suggested that it would be appropriate for the
board to formally designate the secretary as the representative of the
Institution at the Darwin celebration, and he offered the following
resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution be designated the
special representative of the Institution at the commemoration of the centenary of
Charles Darwin’s birth, to be held at the University of Cambridge, England, June 22

to 24, 1909.
MISCELLANEOUS.

The secretary spoke briefly upon the progress in the several de-
partments of work under the direction of the Institution since the
last meeting of the board.
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS RELATIVE TO THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION AND ITS BRANCHES,

{Continued from previous Reports. ]

[Sixtieth Congress, first session. ]

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SMITHSONIAN GROUNDS: For improvement, care, and maintenance of Smith-
sonian grounds, three thousand dollars. (Approved March 4, 1909; Statutes
XXAVI, 994.)

WAICHMEN, SMITHSONIAN GROUNDS: For day watchmen as follows: One in
Franklin Park; one in Lafayette Park; two in Smithsonian grounds; one in
Judiciary Park; ore in Lincoln Park and adjacent reservations; one at Iowa
Circle; one at Thomas Circle and neighboring reservations; one at Washington
Circle and neighboring reservations; one at Dupont Circle and neighboring
reservations; one at McPherson and Farragut parks; one at Stanton Park and
neighboring reservations; two at Henry and Seaton parks; one at Mount Ver-
non Park and adjacent reservations, one for the greenhouses and nursery; two
at grounds south of Executive Mansion; one at Garfield Park; one at Monu-
ment Park; and one at Monument Park Annex (Potomac Park) ; twenty-one in
all, at seven hundred and twenty dollars each, fifteen thousand one hundred
and twenty dollars.

For night watchmen as follows: Two in Smithsonian grounds; one in Ju-
diciary Park; two in Henry and Seaton parks; one in grounds south of Execu-
tive Mansion; one in Monument Park; one at Monument Park Annex (Potomac
Park) ; and two in Garfield Park; ten in all, at seven hundred and twenty dol-
lars each, seven thousand two hundred dollars. (Approved March 4, 1909;
Statutes XXXVI, 881.)

PRINTING AND BINDING: For the Smithsonian Institution, for printing and
binding the Annual Reports of the Board of Regents, with general appendixes,
ten thousand dollars; under the Smithsonian Institution, for the Annual
Reports of the National Museum, with general appendixes, and for printing
labels and blanks and for the Bulletins and Proceedings of the National
Museum, the editions of which shall not exceed four thousand copies, and bind-
ing, in half turkey or material not more expensive, scientific books and pam-
phlets presented to and acquired by the National Museum Library, thirty-four
thousand dollars; for the Annual Reports and Bulletins of the Bureau of Ameri-
ean Ethnology, and for miscellaneous printing and binding for the bureau,
twenty-one thousand dollars; for miscellaneous printing and binding for the
International Exchanges, two hundred dollars; the International Catalogue
of Scientific Literature, one hundred dollars; the National Zoological Park,
two hundred dollars; the Astrophysical Observatory, two hundred dollars; and
for the Annual Report of the American Historical Association, seven thousand
dollars; in all, seventy-two thousand seven hundred dollars. (Approved March
4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 1022-3.)

113
114 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

APPORTIONING ALLOTMENTS FOR PRINTING AND BINDING: Except the appropria-
tions for salaries in the office of the superintendent of documents, and for
stores and general expense for the office of the superintendent of documents,
all appropriations made herein under ‘ Government Printing Office” shall be
considered in apportioning the allotments for printing and binding to the
Congress and the several executive departments, bureaus, and independent
offices of the Government: Provided, That no other fund appropriated by this
act, or any other act, shall be used for services or other purposes in the
Government Printing Office, or in the office of the superintendent of docu-
ments, of the character specified in the foregoing paragraphs, except in cases
of emergency arising after the passage of this act, and then only on the written
order of the Public Printer; and the aggregate of all salaries or other expenses —
thus paid, in addition to those specifically appropriated for above, shall be
reported to Congress each year in connection with the annual estimates. (Ap-
proved March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 1021.)

SMITHSONIAN DEPOSIT (LIBRARY OF CONGRESS): For custodian, one thousand
five hundred dollars; assistant, one thousand four hundred dollars; messenger,
seven hundred and twenty dollars; messenger boy, three hundred and sixty
dollars; in all, three thousand nine hundred and eighty dollars. (Approved
March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 857.)

IMPORTATION OF CERTAIN INJURIOUS BIRDS AND ANIMALS:

* * ¥ * * * *

Sec. 241. The importation into the United States, or any Territory or Dis-
trict thereof, of the mongoose, the so-called ‘ flying foxes” or fruit bats, the
English sparrow, the starling, and such other birds and animals as the Secre-
tary of Agriculture may from time to time declare to be injurious to the inter-
ests of agriculture or horticulture, is hereby prohibited; and all such birds
and animals shall, upon arrival at any port of the United States, be destroyed
or returned. at the expense of the owner. No person shall import into the
United States or into any Territory or District thereof, any foreign wild
animal or bird, except under special permit from the Secretary of Agriculture:
Provided, That nothing in this section shall restrict the importation of natural
history specimens for museums or scientific collections, or of certain cage
birds, such as domesticated canaries, parrots, or such other birds as the Sec-
retary of Agriculture may designate. The Secretary of the Treasury is hereby
authorized to make regulations for carrying into effect the provisions of this
section. -

Sec. 242. It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver to any common Car-
rier for transportation, or for any common carrier to transport from any
State, Territory, or District of the United States, to any other State, Territory,
or District thereof, any foreign animals or birds the importation of which is
prohibited, or the dead bodies or parts thereof of any wild animals or birds,
where such animals or birds have been killed or shipped in violation of the laws
of the State, Territory, or District in which the same were killed, or from which
they were shipped: Provided, That nothing herein shall prevent the transporta-
tion of any dead birds or animals killed during the season when the same. may
be lawfully captured, and the export of which is not prohibited by law in the
State, Territory, or District in which the same are captured or killed: Pro-
vided further, That nothing herein shall prevent the importation, transporta-
tion, or sale of birds or bird plumage manufactured from the feathers of
barnyard fowls,
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. 115

Src. 243. All packages containing the dead bodies, or the plumage, or parts
thereof, of game animals, or game or other wild birds, when shipped in inter-
state or foreign commerce, shall be plainly and clearly marked, so that the
name and address of the shipper, and the nature of the contents, may be
readily ascertained on an inspection of the outside of such package. (Approved
March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 1137.)

REARRANGEMENT OF ESTIMATES WHEN NOT TRANSMITTED IN PROPER FORM :
*  * * * * * * *

Src. 4. When estimates hereafter transmitted to the Treasury for submission
to Congress do not in form and arrangement comply with the provisions of
section four of the legislative, executive, and judicial appropriation act, ap-
proved June twenty-second, nineteen hundred and six, they shall, under direc-
tion of the Secretary of the Treasury, be rearranged so as to comply with said
requirements of law. (Approved, March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 907.)

MEMORIAL TO JOHN WESLEY POWELL: For the purpose of procuring and erect-
ing on the brink of the Grand Canyon, in the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve in
Arizona, a memorial to the late John Wesley Powell, with a suitable pedestal,
if necessary, in recognition of his distinguished public services as a soldier,
explorer, and administrator of government scientific work, five thousand
dollars: Provided, That the design for said memorial and the site for the same
shall be approved by the Secretary of the Interior. (Approved March 4, 1909;
Statutes XXXVI, 992.)

ALASKA-YUKON-PAcIFIC EXxPosITION: The United States Government Board
of Managers of the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition is authorized to rent such
workshops, storage and office rooms in the District of Columbia as may be
required in connection with the preparation, safe-keeping, and return of the
government exhibit authorized by act of Congress, approved May twenty-
seventh, nineteen hundred and eight. (Approved March 4, 1909; Statutes
XXXVI, 9638.)

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.

For expenses of the system of international exchanges between the United
States and foreign countries, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, and the
purchase of necessary books and periodicals, thirty-two thousand dollars. (Ap-
proved March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 964.)

TRANSMISSION OF PUBLIC DOCUMENTS THROUGH SMITHSONIAN EXCHANGE SERY-
Ice: For repairs to buildings, fixtures, and fences, furniture, gas, chemicals,
and stationery, freight (including transmission of public documents through
the Smithsonian exchange), foreign postage, and expressage, plants, fertilizers,
and all contingent expenses, three thousand dollars. (Approved March 4,
1909; Statutes XXXVI, 885.)

DISTRIBUTION OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD THROUGH INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES
TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES: Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That for the purpose
of more fully carrying into effect the provisions of the convention concluded
at Brussels on March fifteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-six, and pro-
claimed by the President on January fifteenth, eighteen hundred and eighty-
nine, the Public Printer is hereby authorized and directed to supply to the
Library of Congress such number as may be required, not exceeding one hun-
dred copies, of the daily issue of the Congressional Record for distribution,
through the Smithsonian Institution, to the legislative chambers of such foreign
116 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

governments as may agree to send to the United States current copies of their
parliamentary record or like publication, such documents, when received, to
be deposited in the Library of Congress. (Approved March 4, 1909; Statutes
XXXVI, 1169.)

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY.

For continuing ethnological researches among the American Indians and the
natives of Hawaii, under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution, in-
cluding salaries or compensation of all necessary employees and the purchase
ef necessary books and periodicals, forty-two thousand dollars, of which sum
not exceeding one thousand five hundred dollars may be used for rent of
building. (Approved, March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 964.)

For removing the office furniture, records, manuscripts, documents, and
other appurtenances from the present quarters to the space to be assigned in
the Smithsonian Building, one thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be
necessary. (Approved March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 964.)

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY,

For maintenance of Astrophysical Observatory, under the direction of the
Smithsonian Institution, including salaries of assistants, the purchase of neces-
sary books and periodicals, apparatus, making necessary observations in high
altitudes, repairs and alterations of buildings, and miscellaneous expenses,
thirteen thousand dollars. (Approved March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 964.)

INTERNATIONAL CATALOGUE OF SCIENTIFIC LITERATURE.

For the cooperation of the United States in the work of the International
Catalogue of Scientific Literature, including the preparation of a classified index
eatalogue of American scientific publications for incorporation in the Interna-
tional Catalogue, the expense of clerk hire, the purchase of necessary books and
periodicals, and other necessary incidental expenses, six thousand dollars, the
same to be expended under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. (Ap-
proved March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 964.)

NATIONAL MUSEUM,

For cases, furniture, fixtures, electrical and other appliances required for the
exhibition and safe-keeping of the collections of the National Museum, includ-
ing salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, two hundred thousand
dollars.

For expense of heating, lighting, electrical, telegraphic, and telephonic service
for the National Museum, sixty thousand dollars.

For continuing the preservation, exhibition, and increase of the collections
from the surveying and exploring expeditions of the Government, and from other
sources, including salaries or compensation of all necessary employees, and all
other necessary expenses, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, of which sum
five thousand five hundred dollars may be used for necessary drawings and illus-
trations for publications of the National Museum.

For purchase of books, pamphlets, and periodicals for reference in the Na-
tional Museum, two thousand dollars. :

For repairs to buildings, shops, and sheds, National Museum, including all
necessary labor and material, fifteen thousand dollars.

For postage stamps and foreign postal cards for the National Museum, five
hundred dollars.

For moving collections, furniture, and other property of the National Museum
in connection with the occupancy of the new building for the National Museum,
ACTS AND RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS. bl 4

including all expenses incidental thereto, to be immediately available, four
thousand dollars. (Approved March 4, 1909; Statutes XXXVI, 964.)

DEFICIENCY APPROPRIATION, 1909: For preservation of collections, National
Museum, one dollar and nineteen cents. (Approved March 4, 1909; Statutes
MXXVI, 942.)

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK.

For continuing the construction of roads, walks, bridges, water supply, sewer-
age, and drainage; and for grading, planting, and otherwise improving the
grounds; erecting and repairing buildings and inclosures; care, subsistence, pur-
chase, and transportation of animals; including salaries or compensation of all
necessary employees, and general incidental expenses not otherwise provided
for, including purchase, maintenance, and driving of horses and vehicles re-
quired for official purposes, and not exceeding one hundred dollars for the pur-
chase of necessary books and periodicals, ninety-five thousand dollars; one half
of which sum shall be paid from the revenues of the District of Columbia and
the other half from the Treasury of the United States. (Approved March 4,
1909; Statutes XXXVI, 965.)
i _— oe Poy

2) ane eae aay ayn? ;
eae inks fl hit SHEE ' iain

a eh Tes aie Ba , ee ee iil }
Saale hy a en ce a ea rf Siren Se lgehT ody ms ee oh, el

i

. ee eal sna tins
a a ee an we ae ea Mae er in SDA fae |
Lt ei Vy Sg In a URI taut hye tere i re
TE ar yah ns eau Orit te. 1h say en te i. ss |
; aint ee a ae CAEN an ea Ao RO Pelee ee
ie oy ove tania py rn Pr ty Palaemeiad ‘aay Aids dite 06) AR Boar a
i: ibe phy i dah oa ined Ayo a) ies AL Wa
ae a tala ab its alain her eee eas eine ea oe NS oe me Gps /Fieas
ie? ie ye al OR Pe Hien nates te De ee eh east a
hay MiPy ws Sey Ag) idk oy T aE tn Tey) i msiigung d's hy aed Reng. ole tr Caer a a
oe Po pine’ ber aa i Seer! gam) Fe a 7 24, 22

il tips? Tan 6! et 7 Pe Uae? i eth ie Aue C ; ‘

Sean ise A oe aneth n ral Wei, Fassel: (Ma ISR ant haere aa hs Ni
H ; A t "» in i hid U
, ; }
fj ry, by 7 I ,

ni V4 ey Ae field. ait aed Wi bi f

GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1909

45745°—sm 1909——_9 119
‘
ii
(ea) ae

NAVATT Ke LAA

a
Lt AOA ia
a

i
aly
ane

ADVERTISEMENT.

The object of the Genrrat Appenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a general character
or on special topics that are of interest or value to the numerous
correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, from a very early date, to enrich the annual
report required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more
remarkable and important developments in physical and biological
discovery, as well as showing the general character of the operations
of the Institution; and this purpose has, during the greater part of
its history, been carried out largely by the publication of such papers
as would possess an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880 the secretary, induced in part by the discontinuance of an
annual summary of progress which for thirty years previous had been
issued by well-known private publishing firms, had prepared by com-
petent collaborators a series of abstracts, showing concisely the prom-
inent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report for 1889 a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1909.

121
)
‘| ; Hy, ei
jal be ey ee me ae cay ya nahin Amir gion tis eee Vy Deny hey

a) ee ee hatin sia). ae tedh ORD pee —_

Na MV jn Ro LY hin Fren pi at Wy vey yigh) ee
oh a ae eS ae SN hividsppisiy frie en Play LN 4 iAiv nil
mae Teer ELE SP Mund Wa" Mien Mami hy Eh et eae PH (inl at ioe

7 | Ave MaRisg: DT He hae
Wey 0s; ney 1 rey see osha

Solty wed nih eh LP On gk, rea UG, yw dita

Re ae eee en

Seana Bae Festireg 7 a

a wet ni i Gee Mah AT a ea (Oris cain ey 7" 44 - 0) ei nn
‘i ie Seine i Gib), Gqivhty

ec: Yyy. Lem ue ait

Wane ;
ivnlte be i ert mo r
Us Ute a

a a eT siawwalf

parents | Pe,
5
| oh Peary va te eo mee

wiht by uae
eit gal wre

\ ies T ant M f ch Oy By] Thaye 9 4
Siti Ya!

me ai H tet aiBeyi f'@

mail a i hight 2
f BN ota ve neue

“beats Ae oe,

BAL coe re heyy ft

SN Oe tee oy!
May ba brokth afd PLE Death
OT BN FE ay AP aN wiki j
TE A a er

at a

fall r

) a fli a

THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS.

By Henri PoINncars®,

Member of the Académie des Sciences and the Académie Francaise, Professor
at the Sorbonne.

(Translated by permission from Revue générale des Sciences pures et appli-
quées, Paris, 19th year, No. 28, December, 1908.)

The true method of forecasting the future of mathematics lies in
the study of its history and its present state.

And have we not here, for us mathematicians, a task in some sort
professional? We are accustomed to extrapolation, that process
which serves to deduce the future from the past and the present and
so well know its limitations that we run no risk of being deluded with
its forecasts.

In the past there have been prophets incapable of seeing progress,
those who have so willingly affirmed that all problems capable of
solution have been solved and that nothing remains for future glean-
ing. Happily the example of the past reassures us. Often enough,
already, it has been believed that all problems capable of solution
have been solved or at least stated. Then the sense of the word
solution becomes broadened and the insolvable problems become the
most interesting of all and undreamed-of problems have arisen. ‘To
the Greeks a good solution must employ only the rule and compass;
later it became that obtained by the extraction of roots; still later
that obtained by the use of algebraic or logarithmic functions.
These prophets of no advance thus always outflanked, always
forced to retreat, have, I believe, been forced out of existence.

As they are dead I will not combat them. We know that mathe-
matics still develops and our task is to find in what sense. Some
one replies, “in every sense;” and in part that is true. But, if abso-
lutely true, it would be somewhat startling. Our riches would soon

¢ Address delivered April 10, 1908, at the general session of the Fourth Inter-
national Congress of Mathematicians (Rome, April 6-11, 1908); previously
published in pamphlet form by and at the expense of the Mathematical Society
of Palermo. M. Poincaré was unable to deliver this lecture and M. Darboux
graciously undertook the task. To M. Guecia we express our gratitude for the
authority which he has courteously extended for its reproduction.
123
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

become an incumbrance and their increase produce an accumulation
as incomprehensible as all the unknown truth is to the ignorant.

The historian, the physicist himself, must make his selection from
among the facts; the brain of the scholar—but a small corner of the
universe—could never contain this entire universe; so among the
countless facts which nature presents, some must be passed by, others
retained. It is as true, a fortiori, in mathematics for neither may
the mathematician himself gather pellmell all the facts which come
before him. Rather it is he—I was going to say his caprice—which
creates them. It is he who constructs from the facts a new combina-
tion. Nature does not in general bring this to him ready-made.

Doubtless it happens sometimes that the mathematician ap-
proaches a problem set by the needs of physics, as when the physicist
or the engineer asks of him the calculation of some number in view
of an application. Shall we say, we mathematicians, that we must
content ourselves to await these commands and, instead of cultivating
our science for our pleasure, to have no other care than accommodat-
ing ourselves to the tastes of our clients? If there were no other ob-
jects for mathematicians than to come to the aid of those who are
studying nature it would be from them then that we must await the
word of command. Yet is this the right point of view? Certainly
not; if we had not cultivated the exact sciences for themselves our
mathematical machine would not have been created, and on the day
when the word of command came from the physicist we would have
been without arms.

Nor do the physicists, before studying some phenomenon, wait
until some urgent need of life has made the study a necessity, and
they are right; had the scientists of the eighteenth century neglected
the study of electricity because in their eyes it was but a curiosity
of no practical interest we would not have in the twentieth century
either the telegraph, or electro-chemistry, or our electrical machinery.
The physicist, when forced to choose, is not guided in his selection
solely by utility. What brings about then his selection from among
the facts of nature? We can not easily say. The phenomena which
interest him are those which may lead to the discovery of some
law. Those facts interest him which bear some analogy to many
other phenomena, which do not appear as isolated facts but closely
grouped with others. An isolated fact can be observed by all eyes;
by those of the ordinary person as well as of the wise. But it is the
true physicist alone who may see the bond which unites several facts
among which the relationship is important though obscure. The
story of Newton’s apple is probably not true, but it is symbolical; so
let us think of it as true. Well, we must believe that many before
Newton had seen apples fall, but they made no deduction. Facts are
sterile until there are minds capable of choosing between them and
THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. 125

discerning those which conceal something and recognizing that which
is concealed ; minds which under the bare fact see the soul of the fact.

That is exactly what we do in mathematics; out of the various
elements at our disposal we could evolve millions of different com-
binations, but one of these combinations by itself alone is absolutely
void of value. Oftentimes we take much trouble in its construction,
but that serves absolutely for naught, unless possibly to give a task
for further consideration. But it will be wholly different on the
day that that combination takes its place in a class of like results
and we have noted this analogy. We are no longer in the presence
of a bare fact but of a law. And the true inventor is not the work-
man who has patiently built some few of these combinations, but
he who has shown their relationships, their parentage. The former
saw only the mere fact, the other alone felt the soul of the fact.
Oftentimes for the indication of this parentage it has served the
inventor’s purpose to invent a new name and this name becomes
creative; the history of science will supply us with innumerable such
instances.

The celebrated Viennese philosopher, Mach, states the réle of
science to be the production of economy of thought just as a machine
produces economy of labor. And that is very just. The savage
counts with his fingers or with his assemblage of pebbles. By teach-
ing the children the multiplication table we spare them later in-
numerable countings of pebbles. Someone, sometime, has discovered
with his pebbles, or otherwise, that 6 times 7 makes 42; it occurred
to him to note the fact and he thus spared us the necessity of doing
it over again. He did not waste his time even though his calcula-
tion was only for his own pleasure; his operation cost him but two
minutes; it would have cost two thousands of millions of minutes
had a thousand of million of men to recompute it after he had.

The importance of a fact is known by its fruits, that is to say,
by the amount of thought which it enables us to economize.

In physics, the facts of great fruitage are those which combine
into some very general law, because they then allow us to predict
a great number of other facts, and it is just the same with mathe-
matics. I have devoted myself to a complicated calculation and
have come laboriously to a result; but I will not feel repaid for my
pains if I am not now able to foresee the results of other analogous
calculations and to pursue such calculations with sure steps, avoiding
the hesitations, the gropings of the first time. I shall not have
wasted my time, on the contrary, if these gropings have ended in
revealing to me in the problem which I have just treated some
hidden relationship with a far more extended class of problems. If
at the same time they have shown me resemblances and differences;
if, in short, they have made me forsee the possibility of a gen-
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

eralization, then it is not merely a new answer which I have acquired ;
it is a new force.

An example which comes at once to mind is the algebraic formula
which gives us the solution of a class of numerical problems when
its letters are replaced by numbers. Thanks to the formula, a sin-
gle algebraic demonstration spares us the pains of going over the
same ground time after time for each new calculation. But this
gives us only a very rough illustration. Everyone knows that there
are analogies, some most valuable, which can not be expressed by a
formula,

If a new result has value it is when, by binding together long-
known elements, until now scattered and appearing unrelated to
each other, it suddenly brings order where there reigned apparent
disorder. It then allows us to see at a glance the place which each
one of these elements occupies in the ensemble. This new fact is
not alone important in itself, but it brings value to all the older facts
which it now binds together. The brain is as weak as the senses,
and it would be lost in the complexities of the world were there
not harmony in that complexity. After the manner of the short-
sighted, we would see only detail after detail, losing sight of each
detail before the examination of another, unable to bind them
together. Those facts alone are worthy of our attention which bring
order into this complexity and so render it comprehensible.

Mathematicians attach great importance to the elegance of their
methods and results; nor is this pure dilettanteism. Indeed, what
brings to us this feeling of elegance in a solution or demonstration ?
It is the harmony among the various parts, their happy balancing,
their symmetry; it is, in short, all that puts order among them,
all that brings unity to them and which consequently gives us a
certain command over them, a comprehension at the same time both
of the whole and of the parts. But as truly it is that which brings
with it a further harvest, for, in fact, the more clearly we compre-
hend this assemblage, and at a glance, the better we will realize its
relationships with neighboring groups, the greater consequently will
be our chances of divining further possible generalizations. Ele-
gance may arise from the feeling of surprise in the unexpected asso-
ciation of objects which we had not been accustomed to group to-
gether; it occurs frequently from the contrast between the simplicity
of the means employed and the complexity of the given problem; we
consequently reflect as to the reason of this contrast and almost with-
out fail we find the cause not in pure hazard, but in some unexpected
law. In a word, the sentiment of mathematical elegance is naught
else than the satisfaction due to some, I know not just what, adapta-
tion between the solution just found and the needs of our mind, and
it is because of this adaptation itself that the solution becomes an
THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. Loy

instrument to us. This esthetic satisfaction is therefore connected
with the economy of thought. Thus the caryatides of the Erech-
theum engender in us the same feeling of elegance, for example,
because they carry their heavy load with such grace, or we might
-say so cheerfully, that they produce in us a feeling of economy of
effort.

It is for the same reason that when a somewhat long calculation
has led us to a simple and striking result we are not fully satisfied
until we have shown that we could have foreseen, if not the whole
result, at least its most characteristic details. Why? What is it
that prevents our satisfaction with this accomplished calculation
giving all which we seemed to desire? It is because our long calcu-
lation would not again serve in another analogous case and because
we have not used that mode of reasoning, often half intuitive, which
would have allowed us to foresee our result. When our process is
short we may see at a glance all its steps, so that we may easily
change and adapt it to whatever problem of the same nature may
occur, and then, since it allows us to foresee whether the solution
of the problem will be simple, we can tell at least whether the prob-
lem is worth undertaking.

What we have just said suffices to show how vain would be any
attempt whatever to replace by any mechanical process the free initia-
tive of the mathematician. To obtain a result of real worth it will
not suffice to grind it out or to have a machine for putting our facts
in order. It is not alone order but the unexpected order which is
of real worth. The machine may grind upon the mere fact, but the
soul of the fact will always escape it.

Since the middle of the last century mathematicians have been
more and more anxious for the attainment of absolute rigor in their
processes; they are right, and that tendency will increase more and
more. In mathematics rigor is not everything, but without it there
would be nothing; a demonstration which is not rigorous is void.
I believe no one will contest this truth. But to take this too literally
would bring the conclusion, for example, that before 1820 there
Was no mathematics. That is surely going too far; then the geome-
tricians assumed willingly what we explain by a prolix discussion.
This does not mean that they did not realize their omission, but they
passed it over too rapidly, and for greater surety they would have
had to go through the trouble of giving this discussion.

But is it necessary to repeat every time this discussion? Those who,
first in the field, had to be preoccupied with all this rigor have given
us demonstrations which we could try to imitate; but if the demon-
strations of the future must be built upon this model our mathe-
matical treatises would become too long, and if I fear this length
it is not only because I dread the incumbrance of our libraries, but
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

also because I fear that in this lengthening of our demonstrations
they will lose that appearance of harmony of which I have just
shown the so serviceable role.

We should always aim toward the economy of thought. It is not
enough to give models for imitation. It must be possible to pass
beyond these models and, in place of repeating their reasoning at
length each time, to sum this in a few words. And this has now and
then been already accomplished; for instance, there was a whole
type of demonstrations which were perfectly similar and repeatedly
occurring; they were perfectly rigorous, but tedious; one day some
one thought of applying the word convergence and that word has
taken their place. There is now no need of repeating these proc-
esses, for they are understood. Those who have cut our difficulties
in quarter have rendered us double service—first, they have taught
us to do as they have done when there is need, but above all to
avoid this process as often as we can without the loss of this rigor.

We have just seen, through an example, the importance of words
in mathematics, but I could cite many more cases. It is scarcely
credible, as Mach said, how much a well-chosen word can economize
thought. I do not know whether or not I have said somewhere that
mathematics is the art of giving the same name to different things.
We must so understand it. It is meet that things different in sub-
stance but like in form should be run in the same mold, so to speak.
When our language is well chosen it is astonishing to see how all
the demonstrations made upon some known fact immediately become
applicable to many new facts. Nothing has to be changed, not even
the words, since the names are the same in the new cases.

There is an example which comes at once to my mind; it is
quaternions, upon which, however, I will not dwell. A word well
chosen very often causes the disappearance of exceptions to rules as
announced in their former forms; it was for this purpose that the
terms negative quantities, imaginary quantities, infinite points, have
been invented. And let us not forget that these exceptions are per-
nicious, for they conceal laws.

Very well then, one of those marks by sane we recognize the
pregnancy of a peat is In that it permits a happy innovation in our
language. The mere fact is oftentimes without interest; it has been
noted many times, but has rendered no service to science; it becomes
of value only on that day when some happily advised thinker per-
celves a relationship which he indicates and symbolizes by a word.

The physicists also do just the same way. They invented the
term energy, a word of very great fertility, because through the
elimination of exceptions it established a law; because it gave the
same name to things differing in material but similar in form.
THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. 129

Among the words which have had this happy result I will mention
the group and the invariant. They make us perceive the gist of many
mathematical demonstrations; they make us realize how often mathe-
maticians of the past must have run across groups without recogniz-
ing them and how, believing these groups such isolated things, they
have found them in close relationship without knowing why.

To-day we would say that they were looking right in the face
of isomorphic groups. We feel now that in a group the substance
interests us but very little; it is the form alone which matters, and
so, when we once know well a single group, then we know through it
all the isomorphic groups; thanks to the words groups and isomor-
phism, which sum in a few syllables this subtle law and make it at once
familiar to us all, we take our step at once and in so doing economize
all effort of thought. The idea of group, moreover, is bound up with
that of transformation. Why then do we attach so much value to
the invention of a new transformation? Because from a single
theorem we may deduce ten or twenty; it has a value similar to the
addition of a zero at the right of an integral number.

We now realize what has determined the direction of the advance
of mathematics in the past and the present and it is as certain what
will determine it in the future. But the nature of the problems
which come up will contribute equally. We must not forget what
should be our goal; according to me that end is double. Our science
confines itself at the same time to philosophy and to physies, and it is
for these two neighbors that we work. And so we have always seen
and always will see mathematics progressing in two opposite
directions.

In one sense mathematics must return upon itself and that is use-
ful, for in returning upon itself it goes back to the study of the human
mind which has created it rather than to those creations which bor-
row the least bit from the external world. That is why certain
mathematical speculations are useful, such as those whose aim is the
study of postulates, of unusual geometries, of functions having
peculiar values. The more these speculations depart from our com-
mon conceptions and consequently from nature or practical applica-
tions, the better they show us the working of the human mind which
constructs them when it becomes freed from the tyranny of the exter-
nal world, and the better, in consequence, it comes to know itself.

But it is to the opposite side—the side of nature—against which we
must direct the main corps of our army.

There we meet the physicist or the engineer who says to us: “ Can
you integrate for me such a differential equation? I must have it
within eight days because of a certain construction which must be
finished by that time.” “That equation,” we reply, “is not of an
integrable type; you know there are many like it.” “ Yes, I know
130 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

that; but of what use are you then?” More often, however, there is
a better understanding. The engineer does not need his integral in
finite terms. He needs only a rough value of the integral function, or
perhaps only a certain numerical result which he could easily deduce
from such a value of the integral if he had it. Ordinarily we could
get this numerical result for him if we knew just how accurate it
must be—that is, with what approximation.

Formerly an equation was not considered solved except when the
solution was expressed by means of a finite number of known func-
tions; but that is possible scarcely once in a hundred times. What we
can always do, or rather what we may always try to do, is to solve
the problem qualitatively, so to speak—that is, to find the general
shape of the curve which the unknown function represents.

It remains, then, to find the quantitative solution of the problem;
but if the unknown can not be determined as a finite result it can
always be represented by means of an infinite convergent series which
will allow the numerical calculation. May we regard this as a true so-
lution? It is related that Newton once communicated to Leibnitz an
anagram something lke this:

aaaaabbbeeeeti, ete.

Leibnitz naturally was wholly at a loss as to its meaning; but we who
have the key know the signification of that anagram and translat-
ing it into ordinary language it becomes: I know how to integrate all
differential equations; and we are led to say to ourselves that Newton
had strange good luck with such a singular illusion. He would have
said all simply, that he could form (by the method of undetermined
coefficients) a series of powers satisfying formally the given equation.

Such an apparent solution would no longer satisfy us to-day; and
that for two reasons, because its convergence would be too slow and
because the terms would follow one another according to no definable
law. On the other hand, the series © seems to us to leave nothing to
be desired, first, because it converges very rapidly (and that because the
engineer wishes his result as quickly as possible), and then because
we may see at a glance the law of its terms (that, for the satisfaction
of the esthetic needs of the mathematician).

But there are no longer some problems which are solved and others
which are not; there are only problems more or less solved accordingly
as they are represented by a series converging more or less rapidly and
following a law more or less harmonious. It occurs sometimes that
an imperfect solution leads to a better one. Sometimes the series con-
verges so slowly that calculations from it are impracticable, and we
have shown only the possibility of a solution. And then the engineer
thinks the solution only derisory, and he is right, as it will not allow
him to finish his construction on the given date. He cares little
THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. Neil

whether the solution will be useful to the engineer of the twenty-
second century; we feel otherwise, and are sometimes as happy if
we have saved for our grandson as for our contemporaries.

Sometimes, trying this way and that, empirically, we might say,
we happen upon a formula sufficiently convergent. “ What more do
you want?” we ask the engineer; and yet, despite that, we are not
satisfied ourselves. Why? Could we have foreseen it the first time,
we might a second. We have reached a solution; that is a small
matter to us if we have no sure hope of getting it a second time.

As a science grows it becomes more and more difficult to know it
all. Then we cut it up into bits and each one contents himself with
a bit; in a word, we specialize. If this process continues it will
become a vexatious obstacle to the progress of our science. We have
said that it is the unexpected bringing together of diverse parts of
our science which brings progress. Too much specialization prevents
this. Let us hope that a congress like this, bringing us into closer
relationships with each other and spreading before the eyes of each
his neighbor’s fields, obliging us to compare these fields, so that we
set forth for awhile from our own little villages, will annul this
danger to which I have just called attention.

But I have stopped too long over generalities. Let us pass in re-
view the diverse parts which form the whole science of mathematics,
let us see what each branch has done, whither each tends and what
we may hope from each. If the views we have just expressed are
right, the great advances of the past will be found where two of
these branches have approached each other, where the similarity of
their forms despite the dissimilarity of material has become evident,
where one has been modeled upon the other in such manner that each
takes profit from the other. At the same time we should foresee the
progress of the future in interlockings of the same nature.

I. ARITHMETIC.

The progress of arithmetic has been slower than that of algebra
or analytical geometry, and the reason is very evident. Arithmetic
does not present to us that feeling of continuity which is such a
precious guide; each whole number is separate from the next of its
kind and has in a sense individuality; each in a manner is an excep-
tion and that is why general theorems are rare in the theory of num-
bers; and that is why those theorems which may exist are more hid-
den and longer escape those who are searching for them.

But if arithmetic is less developed than algebra and analytical
geometry it may well model itself upon those branches and take profit
by their advances. The arithmetician must take for his guide the
analogies with algebra. These analogies are many, and if often they
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

have not so far proved very useful yet they have at least been known
for some time; the language itself of the two branches shows this;
for instance when we speak of transcendental numbers and when we
take into account that the future classification of these numbers
images that of transcendental functions; still it is difficult to see
how we can pass from one classification to the other; however, the
step has already been taken, so it is no longer the task of the future.

The first example which comes to mind is the theory of congruents
where we find a perfect parallelism with that of algebraic equations.
And we will certainly complete this parallelism which must exist
between the theory of algebraic curves and that of congruents of two
variables, for instance. And when the problems relative to con-
gruents of several variables are solved we shall have taken the first
step toward the solution of many of the questions of indeterminate
analysis.

Another example where the analogy has not always been seen at
first sight is given to us by the theory of corpora and ideals. For a
counterpart let us consider the curves traced upon a surface; to the
existing numbers correspond the complete intersections, to the ideals
the incomplete intersections, and to the prime ideals the indecompos-
able curves; the various classes of ideals thus have their analogs.

There can be no doubt that this analogy can throw light upon the
theory of ideals, or upon that of surfaces, or perhaps on both at the
same time.

The theory of forms, and in particular that of quadratic forms, is
intimately bound with that of ideals. Among the theories of arith-
metic this was one of the first to take shape and it came when the
arithmeticians introduced unity through the considerations of groups
of linear transformations.

These transformations permitted classification and consequently the
introduction of order. Perhaps we have obtained all the fruit which
could be hoped for; but if these linear transformations are the parents
of geometrical perspectives, analytical geometry may furnish many
other transformations (as, for example, the birational transforma-
tions of an algebraic curve) for which it may be well worth our while
to look for arithmetical analogs. Doubtless these will form discon-
tinuous groups of which we must first study the fundamental parts
as the key to the whole. I have no doubt that in this study we will
make use of Minkowski’s Geometrie der Zahlen (Geometry of Num-
bers).

An idea from which we have not yet taken all that is possible is
the introduction by Hermite of continuous variables in the theory of
numbers. Let us start with two forms F and F’, the second quadratic
determinate, and apply to both the same transformation; if the form
F’ transformed is reduced, we will say that the transformation is
THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. 133

reduced and also that the form F transformed is reduced. It then
follows that if the form F can be transformed to itself it can have
many reductions; but this inconvenience is essential and can be
avoided by no subterfuge. On the other hand these reductions do
not prevent a classification of the forms. It is clear that this idea
which has hitherto been applied only to limited classes of forms and
transformations can be extended to groups of nonlinear transforma-
tions and we may yet hope to have a harvest greater than has ever
been reaped from it.

An arithmetical domain where unity seems absolutely absent is
found in the theory of prime numbers; the laws of asymptotes have
been found and we must not hope for others; but these laws are
isolated and are reached only by different paths which seem to have
no intercommunication. I believe that I have a glimpse of the
wished for unity, but I see it only vaguely; all leads back without
doubt to the study of a family of transcendental functions which,
through the study of singular points and the application of the
method of M. Darboux, will permit the calculation asymptotically of
certain functions of very great numbers.

Il. ALGEBRA.

The theory of algebraic equations will still hold for a long while
the attention of geometricians; the sides from which it may be ap-
proached are numerous and diverse; the most important is that of the
theory of groups, to which we will return. But there is also the ques-
tion of the calculation of the numerical value of roots and the discus-
sion of the number of real roots. Laguerre has shown that not all
was said upon this point by Sturm. Then there is the study of the
system of invariants which do not change sign when the number
of real roots remains the same. We may also form series of powers
representing functions which may have for singular points the
various roots of an algebraic equation (for instance, rational func-
tions of which the denominator is the first member of this equation) ;
the coefficients of the terms of high order will furnish one of the
roots with an approximation more or less close; there is here the
germ of a process of numerical calculation to which a systematic
study could be given.

During a period of forty years the study of invariants of algebraic
forms seems to have absorbed all algebra; they are to-day laid aside,
although the subject has not been exhausted; but we must no longer
limit the study to the invariants of linear transformations; it is to be
extended to those referring to any group whatever. The theorems
acquired in the past have suggested others more general which are
grouping about them much as a crystal grows from a solution. And
as to the theorem of Gordan that the number of distinct invariants
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

is limited, the demonstration of which Hilbert has so happily sim-
plified, it seems to me that it leads to a problem much more general:
If we have an infinity of whole polynomials, depending algebraically
from a finite number among them, can we always deduce them from a
finite number among them by addition and multiplication ?

We must not believe that the task of algebra is finished because we
have found rules for all the possible combinations. We have still to
search out the interesting combinations, those which satisfy such and
such conditions. Thus there will be established a sort of indeter-
minate analysis in which the unknowns will not be whole numbers
but polynomials. Then in this case algebra will model itself upon
arithmetic and take as a guide the analogy of the whole number,
either as a whole polynomial of any coefficients whatever or as a
whole polynomial of whole coefficients.

IiI. DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS.

Much has already been done for linear differential equations and
it remains to perfect what has been commenced. But with nonlinear
differential equations there has been much less advance. The hope of
an integration by the aid of known functions has been given up long
since; therefore we must study for themselves the functions defined
by these differential equations and then attempt a systematic classi-
fication; the study of the mode of change in the neighborhood of
singular points doubtless will furnish the first elements of such a
classification, but we will be satisfied only when we shall have found
a group of transformations (for instance, the transformations of
Cremona) which will play with respect to the differential equations
the same role as the group of birational transformations does for
the algebraic equation. We can then group in the same class all the
transformations of the same equation. We shall have for our guide
the analogy with a theory already made—that of birational trans-
formations and the genus of an algebraic curve.

We may propose to lead back the study of these functions to
that of uniform functions, and this in two ways: We know that if
y=f(«), we can, whatever may be the f/(#), express y and # by
uniform functions of an auxiliary variable ¢; but, if f(a) is the solu-
tion of a differential equation, in what case will the uniform auxil-
iary functions themselves satisfy the differential equation? We do
not know; neither do we know in what cases the general integral can
be put in the form F (a, y)=arbitrary constant, where F (a, y)
is a uniform function.

I will urge the qualitative discussion of the curves defined by dif-
ferential equations. In the simplest case, that in which the equation
is of the first order and the first degree, this discussion leads to the
.

THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. 135

determination of the number of limited cycles. It is very sensitive
and what will help us is the analogy with the method of the deter-
mination of the number of real roots of an algebraic equation; when-
ever any step whatever shows the real status of this analogy we may
be sure of a very great advance.

IV. EQUATIONS WITH PARTIAL DERIVATIVES.

Our knowledge of equations containing partial derivatives has
taken recently a very considerable step in advance by means of the
discoveries of M. Fredholm. If we examine closely the basis of these
discoveries we will find- that this difficult theory is modeled upon an-
other more simple, that of determinants and of systems of the first
degree. In the greater part of the problems of mathematical physics
the equations to be integrated are linear; they serve to determine un-
known functions of several variables, functions which are continuous.
Why? Because we have made the equations in conformity with the
supposition that matter is continuous. But matter is not continuous;
it is formed of atoms; had we wished to write equations as they
should be for an observer whose sight is sufficiently keen to see these
atoms, we would not have had a small number of differential equa-
tions serving to determine certain unknown functions; we would
have had a very great number of algebraic equations for determining
a great number of unknown constants. And these algebraic equa-
tions would have been linear and of such a nature that with infinite
patience we could have applied directly to them the methods of
determinants.

But, since the brevity of our lives will not allow us this luxury
of infinite patience, we must proceed otherwise; we must pass to the
limit and suppose matter continuous. There are two ways of gen-
eralizing the theory of equations of the first degree in passing to
the limit. We can consider an infinity of separate equations with
an infinity, equally independent of unknowns. This has been done,
for example, by Hill in his theory of the moon. We will then have
infinite determinants which are to ordinary determinants as series
are to finite sums.

We can take an equation of partial derivatives representing, we
may say, a continuous infinity of equations, and use them to de-
termine an unknown function representing a continuous infinity of
unknowns. We then have other infinite determinants which are to
ordinary determinants as integrals are to finite sums. Fredholm
used this method; his success moreover came from his utilization of
the following fact: If, in a determinant, the elements of the prin-
cipal diagonal are equal to unity and the other elements are
homogeneous and of the first order, we can arrange the development

45745°—sm 1909——10
136 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

of the determinant by combining in a single group all the homoge-
neous terms of the same degree. The infinite determinant of Fred-
holm may be so arranged and it happens that we thus obtain a con-
verging series.

Has this analogy which certainly guided Fredholm given us all it
ought to?, Certainly not. If his success came from the linear form
of the equations we should be able to apply ideas of the same nature
to all problems having equations of linear form, and, indeed, to
ordinary differential equations, since their integration may be al-
ways reduced to that of linear equations of partial derivatives of the
first order.

Recently the problem of Dirichlet and those connected with it have
been approached by another method, returning to the original one of
Dirichlet and searching for the minimum of a definite integral except
that this is now done by rigorous processes. I do not doubt that
_ these two methods without much difficulty will be made comparable
and advantage taken of their mutual relationships. Nor do I doubt
that both will have much to gain by such a comparison. Thanks to
M. Hilbert, who has been doubly an initiator, we are already on that
path.

V.—THE ABELIAN FUNCTIONS.

The principal question remaining to us for solution concerning
Abelian functions we know. The Abelian functions begot by the
integrals relative to an algebraic curve are not the most general ones;
they belong only to a particular case, so we may call them special
Abelian functions. What is their relationship to the general func-
tions and how shall we classify these latter? But a short time ago
the solution of these problems seemed far distant. I believe that it
is virtually solved to-day, now that MM. Castelnuovo and Enriques
have published their recent memoir upon the integrals of total differ-
entials of the varieties of more than two dimensions. We know now
that there are Abelian functions belonging to a curve and others to
a surface, and that it will never be necessary to extend them to more
than two dimensions. Combining this result with what we may ob-
tain from the works of M. Wirtinger we will doubtless reach the
end of all our difficulties.

VI. THE THEORY OF FUNCTIONS.

It is especially with regard to functions of two and of several
variables that I wish to speak. The analogy with the functions of
a single variable gives a valuable but insufficient guide; there is an
essential difference between the two classes of functions, and every
time a generalization is attempted by passing from one to the other
THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. 7

an unexpected obstacle has been encountered which has sometimes
been overcome by special artifices, but which so far has more often
remained insurmountable. We must therefore search for facts from
first principles to make clear to us this difference between functions
of one variable and those containing several. We should look first
more closely at the devices which have brought success in certain
cases to see what they may have in common. Why is a conformal
representation more often impossible in the domain of four dimen-
sions and what shall we substitute for it? Does not the true general-
ization of functions of one variable come in the harmonic functions
of four variables of which the real parts of the functions of two
variables are only particular cases? Can we make use of what we
know of algebraic or rational functions in the study of transcendental
functions of several variables? Or, in other words, in what sense
may we say that the transcendental functions of two variables are
to transcendental functions of one variable as rational functions of
two variables are to rational functions of one variable?

It is true that if z=f (wv, y) we can, whatever the function 7 may
be, express w, y, 2, respectively, as uniform functions of two auxiliary
variables, or, to employ an expression which has become common for
this process, can we make uniform the functions of two variables
as we do those of one? I limit myself to the setting of the problem,
the solution of which may perhaps come in the future.

Vil. THE THEORY OF GROUPS.

The theory of groups is an extensive subject upon which there
is much to be said. There are many kinds of groups, and whatever
classification may be adopted we will always find new groups which
will not fit it. J wish to limit myself and will speak here only of the
continuous groups of Lie and the discontinuous ones of Galois, both
of which we are now wont to classify as groups of finite order, al-
though the term does not apply to both groups in the same sense.

In the theory of the groups of Lie we are guided by a special
analogy; a finite transformation is the result of the combination of
an infinity of infinitessimal transformations. The simplest case
is that where the infinitessimal transformation is equivalent to the
multiplication by 1-++e, where « is very small. The repetition of
these transformations gives rise to the exponential function; that was
Neper’s method of procedure. We know that an exponential func-
tion can be expressed by a very simple and very convergent series,
and analogy should then show us what path to follow. Moreover,
that analogy may be expressed by a special symbolism upon which
you will excuse me from dwelling. We are already well advanced
along this path, thanks to Lie, Killing, and Cartan; it remains only
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

to simplify the demonstrations and to coordinate and classify the
results.

The study of the groups of Galois is much less advanced, and for
a very simple reason, that same reason which makes arithmetic be-
hindhand to analytical geometry, that lack of continuity which is
of such great use for our advances. But happily there is a manifest
parallelism between the two theories and we must try to put this
more and more in evidence. This analogy is exactly parallel to
that which we have noted between arithmetic and algebra and we
should derive from it similar aid.

VIII. GEOMETRY.

It seems at first sight as if geometry could contain nothing which
is not already presented to us in algebra and analytical geometry;
for the facts of geometry are nought else than the facts of algebra
_ and analytical geometry expressed in another language. One might
think then, after the review which we have just made, that there
would remain nothing further to say specially about geometry.
But we would then be unmindful of a well-built language, mode of
argument, of something which adds to the things themselves a mode
of expressing them and consequently of grouping them.

And, moreover, geometrical considerations lead us to propose new
problems; they are, indeed, if you so choose to call them, analytical
problems, but they would never have been proposed through ana-
lytical geometry alone. Meanwhile analytical geometry profits from
these just as it has profited from the problems it has been called upon
to solve for physics.

Common geometry has a great advantage in that the senses may
come to the help of our reason and aid it in finding what path to
follow, and many minds prefer to put their problems of analytical
geometry in the ordinary geometrical form. Unfortunately our senses
can not lead us so very far, and they fail us when we try to escape
from the classical three dimensions. Must we say that, departing
from the limited domain where our senses seem to wish to confine us,
we must no longer count upon pure analysis and that all geometry of
more than three dimensions is vain and useless? In the generation
which preceded us the greatest masters would have replied “ yes.”
We have nowadays become so familiar with this notion of more than
three dimensional space that we may speak of it even in the university
without arousing astonishment.

But what purpose can geometry serve? It gives us, close at hand,
a most convenient language which can express very concisely what
the language of analytical geometry can express only in very prolix
phraseology. Moreover, its language gives the same name where
THE FUTURE OF MATHEMATICS—POINCARE. 139

there are resemblances and affirms analogies so that we do not forget
them. And even more, it guides us into that space which is too vast
for us and which we may not see; it does this by ever bringing to mind
the relationship of the latter space to our ordinary, visible space,
which without doubt is only a very imperfect image, but which never-
theless is an image. Here further, as in all the preceding instances,
this analogy with what is simple allows us to comprehend that which
is complex.

This geometry of more than three dimensions is not a simple
analytical geometry; it is not purely quantitative; it is also qualita-
tive, and it is in the latter sense that it becomes especially interesting.
The importance of the Analysis Situs is very great; I can not insist
too much on that; the advance which it has taken from Riemann,
one of its chief creators, is enough to indicate this. It is essential
that it should be constructed completely in hyperspace. We would
be then furnished with a new sense, one capable of seeing really into
hyperspace.

The problems of the Analysis Situs would perhaps not have been
thought of had there been only the language of analytical geometry ;
or rather, I am wrong, they would certainly have been set, since their
solution is necessary for many of the questions of analytical geom-
etry; but they would have been set one after another with no indi-
cation of a common bond between them.

It is the introduction of the ideas of transformations and groups
which has contributed especially to the recent progress in geometry.
We owe to these that geometry is no longer an assemblage of more or
less curious theorems which follow each other with no resemblances;
they have now acquired a unity; and, furthermore, we must not forget
in our history of science that it was for the sake of geometry that
a systematic study was started of continuous transformations, so that
pure geometry has contributed its part to the development of the idea
of the group so useful in the other branches of mathematics.

The study of groups of points upon an algebraic curve, according
to the method of Brill and Noether, has given us also fruitful
results either directly or as serving as models for analogous theories.
We have thus seen develop a whole chapter of geometry where the
curves traced upon a surface play a role similar to that of a group
of points upon a curve. And from this very day on, we may hope
to see in this way light thrown on the last mysteries which exist in
the study of surfaces and which have been so difficult to solve.

The geometricians have thus a vast field from which to reap a
harvest. I must not forget enumerative geometry, and especially
infinitesimal geometry, cultivated with such brilliancy by M. Dar-
boux, and to which M. Bianchi has added such useful contributions.
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

If I do not say more upon this subject it is because I have nothing
to add after the brilliant lecture by M. Darboux.*

IX. CANTORISM.

I have already spoken of the need we have of continually going
back to the first principles of our science and the profit we may thus
obtain in the study of the human mind. It is this need which has
inspired two attempts which hold an important place in the more
recent part of mathematical history. The first is Cantorism, whose
services to science we all know. One of the characteristic traits of
Cantorism is that in place of generalizing and building theorems more
and more complicated on top of each other and defining by means of
these constructions themselves, it starts out from the genus supremum
and defines, as the scholastics would have said, per genus proximum
et differentiam specificam. What horror would have been brought
to certain minds—that of Hermite, for instance, whose favorite idea
‘was comparing the mathematical to the natural sciences! With the
raost of us these prejudices have passed away, but it still happens that
we come across certain paradoxes, certain apparent contradictions
which would have overwhelmed Zénon d’Elée and the school of
Mégore with joy. I think, and I am not the only one who does, that
it is important never to introduce any conception which may not be
completely defined by a finite number of words. Whatever may be
the remedy adopted, we can promise ourselves the joy of the physi-
cian called in to follow a beautiful pathological case.

X. THE RESEARCH OF POSTULATES.

And yet, further, we are trying to enumerate the axioms and postu-
lates, more or less deceiving, which serve as the foundation stones of
our various mathematical theories. M. Hilbert has obtained the most
brillant results. It seems now as if this domain must be very limited
and that there will not be any more to be done when this inventory is
finished, and that will be very soon. But when all has been gathered
together there will be plenty of ways of classifying them, and a good
librarian will always find something to busy himself with and each
classification will be instructive to the philosopher.

I stop this review, which I could not hope to make complete, for
many reasons, and because I have already drawn too much on your
patience. I believe that my examples will have been sufficient to show
you by what means the mathematical sciences have progressed in the
past and along what paths they must proceed in the future.

4See G. Darboux: Les origines, les méthodes et les problémes de la Géométrie
infinitésimale (The origin, methods, and problems of infinitesimal geometry).
Revue générale des Sciences, 15 Nov., 1908,
WHAT CONSTITUTES SUPERIORITY IN AN AIR-SHIP.*

By Commandant PAauL RENARD.

The question has been much discussed as to what type has the
most noteworthy qualities among the numerous devices which are
to-day carrying men through the air. Some are partisans of the
aeroplane, others of the dirigible, and these two camps are always in
rivalry, sometimes in open enmity, so that unanimity is far from
prevailing.

In aviation there are monoplane and biplane enthusiasts, those
who prefer aeroplanes without a tail, such as the Wrights’ machines,’
or with a tail, like all the others. In aerostation, or ballooning,
some contend for the flexible type like the Ville de Paris, others for
the semirigid type like the Republique, and lastly, others who vaunt
the merits of the rigid type, like the Zeppelin.

How can anyone know where to stand in the face of all these opin-
ions? From a technical point of view, excellent arguments can be
found in favor of each of the present types of air-ships as well as for
those which may be later devised; specialists can discuss these ques-
tions indefinitely. Although as far as I am concerned I have a well-
established opinion on this point, it is not from the theoretical stand-
point that I wish to express myself to-day, but without wishing to
pass judgment it seems to me worth while to at least indicate the con-
siderations on which such a judgment should be based. In a word I
should like to determine here what, from a practical point of view,
are the qualities which can be demanded in an air-ship, and from
among these qualities to choose those which are of the greatest im-
portance and which as a consequence should preferably serve as a
criterion in passing judgment on a structure of a new kind.

According to the point of view, very different sorts of perform-
ances, if I may use such an expression, may be expected of an air-ship.
You may, for example, wish to rise as high as possible in the air, and
the capacity for upward ascension in such a case is evidently a quality

4Translated by permission from Revue des Deux Mondes, vol. 54, Noy. 1,
1909, pp. 181-199.
+The Wright aeroplane is now provided with a tail, or rear horizontal
rudder.—EKd.
141
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

to be considered. It is not enough merely to rise, however, but it is
also necessary to stay there. The period during which the air-ship
shall remain suspended in the air without touching the ground, there-
fore, is also one of the elements of interest in the question.

Another phase of the question is that any engine of locomotion must
be able to cover distances; the distance which separates the point of
departure from the finishing point is therefore one of the essential
characteristics of a voyage. In fact one might be tempted to say that
the best air-ship is the one that can travel the greatest distance in a
single flight before touching the earth.

Finally, it is not only necessary that a certain given distance shall
be covered, but it must take the shortest possible time to accomplish
it. In other words, speed is the most highly valued quality at the
present day. In all types of locomotion, whether by bicycle, automo-
bile, railroad trains, steamboat, or motor boat it seems that the prin-
cipal aim is speed, always speed, and still more speed. This search
for acceleration in means of transportation is one of the character-
istics of our epoch; and it is not to be wondered at, for although all
space is open to us, still our time is parsimoniously dealt out to us,
and the best way we can use it is to carefully economize it by the use of
the powerful mechanical means at our disposal.

Aerial navigation does not escape from this general law of locomo-
tion. Speed is therefore one of the important elements in the meas-
urement of the value of an air-ship. But a distinction must here be
made, for there are two kinds of speeds to be considered, termed
absolute speed, and individual speed. The absolute or effective speed
is the one commonly considered. It is the speed measured with re-
gard to the ground over which the air-ship is passing. If a dirigible
starts from Paris at 8 in the morning and at 11 o’clock is above Au-
xerre, the distance between the two cities being 150 kilometers as the
crow flies, we would say that its absolute velocity had been on the
average 50 kilometers an hour. This absolute speed is the one of
practical interest. It is the plain fact, all modifying circumstances
being removed from the calculation.

From the point of view of merit in a device, however, it is pre-
cisely these modifying circumstances that should be considered. ‘The
effective velocity results from the combination of two other velocities,
namely, the individual velocity of the vehicle, which will be defined
shortly, and the velocity of the wind.

Everyone knows what the velocity of the wind means. As for the
individual velocity of an air-ship, its definition is very simple; it is
the velocity which the air-ship could attain if there were no wind, or,
again, it is the velocity in calm air, or finally, its velocity in compari-
son with the ambient air, considering this to be at rest.

ct a
SUPERIORITY IN AN AIR-SHIP—-RENARD. 143

Of these two elements, the combination of which determines the
absolute velocity, one, the individual velocity, depends on the con-
struction of the air-ship; and the efforts of all aeronautic engineers
are directed toward giving this as great a value as possible; the other
element, the velocity of the wind, is entirely beyond us and we must
submit to it, whatever it is. But according to the direction and the
velocity of the wind, it is necessary to have very different individual
velocities to obtain a determined effective velocity.

If, for example, on the day when our dirigible traveled from Paris
to Auxerre in three hours, the wind had blown exactly in the desired
direction with a velocity of 50 kilometers an hour, the wind alone
would have been sufficient to accomplish the voyage in the time given
without any intervention of the individual velocity. The aeronaut
could have stopped his motor and thus would have made the journey
at little cost. The effective speed would be the same as the velocity
of the wind, the individual speed zero; the wind would have done all
and the machine nothing.

If the wind, however, although blowing in the proper direction
from Paris to Auxerre, had had a velocity of only 30 kilometers an
hour the aeronaut, if he were contented with allowing himself to be
carried by the wind, would have taken five hours to make the journey
instead of three. To attain the previous speed of 50 kilometers per
hour he would have to add to the velocity of the wind the 20 kilome-
ters lacking, and this difference would be nothing else but his indi-
vidual speed. In such a case we should say that the velocity of the
wind had been 30 kilometers an hour, the individual velocity 20, and
the effective or absolute velocity 50 kilometers per hour. Instead of
doing all the work as before, the wind had only done the greater part
and the motor the rest.

If the velocity of the wind had been but 10 kilometers, the motor
this time would have had to add not 20 kilometers but 40. In this
case the motor would have deserved the principal credit for the
voyage, and the wind would have furnished only a slight supple-
mentary velocity.

Let us suppose now that the air is absolutely calm, that is, the
velocity of the wind is zero. The motor alone can be counted on
here, and it is due to it that the speed of 50 kilometers an hour is
attained. The effective velocity will be equal to the individual
velocity, and the motor will have done all and the wind nothing.

Finally, if the wind, with a velocity of 30 kilometers an hour,
is blowing not in such a direction as to be astern from Paris to
Auxerre, but in the opposite direction, the motor will be required
to furnish an individual speed of 80 kilometers an hour. The first 30
are used up merely in compensating for the unfavorable effects of
the wind, the other 50 alone being effective. This time the motor
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

has not only done everything, as in calm air, but it has done more,
for in addition to the absolute velocity it has had to furnish a surplus
of individual velocity to counterbalance the hindering effect of the
wind.

In a word, in order to attain the same practical result as before,
that is, an absolute velocity of 50 kilometers an hour, the motor
should be capable of giving to the air-ship an individual velocity
of 0, 20, 40, 50, or 80 kilometers an hour.

We have considered here only the simplest case—when the wind
blows in the direction of the place to be reached or in exactly the
opposite direction. This is almost never the case in practice, so
that it becomes necessary in each case to determine what the indi-
vidual velocity must be to attain a certain absolute speed. The
problem is now a little more complicated, but the conclusions are the
same, and the individual velocity is necessarily sometimes less, some-
times more, than the absolute velocity, and at times the two may
even be equal. To sum up, all that may be said is that the wind
ean be either a help or a hindrance to the progress of air-ships, and
in exceptional cases neither obstructs nor is favorable to their evo-
lutions.

By those with a different point of view, it may finally be asked
if there is not opportunity to measure the value of an air-ship by the
amount of useful weight carried, in personnel or in material. The
power of transporting is certainly one of the qualities sought for in
certain vehicles.

All the qualities which we have passed in review—altitude, dura-
tion of voyage, distance covered, velocity, power of transportation—
have the common characteristic that they may be measured exactly,
their value can be expressed in precise figures, and thus they furnish
a fixed mathematical standard of comparison between different types
of air machines, for they are based on rigorous observations, and
questions of sentiment have not intervened. For instance, if the
altitude attained should be taken as the criterion of the value of a
dirigible, the one that has ascended to a height of 1,500 meters is
incontestibly superior to one that has only attained a height of 1.200
meters. If it is a matter of distance covered, the one which in a
single flight has traveled 800 kilometers is superior to one which
has only covered 600. That much is perfectly clear.

There are other qualities, however, less exact in their nature, which
nevertheless are not negligible, such as security, comfort, and pleasure
of voyages.

T do not eare to enter into a detailed examination of these phases of
the subject, partly because they can not be exactly valued, and further
because they are readily attained by devices of secondary importance.
Thus by the use of flexible cushions and backs with head rests the
SUPERIORITY IN AN AIR-SHIP—RENARD. 145

traveler’s comfort is easily increased. These are questions to be
referred to the skill of an upholsterer and not to an engineer.

There is, however, one property that is highly important for safety
and comfort in a voyage—the stability of the vehicle. This stability
is obtained by mechanism of a technical nature; it is often very difli-
cult to obtain and therefore should be considered in connection with
the more exact qualities first discussed. In a given vehicle, stability
can be interpreted in several ways. The center of gravity of the
apparatus can describe a very regular trajectory, but the vehicle may
nevertheless be exceedingly unstable; it may go through oscillatory
movements which are highly uncomfortable and occasionally danger-
ous. These movements have been given different names according to
the direction they follow. When they are in a horizontal plane they
are said to be zigzag movements or yawing. If it is a question of
vertical movement, it may be of two sorts—in a longitudinal direction
it is called pitching, and if in a tranverse direction it is rolling.

Although displacements of this kind do not affect the trajectory of
the center of gravity, and consequently can not prevent the vehicle
from following its course, they are none the less disagreeable, espe-
cially if several of them are combined. Stability of direction, longi-
tudinal stability, and transverse stability, which will enable us to
avoid, respectively, yawing, pitching, and rolling, are therefore
qualities highly desirable.

There is a fourth sort of stability that is a special quality of air-
ships. This is stability of altitude. Land vehicles are forced to
keep to the level of the ground on which they rest. Aquatic carriers
float on the surface of the water; air-ships, on the contrary, and with
them must be classed submarines, are submerged in a fluid and can
ascend and descend through the gaseous or liquid mass. When the
air-ship remains at the altitude chosen by the pilot, or when it mounts
or descends at his will, it is said to have stability of altitude. It does
not have this quality when its vertical movements are involuntary and
beyond the control of the aeronaut.

i.

We have thus completed the enumeration of the qualities which an
air-ship may possess. The question is now to choose from among
them those most important in determining the value of the conveyance.
But before making this choice it is indispensable to know from what
point of view it is to be made. One may inquire as to which of these
qualities is the most difficult to obtain. If the technical standing of
engineers were to be determined that would be the course to pursue,
and we should proclaim the superiority of the constructor who had
endowed his machine with the qualities which are the hardest to
e

146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

attain. But it is not a question of awarding prizes to engineers.
We want to know what air-ships have the greatest practical advan-
tages. In making our choice of qualities we shall not demand, there-
fore, those most difficult of attainment, but those most desirable in
themselves. We can afterward inquire if the most desirable qualities
are more or less difficult to realize; this will be merely an accessory
matter.

We are therefore called upon to pass judgment upon the practical
advantages in types of air-ships. The first consideration is not to lose
sight of the conditions under which by definition itself an air-ship is
operated, conditions different from those which a boat or a railway
train meets; no one can justly make an estimate of such dissimilar
devices without recognizing the fundamental conditions of their
utilization; that is, the nature of the supporting medium in which
they move, the earth, water, or air.

Locomotion on land brings into touch all the habitable places on
the earth except those separated from each other by expanses of
water impossible to bridge. But with this advantage there is still
an element of great disadvantage. To attain on land perfect condi-
tions for speed and carrying power, it has not been enough merely
to train animals or create powerful and ingenious machines. These
achievements would not have counted for much unless the route had
been prepared by the construction of roadways, involving an enor-
mous amount of labor and money. Without highways and railways,
automobiles and locomotives would be powerless. This is so true at
the present day that the importance and the perfection of the ways
of communication are considered the principal criteria of material
civilization, and where these means are lacking we are no further
advanced than were those of the days of Joshua.

A water transportation line, and herein lies its inferiority, only
admits of the joining together of a very limited number of places,
those along the shores of seas or along navigable streams. There is,
however, the enormous advantage of not requiring a preliminary
preparation of roadways. To travel by water, with all the perfec-
tion possible to obtain, it is only necessary to have good ships. The
sea has at all times been the chief means of communication between
the various countries of the globe; all the ocean shores have been
fairly well known for a long period, while there have remained im-
mense tracts of country unexplored in the interior of the continents.
If to venture an hypothesis, there existed in the center of Africa,
or in the midst of the deserts of Asia, an unknown but populous city,
the center of a flourishing civilization, the explorers who had dis-
covered it could tell of its marvels on their return, but this newly
discovered city would still remain apart from general civilization
simply because it was not connected with other countries by per-
SUPERIORITY IN AN AIR-SHIP—-RENARD. 147

fected ways of communication. If, on the contrary, there should be
discovered in the solitudes of the Pacific an islet, in itself of little
importance, it could be brought into direct communication with
New York, Marseille, and Sidney, and enter immediately into the
circle of mundane affairs.

Aerial navigation combines the advantages of its older sisters and
is free from their inconveniences. It can connect Paris and Rio de
Janeiro as well as Madrid and St. Petersburg. It no more requires
the preliminary construction of roads of communication than does
maritime transportation. It creates direct bonds of communication
without intermediary agencies, and to utilize it it is only necessary
to have appropriate vehicles. Thanks to this means, all points on
the globe may enjoy the privilege which has hitherto been reserved
to the shores of the sea, and in a few years the atmosphere will
certainly be the great medium for bringing people together just as
the ocean has been for a long time in its more limited and less perfect

fashion.
EET,

These general considerations are not mere digression from the ques-
tion which we are considering to-day. We must not lose sight of
them if we wish to estimate things clearly. Do we not often hear
the remark: “Of what importance are dirigibles or aeroplanes?
They do not travel as fast as railroad trains; they have much less
carrying capacity than boats; would it not be worth while rather to
perfect the time-honored land or maritime means of travel than to
search for a new method of transportation ? ”

If aerial navigation did not differ in its essential properties from
these other modes of locomotion known from the most ancient times
this presentation of the case would be entirely rational, but when
men pursue so indefatigably the conquest of the air and the public
follows its progress with such interest, it is not because they hope
to discover in this way the means of possessing in a higher degree
the qualities of speed and capacity desirable in any vehicle, it is be-
cause of qualities found alone in aerial navigation. If this were
not so the conquest of the air would still certainly be an important
question, but it would not be worth all the efforts that it brings forth
and the excited interest that it arouses.

We can not actually realize what is before us, but there is to-day
an idea latent in every mind that the investigation into aerial loco-
motion is not a vain caprice of mankind, but springs from a deep
and instinctive feeling that extraordinary changes are impending
in the conditions of humanity.

We must now go a step further into the detailed study of the
qualities which we have enumerated and choose the most important.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

The first quality which I mentioned is the faculty of ascending
to the greatest possible height. The means for accomplishing this
end are different, according to whether the machines are heavier
or lighter than air. In the first case it is necessary to have at your
disposal a motive power greater than that necessary to sustain and
move the machine in a horizontal plane. It is therefore a question
of the power of the motor.

If, however, the air-ship is a dirigible balloon, the motor does not
come into consideration. It is only necessary to throw off a definite
weight of ballast, and the greater this quantity is for a given balloon
the higher it will ascend. Besides the weight of the motor and the
mechanism itself and the weight of the fuel and other supplies and
of the passengers, arrangements must also be made for a supplemen-
tary weight that can be sacrificed. It is not enough to increase the
volume of the gas envelope in order to increase the dispensable bal-
_last in the same proportion, for the altitude attained does not depend
on the absolute amount of ballast thrown off but on the ratio of this
weight to the volume of the balloon. If, for example, with a balloon
of 1,000 cubic meters an altitude of about 2,300 meters should be
attained by releasing 250 kilograms of ballast, to attain the same
altitude with a balloon of 2,000 cubic meters capacity not 250 kilo-
grams, but 500, must be thrown off. If the weight of the air-ship
itself, the motor mechanism, the supplies, and the passengers
increased proportionately with the volume of the gas envelope, we
would always have the same proportion of ballast and could ascend
no higher in one case than in the other. This, however, is not
the fact, for large balloons can carry a larger proportion of ballast
than small ones, and it is with these that high altitudes are most
easily attained. The altitude is therefore to a great degree a question
of volume.

It may be remarked that if lighter motors for a given power are
provided, .or greater power for a given weight—in other words, if
the weight is reduced, there would be more dispensable weight, more
ballast per horsepower, and, consequently, a greater capability of
ascension. It is also evident that to attain an extreme elevation the
weight carried should be reduced as much as possible. Thus the
number of passengers should be reduced to a minimum and little or
no extra material carried. By doing this, in the case of a dirigible,
the dispensable ballast can be increased to the extent of the economy
which has been realized in the rest of the equipment. In the case of
an aviation machine if its total weight is diminished and, consequently,
the expenditure of motive power necessary to sustain the machine,
the excess power available for attaining altitudes is thereby also
increased. To sum up, in all air-ships, of whatever kind, altitude may
be attained with a facility corresponding to the power available for
SUPERIORITY IN AN AIR-SHIP—RENARD. 149

a given weight, but with dirigibles the principal method of reaching
higher altitudes is by increasing the dimension of the gas envelope.

An aerial voyage can be prolonged as long as supplies remain avail-
able, whether the air-ship be lighter or heavier than air. The most
important of these supplies is fuel for the motor and the accessory
lubricating oils, the weight of which is comparatively small. In
dirigibles there must also be a supply of ballast proportionate to the
length of the voyage. The quality of duration is therefore a question
of transporting capacity, and the methods of obtaining it are the
same.

The distance that can be covered is evidently proportional to the
duration of the trip, and is also proportional to the absolute velocity
of the air-ship. We have just considered the duration; as for the
absolute speed, it is a quality that must be considered by itself. We
have, therefore, as regards distance only one thing to keep in mind,
and that is, it is obtained by combining the means used to attain
duration and velocity.

As already stated, absolute velocity is a resultant of two velocities,
that of the wind and that of the air-ship; with the wind we can do
nothing, but the individual velocity is another matter. It may be
remarked that if the individual velocity should be less than that of
the wind, the machine would not advance but would recede more or
less from its point of departure. Such a machine, however, would not
be dirigible and would not deserve the name of “ air-ship.” We mean
to consider here only devices really dirigible, that is, those whose
velocity is greater than that of the prevailing wind. In this case,
whether flying against the air or with it, the absolute velocity will
increase with the individual velocity. Let us suppose that the wind
blows 50 kilometers an hour. The air-ship with an individual velocity
of 60 kilometers will make 10 kilometers an hour against the current
and 110 with it. If it has an individual velocity of 70 kilometers, it
can travel 20 kilometers an hour against the wind and 120 with it.
In either case it is evident that the absolute velocity increases with
the individual velocity. One can even demonstrate mathematically
that when an air-ship describes a closed circuit corresponding ap-
proximately to the form of a circle or a regular polygon, whatever
may be the velocity and direction of the wind the one that possesses
the greatest individual velocity will have the greatest average abso-
lute speed around the whole course.

As we can not affect the velocity of the wind, to seek to increase
the absolute velocity is in fact to seek the greatest individual velocity.
We have just seen how desirable this quality of speed is in itself.
Without it dirigibility is impossible; and the greater it is the more
frequent are the occasions when we can travel in all directions and the
greater will be the distances covered. Speed is, therefore, in respect
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

to importance, the principal quality in an air-ship, without which it
is but the plaything of the winds, and it is toward the improvement
of this feature that all efforts should be directed.

How may this individual velocity be obtained? In dirigibles all
resistance to forward movement must be diminished as far as pos-
sible; this is accomplished by appropriate design of form. This form
must be permanently maintained, powerful motors must be pro-
vided, driving good propellers. To sum up, every improvement
which can be devised with regard to dirigible balloons should be
directed principally if not solely toward the increase of their indi-
vidual velocities.

The same is true with regard to aviation apparatus, but in this
direction the difficulty is much less, for because of their light design
they offer much less resistance to forward motion than the dirigibles,
condemned to drag along their enormous bags filled with hydrogen.
For a given motive power therefore the former can attain much
greater speeds than balloons, as experience has superabundantly
demonstrated.

However that may be, for the one or the other the individual
velocity is a question of motive power, and since in an air-ship only
a limited weight can be allowed for the motor, this must have as
great a specific power as possible; in other words, the weight of the
gas engine should be reduced as much as practicable. The question
of individual velocity thus depends on the lightness of the motors.
This motive power must, furthermore, be utilized to the best possible
advantage, which can be done by proper propellers. ‘The resistance
to forward movement must be diminished, and this can be accom-
plished by careful design. The air-ship must also be stable in all
directions—horizontally, longitudinally, or transversely—for yawing,
pitching, and rolling, apart from the wearying effect on passengers
and the dangers they may present, are formidable obstacles to the
best speed. When a dirigible moves sidewise it presents an enormous
surface to the air of a shape deplorable from the point of view of
resistance, and the speed is diminished to an inconceivable degree.

One can almost sum up in a word what can be said about indi-
vidual velocity. It is this, that for an air-ship to possess this quality
in the highest degree it must be endowed with all the others.

There remains now the carrying capacity. Here the question
appears in quite a different light, according to whether the aati ea
is lighter or heavier than air.

With a dirigible it is simply a question of the volume of the
balloon. It must not be thought, however, that by increasing in-
definitely the volume of the gas envelope that the carrying power
of an air-ship can be increased without limit. To enlarge the volume
means to increase the fabric surface and this will demand greater
SUPERIORITY IN AN AIR-SHIP—RENARD. 151

strength in a large balloon than a small one, which will increase the
weight of a square meter of the envelope and accordingly result in
a double cause of increase in the total weight. This will also be
true with regard to the suspension cords and all the material con-
stituting the dead weight.

It can be demonstrated that in balloons of different volumes this
dead weight increases nearly as the fourth power of the linear
dimensions; that is, more rapidly than the volume. Thusin a balloon
of twice the volume the dead weight will not be multiplied by 2
but by 2.52, and with triple the volume the dead weight will be
multiplied not by 3 but by 4.33 and so on. In spite of this unfavor-
able circumstance, however, we may say in the limits of practice,
that the carrying capacity increases with the volume. It increases
also with the lightening of the motors, for if the motor is lighter for
a given power the economy in weight so realized can be used to
increase the weight carried; in general, however, it is preferred to
profit by this hghtening by increasing the motive power and conse-
quently the speed.

In a dirigible the total ascensional force is the product of the vol-
ume of the balloon by the lifting power of a cubic meter of gas.
This latter quantity depends entirely on the specific gravity of the air
and of the gas employed. As long as no gas lighter than hydrogen
can be found there can be no hope of a change in the present condi-
tions, and even if such a gas should be discovered, we should always
be limited by the weight of a cubic meter of air, 1.293 kilograms.
This figure represents the extreme limit of weight that a cubic meter
of the gas could lift, if it weighed nothing. However, a cubic meter
of pure hydrogen weighs only 0.090 kilogram; a cubic meter of this
gas therefore raises a weight of 1.203 kilograms, and even if there
existed a gas of zero density only 90 grams per cubic meter would
be gained over the lifting power of hydrogen.

Consequently, it is true at the present day and always will be,
that the total lifting power of a balloon can be increased only by
an enlargement of its volume.

In an apparatus heavier than air this total ascensional force is
again equal to the product of two factors; in this case, however, it is
the surface of the sustaining planes, and the supporting power per
square meter. ‘To increase this total ascensional force it thus becomes
nece.sary to increase one or the other of these factors.

Theoretically, the dimensions of the sustaining planes can be in-
creased, but in practice it is difficult, for these surfaces become much
heavier as they increase in size and thus absorb a large part of the
increase of ascensional power attained thereby. If this is carried
still further the weight of the sustaining surfaces can be increased
to such an extent that all the benefit of the increase in size is lost,

45745°—sm 1909——11
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

and even more. We should, therefore, endeavor to increase the car-
rying power per square meter of the sustaining planes.

This carrying power may be increased partly by an increase in the
sustaining quality of the bearing surface, and it is research in this di-
rection that practically leads to the perfection of devices heavier than
air. It is a question of form, dimensions, and orientation which
must be taken up in detail. This problem constitutes in reality nine-
tenths of the problem of aviation.

In another way the load that can be carried per square meter of
sustaining surface in a given apparatus, increases with the available
motive power. The greater this power is in comparison with the
weight of the machine the larger may be the load imposed on each
square meter of sustaining surface. The increase is not proportional,
but it is rather rapid, as may be shown by a few figures. If an aero-
plane provided with a 25-horsepower motor can carry 10 kilograms
per square meter, the same aeroplane with a motor of 50 horsepower
ean carry 16 kilograms; with a 75-horsepower motor, 21; and with
a 100-horsepower motor 25 kilograms per square meter.

There is one very interesting point to note here, and that is, for a
given aeroplane the capacity per square meter varies with the veloc-
ity. Let us suppose that our aeroplane, with a 25-horsepower motor
and carrying 10 kilograms per square meter, makes a speed of 60
kilometers per hour. When it is provided with a motor of 50 horse-
power, which will permit it, as we have just seen, to carry 16 kilo-
grams per square meter instead of 10, its velocity will be increased.
It will no longer be 60, but 76 kilometers per hour. In the same way,
if it has a 75-horsepower motor due to which its carrying capacity
increases to 21 kilograms, its velocity will at the same time reach 86
kilometers. Finally, with the motor of 100 horsepower and a load
of 25 kilograms per square meter it will have a velocity of 95 kilo-
meters.

The individual velocity and the carrying capacity therefore in-
crease with the power of the motor; nothing of the kind occurs with
dirigibles.

However that may be, whether dirigibles or aviation apparatus are
concerned, the carrying capacity is dependent on the lightness of the
motors and the general perfection of the whole device; but these
features have a much greater effect in the heavier than air system
than in the lighter than air. In dirigibles there intervenes in this
question a preponderating element, that of the volume of the gas bag
whose influence dwarfs all others. This element does not exist in
the aviation devices.

We have still to examine stability in all its forms, but, as we have
already seen, this property is indispensabie if we desire to attain an
individual velocity of any magnitude whatever. There is, therefore,
SUPERIORITY IN AN AIR-SHIP—RENARD. 153

no necessity to analyze it in detail. We will simply remember that
a rapid air-ship is necessarily stable.

LY.

From the foregoing the conclusion may be drawn that the different
qualities which an air-ship may possess are not independent of each
other but may be reduced to two fundamental properties, the indi-
vidual velocity and the carrying capacity. The first of these quali-
ties, the individual velocity, is highly desirable in itself, for without
it dirigibility is impossible. Furthermore, it is the only means by
which we can increase the absolute velocity, which is of such prac-
tical importance. Finally, the absolute velocity is one of the factors
determining the distance that can be covered in a single flight. When
the individual velocity is increased, for the same reason both the
absolute velocity and the distance covered are increased. If we also
add the consideration that the possession of this speed necessarily
implies the possession of stability in all directions, we must conclude
- that in it we have a quality that is essentially fundamental.

The carrying capacity of such a machine can be measured by the
amount of weight of every kind which it can carry in excess of the
weight of the air-ship proper, its motor, propellers, and all the parts
indispensable to its operation.

Given this weight it can be used in different ways. It can be
employed in transporting a number of passengers or a considerable
weight of merchandise. In the form of ballast it helps to attain the
greatest altitude, and thus contributes to the duration of the aerial
voyage. In the form of fuel supply it assures the duration of the
voyage, thus affecting one. of the two factors entering into distance
covered.

Individual velocity can not be present in a high degree if the
property of stability is not also present. This permits of the attain-
ment of an absolute velocity which, coupled with duration of voyage,
goes to make up distance traveled. The carrying capacity has no
relation to stability. It can be utilized either for its own sake or
to attain altitude, or to prolong the voyage and thus contribute in
increasing the distance traveled.

These different qualities may therefore be divided into two
groups, those dependent on the individual velocity and those on
the carrying capacity. As for the distance traveled, it is a common
resultant of the two groups, for it is the product of absolute velocity
by duration of flight, qualities belonging to the different groups.

If we wish to obtain a synthetic idea of the value of an air-ship,
it is by the ratio of the distances covered that their merit should
be measured, but this quality is only the product of two others—the
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

absolute velocity and the duration of the voyage. These two factors
may play a varying role in the final result.

The factor of duration is certainly less important than the velocity.
To obtain duration the machine need not even be dirigible; a simple
free balloon can possess this quality, while up to the present time it
is the spherical balloons which have made the longest uninterrupted
voyages, so that while recognizing the valuable index which the
distance traveled affords in the estimation of the merit of an air-
ship, still, of the two elements which go to make it up, we must
attach more importance to the absolute velocity than to the dura-
tion of flight.

It should be recalled, however, that these two qualities are not
fundamental. The absolute velocity itself depends on the wind and
the individual velocity, and from our point of view it is only im-
portant if it is attained by the caprice of the wind but in the direc-
tion desired by the pilot. To accomplish this, there must be indi-
vidual velocity, a fundamental property.

The duration of flight is itself dependent on the carrying capacity.
We must, therefore, conclude that of these two fundamental prop-
erties it is the individual velocity that stands first and the capacity
of transport takes second place.

As stated in the beginning of this discussion, I have arrived at
these conclusions simply from utilitarian considerations. If we ex-
amine the question from the point of view of the difficulties to be
overcome, what rank shall we assign to these two essential qualities
of an air-ship? For an aeroplane the question is very simple; the
difficulties are the same in acquiring one as in acquiring the other.
With an increase in the individual velocity, the possible load per
square meter of sustaining surface is increased. Consequently, in
making an advance in one a gain is made in the other. The question
can be summed up by saying that an aeroplane should be as perfect
as possible; that is, it should be stable, have carrying surfaces en-
dowed with the best sustaining qualities, a good propeller, and a
powerful and light motor. If it possesses such perfection it can be
used in any way desired; it can travel swiftly and yet carry a con-
siderable weight that may be utilized either as useful load or to in-
crease the duration of the flight. If its load is lightened its speed
will be diminished, but its abundant motive power will enable it to
ascend. To conclude, with a perfect aeroplane the aviator may ob-
tain whichever quality he desires or combine them in whatever pro-
portion he deems convenient.

In the case of aeroplanes, therefore, we may say that the question
of difficulties to be overcome is negligible, and that utilitarian con-
siderations alone determine their value. In these machines it is the
individual velocity, as it is in all other types, which is the most im-
SUPERIORITY IN AN ATR-SHIP—-RENARD. 155

portant quality, but the others can be obtained without modifying the
construction in the slightest degree, and except for attaining altitude,
without losing any velocity, but even gaining it, with an increase in
the carrying capacity and in the qualities which are dependent on it.

This is not the case with dirigibles. To be sure, with them as with
aeroplanes, general perfection of apparatus—motor, propellers, forms
of small resistance—is indispensable to velocity and can likewise
exert a favorable influence on the carrying capacity and its resulting
consequences, but another factor intervenes, the volume of the balloon.
This exerts an enormous influence on the carrying capacity, which
dwarfs that resulting from the general perfection of the apparatus.
Although by increasing the individual velocity we can indirectly
increase in a slight degree the carrying capacity, we possess, more-
over, a means of increasing this quality absolutely independent of
those which produce velocity. I may add that this method has no
great merit in its application. It is not very difficult to add a few
hundred cubic meters to a balloon, or even more. I would not go as
far as to say that the problem is of extreme simplicity, but it is a
small matter beside those that have to be solved in increasing the
individual velocity of a dirigible. Consequently, as far as machines
lighter than air are concerned, if from a utilitarian point of view
the carrying capacity is an inferior quality, it is equally so from a
technical standpoint, for it is much easier to attain than individual
velocity.

Thus there are in an air-ship only two fundamental qualities from
which all the others are derived, individual velocity and carrying
capacity; and from a practical standpoint the latter is much less im-
portant than the former.

In considering the difficulties to be overcome, in an aeroplane the
question does not arise, for in such apparatus the qualities sought
for are so involved one with the other that every added improvement
allows of the increase according to choice of one or the other of the
properties desired in an air-ship. With dirigibles this is not the case,
for carrying capacity is much more easily obtained than individual
velocity, and the technical considerations which are involved in ma-
chines lighter than air are merely those that are basic in the utiliza-
tion of an air-ship.

Simply because a colossal dirigible has accomplished long journeys
and covered great distances, the superiority of this type of air-ship
over all others should not necessarily be proclaimed. The machine
that should interest us most is the one capable of the greatest individ-
ual velocity, and as this velocity is difficult to measure, we should
estimate it from the absolute velocity attained in flying in a closed
circuit in such a way as to eliminate from the final result, as much
as possible, the effect of the wind.
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

I believe that in this respect our air-ships have nothing to envy
in those of foreigners. I even believe frankly that ours are superior.

We can continue to be proud, then, of our air-ships; they possess to
a higher degree than others the first of all qualities, individual velo-
city. They are gaining in this respect from day to day, and when
our engineers desire it they can provide them besides with the carry-
ing capacity of which our rivals are so proud.

France is in no danger, as has been frequently loudly announced,
of losing the empire of the air.*

“These lines were written before the catastrophe of the dirigible Republique.
This tragic event, nevertheless, does not alter the conclusions of this article in
the slightest degree.—RENARD.
RESEARCHES IN RADIOTELEGRAPHY.¢

(With 2 plates.)
By cerot, Ja A] HiEeMminG) MeeA DD: Se: Bo Revs:

Radiotelegraphy, popularly called wireless telegraphy, has out-
lived the tentative achievements of its precocious infancy and obtained
for itself a settled but important position amongst our means of
communication.

This stage, however, has only been reached after a long struggle
with experimental difficulties and much labor in analyzing the proc-
esses involved. As many of these matters are of general scientific
interest, it is proposed, during the present hour, briefly to summarize
the results of some recent research.

You are doubtless all aware that every radiotelegraphic station
comprises three elements. There is, first, the external organ called the
air wire or antenna, by which the electromagnetic waves are radiated
and absorbed. This antenna consists of one or more wires extending
up into the air, either vertically or sloping, or partly vertical and
partly horizontal. These wires are insulated at the upper ends and
may be arranged fan fashion, or may form one or more nearly closed
loops, placed in a vertical position. The antenna is, so to speak, the
mouth or ear of the station, by which it speaks through the ether, or
by which it hears the etherial whispers coming to it from other
stations. The ether waves are produced by very rapid electric cur-
rents moving to and fro in the antenna wires, and these, like the
vibrations of a violin string, or the aerial oscillations in an organ
pipe, set up a periodic disturbance in the surrounding medium, which
in the electrical case consists of alternating electric and magnetic
forces taking place at each point in space around the antenna.

There are, then, appliances in the station collectively called the
transmitter, which have for their function to create these powerful
electric oscillations in the antenna, and to control them so as to send
out short or long trains of ether waves in accordance with the dot or
dash signals of the Morse alphabet. Lastly, there is the receiving

@QVecture before the Royal Institution of Great Britain, Friday, June 4, 1909.
Reprinted by permission from pamphlet copy published by the Royal Institution.

157
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

apparatus, which, when connected to the antenna, serves to detect the
presence in it of the very feeble oscillations which are being generated
in the antenna by the powerful oscillations in the antenna of some
far-distant sending station. It is usual to employ the same antenna
at any one station both for sending and receiving, and to switch it over
from the transmitter to the receiver according as we wish to send or
receive messages, although methods have been described and are being
developed for using the antenna simultaneously for both purposes.

By way of preface let me illustrate by a few experiments the
manner in which these electric oscillations are set up in the air wire,
and the nature of the effects produced by them in the surrounding
space. We have here a very long wire which, for the purpose of
keeping it within a small compass, is coiled upon an ebonite tube.
Two such spirals, H, and H,, are placed side by side and connected
at the bottom through two other small coils of wire S (see fig. 1). In
contiguity to these last two coils of wire are two others, P, which are
in series with a condenser or battery of
Leyden jars, C, and a spark gap. If we
charge the condenser by an induction coil,
I, and let it discharge across the gap, we
produce rapidly succeeding trains of elec-
tric oscillations in the condenser circuit,
and these induce other currents in the open
or helix circuit of similar kind. The re-
sult is that electricity rushes up and down
the spiral wires, which we may consider to
represent two very long air wires or an-

Fic. 1. tenne. We have therefore, alternately,
free charges of electricity at the top ends of the wires and electric
currents passing to and fro across the middle point. We may com-
pare this movement of electricity in the helix to the oscillations of a
liquid in a U-tube when it is disturbed. In the electrical case we
have at each spark discharge 20 or 30 electrical swings or oscillations
separated by relatively long intervals of silence, the intervals between
two swings in the train being about one four-hundredth-thousandth
of a second, while the interval between the groups or trains of swings
is about one-fiftieth of a second.

Such electrical oscillations in the wire produce two effects in
external space, called, respectively, electric and magnetic force. In
the case of a simple vertical air wire the magnetic force is distributed
along concentric circular lines embracing the wire while the electric
force is distributed along certain looped lines in the plane of the wire.
If, however, we employ a close-wound spiral antenna, as in our
experiment, the positions of the electric and magnetic forces are inter-
changed as compared with those of the single vertical wire.

RADIOTELEGRAPHY—FLEMING. 159

As the currents in the air wire reverse their direction the magnetic
and electric effects in the external space also reverse, but not every-
where at the same moment. The magnetic and electric forces are
affections or states of the ether, and in virtue of the inertia and
elasticity of the medium they are propagated from point to point
with a finite velocity which is the same as that of light. We can
then explore the field near the antenna and obtain an approximate
idea of its nature and intensity by the use of a Neon vacuum tube,
which glows when held in the electric field with greater or less
brilancy. At certain intervals of distance in the space the magnetic
and electric forces reverse direction in the same way at the same
instant, and this distance is called a wave length.

In the case of a straight air wire, the magnitude of the forces at
considerable distances varies inversely as the distance from the an-
tenna, and the antenna radiates equally in all directions. If, how-
ever, we employ a U-shaped antenna, as in the present experiment,
the currents being in opposite directions in the two branches, then
along a median line transverse to their common plane their actions
will neutralize each other, and the radiation will be symmetrical only
with respect to the plane of the antenna. In constructing an antenna
intended to radiate in all directions, it is necessary to connect the
lower end to a large plate of metal or network of wires either sunk
in the earth or placed just above the surface. In the former case,
this plate is called an earth plate, and in the latter a balancing
. capacity. It is necessary that this balancing capacity, if insulated,
should be of sufficient size to take up all the electricity which rushes
out of the antenna at each oscillation without sensible rise in poten-
tial. If we are only employing an antenna of moderate capacity for
short distance signaling, then an insulated balancing capacity would
not be of unwieldly dimensions and may be constructed of a number
of wires stretched out or laid on the ground or insulated a little way
above it. When, however, we have to employ a very large antenna
of great capacity for long distance work, then the provision of a
suitable balancing capacity would involve constructive difficulties
which are best obviated by making the earth itself the balancing
capacity—in other words, by connecting the base of the antenna to
an extensive network of wires or large metal plates buried in the
ground. It has been asserted that the direct earth connection damps
out the free oscillations in the antenna more quickly than would be
the case if an insulated balancing capacity is employed. Although
this may be true to a certain extent, we have to set against it the fact
that the use of an insulated balancing capacity is out of the question
in many cases—as on board ship, where a connection to the hull of
the vessel is always made. Also for any but small antenne the neces-
sary insulated balancing capacity may be somewhat large, and it is
160 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

in every way better to put it below ground, in other words, to employ
an earth plate and compensate for any slight earth damping by an
antenna of rather larger capacity.

This matter is, however, only part of a much larger question, viz,
the function of the earth in radiotelegraphy. It is well known that
the nature of the earth’s soil or surface between the sending and
recelving stations has a great effect upon electric waves passing over
it. Various imperfect explanations were given of this action in
early days, but the basis for a better knowledge has been laid by the
experimental researches of Admiral Sir Henry Jackson and the
theoretical discussions of M. Brylinski and Doctor Zenneck. To fol-
low their explanations it must be borne in mind that high-frequency
electric currents, as used in radiotelegraphy, are confined chiefly to
the surface of conductors by means of which they are conducted.
Such a current does not distribute itself uniformly over the whole
cross section of a wire carrying it, but is confined to a thin skin or
surface layer. This can be proved by the following experiment: We
take a copper wire spiral or loop and make it part of a circuit in
which a high-frequency current exists. If we measure in any way
the current in that circuit we find it has a certain value. If we sub-
stitute for the copper wire an iron wire of the same size, we find that
the current in the circuit is then much less. This can be discovered
by placing near the circuit in question another testing circuit com-
prising an inductance and a capacity and some means for testing the
amplitude of the oscillations set up in this secondary circuit. This
decrease is not due to the mere fact that the iron has a greater resist-—
ance than copper, but to the fact that the iron is magnetizable, and
such magnetization absorbs energy owing to so-called hysteresis. If,
however, we dip the iron for a moment into molten zinc and deposit
on it a thin surface layer of zinc, or galvanize it; we find it then
becomes almost as good as a solid copper wire for conveying high-
frequency currents. On the other hand, if we burn off-the zine from
a piece of galvanized-iron wire, we render it a worse conductor for
high-frequency oscillations. This experiment proves that such oscil-
lations are conveyed by a thin surface layer of the conductor. In
the case of a copper wire for oscillations having a frequency of one
million, the current penetrates about one-third of a millimeter, and
in the case of an iron wire, about one-fortieth of a millimeter into the
metal.

For nonmagnetic substances the depth to which a current of.a
given frequency penetrates into a conductor is greater in proportion
as the conductivity of the material is less. Hence high frequency
currents penetrate farther into carbon than into metal. Accordingly
a much thicker layer of carbon than of zinc would be needed to shield
the iron spiral in our last experiment. The same thing happens in
RADIOTELEGRAPHY—FLEMING. 161

the case of an electric wave propagated over a terrestrial surface.
If the surface is a very good conductor the wave hardly penetrates
into it, but glides over the surface. If it is a poor conductor the
wave penetrates into it to a greater extent, and the worse the con-
ductivity the deeper the penetration.

The materials of which the earth’s crust is composed, with some
exceptions, owe their electric conductivity chiefly to the presence of
water in them. They are called electrolytic conductors. Substances
like marble and slate when free from iron oxide are fairly good insu-
lators. Dry sand or hard dry rocks are poor conductors, but wet sand
and moist earth are fairly good conductors. Sea water, owing to the
salt in it, is a much better conductor than fresh water. The follow-
ing table gives some figures, which, however, are only approximate,
for the specific resistance of various terrestrial materials in ohms per
meter cube. It will be seen that dry sand or soils are of very high
specific resistance, and damp or wet sand or clay fairly low.

TABLE I1.— Approximate conductivity and dielectric constant of various terres-
trial materials,

Waterinle Specific resistence in ohms | Dielectric constant.

per meter cube. AGT ile
SGM, W/GHSIRe Gsanps Goonsoccondnanandndgonannpdobasee i 80
Mreshiwateneearee eecn cece cee ee ea eeeaae 100 to 1,000 80
Moisit#eamtht y excne ccs eee ase oon oscic'e weminetisns 10 to 1,000 5 to 15
DIVeCAnt HAAS SG see iee wo hacen simecoee monase ss cqemeae ve 10,000 and upward 2to6
Wietisain die meeeeseee ce omen eee ea eens enince Eee 1 to 1,000 9
DryATiVerisanG whee = cease ~ algae aeccceice oceans very large 2to3
Wieticlavccsctotee cee FE SUOCO RSE BOGOEE OE EEE AGaEDS 10 to 100 oe
Dr yg Cl ayers ee acentoa ce eraeicis winine cin leis eee wisianialeiowe 10,000 and upward 2tod
Slatesasacccee cose serene cree sae Ana oaemecerekaae 10,000 to 100,000 aes
Marblemcteass ctaceccaneetrs saesesesee sceeenees 5,000,000 6
IMELGUTY ese ceiccwcisb ease oecidsemnnauioeece sce cece -000001 Infinity

If our earth’s surface had a conductivity equal say to that of
copper, then the electric radiation from an antenna would glide over
the surface without penetration. In the case of the actual earth there
is, however, considerable penetration of the wave into the surface, and
therefore absorption of energy by it.

Brylinski and also Zenneck have calculated the depth to which
electric waves of such frequency as are used in radiotelegraphy pene-
trate into the sea or terrestrial strata of various conductivities. For
mathematical reasons it is customary to define it by stating the
depth in meters or centimeters at which the wave amplitude is
reduced to 1/e=0.367 of its amplitude at the surface. I have repre-
sented in a diagram some of Zenneck’s results calculated for waves
of 1,000 feet in length, and for terrestrial surface materials of
various kinds, conductivities, and dielectric constants (see fig. 2).
You will see that in the case of sea water an electric wave traveling
over it penetrates only to the depth of a meter or two, whereas in
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

the case of very dry soil it would penetrate much deeper. Owing to
the conductivity of the soil, this movement of lines of maenetic force
through it sets up currents of electricity which expend their energy in
heat. This energy must come from the original store imparted to
the sending antenna, and therefore the wave is robbed of its energy as
it travels over the surface.

It should be clearly understood that when a wireless telegraph
antenna is in operation it sends out into the surrounding space a
nearly hemispherical electrical wave, which spreads out in all direc-
tions. There are five causes which weaken the wave as it travels
outward:

(1) The distribution of the energy continually over a larger and
larger area. The wave amplitude diminishes inversely as the distance,
and the wave energy inversely as the square of the distance. This
is proved theoretically from first principles by Hertz’s equations, and

tres. a
100 Metre K- j
40 » <80

1 10 100 ©1000 10,000 100,000 1,000,000
Sea Fresh Damp Dry Soil
Water. | Water. Soil. ee

Specific Resistance in Ohms per dletre Cube.

Fig. 2.—Depth of penetration of waves 1,000 feet in length (Doctor
Zenneck).

has been confirmed experimentally by the experiments of Messrs.
Duddell and Taylor and of Professor Tissot.

(2) There is a certain absorption of energy due to the ionization
of the atmosphere by daylight and to other causes, but this is only
detectable over long distances and for the present moment we shall
neglect it. We include, however, under this head, obstructions due
to special atmospheric conditions, electrical or material.

(3) There is a diminution, due to earth curvature, which is ope
tive only over long distances.

(4) There is some reduction of intensity which results from ke
stacles—such as hills, trees—especially from cliffs of ironstone or
conductive rocks, due to distortion of the electric field.

(5) Lastly, there is the weakening due to the dissipation of energy
by the penetration of the waves into the surface over which they
travel.
RADIOTELEGRAPHY—FLEMING. 163

We shall consider the last-named cause alone at the present moment.
Doctor Zenneck has discussed mathematically, in a very interesting
paper, the effect of the conductivity and dielectric constant of the
terrestrial surface, soil, or sea, on the propagation of a plain electric
wave over it, assuming the radiation to be from an ordinary vertical
antenna, and the electric force therefore normal to the earth and
magnetic force parallel to it. The result is to show that there are,
broadly speaking, three cases to consider. First, supposing the sur-
face material to be a good conductor, then the wave moves over the
surface and penetrates a very little way into it. The electric force
in the air over the surface is a purely alternating force vertical to the
earth’s surface, and the magnetic force is an alternating force parallel
to it, and there is very little subterranean electric or magnetic force
(see fig. 3a). This is realized approximately or most nearly in the
case of radiotelegraphy over sea water. Secondly, let the earth be
assumed to have a very poor conductivity and not a very large dielec-
tric constant; then analy-
sis shows that the elec-
tric force in the air has
two components, one per-
pendicular to the earth’s
surface and one parallel
to it, and the resultant is
an alternating and a ro-

tating force, the direc- = +=10hm ” = 100,000 ohms + = 10,000 ohms
D : 20 per metre cube. per metre cube. per metre cube.
tion of its maximum K = 80. K=2 -3. K=1—3.
value beins inclined to ry = Resistivity. K = Dielectric constant.
5 F
Fie. 3.

the surface and leaning
forward (see fig. 38). The wave front therefore slopes forward.
Also, there is a subterranean electric force, showing that the wave
is penetrating into the soil, and there is therefore dissipation of
energy owing to the conductivity of the soil as the wave travels over
the surface. This case is realized when the wave travels over land
composed of dry soil having a small dielectric constant. Thirdly,
let the earth be a very poor conductor, having a small dielectric con-
stant from 2 to 3 and a specific resistance of about 10,000 ohms per
meter cube—for example, very dry earth or sand. Then the investi-
gation shows that the electric force in the air has two components,
one parallel to the earth’s surface and one perpendicular to it differ-
ing in phase, and the resultant is represented by the rotating radius
of an ellipse, the maximum value or major axis of which is inclined
forward in the direction of the wave motion (see fig. 8c). At the
same time there is some penetration of the wave into the earth and
consequent dissipation of energy.
164 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

Doctor Zenneck has considered the case of electric waves 1,000
feet in wave length, and has represented the final result by some
interesting curves. He defines the effect of the absorption of energy
by the soil by stating the distance in kilometers at which the wave
amplitude would be reduced by the effect of this absorption to
0.367=1/e of its amplitude at the sending station, altogether apart
from the weakening due to the spreading of the waves out in a hemi-
sphere, which we may call the spherical or space decrease. These
curves are plotted to abscisse representing the specific resistance of
the soil (see. fig. 4). You will see from this diagram that when a
plane electric wave having the above wave lengths is propagated over
sea water, it would have to travel 10,000 kilometers before its ampli-

Xi,

10,000

1,000

100

Dielectric Constant.

10

is reduced to 0°367 = 1/e of Amplitude at origin.

Ht = Distance in Kilometres at which the Wave Amplitete

Sea
Water.

Specific Resistance in Ohms pea Metre Cube.

Fresh
Water.

Damp Soil.

Dry Soil. | Insulators.

Fic. 4.—Curves showing the distance in which electric waves 1,000 feet
(800 meters) in length have amplitude reduced to 1/¢ by traveling over
various surfaces (Doctor Zenneck).

tude would be reduced in the assigned ratio; and over fairly dry
soil, about 100 to 1,000 kilometers; but over very dry soil, having a
small dielectric constant, only about 1 to 10 kilometers. Also you
will notice that the curves rise up again for still higher resistivities.
This, of course, is as it should be. All the practical cases lie between
two ideal extremes—the case of an infinitely perfect conducting earth,
in which case the waves would not penetrate into it at all, and the
other case, an infinitely perfect nonconducting earth, in which the
wave would penetrate into it, but would suffer no dissipation of
energy. This theory is quite in accordance with practical experience
in radiotelegraphy. Every receiving apparatus associated with an
antenna of a certain height and kind must be subjected to waves of
a certain minimum amplitude to give any appreciable signal. For
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—FLEMING. 165

all lower amplitudes that particular receiving arrangement is per-
fectly deaf. Now, it is a matter of common experience that with a
given radiotelegraphic apparatus and antenna, it is possible to re-
ceive signals for greater distances over sea water than over dry land,
and that if the soil is very dry the distance may be cut down very
considerably indeed. This is not due merely to the difficulty of mak-
ing what the telegraphists call a good earth at the sending station,
it is due to the absorption of the wave by the earth for the whole
distance which extends between the two stations. Hence, also, it is
a common experience that when particularly dry weather is suc-
ceeded by wet weather, the radiotelegraphic communication between
two stations on land is considerably improved.

In another paper Doctor Hack has shown that even underground
water is an advantage in facilitating radiotelegraphic communica-
tion. Since a shore station must always be established on shore for

’
ws
re

re
ne 1 1/10
8S
an 2 1/100
SS
os By distanc}
SE 3 ance alone 1/1000
aS
ae 4 1/10000
ae
ay
PS 5 1/10°
£8
SEs
is)

6

; Kilometres 500 1000 1500 2000 3500
Distance | wiles 312 625 937 1250 1562

Fic. 5.—Curves showing decrease in wave amplitude with distance for
waves 1,000 feet in length (Doctor Zenneck).

communication with ships, it is in consequence generally the custom
to select a site for that station as near as possible to the coast, and to
take pains to get a very good conducting connection between the foot
of the antenna and the soil, and also if necessary between the antenna
earthplate and the sea. Fessenden has suggested for this purpose the
use of what he calls a wave chute, which is merely a metallic network
extending some distance outward from the antenna in cases where
this antenna is established in the center of towns or dry districts.
Doctor Zenneck has also given a series of curves which show in a
remarkable manner the reduction in wave amplitude due to both dis-
tance and surface absorption, calculated for waves of 1,000 feet in
length, and for various coefficients of absorption (see fig. 5). Thus,
for example, if we are propagating plane waves 1,000 feet long over
a surface which by itself would reduce the wave amplitude to 0.867
of its initial amplitude in 1,000 kilometers, then, when we consider
the decrease by distance as well, we have to take account of the fact
that this last cause reduces the wave amplitude at 1,000 kilometers to
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

0.001 of that which it is at 1 kilometer distance. I have represented
in the diagram some of Doctor Zenneck’s curves. The dotted line
shows the decrease of amplitude by distance alone, and the firm lines
that due to distance and terrestrial absorption in various cases. We
are able to see from them the large effect due to travel over large dis-
tances of very dry soil. Thus, for instance, if the absorption is such
as to cut down the amplitude in the ratio of 1:0.367 at 1,000 kilo-
meters, then at a distance of 3,000 kilometers the amplitude of a wave
of 1,000 feet in length would be cut down in the ratio of 3,000 to 1 by
distance alone, but in the ratio of 60,000 to 1 by distance and terres-
trial absorption combined.

An important matter is the question of the influence of wave
length on this absorption. It can be shown from theory that an
increase of wave length reduces the energy dissipation by the earth.
Thus in certain cases increasing the wave length from 1,000 to 10,000
feet increases the range of effective communication one hundred
‘times. The absorption is also determined by the decrement of the
wave train being greater the larger the decrement.

One practical deduction to be made from this investigation is that
the reduction in wave amplitude which takes place when the wave
moves over very dry soil is as much due to small dielectric constant
of the material as to high resistivity. We see also that the wave
front is very far from being vertical when the waves travel overland,
and hence it is an advantage in that case for the receiving antenna to
slope away from the direction in which the waves are traveling or
from the radiant point. Lastly, it points to the advantage of a long
wave for overland working. Generally speaking, then, we find that
electric wave telegraphy is conducted with much greater ease over
sea than over dry land, the reason being that the dielectric constant
is large and the conductivity of sea water is sufficient to prevent
much penetration of the electric wave in the sea, and therefore there
is not much dissipation of its energy by absorption due to the surface
over which it travels. We have here an instance of economy in
nature. Over sandy deserts, where we can, if need be, put up tele-
graph posts and wires, radiotelegraphy has had some natural diffi-
culties placed in its way, but on sea, where connection between mov-
ing stations is the important matter, and telegraph posts are impos-
sible, special facilities seem to have been afforded us for conducting it.

The next point in connection with the antenna to be noticed is the
means adopted of setting up the oscillations in it. The universal cus-
tom at present is to excite oscillations in a reservoir circuit con-
sisting of a condenser and an inductance by means of the spark or
arc. If the spark method is used, then the condenser is one of
relatively large capacity and the inductance is kept small. If the
capacity is measured in electrostatic units, and the inductance in
electromagnetic units, the ratio of capacity to inductance may be
RADIOTELEGRAPHY—FLEMING, 167

something of the order of 5:1 of even 20:1. In this case the con-
denser is charged by means of an induction coil or transformer, and
discharged across a spark gap, and this discharge consists of inter-
mittent trains of electric oscillations with a periodic time equal to
the free natural period of the oscillatory circuit. These discharges
are made to succeed each other from 50 to 600 times a second, by
using an induction coil with an appropriate interrupter, or else an
alternator and a transformer. If the

arc method of exciting the oscillations 2, Ey
is employed, then the ratio of capacity es alga
to inductance must be much smaller and 4/3, a 23
the oscillations are excited in this cir- [8 a
cuit by a continuous current arc worked é

with a voltage from 200 to 400 volts or = x
more, the arc being traversed by a

strong magnetic field and generally be- as oF
ing placed in a chamber kept free from z B
oxygen. The oscillations set up in the Fre. 6.

condenser circuit are then persistent or unbroken. The oscillations
are excited in the antenna by coupling it inductively or directly with
the condenser circuit (see fig. 6). If the former method is employed,
then an oscillation transformer is used consisting of two coils of wire,
one coil being inserted in the condenser circuit and one in the an-
tenna circuit, and according as these coils are near or far apart, they
are said to be closely or loosely coupled. These two circuits have
then each their own natural period of electric vibration, like tuning
forks, and they have to
be adjusted to syntony.
It is well known that
under these conditions
oscillations set up in
one circuit immediately
create oscillations of
two frequencies in both
circuits. This action
can be easily  illus-
é trated by two pendu-
lums which are of the same length and are hung side by side on
a loose string distinguished by red and blue bobs. If one pendu-
lum is set swinging, it imparts little jerks to its other and sets
the latter in motion, but to do this the first must part with its
own energy, and hence is gradually brought to rest. Then the opera-
tion is repeated in the reverse direction. The motion of each pendu-
lum may then be represented by the ordinates of a curve such as those
in figure 7. This kind of motion can, by a well-known theorem,
45745°—sm 1909——12

Blue Pendulum
Hig. 7.
168 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

be resolved into the sum of two oscillations of different frequen-
cies. Hence, each pendulum may be said to possess two rates of
vibration. The same thing happens in the case of two closely
coupled syntonic electric currents. If one circuit has free oscillations
set up in it, the action and reaction of the circuits generates oscilla-
tions of two frquencies. Accordingly, when an antenna circuit is
coupled to a condenser circuit, we have oscillations of two frequencies
set up in it, and waves of two wave lengths radiated from the an-
tenna. The presence of these two waves can be detected either by
measurements made with the cymometer or by an oscillograph
vacuum tube. In the first case all that is necessary is to place a
cymometer in proximity to the antenna and vary its oscillation con-
stant. It will be found that there are two settings of the handle for
which the Neon tube glows brightly, and the scale of the instrument
will indicate the wave
lengths of the two waves
respectively. Some instruct-

A2= 1060 metres
C,

= 0'0043 mfds. lve measurements of this
= 0'0048 mf ;

kind have been made by
Prof. W. G. Pierce in a re-
cent research, and he has
shown that the wave lengths
given by the formule which
can be deduced from the
theory of the operations are
in agreement with actual
measurements (see fig. 8).
Another striking confirma-
tion can be obtained by the
200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1690 oscillograph vacuum tube,

Fic. 8.—Pierce’s eee inductive coupling. invented 2 Baa Gomes.
~ of the Reichsanstalt, Ber-

lin. This consists of a glass tube having two strip electrodes in
it nearly touching, which are made of nickel or aluminum. The
tube is filled with pure nitrogen and exhausted to a pressure of
about 10 to 20 mm. If such a tube has a high voltage applied
to its terminals, a glow light extends along the electrodes, the length
of which varies with the electromotive force. Hence, if the tube
is connected to a circuit in which an oscillatory discharge is taking
place, the glow light along the tube will rapidly extend and contract.
If the electrodes are examined in a revolving mirror, making from
fifty to a hundred turns a second, the images of the glowing elec-
trodes corresponding to each oscillation will be separated out, and
if the oscillations are persistent or undamped, we see a series
of short bright lines alternately above and below a centrai line.

eee

+ Asty/(R-)E+ 4S

; ‘SAdNL WNNOVA ‘AGN L WONNOVA HdVYDOTTIOSO SXYOYHAS)
“SANOP-HOTAVL “FQ 'SOUd AP SLINOYID SMOHHSH HLIM NAaXVL (GSLOANNOQ VNN3IILNY) BSHL HLIM N3XV_L (GSLOSNNOD LON YNNSLNY)
G31dNOD NISNOILVINTIOSO SOSWVHDOTMOSO— VO} ‘SI NOILVINIO0SO AYVGNODAS 4O WVYSOTIOSO—'O!] “SId NOILVINI0SO GadWVQ JO WvyDOTTIOSO—’6 “SIF

Guisp —
Bruryernos pun “7 7
«” & ¢28000. =5

Sursy
Siijdno> pun

tC S90I00:

Pprarfoirnie 2g.) —!

Co ©28000. =

PVA SOI SSS =

7 Ea
«& o90100.=9

Pearfoimw >

Sel valel ‘Bulwa| j—'606 | ‘Wodey ueiuosyj}iws
RADIOTELEGRAPHY—FLEMING. 169

Tf, however, the oscillations are damped, then we see in the mirror
a train of images each decreasing in length (fig. 9, pl. 1). On apply-
ing such an oscillograph vacuum tube to the circuit of an inductively
coupled antenna, and examining in a revolving mirror the image of
the electrodes, they will be seen to present an appearance as in fig. 10,
pl. 1, taken from photographs kindly given me by Herr Hans Boas,
of Berlin. These oscillograms indicate that there are two oscillations
present of different frequency, producing an effect similar to beats
in music. Owing to the difference in frequency, the oscillations
alternately reenforce and extinguish each other throughout the period,
and as this type of oscillogram is only obtained with an inductively
coupled antenna, it is a proof that in such a case there are two
oscillations present of different frequencies. A similar result has
been obtained by Prof. E. Taylor Jones with low-frequency oscil-
lations in coupled inductive circuits by means of an electrostatic
oscillogram of his own invention. Looking at these photographs, it
will be seen that each represents a single train of damped oscillations
gradually dying away, but that in each train of oscillations there is
an alternate waxing and waning of the amplitude, which indicates
that it may be considered to be composed of two superimposed oscil-
lations of different frequency (fig. 10a, pl. 1).

Accordingly, in the case of wireless telegraph antenne inductively
coupled, we have in general two waves radiated of different lengths,
and either of these can be made to affect suitably tuned receiving
circuits. These waves have different damping and different maximum
amplitudes.

One of the disadvantages of close inductive coupling is, therefore,
that we must divide the energy given to the antenna between two
waves of different length. As the receiving antenna is generally only
tuned to one of these wave lengths, we then capture and absorb only
the energy conveyed by the waves of that wave length. To meet this
difficulty it has been the custom to employ a feeble coupling between
the circuits of the oscillation transformer, so as to generate waves
of only one wave length. The objection then arises that the energy
conveyed to the antenna is much reduced. It is, however, possible,
as I have shown, to duplicate the receiving circuits so as to capture
the energy of both the waves even with close coupling of the trans-
mitter transformer ¢ (see fig. 11).

A method of creating feebly damped oscillations has, on the other
hand, recently been developed, generally known in Germany as Wien’s

@Since the delivery of this lecture my attention has been drawn by Mr. J.
Hettinger to an article by himself in the ‘‘ Hlectrical Engineer” of October 26,
1906, in which he describes an almost identical arrangement devised by him for
capturing both the waves of an inductively coupled transmitter, and refers to a
prior invention for the same purpose by Dr. G. Seibt.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

method, or the method of quenched sparks, which is based on the fact
that if we can quench or stop the spark in the condenser circuit after
the first few oscillations, the oscillations of the antenna then take
place freely and with a single fre-
quency (see fig. 114).

The principle which underlies this
method is the well-known fact, to
which particular attention was called
by Prof. M. Wien, of Danzig, in 1906,
that the damping effect of very short
sparks is extremely large. Hence, if
we form a spark gap consisting of a
large number of very small spark gaps in
Fic. 11.—Method of utilizing waves series, say 10 gaps each of 0.3 mm., and

of both frequencies emitted by E

inductively coupled transmitting 1f we keep the spark surfaces cool,

TEMES SUEY then not only can no are form be-
“tween these surfaces but the condenser spark is immediately
quenched. Moreover, if we supply this spark gap, either from a high
frequency alternator, or from a low resistance transformer, we can
produce as many as 2,000 sparks per second. A form of discharger
for this purpose has been devised in Germany which consists of a
series of copper disks or
copper boxes cooled with
water, the flat surfaces of
which are placed in con-
tiguity, but separated by
very thin rings of mica.
The interspace between
the boxes 1s not mere
than one one-hundred-
and-twenty-fifth of an
inch, and ten or twelve
of these disks or boxes
are placed in series (see
fig. 11s). The row of
boxes takes the place of
the ordinary spark balls,
and is connected to the
secondary terminals of a
transformer, fed by a high
frequency alternator, and also connected to an oscillatory circuit.
When the transformer is in action it produces a very large number,
1,000 or more, of oscillatory discharges of the condenser per second,
each of which has a large initial amplitude, but quickly dies out. The
inductively or directly coupled antenna hence receives a very large

Ordinary Spark

Primary

Secondary |\

Primary

Fic. 114. Oscillations in inductively coupled circuits.
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—FLEMING. a rq

number of impulses per second, each of which sets up in it free
electrical oscillations of one definite period.

A discharge composed of a single pair of metal plates with inter-
posed separating paper ring has been devised and employed by Von
Lepel. In this case the plates are connected to the terminals of a
high-voltage direct-current dynamo, and are shunted by a circuit
having inductance and capacity, one of the plates being also connected
to an antenna and the other to a balancing capacity.

These dischargers, however, have not stood the test of prolonged
practical use, and we can not say therefore that they are comparable
in value for telegraphic purposes
with the well-proved inventions
of Mr. Marconi.

In connection with spark teleg-
raphy it has been clearly seen,
lately, that much can be done by
attention to details of construc-
tion to increase the number of
oscillations in each wave train in
the case of spark apparatus, in
other words, to lessen the damp-
ing by obviating energy losses in
all parts of the apparatus. It is
not a matter of indifference what
kind of glass we use in Leyden
jars or what form of stranded
wire we employ in oscillation
transformers, or type of spark
discharger. By appropriate selec-
tion of apparatus, we can con- SS
siderably increase the number of Plan of Copper Flanged Plate.
oscillations in damped trains of F'6- 118. Plan and section showing por-
small amplitude, and therefore Sci Nia Saba
increase the possibilities of utilizing the principle of resonance.

Before leaving the subject of the antenna we may notice some
recent improvements in directive antennae, that is, in devices for
more or less confining the radiation to one direction, and for locating
the position of the sending station.

In a previous discourse explanations were given of the property
of a closed or partly closed antenna of radiating more in some direc-
tions than others, and the action of Marconi’s bent antenna was
described. Two other inventors, Messrs. Bellini and Tosi, have taken
advantage of this fact to construct antenne of a very interesting
character. They erect an antenna consisting of two wires, each bent

ttre seme nen ewe Ban wee, wm nee nw wee anne

v72 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

into a triangular form, the top ends nearly meeting, the planes of
these triangles being at right angles to one another, and both of them
vertical. The nearly closed antenna circuits are then inductively
coupled with a condenser circuit, which is capable of being swivelled
around in various directions. If the said condenser circuit is placed
in such a position as to be coupled with one of the triangular antenne,
it will cause the maximum radiation to take place in the plane of that
antenna, but none at all at right angles to it. If it is coupled with
the other antenna, it will cause radiation to take place to a maximum
degree in the plane of that second antenna. If, however, the oscil-
latory circuit is placed in an intermediate position, so as to act
inductively upon both the nearly closed triangular antenne, then it
can be shown both mathematically and experimentally that the radia-
tion of the combined system is a maximum in the direction of the
plane of the oscillatory circuit which is coupled with the antenna.
. Hence, with such a combined antenna, we have it in our power to
: create radiation most strongly in one direc-
tion, although not entirely suppressed in all
other directions. By combining together,
however, a single vertical antenna with two
nearly closed circuit antenne at right angles
to one another, Messrs. Bellini and Tosi have
constructed a complex antenna which has the
property of producing radiation almost en-
tirely limited to one-half of the circumja-
cent space (see fig. 12). It therefore corre-
sponds to a certain extent in effect to the
optical apparatus of a light-house, with
catoptric or dioptric apparatus, which pro-
jects the light from the lamp largely in one direction. It is not
yet possible to make with electric radiation of long wave length
that which corresponds precisely with a beam of hight wholly con-
centrated along a certain cone or cylinder, but it is possible, by
the use of a complex antenna as described, to greatly limit the
diffusion of the radiation. Since radiating and absorbing power
go hand in hand, it is obvious that such a directive antenna also
enables the position of a sending station to be located. Messrs.
Bellini and Tosi have accordingly applied their methods in the con-
struction of a radiogoniometer and receiving antenna, by means of
which they can locate the direction of the sending station without
moving the antenna, but merely by turning around a secondary cir-
cult into a position in which the maximum sound is heard in a
telephone connected with the receiver. By the kindness of Captain
Tosi I am able to exhibit to you their ingenious apparatus (see
fig. 13, pl. 2):

Q

Fie. 12.
“ANOHdS TS LOINVY YOS SNOILVITIOSO
LNALSISHSd SNIONGOY, YO4 OYV WNININNIY “AHdVY¥SS TS LOIGVY
NOISNA L-HDIH ShHSWHNY LSNY4—']1S? “SI SAILOSYIGQ YOS SHSALAWOINODSOIGVY SdSO]L GNV INITISG—'S] “SIS

"6 ALVId *Buiwia|j—6Q6| ‘Hodey ueiuosy}iWS
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—FLEMING.,. ie

The space occupied by such closed antenne has hitherto prevented
their employment on ships. ‘There is still, therefore, an opening for
the invention of apparatus capable of being used on board ship
which will enable one ship to locate, within narrow limits, the
direction of another ship sending signals to it, and therefore of
ascertaining immediately the direction from which some call for help
is proceeding.

Closely connected with this part of the subject is the question so
frequently discussed as to the isolation or secrecy of radiotelegraphic
communication. Up to the present moment the only really practical
method of isolating any particular receiver so as to make it sensitive
only to signals coming from a certain direction, is to avail ourselves
to the utmost of the principle of resonance and to tune the sending

and receiving circuits to exact cor- Th
respondence. The question then

arises, What is it which determines 90
the effectiveness of this tuning? fe

If waves of one particular wave

jength are impinging on a receiving : “0
antenna and creating signals, by % ,,
how much can the wave length be

varied or the tuning of the receiver é 7
upset or changed without prevent- gs 40
ing these signals being received? §

It is clear that the narrower this § ¢

range the more perfect the isola- 20
tion of the receiver. It can be

shown that it depends upon the

form of the resonance curve of the ; pees

sending and _ receiving circuits. Percentage Variation from Exact Tuning,
If the sending station is emitting Fic. 14.—Resonance curves.

waves of a certain constant wave length and damping or decrement,
then in the receiving circuit of all other stations within range there
will be produced oscillations having a certain mean square value
measurable by appropriate instruments. If any receiving circuit is
gradually brought by adjustment of its capacity and inductance into
exact syntony or tune with the sending station, then this receiver cur-
rent reaches its maximum value and there is a definite lesser value of
the receiver current for every particular degree of want of tuning or
dissonance between the two. The curve which by its ordinates ex-
presses this receiver current corresponding to each particular tuning
or natural frequency of the receiving circuit, is called a resonance
curve (see fig. 14). If this curve has a very sharp peak, then it
clearly indicates that a slight want of tuning or syntony between the
stations will greatly reduce the receiver current. The peakiness of
174 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

the curve depends upon the sum of the decrements of the sending and
receiving circuits. By the term “ decrement” of a circuit is meant
the logarithm of the ratio of the amplitudes of two successive oscil-
lations in the train.

To obtain very sharp tuning we have therefore to employ either
undamped oscillations or very feebly damped oscillations in the
transmitter, and also a receiving circuit in which there is as little
dissipation of energy by resistance and other causes as possible. It
is then possible to cause a change of even less than one-half of 1 per
cent, or 5 parts in 1,000 in the wave length of the received waves
to cease to actuate the receiver. This means that we can distinguish
between two waves 1,000 and 1,005 or 1,010 feet in length, respec-
tively, and that our receiver may be tuned to respond to one and not
to the other. The persistent or undamped oscillations created by
the arc transmitters have, therefore, an advantage in this respect
-over spark transmitters, in that the damping or decrement of the
transmitter is less; but it should be borne in mind that the damping
of the receiver circuit has also a large influence on the form of the
resonance curve, and that good isolation can not be obtained unless
the receiving circuit also has a small decrement. Under favorable
conditions we can employ a sending key, which does not interrupt
the production of the electric waves at the sending station, but sim-
ply alters the wave length slightly by about one-fourth per cent. If,
then, the corresponding receiving station has a feebly damped re-
ceiver, this change will be sufficient to cut up the continuous record
or telephone sound at that station into Morse dots and dashes, and so
transmit signals. But another station not so tuned will either re-
ceive nothing at all or else a continuous unbroken line or sound not
having any meaning. There are other methods by which signals not
intended for a particular receiver can be rejected by it. Fessenden
has described for this purpose an interference detector, in which the
impulses it is not desired to receive are made to divide between two
paths, the oscillations in which are then caused. to neutralize each
other’s effect on the oscillation detector. On the other hand, the
waves of the wave length it is desired to receive do not so neutralize
themselves, but produce a signal by their operation on the detector.

We must pass on to notice in the next place some improvements in
oscillation detectors, and means of testing them. As already ex-
plained, the ether waves sent out by the transmitting antenna fall on
the receiving antenna and create in it or some other circuit connected
to it very feeble oscillations. These oscillations being very feeble
alternating currents of high frequency, can not directly affect either
an ordinary telegraphic instrument or a telephone, but we have to
interpose a device of some kind called an oscillation detector, which
is affected by oscillations in such a manner that it undergoes some
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—FLEMING. TS

change which in turn enables it to create, increase, or diminish a local
current produced by a local battery and so affect a telephone or tele-
graphic relay. One kind of change the oscillations can produce in
certain devices is a change in their electric resistance, which in turn
is caused to increase or diminish a current through a telephone or
telegraphic relay generated by a local battery. To this type belong
the well-known coherers of Branly, Lodge, and Marconi, which re-
quire tapping or rotating to bring them back continually to a condi-
tion of sensitiveness. Coherers, however, have been devised which
require no tapping. Thus it has been found by Mr. L. H. Walter that
if a short length of very fine tantalum wire is dipped into mercury
there is a very imperfect contact between the mercury and tantalum
for low electromotive forces. This may perhaps arise from the fact
that tantalum, like iron, is not wetted by mercury. If, however,
feeble electric oscillations act between the mercury and tantalum, the
contact is improved whilst they last. If, then, the terminals of a cir-
cuit containing a telephone in series
with a shunted voltaic cell are con-
nected to the mercury and tantalum,
respectively, and if damped or inter-
mittent trains of electric waves fall on
an antenna and excite oscillations
which are allowed to act on the mer-
cury tantalum junction, then at each
train the resistance of the contact falls,
the local cell sends current through the
telephone and produces a short sound, Fic. 15.—Walter’s tantalum de-
and if the trains come frequently FECHOE:

enough this sound is repeated and will be heard as a continuous
noise in the telephone (see fig. 15). This sound can be cut up into
dot and dash signals by a key in the sending instrument. If the
transmitter is sending persistent oscillations, then some form of
interrupter has to be inserted in the receiving circuit to enable us
to receive a continuous sound in the telephone which can be re-
solved into Morse dot and dash signals by the key in the trans-
mitter. The operator usually wears on his head a double telephone,
and listens to these long and short sounds in the telephone and writes
down each letter or word as he hears it. The reception of signals in
modern radiotelegraphy is most usually effected by ear, by means of
some type of oscillation detector capable of actuating a telephone. It
is important then to notice that, to obtain the highest sensitiveness
when using the telephonic method of reception, the spark frequency
or number of oscillation trains or the number of interruptions of the
persistent train per second must take place at such a rate that it
agrees with the natural time period of the diaphragm of the telephone

176 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

used. An ordinary telephone receiver is most sensitive, according to
the researches of Lord Rayleigh and M. Wien, for some frequency
lying between 500 and 1,000. Thus Lord Rayleigh (see Phil. Mag.,
vol. 38, 1894, p. 285) measured the alternating current in micro-
amperes required to produce the least audible sound in a telephone
receiver of 70 ohms resistance at various frequencies, and found
values as follows:

TABLE II.
HrequenGypencnssocceoaesmceesieeceeesceeesece 128 | 192] 256] 307] 3820] 384] 512] 640 768
Least audible current in microamperes...... 28} 2.5 | 0.83 | 0.49 | 0.32 | 0.15 | 0.07 | 0.04 0.1

M. Wien found for a Siemens telephone somewhat different results
Viz:

128
1.5

256
0.13

512
0. 027

720
0. 008

1, 927
0.018

1,500

0. 024

INFEQUCNCY? oc eis ce aaioatesete secret Sseec ed acwsiesesecioess 64
Least audible current in microamperes.............----.-

Both, however, agree in showing a maximum sensitiveness for
currents of a frequency between 600 and 700. This is due to the
fact that the frequency of the actuating current then agrees with the
natural frequency of the ordinary telephone diaphragm. Hence,
alternators for large power radiotelegraphic stations are now designed
to give currents with a frequency of about 300 or 600 alternations per
second, so that, when producing discharges of a condenser, the num-
ber of sparks per second may be at least 600, and fulfill the con-
ditions for giving maximum sound in the telephone of the receiver
per microampere. Another class of oscillation detector recently
discovered comprises the crystal detectors which depend on the pos-
session by certain crystals of the curious property of acting as an
electrical valve, or having greater conductivity in one direction than
the other, and also on not obeying Ohm’s law as conductors. It was
discovered by General Dunwoody of the United States Army, in 1906,
that a mass of carborundum, which is a crystalline carbide of silicon
formed in electric furnaces, can act as a detector of electric oscilla-
tions if inserted in the circuit of an antenna, the crystal mass being
held strongly pressed between two spring clips, which are also con-
nected by a shunted voltaic cell in series with a telephone. When
feeble oscillations are set up in the antenna, a sound is heard in the
telephone. This property of carborundum has been carefully investi-
gated by Prof. G. W. Pierce, of Harvard, and he showed that a
single crystal of carborundum has remarkable unilateral conductivity
for certain voltages when held with a certain contact pressure be-
tween metallic clips. Thus for a crystal held with a pressure of
1 kilogram, and subjected to an electromotive force of 30 volts, the
conductivity in one direction through the crystal was 4,000 greater
RADIOTELEGRAPHY—FLEMING, ihrer 4

than in the opposite direction (see fig. 16). The result of these
experiments was also to show that the current voltage curve or
characteristic curve of a carborundum crystal is not linear—that is to
say, the crystal as a conductor does not comply with Ohm’s law, for
the resistance of the crystal decreases as the current is increased.
Hence the conductivity of the crystal is a function of the voltage
acting on it (see fig. 16a).
Accordingly, if we pass a
current from a local cell
through a crystal under a
voltage say of 2 volts, a
telephone being inserted in
series with the cell, and if
we apply an_ oscillatory
voltage also to the crystal,
which varies say between

+0.5 and —0.5 volt, then Applied Voltage. +
the crystal 1s alternately Fic. 16.—Characteristic curves of carborundum
subjected to a voltage of 2.5 crystal.

and 1.5 volts, but the corresponding currents would be say 8.4 and
1.8 microamperes, as shown by an experiment with one particular
crystal employed by Professor Pierce. The mean current would then
be 5.1 microamperes, whereas the steady voltage of 2 volts would
only pass a current of 4 microamperes. Hence, apart from the uni-
lateral conductivity, and merely in virtue of the fact that the char-
acteristic curve is not a straight line, we find that such a crystal or
even a confused mass of crystals
can act as a radiotelegraphic de-
tector. There are, therefore, two
ways in which a crystalline mass
of carborundum can be used as a
radiotelegraphic detector. It con-
sists of a conglomeration of crys-
tals arranged in a_ disorderly
manner, or not so symmetrically
as to neutralize one another’s uni-
Applied Voltage. lateral conductivity. Hence the

a as mass of crystals, like the single

crystal, possesses unilateral conductivity, and also a conductivity which
is a function of the voltage applied to it. We may then use it without
a local cel’, and avail ourselves of its valve property to rectify the trains
of oscillations in the antenna and convert them into short unidirec-
tional trains which can affect a galvanometer or telephone; or secondly,
we may place the crystal between the ends of a circuit containing a
telephone and a shunted voltaic cell, and then on passing oscillations

Current.

178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

through the crystal we hear sounds in the telephone due to the fact
that the conductivity is a function of the voltage, and is therefore
increased more by the addition than it is diminished by the substrac-
tion of the electromotive force of the oscillations to or from the steady
voltage of the local cell. The telephone, therefore, detects this change
in the average value of the current by a sound emitted by it. Pro-
fessor Pierce has discovered that several other crystals possess similar
properties to carborundum, for example, hessite, which is a native
crystalline telluride of silver or gold; an anatase, which is an oxide of
titanium; and molybdenite, which is a sulphide of molybdenum. As
regards the origin of this curious unilateral conductivity, it seems
clear that it is not thermoelectric, but at present no entirely satisfac-
tory theory of the action has been suggested.

A number of forms of oscillation detector have recently been
invented which depend on the curious fact that a slight contact
between certain classes of conductors possesses a unilateral conduc-
tivity, and can therefore rectify oscillations. One such detector now
much used in Germany consists of a plumbago or graphite point,
pressed lightly against a surface of galena. It has been found by
Otto von Bronk that a galena-tellurium contact is even more effective.
To the same class belongs the silicon-steel detector of Pickard. If
such a contact is inserted across the terminals of a condenser placed in
the receiving circuit, and if it is also in series with a telephone, the
trains of oscillations are rectified or converted into more or less pro-
longed gushes of electricity in one direction through the telephone.
These coming at a frequency of several hundred per second, corre-
sponding to the spark frequency, create a sound in the telephone,
which can be cut up by the sending key into Morse signals. Accord-
ing to the researches of Professor Pierce and Mr. Austin it seems clear
in many cases that this rectifying action is not thermoelectric, since
the rectified current is in the opposite direction to the current obtained
by heating the junction.

I may, then, bring to your notice some recent work on another form
of radiotelegraphic detector, which I first described to the Royal
Society about five years ago under the name of oscillation valve. It
consists of an electric glow lamp, in the bulb of which is placed a
cylinder of metal which surrounds the filament but does touch it.
This cylinder is connected to a wire sealed through the glass. Instead
of a cylinder, one or more metal plates are sometimes used. The
filament may be carbon or a metallic filament, and I found some year
or more ago that tungsten in various forms has special advantages.
The bulb is exhausted to a high vacuum, but of course this means it
includes highly rarefied gas of some kind. When the filament is ren-
dered incandescent it emits electrons, and these electrons or negative
RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—FLEMING. 179

ions give to the residual gas a unilateral conductivity, as shown by me
in a Friday evening lecture given here nineteen years ago. Moreover,
the ionized gas not only possesses unilateral conductivity, but its con-
ductivity, like that of the crystals just mentioned, is a function of the
voltage applied to it. Hence, if we apply an electromotive force
between the hot filament and the cool metal plate, we find that nega-
tive electricity can pass from the filament to the plate through the
ionized gas, and that the relation between the current and voltage is
not linear, but is represented by 2 characteristic curve bending upward
which has changes of curvature in it (see fig. 17). The sharp bend
upward at one place implies a large increase in the current corre-
sponding to a certain voltage, which means that, corresponding to a
certain potential gradient and therefore velocity of the electrons, con-
siderable ionization of the residual gas is beginning to take place.
The current, however, would not increase indefinitely with the volt-
age, but would before long become constant or saturated. It will be
seen, therefore, that
at points on _ the
curve where there is
a bend or change of
curvature the second
differential coefficient
of the curve may
have a large value.
Hence, if we consider
the current and volt- Applied Voltage.

age corresponding to Fic. 17.—Characteristic curve of rarefied gas ionized by
this point, it will be hot negative electrode.

seen that any small increase in the voltage increases the current
more than an equal small decrease in voltage diminishes it. If
then we superimpose on a steady voltage corresponding to a point
of inflexion of the curve an alternating voltage, the average value
of the current will be increased. This then points out two ways
in which this oscillation valve or glow lamp can be used as a radio-
telegraphic detector. First, we may make use of the unilateral
conductivity of the ionized gas in the bulb and employ the glow
lamp with cylinder around the incandescent filament as a rectifier
of trains of oscillations to make them affect a galvanometer or
telephone. This method was described by me in papers and speci-
fications in 1904 and 1905. In that case the valve is arranged in con-
nection with a receiving antenna, as shown in figure 18, and used with
a galvanometer or telephone. Mr. Marconi subsequently added an
induction coil and condenser, and employed in 1907 the arrangements
shown in figure 19. In this case the trains of oscillations set up in
the antenna could not by themselves affect a galvanometer or a tele-

000

Current in Micro-amperes.

180 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1909.

phone, but when rectified by the valve they become equivalent to an
intermittent unidirectional current, and can then affect the telephone
or a galvanometer, or any instrument for detecting a direct current.
On the other hand, we may take advantage, as I have more recently
shown, of the nonlinear form of the characteristic curve. In other
words, of the fact that the conductivity of the ionized gas is a func-

it

Fic. 18. Fie. 19.
Connections for oscillation valve used as radiotelegraphic detector.

tion of the voltage applied to it, and in this second method the valve
and receiving circuits are arranged as shown in figure 20. In this
case, we have to apply to the ionized gas a unidirectional electromotive
force which corresponds to a point of inflexion on the character-
istic curve, and then to add to this
voltage the alternating voltage of the
oscillations set up by the incident elec-
tric waves in the receiving circuit. The
result is to cause a change in the aver-
age value of the current through the
telephone, and therefore to produce a
sound in it, long or short, according to
the number of trains of waves falling
on the antenna. This last method,
then, requires the application in the
Fic. 20.—Connections for oscilla- telephone circuit of an accurately ad-
Sea eapern as a radiotele’ Justed steady electromotive force, not
any electromotive force, but just that
value which corresponds to a point on the characteristic curve at
which there is a sudden change of curvature.

At this point we may notice a broad generalization which has
already been made by H. Brandes, viz, that any materials such as the
erystals mentioned, or ionized gases, which do not obey Ohm’s law as
regards the independence of conductivity on impressed voltage, can
be used as radiotelegraphic receivers. It is necessary to be able to
test the relative sensibility of detectors to know whether any new

RADIOTELEGRAPH Y—FLEMING. 181

form is an improvement. It is not always possible for an inventor
to get these tests made at real wireless telegraph stations. Moreover,
it is no use to test over short distances, because then all detectors
appear to be equally good. I have found, however, that we can make
these comparative tests very easily within quite moderate distances by
employing closed sending and receiving circuits which are poor radi-
ators. All the devices called wave detectors are really only oscilla-
tion detectors, and we can therefore test their value simply by ascer-
taining how feeble an alternating current or alternating voltage they
will detect. If we then set up in one place a square circuit of wire a
few feet inside, and complete the circuit by a condenser and a spark
gap, we can set up oscillations in it by means of an induction coil. I
find that it is necessary to inclose the spark gap in a cast-iron box,
and to blow upon the spark with a jet of air to secure silence, absence
of emission of electromagnetic waves direct from the spark balls, and
constancy in the oscillatory circuit. I then set up, a few score or few
hundred feet away, a similar tuned closed oscillatory circuit, and I
connect the oscillation detector to be tested either in this circuit or as
a shunt across the condenser. The closed receiving circuit is so con-
structed that it may be rotated around either of threeaxes. It is then
generally possible to find some position of the receiving circuit such
that no sounds are heard in a telephone connected to a highly sensi-
tive detector associated with the circuit. This position is called the
“zero position.” Ifthe receiving circuit is rotated around some axis, it
begins at a certain displacement to receive signals, and the angle
through which it has to be turned is a measure of the insensibility
of the particular oscillation detector being used. I find, for instance,
that it is quite easy to take one of my oscillation valves, a magnetic
detector, an electrolytic detector, a crystal detector, or any other
type, and arrange these in order of their sensibility by means of the
device described. Sensibility is not, however, the only virtue which
a wave detector should possess. It is important that it should be
simple, easily adjusted, and not injured by the chance passage
through it of any unusually large oscillatory currents. Another
quality which is desirable is that it should be quantitative in its
action, and that any change in the amplitude of the wave received
should be accompanied by an equal change in the current which the
detector allows to pass through the telephone. A quantitative

aceillatian datectar then enahles not merely sionals hut andihle sneech
should be accompanied by an equal change in the current which the

detector allows to pass through the telephone. A quantitative

aceillatian datectar then enahles not merely sionals hut andihle sneech
should be accompanied by an equal change in the current which the

detector allows to pass through the telephone. A quantitative

aceillatian dotectar then enahles not merelw sionals hut. andihle sneech
should be accompanied by an equal change in the current which the

detector allows to pass through the telephone. A quantitative

acaillatian datanatar than anahlee nat merelw cianale hnt andihle cneech
chanld he ananmnanied hy an aqnal ehanoe in the eurrent which the
