Cte ee CNRS eee
PPP ll eA PE Re

? i

oe

iy ie. Jia | a  .
’ 2 i a
ma a. 3 , ua " "7
“4 Fe. % fs 4 ‘ & .
a2 } c 4 £ 4

a 2 » 5 &
" iaiie” i a a Re

s , wv: % i i <a
7 “ , ¥ . ae be "

ae eee
: » 3 ‘ q a q ; =

‘
y j

é

e .
; y
-

iat
es) 7,

HN

TCS Gait
$34 an Lets
Beet,

2 Es
ie
i >
a ri
ENS
+

8

3
i

a HG ag

: nae if i earth

behee sys aie Eat Att (

INVA AIBNCU AMM NNR Mas ai ay

Oe
ettesioy iva oe

Ai We 1th
"i "
My re 4 i BS
aes

is
ti
iH
|
ts

POET OCS Wee eee ee Re ee ese et mye @

th
a

Bi

ieee. Ss

if
i

e
by

ty

ee

| pas

.

i BHT
i] » 5,
i

iy ‘J
AY iis

\

cy

f
Rain

wt

ese

ce,
SS
te Se

wo

Disa ON
SI, i
ho aN

ae ; Tae. C
< Ss KC Cate SEG a

ae
ae SKK
: eee LECCE
ec: <a Fain a a eke
eee <= Be
ae ae? 3 : :
Shee EC
| Be ee
Ui a <ere CC EK, CaS
hs 1 KS EX ° = eR m < © < = ee EEE — - “
Ex < ae (em iio Pane ae we, = - = Far a
= Se ie pat coe «e < << a

—_e ree <x

= s a : a.

wie
- <e

ae

1 Ro ee

: <<< aS re ER em

< ee
ca <

vex

i

PAS ee Sean aS

Sane
x Ht

a

tase

none
SS

x
SSeS

SSS
Se
a
A
Va te AAUP 4 ; ie RB
‘ es - ie NEAL CSF cre ae Pat a
ale ‘S ‘sya! ‘ Ife
Ne Y . . a AVAL: AY a ORY 1 Ey Mky
} WA ATA NAAIAIA AI WAY lal= F | a :
Pia Ael OS Se bh VG ‘i } ' a ; ,
‘6 a y 4 a ry ’ « ie Y “fe '" \) 5 4) | ' }
. ae A Axl: LV AW : y "i

Nt. ee
ALE OY a \

Se
ANS

~

Ses
=X

Noes
Seek

Siccoatness
Se

QM ew

ee qc cere

<< SSeS EC Ee. “<a Kk ee aC Le
aa, Wi < Re COR Ce ACC Qt On a ae < ec Ce,
itn

c

(ae

ot

=)
>

cae Ce ae ea eee ME

~S

=:

a
S,

—re
>
8

<e

oN

ACG a ai
i i = 3
See OK
x tx. . aa
Cee cK
: at ~

<i CC ee
KER C GE &
ee.”

i eit
Wh Mit
HN} 4\ |

i)

: if ih.

ny Hit

—=> > i
Se al bg

i

|

ul

1 i)

| ! Hit!
wi

S ak

»

i inet
re a ws s

a

INTR OD UCGLEONE

The Smithsonian Institution has attained a world-wide reputation, and ils
influence and importance are constantly extending. Its publications are found
uot only in the public libraries of our own land, but also in those of every other
civilized country. Its correspondents include some of the most distinguished
cultivators of science of the present day, and it is referred to as a center of infor-
mation by those who are interested in the pursuit of knowledge.

Many persons, however, who visit Washington, are but imperfectly acquainted
with the history of Smithson, the great object he had in view, the plans adopted
to carry out his intentions, and the results already obtained. It is for the pur-
pose of furnishing more definite information on these points thar this work has
been compiled, from the annual reports of the Secretary, Professor UENRy, to the

Board uf Regents, and other authentic sources.

2

Lhe Founder.

JAMES SMITHSON, the founder
of the Institution which bears his
name and wil! perpetuate his mem-
ory, was a native of London, Eng-
land. In his will he states that
he was the son of Hugh, first Duke
of Northumberland, and Eliza-
beth, heiress of the Hungerfords,
of Audley, and niece of Charles
the Proud, Duke of Somerset. He
was educated at Oxford, where he
took an honorary degree in 1786.
He went under the name of James
Lewis Macie untila few years after
he had left the university, when
he took that of Smithson, the
family name of the Northumberlands. He does not appear to have had any
fixed home in England, but travelled much on the continent, occasionally staying
a year or two in Paris, Berlin, Florence, etc. He died at Genoa, in 1828, at an
advanced age. He is said by Sir Davies Gilbert, President of the Royal Society,
to have rivalled the most expert chemists in minute analysis ; and, as an instance
of his skill, it is mentioned that, happening to observe a tear gliding down a
lady’s cheek, he endeavored to catch it on a crystal vessel; that half of the drop
escaped, but having preserved the other half, he submitted it to close analysis,
and discovered in it several salts, He contributed a number of valuable papers
to the Royal Society, and also to the Annals of Philosophy, on chemistry,
mineralogy, and geology. His scientific reputation was founded on these
branches, though from his writings he appears to have studied and reflected upon
almost every department of knowledge. He was of a sensitive, retiring disposi-
tion; was never married—appeared ambitious of making a name for himself,

e :

“il
AN) AN \
M€ : 5
Q
4 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

either by his own researches or by founding an institution for the promotion of
science. He declared, in writing, that though the best blood of England flowed
in his veins, this availed him not, for his name would live in the memory of man
when the titles of the Northumberlands and Percies were extinct or forgotten.
He wus cosmopolitan in his views, and affirmed that the man of scicnce is of no
country—the world is his country, and all men his countrymen. He proposed
at one time to leave his money to the Royal Society of London, for the promotion
of science, but on account of a misunderstanding with the council of the Society
he changed his mind, and left it to his nephew, and in case of the death of this
relative, to the United States, to found the Institution which now bears his name.

She Bequest.

The original amount received from the bequest was $515,169 ; but from a res-
iduary legacy, savings of interest, &c., the fund has been increased to $650,000
now in the Treasury of the United States and yielding six per cent. interest.
The Government of the United States accepted the bequest, or in other words,
accepted the office of trustee, and the Hon. Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania, was
charged with the duty of prosecuting the claim. He remained in attendance on
the English courts until the money was awarded to him. He brought it over in
sovereigns, deposited it in the Mint of the United States, where it was recoined
into American eagles, thus becoming a part of the currency of the country.

At the time of the passing of the act establishing the Institution, in 1846,
tne sum of $242,000 had accrued in interest, and this the Regents were authorized
to expend on a building. But, instead of appropriating this sum immediately to
this purpose, they put it at interest, and deferred the completion of the building
for several years, until over $100,000 should be accumulated, the income of
which might defray the expenses of keeping the building, and the greater portion
of the income of the original bequest be devoted to the objects for which it was
designed. This policy has been rigidly adhered to, and notwithstanding an
expenditure of $450,000 on the building, the collection of a large library
and museum, and the publication of many volumes of original researches, the
bequest of Smithson is not only undiminished, but has increased more than a
hundred thousand dollars.

She Plan of Organization.

The bequest, in the language of the testator, was “to found at Washington an
establishment, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” According to this, the Government of the
United States is merely a trustee. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind, and
any plan which does not recognize this provision of the will would be illiberal and
unjust. The Institution must bear and perpetuate the name of its founder, and
hence its operations are kept distinct from those of the General Government, and
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. %

all the good which results from the expenditure of the funds is accredited to the
name of Smithson.

It will be observed that the object of the bequest is twofold—first, to ncrease,
and, second, to diffuse, knowledge among men. These two objects are entirely
separate and distinct, and to view the case understandingly the one must not be
confounded with the other. The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge
by the addition of new truths, and the second, to disseminate knowledge thus
enlarged among men. This distinction is readily acknowledged by men of science,
and in Europe different classes of scientific and other societies are founded upon
it. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge,
and hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention. Smithson was well
aware that knowledge should not be viewed as existing in isolated parts, but as a
whole, each portion of which throws light on all the others, and that the ten-
dency of all is to improve the human mind, and to give it new sources of power
and enjoyment. A prevalent idea, however, in relation to the will is, that the
money was intended exclusively for the diffusion of useful or immediately practi-
cal knowledge among the inhabitants of this country, but it contains nothing
from which such an inference can be drawn. All knowledge is useful, and the
higher the more important. From the enunciation of a single scientific truth
may flow a hundred inventions, and the more abstract the truth the more im-
portant the deductions. To effect the greatest good, the organization of the In-
stitution should be such as to produce results which could not be attained by
other meaus, and inasmuch as the bequest is for men in general, all merely local
expenditures are inconsistent with the will. ‘Phese were the views expressed by the
Secretary, Professor Henry, and constantly advocated by him. They were not en-
tertained, however, by many, and consequently difficulties have been encountered
in carrying them out. A numberof literary men thought that a great /ébrary should
be founded at Washington, and all the money expended on it; others considered a
museum the proper object; and another class thought the income should be de-
voted to the delivery of lectures throughout the country ; while still another was
of opinion that popular tracts should be published and distributed amongst the
million. But all these views were advanced without a proper examination of the
will, or a due consideration of the smallness of the income. The act of Congress
directed the formation of a library, a museum, a gallery of art, lectures, and a
building on a liberal scale to accommodate these objects. One clause, however,
gave the Regents the power, after the foregoing objects were provided for, to
expend the remainder of the income in any way they might think fit for carrying
out the design of the testator. The plan they have adopted is to stimulate al}
persons in this country capable of advancing knowledge by original research to
labor in this line; to induce them to send their results to the Institution for
examination and publication; and to assist all persons engaged in original
investigations, as far as its means will allow; also to institute, at the ex
pense and under the direction of the Institution, particular researches.
6 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

She Goberpment.

An act of Congress, dated August 10, 1846, provides ‘that the President and
Vice-President of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Postmaster
General, the Attorney General, the Chief Justice, and the Commissioner of the
Patent Office of the United States, and the Mayor of the City of Washington,
during the time for which they shall hold their respective offices, and such other
persons as they may elect as honorary members, be and they are hereby constituted
an ‘establishment,’ by the name of the ‘Smithsonian Institution,” for the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The law also provides for a ‘“‘ Board of Regents,” to be composed of the Vice-
President of the United States and the Mayor of the City of Washington, during
the time for which they shall hold their respective offices, three members of the
Senate and three members of the House of Representatives, together with six
other persons, other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be members of
the National Institute, in the City of Washington, and resident in the said city ;
and the other four shall be inhabitants of othér States, and no two of them from
the same State.

The Establishment exercises general supervision over the affairs of the Institu-

tion.
The Board of Regents conducts the business of the Institution, and makes
annual reports to Congress. is

The Secretary of the Institution is elected by the Board. His duty is to take
charge of the building and property, discharge the duty of librarian, keeper of
the museum, etc., and has power, by consent of the Regents, to employ assist-
ants.

All laws for the protection of public property in Washington apply to the lands,
buildings, and other property of the Institution.

METEORITE FROM COAHUILA, MEXICO.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. uf

She Stryctyre.

The Smithsonian building stands on a part of a tract of public land denom.
inated ‘the Mall,” and the grounds extend from Seventh to Twelfth streets, east and
west, and from the canal to B street, north and south, comprising about fifty-two
acres. ‘The center of the building is directly opposite Tenth street, and the site
is about twenty feet above the average level of Pennsylvania avenue.

The style of architecture is that of the last half of the twelfth century, the latest
variety of the rounded style, asit is found immediately anterior to its merging into
the early Gothic, and is known as the Norman, the Lombard, or Romanesque. The
semi-circular arch, stilted, is employed throughout—in doors, windows, and other
openings.

It is the first edifice in the style of the twelfth century, and of a character not
ecclesiastical, ever erected in this country.

The main building bas in the center of its north front two towers, of which
the higher reaches an elevation of about 150 feet. On the south front is a
massive tower 37 feet
square and 91 feet high,
On the northeast corner
stands a double companile
tower, 17 feet square and
117 feet high; at the
southwest corner an oc-
tagonal tower, in which is
a spiral staircase. There
are nine towers in all.

The entire Ikkngth of
the building, from east to
west, is 447 feet. Its
greatest breadth is 160
feet. The east wing is
82 by 52 feet, and 423
feet high to the top of its
battlement; the west
wing, including its pro-
jecting apsis, is 84 feet
by 40, and 38 feet high,
and each of the connect-
ing ranges, including its
cloister, is 60 feet by 49
The main building is 205
feet by 57, and, to the
top of the corbel course,
NORTH CENTRAL TOWERS, 58 feet high.

8 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The building is erected in a very substantial manner, The founaation walls
under the main central towers are 12 feet thick at bottom, gradually diminishing
to five feet six inches at the surface of the ground, and are sunk eight feet deep.
The thickness of the walls of the main building above the water table is two feet
and-a-half in the first story, and two feet in the second, exclusive of buttresses,
corbel courses, &e. The walls of the wings are two feet thick ; of the central towers
three fect and a half thick in the first story, diminishing to two feet in the highest
story. ‘The roofs are slated. The face of the building is finished in ashlar, laid
in courses from 10 to 15 inches in height, and having an average bed of nine
inches.

The material employed is a lilac gray variety of freestone, found in the new red
sandstone formation where it crosses the Potomac, near the mouth of Seneca
Creek, one of its tributaries, and about twenty-three miles above Washington.
When first quarried it is comparatively soft, working freely before the chisel and
hammer; but by exposure it gradually indurates, and ultimately acquires tough-
ness and consistency, that not only enables it to resist the changes of the atmos-
phere, but even the most severe mechanical wear and tear.

The corner-stone of the building was laid with Masonic ceremonies, on the first
of May, 1847, in the presence of President Polk, his Cabinet, and an immense
concourse of citizens and strangers. The Grand Master of Masons, who performed
the ceremony, wore the apron presented by the Grand Lodge of France to Wash-
ington, through La Fayette, and used the gavel employed by Washington when
he laid the first corner-stone of the Capitol of the United States. An oration was
delivered by the Hon. George Mifflin Dallas, the first Chancellor of the Smithsonian
Institution, and now United States Minister to Great Britain. In the course of his
remarks Mr. Dallas said: ‘¢ When, at no distant day, I trust, it shall be seen
that within the walls of this building the truths of nature are forced by persever.
ing researches from their hidden recesses, mingled with the stock already hoarded
by genius and industry, and thence profusely scattered, by gratuitous lectures or
publications, for the benefit of all—when it shall be seen that here universal
science finds food, implements, and a tribune—art her spring to invention, her
studio, and her models; and both shall have throngs of disciples from the ranks
of our people, emulous for enlightenment, or eager to assist—then the condition of
our legacy will have been performed, and the wide philanthropy of Smithson have
achieved its aim.”

The design, by James Renwick, Jr., of New York, consists of a main center
building, two stories high, and two wings, connected by intervening ranges; each
of these latter having, on the north or principal front, a cloister, with open
stone screen. ’

The first story of the main building consists of one large room, 200 feet by 50,
and 25 feet high, the ceiling of which is supported by two rows of columns ex-
tending the whole length; at the middle of the space corresponding to the prin-
cipal entrances are two wing walls, by which, with the addition of screens, the
whole space may be divided into two large rooms, with a hall extending across.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 9

The Library.

Although the act of Congress directed that provision should be made for the
accommodation of a library, on a liberal scale, it was soon seen, after the organi-
zation of the Institution, that it would be impossible, from the income which could
be devoted to it, to establish a first-class general library. Even had this been
practicable, it would still have seemed superfluous to do so in the very v.cinity of
the miscellaneous library of Congress, which is every year increasing in extent
under the liberal appropriations which are annually made for the purchase of books.
It was therefore deemed preferable, and more consonant with the purposes of the
Institution, to form a special library, which might constitute, as it were, a supple-
ment to the library of Congress, and consist, for the most part, of complete sets
of the proceedings and transactions of all the learned societies in the world, and
of ather serials essential for reference by students specially engaged in original
scientific research. The efforts of the Institution to carry out this plan, which
has since been sanctioned by Congress, have been eminently successful. Princi-
pally through exchanges, and occasionally by purchase, a more complete collection
of the works above mentioned has been procured than is to be found in any
library of the United States, or is easily met with even in Europe. The
Institution has been assisted in making this collection by the liberality of many
of the older libraries of the eastern continent, which, on application, have furnished
from their duplicates volumes and even whole sets to complete series of works long
since out of print, and which, in some cases, could not have been obtained through
any other means. ‘The Library is also quite rich in monographic or special trea-
tises in the physical and natural sciences, lacking as yet, it is true, some of the
more expensive volumes, but still affording the means of prosecuting almost any
scientific investigation.

One specialty of the Library consists of the large number of maps and charts,
obtained by exchange from geographical and hydrographical establishments, &c.
This collection is as complete as any in the country.

No effort is spared to render the Library of the Institution conducive to the
advance of science. Several editions of the catalogue of serial works have been
published.

In 1867 the care of the library was transferred to the library of Congress,
subject to be recalled at any time on certain conditions. The books are now
catalogued and bound at the expense of the Government, while the officers and
collaborators of the Institution have the same use of them as formerly, with
greatly increased facilities from access to the larger collection of books in the
National Library. The Institution still sends its publications, in exchange, to
other establishments at home and abroad, and desires to increase its library by
transactions of societies, and serial and scientific works.
10 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Ais X

AN;

THE LIBRARY.

In the large hall at the south entrance to the building are a number of
articles of special interest. The most prominent of these is the ancient
SARCOPHAGUS, which was brought to this country on the frigate Con-
stitution, by Commodore Elliott, from Beirut, in Syria, in 1839. This Sar-
cophagus was believed to be the repository of the remains of a Roman
Wmperor, and was intended for those of President ANDREW JACKSON. The
General, however, refused to accept the gift, saying “I cannot consent that
my mortal body ska!l be laid in a repository prepared for an Emperor or a
King—my republican feelings and principles forbid it—the simplicity of our
system of Government forbids it.”

A plank from the redwood tree, and a piece of bari from the famous giant
tree of California, will attract attention, as well as an immense mass of copper
from Lake Superior.

Among the most interesting objects in this part of the collection are several IDOLS
from Central America, presented by Hon. H. G Squier, late United States Minis-
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. te

fi

N

i — f -
4 Oe
HH = i a SS = \ Z| i i
— = ) \ Ve NN | |,
. a
esi) WE)
25 NY HET MW SS
Ss ) ill
Ahh / Hi
idl Nt MN —yy\\) =
: WA

Es
IAS
|
Ml fl
Zs A
a

atti HIN

5 S

—im = ml

ee
P| —————— = — or
ae

LES = 1p S fil ni

ter to Nicaragua. The largest statue, carved in black basalt, was obtained from
the Island of Momotombita, in Lake Managua, where there was a temple or sacred
place. The figure with the sphinx-like head-dress is also from the same locality.
One or two of the other statues, by the Indians of the Pueblo of Subtiava, near
Leon, having been buried a great number of years, and the locality carefully con-
cealed, they are somewhat mutilated. A small group of these monuments exists
in the depths of the forest midway between Leon and the Pacific, which is still
secretly visited by the Indians for the performance of dances and other rites
pertaining to their primitive religion. The small figure resembling some animal
couchant was, until very recently, preserved on a remarkable rock on the side ot
the volcano of Omatepec, and regarded with high veneration by the Indians. It
was only after many years of search that the priests were able to find and remove
it. The granite vase, distinguished by the ornaments called grecques by Hum-
boldt, (and which characterize the ruins at Mitla, in Mexico,) was dug up near
the city of Nicaragua. The spot had been a cemetery of the ancient inhabitants.
12 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Anotner relic of the same material, and with a like style of ornament, accompanies
the vase, and was found in the same neighborhood. It seems to have been de-
signed as a pedestal for a small statue. There are also several vases, in which
the bones and ashes of the dead were packed after the decomposition of the flesh
or after burning.

The largest and most elaborate monuments in Nicaragua exist in the littlo
Island of Pensacola, near the base of the extinct voleano of Momobacho. They
weigh a number of tons each, and are distinguished as being wrought from blocks
of sandstone—a material which is not found on the island. Two of the statues
of the Smithsonian collection are from the Island of Zapatero, in Lake Nicaragua,
where once existed one of the most imposing aboriginal temples of the country.
Here, among the ruins of the feocadli, or high-places of the former inhabitants,
were found entire statues, besides the fragments of many others, several broken

sacrificial stones, etc.
She juseun.

The Smithsonian Institution is now in possession of the best collection of the
larger North American and European mammalia, both skins and skeletons, to be
found in the United States. In birds it is only second to the collection of the
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences—the latter being without doubt the
most extensive and perfect now extant. Of fish the Smithsonian has a greater
number than is to be found in any cabinet, except that of Professor Agassiz.

THE MUSEUM.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. ts

LABORATORY OF NATURAL HISTORY

It should be understood that the Smithsonian Institution does not enter upon
grounds already occupied, and therefore it is not an object to collect specimens
promiscuously, or those usually found in other museums. Still the collection of
this Institution is now attractive to the general visitor and curiosity secker; and the
student of natural history will here find much that will be sought in vain else-
where. Duplicate specimens are often exchanged for those in other collections,
and all the objects are open for the study and examination of those engaged in
this line of research. Applications for such facilities are numerous, and have al-
ways been granted. The preparation of most of the important papers on natural
history published within a few years in this country has been aided in this way
by the Institution.

The act of Congress establishing the Institution provides as follows :—

Sec. 6. That, in proportion as suitable arrangements can be made for their reception, all
objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging, or hereafter to belong, to the United
States, which may be in the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody the same may be,
shall be delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive
tuem, and shall be arranged in such order, and so classed, as best facilitate the exam-
ination and study of them, in the building so as aforesaid to be erected for the Institution ;
and the Regents of said Institution shall afterwards, as new specimens in natural history,
geology, or minerology, may be obtained for the museum of the Institution, by exchange of
duplicate specimens belonging to the Institution, (which they are hereby authorized to
make,) or by any donation, which they may receive, or aeneE Wier, cause such new specimens
to be also appropriately classed and arranged.
14 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Under these provisions, the Institution has received and taken charge of such
government collections in mineralogy, geology, and natural history as have been
made since its organization. The amount of these bas been very great, as all the
United States Geological, Boundary and Railroad Surveys, with the various topc
graphical, military, and naval explorations, have been, to a greater or less extent,
ordered to inake such collections as would illustrate the physical and natural his-
tory features of the regions traversed.

Of the collections made by the government expeditions, those of fiftv
are now deposited with the Smithsonian Institution, embracing more than five-
sixths of the whole amount of materials collected. The principal expeditions thus
furnishing collections are the United States Geological Surveys of Doctors Owen,
Jackson, and Evans, and of Messrs. Foster and Whitney ; the United States and
Mexican Boundary Survey ; the Pacific Railroad Survey ; the Exploration of the
Yellow Stone, by Lieutenant Warren; the Survey of Lieutenant Bryan; the
United States Naval Astronomical Expedition; the North Pacific Behring Straits
Expedition ; the Japan Kxpedition, and the Paraguay Expedition.

The Institution has also received, from other sources, collections of greater or
less extent, from various portions of North America, tending to complete the
government series.

The collections thus made, taken asa whole, constitute the largest and best
series of the minerals, fossils, rocks, animals, and plants of the entire continent
of North America, in the world. Many tons of geological and mincralogical
specimens, illustrating the surveys throughout the West, are embraced therein.
There is also a very large collection of minerals of the mining regions of Northern
Mexico, and of New Mexico, made by a practical Mexican geologist, during a period
of twenty-five years, and furnishing indications of many rich mining localities
within our own borders, yet unknown to the American people.

It includes, also, with scarcely an exception, all the vertebrate animals of North
America, among them many specimens each of the Grizzly, Cinniman, and Black
Bears ; the Panther, Jaguar, Ocelot, and several species of Lynx or Wildcat ;
the Elk, the Mexican, Virginian, White-tailed, Black-tailed, and Mule Deer ; the
Antelope, Rocky Mountain Goat and Sheep; several species of Wolves and
Foxes, the Badger, Beaver, Porcupine, Prairie Dog, Gopher, and also about seven
hundred species of American Birds, four hundred of Reptiles, and eight hundred
of Fishes, embracing Salmon, Trout, Pike, Pickerel, White Fish, Muskalonge,
Bass, Redfish, Xe.

The greater part of the Mammalia have been arranged in walnut drawers,
made proof against dust and insects. The birds have been similarly treated,
while the reptiles and fish have been classified, as, to some extent, have also been
the shells, minerals, fossils, and plants.

The collections are increasing so rapidly that it will soon be impossible, from
the small part of the Smithson income which can be devoted to this purpose,
to properly sustain a large museum, and a National Museum should be esta-
blished by the Government on a scale commensurate with the resources,
productions, and character of the country.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 15

The fund of a foreigner intended for the “increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men” should not be absorbed in local objects and in doing that which
the Government should in honor and good faith do itself.

The Institution, if relieved of the charge of the show museum, would devote
its energies in the way of advancing natural history by instituting original
explorations in all parts of the world, making collections and distributing
duplicates to all other museums.

Nj cteorites.

In the Museum hall may be seen a meteorite, from Northern Mexico, which
weighs 250 pounds,

It was brought to this country by Lieutenant Couch, of the United States
Army, he having obtained it at Saltillo. It was said to have come from the Sancha
estate, some fifty or sixty miles from Santa Rosa, in the north of Coahuila,
various accounts were given of the precise locality, but none seemed very satisfac:
tory. When first seen by Lieutenant Couch, it was used as an anvil, and had
been originally intended for the Society of Geography and Statistics in the city of
Mexico. It is said, that where this mass was found there are many others of
enormous size; but such stories, however, are to be received with many allow-
ances. Mr. Weidner, of the mines of Freiberg, states, that near the southwestern
edge of the Balson de Mapimi, on the route to the mines of Parral, there is a
meteorite near the road of not less than a ton weight. Lieutenant Couch also
states, that the intelligent, but almost unknown, Dr. Berlandier, writes in his
journal of the Commission of Limits, that at the hacienda of Venagas, there was
(1827) a piece of iron that would make a cylinder one yard in length, with a
diameter of ten inches. It was said to have been brought from the mountains
near the hacienda. It presented no crystalline structure, and was quite ductile.

Another Meteorite to be seen here is still more curious and interesting, from
its remarkable size and appearance, It is in the shape of a ring much heavier
on one side. Its greatest exterior diameter is 49 inches; the least 38 inches ;
width of central opening 23 inches; width of thickest part of the ring 174
inches. It weighs 1400 lbs. Its composition is principally of iron. It was
discovered in Sonora by Jesuit missionaries, brought to Tucson in Arizona,
and was sent, through the influence of Dr. Irwin, U. 8. A., by Mr. Augustine

Ainsa, to Hermosillo. In May, 1863, Mr. Jesus Ainsa brought it to San
Francisco, and shipped it to the Smithsonian Institution.
16 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Mhat has beep done.

The following is a sketch of the labors of the Institution, and illustrates the
capability of the plan of operations for producing important results in the way of
increasing and diffusing knowledge among men:—

Publications.—Three classes are issued.

1. A quarto series, entitled “SmirHsoNrIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO KNOWLEDGE,”
issued in volumes, each containing one or more separate articles. This includes
memoirs, embracing the records of extended original investigations and researches,
resulting in what are believed to be new truths, and constituting positive additions
to the sum of human knowledge.

2. An octavo series, entitled ‘‘SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS,”
consisting of reports on the present state of our knowledge of particular branches
of science; instructions for collecting and digesting facts and materials for research;
lists and synopses of species of the organic and inorganic world; museum cata-
logues; reports of explorations; aids to bibliographical investigations, etc., gene-
rally prepared at the express request of the Institution, and at its expense.

3. Another octavo series, consisting of the Annual Reports of the Institution
to Congress, called ‘‘SmirHsonran Reports.” These include the official reports
of the Secretary to the Board of Regents of the operations and condition of the
Institution; the reports of Committees of the Board; abstracts of lectures delivered
before the Institution; extracts from correspondence; original or translated articles
relating to the history and progress of science, ete.

The following rules have been observed in the distribution of the first and second
series:

1. They are presented to all learned societies of the first class which publish
transactions, and give copies of these, in exchange to the Institution.

2. To all foreign libraries of the first class, provided they give in exchange their
catalogues and other publications, or an equivalent, from their duplicate volumes.

3. To all the colleges in actual operation in this country, provided they furnish,
in return, meteorological observations, catalogues of their libraries and of their
students, and all other publications issued by them relative to their organization
and history.

4. To all States and Territories, provided they give, in return, copies of all docu-
ments published under their authority.

5. To all incorporated public libraries in this country, not included in any of
the foregoing classes, now containing 10,000 volumes; and to smaller libraries,
where a whole State or large district would be otherwise unsupplied.

Institutions devoted exclusively to the promotion of particular branches of
knowledge, receive such articles published by the Institution as relate to their
objects. Portions of the series are also given to institutions of lesser grade not
entitled, under the above rules, to the full series, and also to the meteorological
correspondents of the Institution. =

The Reports are of a more popular character, and are presented
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. i led

. To all the meteorological observers and other collaborators of the Institution.
. To donors to its Library or Museum.
. To colleges and other educational establishments.

4. To public libraries and literary and scientific societies.

5. To teachers or individuals who ure engaged in special studies, and who make
direct application for them.

Besides the works which have been published entirely at the expense of the In-
stitution, aid has been furnished by subscription for copies to be distributed to
foreign libraries of a number of works which fall within the class adopted by the
programme. The principal works of this kind for which subscriptions have been
made are as follows: Agassiz’s Contributions to Natural History, Gould’s Astro-
nomical Journal, Shea’s American Linguistics, Runkle’s Mathematical Monthly,
Deane’s Fossil Footprints, Tuomey & Holmes’ Fossils of South Carolina, Peirce’s
Analytic Mechanics.

oo

Metcorology —The investigation of all questions relative to meteorology has
been an object to which the Institution has devoted special attention, and one of
its first efforts was to organize a voluntary system of observation, which should
extend as widely as possible over the whole of the North American continent. It
induced a skilful artisan, under its direction, to commence the manufacture of care-
fully compared and accurately graduated instruments, now generally known as
the Smithsonian standards. It prepared and furnished a series of instructions for
the use of the instruments and the observations of meteorological phenomena; also
three series of blank forms as registers.

It next organized a body of intelligent observers, and in a comparatively short
time brought the system into practical operation; cach year the number of observers
increased, and where one ceased his connection with the enterprise, several came
forward to supply his place. By an arrangement with the Surgeon General of the
army, the observations made at the United States military posts in different parts
of the country, and also the system which had previously been established by the
State of New York, were remodelled so as to harmonize with that of the Institu-
tion. Gentlemen interested in science residing in the British provinces, and at
nearly all the posts of the Hudson’s Bay Company, also in Mexico, Central Ame-
rica, the West Indies, and some places in South America, &c., joined in this enter-
prise. All these contribute their services without compensation. Their only re-
ward is the satisfaction of co-operating with each other and the Institution in the
effort to supply data and materials for investigation. Any returns, indced, which
the Institution has in its power to make are gladly rendered in a hearty acknow-
ledgment of assistance, and in copies of all the Smithsonian publications likely to
be of interest.

The publications of the Institution contain many memoirs which have tended
to advance the science of meteorology. Among these may be mentioned the me-
teorological and physical tables prepared at the expense of the Institution by Pro-
fessor Guyot, and filling a large octavo volume of the Miscellaneous Collections,
18 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

No work extant answers the same purpose with the one referred to, which has
hence become a general standard of reference, the constant demand for it as well
in Europe as America having required the printing of several successive editions.

The results of the reductions for five years previous to 1860 have been published
in two volumes of nearly 2,000 quarto pages, containing a mass of materials of
great value in determining the average temperature, fall of rain, barometrical
pressure, moisture, direction of the wind, and time of various periodical pheno-
mena relative to plants, animals, &c.

In addition to these large and important volumes, other works have been pub-
lished by the Institution which have had a marked influence on the progress of
meteorology. Among these may be mentioned the works of Professor Coffin, on
the winds of the Northern Hemisphere; of Mr. Chappelsmith, on a tornado in
Illinois; of Professor Loomis, on a great storm which pervaded both America and
Europe; the reduced observations for twenty-eight years of Professor Caswell, at
Providence, Rhode Island; of Dr. Smith, for twenty years in Arkansas; of Dr.
Kane and Captain McClintock, in the Arctic Seas; on the heat and light of the
sun at different points, by Mr. Meech; on the secular period of the aurora, by
Professor Olmsted; the occurrence of auroras in the Arctic regions, by Mr. P.
Force, &e.

Besides these, a series of meteorological essays embodying many of the results’
obtained from the investigations at the Institution has been prepared by the Secre-
tary, and been published in the Agricultural Reports of the Patent Office.

Astronomy.—The Institution has advanced the science of astronomy both by its
publications and the assistance rendered to observers. To facilitate astronomical
observations it prepared and published for six years an annual list of occultations
of the principal stars by the moon, and printed and distributed a series of tables
for determining the perturbations of the planetary motions, the object of which
determination is to facilitate the calculation of the places of the heavenly bodies.
These tables have accomplished the desired end, saving to the practical astronomer
an immense amount of tedious and monotonous labor.

The name of the Institution has been favorably connected with the history of
the interesting discovery of the planet Neptune. From a few of the first obser-
vations which had been made on this planet, Mr. Sears C. Walker calculated its
approximate orbit, and by this means tracing its path through its whole revolution
of 166 years, he was enabled to carry it backward until it fell among a cluster of
stars, accurately mapped by Lalande, towards the close of the last century. After
minute inspection he was led to conclude that one of the stars which had been
observed by Lalande in 1795, was the planet Neptune. He was thus supplied
with the amount of its motion for upwards of fifty years, from which he deduced
a much more perfect orbit, and was enabled to construct an ephemeris giving the
place of the planet for several years in succession. These investigations, so inter-
esting to astronomy and honorable to this country, were prosecuted and published
at the expense of the Smithsonian Institution.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 19

To render more generally accessible to practical astronomers in this country the
theory of the motion of the heavenly bodies by the celebrated Gauss, the Institu-
tion shared the expense of publishing a translation of this treatise from the Latin, —
by Admiral Davis. It furnishes a complete system of formulas for computing the
movements of a body in any of the curves belonging to the class of conic sections,
and a general method of determining the orbit of a planet or a comet from three
observations, as seen from the earth. r

For a number of years aid was afforded to the publication of Gould’s American
Astronomical Journal, which rendered good service to the science by making
promptly known to foreign observers the results of the labors of their contempo-
raries in America. It has also reduced and published at its own expense the as-
tronomical observarsions made by Dr. Kane in the Arctic regions, and has also
“published those made in the same regions by Dr. Hayes.

Congress having authorized, in 1849, an astronomical expedition under Lieuten-
ant Gilliss to the Southern Hemisphere, for the purpose of determining the paral-
lax of the planets, and consequently their distance from the sun, by observations
on Venus and Mars, accidentally failed to make the appropriation for instruments.
This omission was supplied by the Institution, which was subsequently indemnified
for the expense by the Chilian government.

In the observation of all the large solar eclipses which have happened since the
date of its organization, the Institution has actively and efficiently co-operated by
publishing projections of the phases and times of their occurrence in different parts
of America.

Under its auspices, and partly at its expense, an expedition was inaugurated to
observe the great eclipse of 1858 in Peru, from which data of value for the im-
provement of solar and lunar tables were determined, besides facts of interest in
regard to the physical constitution of the sun.

Assistance was also rendered to the expeditions under the direction of the Coast
Survey, to observe the eclipse of July 18, 1860, one of which was sent to Labrador,
under the charge of Professor S. Alexander, of New Jersey, and the other to
Washington Territory, under that of Lieutenant Gilliss.

To these may be added an account of an instrument invented by Rev. T. Hill,
President of Harvard College, for the projection of eclipses.

Physics and Chemistry.—The Institution has fostered these sciences in many
different ways; among others, by importing models of the most approved articles
of apparatus, and making them known to scientific men through lectures and
otherwise.

It has instituted an extensive series of experiments on building materials, par-
ticularly in reference to those employed by the government in the construction of
the Capitol and other public edifices; also a like series on acoustics, as applied to
public halls, and the principles deduced from these practically applied in the con-
struction of a model lecture room. It has made a very extended series of experi-
ments on different substances employed for light-house illumination, from which
20 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

has resulted the substitution of lard oil for sperm oil and the conseques
annual saving of a large amount of money to the government.

In compliance with requests made by different departments of the government,
and of Congress, particularly since the war, it has conducted various series of in-
vestigations, principally in relation to questions involving mechanical, chemical,
and physical principles, and has made reports on subjects of this kind amounting,
in the aggregate, to several hundred.

To facilitate researches, a laboratory has been established and kept constantly
in working condition, the privilege of using it having been given to various com-
petent persons for experimenting in different branches of physical science.

The most important publications under this head are the researches relative to
electric currents, by Professor Secchi; on the explosibility of nitre, by Dr. Hare;
on the ammonia-cobalt bases, by Drs. Gibbs and Genth; and on astronomical
photography, by Dr. Henry Draper.

A valuable report on recent improvements in the chemical arts, by Booth &
Morfit, was published in 1852, and there have been given in the Annual Reports
of the Institution a series of translations and articles presenting a view of the
progress of physics and chemistry from year to year, since 1855, among which
we may particularly notice the translation of Muller on recent contributions to
electricity, and the reprint of Powell on radiant heat.

Terrestrial Magnetism.—The subject of terrestrial magnetism has been prose-
cuted simultaneously with that of meteorology, and an observatory was erected in
the Smithsonian grounds, fitted up with the most approved instruments, and con-
ducted under the joint auspices of the Institution and of the Coast Survey. After
remaining in operation for several years, the instruments were transferred to Key
West, as a remote station where observations were still more desirable. Instru-
ments were also furnished an expedition to Mexico, and used with much success
by Mr. Sonntag, whose results were published in the Smithsonian Contributions
to Knowledge. Apparatus was also furnished to Dr. Kane, Dr. Hayes, and other
explorers, by means of which valuable results were obtained.

Of the more important publications of the Institution, which have tended to
advance this science, may be mentioned the articles, by Dr. Locke, on the dip and
intensity; the elaborate discussion, by Professor Bache, of the magnetic observa-
tions made at Girard College from 1841 to 1845; the report on magnetical obser-
vations in the Arctic Seas, by Dr. Kane, reduced at the expense of the Institution,
by Mr. C. Schott; and those made in Pennsylvania and adjacent States, by Pro-
fessor Bache, and in Mexico, by Mr. Sonntag.

Explorations.—In the deficiency of means for more extended operations, the
efforts of the Institution in the line of explorations and collection are confined, as
strictly as possible, to America. Arctic America, all the unknown portions of the
United States, Mexico, Central and South America, and the West Indies have been
laid under contribution for facts and materials by which to advance science.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. a1

~_

An eminently useful influence has been exerted by the Institution through the
aid it has afforded in the organization of the different government explorations by
land and by sea. Whether by official representations to the heads of departments,
or personal influence with officers and employés, it has secured the engagement of
individuals competent to collect facts and specimens; it has instructed persons thus
engaged, and others, in the details of observation; it has superintended the pre-
paration, and, in some cases, borne the expense of the necessary outfits; has fur-
nished fresh supplies from time to time to the collectors while in the field; received
the collections made, and preserved them for future study, or at once consigned
them to the hands of competent persons, both at home and abroad, for investiga-
tion; directing the execution of the necessary drawings and engravings for the
reports, and finally superintending the printing and even the distribution of any
available copies of the completed works to institutions of science. Prior to the
establishment of the Institution but little had been done by our government in
the way of scientific explorations, with the exception of that under Captain Wilkes.
But since then nearly every United States expedition, whether a survey for a
Pacific railroad route, a boundary line between the United States and regions north
or south of it, or within its borders, a wagon-road across the Rocky Mountains, or
an ordinary topographical exploration, has been influewced and aided more or less,
as above stated.

Besides these, similar explorations have been carried on without any reference
to the government, and either entirely or in a great measure at the expense of the
{nstitution, and always at its suggestion, or under its direction. Prominent among
these may be mentioned the three years’ researches in the Arctic regions, by Mr.
Kennicott, with the co-operation of gentlemen of the Hudson’s Bay Company ; of
Mr. Drexler, in the region of Hudson’s Bay, and also in the Rocky Mountains;
of Mr. Coues, in Labrador; of Lieutenant Feilner, in Nebraska and Northern
California; of Mr. John Xantus, at Fort Tejon, Cape St. Lucas, and in Western
Mexico; of Lieutenant Trowbridge, on the coast of California; of Drs. Cooper
and Suckley, in Western America generally; of Drs. Coues and Beers, in Kansas,
New Mexico, and Arizona; of Dr. Irwin, in Arizona; of Dr. Hitz, about Laramie
Peak; of Lieutenant Couch, in Texas and Mexico; of G. Wurdeman, Lieutenant
Wright, Captain Woodbury, and others, in Florida, and the Gulf of Mexico; of
Dr. Sartorius, Professor Sumichrast, Dr. Berendt, in Mexico; Dr. Von Frantz, J.
Carniol, in Costa Rica; of Mr. March, in Jamaica; of Mr. Wright, Dr. Gundlach,
Professor Poey, in Cuba; Judge Carter, in Bolivia, besides many others.

In addition to the collections which have been received from explorations organ-
ized under the direction of the Institution, large numbers of duplicate specimens
have been presented by the meteorological observers and other Smithsonian col-
laborators, the whole forming a body of material for the illustration and study of
the American continent unequalled by any collection previously made. The results
of the explorations, however, as might be inferred, have not been confined to’ spe-
cimens alone, but have furnished information relative to the topography, geology,

physical geography, ethnology, and the living fauna of the country and regions
visited.
ape THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

The results have been published by government, the Institution, or other parties.
The extent and importance of these publications may be seen in the volumes of
the reports of the Pacific Railroad and Mexican boundary surveys; of the United
States astronomical expedition to Chili, under the late lamented Captain Gilliss;
of Captain Stansbury’s exploration of Utah; of Lieutenant Michler’s of the Isthmus
of Darien, &c. &c.; in the volumes of the Smithsonian publications, and in the
transactions of nearly all the scientific institutions in the United States.

In order to facilitate the operations of collectors, a series of directions and cir-
culars have been prepared and widely distributed, for collecting, preserving, and
transporting specimens of natural history, and also special instructions as to the
collecting of nests, eggs, shells, insects, Xc.

Description and Distribution of Collections and Specimens.—The object of
making these collections, in conformity with the policy of the Institution, was not
merely to supply a large museum in Washington with permanent specimens or
duplicates for exchange, but to furnish the naturalists of the world with the mate-
rials for advancing the science of the natural history of North America, and of
facilitating the study of its various branches by supplying museums, both in the
United States and in Europe, with sets of type specimens.

In pursuance of this object, full sets of the specimens collected have been sub-
mitted to a large number of naturalists, both in this country and abroad, for cri-
tical study and description, and it is not too much to say that scarcely a mono-
graphic investigation has been conducted for many years past in any branch of
American zoology which has not derived part or the whole of its material from the
Smithsonian collections. Duplicates of the specimens, when described, have been
made up into series for distribution, always accurately labelled, and are usually
types of some published investigation. The average of such distribution has, for
the last ten years, been at least ten thousand specimens annually, and the whole
number distributed over a quarter of a million. In this way all the older
museums in this country and Canada have been largely increased, and the
foundation for several new establishments of a similar kind has been furnished.
To all colleges and academies making special application, labelled specimens
have also been presented.

This distribution of specimens is very different from the ordinary exchanges
conducted between institutions or individuals, which usually involve the return of
an equivalent. The question with the Smithsonian Institution is, not what can
be had in return, but where a particular specimen or scries of specimens can be
placed so as best to advance the cause of science, by being most accessible to the
largest number of students engaged in original investigations.

Palxontoloyy, Geology, Physical Geography, &c.—Appropriations have been
made for investigations of the surface formation of the Connecticut valley, by
Professor E. Hitchcock, and for the collection of materials for the illustration of the
geology and palontology of particular regions. Appropriation has also been
made to Professor Guyot for a barometrical survey of the different parts of the
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 23

Alleghany Mountains, and to other persons for collecting observations on heights,
as determined in different parts of the country by the various canal and railway
surveys.

The publications on these subjects, besides the papers of Professor Hitchcock
on surface geology, are as follows: A Memoir on Mosasaurus, by Dr. R. W. Gibbs.
On the Extinct Species of the Fossil Ox and Sloth of North America, and on the
Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, by Dr. Leidy. On the Physical Geography of the
Mississippi Valley, by Charles Ellet. On the Law of Deposit of Flood Tide, by
Admiral Davis. On the Fluctuations of the Level of the great American Lakes,
by C. Whittlesey. On the Paleontology of the Upper Missouri, and Check List
of Miocene Cretaceous and Jurassic Invertebrata, by F. B. Meek. A Memoir, by
Dr. Leidy, on the Extinct Reptiles of the Cretaceous period.

The Institution has published a check list of minerals, with their symbols, pre-
pared by Mr. Egleston, with special reference to facilitating the labelling of the
Smithsonian minerals and the exchange of specimens, and it may be mentioned
that the Institution has made an extensive distribution of specimens of building
stone employed by the government.

Botany.—This branch of general natural history has been advanced by the In-
stitution, not only by means of the publication of the papers of original memoirs,
but also by explorations and collections made at the expense of the Smithsonian
Fund. The most important work which has been published is a large quarto vo-
lume, illustrated by expensive colored plates, of the sea plants of the entire Ame-
rican coast. The work was written for the Institution by Dr. Harvey, of the
University of Dublin, and has been the means of rendering this family of the
vegetable kingdom more generally known. The Institution has also published
several papers on the plants of New Mexico and California, by Dr. Gray, of Cam-
bridge, and Dr. Torrey, of New York. ,

Duplicates of the specimens described have been presented to institutions at
home and abroad. Considerable labor has also been expended in the preparation
of an original report on the forest trees of America, by Dr. Gray.

General Zoology.—A large part of the collections made by the Institution
belong to the general class of zoology, intended to advance the study of animal
life upon the continent of America.

The ornithology of America has always been a specialty of the Smithsonian
Institution, more efforts having been made to perfect its collection in this depart-
ment ‘han any other. The Institution has published the first part of a work by
Dr. '. M. Brewer, suitably illustrated, on the distribution and habits of North
American birds during the breeding season, with descriptions and figures of their
eggs, the materials being derived entirely from the collections of the Institution,
and mostly made at its special request. This is the first separate work on North
American zoology ever prepared. A catalogue of North American birds, prepared
by Professor S. F. Baird, has been extensively used at home and abroad in label-
ling collections.
24 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

a
Professor Baird has prepared a revision, or posting up, of our knowledge of

North American ornithology to the present date, with the addition of the species
of Central and South America and the West Indies. The materials being derived
almost entirely from the specimens collected by the Institution, have been increased
since the publication of the extensive work on the same subject, by Professor
Baird, in the Pacific Railroad report, from 12,000 to 35,000.

The collections which have been made by the Institution for the illustration of
mammalia have been very extensive, amounting to 10,000 specimens, and have not
only included many duplicates of every species previously known, but a very large
number entirely new to science. A catalogue of North American mammals,
chiefly those collected by the Institution, prepared by Professor Baird, has been
published and distributed to those interested in the study; also a monograph of
North American bats, prepared by Dr. H. Allen. Materials are now in course of
accumulation to complete the account of the classes of mammals of North Ame-
rica, which have not been included in the publications of the Institution and
Pacific Railroad Reports.

As with all American vertebrata, the collections of reptiles and fishes have been
very extensive, and numerous monographs or articles have been published relative
to them in the Pacific Railroad Reports, and the proceedings of different natural
history societies, the Institution having published a synopsis of the serpents of
North America, and a monograph of the cottoids.

The Institution has materially aided the study of the entomology of this country,
not only by the collections in that branch, but by preparing and publishing a series
of works for the purpose of exhibiting the state of knowledge on the subject, and
facilitating its further advancement. It has published and distributed the follow-
ing under this head :—

Instructions for collecting and preserving insects, and catalogues, synopses, or
monographs of the Diptera, Coleoptera, Lepidoptera, and Neuroptera, prepared by
the most competent authorities in Hurope and America.

It has also in course of preparation, works relative to the Hymenoptera, Ho-
moptera, Hemiptera, Orthoptera, &c.

Conchology.—A large collection of specimens of shells was received from the
United States exploring expedition, which has been much increased by subsequent
additions. All the shells of the west coast of the United States, and those gene-
rally collected by the exploring expedition, were put into the hands of Mr. P. P.
Carpenter, of Hngland, the new ones described for publication, and the duplicates
of the whole arranged for distribution to museums, colleges, and other establishe
ments. The publications on this subject are, Lists of North American Shells,
Circulars Relative to Collecting, an Elementary Introduction to the Study of
Conchology, and an extensive work, in two octavo volumes, on the Bibliography
of North American Conchology, by W. G. Binney, and a Monograph of the Cor
biculidze, by Temple Prime. Besides these, a number of articles are in the press
or in course of preparation.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 25

.

Microscopy.—Encouragement has been given to this branch of science, by im-
porting, as samples, simple forms of working microscopes, and also by stimulating
our native artists to greater exertion in the construction of this instrument, by
ordering the best that could be produced. Samples of microscopic organisms have
been collected and distributed to observers, and examinations and reports have been
made on a large number of this class of objects sent to the Institution. The pub-
lications in regard to this subject are a number of papers by Professor Bailey, of
West Point, and a very interesting Memoir, by Dr. Leidy, of Philadelphia, on a
Fauna and Flora within Living Animals.

Physiology.—No experiments on this subject have beon made under the imme-
diate direction of the Institution, although it has furnished the materials for inves-
tigation by other parties. The publications in regard to it are Chemical and
Physical Researches concerning North American Vertebrata, by Dr. J. Jones;
Researches upon the Venom of the Rattlesnake, with an investigation of the Ana-
tomy and Physiology of the Organs Concerned, by Dr. S. W. Mitchell; on the
Breathing Organs of Turtles, by Drs. Mitchell and Morehouse; on the Anatomy
of the Nervous System of Rana Pipiens, by Dr. J. Wyman; and on the Medulla
Oblongata, by Dr. John Dean.

Ethnology and Philology. —One of the earliest efforts on the part of the Insti-
tution, was directed to the advancement of the science of American Ethnology.
Its first publication, as well as introductory volume to the series of Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge, being the work of Squier and Davis, on the Ancient
Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, remains the standard treatise on this sub-
ject. This was followed by a similar work on the Antiquities of New York, by
Mr. Squier; and those of Wisconsin, by Mr. Lapham; of Ohio and of Lake
Superior, by Mr. Whittlesey; a Memoir on some Antiquities of Mexico, by Brantz
Mayer; and a general introduction to the whole subject of American Archology,
by Mr. Haven, besides many articles of less extent in one or another of the Smith-
sonian series. Several pamphlets of instructions for making observations and
collections in this science have also been issued.

In the department of Philology, also, the Institution has evinced its zeal and
activity by the publication, among others, of the elaborate work on the Dakota
Language, by Mr. Riggs; that on the Yoruba Language, by Mr. Bowen; and that
on the Chinook Jargon, by Mr. Turner and Mr. Gibbs. To Mr. Shea, of New
York, who is engaged in the preparation of a library of American languages,
annual appropriations from the funds of the Institution have been made in further-
ance of the publication of linguistic memoirs furnished by its correspondents.

Systematic efforts have been directed by the Institution to the collection of as
perfect a series as possible of the specimens of American antiquities, and of those
illustrative of the habits of the modern native tribes. Already an extensive col-
lection has been accumulated, and the preparation and distribution of a series of
colored casts of the more interesting specimens of aboriginal art have been com-
menced.
26 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Correspondence.—The Institution has constantly received a large number of
communications, asking information on a variety of subjects, particularly in regard
to the solution of scientific questions, the names and characters of objects of natural
history, and the analysis of soils, minerals, and other materials which pertain to
the industrial resources of the country. Answers have in all cases been given to
these inquiries, either directly by the officers of the Institution, or by reports from
the Smithsonian collaborators. A considerable portion of the correspondence
burned in the office of the secretary was of this character. The loss in this case
is to be regretted, not only on account of the valuable information the letters and
answers contained, but also on account of the illustration they afforded of the in-
fluence of the Institution, and the condition of the public mind at a given time.’
Every subject connected with science which strongly attracts popular attention,
never fails to call forth a large number of inquiries and suggestions.

International Exchanges.—To facilitate the direct correspondence between the
learned institutions and scientific men of the two worlds, and the free exchange
of their publications, has, from the first, been a special object of attainment with
the Smithsonian Institution. Year by year its plans for this purpose have been
modified and improved, until the system has become as nearly complete and satis-
factory as the funds and force at its disposal will allow. At the present day it is
the great medium of scientific interecommunication between the New World and the
Old; its benefits and services being recognized alike by individuals, institutions,
and governments. Its parcels pass all the custom-houses without question or in-
terference, while American and foreign lines of transportation, with rare excep-
tions, vie with each other in the extent of the privileges accorded to it. To so
great an extent has its sphere of activity been enlarged, that it is no exaggeration
to say that a very large proportion of all international exchanges of the kind re-
ferred to are now made through its instrumentality. At the present time the In-
stitution is prepared to receive, at periods made known through its circulars, any
books or pamphlets of scientific, literary, or benevolent character which any in-
stitutions or individuals in America may wish to present to a correspondent else-
where, subject only to the condition of being delivered in Washington free of cost,
and of being accompanied by a separate list of the parcels sent. Where any party
may have special works to distribute, the Institution is always prepared to furnish
a list of suitable recipients. In many cases where works of value have been pub-
lished by the United States gr State governments, likely to be of importance to
students abroad, application has been made by the Institution for copies, in most
cases with success. The articles and volumes, when received, are assorted and
combined into packages, and these, after being properly addressed and inclosed in
boxes, are despatched to the agents of the Institution in London, Leipsic, Paris,
and Amsterdam. The boxes are there unpacked, and the contents distributed
through the proper channels; the returns for these transmissions are received by
the same agents, and boxed and forwarded to Washington, frora which point the
parcels for other parties are sent to their proper destination. All the expense of
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. PAT

packing, boxing, agencies, freights, &c., being borne by the Institution, with the
exception of the local conveyance of single parcels by express, or otherwise, within
the United States.

ihe Fire.

On the 24th of January, 1865, a fire occurred at the Institution, which caused
the destruction of the upper part of the main building, and the towers. The loss
to the Institution was as follows: 1. The official, scientific, and miscellaneous cor-
respondence, record books, and manuscripts in the Secretary’s office. 2. The large
collection of apparatus. 3. The personal effects of Smithson. 4. A large stock
of tools and instruments. 5. All the duplicate copies of Smithsonian Reports on
hand for distribution. 6. The wood-cuts of illustrations used in the Smithsonian
publications.

Besides these, Mr. Stanley lost his gallery of Indian portraits, which had been
deposited in the Institution for a number of years ; and a large quantity of private
property was destroyed belonging to persons connected with the Institution.

The fire, however, caused no interruption in the business of the Institution;
the library, museum, and laboratory were uninjured; all its operations were carried
on as usual, and plans were immediately adopted for the reconstruction with fire-
proof materials of the parts of the building which had been damaged or destroyed.

The Grounds.

The grounds around the building were laid out by the distinguished horticul-
turist and landscape gardener, Downing, but he died while engaged in the prose-
cution of his plans.

We are indebted to the editor of the “Rural New. Yorker,” for the following
remarks relative to this subject, and for the representation of the marble monu-
ment erected to his memory :—

‘When the sad tidings of the death of Andrew Jackson Downing were announced,
many hearts were stricken, and many countenances saddened. Every lover of rural
life and rural taste felt that a friend, a brother, and a leader had fallen. The homes
of hundreds, from the foundation stone to the gable point, spoke of the departed—
even the trees and flowers of the garden told a tale of sadness. The furniture in
our parlors, the books in our libraries, spoke too plainly to our wounded hearts
of the loved and lost. Scarcely a city or villagc in our country but presented
some monument of his skill and taste, something tv remind the people how great
and irreparable was their loss—cottages whose simple yet elegant adornings taught
how truly taste may be independent of wealth; windows tempting the eye from
loveliness within, to the glorious prospect without; stately trees that seemed to
guard like sentinels the sacred precincts of home, and village churches whose walls
ie
}

AU

NY

—

MALE Lk SS

SANHWIER AADC T.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. 29

and spires spoke of religion to the heart.
It was at once proposed, in all parts
of the country, by Horticultural and
other Societies, that some suitable monu-
ment should be erected to the memory
of Mr. Downing, and in 1852, the
American Pomological Society  ap-
pointed a committee to superintend this
work. The design adopted by the com-
mittee was furnished by Calvert Vaux,
of Newburgh, N. Y., the late partner
of Mr. Downing, and the work executed
by Robert Launitz, an eminent sculptor ca
of New York. The monument was RRR AMT
erected in the grounds of the Smithson- ATT aL
ian Institution, at Washington, and it is Saat ili
worthy of remark, that Mr. Downing
was engaged in laying out and beautify-
ing these groundsat the time of his death.
The committee made their final report
at the Pomological meeting in Sep-
tember, 1856. The funds were supplied
by friends of Mr. Downing. ‘2 Philadel-
phia, Newburgh, Boston, Washington,
Louisville, Buffalo, and Rochester.

The principal design of the monument
consists in a large vase resting on a ped-
estal, the whole executed of the finest
Italian marble. The pattern of the vase ||
is taken from an antique of the chastest 2a :
school. The vase is four feet in height, DOWNING MONUMENT.
and measures three feet in diameter on its upper rim. The body is ornamented
with rich arabesque; acanthus leaves surround the lower part. The handles
rest on heads of satyrs, (the tutelar gods of groves and woods.) The pedestal,
resting on a carved base, and being surmounted with a carved cornice, has on each
side deep panels, relieved by varved mouldings. Hach of the panels contains
an inscription ; that upon the Northern Front reads as follows :

th

: ee Sas
vuaveracer vee ree TAPE TET FETT TH rvreeervarh area
Se Haiti (i

H iit HT

THIS VASE
Was erected by his Friends
IN MEMORY OF
ANDREW JACKSON DOWNING, +
Who died July 28, 1852, aged 37 years.

He was born, and lived,
And died upon the Hudson River.
30 THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

fis life was devoted to the improvement of the national taste
in rural art,
an office for which his genius and the natural beauty amidst
which he lived had fully endowed him.
His success was as great as his genius, and for the death of few
public men,
was public grief ever more sincere.
When these grounds were proposed, he was at once
called to design them ;
but before they were completed be perished in the wreck of the
steamer Henry Clay.
His mind was singularly just, penetrating, and original.
His manners were calm, reserved, and courteous.
His personal memory
belongs to the friends who loved him;
his fame to the country which honored and laments him.

Inscription upon the Southern Front :

‘*The taste of an individual,
as well as that of a nation, will be in direct proportion to the
profound sensibility
with which he perceives the beautiful in natural scenery.”

‘‘ Open wide, therefore,
the doors of your libraries and picture galleries,
all ye true republicans!
Build halls where knowledge shall be freely diffused among men,
and not shut up within the narrow walls of
narrower institutions.
Plant spacious parks in your cities,
and unclose their gates as wide as the gates of morning to the
whole people.”
[ Downing’s Rural Essays.

Upon tke Eastern Front is inscribed :

‘Weep no more,
For Lycidus your sorrow is not dead, a
Sunk though he be beneath the wat’ry floor,
So sinks the day-star in the ocean bed,
And yet anon repairs his drooping head,
And tricks his beams, and with new spangled ore
Fiames in the forehead of the morning sky;
So Lycidus sunk low, but mounted high
Through the dear might of Him that walked the waves.”

Upon the Western Front is this Inscription:

I climb the hill from end to end,

Of all the landscape underneath

I find no place that does not breathe
Some gracious memory of my friend
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. oL

’ Tis held that sorrow makes us wise,
Yet how much wisdom sleeps with thee,
Which not alone had guided me,

But served the seasons that may rise ;

And doubtless unto thee is given
A life that bears immortal fruit,
In such great offices as suit

The full grown energies of Heaven.

And love will last as pure and whole
As when he loved me here in time,
And at the spiritual prime

Re-waken with the dawning soul.

On the Base of the Pedestal is the following :

THIS MEMORIAL
Was erected under a resolution passed at Philadelphia,
in Sept., 1852, by the
AMERICAN POMOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
of which Mr. Downing was one of the
original founders.
MARSHALL P. WILDER, President

The whole monument with its granite plinth is nine feet four inches in heigus
und cost $1.400

THE GATEWAY.
| Ns : uy, Lh $9 trou! 4 0h ae bs
Maa a i Aba? : aie

hal | ee Z pond * Pas er ,!
i ae AU MOE hs aii
ie . 7 F

pow PEL HH sae

“pd raeire wis ei ss aa he
ee F Wis ale tes } by ake me ee
ova Hektor ie

‘gaa ‘

‘ Eu &
a

es Pe VA bE ce ood i ee Paptt
wy m4 aie) £4; th a oye adilied hex

4 % 7
ee eee

ne (hikadt*

plone: Dy le Pure)

ix . t 1)
vee ae oT vig I pap

2 ihe Lt var feet aT at i ty el uf

ve Ret Oe re i ad KL ae va
ele sal ; ‘iy cag natant a alee tothe tee

C2" RG MERE cele a8
eee a ee LAUT AQ a eag or aiarraenee
; : bdh ia'4ita ase Oo a sabi: Mai aa vr:

Prvatiecscietl rey ol Ne ra
{20 a ot Sen y y

a Ay sol as lin tae ic
vane Py kad ut ie ee es
ap or i et - ay aa

PY LE

i- s
mer Str tL nn ae

a ¢

AOIN  AsGrD

TO ESTABLISH

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

AN ACT to establish the ‘‘ Smithsonian Institution.” for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge among men.

James Smithson, Esquire, of London, in the Kingdom of Great Britain,
having by his last will and testament given the whole of his property to
the United States of America, to found at Washington, under the name
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men; and the United States having, by
an act of Congress, received said property and accepted said trust; there-
fore, for the faithful execution of said trust according to the will of the
liberal and enlightened donor—

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the
President and Vice President of the United States, the Sec-
retary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary
of War, the Secretary of the Navy, the Postmaster Gen-
eral, the Attorney General, the Chief Justice, and the Com-
missioner of the Patent Oflice of the United States, and
the Mayor of the city of Washington, during the time for
which they shall hold their respective offices, and such other
persons as they may elect honorary members, be, and they
are hereby, constituted and “ establishment,” by the name
of the “ Smithsonian Institution,” for the increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge among men; and by that name shall
be known and have perpetual succession, with the powers,
limitations, and restrictions hereinafter contained, and no
other.

Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That so much of the prop-
erty of the said James Smithson as has been received in
2

money, and paid into the Treasury of the United States, be-
ing the sum of five hundred and fifteen thousand one hun-
dred and sixty-nine dollars, be lent to the United States
Treasury, at six per cent. per annum interest from the first
day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred
and thirty-eight, when the same was received into the said
treasury ; and that so much of the interest as may have
accrued on said sum on the first day of July next, which
will amount to the sum of two hundred and forty-two thou-
sand one hundred and twenty-nine dollars, or so much
thereof as shall by the Board of Regents of the Institution
established by this act be deemed necessary, be, and the
same is hereby, appropriated for the erection of suitable
buildings, and for other current incidental expenses of said
Institution; and that six per cent. interest on the said trust
fund—it being the said amount of five hundred and fifteen
thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars received into
United States Treasury on the first of September, one thou-
sand eight hundred and thirty-eight, payable, in half-yearly
payments, on the first of January and July in each year be,
and the same is hereby, appropriated for the perpetual
maintainance and support of said Institution; and all ex-
penditures and appropriations to be made from time to time,
to the purposes of the Institution aforesaid, shall be execlu-
sively from the accruing interest, and not from the princi-
pal of the said fund. And be it further enacted,.That all the
moneys and stocks which have been, or may hereafter be,
received into the Treasury of the United States on account
of the fund bequeathed by James Smithson, be, and hereby
are, pledged to refund to the Treasury of the United States
the sums hereby appropriated.

Suc. 3. And be it further enacted, That the business of the
said Institution shall be conducted at the city of Washing-
ton by a Board of Regents by the name of the Regents of
the “Smithsonian Institution,’ to be composed of the
Vice President of the United States, the Chief Justice
3

of the United States, and the mayor of the city of Wash-
ington, during the time for which they shall hold
their respective offices ; three members of the Senate and
three members of the House of Representatives, together
with six other persons, other than members of Congress, two
of whom shall be members of the National Institute in the
city of Washington, and resident in the said city; and the
other four thereof shail be inhabitants of States, and no two
of them of the same State. And the Regents, to be selected
as aforesaid, shall be appointed immediately after the pas-
sage of this act—the members of the Senate by the Presi-
dent thereof, the members of the House by the Speaker
thereof, and the six other persons by joint resolution of the
Senate and House of Representatives ; and the members of
the House so appointed shall serve until the fourth Wed-
nesday in December, the second next after the passage of
this act; and then, and biennially thereafter, on every alter-
nate fourth Wednesday of December, a like number shall
be appointed in the same manner, to serve until the fourth
Wednesday in December, the second succeeding their ap-
pointment. And the Senators so appointed shall serve
during the term for which they shall hold, without re-elec-
tion, their office as Senators. And vacancies, occasioned
by death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled as vacan-
cies in committees are filled; and the other six members
aforesaid shall serve, two for two years, two for four years,
and two for six years; the terms of service, in the first place,
to be determined by lot; but after the first term, then their
regular term of service shall be six years; and new elections
thereof shall be made by joint resolution of Congress; and
vacancies occasioned by death, resignation, or otherwise,
may be filled in like manner, by joint resolution of Con-
gress. And the said Regents shall meet in the city of
Washington on the first Monday of September next after
the passage of this act, and organize by the election of one
of their number as Chancellor, who shall be the presiding
4

officer of said Board of Regents, by the name of the Chancel-
lor of the ‘‘ Smithsonian Institution,” and a suitable person
as Secretary of said Institution, who shall also be the Secre-
tary of said Board of Regents; said Board shall also elect
three of their own body as an Executive Committee, and
said Regents shall then fix on the time for the regular meet-
ing, of said Board; and on application of any three of the
Regents to the Secretary of the said Institution, it shail be
his duty to appoint a special meeting of the Board of Regents,
of which he shall give notice by letter to each of the mem-
bers; and at any meeting of said Board, five shall consti-
tute a quorum to do business. And each member of said
Board shall be paid his necessary travelling and other actual
expenses in attending meetings of the Board, which shall
be audited by the Executive Committee, and recorded by
the Secretary of said Board; but his services as Regent
shall be gratuitous. And whenever money is required for
the payment of the debts or performance of the contracts of
the Institution, incurred or entered into in conformity with
the provisions of this act, or for making the purchases and
executing the objects authorized by this act, the Board of
Regents, or the Executive Committee thereof, may certify
to the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board that such sum
of money is required; whereupon, they shall examine the
same, and, if they shall approve thereof, shall certify the
same to the proper officer of the Treasury for payment.
And the said Board shall submit to Congress, at each ses-
sion thereof, a report of the operations, expenditures, and
condition of the Institution.

Suc. 4. And be it further enacted, That after the Board of
Regents shall have met, and become organized, it shall be
their duty forthwith to proceed to select a suitable site for
such building as may be necessary for the Institution ; which
ground may be taken and appropriated out of that part of
the public ground in the city of Washington, lying between
the Patent Office and Seventh street; Provided, The Presi-
5

dent of the United States, the Secretary of State, the See-
retary of the Treasury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary
of the Navy, and the Commissioner of the Patent Office,
shall consent to the same; but if the persons last named
shall not consent, then such location may be made upon any
other of the public grounds within the city of Washington,
belonging to the United States,which said Regents may select,
by and with the consent of the persons herein named; and
the said ground so selected shall be set out by proper metes
and bounds, and a description of the same shall be made
and recorded in a book to be provided for that purpose, and
signed by the said Regents, or so many of them as may be
convened at the time of their said organization; and such
record, or a copy thereof, certified by the Chancellor and
Secretary of the Board of Regents, shall be received in
évidence in all courts of the extent and boundaries of the
lands appropriated to the said Institution; and upon the
making of such record, such site and lands shall be deemed
and taken to be appropriated, by force of this act, to the
said Institution.

Sxc. 5. And be it further enacted, That, so soon as the Board
of Regents shall have selected the said site, they shall cause
to be erected a suitable building, of plain and durable ma-
terials and structure, without unnecessary ornament, and of
sufficient size, and with suitable rooms, or halls, for the re-
ception and arrangement, upon a liberal scale, of objects of
natural history, including a geological and mineralogical.
cabinet; also a chemical laboratory, a library, a gallery of
art, and the necessary lecture rooms; and the said Board
shall have authority, by themselves or by a committee of
three of their members, to contract for the completion of
such building, upon such plan as may be directed by the
Board of Regents, and shall take sufficient security for the
building and finishing the same according to the said plan,
and in the time stipulated in such contract; and may so locate
said building, if they shall deem it proper, as in appearance
6

to form a wing to the Patent Office building, and may so
connect the.same with the present hall of said Patent Office
building, containing the National Cabinet of Curiosities, as
to constitute the said hall, in whole or in part, the deposite
for the cabinet of said Institution, if they deem it expedient
to do so; provided said building shall be located upon said
Patent Office lot in the manner aforesaid: Provided, however,
That the whole expense of building and enclosures afore-
said shall not exceed the amount of ; which sum is
hereby appropriated, payable out of money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated; together with such sum or
sums out of the annual interest accruing to the Institution,
as may, in any year, remain unexpended, after paying the
current expenses of the Institution. And duplicates of all
such contracts as may be made by the said Board of Re-
gents shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United
States; and all claims on any contract made as aforesaid
shall be allowed and certified by the Board of Regents, or.
the Executive Committee thereof, as the case may be, and,
being signed by the Chancellor and Secretary of the Board,
shall be a sufficient voucher for settlement and payment at
the Treasury of the United States. And the Board of Re-
gents shall be authorized to employ such persons as they
may deem necessary to superintend the erection of the
buildings and fitting up the rooms of the Institution. And
all laws for the protection of public property in the city of
Washington shall apply to, and be in force for, the protec-
tion of the lands, buildings, and other property of said In-
stitution. And all moneys recovered by, or accruing to,
the Institution, shall be paid into the Treasury of the United
States to the credit of the Smithsonian bequest, and sepa-
rately accounted for, as provided in the act approved July
first, eighteen hundred and _ thirty-six, accepting said be-
quest.

Suc. 6. And be it further enacted, That, in proportion as
suitable arrangements can be made for their reception,

7

all objects of art and of foreign and curious research, and
all objects of natural history, plants, and geological and
mineralogical specimens belonging, or hereafter to belong,
to the United States, which may be in the city of Wash-
ington, in whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be
delivered to such persons as may be authorized by the
Board of Regents to receive them, and shall be arranged in
such order, and so classed, as best facilitate the examination
and study of them, in the building so as aforesaid to be
erected for the Institution; and the Regents of said Insti-
tution shall afterwards, as new specimens in natural history,
geology, or mineralogy, may be obtained for the museum of
the Institution, by exchanges of duplicate specimens be-
longing to the Institution, (which they are hereby authorized
to make,) or by donation, which they may receive, or other-
wise, cause such new specimens to be also appropriately
classed and arranged. And the minerals, books, manu-
scripts, and other property of James Smithson, which have
been received by the Government of the United States, and
are now placed in the Department of State, shall be removed
to said Institution, and shall be preserved separate and apart
from other property of the Institution.

Src. 7. And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of the
Board of Regents shall take charge of the building and
property of said Institution, and shall, under their direction,
make a fair and avcurate record of ali their proceedings, to
be preserved in said Institution; and the said Secretary shall
also discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of the
museum, and may, with the consent of the Board of Re-
gents, employ assistants; and the said officers shall receive
for their services such sums as may be allowed by the Board
of Regents, to be paid semi-annually on the first day of
January and July; and the said officers shall be removable
by the Board of Regents, whenever, in their judgment, the
interests of the Institution require any of the said officers
to be changed.
8

Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That the members and
honorary members of said Institution may hold such stated
and special meetings, for the supervision of the affairs of
said Institution and the advice and instruction of said Board
of Regents, to be called in the manner provided for in the
by-laws of said Institution, at which the President, and, in
his absence, the Vice-President of the United States shall
preside. And the said Regents shall make, from the in-
terest of said fund, an appropriation, not exceeding an
average of twenty-five thousand dollars annually, for the
gradual formation of a library composed of valuable works
pertaining to all departments of human knowledge.

Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That of any other moneys
which have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as interest
upon the said Smithsonian fund, not herein appropriated, or
not required for the purposes herein provided, the said
managers are hereby authorized to make such disposal as
they shall deem best suited for the promotion of the pur-
pose of the testator, anything herein contained to the con-
trary notwithstanding.

Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That the author or pro-
prietor of any book, map, chart, musical composition, print,
cut, or engraving, for which a copyright shall be secured
under the existing acts of Congress, or those which shall
hereafter be enacted respecting copyrights, shall, within
three months from the publication of said book, map, chart,
musical composition, print, cut, or engraving, deliver, or
cause to be delivered, one copy of the same to the Libra-
rian of the Smithsonian Institution, and one copy to the
Librarian of Congress Library, for the use of the said libra-
ries.

SEc. 11. And be it further enacted, That there is reserved
to Congress the right of altering, amending, adding to, or
repealing any of the provisions of this act: Provided, That
no contract, or individual right, made or acquired under
such provisions, shall be thereby divested or impaired.

Approved August 10, 1846.
24th Concress, [ Rep. No. 181. ] Ho. or Reps.

lst Sessioz.

SMITHSONIAN BEQUEST.
[ To accompany bill H. R. No. 187.]

' January 19, 1836.

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.

In tae House or REPRESENTATIVES, December 21, 1835.

The message of the President of the United States, in relation to the
bequest of James Smithson, of London, for founding at Washington an
“institution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men ;” was
referred to a select committee ; and

Mr. John Quincy Adams, of Massachusetts, Mr. Thomas, of Maryland,
Mr. Garland, of Virginia, Mr. Pearce, of Rhode Island, Mr. Speight, of North
Carolina, Mr. McKennon, of Pennsylvania, Mr. Hannegan, of Indiana, Mr.
Garland, of Louisiana, and Mr. Chapin, of New York, were appointed the
said committee.

Mr. Apams, from the Select Committee on the message of the President
‘relating to the bequest of James Smithson, made the following

REPORT:

The Select Committee, to which was referred the message of the Presi-
dent of the United States, of the \7th of December last, with documents
relating to the bequest of James Smithson, of London, to the United
States of America, for the purpose of founding at Washington, an
establishment under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, for the
ancrease and diffusion of knowledge among men, respectfully report :

That, from the papers transmitted to Congress with the message of the
President, it appears, that James Smithson, a foreigner, of noble family and
of affluent fortune, did, by his last will and testament, made in the year
1826, bequeath, under certain contingencies, which have since been re-
alized, and with certain exceptions, for which provision was made by the
same will, the whole of his property, of an amount exceeding four hundred
thousand dollars, to the United States of America, to found at Washington,
under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men.

To the acceptance of this bequest, and to the assumption and fulfilment of
the high and honorable duties involved in the performance of the trust
committed with it, the Congress of the United States, in their legislative
capacity, are alone competent. Your committee believe, not only that
they are thus competent, but that it is enjoined upon them, by considera-
tions of the most imperious and indispensable obligation. The first steps
necessary to be taken for carrying into effect the benevolent intentions of
Blair & Rives, printers.
2 | [ Rep. No. 181. ]

the testator, must be to obtain the possession of the funds, now held by the:
Messrs. Drummonds, bankers in London, executors of Mr. Smithson’s will,
and subject to the superintendence, custody and adjudication of the Lord
Chancellor of England. 'To enable the President of the United States to
effect this object, the committee report herewith a bill.

But your committee think they would imperfectly discharge their duty
to this House, to their country, to the world of mankind, or to the donor of
this most munificent bequest, were they to withhold a few brief reflections,
which have occurred to them in the consideration of the subject referred to
them by the House. Reflections arising from the condition of the testator,
from the nature of the bequest and from the character of the trustee to
whom this great and solemn charge has been confided.

The testator, James Smithson, a subject of Great Britain, declares him-
self, in the caption to the will, a descendent in blood from the Percys and
the Seymours, two of the most illustrious historical names of the British
islands. Nearly two centuries since, in 1660, the ancestor of his own name,
Hugh Smithson, immediately after the restoration of the royal family of the
Stuarts, received from Charles the Second, as a reward for his eminent
services to that house during the civil wars, the dignity of a Baronet of
England, a dignity still held by the Dukes of Northumberland, as descend-
ents from the same Hugh Smithson. 'The father of the testator, by his
marriage with the Lady Elizabeth Seymour, who was descended by a
female line from the ancient Percys, and by the subsequent creation of
George the Third, in 1766, became the first Duke of Northumberland.
His son and successor, the brother of the testator, was known in the his-
tory of our revolutionary war by the name of Lord Percy ; was present, as
a British officer, at the sanguinary opening scene of our revolutionary war,
at Lexington, and at the battle of Bunker's hill; and was the bearer to the
British Government of the despatches from the commander-in-chief of the
royal forces, announcing the event of that memorable day ; and the present
Duke of Northumberland, the testator’s nephew, was the ambassador ex-
traordinary of Great Britain, sent to assist at the coronation of the late
King of France, Charles the Tenth, a few months only before the date of
this bequest from his relative to the United States of America.

The suggestions which present themselves to the mind, by the associa-
tion of these historical recollections, with the condition ‘of the testator,
derive additional interest from the nature of the bequest; the devotion of .
a large estate to an institution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.

Of all the foundations of establishments for pious or charitable uses,
which ever signalized the spirit of the age, or the comprehensive benefi-
cence of the founder, none can be named more deserving of the approba-
tion of mankind than this. Should it be faithfully carried into effect,
with an earnestness and sagacity of application, and a steady perseverance:
of pursuit, proportioned to the means furnished by the will of the founder,
and to the greatness and simplicity of his design as by himself declared,
“the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,” it is no extrava-
gance of anticipation to declare, that his name will be hereafter enrolled
among the eminent Lenefactors of mankind.

The attainment of knowledge, is the high and exclusive attribute of
man, among the numberless myriads of animated beings inhabitants of the.
terrestrial globe. On him alone is bestowed, by the bounty of the Creator
of the universe, the power and the capacity of acqairing knowledge.
{| Rep. No. 181. ] 3

Knowledge is the attribute of his nature, which at once enables him to
improve his condition upon earth, and to prepare him for the enjoyment
of a happier existence hereafter. It is by this attribute that man discovers
his own nature as the link between earth and heaven ; as the partaker of
an immortal spirit ; as created for higher and more durable ends, than the
countless tribes of beings which people the earth, the ocean, and the air,
alternately instinct with life, and melting into vapour, or mouldering into dust.

To furnish the means of acquiring knowledge is, therefore, the greatest
benefit that can be conferred upon mankind. It prolongs life itself, and
enlarges the sphere of existence. "The earth was given to man for cultiva-
tion, to the improvement of his own condition. Whoever increases his
knowledge, multiplies the uses to. which he is enabled to turn the gift of
his Creator to his own benefit, and partakes in some degree of that good-
ness which is the highest attribute of Omnipotence itself.

If then the Smithsonian Institution, under the smile of an approving
Providence, and by the faithful and permanent application of the means
furnished by its founder, to the purpose fer which he has bestowed them,
should prove effective to their promotion ; if they should contribute essen-
tially to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, to what
higher or nobler object could this generous and splendid donation have
been devoted ?

The father of the testator, upon forming his alliance with the heiress of
the family of the Percys, assumed, by an act of the British Parliament, that
name, and under it became Duke of Northumberland. But, renowned as is
the name of Percy in the historical annals of England, resounding as it
does from the summit of the Cheviot hills, to the ears of our children, in
the ballad of Chevy Chase, with the classical commentary of Addison ;
freshened and renovated in our memory as it has recently been from the
purest fountain of poetical inspiration, in the loftier strain of Alnwick
Castle, tuned by a bard of our own native land ;* doubly immortalized as it
is in the deathless dramas of Shakespear; “confident against the world
in arms,” as it may have been in ages long past, and may still be in the
virtues of its present possessors by inheritance ; let the trust of James
Smithson to the United States of America, be faithfully executed by their
Representatives in Congress; let the result accomplish his object, “the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men,” and a wreath of more un-
fading verdure shall entwine itself in the lapse of future ages around the
name of Smithson, than the united hands of tradition, history and poetry,
have braided around the name of Percy, through the long perspective in
ages past of_a thousand years.

it is then a high and solemn trust which the testator has committed to the.
United States of America, and its execution devolves upon their Represen-
tatives in Congress, duties of no ordinary importance. he location of
the institution at Washington, prescribed by the testator, gives to Congress
the free exercise of all the powers relating to this subject with which they
are, by the constitution, invested as the local Legislature for the District of
Columbia. in adverting to the character of the trustee selected by the
testator for the fulfilment of his intentions, your committee deem it no in-
dulgence of unreasonable pride to mark it as a signal manifestation of the
moral effect of our political institutions, upon the opinions, and upon the
consequent action of the wise and the good of other regions, and of distan¢

* Fitzgreen Ha!'eck.
4 [ Rep. No. 181. ]

climes ; even upon that nation from whom we generally boast of our
descent, but whom from the period of our revolution we have had too often
reason to consider as a jealous and envious rival. How different are the
sensations which should swell in our bosoms with the acceptance of this
bequest! James Smithson, an Englishman, in the exercise of his rights as:
a free-born Briton, desirous of dedicating his ample fortune to the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men, constitutes for his trustees, to ac-
complish that object, the United States of America, and fixes upon their
seat of Government as the spot where the institution of which he is the
founder, shall be located.

The revolution, which resulted in the independence of these United
States, was commenced, conducted, and consummated under a mere union
of confederated States. | Subsequently to that period, a more perfect union
was formed, combining in one system the principle of confederate sove-
reignties with that of a Government by popular representation, with legis-
lative, executive, and judicial powers, all limited, but co-extensive with
the whole confederation.

Under this Government, a new experiment in the history of mankind is
now drawing to the close of half a century, during which the territory
and number of States in the Union have nearly doubled, while their popu-
lation, wealth, and power have been multiplied more than fourfold. In
the process of this experiment, they have gone through the vicisitudes of
peace and war, amidst bitter and ardent party collisions, and the unceasing
changes of popular elections to the legislative and executive offices, both of
the general confederacy and of the separate States, without a single execu-
tion for treason, or a single proscription for a political offence. The whole
Government, under the continual superintendence of the whole people, has
been holding a steady course of prosperity, unexampled in the cotemporary
history of other nations, not Jess than in the annals of ages past. During
this period, our country has been freely visited by observers from: other
lands, and often in no friendly spirit by travellers from the native land of
Mr. Smithson. Their reports of the prevailing manners, opinions and
social intercourse of the people of this Union, have exhibited no flattering
or complacent pictures. All the infirmities and vices of our civil and
political condition have been conned and noted, and displayed with no
forbearance of severe satirical comment to set them off; yet, aiter all this, a
British subject, of noble birth and ample fortune, desiring to bequeath his
whole estate to the purpose of increasing and diffusing knowledge through-
out the whole community of civilized man, selects for the depositaries of
his trust, with confidence unqualified with reserve, the Congress of the
United States of America.

In the commission of every trust, there is an implied tribute of the soul
to the integrity and intelligence of the trustee ; and there is also an implied
call for.the faithful exercise of those properties to the fulfilment of the
purpose of the trust. The tribute and the call acquire additional force
and-energy, when the trust is committed for performance after the decease
of him by whom it is granted, when he no longer exists to witness or to
_ constrain the effective fulfilment of his design. The magnitude of the
trust, and the extent of confidence bestowed in the committal of it, do but
enlarge and aggravate the pressure of the obligation which it carries
with it. The weight of duty imposed is proportioned to the honor con-
ferred by confidence without reserve. Your committee are fully persuaded,
therefore, that, with a grateful sense of the honor conferred by the testator,.
.

[ Rep. No. 181..] 5

upon the political institutions of this Union, the Congress of the United
States, in accepting the bequest, will feel, in all its power and plentitude,
the obligation of responding to the confidence reposed by him, with all
the fidelity, disinterestedness, and perseverance of exertion, which may
carry into effective execution the noble purpose of an endowment for the
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.

SMITHSONIAN BEQUEST.

Message from the President of the United States, in relation to the be-
quest to the United States, by James Smithson, of London, for found-
¥

ing at Washington an establishment, to be styled “ The Smithson In-
stitution, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

WasuHineton, December 17, 1835.
To the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States:

I transmit ta Congress a report from the Secretary of State, accompany-
ing copies of certain pavers relating to a bequest to the United States, by
Mr. James Smithson, of London, for the purpose of founding, at Washing-
ton, an establishment, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, “ for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” The Executive
having no authority to take any steps for accepting the trust, and obtaining
the funds, the papers are communicated with a view to such measures as

Congress may deem necessary.
ANDREW JACKSON.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, December 16, 1835.

The Secretary of State has the honor to submit to the President the copy
of a recent correspondence in regard to a bequest made to the United States,
for the purpose of founding, at Washington, an institution “ for the increase
and diffusion of knowledge among men ;” and, at the same time, respect-
fully to suggest the propriety of laying these papers before Congress, with a
view to the adoption of such measures, on their part, as the nature of the
subject may seem to require.

JOHN FORSYTH.
To the Presrpen'r of the United States.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,

London, July 28, 1835.

Sir: The papers which I have the honor herewith to communicate to
you, will acquaint you with the particulars of a bequest of property to a
large amount,'left to the United States by a Mr. James Smithson, for the pur-
pose, as stated in the will, of founding, at Washington, an institution “ for the
increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” * * * The letter of
Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore & F'ladgate, the solicitors, by whom I was apprised
of the existence of the will, together with the inquiries I have made, leave
no doubt of its having been established, and its dispositions recognised by
the court of chancery, the first lecatee under it having, for several years,
6 Rep. Now ist. ]

and to the time of his death, received the income of the property, which is
stated to have amounted to upwards of £4,000 per annum.

According to the view taken of the case by the solicitors, it is now for
the United States, in the event of their accepting the bequest and the trust
coupled with it, to come forward, by their representative, and make them-
selves parties to an amicable suit before the Lord Chancellor, for the pur-
pose of legally establishing the fact of the demise of the first legatee without
children, and intestate; prove their claim to the benefit of the will, and
obtain a decree in chancery, awarding them the proceeds of the estate.
Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore & F'ladgate are willing to undertake the manage-
ment of the suit on the part of the United States; and, from what I have
learned of their standing, may safely be confided in. Not being acquainted
with the exact structure of our institutions, they are not able to point out
the exact manner in which the United States should be represented in the
contemplated suit ; but they believe that their diplomatic agent here, if con
stituted, for that purpose, the legal representative of the President, would
be recognised by the court of chancery as the proper organ of the United
States, for all the purposes of the will.

Should it be thought unnecessary to await the action of Congress to
authorize the institution of the requisite legal proceedings, and should the
course suggested by the solicitors meet the views of the President, his power
of attorney, authorizing the diplomatic agent here to act in his name, will, I
apprehend, be necessary ; and, as the suit will involve some expense not con-
nected with the contingent fund of the legation, your instructions upon this
branch of the subject will likewise be desirable.

I am, sir, with great respect,
Your obedient servant,
A. VAIL.
Joun Forsytu, Esquire,
Secretary of State of the United States, Washington.

Sir: We send you, enclosed, the copy of a will of Mr. Smithson, on the
subject of which we yesterday did ourselves the pleasure of waiting upon
you, and we avail ourselves of the opportunity to repeat, in writing, what
we verbally communicated.

Pursuant to the instructions contained in the will, an amicable suit was,
on the death of the testator, instituted in chancery by Mr. Hungerford,
against Messrs. Drummonds, the executors, under which suit the assets were
realized. ‘They were very considerable ; and there is now standing, in the
name of the accountant general of the court of chancery, on the trusts of
the will, stock amounting in value to about £100,000. During Mr. Hun-
gerford’s life he received the income arising from this property; but news
has just reached England that Mr. Hungerford has died abroad, leaving no
child surviving him.

it now becomes necessary that measures should be taken for the purpose
of getting the decision of the court of chancery, as to the further disposi-
tion of the property. On reference to the will, it will appear that it is not
very clearly detined to whom, on behalf of the United States, the property
should be paid or transferred; indeed, there is so much doubt, that we ap-
prehend that the attorney general must, on behalf of the crown of England,
be joined in the proceedings which it is requisite that the United States
should institute.
f Rep. No. ISP. ] 7

We act in this matter for Messrs. Drummond, the bankers, who are mere
stake-holders, and who are ready to do all in their power to facilitate getting
the decision of the court, and carrying into effect the testator’s intentions.
We shall therefore be happy to communicate with such professional advi-
sers as your Government may think fit to appoint to act for them in this coun-
try. In the mean time, we may perhaps be permitted to add, that it is perfectly
competent for us to carry on the proceedings, on behalf of the United
States, and possibly some expense and delay may be avoided by our so doing.

Having thus briefly stated the nature of the business, we at present ab-
stain from making any suggestion as to the party in whose name pro-
ceedings should be adopted, considering the point should be determined by
our counsel here, after the opinion of the proper law officers in the States
has been taken on the subject.

Any further information you may require, we shall be happy to give you,
and are, sir, Your most obedient servants,

CLARK, FYNMORE & FLADGATE,
Craven street, Strand, 2\st July, 1835.
A. Vait, Esquire, 49 York Terrace.

I, James Smithson, son of Hugh, first Duke of Northumberland, and
Elizabeth, heiress of the Hungerfords of Audley, and niece of Charles the
Proud, Duke of Somerset, now residing in Bentinck street, Cavendish
square, do this 23d day of October, 1826, make this my,last will and testament.

I bequeath the whole of my property of every nature and kind soever, to
my bankers, Messrs. Drummonds of Charing Cross, in trust, to be disposed
of in the following manner, and desire of my said executors to put my
property under the management of the court of chancery.

To John Fitall, formerly my servant, but now employed in the London
Docks, and residing at No. 27 Jubilee Place, North Mile End, Old Town,
in consideration of his attachment and fidelity to me, and the long and
great care he has taken of my effects, and my having done but very little
for him, [give and bequeath the annuity or annual sum of £100 sterling for
his life, to be paid to him quarterly, free from legacy duty, and all other
deductions, the first payment to be made to him at the expiration of three
months after my death. I have at divers times lent sums of money to
Henry Honoré Juilly, formerly my servant, but now keeping the Hunger-
ford Hotel, in the Rue Caumartin at Paris, and for which sums of money I
have undated bills or bonds signed by him. Now, [ will and direct that if
he desires it, these sums of money be let remain in his hands at an interest
of five per cent. for five years after the date of the present will.

To Henry James Hungerford, my nephew, heretofore called Henry James
Dickinson, son of my late brother Lieut. Col. Henry Louis Dickinson, now
residing with Mr. Auboin, at Bourg la Reine, near Paris, I give and be?
queath for his life the whole of the income arising from my property of
every nature and kind whatever, after the payment of the above annuity,
and after the death of John Fitall, that annuity likewise, the payments to
be at the time the interest or dividends become due on ihe stocks or other
property from which the income arises.

Should the said Henry James Hungerford have a child or children, legiti.
mate or illegitimate, I leave to such child or children, his or their heirs,
executors and assigns, after the death of his, her or their father, the whole
of my property, of every kind, absolutely and forever, to be divided between
8 tavep. No. 181. ]

them, if there is more than one, in the manner their father shall judge
proper, and in case of his omitting to decide this, as the Lord Chancellor
shall judge proper.

Should my said nephew, Henry James Hungerford marry, I empower
him to make a jointure. ,

In case of the death of my said ngphew without leaving a child or chil-
dren, or of the death of the child or children he may have had under the
age of 21 years or intestate, [ then bequeath the whole of my property,
subject to the annuity of £100 to John Fitall, and for the security and pay-
ment of which I mean stock to remain in this country, to the United
States of America, to found, at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of know-
ledge among men.

I think it proper here to state, that all the money which will be standing in
the French five per cents. at my death, inthe names of the father of my
above mentioned nephew, Henry James Hungerford, and all that in my
name, is the property of my said nephew, being what he inherited from his
father, or what I have laid up for him from the savings upon his income.

JAMES SMITHSON, [t. s.]

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, September 26, 1835.

Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your despatch of
28th July last, (No. 197,) relative to a bequest of property toa large amount
left to the United States by Mr. James Smithson, for the purpose of founding
at Washington an institution “ for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men ;” and to inform you that your letter, and the papers which
accompanied it, have been submitted to the President, who has determined
to lay the subject before Congress at its next session. ‘The result of its
deliberations, when obtained, shall be communicated to you, with the neces-
sary instructions.

Of the course intended to be pursued in relation to this matter, as above
explained, you will take occasion to acquaint the solicitors who apprized
you of the existence of Mr. Smithson’s will.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
JOHN FORSYTH.
Aaron Vai, Esquire,
Charge @ Affaires of the United States, London.

Ix vnHe House or Representatives, Januery 19, 1836.

On motion of Mr. Chapin, of New York, it was
Ordered, "That five thousand extra copies of the report submitted by the
honorable chairman of the select committee, together with the message of
the President of the United States, correspondence, and will relating to the
»equest of James Smithson, of London, at Washington, an establishment
for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, be printed for the
use of the House.
24th ConereEss, [ Doc. No..51. J Ho. or Reps.
2d WSession. Executive.

BEQUEST OF JAMES SMITHSON.

MESSAGE ~
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,

The information in relation to the bequest of James Smithson, late of
London, required by a resolution of the House of Representatives of the
23d instant.

DecEemBeER 30, 1836.
Read, and laid upon the table.

To the House of Representatives of the United States :

In compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives, of the
23d instant, I herewith transmit a report from the Secretary of State, to
whom the resolution was referred, containing all the information upon the

subject which he is now able to communicate.
ANDREW JACKSON.
Wasuinaton, December 28, 1836.

DrpartTMENt or Sarre,
Washington, December 28, 1836.
The Secretary of State, to whom has been referred the resolution of the
House of Representatives, dated the 23d instant, requesting the President,
i he shall deem it consistent with the public interests, to communicate to
that House all information he may have obtained in relation to the bequest
of James Smithson, late of London, deceased, to found an institution at
Washington for the diffusion of knowledge among men, since the appoint-
ment of an agent under the act of Congress of the last session,” has the
honor to report to the President, in answer to the above recited resolution,
the accompanying copy of a letter from the agent of the United States now
in London.
| : Réspectfully submitted.
JOHN FORSYTH.
_ Yo the PresipENT oF THE UNrtrepD SratTes.
Blair & Rives, printers.

es)

Ff Doe. Mo..54. ]

PortLanp Horer, Great PoRTLAND STREET,
London, September 14, 18 36.

GrenTLemen: Referring to your correspondence with the chargé d’af-
faires of the United States, in July, 1835, on the Smithsonian bequest to the
United States, | beg leave to inform you that I have arrived here with full

ower from the President, founded on an act of Congress, to assert the right
of the United States to that bequest, and receive the money. Ishould’,2
happy to have an interviewwith you on this subject; io which end I ask the
favor of you to call upon me on F* niday morning at 11 o’clock; or, should
that be inconvenient to you, at such other time, near at hand, as you will
have the goodness to name. .

- {yemain your most obedient servant,
RICHARD RUSH.
To Messrs. Charkr, Fynmore & FLADGATE,
Solicitors, Craven street, Strand.

Lonvon, September 24, 1836.

Sir: 1 had the honor to inform you, on the 31st ‘of August, of my
arrival at Liverpool, aes embarked in the first ship that sailed from New
York after my letter of the Ist of August, informing you that I was ready.

I reached this city the early part of the present ‘month, and, as soon as
circumstances w ould permit, entered upon the duty which the President’s
power of attorney devolves upon me.

‘owards asserting and presecuting with effect before the legal tribunals of
Engiand the claim of the United States to the legacy bequeathed to them by
James Smithson of London, to found,at Washington, an institution “for the in-
crease and diffusion of know ledge among men, > the first consideration which
seemed to present itself was, the selection of fit legal characters here, through
whose aid pe instrumentality the incipient steps could alone be judiciously
maerked out adopted. Ina country where the profession of the law is
known to bes Je) arn Givided as in this, Pregarded it important that not only the
counsel whose services it may ult imately. become necessary to engage, but the
solicitors to be approached in the first instance, should have a standing
suited to the nature of the case, and dignity of the constituent 1 represent.
The letter addressed you in July, 1835, by the late chargé @’ affaires of
the United States at this court, left little doubt, indeed, that Messrs. C arke,
Fynmore, and Fladgate were proper solicitors; yet, as the President’s

ower to me, and your imstructions, appeared iG fae the whole subjess:
Vis he

anew in my hands, some pe nqwry into their standing seemed
necessary on my part. This [ set on foot, and am glad to say ihat it ended
to my satisfaction ; the more, as ‘their connexion with the case in its origin
nati ally pointed to their sclection, other grounds continuing to justify, it.

Accordingly, on the 14th instant I addressed a note to these solicitors in-
forming them that [had arrived in this country with full power from the Presi- _
dent, founded upon an act cf Congress, to assert the right of the United States
to the Smithsonian bequest, and receite the money; and requesting that
they would call upon meon the 16th. A copy of my note is enclosed. This
is a season of the year when professional and official business of every kind
F. Doc..No. 51, | 3

is much at a pause in London, and those who conduct it dispersed. It
was not until the 20th that I was enabled to command an interview with
these gentlemen, when two of them, Mr. Ciarke and Mr. Fladgate, waited
upon me, the latter having previously called, after ae my note, to
mention the absence of his associates from town. With these two, Thad
the preliminary conversation suited to a first interview. They chiefly
went over the grounds stated in their note of the 21st of July, to our charge
dafiaires, Mr. Vail ; in some points enter them and giving new
particulars. They said that James Smithson, the testator, died in June,
1829; that his will was proved in the prerogative court of Canterbury, by
Mr. Charles Drummond, one of the executors, and one of the banking-house
of that name in London ; that Henry James Hungerford, the testator’s s nephew,
to whom was bequeathed the whole of his property for life, subject to a small
annuity to another person, brought an amicable suit in chancery against
Messrs. Drummond, the executors for the purpose of having the testator’s
assets administered under the direction of the Lord Chancellor; in the course
of which suit the usual orders and decrees were made, and by its issue
assets ascertained aud realized to the value of about one hundred thousand
pounds sterling; that Mr. Hungerford, who resided out of England, re-
ceived up to the time of his death the dividends arising from the property,
which consisted of stock in the public funds ; and that he died at Pisa; on
the 5th of June, 1835, of full age, though still young, without having
been married, and, as far-as 1s yet known, without illegitimate child or
children ; th: at the assets of the estate are now invested in the name of
the accountant-general of the court of chancery, subject to the further
disposition of the court; that the will of Mr. Smithson having made the
United States the final lecatee on Mr. Hungerford’s death without child or
children, legitimate or illegitimate, the facts seem to have happened under
whieh fice right will attach : but the solicitors continue to think that a
suit, or legal proceedings of some nature, to which the United States must
be party, will have to be instituted in the court of chancery, i In order to
make mali their right and enable them to get possession of the fund, now
in the hands of the court, and subject to its judgment.

The foregoing formed the main purport of their communication. They
added, that the mother of Henry James Hu ngerford, who is still living,
and ed toa Mrenchman of the name of De la Batiut, has put ina
claim to a part of the property ; but as the claim is small and not likely to
come to much, the mother of Mr. Hungerford not having been married to
his father, it is scarcely necessary at this time to detail the circumstances.

Lasked at what time from the present the earliest sitting of the court
of chancery would be held. hey replied in November. It will be my
object to get the fund for the United Stat es without a oo in chanee TV
of any kind, if this be practicable ; and towards an end so desirable, iny
further reflections and measures will for a while be directed, taking care
that I do not lose the advantage of all proper applications at the first term
of the court, for whatever form of suit or other legal proceedings may be
found indispensable. ‘

1 have nothing further of any importance to communicate at this june-
ture. [delivered to the minister ae he United States, Mr. Stevenson, the:
letter from the acting Secretary of State of July 27th, "requesting his good
offices in behalf of the public object with which Tam char ved, shou! id they
4 [ Doc. No. 51 J

be needed ; and I cannot close this letter without adding that I have al-

ready received co-operation from him that has been useful, and which gives

earnest of the zealous interposition of his further aid, should it be required.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect,
Your obedient servant,
RICHARD RUSH.

To the Hon. Jonn ForsyTu, |

Secretary of State.
25th Coneress, Doc. No. 10. Ho. or Reps.
3d Session. Executive.

SMITHSONIAN BEQUEST.

MESSAGE

FROM

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,

TRANSMITTING

Reports from the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury
upon the subject of the Smithsonian Bequest, in reply lo a resolution
of the House of Representatives of the 9th of July last.

—_<}—___.
Decemeer 10, 1838.

Read, and referred to a Select Committee.

—>—___

To the House of Representatives of the United States :

I herewith transmit to tne House of Representatives reports from the
Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, with accompanying
documents, in answer to the resolution of the House of the 9th of July
last.

M. VAN BUREN.

Wasutneton, December 7, 1838.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, December 6, 1838.

The Secretary of State, to whom has been referred a resolution of the
House of Representatives of the 9th July last, requesting the President to
cause te be laid before the House, during the first week of the present
session of Congress, “all such communications, papers, documents, &¢.
now in the possession of the Executive, or which can be obtained, as ‘shall
elucidate the origin and objects of the Smithsonian bequest, and the origin
progress, and consummation of the process by which that bequest has
been recovered, and whatever may be connected with the subject,’ has
the honor to lay before the President copies of all the papers relating to it
now on the files of this Department, and not before communicated. ‘

Respectfully submitted.

JOHN FORSYTH.
To the Prestpent of the United States.
2 Doc. Neo. 10.

No. 20.
Lonpon, January 30, 1838.

Sir: I had yesterday the honor to receive your letter of the 27th of
December, enclosing the President’s renewal of my power to prosecute the
Smithsonian claim, and receive the money for the United States when-
ever the same may be oe It remains uncertain, as intimated in
my communication of the 27th of October, whether the exhibition of the
new power will be eventually domautaed but even if not, I trust the
President will think it has been erring on the safe side, after what passed,
to have it in my possession.

After my letter of the 16th of December, I had fully hoped that the
evidence of which it makes mention would have been obtained from
France before this time; but it seems that the French attorneys, who
were written to upon the subject by our solicitors, mistook some of their

instructions at first, which led to delay. They are now in expectation ..f

receiving it daily.
I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,
RICHARD RUSH.
The Hon. Joun Forsyrs,
Secretary of State.

Lonpon, Febrtary 12, 1838.

Sir: The day after my last number was sent off, I received information
from the solicitors that some of the evidence expected from France had
arrived, but that it was not of validity to repe! the claim of Madame de la
Batt. From as much, however, as it disclosed, they pronounced a strong
opinion that ifa fee commission issued from the court, evidence might
finally be had that would defeat it.

On fully weighing what they said, I wrote them.a note on the 3d
instant, requesting answers to the following inquiries :

1. What would be the probable expense of a commission ?

2, How much time would be required for its execution and return ?

3, Supposing the evidence obtained under it to be sufficient in their
opinion, our counsel’s, and my own, to defeat the claim; yet, as the legal
advisers of Madame de la Batut might not take the same view of it, and
thence contest it, what further delays might such a turn in the case become
the means of producing : ? (J enclose a copy of my note.)

J received an answer from them dated the 8th, a copy of which is also
enclosed. ’

_ Referring specifically to my inquiries, it will be seen—

1, That they estimate the expense of a commission at one hundred and
fifty pounds.

2, That they think it might be executed and returmed within three
om

That, assuming the requisite evidence to be obtained, they incline to
think the suit might be wound up before the rising of the court for the
long vacation, (which means in August next ;) but after the introductory
observations of their note, which advert to the uncertainty of all previous

calculations as to the duration of suits in chancery, they leave me to judge
how far this opinion of theirs is to be relied upon; and they conclude

— >
Doe. No. 10. 3

with an intimation that the case might, in the end, be taken before the
House of Lords on appeal; in which event the delay, they add, would be
“very great.”

I have determined, under these circumstances, not to seek further evi-
dence by a commission to France or otherwise for defeating the claim,
and accordingly wrote to them, on the 9th instant, to proceed with all ex-
pedition in bringing the suit to a close without it. A copy of this note is
also enclosed. As to bringing interrogatories into the master’s office for
the personal examination of Madame de la Batut and her husband, as
adverted to in the answer from the solicitors, I say nothing of the objec-
tions to that mode of getting at more evidence, the solicitors themselves
forestalling me by an admission that they could not be certain of its
success.

I hope that the determination to which I have come will be approved
as judicious. This claim has been already, by full scrutiny and resistance,
greatly cut down from its original injustice and extravagance, as a refer-
ence to my No. 12, of the 24th of last June, will show. That it might
be wholly defeated by going on to pursue measures within our power, I
incline to believe. ‘The solicitors tell me that they think so decidedly, and
their letter is to the same effect. But it is now necessary to balance the
advantage to be gained by doing so against the time and money it would
cost. The report in favor of the claimant, as the master has determined
to make it in the state of the evidence as now before him, will not, by the
information I have reccived and heretofore communicated, be likely to ex-
ceed one hundred and fifty pounds a year, payable during her life; to which
will have to be added a few years of arrears, calculated on the basis of
whatever may be the precise amount of the annuity allowed. The claim-
ant, as far as I can learn, is about sixty years old. Hence, supposing
that measures necessary for the total defeat of her claim occupied only
another twelvemonth, it seems probable that the very cost of the agency
for going on with them, added to all unforeseen legal fees and expenses,
might prove more than the annuity is worth. That the suit would be
lengthened out another twe!vemonth by going into the measures in ques-
tion, can scarcely, I think, be deemed a strained inference, from all that the
solicitors say in their letter, not to dwell upon contingencies coming within
its scope that might make the time longer. Should the suit reach the
House of Lords, for example, by appeal, it would not be easy to assign
a limit to its duration.

I trust, therefore, it will be thought that I exercise a proper discretion,
as representing the interests of the United States, in determining not to
expose myself to any of these hazards, and new ones that might even
chance to spring out of them as time was opened for their operation. It
seems to me, conclusively, that I should henceforth rather strive to obtain
a decision of their suit as speedily as possible, regardless of the small and
temporary diminution of the fund, should it be finally adjudged in their
favor, which the foregoing payments to Madame de la Batut would occa-
sion. Opposition has been effectively made to the claim up to the point,
it is believed, that duty enjoined and prudence would sanction; to go
farther seems not reconcilable with the latter, under the certain and con-
tingent delays and dangers I set forth.

The occasion may be a fit one for remarking, that when this claim first
assumed a vexatious aspect last summer, my immediate wish and sug-
gestions were to get a decree in favor of the United States for the general
4 Doc. No. 19.

fund, leaving such fractional portion of it swb judice as would have been
sufficient to satisfy the claim if established; thus cutting short delay from
this source, by which this agency might have had the chance to be closed
the sooner, and the bulk of the fund secured to the United States at the
earliest possible day. The last I hold an object of pressing importance,
encompassed, as all law-suits more or less are, (to say nothing, of the pe-
euliar nature of this,) by hidden risks. But it was part of the vexation of
the claim that our legal advisers found the course I desired to pursue im-
practicable, for the reason mentioned in the letter of the solicitors of the
22d of July, a copy of which was forwarded with my No. 15 on the 19th
of August.

Now that this obstruction is removed from my path by the determina-
tion I have taken in regard to it, I indulge the hope that no new one will
be thrown across it; and can only repeat the assurance, that nothing
within my power shall be left undone towards accelerating the suit, anx~
iously desiring, on all public and personal accounts, (if I may speak in the
latter sense,) to see it terminated.

In the continued hope that the decision, when it comes, may be favor-
able, | have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

The Hon. Joun Forsyru, :
Secretary of State.

| With Mr. Rush’s No. 21. |
Fepsrvary 3, 1838.

GenTLEMEN: | understood, when with you on Wednesday, that the
evidence obtained from France would not, in your opinion, be found suffi-
cient to prevent the master’s report embracing an allowance in Madame
de la Batut’s favor of about one hundred and fifty pounds a year during her
life, with some arrearages calculated on that basis; and the evidence, as
you exhibited and otherwise made it known to me, certainly led my mind
to the same conclusion.

You added that, by sending out a commission from the court of chan-
cery to Paris, (a process not yet resorted to,) you thought that evidence
might still be obtained to defeat her claim; on which subject I should be
glad to receive answers to the following inquiries, as far as in your power
to give them to me: ' j

1st. What would be the probable expense of that process?

2d. How long before its full execution and return might be expected?

3d. Assuming that the evidence, when so obtained, struck your minds,
our counsel’s, and my own, as sufficient to defeat the claim; yet as it might
not happen that the legal advisers of Madame de la Batut would take the —
same view of it, and thence contest its validity before the court, what fur-
ther delays might such a turn in the case be likely, under all the cireum-
stances, to lead to? :

As I have so repeatedly made known to you my desire for the speediest
decision of the case that may be practicable consistently with justice to the
United States, 1 make no apology for asking a reply to these inquiries at
as early a day as may be convenient.

I remain your obedient servant,
RICHARD RUSH.
To Messrs. CLarkE, Fynmore, & FLapGATe.
Doc. No. 10. 5

{ With Mr. Rush’s No. 21. ]

43 CRAVEN-STREET, STRAND,
February 8, 1838.

Duar Str: We have ‘to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the
3d instant, containing certain queries touching the measures which may
be adopted in respect of the claim of Madame de la Batut.

In reply, we beg to*state that, so long as proceedings in the English
court of chancery are conducted as amicable suits, when both parties
unite in a wish to obtain the direction of the court, without unnecessary
delay, it is a matter of no great difficulty to calculate their probable dura-
tion; but circumstances sometimes arise, even in such suits, that prove
the calculations fallacious. When once, however, a suit ceases to be so
conducted, and parties come in whose interest it is to throw impediments
in the way of a decision, any calculation as to either delay or expense
must be a matter of little better than guess. So many unforeseen points
may arise, and the practice of the courts affords such facilities for a hostile
party to obstruct the course of justice, that the most experienced lawyers
hesitate before they attempt to give an opinion upon the subject. If in
the present case Madame de la Batut’s claim be further resisted, the suit
will become one to which these observations apply; or Madame de la
Batut might perhaps abandon the claim now brought in, and try to im-
pede us by filing an original bill for its establishment. We do not think
this likely, but it is not impossible.

Having said thus much, we will proceed to answer the queries.

We think that within three months evidence might be obtained of the
facts necessary to defeat Madame de la Batut’s claim, and that such evi-
dence might be procuredeither by sending over a commission to Paris for the
examination of witnesses, or by bringing interrogatories into the master’s
office for the personal examination of Madame de la Batut and her hus-
band. We now know so much of the case that Madame de la Batut
would hardly venture to deny any of the necessary facts; but this is not
quite certain.

We think that the expense of a commission to examine witnesses would
not exceed £150. The expense of interrogatories for the examination of
Madame de la Batut would be trifling; probably thirty or forty pounds.

Assuming that the requisite evidence were obtained, we are inclined to
think that, notwithstanding Madame de la Batut’s resistance, the suit
might be wound up before the rising of the court for the long vacation ;

i but, after the observations we have thought it our duty to make in the
early part of this letter, you will be able to judge how far this opinion can
be relied on.

You will bear in mind that the decision of the master is not final. Ex-
ceptions may be taken to his report, and argued before the court; and
even an aypeal may be brouglit against the decision of the vice-chancellor,
or master of the rolls,and the cause might be taken to the House of
Lords. The delay under such circumstances would be very great.

We are your very faithful and obedient servants,
CLARKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE.

Ricuarp Rusu, Esq.
6 Doc. No. 10.

[With Mr. Rush’s No. 21.]’
Fesruary 9, 1838.

GenTLEMEN: Your communication of yesterday’s date was received,
and is satisfactory by its fuliess and candor.

Under its representations, I determine not to seek further evidence, by
a commission to Paris or otherwise, for the purpose of further reducing
the claim of Madame de la Batut.

Let the master’s report in this respect be, therefore, made in the state
I understood it to have been settled by him ; and, how that I take this
determination, I trust that it will be made at a very early day.

I need scarcely reiterate to you my most earnest wishes for a speedy
decision of the case, or my instructions that you will urge it on with
all the expedition in your power.

In the hope that the decision will be in all things favorable, as well as
speedy, I remain your faithful and obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

To Messrs. CLarKE, Fynmore, and FLrapG@arte.

No. 22.
Lonpon, March 28, 1838.

Sir: Since the date of my last letter, the report of the master has been
duly made, and yesterday it was confirmed.

This is a step forward in the case which I am at length happy to an-
nounce. It is second in importance only to the decree of the court on the
whole merits, and has laid the best foundation for speedily obtaining that
decree.

The precise sum that the report allows to Madame la Batut is one hun-
dred and fifty pounds and nine shillings, to be paid to her annually during
her life, with a payment of arrears, to be calculated on this basis, from
some period in 1834; the exact date of which I have not at this moment,
but will mention when I next write.

The court takes a recess next week for the Easter holidays : these will
last until the 17th or 20th of April. The case will be set down for an-
other hearing before the court at as early a day as 1can command after it
reassembles. A decree, I am informed, will be pronounced after this
hearing on all the facts as settled by the master—a favorable one, as I
hope, for the United States.

By the determination I took respecting the claim of Madame la Batut,
as announced in my last, her professional ‘advisers, knowing that she can
now get no more than the report allows her, are interested in co-operating
with me towards a prompt decision, instead of resorting to adverse pro-
ceedings to prolong or thwart it—a course which they have been more or
less pursuing hitherto.

On better grounds than ever I think I may, therefore, flatter myself that
the case approaches its conclusion; and I will only add that its remaining
stages shall be watched by me with a care proportioned to the auspicious
results that I believe to be near at hand.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

Hon. Joun Forsyru,

Secretary of State.
Doc. No. 10. 7

No. 23. ,
Lonpon, 4pril 24, 1838.

Sir: The court reassembled last week, since which I have been doing
all that is practicable, by personal calls upon the solicitors and otherwise,
to urge on the case ; and sha!] continue this course.

Judging by all they say to me, and my own knowledge of the pres-
ent situation of the case, I have a confident and, I trust, well-founded be-
lief that May will not elapse without its being brought to a hearing.

Referring to my No. 22, I now beg leave to state that the 22d of Sep-
tember, 1834, is the date from which the annuity allowed by the master’s
report to Madame la Batut was to commence ; and that the arrears to be
paid to her, in the event of a decision in favor of the United States, were
to be computed from that time to the 22d of March last. This makes
three years and six months, so that the sum due on an annuity of £150 9s.
would be £526 11s. 6d.

I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

Hon. Jonn Forsyru,

Secretary of State.

No. 24.

Lonpon, May 3, 1838.

Sir: I am glad to say that the confidence expressed in my last that a
hearing of the case was near at hand has been justified, even sooner than
I expected, for it was heard on the 1st of this month, and I am now to
have the honor of reporting to you the nature of the hearing.

Mr. Pemberton, our leading counsel, rose, and after. recapitulating the
general nature of the case, as formerly heard by the court, proceeded to
state that the reference to the master, as ordered by the decree in Febru-
ary, 1837, had duly taken place, and that all the requisite evidence had
been obtained in England and frem Italy and France, as to the facts on
the happening of which the United States were to become entitled to the
fund bequeathed by Mr. Smithson for the purpose mentioned in his will.
These facts I need not here repeat, being already set forth specially in my
No. 9, of the 25th of March, 1837.

Overlooking a volume of matter merely technical in the evidence and
report, or now become immaterial to the main points, it will be sufficient
to say that it was satisfactorily established by the former that Henry James
Hungerford, named in the pleadings, was dead; that he died at Pisa, in
the summer of 1835; that he was not married at the time of his death, nor
at any time; and that he died childless. It was not found how old he
was at the time of his death; nor is that material to any of the issues.
As to John Fitall, it was found that he died in London, in June, 1834; and
as to Madame de la Batut, the mother of Henry James Hungerford, the
master, on the evideuce before him, found her to have a claim on the estate
of Mr. Smithson to the amount of one hundred and fifty pounds and nine
shillings a year, payable as long as she lives, and for the arrears of this
annual allowance from the 22d of September, 1834, to the 22d of last
March.

The establishment of all the foregoing facts will be found to meet the
8 Dee. No. 10.

essential inquiries to which the master’s attention was directed by the
court’s first decree, as reported in my No. 9. Mr. Smithson’s will hav-
ing provided, among other things, that on the death of his nephew,
Henry James Hungerford, “ without leaving child or children,’’ the whole
of his property should go to the United States; and this primary fact being.
now incontestably established in due and legal form under the authority
of the court, and all other proof required by the pleadings obtained, Mr.
Pemberton asked for a decree declaring the United States entitled to the
property. The representative of the attorney general, who was present
in court, said that he believed every thing had been established, as stated,.
and that the rules relating to public charities, as applicable to this case,
calling for no objection on the part of the Crown, none would be inter-
posed—a course that falls in with what was said by the same officer on
the occasion of the first decree, as reported in my No. 7.

The counsel of the defendants, Messieurs Drummond, agreed also to.
what was stated, and had nothing to allege in opposition to the claim of
the United States.

The counsel of Madame la Batut were also content; the course I took,.
as made known in my No. 21, having put an end to opposition from that
quarter.

All essential facts being at length fully and formally established, and
opposition from all quarters quieted by the measures I have directed,
there seemed no reason why a decree in favor of the United States should
not at once be pronounced; but Mr. Pemberton having stated that, in the
end, a petition would have to be presented for a transfer of the fund to me,,
as representing the United States, the master of the rolls said that he:
would pause upon his final decision until that petition was presented.

It is thus that the case now stands. It will come on again one day
next week, and I have every ground for believing that my next commu-
nication will inform you of a decree having passed declaring the United
States entitled to the fund. WAVE:

Should the forms of chancery require any authentication of my power
io receive the fund that Mr. Stevenson can give, he will be ready, at any
moment, to give it, as he has assured me; and should his important aid
be otherwise needed in any way before the suit is closed, I shall not scruple
io call upon him, knowing how zealously he would afford it.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

The Hon. Joun Forsyru,
Secretary of State.

No. 25.
Lonpon, May 12, 1838.
Sir: I have great satisfaction in announcing to you, for the President’s
information, that the case came on to be heard again on the 9th instant,.
when a decree was solemnly pronounced, adjudging the Smithsonian be-
quest to the United States.
Both my powers had been previously lodged with the court—not one
only, as stated in newspaper reports of the case; and no question was
aised as to my full authority to receive the money on behalf of the United
iates, without calling for any further authentication of my powers.
The suit is therefore ended without fear of more delays; nothing buta
Doc. No. 10. 3

few forms remaining to put me in actual possession of the fund. These
I have the hope may be completed within the present month.

The fund is invested in the stocks of this country, of which I shall, in
due time, have an exact account. The largest portion is in the three per
cent. annuities. The entire aggregate amounts to fully one hundred thou-
sand pounds; and this, according to my present information, exclusive of
about five thousand pounds to be reserved by the court to meet the an-
nual charge in favor of Madame la Batut during her life ; the sum produ-
cing it to revert to the United States when she dies.

As soon as the decree is formally made up, the accountant general of
the court will transfer all the stock to me, under its sanction, except the
small sum to be reserved as above.

Having no special instructions as to what I am to do with it, my pres-
ent intention is to sell the whole, at the best time and for the best prices
tobe commanded, and bring it over in gold for delivery to the Treasurer
of the United States, in fulfilment of the trust with which I am charged.
But I will reflect further upon the mode of bringing it home, and adopt
that which, under all circumstances, may seem best.

The result I announce will, I trust, justify, in the President’s eyes, the
determination I took to let the allowance made to Madame la Batut by
the master’s report stand, without attempting to overset it, whatever
might have been the prospect or assurance of ultimate success. The
longer the suit lasted, the greater were the risks to which it was exposed.
A large sun of money, fhe whole mentioned above, was to go out of the
kingdom, unless an heir could be found to a wandering young English-
man, who had died in Italy at eight or nine and twenty,* and whose
mother, never lawfully married, still lives in France. Here was basis
eaough for the artful and dishonest to fabricate stories of heirship, on alle-
gations of this young Englishman having been married. That fact as-
sumed, the main stumbling-block to their devices would have disappear-
ed. Fabrications to this effect might have been made to wear the sem-
blance of truth by offers in the market of perjury of Italy, France, and
England—incidents like these being familiar to history, whether we take
public annals, or those of families ; and although the combinations, how-
ever craftily set on foot, might have been defeated in the end, it is easy
to perceive that time and expense would have been required to defeat
them. ‘The possibility of their being formed (never to be regarded as
very remote while the suit remained open) made it my first anxiety, as it
wasalways my first duty, to have it decided as soon as possible, and to take
care even that it moved on during its pendency with no more of publicity
to its peculiar circumstances than could be avoided. I trust that both
these feelings have been discernible in the general current of my letters
to you, reporting all the steps I have taken in it from my first arrival.

Need I add, as a further incentive to despatch, had further been want-
ing, that events bearing unfavorably upon the public affairs of this coun-
try, above all upon the harmony or stability of its foreign relations,
would not have failed to operate inauspiciously upon the suit, if in nothing
else, by causing stocks to fall. They did begin to fall on the first news
of the rebellion in Canada, not recovering until the accounts of its sup-
pression arrived. The case is now beyond the reach of accident, whether

* Believed to be the age of Henry James Hungerford, though not found in the master’s report.
10 Doc. No. i0.

from political causes, or others inherent in its nature; and that its fina,
decision thus early has been brought about by the course adopted in Feb-
ruary, 1am no longer permitted to doubt. arly may at first seem a
word little applicable, after one entire year and the best part of a second
have been devoted to getting the decision ; but when the proverbial de-
lays of chancery are considered, (and they could hardly have become a
- proverb without some foundation,) it may not, perhaps, be thought wholly
out of place. Although neither the counsel nor solicitors gave their pre-
vious advice to the course, it being a point of conduct for my decision
rather than of law for theirs, it is yet satisfactory to be able to state that
they approved it afterwards. They regarded it as best consulting the
interests of the United States, on every broad view of a case where a
great moral object, higher than the pecuniary one, was at stake, enhan-
cing the motives for rescuing it, at the earliest fit moment, from all the
unavoidable risks and uncertainties of the future. A fortnight has not
elapsed since it was said in the House of Commons by an able member
that “a chancery suit was a thing that might begin with a man’s life and
its termination be his epitaph.”’

On the whole, I ask leave to don eraiaglete the President and yourself
on the result. A suit of higher interest and dignity has rarely, perhaps,
been before the tribunals of a nation. If the trust created by the testa-
tor’s will be successfully carried into effect by the enlightened legislation
of Congress, benefits may flow to the United States and to the human
family not easy to be estimated, because operating silently and gradually
throughout time, yet operating not the less effectually. Not to speak of
the inappreciable value of letters to individual and social man, the monu-
ments which they raise to a nation’s glory often last when others perish,
and seem especially appropriate to the glory of a republic whose founda-
tions are laid in the presumed intelligence of its citizens, and can only be
strengthened and perpetuated as that improves. May I also claim to share
in the pleasure that attends on relieved anxiety now that the suit is ended ?

I have made inquiries from time to time, in the hope of finding out
something of the man, personally a stranger to our people, who has
sought to benefit distant ages by founding, in the capital of the American
Union, an institution (to describe it in his own simple and comprehensive
language) FOR THE INCREASE AND DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE AMONG MEN.
I have not heard a great deal. What I have heard and may confide in
amounts to this: That he was, in fact, the natural son of the Duke of
Northumberland; that his mother was a Mrs. Macie, of an ancient fam-
ily in Wiltshire of the name of Hungerford; that he was educated at,
Oxford, where he took an honorary degree in 1786; that he went under’
the name of James Lewis Macie until a few years after he had left
the university, when he took that of Smithson, ever after signing only
James Smithson, as in his will; that he does not appear to have had any
fixed home, living in lodgings when in London, and occasionally staying
a year or two at a time in cities on the continent, as Paris, Berlin, Flor-
ence, Genoa, at which last he died; and that the ample provision made
for him by the Duke of Northumberland, with retired and simple habits,
enabled him to accumulate the fortune which now passes to the United
States. I have inquired if his political opinions or bias were supposed to
be of a nature that led him to select the United States as the great trustee
ft his enlafged and philanthropic views, The reply has been, that his
Doc. No. 10. li

Opinions, as far as known or inferred, were thought to favor monarchical
rather than popular institutions; but that he interested himself little in
questions of government, being devoted to science, and chiefly chemistry;
that this had introduced him to the society of Cavendish, Wollaston, and
others advantageously known to the Royal Society in London, of which
body he was a member, and to the archives of which he made contribu-
tions; and that he also became acquainted, through his visits to the con-
tinent, with eminent chemists in France, Italy, and Germany. Finally,
that he was a gentleman of feeble health, but always of courteous though
reserved manners and conversation.

Such I learn to have been some of the characteristics of the man whom
generations to come may see cause to bless, and whose will may enrol
his name with the benefactors of mankind.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

The Hon. Joun Forsyru,

Secretary of State.

No. 26.

Lonpon, June 5, 1838.

Sin: With all my exertions to have the forms necessary for putting me
in possession of the Smithsonian fund completed in May, it will be seen,
from the enclosed copy of a letter to me from the solicitors, in reply to one
I wrote them on the last of May, (a copy of which is also enclosed,) that
it is only to-day that all the forms have been finally and fully completed.

After getting this information, I went immediately to the proper depart-
ment of the accountant general of the court of chancery at the Bank of
England, and find that there has been transferred to me the following
stock, viz: !

1. Sixty-four thousand five hundred and thirty-five pounds eighteen
shillings and nine pence in the consolidated three per cent. annuities, com-
monly called consols by abbreviation.

2. Twelve thousand pounds in reduced three per cent. annuities.

3. Sixteen thousand one hundred pounds in bank stock.

The books at the bank show the above stock to have been regularly
transferred to me under the authority of the court of chancery, by the
accountant general, as the proper officer of the court, in virtue of the
deeree reported in my last; and I have accepted the same on the books,
on behalf of the United States, by signing my name to a form of accept-
ance drawn out under each transfer.

The above stock constitutes, with the exception of five thousand and
fifteen pounds, the whole property left by Mr. Smithson to the United
States, and now recovered for them, with the further exception of some
-small sum in cash, to which the solicitors refer as still to come from the
accountant general, but of which I have as yet no statement.

The sum of five thousand and fifteen pounds in consols, it has been
decreed by the court is to be reserved and set apart to answer the annuity
payable to Madame la Batut; the principal to revert to the United States
on the death of the annuitant.
12 Doc. No. 10.

I have taken care to instruct the solicitors to see that there is due prootr
at all times of the annuitant being in full life as the half-yearly payments
are made to her.

Although the aggregate of the stock transferred as above is under one
hundred thousand pounds in its nominal amount, there is no doubt what-
ever but that the sale of it will yield more than that sum.

The transfer by the accountant general was made to me only to-day ;
and this is so far fortunate as that it could not otherwise have been effect-
ed as to the principal part of the stock (viz: the three per cent. annuities)
until the 17th of July, the books closing after to-day for the transfer of
this species of stock wntilthe date I mention.

The important operation of selling the stock now remains to be con-
ducted, and shail claim my careful attention. I design to go into the city
to-morrow, with a view to adopting the earliest measures for this purpose ;
iaking advice, in aid of my own judgment, for so managing the sales as
best to promote the interests of the United States.

I continue to think that the best mode of bringing home the money
will be in gold, in English sovereigns. Exchange is low, and so will in-
surance be at this season; and on all accounts it seems to me the prefer-
able mode in which to realize the fund, and deliver it over to the Treasurer
of the United States on my arrival, in final discharge of the trust confided
to me.

I shall hope to make some report of my steps by the next packet; and
in the mean time have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obe-
dient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

The Hon. Joun Forsyru,

Secretary of State.

[With Mr. Rush’s No. 26.]

May 31, 1838.

GrentLemen: I need scarcely again make known to you what I have
so frequently urged. in person since the decision on the 9th instant, viz :
my anxiety to have the necessary document from the proper office of the
court, by which the Smithsonian fund adjudged to the United States may
be placed at my disposal. But, whatever the past obstacles which you
may not have been able to prevent, I must ask the favor of your renewe
and best exertions for causing me to be put in possession of it at the earli-,
est possible day ; the more so, as we are now at the end of the month, and
my being invested with the requisite authority is an indispensable pre-
liminary to arrangements for selling the stock advantageously in June,
prior to my embarkation with the fund for the United States. Your past
attention to the case is a pledge to me that you will do all in your power
to fulfil my wishes; in which assurance I remain,

Your obedient servant,
RICHARD RUSH.

To Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, & FLADGATE.
Doc. No. 10. | 13
[With Mr. Rush’s No. 26. ]

43 CRAVEN STREET, STRAND, June 5, 1838.

Dear Sir: We beg to assure you, in answer to your favor of the 31st
of May, that our endeavors to get through the forms necessary for wind-
ing up the suit, and putting you into possession of the Smithsonian fund,
have not been less urgent and unremitting than have been your applica-
tions to ourselves upon the subject. The circumstance of the shutting of
the offices of the court of chancery for the holidays, at a period when
they are ordinarily open, and some other petty difficulties not within
our control, have, however, prevented our getting through all the forms
in the month of May, as we hoped to have been able to do.

We have now, however, the satisfaction to announce to you that
every thing is complete, and that the accountant general of the court of
chancery has transferred into your name the several sums following :

. £64,535 18 9 consols,

12,000 0 O reduced annuities,
16,100 0 0 bank stock.

These sums are entirely at your disposal, free from the control of the
court of chancery.

There will be, in addition, a small cash balance, which, in the course
of a few days, you will be able to receive of the accountant general.

We are, very faithfully, your obedient servants,

CLARKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE.
Ricuarp Rusu, Esq.

No. 27.
Lonpvon, June 13, 1838.
_ Sir: Iam glad to be able to report to you that the sales of the stock
are going on well.

The whole of the consols have been sold, and part of the bank stock.

A portion of the consols, viz: £4,535 18s. 9d. was sold on the 6th
instant for cash, at 942. This was considered a high price; more could
not have been obtained for cash.

My first desire was to sell all the stock for cash, and immediately, that
I might the sooner close the whole operation and get away ; but such a
course I soon found, on the best information and advice, would have been
injudicious.

To have attempted a sale of the bank stock, for example, all at once,
whbuld probably have depressed the market for this particular species of
security, and occasioned a loss of several hundred pounds. The reason is,
that the dealings in it, contradistinguished from those in the great national
stocks, are limited, and confined to a very few persons on the stock ex-
change. The course which prudence dictated was, to sell it out in small
parcels, under careful instructions to the broker on each day of sale.

As it thus became necessary, in order to guard against loss, that I should
allow myself some little latitude as to time in selling the bank stock, it
opened a door the more properly for disposing of the other stock on time,

at a short interval; the more especially if by that mode it could be made
to produce a larger sum,
14 Poe: No. 10.

Accordingly, on the same day that I disposed of a portion of the consols
for cash, which served also as a feeler to ascertain the cash price, I caused
the whole of what remained of this stock, viz : £60,060, to be sold om time
for the 6th July, that being the day after dividend day, which falls on the
5th of July.

It gives me great satisfaction to state that this sale was effected at 953.

Up to the day when it was effected, consols had not brought so high a
price, as far as I have yet been able to examine the London Mercantile
Price Current, for nearly eight -years before.

Two sales have been made of the bank stock, viz: one of £3,000, the
other of £5,000; the former at 2043, the latter at 2042; both sales being
for the 30th instant, the money payable and stock to be delivered on that
day. Should the remainder be sold at these rates, or near them, it will
be seen that the bank stock, though in nominal amount only £16,100, as
stated in my last, will yield upwards of £30,000.

In the impor tant operations of selling the stock, I am receiving ther most
beneficial aid from the constant advice and active daily co-operation in
all ways of our consul, Colonel Aspinwall, whose long residence in Lon-
don and ample opportunities of knowing the mysteries of its great stock
market, and the minute details of doing business in it, have given him
the ability to aid me. It is thus that I am selling to every advantage.

None of the three per cent. reduced annuities have yet been sold. We
are watching the market with a view to the most favorable moment for
~ disposing of this part of the-stock.

The fortunate point of time was hit for selling out the consols. They
have now sunk a little, and, with the exception ‘of momentary intervals,
would not have brought as much since the 6th instant as I obtained.

From the sales made, it is now IT think certain that the whole stock will
yield from one hundred and three to one hundred and five thousand
pounds, apart from the five thousand and fifteen to be retained here during
the life of Madame !a Batut.

From the successful manner in which they are proceeding, it seems
clear also, at the present time, that the fund, independent of the j accumula-
tions of interest, will be richer in the state in which I shall deliver it over
to the United States, than it was in the summer of 1835, when their right
to it first attached by the death of Henry James Hungerford.

Left to myself to make the most of the fund after recovering it from
chancery, which depended so much on the sale of the stock, it has not
been without full consideration that I did not call on the Messrs. Roths-
child to sell it all, for which their experience and situation here, besides
being the bankers of the United States, might have seemed to point them
out. But, first, they would, f take for granted, have charged a commission
of one per cent., to which I could not have objected, as it is allowed here,
apart from the broker’s commission, aud by the chamber of commerce at
New York on effecting sales of stock ; whilst Colonel Aspinwall charges
me no such commission, and I much desired to save the amount of it to
the fund, if, with his efficient aid, 1 could conduct the sales confidently and
advantazeously myself. But, secondly, if the former, as the bankers of
the United States, would have performed the task without charge, I
should not have been the less disinclined to place it in their hands, having
had no instructions to do so, and, pene without these, I could only exer-
cise my best discretion, They are, s Ti in common with others here sup-

>
Doc. No. 10. 15

pose, very large dealers in stock on their own account, as occasion may
serve; and hence may naturally be supposed to desire sometimes a rise,
sometimes a fall, in these ever-fiuctuating things. With more than a hun-
dred thousand pounds to throw upon the market, I therefore thought it
best, acting on a general rule of prudence in all business, to keep the
operation of selling entirely clear of every quarter where any insensible
bias might, by possibility even, exist to a course other than that which
would regard alone the Smithsonian fund.

I design to leave no sale outstanding after the 6th of July. The sub-
sequent steps, however, for obtaining the gold, and those necessary in
various ways for shipping it, will render it impracticable for me to embark
with it in the packet which sails from Portsmouth on the 10th of July,
that packet leaving London always on the 7th. But I will follow in
the succeeding one of the 20th of July, which leaves this port on the 17th,
before which time I trust that every thing will have been fully and satis-
factorily closed, as far as the trust can be closed here.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

The Hon. Jonn Forsyrs,

Secretary of State. |

No. 28.

7

Lonpon, June 26, 1838.

Sir: Since my No. 27, the sales of the stock have been going on
from time to time, and at length are finally closed.

They have all been good—perhaps I may say fortunate. The prices
have been high, as compared with the state of the stock market for sev-
. etal years past; and Iam confidently informed that, from the time the stock

came under my control until I sold it all, no higher prices were obtained
by any private seller than I obtained.

The whole of the reduced three per cent. annuities (£12,000) sold at
94. This description of stock is never as high as consols, but 94 is repu-
ted nearly, if not quite, as good a price, in proportion to its general value
in the English stock market, as the 953 I obtained for the consols.

Of the bank stock unsold at the date of my last, (viz: £8,100,) I obtain-
ed 205 for £5,000, and 2053 for the remaining £3,100. Both these
prices, it will be perceived, are higher than the former ones I obtained for

‘this stock.

' The entire amount of sales has more than realized the anticipations
held out in my No. 27, having yielded an aggregate of rather more
than one hundred and five thousand pounds, as will be seen when I come
to render a more particular statement. The two days on which I am to
make all the transfers are the 30th of thismonth and 6th of July. The
money will all be received simultaneously.

Immediately afterwards I shall take measures for converting the whole
into English gold coin, having finally determined that this is the proper
mode in which to bring the money to the United States, under the trust I
have in hand. It appears to me the right course in itself, independent of
any question of exchange, considering the peculiar object and terms of
16 Doc. No. 19.

the law of Congress of the Ist of July, 1836, under which I am acting
But by the rate of exchange, as quoted at New York under the last dates,
there would be a gain to the United States, by the best calculations I-can
now make, (though I am aware how exchange is ever liable to fluctuate,)
of upwards of a thousand pounds on bringing over the money in gold
rather than remitting it in bills. This would help to cover the commis-
sions on shipping the former, effecting insurance upon it, and paying the
premium of insurance, as well as charges for freight and those that have
been incurred on selling the stock. All.these operations demand mercan-
tile agencies and assistance, to which I am inadequate in my own person,
beyond superintending them and seeing that they are rendered justly. I
will take care that these expenses are kept within limits as moderate as
possible, consistently with having the business regularly done according
to mercantile usage in operations of the same nature, so that the fund, in
bearing its own unavoidable expenses, may be encroached upon as little
as possible.

I have not yet been able to get from the solicitors a statement of the
costs of the suit, but will not fail to obtain it before [ embark. The final
payments under this head, and those I shall be called upon to make for
services enumerated above, can scarcely be completed but at the last mo-
meuts of my stay; hence [ may not be able to transmit an account of
them to you until I arrive at New York, where also the freight will have
to be paid.

In reporting to you the final decision of the court, I omitted to mention
some particulars not at first accurately known to me, but necessary to be
now stated, viz: £526 11s. 6d. were decreed to be paid out of the fund
to Madame la Batut, as her arrears; £25 as arrears found to be due to
John Fitall, the annuitant under the will; and, lastly, £53 7s. 6d. as due
for the use of certain warehouse-rooms in London. The two first items
explain themselves, after all I have written. The third has reference to
some personal property left by the testator, contained, as I understand, in
thirteen boxes or trunks deposited in the warehouse-rooms specified. I
have had no opportunity as yet of examining the contents of these boxes,
but am informed that they consist chiefly of books unbound, manuscripts,
specimens of minerals, some philosophical or chemical instruments;and a
few articles of table furniture. The contents of the whole are supposed
to be of little intrinsic value, though parts may be otherwise curious. As
all now belong to the United States, under the decree of the court, I shall
think it proper to have them shipped when the gold is shipped, paying all
reasonable charges.

Having more than once spoken of the possibility of fictitious claimants
starting up for the Smithsonian bequest, perhaps I may here be allowed
to mention what thesolicitors have informed me of, viz: that, since the
decision, two claimants lave’ presented themselves at théir office, neither
having any connexion with the other. When the decision was pronounced,
the sum recovered was also proclaimed in the London newspapers,
which had probably awakened these claimants into life. The solicitors
add that one of them desired, somewhat importunately, to know if the
case could not be reheard in court? .It is needless to remark that he was
told he was a little too late in his application.

I will use this opportunity—the last I may perhaps have of writing to
you before I embark, from the engagements likely to press upon me in
Dic. No. 10. 17

getting the fund ready for shipment and clearing off all necessary ex-
penses—to say a word of our professional advisers. Of the counsel I se-
lected it is unnecessary for me to speak; their established reputation in
the highest department of their profession putting them above any testi-
monial from me. But of the solicitors, as they move in one of its less
conspicuous fields, I will barely take the liberty of saying that more at-
tention, diligence, discretion, and integrity could not, I believe, have been
exerted by any persons than they have shown throughout the whole suit,
from first to last. Could they ever have forgotten what was due to the
United States and to themselves, in the desire to eke out a job, nothing is
plainer to me, from what has been passing under my observation of the
entanglements and delays natural to a heavy suit in the English court of
chancery, than that they might have found opportunities in abundance of
making this suit last for years yet to come.

iT have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient ser vant,

RICHARD RUSH.
The Hon. Joun Forsyrnu,
Secretary of State.

No. 29.

Lonpvon, July 14, 1838.

Six: All the transfers of stock were made on the proper days; all the
money was received, and arrangements are now in daily progress for ob-
taining, insuring, and shipping ‘the gold. It will be on board the New
York packet Mediator, Captain Champlin, by or before the 17th instant,
in which ship I have taken my passage, intending to embark on that day.
The costs of suit have been paid, but the other. expenses, arising out of
the sale of the stock and shipment of the proceeds, cannot be examined
and settled until immediately before I embark, as the whole of the oper-
ations cannot be completed until then. It will ened not be in my power
to make a statement of all these expenses until I arrive at New York or
Washington, when it shall be rendered in a manner that I trust will be
satisfactory. I can only repeat that my best exertions have not been
spared to keep them all within a compass as moderate as possible.

I received at the Bank of England, day before yesterday, £900, being
the interest on £60,000 of consols sold on the 6th of June. It will be re-
membered (see my "No. 2 7) that this amount of the consols was sold on

_time, the stock not being deliverable until the 6th of July, which was the
‘day after the dividends for the last six months fell due, by ‘which I became
entitled to receive for the United States the above sum of £990.

The boxes and trunks mentioned in my last are to go on shipboard to-
day. Before knowing any thing of their contents, I thought proper to
have them opened and examined i in the presence of our consul and two
other persons. A large portion of the contents proved to be unimportant;
nevertheless, all will be delivered over on my arrival as I received them,
except to have them better packed for a sea voyage, and so as to prevent
further injury to that which time and bad packing have already done to
them.

I design to leave this letter behind me, to be forwarded by the British

~
18 Doc. No. 10.

steamer Great Western, which, although not to sail until after the Medi-
ator, may be expected to arrive firstat New York. My going in the Great
Western has been precluded by the fact of her accommodations for pas-
sengers having all been engaged long before I knew the time when I
should be able to close the business in my hands, and have the gold ready
for shipment.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.
Hon. Joun Forsytu,
Secretary of State.

No. 30.

Harzor or New York, 2ugust 28, 1838.

Sir: I have the honor to report to you my arrival here in the ship Me-
diator, with the amount in gold of the Smithsonian bequest recovered for
the United States.

The expenses, of every kind, incurred by closing the business in Lon-
don and shipping the gold, were paid there ; but I have still to pay freight
here and primage, and also some other small charges incurred on bringing
over the Smithsonian boxes and trunks heretofore mentioned. When every
thing is fully paid, there will be left in my hands, as wellas I can now
compute the amount, upwards of £104,500; the whole is in sovereigns,
packed in boxes.

The money being consigned to no one here, I must continue to hold it
in my custody until I can receive your instructions to whom to deliver it,

as provided for by the act of Congress of the Ist of July, 1836.

I have the honor to remain, in the mean time, your most faithful and
obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

Hon. Joun Forsytn,

Secretary of State.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, August 30, 1838.

Sir: Ihave the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your despatch
No. 30, of the 28th instant, announcing your arrival in the harbor of New
York, with the Smithsonian bequest in gold. With regard to the disposi-
tion to be made by you of these funds, you no donbt will have learned,
upon landing, that your request had been anticipated by instructions to
you from the Treasury Department, intrusted to the care of Mr. George
Newbold, president of the Bank of America.

Tendering to you my congratulations on the success of your mission,
and on your safe return to your country, I am, sir, respectfully,

Your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.
RicuarpD Rusu, Esq.,
New York.
Doc. No. 10. 19
No. 31.

Nuw York, 4ugust 29, 1838.

Str: On landing from the ship yesterday morning, I received the offi-
cial letter of the Secretary of the ‘Treasury, dated the 20th of July, which
nad been waiting my arrival here, instructing me to transfer the Smith-
sonian fund to Philadelphia, to be deposited with the Treasurer of the
Mint, to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States, taking duplicate
receipts from the former, one of which to be transmitted to the latter.

The ship has not yet got into the dock, but the gold shall be sent on to
Philadelphia, assoon as practicable, in the eleven boxes in which it was
packed at the Bank of England, according to the instructions I have thus
received from the Secretary of the Treasury.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

Hon. Joun Forsyru,

Secretary of State.

No. 32.

PHILADELPHIA, September 4, 1838.

Sir: I was yesterday honored with your letter of the 30th of August,
acknowledging my No. 30 from the harbor of New York, and tender my
thanks for your kind congratulations on my return to my own country,
and on the success of the public business confided to me. Your letter
wenton to New York, as directed, but was returned; and I received it at
my home, near this city.

My No. 31, written after [had landed, will have informed you that
I had then received the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury to
which your letter refers, and I have since been in correspondence with
him. Owing to the delay in getting the ship into the dock, I was not able
to leave New York with the gold until the 1st of this month, when I ar-
rived with it, accompanied by two agents from the Bank of America, that
institution having, at the request of the Secretary of the Treasury, obliging-
ly afforded me every facility in its power towards the business I had in
hand. I did not, however, feel at liberty to withdraw my own personal
superintendence from the operation of transferring the gold, until I saw it
deposited at the Mint. Thither I immediately had it conveyed on reach-
ing this city ou the Ist instant, the director and treasurer of the Mint
having been in readiness to receive it under the previous information of
its intended transfer, which I had requested the bank to transmit. The
entire sum contained in the eleven boxes which I delivered to those two
officers of the Mint on Saturday, was £104,960 8s. 6d.—the whole in
English sovereigns, except the change ; and | have now the satisfaction of
informing you that official receipts of this amount from my hauds have
been forwarded to the Treasury Department.

The excess of this sum over that which I had computed in my No. 30
as the probable amount to be left in my hands, arises from the president
of the bank having undertaken, at my suggestion, to pay the freight and
other shipping-charges due at New York; the bank to be repaid by the
20 Doc. No. 10.

Treasury. The freight was three-eighths of one per cent.—this being the
usual charge in the packet-ships—and came to £393 12s.- Primage
was £19 13s. Sd.; and the charges on, bringing over the Smithsonian boxes
(left in the custody of the collector, from whom I had eveiy facility on
1anding) were to have been £3 8s..5d., or thereabouts.”

It seemed to me that it would be best for the bank to pay all these
charges, as the most convenient mode of settling without delay with the
ship-owners, to whom I had become responsible by my engagements with
the captain in London; and I have the hope that this course will meet the
approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury and yourself. It left the
gold, as secured in boxes at the Bank of England, untouched at New
York ; and I had caused the seal of our consul at London to be affixed
to each of them.

Somewhat worn down by fatigue since coming on shore, after an un-
comfortable voyage of squalls, gales, and head-winds, I venture to ask a
little repose at my home before proceeding to Washington, for the pur-
pose of making out and rendering to you an account of ali expenses that
have attended the final recovery of this fund, of which the, United States,
by the information I give you in this letter, are now in possession. In the
course of the next week I shall hope to proceed to: Washington, with the
view stated ; and in order that, my account of the expenses being found
satisfactory, which I presume to hope will be the case, I may ask to be
discharged from all further responsibility under the trust I have been per-
forming. The nett amount, in dollars, of the fund as I delivered it over to
the United States at the Mint, was found to be five hundred and eight
thousand three hundred and eighteen dollars forty-six cents, ($508,318 46,)
as specified in the receipt given to me for it by the treasurer of the Mint.

} have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

‘Vhe Hon. Joun Forsyrn,
Secretary of State.

No: 338:

PuHitapepuia, Seplember 11, 1838.

Sir : I yesterday received a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury,
dated the 7th instant, stating it te be desirable that the expenses attending
‘the trauster of the Smithsonian fund to this country, and its deposite at
the Mint, should be ascertained as early as practicable, that the accounts.
in relation to it may be adjusted with a view to the investment of the
balance, and asking my attention to the subject at my earliest convenience.

In reply, I had the honor to inform the Secretary that I could not make
out a statement of the expenses, as far as then incurted, before embark-
ing at London with the gold, the documents relating to them not being
obtainable until the last moments of my stay ; besides that, the whole
operations of selling the stock in the English funds, in which My. Smith-
son’s fortune was invested, and afterwards shipping the gold, required and

*

There proved to be fourteen of these boxes, the additional one containing

a picture, of which
J had not heard at the date of my No. 28,
Dee. No. 10. 4 |

/
had my constant supervision until I saw the latter finally deposited at our
Mint, in fulfilment of his instructions; that, having suffered greatly from
sea-sickness during the voyage, added to fatigue after landing ina weak
state at New York, where the care of the gold still required my personal
superintendence, I had been unable hitherto to prepare a statement of the
expenses in question, but that I was now regaining strength and intend-
ed to set out for Washington on Saturday, at farthest, if then able, as at
present I had reason to hope would be the case. I added, that I supposed
a settlement of my account could be effected more satisfactorily and .
promptly by my presence with the accounting officers at Washington
than by any attempt to make it out here, and transmit it by letter, which,
it may be, might lead to writing backwards and forwards before a final
adjustment took place: of which correspondence I have the honor to
inform you, and to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.
Honorable Joun Forsyru,
Secretary of State.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, September 18, 1838.

Sir: I have the honor to transmit, herewith, two letters from Mr. Rich-
ard Rush, Nos. 34 and 35, with the papers which accompanied them, in
relation to the amount recovered of the Smithsonian legacy, and the ex-
penses attending the recovery, and the transmission of the proceeds to
this country.

[I am, sir, your obedient servant,
JOHN FORSYTH.

Honorable Levi Woopsury,

Secretary of the Treasury.

No. 34.

Wasuineton, September 15, 1838.

_ Sir: I am now to give you a statement of all the expenses that at-
tended the recovery of the Smithsonian bequest for the United States.

It may be in order first to mention the whole amount of stock and mo-
ney that came into my hands from the court of chancery, or otherwise.

I received of English Government stock £645,535 18s. 9d. in consols,
£12,000 in reduced three per cent. annuities, and £16,100 in bank stock of
the Bank of England, as heretofore mentioned in my No. 26, and will
now be seen by the original order or decree of the court, which I enclose,
(marked A.) This document I could not obtain until the 11th of July,
when I received it with the letter of the solicitors of that date, also en-
closed, (marked B.)

On the 1ith of June I received from the accountant general of the

court of chancery £725 3s. 7d. This was the sum remaining to be paid
to me, after previous payments to others, out of cash in hand appertaining
to. the Smithsonian fund whilst in the custody of the court, as will be seen
2 Doc. No. 10. ‘

in the concluding part of the decree. That this was the exact residue
coming to a will be further seem by an explanatory letter from the
solicitors of the 5th of July, also enclosed, (marked C,) and more au-
thoritatively ig a document (marked D) from the books of the account-
ant general of the court, sent to me by the solicitors, with their letter of
the 11th of July. ‘This ‘document, besides verifying in its own forms the
amount of stock and money I have otherwise stated myself to have re-
ceived, also verifies the statements in my Nos. 26 and 28, as to the
sums Awarded to Madame de la Batut, the arrears to John Fitall, and the
money decreed as warchouse-rent for the boxes containing the personal
effects of Mr. Smithson, which I brought over and delivered into the cus-
tody of the collector at New York. It is a document founded on the de-
cree of the court itself, and shows in more detail how its judgments were
fulfilled.

I received on the 12th of July £900 at the Bank of England, being the
dividend due on the consols I had sold, as mentioned in my No. 29;
and, lastly, [ received from the solicitors £116 2s. 2d., being money re-
turned by them out of what I had paid them for costs on the Sth day of
April, 1837, viz: £200 4s., as reported in my No. 14. The following
is the explanation of this item: When I paid them this sum, I fully ex-
pected to pay all further costs out of the same fund, then in my hands,
that Congress had appropriated for that purpose; but it appears that, on
the termination of the suit in favor of the United States, the costs of all
parties were paid out of the corpus of the fund; nor would the court
award the fund to the United States, as may be secn by the decree, until
all costs were accordingly first taken out of it, which the court judged it
Pee the rand itself should bear. I knew not of such a rule which the
solicitors advert to in their letter of July the 5th, until a short time before
the decree was pronounced. The total amount of their costs, as made
known to me in the same letter, and set out in detail ina voluminous bill,
which I enclose, (marked E,) and to which I caused their affidavits to be
annexed, was £490 4s. 10d. The court adjudged £406 3s. of this sum
to be paid to them out of the fund, as their taxed costs, which, added to
what I had previously paid them, made £606 7s. The difference be-
tween this and £490 4s. 10d. being £116 2s. 2d., they refunded the
latter sum tome. Their total bill, (considering that it included all fees paid
by them under my direction to the counsel, and all costs and charges of
every description from the beginning to the end of the suit, with some
small extra charges, to which their letter refers, which I also ‘authorized,
to ensure a speedy and successful termination of the suit ,) and considering
the magnitude of the suit, was, in my judgment, and in that of others
better informed, to whom I submitted its amount, extremely moderate.
T hope it will be thought to show care on my part to keep all those charges
low, that often are run up to amounts so enormous in English chancery
pro oceedings ; ; and, let me add, as in justice [am bound to do, to show more
strongly that the solicitors I had to deal with were honorable and just
men. |

I did not consider these refunded costs as belonging to the legacy fund
recovered, but I threw them into it when the general gold was obtained,
that all might be safely kept together, and come under one insurance.

The gross amount yielded by all the stock I sold, including the £900 I
received as the dividend on the consols, was £105,649 6s.
Doc. No. 16: 23

For the prices at which I sold the different parcels and kinds, I beg to
referto my Nos. 27 and 28, which detail the commencement, progress,’
and conclusion of the sales. This sum, added te the £725 3s. 7d. re-
ceived from the accountant general of the court of chancery, and the
£116 2s. 2d. returned to me by the solicitors, will show that the entire
sum that came into my hands was £106,490 11s. 9d.

I am next to inform you of the expenses that attended the sales of the
stock, and shipping and bringing over the gold to this country.

After I had finally recovered the legacy from the court of chancery, it
did not seem to me prudent that I should, by myself alone, undertake the
sales of the stock awarded, and delivered to me by its decree, any more
than the shipment of the gold, into which the money was afterwards to
be converted ; these ulterior operations being usually conducted through
mercantile agencies, and being of a nature not to be advantageously, if
safely, conducted without them. Feeling inadequate, in my own person
merely, to the management of such operations, my first intention was
that the sales of the stock, as a highly important part of them, should be
put under the direction of some experienced mercantile or banking-house
in London, familiar with the modes of doing business on its great stock
exchange, and self-confident in the measures to be taken. But I found
that to put this operation into such hands would incur a commission of
one per cent. on the entire fund, as mentioned in my No. 27, in addition
to brokerage and other charges, such as the expenses on transfers and
stamps ; besides that, I should have had to part with the possession of
the stock to such mercantile or banking-house whilst the sales were going
on. I was also given to understand that this latter step. would probably
lay a foundation for a further mercantile commission on receiving and
paying.

Weighing all these circumstances, I came to the conclusion to keep the
operation of selling the stock in my own hands. Nevertheless, t felt, as
already intimated, that I could conduct it with neither skill nor safety
unless-under the counsel and co-operation of a person well informed iu
these matters, and trustworthy. To the consul of the United States in
London [applied as to such a person, and received from him, as my No.
27 informed you, this aid and co-oper:tion, in the fullest and most effi-
cient manner, daily, throughout the monihs of June and July, until ail
the sales were effected; and effected, I may be allowed to add, witi fa-
vorable results not to have been surpassed, as I have already reported to
you, and as the public records of the l.dndon stock market on each of the
days that I sold will attest. Into his hands I also put the other mercan-
tile business necessary to the shipment of the gold. These included the
obtaining, verifying, arranging, packing, and securing it for shipment,
contracting for freight, entering and clearing at the custom-house, effecting
insurance, (which was done at five principal offices and with thirty-two
private underwriters,) and, finally, shipping the gold. For these services,
of whatever kind, (and-I had many incidental ones from him, not here
enumerated,) I allowed and paid him a commission of three-fourths of
one per cent., which amounted to £797 15s. 6d.

I speak from good information when expressing a belief that an equal
amount of assistance and services to.me, under all the heads rendered,
could not have been commarided through the usual agency of banking
and commercial houses, on so heavy and responsible a moneyed operation,
24 Doc. No. 10.

at a less charge to the fund than a commission of from two to two and a
half per cent. on the whole amount of it; and that this falls below rather
than goes beyond what it might be expected to have been.

I enclose the consul’s account, signed T. Aspinwall, together with
his voucher fer a charge of £6 19s. 4d. for expenses paid by him on
shipping the 14 Smithsonian boxes.

The premium for insurance was one half of one per cent., and amounted,
with the expense of stamps and policies, to £599 3s.4d. The statement of
this, as paid for me by the consul, will be seen in the enclosure, (marked
“ Invoice,’’) on which are also certain items, as dock charges, charges for
bills of lading, and some other things, amounting in all to £6 Os. 6d., ac-
companied by vouchers. I also enclose the policies of insurance.* The
insurance covered all commissions and charges paid in London, so as
to have made the United States entirely whole in case of loss. This I
directed, thinking it most prudent.

The expenses on selling the stock, viz: brokerage, charges on the trans-
fers, and charges for stamps, were £120 4s. 6d. These will be seen in my
account, marked among the enclosures R R.

The several expenses above enumerated, viz :

ist. The consul’s commission of £797 15s. 6d.,and charges £6 19s. 4d.
_ 2d. The premium of insurance, stamps, and policies, viz: £599 38. 4d.,
with the charges £6 Os. 6d.

And 3d. The expense of selling the stock, viz: £120 4s. 6d., deducted
from the gross amount of moneys that came into my hands, viz:
£106,490 11s. 9d., will leave £104,960 Ss. 7d., which was the precise
sum in gold I brought over in the eleven boxes, and, under instructions
from the Secretary of the Treasury, deposited at the Mint in Philadel-
phia, on the Ist instant, to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States.

The foregoing is the statement I have to make of, the expenses. I pre-
sume to hope that they will not be thought objectionable, but, on the con-
trary, moderate under all the heads. If I have been somewhat minute
in explaining them, it is for the better understanding of the diiferent ac-
counts and documents enclosed, trusting that this will be my excuse when
about to surrender up a trust where so much pecuniary responsibility has
devolved upon me.

In regard to the 14 boxes containing the personal effects of Mr. Smith-
son, it will be perceived that the letter of the solicitors, of the 5th July,
mentions that they had sent me a list of them. They did so, and I en-
close it, (marked F.) It is proper to remark, that this list refers to but one
of the boxes, or rather to a trunk, as their letter specifies, and it proved to.
be erroneous. I preferred that all these boxes, and the trunk, should be
first opened at the consulate, in presence of the consul and others, who
might aid me in ascertaining their contents. When the trunk was open-
ed, several of the articles down upon the list were not in it. I mentioned
this to the solicitors, and it produced the explanatory letter from them of
the 13th of July, which I enclose, (marked G.) All the rest of’ the boxes
were filled with things of little intrinsic value, as far as a mere superficial
inspection of them, pressed upon me on the eve of my embarkation, could
determine. They seemed to be chiefly old books, pamphlets, manuscripts,

* It has been deemed unnecessary, at the Department of State, to communicate copies of the
several policies of insurance above referred to.
Doc. No. 10. 25

and some philosophical or chemical instruments. Of the whole contents,
(such as they were,) all were left as we found them, except to have been
repacked, with the aid of the consul and his assistants, and put in a better
state for crossing the sea than they were when delivered to me. When
first opened, it was evident that time, mould, and careless packing in the
first instance, had nearly destroyed many of the articles.

The freight payable on the gold was not paid in London, not being due
until the arrival of the ship at New York; but the consul agreed with
the captain for three-eighths of one per cent., which brought the amount:
to £39312s. Primage was £19 13s. 8d.; and the freight and primage on
the 14 Smithsonian boxes was to have been £3 8s. 5d. These several
charges I was necessarily obliged to assume for the United States, and
engaged to pay them when the ship got to New York. On arriving there,
I received the instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury, of the 20th of
July, directing me to transfer the gold io the Mint at Philadelphia as soon
as practicable; it being added that the president of the Bank of America
at New York had been requested to render me any facilities in his power.
The captain of the ship being content to take the bank as payment for
these last-mentioned charges, I thought I should best consult the spirit of
the Secretary’s instructions by leaving the bank to pay them, which its
president expressed an immediate readiness to do. I supposed it could
make no difference to the Government, in the end, whilst it saved the ne-
cessity of opening one of the boxes of the gold at New York, out of which
fund alone I could have made the payment if demanded of me under the
engagement I had contracted. The bank may “have further charges to
make for its aid to me otherwise in removing the gold to the Mint, but I
know nothing of them in detail.

Referring, therefore, to that part of the Secretary’s letter to me of the
7th instant, which I mentioned in my No. 33, asking a statement of
expenses attending the transportation of the gold after its actual shipment
at London, and its transfer to the Mint at Philadelphia after its arrival at
New York, I beg to offer the above explanation, having paid nothing
myself.

I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,
RICHARD RUSH.
Hon. Joun Forsyrn,
Secretary of State.
26 Doc. No. 10.

A.

IN CHANCERY, May 12, 1838.

PRESIDENT OF THE UniTep STArTEs,
US. Order on further directions.
Drummonp.
AT THE ROLLS, ——- —,, Master of the Rolls—£3 10s.—7%6.

Between the President of the United )

States of America, plaintiff, |
and

Charles Drummond and her Majes- |

ty’s Attorney General, defendants. |

This cause coming on the Ist day of February, 1837, to be heard and
debated before the right honorable the master of the rolls, in the presence
of counsel learned on both sides, his lordship did order that the plaintiffs
bill should be amended, by stating the act of Congress passed in the year
1836 ;-and the said bill being amended in court accordingly, upon hear-

ing the same act of Congress, and also the power of attorney granted to
Richard Rush, Esq., mentioned in the said bill as amended, read, his
lordship did order that it should be referred to the master to whom the
cause of Hungerford vs. Drummond stood transferred, to carry on the ac-
count directed by the decree of the 15th day of December, 1829 ; and it was
ordered that the said master should inquire whether John Fitall, in the
pleadings of this cause named, was living or dead ; and, if the said master
should find that the said John Fitall was dead, then it was ordered that
he should inquire and state when he died. And it was ordered that the
said master should inquire whether Henry James Hungerford, in the plead-
ings also named, was living or dead; and if the said master should find
that the said Henry James Hungerford was dead, then it was ordered that
he should inquire and state when he died, and whether he was married or
unmarried at the time of his decease ; and,if married, whether he left any,
and what, children or child him surviving ; and the said master was to
inquire and state the ages of such children, respectively, if more than one.
And it was ordered that the said master should inquire and state to the
court whether Madame de la Batut had any claim on the said testator
Smithson’s estate; and, for the better discovery of the matters aforesaid,
the usual directions were given, and his lordship did reserve the considera-
tion of all further directions, and of the costs of this suit, until after the
said master should have made his report. That, in pursuance of the said
decree, the said master made his report, dated the 23d day of March, 1838,
which stands absolutely confirmed by an order dated the 27th day of
March, 1838, and thereby certified he found that the sum of £53 7s. 6d.
was justly due and owing to Messrs. Thomas Clarke & Co., the solicitors
for the defendant Charles Drummond, from the estate of the said testator ;
and he found that the said John Fitall was dead, and that he died at Bush
house, Wanstead, in the county of Essex, on the 14th day of June, 1834;
and he found that the said Henry James Hungerford assumed the name
of De Ja Batut, and was known as Baron Eunice de la Batut, and died at
the Royal hotel, called the Donzelle, situate at Pisa, on or about the 5th

Saturday, the 12th day of May,

in the first year of the reign of
her Majesty Queen Victoria,
1838.
Doc. No. 10. 27

day of June, 1835, without ever having been married, and without leav-

ing any issue. And the said master cer rtified that he was of opinion and
did find that the said wary Ann de la Batut, in her right, was entitled to
a claim on the estate of the said testator, James W. Smithson, for an in-
terest during the life of the — peg Ann dela Batut, in a moiety of
the annual income or sum of 3 livres de rentes, in the report men-
tioned, amounting in value to he Coral sum of £150 9s. sterling money
of Great Britain and Ireland, calculated at the current rate of exchange in
the city of Londen, on the Sth day of March, 1838; and he found that the
income arising from the said French stock or fund, called livres de rentes,
Was payable and paid half- oy by the French Government, on or about
the 22d day of March and the 22d day of September in each year ; and he
also found that there was due and owing to the said Mary Ann de la Ba-
tut, (or the said Theodore de la Batut, in her right,) from the estate of the
said testator, James Smithson, the sum of 13,427 francs 75 centimes, for
arrears of the said annuity, from the 22d day of September, 1834, to the
22d day of March, 1838, amounting in value to £526 11s. 6d., sterling
money of Great Britain and Ireland, calculated at the current rate of ex-
change in the said city of Loudon, as aforesaid; and he found that the
annual income cr annuity to which the said Mary Ann de la Batut
(or the said Theodore oe la Batut, in her right) was entitled for her
life out of the estate of the said testator, James Smithson, amounting to
£150 9s. sterling money of Great Britain and Ireland as aforesaid. And
whereas the above-named plaintiff and Richard Rush did, on the 3d
day of May, 1838, prefer their petition unto the right honorable the mas-
ter of the rolls, setting forth as therein set forth,and praying that the resi-
due of the several stocks, funds, and securities,and cash, respectively, stand-
ing in the name of the accountant general of this court, in trust in the cause
of Hungerford vs. Drummond, and in trust in this cause, which should
remain after providing for and satisfying the annual and other payments
directed by the will of the said testator, and the costs and charges to which
the estate of the said testator had been rendered liable by virtue of the
several proceedings and measures aforesaid, or any of them, might be
respectively transferred, (the amount thereof to be verified by affidavit,)
in the books of the governor and company of the Bank of England, and
paid to the petitioner, Richard Rush; and that the boxes and packages
mentioned in the said master’s report might be delivered into the custo-
dy of the petitioner, Richard Rush. Whereupon all parties concerned were
ordered to attend his lordship on the matter of the said petition, when
this cause should come on to be heard for further directions ; and this cause
coming on this present day to be heard before the right honorable the mas-
ter of the rolls for further directions on the said master’s said report, and
as to the measure of costs reserved in the said decree, in the presence of
counsel learned on both sides: upon opening and debate of the meas-
ure, and hearing the said decree, the said report, the said order dated the
27th day of March, the said petition, and the accountant general’s certifi-
“cates read, and what was alleged by the counsel on all sides, his lordship
doth declare that the plaintiff is entitled to the residue of the several
stocks, and securities, and cash, respectively, standing in the name of the
accountant general of this court, in trust in this cause, and also in trust
in a certain other cause of Hungerford against Drummond, in the master’s

report mentioned, and the other property of James Smithson, the testator,
in the pleadings in this cause named, after providing for the payment
28 Doe. No. 10.

hereinafter directed; and it is ordered that the sixty-two thousand seven
hundred and thirty-nine pounds nineteen shillings and two pence bank
three pounds per cent. annuities, twelve thousand pounds reduced annu-
ities, and sixteen thousand one hundred pounds bank stock, respectively,
standing in the name of the said accountant general, in trust in the cause
of Hungerford vs. Drummond, and the sum of one thousand seven hun-
dred and sixty-five pounds two shillings cash in the bank, remaining on
the credit of the said-cause, be respeetively carried over in trust in and to
the credit of this cause; and the said accountant general is to declare the
trust of the said several sums of stock, accordingly, subject to the further
order of this court; and out of the said sum of one thousand seven hun-
dred and seventy-five pounds two shillings cash, when so carried over,
and the sum of two hundred and four pounds six shillings and eight pence
ash in the bank, on the credit of this cause, it is ordered that the sum of
fifty-three pounds seven shillings and six pence be paid to Mr. Thomas
George Fynmore; and thereout, also, it is ordered that the sum of five
hundred and twenty-six pounds eleven shillings and six pence be carried
over, with the privity of the said accountant general, and placed to the
credit of this cause, to an account to be entitled “'The account of the an-
nuitant Mary Ann de la Batut ;” and thereout, also, it is ordered that the
sum of twenty-five pounds be paid to Mrs. Elizabeth Fitall, (as executrix
of John Fitall, deceased ;) and it is ordered that it be referred to the mas-
ter to whom this cause stands referred, to tax all parties their costs of this
suit, and relating thereto, properly incurred; the costs of the plaintiff, and
of the defendant Charles Drummond, to be taxed as between solicitor and
client ; and it is ordered that the amount of such costs, when taxed, be
paid out of one thousand three hundred and sixty-four pounds nine shillings
and eight pence cash, which will then be remaining onthe credit of thiscause,
after the several before-mentioned payments, in manner following, that
is to say: the costs of the said plaintiff to Mr. Thomas Clarke, his solicit-
or; and the costs of the defendant Charles Drummond to Mr. Thomas
George Fynmore, his solicitor ; and the costs of her Majesty’s attorney
general, to Mr. George Maule, her solicitor. It is ordered that five thou-
sand and fifteen peunds bank three pounds per cent. annuities, part of
the six thousand eight hundred and ten pounds nineteen shillings and
seven pence, like annuities, standing in the name of the said accountant
general, in trust in this cause, and any interest which may accrue on the
said sum of five thousand and fifteen pounds bank three pounds per cent.
annuities, previous to the carrying over hereby directed, be, in like man-
ner, carried over in trust, in this cause, to the separate account of Mary
Ann de la Batut, entitled “ The account of the annuitant Mary Ann de
la Batut ;’’ and the said accountant general is to declare the trust thereof
accordingly, subject to the further order of this court. And it is ordered
that the interest and dividends thereof, which shall accrue during the life
of the said Mary Ann de la Batut, be paid to her during her life, or until
the further order of this court, for her separate use, and on her sole receipt,
by equal half-yearly payments, on the 22d day of September and the 22d
day of March in every year; the first payment thereof to be made on the
22d day of September next. And it is ordered that the said sixty-two thou-
sand seven hundred and thirty-nine pounds nineteen shillings and two
pence bank three pounds per cent. annuities, twelve thousand pounds re-
duced annuities, and sixteen thousand one hundred pounds bank stock,
Doe. No. 10. 29

when so respectively carried over, and one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-five pounds nineteen shillings and seven pence three pounds per
cent. annuities, residue of the said six thousand eight hundred and ten
pounds nineteen shillings and seven pence, like annuities, after such carry-
ing over of part thereof as aforesaid, and the residue of the said sum of one
thousand three hundred and sixty-four pounds nine shillings and eight
pence cash, after the payments thereout hereinbefore directed, (the amount
of such residue to be verified by affidavit,) be transferred and paid to Mr.
Richard Rush, in the plaintiff’s bill named. And it is ordered that the
boxes and packages in the master’s report of the twenty-eighth day of
June, one thousand eight hundred and thirty-one, in the said cause of
Hungerford vs. Drummond mentioned, be delivered into the custody of
the said Richard Rush, as attorney or otherwise for the plaintiff; and, for
the purposes aforesaid, the said accountant general is to draw on the bank,»
according to the form prescribed by the act of Parliament, and the gen-
eral ruies and orders of this court in that case made and provided ; and
any of the parties are to be at liberty to apply to this court as they may
be advised. | . yoELN!
Entered : Fe

B.

CRAVEN STREET, July 11, 1838.

Dear Srr: We have made the affidavit which you required to verify
the bill of costs, and which we now return to you.

We also send you the original order on further directions, under which
the several transfers of the funds have been made into your name. This
order has the initials of the registrar, as also of the entering clerk, placed
t the foot of it; this being the mode adopted in the court of chancery to
how the authenticity of their orders.

We also send you a transcript from the books of the accountant general,
certified by Mr. Lewis to be a true copy—Mr. Lewis being the clerk
whose duty it is to make such transcript. The sum of £70 7s. 8d., ap-
earing still to remain on the general credit of the cause, is reserved for
the costs of the attorney general, and will be paid over to his solicitor
upon his applying for the amount ; and the cash standing to the account
of Mrs. de la Batut is for the arrears of her annuity, and will be paid
oer. .

We have seen Mr. Deacon upon the subject of his charge for warehouse-
room beyond the 24th ultimo, and have paid him for the same £2; and
ve have also paid 4s. 6d. for swearing to our bill of costs, which is the
dwhole of our demand against you.

Mr. Deacon informed us when we saw hin that he had in his posses-
ion’ a painting belonging to the estate, and which he promised should be
sent over to your house, and which we presume he has done ; but should
he not have done so, perhaps you will be good enough to apply to him
for it.

We will thank you to send us an acknowledgment for the different
boxes we have handed you.

We are, dear sir, your very faithful servants,
CLARKE, FYNMORE & FLADGATE.

Ricuarp Rvusz, Esq.
30 Doc. No. 19.
C.
Craven street, July 5, i838.
Dear Sir: At the time of the decease of the late Henry James Hun-
gerford, Esq., which happened on the Sth June, 1835, there was standing
in the name of the accountant general of the cant of Chancery, to the
‘credit of the cause Hungerford vs. Drummond, the several sums follow-

ing, Viz:

£62,739 19s. 2d. bank £3 per cent. annuities ;

12,000 0.0 , £3 per cent. reduced annuities;
16,100 0 O _ bank stock.

And if these several funds had then been sold, they would have realized
the sum of £102,991, or thereabouts ; but owing to the proceedings which
were necessary to be instituted in the court of chancery. the tunds were
not transferred into your name until the 5th June, 1858. We ure happy
to inform you that, notwithstanding this delay, no loss has been occasioned
to the United States, as, according to the market prices of the funds on the
last-mentioued day, the funds were then worth $103,888, being an excess
of £897 beyond their value on the 5th June, 1835, the dite of Mr, Hun-
gerford’s death.

The whole of the costs of the chancery sui! amounted to £723 7s. 11d,
so that the increase in the value of the funds was ee to pay the
whole of these costs, and leave a surplus Of LETS 12s. la

In making out the above statement, the devcicnaes upon the funds have |
not been taken into account, but the United States receive thei in aldi-]
tion to the original fund.

The United : States do not, however, receive the whoie amount of s ich
dividends now, as a portion of them was invested in stock, of which £5,015)
has been appropriated to answer an annuity of £150 s to Madame def
la Batut, upon whose decease the same will become the property of tae
United States.

The sums in court, at the last hearing of the cause, were as follows, viz:

£62,739 19s. 2d. bank 3 per cent. annuities ;

6,810 19 7 lke annuities ;
12,000 0 O- reduced annuities ;
16,100 O O- bank stock ;
1,765), 2) 0) cash;
204. ..6,.8 .¢ash.
These sums have been appropriated as follows, viz :
£62,739 19s. 2d. bank £3 per cent. annuities; |

1,795 19 7. partof £6,810 19s. 7d. like annuities; | TrYans’d_ imtop
a the name of.

£64,535 18 9> bank 3 per cent. annuities ; [ R’d- Rush,,
12,000 O O- reduced anuuities ; Esq.
16,100 0 O- bank stock ; J ‘|
5,015 0 O. reduced bank annuities, residus of £5,810 19s. 7d.5,
retained in court to answer minity to Madaine de}
la Batut ; |
406 3 0 paid to plaintiff’s solicitors for heir osts ;
162 15 5. paid to defendants’ solicitors fo costs
53° et 6 paid to plaintiff's solicitors fo: warehonse-room, p id) |

by then: to Messrs. Deacon
Doc. No. 10. ol

£526 11s. 6d. paid to Madame de la Batutfor arrearsof her annuity ;
25 0 0 paid to Mrs. Fitall for arrears of annuity ;
70 7 8 paid to solicitor for defendant the attorney general,
for costs ;
725 3 7 balance of cash paid to R. Rush, Esq. '
Herewith we send you a complete copy of our bill of costs, amounting

altogether to £490 4s. 10d.; and we have received the following sums on
account of costs, viz :

ease of.

April 10, 1837, of Richard Rush, Esq. — - - a OOOHA. O
June 11, 1838, of accountant general, for plaintiff’s taxed

costs - - - - = - =. OO 8) 'O

606 7 0

The latter sum exceeding our bill of costs by £116 2s. 2d., leaves us in
debt to the United States to that amount, for which we beg leave to enclose
our check. ;

We may here remind you of the information on the subject of costs,
which we had before given you verbally, viz: that the court allows
against the fund certain ordinary costs; and such costs have been received
by us from the accountant general, as before stated. In consequence,
however, of the line of conduct adopted by us, under your own directions,
to ensure a speedy and successful termination of the suit, some small extra
costs have been incurred beyond what are considered ordinary costs.

We have, as you requested, had a lock placed upon the trunk* in our
possession, having previously deposited therein the several articles of plate
and other matters, which we mentioned to you as being in our possession,
and of which articles we enclose you a list.

We are, dear sir, your faithful and obedient servants,
CLARKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE.

P. S. We also return to you the memoranda which you left with us as
to the stock.

* One of the 14 mentioned in my despatch No. 32:
de 0% Oe: - eal
Greed ‘sayy pred yseo of, | 2% 0unr
G GI Z91 | - sjsoo s10p1or[os ‘arom T

aB10axy ‘SOUS, “OP ‘Op OF,

& € CBL | - Ysny pyr ‘op cop oy,
0 € 907 | - oT i9) "sou, pied yseo oy, | gl eune
9 eee - - oowmus J
onioag) ‘sou, pivd yseo of,
9 Il 969 = FUMIE FEY OF
I9AO PdLlIVd YSeo 9} 107 Ny
-vg vl op uuy Arey Juezinu
0 @ agouet | - 5 Aouour 4s010,UT -UB a} JO JUNODNB oY} Spuou
0 0 00191 = = = yooys YUBET ; -UMA(T “82 VILLOULY Jo sazeyg
Oo 0 0 000°%T = = - sotymuue paonpay pouty] at} Jo woptselg syyoy, | 4, oun
= be 61 6E2,°%9 - SOTFINUUB “4ILIO rod EF Wueg 0 0 OOT‘OT = - ysny preyory |
- iZ1a *puourumaic “sd ploy 0} pateysuezy Yoo}s yueq oy,
3 : -lasuN}{ SOStiwd oY} 10F LAO 0 0 000‘%I - A Ysny plvypry O} patey |
ra _ | gy8noiq sonunoes Arpuns Sg | g oune -suvI} soninuue poonpar of, |
y, € GOL sonmnuue “yuao sed EF 6 81 GEec*D9 a = = - "Ph ‘861 |
rs) yuLq "PL S61 O18 “OF Iso10} Ut : CHLTF PUe “PS “S61 GEL |
& syjuow xXIs ‘paatoder yseo Aq | pT “ue | -“29F “BES SAVIN WS par
e "S81 -tp jinod jo i9pio Aq *ysnyy
i eS CO |e= saymuue ‘yu00 xd ex - pavyorny 0} pouaysuesy ‘son |
Yue "PL*Sh1 OL8‘9OF Ios} Ut -mnuue “yu00 10d eF YURG oO, | G suns
syyuout Xs ‘poatoder ysvo Ag | zy Ayue || O 0 eaGTONG = juNOdIR YY) 0} JOAO PoLITD |
L 61 O18‘9 - - - puowunidg, :sonmuue yuoosed EF yuRq |
‘SQ plojlesunyZ osneo oy | ayy 1oy neg xv] op uuy |
wloiy SYsko YIM poseyoind | Axeqy queynuue oy} jo yuno0o |
sommnuur yuoo sod ey yueq Ag | pp Judy | -ov oY) asned aaoge omjoy, | Z ounr
‘Bas F Liao spr o “LEST 8 F 5 ie TS i "SE8T
ae “PUuowUwuUnig sr powaugy JO sayn]g pazwuyQ ay, fo Juapwasg ay], A
‘pD4IUas JUDJUNOIID ay} JO
my? 81009 OY) wosf ? puoumUunag ‘sa pnarwaug fo sapnjIg pajyiug ay, fo puoprwarg ay} ‘asnpa ayy ur punora ayy fo ZUUMISUDA J,
es

da
Doc. No. 10. oo

‘The President of the United States of America.vs. Drummond. The
account of the annuitant Mary nn de la Batut.
Dr. Cr.

1838.
June 2. By the President of the United |
States of America vs. “Drum-
mond, for the bank £3 per cent.
annuities brought over - - £8,015
June 7. By the said cash for cause, brought |
over - - - - £526 116
July 11, By cash received, six months in-
terest on £5,015, bank £3 per
cent. annuities - - 75 46

I do hereby certify this to be a true copy of the books of the account-
ant general of the high court of chancery.
BENJ. LEWIS,
Clerk of the above accountant general.
Cuancery Lanz, July, 1838.

E.

IN CHANCERY.

and

Between the President of the United States of America, plaintiff, '
‘Charles Drummond and her Majesty’s Attorney General, defendants.

“The bill af costs of the above-named plaintiff in this suit and inei-
dental thereto.
oS le
epi. 16, 1836.—Mr. Fladgate’s attendance on Mr. Rush, on
the part of the United States, at the Portland hotel, by. ap-
pointment, when Mr. Rush requested that two of the firm
should at least attend 2 - i! 2 e 6 3
Writing to Mr. Rush, fixing appointment for conference with
him on Tuesday, at 11 0’clock —- : “go
Sept. 20.—Mr. Clarke and Mr. Fladgate’s aera ee on Mr,
Rush, fully explaining to him the course which it appeared
to us ‘should be taken on the part of the executors to bring
the claim of the United States under consideration, and also
the necessity of making Madame de la Batut and the at-
torney general parties ; and reading to him the case laid
before Mr. Stuart, and his opinion, of which he wished to
have a copy - - : . - aban’:
Copy case and opinion for him - -. - sibine
“Attending him therewith - i
Oct. 3.—Writing to Mr. Rush, in ranhy to "etter from him -
3

ARSE
Seon
“34 | Doc. No. 10.

Oct. 7.—Writing to Mr. Rush, to. fix appointment for confer-
ence on Thursday next - - - - -
“Oct. 10.—Mr. Clarke and Mr. Fladgate’s attendance on Mr.
Rush, by appointment, to peruse case drawn out by him for
counsel to advise the American Government as to course
to be pursued to obtain payment of the fund in court, and
advising as to the counsel to be retained, and received di-
rections to submit case to Mr. Pemberton and Mr. Jacob -
Paid coach-hire - - - - - -
Oct. 11.—Looking through the papers in our possession, to
compare them with statement in Mr. Rush’s case, and alter-
ing the latter in one or two particulars,engaged two hours
Two copies of case for counsel, four sheets each - -
Two copies of act of American Congress, to accompany same,
three sheets each - - Ai - - -
One copy of order on further directions in the cause of Hun-
gerford vs. Drummond, also to accompany case, to show the
‘precise position of the funds in court - :
Attending at Doctor’s Commons to bespeak an office-copy will
of Mr. Smithson for Mr. Rush, at his request - ~
Attending afterwards to examine and procure same - -
Paid for same - - - - .
Oct. 13.—Writing to Wfddéiene de la Batut, as to her demands,
and requesting her to appoint a solicitor here to act in the
suit about to be instituted by the United States — - .
Attending Mr, Rush with the fair copies of cases for his perusal
and signatures, and we also returned him his authority, and
handed him office-copy will - - : -
Attending Mr. Pemberton with case - - - -
Fee to him therewith, and clerk - - - -
¥ee to him for conference with Mr. Jacob, and clerk - .
Attending to get same appointed - - - .
Fee to Mr. Jacob with case, and clerk - - -
Attending him therewith and thereon - - -
Fee to him for conference, and clerk - - - -
Attending to inform him of time appointed. - - “
Noy. 2.—Attending consultation, Mr. Rush being present,
when the course to be pursued, on behalf of the United
States was very fully considered, and it was determined’
that a supplemental bill should be fled in the name of the
President of the United States of America, and the attor-
ney general made a getend ane; and counsel promised to
write their opinion - $ :
“Nov. 5.—Copy of opinion fie: Mr. Rusts - - -
‘Writing to him, with same | - re 2
Nov. 14.—Mr. Clarke and Mr. Fladeate? s aitendanice upon
Mr. Rush, as to the bill proposed to be filed, and his sug-
gestions as to the possibility of an abatement from the want
of a plaintiff, and explaining the course of practice to him

Se)
5
1. a0
1
ep |
| aga oe
ote 8
ee |
6
6
6
5
13
6
lia 0;
Ze
6
Sh Gs
6
2 oA
6
ueciiz
5
Dj
l 6

DMADSDADAADs Dm OD

— om)
Doc. No. 10.

MICHAELMAS TERM, 1836.

Tnstructions for bill - - - - - -
Drawing same, folios 30 mAh bf - - -
Paid fee to Mr. Shadwell to settle and sign, , and clerk -
Attending him - - - - - -
Attending Mr. Shadwell, advising hereoa and as to Madame
de la Batut’s claim, and explaining the same fully, to him,
and conferring on several points arising, and particularly on
the nature of the property left. by Mr. “Smithson : -
Fair copy bill for Mr. Pemberton to peruse and finally settle,
folios 30. - - - - - - -
Fee to him and clerk - ur - - =. -
Attending him - - - - - -
Attending Mr. Pemberton, appointing a conference hereon
at Westminster - - - - - -
Paid fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk thereon -
The like to Mr. Shadwell and clerk. - - - ‘
Attending him - - - - - -
, Writing to Mr. Rush informing him thereon - - -
Attending consultation, Mr. Rush being present, at Westmin-
ster, when it was determined not to make, Madame de la
Batut a party to suit - a oahp se mil be FO
Paid for room - - - - - -
Attending Mr. Shadwell afterwards to procure draught bill as
settled - - - . - - =
Engrossing bill - - - so - 4
»Paid for parchment - - - - - °
Paid filing’ bill : - - - - “
Attending, bespeaking, and afterwards for office-copy bill to
serve on the attorney general - % ‘ li
Paid for same - - - . " in
Attending the attorney general, therewith , - . .
Drawing precipe for subpana against defendant, Charles
Drummond, and attending to bespeak, and for same ‘
Paid for subpoena, and making copy to serve -
Fee on obtaining, and undertaking to appear for defoutleaie
Drummond - - - -
Noy. 20.—Attending My, Wray to press for answer if attor-
ney general, and explaining to him the reason of our
urging the same, when he promised to prepare auswer im-
mediately; Mr. Rush’s invariable direction to us, being to
use all practicable speed touching every point of the pro-

» ceedings - - - - - - -
“The defendant, Charles Drummond, wishing his answer to be
taken without oath or signature, the solicitor’s fee thereon -
Drawing and engrossing petition for same . - - -
Attending the defendant’s clerk .in court, and obtaining his
consent thereto - - . =; - -
_ Attending to present the same - “ - -
Paid answering , and for order, and entering - - -

{

—_

to

Dror”

1e0}

(ee)

Amo

ae oo)

SCAAD®

oro) Eon)

SA®
36 ‘Doe. No. 10.

Copy and service of order - - - - -
Writing to Mr. Rush to inform him when it was likely the
cause would be heard - - - z
Paid for oflice-copy answer of defendant, Caption Drun-
mond, folios 16 - - 4 2 2 E
Close copy. - - ~ s = - :

Attending Messrs. Derby and Raven to inform them answer of

defendant, Drummond, was filed, and to request them to
lose no time in putting in answer of attorney general -
January, 1837.—Several attendances upon Messrs. Derby and
Raven and Mr. Wray to urge the filing of the attorney gen-
eral’s answer, which was at length done - - -
Paid for oflice-copy answer of attorney general, folios 4 -
Close copy” - - - - - - -
Term fee, clerk in court and solicitor - - se Oe
Letters and messengers - - -

HILARY TERM, 1837.

Abbreviating bill and answer, folios 50 in all - -
Making two briefs of pleadings, 5 sheets each - -
Paid for certificate of pleadings - - -
Attending for same - - - -

Paid for settimg down cause and attending — - -
Drawing precipe for subp@na to hear judgment, and attending
for same - - Q ‘ : Re
Paid for same and copy - - - muy AN
Service on the clerks in court . - - :
Affidavit of service, &c. - il - ~ | JG
Oath * 7 ¥ 2 Ut Gianna 7
Paid filing affidavit - - - . . :
Copy title and prayer of bill for judge - x
Attending to bespeak, and afterwards for certificate of funds
in court in original suit - - - - u
Drawing observations to annex to plaintiff’s briefs,4 brief sheets
Two briefscopiesthereof —- - - . -
Two copies order on further directions m original suit, to ac-
company briefs, 7 sheets each - - -
Attending Mr. Rush on his handing us the act of Corlerdss
authorizing him to act, and on his instructing us to let a
copy of the same accompany the briefs —- - -
Two brief copies same, 3 sheets each - - -
Drawing proposed minutes of orders - . -
Fee to Mr. Shadwell, to settle same - - -
Attending him - - - - -
Two fair copies minutes to annex to Liles - - -
Two do for defendants 4g . - :
Attending them therewith and thereon - - -
Attending the defendants’ solicitors ; obtaining their consent
to have cause heard short - - - -

re)

wo?

(er

wae wan hd

APAAanw ad a

—
w

=

ok

Onh eS
Doc. No. 10.

i)
a}

ao &

f!
Attending Mr. Shadwell, and obtaining his certificate thereof na
Attending registrar therewith, and getting cause marked

short, and put in the next short-cause paper : - 6
Fee to Mz. Pemberton and clerk, with brief - SSIES TG
Attending him - € : é a 6
The like to Mr. Shadwell mally clerk - a i
Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk, on conference as to the

practicability of having cause short - . leacalka
Attending him - - e- - ROO aN 1
Attending appointing consultation = - - - &
Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk - & 2 CH Neg
Attending him - - aH : 4
Like to Mr. Shadwell and clerk. - - - Sa |
Attending him - - - - - U
Writing Mr. Rush, informing him thereof = - - :
Attending consultation at Westminster, Mr. Clarke and Mr.

Fladgate - - - - - - EP idhly Tig
Paid for room and cab-hire. - - - - . 7
Attending, ascertaining if the several articles mentioned in

the master’s report in the original cause were safe, and

comparing same with the schedule - - - sn:
Two brief copies Schedles: to annex to brief, at- Mr. Rush’s'

request - - - - 3 e ls 10
Attending bespeaking transcript of the account in original suit 6
Paid for same - - . ~ - = IRD atch
Writing Mr. Rush, informing him when cause would be in

the paper = = = 7 v 5 0
Mr. Clarke and Mr. Fladgate attending court-cause, heard

and decreed according to minutes agreed on, with lib-

erty for plaintiff to amend his bill by adding the act of

Congress - - - - aan
Paid court fees _ - - - - - - 1
Attending Mr. Rush afterwards, and explaining proceedings

to him - - - . : : -
Drawing petition to amend bill = i ae -
Attending to present same - - SNe nt -
Paid answering, and for order and entering - -
Two copies, and services of order - - - -
Instructions to amend - - - - .

_ Drawing amendments, folios 6 - - - -
Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk, to settle and sign - VAD
Attending him . - - - - -
Engrossing amended bill, folios 36 - - - -
Paid for parchment - - - . is
Paid filing - - - -
Abbreviating. oe bill, sitio 36 - an ge. 12
Two brief copies of. amendments for' counsel! a - 10
Paid for office-copy amended bill, to serve on the samen”

general, folios 36 - - DED LO
Atte; ding Messrs. Derby & Co. Amar ceiti ated eileen - 6
Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk, with amended bill <2 QUNA

ae.

ARON

aarawnmweqa wo >
SHAMAMpPAPO

ono oreo 2)

wo %~
— =)

i —
WdDA aAwawn sn po

oe
ame CORT OMAD@MAHOOAWAOR
38 Doc. No. 10.

Attending him . . - -
The like to Mr. peal aa clerk - ‘ s
Attending him - - - - - -
Drawing | preecipe for subpoena, ad attending to bespeak same
Paid for same, and making copy to serve - -
Service on clerk in court - - 4 "
Attending registrar, and getting cause, put in the paper -
Writing to solicitors for the defendants, informing them thereof
Attending court order made - ~ 2 :
Paid court fees - - - - - “
Instructions for petition to lay out £6,172 9s., cash acecumu-

lated in Hungerford vs. Drummond - - -
Drawing same, folios 40 - - - - t
Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk, to peruse and settle same -
Attending him - - - - - <
Engrossing petition to. present, as settled, folios 30. - -
Copy for the master of the rolls - . - -
Attending to present same — - - - - :
Paid answering - - - - - =
‘Two copies petition to serve - “ - - -
Attending serving same : - a ee e
Two brief copies for counsel, 3 brief-sheets each _ - :
Drawing observations to annex to brief petition, 2 sheets — -
Two fair copies - - - - - :
Drawing and nutes affidavit of service of petition -
Paid oath ~— - - H MG:
Paid filing and for alice ban - - L
Fee to Mr. Shadwell and clerk heacwish =o! - ~
Attending him - - “= ” ‘ 2
Attending accountant general for, and obtaining certificate. -
Attending cowt petition heard, and ordered as prayed -
Paid court fees : - : : : :
Writing Mr. Rush, at his request, a report of the proceedings

in court - - - - - - =
Paid for minutes of order — - : : 3 4
Close copy - - - " S ss :
Attending settling = - - - - 2 “
Paid for order - - : a z 3
Attending passing —- - 2 t a i
Paid entering - - - " u 4
Drawing request to accountant general - - ff -
Attending bespeaking investment
Paid - - s : ‘ E :
Paid for copy of minutes of decree - - =. Minus
Close copy — - - LC A i
Attending settling = - - - a u np
Copy of minutes for Mr. Rush, and writing him therewith and

thereon — - - - - “+; “ ‘
Paid for décree - - - - 2 t
Attending passing = - - : ni
Paid entering - - r set vig!

th
iy

_
OOO AAaIADA HH:

—

to
se 7
WHWAOAOE

wo

seed

: ny
ad
me OD

SOreohanwnkndnarwwomoa

BOD BAROOHADHOOSSOSO

as?

a

SCHOHRDOHNDAM:

On

ad ;
SEAGDAWAROPKFOOSCTONOODS
Doc. No. 10.

Attending - - - - - - i
Attending at the public office, to obtain the name of the mas-
ter in the original cause - - : -
Paid master’s clerk - : - - -
Making copy title, and ordering part of decree for the master
Warrant to consider decree, two copies, and services - -
Writing Mr. Rush, informing him thereof, m order to ensure
his attendance - - - : - -
Attending warrant when master ordered the usual advertise-
ment to be issued, and a state of facts, &c. to be brought in
as to Madame Batut’s claim, and stated that he could not
direct inquiries to be made at Pisa, as to the death of Mr.
Hungerjord, but would allow the costs thereon if instittited
Atteading at Stepney church, to search for burial of John Fi-
tall, but found he was not buried there — - - -
Paid search and coach-hire_ - - - -
Attending Mrs. Fitall, but’ she gedlinda giving any information,
as the last quarterly payment had not been made - -
Attending at various places in the neighborhood, to inquire
where he was buried, when some persons said in the coun-
try, others at Fletcher’s chapel, and others at Saint George’s
in the East, and ultimately discovered a relative, who in-
formed us that he was buried at Shadwell - - -

Attending at Shadwell church, clergyman and clerk both out,
and could not search - - - -

Paid coach-hire - - - - -

Attending bespeaking advertisement as to Mr. Hungerford’s
death . - - - - - -

Paid master’s clerk - - - -

Attending bespeaking advertisement as to Madame de la Ba-
tut’s claim - - . . - - -

Paid master’s clerk - - : - - nnd

Attending at Shadwell, searching for and obtaining certificate
of Mr. Fitall’s death - - - - -

Paid for certificate and omnibus-hire - - - -

Instructions for affidavit verifying extract - 9. - -

Drawing same, folios § - - - - -

Engrossing same —- fate arto ai - .

Attending swearing - - - - - -
“Paid oath and exhibit i

Drawingand faircopy state of facts as to 0 Fitall’s death, PR 12

Warrant on leaving same, copy, and service -

Attending Mr. Cullington, Mrs. Fitall’s solicitor, as i salcnitty
of John Fitall, when he promised to see his client thereon,
and Jet us know the result - - - : -

Attending at the Gazette office, to get advertisement as to Mr.

-Hungerford’s death inserted - - i: °

siding at the Gazette office, to get advertisement as to by
atut’s claim inserted . : é i i
d for insertion ~ = 4 F 5 J

Pa d, aan for Gazette t 2 a Z us

PO SR

or

OPS!

Ce

oo

6 gy

a

ADPRANW MAG

SEC”

?

iw)

(ae)

<

“OC OSMRNOHEO

*
4d Doc. No. 10:

Gepy of advertisement as to Hungerford’s death, for Times
newspaper - - - - * wd 5
Adtending inserting same - - z "

Paid insertion mi me S x!

The like for Morning Baveily, . ie a i
Paid insertion, &c. —- - - " £ é
The hike for Standard - . o
Paid msertion, &c.—- ie E :
Gopy of advertisement as to Mrs, Batut’s claim, for the Times

mewspaper - - - - * " .
Aitending inserting same - - e u
Patd msertion - ‘gp 3 i “
The like for Morning Her ald “ a
Paid insertion, &c. —- - 4 BS Ep 2

The like for Standard 2 u ze 2 oa

Paid for insertion, &c. = z - S a
Several attendances in the city, as to the best mode of insert-
ing the advertisement in foreign papers, and as to getting
same translated, &e. - - - - -
Making copies of advertisements, to get translated into French
and Italian - - - - - - -
Attending translation therewith, and afterwards for same
Paid them - - - - - . -
Making twelve copies for insertion in foreign papers -
Attending Mr. Deacon, the newspaper agent, therewith, and
imstructing him thereon —- - : i i
Paid for foreign advertisements - a ‘ it
Attending paying same, and for receipt - 2 :
The proprietors of the Times newspaper having made an error
in the name of Mr. Hungerford : attending at their office and
rectifying same, and giving instruction for another insertion
Atiending Mr. Deacon to ascertain if he had correspondent at
Leghorn to whom we could forward instructions to obtain
the information of Mr. Hungerford’s death, and obtainiBs
the direction of same : - u
Writing very long and special letter to Madame Batut as to

her claim on the estate, and requiring the necessary proof,

and requesting information as to her son’s death, &e. -
Copy same, to keep as evidence - - ‘ d
Writing Mr. Rush, with Mrs. Batut’s answer - -
Attending at Gazette office to get advertisements as to Mr.

Hungerford’s death inserted second time _ - a Oty es
Paid for Gazette and insertion - - . -
Copy advertisement for Times newspaper
Astending inserting same - - 4 5
Paid insertion, &c, —- - 2 “ he:
The like for Morning Herald ve a p z
Paid insertion, &c. —- - : : i E
The like for Standard - a 2 ‘ :
Paid insertion, &c. —- - = = a L

= SN ee
ATA
Bini
1 iB
9 2
16/5
9 2
1p. i5
Bi id
648
KGaitO
92
160
9 2
16 0
Li ifaoie
Bold
if
Fy sce
1 1G. :6
1S his
12211
6.18
6.8
6.8
7.6
iagr
5. 0
6
lL 8
2
6
16;:,
atti
16

Doc. No. 10.

Attending at Gazette office to get advertisement as to claim of

Madame de la Batut inserted a second time - a
Paid for insertion 4 = = “ L.
Copy advertisement for Times newspaper ~ - 2
Attending inserting same : - E : J
Paid insertion a iS 4 b
The like for Morning Herald - mid sr Py .
Paid for insertion, &c. 2 : 4 f
The like for Standard : 2 is % i
Paid for insertion, &ce. = 4 b LU eg
Term fee Bs £ x . 2 x i

EASTER TERM, 1837.

Attending Mr. Cullington to know if he could identify Mr.
Fitall, which he declined doing unless the arrears of the an-
nuity were paid — - - . - - -

Attending bespeaking peremptory advertisement as to Hun-
gerford’s death - - - . - -

Paid master’s clerk  - - - - - -

The like charges as to Madame Batut’s claim -

Attending Mr. Rush with Madame de la Batut’s letter, ra

conferring thereon, when he agreed with us in thinking that |

she had. abandoned all claim under the estate - -
Attending at Gazette office to get peremptory advertisement

inserted as to Mr. Hungerford’s death - - 7

Paid for Gazette and insertion - - - -
Copy advertisement for Times newspaper
Attending inserting the same . - - -
Paid insertion, &c. —- - = - - -
The like for Morning Herald - ~ . - -
Paid insertion, &c. —- - - hes eee
_ The like for Standard - . - - -
Paid insertion, &c._—- - - - - -
Attending at Gazette office to get peremptory advertisement

as to claim of Madame de la Batut inserted - -
Paid insertion - - - - - =
Copy of advertisement for Times newspaper : -
Attending inserting same - - - - -
Paid insertion - - - -
The like for Morning Herald - - - -
Paid insertion - - Bg - “
The like for sea - - - - =
Paid insertion - - - - - “
Attending at Gazette office to get peremptory advertisement

inserted a second time as to death of Mr. Hungerford -
Paid for Gazette and insertion - - . -
Copy advertisement for Times - - . 5
A i inserting same - " " aye .

_

—

= -_ P
FDO DOADN HD

—
(>>)

_
AWAD WMD

—

MOnNOW OMA ®

Av anrananaan iim ie) mon

SCwWONOTMRACMH

MW AM DW w
42 Doc. No. 10.

The like for Standard - . - ie D8 .
Paid insertion, &c. —_- - - " > -
Attending at the Gazette office to insert the peremptory adver-
tisement a second time as to claim of Madame de la Batut
Paid for insertion and Gazette - - : ‘
Copy advertisement for Times - - - -
Paid insertion - 4 Coat ipa
The like for Morning Head. : - 2 :
Paid insertion - - : Z s
The like for Giant ads - - : s .
Paid insertion - - - 2 s 2
Attending at Mr. Deacon’s to ascertain if any of the foreign
papers had arrived, when he handed us three of the French
papers which he had only received that morning. - -
Perusing and examining same, and ascertaining they were full
of errors; attending Mr. Deacon again, and correcting same,
and requesting him to get same correctly inserted - -
Writing Madame de la Batut, in answer to her last letter, and
requesting any information she could give as to the death of
Mr. Hungerford = - - - - - -
Making two copies of peremptory advertisement to get trans-
lated into French and Italian ies Mi - =
Attending translators therewith, and afterwards for same — -
Paid them - - - - - - -
Making 12 copies for insertion in the foreign papers - -
Attending Mr. Deacon therewith, and instructing him thereon
Paid for foreign advertisements - - - -
Writing long letter to Mrs. Batut, in answer - - -
Attending paying for foreign advertisements and for receipts
Attending Mr. Batut in very long conference, when he urged
the claim of Madame de la Batut; but we informed him
we had no discretion to apply the funds, except under the
direction of the court, and told him to carry in a claim be-
fore the master; when he stated “he would submit certain
documents of evidence material to the plaintiff’s case, for
an inspection at half-past 10 o’clock next day”’—-
Paid for oaths of Messrs. Clarke, Fynmore, and Fladgate to
three copies of bill delivered to Mr. Rush - - ~
April 29.—Attending Mr. Batut for upwards of two hours,
when he appeared desirous of making terms as to the in-
formation he could give relative to the death of Mr. Hun-
zerford without children, which he assured us we could not
obtain elsewhere ; and informing him we could communi-
cate with plaintiff thereon, and requesting him to put any
legal claims he mighthave into the hands of his solicitors, and
we promised to represent to Mr. Rush his statement -
Writing to Mr. Rush on the above subject, and requesting ap-
pointment to meet him - - - -
May 1.—Attending Mr. Gardner in long conifer ence as to the

claims of Madame Batut, which we thought were much
larger than would be allowed her on proof before the mas-

ES

ao ~
Dmrooom an

13

13

tr to &

onownoonom

i)

NoohonrkhO

Doe. No. 10.

ter; and we postponed a final determination until we had
again looked through the papers - - - -

May 2.—Attending at Mr. Rush’s in long conference as to the
application of Mr. Batut, when it was decided that we could
not offer any pledge that attention would be paid to his ap-
plication, but that we must procure from him such informa-
tion as he could give, and, if it appeared he had any just
claim, we would offer no technical or aly ag papa
to it ‘ =

May 4.—Attending Mr. Gritdino#: é cin eatin very fully again
hereon; when he stated that Mr. Smithson possessed himself
of the property of the late Mr. Dickinson, and never render-
ed an account; and that he (Mr. Gardner) considered that
a bill should now be filed against the defendant, (Drum-
mond,) as executor of the testator in this cause, for such
account ; and that it was expected a larger sum would be
found to have been received ; but that at all events a claim
would be established to a life interest in a sum equal to
that stated in the will to be the nephew’s property, viz:
£260 per annum, which, in point of fact, had been the
amount of allowances made to Mrs. Batut by the testator,
as she could prove; and we urged that filing a bill would
be useless, as it was impossible to furnish an account, but
would search through all the documents in the plaintiff’s
custody or power, and give them every sy to settle the
matter in the master’s office - :

May 5.—Attending Mons. Batut for upwards of two hours, °

when we told him the only chance for his obtaining any
remuneration from the plaintiff was to furnish him with
every information in his power relative to the death of Mr.
Hungerford, which he seemed very unwilling to do, without
a pledge that something should be done ; and we assured him
that no party here could give such pledge; and that if he
| was really disposed to sell his information, he must put his
terms into writing ; when he stated that he would consider the
course to adopt; and advising him to give us the informa-
tion, and informing him, if he did not, we should resist Mad-
ame Batut’s claim in every possible way - - -
May 6.—Attending at Mr. Deacon’s; going through and pe-
rusing the documents deposited in the boxes, &c., to answer
Mr. Gardner’s inquiry, but souls find nothing pagased
several hours -
May 11.—-Attending Mr. (edner as to Mr. Batut’s studs
when he required to be furnished with an account of the
payments made by Mr. Smithson in his lifetime to Madame

Ye
the fund she might claim under the will of Dickinson -
ending Mr, Deacon, making inquiry as to the foreign pa-
ers, when he handed us several French ones, and promised
to write for the Italian - - - - 7

-18.—Attending Mr. Batut on his furnishing us with the

de la Batut, which we promised to procure, as evidence of -

13

13

13
44 Doe: No. 10.

required information, when it appeared that Mr. Hunger-
ford. was buried at a ‘Dominican convent, at Pisa, under. the
name of Baron de la Batut, on the 5th June; 1835, and that
a stone was raised to his memory; but that his servant, Leo
Ferna, could not be found, and he urged his claim upon
the consideration of the plaintiff; when we informed him
that we could not entertain such claim, but referred him at
once to Mr. Rush, or to the American Government :
Attending Mr. Rush afterwards, conferring on Mr. Batut’s in-
formation and application, when it was determined that a
meeting should take place in our presence between Mr.
Rush and Mr. Batut - - - - -
Attending Mr. Gardner to confer as to appointment with

Monsieur Batut, but he was out of town; writing Mr. Rush
thereon —- - . a 4 2

Term fee, &c. - . :

TRINITY TERM, 1837.

Attending at Messrs. Drummond, going through their books
to ascertain whether any drafts had been drawn upon them
by the testator, which would tally with the claim brought
forward by Mrs. Batut, but found it was the testator’s habit
to draw only for large sums, and his account proved no-
thing’ - -

May 30. —Paid for oe bincias of Mes. Batuv’s, felis Sq! %%

Attending warrant to proceed thereon, when the master di-
rected “interrogatories to be exhibited for the examination
of Mr. Drummond - - - t +

June 1.—Paid for copy charge of Mrs. Fitall, folios 12 -

June 2.—Attending Mr. Batut further as to his alleged claim,
and the information he still withheld and promised to af-
ford us - - - - - - -

June 5.—Attending him again on the above subject, and ask-
ing him what he required; when he promised to consider
our request, and see us thereon next day - - -

Attending Messrs. Pemberton, advising them what had taken
place, and requesting them to attend “the next day with Mr.
Batut = - - - - - -

June 6.—Attending warrant on Mrs. Fitall’s charge when the
master directed an affidavit in support verifying when he died

June 6.—Attending Mr. Batut,and afterwards Mr. Rush, when
Mr. Batut stated that he would make the requisite aflidavit,
and taking full instructions for same; but on our application
for an appoititment to swear same, he changed his mind, and
stated that he would not make the affidavit unless he had a
pledge from Mr. Rush that he would support his claim in
America, which he did not feel justified in giving, and there-
fore the treaty was brokenoff ; engaged upwards of two hours

Instructions for affidavit . : . - -

Drawing same, folios 14 - - : - -

2
Jo
‘f

d.

D>

Doc. No. 10.

Attending Messrs. Pemberton thereon, and urging them to
get affidavit made, and to bring in same zi Natt in sup-
port of their state of facts - - - -

June °.—Writing Mr. Rush very fully thereon . J

June 10.—Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference on
Mr. Batut’s conduct, and informing him of the nature of the
evidence sent us from Italy, which we thought was quite
sufficient — - - - - - -

Attending Mr. Cullington, pressing him to leave in the mas-
ter’s office his allidavit, required in support of charge as to
Fitall’s annuity, when he promised to see his client thereon
and to proceed with the charge forthwith - -

Paid postage of foreign letter from Mr. Berri - -

June 16. rage Mr. Gardner to press him to bring in the
particulars of proof pH Mrs. Batut’s GaN and conferring on
claim - - -

June 19.—Paid for pid affidavit in cures of charge of Mrs.
Fitall, folios § - - - -

June 20. —Attending warrant to proceed on charge of Mrs.
Fitall’s, same allowed - - - , “

Paid for warrant for Mrs, Batut to bring in evidence in support
of charge, otherwise it would be disallowed, copy and ser-
vice, (no clerk in court) — - - +

Writing Mr. Rush as to Fitall’s annuity - -

June 23.—Writing Mr. Rush, at defendant Drummond’s re-
quest, touching : an application made to him by Mr. Batut,
and requiring his instructions thereon . “

Having received from Leghorn an. ofticial certificate pi the
death of Mr. Hungerford, authenticated by Mr. Falconer,
(the consul;). attending at the Foreign Office, to ascertain

what gentleman Baia with the as could verify the.

signature, and found Mr. Hertslet; was known to him,

*  . but he was from town = 2 if

June 23.—Attending Messrs. Pemberton & ‘ai , on their sta-

tiug they were preparing instructions for the interrogatories,

but, previous to: completing. them, they were anxious to

examine some, papers belonging to the testator, in a black

trunk in our possession—going through same with him—

but they afforded him no information ; engaged two hours

June 26.—Attending Mr, Gardner this. morning, upwards of

two hours, on the. subject of Mrs. Batut’s claim, endeavor-

ing to come to some arrangement, and to ascertain if her

claim was really founded in. justice " rt

June 29.—The master having required. evidence of the in-

sertion of the foreign advertisements, and as to their cor-

_ rectness; instructions for affidavits *

Drawing same, and fair copies; folios 14. - -

Fair copy for perusal “~ - = w i

Attending Mr. Deacon and Mr. Whittaker, severally, there-
43) with ; aad finally settling same - 2 S

Engrossing same - P ‘ 4 :

13

Or &

13

13

oS
46 Doc. No. 10.

Attending Mr. Deacon to the public office, to get sworn to
same ; “Mr: Whittaker could not attend — - - -
Paid two oaths - - -
July 1.—Attending Mr. Whittaker to get swom - :
Paid oath — - - - - -
Paid Mr, Whittaker and Mi Deacon for loss of time and
trouble - - - - - -— -
Attending paying same, and keeping receipt - -
Warrant on leaving two copies, and services - -
Attending Mr. Gardner, pressing him to support a claim of
Mrs. Batut? S3 informing him, if not done forthwith, we
should exclude her altogether from the report: when he
informed us, if we did, he should immediately file a bill -
Attending warrant, as to Mrs, Batut’s evidence in support of
her char ge, when Mr. Gardner undertook to have inter-
rogatories on the following day — - - - -
Paid for copy of interrogatories —for twelve close copies —-
Carriage of parcel from ‘Pisa - = : =
Enclosing certificate - - - - -
Having received the above certificate of the death of Mr.
Hungerford, attending Mr. Whittaker to get same trans-
lated - - . - - - -
Paid his charges - - - - - -
Attending warrant to settle interrogatories as to Mrs. Batut’s
claim, when the master allowed same, subject to any ob-
jection the defendant might make to the exhibits which
were not left in the office - - - - -
Warrants for Mrs. Batut, to bring in exhibits copy and ser-
vice—not in cause - - - - - -
July 17.—Attending counsel, in long cenference, as to these
interrogatories and exhibits - - - -
Paid his fee, and clerk . - - . -
Attending — - - - = - - -
Attending to Mr. Rush,in very long conference on the state of
the suit, and advising with him as to incurring any extra
expense in the inquiries after Mr. Hungerford’s death -
Writing Messrs. Pemberton on the proposed exhibits, andcopy
Writing to Mr. Rush very fully,in answer to a letter received
from him’as to probable time suit would take - :
Drawing request to accountant general to invest dividends -
Attending him thereon - - - - -
Paid his fee - - - - - -
Attending Mr. Rush, informing him of the impossibility of
obtaining report betore office closed, and explaining the ne-
cessity of giving Madame Batut the means of establishing
her claim, rather than file a bill — - - . .
Attending warrant to proceed on Mrs. Batut’s claim, when
exhibits were left in support thereof - - -
Paid for copy examined, folios 28 - . - -
Close copy - - - - - - -
July 25.-Attending warrant and interrogatories when the same

Tere

DOoOnm

oon

no»

oO

6
6
8
0
Doe. No. 10)

were finally settled, the solicitors for Madame de la Batut
having brought in exhibits - - - .
Drawing and fair copy state of facts as to the death of Henry
Hungerford, folios 48 - - - - -
Warrant on Jeaving same, two copies and services - -
Instructions for affidavits in support - - - -
Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 4 - - -
Attending Mr. Hertslet several times to endeavor to get him
to appoint a time to swear, but could not - :
Attending at the master’s office to examine exhibits with the
copies, and engaged comparing same, but found one missing
Attending Mr. Rush in a wm ery long conference om the subject
of this suit ~ - - - - -
August 14.—Attending at the Barcial Office and conferring on
the affidavit with Mr. Hertslet, ‘when he requested us to
leave the report, certificates, and affidavits with him, and
he would appoint a time to swear affidavit - -
Engrossing affidavit, folios 4 - - - - -
Attending Mr. Hertslet to be sworn - ae - -
Paid oath and exhibit - - - - -
Paid his charges - - - - - -
Warrant on leaving copy and service ~ - .
Postage of letter to Mr. Tannin, in answer to his letter rela-
tive to death of Mr. Hungerford - - - -
Writing very long letter to Mr. Rush, informing him of what
had taken place’ - - - - - -
Instructions for further affidavits in support - - -
Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 20 - - f
Engrossing same . - - - - f
Writing Mr. Rush, stating the result of our inquiries touching
the property formerly belonging to Mr. ee under
whose will Mrs. Batut claimed — - =
Sept. 2.—Attending Mr. Rush, conferring aiid éxplaihing the
position of Mrs. Batut’s claini, and the effect of the informa-
tion received from France, from whieh it would appear that
such elaim was fraudulent - u - 4 bi
Instructions for affidavit of Mr. Whittaker as to verification
of translated copy of report from Pisa’ - pik :
Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 4 : - u
Copy report to annex as exhibit -
Attending Mr. Whittaker, conferring thereon, and attics bird
to settle same - - - - - 2
Engrossing same, folios4 —- - - -. £
Attending him to be sworn - - - - f

Paid oaths and exhibits = - i i

_ Warrant and leaving copy and service oe S| -

fs Paid him for loss " time ! . ‘3 4 "

mh DH Ww

onmnoo

SCHOMKE

aoaowm
48 Doc. No. 10.

MICHAELMAS TERM, 1837.

Warrant on leaving same, copy and service - _ -
Warrant to proceed on Mrs. Batut’s charge, copy and service
Attending warrant, and proceeding thereon - - -
Instructions for affidavit for Mr. Curdy, verifying translation
of notarial act made at Paris after the decease of Mr. Hun-
gerford —- - - <dilGt we : -
Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 4 ye Sele ti 4
Copy translation, to annex as an exhibit - - -
Engrossing affidavit, folios 4 - - - - -
Attending to be sworn - 2 ‘ " i
Paid oath, &c. : ¥ “ A s
Warrant on leaving two copies and service - - >
Warrant on leaving further evidence - - - -
Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference on the progress
of, and advising on, this suit, and taking his instructions
thereon - - - - - - -
Paid for transcript of account - - . -
Attending bespeaking, and afterwards for same - -
Drawing request to accountant general to invest dividends | -
Attending bespeaking investment of dividends - -
Paid fee’ - - - - = : -
Instructions for affidavit of Mr. Hertslet, verifying notarial act
as to death of Mr. Hungerford — - - . -
Drawing same, and fair copy, folios 4 - - -
Attending him to peruse and settle same - - -
Engrossing same - - - - - -
Attending him to be sworn - Es x Z “
Paid oath and exhibit 3 E = E
Paid his charge 7 - - - -
Warrant on leaving two copies and services - 2 ee
Warrant to proceed on state of facts, and charge of plainniff,
as to death of Mr. Hungerford, copy and service - -
Attending warrant, same proceeded with and allowed, and
warrant ordered to be issued on Mrs. Batut’s charge -
Warrant to proceed on state of facts, and charge of Mrs. Ba-
tut’s, copy and service Todehtieda - - "4
Attending bespeaking transcript in original cause, and after-
wards for same - - 5 5 -
Paid i ; “4 = RES
Sept. 29.—Attending Mr. Rush, reporting and advising on the
rogress of the proceedings in the master’s office - -
Dec. 4.—Attending warrant and proceeding on factsandcharge
of Mrs. Batut, when the master directed another warrant
tpiissue 5 : 4 Paden 7 F
Warrant to proceed, three copies and service - - a
Attending warrant when the master said he thought she had
established a claim to half of the income of the French
fund, but would give us leave to inquire and prove, if we
could, that it had been already satisfied and he directed us

DMS

bh oO

DD OD

_—

mH Dw a & oo

_~
PF)

on

OFM bhO-K ABR OS

DaAokR

SFTMNAaAnOe SOoOOMkMNOD

SCOSCMRFMOD

i=)
Doc. No. 190.

to obtain an order to state special circumstances in regard

to her claim, the words of the decree not being sufficient ae

Writing Mr. Rush very fully thereon - - -
Attending Mr. Rush in a very long conference, and advising
with him on the expediency of opposing Mrs. Batut? sclaim,
as it would cause much delay, and stop the order on further
directions; and explaining same fully to him, when he pro-
mised to consider the same, and see us again thereon =
Dec. 14.—Attending Mr. Rysh in very long conference as to
Mrs. Batut, on his having duly considered the subject; when
he instructed us to write to Paris to obtain such evidence
as we could, and lay same before counsel, to advise on the
expediency of opposing Mrs. Batut’s claim, we being of

~ opinion that evidence might be obtained that would repel her
claim - - - . - -
Dec. 19.—Attending at the Forest Office to make inquiry
touching the swearing of affidavits abroad before a proper
tribunal, and. found that they could be sworn before the
British consul - - - - - -
Instructions for affidavit to be sworn by the stock-broker who
transferred same - - - - - -
Drawing same and fair copy, folios 6, and fair copy to send
to Paris — - - - - - - -
Instructions for affidavit of a notary as to some documents in
his possession relative to the transfer - - -
Drawing same and fair copy, folios 8 -. - -
Fair copy to send to Paris - . = 7 i!

_ Writing Mr. Truftant therewith and fully thereon, and urging

him to get affidavits sworn if possible in their present shape,

but, if not, to advise with some English solicitor at Paris -
Dec. 29.—Postage letter from Mr. Truftant requiring further

instruction - - - L je
Writing to him very fuily thereon — - 2 t u
Instructions to amend decree - <= 2 i
Drawing uotice of motion to amend decree - - 2
Copy and service - - - . : i
Drawing and engrossing affidavit of service - - -
Attending swearing - . - Z Q :
Paid oath ~— - - - - s 2 2
Attending filing and for office copy - - = £
Paid - - . - - 2
Drawing brief for coraisel to move - - 4

’ Paid him and clerk - = _ 2 u Ny

Attending him - - . - -

Jan. 8, 1838.— Attending Mr, Rush in very long conference

on the progress of the cause, &c. - reel - -

Term fee, &c. C : : Et :
4

1

13

43

ry
~I wMmD

_
DwWODD mH AD W W wo ay =

NADOAANDGDOOKH AW D

or
50 Doc. No. 10.

filary term, 1838.

Jan. 11.—Attending court, motion made and ordered accord-
ingly = “ = u “ s Z
Postage of letter to Mr. Truftant requesting to be furnished
with a copy of Mrs. Batut’s claim - - .
Copy same, to send, folios 36 - - = =
Writing him very fully therewith and thereon - =
Paid for copy minutes : - - - -
Close copy - sae : - = : =
Attending settling = - - - - - -
Paid for order - - - - - .
Attending register to draw up and pass order - -
Paid entering - - . - - -
Attending to enter same - - - - -
Jan. 23.—Postage of a letter from Mr. Truftant, containing a
certificate, signed by the chargé d’aflaires, eiiche from his
letter, appeared the best evidence he could procure for us -
Writing him that same was not sufficient, and requesting to
know, per return, whether or not the steck-broker could
make an affidavit as to fact of instructing him thereon, and,
if he could not procure such atlidavit, to make one himself
Jan. 30.—Postage letter from Mr. Truftant  - - -
Jan. 31.—Attending Mr. Rush, fully conferring as to the inqui-
ries touching Mrs, Batut’s claim, when he stated he would
consider same, and decide whether to proceed or not -
Feb. 5.—Attending Mr. Rush on his wishing to know the re-
sult of the proceedings if the claim of Mrs. Batut were re-
sisted, and to what extent the proceedings might be carried
by her, and explaining same very fully to him, when he
wished us to write a letter to him thereon - - -
Writing letter and copy - - - - -
Feb. 6. “Attending counsel in long conference on the evidence
obtained from Paris, and as to the expediency of bringing
same into the master’s office - - - -
Fee to him and clerk thereon . - - -
Attending him - - - -
Copy of Mr, Truftant’s sate to keep - ae err
Warrant on leaving, three copies, and services - -
Warrant to proceed. on claim, three copies, and services -
Feb. 19.—Attending warrant and proceeding on state of facts
and affidavits in opposition to Mrs. Batut’s claim, when
claim allowed - - - . - -
Warrant to show cause why warrant on preparing draught re-

port should not issue, three copies, and services — - fy

Feb. 21.—<Attending warrant, no cause shown - -
Warrant, on preparing three copies, and services > -
Copy will of testator for the master, folios 8 - - -
Paid for copy draught report, folios 48 - - -
Close copy - - - - - - -
March 1.—Warrant to settle, three copies, and services -

Oo =I

13

MMNNAADW

>)

—
NADNWNDADM®

ae Ww 10

MDmOdDRODN

AAnnonkhs -_O

a

AOSDDaADD
Doc. No. 10.

Attending same - . - - - -
Attending Messrs. Pemberton, conferring very fully on the

draught report and the several inaccuracies therein, and cal-

culating amount of arrears, &c. due - - -
Attending warrant on charge of Messrs. Clarke & Co., when

same allowed - - - - - -
Paid for copy same, folios 6 - : 2 “ i
Close copy - - . - - . -
Paid for copy affidavit in support, folios4 —- - -
Close copy” - . - - - - -
Another warrant to settle report, three copies, and services -
Attending warrant and settling report ; but the master directed

many additions to be made thereto, and an affidavit to be

obtained from a broker in the city as to the amount of ex-

change : . - - . - -
Attending Mr. Rush: in very ions conference thereon before,

at, and after the above warrant, when he directed us to

obtain the order on further directions as soon as possible -
March 9.—Attending Mr. Rush again, conferring fully herein
March 12.—Attending Messrs. Pemberton as to the cause of

delay in obtaining the necessary affidavit, when they prom-

ised to bring same in in a few days - - :
Paid for copy affidavit of Mr. Boyd, folios 6 - - tie
Close copy. - - - - - -
March 17.—Attending warrant and alec ate on state of facts
March 20.—Paid for fresh eaby ene folios 44 . -
Close copy - - - : “
Warrant to sign, three copies, ti services - - -
Attending same - - - - - -
Paid for drawing, signing, and transcribing report - -
Paid filing and for office copy - . an .
Attending to file - - : : - -
Drawing and engrossing petition to confirm report absolute

in the first instance - - - - -
Attending getting consents = - - - - -
Attending to present - - - - -
Paid answer and for order - - - . -
Two copies and services on clerks in court = - - -
Draught on Pemberton - - . - -
Drawing and engrossing petition, to set down cause on fur-

ther directions and costs — - - - - -
Attending to present - - - - - -
Paid answer and setting down cause, &c. —- - -
Two copies, and services, order on clerks in court - -
Draught on Messrs. Pemberton - - - -
Attending defendant’s solicitor for consent to hear cause im-

mediately - = : 2 = 2 :
Making copy decree for the master of the rolls, four sides —-
Do. report, folios 48 - : s - : =
Attending to leave same - - -
Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference, explaining that

hm OO

13

—
ie)

=>)

ADOAMDAADW

oO RP AIDA SP

pad
eo aOragcwoa@

BODManDananwnowa

aoenaas

AoOone

HOO,
52 ! Doc. No. 10.

the report had been confirmed, and giving him extracts of
all the dates and proceedings, &c., and advising him as to
the future proceedings, &c. - - = =
Drawing and engrossing copy aflidavit of service of order to
set cause down - - - - = -
Attending to be sworn : - : : B
Paid oath” - - - - - = =
Attending filing and afterwards for same — - - -
Paid filing and for office copy - 2 E
Attending Mr. Rush, informing him cause was set down and
would be heard in Easter term, and conferring thereon -
instructions for petition - - - - :
Drawing and fair copy petition to be heard with the cause, on
further directions, folios 88 - = =
Attending Mr, Rush, conferring thereon, when he wished
counsel to be advised with thereon - - -
Attending conferring with Mr. Shadwell thereon, when he
advised cause to be set down and petition to be presented
afterwards - - . - - - -
Paid his fee and clerk - - - = -
Attending him - - . - - -
Drawing proposed minutes, folios 12 - - - -
Pair copy for Mr. Shadwell - - - - -
Attending him in conference and settling same - -
Paid his fee and clerk - - - - -
Attending him - - - - - -
‘Two copies minutes for defendants . - - - -
Attending them therewith and thereon, and finally agreeing
to same - = = - - - -
Drawing brief on further directions, seven brief-sheets .
Two fair copies for counsel - - = is 2
Drawing observations for plaintiff, two brief-sheets. - -
‘Two fair copies for counsel - - - - “
Attending Messrs. Pemberton on their requesting some in-
formation in order to draw their petition, and giving them
same, engaged some time, term fee, &c. —- - -

EASTER TERM, 1838.

Attending to bespeak and afterwards for certificate of funds
in court in this cause - - -
“The like in original cause —- - - -
Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk, mith brief - - -
Attending him - . - .
Fee to Mr. Shadwell inal clerk - - . -
Attending him - - - - :
Attending Mr. Shadwell, eutattne his certificate for cause to
be heard short - - - - - -
Attending register therewith, and getting cause put in the
paper for next short cause day —_- - - -

%~

_
AnAnonn

COD m= D>

(60)

_
ie)

_ =
DAAW POD DH

—

— a _
oo co & G&S OO

ha BOO DANOPRCOMDODEA ODM Ss

Drnnomwmm

an
Doc. No. 10.

Attending Mr. Pemberton to appoint a consultation at West-
minster - - . . - - -
Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk thereon - - -
The like, Mr. Shadwell - =4/ 5 - - -
Attending him - - . - - -
Writing to Mr. Rush informing him of consultation - -
Attending consultation when Mr. Pemberton expressed his
regret that the petition had not been presented, and directed
Mr. Shadwell to draw same immediately - - -
Paid for room - . - - - -
May 1.—Mr. Glarke and Fladgate’s attending court; cause
heard and ordered as per minutes, agreed, but the order to
stand over for petition to come on as “to funds being paid to
Mr. Rush - - : - - - -
Paid court fees - - - - - -
Attending Mr. Rush in very long conference, explaining to him
fully what had taken place, and he directed us to use all ex-
pedition = - . - - . - -
Perusing and considering former petition, and altering same
in many respects - - - - -
Fee to Mr. Shadwell to penaae and settle - - -
Attending him - - - - - .
Engrossing same and paper, folios 77 - - -
Copy for the master of the rolls - - -
Attending presenting petition, when the secretary directed that
it be taken to Westminster to be answered by a certain day
Attending Mr. Pemberton, instructing him to get day appoint-
ed accordingly - - - - 2 -
Attending court when Mr. Pemberton mentioned it to the
court, and it was ordered to be answered for Tuesday next

Attending his lordship’s secretary, and getting same answered |

accordingly - - - . - -
Paid answering - - - - - -
2 copies petition for service, folios 77,each  - - -
Attending serving the same on clerks in court - -
Drawing and engrossing affidavit of service - . -
Attending to be sworn af - - - -
Paid oath - - - - - .
Attending to file aad for saad copy - - - -
Paid for office copy - - - :
2 brief copies petition, § brief Pees, Be - - -
Drawing observations to accompany 2 brief sheets - :
2 brief copies for counsel - . - - -
Attending Mr. Rush again hereon, conferring and advising

very fully hereon - - - - - -
Attending register to get original decree altered, as directed by

the court, ‘and after some trouble getting same altered ac-

cordingly. - s . : : -
Attending to enter and afterwards for same - - :
Paid at entering seat for alteration = - - -
Fee to Mr. Pemberton and clerk with brief petition - -

vw

—
Omaw oo

2
OS

13

—

NM GO Qe

=p)

WHR ACL AID

POA

SF

OwmAn@Q

oO 8 con °@

ia
meal

AD Qos

MQ WH we
54 Doc. No. 10.

Attending him - - - - -
Fee to Mr. Shadwell and ele : . - -
Attending him - - - - -
Writing Mr. Rush that the court would not sit on Wiicadse
and that petition would be in on Wednesday - .
Attending court, petition heard and ordered as prayed -
Paid court fees - . - . -
Attending Mr. Rush on the amount a funds in the cause, and
writing him out full particulars thereof, and taking his in-
structions to expedite the transfer and payment to Tag alge
Writing to Mr. Truftant as to his charges and expenses, &c. -
Paid postage letter enclosing same - - i -
Paid same to his agents - - - - -
Attending paying same and for receipt . -
Writing Mr. Rush, at his request, with full particulars of what
took place at the hearing of the cause and also of the peti-
tion, and generally on the cause - - - -
Attending Mr. Hussey to draw up minutes, when he said the
registrar, Mr. Callis, who was in court on the petition,ought to
draw them up: attending on Mr. Callis and with him to Mr.
Hussey, and arguing same, when it was finally determined
that Mr. Hussey should draw up the minutes, and date them
the 12th—engaged upwards of an hour - - :
Paid for copy minutes of decree . - - -
Close copy thereof - . - - - -
Several attendances upon the registrar, to procure him to pass
order, which was at length done - - - -
Paid for order on further directions — - - - :
Paid expenditure - - : - : -
Term fee, &c. - - - . - -

TRINITY TERM, 1838.

Attending passing same . . - - -
Paid entering same - - - - - -
Attending — - : - - . - -
Making copy ordering part of decree for the master - -
Drawing this bill of costs, and fair copy for the master, fos. 180
Warrant on Jeaving same, copy and service - - -
May 8.—Warraunts to tax copies and services - . soit
Attending same - - - - - .
Paid clerk in court - - - - - -
Warrant for defendants to bring in their costs, two copies and
SELVICeS. pine - - - - -
Paid for copy defendant Drummond’s costs, folios 72 -
Attending three warrants, taxing same = cf =
Paid clerk in court - - - - - -
Paid for copy attorney genéral’s costs, folios 16 - .
Attending warrant, taxing same - - - -
Paid clerk in court - - = g = 3
Paid for certificate of costs and transcribing - - -

wo =

mow DD w&

— et
wow D

CADW TO CO

Ono wane

DOorork

oom

rROROAANA PS Doom

AOmmnoododce
Doc. No. 10.

Attending to file = - . . - -
Paid filing same - - - . -
Attending accountant general’s, bespeaking clerks :
Paid entering clerk for costs - . - -
Attending bespeaking carrying over of the funds and cash
from Hungerford vs. Drummond to this cause - -
Paid - = =
Attending vespeatinng eiirepiae over of £5, 015, bank £3 per
cents. to Mrs. Batut’s account, paid - -
Attending bespeaking direction for transfer of all the funds to
Mr. Rush in the £3 per cent. annuities - -
Paid - - - - - .
The like on reduced annuities - - -
The like on bank stock - - =
Attending bespeaking transfer to Mr. R. Rush ;
Paid - - - - - -
Paid messenger — - - - - -
instructions for affidavit as to residue of cash - -
Drawing and fair copy affidavit ~ - - -
Attending to be sworn - - - -
Paid oath - - - - -
Paid for oflice copy - - : :
Attending bespeaking check of ie of cash . -
Paid clerks for their trouble . - - -
Attending to identify Mr. Rush ov - Rivers
Paid entering check : - - .
Term fee, &c. - - - - -
Letters, messengers, &c. - - - -
For various attendance, not hereinbefere enumerated, on
Messrs. Derby and Raven, the solicitors for the attorney gen-
eral; Messrs. Pemberton, Crowley, and Gardner, the solici-
tors for Mr. de Ja Batut; and Mr. Cullington, the solicitor for
Mr. Fitall, to urge their proceeding in the several matters
connected with the suit with all possible expedition ; it
being the earnest wish of Mr. Rush that the suit should
be brought to a final conclusion with the least possible delay
May 25.—Attending Mr. Rush ; conferring very fully with him
as to the several matters remaining to be done to wind up
the suit - - - - -
June 2.—Attending Mr. Rush in a long conference as to wind-
ing up the suit, and the difliculties we had to encounter in
the accountant general’s office - - -
Attending in the city to make inquiries as to the transfer of
stock, and found it would not be made until Tuesday, but
that Mr. Rush could sell it out the same day - -
Writing to My. Rush to inform him thereof, and special mes-
senger with letter ; = = 2
Attending Mr. Rush afterwards, informing him what arrange-
ment we should suggest to him as to selling the stock -
June 4.—Attending Mr Rush again this day, conferring on the
transfer of stock, and as to winding up the suit; and he re-

—_
for) aan wnws

CH DANA RRHADDAKHFWHOWDA

—

13

13

13

a

DAR DOADAMDNDMBAAOHRNNWAM®M
36 Doc. Wo. 10.

quested us to write him an official letter announcing the
transfer of the funds - - - -
Attending at the accountant general’s, to learn if the stocks
were transferred, which we found was done -
Writing an official letter to Mr. Rush to inform him theseos
according to his request —- - z
June 5. Attending Mr. Rush, conferring very nes in what
remained to be done, and as to the pipe to be taken by him
to realize the funds - - =
Mr. Rush on the Sniees of the residue of
cash in court, which was to be paid to him, and explaining
that we could procure same out of court by Saturday ; and
he requested to be furnished witb a copy of the list of arti-
cles deposited with Mr. Deacon - - -
Copy list for him, (schedule markedF';) one trunk only, (see list)
June 8.—Attending the accountant general’s to learn if check
was 1eady for My. Rush, and found it was, and would be
signed this day - . - - wae
Writing to Mr. Rush to inform him thereof, and to make an
appointment for him to atiend and receive same -
June 12.— Attending Mr. Deacon to ascertain if the boxes
could be sent to our office; and he not being at home, writing
to him thereon - . - - -
June 18.—Attending Mr. Deacon to make appointment for
Mr. Rush to attend to inspect contents of boxes - -
Writing to Mr. Rush to inform him - - -
June 20, —Attending at Mr. Deacon’s, 31 Upper Nerton street,
to meet Mr. Rush to inspect the contents of boxes, &c.; but
the boxes being more numerous than he expected, he de-
ferred the close examination of them for the present -
June 30.—Attending Mr. Rush, conferring on what remained
to be done, and making arrangements with him as to send-
ing the box we had here, together with ihe plate and other
articles, to Mr. Deacon’s, where we should meet him and
Colonel Aspinwall, the consul, and seal all the boxes up -
Making list of the plate and other articles — - - -
Mr. Rush wishing to know what the several funds would
have realized if they could have been sold immediately
upon the death of Mr. Hungerford, attending at- Messrs,
Drummond’s to learn what the prices of the severai stocks
then were, and making a calculation accordingly ; and draw-
ing out a statement for Mr. Rush, from which it appeared
that, after deducting all the costs, the funds had. realized
£173 12s. 1d. more now than they would have done if the

funds had all been sold immediately upon the decease of

Mr. Hungerford - - - - - .
Paid for a new lock to box - - - - -
July 6.—Attending at Mr. Deacon’s to meet Mr. Rush and

Colonel Aspinwall, when the several boxes were sealed up,

and directions given for their transmission to the wharf -

tH

13

or o>

13

or

4

oo
Doc. No. 10. 57

Attending at the accountant general’s, to bespeak a transcript

ofaccount - . - > - - - - 6 8
Paid for same -- | - - - - - 8 Oo
Attending to procure same - - - - Sth 6.8
Several other attendancies upon Mr. Rush, furnishing him

with all such further information as he required previous to

his leaving this country for America . - Se Ss Oe
Letters and messengers, coach-nire, and various incidental
expenses” - - - - - - - 15 0

£490 4 10

IN CHANCERY.

Between the President of the United States of America, plaintiff,
and
Chas. Drummond, Esq., and her Majesty’s Attorney General, defendants.

Thomas Clarke, Thomas George Fynmore, and William Mark Flad-
gate, of Craven street, Strand, in the county of Middlesex, solicitors and
copartners, severally make oath and say, that the several disbursements
contained in the aforegoing account have been duly made, and that the
several charges therein contained are just and true, to the best of these
deponents’ knowledge and belief.

THOMAS CLARKE, |
THOS. G. FYNMORE,
WM. M. FLADGATE.

Sworn by all the deponents, at the public office, Southampton Buildings,
in the county of Middlesex, the 11th day of July, 1838, before me,
Ek. WINGFIELD.

Account of Thomas Aspinwall.

I, Thomas Aspinwall, of London, being duly sworn on the Holy Evan-
gelists, do declare and depose that the within account is just and true,
and that the services therein referred to and specified in the vouchers of
said account, signed by me, and marked respectively No. 1, No. 2, were
duly and actually performed.

THOS. ASPINWALL.

Sworn this seventeenth day of July, 1838, at London, before me.
J. COWAN, Mayor.
58 Doc. No. 10.

The Hon. Richard Rush, agent for the Smithsonian fund, in account
current with Thomas Aspinwall.

Dr. : Cr.
1838. | 1838. o
July 16. To am’t of invoice of | July 16. By cash received from ?
sovereigns, procured him - . - £106,370 7 3

and shipped on board

the Mediator, as per

copy herewith, £105,565 12 5
To commission for va-

rious services, as per

account No. I, here-

With week ah tye 797 15 6
To charges on 14 pack-

ages, shipped on board

the Mediator, as per

account No. 2, here-

with, - - - - 6194

£106,370 7 3 £106,370 7 3

—

THOS. ASPINWALL.
Lonpon, July 17, 1838.

(No. 1.)

The Hon. Richard Rush in account with the Smithsonian fund,
To Thomas Aspinwall, Dr.

. For services rendered throughout the month of June and up to this date,
in July; in attending your acceptance of all the stocks transferred to
you by the accountant general of the court of chancery ; advising, ne-
gotiating, and completing, under your directions, and realizing the pro-
ceeds of various contracts for the sale of the same stocks, consisting of
consols, bank stock, and three per cent. reduced annuities, sold at differ-
ent periods and in different parcels; attending payment and receipt of
balances, dividend, and the respective transfers to the various purchasers
of the same; obtaining, verifying, arranging, packing, and securing for
shipment 104,960 sovereigns, being the amount of proceeds of the
Smithsonian fund, (less premiums of insurance, charges, and expenses ;)
contracting for freight; entering and clearing at the custom-house ;
shipping and effecting insurance at the five principal offices, and with
thirty-two private underwriters at Lloyd’s.

Commission at 3 per cent. - - : 2797 Vos ede

THOMAS ASPINWALL.
Lonvon, July 17, 1838.
Lonvon, July 17, 1838.

Received of the honorable Richard Rush the within-mentionedsum seven
hundred and ninety-seven pounds fifieen shillings and sixpence sterling,
(£797 15s. 6d.) for which I have credited in my accounts, and also signed
this and a duplicate receipt of the same tenor and date.

THOMAS ASPINWALL.
£797 15s. 6d. j
Doc. No. 10. 59

Lonvon, July 13, 1838.
The honorable Richard Rush

To
Bee ae
To unpacking and repacking 14 packages, at 2s. 6d. - =) Tikae@
‘cord and nails for mending do. - = ss 3 6
£L 186

Paid 14th July, 1838. a
WILLIAM BROWN.

A true copy original in Thomas Aspinwall’s account,
JAMES M. CURLEY.

(No. 2.)

Juty 13, 1838.
Account of charges on 14 packages, marked “ the United States,’’ Nos.
1 to 14, shipped on board the ship Mediator, Christopher H. Champ-
lin master, by order of the honorable Richard Rush, for account and
risk of the Government of the United States.

, Lee a
Cartage and porterage - . - - ere Peyh cam
Duty and entry - - - - : a a
Dock dues” - - = = = + 15°10
Bills of lading - . - - - - SG
1 packing-case (No. 14) - - - - 3. 6
Shipping, entering, and clearing 14 packages, at 2s. 6d. gaan (es is WN
Cord and nails for mending do. - - - 2.) 6
“Unpacking and repacking do., and cording, ena, and

- securing, at 2s. 6d. each - - - . = less.
£619 4

Received the above amount in account with Mr. Rush :
THOMAS ASPINWALL.

Mediator, Champlin, New York.

T. ASPINWALL.
British coin for and on account. Entry, 5s. 6d.

THOMAS TANNER.
Witness: James M. Currey.
Juty 17, 1838.

When paid, to be immediately exhibited at the Department, where this
bill has been made out; by which business will be materially expedited.

* In consequence of the very loose-and éareless manner in which the boxes were originally
packed, and of the damaged state of the packages, this charge was unavoidably incurred to pre-
ent the contents from being ground to pieces, and lost on the passage to the United States.
60 Doc. No. 10.

St. Catharine Docks, No. 1872, wharfage-book, outwards.
Mr. Apinwall, Dr. to the St. Catharine Dock Company.

N. B.—The amount of these charges to be paid to the collector, who is
the only officer authorized to receive money on account of the company.

1838. Per Mediator— : Lait,
July 17. [A] 1 to 10, wharfage ane shipping 10 cases, at 2s.: 1 010
1m do. do. 1 case, ati lis. (0 1 dcO

1 Pe
(One pound one shilling.) oS ad
JuLty 17, 1838.

Received, H. WHARTON, Collector.
Witness: James M. Currey.
(Entered schedule.)

The invoice having necessarily been made up before the cases were
actually shipped on board, the usual charge of ten shillings was inserted
therein ; and it was not ascertained, until after they were shipped, that a
difference was made with respect to bullion; amounting, in this instance,
to eleven shillings, which has not been paid by Mr. Rush, but by Thomas
Aspinwall, and by him relinquished.

T. Aspinwall, Esq. to bullion porters, Dr.

1838. LO So
July 16. 11 boxes and packing sovereigns, at 3s. 6d. 5 ae" ESOS
s 105 bags for sovereigns, at 6d. - - ae oQe dag 6

e For packing and marking - - ah). OR. QS
4.13) 6

Witness: James M. Currey. Se
Paid: C. HARDINGHAM.

Colonel Aspinwall to Mrs. Clark, Dr.
1838.
July 17. For cartage and porterage of eleven boxes of
bullion from the bank to the St. Cathaiine’s
dock, - - - - =) es 8 shillings.

\ Received : HENRY x POTTER.
Witness: James M. Curtey.

Invoice of eleven fore: of gold coin, shipped on board the ship Mediator,
of New York, Christopher i. Champlin master, bound to New York,
by order of the Hon. Richard Rush, and for the account and risk of
the United States.

£ 8. @!
A Me 10. Ten boxes, each containing £10 000, (sovereigns) 100,000 0 0
. One box, containing - = = - 4,960 8S. 7

104.960 8 7

Doc. No. 10.

61

Charges.
or Wee a. CaN ACM f
105 bags, at 6d. each - . - “ip SH: 6
11 boxes, at 3s. 6d. each - - Heh 13> 6
Packing and marking - - - - 2.6
Porterage and cart-hire - - - - 8-0
Bills of lading - - - . - 3 6
Entry 5s. 6d., dock charges 10s. - - 15.36
—_—— GG.) 6
Insurance on £106,400, at 3 percent. - - 832) “Or 0
Policies and stamp-duties - . =i OF 8)...
a 599 3 4
: £105,565 12 5
THOMAS ASPINWALL.
} Policy and duty.
£ £ es
Insured with the Indemnity, — - - 30,000, for 150 1815 0
Insured with the London Insurance, - 10,000, for 50 G 25 0
Insured with the Alliance, - - 20,000, for 100 1210 0
Insured with the Royal Exchange, =) bS,000, tor 275 9 ey 6
Insured with the Marine Insurance, - 10,000, for 50 — 635-40
Insured at Lloyd’s, = - - . 21,400, for 107 14 010
L674

£106,400 £532

—________..

Mem.—The sovereigns are packed in bags of 100 each, with the ex-
ception of one, in case No. 11, which contains 960 sovereigns, and § shil-
lings and 7 pence wrapped in paper; each case being sealed with two

seals.
Juty 16, 1838.
€ L o01g‘901F

& L o01e‘90lF

0 0 006 = sjosuod “ju900 sad ¢ ‘N00‘09F UO peatooor puoplalp jo yuNOMe O,,
: Coie ONT = - - (s}s09 Jo ssaoxe) ‘s10j101]0s ay Aq paumnger yunoUe OF,
Le $2 Sou = = - - - - -  Asgouvyd jo y1n09
aY} JO [B1eUes yURUNODIE VY} WOIJ PoATEdeI YsBO Jo souR[eq OF,
CS Paybe= A=
| 0. 9° %&
Ores 0S - - aseioyoig
Gnas) - - —- sdaj 1ojsuely,
‘PO'S9TIX - siojsuen roy sdureyg
0 O1 966 °%EF 0 0 001‘91F
. 0 sLzge9 |- i 5 = 7800 “Op “OP 0 0 001*E
& | 0 0 ogz‘or |- : - G08 “op ‘op 0 0000's
(Og $991 9a = =) 970G — “°P “op 0 0 000°¢
: | O- OL 48s‘OT | - 2 - FOB 38 Plos Yoos yueq 0 0.000°9
& | © © s9s%49 |——-
Z 0 0 &6 =o
: | 0 0 06 = < eseIayolg,
PS | ‘D0 80 BF 2 - JoJSUBL],
a | 0 0 serz9
|
| | | 0 6 ose‘tt |- - i 12 ‘poonpar yuaosedg = 0 00081
G %1S9¢‘cor |- - yytmosoey ‘fdoo sad se - = ; £6 ; ‘
<OWIPW ae read wo peddiys | | 0 0 SLI 99 Poppe #66 78 pjos ‘sjosuco “yuao sed gg = +0 000°09
| aroads jo aotoaut jo yunowre Ag) ‘pg “SLT 16%°h ——-
’ 619 ytmoroy 6% ‘ON yuNooe sed se || | 9 816 —_—-——_
‘10j8Ipayy ayy preoq uo poddrys 9 &1¢ - - - aSR1oyo1g
| soseyoud pr uo pred sosreyo Ag | ‘D0 SG OF - - - JajsuBLT,
‘PO “SSI LELF | - = = - ya | | "PO "S91 L63°FF | - -- £76 18 plos ‘sjosuoo “yuv0 sad g “YE “Sel CES *hF
| -azoy *[ ‘ONT JuUNOD|B Jad sev ‘sara |} 2ZIA *SMOT[OJ 8B ‘pjos puw ‘A1aduBYp Jo 4N0D
“198 snowwA 10J pred uorsstuM0d Kg || ysry oY) Jo aaxap v Aq UNITY OF PaLIeJsUBI] SYS FUIMOT[OJ OY} 10,
| |
uaey “punf UNIUOSYIIUGY YUN JUNOIID U1 YSNY pLoyIRy “ad
R ay ¢
© aad
Doc. No. 10.

F.

Schedule referred to in the bill of costs.
A large trunk ; i
A box containing sundry specimens of minerals, marked E ;
A brass instrument ;

A box of minerals, marked F ;

A box of chemical glasses, marked G;

A packet of minerals, marked H ;

A glass vinegar cruet ;

A stone mortar :

A pair of silver-plated candlesticks and branches ;

A pair of silver-plated candlesticks, no branches ;

A hone in a mahogany case ;

A plated wire flower-basket ;

A plated coffee-pot ;

A plated small one ;

A pair of wine-coolers ;

A pair small candlesticks ;

Two pairs of saltcellars ;

A bread-basket ;

Two pairs of vegetable dishes and covers ;

A large round waiter ;

A large oval do.; two small do. ;

Two plate-warmers ;

A reading-shade ;

| Sundry articles in packet and in trunk.
(a) A gun;
(a) A mahogany cabinet ;
(a) Two portraits, in oval frames.

China tea-service, viz:

(a) Twelve cups and saucers ;
(a) Six coffee-cups ;
(a) A tea-pot ;
(a) A slop-basin;
(a) Sugar-basin and lid ;
(a) Two plates ;
(a) Milk-jug ;
(a) Tea-canister ;
(a) Two dishes ;
(a) A landscape, in a gilt frame ;
(a) A Derby spa vase ;
(a) A China tub ;
(a) A piece of fluor;
(a) A pair of glass candlesticks ;
A marble bust.
Books.

Sundry pamphlets on philosophical subjects, in packet marked A ;
The like, marked B ;

63
64 Doc. No. 10.

Struggles through life ;

Bibliotheca Parisiana ;

La Platina ’Or Blanc; *

Contorides des Indiens ;

Sunary pamphlets on philosophical subjects, marked C ;

Weld’s Travels in North America, 2 vols;

Bray’s Derbyshire ;

Twenty-three numbers of Nicholson’s Journal of Natural Philosophy,
in a case, (D;)

Memoire d’un Voyageur qui le repose ;

Hamilton in Antrim

Londres et de ses Environs ;

Stew on Solids;

Essais de Jean Key ;

Mon Bonnet de Nuit ;

Domestic Cookery ;

Catalogue de Fossils des Roches ;

The Monthly Review, 7S Nos. ;

The Monthly Review, 26 volumes ;

‘ Philosophical Transactions for the year 1826 ;
Anthologies et Fragments Philosophiques, 4 volumes ;
Two larg ze boxes filled with specimens of minerals and manuser ipt trea-

tises, apparently in the testator’s handwriting, on variov~ philosophical
subjects, particularly chemistry and mineralogy ;
Bight cases and one trunk filled with the like.

Those articles to which this mark (a) is prefixed were not in the trunk
No. 13 when it was first opened in the consulate of the United States in
our presence.

All the linen in trunk No. 13 was transferred from case 7, and sundry ar-
ticles of plated ware and philosophical instruments, &c. were transferred
from case 12. Sundry books, which were tied together, were also put in
this case. :

G. 's

43 CRAVEN STREET, STRAND, July 13, 1838.

Dear Str: With reference to the gun, a few pieces of China, and a
few other articles of a miscellaneous nature, which are mentioned in the
schedule of property formerly belonging to Mr. Smithson, (of which sched-
ule we furnished to you a copy,) and which articles do not now appear
to be amongst the property lately under the charge of Messrs. Deacon,
we beg to state that the schedule in question was a schedule prepared at
the time of Mr. Smithson’s death, now several years back, and that we
have no doubt that the articles (which appear to have been such as
would be used personally by Mr. Smithson) were handed to Mr. Hun-
gerford, who, indeed, lad he thought fit to apply for them, would, under
the direction of the court, have obiained possession of all the property
lodged with Messrs. Deacon, and which is now handed over to you as
representative of the United States.

We are, dear sir, your very obedient servants,

CLARKE, FYNMORE, & FLADGATE.

Ricuarp Rusu, Esq.
; Lee. No. 10. 65.

DervaARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, September 24, 1538.
Sia : Tam directed to transmit to you, for settlement, the enclosed ac-
count of Mr. Richard Rush, and a letter from him (No. 36) accompanying
it. The balance which may be found due to Mr. Rush he wishes to have
remitted to him. The compensation and allowance for expenses are to
be up to the period charged in the account, (the 20th instant.) é:
It is presumed that the amount repaid to Mr. Rush by the solicitors in
London, mentioned in his letter, (£116 2s. 2d. sterling,) which was paid
into the Treasury, together with the avails of the Smithsonian legacy, will
be brought to the credit of the appropriation from which it was originally
taken, and thus form a fund from which the balance due to Mr. Rush can
be paid. The papers explanatory of this circumstance have been trans-
mitted, together with the account of the legacy, to the Treasury Depart-
ment.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
EDWARD STUBBS, -dgent.
Steruen Pieasonton, Esq.,
Fifth Auditor.

SeEELSS SS USS

Treasury DepARTMENT,
December 3, 1838.

Six: | have the honor to report to you that, under the act of Congress
approved Ist July, 1536, in relation to the legacy bequeathed to the United
States by James Smithson, the sum of $508,318 46 has been received,
and paid into the Treasury of the United States.

In compliance with the provisions of the sixth section of the act of Con-
gress for the support of the Military Academy of the United States, and
for other purposes, approved 7th July, 1838, the sum of $499,500 has
been expended in the purchase of five hundred bonds of the State of Ar-
kansas, for one thousand dollars each, bearing six per cent. interest, paya-
ble semi-annually, on the first days of January and July in each year,
from the fourth day of September last, (the period of their purchase.)
The further sum of $8,270 67 has been applied to the purchase of eight.
bonds of the State of Michigan, bearing six per cent. interest, payable
semi-annually hereafter, on the first Mondays in January and July, from
the lst of May last. The interest on all these bonds is payable at the
city of New York.

There is still left in the Treasury the sum of $547 79 which has not
yet been invested, but will be as soon as a favorable opportunity offers,

The amount received in London by the agent of the United States, un-
der the decree of the court of chancery, of England, was the gross sum
of £106,490 11s. 9d., including the sum of £116 2s. 2d. for costs refunded.
This was reduced, by the payment of commissions, insurances, &c., to the -
sum of £104,960 8s. 9d., which was brought into the United States in
gold, and produced at the Mint the sum of $508,318 46, before mentioned.

This Department, having doubts as to what constituted the amount of
the Smithsonian fund, consulted the Attorney General, and he has given
his opinion (hereto annexed, A) that the proper construction to be given

)
66 Doc. No. 10.

to the legislation of Congress on this subject requires that the gross amount
of the payment made to the agent of the United States, after deducting
the costs refunded, as before stated, shall constitute tne fund, “ and all ex-
penses, of whatever kind or nature, should be paid out of the appro-
priation made by Congress.’’ That appropriation, however, not being
sufficient, an estimate will accordingly be submitted to the House of Rep-
resentatives, to enable the Department to comply with the acts of Con-
gress referred to, in accordance with the construction thus given to them
by the Attorney General.

The estimate to be submitted is for $10,000. Of this, the sum of
$128 24 will be required to make good a deficiency in the former appro-
priation. ‘The sum of $6,845 12 will be required to be added to the fund,
on the principles laid down by the Attorney General. This sum is esti-»
mated on the same ratio as upon the amount produced in the United
States on the remittance which has been received. The balance, $3,023 64,
will be required to pay the freight, &c., of the remittance, amounting to
$2,235 63, and such expenses as may be incurred in disposing of the per-
sonal effects of Mr. Smithson, which have been brought to the United
States; for the sale of which I would suggest that provision should be
made by Congress.

This report is submitted to you, in compliance with the resolution of the
House of Representatives, which you referred to this Department for the
necessary information that its archives would furnish in relation to the
call thus made on you.

Respectfully submitted :
LEVI WOODBURY,
Secretary of the Treasury.
To the Presipent of the United States.

A.

Avrorney GENERAL'S OFFICE,
November 16, 1838.

Sir: [have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 11th
of October last, requesting my opinion upon various points in relation to
the Smithsonian legacy. A separate answer to each of your inquiries is
deemed unnecessary, as the opinion I entertain, and am about to express
in general terms, will be found to cover most of them.

James Smithson, of London, on the 23d of October, 1826, executed his
last will and testament, by which, tpon the happening of certain contin-
gencies, he bequeathed to the United States of America all his property,
to found at Washington, under the tiame of the Smithsonian Institution,
an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.
The Congress of the United States, by an act passed Ist of July, 1836,
accepted the bequest, and directed the President to appoint an agent to
assert and prosecute the claim, and by said act pledged the faith of the
United States to apply the moneys and other funds which might be
received to carry into effect the provisions of said will: and, by the
fourth section of said act, it is provided, “that to the end that the claini
to said bequest may be prosecuted with effect, and the necessary expenses
Doc. No. 10. 67

in prosecuting the same be defrayed, the President of the United States
be, and he is hereby, authorized to apply to that purpose any sum not
exceeding $10,000,” &c.

From these provisions it appears to me that Congress intended. that
there should be no diminution of the funds bequeathed for the purpose
specified in said will, but that the whole, whatever they might amount to,
should be applied to carry into effect the intention of the testator ; and
when the object of the bequest is considered, it cannot be supposed that
Congress would act in any other than a liberal spirit.

My opinion, therefore, is, that the amount of the whole money and
other funds received by the agent of the United States, under the act of
July Ist, 1836, without reduction, constitute the Smithsonian fund, for
_the purposes specified in said Smithson’s will; and that the whole ex-
penses of prosecuting said claim, receiving, and transporting the same to
this country, including any additional expenses which may have been
incurred here, ought to be defrayed out of the appropriation made by
Congress.

It appears that cash and stocks, which, when converted into money,
amounted to £106,490 11s. 9d., were decreed to the United States, as the
amount of the iegacy and bequest in said will. This sum, after deduct-
ing £116 2s. 2d., the amount of costs refunded, is the amount which
should be paid to the Treasurer of the United States, to be kept and
disposed of according to the provisions of the act of July 1, 1836, and
the sixth section of the act of July 7, 1838; and all expenses, of what-
ever kind or nature, should be paid out of the appropriation made by
Congress.

Ini relation to the disposition of the other personal effects of Mr. Smith-
son, which have been transferred to this country by the agent of the
United States, my opinion is, that Congress should direct the disposition
of them.

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
FELIX GRUNDY.

Hon. Levi Woopsury,

Secretary of the Treasury.
i

gus ae ignore “ae. tga noite ite ap one

| daisies, tangs otaedcobentouviier, gyauasde teeta 7 Saat ied eel

; ® bya PORTE FIER re Veackepen dime, ach. hina oma w hy

1 indi, ie prc yey m»

Bt Sell

ih wih weg ese we
: Sie Bhiarese itonbte vaeeonb “ Le
a ee cea Gitar:
gt sol deat add Svevrelabaneia fanart act B
i  biatbe ecxcndil por etal 17 be file
x rescue : wel ae ‘ody Rew dengpeon yt sical, wtingorobacna tt elt:
Poh Baw atk vedas nik lla as asl “—~ ash and naire oe

ee

= a5
a

tk yBEHs. cherjerow st
mewrokort x ob halt: fomtes hd 7 : Binnres i.
Ob, ater aks, ean a Feng eed aise elec O0
wat big naw a py Aon APRON PEE)

pie: bib ooh

“i Ly
MS. fe gato t forathet) h, caght ab detent Ewiat gloP whEY QO2 Woh of 4 Wis
“Saikano T Siw Dine et teonqyon! tyes yargol alt Yo nagseyied

hire gow. Bad cab ieee, forte J Pr wegen EL ot Ikan aie Seep reves
RO) Siglo to. toagedt do panne: 7 Mee Oh aaioemo Tare
noelive iO EERE ihe Daa ; BRaE T vind to tos o¢th To aobiee tiie,

<t, i i eer ‘aualena ead mbes
eH eR yh Uap sla. i
4) hes

25th ConeREss, Doe. No. 11. Ho. or Reps.
3d Session. Executive.

BEQUEST OF JAMES SMITHSON.

- MESSAGE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
Upon the subject of the bequest of James Smithson to the United States.

eee

DecemsBer 10, 1838. a

Read, and referred to a select committee.

Wasuineton, December 6, 1838.
To the House of Representatives of the United States :

The act of the Ist July, 1836, to enable the Executive to assert and
prosecute with effect the claim of the United States to the legacy be-
queathed to them by James Smithson, late of London, having received
its entire execution, and the amount recovered and paid into the Treas-
ury having, agreeably to an act of the last session, been invested in
State stocks, | deem it proper to invite the attention of Congress to the
oblization now devolving upon the United States to fulfil the object of
the bequest. In order to obtain such information as might serve to
facilitate its attainment, the Secretary of State was directed, in July last.
to apply to persons versed in science, and familiar with the subject of
public education, for their views as to the mode of disposing of the fund
best calculated to meet the intentions of the testator, and prove most
beneficial to mankind. Copies of the circular letter written in compli-
ance with these directions, and of the answers to it received at the
Department of State, are herewith communicated, for the consideration
of Congress.

M. VAN BUREN.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
December 6, 1838.

The Secretary of State has ihe honor to report to the President copies
of the cireular letter written by his directions, in relation to the mode of
carrying into effect the provisions of the Smithsonian bequest, and of the
answers to it received at the Department of State.

JOHN FORSYTH.
To the PresIpENT.
2 Doc. No. 11.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, July 19, 1838.
Hon. Joun Quincy ADAMS:

Sir: By the will of James Smithson, late of London, deceased, proper-
ty to a considerable amount was bequeathed to the United States, for the
purpose, as expressed in the language of the will, of ‘founding at
Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establish-
ment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.”

The United States having, under the authority of an act of Congress,
approved the Ist of July, 1836, accepted the legacy, pledged their faith
for the performance of the trust, in such manner as Congress may here-
after direct, and reeovered the proceeds of the bequest, to the amount of
about one hundred thousand pounds sterling, the President is anxious,
in presenting the subject to Congress for their consideration and action
upon it, to aid his judgment by consulting the views of persons versed
in science and in matters relating to public education, as to the mode of
applying the proceeds of the bequest, which shall be likely at once to
meet the wishes of the testator, and prove most advantageous to man-
kind.

The President will be pleased to have, if agreeable to you to give it,
the result of your reflections on the subject, communicated through this
Department, at as early a day as convenient.

fam, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN FORSYTH.

Same letter addressed to—-

Tuomas Cooper, South Carolina.

Rienarp Rusu, Philadelphia.

Professor Francis Waywanp, Providence, Rhode Island.
AvBerRT Gavuatin, New York.

Rey. SrerHen Oxty, Boydton, Virginia.

Pnritie Linpsiey, Nashville, Tennessee.

Professor Davis, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Quincy, October 8, 1838.

Str: I duly received your letter, dated in July last, expressing the de-
sire of the President of the United States to consult the views of per-
sons versed in science and in matters relating to public education, as to
the modes of applying the proceeds of the Smithsonian bequest, to meet
the wishes of the testator, and which may prove most advantageous to
mankind, with a view to present to Congress the subject, for their con-
sideration, and action upon it.

Having been the chairman of the committee of the House of Repre-

sentatives, and reporter of the bill which became the act of July 1, 1836,
relating to this bequest, in which act the faith of the United States is
pledged for the application of the funds, placed by the founder of this
institution at their disposal, to the promotion of the great object of his
munificence, the tnerease and diffusion of knowledge among men. 1
have waited with anxious expectation the consummation of the first re- —
quisite for the accomplishment of the purpose, the recovery of the fund
itself, aware that, until that should be effected, all speculation upon the

7
Doc. No. 11. 3

most suitable appropriation of the proceeds would be premature. It is
with the warmest satisfaction that ] have learnt the successful attainment
of this preliminary end.

When, at the last session of Congress, provision was made, by the sixth
section of an act making appropriations for the West Point Academy
for the temporary investment of the Smithsonian bequest, I regretted,
first, that this provision was made not in a separate bill, but as an append-
age to one with which it had no proper connexion; secondly, that the
investment should be directed in stocks of States; and, thirdly, that it
should give tothe Secretary of the Treasury a discretionary power to
invest the fund, at a yearly interest of five per cent., at the very time
when the Government itself of the United States was issuing Treasury
notes at the rate of six per cent. Whatever may have been the ocea-
sion or the design of these arrangements, it was impossible to evade the
remarks, that here was a deduction of one per cent. a year from the free
gift of a noble-minded foreigner, for the most exalted of purposes, to
bestow it, at the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, upon some
favorite State. This did not appear to me to be an appropriation of the
fund to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, nor did it
lead me to augur very well of the sequel.

This, however, was but a temporary investment of the fund, which, |
was willing to hope, would under no consideration be made permanent.
In the report of the committee to the House of Representatives, aceom-
panying the bill which authorized the President to take the necessary
measures for recovering the fund, I had set forth, in very explicit language,
my sense of the dudies which devolved upon the Government of the
United States by their acceptance, in behalf of the nation, of this be-
quest; and, with the same views, I introduced into the bill a pledge of
the faith of the United States, that the fund should be applied to the
generous purpose of the testator.

Before leaving Washington last July, 1 took the liberty of calling upon
the President, and of expressing to him my earnest hope that, in the in-
terval before the next session of Congress, he would be prepared with
some plan for the permanent safe keeping and security, unimpaired, of
the fund itself, by an investment which would yield a certain income as
large as the ordinary interest of the country, and for appropriating that
income to the object of the testator—the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge among men.

{ was kindly received by the President, who assured me of his readi-
ness to take into consideration any suggestions which I might be disposed
to make on the subject, or those of any other person whom I might rec-
ommend.

Thus encouraged, I gave him freely the views which I entertained
with regard to fixing the permanency ef the fund, wnimpaired, and to
suitable objects of application for its annual income. The opinions
which I gave were general, and of course not matured. Further reflec-
tion since that time has but slightly modified thein, and I have not since
had the opportunity of consulting with any person in my own judgment
qualified to give counsel, at once judicious and perfectly disinterested,
for the disposal of the fund.

The provision made at the last session of Congress was made merely
for an investment for a few months, that the fund should, after the arri-
4 Doc. No. 11.

yal of the money in this country, not remain unoccupied, even until the
next session of Congress. ‘The object now first deserving attention will
be to secure the permanency of the fund entire ; for which purpose, I
must indulge the hope that it will not be intrusted to any bank, nor
loaned upon any pledge of State stocks.

I should greatly prefer that it should be disposed of as was the fund
of one hundred thousand dollars which had been held by the President
of the United States, in trust for an annuity of six thousand dollars,
payable to the Seneca Indians. By the act of February 19, 1831, the
whole fund was placed to the credit of the Department of War, and the
duty of making the annual payment to the Sencea tribe was assigned
to the Secretary. In the present case, the whole fund might pass to the
eredit of the Treasury of the United States, and the annual payment
be directed to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury. The fund of
course to be redeemable at the discretion of Congress, and otherwise
invested for the objects of the institution.

This would give an annual appropriation of 50,000 dollars, and, to
keep the fund permanently unimpaired, the annual appropriation should
be confined to that sum.

I think that no part of the money should be applied to the endowment
of any school, college, university, or ecclesiastical establishment; to
no institution for the education of youth, for that is a sacred obligation,
binding upon the people of this Union themselves, at their own expense
and charge, and for which it would be unworthy of them to accept an
eleemosynary donation from any foreigner whomsoever. Nor do | be-
lieve it to have been sirictly within the intention of the testator. For
the immediate object of the education of youth is not the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men, but the instruction of children in
that which is already known. Its result is doubtless to diffuse, and
may be to increase, knowledge among men; and so is apprenticeship to
trades, and so is the tillage of the ground, and so was to the ancient
shepherds of Egypt and Chaldea the nightly keeping of their flocks, for
it enabled them, by the habitual observation of the stars, to trace their
eourses to some of the sublimest discoveries of astronomy.

Nor could the application of the fund to any ecclesiastical or religious
sstablishment be a proper fulfilment of the testator’s intention. The
people of the United States have also religious duties to perform, for the
charge and discharge of which they should not consent to be tributary,
even in gratitude, to the bounty of any foreigner. The preaching of the
gospel, like the education of youth, promotes the increase and diffusion
of knowledge; but the worship of God, and the fulfilment of moral
duties to man, the special object of religious institutions, do not so much
import the increase of knowledge as the right use of what is known.

I suggested to the President that annual courses of lectures on the
principal sciences, physical and mathematical, moral, political, and liter-
ary, to be delivered not by permanent professors, but by persons annu-
ally appointed, with a liberal compensation for each course, were among
the means well adapted to the end of increasing and diffusing knowledge
among men.

But the great object of my soliciitude would be to guard against the
eanker of almost all charitable foundations—jobbing for parasites, and
3ops for hungry incapacity. For the economical management of the fund,
Doc. No. 11. 5

and the periodical application of it to appropriate expenditures, it should
be invested in a board of trustees, to consist partly of members of both
Houses of Congress, with the Secretaries of the Departments, the At-
torney General, the mayor of the city of Washington, and one or more
inhabitants of the District of Columbia, to be incorporated as trustees
of the Smithsonian fund, with a secretary and treasurer in one person,
and to be the only salaried person of the board; to be appointed for
four years, and be capable of reappointment, but removable for ade-
quate cause by a majority of the board. Into details it is unnecessary
to enter.

The first object of appropriation, however, in my judgment, should be
the erection of an astronomical observatory, for all the purposes of the
Greenwich Observatory, in England, and the Bureau des Longitudes, in
France. This alone would absorb the annual income of the fund for
seven years, and will form the subject of another letter.

I am, with great respect, sir, your very obedient servant,

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
Joun Forsytn, Esq.,
Secretary of State of the United States, Washington.

Quincy, October 11, 1838.

Str: Ihave reserved for a separate letter what I proposed to say in
recommending the erection and establishment of an astronomical obser-
vatory at Washington, as one and the first application of the annual in-
come from the Smithsonian bequest, because of all that I have to say I
deem. it by far the most important, and because having for many years
believed that the national character of our country demanded of us the
establishment of such an institution, as a debt of honor to the cause of
science and to the world of civilized man. I have hailed with cheering
hope this opportunity of removing the greatest obstacle which has hith-
erto disappointed the earnest wishes that I have entertained of witness-
ing, before my own departure for another world, now near at hand, the
disappearance of a stain upon our good name, in the neglect to provide
the means of increasing and diffusing knowledge among men, by a sys-
tematic and scientific continued series of observations on the phenomena
of the numberless worlds suspended over our heads—the sublimest of
the physical sciences, and that in which the field of fature discovery is
as unbounded as the universe itself. I allude to the continued and ne-
cessary expense of such an establishment.

In my former letter I proposed that to preserve entire and unimpaireé
the Smithsonian fund, as the principal ofa perpetual annuity, the annual
appropriations from its proceeds should be strictly confined to its annuai
income. That, assuming the amount of the fund to be five hundred
thousand dollars, it should be so invested as to secure a permanent yearly
income of thirty thousand ; and that itshould be committed to an incorpo-
rated board of trustees, with a secretary and treasurer, the only person
of the board to receive a pecuniary compensation from the fund. +

On the 18th of March, 1826, Mr. C. F. Mercer, chairman of a select
committee of the House of Representatives of the United States, report-
ed to that House a bill for the erection of a national observatory at the
6 Doc. No. 11.

city of Washington, together with sundry documents containing estimates
of the cost of erecting the buildings necessary for such an establishment,
for the instruments and books which it would require, and for the com-
pensation of a principal astronomer, two assistants, and two attendants.
These estimates of expense were, however, prepared upon the principle
of providing the establishment at the smallest possible expense—to which
end it was proposed that it should be attached to the Engineer’s office,
in the Department of War, and that the mathematical and astronomical
instruments already belonging to that Department should be transferred
to the use of the observatory. Ali this must of course be otherwise ar-
ranged, if the President and Congress should approve the proposal of es-
tablishing the observatory on the Smithsonian foundation. But that doc-
ument contains much valuable information, which may be made availa-
ble whenever an observatory shall be erected. It is No. 124, House
documents of the first session of the 19th Congress.

In the estimate of expenses at that time, by the Chief Engineer, he
assigned for the necessary buildings only 14,500 dollars. But as it is
desirable that the principal building, the observatory itself, should be, for
the purposes of observation, unsurpassed by any other edifice constructed
for the same purposes, I would devote one year’s interest from the fund
to the construction of the buildings; a second and third, to constitute a
fund from the income of which the salaries of the astronomer, his as-
sistants and attendants, should be paid ; a fourth and fifth, for the neces-
sary instruments and books; a sixth and seventh, for a fund from the in-
come of which the expense should be defrayed of publishing the ephe-
meris of observations, and a yearly nautical almanac. These appropria-
tions may be so distributed as to apply a part of the appropriation of each
year to each of those necessary expenditures ; but for an establishment
so complete as may do honor in all time alike to the testator and his
trustees, the United States of America, I cannot reduce my estimate of
the necessary expense below two hundred thousand dollars.

My principles for this disposal of the funds are these :

Ist. That the most complete establishment of an astronomical obser-
vatory in the world should be founded by the United States of America ;
the whole expense of which, both its first cost and its perpetual mainte-
nance, should be amply provided for, without costing one dollar either
to the people or to the principal sum of the Smithsonian bequest.

2d. That by providing from the income alone of the fund, a supple-
mentary fund, from the interest of which all the salaries shall be paid,
and all the annual expenses of publication shall be defrayed, the fund
itself would, instead of being impaired, accumulate with the lapse of
years. Ido most fervently wish that this principle might be made the
fundamental law, now and hereafter, so far as may be practicable, of all!
the appropriations of the Smithsonian bequest.

3d. That, by the establishment of an observatory upon the largest and
the most liberal scale, and providing for the publication of a yearly nau-
tical almanac, knowledge will be diffused among men, the reputation of
our country will rise to honor and reverence among the civilized nations
of the earth, and our navigators and mariners on every ocean be no lon-
ger dependent on English or French observers or calculators, for the
tables indispensable to conduct their path upon the deep.

In the document to which I have above referred, there is a letter from
Doc., No. 11. ~

Mr. de Wallenstein, then attached,to the Russian legation in this coun-
try ; a report from Major Kearney, of the topographical engineers; and
extracts from a memoir of Mr. Francis Baily, respecting a new method
of determining the longitude ; all of which contain precious information,
both of facts and of encouragement to the application of a strenuous and
persevering effort, on the part of the Government of the United States, to
contribute their effective aid, by this establishment, to the progress of
physical and mathematical science. When the opportunity for this is
afforded by the munificence of a foreigner, without needing the taxation
of a dollar upon the people, I cannot forego the hope that this opportu-
nity will not be lost, believing that, of all the physical sciences, there is
none for the cultivation of which brighter rewards of future discovery
are reserved for the ingenuity and industry of man, than practical as-
tronomy.

There is appended to the same Congressional document a memorial
to Congress, from William Allen, president of Bowdoin College, and
sundry other distinguished citizens of the State of Maine, praying for the
establishment, at the charge of the nation, of an astronomical observa-
tory in the town of Brunswick, in that State ; and a memorial of Mr.
Hassler, recommending two observatories—one in Maine and one in
Louisiana. The memorial from Maine urges with great force and ele-
gance some of the general considerations pointing to the usefulness and
importance of an astronomical observatory in the western hemisphere.
But it is doubtful, at least, whether any application of the Smithsonian
bequest can, in fulfilment of the testator’s will, be located otherwise than
in the city of Washington ; and if hereafter Congress should ever be dis-
posed io appropriate any portion of the national funds to these elevated
purposes, observatories may be erected in Maine, or Louisiana, or both,
which may be auxiliary to tie labors of the Smithsonian institution at
Washington, without in any manner interfering with its pursuits.

If the President should approve and give the weight of his reeommend-
ations to those suggestions, I have no doubt they will receive tie sanc-
tion of Congress at their next session. As I propose the appropriation for
seven successive years of all the income from the fund to this special object,
there will be ample time for considering the best manner of appropria-
ting the same income afterwards to permanent establishments for increas-
ing and diffusing knowledge among men. Nothing could be more easy
than to dispose of a fund ten times as large, without encroaching upon
the proper sphere of any school, college, university, or academy. Not
so easy will it be secure, as from arattlesnake’s fang, the fund and its in-
come, forever, from being wasted and dilapidated in bounties to feed the
hunger or fatten the leaden idleness of mountebank projectors, and shal-
low and worthless pretenders to science.

Since I began this letter, | have conferred with Mr. Bancroft, the col-
lector of the customs at Boston, concerning its object, who has promised
to communicate his views of the subject to the President. 1 may, per-
haps, after consultation with others, again address you in relation to it
before my departure for Washington.

I am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.

Joun Forsytn, Esq.,

Secretary of State of the United States, Washington.
8 Doc. No. 11.

» Provipence, October 2, 1838.

Sir: In reply to your communication dated July last, requesting my
views respecting the Smithsonian Institute, I beg leave to state as fol-
lows:

1. It is, I suppose, to be taken for granted, that this institution is in-
tended for the benefit.not of any particular section of the United States,
but for the benefit of the whole country; and, also, that no expense,
which may be necessary in order to accomplish its object will be spared.

2. 1 think it also evident, that there is no need, in this country, of
what may be properly termed collegiate education ; that is, of that edu-
cation which may be given between the ages of fourteen or sixteen, and
eighteen or twenty. All the old States, and many of the new ones,
have as many institutions of this kind as their circumstances require.
And, besides, since persons of the ages specified are too young to be,
for a long period, absent from home, it is probably better that a large
number of such institutions should be established within convenient dis-
tances of each other. The age of the pupils in these institutions would
also render it desirable that very large numbers be not associated to-
gether.

3. It is probable that professional schools—that is, schools for divinity,
law, and medicine—will be established in every section of our country.
Divinity must be left to the different Christian sects ; law will probably
be taught in the State, or at least the district, in which it is to be prac-
tised. The same will, I think, be true of medicine.

4. If the above views be correct, it will, I think, follow, that the prop-
er place to be occupied by such an institution would be the space be-
tween the close of a collegiate education and a professional school. Its
object would be to earry forward a classical and philosophical education
beyond the point at which a college now leaves it, and to give instrue-
tion in the broad and philosophical principles of a professional education.

The demand for such instruction now exists very extensively. <A
very considerable portion of our best schools now graduate as early as
their nineteenth, twentieth, or twenty-first year. If they are sufficiently
wealthy, they prefer to wait a year before studying their profession.
Some travel, some read, some remain as resident graduates, and many
more teach school for a year or two, for the purpose of reviewing their
studies. These would gladly resort to an institution in which their time
might be profitably employed. The rapidly increasing wealth of our
country will very greatly increase the number of such students.

The advantages which would result from such an institution are vari-
ous. It would raise up and send abroad in the several professions a new
grade of scholars, and thus greatly add to the intellectual power of the
nation. But, specially, it would furnish teachers, professors, and officers,
of every grade, for all our other institutions. As the standard of education
was thus raised in the colleges, students would enter the national uni-
versity better prepared. This would require greater effort on the part
of its professors, and thus both would reciprocally stimulate each other.

The branches which should be taught there, | suppose, should be the
same as in our colleges, only far more generously taught—that is, taught
to men, and not to boys—and the philosophical principles of law and med-
icine. ‘This would embrace lectures on Latin, Greek, (lebrew, and the

Doc No. 11. 9

oriental languages ; all the modern languages of any use to the scholar,
with their literature ; mathematics, carried as far as any one would desire
to pursue them; astronomy ; engineering, civil and military ; the art of
war, beginning where it is left at West Point; chemistry ; geology ; mi-
ning ; rhetoric and poetry; political economy ; intellectual philosophy ;
physiology, vegetable and animal; anatomy, human and comparative ;
history ; the laws of nations; and the general principles of law, the con-
stitution of the United States, &e.

5. Supposing such an institution to be established, something may be
added respecting the mode of its constitution and organization.

I suppose, then, that an institution of this kind is a sort of ecopartnership

between the instructers and the public. The public furnish means of edu-
cation, as building, libraries, apparatus, and a portion of the salary. The
professors do the labor, and provide for the remaining part of their in-
come by their own exertions. Hence there arises naturally a division
- of the powers and duties of the parties. To the corporation, or gov-
ernors, or trustees, or by what name they may be called, would belong
the management of the fiseal concerns of the institution, and the controi
of that portion of its affairs which depended specially upon its relation
with the public donation. The government of the institution, the con-
ferring of degrees, the appointment of professors, would be performed
jointly by the officers of instruction and the corporation.

In the English universities, the government-of the institution is vested
in a general meeting of the former graduates. This forms-a literary
public, which exercises ultimate jurisdiction in most matters which re-
quire deliberation. How far such an institution might be constructed
upon this principle, may be fairly a question.

6. If the above-mentioned views should be adopted, it will be per-
ceived that no funds will be required for dormitories. The young mer
will provide for themselves board and lodging wherever they please,
and the professors will be responsible for nothing more than their educa-

on. It is supposed that they are old enough to govern themselves.

Hence the funds may be devoted to the following purposes:

Ist. A part would be appropriated to the creation of a library, cabinets,
and for the furnishing of all the apparatus necessary to the instructers.

2d. A part to the erection of buildings for the above purposes, together
with buildings for professors’ houses.

3d. A fund wouid be established for the endowment of professorships,
giving to each so much as may form a portion, say one third or one half,
of his living, and the rest to be provided for by the sale of the tickets to
his courses. ‘

7. If the institution is governed by a board, this board should be ap-
pointed by the President and Senate, or by the President alone, and

.they should hold their office for no longer a period than six years, one
third of them retiring, unless reappointed, every two years.

8. Graduates of the university should be allowed to teach classes and
receive payment for tickets, upon any of the subjects on which instruc-
tion is given in the regular course. This will prove a strong stimulant
to the regular professors, and will train men up for teachers. “

Degrees should never be conferred as a matter of course, but only
after a strict and public examination. They should never be conferred
either in course, or causd honoris, unless by the recommendation of the

faculty.
10 Doe. No. 11.

I have thus very briefly, but as far as my avocations would allow,
thrown together a few hints upon the subject to which you have directed
my attention. That I should go into detail, I presume, was not expected.
Whatever may be the plan adopted, I presume it will not be carried into
effect until an extensive observation of the best universities in Europe
has furnished the Government with all the knowledge which the present
condition of the science of education can afford.

I have the honor to be, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,

F. WAYLAND.

Hon. J. Forsyrn,

Secretary of State.

Coxtumbia, SoutH Caro.ina,
July 20, 1838. =

Sir: With respect to the Smithson legacy, two courses only suggest
themselves to my mind: one, annual premiums for the best treatises on
given subjects, which we have not literary or scientific men enough to
supply or to enter into any thing like competition with the Bridgewater
Treatises ; and, therefore, we should only be disgraced by it ; and, there-
fore, I cannot recommend this mode of application. Add to which, it
would be very apt to degenerate into a political and party institution, in
various ways. The other is an institution of the character of an university.
I am well aware the power of erecting an university was twice refused
to Congress, in the convention of 1787. But the objection may be gotten
over by transferring the donation to the corporation of Georgetown, un-
der such limitation as may be expedient and constitutional, and let an
university be instituted by that corporation. This would be a sufficient
approximation to Mr. Smithson’s required locality, and would obviate the
constitutional objection.

Such an university ought not to be opened, except to graduates of
other colleges. The studies might be the higher algebraical calculus ;
the application of mathematics to practical mechanical knowledge of
every description, and to astronomy, to chemistry, electricity, and gal-
vanism ; the principles of botany and agriculture. No Latin or Greek ;
no mere literature. Things, not words.

Strict attendance ; strict and public examinations. [ object to all belles-
letters, and philosophical literature, as calculated only to make men pleas-
ant talkers. I object to medicine, which cannot be well taught in a !o-
cality of less than 100,000 inhabitants.

I object to law; for all that can be orally delivered can be more profit-
ably and deliberately learnt by perusal. Ethics and politics are as yet
unsettled branches of knowledge.

Whether physiology and political economy ought to be rejected, re-
quires more consideration than | can at this moment bestow. I want to
see those studies cultivated, which, in their known tendencies and results,
abridge human labor, and increase and multiply the comforts of exist-
ence to the great mass of mankind. Public education should be useful,
not ornamental. "

The course should not be less than 3 years, of 10 months each. The
instruction afforded gratis; examinations for admission rigid. Such, in
Doc. No. 11. ii

few words, are my notions on this subject, which I respectfully submit,
sir, to your better judgment.
Accept, I pray you, the assurances of my sincere and high considera-
tion.
THOMAS COOPER, M. D.

SYDENHAM, NEAR PHILADELPHIA,
November 6, 1838.

Sir: Referring to your letter of July, the receipt of which I had the
honor to acknowledge, and desiring now to meet the wishes it conveys,
however sincerely distrustful I am of myself in attempting the task, 1
proceed to remark: that a university or college, in the ordinary sense, or
any institution looking to primary education, or to the instruction of the
young merely, does not strike me as the kind of institution contemplated
by Mr. Smithson’s will; declaring it, in language simple, yet of the widest
import, to be “for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men,”
and making the United States the trustee of his intentions, it seems to
follow that it ought to be as comprehensive as possible in its objects and
means, as it must necessarily be national in its government. In turning
my thoughts to the subject, itis, therefore, only upon a basis the most com-
prehensive, under all views, that I can think of any general plan for its
organization. Hence it appears to me:

1. That even officers of the United States, abroad and at home, might
be made subservient to some of the main objects of the institution—as
their consuls, naval and military officers; and, I would add, their foreign
ministers. i

Consuls, by their residence in foreign ports, have opportunities ef be-
coming acquainted with the natural history and productions of the places
where they reside, and learning other things useful to be known. This
class of officers had instructions, at a former period of the Government,
to send home seeds, plants, and other productions, beneficial to agricul-
ture, manufactures, or any of the useful arts. But their efforts were frus-
trated or impeded for want of a fund to defray incidental expenses,
which, however small, constitutional scruples existed against providing.
The Smithsonian fund might supply the means of renewing such instruc-
tions, giving to them more scope as well as efficacy.

Our naval officers, those especially in separate commands on foreign
stations, must have opportunities of gaining knowledge in other spheres
than those to be filled by their usual reports to the Navy Department;
and the same may be said of officers of the army, in regard to the War
Department. Many of the latter, by their stations at garrisons, or em-
ployment otherwise in remote and unexplored parts of our country, have
the means, as past instances testify, of collecting facts bearing upon its
geology, its natural history in all branches, its antiquities, and the char-
acter of its aboriginal races; the communication of which might advan-
tageously fall in with the purposes of this institution, and be ultimately
promulgated through its instrumentality.

I propose to include, also, ministers plenipotentiary among the func-
tionaries who might serve the institution, and, through it, the general
public, on this occasion. By their power of commanding the best inter-
course in the several communities to which they are sent, they may open
12 Doc. No. 11.

to themselves avenues to knowledge of all kinds; the transmission of
which to the institution, under executive instructions to that effect, might
often prove of high value. It would not be expected from them but at
convenient intervals, and never when interfering with their primary du-
ties. When an appropriate channel was opened for receiving communi-
cations of this nature, they would become, it may be presumed, an agree-
able appendage to the primary duties of our ministers, affording a resource
for their leisure, with opportunities of a more enlarged usefulness to their
country, and fame to themselves. Permanent missions were once ob-
jected to by Mr. Jefferson, as not within the true theory of our foreign
‘intercourse, which seems to countenance the more a proposal for connect-
ing with them the honorable appendage suggested, since neither official
dignity nor usefulness can ever be impaired, though both may be height-
ened, by coassociation with knowledge in other fields.

2. A building to be erected at Washington, with accommodations for
the business of the institution. Ground to be attached to it, sufficient
for reproducing seeds and plants, with a view to diffusing through the
country such as might be found to deserve it. The officers of the insti-
tution to be a director, a secretary, a librarian, and a treasurer. Persons
to be under them to take care of the building and grounds. The officers
to be appointed by the President and Senate. The director to make an
annual report to Congress on the state of the institution, and oftener if
necessary. Its affairs to be subject to the visitation of the President,
aided by a standing board, to consist of the chief officers of the Govern-
ment, say, taking the example of a law already in the statute book in
relation to the finances, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, the Sec-
retaries of State and the Treasury, and the Attorney General. The
institution to have its press, as the University of Oxford, or otherwise
authority to employ one for printing communications sent to it, and the
lectures to be presently mentioned. Nothing to be printed but under
the sanction of the director and standing board of visiters. To this and
other ends, for the good government of the institution, the standing board
to have the right to call in the assistance of three or more scientific or
literary persons unconnected with it. The profits arising from all publi-
cations to go in aid of the funds of the institution. Communications from
learned societies, or from individuals eminent in science or letters, in
whatever part of the world, to be received by the director, and taken
charge of by the secretary. The director to be authorized to correspond
with any such societies or persons. A council to assemble once a month,
to consist of the officers of the institution and the lecturers attached to
it, before which all communications to be laid. Order to be then taken
upon them. Such as go upon the archives, with a view to the question
of publication, to be brought under the consideration of the standing
board of visiters at the proper time, when that question will be decided.
The director to preside at these councils, at the meetings of the standing
board of visiters, and at all other meetings required by the business of
the institution ; and the Secretary to keep the minutes. The standing
board of visiters to hold stated meetings twice a year, and assemble on
other occasions when they deem it necessary. At the commencement
of the institution, the duties of librarian and treasurer to be united in the
same person.

3. Lectureships to be established, comprehending as many of the
Doc. No. 11. 13

leading branches of physical and moral science as the funds of the insti-
tution may be able to bear. Apparatus to be provided for the branches
requiring it. One of the lectureships to be dedicated to government and
public law. When conflicting opinions on government are raging in the
world, to have the democratic principle, as modified by our systems-of
representation, and the conjoint workings of the federative and national
principle, illustrated in elementary disquisitions, apart from temporary
topics and passions, is a desideratum which the Smithsonian Institution
might supply. Such productions seem due to mankind, as to ourselves,

imperfectly described as our institutions have been, through adverse feel-

ings in the writers; it having generally fared with us as the cause of Roman
liberty fared in the hands of royal historians. Rarely can foreigners,
however enlightened, be equal to the task of justly analyzing the com-
plicated movements, unintelligible to hasty observers, yet full of harmo-
ny, that maintain the order, prosperity, and freedom, of this great eon-
federated republic, under guards combining the efficacy of popular
sovereignty with its safety. Authentic explanations of them, all issuing
from this institution, at an age when steam is quickening all intercourse
throughout the world, would give: new motives for listening to the doc-
trines and results of the democratic principle in this hemisphere. So
expounded, it would go before the world without disparagement, and be
fairly judged by its results. Under public law, the tenets of America,

now locked up in diplomacy, or otherwise hidden or overlooked in
Europe, might come into useful publicity; her proposals to Europe to
abolish privateering, and prohibit public ships from capturing merchant
vesseis upon the ocean, thus forever stripping war of more than half its
evils upon that element—a stride in civilization to transcend, whenever
it may be made, the West India_abolition act; her resistance, single-
handed, against the enforcement of British municipal law upon the
ocean, as seen in the individual miseries and national violations involved
in the feudal claim of impressment, and her desire, shown in other ways,
for freeing the international code from barbarous relies, whereby this
institution, working in its orbit of calm discussion, might become the ally
of America towards gaining for these great public benefactions, and
others, the growth of our institutions, in our days, (so maligned for re-
taining the domestic servitude bequeathed to them by our progenitors, )
favor and acceptance among nations. The steady abhorrence expressed
by this Government against F employing savages in warfare between civ-
ilized and Christian States, and its abortive negotiations to prevent it,
would further illustrate the harmonizing policy of America. Such are
samples of the maxims that might claim elucidation from an institution
reared under the sanction of this republic, and thence, by the principle
of its existence, desirous of doing justice to them, examined in juxtapo-
sition with those taught in the ancient and cloistered seminaries of the
old world, and upheld by its Governments.

The other lectureships, as the foregoing, might be made to yield, each
in its proper field, contributions to ‘‘ the increase and diffusion of know!l-
edge among men. > Tam aware that voluntary lectureships have not
always been found to succeed. But in the foundation of these, consid-
ering the time and all concomitant circumstances, there seems reasonable
ground for anticipating success. The plan would imply that the lectur-
ers be also appointed by the President and Senate. It would imply that
14 , Doc. No. 11.

their salaries be ample enough to command the best men, and admit of
the exclusive devotion of their time to the studies and investigations of
their posts. They might even be laid under the restriction of not en-
gaging in other pursuits, as our laws interdict the revenue officers
from trading. Genius being of all countries, and the intentions of the
founder peculiarly expanded, the range of our own and other countries
would be open for selecting the incumbents. The desire of fame, in-
creased by the hope of their lectures being published, might be expect-
ed to stimulate them to exertion; and if incentives so high were want-
ing, the tenure of their appointments, where the Executive and public
eye would be upon them, would act as a guard against slacknessin their
duties. Ifknowledge is power, power, directing knowledge, may make
it efiicacious. The place where the lectures were delivered would im-
part to them interest and dignity. If delivered when Congress was in
session, and not recurring too often, some of the members might be ex-
pected occasionally to attend ; as a change from the turmoil of politics,
and possibly a good influence on legislation itself, might grow out of these
new intellectual elements gathering about its precincts. To the public
functionaries of all sorts, to distinguished foreigners, and to visiters at
Washington, as well as itsresident inhabitants, the Smithsonian lectures
might prove attractive. It will have been their lot, if established, to spring
up when stupendous agents in nature, and new contrivances In art, are
changing the state of the world, in peace and for war; when this coun-
try is taking a conspicuous share in these magnificent innovations, which
some of the lectures would doubtless treat of, and when the successful
results of its popular institutions hitherto are among the causes at work
in modifying the political and social condition of other nations. Can it
be that, delivered under such circumstances, they would be devoid of in-
terest? Centring in the capital of the Union, to which the eyes of the
States are apt to turn with a curiosity both natural and ambitious, may
not these lectures do their part also, if recommended by ability, towards
raising up among us new homage to mental accomplishments and re-
nown, those memorials ofa nation’s glory, when others perish ?

Each lecturer, at the conclusion of his course, to deposite with the di-
rector a copy of his lectures. These to be published, or not, as deter-
mined by the board of visiters. Hence, if the audience in the lecture-
rooms proved, after all, to be inconsiderable, the publication of the lec-
tures, when of merit to authorize it, would be fulfilling the intentions of
the founder, and the prospect of publication be sufficient to keep up the
spirit of the lecturer. We have heard of the Bridgewater Treatises, in
England, emanating from the provisions of a munificent will. Perhaps it
might not be too sanguine to anticipate, in good time, from the Smithso-
nian lectures, disquisitions doing honor to their authors, and, let it be
hoped, to their country, whilst diffusing knowledge among men every
where. We have seen, also, the publications that issue from those recently
formed associations that hold their annual meetings in Europe, and seem
to have made science a fashion there, enrolling statesmen, and nobles,
and kings, among its votaries. May not the Smithsonian Institution mark
an occasion for our eountry to start in this rivalry of mind? The race
among nations is going on, of wealth, of power, and of science ; the two
first extending as the last extends. An immense achievement, which
the present year has finally witnessed, the crossing of the Atlantic by
Doc. No. 11. ; 15

steam, is a revolution in human affairs. Distance, once an element in our
safety, as in all our relations with the old world, and the basis on which
rested essential maxims in our policy, has disappeared. Europe has sud-
denly become neighbor to us, for good and for evil, involving consequen-
ces that baffle all foresight. Our statesmen must wake up to the mighty
change. ‘There is no time to lose. They will have to ask themselves
what are the parts of our policy to be accommodated to the change. Our
men of science, feeling new excitements from this approximation of the
hemispheres, will naturally be on the alert, growing more emulous in
their several fields. The continent that Columbus found was a desert,
or overspread with barbarous people and institutions. The continent
that steam has found teems with civilization, fresh, advancing, and una-
voidably innovating upon the old world. The statesmen, the warriors,
the active and enterprising men, the whole people of the two worlds, now
almost confront each other. It is at such a point in the destinies of Amer-
ica that the Smithsonian Institution comes into being. Bytheir physical
resources and power, the United States are well known. Their resour-
ces of intellectual and moral strength have been more in the back
ground ; but may not an auspicious development of them be aided by an
institution like this, rising up in their capital simultaneously with this new
condition of things, guarded, as it will be, by the annual watchfulness,
fostered by the annual care, and improved, from time to time, by the
superintending wisdom of Congress ?

The usefulness of the institution would doubtless be increased, if young
men could be regularly educated at it. But here imperious obsiacles
seem to interpose. I! I only, in conclusion, touch this part of the plan,
without dilating upon it, it is from a fear that the fund would not bear
their maintenance, in connexion with what has seemed to me other indis-
pensable objects. Perhaps a limited number who had passed the age of
18, taken equally from the different States, say two from each, under the
federative principle, might come to the institution, be formed into a class,
and attend its lectures for a couple or three. courses; their expenses to
be paid under such restrictions as the Government might prescribe, and
the young men to undergo public examinations at the end of the term,
prize medals being awarded by the board of visiters or a committee of
Congress, to keep the tone of ambition high. But would the fund bear
even this? Again, I fear not.

In the foregoing suggestions as to the nature of the institution, sent to
you in compliance with the President’s call, [ have confined myself to a
very general outline and a few reflections. The subject has many as-
pects, and | have dealt only with some of them, and those partially. It
is intrinsically one on which much diversity of opinion may be expected
to prevail, and that hardly any discussions could exhaust. However
honored by the President’s call, and desirous of responding to it ade-
quately, [ have felt incompetent to the task of going into the arrange-
ments in detail necessary to the complete organization of an institution,
designed by its philanthropic founder to be so universal in its scope, so
far-reaching in its benefits. It ought to have all the simplicity compati-
ble with its ends; but these are momentous, since they may run, by their
effects, into distant ages. It is like a new power coming into the repub-
lic—its means the human mind ; its ends still the triumphs of the mind ;
its fields of glory beneficent and saving—a power to give new force to
16 Doe. No. 11.

the moral elements of our institutions, helping to illustrate, strengthen,
and adorn them. Such, in my humble conception, it is, or may be made.
Even as to the brief outline I venture upon, for the plan of such an insti-
tution, I must repeat how greatly I distrust myself, sketched, as it has
been, without consultation with others, giving their thoughts to the same
subject, who might have corrected, modified, and improved, my own. If
any of these can be turned to the least profit in abler hands, or serve to
start better ones in better minds, I shall be amply rewarded.

I beg to add that this communication would have been sooner sent to
» you, but for interruptions incident to the first month or two after return-
ing to my home aftera two years’ absence.

With great respect, I have the honor to be your obedient servant,

RICHARD RUSH.

Cotiece Hix, D. C.,

November 26, 1838.

Sir: In an interview I had with you some time since, you desired me
to express my views respecting the anticipated Smithsonian Institution.
I will therefore attempt to do so, though conscious of my inability to do
justice to a subject so important in its character and relations. If it be
wisely organized, and supplied with a corps of distinguished professors
in the various departments of learning, it will affect not only the highest
interests of our country, but its influence will be felt in foreign lands.
Let it go up inacharacter worthy of its liberal founder, jet it be sustained
with the zeal and liberality becoming the object and our own reputation,
and it will add to our national points of union: in these we are not very
rich, and, therefore, should be glad to multiply them, to bind together
more firmly the elements of the American confederation. The object of
the contemplated institution is ‘the cultivation and diffusion of knowledge
among mankind.” This object, I believe, is distinctly expressed in the
will of Mr. Smithson. In making his will, he probably had his eye
upon those modern institutes and universities of Europe, which are de-
signed, not to teach the first elements of science and letters, but to re-
ceive graduates, and men looking forward to professional eminence, for the
purpose of advancing them to the highest grades of learning, and thus
to give them power to enlarge the boundaries of knowledge, by fresh
discoveries and investigations. We may conelude, then, that he intended
his bequest should be applied to the erection of an institution for liberal and
professional purposes, and for the promotion of original investigations—to
earry scholars through a range of studies much above those of the ordi-
nary collegiate course. i am happy to know that this is the opinion of
John Quincy Adams, a gentleman whose judgment in the present case
is entitled to all respect.

Admitting that this is to be its object, it is natural to inquire, in the next
place, how it should be organized, so as most fully to promote this design.
In organizing it, respect should be had to the spirit of the present age, to
the genius of our Government, and to our peculiar wants asanation. It is
of vital moment that it should receive such a shaping as will best correspond
with all the particulars. Many of the institutions of learning in Europe,
in rigidly adhering to systems of government and instruction settled for
ages, altogether different from our own, do not send forth men fitted to
Doc. No. i. wi

meet the exigencies of modern society. Though richly endowed, and
supplied with teachers of great powers and attainments, they serve for °
little else than to show the strength of the current that is setting by them.
We, at this day, and especially in this country, need men who are ae~
quaintec with something better than the learning of the ancient schools, |
men who have studied profoundly the relation of scientific principles to
practical purposes, and who can teach their fellow-men how to apply them
in advancing the public welfare.

The general superintendence of the institution may be committed toa
board of commissioners, appointed by Government, to hold their offices
during good behaviour, and with power to perpetuate their existence. In
this way, the institution would not only be free from the evils of frequent
changes and political agitations, but would secure to itself, in the highest
degree, the benefits of person:| obligation. ‘These commissioners weuld
feel a deep sense of their responsibility, and that their powers and per-
manency in place were given to them that they might have the best op-
portunity to make the institution what it ought to be—a distinguished honor
to their country, and a blessing to the world.

Let this board of commissioners procure the best men that can be
found to fill the several professorships that may be instituted ; and, in or-
der to secure the services of men of the first powers and attainments, to
lecture and conduct investigations in their appropriate denartments, let
their several means to facilitate their studies be ample, and their stated
salaries liberal; and then its public course of lecturing will be most fully
attended, numbers being allured both by the fame of the professors and
the lightness of the fees. It was in consequence of high salaries that the
the University of Gottingen, in the 18th century, rose to the first emi-
nence in Germany.

As the funds are not now, nor are they likely to be for some time to
come, sufficient to support professorships in the whole cirele of science,
it will be necessary to make aselection. The temptation will be to un-
dertake too much. A few chairs, well filled and well sustained, would
effect more than a number far greater than there are adequate means to
support. In deciding upon the branches of knowledge to be taught, I
would select those that would make the institution as much American as
aregard for general science will allow. In addition to the ordinary
professorships of law, of medicine, of ihe exact sciences, and physics,
of classical literature, and of modern languages, &c., | would have
one of the English literature, one of Ameriean history, one of Ameri-
ean constitutional law and jurisprudence, one of American institutions,
one of civil engineering and architecture, one of the practical appli-
cation of the exact sciences to the mechanic arts.

You will perceive that [ have said nothing about professorships in the
department of metaphysics. I would rather leave the whole business of
ethical and moral philosophy to be taught elsewhere, than to introduce it

as a distinet course in a national institution of learning.

Some of the above professorships are of a local and novel character ;
but this, I trust, will not be urged as an objection against them. The
achievement of our independence formed an epoch in the political
world. Let, then, the institution of this, eur first national university,
form an epoch in the republic of science. Much might be said in rec-
ommending the branches appropriate to our country. They are such

2

»*
18 Doc. No. 11.

as ought to be adopted, out of a regard to our reputation and to our present
wants and future prospects. What have we done, as yet, to enrich
and improve our own tongue? Besides, when we consider that the
English language imbcdies, perhaps, richer treasures of science and
literature than any other, and when we consider that itis spoken by
two of the most commercial, enterprising, and powerful nations upon the
earth—nations which are doing more than any other two that can be na-
med, in forming colonies, and in diffusing knowledge and the light of Chris-
tianity—how powerful is thé motive to cultivate and carry it to the high-
est state of refinement and power.

With regard to buildings, it may be remarked that it would be wisest
to erect no more than are necessary for the library, the apparatus, a
cabinet of minerals, collection of niodels, specimens, curiosities, &e.,
for the accommodation of the professors, when lecturing or engaged in
their investigations. The scholars, instead of eating in common, might be
accommodated in private boarding-houses. If this course be pursued,
the interest which has acerued and which willaccrue onthe bequest, be-
fore the institution can be organized, will probably be sufficient to erect
all the necessary buildings, and leave a handscme sum to be expended
upon a Jibrary, apparatus, &c., so that the whole of the original dona-
tion may be invested for a permanent fund.

It will be of vital moment that the professors and students should be
rich in the external means of knowledge——an extensive and well-chosen
_ library, instruments, apparatus, models, specimens, &e. Especially would
I recommend that there should be an astronomical observatory connect-
ed with the institution. The expense of this would not be very gre#t,
and the Government are already in possession of many of the requisite
instruments. By such means, a meridian may be established, not only
for our own country, but for the western continent. To this all our na-
tiopal surveys, our charts, &c., may be referred. Astronomical observa-
tions might be made, for which our position and climate offer peculiar
advantages. There is now no observatory worth naming in this part
of the world. Let, then, the American Government now build one, and
it will not only be an honor to the nation, but it will be a powerful reason
for giving permanency to the present seat of Government.

It may not be thought best to employ any artificial means for stimulants
to rivalship, and to seek for literary honors. Congress will always have
the right of visitation, and they can, if they please, direct the committee
whom they may appoint to attend the stated examinations of the various
classes, to award medals, or some other mark of distinction, to those schol-
ars who shall give the best proof of proficiency, or the ablest essayson ap-
pointed subjects. But it should be remembered that the community at large
constitute, in fact, the most efficient board of overseers, and that that insti-
tution will be the most honored and frequented, which sends forth the best
prepared and the most faithful agents to meet the wants of their country.

I have the honor, sir, to be yours, with sentiments of great respect

and esteem, ;
S. CHAPIN.
To Martis Van Buren,
President of the United States.
~
ae

FIRST REPORT

OF

THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

TO THE

BOARD OF REGENTS;

A PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION, AND AN ACCOUNT OF THE OPERA-
TIONS DURING THE YEAR.

PRESENTED DECEMBER 8, 1847.

WASHINGTON :
RITCHIE & HEISS, PRINTERS.
1848.
9 re ee Re der, _— lion!

f Fk Geo " ars i' Pa je te ati "7 wb , Gels! cn a
¥ a } we vf 4 rm . j \ ea ‘ are Wi of brit $d Ss pone sath Frag
4 ni | ' ‘ + baad Pasi , ae wif A 3 a4 ea * rite Ch “ae rae: thes Ul

“rs : . | ding we vit - au peered

a

ery
Pe eS ue
‘ He eee
ws | Ly ‘
eZ a
. >
‘
t I Wy
ba
’ 5 int
1 Pay 4)
‘
, 1
j | ‘
,
wih! i
aa iy
j i ia
amb i '
Hit err at H
«
» 24 7. ay
, 1

Sa ni
areiinane lelsaye .
erm havobrort .
} me rie > ive ne zr
ft Be Dae ivan “ yng 2 “as id wi i d saat ed

r a
to “ina ithe

aa = ef ‘ at he ty ; veld oni ts ei .
REPORT.

GENTLEMEN: A statement of the financial condition of the Smithsonian
Institution, and of the progress made in the erection of the building, hav-
ing been presented to your board by the committees charged with the care
of these objects, it becomes my duty, as Secretary of the institution, to give
an account of what has been done relative to the development of the plan
of organization, and of the steps which have been taken in the way of
carrying it into operation.

In accordance with my instructions, I consulted with men of eminence,
in the different branches of literature and science, relative to the details of
the plan of organization, and arranged the various suggestions offered, in
the form of the accompanying programme. This, after having been sub-
mitted to a number of persons in whose knowledge and judgment I have
confidence, is now presented to the board, with the concurrence of the
Committee on Organization, for consideration and provisional adoption. I
regret that my engagements have been such as to render it impossible for
me to call upon many persons whose counsel would have been valuable,
but I hope hereafter to avail myself of their advice in behalf of the institu-
tion. TL also regret that I could not give the names of those whose sug-
gestions have been adopted in the programme; the impossibility of ren-
dering justice to all, has prevented my attempting this. Many of the sugges-
tions have been offered by different persons, independently of each other;
and, indeed, the general plan of the increase and diffusion of knowledge
as adopted by the board, is such as would naturally arise in the mind of
any person conversant with the history of physical science, and with the
means usually employed for its extension and diffusion.

The introduction to the programme contains a series of propositions,
suggested by a critical examination of the will of Smithson, to serve asa
guide in judging of the fitness of any proposed plan for carrying out the
design of the testator. ‘The first section of the programme gives the de-
tails of the plan proposed for the increase and diffusion of knowledge by
means of publication and original researches. The second section fur-
nishes the details, so far as they can be made out at the present time, of
the formation of a library, and a collection of objects of nature and art.
‘These two plans combined, embrace the general propositions adopted by
the Board of Regents at their last meeting, as the basis of future operations.
It is intended in the proposed plan to harmonize the two modes of increasing
4

and diffusing knowledge, and to give to the institution the widest influ-
ence compatible with its limited income. ‘That all the propositions will
meet with general approval cannot be expected; and that this organization
is the best that could be devised is neither asserted nor believed. To
produce a priort a plan of organization which shall be found to succeed
perfectly in practice, and require no amendment, would be difficult under
the most favorable circumstances, and becomes almost impossible where
conflicting opinions are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of
the act establishing the institution are to be observed. It is not intended
that the details of the organization, as given in the programme, should be
permanently adopted without careful trial; they are rather presented as
suggestions to be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into operation
gradually and cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as expe-
rience may dictate.

PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

[Presented to the Board of Regents December 8, 1847.]

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a plan of
organization.

1. Witt or Smiruson. The property is bequeathed to the United States
of America, ‘‘ to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian
Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.’’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator.

3. The institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup-
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and perpetuate
his name.

4. The objects of the institution are—Ist, to increase, and 2d, to diffuse
knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of
new truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus increased,
among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating and
promoting the discovery of new truths, and can he most efliciently diffused
among men by means of the press.
5

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as to enable the institution to produce results in the way of increas-
ing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the existing
institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provisionally,
can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be abandoned,
in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to make up for the loss of time occasioned by the delay
of eight years in establishing the institution, a considerable portion of the
interest which has accrued should be added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the construc-
tion of the building; and not only should the first cost of the edifice be
considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, and of
the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it. There
should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by
the plan of the organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be benefited
by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on local
objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from the
will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the act of
Congress establishing the institution. These area library, a museum, and
a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to contain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the institution, in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To IncrEase Know tence. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
Suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To Dirruse Knowtepce. It is proposed—

1. 'To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the different
branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general in-
terest.
6

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.
J. By stimulating researches.

1. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original me-
moirs on all branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, in
a quarto form, and entitled ‘‘Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.”’

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be acccepted for pub-
lication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge
resting On original research; and all unverified speculations to be rejected.

4. Each memoir presented to the institution to be submitted for exami-
nation to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the branch
to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publication only in
case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. ‘The commission to be chosen by the officers of the institution, and
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favorable
decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the Transactions of
literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given toall the colleges
and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies
may be offered for sale; and the other carefully preserved, to form complete
sets of the volumes, to supply the demand from new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs to be
given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to Congress.

Il. By appropriating a portion of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by
counsellors of the institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in course
of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, with
the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contri-
butions to Knowledge,

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, magnet-
ical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation of a
Physical Atlas of the United States,

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination of
the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light; chemical
7

analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of articles of science,
accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral,
and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in
American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the different
races of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surveys of
the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year inall
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interesting,
but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the reports
may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the income of the
institution, or the changes in the branches of knowledge, may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators, eminent in the dif
ferent branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publications,
domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; to be
paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-page of the
report.

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons interested
in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, without pur-
chasing the whole.

5.’ These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribution ;
the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institutions, and
sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the
reports.

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and
meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4, Application of science to arts.
8

Il. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, an-
tiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world ; penal reform, &c.

Ill. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

II. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general in-
terest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs, trans-
lated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction of
the institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposition of
a given subject.

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of
competent judges previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the table
of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Committee on
Organization, viz: the statistics of labor, the productive arts of life, public
instruction, &c.

SECTION Ii.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents, providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in-
cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the
income into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library and
a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.
9

4. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings
of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important cur-
rent periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the
periodical reports.

5. The institution should make special collections, particularly of ob-
jects to verify its own publications.

6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of expert-
mental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those mentioned
above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should
be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may be such
as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and.
other materials, should be collected for rendering the institution a centre
of bibliographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any
work which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase by
donation, as rapidly as the income of the institution can make provision
for their reception, and therefore it will seldom be necessary to purchase
any articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of arts casts of
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense,
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of anti-
quities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides the
Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act as
librarian.

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, with
the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establishment, of
the literary and scientific operations of the institution; to give to the
Regents annually an account of all the transactions; of the memoirs which
have been received for publication; of the researches which have been
made; and to edit, with the assistance of the librarian, the publications of
the institution.

15. The duty of the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, will be, for
the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and pur-
chase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the board,

books and catalogues, and to procure the information before mentioned ; to
2
° 10

give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the Secretary in editing
the publications of the institution and in the other duties of his office.

16. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art; also distinguished individuals should be invited to give
lectures on subjects of general interest.

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the

et of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the
Smithsonian Institution, other assistants will be required.

Haplanations and ilustrations of the programme.

Though the leading propositions of the programme have been fully dis-
cussed by the board, yet it will be important to offer some remarks in ex-
planation and illustration of them in their present connexion.

That the institution is not a national establishment, in the sense in which:
institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must be evi-
dent when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely given to the
United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely: the estab-
lishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name of the
donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of all the
good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest. ‘The operations
of the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be mingled as little as
possible with those of the government, and its funds should be applied ex-
clusively and faithfully to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.

That the bequest is intended for the benéfit of men in general, and that
its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even nation,
may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also from the
character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote, from a scrap of
paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on this point:
‘¢™™he man of science has no country; the world is his country—all men,
his countrymen.’’ The origin of the funds, the bequest of a foreigner,
should also preclude the adoption of a plan which does not, in the words
of Mr. Adams, “‘ spread the benefits to be derived from the institution not
only over the whole surface of this Union, but throughout the civilized
world.’’? ‘Mr. Smithson’s reason for fixing the seat of his institution at
Washington obviously was, that ¢here is the seat of government of the
United States, and there the Congress by whose legislation, and the Ex-
il

ecutive through whose agency, the trust committed to the honor, intelli-
gence, and good faith of the nation, is to be fulfilled.”? The centre of
operations being permanently fixed at Washington, the character of thts
city for literature and science will be the more highly exalted in proportion
as the influence of the institution is more widely diffused.

That the terms increase and diffusion of knowledge are logicaliy dis-
tinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, must be
evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, and not as
mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to which Smithsen
devoted his life. In England there are two classes of institutions, founded
on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. ‘The Royal Society, the Astro-
nomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the Antiquarian Societies, all have
for their object the increase of knowledge; while the London Institution, the
Mechanics’ Institution, the Surry Institution, the Society for the Diffusion
of Religious Knowledge, the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge,
are all intended to diffuse or disseminate knowledge among men. In
our own country, also, the same distinction is observed in the use of the
terms by men of science. Our colleges, academies, and common schools,
are recognised as institutions partially intended for the diffusion of knowl-
edge, while the express object of some of our scientific societies 1s the pro-
motion of the discovery of new truths.

The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowl-
edge; though propositions have been frequently made for devoting the
funds exclusively to the promotion of certain branches of science having
more immediate application to the practical arts of life, and the adoption of
these propositions has been urged on the ground of the canformity of such
objects to the pursuits of Smithson; but an examinsiion of his writings
will show that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general
knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philosoph-
ical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great system of
truth. To restrict, therefore, the ‘operations of ‘the institution to a single
science or art, would do injustice ‘to the character of the donor, as well as
to the cause of general knowledge. If preference is to be given to any
branches of research, it should be to the higher, and apparently more ab-
stract; to the discovery of new principles, rather than of isolated facts. And
this is true even in a practical point of view. Agriculture would have for-
ever remained an empirical art, had it not been for the light shed upon it
by the atomic theory of chemistry; and incomparably more is to be ex-
pected as to its future advancement from the perfection of the microscope,
than from improvements in the ordinary instruments of husbandry.
12

The plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge, presented in the first
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance with the sev-
eral propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in the in-
troduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of interesting
the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the institution,
and of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms an active
organization, exciting all to make original researches who are gifted with
the necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, now only ac-
cessible to the few, among all those who are willing to receive it. In
this country, though many excel in the application of science to the prac-
tical arts of life, few devote themselves to the continued labor and patient
thought necessary to the discovery and development of new truths. The
principal cause of this want of attention to original research, is the want,
not of proper means, but of proper encouragement. The publication of
original memoirs and periodical reports, as contemplated by the programme,
will act as a powerful stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by pla-
cing in bold relief the real laborers in the field of original research, while
it will afford the best materials for the use of those engaged in the diffu-
sion of knowledge.

‘The advantages which will accrue from the plan of publishing the vol-
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, are various. In the
first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favorably known
wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep it in continual
remembrance with each succeeding volume, as long as knowledge is val-
ued. <A single new truth, first given to the world through these volumes,
will forever stamp their character as a work of reference. The contribu-
tions will thus form the most befitting monument to perpetuate the name
of one whose life was devoted to the increase of knowledge, and whose
ruling passion, strong in death, prompted the noble bequest intended to
facilitate the labors of others in the same pursuit.

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs will
afford to the institution the most ready means of entering into friendly
relations and correspondence with all the learned societies in the world,
and of enriching its library with their current transactions and proceedings.
But perhaps the most important effect of the plan will be that of giving to
the world many valuable memoirs, which, on account of the expense of the
illustrations, could not be otherwise published. Every one who adds
new and important truths to the existing stock of knowledge, must be
of necessity, to a certain degree, in advance of his age. Hence the
number of readers and purchasers of a work is generally in the inverse

a
13

ratio of its intrinsic value; and consequently, authors of the highest
rank of merit are frequently deterred from giving their productions to
the world on account of the pecuniary loss to which the publica-
tion would subject them. When our lamented countryman, Bowditch,
contemplated publishing his commentary on La Place, he assembled his
family and informed them that the execution of this design would sacri-
fice one-third of his fortune, and that it was proper his heirs should be con-
sulted on a subject which so nearly concerned them. ‘The answer
was worthy of the children of such a father: ‘“‘ We value,”’ said they,
‘your reputation more than your money.’’ Fortunately, in this in-
stance, the means of making such a sacrifice existed; otherwise one of
the proudest monuments of American science could not have been given
to the world. In the majority of cases, however, those who are most
capable of extending human knowledge are least able to incur the expense
of the publication. Wilson, the American Omithologist, states, in a letter
to Michaux, that he has sacrificed everything to publish his work: ‘I
have issued,’’ he says, ‘‘ six volumes, and.am engaged on the seventh, but
as yet I have not received a single cent of the proceeds.’’ In an address
on the subject of natural history, by one of our most active cultivators of
this branch of knowledge, we find the following remarks, which are directly
in point: ‘‘ Few are acquainted with the fact that from the small number
of scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, our naturalists not
only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecuniary loss from their publi-
cations. Several works on different branches of zoology, now ia the course
of publication, will leave their authors losers by an aggregate of $15,000.
I do not include in this estimate works already finished—one, for instance,
the best contribution to the natural history of man extant, the publication
of which will occasion its accomplished author a loss of several thou-
sand dollars. A naturalist is extremely fortunate if he can dispose of 200
copies of an illustrated work, and the number of copies printed rarely exceeds
250.” It may be said that these authors have their reward in the reputa-
tion which they thus purchase; but reputation should be the result of the
talents and labor expended in the production of a work, and should not
in the least depend upon the fact that the author is able to make.a pecu-
niary sacrifice in giving the account of his discoveries to the public.
Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published in
the Smithsonian Contributions free of expense, his labors will be given to
the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of learned men; and
his merits will be generally made known through the reports of the insti-
tution. ‘Though the premiums offered may be small, yet they will have
considerable effect in producing original articles. Fifty er a hundred dollars
14

awarded to the author of an original paper, will, in many instances, suf-
fice to supply the books, or to pay for the materials, or the manual labor
required, in prosecuting the research.

There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to much
discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation; 1 allude
to that which excludes from the contributions all papers consisting merely
of unverified speculations on subjects of physical science. The object of
this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which would occur in
rejecting papers of an unphilosophical character; and though it may in
some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet the strict observance
of it will be found of so much practical importance that it cannot be dis-
pensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption of this proposition,
that we are disposed to undervalue abstract speculations: on the contrary,
we know that all the advances in true science—namely, a knowledge of the
laws of phenomena—are made by provisionally adopting well-conditioned
hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and subsequently verifying
them by an appeal to experiment and observation. Every new hypothesis
of scientific value must not only furnish an exact explanation of knowa
facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind and quantity, the phe-
nomena which will be exhibited under any given combination of cir-
cumstances. ‘Thus, in the case of the undulatory hypothesis of light, it
was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the supposition were true -
that light consisted of waves of an ethereal medium, then two rays of light,
like two waves of water under certain conditions, should annihilate each
other, and darkness be produced. ‘The experiment was tried, and the
anticipated result was obtained. tis this exact agreement of the deduc-
tion with the actual result of experience that constitutes the verification of
an hypothesis, and which alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to
a place in the Transactions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected
that it is much easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few
of all the hypotheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific
verification.

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a
memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication, 1
would refer to the correspondence, given in a subsequent part of this report,
relative to the memoir now in process of publication by the institution.
As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of other inst-
tutions, but to co-operate with them, so far as our respective eperations are
compatible, communications may be referred to learned societies for inspec-
tion, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, and abstracts of them
given to the world through the bulletins of these societies, while the details
15

of the memoirs and their expensive illustrations are published in the vol-
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions. The officers of several learned
societies in this country have expressed a willingness to co-operate in this
way.

Since original research is the most direct way of increasing knowl-
edge, it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the bequest
should be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons can
be found, and their labors be directed to proper objects. ‘The num-
ber, however, of those who are capable of discovering scientific prin-
ciples is comparatively small; like the poet, they are ‘‘born, not
made,’’ and, like him, must be left to choose their own subject, and
wait the fitting time of inspiration. In case a person of this class has
fallen on a vein of discovery, and is pursuing it with success, the better
plan will be to grant him a small sum of money to carry on his investiga-
tions, provided they are considered worthy of assistance by competent
judges. This will have the double effect of encouraging him in the pursuit,
and of facilitating his progress. The institution, however, need not depend
upon cases of this kind, even if they were more numerous than they are,
for the application of its funds in the line of original research. There are
large fields of observation and experiment, the cultivation of which, though
it may afford no prospect of the discovery of a principle, can hardly fai!
to produce results of importance both in a practical and a theoretic point of
view. As an illustration of this remark, I may mention the case of the in-
vestigations made afew years ago by committees of the Franklin Institute,
of Philadelphia. 'The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
placed at the disposal of this society asum of money, for the purpose of
making experiments with reference to the cause of the explosion of steam-
boilers. A committee of the society was chosen for this purpose, which
adopted the ingenious plan of writing to all persons in the United States en-
gaged in the application of steam, and particularly to those who had observed
the explosion of a steam-boiler. In this way opinions and suggestions in
great variety, as to the cause of explosions, were obtained. The most
plausible of these were submitted to the test of experiment: the results ob-
tained were highly important, and are to be found favorably mentioned in
every systematic work on the subject of steam which has appeared, in any
language, within the last few years. New and important facts were es-
tablished; and, what was almost of as much consequence, errors which had
usurped the place of truth were dethroned.

In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original re-
search to which the attention of the institution may be turned. I will
16

mention one in this place, which, in connexion with the contents of our
first memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude toa small appro-
priation made annually for researches with referencé to the remains of the
ancient inhabitants of our country. This is a highly interesting field,
and what is done in regard to it should be done quickly. Every year the
progress of civilization is obliterating the ancient mounds, cities and vil-
lages are rising on the spots they have so long occupied undisturbed, and the
distinctive marks of these remains are every year becoming less and less
legible.

In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affecting
men in general by the operations of the institution, it is evident that the
principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the press. ‘Though lec-
tures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to direct
the establishment of his institution, yet, as a plan of general diffusion of
knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inadequate; every
village in our extended country would have a right to demand a share of
the benefit, and the income of the institution would be insufficient to supply
a thousandth part of the demand. It is also evident that the knowledge
diffused should, if possible, not only embrace all branches of general in-
terest, so that each reader might find a subject suited to his taste, but also
that it should differ in kind and quality from that which can be readily
obtained through the cheap publications of the day. These requisites
will be fully complied with in the publications of the series of reports pro-
posed in the programme. A series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all
the discoveries in science from time to time, and giving a well digested ac-
count of all the important changes in the different branches of knowledge,
is a desideratum in the English language. The idea is borrowed from a
partial plan of this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and for an
example of what the work should be, I would refer to the annual report to
the Swedish Academy of its perpetual Secretary, Berzelius, on physical
science. ‘The reports can be so prepared as to be highly interesting to the
general reader, and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive
cultivator of a particular branch of knowledge. Full references should
be given, in foot-notes, to the page, number, or volume of the work from
which the information was obtained, and where a more detailed account
can be found. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the preparation of
these reports should be intrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted
with the subjects to which they relate—namely, to those who are devoted
to particular branches, while they possess a knowledge of general princi-
ples. Sufficient explanations should be introduced to render the report in-
17

telligible to the general reader, without destroying its scientific character.
Occasionally reports may be obtained from abroad—as, for example, ac-
counts of the progress of certain branches of knowledge in foreign coun-
tries—and these may be translated, if necessary, and incorporated into other
reports, by some competent person in this country.

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro-
poses to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. There
are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would
be of much value. ‘The preparation of these, however, should be intrusted
to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be subjected
to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they are given to
the public. hey may be presented in the form of reports on the existing
state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may sometimes consist
of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of literature and science,
translated from foreign languages. The reports and treatises of the insti-
tution, sold at a price barely sufficient to pay the expense of printing, will
find their way into every school in our country, and will be used not as
first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of reliable information for the
teacher.

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been
made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by
the act of Congress establishing the institution. ‘The two plans, namely,
that of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects
of nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoni-
ously with each other. The only effect which they will have on one
another is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds
given to the other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical
expenditure of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the plan
of finance, suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the building,
much good may be effected in each of the two branches of the institution.
To carry on the operations of the first, a working library will be required,
consisting of the past volumes of the transactions and proceedings of all
the learned societies in every language. ‘These are the original sources
from which the most important principles of the positive knowledge of our
day have been drawn. We shall also require a collection of the most im-
portant current literature and science for the use of the collaborators of the
reports; most of these, however, will be procured in exchange for the pub-
lications of the institution, and therefore will draw but little from the li-
brary fund. For other suggestions relative to the details of the library, I

3
is

would refer you to the annexed communication from Professor Jewett, As-
sistant Secretary, acting as librarian. (See appendix No. 1.)

The collections of the institution, as far as possible, should consist of
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the
visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan be
kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. A per-
fect collection of all objects of nature and of art, if such could be obtained
and deposited in one place, would form a museum of the highest interest;
but the portion of the income of the bequest which can be devoted to the
increase and maintenance of the museum, will be too small to warrant
any attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. It is hoped that in due
time other means may be found of establishing and supporting a general
collection of objects of nature and art at the seat of the general govern-
ment, with funds not derived from the Smithsonian bequest. For the
present, it should be the object of the institution to confine the application
of the funds, first, to such collections as will tend to facilitate the study of
the memoirs which may be published in the Contributions, and to estab-
lish their correctness; secondly, to the purchase of such objects as are not
generally known in this country, in the way of art, and the illustration of
antiquities, such as models of buildings, &c.; and, thirdly, to the formation
of a collection of instruments of physical research, which will be required
both in the illustration of new physical truths, and in the scientific inyes-
tigations undertaken by the institution.

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the institution
at Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on siated
evenings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assem-
blies, after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution tn
London. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture,
new truths in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited.
Besides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects by
the officers of the institution, or by distinguished individuals invited for
the purpose.

Commencement of the operations of the institution.

I was authorized, in connexion with the Committee on Organization, ta
commence the publication of the Smithsonian Contributions to Know!-
edge, and to receive any memoir which might be presented on any subject,
provided it was found, on examination, to furnish an interesting addition
to the sum of human knowledge, resting on original research. The
first memoir presented, and found to be of the character prescribed by
19

the resolution of the board, was one on the remains of the ancient in-
habitants of the North American continent. It contains the result of
several years’ labor in the survey and exploration of the mounds and earth-
works of the Mississippi valley, and will furnish a highly interesting addi-
tion to the antiquities of our country, which could not have been given to
the world, but for the timely aid extended to it by this institution. ‘The
memoir was referred to the American Ethnological Society, with a request
that a committee of its members might be appointed to examine and re-
port on its character, as to fitness for publication in the Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Knowledge. On the favorable report of this committee, and
on the responsibility of the society, the memoir has been accepted for pub-
lication. The following correspondence will serve to give an account of
the work, and to illustrate the manner in which it is proposed to submit the
papers which may be presented for publication to a commission of com-
petent judges.

CORRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE ACCEPTANCE FOR PUBLICATION OF THE
ETHNOLOGICAL MEMOIR OF MESSRS. SQUIER AND DAViS.

From Messrs. Squier and Davis to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

CuituicoTHE, O., May 15, 1847.

Dear Sir: It is proposed in the recognised plan of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution, of which you are the executive officer, to publish,
under the title of ‘‘ Smzthsonian Contributions to Knowledge,’ such original
papers and memoirs ‘‘ as shall constitute valuable additions to the sum of hu-
man knowledge.’ Under the belief that it falls legitimately within the scope
of the above plan, the undersigned herewith submit for acceptance and publi-
cation, subject to the prescribed rules of the institution, a MS. memoir, entitled
‘« AnctenT MonuMENTS OF THE Mississippi VaLLEy, comprising the results of
Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations: by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis.”
The extent of these investigations, and their general character, are sufficiently
indicated in the prefatory remarks to the volume.

With high consideration, we are truly yours,

E. GEO. SQUIER.
E. H. DAVIS.
JosePH Henry, Esq,.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

From the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the President of the Amer?-
can Ethnological Society.

WasHINGTON, June 2, 1847.
Dear Sir: I am authorized by the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
to publish, in the numbers of the ‘ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,’
any memoir which may be presented for this purpose, provided that, on careful
20

examination by a commission of competent judges, the memoir shall be found
to furnish a new and interesting addition to knowledge, resting on original re-
search. The accompanying memo1, entitled ‘ Ancient. Monuments of t the Mis-
sissippt Valley,” &c., having been presented for publication, I beg leave to refer
the same, through you, to the American Ethnological Society, with the re-
quest that a committee of the members may be appointed to examine and
report on its character, in reference to the particulars above mentioned. If the
report of the committee be favorable, the memoir will be accepted for publica-
tion ; full confidence being placed in the ability of the committee to judge of
the character of the article, and in their caution in making up their opinion.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. ALBERT GALLATIN,
President American Ethnological Society.

Extract of aletter from the President of the American Ethnological Society to
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

‘New York, June 12, 1847.

“ Dear Sir: I have the honor to enclose a copy of the proceedings and
resolutions of the New York Ethnological Society upon the MS. work on
American Antiquities, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, submitted with
your letter of the 2d inst.

‘‘T approve entirely of the resolutions and recommendations of the society.

‘Whatever may be the intrinsic value of the remains of former times which
are found in the United States, it is necessary that they should at least be cor-
rectly described, and that existing gross errors should be corrected; and I re-
peat my conviction that, though ardent, Messrs. Squier and Davis are animated
by that thorough love of truth which renders their researches worthy of entire
confidence.

‘‘T have the honor to be, &c.,

« ALBERT GALLATIN.

“ Prof. J. HENRY,

“ Secretary of Smithsonian Institution.”

At a regular meeting of the American Ethnological Society, held at the
house of the Hon. ALpert GALLATIN, on the evening of the 4th of June, the
president laid before the members a communication from Professor J Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting, for the examination and
opinion of the society, a MS. work on the Ancient * Aboriginal Monuments of
the United States. On motion, the letter and accompanying MS. were refer-
red to a committee consisting of Epwarp Rogrinson, D. D., Joun R. Barrett,
Professor W. W. Turner, Samuet G. Morton, M. D., and Hon. Grorce P.
Marsu, to report upon the same. At a subsequent meeting of the society,
this committee submitted the following report and resolutions, which were’
unanimously accepted and adopted :
21

REPORT.

The committee of the American Ethnological Society, to which was referred
the communication of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting
amanuscript work, entitled ““ ANctenr Monuments or THE Mississippi VAL-
LEY, comprising the results of Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations,”
by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, beg leave to report, that

They have examined the work in question, and regard it not only as a new
and interesting, but as an eminently valuable addition to our stock of knowl-
edge on a subject little understood, but in which is felt a deep and constantly
increasing interest, both in our country and abroad. In their judgment, the
work is worthy of the subject, and highly creditable to the authors. Its chief
features are, a scientific arrangement, simplicity, and directness of statement,
and legitimate deduction from facts, while there is no attempt at mere specula-
tion or theory. If published, it will be an enduring monument to connect the
names of the investigators in honorable and lasting remembrance with the great
subject of American Archeology.

The existence and progress of these investigations were made known to
the society by correspondence early in the year 1846; and in June of that year
specimens of the relics recovered, accompanied by numerous maps and plans of
ancient earthworks and sectional views of the mounds from which the remains
were taken, were laid before the society by Mr. Squier in person. These ex-
cited deep interest and surprise in all who saw them; and the society imme-
diately took measures to encourage further investigation, and secure the publi-
cation, under its own auspices, of the important results already obtained. A
few months later, the chairman of the present committee, being in Ohio, was
enabled, through the kindness of Messrs. Squier and Davis, to visit several of
the more important monuments in the immediate vicinity of Chillicothe, and,
among these, ‘‘Mound City,” so called, from which very many of the minor relics
and specimens were procured. He was struck with the accuracy of the plans
and drawings, as well as of the accounts which had been laid before the socie-
ty, and bears full testimony to the fidelity and integrity with which the process
of investigation and delineation has been conducted.

During the last and present season the researches of these gentlemen have
been actively prosecuted and widely extended, and the above work, largely il-
lustrated, comprising the results, has been prepared. These results are so nu-
merous and important, and consequently such is the extent and magnitude of
the work itself, as to put its publication beyond any means which the society
can command. Under these circumstances, your committee learn with pleas-
ure that preliminary arrangements have been made for its publication by the
Smithsonian Institution, among its ‘Contributions to Knowledge.” It can only
be a matter of sincere gratification to this society to see that which it cannot
itself accomplish for the history and antiquities of our country, taken up and
carried out under such favorable auspices: and they cannot but rejoice that an
opportunity is thus afforded to that noble institution of opening its high career
by fostering scientific researches into the interesting problems connected with
the Ante-Columbian history and Aboriginal monuments of our own country.

In view of these facts, your committee would recommend the adoption of the
following resolutions by the society :

Resolved, That this society regard the researches of Messrs. Squier and
Davis as of very great importance in American Archeology, and as casting much
light upon our aboriginal antiquities, especially upon the character and habits
of the earliest races which had their seat in the Mississippi valley.
22

Resolved, That we regard the work prepared upon this subject as one of
great general interest, and as worthy to be adopted for publication by the Smith-
sonian Institution, both as resting on original researches, and as affording re-
markable illustrations of the history of the American continent.

Your committee would also append to this report the accompanying letters
from Samuel G. Morton, M. D., of Philadelphia, and Hon. George P. Marsh, of
Vermont, both members of this society, and joint members of this committee.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

- EDWARD ROBINSON, )
JOHN R. BARTLETT, + Commiitee.
W. W. TURNER, \
New York, June, 1847.

New York, June 9, 1847.

I have examined with much interest and attention the manuscripts, drawings,
and ancient relics in the possession of Mr. E. G. Squier, and am happy to
say that my previous impressions concerning the value of the researches of that
gentleman and his associate are fully confirmed. It is fortunate for the cause
of American Archeology that the first systematic attempt at its elucidation
should have been conceived and executed in so truly philosophical a spirit; and
rich as this age already is in antiquarian lore, it has, Ithink, received few more
important contributions than that which the enlightened and generous zeal of
these two private gentlemen is about to confer upon it. The Smithsonian col-
lections could not begin with a more appropriate or creditable essay: and I
hope that every facility may be afforded to the authors in bringing before the
public the results of their honorable labors in as suitable a form and with as
little delay as possible.

GEO. P. MARSH.

PHILADELPHIA, June 8, 1847.

As a member of the committee of the American Ethnological Society, ap-
pointed to report on the memoir on American Archwology, by Messrs. E. G.
Squierand E. H. Davis, Ihave great pleasure in saying that after a careful and
repeated inspection of the materials in the hands of those gentlemen, I am con-
vinced they constitute by far the most important contribution to the Arche-
ology of the United States that has ever been offered to the public. The num-
ber and accuracy of their plans, sketches, &c., have both interested and sur-
prised me, and it is gratifying to learn that the preliminary arrangements have
been made for their publication under the honorable auspices of the Smithso-
nian Institution.

SAML. GEORGE MORTON.

The memoirs of Messrs. Squier and Davis will occupy the greater portion,
if not the whole, of the first volume of the Contributions. The illustra-
tions will consist of fifty-five quarto plates of the mounds, earthworks, and
maps of the adjacent country; also, of about two hundred wood-cuts,
principally delineations of the various articles found in the mounds.
Those who consider no branch of knowledge of any value but such as
23

relates to the immediate gratification of our physical wants, have objected
to the acceptance of this memoir as one of the first publications of the
institution; but it must be recollected that the will of Smithson makes no
restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge, and that each
branch is, therefore, entitled to a share of his bequest. The Ethnological
memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis was the first, of the proper character,
presented for publication, and hence it was entitled to the first place in the
series of Smithsonian Contributions. Besides this, it furnishes an addition
to a branch of knowledge which is at this time occupying the attention of
a large class of minds, and which cannot fail to be interesting to every
intelligent person who would learn something of the changes to which
man has been subjected.

One of the volumes of the Contributions will contain a sketch of the life
of Smithson, by the Chancellor. The materials for this have been col-
lected from the several volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Society,
and the scientific journals of the beginning of the present, and the latter part
of the last century. ‘The first volume will be published as soon as the
wood-cuts and plates, now in the course of preparation, are finished.

Besides the memoirs before mentioned, a number of others have been
presented, some of which, though apparently of interest, and the product
of thought and labor, were not of the character required by the resolution
of the board, and these have either been returned to the authors, or are in
the possession of the Seeretary. A number of others have also been pro-
visionally adopted, or are in the course of preparation. Some of these are
on the most abstruse parts of physical science, and all will do honor to the
intellectual character of our country. Though the number of original
memoirs which will be found worthy of a place in the Contributions will
probably not be large, yet it will, perhaps, be best to set apart a definite
portion of the income of the bequest—as, for example, at present three or
four thousand dollars annually—to defray the expense of this part of the
plan of increasing knowledge. A considerable portion, however, of the
sum thus expended will be returned to the institution in the form of addi-
tions to its library. I may also suggest, in this place, the propriety of the
adoption, by the board, of a resolution inviting all engaged in original re-
search to send the results of their labors for publication in the Smithso-
nian Contributions.

The board also directed me to commence the collection of apparatus,
and I accordingly sent orders to Europe, to the amount of twelve hundred
dollars, for the purchase of such articles as could not be procured in the
United States. Most of the instruments have been received, and will
24

be found of importance, not only in the way of original research, but
also in illustrating some of the most interesting and recent phenomena
of physical science, as well as serving as samples for imitation to the art-
ists of this country. It was thought that these articles would be admitted
free of duty, and a petition to this effect was presented to the Secretary of
the Treasury; but, though this officer is well known to be much interested
in the prosperity of the institution, such is the nature of the law that the
duty could not be remitted.

There is an article of apparatus which, within a few years past, has
opened almost a new world of research in the phenomena of life and
organization, the use of which is now indispensable in advancing our
knowledge of physiology and its kindred branches of science. I allude to
the achromatic microscope, to increase the power of which, the artists of
Germany, France, and England have vied with each other. On account
of the small number of persons who are capable of constructing the proper
lenses, the best specimens of this instrument are very scarce in this coun-
try, and can be procured only at a great expense. Under these circum-
stances, it was a matter of much interest to learn, from a source which
could be relied upon, that an individual in the interior of the State of
New York had successfully devoted himself to the study of the micro-
scope, and that he was able to produce instruments of this kind which
would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe. In order to
do justice to the talents and labors of this person, as well as to furnish the
institution with a valuable instrument of research, I requested him to con-
struct a microscope, to be paid for out of the funds for the purchase of
apparatus, provided that a commission, appointed by myself, should find it
capable of producing certain effects. This proposition was accepted, and
the result will probably be given to the board at the next meeting.

Preparations have also been made for instituting various lines of physi-
cal research. Among the subjects mentioned in the programme as an ex-
ample for the application of the funds of the institution, is terrestrial magnet-
ism. I need scarcely say that this is a subject not only of high interest in
a theoretical point of view, but also in its direct reference to navigation and
the various geodetical operations of civil and military life. A resolution
of Congress, authorizing the exploration of the mineral lands adjacent to
the great lakes, has given to us the means of advancing this branch of
knowledge with but little expenditure of the funds of the institution. The
Secretary of the Treasury readily agreed to the proposition that there
should be added to the mineralogical and geological surveys of these
regions, determinations of the dip, the variation, and the intensity of the
25

magnetic forces, provided that the Smithsonian Institution would furnish
one set of the instruments, and take charge of the direction of the obser-
vations, and of reducing and publishing them. In the survey of the min-
eral lands in the vicinity of lake Michigan under Dr. Jackson, Dr. Locke,
of Cincinnati, has been employed with his own apparatus; and to supply
ihe necessary instruments for the survey in Wisconsin, preliminary steps
have been taken to procure other instruments from London.

Another subject of research mentioned in the programme, and which has
been urged upon the immediate attention of the institution, is that of an ex-
tensive system of meteorological observations, particularly with reference
to the phenomena of American storms. Of late years, in our country,
more additions have been made to meteorology than to any other branch
of physicalscience. Several important generalizations have been arrived at,
and definite theories proposed, which now enable us to direct our attention,
with scientific precision, to such points of observation as cannot fail to
reward us with new and interesting results. It is ‘proposed to organize a
system of observations which shall extend as far as ‘possible over the
North American continent; and in order to this, it will be necessary to en-
gage the co-operation of the British government. I have accordingly ad-
dressed a letter on this subject to Lieutenant Colonel Sabine, corresponding
secretary of the Royal Society, who assures me that, as soon as the plan
is fully matured for this country, there will be no difficulty in establishing
a system of corresponding observationsin the British provinces. 1 have also
addressed letters to several gentlemen distinguished for ‘their attainments in
meteorology, asking for suggestions as to the plan of observation; and I beg
leave to refer the board to the accompanying report of Prof. Loomis, of New
York University, and also to the communication df Prof. Espy,, received in
answer. (Appendix Nos. 2 and 3.) ‘The former contains an exposition of
the advantages which may be derived from the study of meteorology, and
what has been‘done in this branch of science in this country, and what
encouragement there is for the further prosecution of the same subject,
together with a general plan of operations. ‘The present time appears to
be peculiatly auspicious for commencing an enterprise of the proposed
kind. 'The citizens of the United States are now scattered over every part
of the southern and western portion of North America, and the extended
lines of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the more northern
and eastern observers to be on the watch for ithe first appearance of an
advancing storm.

All which is respectfully submitted.
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary.
‘Yo the Recents of the Smithsonian Institution.
4
26

APPENDIX No. 1.

Liztract from a communication of Professor Jewett, Assistant Secretary
of the institution, acting as librarian.

My prar sir: As Ido not expect to have the pleasure of seeing you again
before the meeting of the Regents, I will, with your indulgence, refer to
some of the principal matters which will require attention in commencing
the library. They would no doubt all occur to you in their order, but I
have thought you might find it convenient to have this part of the busi-
ness in some degree prepared to your hands. <A great deal of preparatory
work is to be gone through with, before any books can be placed on the
shelves.

1. On the plan proposed for the library, it seems to me that the first
thing to be done is to make arrangements for obtaining catalogues, printed
or in manuscript, of the principal libraries of the United States; to ex-
amine these libraries, as far as can be done personally, in order to know
their general character, the statistics of their increase, &c.; and to form
such alliances with the librarians as will be indispensable in making the
library of the institution, in conformity with the suggestion of Dr. Bache,
a supplemental one, and a centre of bibliographical yeference. Some
libraries possess printed catalogues complete nearly down to the present
time; others are several years behindhand. It will be necessary to pro-
cure manuscript catalogues in continuation of those which have been print-
ed, and to make arrangements for receiving, from month to month, or from
year to year, lists of all future accessions. ‘These supplementary cata-
logues should all be prepared on a uniform plan. The titles should be written
on cards of the same size, so that they may be placed together in one al-
phabetical arrangement, in order to facilitate research. A mark placed
on the back of each card will designate the library from which it came.
Now, in every library with which we are in correspondence some one must
be employed to do this. It would be merely clerk’s labor, where the cata-
logues are properly kept, and no doubt the librarian or assistant might in
every case be induced to undertake it for a small compensation.

2. The next thing to be done will be to make arrangements for pro-
curing the books to which we are entitled by the 10th section f the char-
ter of the institution. Unless something be done, this provision, in course
of time, will bring in comparatively few books in ayear. Ihave no doubt
that publishers generally would readily send their books, if the subject were
properly presented to them, and arrangements made by which they could
transmit them to Washington without subjecting the institution or them-
selves to expenses altogether disproportioned to the value of the books.
27

It has occurred to me that perhaps the several district clerks might be in-
duced to attend to the business: it is perhaps legally their duty to do so, but
I suppose it would be unsafe to rely upon their performing faithfully such an
unexpected duty, unless they received for it some additional compensation.
Besides this, a circular might be printed and sent to publishers, setting
forth the advantages which would result directly to the cause of letters,
eand indirectly to themselves, from compliance with this requirement. By
these means I think we should obtain nearly all the publications of impor-
tance issued from the American press.

3. The selection of books for the first purchase must be made. This
will, [ suppose, comprise three classes of works: 1. Those which may be
immediately needed in the scientific department; 2. Bibliographical works
and descriptions, histories and catalogues of similar institutions; and, 5.
The general collection, consisting of the memoirs, transactions, and jour-
nals of the learned societies of Europe and America. These three classes of
books will forma library quite unique, and one of great utility. The
catalogue, if it be made with fulness and accuracy, will be a valuable pub-
lication. I think, further, that a somewhat extended list of books should
be made out for future purchases. ‘These lists should be intrusted to
honest and faithful men in some of the principal book marts in Europe,
with orders to buy the books whenever they can find them—at say one-
half the ordinary prices. In this way we should obtain at very low prices
great numbers of the books which we shall want. Of course, the same
list should not be left with different men. ‘The work should be done
with care, and by consultation with the best scholars in the country. It
will be difficult to find the necessary bibliographical helps. The best col-
lection of them in the country is in the library of the Brown University,
but this is very imperfect.

4. The first purchases are to be made, and the arrangements for future
purchases. ‘These, of course, should not be commenced until the lists are
as far completed as they can judiciously be in this country.

5. Another subject contemplated in the programme of organization, and
which should receive immediate attention, is the procuring of copies of some
of the most celebrated worl:s of art. It will probably be best to confine the
purchases at first principally to plaster casts of some of the finest specimens
of ancient and modern statuary. These can be procured very cheap, and
convey, of course, a perfect representation of the original. I have no doubt
that for a public institution, and one under national auspices, we could,
whenever we desire it, obtain permission to take casts directly from the
statues.

The expense of doing so would of course be somewhat greater than
that of purchasing such copies as might be found in the market, but a
28

small difference in expense is not to be thought of in such acase. It
would further be desirable to commence the purchase of the models of an-

tiquities, such as models in cork of some of the houses, temples, theatres,,
baths, &c., &c., in Pompeii and Herculaneum. These can be procured

at comparatively small prices. Models of every interesting part of Pompeii

which has been excavated, presenting in miniature a perfect view of nearly

the whole on the scale of 1 foot to 150, might be procured for about $2,000"
It might also be well to procure a few Etruscan vases; also a few antique

coins and medals, sufficient to convey some illustration of numismatics, as

a subsidiary branch of history. The Regents should of course decide

what proportion of the appropriation for collections should each year be

expended for these purposes. I will merely remark that $1,000, or even

$500 at the outset, prudently expended, would procure a very interesting

collection.

I have thus stated quite in detail the work which must be done before |
the library can be ready for use, or rather before any part of it can be placed
upon the shelves. Before it can be ready for use, much more is to be done
in arranging and cataloguing. ‘To lay properly the foundation of a large
library is a slow work, and much time must necessarily be consumed in
producing but small visible results.

T am, my dear sir, very truly, your friend and servant,

C. ©. JEWETT.

Proressor Henry, LL. D.,
Ss

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX No. 2.

Report on ihe Meteorology of the United Siates: By Professor Loomis.
Submitted to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

My pear sir: Believing that the science of meteorology has now ar-
rived at that stage of advancement in which a more powerful combination
of observers is needed to secure any rapid progress, I fully concur in the
importance of establishing an extended system of observations under the
direction of the Smithsonian Institution, and propose in this report briefly
to inquire,

I. What advantages society may expect to derive from the study of me-
teorology, particularly that branch of it which relates to the phenomena of
storms.

Ii. What has already been done in this country, Ist, towards making
the necessary observations; and, 2d, towards deducing from the observa-
tions general laws.
29

fil. What encouragement there is to a further prosecution of the same
researches; and,

IV. I shall offer a plan for securing these advantages in their fullest ex-
tent.

I. Of what importance to society is the study of meteorology ?

Very little argument is needed to prove that our comfort and convenience,
and not unfrequently our lives and property, are dependent upon meteoro-
logical phenomena. ‘This is proverbially true of the mariner. The mo-
ment he embarks upon the treacherous sea, he finds himself at the mercy
of the winds. His life often depends upon the fidelity with which he
watches every change in the aspect of the sky. Ina single hour he may
exchange the deceptive calm for the fatal tornado. The number of dis-
asters upon the sea is frightful, and is far greater than is generally known.
In the gale of December 15, 1839, 89 vessels were wrecked on the Massa-
chusetts coast; and of these, 61 ona single cape. In the great hurricane of
1780, 13 battle-ships were lost, and 16 more dismasted. England and
America alone suffer an annual loss from wrecks of more than 1,000 ves-
sels, and nearly one-half of this is on the American coast.

But how can the study of meteorology benefit the sailor? Will it en-
able him to calm the tempest—to subdue the raging of thesea? This we
do not expect; yet, if he can anticipate the approach of a storm even by a
few hours, he may generally place himself beyond the reach of its fury.
Isit in the power of science to enable the navigator to anticipate the
coming tempest? If so, then it would be difficult to name a subject
of more vital importance to our commerce. How far this object has been
already attained, and what encouragement there is to expect further dis-
eoveries, I shall consider hereafter.

The sailor is not the only person who has an interest in the study of
meteorology. Although buta small part of the population of the United
States are directly engaged in foreign commerce, yet so important has this
department of industry become, and so interwoven with all the business
of the country, that there is not a trade or profession which does not feel
the shock of any great disaster at sea. Aside from this indirect interest,
the farmer is directly dependent upon the weather for the consummation of
his plans, almost equally with the sailor. Severe drought or excessive
rains, untimely frost or a scorching sun, may blast all the hopes of the
husbandman. Here it may be asked, do you expect to produce rain or
sunshine at pleasure? Probably not. But if we can anticipate the gene-
ral character of a season, the farmer may regulate his time of planting or the
nature of his crops, so as to be least injuriously affected by unpropitious
weather; so that, if we cannot strip the lightning of its power, we may at
least direct it harmlessly to the earth.
30

Again, an extensive series of meteorological observations may prove of
immense importance to the scientific physician. It cannot be doubted
that the salubrity of a climate is to a great extent dependent upon its me-
teorology—on its mean temperature, the range of the thermometer, the
suddenness of its changes, the moisture of the air, excessive rains or un-
usual droughts, &c. ‘To trace the connexion between these causes and
prevalent diseases, requires an accumulation of precise meteorological ob-
servations made in every variety of exposure, and continued for a long pe-
riod of time. ‘That it is possible to discover such a connexion, if it really
exist, cannot admit of a reasonable doubt; nor is it difficult to anticipate
the important consequences which must flow from it. ‘To discover the
cause of disease is the first step towards acure; and itis by no means
chimerical to suppose that acomplete system of meteorological observations
throughout the United States might be the means of extending the dura-
tion of human life.

It cannot, then, be questioned that meteorology is a subject of the greatest
practical importance, provided it has any solid foundation for a science. If
the laws of storms can be. discovered, this knowledge must be of the
highest importance to mankind, particularly to those who are employed in
navigating the sea. If the prevalent character of a season can be antici-
pated, it would save the husbandman much bitter disappointment from the
failure of his crops. If the influence of climate upon disease could be
detected, it might add years to the mean duration of human life. What
encouragement there may be to anticipate that these results will ever be at-
tained, I shall consider after inquiring—

II. What has already been done for the promotion of meteorology,

1, In the way of making the necessary observations.

Previous to the year 1819, no combined systematic effort had been made
in this country for the promotion of meteorology. Registers had been in-
dustriously kept by various private individuals, but they were without
any concerted action. In 1819, under the direction of the then Secretary
of War, John C. Calhoun, a system of meteorological observations was
commenced at the different military posts, which has been continued to the
present time. This was a highly important movement, and was prompted
by a most liberal spirit. It has furnished us with an approximate knowl-
edge of the mean temperature of a considerable number of stations, many
of them remote from the more populous parts of the United States. It
should, however, be remembered that the instruments provided never ex-
ceeded a thermometer and a rain-gauge ; and the observations, therefore,
had of necessity a limited range.

In 1825, a similar system of observations was introduced into the State
of New York, almost without modification. Each of the academies incor-
31

porated by the Board of Regents was furnished with a thermometer and a
rain-gauge, and was required to keep a register, after a prescribed form, in
order to be entitled to a portion of the public literary fund. This system
has now continued for more than twenty years, and the number of
academies reporting has increased from ten to forty. ‘The plan was highly
creditable to the public spirit and scientific taste of New York. It wasa
movement in advance of public sentiment in the other States, and the ob-
servations Were, perhaps, as extensive as it was expedient to undertake at
that time. ‘These observations have determined, with considerable aceu-
racy, the mean temperature of the State; and the annual report contains
a vast amount of important meteorological statistics.

More recently, Pennsylvania has setan example of the same kind to her
sister States. In 1837 the legislature of that State appropriated $4,000 for
the advancement of meteorology; and out of this sum, which was placed
at the disposal of a joint committee of the American Philosophical Society
and Franklin Institute, a barometer, two common thermometers, a self-
registering thermometer, and a rain-gauge, were purchased for each county
in the State, to be placed in the hands of some skilful observer who
should volunteer to keep a journal of the weather, according to a com-
mon form prescribed by the committee. The observations were com-
menced with little delay, and have been regularly continued. Here are
made observations of the barometer and thermometer three times a day; of
the self-registering thermometer; the winds estimated for sixteen points of
the compass; the depth of rain; and, at some stations, observations of the
dew-point.

In the year 1843, the system of observations at the military posts was
reorganized upon a scale more in accordance with the claims of science.
They now comprise observations of the barometer, attached and external
thermometer, wet-bulb thermometer; direction and force of the wind; di-
rection, velocity, and amount of clouds; each at four hours of the day,
viz: sunrise, 9a.m., 3 and 9p. m.; together with the amount of rain,
and the times of its beginning and ending.

Thus it appears we have observations from the general government at
about sixty posts, stretching along the entire Atlantic coast, the gulf of
Mexico, the Indian territory beyond the Mississippi, and the chain of
the northern lakes. Next come the observations of two large States,
New York and Pennsylvania. And then we have amateur observers,
pretty numerous in New England—scattered more sparingly over the south
and west.

I now come to the inquiry, what progress has been made,

2, Towards deducing from these observations general laws.
iB y4

In the list of philosophers who have contributed to create science out of
the crude materials furnished by observation, I shall first mention Mr.
Redfield. His first paper on the storms of the Atlantic coast appeared in
April, 1831, in volume 20 of the American Journal of Science. This
paper gives a full account of the hurricane of September, 1821, which was
traced from the West India islands northward alorg the whole line of ow
coast. It contained also a notice of the storm of August 17, 1830, and two
or three other storms of the same year. From a comparison of all the ob-
servations, Mr. Redfield derived the conclusion that those storms were
great whirlwinds. In 1833 he published the following general proposi-
tions, as embodying the results of his investigations:

1. The severe storms of the Atlantic coast often originate in the tropical
latitudes, where they are distinguished by the name of hurricanes.

2. These storms cover, at the same moment of time, a surface whose
diameter varies from one to five hundred miles, and in some cases they
have been much more extensive. They act with diminished violence
towards the exterior, and with increased energy towards the interior.

3. While south of the parallel of 30° these storms pursue their course
towards the west, on a track which inclines gradually to the northward.
in the vicinity of latitude 30° their course changes somewhat abruptly te
the northward and eastward, and the track continues to incline gradually
to the east, towards which point, after leaving the lower latitudes, they ad-
vance with an accelerated velocity. The rate of progress may be estimated
at from 12 to 30 miles an hour.

A. The duration of the storm at any place within its track depends upon
its extent, and the rate of velocity with which it moves.

3. The direction of the wind over the greater portion of the track is not
the direction of the progress of the storm.

6. In the lower latitudes, while drifting to the westward, the direction of
the wind at the commencement of these storms is froma northern quarter,
usually from northeast to northwest, and during the latter part of the gale,
it blows from a southern quarter of the horizon.

7. North of the parallel of 30°, and while pursuing their cowrse to the
northward and eastward, these storms commence with the wind from an
eastern or southern quarter, and terminate with the wind from a western
quarter.

8. On the outer portion of the track, they exhibit at their commence-
ment a southerly wind, which, as the storm comes‘ever, veers gradually to
the westward, in which quarter it terminates.

9. Along the central portion ef the track, the first force of the wind is
from the southeast; but after blowing for a certain period, it changes sud-
33

denly to an opposite point, from which quarter it blows with equal vio-
lence, till the storm has passed over: it is under this portion of the storm
that we notice the greatest fall of the barometer, and the mercury usually
begins to rise a short time previous to the change of wind.

10. On the inner portion of the track the wind commences from a more
eastern or northeastern point of the horizon, and afterwards veers by north
to a northwest or westerly quarter, where it finally terminates.

11. Hence Mr. Redfield infers that the portion of the atmosphere which
composes the body of the storm blows in a horizontal circuit around a verti-
cal axis of rotation, which is carried onward with the storm, and that the
direction of the circuit is from right to left.

12. The barometer always sinks while under the first portion of the
storm, and rises again under the last portion of the gale.

In 1835 Mr. Redfield published an analysis of several additional storms
which visited the American coast, and accompanied his paper with a chart,
upon which eleven of these tracks were carefully represented. In subse-
quent years Mr. Redfield continued his investigations, and in 1846 he
published an analysis of three additional hurricanes, making sixteen storms
whose tracks are delineated upon his chart of the Atlantic coast. The re-
sults of all these investigations served to confirm substantially the conclu-
sions published in 1833. |

In the Journal of the Franklin Institute for April, 1836, Mr. Espy
commenced the publication of a series of essays, in which he announced a -
new theory of storms; and he has since continued his researches up to
the present time. ‘The following generalizations, given in his own words,
are the latest at which he has arrived: ,

1st. The rain and snow storms, and even the moderate rains and snows,
travel from the west towards the east, in the United States, during the
months of January, February, and March, which are the only months yet |
investigated.

2d. There is a depression of the barometer near the central line of
the storm.

3d. The central line of minimum pressure is generally of great length
from north to south, and moves sideforemost towards the east.

Ath. This line is sometimes nearly straight, but generally curved, and
most frequently with the convex side towards the east. ;

5th. The velocity of this line is such, that it travels from the Mississippi
to the Connecticut river in about twenty-four hours; and from the Con-
necticut to St. John, Newfoundland, in nearly the same time, or about
thirty-six miles an hour.

5
a4

6th. When the barometer falls suddenly in the western part of New
Iangland, it rises at the same time in the valley of the Mississippi, and also
at St. John, Newfoundland.

7th. In great storms, the wind, for several hundred miles on both sides
of the line of minimum pressure, blows towards that line directly or ob-
liquely.

Sth. The force of the wind is in proportion to the suddenness and
amount of the barometric depression.

9th. In all great and sudden depressions of the barometer, there is much
rain or snow; and in all sudden great rains or snows, there is a great fluc-
tuation of the barometer.

10th. Many storms are of great and unknown Iength from north to
south, reaching beyond our observers in the gulf of Mexico, on the one
hand, and beyond the northern lakes on the other, while their east and west
diameter is comparatively small. The storms, therefore, move side-
foremost.

11th. Most storms commence in the ¢ far west,’’ beyond the stations of
our most western observers; but some commence in the United States.

12th. When a storm commences in the United States, the line of mini-
mum pressure does not come from the “ far west,’? but commences with:
the storm, and travels with it towards the east.

13th. There is generally a lui} of wind at the line of minimum pressure,
anc sometimes a calm. |

14th. When the wind changes to the west, the barometer begins to rise.

15th. There is generally but little wind near the line of maximum pres-
sure, and on each side of that line the winds are irregular, but tend out-
wards from that line.

16th. The fluctuations of the barometer are. generally greater in the
northern than in the southern parts of the United States.

i7th. The fluctuations of the barometer are generally greater in the
eastern than in the western parts of the United States.

18th. In the northern parts of the United States, the wind, in great
storms, generally sets in from the north of east, and terminates from the
north of west.

19th. In the southern parts of the United States the wind generally sets
in from the south of east, and terminates from the south of west.

20th. During the passage of storms the wind generally changes from
the eastward to the westward by the south, especially in the sowthern parts
of the United States.

The importance of, verifying, modifying, or refuting these generaliza-
tions, will appear more fully by a consideration of the following theory,
39

which first led to the adoption of the plan of laying down the phenomena
of storms on maps, as here recommended to you:

ist. When the air near the surface of the earth in a particular locality
acquires a higher temperature or a higher dew point than that of surround-
ing regions, it will ascend, on account of a less specific gravity—perpen-
dicularly if there is a calm.

2d. As it ascends it comes under less pressure and expands, and be-
comes colder by expansion, about one degree and a quarter for each hun-
dred yards.

3d. The dew-point falls about one quarter of a degree, by the expansion
of the vapor, for each hundred yards; and, therefore, when the ascending
air rises as many hundred yards as the dew-point is below the temperature
of the air at the surface of the earth in degrees of Fahrenheit, the cold of
expansion of the air will begin to condense the vapor contained in it, and
thus form cloud.

Ath. As soon as the vapor begins to condense into cloud, the latent
caloric will begin to be evolved, which will diminish the cooling effect of
its expansion in its further ascent, sometimes a little more and sometimes
a little less than one-half, according as the dew-point is above or below
70° of Fahrenheit.

5th. When the air has ascended high enough to have condensed by
the cold of expansion, from diminished pressure, one-hundredth of its
weight of vapor, its temperature will be about 48° warmer from the evolu-
tion of the Jatent caloric than it would be by going up to the same height
without vapor in it, and will then be about 48° warmer than the air around
the cloud at the same elevation, and of course about one-tenth lighter.

6th. The air in the cloud being thus specifically much lighter than the
surrounding air, will ascend, and, in ascending, spread out in all direc-
tions above, overlapping the air of surrounding regions, and thus causing
the barometer to rise all round the cloud to a distance proportional to the
magnitude of the cloud.

7th. Whilst the barometer is rising all round the cloud from the in-
creasing weight of the air, it will fall under the central regions of the cloud
in proportion to the quantity of air spreading out above.

8th. The air near the surface of the earth will now rush in on all sides
from the regions around the cloud, where the barometer stands high, to-
wards the central regions, where the barometer stands low, witha volocity
proportional to the square root of the difference of pressure.

9th. The air thus rushing in under the cloud on all sides will ascend,
and carry up its vapor with it, and will condense it into cloud by the cold
36

»

‘of expansion from diminished pressure, as before, and thus the process of
cloud-forming will be continued.
10th. As the principal part of this upmoving current of air is in the upper
regions of the atmosphere, which move all the year, over the United States,
from west to east, the cloud, with its whole column of light air, must also
move in the same direction.
<¢Dr. Hare bas turned his attention to the electrical phenomena which
“accompanies the more violent exhibitions of the storm when it assumes
the form of a tornado. He agrees with Mr. Espy in opinion as to in-
ward and upward direction of the wind towards the middle of the storm,
but differs from him with respect to the cause of the current. He proposes
‘a definite theory of the phenomena of the tornado, founded on well-known
laws of electrical action, combined with facts of observation. It has been
fully established by experiment in different parts of the earth that there is
an accumulation of positive electricity in the upper regions of the atmo-
sphere, that the surface of the earth relative to the lower stratum of air is
slightly negative, and that space void of air may be considered an electrical
conductor. Krom these facts Dr. Hare infers that the surface of the
earth, the surrounding atmosphere, and the space immediately around
*and exterior to the atmosphere, form three concentric spheres, of which the
outer and inner are constantly charged with opposite electricity. The
arrangement is, therefore, precisely that of a charged leyden jar, of which
the exterior sphere is analogous to the outer coating, the surface of the earth
to the inner, and the intervening atmosphere to the non-conducting glass.
The clouds are insulated conductors floating between the two coatings, and
therefore liable to be variously charged by indwetion as their position rela-
tive to each other and the two coatings is varied. In some cases the ar-
rangement may be such as to form a series of steps of intermediate con-
ductors, each electrified by induction, so as to produce a violent ascending
current or convective discharge from the surface of the earth upwards.
“<The theories of Redfield, Espy, and Hare may not be found incompati-
ble in all points; and whatever may be the future state of our knowledge
-relative to them, they point to definite objects of inquiry, which cannot
fail to reward proper observation with a rich harvest of important results.”’
The idea occurred to me that more might be learned from a complete
analysis of a single storm, than from a partial analysis of several storms;
cand that any storm of strongly marked characteristics, if fully investi-
gated, must prove a complete experimentum crucis, at least between
the theories of Messrs. Redfield and Espy. I accordingly selected the
storm of December 20, 1536, for a thorough examination. I obtained
37

barometric observations from 27 different stations within the United States
and the neighboring British possessions. I also obtained meteorological
journals, not containing barometric observations, from 28 military posts,
from 42 academies in the State of New York, and from five other stations;
making 162 in all, besides several stations beyond the probable limits of
the storm.

In analyzing these materials, the barometric observations were all graphi-
eaily represented by curves, showing the fall and rise of the barometer,
with the time of its minimum height. Then joining by a line all those
places where the minimum of the barometer occurred at the same instant,
we are furnished with the means of measuring the rate of progress of the
great atmospheric wave. On the southern border of the United States, this
velocity varied from 17 to 29 statute miles per hour; and on the northern
border from 17 to 37 miles. The leading characteristics of this storm were
as follows: After a clear and cold interval, with barometer high, the wind
commenced blowing from the south. The barometer fell rapidly; the
thermometer rose; rain descended in abundance. ‘The wind veered sud-
denly to northwest, and blew with great violence. ‘The rain was succeeded
by hail or snow, which continues but a short time. The barometer rises
rapidly; the thermometer sinks as rapidly. ‘These changes are experienced
progressively from west to east.

This storm was not circular. The area of rain and snow was about
500 miles broad from east to west. Its length from north to south was
known to be 800 miles, and probably was not less than 1,500. For nearly
a day before the crisis, the wind blew from the southern quarter, and gen-
erally for several hours from the southeast. After the minimum of the
barometer, the wind blew with great violence from nearly the opposite point;
commonly the northwest. Here was clearly indicated a prevalent tendency
of the wind towards a central line; but, unfortunately, the observations em-
braced onlv one-half the area of the storm. ‘The oscillation ef the barom-
eter showed a steady increase from latitude 25° to Quebec. ‘The centre
of the storm, therefore, could not have been south of Quebec, and north
of this place we could obtain no observations.

I was now desirous of investigating a storm of marked characteristics
which could be entirely surrounded, so that more of its features would

“need to be supplied by conjecture. ‘Iwo storms which occurred in Febru-
ary, 1S42, appeared tolerably well suited to my purpose, and were selected
for a new investigation. Great pains were taken to collect materials from
every part of the United States. I succeeded in obtaining barometric ob-
servations from 64 different stations. I also procured registers, without
barometric observations, from 41 military posts, and 22 other stations, ma-
38

king 127 in all, not including registers from several stations too remote to
be of any service in the proposed investigation.

I commenced the analysis of the storm of February 1-5, by following
the same course I had pursued with the storm of 1836, viz: representing
the barometric observations by curves which should exhibit the fall and
rise of the mercury, with the time of minimum height; and from the time
of minima I proposed to deduce the progress of the storm. But I was
disappointed in my expectations. I did not obtain such a uniform rate of
Progress as I had anticipated. After some time I perceived that my observa-
tions embraced two centres of disturbance; that I had got at least two
storms in close juxtaposition, and interfering with each other. 1 then dis-
covered that my lines of barometric minimum represented relations which
were extremely complex, and were not well adapted to my purpose, which
was the development of physical causes. | therefore sought for some mode
of graphically representing the observations which should be founded upon
simple relations, and be better adapted to suggest the causes of the phenom-
ena. I atlast settled upon a method which appears to me well suited to this
purpose, and substituted for lines of minimum pressure, lines of equal pres-
sure. Having determined, as well as I was able, the mean height of the
barometer at each station, I compared each observation with the mean. I
then drew a line upon a map of the United States, passing through all
those places where the barometer stood at its mean height. ‘This line
may be called the line of mean pressure. I then drew a line through all
the places where the barometer stood 2 inches above the mean, and another
for 4 inches above the mean. So, also, I drewa line through all the places
where the barometer stood 2 inches below the mean; another for 4 inches be-
low; and others for 6 inches, 8 inches, and 10U inches below the mean height-
These lines must, from the nature of the case, be continuous curves; and
the centre of these curves must be a point of maximum or minimum
pressure. Near the middle of a great storm we find a point of minimum
pressure—that is, the centre of a vortex; and the lines of equal pressure
will indicate at a glance whatever connexion there may be between the
weight of the air and the direction of the wind.

Upon a similar principle, all the observations of the thermometer were
graphically represented upon the same chart. A line joining all those
places where the thermometer stands at its mean height for the given hour
and month is marked zero, and may be called the line of mean tempera-
ture. Another line joins all those places where the thermometer is 10°
above the mean, and others for 20° and 30° above the mean. So, also,
lines are drawn for 10° and 20° below the mean temperature. ‘There are
also continuous lines surrounding a point of maximum or minimum ther-
39

mometric disturbance; not points of maximum or minimum temperature
absolutely, for we only regard the deviation from the mean temperature of
the place for the given hour and month. These barometric and ther-

iometric curves exhibit some conformity to each other, but are far from
being identical. The direction of the wind is represented by arrows, and
its force is indicated, so far as convenient, by their length.*

Other phenomena are now indicated by colors. 'Those regions where
the sky was unclouded, or where the cloudiness was less than one-half,
are colored blue; those where the sky was entirely overcast, or the cloudi-
ness exceeded one-half, but without rain or snow, are colored brown.
Those regions upon which snow is falling, are colored green; and those
where rain is falling, are colored yellow. ‘Thus, nearly every important
circumstance of a storm is presented to the eye ata single glance. All
these particulars will be understood from the two accompanying charts,
illustrating the progress of the storm of February 16, 1842.

In both the storms of February, 1842, after they had acquired consider-
able violence, there was a prevalent motion of the winds inward, with a
tendency to circulate around the centre, in a direction contrary to the sun’s
motion. ‘The motion of the wind, therefore, was neither wholly centrip-
etal nor wholly rotary, but a combination of the two. As long as the
wind was moderate, neither of these tendencies was clearly marked, and
there were numerous perplexing anomalies, probably occasioned in many
instances by the inequalities of the earth’s surface. The storm of Febru-
ary 16 travelled in one day 560 miles in a direction N. 53° E., making its
velocity 23 miles per hour. The storm of February 1-5 remained for
two days nearly stationary, and then travelled N. 62° E. at the rate of 36
miles per hour. On the whole, then, we may conclude that when storms
are violent, and there is a great depression of the barometer, the direction
of the wind presents considerable regularity, being spirally inward towards
the centre of the storm; but when the winds are moderate, which is the case
of most frequent occurrence, this tendency is very fully developed, and
the subject demands more particular investigation.

III. I now proceed to inquire. what encouragement there is to a further
prosecution of meteorological researches.

In all our investigations respecting natural phenomena we assume that
the operations of nature are subject to laws, and that these laws are uni-
form in their operation. A law of nature knows no exceptions. There
is no place for science except upon this basis. Are storms subject to laws,
and are these laws invariable? Such a question may appear almost like

*For an account of the method employed by Mr. Espy in representing the phases of storms,
see his communication, appendix No. 3.
40

trifling, and yet many argue as if they had but feeble faith in these princi-
ples. It is presumed that no philosopher will seriously question them; but
it may be said that these laws are so complex that they can never be dis-
covered. What right have we to make such an assumption? Have not
the laws of nature been actually discovered in many cases in which they
appear equally complex? How long is it since comets were believed
to rush through the planetary system in defiance of all law; or if subject
tolaw, then a law of such complexity that all attempt to discover it seemed
hopeless? Now, these laws appear so simple that we wonder they were
not sooner discovered. All the laws of nature appear complex while they
remain unknown; but when once discovered, we are surprised at their sim-
plicity. Why should storms form an exception to this rule? Does the
past history of meteorological investigations justify such a conclusion ?
Have our researches been rewarded with no success? Far otherwise.
During the brief period that meteorology has been cultivated we have ar-
rived at many important generalizations, which, if not entitled to the name
of laws of nature, afford the strongest assurance that such laws exist, and
that we are on the eve of their discovery. We have discovered that the great
storms of the United States travel nearly from west to east. No instance
has yet been found in which a violent storm in these latitudes has travelled
from east to west, although some great rain storms have remained nearly
stationary fora day or two. Violent storms usually travel at the rate of
about 25 miles per hour, although this velocity has been observed to rise
as high as 40 miles. ‘These storms are of various dimensions. While
summer showers may cover an area of but a few miles, winter storms some-
times have a diameter of 1,000 miles and upwards. ‘The duration of a
storm at any place depends upon its extent, and upon the velocity of its
progress. If the diameter of a storm is. 500 miles, and its progress 25
miles per hour, its duration at a place situated in the centre of the track
will be 20 hours, and less for places out of the centre. Hence we may
form some estimate of the superficial extent of a storm from its duration at
any place. The direction of the wind is generally inward towards the
area of rain, and in violent storms there is a tendency to rotation about a
vertical axis. Over arugged country there are so many obstacles to the
wind’s progress, that observations at the surface of the earth present a great
many anomalies; but at sea there are no such obstacles, and the observa-
tions of the wind exhibit a greater uniformity and simplicity. The ba-
rometer falls under the first half of the storm, and rises as the storm re-
cedes; the centre of the storm coinciding nearly with the greatest depres-
sion of the barometer. The passage of this centre is marked by a sudden
Al

change of wind toa point of the compass nealy opposite to that from
which it had previously been blowing.

The preceding propositions are deductions from a large number of par-
ticular cases which have been investigated. If any one of these proposi-
tions requires some modification, the fact will be disclosed by a contin-
nance of the same system of observations. ‘This is a legitimate subject of
investigation. Further observations will either prove or disprove these
propositions. Some of them may require a little modification, although it
is believed they are all substantially true.

We are justified, then, in inferring that storms are subject to laws; that
these laws are uniform in their operation, and that they may be discovered.
We have already made important progress in this discovery, and we are
persuaded that we have only to follow up the same methods of investiga-
tion, and our labor will be rewarded with more brilliant discoveries. The
results of such knowledge are too important to be overlooked. When we
have fully learned the laws of storms, we shall be able to predict them. .
This attainment is of the highest practical importance. If the navigator
can anticipate the approach of a storm by 24 hours, this interval will be
quite sufficient to place hima beyond the reach of its fury; and although
the landsman could not remove his habitation from the approaching torna-
do, he might withdraw his family and the most valuable of his effects to
a place of security.

When the magnetic telegraph is extended from New York to New Or-
leans and St. Louis, it may be made subservient to the protection of our
commerce, even in the present imperfect state of our knowledge of storms.
*The severe winter storms which desolate the Atlantic coast come from the
valley of the Mississippi, and require about 24 hours to travel from St.
Louis to New York. ‘The approach of a dangerous storm might therefore
be telegraphed at New York hours before its arrival, while the sky was
yet unclouded and the wind propitious, in season to save a fleet of ships
from putting to sea, to be engulphed in the bottomless deep. The science
of meteorology is already sufficiently advanced to render important service
to commerce, if practical navigators would but heed the indications of the
barometer, and make themselves familiar with the principles which obser-
vation has established.

It is, then, not without reason that we expect to be able to predict an ap-
proaching storm, long enough in advance to render such knowledge of the
highest importance; but it may admit of more serious question, whether
we shall ever be able to predict the general character of a season with sufh-
cient precision to be of any value to the farmer. But why should we des-
pair of ultimately attaining even this result? Ifone season is remarkable for

6
42

its cold, and another for its heat, is there no reason for it? Is there not some
cause acting upon a grand scale to bring about this result? Is there no
cause which brings an excess of winds from the north, or an excess from
the south—which brings an unusual amount of precipitation, or an extra-
ordinary degree of cloudiness? And cannot this cause be discovered ?
This discovery may require the exercise of patience—it may require a
long continued series of observations; but to assume that a principle can-
not be discovered, is unphilosophical. This is a legitimate subject of in-
vestigation, and it is a field in which the laborer cannot fail of reaping his
reward. We only need adequate observations—observations sufficiently
precise, and upon a scale of proper extent. Weconclude, then, that there
is the highest encouragement to the prosecution of meteorological inqui-
ries—that by continuing our researches we may hope to arrive at general
laws, and that a knowledge of these laws cannot fai! to contribute to the
wealth and happiness of mankind.

I proceed, therefore, to inquire—

IV. Upon what plan the observations should be conducted to secure the
object proposed.

Violent winter storms appear most suitable for investigation, because
they are of longer duration, and their features are more strongly marked.
The oscillation of the barometer affords the surest criterion for identifying
a storm in its progress from day to day; and these oscillations are greatest
in winter.

1. How large an area should be covered by our observations, to enable
us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our winter storms ?

Our observations ought plainly to embrace the entire region of the
storm, and even extend somewhat beyond its margin, fer in no other way
could we be sure that we had found its limits. Now, the great storms
which are experienced between the parallels of 40 *and 45 degrees are fre-
quently felt as far south as latitude 30°, and sometimes to 25°. South of
this line, the oscillations of the barometer, except in a few rare instances,
are quite small; and it is probable that the limiting parallel of the trade
winds forms a dividing line between the ordinary storms of the torrid and
temperate zones. We should therefore extend our system of observations
to the southern margin of the United States. The northern limit of our
ordinary winter storms remains unknown. In the storm of December 21,
1836, the oscillation of the barometer increased uninterruptedly with the
latitude as far as the most northerly station, Quebec. Only the southern
half of the storm was included within the United States. This storm was
probably experienced as far northward as to the northern shore of Hudson’s
bay. We should therefore extend our system of observations to the north-
435

ern margin of the United States; and to render our system complete, re-
quires the co-operation of the British government to extend the observa-
tions to the entire region of Hudson’s bay.

If we merely wished to embrace in our observations the area of a storm
for a single hour, then the interval between the Mississippi and the Atlan-
tic would ordinarily be sufficient. But we could not thus expect to dis-
cover the origin of astorm. We must trace it in its progress from its come
mencement to its greatest violence, and thence to its decline. By observing
under what circumstances it takes its rise, we may hope to be able to dis-
cover the cause of its activity. We should therefore aim to trace every
storm from its origin to its close. At the ordinary rate of progress a great
storm would travel from the Rocky mountains to the Atlantic in two days.
What influence this range of mountains may have upon our storms is un-
known, except from conjecture. We cannot suppose that a storm could
travel from the Pacific to the Atlantic without experiencing some modifi-
cation in passing over a range of mountains rising into the region of per-
petual snow. What this modification is, can be determined by corres-
ponding observations on both sides of the mountain. I therefore conclude
that it is important to embrace in our system of observations the entire
continent from the Pacific to the Atlantic, and from the gulf of Mexico to
the northern shore of Hudson’s bay.

2. At what distance from each other should stations of observation be
selected ?

If we were investigating the phenomena of a summer shower, it would
be indispensable to have stations at very short distances from each other;
but in winter storms this is less important. I consider it, however, desira-
ble to have stations at intervals of fifty miles from each other, and such
might probably be obtained in the more thickly settled parts of the United
States. In other parts of the country this would be impracticable; but I
would strive to obtain at least one station for every hundred miles square.
At this rate we should need about three hundred observers for the United
States. Itis not doubted that this number might be obtained; indeed, we
have well nigh this number already, but, unfortunately, they are very une-
qually scattered over the country.

3. What materials have we to depend upon, and what is wanting to
complete the plan of one observer to every hundred miles square ?

We have the government observations at the military posts, now 57 in
number. We have observations from 41 academies in the State of New ©
York, and 25 stations in Pennsylvania. ‘Then we have borometric obser-
vations from about 40 other individuals scattered promiscuously over the
country; and thermometric observations from about 20 others. There is,
44

besides, a large number of those who have meteorological instruments,
which they occasionally consult, but do not feel sufficient interest in the
subject to keep a systematic journal. Hf a grand meteorological effort were
made, with a prospect of yielding important results, probably most of
those persons might be pressed temporarily into the service. New Eng-
land is pretty well manned with observers, except in the northern part,
where three or four more are greatly needed. Probably, if instruments could
be furnished without expense, volunteers might be found to make the obser-
vations. New York and Pennsylvania are fully organized ; but throughout
the remainder of the United States the stations are few and scattered.
Excluding Oregon and the Indian territory, the remaining States embrace
about a million and a half square miles, and at our lowest estimate would
require about 150 observers. We have 50: observers already in the field,
leaving 100 to be provided for. How is this deficiency to be supplied ?
If our government would direct meteorological observations to be made at
the principal light-houses along our coast and the chain of the great lakes,
it would leave only the interior of the country to be provided for; and if
instruments could be furnished without expense, volunteers might proba-
bly be found to take the observations at most of the remaining stations.

To extend this system of observations further westward must be attend-
ed with serious difficulties. We already have registers kept at most of the
military posts in the Indian country; and as new posts are established, it
is presumed that the government will direct them to be improved for obser-
vations. We may thus hope ere long to obtain a line of stations reaching
to the mouth of the Columbia river; and as settlements extend, observa-
tions will multiply on the other side of the Rocky mountains. On the
whole, then, it is believed we might occupy the whole United States from
its northern to its southern border, and from the Atlantic to the Indian
territory, beyond the Mississippi, with an.army of meteorologists sufficiently
numerous to enable us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our
great storms, provided instruments could be fernished gratuitously for about
10). stations; and, moreover, we might probably have a line of observers
at unequal intervals, reaching even to the Pacific ocean. ‘The expense of
100 sets of meteorological instruments may be estimated at $3,000.

It is believed that the Smithsonian Institution might undertake to furnish
these instruments and organize a grand system of meteorological observa-
tions upon this continent, in perfect harmony with the views of James
Smithson. Mr. Smithson bequeathed his property, in trust, to this coun-
try, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. It is believed
that by carrying out the plan now suggested, knowledge would be in-
creased and diffused, and it would be that kind of knowledge which
45

would contribute to the comfort and happiness of society, as much as
perhaps any other which can be named.

A. Specific plan of operations proposed.

The following is proposed for the consideration of the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, as the outline of a grand meteorological cam-
paign.

Let a meteorological department of the institution be organized, under
the direction of the Secretary, with a suitable assistant. Leta united effort
be made to secure for a limited period, and to the greatest possible extent,
the co-operation of the general government, the several State governments,
scientific societies, and the friends of science throughout the country. Let
the general government be requested to give the greatest possible exten-
sion to their system of observations at the military posts, and to authorize
similar observations to be made at certain light-houses, so far as may be
necessary to complete a line of stations at intervals of 100 miles along the
whole extent of our coast, and the chain of the northern lakes. Let the
regents of the University of the State of New York be requested to reor-
ganize the system of observations in that State, by furnishing barometers
to about 20 of their academies, and directing the observations to be report-
ed regularly to Washington. Let the committee having charge of the
observations in Pennsylvania be requested to adopt the same plan of ob-
servations which shall be agreed upon for the other States, and report regu-
larly to Washington. Let application be made to the legislatures of each
of the other States, inviting them to co-operate in this noble scheme,
by emulating the examples of New York and Pennsylvania. Let the
scientific societies throughout the United States be appealed to, to assist in
organizing an efficient corps of observers, each in its appropriate sphere;
and let individual observers throughout the country be requested to unite
their efforts in one uniform and systematic plan of operations. Let them
be requested to report their equipment of instruments, and state whether
they will undertake to provide whatever may be wanting, at their own ex-
pense. Let then the entire country be divided into sections not exceed-
ing 100 miles square; and in each section not already provided for, let an
observer be sought out, who shall volunteer to make the observations if
instruments are furnished him. Let then the Smithsonian Institution
assume the burden of furnishing the necessary instruments to those who
are unable to do it themselves. Jt is estimated that the sum required for
this purpose would not exceed three thousand dollars. Let a form of ob-
servations be provided, and instructions to all the observers, who shall re-
port at least quarterly to the Secretary at Washington. Let it be the duty
of the meteorologist to take charge of the observations, to discuss and ana-
lyze them, and endeavor to deduce from them the laws of storms. Let
46

these investigations be published, in as much detail as may be thought de-
manded by the claims of science, and let a copy of whatever may be pub-
lished be forwarded to each observer, in order that he may be stimulated
in his work by finding that his labor is not wholly in vain.

Finally, to give to this system its greatest efficiency, the co operation of
the British government and of the Hudson’s Bay Company is absolutely
indispensable. ‘The greater part of our severe storms extend far beyond
the limits of the United States on the north. Observations confined to the
United States will therefore seldom give us the entire area of a storm, and
frequently only half of it. ‘The remaining half must then be supplied by
conjecture. ‘This would leave all our investigations in an unfinished and
unsatisfactory state. We want a line of stations through Canada, along
the shores of Hudson’s bay, to the farthest outpost of civilization. At
every government station a meteorological journal might doubtless be kept;
and it is confidently believed that if the Smithsonian Institution would
embark in earnest in a grand meteorological crusade, the British govern-
ment would cheerfully contribute its efficient co operation.

A system of observations like that here contemplated, if faithfully pros-
ecuted for one year, would well nigh exhaust the subject. ‘The storms of
each year are probably but a repetition of those of the preceding. Never-
theless, it would be unsafe to calculate upon concluding the war after a
single year’s campaign. Experience in similar cases has shown that it
requires considerable time to organize so large a plan of operations, and
the system would not, probably, attain its greatest efficiency the first year.
It would be unwise, therefore, to calculate upon a less period of operations
than three years. But it is believed that in this period, results would
be developed which would more than repay all the expense of time and
money incurred; while, upon the existing scale of operations, the progress
of discovery must be slow and uncertain. In order to enable us to inves-
tigate advantageously the phenomena of a single storm, we must have
simultaneous observations from a vast number of stations. Observations
from a few stations, though continued to the end of time, will not accom-
plish the same object. How, then, can the Regents of the Smithsonian
Institution more faithfully carry out the views of its benevolent founder,
than by vigorously prosecuting these researches to their completion? How
can they contribute more directly and powerfully to the prosperity of our
commerce; and, through commerce, add to the wealth and happiness of
the whole country?

I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ELIAS LOOMIS.
JosepH Henry, LL. D.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
AT

APPENDIX No. 3. e

Extract from a communication from Professor Espy on the subject of
Meteorology.

My pear sir: I am much pleased to learn from your letter that the Re-
gents of the Smithsonian Institution would probably make an appropria-
tion for the purpose of establishing a series of observations ‘‘ to solve, if
possible, the problem of American storms.’’ \ I am of opinion that no sub-
ject of science is more worthy of the attention of the institution; and in
answer to your request that I should furnish you with suggestions on the
subject, I refer you, in the first place, to my work entitled ‘‘ Philosophy
of Storms,” from page 77 to page 172, for a full development of the plan
adopted twelve years ago of investigating the phases of storms, by the joint
committee of the American Philosophical Society and the Franklin Insti-
tute, of the State of Pennsylvania.

The plan then suggested, and in part carried out, was adopted in the
investigation of the phases of storms during the five years in which I was
in the service of the government. In my ‘circular to the friends of
science,’? in which I invited all persons in the United States keeping
journals of the weather to send them to the office of the Surgeon General,
Washington, I announced my intention to lay down on skeleton maps of
the United States, by appropriate symbols, all the most important phases
of great storms which might come within the range of our simultaneous
observations ; and thus it was hoped we should be able to determine the
shape and sizé of all storms; whether they are round or oblong; and if ob-
long, whether they move sideforemost or endforemost, or obliquely; and to
ascertain their velocity and direction in all the different seasons of the
year; the course of the wind in and beyond the borders of the storm; the
Jluctuation of the barometer and change of temperature which generally
accompany storms, and the eztené to which their influence is felt beyond
their borders.

Having obtained observations from a wide extended correspondence, I
laid down the phases of the storms on maps, as presented in my first re-
port, and [ have continued the same plan in my second report, now ready
to be printed. In the investigation of the materials of the second report,
comprising the observations of three years and three-quarters, I have dis-
covered no facts contradictory to the generalizations deduced from the
winter storms of three months embraced in the second report. I consider
it of the highest interest, by an extended series of observations, which I
hope the Smithsonian Institution will cause to be made over a much wider
48

territory than my observation embraced, to verify, or, if necessary, modify
these generalizations, and also to investigate the laws of summer storms,
which f[ fear cannot be done without much more numerous observers than
i was able to procure.*

The elements of the theory I have given you are the same as those pre-
sented in my work on storms; and though I have demonstrated them ap-
proximately, and have no doubt of their general accuracy, yet | am con-
vinced that nothing will establish the truth on this subject in such a man-
ner as to carry conviction to every mind but a series of wide extended
simultaneous observations, continued for a long time, by numerous observ-
ers. Such a series I hope is now about to be made.

It would be inappropriate to extend this communication to a greater
length; but I will explain to you at another time some experiments con-
nected with meteorology, which { wish to see performed, on the electricity
of steam, and on the specific caloric 0 .ospheric air and other gases,
with the aid of my nephelescope, and on the law of cooling of air in great
expansions of air by diminished pressure.

I remain, very respectfully, yours, &c.,
JAMES P. ESPY.

Prof. J. Henry,

Secretary Smithsonian Institutioi.

* The generalizations and theory of Mr. Espy are given in the preceding report of Professer
Loomis, page 33.
30th ConerEss, [ SENATE. } MiscELLANEOUS.
lst Session. . No. 23.
TL ee ee

REPORT

i>
Re.
OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

Lhe operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution.

January 6, 1848.
Ordered to be printed.

"

To the Senate and House of Representatwes of the United States :

In obedience to the act of Congress “‘to establish the Smithsonian In-
stitution, for the increase and diffusion of Knowledge among men.”’ the
Board of Regents herewith submit to Congress a report of the operations,
expenditures, and conditien of the institution, with sundry accompany-
ing documents. ‘

These documents embrace a complete record as well of the operations
of the institution since the date of the last annual report to Congress, as
of its expenditures, and of its present condition.

They are as follows:

No. 1. Report of the building committee to the Board of Regents,
accompanied by a copy of their journal from the date of the appointment
of the committee to the Ist December, 1847. :

No. 2. Copy of the journal of the building committee, referred to in ~
the foregoing.

No. 3. Report of the Executive Committee, containing a statement of
the expenditures of the institution from the organization of the institu-
tion to the Ist December, 1847.

_ No. 4. Proceedings of the Board of Regents, from the date of the last —
annual report to the 22d of December, 1847.

No. 5. Report of the Executive Committee to the Board of Regents,
dated December 15, 1847, embodying a statement of the present condi-
tion of the funds of the institution, and the proposed scale of annual ex-
penditure until the completion of the building.

No. 6. Report of the Secretary of the institution to the Board of Re-
gents, containing a programme of organization of the Smithsonian Institu- ~
tion, presented to the board December 8, 1847. E a

_ Document No. 1 will be found to contain a condensed statement of the
proceedings of the building committee, compiled from their journal; by
which it will be seen, that in the discharge of their duty they had occa-
Sion to collect, and record,-a variety of information of practical value,

specially on the subject of building-materials. The result, in their own
he has been, that they have obtained for the institution building a. free-
ippin & Streeper, printers. ; :

¥
[23 ] i 2

stone superior, both in durability and appearance, to any heretofore used
in the public buildings of this city, yet costing less than one-half as much
as that employed in the erection of the Capitol, Executive mansion, 'Treas-
ury building, and Patent Office. Attention is respectfully invited to these
results, as they can hardly fail to be important to the public service if the
general government, at any time hereafter, should add to the number of its —
buildings in this metropolis.

Document No. 2 gives in minute detail the results above referred to.
Tt contains reports from an experienced geologist, on the marble and granite
quarries of Maryland; on the Aquia creek quarries, which have hitherto
furnished the material for the principal structures in this city; and on the
freestone quarries of the upper Potomac, in the vicinity of Seneca creek,
whence has been drawn the lilac-gray freestone employed by the commit-
tee, for the institution building. It contains also a report, by a chemist of
this city, of the results of certain experiments which the committee caused
to be instituted, to determine the durability of various building materials
when exposed to the action of the weather.

This document contains, further, a copy of the contract made for the
erection of the institution building, together with the specifications of the
same. It will be perceived that the contract was taken at a rate less, by
about thirty-seven thousand dollars, than the amount set apart by the
board, for the erection of the building.

In this document will also be found several other contracts made by the
committee; among them, one with Messrs. Wiley & Putnam, publishers
of New York, for the publication of a brief treatise on public architecture,
to be illustrated with plans and designs of the institution building, and to
contain the result of a series of experiments which have been set on foot
by the institution, to determine the economical value of the principal
building materials throughout the United States.

It also contains an address by the Chancellor of the institution, deliv-
ered on occasion of laying the corner stone of the building; and embracing
a succinct view of the ebjects and the general proceedings of the institution,
together with some details touching the style and dimensions of the build-
ing, then about to be commenced.

Document No. 3 gives a table of the expenditures of the institution,
under the various heads, since its commencement. The entire expendi-
ture is $37,670; of which about two-thirds were spent for the building and
incidentals therewith connected, and one-third for other objects: among the
latter, upwards of two thousand dollars for books and philosophical appa-
ratus; about two thousand dollars for salaries of officers; thirteen hundred
for premiums for designs for the institution building; and $3,876 for ex-
penses of the board and its committees. T'his last item has been consid-
erably swelled in consequence of the provision, in the act organizing the
institution, that its first meeting should be in September, when Congress |
was not in session, and when, consequently, the travelling and other ex-
penses of all its members, fifteen in number, and some residing at a great
distance, had to be paid; those of two members only excepted, who were |
residents of the city. To prevent the recurrence of such expense, the)
board, as will be seen by reference to its journal, has arranged its regular |
meetings to take place during the session of Congress, restricting them to |
one only each year; and as at that time all the members of the board,
except four, become residents of the city, incurring no additional expense —
3 [23]

by attending to their duty as Regents, and therefore charging to the insti-
tution no expenses, the annual expense of the board will hereafter be very
small compared to what it has been: it cannot reasonably be estimated be-
yond eight hundred or one thousand dollars annually.

This item of expenditure has also been increased by the necessary
expenses of a committee appointed to visit and report upon public struc-
tures in the principal cities of the Union, and to confer with architects, with
a view to the selection of convenient plans, based upon the act of Congress,
and of a suitable style of architecture. It is believed, that when the
institution building shall be completed, Congress and the public will be
satisfied with the result of these labors.

Some expense will annually be incurred by the building committee,
until the completion of their task. But, as two of the members of the
committee are residents of Washington, that expense will not be large;
and will, it is believed, be repaid by the amount of information collected
and recorded by them, and by the volume now preparing for publication.

Document No. 4 is a record of all the important proceedings of the
Board of Regents, extracted from their journal, and continued from the
close of their proceedings, as given in the last report of the board to Con-
gress, down to the end of their last meeting. There will be found, among
other resolutions passed by the board, one making appropriations for the
current expenses of the institution throughout the coming year; also, the
action of the board upon the series of resolutions establishing a scale of
expenditure for the next four years.

Document No. 5 is the report of the Executive Committee, in which is
proposed to the board a plan of financial operations, and scale of expenditure,
for four years from and after the 19th of March next—that is, during the
last four years of the building contract; according to which plan, the sum
of fifteen thousand dollars may annually, throughout that term, be appro-
priated for the current expenses ‘of the institution; and the building may
be completed and furnished, and the grounds laid out and fenced, without
withdrawing from the amount of so-called accumulated interest—to wit :
$242,129, specially made applicable by Congress to the building—more
than $102,000, and thus leaving $140,000 of that sum to be added to the
original principal or bequest, as a permanent investment.

Document No. 6 is the first report of the Secretary of the institution. The
programme of the organization, given therein, embraces as well the general
considerations which have served as a guide in adopting that organiza-
tion, as the details both of the plan to increase and of the plan to diffuse
knowledge. 'The report of the Secretary elucidates and explains the pro-
gramme, and also contains a statement of the progress made in the pre-
paration of the first volume of the Transactions of the institution; in the
purchase of apparatus, the preparation for original researches, with sugges-
tions as to the operations of the next year, &c., &c.

The board respectfully express the hope that Congress will cause to be
published, along with this report, these several documents.

All which is respectfully submitted.

G. M. DALLAS,
Chancellor of the Sinithsonian Institution.
JOSEPH HENRY,
_ DeEcEmBER 31, 1847. ' Secretary.

¢
[ 23 J 4

No. :1.
Report of the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution.

The committee submit to the board, asa complete record of their pro-
ceedings from the date of their appointment, on the 5th of February last,
to the Ist of December current, a copy of their journal.

By reference to that journal, the board will perceive that the committee,
in discharge of their duty, were led into a somewhat extended field of
inquiry, especially as regards building material ; and that they have been
enabled to collect, and have duly recorded, a large amount of detailed
information on this subject essential to their own guidance, but also, they
believe, important to the public generally, and especially to the government,
if Congress should decide to erect any other public buildings in this city.
They caused to be examined the various marble, and granite, and freestone
quarries within a moderate distance of Washington, having been fortunate
enough to engage the services of a gentleman of practical ¢ experience as a
geologist, and who tendered these services gratuitously, his necessary trav-
elling and other expenses only being paid.

The examination embraced the chief marble and granite quarries of
Maryland ; the freestone quarries of Aquia creek, Virginia, whence the
material has been. drawn for the construction of the Capitol, President’s
house, Treasury building, and other public structures in this city; and the
freestone quarries of the upper Potomac, chiefly in the vicinity of Seneca
creek, on the banks of the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, and about twenty-
three miles from the city.

The results of this examination, as contained in reports made by the
geologist, and which will be found spread at large on our journal, were
briefly these :

Ist. That the marble quarries of Maryland, chiefly in the EL a of the
village of Clarksville, about thirteen miles from Baltimore, on the line of
the Susquehanna railroad , contain two qualities of marble: one fine-grained
and of beautiful uniform color, approaching the character of statuary
marble ; the other, of inferior quality, similar to the Sing Sing marble em-
ployed in New York, in Grace church and other public structures, of a
somewhat coarse and highly crystalline structure, and known to the quarry-
men here under the name of “alum limestone.’’? The former was confi-
dently recommended as a building material equal in durability to any in”
the world; the latter was «pronounced inferior, both in beauty and dura--
bility, yet capable of furnishing a very lasting material if the selection was}
made with care. Being less tough than the finer-grained variety, it was |
thought less suitable for ornaments having bold projections, aud somewhat |
Hable to chip off where there was much undercutting. |

2d. That the granite quarries of Maryland, in the vicinity of Wood- |
stock, on the line of the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and about sixteen |
miles beyond the Relay House, furnish a granite equal to that of Quincy, |
and not excelled for beauty of appearance, compactness of structure and |

uniformity of color, texture, and composition, by any granite in the United |
States; splitting, also, with remarkable facility, so that on a block twelve
or fourteen feet in length the face of cleavage may not vary more than a |
5 [ 23 ]

single inch from a true level; in short, a building material of unsurpassed
durability and uniformity, and to which, as to the finer-grained marble in
the Clarksville quarries, no possible objection, except on the score of
expense, could be found, unless, indeed, it be considered one, that in this
material the effect of light and shade from projecting surfaces is in a
measure lost, while in marbie and good tinted freestone every shadow is
sharply marked.

3d. That the Aquia creek freestone, heretofore used in public buildings
in Washington, is a material not to be trusted to, being pervaded by dark
specks of the protoxide and peroxide of iron, which in peroxidating acquire
a yellowish or reddish color, and having occasional clay holes, such as dis-
figure the T'reasury and the Patent Office. A portion of this freestone was,
indeed, considered durable and free from material blemish; but the chance
of actually procuring it free from disfiguring spots and stains was consid-
ered so uncertain, that it was recommended to refrain from using it in the
istitution building.

. Ath. That the freestone of the upper Potomac, in the vicinity of Seneca
ereek, and found in quarries close to the line of the Chesapeake and Ohio
canal, is the best and most durable of all the Potomac freestones.

The lilac-gray variety found in the Bull Run quarry, twenty-three miles
from Washington, was especially recommended, and pronounced to be
equal, if not superior, to that supplied for Trinity church, New York, from
the quarries of New Jersey.

In regard to this latter material, it was stated that it possessed a quality
that should especially recommend it to the attention of builders. When
first quarried it is comparatively soft, working freely before the chisel and.
hammer; but by exposure it gradually indurates, and ultimately acquires

_ a toughness and consistency that not only enables it to resist atmospheric

_ vicissitudes, but even the most severe mechanical wear and tear. ‘l'hus,
on the tow-path of the aqueduct, near Seneca creek, over which horses and
mules have been travelling almost daily for upwards of twenty years, this
freestone was found still unimpaired. Even the corners around which the
heavy lock-gates swing, showed no signs of chipping or decay; and on the
perpendicular wall of the aqueduct, where the water is continually oozing
through the joints and trickling down its face, forming an incrustation of
carbonate of lime, this freestone was observed, where the calcareous crust
had scaled off, with the grooves and ridges of the surface still nearly as
distinct as when the blocks first came from the hands of the stone-mason,
more than twenty years ago. .

The rare and valuable quality possessed by this freestone, of hardening
by exposure to the weather, and which may be due to iron in its compo-
sition, passing from a lower to a higher degiee of oxidation, is occasionally
found in building-stone on the continent of Europe; as, for example, in a
calcareous freestone which has been excavated for centuries from St. Peter’s
mountain, near Maestrich,in Belgium. I[t is highly prized wherever found,
as this peculiarity permits the freestone to be wrought at considerably less
expense than either granite or marble, and imparts to it a durability increas-
ing with age.

Further to test the durability of these various building materials under
exposure to the vicissitudes of the seasons, specimens of each, and also of
other building-stones from New York and elsewhere, were handed to a
gentleman of this city experienced in chemistry, and having a laboratory
[23] 6

at command, and he was requested to subject these to a process recom-
mended by Brard, a French chemist, and described in the ‘‘Annales de
Chimie et Physique;’’ according to which, the crystallization of the sul-
phate of soda is substituted for the freezing of water; and thus, by artificial
means, the action of the elements on these materials—the alternate freezing
and thawing to which the external component of a building is in this cli-
mate annually subjected—is in a measure imitated. "The result—which,
however, in consequence of the short time which could be allowed for the
process, must be considered an approximation only to the truth—is given in
a report from the gentleman in question. The specimens were reduced to
inch cubes; and it was found, after four weeks, that a cube of granite had
lost about one-third of a grain; acube of the fine-grained marble about o7e-
Sifth of a grain; a cube of the best quality of the ‘‘alum-stone,’’ or coarser:
grained marble, half a grain toa grain anda half; and a cube of freestone
from the Patent Office, which, however, was judged not to bea fair average
specimen of the Aquia creek freestones, lost eighteen grains and a half.
Freestone from ‘Trinity church lost from two-thirds of a grain to about a:
gram anda half. ‘The brown Connecticut stone, freely used in New York,
lost from fourteen to nearly twenty-five grains. Coarse-grained New York
marble, trom Mount Pleasant, lost nearly a grain; Nova Scotia coarse-
grained sandstone about two grains; while Pennsylvania blue limestone
lost little over a quarter of a grain.

As to the relative cost of the Maryland granite, Maryland marble, fine-
grained and coarse-grained, Aquia creek freestone and Seneca creek free-
stone, it was found, from the report of the geologist and from actual offers
made to the committee by owners of quarries, and which will be found re-
corded in the journal of the committee, to be, per cubic foot of dimension
stone delivered in Washington, as follows:

Ist. For coarse-grained marble with large crystals, commonly called
‘‘alum-stone,’’ from fifty to sixty cents, according to quality.

2d. For fine-grained marble, the lowest offer was seventy cents.

od. For granite, forty-six cents.

Ath. For Aquia creek freestone, forty cents. ‘The material used in the
public buildings in Washington, in blocks of ordinary size, has cost from
forty to fifty cents.

5th. For Seneca freestone, the lilac-gray variety, from Bull Run quarry,
twenty cents. A contract has been made by a gentleman of Washington,
not connected with the institution, to have stone from the Seneca creek
quarries delivered to him in the city at that price.

East Chester marble was offered at seventy-five cents.

The committee ought here to state, that the proposals by owners of
granite and marble quarries in Maryland to deliver material for our build-
ing were at a considerably lower rate than they otherwise would have been,
in consequence of the liberality evinced by the directors of the Baltimore
and Ohio railroad, and of the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad, towards
the institution. The chairman of the committee had an interview with
Mr. McLane and Mr. Howard, the presidents of these railroads, and the
directors of both companies passed resolutions, that if we decided to use
Maryland marble or granite, they would transport it at the rate of éo and
a half cents per ton per mile, instead of four cents, the usual charge for
the transportation of similar materials. As it happened, the committee had
no occasion to avail themselves of this liberal proposal; but it doubtless
| 7 ea

_ materially influenced the amount of the bids subsequently put in for the
erection of the building in marble and granite.

Such is a brief summary of the measures adopted by the committee, and
of the information collected by them, and which will be found in detail on
their journal, on the important subject of bnilding material. While engaged
in collecting that information, they caused to be inserted in the city jour-
nals, advertisements inviting from contractors proposals for the erection of
the ‘institution building; the external walls to be of upper Potomac free-
stone, or of marble, or of granite, or of blue gneiss; and separate proposals
were requested in each of these materials. Meanwhile the architect and
superintendent attended in the office of the institution with specifications,
ready to give the necessary information to all applicants.

The day originally set as the last on which bids would be received, was
the 10th of March; but as the specifications were delayed by the printers
several days beyond the time appointed by the public advertisement for tie
inspection of bidders, the committee extended the time for receiving bids
to the 15th March.

On the 16th of March the bids were opened, in presence of the building
committee and of the architect and superintendent. A number of these
were found to be proposals to deliver materials only, or to execute a small
portion of the work, as the brick work, alone; the stone cutting at so much
per foot, &c. These are spread on the journal of the committee, and will
be found to contain much valuable information as to prices.

The bids to erect the building were found to be fourteen in number, and
to vary in amount from $196,000 to $318,000—the lowest being that of
James Dixon & Co., of Washington, and the estimate being for Seneca
freestone, laid up in rubble masonry. ‘The bids by the same firm, as given
in the explanatory correspondence of the same date and in a personal com-
munication on the 18th March, for ashlar finish, were also the lowest put
in, namely:

For marble ashlar - - - - - $228,500
And for Seneca freestone ashlar - - - 205,250

After a careful examination of the subject, the committee decided, that
to the particular design as adopted by the board, with its numerous vertical
lines often closely approaching each other, the finish of regularly coursed
ashlar was the best suited, and would make a more substantial job than

‘broken rubble.

They concluded also, that, with a complete conviction on their minds of
the durability of the Seneca freestone, and with a doubt whether it did not
assort even better with the Lombard style of architecture adopted than
marble, it was inexpedient to expend twenty-three thousand dollars addi-
tional to obtain the latter material. They informed James Dixon & Co.,
therefore, that their bid of $205,250 for the erection of the building in
Seneca stone, finished in coursed ashlar, was accepted.

The result, your committee think, has proved that their selection of ma-
terial was a judicious one.

On inquiry, the committee found that the firm of James Dixon and Co.
consisted of James Dixon, of Washington, and Gilbert Cameron, of New
York. The latter gentleman executed a portion of the work on Trinity
church, and was a contractor on Calvary church, New York.

A contract was signed by the committee and by Messrs. Dixon and Cam-
eron on the 19th of March. It will be found, accompanied by the specif-

[23] 8

eations, which make part of the same, on the joumal of the committee.
Tt includes a portion but not the whole of the furniture; the portion inclu-
ded, however, being the most expensive part of it, and comprehending the
ues ving cases, desks, drawers, and tables, in the laboratory and apparatus
room; the book-cases, large tables and alcove desk <s, in the library; the glass
cases ty the museum; the seats {mn the lecture- 100m; the elevators, with
sheaves and counter-weights; water-closets, completely fitted up; rain-
water cisterns; and the chairs and table in the Regents’ room. Flues
for heating and ventilation are provided for, but the expense of heating
and ene is not included. Cess-pools are ineluded, but no provisions
for draining , according to the municipal regulations of the city.

Phe foundation walls, under the main “central towers, are twelve feet
thick at bottom, gradually diminishing to five and a half feet at the surface
of the ground, and are sunk eight feet deep. ‘The foundations of the rear
central tower, excavated to the same depth, are ten feet, diminishing to
five feet; of the campanile and octagonal towers also ten feet, diminishing
to five and six feet deep. The thickness of the walls of the main build-
ing, 2bove the water-table, is two feet and a half in the first story, and
two ieet in the second, exclusive of buttresses, corbel-courses, and other
similar external projections, and exclusive, also, of an internal lining wall
of brick, of the thickness of a single brick, tied at intervals to the wall,
and intended to plaster to. The walls of the wings are two feet thick.
The central towers are three feet and a half thick in the first story, dimin-
ishing to two feet in the highest story.

Inverted arches, of hard brick, are turned under all the openings of the
foundation. Groined arches are turned under the central towers, the cam-
pauile, the octagonal tower, and the tower of the west wing.

‘The ashlar facing of the building is to be laid in courses from ten to
fifteen inches in height, with a bed of nine inches, and the joints to be
nowhere over three-eighths of an inch.

‘The basements, to contain the heating furnaces, also the janitors’ rooms
and the room to receive Smithson’s personal effects, are fire-proofed. A
pine floor, covered two inches thick with cement, is carried under the roofs
of the whole building. ‘The floors, where they are not fire-proofed, have
a de ay ace of lime, clay, and sand.

The central stair- cases, front and rear, are to be of stone to the museum
floor. ‘The floor of the gallery of art, embracing the west wing and its
connecting range, of the laboratory, including the east wing and part of
its conneeting range, of the central hall and the vestibules, also the floors of
the basement under the laboratory, under the central ‘towers, under the
campanile and other towers, together with the cloisters, are to be flagged
with North river flagging. The floor of the principal lecture-room will also
be flagged with flags, supported on brick cross-walls. The floors of the
libyary and museum are to be of pine; and it is not proposed that either of
these two rooms should be artificially lighted.

‘The laboratory wing is to be roofed with slate—therest of the building,
as the contract now stands, with sheet tin; but the committee propose to
roof the main building and west wing with slate, paying the difference.

It was made a condition of the contract that the erection of the building
should occupy a period of five years from its date, that term ending on the
19th of March, 1852. It. was also agreed that the building should be
erected in such proportions, during each year, as the committee might
9 [ 23 ]

direct, but so that the payments to the contractor in each of the first four
years of the contract should not exceed an annual amount of $41,000; and
so that the wings and connecting ranges should be completed in two years
| from the date of the contract. Fifteen per cent. on the architect’s estimates
is kept back until the completion of the building; but interest is to be ulti-
mately paid on this per-centage, calculated from the dates of the several
estimates.

On the suggestion of one of the Regents, not a member of the committee,
and of the Secretary of the institution, a supplement was appended to the

|

contract, by which it was stipulated, that if the Board of Regents should

hereafter determine to make important alterations in the plan of building,
or in the time of its execution, then the contractor was to be paid pro rata,
according to the prices in the contract, for work executed, and reasonable
damages, if the nature of the case should justly demand it. In case of .
dispute as to the amount, the matter to be referred to the architect of the

institution, or any other architect selected by the committee.

The contractors gave as security for the faithful performance of the con-

tract, W. H. Winter, of Washington, and Horace Butler, of New York.

The security was approved by the committee; and a bond, with a penalty

of fifty-two thousand dollars (being one-fourth of the amount of the entire
contract) was executed accordingly.

The corner-stone of the building was laid on the Ist of May. ‘The de-
tails of the ceremonies upon that occasion, including the address delivered,
in accordance with an invitation from the committee by the Chancellor,
and which ceremonies were witnessed by six or seven thousand persons,

will be found at large on the journal of the committee.

The contractors proceeded for some time with the work in partnership;
but on the Jst of June Mr. Dixon informed the board that the work would
thereafter be conducted by Mr. Cameron alone; and since that time, it has

_been entirely managed by that gentleman.

Mr. Cameron has since proceeded in the work with spirit, and has
executed it, upon the whole, in a manner satisfactory to the committee.
Occasional departures from the letter of the contract have been pointed out
to him, and he has promptly remedied whatever was complained of. He
is now covering in the east connecting range, and hopes still to coyer in
the east wing, also, before he shall be arrested by frost; though he has been
very much retarded in his operations, and has suffered some pecuniary
loss by the breakage in the canal, caused by the late freshets. Since the
7th of October, when the first damage was done, until now, the canal has
been closed, and not a perch of stone has been received. In another week
or fortnight there is a fair prospect that the damage may be repaired, and
water let into the canal. But for this accident, the contractor would alrea-
dy have covered in the east wing of the building. He has now some
twelve or fifteen thousand feet of stone lying ready quarried, and awaiting
the re-opening of the canal.

The chairman of the committee recently visited the quarry and found
the stone that had been quarried of excellent quality and color, the tint
somewhat lighter than the average tint of the present building. It quarries
with remarkable facility, and the supply is unlimited.

The contractor has commenced to lay the foundations of the west wing
and west connecting range, but nothing whatever has yet been done
towards the erection of the main building.
[23] 10

The style of architecture selected by the board seems to meet with gene-
ral approval. It may be taken as one evidence of this, that a church now
in progress of erection in Stuyvesant square, New York, and of which
the cost will reach some hundred and fifty thousand dollars, is built in the
same style; as, by a perspective view of the same herewith submitted, the
board will perceive.

The lot belonging to the institution has been fenced in with a paling
fence, whitewashed, which will last at least until the termination of the
contract for the building. No measures have yet been taken for the erec-
tion of a permanent fence.

Water has been conveyed to the site of the building by tapping the fire
plug at the engine house in Market square. ‘The pipe is a strong leaden
one, of inch-bore, laid two feet below the ground, and the water is con-
veyed across the canal in an iron pipe of two-inch bore.

The contract for the fence was taken by Joel Downer, and that to con-
vey the water by Caleb Buckingham, both of Washington. A copy of
their respective contracts will be found on the journal. After completing
the work in a satisfactory manner, both of these gentlemen applied to the
committee for extra compensation. Mr. Downer stated that the fence
erected by him cost much more than the amount at which he contracted to
complete it, and which was paid to him; and at one time during its pro-
gress—to wit, on the 22d of May—he offered to relinquish to the committee
all he had done, if they would release him from the contract. This, how-
ever, they declined to do.

Mr. Buckingham handed in a bill of his expenses, showing a larger
amount expended than that which, in accordance with the terms of his
contract, was paid to him, and alleged that he had laid down a heaver pipe
than by the contract he was required to do. On these grounds, he put
in a claim for additional compensation. 'The committee declined to allow
it, but informed Mr. Buckingham that the matter would be by them refer-
red to the Board of Regents.

The board will find the particulars of this case, and of that of Mr. Dow-
ner, in the minutes of their thirty-fourth meeting; and the committee beg
to refer both cases to the board, for their decision as to whether in either
case relief ought to be granted.

The total amount expended on the building and on the fencing of the
lot up to this date, the 1st December, including superintendence and all
incidental expenses therewith connected, is $25,002 67, namely:

Paid to Cameron, contractor - - - - - - $20,840 00
Buckingham, supplying water to building - - - 650 00
Downer, for fence, $400; additional rail subsequently added,

$60; whitewashing the same, $60 - . - - 520 00
For architect’s office - - - . - - : 209 00
Coal bin - - - - - - - - . 10 00
Corner-stone — - - - - - - . - . 9 00
Superintendence, including incidentals therewith connect-

ed, and allowance to architect for original plans - - 2! 2773 "OR

Total to lst December, 1847 - - $25,002 67

The committee has made a careful estimate of the probable expenditure
for the building and lot, all incidentals included, from the 1st December,
; il [ 23]

1847, to the 19th March, 1848, being the end of the first year of the build-
ing contract, and set it down at $10,467 50, thus:

Payments to contractor, about - . - - - - $9,500 00
Superintendence and contigencies,about — - - - - 967 50

Total from 1st December, 1847, to 19th March, 1848, about $10,467 50

These two sums added together will give the total amount expended and
to be expended for the above objects, from the commencement of operations
to the end of one year from the date of the contract, about $35,470 17.

It will be observed that the amount paid and to be paid to the contrac-
tor within that year, will be less than thirty-one thousand dollars; that is,
‘upwards of ten thousand dollars less than the annual payments to which,
by the contract, the contractor is restricted.

The item of superintendence, with its incidentals, is a considerable one.
‘It is larger this first year than it will be in any subsequent one: first, be-
cause of an allowance of about two months’ salary to the architect, not in
payment of his design, but to repay the actual expenses incurred during
these two months and previously, in the mechanical execution of plans
and sections of the building, including those which embodied the modifi-
eations of the original design suggested by the committee appointed on the
9th September, 1846, and subsequently adopted by the board; and, second-
ly, because it was necessary to engage the services of the architect and su-
perintendent about a month before the actual signature of the contract.

The annual expense of superintendence is necessarily increased by the
circumstance that the architect does not reside in Washington. The
committee could not afford to offer him a salary which might have induced
him to abandon his New York business; and as in consequence he could
be present during a portion of his time only in this city, the alternative was
‘presented to them either to leave the work, during his absence, under the
control of the contractor, trusting wholly to his judgment and to his seru-
-pulous observance of the contract, or to engage the services of a superin-
tendent who might be always on the spot, to see that no faulty materials
nor insufficient work was admitted into any portion of the structure. ‘They
considered this latter the more prudent course, and engaged as superintend-

ent agentleman of much experience as an architect and builder, at a sal-
ary of $1,000 a year. To the principal architect they gave eighteen
hundred a year and his travelling expenses—which, as he usually passes
between New York and Washington once a month, amount to about three
hundred a year—together with actual expenses for stationery, being from
fifty to a hundred dollars annually.

In connexion with this item of superintendence, the committee remark,

that the labor and expense of preparing working plans in a style so novel
as the Lombard, and for a design so irregular as that: which has been
adopted, are very much greater than if the style were one common in this
country, or the design characterized by greater regularity.

The expenses necessarily incurred by the building committee—which,
however, are small, as one member only of that committee is a non-
resident of Washington—are not included as part of the expense of the
building; both because a considerable portion of their attention was directed
to objects other than the building, hereafter tobe mentioned, and with which
they were charged by the board, and also because they consider the infor-
[ 23 ] | 12

mation embodied in their journal, herewith submitted and in this report, to
be more than an equivalent, in its value to the public, for the small sum to
which their expenses amount. rogtel-P o

In regard to the probable expense of completing the building, including
its fitting up and furnishing, its lighting, heating, drainage, &c., the laying
out, planting, and permanent fencing of the lot, and all other expenses
therewith properly connected, as compared with appropriations heretofore
made for these objects, the committee report as follows:

It will be within the recollection of the board that, on the 28th of Janu-
ary last, resolutions were passed by the board making the following appro-

q

priations: y
The contract for the building not to exceed - - $231,000
Fitting up and furnishing the same. do - St tes 20,000
Warming and lighting the same do - - 5,000
Permanent fence around the grounds do - - 10,000
Laying out and planting the grounds do - : 4,000
Together - . - “4, - : $270,000

No special appropriation was made for superintendence; but the com-
mittee was empowered, by resolution of the 25th January, in accordance
with the fifth section of the act organizing the institution, to ‘‘employ one
or More persons to superintend the erection of the building,’’ and they were
required to cause the work to be done ‘‘to the entire satisfaction of said
superintendent or superintendents.’’? 'The committee believe that there is
no example in this country of the superintendence of a building as exten-
sive as that of this institution costing, including all. remuneration to
the architect for the original design, and all incidentals appertaining to
the architect’s office, less than $3,000 a year. The salary paid to a
resident superintending architect of such a building, when it is his own
design, is usually, without reckoning incidentals, either $2,500 or $3,000
a year. ‘The committee are justified, then, in setting down the entire item
of superintendence, (not included in the above appropriations,) with its inci-
dentals, at $3,000 a year. In consequence of the principal architect resi-
ding in New York, it actually costs a trifle more.

Nor was any appropriation made to supply the building with water.
This item, under a favorable contract, has cost $650.

_ The item of drainage, also, was omitted. In consequence of the muni-
cipal regulations of Washington city, it will cost from $1,000 to $1,500.
The committee has put it down at $1,350.

If we add to the appropriations specifically made, these necessary items,
it will appear that the scale of expenditure to which, by the action of the
board, the building committee have been limited for the completion of the
building and grounds, all incidentals included, was about $287,000, thus:

Special appropriations, already enumerated - - $270,000
Superintendence, including incidentals, say five years,

$3,000 a year - - - - - 15,000

Drainage, say ___- - - - - - 1,350

Supplying water to the building - - - - 650

$287,000

) ———— ey
13 [ 28}

The contract, however, for the building, has been taken at a rate much
lower than the board seem to have anticipated; at a rate; too, to the credit
of the architect it should be stated, fifteen thousand dollars below his esti-
mates. And the contractor has proceeded so far with the erection, that
the committee has had a good opportunity to judge of his competency and
willingness to complete the whole under the conditions of the contract.
Unless prevented by accident not to be foreseen or anticipated, they do not
doubt that he will do so. Under these circumstances, although the com-
mittee is aware that, in the execution of so extensive a work, many con-
tingencies must be expected necessarily to present themselves, that will add
to its cost; yet they confidently believe, that by judicious management
and strict economy, the entire expenditure for the erection of the building,
including the fitting up and furnishing of the same; supplying the same
with water; laying out the lot in grass and planting it with trees and shrubs;
fencing the same, both with the present temporary fence and the ultimate
permanent one; also all expenses for superintendence of erection, including
the cost of architect’s office and other incidentals, so as, in fact, to cover
all expenses whatever that have been incurred, or are to be incurred, on
the building and on the lot on which it stands, until the completion of the
building and of the preparation of the lot, up to the 19th of March, 1852,
need not exceed two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, being thirty-
seven thousand dollars less than the sum total, according to the scale of
appropriation, heretofore adopted by the board.

So confident is the committee of the accuracy of the above opinion, that
they are willing to see passed by the board stringent resolutions rescinding
former appropriations for these objects, and restricting the committee, in
their entire operations, to the above amount.

By a resolution of the board of the 5th of February last, the prepara-
tion and publication of a work to be entitled ‘‘ Hints on Public Architect-
ure,’’ and to contam, among its illustrations, views and plans of the inst-
tution building, was intrusted to the committee; and an appropriation of a
thousand dollars was made for that purpose.

In carrying out that resolution, the committee made with Messrs. Wiley
& Putnam, one of the most respectable publishing firms in New York, a
contract, of which a copy will be found on their journal ; according to the
terms of which, the committee agrees to furnish the entire illustrations,
which it is stipulated shall not be of less value than one thousand dollars;
and the publishers, without further cost to the committee, agree to furnish
a thousand copies of the volume bonnd in cloth, provided the letter-press
does not exceed one hundred and fifty pages. é

In order to give increased value to the work, the committee applied to
several public bodies, having control of edifices of which the architecture
is of reputable character, for plates of the same. In the case of one of the
New York churches they were successful, and they hope to obtain in the
same way plates of one or two other public edifices. The particulars of
these applications will be found at large on their journal. /

The committee hope to make this treatise, of which a portion of the
manuscript is prepared, a work of practical importance, and of national
interest. Among the resolutions on the journal of the committee, several
will be found relating to this subject, and providing, among other things,
that the forthcoming work should include a comparative review of the ad-
vantages, economy, and facility of adaptation to modern purposes, of
[ 23 ] 14

various styles of public architecture, particularly the Grecian, Roman,
modern Italian, Gothic of different ages, and Norman; giving the actual
cost, compared to extent of accommodations, of some of the principal pub-
lic edifices in the United States, in the various styles, including some of
the public buildings erected in Washington, and elsewhere, by the general
government; also, that, so far as the funds permit, the work shall contain
illustrations, in the best style of art, representing such among the public
buildings of the United States as exhibit the purest specimens of architect-
ure, in various styles, including two perspective views of the Smithsonian
Institution on steel; and including, also, one or more perspective views of
the best designs for the institution, offered in competition.

To execute such a plan as this in a reputable manner, the illustrations,
including numerous wood-cuts, essential to a proper elucidation of the
text, will, the committee have ascertained, cost more than the sum here-
tofore appropriated. ‘The two steel engravings of the institution building
in perspective cannot be obtained, executed in the best style of art, for
less than $35U to S400 for the two. ‘The committee ask, therefore, of the
board an additional appropriation of a thousand dollars. By reference to
a supplement recently made to the original contract with Wiley & Putnam,
and of which a copy is given in the minutes of the forty-first meeting of
the committee, the board will perceive that such an additional appropria-
tion, expended on illustrations, will entitle us to an additional hundred
pages of letter-press; making in all two hundred and fifty pages. This
the committee consider important, as it is doubtful whether the number of
pages to which, by the original contract, the volume was restricted, will
suffice for the purpose of the work.

{t will require six months, properly to execute the illustrations of this
work ;-so that it cannot be published before next summer or autumn. ‘The
committee will proceed in its preparation as rapidly as is consistent with
the proper execution of the work.

It is the purpose of the committee to add to this work, as an appendix,
the result of the experiments heretofore (to wit, by resolution of the first of
March last) authorized by the board, to determine the economical value of
the different building materials used in the United States. This will
give to the work additional value for builders, carpenters, and mechanics,
generally.

For further particulars regarding the various subjects touched on in this
report, the committee beg to refer the board to the copy, herewith sub-
mitted, of their journal. ‘They think it would be useful to make that copy
a portion of the annual report of the board to Congress.

They submit also, herewith, the original contracts with Dixon &
Cameron, Joel Downer, Caleb Buckingham, and Wiley & Putnam; and
the security bond signed by Dixon & Cameron, Winter, and Butler.

All which is respectfully submitted.

ROBERT DALE OWEN.
W. W. SEATON.

JOS. “GRO TEN.
DecEMBER 7, 1847.
15 [ 23]

No. 2.

Journal of the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, from
the \7th February to the 1st December, 1847.

[Mr. Owen, Chairman. ]

FIRST MEEBTING—Fersrvary 17, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.
On motion of Mr. Hough, it was
Resolved, That Robert Mills, architect, be superintendent, at the rate of
one thousand dollars per annum, to commence at this date, and continue
at the pleasure of the committee.
Mr. Renwick, architect, being present, was requested to see Mr. Mills
and engage his services.
On ey Mr. Seaton, it was
Resolved, 'That 100 copies of the specifications prepared by the architect
be printed, for the use of contractors.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

SECOND MEETING—FEpruary 23, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter from the
Hon. Louis McLane:

Battimore, February 22, 1847.

Dear Str: I understand from our chief engineer that Mr. Howard will
recommend to his board of directors, on Wednesday next, to agree to trans-
port the marble on their railroad at 2} cents per ton per mile; and if that
rate be adopted, I should recommend the adoption of a similar charge upon
the road of this company. My final answer, therefore, must await the
action of the other company.

I am, dear sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
LOUIS McLANE.

To the Hon. Rospert Date Owen.

On motion of Mr. Hough, it was

Resolved, That Mr. Renwick be allowed annually the sum of eighteen
hundred dollars for superintendence, besides his necessary travelling ex-
penses between New York and Washington, and the necessary incidental
expenses of the architect’s office; the said salary to commence on the day
his plan was adopted by the committee of five. ” ;

The chairman laid before the committee a letter from Philip McGaughlin,
dated Point of Rocks, Frederick county, Maryland; in which he informs
the committee that a quarry of the very best marble, and of great extent,
is to be found there, close to the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, and has been
examined by himself, and asks the committee to send some suitable person
to examine the same.
[ 23] 16

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That Dr. Owen be requested to proceed to visit the said quarry,
and also the marble quarries in. the vicinity of Baltimore, and to report
thereon to this committee; also, that he be requested to aid Mr. Renwick
by preparing the drawings for the chemical department.

The chairman stated to the committee, on the part of Dr. Owen, that
any services performed by him for the institution would be gratuitous; his
actual travelling and other necessary expenses only being paid.

On motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRD MEETING—Marcu 1, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.

The chairman laid before the board the following letter from Mr. Samuel
Worthington, of Maryland, brother of the ex-member of Congress of that
name:

BattTmore County, February 26, 1847.

To the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: | will agree to furnish, and have placed on cars at Cockeys-
ville, any quantity of marble for rnbble work, from the quarry, undressed
other than broken as near the required size as practicable, at $1 25 per
perch; or, if by the ton, at $1 per ton. Any marble that may be wanted
other than the above, I wiil deliver on cars, as above, at 70 cents per cubic
foot for all sizes under forty feet, and for all above forty feet 85 cents per
foot. *

Respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAMWL WORTHINGTON.

The chairman laid before the committee a reply prepared by him to the
above letter, as follows:

Wasuineton, March 1, 1847.

Str: I yesterday received your letter of the 26th of February, addressed
to the building committee of our institution, and shall lay it before the
committee, which meets to-day.

Will you have the goodness, in addition to the proposals contained in
your letter, to state to us at how much per perch of twenty-five feet, mea-
sured in the building, you would be willing to rent to us the quarry-right
for so much marble as we may require for our building—say about five
thousand perches in all.

I think the Maryland marble, including the specimens I have seen from
your quarry and from others in the neighborhood, is of very fair quality,
and only needs a reputation to bring it into general use. But it is neces-
sary for us to get the quarry right low, or else the New York marble, which
is also of excellent quality, will come into competition with it. The owner
of the Hastings quarry, on the North river, has offered the quarry-right, for
the sake of the reputation it will obtain if selected by our institution. But
I think the freight from there may be a trifle higher than that by railroad,
if i railroads come down, as I think they will, to: 2} cents per ton per
mile. ¥

as
17 | [ 23]

Whatever material and quarry we may select, the particulars regarding it
will be published by us in connexion with the plans of the building, and a
copy sent to every literary and scientific society of any importance not
only in this country, but throughout Europe. The reputation of the quarry
we may select will therefore be known all over the world.

If we contract for the quarry right, we shall have to do so subject to the
ee of the two railroads to reduce their freight to 2} cents per ton per
mue.

This will be handed to you by my brother, Dr. Owen, a geologist, who
is instructed by our board carefully to examine the various Maryland quar-
ries, including one at the ‘‘ Point of Rocks,’’ from which specimens have
recently been sent to us. You will oblige the committee by affording Dr.
Owen every facility to examine your quarry.

If we agree to rent of you the quarry right, we should expect to go into
the quarry where you are at work. But this need not at all embarrass
your own operations.

If we agree to pay half the expenses of a railroad to connect your quarry
with the York road, so that the cars could be loaded in the quarry, wiil
you agree to pay the other half? Please reply to this.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
ROBERT DALE OWEN,
Chawman of Building Conunittee.
SamurL WorrsHineton, Esq.

The reply was approved by the committee.

The chairman laid before the committee a letter from Wm. Robinson,
owner of a Maryland quarry of ‘‘ white primitive stone,’’ which he offers
for the Smithsonian building.

Referred to Dr. Owen.

‘The chairman laid before the board.a letter from Peter Gorman, stating
that he had found a quarry superior to any other he had visited, (Samuel
Worthington’s,) and which could be rented on cheap terms.

The chairman informed the committee that he had seen Mr. Gorman
since the receipt of this letier, and he (Mr.G.) stated that Mr. Worthington
was willing to rent his quarry for the purposes of the institution at éwenty
cents per perch quarry right.

Letter laid on the table.

The chairman laid. before the committee the following letter from Mr.
Howard, president of the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad:

OFFicE OF THE BaLTImMoRE AND SuSQUEHANNA Ratiroap Co.,
Baltimore, February 24, 1847.

Dear Sir: In compliance with your request, [ submitted to-day the
proposition that we should unite with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company in transporting rough marble for the Smithsonian Institution,
from the quarries in Baltimore county to Washington, at a charge of 23
cents per ton per mile for the whole distance.

I regret that I cannot yet give you an answer. The period has now ar-
rived for the appointment, by our legislature, of directors of the company
on the part of the State, who will constitute a majority of the whole board.

Expecting every day to hear of such appointment being made, the di-
rectors have not deemed it expedient to enter at this moment into a con-
[ 23] 18

tract which will last for several years, and thereby forestall the action of
their successors, should the legislature think proper to make any changes
in the board.

This question will probably be settled before this day week, when |
hope to be prepared to give you the decision of the company.

Hoping that this unavoidable delay may not be productive of any in-
convenience to the Regents of the institution, or to the committee of that
body with which you are acting,

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES HOWARD, President.
Hon. Rosert Date Owen,
Chairman of Building Committee.

The letter was laid on the table.

On moiion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That, as the specifications were not furnished by the printers
by the time appointed by public advertisement, for the inspection of bid-
ders, the time for receiving bids for the work specified in the advertisement
of the building committee be extended from the 10th to the 15th inst.

On motion, the committee adjourned.

FOURTH MEETING—Marcu 6, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.

Mr. Seaton laid before the committee a letter from Mr. Peter, owner ofa
quarry on the margin of the canal, near the mouth of Seneca creek, as
follows:

Monte Viveo, (near Darnestown Montgomery Co.,
Maryland,) December 9, 1847.

Dear Sir: Yours of the 5th inst. was received by yesterday’s mail, in
which you state that the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution have in
their possession a specimen of red sandstone taken from my quarry, on
the margin of the canal. J am unable to determine from which particular
quarry the specimen they have in their possession was taken, as several
have been opened, and there is a continuous line of a mile in length of
similar stone, equally convenient to the canal.

The aqueduct at the mouth of Seneca creek, and many of the locks,
both above and below, are constructed of stone derived fron my land.

The jury, in condemning the quarries for the use of the canal company,
allowed me twenty-five cents a perch for the backings; that is, all stone
intended for cut work, twenty-five cents—all calculated for hammered
work, twelve and a half cents a perch; and for these prices would I grant
permission to obtain stone for any purpose.

The excellence of the material—for it is capable of withstanding any ex-
posure—the facility with which it is obtained, and the ease with which it
may be transported by the canal to the spot where required, would, I
should suppose, give it a decided preference over any stone which could
be brought in competition with it, for the purposes of the institution.

As to quantity, it is unbounded, and in texture and shade a great variety;
and in such a building as, I have no doubt, the Smithsonian Institution
will be, would present not only an appropriate, but a pleasing contrast
with the other public edifices in Washington. ,

i9 [ 23 J

It would afford me great pleasure to see it selected by the Regents as the
material of which the edifice shall be constructed; and the very liberal price
at which it is offered, may, I hope, have its influence in securing its
adoption.

It will afford me pleasure to answer any inqniry the Regents may desire
to make in relation to the stone, and to afford every facility to an agent,
should they think proper to send one, in making any examination.

Yours, very respectfully,
JOHN P. C. PETER.
W. W. Seaton, Esq.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, is was
Resolved, ‘That on the return of Dr. Owen from the marble quarries of
Maryland, he be requested to visit the different sandstone quarries in the
vicinity of Seneca creek, and make a report on their extent, and their
general character and fitness for furnishing a suitable material for the
Smithsonian building.
Mr. Owen submitted the following letter:

BattimoreE County, March 6, 1847.

Sir: Yours of the ist inst. has deen duly received, and, in reply, I
would state that | am almost entirely uninformed as to the sizes of the stone
required, and am at a loss how to propose for the material.

If you would do me the favor to send me, immediately, a specification
of the stone wanted, I will then propose fer the stone, whether the rubble
stone is to be worked and made ready for the mason, or in the rough state
frem the quarry.

You may have misapprehended my former letter: that was for the rough
and the ordinary size building-stone. As to the quarry right, the price
would depend much on which quarry you might want the right to quarry
into; I have several. I should be much pleased to furnish you with what
stone you may want, should you determine to use our stone, and think
the material to be as good as any in our neighborhood.

Please write immediately on the reception of this, in order that f may
have time to propose by the 20th inst. I was this day with some of the
directors of the Susquehanna road, and I think they will agree to take the
proposed amount—that is to say, 21 cents per mile.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAMUEL WORTHINGTON.

Hon. R. D. Owen,

Chairman of Building Committee.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was :
Resolved, That the reply to the above be postponed until the return of
Dr. Owen from Maryland.
The chairman laid before the committee the following report from Dr.
Page, appointed to make examination of building-materials:
[23] 20

To the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, on the actior
of frost upon certain materials for building’.

Of the twenty-five specimens of stone submitted to me for examination
with reference to their relative properties in resisting the disintegrating —
action of frost, I have been able to investigate but twenty-two; the remain-
ing specimens, marked, respectively, 1, 9, 5 D, being too small to submit to
the test. It was thought desirable to ascertain their specific gravities, with
a view to determine if any connexion existed between their densities and
liability to dilapidation. ‘The result leads us to infer that such relation does
not exist, and that the texture of the stone, without reference to density,
determines its frangibility under the influence of frost. Resort was had in
these experiments to an imitation of the operation of freezing water after
the process described by Brard, a French chemist, in the ‘‘ Annales de
Chimie et Physique,” vol. 38. The details of the process will presently
be given. 4

The absorption and subsequent freezing of water within the stone would
have been a more energetic mode of action; but the undertaking would
prove one of considerable practical difficulty, and, on the whole, not so
reliable as an experiment, unless, perhaps, the circumstances were such as
io admit of their exposure to natural freezing under favorable circumstances.

The process of Brard consists in substituting the crystallization of the
sulphate of soda for the freezing of water, and has met with the approval!
of many French architects and engineers, as the results accord with their
experience. In the freezing or crystallization of water, the expansion is
such, that the crystals float; while in the crystallization of sulphate of soda,
and other soluble salts, the crystals smk in the solution; but, notwith-
standing, the exertion of the crystalline forces of these salts is suflicient to
produce decided impressions upon the hardest of building materials in a
iow weeks.

The specimens of stone furnished me by your board were all numbered
as according to the subjoined table; and it may be proper to remark, that
their localities and respective values, as usually estimated, were unknown
to me until after the results of the experiments had been laid before you
and approved.

Six numbered specimens were also handed to me by Mr. Dewey, and
are marked, respectively, 1D,2D, &c. ‘The. specimens: were cut into
inch cubes; three of the whole number being of.insufficient size, were laid.
aside, as above mentioned. ‘The cubical blocks, suspended by strings, to
which the respective numbers upon labels were attached, were first im-
mersed in a boiling solution of sulphate of soda, saturated when cold; and
aiter remaining half an hour in the boiling liquid, they were removed.
and hung upon a frame over half-pint bow!s, containing also a quantity of
the cold saturated solution.

In the course of 24 hours a considerable efflorescence was found upon
the surface of each specimen, consisting of the crystals of the salt mixed
with comminuted portions of the stone. These were washed off daily, by
simultaneously immersing the stones in the solution in the bowls, and su&
fering them to remain there for a few minutes. This proceeding was re-
peated daily for one week, when it became necessary to deviate from Brard’s
directions, and to keep them in a moderate temperature, instead of a cold
cellar, as he advises. Jt was obvious that the investigation would be ex:
21 [23]
ceedingly protracted unless the crystallization of the salt were promoted by
moderate warmth, as by this time the detritus from some specimens was
hardly visible.

After the change, the process went on with greater rapidity; and at the
end of four weeks the dipping was stopped, and the sediment or deposite in
each bowl was carefully weighed, and furnished the results as given in
the table. In some cases the comminution of the stone was exceedingly
fine; and in the washing and decanting process, ample time was allowed
for the deposite to settle after each washing, and the utmost care used in
the subsequent operations of decanting, drying, and weighing. The time
of one week for the operation of dipping the stones in the solution was not
deemed sufficient, as the deposite from the marbles and some othe? varie-
ties was hardly apparent; and it was therefore continued, as above stated,
four weeks, and thus the slight errors of manipulation, if any occurred, are
proportionally diminished.

Disintegrating effects of frost upon stones used for building-materials.

Specimens Specific |Loss by
marked, gravity. | frost, in
grains.
No. 1 | Not tested; the specimen being too small.
No. 2 | Symington’s close-grained marble (similar to
Worthington’s)  - - - -| 2,834] 0:19
No. 3 | Connecticut sandstone, coarsest-grained qual- | not ascer-
ity e . - : - | tained. | 14.36
No. 4 | Dark red Seneca sandstone (similar to Peter’s) | 2.672 | 0.70
No.’ 5 | Symington’s large crystal marble = - is Vb oa a Nee 5
No. 6 | Symington’s blue limestone - -| 2.613 | 0.34
No. 7 | Coarse, large crystal marble, Mt. Pleasant,
New York - - - 2+ 222500 | | ene
No. § | Port Deposite granite - - - | 2.609 | 5.05
No. 9 | Too small to examine.
No. 10 | Trinity sandstone, fine grained and light- | not ascer-
colored - 2 = - | tained. 1.58
No. 11 | Connecticut sandstone, finer-grained quality | 2.585 24,93
No. 12 | Nova Scotia sandstone, coarse grained -| 2.518) 2.16
No. 13 | Light Seneca sandstone, dove-colored - | 2,486 1.78
No. 14 | Pennsylvania marble, close-grained - - 2.727 0.35
No. 15 | Pennsylvania blue limestone 2 1) 2.699 0.28
4 T C| Trinity church light colored, close-grained
sandstone, New Jersey - - -| 2.482 0.62
P O} Patent Office light sandstone - - | 2.230 | 18.60
S B} Soft brick - - - - =| Bei | 16.46
H B| Hardbrick - . - - -| 2.294) 1.07
1 D | Granite from Potomac Great falls - an Ba | 0.35
2 D | Dark coarse sandstone, of Seneca aqueduct, LE |
Peter’s quarry = - - 7 “| 723 5.60
3 D | Sandstone four miles above No. 2 D, Pe- | 2 ‘
ter’s, next west of Beaver dam quarry - |) 4 1.58

<
[23] 22

; TABLE—Continued.
Specimens Specific | Loss by
marked, gravity. | frost, in
grains:
4D) Dark sandstone, from quarry near Wood’s |) 4
residence - ge tatacth : -| ag 3.94
5 D | Nottested, specimen being too small. ee
6 D | Lower stratum, Beaver dam quarry - ay aa 1.72

Respectfully submitted by
CHARLES G. PAGE.

Wasuincton, D. C., March 5, 1847.

- Laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That Mr. Hough be a sub-committee to revise the details of
the specifications, with a special reference to the solidity, security, and
economy of the building, and to report thereon to this committee; specify-
ing what changes, if any, he may deem necessary or expedient.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, the following resolution was adopted:

Whereas the Board of Regents did, on the 5th day of February, pass
the following resolution, to wit:

‘¢ Resolved, That the building committee, in conjunction with the Secre-
tary, be authorized to publish, in such form as they may deem most appro-
priate, one thousand copies of a brief treatise, to be entitled ‘‘ Hints on
Public Architecture,’’ and to be illustrated with designs of the plan of the
building adopted for the Smithsonian Institution, and, at the option of the
committee, with any other designs that are the property of the institution:
Provided, that the cost of the same shall not exceed one thousand dollars,
which sum is hereby appropriated for that purpose:’’? ‘Therefore,

Resolved, 'That Mr. Owen be a sub-committee to prepare, after consul-
tation with the Secretary, the said treatise, and to contract for the necessa-
ry illustrations; provided he submit the same to this committee before
publication.

‘The chairman submitted a table of the value of different kinds of plank
and scantling—Mount Crawford, Rockingham county, Virginia.

Referred to the architect.

On motion, the committee adjourned.

FIFTH MEETING—Marcx 12, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter from the
chief engineer of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company:
23 [ 23 ]

‘ ’
Eneweer’s Orrick, Batriore anp Onto Rarrroap,
Baltimore, March 1, 1847.

Sir: I have been requested by Mr. McLane, the president of this com-
pany, to communicate to you that the Baltimore and Susquehanna Rail-
road Company has not yet decided to join this company in the trasporta-
tion of marble, in the rubble form, to Washington, for the buildings of
the Smithsonian Institution, at the rate (24 cents per ton per mile) sug-
gested by you. The president of the Susquehanna Company informed
me to-day that he would apprize you by leiter of the reasons of the delay
on the part of his company.

I have only now, by Mr. McLane’s desire, to repeat that the Baltimore
and Ohio Company is ready, upon reasonable notice, to enter into the
transportation, whenever the Susquehanna Company is prepared to unite
with it in the operation, at the rate which has been mentioned.

I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

BENJAMIN H. LATROBE,
Chief Engineer.
Hon. Roserr Date Owen.

Laid on the:table.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter from the
president of the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company, relative
to rates of freight: f

Orrice BaLTmorE aNnp SusQUEHANNA RaiLRoaD Co.,
Baltimore, March 8, 1847.

Dear Sir: I am now authorized to say that the president and directors
of this company will unite with those of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company in an agreement to transport the limestone or rough marble for
the building of the Smithsonian Institution, from the quarries on the line
of the railroad of this company to Washington, a distance of 53 miles, for
21 cents per ton of 2,000 Ibs. per mile. ‘The company will agree to carry
75 tons per week whenever required.

From the communications I have had with the officers of the Baltimore
and Ohio Company, I feel well assured that no difficulty will be expe-
rienced in making such an arrangement with the two companies as will
be entirely satisfactory to the building committee of the Regents, and to the
person with whom they may contract.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES HOWARD, President.

Hon. Rosertr Date Owen,

Chairman of the Building Committee.

Laid on the table. f bates
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter, containing
proposals to furnish marble from the State of New York:

New York, March 6, 1847.

Genrtemen: I will furnish white marble from my quarry at Hastings,
on the Hudson river, for the Smithsonian Institution, as follows:
[ 23 ] 24

110,000 feet of rubble facing, 1 foot thick, at 36 cents per foot,

A

measured in the wall 2 ; - - 30 cents.
20,000 cubic feet dimension do. do., for cutting, at 98 cents
per cubic foot - - - - - os, ~

Delivered in the city of Washington.
Very respectfully,
JOHN B. GLOVER.

A. R. Raymond, bondsman.

Hon. Rosert Date Owen,
Wituum J. Hover,
W. W. Seaton,
Building Committee.

Laid on the table.
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter, making
proposals to furnish marble from Massachusetts:

West STocKBRIDGE.

Dear Sir: I understand from Mr. Hooker, of New York, that your
plan has been adopted for the Smithsonian Institution, and that you are
receiving proposals for marble for buttresses, blocks, caps, coping, and or-
namental bands. I submit the following proposition for your considera-
tion:

I propose to furnish you blocks of marble, for all sizes under 4,000 Ibs.
weight, for eighty cents per cubic foot, trimmed near the size, and delivered
at Washington. '

Ihave not the plan before me. Mr. Hooker states that there will be
from twenty-five to thirty thousand feet of said stone; if that is the quan-
tity, I will pledge myself to furnish it in two years from the date of
contract, or comply with your terms in regard to time.

Yours, We:,
MILO M. PARRISH.
Surety—Thomas Milligan, Wm. Milligan, Gilbert Milligan.

Mr. Renwicx, Architect.

N. B.—Furthermore, I think that it would be advisable to try Stock-
bridge marble; it can be worked for some six cents cheaper than any other
marble in this country.

Mr. 'Thomas Milligan was one of the firm of Leonard and Milligan, who
had a contract on the water-works at Dob’s ferry.

«

Laid on the table.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter, making
proposals to furnish lumber, from Philadelphia:

PuinapreLputia, March 9, 1847.

GentLEMEN: I do hereby propose to deliver all the lumber required in
the erection of the Smithsonian Institution, including hemlock, white
pine, yellow pine, (including the flooring,) for the sum of twenty-six
25 [ 23 ]

dollars per thousand feet, and will give security for the faithful performance
of the contract.

f consider my bid as worthy the notice of the committee, and would be
glad to confer with them on the subject, should they deem it advisable.

I have on hand a large supply of seasoned lumber, and arrangements
for the supply of any quantity wanted.

I would respectfully refer the committee to the Hon. James Buchanan,
Secretary of State, should they desire information as regards my ability to
perform any engagements I may enter into. Please address me at this
place if you wish me to go on to the city of Washington.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
. SAML. M. LEIPER.

To the Burtpinc ComMMITTEE
of the Smithsonian Institution.

Laid on the table.
The chairman submitted, from Dr. David Dale Owen, the following

Report on the Baltimore county quarries.

To the Building Committee of the Simthsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: In conformity with your instructions, [ have examined a
number of quarries in the vicinity of Baltimore, and also one at the Point
of Rocks, with a view to ascertain the extent and quality of the building
material they furnish, and report as follows:

Extensive quarries of white crystalline marble commence about twelve
and a half to thirteen miles from Baltimore, near a small village called
Texas, or Clarksville, on the line of the Susquehanna railroad.

The first quarry visited is that owned by Fell and Robinson, who are
largely engaged in lime-burning. It lies on the west side of, and only a
few paces from, the main track of the railroad. The surface layers are, by
barometrical measurement, forty feet above the level of Cold Spring creek,
a small stream running through this quarry; and ledges of marble extend
down to the banks of that stream and form its bed; varying, however, at
different heights, somewhat in texture and appearance.

The purest variety in this quarry is of a coarse and highly crystalline
structure, varying in tint from a pure white to a faint shade of bluish or
grayish white, as may be seen by inspection of the various specimens. It
is known to the quarrymen under the name of ‘ alum limestone.” —

The course of this purer variety is northwest and southeast, with an
average width of 150 feet, and extending 525 feet back to Fell and Robin-
son’s west boundary line. Taking the average depth of this quarry at 18
feet, its solid contents may, therefore, Be estimated at 18 X 150 x 525 =
1,417,500 cubic feet, or 56,700 perches, in this single quarry.

North of this white crystalline marble, the rock gradually assumes a
shade of blue or gray, as may be observed by inspecting specimen No. 4.

The upper layers at Fell and Robinson’s quarry are banded with light
gray veins. Below this are at least three feet of pure, highly, crystalline,
white limestone. Judging from specimens detached from the interior pro-
jecting layers, there is evidently a great body of the same kind of rock
beneath, with probably some banded beds, similar to the upper beds pre-
viously described.
[ 23 ] 26

On the east side of the railroad and close to it, some four hundred or five
hundred yards from Robinson and Fell’s quarry, Griscom and Borrough
have opened quarries. The rock here is of the same character as that in
Robinson and Fell’s quarry, and equally good; see specimens Nos. 2 and
2a. Some nests in this quarry are of a closer grain than the main beds;
see specimen No. 2ad.

The ledges of this rock, wherever it projects through the soil, and has
been exposed probably for ages, have a dark appearance on the surface,
apparently from incrustations of lichen; but when broken, the discoloration
is seen to be superficial, not extending: at all into the substance of the rock:
see No. 58.

The dip of the beds seems to be generally to the southwest, at an angle
of perhaps 20° to 25°.

There is no difficulty i in draining these quarries, since there is twenty
to forty feet of rock entirely above the level of water drainage.

The top layers are sometimes in detached and more or less rounded
masses; owing, no doubt, to the corrosive influence of water containing

carbonic acid, or some organic acid, percolating through the superficial
soil, corroding and dissolving the accessible edges of the calcareous layers.

Over the upper beds lies usually ferruginous earth of deep red color,
forming a remarkable contrast to the snow- “white marble beneath; indeed,
this appearance on the surface might, perhaps, often serve as a guide to
the detection of the white marbles of this region.

Symington’s quarry lies in the same vicinity, about three hundred to
four hundred yards from the main track. ‘The owner of this, as well as
the other quarries here, intend to have switches (that is, lateral branch rail-
roads) running into their quarries.

The rock here is of a rather finer crystalline structure than that of the
preceding, with a slight cast of blue; see specimens Nos. 3 and3a. A solid
bed is exposed, of nearly uniform texture, about nine feet thick. Blocks
weighing several tons are now lying in the quarry. At the top of the
quarry there are some beds with gray mica disseminated: such must, of
course, be rejected. ‘The dip is here as at the other quarries.

Thirteen and a half miles from Baltimore and half a mile east of the
railroad, and about one mile northeast of the previously described localities,
is a quarry on land owned by Chisilla Owens. ‘The rock here is also a
white and highly crystalline marble, of a good color, similar to that in the
vicinity of Texas; but the quarry is not yet opened: the surface indications
are, however, very favorable for a body of good ‘alum limestone.”’ For

sample of this material, see specimen No. 6.

In the vicinity of the same railroad, a little further to the north in the
neighborhood of Cockeysville, fourteen to fifteen miles from Baltimore,
are “several other marble quarries.

The first visited was on land owned by Mrs. Taylor, and situated about
a quarter of a mile west of the railroad. The rock exposed here differs
from that of the 'Texas quarries, in being pare closer-grained and the sur-
face layers more granular; see specimen No. 5. At this locality a block was
got out upwards | of seventeen feet long, whieh was presented to the build-
ing committee of the Washington monument at Baltimore; out of this block
the statue on the summit was sculptured.

Loose blocks of similar character to that in the quarry are seen all over
the surface of the adjacent hills.
27 [ 23 ]

The lower beds are not exposed in Mrs. Taylor’s quarry.

Four hundred to five hundred yards nearer the railroad, a better cemented
and rather more compact marble crops out to the surface; but no quarry is
opened here, to enable one to form a correct judgment as to the extent,
thickness, or uniformity of the beds. Still, from the persistency of the
same material throughout this region, one may predict, with tolerable cer-
tainty, that there is here, deeper seated, a great mass of valuable material.

Part of the marble employed in the construction of the Washington
monument at Baltimore was obtained at this quarry of Mrs. 'T'aylor’s, and
part of it from Scott’s quarries, five miles further to the north. The latter
is said to be of an inferior quality. Of this I had no opportunity of judging
personally, as [ did not visit the quarry, thinking it was too far out of the
way.

‘Three quarters of a mile from the railroad, and a mile and a half or two
miles northeast from Texas, is another quarry, on Mrs. 'T'aylor’s property.
This quarry has been wrought for fifteen years, and supplied Baltimore
with a great deal of marble. The upper layers, (see specimen No. 5 8,) at
this place, are, from some peculiarity, either of texture or chemical composi-
tion, much disposed to crumble to calcareous sand, which has been employ-
ed to advantage as a mineral manure on land. ‘The inferior beds are of a
sounder material, and lie more regularly than usual, but the rock is not
of as pure a color, being banded with gray stripes; see specimen 5c.
Dip very slight to the south.

One hundred yards south of this is another quarry, on Chisilla Owens’s
property. This rock is of a beautiful texture and good color, as may be seen
by specimens No. 5d and No. 7. It lies in tolerably distinct strata, and
nearly horizontal, but it is traversed by minute cross-fissures, which de-
tract much from the value of the material, inasmuch as large solid blocks
cannot be got out, at least from the exposed layers; a sounder material
may perhaps be obtained lower down.

A little northwest of this is Baker and Conly’s quarry, near Beaver Dam
ereek. This quarry is well opened, presenting a perpendicular face of fit-
teen feet or upwards; four and a half to five feet in this quarry, as far as
opened, is tolerably good marble, (see specimen No. 8;) but the upper beds
are of inferior quality, being contaminated by a thin interlamination of mica
in the interstices of the stratification.

Nests of sulphuret of iron also occur here, which would render necessary
a very careful selection. There are at present in this quarry several blocks
that would fill a room of ordinary size.

Between this quarry and Chisilla Owens’s quarry, on Beaver Dam creek,
and about two hundred to three hundred yards from the last described,
Mr. Baker has quarried out a considerable quantity of white marble of very
superior quality. Unfortunately, the ledges of rock here are but little above
the level of Beaver dam; it is said, however, that when this quarry was
worked, it was easily kept drained by a one-horse pump. The fact of
good marble occurring at this low level on Beaver dam, renders it more than
probable that good marble will be found in the adjacent quarries Just men-
tioned at a considerable lower level than where they are now worked.

On the northwest branch of Beaver dam, between fifteen and sixteen
miles from Baltimore, and rather more than a mile from the railroad, are
Mr. Worthington’s marble quarries, and saw-mill for cutting 1t Into dimen-
sion-stone.
[ 23 ] 28

The rock in this vicinity is mostly composed of small aggregated crys-
tals, of less size and finer texture than the ‘alum marble.”’

The old quarry was first visited. It is situated on a hillside, fifteen feet,
by the barometer, above the drainage level of the northwest branch of Beaver
dam. 'The top rock here is not pure, nor even bedded; but beneath, at
the above level, commences a marble of snowy whiteness, passing Into one
with a blue tinge; see specimens 10w and 100/. This marble spauls with
ease and precision, nearly as well on the edge as the bed, and is free to
work in every way. This is also the case with the marble taken from
Baker’s lower quarry; and indeed all the finer marbles have the same prop-
erty, unless they are laminated and schistose. ‘The marble here admits
of being split out of considerable length, twenty or even forty feet. ‘The
face, however, when thus split, is more or less irregular, varying four to six
inches or more from a true level surface.

On the other hand, the facility of spauling enables it to be brought
to the desired dimensions with comparatively little labor. ‘The blue-
tinged variety quarried here is but little inferior in appearance to the
virgin white. Both varieties, though they do not admit of receiving
a high polish, like the best quality of Carara marble, can nevertheless be *
wrought into very fine ornamental work, with a beautifully sharp arris, as
may be seen by the specimen with raised lettering, and that cut into a cap-
ital carved by Mr. Parkie, of Baltimore.

The lower beds are not exposed on the quarry face, but outcropping
ledges can be seen in various places around the slopes of the rising ground;
also in the bed of the creek, and everywhere in the bottom, where ditches
have been dug two to three feet deep; all indicating that a region of coun-
try of three quarters of a mile square is underlayed by rock of similar
character.

Mr. Worthington has opened a new quarry on a hill about half a mile
southwest, and by barometrical measurement 40.8 feet above the level of
the northwest branch of Beaver Dam creek, at the stone saw-mill. This
quarry is about three-quarters of a mile on the east side of the railroad.
‘The upper masses are alone at present exposed.

They are rather more disposed to crumble than the best quality of the
old quarry rock, but it is far superior to the upper beds at that locality,
and there is every reason to believe that the best quality of rock is not yet
reached ; indeed, probe-holes have been already sunk three feet into the
floor of the present quarry, which show that there are solid ledges of
white marble of the same texture beneath.

‘The hill on which the new quarry is situated is estimated, at the low-
est calculation, two hundred yards square; and it may be excavated for
twenty-five feet in depth without being incommoded with water.

Within the last five years, at least twenty-five thousand cubie feet of
dimension-stone have been taken out of these two quarries.

An experienced stonecutter of Baltimore, who has worked a great
deal of fine-grained marble, thinks there may be some difficulty in pro-
curing dimension-stone of that quality of greater thickness than twenty
inches. ‘lhe same individual is of opinion that Baker’s lower quarry
might furnish a material of uniform color, of greater thickness. He has
worked both the fine and the coarse crystallized marbles of Baltimore
county; and his experience is, that the fine-grained marble dulls the tool
more than the “ alum stone,” and is more difficult to saw, because, as he
29 yoga

expressed it, the fine-grained rock contains most flint. He is, moreover,
of opinion that the fine-grained is rather more apt to stain. There is a
difference of opinion, however, on these matters. An accurate chemical
analysis would throw light on this subject. ‘There is also a difference of
Opinion as to the presence and proportion of magnesia in the different
samples of these rocks. Some contend that the coarse crystalline marbles
contain most magnesia, and that none of these Baltimore marbles have
less than five per cent. of that alkaline earth. These are points which
can be alone settled by minute chemical researches. Such analysis
would also throw much light on their comparative durability ; since, in
the opinion of recent writers on this subject, the greater the proportion of
accidental magnesia, the more liable the rock is to disintegrate until it
reaches a quantity equivalent in proportion to the lime, and then unites
with it to form a true dolomite or magnesian limestone; a very durable
building-material, and the same which was selected, after careful research,
for the exterior of the new Houses of Parliament in England.

As already remarked, iron pyrites (bi-sulphuret of iron) occurs occa-
sionally in these marbles, in nests, both at Worthington’s and Baker’s
quarries; see specimen 10p. ‘his mineralis much prone to undergo
chemical changes by the action of the oxygen of the atmosphere: the
sulphur passes into the state of sulphuric acid, the iron into oxide of iron,
forming copperas or bi-sulphate of iron, a salt easily soluble in water,
which is gradually removed; leaving, of course, a cavity in which water
may lodge and freeze, whilst at the same time the oxidation of the iron
spreads a disagreeable ferruginous yellow stain around the spot. For this
reason great care should be taken, in selecting marble, to reject all masses
contaminated with this mineral.

The only locality in the neighborhood of Worthington’s quarries
where a marble of the structure of the “ alum stone” was observed, is in
the immediate vicinity of his dwelling house ; here, for a short distance,
_a white marble of that texture occupies the surface. ‘Three hundred to
four hundred yards beyond, on Prospect Hill, at a height of two hundred
and twenty-one feet above the bed of the northwest branch of Beaver
Dam creek, a highly ferruginous mica slate, charged with garnets, reaches
the surface: this seems to be the boundary of that formation on the east.
This garnetiferous micaceous schist may possibly serve to define the
limits of the white marble formations, and may, perhaps, be the means of
detecting these metamorphic marbles elsewhere. _

One mile north of Texas, close to the railroad, is a quarry owned by
Chisilla Owens, and now worked by Mr. Cooper. The rock here is well
bedded, and may be quarried with ease; but the beds are, for the most
part, thin, and there is an interlamination of mica. Here the dip is to
the northeast, in an opposite direction from what it 1s In the Texas quar-
ries. There is a bed of white crystalline marble (“ alum stone”) 1n this
quarry, of about two to two and a half feet thick ; whether it extends of
uniform appearance and thickness through the hill, is not clearly seen
in the present state of the quarries. The blocks lying in the quarry are
of very regular dimensions, and the surface comparatively even, but hey.
are not large, and many of the beds are interlaminated with mica; see
specimen No. Ll. hich I

In the vicinity of. Texas is a quarry owned by Judge Nesbitt, whic a
afforded some good white marble of a rather finer grain than that of most o
~

[ 23 ] 30

the quarries in this vicinity; see specimen No. 12. I had not an op-
portunity of examining this quarry in person.

South of Fell and Robinscn’s quarry at Texas, on land owned by Mr.
Cockey, there is some fine, white, close-grained crystalline marble. It
lies, however, low—not more than eight or ten feet above the bed of Cold
Stream creek. The quarry is not open, so that one cannot judge of the
bed. Mr. Cockey says the same kind of rock has been found half a
mile west. ‘This is the only proof of its being extensive.

On the whole, it appears that there is a region of country extending
for about two miles from north to south, and three-quarters to a mile from
east to west, occupied by this marble, extending from the level of the
water-courses to forty to forty-five feet above the same, and constituting
the whole of the hills within this tract of country; not all of the purest
white, but varying from a snow-white to alight blue. It may be esti-
mated that about one-third is of tolerable purity, and either of the crysial-
line texture or of the fine-grained crystalline structure, approaching in
quality to the Carara.

Nor can this be considered the limit of the formation. Scott’s quarry,
five miles beyond these, in the vicinity of the railroad, supplied a portion
of the material for the Washington monument at Baltimore, and other
quarries of white marble were pointed out to me from Prospect Hill, seve-
ral miles off.

It cannot be doubted that these quarries are capable of supplying an
unlimited amount of fine building-material, either of the fine grained
marble or of the ‘‘ alum stone.’? Whether the former could be obtained
for the entire Smithsonian building, of a uniform color, free from gray
spots and veins, is less certain; though Worthington confidently asserts,
if he be permitted to supply white and faint-blue indiscriminately, similar
to specimens Nos. 10 w and 10 6/, he can furnish far more than the build-
ing requires, without blemish.

irom all I have seen and heard, I incline to believe that the fine-grain-
ed marble will be somewhat more expensive to cut than the “alum stone;”’
but, on the other hand, if the ornaments have bold projections, and much
undercutting, the coarser ‘‘ alum stone’? is unsuitable; it chips off more
readily, and is less tough than the finer-grained varieties.

The ‘alum stone,”’ as far as [ can learn, works much like the West-
chester marble; and if in the latter all the necessary Norman ornaments
can be cut, so can they also, most probably, in the former.

After the inspection of the Baltimore marble quarries, I proceeded, ac-
cording to instructions, to the Point of Rocks, to examine Mr. Mc-
Glauchren’s quarries.

{ found them situated on Hook’s run, two and a half to three miles
west of the Point of Rocks, or about seventy-three miles from Baltimore,
embraced in highly disturbed, contorted, and deranged chloritic and tal-
cose schists, and distant only about three miles from the brecciated Poto-
mac marble formation.

Nothing but hand specimens, and a few surface rock for making lime,
have been as yet procured here, so that there is but little opportunity of
judging the extent of the formation. The surface indications are not fa-
vorable, neither as regards uniformity of texture and composition, nor yet
extent of beds. !

The chloritic schists dip here at a high angle to the south. The out-
31 [ 23 ]

crop of the white calcareous rock in question lies at the base of a hill on
Hook’s run, about twenty to twenty-five feet high, and pitches at an an-
gle of some forty five degrees into the base of the hill, which is here on
a level with the bed of Hook’s run, at the same time inclining to the west
so that it isinaccessible except at great expense of labor. j

There is a somrewhat better exposure of the Hook’s run marble at a lit-
tle higher level, on a hill a few hundred yards to the south; and here the
best specimens were procured; see No. 15. Part of the ledge is com-
posed of white calcareous layers, which are said to be susceptible of a
polish. The rock at both places has a ragged, irregular, and uneven
fracture, and is so interspersed with white and green talc, that it cannot be
considered of much value as a building-material. It is possible that be-
neath this a purer and better rock might be reached; but the surface indi-
cations do not even favor that conclusion. Uuless the bed should be brought
to the surface by an upward turn of the contorted strata on the south side
of this range of hills, there is no possibility of getting at it. Mr. Me-
Glauchren intends to try, if possible, to open a quarry, with a view to
ascertain more satisfactorily the extent and quality of this material.

On the whole, in its present situation, this marble seems worthless for
the present purpose.

During the examination of structures and monuments of Baltimore
marble, both in Green Mount cemetery and in the city of Baltimore, with
a view to ascertain the durability and facility of working this material, I
was so much struck with the beauty of some of the granite vaults and
fronts of buildings that I determined to visit the quarries from whence
this material was procured, more especially as the owner, Mr. Green, in-
formed me that he was confident he could furnish it at a cheaper rate than
the white marble could possibly be supplied, and as it was only two miles
out of my way in returning from the Point of Rocks.

Accordingly, £ stopped at Woodstock, 16 miles beyond the Relay House,
and inspected carefully the Waterville branch and the Fox rock quarries in
this vicinity; both of which are well opened, and afford a good oppor-
tunity of judging the quality and extent of this formation.

For about a mile square at this locality is an outburst of quartzose granite
of magnificent quality, both as regards beauty of appearance, compact-
ness of structure, and uniformity of color, texture, and composition. 1
have never seen anything superior in thiscountry; indeed, I doubt whether
it can be excelled in any country. The proportion of felspar and mica is
very small. The former is only in minute specks, the latter in small black
scales, whilst the great bulk of the rock is a vitreous quartz.

In consequence of the mica being only in small regular disseminated
flakes, it imparts to the rock an agreeable light gray, well adapted, in my
judgment, to the Norman style of architecture. gh

In consequence of the composition and texture of this granite, it must
possess a durability not to be surpassed by any building-material. For
the same reason, it must be difficult and expensive to cut; but in conse-
quence of the precision with which it splits, not only in the lines of
cleavage, but even across the grain, it may possibly be furnished in com-
petition with marble. Ce

To give some idea of the remarkable facility with which the granite in
question cleaves, I may state the following facts, which came under my
observation: A slab twenty feet long and one foot square was split longi-
tudinally into two, nearly as accurately as if it had been sawed.
[23] 32

Again, I observed two slabs—one measyring thirteen feet long, four feet
six inches broad, and two feet thick; the other eleven feet long, six feet
broad, and two feet thick—which were split in two, so as to form slabs of
the same dimensions in length and breadth, but only one foot thick; and |
so perfect were the faces of cleavage, that they did not deviate one inch
from a true level surface. °

So confident are the quarrymen of the certainty of splitting this granite
in any required direction, when even of no greater thickness than nine
inches or a foot, that they will, for the sake of haviug weight and sub-
stance in the block to retain it in its position while under the hammer
and chisel, first dress the two outside faces, and trust to splitting the slab
or blocix in two.

Fully to appreciate the quality of this granite, the quarries themselves
must be visited, and the huge blocks in mass inspected as they are re-
moved from their original bed. There, one may see a perpendicular face
of nineteen feet presented to view, extending twenty, thirty, and even
forty or fifty feet, without a seam or flaw, or the slightest variation in
hue. A mass of forty or fifty tons weight may often be seen severed from
the parent rock, by the simple but efficient means of small iron wedges.

On some slabs, by close inspection with the magnifying glass, a few
minute specks of iron pyrites may be seen; but none were observed vis-
ible to the naked eye.

Mr. Green thinks nearly one-third of the freight may be saved by bring-
ing the rock to its proper dimensions at the quarry.

This granite does not spaul freely ; but, in consequence of the facility
with which it splits, but little spauling is required.

Krom the bottom of the Waterville branch quarry to the summit of the
outburst is forty feet, by barometrical measurement.

The Fox rock quarry is thirty-six feet from top to bottom, where now
excavated. It might be worked some fifteen or twenty feet lower before
being incommoded by water. Mortar adheres with such force to this
granite, that, when fairly set, it requires as much force to separate the
substance of the granite as to detach the mortar from the face.

On the whole, the inspection of these granite quarries has impressed
me with the belief that no locality can furnish a superior quality of gran-
ite, and that it cannot be surpassed for strength and durability by any
building-material in the world.

The stonecutters’ bill in granite will, 1 fear, run up very high, on ac-
count of its great hardness; but, if the expense be not an objection, I do
not think that there will be any practical difficulty in rendering in granite
ornamental work so little elaborate as that of the Norman style.

An objection to the use of granite for the Smithsonian building deserves
serious consideration. It is, that in this material the effect of light and
shade is in a great measure lost; while every projecting ornament in the
marble is marked by a distinct shadow. How far this may injure the
general effect under the plan adopted, the committee will judge. Results
of considerable practical importance may be obtained by an accurate
chemical analysis, chiefly with reference to the proportion of silica, alu-
mina, magnesia, and iron, affecting the durability, discoloration, and ex-
pense of working. ‘Time, however, did not permit this investigation.

All of which is respectfully submitted.
DAVID DALE OWEN.
Wasuineton, March 11, 1847.
33 [ 23 ]

List of specimens referred to in the foregoing report.

No. 1 Robinson and Fell’s quarry.
la Robinson and Fell’s lower layer, close to Cold Spring creek.
2 Griscom and Borrough’s quarry.
2a Griscom and Borrough’s top layer, banded with light gray.
2ab Griscom and Borrough’s fine grained, in nests.
Symington’s quarry, large-crystalled marble.
3a Symington’s quarry, sample of large blocks.
4 Fell and Robinson’s quarry, blue variety.
5 Mrs. Taylor’s quarry.
5a Mrs. 'Taylor’s quarry, crumbling layer.
5b Mrs. Taylor’s quarry, (see specimen with dark color on long ex-
posed surface.)
5c Mrs. Taylor’s quarry, banded with gray stripes.
5d Chisilla Owens’s quarry, fissured.
6 Chisilla Owens’s quarry.
7  Worthington’s (old) quarry.
8 Baker and Conly’s quarry.
10 Worthington’s (new) quarry.
10w Worthington’s, white variety.
1062 Worthington’s, blue variety.
11 Cooper’s quarry, with veins of mica.
12 Judge Nesbitt’s quarry.
13 Cockey’s quarry, compact white.
14 Mica slate, with garnets.
15 Point of Rocks quarry, Mr. McGlauchren’s.
16 Chloritic schist, Point of Rocks.
17 Granite, Waterville branch quarry, near Woodstock.
17a Granite, Fox rock quarry, near Woodstock.
18 Granite, Fox rock quarry, near Woodstock.

Laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That Dr. Qwen be requested to analyze the specimens of
white marble, especially Mr. Worthington’s and Mr. Symington’s, and
report thereon.

The chairman laid before the committee letters recommending Mr.
Richard C. Murry as superintendent.

Laid on the table.

The chairman laid before the committee a letter from Mr. John C.
Rives, recommending Mr. Jones, of Washington city, as bricklayer.

Laid on the table.

The chairman laid before the committee a letter from Mr. Isaiah Lukins
of Philadelphia, relative to a town clock.

Laid on the table.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

SIXTH MEETING—Marcu 13, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Owen, and Hough.
On motion of the chairman, it was
Resolved, That Mr, Peter Gorman be requested to procure from Bull
3
[ 23 ] 34

run quarry four perch of light gray freestone, to be delivered on the canal,
opposite Highth street, and be put up under the supervision of the archi-
tect—one half in broken rubble masonry, the other in range work—finished
exactly in the manner in which the said architect recommends ; that the
above styles, if adopted, should respectively be finished, so as to supply
a sample wall, to which, if the above material be adopted, reference may
be had in the contract.

Mr. Seaton submitted a letter from I. Mudd, offering his services as
superintendent ; also, a letter from A. B. McFarlan, regarding the specimen
walls and Seneca freestone ; also, from the same, a draught of the quarries
in the vicinity of Seneca creek; also, from the mayor of Baltimore, and
Mr. Long, architect, of that city, recommending Mr. Richard C. Murry
as superintendent ;* also, from Mr. M. W. Carter, of Fredericksburg, re-
commending Seneca freestone, and offering his services; also from Mr.
John I’. Bryant, recommending to purchase one of Mr. Lukins’s clocks, °
Philadelphia; which letters, on motion, were

Laid on the table.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

SEVENTH MEETING—Marca 15, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.

Mr. Seaton submitted a letter from Robert Barnard, offering his ser-
vices as treasurer and accountant.

Laid on the table.

The chairman submitted a letter from Governor Francis Thomas, of
Maryland, asking an additional examination of the quarry at Point of
Rocks, heretofore examined by Dr. Owen.

Laid on the table.

The chairman submitted from Mr. Samuel Worthington the following
oifer to supply marble for the Smithsonian building:

Battrmore County, March 13, t847.

GENTLEMEN : I will agree to furnish the necessary white marble for the
erection of the above institution—say five thousand perch of rubble stone
of the size of good building-stone, carefully broken, and placed upon the
cars at Cockeysville—at the rate of one dollar and eighty-seven cents per
perch of twenty-five feet; or, at one dollar and twenty cents per ton, as
weighed by the railroad.

T will agree also to furnish the dimension-stone in the block, and no
block to contain less than two cubic feet, at the rate of sixty cents per
cubic foot, and placed on the cars at the above-mentioned place ; or, by the
ton, at six dollars per ton as taken from the quarry, if the stone should be
wrought at the quarry, and the carved work completed there; then, an
addition of fifty cents per ton will be charged on all stone so worked, to
be delivered say in the course of three years, or as may be required.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAWL WORTHINGTON.

Messrs. Ropert Date Owen, and others,

Building Committee Smithsonian Institution.

* Nore.—March 16, letters and application withdrawn,
35 [ 23 ]

Mr. Hough, from the sub-committee to whom were referred the specifi-
cations of the architect, (James Renwick, jr.,) for the building for said in-
stitution, made the following report :

To the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution :

GENTLEMEN: I have carefully examined the specifications of the archi-
tect, (James Renwick, jr., esq.,) for the building of said institution, and
find them elaborately and minutely drawn, both in reference to detail of
the work and permanence and durability of the structure. Few, if any,
omissions can be discovered, and but few alterations seem to be required
for the permanence and durability of the edifice, or for its better security
against destruction by fire.

It has been suggested by one of the committee, that the width and
depth of the foundation trenches, and, as a consequence, the foundation
walls, might with safety be diminished, the inverted arches and the con-
crete foundations be entirely dispensed with, and consequently with a
considerable saving of: expense.

In such a conclusion I cannot, without further information, concur.

Whether its foundation trenches may or may not be diminished in
depth, will, in my opinion, depend upon the peculiar formation or strata
of the earth, which can only be determined by making the necessary
borings or excavations.

If, upon experiment, the strata shall be found to consist of firm indu-
rated clay or gravel of sufficient depth for permanence, the depth may be
diminished ; otherwise, not.

But in no event could I recommend a diminution of width ; nor would
1 dispense with either the inverted arches or the concrete foundation ;
deeming both very essential in preventing an unequal settlement and
cracking of the walls of the edifice. I consider the concrete much better
adapted to permanence of foundation than any ordinary structure of rock
alone, and in no respect more expensive; and, in so ponderous a struc-
ture, all architects and constructors of experience concur in recommend-
ing inverted arches to preserve a uniformity of settling between the open-
ings and solids of the building. I would, however, recommend a reser-
vation in the contract for the construction of the building, of the right to
diminish the depth of the foundations, with a pro rata reduction of price
in case the strata or character of the earth shall be found to admit of it
in the opinion of the architect. It may be found, also, that the thickness
of the walls of some of the towers, and perhaps the walls of the buildings
throughout, may with safety be diminished; and I would recommend a
like reservation in the contract to meet this contingency also.

The idea of constructing the principal stairs in such an edifice with
wood, does not, in my estimation, well comport with public opinion, either
as to permanence, durability, and appearance, or with the character of
the age in which the edifice is to be erected.

I recommend, therefore, without hesitation, if the funds will possibly
admit of it, that the principal stairs of both the north and south central
entrances to the principal building be constructed of stone, as high, at
least, as the museum floor. :

I also recommend that the wood tesselated floor of the museum be:dis-
pensed with, and that, instead thereof, there be a single floor of 14-inch
yellow pine plank, with the intention of covering it with stone or compo-
[ 23 ] 36

sition flagging ata future day ; or, what I would deem preferable, dispense
with the wood floor altogether at first, and raise the deafening above so as
to cover the floor-beams, upon which lay a floor of stone flagging. This
it is believed may be done at a small expense over the wood Mosaic, be
greatly more secure against fire, and require much less expense in clean-
ing and repairs.

1 would also recommend as a security against fire, in case of the burning
of the roof, that a rough floor be laid upon the beams above the upper
ceiling, next to the roof, throughout the building, and covered with a suita-
ble thickness of lime-water cement ; over which, when dried, a covering of
common salt, or a cement of salt and ashes, be evenly spread, carefully
filling all the cracks or crevices of the cement.

This is the French method of fire-proofing the upper part of build-
ings, and has been to some extent adopted in some sections of this coun-
try with entire success. ‘This would be attended with comparatively little
expense, and would, it is believed, render the body of the building en-
tirely secure against destruction by fire in case the roof should be burnt.

Allof which is respectfully submitted.

WM. J. HOUGH.

Wasuineton, March 15, 1847.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was
Resolved, That Mr. Hough be requested to examine into the expedi-
ency of dispensing with any portion of ornamental stucco in the build-
ing.
The chairman submitted from Dr. Owen the following

Report on the sandstones of the Potomac.

After completing the report of the white marbles and granite of Balti-
more county, Maryland, I proceeded, according to instructions, on the
afternoon of the 11th of March, to inspect the quarries of sandstone in
the neighborhood of Seneca creek, Montgomery county, Maryland.

About 213 miles from Washington city, on the line of the Chesapeake
and Ohio canal, the talcose and chloritic schists of the Great falls of the
Potomac are succeeded by freestone and marly beds of the new red sand-
stone formation. ‘These deposites are of various colors, from a light
greenish-gray, or dove-color, to a deep red or brown.

The first quarry visited is situated on Bull ran, 23 miles from Wash-
ington. ‘lhe excavations have hitherto been carried on from 250 to 300
yards on the north side of the canal; but the ledges of rock extend down
to its margin, and can be quarried with nearly as much facility a few
paces from the canal as where operations are now carried on.

The dip of the stratification slopes at an angle of 15° or 20° up-
wards from Bull run. ‘lhe beds, suitable, both as regards color, durabili-
ty, and ease with which they can be cut, are fortunately near the surface
in the ravine of Bull run. By commencing quarrying operations near
the bed of this stream, and working up the western slope, blocks of large
dimensions can be obtained with comparatively little labor. The beds
which have been chiefly worked here are layers of a deep red color, (see
specimen No. 18,) and layers of a purplish-gray, (No. 19,) which, by expo-
sure, acquire a lighter and more pinky hue. ‘The latter is the rock most

>:
87 [ 23 ]

suitable for building purposes, its color being agreeable, and, in the opin-
ion of men of good judgment and taste, appropriate for the Norman style
of architecture. This rock possesses one property in particular which
recommends it to the attention of builders. When first removed tiom
the parent bed, it is comparatively soft, working freely before the chisel
and hammer, and can even be cut with a knife: by exposure, it gradually
indurates, and ultimately acquires a toughness and consistency that not
only enables it to resist atmospheric vicissitudes, but even the most severe
mechanical wear and tear. Abundant evidence of this is afforded in the
buildings of the neighborhood, in several of the locks and aqueducts, and
also in ledges and blocks exposed in the bed of Bull run. ‘The deep red
varieties have been chiefly used in these structures. By close inspection
of slabs exposed now 20 years to atmospheric agencies and severe me-
chanical friction, the mark of the dressing-chisel is still sharply imprint-
ed in the surface. On the perpendicular wall of the aqueduct, where the
water has been oozing through the joints and trickling down its face,
forming an incrustation of carbonate of lime, one may observe, where
this calcareous crust has scaled off, the grooves and ridges of the surface
still nearly as distinct as when the block first came from the hand of the
stonecutter.

The angles and edges of the keystones of the arch, placed under these
most unfavorable circumstances, are sharp and entire. Only one or two
blocks of this work of 20 years’ standing show signs of decay ; but these
seem to be such as either have not been well selected, or have been
placed on the edge in the wall.

Even the tow-path of this aqueduct, over which the horses and mules
have been travelling for 20 years, is still unimpaired. Even the corners
around which the heavy lock-gates swing, show no signs of chipping.
Blocks were pointed out to me in the bed of Bull run, which had been
rejected by the engineers as being of too soft and perishable a nature, and
which have been exposed for 20 years to the action of running water and
alternate thawing and freezing, which exhibit little or no alteration, ex-
cept that they have become so indurated that.they turn the edge of the
chisel, and are a little dingy on the surface.

Mr. Peter, on whose property this quarry is situated, has built a fine
barn of these freestones. He assures me that there are stones in that
barn 50 years old, which have been in three buildings. On one corner-
stone, where the figures “ 1824” had been cut in that year by the point of
a penknife, the rock now is so hard that it would soon turn the edge of
a well-tempered tool. é |

Interstratified with these grit-stones are some argillaceous, marly-look-
ing beds, (No. 20,) especially prevalent towards the upper outcrop of the
stratified mass constituting these hills. These layers are, of course, entire-
ly unfit for any kind of building purposes. The sandstone beds differ
very much, not only in color, but also in hardness and texture. Some
are fine-grained, and can be wrought to a sharp arris ; others are coarse-
grained, and even assume the character of a conglomerate: these latter, of
course, are entirely unfit for the finer purposes of architecture. Amongst
a series varying so much, not only in color. but in texture and composl-
tion, a careful selection becomes a matter of the utmost Importance.

About a quarter of a mile further west, in a bold escarpment of 20 or
30 feet in heiglit, close to the margin of the canal, is the * ‘College quar-
[ 23 ] 38

ry.” Here the strata assume a somewhat different character. Above,
they are of a crumbling, argillaceous, marly nature, producing a retentive
soil, well adapted for the growth of wheat and corn; beneath these disin-
tegrating beds are red ard rather argillaceous freestones of an inferior
quality, which pass downwards into light greenish-gray beds, varying
from a foot to two or two and a half feet in thickness.

At about fifteen feet from the top is the most important bed exposed in
the quarry, of a greenish-gray hue, usually called the “ dove-colored bed ;”
see specimen No. 21. Beneath this, as far as can be ascertained from
the rubbish strewed over the lower face of the quarry, are brown and
bluish-purple beds, (No. 22,) of inferior quality. Here, as at Bull run, the
strata dip to the west at an angle of about 15° or 20°; so that the middle
layers crop out towards the summit of the hill. Near the top the dove-
colored bed is two feet thick. Sixty feet down the slope of dip it has in-
creased to four feet; forty-five feet more, it is six feet; and fifty-four feet
more, it is nine feet thick. At the same rate of increase to the west, be-
yond where it is exposed to near the level of the canal, it would be twelve
to thirteen feet. The color of this bed is rather cold, but it is much ad-
mired by some persons. It is faintly striped parallel to the stratification,
(see 21a); it has also some small faint spots, or “ pock,” as the stone-
masons call it, (see 21a), not quite so hard as the body of the rock. This
stratum is not near so easily worked as the best beds in Bull. run quarry ;
indeed it is harder to work than marble. If this dove-colored bed is
worked extensively, there will be considerable expense incurred in strip-
ping, since there are fifteen feet of solid strata overlaying it.

A few hundred yards west of this is another quarry, equally bold, and
composed of similar beds, their tints being for the most part gray, green-
ish gray, and dove-colored.

Beyond this, along the canal, the ground is flat and wet, and the hills
recede towards the north, so that to the west of the last described quarry,
for fifteen or twenty miles, building-material cannot be procured so con-
venient to navigation.

Between the College quarry and Bull run there are several localities —
close to the canal, where some rock has been quarried. ‘The beds ex-
posed are of warm red tints, similar to the red sandstones in Bull run.
At these quarries, and in Bull run, the material for the construction of the
aqueduct and locks in this part of the Ohio and Chesapeake canal were
obtained. ‘These works have stood the test of time as well, if not better,
than any of the other structures along the whole line of this improve-
ment. R

The investigations in the vicinity of Seneca creek prove conclusively
that the bluffs on the banks of the canals, for about three-quarters of a
mile, afford abundance of freestone for building purposes, equal and even
superior to those which are obtained in the quarries of New Jersey, which
supply the New York market.

If this freestone should ultimately become the choice of the building
committee of the Smithsonian institution, a very careful selection will be
necessary not only as regards the particular color preferred, but that it be
those softer varieties of pure grit-stone, free from all argillaceous or marly
admixture, and containing none of those “pock” marks, or small spots
and cavities, which not only injure its appearance, but detract from its
un

x
ao 4 [ 23]

otherwise durable nature.. ‘They must also, to insure durability, be in all
cases laid on the bed as in the natural position in the quarry.

The singular property which the best quality of these freestones pos-
sesses, of hardening by exposure, is one of its most valuable characteristics;
permitting it to be wrought at less expense than marble, and imparting to
it a durability which increases with age. It has been a question, whether
this property is due to iron in its composition, passing from a lower to a
higher degree of oxidation, or to the presence of a sub-carbonate of lime,
becoming gradually by exposure a carbonate of lime, and acting as a ce-
ment to the particles of silex. A minute chemical analysis would no
doubt throw light on this matter. It might prove that this phenomenon
depends on some other property not yet suggested.

This same property of hardening by exposure is possessed in a remark-
able degree by a building-stone which has been excavated for centuries
from St. Peter’s mountain, in the vicinity of Maestrich, in Belgium, and
which is the terminating member of the cretaceous formation of the Me-
sozoic period. ‘This rock ts a calcareous freestone, and is generally sup-
posed to owe its hardening property to a chemical change which takes
place in the calcareous cement. The Seneca freestone, however, does
not effervescein mass with acid; and this fact militates against the idea of
its indurating property being due to any peculiar form of carbonate of lime.

In concluding this report, it may not be out of place briefly to advert
to two letters which [ addressed from Indiana, under date the 22d and
25th of October last, to one of your committee, (the Hon. Wm. J. Hough,)
on the subject of the sandstones of the Potomac, which at that time t
had not seen. In these letters, (judging from the fact shown from a geo-
logical map in my possession, that the red sandstone formation which fur-
nishes highly-prized building-material in New Jersey and Pennsylvania
passes thence to the southward, and crosses the Potomac at Noland’s
ferry, descending that river on the Maryland side and crossing Monocacy
and Seneca creeks,) I took the liberty of suggesting the importance of a
careful examination of these localities, before selection was made of a
more distant and expensive building-material. Mr. Hough will recollect
that the second of these letters contains the following paragraph: “tt
seems indeed strange, that, if really good and durable freestones are to be
had on the canal or river above Washington, these should not already
have been used for the public edifices there; but suflicient examples are
to be found of the very best building-material having been overlooked
through a long series of years, even in the vicinity of populous cities, for
lack of minute and discriminating examination. My own firm belief is,
that a durable sandstone, equal or nearly equal to that used in Trinity
church, can be discovered in suflicient quantities in the vicinity of the
Potomac or the canal.” ;

It may afford some evidence of the confidence with which geological
science may be appealed to in search of practical results, that an actual ex-
amination of one of the localities above designated has fully confirmed all,
and more than all I had anticipated concerning the material they furnish.

I annexa rough sketch of the College and Bull run quarries, showing
the dip of the strata and the shape of the escarpments along the bank of
the canal, where the freestone is found.

PGR ak pia
All which is respectfully submitted DAVID DALE OWEN.

Wasuineton, March 15, 1847.
[23] 40
List of specimens referred to in the foregoing report.

18. Red Potomac sandstone, Bull run,near Seneca creek, Montgomery
county, Maryland.

19. Grayish-purple or pink variety of sandstone, Bull run, near Seneca
creek, Montgomery county, Maryland.

20. Disintegrating argillaceous beds, College quarry, west of Bull run,
Montgomery county, Maryland.

21. Dove-colored bed, College quarry, west of Bull run, Montgomery
county, Maryland.

2la. Banded variety of 21.

22. Purple and brown beds, No. 21, College quarry, west of Bull run,
Montgomery county, Maryland.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.
EIGHTH MEEBTING—Marcu 16, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasuineton, March 15, 1847.

The subscriber will furnish all the stone necessary for the cutting for
the Smithsonian Institution upon the dock at Washington, for the follow-
ing prices:

For East Chester marble, such as the Post Office Department is built
of, for the sum of seventy-five cents per cubic foot.

Mount Pleasant or Sing Sing marble, from the Mount Pleasant prison,
for the sum of fifty-five cents per cubic foot.

JAMES HALL,

Westchester County, New York.
Hon. Rosert Date Owen.
Wn. J. Hover.
W. W. Seaton.

P. S.—I will name Horace Butler and James Foster, both of the city

of New York, as security for the faithful performance of the above.
JAMES HALL.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Battmore, March 15, 1847.

We, the undersigned, do hereby agree to deliver to the committee of said
institution white crystallized marble for rubble work, on the cars at the
quarry, in pieces weighing from 75 to 3,000 Ibs. each, at $2 20 for 3,000
Ibs. ; it being considered equal to one perch of stone.

If the range work should be adopted, we will agree to deliver the stone,
as per specification of 8 in bed, at the building in Washington, at 50
cents per superficial foot.

We will also agree to furnish the dimension-stone, delivered at the
building in Washington, at 53 cents per cubic foot for stone not exceed-
ing 1,000 Ibs. in weight; from 1,000 to 2,000 lbs., 57 cents ; from 2,000
41 [ 23 ]

ys 3,000 lbs.,65 cents; and from 3,000 to 4,000 lbs., 72 cents per cubic
oot.
We name M. 8. and J. T. for our security.
Respectfully,
GRISCOM & BORROUGH.
To the Buinpinec Commirrer
of the Smithsonian Institution.

P. S.—We should like to furnish the lime for the building, also, and
would deliver it at a reasonable price.

G. & B.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Barttimore, March 15, 1847.
We will agree to deliver to the committee crystallized marble in blocks,
for rubble work, weighing from 100 to 300 Ibs. each, on the car at the quar-
ry, at $2 for 3,000 lbs., this amount to be considered equal to a perch of
stone ; and should the range work be adopted, with 8 to 10-inch bed,
then we will agree to deliver stone at 49 cents per superficial foot at the
building ; and for dimension-stone, not exceeding 1,000 lbs., 50 cents per
cubic foot ; and from 1,000 to 2,000 lbs., 53 cents ; 2,000 to 3,000 lbs., 55
cents; and all other stone, from 3,000 to 5,000 lbs., 60 cents. And we
would also wish to contract for the lime,and name for our securities C.
CyArana vy. So 8. ;
Very respectfully,
FELL & ROBINSON.
To the ComMITTEE
of the Smithsonian Institution.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasuineton, March 15, 1847.

I propose to sell to the building committee of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution the right to quarry such stone as they or their agent may select in
my quarry, at the rate of fifty cents per perch. My quarry is situate 1m-
mediately upon the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad.

The stone can be placed upon the cars from the quarry with very little

labor. ‘The distance from Baltimore per railroad is 15 miles.
E.J. COOPER,

79 South High Street, Baltimore.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Battimore, March 15, 1847.

GentLemeN: We propose to furnish from the Fox Rock granite
and Waterville quarries, in Baltimore county, stone for building the
Smithsonian Institution, of the same color and quality as that used in the
rear of the General Post Office, at the following prices: ‘

The rough rubble stone, delivered at the depot in Washington city, at
16 cents per foot.
[ 23] 42

The dimension-stone, for fine work, at 46 cents per cubic foot.
The split ashlar, in place of the rough rubble stone, we will furnish at
374 cents per foot.
‘The above prices are estimated, provided the price of freight on the rail-
road is reduced to 2} cents per ton per mile.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
SUMWALS, GREEN, & CO.
Hon. Rosert Date Owen,
Wm. J. Hoven,
W. W. SEATON,

Committee. .

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasuineton Crry, March 15, 1847.

GENTLEMEN: I propose to deliver what lime may be wanted in the
erection and finishing of the Smithsonian Institution, in this city, at forty
cents per bushel.

The lime shall be burnt from the best alum stone, with wood, and shall
be warranted of the first quality.

I will guaranty that two bushels and a peck shall be sufficient for lay-
ing a thousand brick, provided proper sand is used.

EK. J. COOPER,
79 South High Street, Baltimore.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Wasuineton City, March 15, 1847.

The undersigned proposes to furnish the white pine and yellow pine
necessary for the Smithsonian Institution at the following prices:

200,000 b. m. white pine timber, at $23.

75,000 ¢ b. m. yellow pine narrow boards, in the rough, at $26 50.
75,000 2 b. m. ditto, dressed, tongued and grooved, at $37.

25,000 b. m. white pine plank, at $30.

Common cullings, at $14.

The above to be delivered here free of charge, and in such quanti-
ties as may be ordered, from time to time.
JOHN PURDY.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Marcu 7, 1847.

Sir: I have seen, from the proposals for the construction of the iasti-
tution, that stone from the upper Potomac may be used in the building.
I will take leave to inform you that I have quarries of the red sandstone
Within a short distance of boat navigation, from which were constructed
the aqueduct and locks at and below the mouth of Seneca. 'The quarry
. will either be sold, or otherwise, as may best suit the views of the par-
43 [ 23 J

ties. I shall be pleased to have a call before engagements be entered into,
for the purpose of inspection,
Respectfully,
CHARLES VINSON,
Near Seneca Mills.
To the ConrTRACTOR
on the Smithsonian Institution.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasuineton, March 15, 1847.

GenTLEMEN: I will furnish bricks, lime, cement, and sand, and lay
the same, for fourteen dollars and seventy-five cents per thousand. The
materials shall be of the best quality, and the workmanship done in the
best manner; and will give for securities for the peformance of the same,
John C. Rives and Wm. H. Gunnell, esquires.

Yours, &c.,
ZUPHANIAH JONES.

To the Buitpine CommirTEE

of the Smithsonian Institution.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasuineton City, March 15, 1847.

I hereby propose to furnish the material and lay one million bricks, ac-
cording to plan and specification, for the sum of eleven thousand five
hundred dollars.

Yours, very respectfully,
J. BAY:

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasuineron, March 15, 1847.

GENTLEMEN: The undersigned proposes to furnish and lay all the
bricks that may be required about the Smithsonian Institution, to wit:

In the walls, per thousand, measured, nine dollars and sixty-two anda
half cents.

Or, per cubic foot, fourteen and the fourth of a cent.

All the bricks to be hard; lime of the best Potomac stone; sand clean
and sharp.

If these amounts satisfy the honorable committee and the architect,
then it is time, I hope, (in my opinion,) to furnish a security, or retain a
per centage on acertain amount of money, for the faithful compliance
with this bid.

Yours, with respect, r
THOMAS LEWIS.
To the Burtpine ComMITTEE
of the Smithsonian Institution.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:
[23 J : 44

Wasuineton, March 15, 1847.

I propose to furnish one million of the best hard brick, for the Smith-
sonian Institution, at four dollars and ninety three cents per thousand.
I propose to furnish the best hard brick for 175,000 cubic feet of
backing, at four dollars and ninety-three cents per thousand, :
K. KINGMAN.
Hon. R. D. Owen,
W. J. Hoven,
W. W. Seaton,
Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution.

I offer Messrs. Tyson and Brickley as my securities for the perform-
ance of the contract.

1 a ge
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Proposals to deliver to the building committee of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, at the site of their building in Washington, white marble in the rub-
ble, and in the range and cube form.

For every perch of 3,100 lbs., in such shape as will facilitate the
preparation by the mason, and in sizes of 70 to 300 lbs., $4 60.

For range work, with split faces, bedded to make a joint not over half
an inch, and roughly pitched off to a line in courses of 10 to 18 inches,
per superficial foot, measured face only, 47 cents.

For marble in the cube form, quarried as near the size wanted as
practicable, per cubic foot, (large crystal,) 50 cents.

Medium crystal from my quarry, 624 cents.

Fine crystal from my Owens quarry, in small blocks for foliage work,
70 cents.

My bondsmen are John W. Brown and Wm. Baily, esquires, of Balti-
more.

THOS. SYMINGTON.

Wasuineton Crry, March 15, 1847.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Proposals by George Crest, of New Cumberland, Pennsylvania, by his
agent, Thomas Symington, of Baltimore, to deliver in Washington.
city, for the building of the Smithsonian Institution, white pine sawed
timber, viz:

For all white pine sawed timber, to diminution size, out of good sound
logs, delivered in Washington city, on the landing, per 1,000 feet (board
measure) $18.

[Nore.—In case the freight from Havre-de-Grace is less than three dol-
lars per M., a corresponding reduction will be made. In all cases the
building committee are required to pay the captains the freight from Havre-
de-Grace to Washington city. The said freight will be as part payment
for the lumber. |

Mr. Crist is proprietor of one of the largest saw-mills on the Susque-
hanna river. He is a responsible man, and has directed me to say that he
>

45 [ 23]

will give the necessary bonds, either from his own neighborhood or from
Baltimore.

He further states, that he would like to deliver the whole quantity
during the ensuing season. If desirable, a sample of his lumber can be
seen at the U. S. arsenal, Greenleaf’s point, delivered there some two or
three years ago.

THOS. SYMINGTON.
Bartimore, March 15, 1847.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Proposals to deliver to the building committee of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, at the site of their building in Washington city, white marble
ashlar.

For ashlar with horizontal pointed face, as sample No. 3, in the base-
ment of the City Hall, 6 inches bed, per superficial foot, measured face
only, 49 cents.

For ditto, averaging eight inches bed, 63 cents.

For ditto, machine-dressed face, as sample No. 4, averaging 6 inches
bed, 49 cents.

For ditto, averaging 8 inches bed, 63 cents.

For split ashlar, in range courses of 10 to 18 inches, from my Owens
quarry, from whence sample No. 4 was procured, bedded, so as to make
a joint not over half an inch, average 6 inches bed per superficial foot,
measured face only, 40 cents; and to have a draught cut all round the edges
on the face.

For ditto, as above, averaging 8 inches bed, per superficial foot, face
only, 49 cents.

I name the following gentlemen as my bondsmen, viz: John W.
Brown and William Baily, esqs., of Baltimore.

THOS. SYMINGTON.

Wasuineton Crry, March 15, 1847.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Proposals for cutting marble for the buildings of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the marble to be that which is procured from the large or medium
crystal quarries near Baltimore.

FOR CUTTING.

Steps, if square, worked fine, square droved or rubbed, per superficial
foot, 35 cents.

It worked with the tooth chisel, (as sample No. 2, deposited in the
sample room,) per superficial foot, 25 cents.

Measure length by girth ; if the ends show, add thickness to length.

Water-table, splayed, without members, fine cut or rubbed, per super-
ficial foot, 40 cents.

If tooth-chiselled, 30 cents.

If moulded, add ten cents per superficial foot lineal for each member ;
measure length by girth from wall to wall.
. ne 8

é. % > s
wi

Plain ashlar, fine ent or rubbed, per superficial foot, 35 cents.

Tooth chiseled, 25 cents. 6

Measure face only.

Plinth and base course of all the door and window jambs and mullions :

Fine cut and rubbed, per superficial foot, $1 50.

Tooth-chiselled, $1 10.

Measure the height of course for the length ; and for the girth, girt from
where the course joins the ashlar in front, around the bases, to where the
fine work ceases.

(Nore.—lIf any foliage is to be cut upon any of the bases, an extra
price will be charged for the foliage; to be determined by the architect.
The general rule to be observed, in all such cases, will be to allow the con-
tractor a fair per centage over the operator’s charge for the said work. |

Doors and window jambs, arches and mullions:

If plain splayed, fine cut, and rubbed, per superficial foot, 40 cents.

‘Tooth-chiselled, 30 cents.

Measured léngth, by girth from ashlar in front, to casing; for the circle
or arch, add one half measure.

If moulded with one or more rebats and columns, fine cut, or rubbed,
per superficial foot, $1 10.

Tooth-chiselled, per superficial foot, 80 cents.

Measure the height of each course for the length; and for the girth,
girt from the ashlar in front around the mouldings to the casing in the
rear; add for the arch a half measure.

[Nore.—If any of the members are to receive a cable cord, zig-zag, or
other device, which must be worked upon the member after it shall have
been finished, for the price per lineal foot of such device apply rule No. 1.]

Foliage caps:

For engaged columns of 5 inches diameter and under, finely cut, and
rubbed, each $4.

Rough cut, each $2.

[Nore.—The course on which they are cut will be measured, and
charged as a portion of the door or window jamb. |]

Foliage caps, moderately plain :

For disengaged columns of 5-inch diameter and under, finely cut, and
rubbed, each $10.

Roughly cut, $6.

For disengaged columns of 12-inch and under, finely cut, and rubbed,
each $35.

Roughly cut, each $20.

Circular label mouldings over doors and windows:

If not over 12 inches girth, finely cut, per lineal foot, $1 10.
Tooth-chiselled, 80 cents.

[Nore.—The stones on which it is cut are measured and charged
according to their class. ]
i oe [ 23]

Foliage drops, brackets, or modellions’ buttresses, (apply rule No. 1:)
If finely cut, or rubbed, per superficial foot, 40 cents. i
Tooth-chiselled, 30 cents. ie
Measured as ashlar.
Buttress caps, plain splayed, finely cut, per lineal foot, 40 cents.
Tooth-chiselled, 30 cents.
Moulded, per foot lineal, finely cut, etc , 80 cents.
‘Tooth-chiselled, 65 cents.
Measured along the eave. "
[Nore.—The course on which the cap is cut is measured and charged
according to its class. ]

Corbel courses:

(Such as the one that extends around three sides of the north front
porch, which is 3} feet high. ‘The upper course as plain ashlar ; the lower
course, measure face and bed, and priced as ashlar.)

For sinking the arches, each finely cut, $3 59.

‘Tooth-chiselled, $2 50.

For sinking arches of less size, in proportion.

Label mould, with octagon front, over corbel courses :
Per superficial foot, finely cut, or rubbed, 45 cents.
‘Tooth-chiselled, 35 cents.

Measure length by girth of what shows.

Hook label, or similar moulded courses:

Per superficial foot, finely cut, $1 10.
‘Yooth chiselled, 80 cents.
Measured length by girth of what shows.

Battlements over front porch, and all similar work :
Per superficial foot, finely cut, 35 cents.
Tooth-chiselled, 25 cents.

Measure as ashlar.

“ Battlements, cap or coping, if plain or splayed :

Same as plain octagon label course.
If moulded, according to its class.

Window sills:
Splayed, per superficial foot, finely cut, and rubbed, 45 cents.
Tooth-chiselled, 35 cents.
[Nore.—If part of the plinths of the window jambs or mullions are
worked upon the splay, or if a check is sunk in the splay, to receive the
sill, for the plinth or check apply rule No. 1.]

Circular windows :

The arch jamb, the same as their class. For the mullions, caps, and
plinth, the same as their class; for the centre piece and tracery, apply
rule No. 1.
[ 23 ] 48

Interlaced arches, the columns, caps, &c.:

For the interlaced arching, apply rule No. 1.

For the columns, caps, and bases, measure and charge as their class.
Cornice or coping:

Octagonal face, finely cut, and rubbed, per superficial foot, 40 cents.

Tooth-chiselled, 30 cents.

If. moulded, according to its class.

Measure top bed and girth of face.

Finials: apply rule No. 1.

Corbel course, or central front tower, and all such:

Each course according to its class.
For the band or panelled course, apply rule No. 1.

Sill course of semicircle and fillet, and 5 sides of octagon :
Finely cut, and rubbed, per superficial foot, 80 cents.
Tooth-chiselled, 70 cents.

Measure length by girth of what shows.

Panelled arcade: apply rule No. 1.

Pinnacles on principal tower:

Finely cut, and rubbed, each $240 68,
‘Tooth-chiselled, each $208.

Flagging:
Square marble tile, 24 inches thick, and 12 to 24 inches square, of two

colors, delivered at the building ready for laying, per superficial foot, 35
cents.

Marble tile:

1 inch thick, and 4 to 6 inches of two or more colors, per superficial
foot, delivered ready for laying, 50 cents.

lj inch thick, and 11 to 12 inches square, delivered and ready for
laying, per superficial foot, 35 cents.

The aforegoing list of articles and prices will embrace all the kinds of
cut marble work about the building. I will comply with the printed
specifications, (subject to the foregoing rule,) and all requirements stated
in the advertisements for proposals.

My bondsmen are John W. Brown and William Baily, esqs., of Balti-
more.

Dowels and clamp holes:

For every §-inch hole, sunk 3 inches, 2 cents.
For every 1-inch hole, sunk 3 inches, 3 cents.
If sunk more, in proportion.

THOS. SYMINGTON.
Bautmmore, March 13, 1847.
~

49 | [ 23
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter :

Battimore, March 15, 1847.
GeNTLEMEN: We propose to cut and dress all the fine work mouldings,
é&c., for the Smithsonian Institution, at ($3) three dollars per cubic foot.
We will also build all the stone-masonry at $2 per perch, mason measure-
-- ment, except the concrete under the foundations, which is not embraced
in this proposal.
Respectfully submitted.
SUMWALS, GREEN & CO.
Hon. Rogtr. Date Owen,
Wm. J. Hovcu,
W. W. Seaton,

Committee.

‘The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasnineton, March 15, 1847.

GENTLEMEN: I propose to build and construct the items of the Smith-
sonian institution, herein contained, in a workmanlike manner, agreeably
to the plans and specifications of the architect, for the following aggregate
sum, viz: Digging foundations, concrete, rough stone in foundation be-
low the superstructure, setting the rubble-facing, and cut-stone work of
all parts of the building, and back-filling the same; sess-pools and flag-

-ging for the foundations of partition walls—furnishing all the materials,
except the rubble-facing and cut stone—for the sum of thirty-six thousand
two hundred and fifty dollars.

Nore.—The material for scaffolding, the brick and brick work, and the
north room flagging, are not included in the above. If I furnish the iron
cramps, dowels and anchors, the price will be six cents per pound. In
ease range work is adopted instead of the rubble-facing, one thousand
dollars will be deducted from the above.

I refer you to the following gentlemen: Chas. B. Fisk, esq., chief en-
gineer on the Chesapeake and Ohio canal; A. B. McFarlan, esq., Robert
Brown, and Andrew Small, esq., of Washington city. 1 name for my
bondsmen Mr. Jno. Higham, of Baltimore, and Andrew Small, esq., of
Washington city.

JAMES MACPHERSON.

To the Burtpinc ComMiItrTEE

of the Smithsonian Institution.

~The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Wasuineton, March 15, 1847.

\. Gentiemen: I do hereby agree to furnish all the materials and_per-
form the brick work of the building, according to the plan and specifica-
‘tion agreed upon by the Regents of the said institution, for the sum of
twenty thousand three hundred and fifty dollars, ($20,35U.)

Or, I will furnish and lay one million of hard bricks tor the sum of
fifteen thousand pi: ($15,000.)
[ 23] 50 .

Or, I will furnish all materials, provided all the outer walls are backed
up with brick in the place of rubble-stone, for the sum of thirteen dollars

and forty cents per thousand, ($13 40.)
GEORGE H. PLANT.

To the Burtpinc CoMMITTEE
of the Smithsonian Institution.

P. S._If my bid be accepted, I am prepared to give the security re-
quired. ; G, H. P.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

FRrepDErRiIcK County, March 15, 1847.

The undersigned regrets very much that he did-not see, until very re-
cently, your proposals for bids to furnish materials for the building of the
Smithsonian Institution, because he has not now time to ascertain whether
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company will consent to reduce the oll
for transportation of marble on this canal.

Assuming that the tolls will not be reduced, he offers to furnish 110,000
feet of beautiful white marble, for rubble-facing, one foot thick, at 60 cents
per foot; and 20,000 cubic feet dimension-stone, of white marble, for cut-
ting, at 90 cents per foot. And will give as securities for the faithful ex-
ecution of such a contract, Sebastian Ramsburg, John C. Osborn, John
Hagan, and Joshua Dill, all of whom hold valuable real estate in, and are
citizens and residents of, this county.

The undersigned is not certain whether it is expected that those who
propose to furnish the materials for building above mentioned must also
submit proposals for the construction of the institution, and has therefore
submitted proposals for materials only. If it is the intention of the com-
mittee to have the materials furnished and this building constructed un-
der one and the same contract, he will undertake, if time be afforded for
this purpose, to form a company that will submit a proposition of that
character, at an early day, and on terms that must be esteemed desirable.
This is said confidently, from his knowledge of the superior quality of
the marble he proposes to furnish, and from the facility with which it can
be delivered at Washington.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
PHILIP McGAUGHEN,
Point of Rocks.
Hon. R. D. Owen,
W. J. Houex,
W. W. Seaton,
Committee, Smithsonian Institution.

All of which letters were laid on the table.

The committee then, in the presence of the architect, James Renwick,
jr., and of the superintendent, Robert Mills, proceeded to open the bids,
and found them as by the following table:
<

[23]

ol

000‘0% =

0086 2

|

000'TT$

roan | ‘oITURTD -

Pea (re hey Ege Fea RN ere <a a ee De SOE Tae a

nos‘0ge | 0G0°Sz%

00¢08% | 000'Lz%

o00'sss | =
00S Ezz
0G0°AF%

000‘81e%| 000‘008$

YE
*qN9 9Tq.AByA] |-qnA o[qeyAy

|
(00S°61% 000 VIZ - -
| 00ST ~
Bee | ee - | 0009
00S‘ Tee ON0'0%% - -
000's0%$ 000'00% | = — S-
000°961 = -
= = 000 ‘681 v
‘ = 000 ‘PFI S
000‘ 18$ a:
= ks - “ 100172
= > 7 00¢°S9
o0e'1g
‘i me = 000°88
000°E0E = 000‘89$
= 000'8229) = -
3/4 “MAO AL *yIOM
‘yno BOdUDG |-qnIweNIg}] UoselAl Jajyuadieg
aa?jUUwoy

00¢‘90T
00964

0096118

“sun
-jno9U0j7g

- pieiory *y
(109 payw]asse}) od
- uayiug ‘our
UOATN “WW AL
- uoleuteg Waq[Ly
: ‘Od ® UOXIG sows
- op op od
- - uol
euleQ 2 ‘suepy ‘iopng
- Sueng ‘seer
uvAlg ‘sor
uelng ‘g ‘¢
‘posuvl ivpqsy)
: OD ® o1ord “19
LouMOC 190F
- unyoyy souely

7S

: Sassi] “H WelyiIM

uvWI{OH T sapeyo

*SOUUB NT

ra Ql OD SHO Ooraoe

3
Z

Buppng ay7 fq ‘2781 ‘younyy fo hop yrgy ay} uo pauado ‘uounpysuy unguosypug ay? of sjosodoud pajvas fo anpayos’
[ 23 ] j 52

As each of the foregoing bids was opened, it was labelled “ Opened
March 16, 1847,” each of the building committee adding his initials.
As soon as all the bids were opened and their amounts compared,
a letter was prepared and addressed to six of the bidders, to wit:
1. Messrs. James Dixon & Co.
2. Butler, Adams, and Cameron.
3.) 1M Niven.
A, Gilbert Cameron.
5. F. Gerard.
6. B. B. Curran.
The letter is as follows :

OFrrice SmiTHsoNiAN INSTITUTION,
March 16, 1847.

Sir: Please to inform the building committee whether your proposals
include furniture, as per specifications, or not; also, please state what are
your separate estimates on mason work, carpenter’s work, and stone-
cutting.

Your answer by this evening at six o’clock will oblige, sir, your obe-
dient servant,

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
Chairmen Building Committee.

The letters were placed in the hands of the messenger at 1 past one
o’clock.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

NINTH MEEBTING—Maren 17, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.
The chairman laid before the committee the following replies to the
letter adilressed yesterday to sundry bidders.

Wasuineton, March 17, 1847.

Sir: In answer to your letter of this day, and in compliance therewith,
i have the honor to state that my bid for the carpentry work included the
furniture, in accordance with specification, as also my general bid.

My separate estimates, constituting the bid for the whole building,
were—

Mason work - - - - $80,000
Stone-cutting - - - - 94,800
Carpentry work - - . - 65,200

I would beg leave here to explain that my bid for the whole job did not
contemplate the erection of the building of Seneca stone, but of white
marble or granite; I[,should deduct $35,000 from the amount if the
building committee decide upon using that kind of stone,* instead of the.
more beautiful, costly, and durable marble or granite.

Respectfully, yours, &c.,
B. B. CURRAN.

Hon. Ropert Date Owen,
Chairman of Building Committee.

* This bid is for Seneca rubble —R. D, @.
53 [ 23]

GenTLemEN: In reply to your letter of this morning, I beg leave to
answer that I did not include the furniture in my estimate; and the sep-
arate estimates from which I made up my proposition were as follows:

SENECA.
Rubble. Cut.

Cutting and stone - $70,000 Cutting and stone - $70,000
Stone for face - - 5,000 Stone for face - - 16,000
Mason - - - 60,000 Mason - - - 58,500
Fire proofing = - - 12,000 Fire-proofing - - 10,000
Carpenters - - 67,000 Carpenters - - 65,000
214,000 219,500

MARBLE.
Cutting and stone - $75,000 Cutting and stone - $75,000
Stone for face work - 12,000. Ashlar - - - 20,000
Mason - - - 61,000 Mason - - - 58,500
Hire-proofing = - - 10,000 Fire-proofing - - 10,000
Carpenter ° - 67,000 Carpenter - - 67,000
225,000 230,500

F. GERARD.

Wasuineton Crry, March 16, 1847.

In answering your letter that I received this morning, I beg leave to
say, that in my estimate to build your job I did not make any offer for
furniture, as I always thought it not included in the building proposal.

Separate bills of Seneca stone.

Mason work - - - - $79.000, with rubble.
Carpenter work - : - - 60,100, do.
Stone-cutting 257 61,000, ;* do.

If you put in ashlar, you would add to the above bill $3,000—making
$203,000.

Lam, sir, very respectfully, &c.,
GILBERT CAMERON.

Hon. R. D. Owen.
Wasuineton, March 16, 1847.
Sir: In answering yours of to-day, I have to inform you that my ma-

son’s bill is - , - - - - - $50,000
Carpenters’ bill . - : ; 66,000
Cut stone - - : : E - 80,000
196,000 (rubble.)
If cut in range work, add - - - - 6,75

—_——

202,750
a
[ 23] 54

If in marble (ashlar) from Symington’s quarry, $228,500. _
If in marble from Symington’s quarry, (rubble,) $224,000.
JAMES DIXON & CO.

Hon. Ropert Date OweEN.

N. B.—F urniture included in both instances.
5.:P.

Wasuineton, March 16, 1847.

GentTLEeMEN: After examining Mr. Adams’s papers, I have been able
to discover the mistake in the bill that we hurriedly put in last night, and
must express my thanks for your kindness in enabling me to correct it.
The following I think is correct :

East Chester marble—furnishing and cutting marble - - $79,000
Mason work with rubble - - - - - 82,000
Carpenters, furnishing all - - - - - 62,000
223,009

Add ashlar to this - ° - - : - . 25,000
248,000

Reductions on account of ashlar - - - - 17,009
231,000

Mount Pleasant marble, ashlar - - - - $101,725
Mason’s bill = - - - - - - - 82,000
Carpenter - - - - - - - 62,000
245,725

Deduct > - - - - - _ 12,000

¥*213,725

I hope you will excuse me for delaying you so long in waiting an an-
swer.
GILBERT CAMERON, for BUTLER & CO.
To the Burtpinc CommirreE
of the Smithsonian Institution.

Marcu 16, 1847.

GENTLEMEN : In answer to your circular, ] would state that my esti-
mates did ot include furniture.
My estimates in detail were as follows :

Seneca rubble estimates.

For stone-cutting and dimension stone - - - $71,000
Stone for face work - - - - - = 7,500
Mason’s bill _ - - - - - oe - 61,000

* Apparent error in addition, inasmuch as $245,725 — $12,000 = $233,725.

s

R. D. Q.
55 [ 23 J

Fire-proofing§ - - : - - - - $13,000

Carpenter’s bill - - - - - - 67,500
_ 220,000
For marble rubble face.

For stone-cutting and dimension-stone - - - $75,000
Marble rubble - - - - - - - 14,000
Mason - - - - - - - - 61,000
Fire-proof - - - - - - - 12,000
Carpenter - - - - - - - 65,000
227,000

For marble with ashlar face.
Stone-cutting anddimension~ - - - - - $75,000
Ashlar for face - - - - - - - 20,500
Mason - - - - - - - - 57,500
Fire-proof - : - - - - - 12,000
Carpenter - - - - . . - 65,500
230,500

Yours, with esteem,

T. M. NIVEN.

To the Buitpine ComMMITTEE
of the Smithsonian Institution.

After carefully examining the bids in detail, the messenger was request-
ed to ask Mr. Niven into the committee room; and on being asked
whether he was willing to make a contract at his estimate for stone-cut-
ting alone, he (Mr. Niven) replied in the affirmative. The messenger
was then requested to call Mr. Dixon; and on being asked whether he
was willing to make a contract for the work exclusive of stone-cutting, he
(Mr. Dixon) asked until to-morrow morning to give an answer.

He was requested to see Mr. Niven on the subject, so as to ascertain
whether a contract could be made with them jointly, based on Mr. Niven’s
bid for stone-cutting, and James Dixon & Co.’s bid for mason and car-
penter’s work.

After conference in regard to the special provisions of the contract, the
architect was requested to draw up a blank contract, and submit the same
to the committee at their meeting to-morrow.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TENTH MEETING—Marcu 18, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.
On motion of the chairman, it was ’
Resolved, That the specifications be altered so as to require that both
the principal stairways, as high as the museum floor, be of stone, with
[ 23 ] 56

iron balusters, bronzed ; and that a floor above the ceiling of the second
story, fire-proofed, according to the plan proposed in the report made on
the 15th instant by Mr. Hough, be added; and that the tesselated floor of
the museum be dispensed with; and that Mr. Hough be a sub-committee
io consult with the architect as to what minor alterations in the specifi-
cations can be made, so as, with the reduction effected by dispensing with
the said tesselated floor of the museum, to meet the additional cost of said
stairways and said fire-proof floor, without increasing the aggregate ex-
pense of the entire building.

Mr. Dixon, of the firm of James Dixon & Co., appeared, and informed
the committee that he was not willing to take the mason’s and carpen-
ter’s work separate from the stone-cutter’s, as yesterday proposed to him.
He also informed the committee that he had made an error in the addition
of his bid for Seneca ashlar of $2,500, so that the committee must con-
sider that bid as amounting in the total to $205,250, at which amount he
stood ready to contract.

It appearing that the bids of James Dixon & Co. for the building were
the lowest, to wit: P

In Seneca ashlar > - . - - - $205,250
And in marble ashlar - - - - - - 228,500

And it further appearing to the committee that the ashlar finish of
Seneca stone is more durable than the rubble finish:

The committee informed Mr. Dixon that his bid to complete the build-
ing in the Seneca freestone, ashlar finish, for the sum of two hundred
and five thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, was accepted.

On motion of the chairman, it was

Resolved, 'That Mr. Hough and the architect be a sub-committee to
prepare a blank contract, submit the same to James Dixon & Co., and
after obtaining their assent to the same, present it to this committee for
approval. .

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

7

ELEVENTH MEETING—Marcu 18, 1847, (5 o’clock, p. m.)

Present, Messrs. Owen and Hough,
On motion of Mr. Hough, it was
Resolved, That Mr. Owen address a letter to Mr. John P. C. Peter, ac-
cepting the offer of quarry-right made to the committee, in letter of Mr.
Peter to Mr. Seaton dated 9th December last, and place the said letter in
the hands of Mr. Dixon, to be forwarded to Mr. Peter.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWELFH MEETING—Marca 19, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.

The chairman submitted to the committee a copy of the letter which,
in accordance with a resolution passed yesterday, he addressed to Mr. John
P. C. Peter, owner of the Bull run quarry, in Montgomery county, Mary-
land, and which he had last evening caused to be delivered to Mr. Dixon,
as follows :
57 [ 23 ]

Wasutcron, March 18, 1847.

Sir: 1 am requested by the building committee of the Smithsonian
Institution to inform you, that they have to-day decided upon the mate-
rial for their building ; that their choice is Seneca freestone from some one
of your quarries, if sufficient suitable stone can be found in them—proba-
bly from that of Bull run; and that they accept your offer made to them
in your letter of the 9th December last, addressed to Mr. Seaton, namely,
to pay you twenty-five cents per perch for all stone intended for cut work,
and twelve and a half cents for all calculated for hammered work.

I am, sir, your obedient servant,
ROBERT DALE OWEN,
Chairman Building Comittee.

Joun P. C, Perer, Esq.

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was
Resolved, That the resolution heretofore adopted, instructing Mr. Peter
Gorman to obtain four perches of freestone from Seneca creek, be and the
same is hereby rescinded.
On motion of Mr. Owen, it was
Resolved, That the resolution heretofore adopted, instructing Dr. Owen
to make chemical analyses of the Maryland marbles, and particularly of
those from Mr. Worthington’s and Mr. Symington’s quarries, be and the
same is hereby rescinded.
On motion of Mr. Hough, it was
Resolved, That Mr. Owen be requested to write to Mr. McLane, presi-
dent of the Baltimore and Ohio railroad, and to Mr. Howard, president of
the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad, and to inform them that although,
for the sake of economy, the freestone of the upper Potomac has been se-
lected as a building-material, the committee desire to express their
sense of the prompt liberality with which the boards of these railroad com-
panies had adopted the suggestion of the building committee in regard to
reduction of the rates of transportation in favor of the institution, in case
marble was selected.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned to meet at eight o’clock this
evening.

THIRTEENTH MEETING—Marcu 19, 1847, (8 o’clock, p. m.)

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.

The contractors, Messrs. Dixon and Cameron, appeared ; and the con-
tract for the buildings of the institution, which had been prepared by the
architect and revised by the committee, having been read to them, they
expressed their assent to all its provisions, and declared themselves ready
to execute the same.

Thereupon the Secretary of the institution, being present, represented
to the committee that one of the Regents, now in the city, to wit : Professor
A. D. Bache, requested to be allowed to examine the provisions of the,
contract before it was finally executed; but that Mr. Bache was at pres-
ent too ill to read or examine it.

Upon this suggestion, the committee asked the contractors whether they
were willing now to sign, leaving the signatures of the committee to be
[ 23 ] 58

added to-morrow, after Professor Bache should have had an opportunity to
examine the contract.

And the contractors, assenting, signed the contract.

On motion of the chairman, it was

Resolved, That the architect and Dr. Owen proceed to-morrow to
Seneca creek, for the purpose of examining the quarries in its vicinity,
with the view of selecting the one from which it is expedient to derive
the material with which to face the building ; and that they present to
this committee specimens of the exact tint and quality of freestone they
may concur in recommending.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

9

FOURTEENTH MEETING—Marcu 20, 1847,

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.

The chairman stated to the committee that he had a conversation with
Professor Bache and the Secretary of the institution, and, availing him-
self of suggestions made by them, had prepared an addendum to the con-
tract; which he submitted, as follows:

“It is further understood and agreed by and between the parties to
the above agreement, that if the Board of Regents should determine to
make important alterations in the plan of building, or in the time of its
execution, then, and in that case, the said party of the first part shall re-
ceive pro vata, according to the prices agreed in the foregoing contract,
for work executed, and reasonable damages, if the nature of the case justly
demands it. And in case of dispute or controversy in regard to the
amount, then the party of the second part may select either the architect
of the institution, or any other architect or architects, to arbitrate in the
case, and his or their decision shail be final and conclusive in the
premises.”

. And, on motion, it was adopted and signed by the committee, with the
understanding that it be submitted to the contractors for their signature.
‘Thereupon the committee proceeded to the site belonging to the institu-
tion, and carefully examined the same, with reference to the exact posi-
tion in which to place the building; but came to no final decision thereon.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

FIFTEENTH MEETING—Marcu 20, 1847, (5 o’clock.)

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Hough, and Owen.

Mr. Dixon appeared and signed the “addendum.” And the committee
appended their signatures to the contract, thus completing the same, as
follows :

Contract.

This agreement, made and concluded this nineteenth day of March, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, be-
tween James Dixon and Gilbert Cameron, party of the first part, and the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, by Robert Dale Owen,
William W. Seaton, and William J. Hough, a committee of three of their
numbey duly appointed for the purpose, and for and in behalf of the
59 [ 23]

said institution, and in accordance with the provision of the fifth section
of the act of Congress establishing said institution, of the second part,
witnesseth : That the said party of the first part, for their heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns, hereby covenant and agree to and with
the said party of the second part, that for and in consideration of the sum
of two hundred and five thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, to be
paid to them by the said party of the second part, in the manner and at
the times hereinafter specified, they will furnish all the materials of every
description and perform all the work necessary to construct and com-
pletely finish, in the most full, substantial, and workmanlike manner, the
whole of the carpenter work, stone-cutting, and mason work, and work
connected therewith, for the building of the Smithsonian Institution, in
each and all of its parts, including all of its appurtenances, said build-
ing being situated on the site for the building of said institution, in
the city of Washington, and in a position designated by the said parties
of the second part. And the said party of the first part hereby further
covenant and agree, that the construction of the said building and its ap-
purtenances shall be in every respect in accordance with the plans, speci-
fications, and directions of James Renwick, junior, the architect of the
said institution, all of which shall be considered as part of this contract;
which said specifications are hereunto annexed. And the said parties of
the first part hereby further covenant and agree that they will furnish ma-
terials of the best description, and that the work shall be performed in the
most workmanlike and substantial manner.

And itis hereby agreed by the parties to this contract, that the work,
during its progress, shall be subject to the inspection and decision of the
said architect, who shall have, and is hereby granted, power to condemn
and reject all materials and work which shall not, in his opinion, be in ac-
cordance with this contract; and the said parties of the first part hereby
agree that they will take down all work and remove from the ground ail
materials which may be condemned by the said architect, at their own
cost and expense, on pain of forfeiture of this contract, as hereinafter
specified.

And it is hereby agreed by the parties to this contract, that the execu-
tion and completion of the building herein contracted for shall occupy a
period of five years from the nineteenth day of March, ip the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, and in such propor-
tions thereof, in and during each year thereof, as the said party of the sec-
ond part shall direct; and such work to be done at such times and sea-
sons, and in such order, as the said architect shall direct; it being ex-
pressly understood that an amount of not more than forty-one thousand
dollars shall be expended annually during the first four years of this
agreement. ‘

And it is hereby mutually agreed by the parties to this contract, that
the parts composing the said building shall be erected in the following
times and order, viz: the wings and connecting ranges within two
years, and the remainder of the building within five years, from the first
day of January, one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven. a

And it is hereby further agreed by the said party of the first part, that
they will perform all work embraced in this contract as above specified,
agreed, and understood.

And it is hereby mutually agreed, covenanted, and understood by the
parties to this contract, that, in order to prevent all disputes, the said above-
[ 23] 60

mentioned architect shall decide every question, controversy, or claim,
which may or can arise during the execution of this contract from altera-
tions in plan or in any other manner, and that his estimate and decision
thereon shall be final and conclusive between the parties, who hereby
mutually bind themselves each to the other, to submit to the said esti-
mate and decision of said architect, in the sum of forty thousand dollars,
which is to be forfeited and paid by the party who shall neglect or refuse
to abide by and perform said estimate and decision to the other party to
this contract. i

And the said party of the second part hereby agree that they will pay
the above-mentioned sum of two hundred and five thousand two hun-
dred and fifty dollars ($205,250) in gold and silver, or in treasury notes
bearing six per cent. interest, at their par value, for the whole work, to the
said party of the first part, in the manner and times following, to wit:
every two months for all materials delivered and work executed according
1o the estimate and certificate of the aforesaid architect, reserving fifteen
per cent. therefrom until the completion of the work ; and that when the
whole building and work shall be completed, and upon certificate of the
aforesaid architect that it has been finished in every respect to his satis-
faction, according to the terms of this contract, they will pay the balance
which may then be due, including said fifteen per cent., and the interest
that may have accrued on said fifteen per cent., at the rate of six per cent.
per annum from the times of the several estimates.

And itis hereby agreed and covenanted, that if at any time the said
parties of the first part shall, in the opinion of the aforesaid architect,
have performed any of the work embraced in the contract in an unfaithful
or improper manner, or shall have violated any of the provisions of this
contract, or shall refuse to prosecute the work herein contracted for, that
then, and in that case, the said architect shall give notice of the same in
writing to the said parties of the second part, any two of whom may there-
upon terminate this said contract by giving notice thereof in writing to the
said party of the first part; and that thereupon this contract shall be deem-
ed terminated, abandoned, and lawfully forfeited by the said party of the
first part, and the said party of the second part may proceed to contract for
the remainder of the work with any other party or parties, holding all the
work done and materials delivered by the said party of the first part, and all
the moneys due them therefor, as security for the remainder of the work;
and also holding and binding the said party of the first part, their heirs,
executors, administrators, assigns, and bondsmen, to make good any further
loss or damage which may accrue to the said party of the second part from
such defalcation, forfeiture, and abandonment of the work by the said
party of the first part.

Aud it is hereby further agreed and understood by the parties to this
contract that the following alterations in the plans and specifications shall
be made, and that the same shall be considered as part of this contract:

first. 'The building shall be faced, and all the cut-stone work dressed
from the best Seneca freestone from the upper Potomac, to be taken from
the Bull run quarry, or some other quarry in the neighborhood of Seneca
creek, to be designated by the said parties of the second part, and free
from all imperfections. : ;

Second. ‘That the building shall be faced with coursed ashlar of the
above-mentioned freestone, in courses varying from ten to fifteen inches
in height, and no two adjacent courses in the building to vary more than
: 61 [ 23 ]

one inch in height, brought to a joint not exceeding three-eighths (2) of
an inch in the widest place when Jaid, taken out of wind; dressed full to
the square on the beds; builds, and joints, with a narrow arris drawn
around the face of each stone, and the face between the arres pointed off
horizontally in a regular manner and at regular distances—say not more
than two inches apart—averaging nine inches in thickness, with a proper
proportion of bond stone to bind the face to the backing—-say one in every
3} feet square; the clause in the mason’s specification, commencing
with ‘“ the face of the walls shall be strongly tied to the backing,” being
continued in full force and effect. The whole of the above ashlar to be
set in the best manner, and pointed in the manner described in the ma-
son’s specification.

Third. That in place of the principal flights of the front and rear stair-
ways, as specified in the carpenter’s specification, cut-stone steps and
platforms of such freestone as shall be selected by the architect, which
shall be fine cut and rubbed, with handsome cast-iron newels and balus-
ters, similar to the wooden ones described in the carpenter’s specification,
and well bronzed in the best manner, with a heavy moulded hand-rail of
the best well-seasoned black walnut, shall be substituted. On the heads
of each of the above cut-stone steps and platforms, Norman pateras, or
flower ornaments, shall be cut by the contractor. ‘The above stone steps
shall be carried up as high as the level of the museum floor.

Fourth. That a floor of one and a quarter inch white pine plank, resting
on beams of white pine 2 x 12 inches, set twenty inches from centres,
shall be carried under the roofs of the whole building and towers; and
that the floor besms shall be supported by 8 x 12 inch girders where
necessary, and plastering of cement mortar two inches in thickness shall
be laid over the top of all of the said above-mentioned floors.

Fifth. Vhat in place of the iron timbers having brick arches and
concrete between them, whicl: are specified to be placed in the chemical!
lecture-room, the students’ working laboratory, and the rooms over it,
wooden beams 3 x 12 inches, set 16 inches from centres, with a deaf-
ening of cement concrete four inches in thickness between them, resting
on one and a quarter inch plank, firmly secured to the beams by 3 x 1}
inch strips, shall be substituted. ‘The above beams shall be furred on
the under side, with 2 x 14 inch strips, set one foot from centres, and
plastered three coats; the last coat shall be hard-finished.

Sicth. That in place of the iron columns in the larger lecture-room,
wooden columns, nine inches square, which shall be furred, lathed, and
stuccoed in the best manner, with reeds forming clustered columns with
foliage caps, bases and plinths, shall be substituted.

Seventh. That in the place of the tesselated wooden floor of the mu-
seum, a floor of narrow clear Georgia yellow pine plank, not more than
five inches wide, planed, tongued and grooved, laid in courses and blind-
nailed in the best manner, shall be laid. The heads and sides of all the
plank shall be planed after they are laid, so as to be perfectly true and
even when finished. j

Eighth. That on the eight corners of the fourth story of the higher
central front tower, eight columns, one foot in diameter and of the height
of the story, with foliage caps, bases, and plinths, shall be well and truly
cut. ;

And it is hereby further covenanted-and agreed by the said parties of
[23] 62

the first part, that they will not employ any sub-contractor who shail be
objected to by the architect; and further, that the said architect shall
have power to discharge any laborer, foreman, aitd sub-contractor, who
may, in his opinion, be incompetent or unfaithful ; and the said parties of
the first part shall not further or again employ, directly or indirectly, any
of the above-mentioned persons, om pain of forfeiture of this contract, as
herein before specified. And the said parties to this contract hereby
mutually agree, that in case of the absence of the said architect, or of his
inability to act, that then, and in that case, his assistant or successor, to
be appointed by the said party of the second part, shall be, and is hereby,
invested with all the powers granted to the aforesaid architect, in this
contract.

In witness whereof, the said party of the first part have hereunto set
their hands and seals, and the said party of the second part hereunto
subscribed their names, and affixed the seal of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, the day and year first above written.

Signed, sealed, and delivered, in presence of

JAMES DIXQN, feet
GILBERT CAMERON, [u. s.]

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
WILLIAM J. HOUGH, Committee.
W. W. SEATON,

Addendum to the above contract.

It is further understood and agreed by and between the parties to the
above agreement, that if the Board of Regents should determine to make
important alterations in the plan of building, or in the time of its execu-
tion, then, and in that case, the said party of the first part shall receive
pro rata, according to the prices agreed in the foregoing contract, for work
executed, and reasonable damages, if the nature of the case justly demands
it; and in case of dispute or controversy in regard to the amount, then the
party of the second part may select either the architect of the institu-
tion, or any other architect or architects, to arbitrate in the case, and his
or their decision shall be final and conclusive in the premises.

JAMES DIXON.
GILBERT CAMERON.

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
WILLIAM J. HOUGH, Committee.
WW SEATON, ’

Wasuineton Crry, D. C., March 19, 1847.

Specification of the masonry and materials for the Smithsonian Institution.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF BUILDING.

The building will consist of a centre, which will be 50 by 200 feet in
the clear, inside. ‘Two connecting ranges, 60 feet in length in the clear,
inside, and averaging 47 feet broad ‘in the clear, inside. An east wing,
63 [ 23 ]

45 by 75 feet in the clear, inside, with a vestibule and porch attached to
it; and a west wing, 34 by 65 feet in the clear, inside, exclusive of the
apsis or semicircular projection.

Towers.—There will be two central front towers, one central rear tower,
a campanile or bell tower, a large octagonal and two smaller towers, with
porches, vestibules, stair halls, &c., attached to the centre.

The east wing, or chemical lecture-room’, will have a bell tower, six
chimneys, a vestibule and porch, attached to it; and the west wing will
have a campanile tower, and apsis or semicircular end connected with it.

The central building will contain, in the first story, the principal cen-
tral hall, and the library, with groined ceilings, and the principal lecture-
room, with a panelled ceiling. The second story will contain the mu-
seum, also finished with a groined ceiling.

The larger central front tower will contain a furnace cellar in the base-
ment. In the first story a librarian’s room, and a room over it in a mez-
zanine story, all with groined ceilings. In the second story, a room con-
nected with the museum, with a groined ceiling, and over it a room eight
feet in height. Above the line of the roof of the main building it will con-
tain four stories, completely finished.

The lower central front tower will be divided in the same manner below
the line of the roof; and, above this line, will contain three completely
finished stories. 'The spaces between the front towers, and between the
central building and the front towers, will contain in the basement a cel-
lar, connecting the coal cellarsin the towers. It the first story the front
vestibule, with a groined ceiling, and the front stair wells; and in the
second story, a continuation of the museum, with groined ceilings, and
the second flight of front stairs, with groined ceilings. Between the two
towers the carriage porch will project, and shall have a groined ceiling.

The central rear tower will contain, in the basement, a furnace cellar;
in the first story, the rear vestibule, and part of the rear stair hall; in the
second story the Regents’ room, and a room over the rear staircase hall,
which will be connected with the museum, all having groined ceilings;
and, in the third story, which will be divided internally into two stories,
the lower one the Secretary’s and the upper one a muniment room.

‘ In the small octagonal tower connected with ,the central rear tower, will
be a circular staircase and a fire-proof safe.

In the space between the central rear tower and the main building will
be the remainder of the central rear stair hall; and over it a room con-
nected with the gallery of the museum, all having groined ceilings.

The campanile tower will have a furnace cellar in the basement, and
will be divided above the basement and below the roof of the main cen-
tral building, into three stories, with groined ceilings communicating with
the principal lecture-room and the museum. Above the line of the roof it
will be divided into four stories, completely finished.

The larger octagonal tower will contain, in the basement, a furnace
‘cellar; in the first story a circular stair, with a groined ceiling, connect-
ing the gallery of the library with its ground floor; in the second story a
similar circular stairway; and above the line of the roof of the central
building two stories, completely finished.

The two smaller towers will contain elevators and ventilating flues.

The west connecting range will be finished in the basement eight feet
high in the clear; above the basement it will be occupied with a cloister
[23] 64

and gallery of art; which latter will be-divided by stone pillars, support-
ing a clerestory, into three aisles, with groined ceilings.

The west wing will be finished in the basement eight feet six inches
high in the clear; the upper story will contain a gallery of art, with a
eroined ceiling. The tower attached to the west wing will be occupied
by a staircase well, and other apartments, with groined ceilings where
directed.

The east connecting range will be finished in the basement eight feet
six inches high in the clear, and behind the cloister and above the base-
ment it will be divided into two stories, each twelve feet high in the clear.
The upper story will be lighted by openings in the parapet, which is not
shown in the plans, but which will be three feet six inches high 5 both
stories will be completely finished. ‘The cloister will extend along the
front of the wing, and will have a groined ceiling.

The basement of the west wing, and its vestibule, will be finished
nine to ten feet high in the clear.

Above the basement it will contain the chemical lecture-room and its
gallery, and the laboratory connected with it; which latter will be divi-
ded into two finished stories.

The vestibule will contain the stair hall, and all the above rooms will
be finished with groined ceilings.

Hacavation, levelling, and refilling.—The trench for the foundation walls
of the central building shall be excavated to a depth of four feet six inches,
and for the connecting ranges and wings to a depth of five feet six inches
below the present surface of the ground, at the centre of the north side of
the building.

The trench for the foundation walls of the principal central front towers
and the centralrear tower shall be excavated to adepth of eight feet (8 feet)
below the above line; and for the campanile, octagonal, and all the lesser
towers, to a depth of six feet (6 feet) below the above line.

The trenches for all the partition and interior walls, and for all the foun-
dations under pillars, &c., shall be excavated to the same depth as those
for thie outside walls with which they are connected.

The earth between the wall trenches, in beth wings, both connecting
ranges, and the great lecture-room, shall be excavated to a depth of 5 foot
below the same line under the whole building.

The earth between the foundation trenches of all. the towers and fhe
space on the north front between the central towers will be excavated toa
depth of 6inches less than the trenches of the walls.

All remaining excavation for areas, coal slides, sess-pools, sinks, &e.,
necessary to complete the building, to be performed by the Seog and
according to the direction of the architect.

Refilling.—A part of the earth thus excavated shall be how fi back into
the trenches, (on the outside of the walls and inside, so far as may be di-
rected, ) after the walls are built. It shall be thrown in in layers, and well
rammed, so as to prevent all settlement. The remainder of the earth shall
be removed and levelled off in such places and in such manner as may
be directed by architect.

Outside excavation.—All the excavation necessary to bring the present
surface of the ground to a level with the top of the foundation wall at the
building, and to slope it in every direction for drainage, for a width of 60
feet (sixty feet) from the building, in every direction, will be performed by
the contractor.
65 [ 23]

Grubbing and clearing.—All the sod, roots, andin general all vegetable
mould and perishable matter, shall be removed from the whole area cover-
ed by the building.

And, in general, all excavation, refilling, grubbing, and clearing, neces-
sary to complete the building in every respect, will be performed by the
contractor, in accordance with the directions of the architect.

Masonry in foundation—concrete.—Under all the walls of the building
a foundation course of concrete masonry, which shall be made by mixing
two parts of best hydraulic cement with one part of lime in paste, with
eight parts of clean sharp sand, which shall be thoroughly mixed and
well tempered, and nine parts of broken stone, not exceeding two and
a half inches in diameter. ‘The whole shall then be thoroughly mixed,
and well tempered, and laid in courses of six inches, and shall be well
rammed, when laid, with a heavy maul, so as to insure the perfect solidi-
ty of the whole mass.

‘The conerete shall be laid to the following dimensions, under the dif-
ferent parts of the building:

A.—Under the two central front towers twelve (12) feet wide on bottom,
ten (10) feet wide on the top, and two (2) feet in thickness, under all the
_walls and buttresses.

B.—Under the central rear tower, and the campanile and octagonal
towers, ten feet wide on the bottom, eight feet wide on top, and two feet
in thickness, under all the walls and buttresses.

C.—Under all the remaining towers, eight feet wide on the bottom, six
feet wide on the top, and one foot six inches in thickness.

D.—Under the walls and buttresses of the central building, six feet
wide on the bottom, five feet wide on the top, and one fuot in thickness.

E..—Under the connecting ranges and principal partition walls, four feet
six inches wide on the bottom, three feet six inches wide on the top, and
one foot in thickness.

F'.—Under the wings, five feet wide on the bottom, four feet wide on
top, and one foot in thickness.

G.—Under the piers supporting the clerestory columns of the gallery
of art, six feet six inches square on the bottom, five feet square on the
top, and two feet in thickness. .

H.—Under all the remaining piers, for the columns of the library and
the lecture-room, five feet square on the bottom, four feet square on the
top, and one foot six inches in thickness. :

Stone masonry in foundation.—The masonry of the foundation shall
be laid of large, well shaped, gneiss building-stone, of the best quality,
with level beds and builds, laid in courses, with strong bond. ‘I'he stones
shall be of large size, not less than three feet in length ; the beds shall be
hammered true and even, and the joints brought close together. All the
joints shall be filled completely with mortar and spaulls, so as to leave no
cavities which might endanger the stability of the walls, and the outside
joints shall be well pointed. '

The foundation shall be laid of the following dimensions of cross sec-
tion, under the different portions of the building: :

A.—Under the central front towers, lst,a course nine feet wide and
two feet thick; 2d,a course seven feet wide and two feet thick; 3d,a
course five and a half feet wide and two feet thick.

B.—Under the central rear tower, and the campanile and octagonal

5
[23] 66

towers, Ist, a course of stone seven feet wide and two feet thick; 2d,a
course of stone five feet wide and two feet thick.

C.—Under all the remaining towers, 1st, a course of stone five feet
wide and two feet thick ; 2d,a course of stone four feet wide and two feet
thick.

D.—Under all the walls of central building, Ist, a course of stone four
feet and a half wide and two feet thick; 2d, a course of stone three feet
eight inches wide and one and a half foot thick.

E.—Under the connecting ranges and principal partition walls, the
foundation will be three feet six inches wide, and four feet six inches in
height.

F.—Under the wings, lst, a course four feet wide and two feet thick ;
2d, a course three feet six inches wide and two feet six inches thick.

G.—Under the piers supporting the clerestory of the gallery of art, a
foundation of stone four feet square on the bottom, two feet six inches
square on the top, and three feet in height.

H.—Under all the remaining piers, for the columns of library, lecture-
room, &c., a foundation two feet square, and three feet six inches in thick-
ness.

I1.—Under all the remaining partition walls a course of long stone,
three feet six inches in length, and not less than eight inches in thickness,
will be laid.

Under all the porches and buttresses, the foundation will be of the same
section and materials as the walls they are connécted with, and they will
be well bonded to them. All the remaining stone work necessary to com-
plete the foundation, will be performed; areas and coal slides will be built
to all the openings to the furnace cellars, in the towers, and to the base-
ment windows, of such dimensions as may be directed by the architect.
The faces of the walls will be well hammer-dressed, and neatly pointed.

The mortar for all the above stone foundation walls shall consist of the
best hydraulic lime and clean sharp sand, mixed in the best proportions,
and thoroughly tempered. 3

Brick masonry in foundatsion.—Inverted arches, of the best hard brick,
will be turned under all the openings of the foundation, of the thickness
of the walls in which they are placed, and of such other dimensions as
the architect shall direct. The arches will be laid in the most true and
even manner, with very close jomts, which will be well slated up, to pre-

vent all settlement in the mortar.

- Groined arches of the best hard brick, laid in the best manner, with
close joints, the 7-key courses being grouted up and slated, will be turned
under the two central front towers, and space between them, the central
rear tower, the campanile and octagonal towers of the main building, and
the tower of the west wing. The arches will be nine inches, or one brick
thick, and will be backed over with spandrils and haunch walls, and the
floors above them will be of best North river flag, axed smooth on the up-
per surface, and cut true and even in the joints.

Partition walls.—The main partition walls of the central building will
be of stone, in the foundation as above described. The lesser partition
walls, for the rooms in the connecting ranges and wings, will be laid up
of the best hard brick, and of the following section: Ist, a course of bricks
1S.inches wide, 5 inches high; 2d, a course of bricks 14 inches wide, 5
67 [ 23 ]

inches high; and for the remainder of the height, or nine feet, they will
be nine inches in thickness, and of the lengths shown on plans.

All the above brick masonry shall be laid with the closest possible joints,
especially in the arches, which shall be slated in the joints, and all the
bricks shall be well wet before they are laid. Proper openings for doors,
with semicircular arched heads turned over them, shall be built in the
walls, in the places shown on the plans, and where the architect shall direct.

Arches of brick, of such dimensions as the architect shall direct, will
be turned behind all the stone arches of the windows and doors.

‘The mortar for all the above brick masonry shall be composed of best
hydraulic or ground lime, 6r a mixture of hydraulic cement and lime in
paste, mixed with the best clean sharp sand, and throughly tempered.

All the remaining stone and brick masonry necessary to complete the
foundation to be performed by builder, whether specified or not.

WALLS OF BUILDING ABOVE FOUNDATION.

Stone masonry.—The walls shall be faced with the best broken rub-
ble masonry, of white marble, or buff-colored Seneca stone of even color
and best description, or of granite similar to that in the rear of the Gen-
eral Post (Office; and the contractor will state in his estimate the ex-
pense of constructing the building with each of the three above described
materials. ‘The face of the stone shall be brought to the square by the
mason’s hammer, care being taken to pick, as far.as possible, such stones
for the face as will require little dressing ; the object being to preserve, as
far as practicable, the natural face of the stone, with the crystals un-
broken. ‘he beds, joints, and builds of the stone shali be dressed true
and even, so that the joints shall not exceed one-half of an inch in the
widest place. The style of the front shall be either broken or angular
rubble, and the face shall be laid in the manner directed by the archi-
tect. The facing shall average ten inches in thickness, and no stone
will be allowed in the work whose breadth of bed is less than two-thirds
its height. The stone shall be of nearly uniform color, free from all
Sap, iron pyrites, and all other discoloring or deteriorating material, and
especially in the white marble, from the decomposing carbonate of mag-
nesia.

The face of the wall shail be strongly tied to the backing by head-
ers of the same material as the face, running in places through the
wall, and in no case less than twenty inches in depth, and fur-
nished in such numbers as the architect shall direct—say one in every
three feet six inches square. All the arres of the buttresses, towers,
&c., and all the corners, splays, and angles, throughout the whole build-
ing, shall be dressed with the chisel so as to be perfectly plumb, true,
and even, when laid. No quakers will be allowed in any part of the
work. All the stones shall be laid on their natural beds. ‘The head-
ing stones on the corners of all the towers, buttresses, and of the
whole building, shall have beds at least equal to their heights on face.
The joints shall be pointed with a mixture of the best quicklime and
blacksmith’s scales and sand, and shall be smooth struck on the face ,
and, after it has set throughout, the joints shall be painted to the color
of the face with the best pure white lead and boiled linseed oil, colored
to the color of the stone. All the wails will be backed in with best
[ 23 | 6S :
blue gneiss, of good shape and size, laid on the natural bed, and well
bonded to the face work. Behind the outside walls, and at a distance of
four inches from them, a five-inch brick wall, tied to the outer wall by
at least one bond stone in every three feet’ square, will be laid. ‘This
backing will be returned, to meet the front wall at all the jambs and
arches of all the windows and doors. It will also be tied to the front
walls, in the piers between the windows, by brick cross walls nine inches
thick, to form the flues; which flues will be constructed as follows:
In each of the piers between the windows there wil! be three flues 8
by 16 inches in the clear inside, which will be carried from a point three
feet below the under side of the beams of the first story to the top of the
building. One of these flues will be connected with the furnaces by a
horizontal flue of galvanized iron, or double-cross tin, two feet square,
which will be furnished by the contractor, for the purpose of diffusing
the hot air throughout the building. All these flues will have neat regis-
ters in the rooms, for the proper regulation of the heat. The second
flue will have an opening in each story, on the line of the ceiling, on
the outside of the wall, and another opening into the bases of the rooms
inside: these will admit the cold air from the outside of the building
into the respective rooms for the purpose of proper ventilation, and will
be closed up on the level of the floor of each story, by a cross wall
over the outside opening; and each of the above flues will be fur-
nished with a heavy sheet-tin slide-valve, with proper fixtures for open-
ing and shutting, placed in such part of the flue, and made in such
manner, as may be directed by the architect.

The third flues will have @penings on the inside on a line with the ceil-
ings of all the rooms; through these the fou! and heated> air will be car-
ried off and discharged by an opening under the coping of the building.
All these flues will be furnished with two sheet-tin valves each, made
and placed in the manner directed by the architect. Proper flues, well
parged, will be carried up for the furnaces, fireplaces, engine, laboratory,
@c., in such places as may be directed by the architect.

In addition to the above ventilating flues, openings with valves will
be formed in all the groined ceilings, which will be connected with the
corner towers and flues in the larger towers.

Thickness of walls.—The thickness of the walls of the main building
above the water tables will be two feet six inches in the first story, and two
feet in the second story, exclusive of all projections of the buttresses, cor-
bel courses, battlements, bands, &c.

The thickness of the end walls of the main building will be two feet
six inches for a height of fifteen feet above the line of the water table,
and for the remaining portion two feet, exclusive of all projections.

The thickness of the walls of the connecting ranges above water table
will be twenty-two inches, exclusive of all projections.

The thickness of the clerestory wall of the west range will be sixteen
inches, and it will be backed in with good hard brick.

The thickness of the walls of both wings will, above the water table,
be two feet, exclusive of all projections and the batter at the base of the
east wing. |

The thickness of the walls of central front towers will be three feet
six inches in the first stories, three feet in the second story, two feet six
inches in the third story, with the corners filled in to aid in supporting the

&
69 ~ [23]

octagon, and two feet in the fourth story, which will be backed in with
good hard brick, exclusive of all projections.

‘The thickness of the walls of the central rear tower will be three feet in
the first story, two feet six inches in the second story, and two feet in the
third story, exclusive of all projections.

The thickness of the walls of the campanile, exclusive of all projec-
tions, will be two feet to the line of the roof of the main building, and
above this line twenty inches, and backed in with best hard brick.

The thickness of the walls of the octagonal tower will be two feet three
inches to the line of the roof, and twenty inches above the liue of the roof,
and backed in with brick, exclusive of the batter at the base and all pro-
jections. |

The thickness of the walls of the remaining towers will be two feet on»
an average, exclusive of all projections, and the stories above the roofs
will be backed in with brick.

_ All the remaining walls, if any, to be in no case less than two feet thick,
and to be executed by the contractor.

All the thicknesses above given are exclusive of the brick lining wall.

Briek masonry.—All the partition walls which rise above the basement
will be two bricks—say 18 inches in thickness—to the height of the floor
of the second story, and one and a half brick—say 14 inches in thick-
ness—from thence to the under side of the rafters of the roof. Arches for
doors and windows will be turned, of such sizes and in such places as may
be directed by the architect.

All the interior arches behind the window arches, door arches, &c.,
will be turned in such manner as architect shall direct, to the form of Nor-
man jambs, to receive the plaster of the jambs. ‘Trimmer arches of brick,
nine inehes thick, will be turned for all the hot-air and furnace flues in all
the floors.

The arches over the pillars supporting the clerestory of the gallery of
art, in the west connecting range, will be of best hard brick, laid to such
form as the architect shall divect, and over them a brick wall eighteen
inches thick will be carried up to the level of the under side of the roof of
the side aisles. |

Groined arches of brick, eight inches thick, will be turned in the most
perfect manner for the ceilings of the mezzanine and upper story of the
porter’s apartments, which will be situated in the lower central front
tower; they will be filled in with spandrils and haunch walls, supporting
flag floors of North river flag. if preferred by the contractor, the iron
beams, with bricit arches between them, hereinafter described, may be
used in place of the above groined arches. ie

All the remaining brick-work necessary to complete the building to be
performed by the contractor, whether specified or not. hp

Cut-stone masonry.—All the cut-stone masonry, of every description,
which will be found in the specification of the stone and cutting, will be
set by the mason in the most true, perfect, and substantial manner; and
all the iron dowels, clamps, anchors, rods, d&c., necessary to secure and
render perfect the stone work, will be furnished by the mason; and the
joints of the cut-stone masonry will be pointed in the same manner as
above described for the face of building.

Mortar.—All the mortar for all the above brick, stone, and cut-stone
masonry, to be composed of the best hydraulic or ground lime, or of a
[ 23 ] 70 ’

mixture of hydraulic cement and lime in paste, in such proportions as ar-
chitect shall direct, mixed with clean sharp sand, in the best proportions,
and thoroughly tempered.

All the bricks will be well wet before they are used.

All the stones will be laid on their natural beds, and thoroughly cleaned
from dust or dirt before they are !aid, and wet, if so directed by the archi-
ject:

Laihing and plastering.—Al\l the ceilings and walls, and stud partition
walls, of every part of the building, will be lathed to the forms laid down
on the plans, oras directed by the architect, with the best sawed laths, five
nails to each lath.

All the walls and ceilings of all the rooms in the basement story will be
plastered with a scratch coat, brown coat, and hard-finished coat, laid on

_ true and even, and finished in the best manner.

All the walls and ceilings of the professors’ rooms, laboratories, and
rooms in the towers, to their tops, except such as are groined, will be
plastered in a similar manner, with three coats.

All the canopies and partitions in lecture-rooms to be plastered three
coats, as above described.

All the remaining halls and apartments in the whole building, including
library, museum, the two lecture-rooms, the two galleries of art, the great
central hall and its vestibules, the Regents’ room, the front and rear stair
halls and the rooms in the two central front towers, the octagonal and cam-
panile towers below the line of the roof of the main building, will be plas-
tered throughout with two coats, ascratch coat and a stucco-finished brown
coat, well hand floated, laid on in the most perfect, true, and even manner.
The brown coat will be laid off in courses and colored to represent stone.

Ornamental plastering.—All the ceilings of the museum, library, gal-
leries of art, and the rooms connected with them, will be groined and 1b-
bed in the best manner, according to the plans and directions of the archi-
tect. ‘The ribs will be run at the intersection of all the groins, and across
the ceilings between the groins, against the walls over the windows, and
in all places which the architect shall direct; all the red lines on the plans
being ribs. The ribs shall be of rich Norman section, and of good propor-
lon, varying from 7 by 9 to 11 by 13 inches in the ceilings, and of larger
dimensions in the arches over the columns dividing the aisles. In the
gallery of art, heavy ribs, twenty inches wide, shall. be run under the
arches supporting the clerestory.

At the intersection of all the ribs, and at the crown of all the ribs not in-
tersected by others, bosses of foliage, of the best Norman design, which
will be furnished by the architect, and of the richest character, well relieved
from the grounds, will be placed.

The shafts of all the columns ofall the apartments and halls, which
shall be of the richest character, composed of clusters of engaged columns
in rebates, and made according to the plans of the architect, will be run
with gaged mortar, in the best, truest, and most workmanlike manner;
and all the separate columns of each clustered shaft shall have moulded
plinths, and bases, and foliage Norman caps, of such design as architect
shall furnish, and put up and modelled according to his directions.

Around all the windows a handsome moulded Norman jamb and areh,
whose section shall be a double rebate, with two engaged columns, shall
be run. All the columns of the above to have plinths, and bases, and
71 [ 23 ]

foliage Norman caps; and a label mould, resting on two foliage corbels,
will be run around the arch of each window; and all the above work shall
be executed according to the plans and directions of the architect.

Around all the doors, Norman jambs and arches, of the same section as
those of the windows, but with more mouldings, where directed, shall be
run. In the arches the mouldings will be ornamented with chevrons,
cable moulds, and foliage bands, according to the directions of the archi-
tect.

The main central hall, the entrance porch, the rooms in the central front
towers, the Regents’ room, the rooms-and stair wells in the octagonal and
campanile towers, and the ceilings of the principal staircase, halls, and ves-
tibules, and vestibule and porch ceilings of the east wing, together with
the room over the central front and rear stair halls, and the ceilings of both
of the wings, will be also groined and ribbed in the best manner, and fin-
ished, in every respect, as above described for the museum, &c. All the
doors and windows will be finished as above described.

The ceilings of both the cloisters will be groined in a similar manner.

All the columns, &c., in all the above rooms, will be finished as above
described; and there will be in all the rooms of the whole building clus-
tered columns in the centre of the piers between the windows, with plinths,
bases, and foliage caps.

The Regents’ room will be finished all around with clustered columns
and arches, dividing the wails into panels above the wainscoating. All
the arches over these columns, and those of the triple arched opening be-
tween the room and the bay window, will be ornamented with zigzag, ca-
ble, and other Norman mouldings, as may be directed by the architect.
All the doors and windows of all the above rooms to have mouldings,
pillars, &c., as above described for the museum, &c.

The main ceilings of the principal lecture-room, and the gallery ceilings
of the principal lecture-room, and of that in the east wing, will be level,
and will be heavily panelled with rich ribs, having foliage bosses at their
intersections. All the columns, and half columns, in the centre of the
piers between the windows, all the window and door jambs and arches
of the above rooms, to be of the form and workmanship hereinbefore de-
scribed.

All the columns, window jambs and arches, door jambs and arches,
ribs, &c., of all the above described rooms and halls, to be laid off in
courses to represent stone.

All the remaining plaster work, both plain and ornamental, necessary to
complete the building, will be performed by the contractor, whether speci-
fied or not.

The mortar will be made of the best Potomac or Thomaston finishing
lime, and clean sharp sand, mixed in the best proportions, and thorough-
ly tempered. The plaster for the hard finish and gaged mortar to be of
the best quality.

All the arres, angles, ribs, pillars, &c., to be kept perfectly plumb, ttue,
and even. ‘

Coloring of walls.—All the walls which are not hard finished will be
eolored by a mixture of lime-water and white, green, and blue vitriol, as
may be directed; with which, such colors as the architect shall direct
shall be mixed.

The coloring shall be put on in two to three coats, and the last coat
[23] 72

shall be colored different shades on the different parts of the walis, ceil-
ings, Wc.

Deafening.—All the floors which are not formed on groined ceilings, or
on iron beams with brick arches between them, will be deafened with a
mixture of lime, clay, and sand mortar, laid on of such thickness as the
architect shall-direct.

tron work.—All the copings, cornices, battlements, window jambs and
mullions, sills, chimney caps, and in general all the stone work, &c., will
be tied together with strong wrought iron clamps, anchors, dowels and
rods, well leaded to the stone work, and of such dimensions as may be di-
rected by the architect.

Wrought iron bars #-inch in diameter, and of the widths of the different
windows to the outside of the jambs, will be used where directed, to tie the
centre mullions to the jambs, especially in the octagonal story of the large
central tower, and in the greater and lesser octagonal, and the small square
towers of the central building.

A bar of # by 2 inch wrought iron will be carried all around both stories
of the larger octagonal tower, and around the smaller octagonal, and the
small square towers of the central building, ona level with the spring line
of the arches of the windows.

Gratings, of # by 14 inch wrought iron, will be furnished for the areas
of the different towers.

Lightning rods.—F ive lightning rods, of wrought iron, one and a
half inch in diameter, will be furnished by the mason. ‘They will be
furnished with elbows, glass thimbles, and platina points, of the best de-
scription, and will be put up in the following places: one on the great
central front tower, one on the campanile tower, one on the octagonal
tower, one on the tower of the west wing, and one on the tower of the
chemical wing; and they will be carried ten feet above the tops of the
towers to which they are attached.

Flagging.—The floors of the basement, of the chemical or east wing,
and its vestibule, and the east connecting range, shall be flagged with the
best North river flag, laid perfectly level, true, and even, and dressed in
the joints, and laid in at least 12 inches of clean sharp sand and gravel,
with at least six sess-pools, four feet in diameter and six feet deep, under
each of the above parts of the building.

The cellars under the front towers, and the space between them, as well
as those of the central, rear, campanile, octagonal, and tower of the west
wing, will be similarly flagged.

After the flag are laid, the joints will be grouted with a mixture of ce-
ment and sand. ,

The floors of the two cloisters will be flagged with best North river flag,
axed perfectly smooth on the upper surface, and the stones will be of
equal size from two to three feet square, and laid diamond-wise in cement-
mortar. -

The floors of the two galleries of art, in the western wing and western
connecting range, will be flagged with the best North river flag, axed per-
fectly smooth, and cut to the form of octagons, of equal size, not more
than two feet in diameter. The squares between the octagons will be
filled with tiles of white marble or of red Seneca stone, as may be directed
by architect, and this will be laid in best cement and sand-mortar.

\
73 [ 23]

The floors of the vestibules and central hall will be flagged with the oc-
tagon and square as above.

All the joints of all the above flagging will be cut perfectly true, and
the tiles will be bedded on the best cement and sand-mortar.

The tloors of the reoms over the groined arches, in the central front
towers, will be flagged with best North river flag, as above described for
the cellars themselves, laid in the best cement and sand-mortar.

Fire-proofing.—The floor of the chemical lecture-room, which occu-
pies the whole east wing, and the floors of the students’ working labora-
tory, and the room above it in the east connecting range, each of which
is 38 by 24 feet in the clear, will be rendered fire-proof in the following
manner. Cast iron beams of the shape of the letter T reversed, whose
vertical arm will be 15 inches in depth, by 14 inch in width, with a
bead on the upper end 2} inches in diameter, and whose horizontal arm
will be eight inches long, and average 14 inch in thickness, will be laid
four feet from centres ; the ends of these beams will run nine inches into
the walls, and will rest on a cast iron plate, 3 inches wide by 1 inch
in depth, which will be firmly anchored to the walls ; between these beams,
arches of brick five inches in depth will Es turned to form the floors.
The spandrils over the arches will be filled in with a mixture of lime, sand,
and broken stone or gravel, over which a flooring of best North river flag,
well axed on the upper face, and not more than two inches thick, will be
laid in the best cement and sand-mortar.

The floors of the rooms over the janitors’ room and of the two rooms
in the towers, on a level with the museum, making in all four floors 16 feet
square, (exclusive of those over the groined arches in the cellars of the
front towers,) will be similarly fire-proofed, unless they are groined with
brick as hereinbefore specified. :

The floor of the principal lecture-room will be tiled with best North
river flag, laid on brick cross-walls, and well jointed and bedded in cement
and sand-mortar. .

A border of colored marble tiles four inches square, laid on bricks, in
cement or plaster of Paris, will be carried around the Regents’ room, three
feet in width.

Safe.—A fire-proof safe will be constructed in the small octagonal
tower, attached to the rear tower, with double wrought-iron doors, and
iron shelves and hollow brick casings, per directions of architect.

A mantelpiece of red marble, or of such color as the architect shall
direct, and of the richest Norman pattern, having two columns on each
side, whose shafts will be a cable-mould and chevron, with plinths and
moulded bases, and foliage caps of the richest character; over the columns
arich frieze, which will be ornamented bya band of Norman foliage, will be
carried, and over this a label mould filled with pateras or rosettes. Upon
this mould the shelf will be laid, which will be at least three inches
thick, and moulded in the front and ends. All the remaining parts of the
chimney will be completely finished in the best manner. | The sides and
back of the fireplace will be laid up of best fire-brick, laid herring-bone
fashion. ; .

Dry walls of stone.—There will be four sinks or sess-pools, eight feet in
diameter and twelve feet deep, walled up in the best manner, with dry
stone, and placed in such positions as the architect shall direct.
[23] 74

Twenty-four sess-pools, four feet in diameter and six feet deep, walled
up with dry stone, will be built under the different floors of the building. -

All the remaining mason work of every description, necessary to com-
plete the whole building in the most perfect manner, will be performed by
the contractor.

As it is the intention of the above specification, with the plans, to cover
the entire and perfect completion of the work, no charge for extra work
wiil be allowed the contractor, unless caused by actual alterations of the
plans. And the contractor will be bound by the sum of ten thousand
dollars, to abide by the decision of the architect, whose decision in all
matters relating to the form, dimensions, and finish of all the parts of the
work, shall be final and conclusive.

J. RENWICK, Jr., Architect.

| Nore.—Contractors will also estimate the difference in expense between
facing the building with rubble masonry, as hereinbefore specified, or of
setting the whole face with ashlar, varying in height of course from ten
to fourteen inches, and averaging eight inches in thickness, the ashlar
being furnished by the stonecutter. ]

Specification of the stone and cutting for the Smithsonian Institution.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF STONE.

The contractors will estimate on furnishing all the stone necessary for
the cutting and the expense of the cutting itself, and will furnish three
separate estimates of the above, based on white marble, buff colored sand-
stone of the best quality and uniform color, from the upper Potomac, and
granite of the same color and quality as that in the rear of the General
Post Office of the United States.

CUTTING.

North front porch—Will consist of three arched openings of the dimen-
sions shown on plans, in courses not exceeding 15 nor less than 12
inches rise. The jambs will each contain four rebates, filled each with a 2
column on the exterior face, and one rebate, filled in like manner,
On the interior face. [See plan A, drawings No. 1.] All the columns
will have handsome moulded Norman plinths and bases and foilage caps.
The arches of each side will contain a similar number of mouldings to
the jambs, and each arch will be ornamented with a zigzag, battlement,
and cable, or other ornamented mouldings.

The buttresses will be cut of similar courses to the doors, and bush-
hammered on the face, with moulded caps and a double water table. Be-
tween the buttresses on all three sides a corbel course handsomely cut, and
eight to twelve inches projection of semicircular arches, resting on foliage
brackets, will be carried; and over the corbel course a label mould sup-
porting the battlement. The battlement will be well cut to the section
shown in No. 2, plan A. All the face work of the porch will be eut both
inside and outside.

Front door.—Between the central front towers and under the porch a
door, of the dimensions shown on the plans, will be placed. 'The jambs
75 [ 23]

will consist of three rebates with } columns, bases and caps, cut as above,
and the arch will contain three mouldings, one of which will be ornament-
ed with a zigzag or cable mould.

Sills and steps. —The sill of the door will be made in three heights of
eight inches each, to form steps to rise from the ground to the first floor.

The window and niches over front door will have jambs of a single
rebate, with a } column, with moulded plinths, bases and foliage caps. In
the arches the columus will be replaced by an octagon, and an octagonal
label mould resting on four corbels will be carried over the heads of the
three openings, for section of windows. (See plan A, No. 3.) Sills will
be 10 inches in height. ;

Circular window will be of the diameter shown on plan. The section
of the jamb will be as shown on plan A, No. 4, and the tracery will be
per plans and direction of architect, the mullions not being less than six
inches diameter, with moulded caps, plinths and bases, and the arches
being splayed on both sides, and handsomely foiled; the foil in centre to
be sunk through.

The moulding under the circular window will be a hook label, of size
shown on plans.

If so directed, the circular window shall have tracery similar to the one
in the west end of the centre building.

Under the interlaced arches of the battlement, another label mould, eight
to twelve inches high, will run. The interlaced arches will be 15 inches
higher than shown in plan, and will be sunk through. ‘The pillars will
be octagonal, with plain plinths, bases and caps, supporting the arches,
and over the arches a neat hook label of proper size will be run. Niches
or windows in pediment. Three niches, (or if so directed, windows,) with
a splay and column jamb and arch, (plan A, No. 5,) will be cut for the
pediment. ‘Their sills seven inches high.

A corbel course will be carried up the pediment, of semicircular corbels,
resting on neat brackets, and projecting eight inches from face of wall.
The cornice or coping will be 12 inches by 28 inches, cut to the form of
three sides of an octagon, and on the apex of the gable a handsome finial
will be cut the size shown on plan, and of approved design.

Two base courses or water tables will be carried around the whole build-
ing, with the exception of the east wing. They will be cut to the dimen-
sions and section directed by the architect.

Central front towers.—On all the corners of all the buttresses, which
will be of rubble masonry, an arris two inches wide each way will be cut,
so as to enable the stones to be set perfectly vertical, plumb, true, and even.

Buttress caps.-—All the buttress caps to be of cut stone, handsomely
moulded and finely cut, per directions of architect.

The 1st row of corbels under zigzag mould will be of good design,
eight on each side of each tower, well moulded and cut with foliage and
heads.

An enriched lozenge or zigzag mould will be cut of dimensions shown
on plans, sunk six inches between the panels, and of such pattern as
the architect shall direct, and cut in the best manner.

Sills of 1st tier of windows, and niches, and sill course.—Over the z13-
zag an octagonal sill course six inches high will be carried. Sills of win-
dows will be 10 inches high. Jambs of ist tier of windows will consist
of a splay and column, (see plan A, No. 7.) Arches of splay and octagon,
23] 76 |

|
(see plan A, No. 8.) A label resting on corbels will be carried around the |
heads of the windows and niches. The mullions will be eut to the form |
of a double jamb, with a fillet between them, (as shown in Nos. 8 and 9.)

The bases, plinths, and capitals, will be furnished for all the columns _
of such design as architect shall direct, and they shall have foliage caps
well undercut.

In the arches the column will be replaced by a square with a beed on
the angle, or by an octagonal mould, (see plan No. 9,) and the remainder |
of the arch shall be the same as the section of the jamb.

Corbel courses over the 1st tier of windows.—A handsome corbel course,
with moulded corbels under the arches, shall run all around both towers,
(see Nos. 10 and il,) and project from six to eight inches; a moulding
shall run over the head of the corbel course, with a batter on top to shed
the rain.

Between the corbel course and the band under the 2d windows a
panel course, well sunk, (see plan A, No. 12,) will be carried around both
towers, of such design as architect shall direct.

The sill course under the second windows will be a semicircle and fillet,
and five sides of an octagon, of the height shown on plan, and finley cut.

The sills of the 2d tier of windows will be 15 inches in thickness.

The jambs, arehes, labels, plinths, bases and caps, will be of the same
section as those of the Ist tier; they will be finely patent-hammered or well
cut, and of such dimensions as to section as the architect shall direct.

Corbels over 2d tier of windows.—On each side of each tower, nine or
ten corbels or modellions of good design, handsomely moulded, will be
placed, and of such size as architect shall direct. ‘These corbels will sup-
port an octagonal moulding, well cut, and of such dimensions as architect
shall direct.

The sill course of panelled arcade over this octagonal moulding, will
be of such dimensions and section as architect shall direct.

A panelled arcade of seven to eight arches, supported by pillars, with
plain caps and bases, will be carried along two sides of each tower—32 pan-
els in all; they will be sunk of such depths as the architect shall direct:

Moulding over arcade and splayed sill course. —Over this arcade a label
mould with a splayed sill course, having in it one break and being a con-
tinuation of the buttress caps, will be carried around three sides of each
tower, of such dimensions and section as architect shall direct.

Above the sill course, the sills of the upper windows, which will be 15
inches high and of such section as architect shall direct, will be carried.
They will be well cut.

Windows, 3d tier.—The third tier of windows will vary in the two
towers per plans; there being a double window on each of the four sides of
the larger tower, and a triple one on each of the four sides of the lower
tower. ‘I'he section of all the jambs will be as shown on plan A, Nos. 7
and 8, and they will be of such dimensions as the architect shall direct.
All the columns of all the above jambs will have plinths and bases of good
designs and foliage Norman caps, approved by architect. The arches will
have the same section as the jambs, except over the pillar caps, where the
circular shaft will be replaced by an octagonal moulding.

Finish of lower central front tower, above 3d tier of windows.—\st. A
corbel course projecting LU inches from the face of the wall, of semicircular
corbels, supported on brackets, will be carried all around the four sides of

77 [ 23 ]

the tower. Over this an octagonal moulding; over this a zigzag or panel-
led moulding, of such dimensions, pattern, and workmanship as architect
shall direct, well sunk; over this zigzag or panelled moulding, an octa-
gonal moulding—then a vertical. band; over this band a 3 circle; and

over this a cove, with an octagonal or splayed top for the cornice or coping.

All the above mouldings to run all round the four sides of the tower, and
to be of such dimensions, workmanship, and design, as architect shall
direct. ‘Ihe upper bed of the upper stone or coping will be at least 30

inches, with a groove sunk one inch all round, to secure the roofing mate- ’
rial, to prevent all leakage.

Finish of larger front tower above the third tier of windows.—Four
circular windows for clock faces, one on each side of the tower, of a
diameter not exceeding nine feet, will be placed over each set of double
windows. The jambs will be of the section shown on plan,A, No. 14,
and in the mouldings the numbers of the hours will be cut. The win-
dows will be filled with handsome Norman tracery of pillars, and semi-
circular arches of such dimensions, &c., as architect shall direct.

Splayed corners—Above these circular windows the tower changes
the form of its ground plan from that of a square to that of an octagon,
by means of four splayed corners, (per plans;) these corners will be of
coursed cut stone, well cut on the beds, builds and faces, 12 inches high
in each course, and having a drip mou!'d cut on the under side of each
stone to prevent the water from getting into the joints.

An octagonal moulding will be carried all around the base of the octa-
gon at the point where the splay ceases. This moulding will be fine cut,
and not less than 12 nor more than 16 inches in height.

Pinnacles.—An octagonal moulding of similar dimensions to the one
above will be carried all around the top of the 16 buttresses of the princi-
pal tower; and on each of the buttresses an octagonal or cross-shaped pin-
nacle, havinga plinth, pillars with caps, bases, and arches, and mould-
ings. Arched panels, corbels, and mouldings of such dimensions, design,
and workmanship, as the architect shall direct. The pinnacles will be
each capped by a single stone, having the form of an octagonal pyramid, of
such dimensions as architect shall direct, surmounted by. a handsome
finial. All the above work to be cut in the best manner.

A sill course of octagonal form will be carried around the whole tower,
under the sills of the fourth tier of windows, of such dimensions as _ar-
chitect shall direct. Sills of the windows of the octagonal section will be
15 inches in height, and of such depth as may be directed by architect.

All the windows of the octagonal section will have jambs of such sec-
tion as architect shall direct, and detached columns not more than 12

‘inches lesser diameter, of oval form, will divide the windows into two

bays.

The columns of the jambs and the central columns, or mullion, will have
_plinths and bases of good design, and ornamented Norman caps, of such
dimensions and pattern as may be approved by architect. The splay of
the jambs will be continued around the arches; the tracery of the window
heads will be sunk through single stones of not less than nine inches
' thickness; the arris of the arches will be splayed, and the quatrefoil over
them will also be sunk through, and the whole will be fine cut, per direc-
tions of architect. :

All the corners of the octagonal section of the tower will leave an arms

[ 23 ] 78

drawn on them, so that they will be perfectly plumb, true, and even, in
every respect.

A corbel table will be carried around the octagon over the arches of the
fourth tier of windows, per plans, with handsome brackets neatly mould- |
ed under semicircular arches, which will project from 10 to 12 inches.

Over this corbel table a splay fillet and octagonal moulding will be car-
ried to the under side of the ornamental band, of such dimensions and
‘workmanship as the architect shall direct.

Over this octagonal mould an ornamented course, having a zigzag
chevron, or a star or enriched lozenge or triangular frette, of such dimen-
sions and pattern as architect shall direct, and well cut, will be carried.

Above this a series of six mouldings, of such dimensions and pattern as
the architect shall direct, and terminated by an octagonal moulding 16
inches high*and 30 inches bed, fora cornice, with a rabbet to receive the
jead connecting the roof covering with the stone, will be carried.

Parapet of tower.—A parapet 3 feet 6 inches in height, with a moulded
base and octagonal coping, will be carried all around the top of the tower,
over the cornice. All the stones between the base and coping will be 15
inches thickness of bed, and fine cut on both faces and both beds, as
will the coping and base. ‘The whole to be of such proportions as the
architect shall direct.

The buttresses of both central front towers *will have an arris or draught,
fine cut, drawn on all the corners, so that they will, when laid, be per-
fectly plamb, true, and even.

All the mouldings, buttress caps, base courses, and in general all the
ornamental work on the buttresses, will be weil cut and of such dimen-
sions and design as architect shall direct. And all the work on both
front towers, the porch and space between the towers, to be cut and fur-
nished, whether specified or not.

In each of the walls between front towers and main building, there
will be a door four feet six inches opening, and ten feet six inches high in
the clear. Their jambs and arches will be of the following section, (see
plan A, No. 18,) and well cut, and the columns will have bases, plinths,
and foliage. Capitals of such design as may be approved of by the archi-
tect. ‘The bands and corbel courses, and battlements of the front of the
central buildings, hereinafter described, will be continued along these
walls to the rears of the central front towers, a total length of 14 feet each.

Windows.—In each of the above spaces ‘there will be three windows,
averaging ten feet high, and four feet broad in the openings, with arches
and jambs of section (plan A, No. 17) well and truly cut, and of such
dimensions as architect shall direct.

\

Cué stone in front and rear of central building.

Two. bases, their courses of section described, will be carried around
both of the fronts and buttresses.

Buttresses—The corners of all the buttresses will be dressed with a
draught or arris,so that they will be perfectly plumb, true, and even, when
laid.

Buttress caps will be gable-shaped, and project one foot to sixteen
inches from tne corbel table behind them. They will be well and truly
79 [ 23 ]

cut, with a circular bead on the apex, and of such dimensions, &c.. as
architect shall direct. oS

Band under windows.—Under the first tier of windows a moulding
consisting of a splay, or cove, a fillet, and an octagonal moulding, of such
dimensions as architect shall direct, will be carried.

The window-sills of the first tier of windows will be 10 inches high,
well cut, with a rebate to receive the sash.

The jambs of the windows will be cut to the form of a splay and col-
umn, in arebate, and of such dimensions as architect shall direct. Al]
the columns to have plinths and bases, handsomely moulded, and foliage
Norman caps of such design as architect shall approve.

The arches of the windows will be of the same section as the jambs,
with the exception that the circular moulding, or shaft of column, will be
replaced by an octagonal one.

Labels resting on ornamental corbels, of handsome design, will be car-
ried over the heads of all these windows.

A corbel table of semicircular arches, supported on handsomely carved
drops, will extend from buttress to buttress, along the whole front and
rear. ‘I'he projection of this corbel table will be from eight to ten inches.

The octagonal sill-course under the sills of the second tier of windows,
will be cut to such dimensions as architect shall direct.

The sills of the second tier of windows will be from 16 to L8 inches in
height, and cut per plans and directions of architect.

The window jambs will be cut to the form of a splay and octagonal,
or oval column, in a rebate, of such dimensions as architect directs.

The columns in the centre will be of the same shape as those of the
jambs, and of such dimensions as architect shall direct. All the above
columns to have plinths, bases, and foliage capitals, of such design as
architect shall direct.

The splay of the jamb will continue around the arch, and a handsomely
moulded label, with two carved foliage corbels, will be carried around the
arches. ‘T'racery will be of the form shown on plans, at least nine inches
thick, and moulded on all the edges. ‘The space between the pointed
arches of the tracery will be sunk two inches on both sides from the face
of the arch, and a trefoil] will be sunk through it, if so directed by archi-
tect.

A corbel course of large size, projecting from 15 to 18 inches from the
face of the walls, will be run all along both front and rear; the corbels
will have semicircular arches, supported by saape t moulded drops,
and will be of such dimensions and design as architect shall approve.

Over the corbel table a moulding, consisting of a splay and fillet, will
run all around, if so directed by architect. This moulding is not shown
on plans.

Above this line the battlements will be carried along the whole front
and rearof the building. The battlement will be well cut; and where it
is above the roof, will be 16 inches in thickness, and cut on both sides.
The coping of the battlement will be cut to the section shown in plan
A, No. 16, and of such dimensions as architect shall direct, and the bat-
tlement shall be 18 inches higher than shown on plans. ;

All the remaining cut work, and stone therefor, necessary to finish
completely the front. and rear of the central building, will be furnished
by the contractor, whether specified or not.
[23] 80" 4 .

East end of central buildings. —The band under the windows will ex-
tend along the whole end of building, between the towers, and will be
cut to the form of five sides of an octagon, of such dimensions as archi-
tect shall direct. é

Buttress corners will have an arris drawn up them, as before described,
for front and rear.

Triple window.—The triple window will have a Sail 15 inches in
height, and of such other dimensions as architect shall direct.

The jambs and intermediate jambs will be of the section shown on
plan B, No. 1, and of such dimensions as architect shall direct.

All the columns in the jambs to have plinths and bases, and capitals,
with Norman foliage. ‘lhe arches will be of the same section as the
jambs, with an octagonal moulding, taking the place of the shaft of the
column. A label mould, of the form of five sides of an octagon, will be
carried all around the heads of the three windows, from the ‘level of the
eaps of the columns of the side windows, and ore handsomely carved
corbels will be carried on the level of these caps, from which the label
will spring.

The smaller end windows will hare sills, jambs, arches, bases, capitals,
Plinths, corbels, and labels, of the same section as the triple window.

Corbel course.—Along the whole end, and its gable, a handsome heav-
ily-sunk corbel table, of semicircular arches, springing from handsomely- —
carved brackets or drops, will be carried. It will project from 12 to 15
inches from the face of the wail.

Coping.—An octagonal coping, at least 15 inches high and 80 inches
to bed, will be carried along over the whole end wall, with a proper
groove ‘for roof covering, sunk in build.

West end of main building.—A sill course of octagonal form will ex-
tend along the whole end between the towers.

The arris of buttresses, and arched panels over them, will be dressed
perfectly true and even.

Circular window.—The jamb will be cut to the section, (plan C, No.
1.) The tracery will be cut on both faces, with columns, with plinths,
bases and caps, quatrefoils, six-foils, and trefoil, tracery heads and mould-
ings, of such design and dimensions as architect shall direct, and be
complete in every respect.

A corbel course will be carried up the gable of the centre compartment,
of such design, workmanship, and dimensions, as architect shall direct.

Two windows at sides of circular windows will be furnished with
a arches, &c.) cut in same way as described for windows of east
en

The two small circular windows will have jambs of the section shown
in plan C, No, 2.

The quatrefoil tracery will be eight inches thick, dressed on both sides,
and splayed on edges. .

A hook label mould will be carried along the Ba: end under the par-
apet.

The coping will be similar in every respect to that of eastend. And
all the above to be of such dimensions and wormanship as architect shall
approve.
81 [ 23 ]
Towers of east end of main building.
CAMPANILE.

The campanile, a larger tower, will consist of four stories, or external
divisions. ‘The two base courses, hereinbefore described, will extend all
around it. i

The jambs of the doors will be cut to the section of two rebates, with
one engaged column in one of them. And there will be four windows,
(not seen on plan,) in the first story, with sills, splayed jambs and arches.
A splayed water-table will be carried all around under the second story.

Second story.—On each side of the second story there will be two pan-
els, with arched heads, formed by buttresses, which will project from
six to eight inches from the face. 'The corners of the tower buttresses
and arches will be dressed perfectly true and even, so as to be perfectly
plumb, when laid. j

Windows.—In each of the panels there will be three windows with
splayed sills, jambs and arches.

Cornice of second story will consist of a splay, or an ogee, a wide band,
and an octagonal moulding, all cut in the best manner.

If the architect shall so direct, the splay or ogee shall be replaced by
corbels.

Third story.—A base course, with splayed top, will run all around the
tower.

The eight windows of third story will have sills ten inches in height.

The jambs will consist of a splay and column in a rebate, and the mul-
lions of a column on a pilaster.

The arches will be of the shape of a trefoil, of the same section as the
jambs, and the tracery, with splayed angles and panels, will be carried
from capital to capital of the columns, per plans and directions of archi-
tect. All the columns will have bases, capitals, and plinths, handsomely
carved and moulded.

Over the windows a corbel course of ten corbels or modillions, on each
side of the tower, will be carried; the corbels will be handsomely cut and
moulded, (not shown on plan.)

Over the corbels an octagonal moulding will be carried, of such dimen-
sions as architect shall direct.

Fourth story.—A splayed base course will be carried all around the
fourth story of the tower.

The window-sills of the eight windows of the fourth story‘of the tower
will be 10 inches high. The jambs and centre mullions will be cut to
the same section as those of the third story.

The tracery will be eight inches thick, splayed on corners witha
quatrefoil pierced through each tracery head over the arches.

Over the fourth story there will be, first, a moulding consisting ofa
splay and a fillet. Over this a zigzag or chevron mould, well sunk ;
over the chevron a fillet, and an avolo supporting a corbel course of
semicircular arches on plain brackets, projecting from eight to twelve
inches from the face of the wall. . J

The coping of the tower will be octagonal, 12 inches high by 24 inches
bed, and grooved to receive the roof covering.

All the parts the above tower, including doors, buttresses, bands,

[ 23 ] 82

corbels, mouldings, windows, &c., to be of the dimensions, workman-
ship, and design furnished by architect.

Sinaller tower of east end.—Base courses to be carried all around.

The tower will consist of three stories externally; the lower one
being square, and the two upper ones octagonal.

First story.—A sloping base, eight inches high, will extend along the
bottom of the panel, between the buttresses on each side.

The sides of the first story will each have a panel with circular head,
formed by buttresses and arches, projecting six inches from the face of
the wall, and all the angles of the tower and buttresses will be dressed
perfectly true and even.

Windows.—On each side of the first story there will be two windows,
with splayed sills, jambs, and arches, which will be well and truly cut.

An octagonal moulding will be carried around over the top of the first
story.

Splays.—The square of the first story will be gradually drawn into an
octagonal form by four splayed corners, which will be of cut stone, with
drips on under side, of same character and workmanship as described for
the main central tower.

Windows of the second story will have sunk jambs and arches, cut per-
fectly true and even.

A hook label moulding wil] be carried around the top of the second
story of the tower. ‘lhe parapet or broad band over this story will be of
cut stone. A splayed coping will be carried over the parapet and under
the third story.

An octagonal sill course will be carried around the tower under the
window-sills of the third story.

The window-sills of the third story will be eight (8) inches in height.

The jambs and arches of the windows wiil be splayed, or of the sec-
tion of a rebate, with an engaged column; all the corners of the tower will
be cut perfecily true and even.

A corbel course will be carried around the tower, forming the first mem-
ber of the cornice; it will be of semicircular arches, supported by plain
brackets, and will project eight inches from face of tower wall. Over
this corbel cornice a splay moulding will be carried. And over the splay
the cornice will consist of five members of such design and dimensions
as architect shall direct. ‘The top bed of the upper member or coping
shall be two feet wide, with a groove cut to attach the roof covering.

All the parts of the above tower to be of such workmanship, dimen-
sions, and design, as the architect shall direct.

Towers of west end of main building.—Octagonal tower of southwest
corner will consist of four stories externally.

The two base courses will be carried around the first story. Above
the base courses the first story will be battered, per plans, and all the
corners will be dressed so as to be perfectly true and even. A splayed
water table will finish the first story.

Second story.—All the corners will, be dressed true and even, so as. to
be perfectly plumb, when laid. .

Windows.—There will be two windows in each side with splaye
sills, jambs, and arches.

Loop-holes.—There will also be one cross-shaped loop-hole in each
side, sunk through the walls and cut perfectly true and even, with tre-
foils on the ends of the arms.

83 [ 23]

A hooked label mould will be carried around the tower, and well cut.
The parapet of the first story, over the label, will be a broad band of cut
stone, finished on tcp with a splayed coping.

Third story The base or sill course of the third story will be well
cut and splayed on upper edge.

The windows of the third story will form a continuous arcade all
around. The jambs and the centre mullions will be cut to section showa
on plan D, No. }.

All the columns will have plinth bases and foliage Norman caps. The
section of the arch will be same as that of jamb, except that a square or
octagonal moulding will take the place of the shaft of the column. The
tracery will be eight to ten inches thick, the arches will be raised, and
over them a quatrefoil pierced through the panel in the head of each
tracery.

A corbel course of small moulded corbels, seven on each side of the
tower, well cut, will be carried around under the cornice of the third story.
The cornice of the third story will be octagonal and well cut. The whole
story will be eighteen inches higher than shown on plan.

Fourth story.—The base course will have a splayed top mould or water
table on which the widow sills will rest.

The window sills will. be six inches high. The windows of the fourth
story will also forma continuous arcade. The jambs will be cut to tine
section shown on plan D, No. 2, and the arches will be of trefoil form,
and cut per directions of architect. All the columns will have plinths,
caps, and bases of good design.

A hook label mould will be carried around under the parapet.

The parapet will contain two sunk panels on each side, each of which
will be of handsome Norman patera, of such design as may be approved
by architect. The parapet will be sixteen inches thick, and dressed on
both sides, and will be coped by a coping twenty inches bed, cut to the
section shown on plan D, No 3.

A balustrade of columns, with caps, bases, arches, &c., will fill the
Spaces between the jambs of the windows of fourth story, per end view.

The northwest corner tower will be divided externally into three
stories.

The first story will be similar to that of the southeast corner tower.

The second story will be square with splayed corners, handsomely cut;
it will rise from a splayed base mould, and have two windows with reba-
ted jambs on each side. The cornice of the second story will be a hook
label mould, over which will be a plain parapet, with splayed coping well
cut.

Third story.—The base course will be well cut, with a splayed top.

Windows.—There will be four windows, with sills 10 inches high, well
cut. The jambs and arches will be a splay and column in a rebate, with,
handsome plinths, caps, and bases. The centre mullion will be a column
on a pilaster. The-tracery will be eight inches thick, with raised arches,
and a quatrefoil pierced through the panel in the head.

In the gables over the windows a sunk quatrefoil panel will be cut.

The coping will be a hook label mould, 18 inches bed, grooved as usual
to receive the roof covering, and a neat finial will be cut for each gable,

Central rear tower.—The two base courses will be carried all around
the buttresses, &c.. All the corners of all the buttresses will have an arris

2
[ 23 ] 84

run along them. All the mouldings and buttress caps will be cut in the
best manner, and of most approved design.

Door.—The door jambs will be of the section of four rebates, contain-
ing four detached shafts or engaged columns, having bases and _plinths
handsomely moulded, and capitals cut in the best manner, with Norman
foliage, well sunk and undercut; (see plan D, No. 4)

The arch will have four Norman mouldings, two of which will be or-
namented with a chevron and cable mould; (see plan D, No. 5.)

A label of octagonal form, and ornamented on the lower face with a
Norman leaf, will be carried over the arch of the door, and will spring
from two foliage corbels of best design and workmanship.

Bay window.—The bracket of the bay window, which will project not
less than six feet six inches from the face of the wall, will consist of a,
series of mouldings rising from a large carved corbel. All the face work
of the windows between the corbel and the sills will be well cut in both
faces and both beds, to a thickness of 13 inches.

An octagonal sill course will be carried all around the tower on a level
with the under side of the sills of the bay window. ‘The window sills
will be 10 inches high, cut in the best manner.

All the face work of the bay window above the sill course will be fine
cut.

There will be three windows, one on each side of the bay. The jambs
and mullions will be of the section shown on plan D, No. 6.

All the pillars will have plinths, bases, and foliage caps. The arches of
the tracery will be raised, and a quatrefoil will be pierced through the
sunk panel over them. The tracery will be nine inches thick. The
arch of the window will be of same section as the jamb, except a square
will take the place of the shaft of column. Over the windows a double
label mould will be carried all around the bay window, and above this line
there will be a battlement cut in the best manner, and of good design.
‘he battlement will be cut on both sides.

Sides of first story of tower.—On each side of the small octagonal tower
a window with splayed jambs, arches, and sills, will be cut, and two
similar windows will be placed on the opposite side.

Un each side of the octagonal tower in the second story a window with
rebated jambs, having each an engaged column, will be cut in the best
manner; and there will be two similar ones on the opposite side of tower,
between which a niche, having a foliage corbel and canopy, cutin the best
manuer, will be placed.

A hook label mould of large size will be carried all around the top of
the second story, and well cut.

Third story —T he base course of the third story will be splayed on up-
per bed, and well cut.

The front and rear will each contain a single large window, having a
jamb with the sectionof a splay,and engaged column in a rebate, and a
mullion or central column supporting tracery. The tracery arches will be
raised, and a quatrefoil pierced through the sunk panel.

Over the arch of the window there will be an octagonal label resting on
two handsome corbels, which will be well cut. All the columns to have
bases, plinths, and foliage caps.

‘The sides of the third story will each be pierced by two windows, having
splay and column in a rebate for the jambs and arches.
85 [23]

Baitlements, §*c.—The machiolations under the battlement will project
two feet from the face of the wall, and will be formed of semicircular
arches, springing from moulded corbels; above these will rise the battle-
ment, well cut _on both sides, 20 inches in thickness, and coped with a
heavy moulded coping, (per plan of architect.)

The octagonal stair tower attached to the above will have cross-shaped
loop holes and slits to light the stairs from top to bottom. All the mould-
ings of the main tower will be carried around it, and it will be finished at
the top by abattlement with cross-shaped loop-holes. A door for entrance,
with plain rebated jambs, will be placed in one side of this tower on the
level of the ground, with proper sills, &c.; and all the corbels and other
mouldings of the tower willbe well cut.

East connecting range—cloister.—The front of the cloister will be a
continuous arcade of six-arched openings filled with mullions and tracery.
The section of the jambs and mullions will be as shown on plan A, No.
15.

All the columns will have plinths and bases handsomely moulded, and
foliage capitals of best description.

The tracery in the heads will be nine inches in thickness, with raised
arches, and the panels over these arches will be pierced with quatre-
foils. An octagonal label resting on handsome corbels will be carried over
the arches.

The cornice will consist of a corbel table of semicircular arches resting
on moulded corbels, projecting at least 10 inches from the face of the wall.
The coping will be octagonal, 18 inches bed, with grooves, &c., as usual.
The arches of the cloister will rest on a sill 12 inches thick and 30 inches
bed. Underneath the sills an octagonal moulding will be carried.

There will be six small windows with splayed jambs, one under each
of the above arches, to light the basement, and two base courses, as usual.

North front of connecting range behind cloister will be finished with
eight windows, with jambs and arches of section of a rebate with engaged
column or a splay, and of same dimensions as those of the south side.

South front of connecting range will consist of seven bays, divided by
buttresses projecting § to 12 inches from the walls.

The two base courses will be carried all around the buttresses and
walls.

An octagonal sill course will be carried along under the windows. ‘The
sills of the windows will be six inches high. The section of the jambs
and windows will be of a rebate and engaged column or a splay, with
bases, plinths, and capitals to the columns. 'The arches will be of same sec-
tion as the jambs, with an octagonal moulding instead of the shaft of the
column. Over the heads of the windows an octagonal label mould rising
from two moulded or foliage corbels will be run.

A corbel course, projecting from 10 to 12 inches from the face of the
wall, will be carried from buttress to buttress. The corbels will consist of
semicircular arches rising from moulded dentils. ‘The coping will be oc-
tagonal.

A small window with splayed jambs, sills, and arches, will be cut for
each compartment, and they will be placed underneath the windows above
described. ;

Above the coping there will be a battlement three feet high, with open-
ings for windows alternating with carved panels. This will be coped
f 23 J , 86

with an octagonal coping of 18 inches bed, with a groove for the rocfing
material cut init. ‘This is not shown on plans.

East wing.—The basement of the east wing will be battered, per plans.

Windows.—There will be 14 windows in the basement, with splayed
or rebated jambs, sills, and arches.

he basement will be coped with a water table 12 inches in height,
splayed on the upper bed.

Windows front and rear of wing.—An octagonal sili course will extend
along the front and rear under the window sills. The window sills will
be nine inches high.

The jambs of the windows will bea splay and engaged column in a re-
bate, with a mullion, as hereinbefore described, and tracery in the head with
raised arches and pierced quatrefoil, and an octagonal Iabel mould will be
carried around each arch, resting on two handsome corbels. The plinths
and bases of the columns and foliage capitals will be well cut and
moulded.

\ porch, with four steps of 7 inches rise by 12 inches tread carried all
around it, will serve for the east entrance to the wing. A water table with
splayed top bed wil! extend all around the porch.

The door jamb will be cut to the section of a splay, and engaged col-
umn in a rebate, with plinths, bases, and foliage caps. The arch will be
well cut, and a label will be carried around over the arch, resting on two
handsome corbels.

The cornice will consist of 16 corbels or dentils, handsomely moulded,
supporting a well-cut parapet, surmounted by an octagonal coping of 16
inches bed.

The vestidbule will have a water table similar to that of the porch car-
ried round it; over the porch will be a window with ajamb of the sec-
tion of a splay and engaged column in a rebate, with a centre mullion,
tracery with raised arches and pierced quatrefoil, and an octagonal label
monld resting on two corbels, all cut in the best manner, with plinths,
bases, and capitals, as hereinbefore described. The window sill will be
eight inches in height. On each of the sides of the vestibule will be a
double window with splayed jambs, and arches, and sills. An octagonal
label, resting on three plain corbels, will be run around the arches.

A corbel course, projecting from 8 to 10 inches from the face of the
wall, will be carried all around the sides and gable of the vestibule. It
will consist of semicircular arches resting on handsome moulded brack-
ets. The cornice will be octagonal, 18 inches bed, and a handsome finial
will be cnt and placed on the apex of the gable.

East and west sides of east wing will be finished precisely alike, ex-
cept where the west side is covered by the connecting range, and with
the exception of the central bell tower, which will be only on the east
side. The interlaced arches will be carried through the west side from
ehimney to chimney.

The ten small windows, on each side above water table, will have
splayed jambs, arches, and sills.

The four large triple windows will have sills eight inches high. The
jambs and mullions will be of the section shown on plan E, No. 1.

The columns of the jambs will have plinths, bases, and foliage capt-
tals; and from the abacus of the capital an octagonal label mould will be

? .
carried around the head of the windows.
87 [ 23 J

Chimneys.—Six chimneys springing from handsomely moulded brack-
ets, and projecting two feet six inches from the face of the wall, with
splayed ‘corners well cut, will be carried from the water table tb the
height shown on plans. ‘They will have octagonal mouldings, splayed
cornices, and pierced windows, with battlemented tops of dimensions and
workmanship directed by architect.

Interlaced arch.—Between the chimneys on the west side, and between
the bell tower and the chimneys on the east side, an arcade of interlaced
Norman arches, resting on handsome columns with neat plinths, bases
and capitals, and 18 inches higher than shown on plans, and cut in the
best manner, will be placed. The arcade will rest on an octagonal sill
course, supported by handsome moulded corbels or dentils, and will be
capped with a heavy hook label moulding, with an 18-inch bed grooved
to receive the roofing. re

Bell tower will be carried up plain to the height shown on plans, with
the corners cut true and even, and with two roll mouldings projecting
from the north and south sides.

A corbel course of plain corbels will be carried around the top of the
first story.

The coping of the first story will be a fillet and splay 18 inches in
thickness.

The base course of the second story will be splayed on its upper bed,
and well cut.

The corners of the tower will be splayed.

The window sills will be eight inches high.

The widow jambs will be cut to the form of a splay and column, with
plinths, base, and capital.

The arch will be of same section as jamb, with a square moulding,
taking the place of the shaft of the column, and around the arch a label,
risin® from neat corbels, will be carried.

The cornice will be a splay and fillet, and will be coped by a plain
coping, per plans.

Batilement of ends, §c.—The machiolations under the battlement
will overhang the walls two feet six inches. ‘They will consist of semi-
circular arches, resting on handsome moulded corbels. Above this the
battlement will rise; and where it is above the roof, it will be dressed on
both sides, and 16 inches in thickness. ‘I'he battlement will be coped
with a handsome moulded coping.

Western connecting range—cloister—The cloister will consist of
three compartments, divided by buttresses, each containing a triple arched
opening.

The two base courses will be carried along the front. In the base-
ment seven small windows will be cut, with splayed sills, jambs, and
arches.

An octagonal sill course will be carried under the sills of the cloister,
with a bed and build of at least 24 inches, grooved to receive lead.

The buttresses between the triple arches will be well cut, and project
eight inches beyond the walls above the arches. The pillars supporting the
arches will be well cut, and will have plinths, bases, and handsome foliage
caps, cut in the best manner. ‘The arches will be of the section of a re-
bate and splay, and well cut on both sides.

A corbel course of semicircular arches, projecting eight inches from face
[ 23] 88

ef wall, resting on handsome moulded drops, will be carried between the
buttresses.

The cornice will be octagonal, well cut, with a bed of at least eighteen
inches, grooved as usual.

The front of the connecting range behind the cloister will have win-
dows, cut similar to those of the south front.

The south front will be divided by buttresses into seven bays. The two
base courses will run along the whole front. Seven small windows with
splayed jambs, sills, and arches, will be cut for the basement.

An octagonal sill course will be carried under the sills between the but-
tresses.

The window sills will be seven inches high.

The jambs, arches, and labels of the windows will be cut in the same
manner as those of the eastern connecting range.

The corbe] table, between the buttresses and the coping, will also be cut
in the same manner as those of the eastern connecting range.

Clerestory.— The inside columns, shown on ground plan, supporting
the clerestory, will be of granite, rough cut, and twelve inches square, with
a skew back on each, with a top bed of 18 by 36 inches to receive the
arches which support the clerestory.

The clerestory will be divided by buttresses, projecting six inches from
its face into seven bays, and in each bay there will be a double or triple
window, with splayed jambs, arches, and sills.

A corbel table projecting six inches from the face of the wall, of semi-
circular arches, on plain moulded brackets, will be carried between the but-
tresses. ‘The coping will be octagonal, 8 by 18 inches, with a groove, as
usual.

West wing.—The bell tower will be divided into four stories, externally.

The first story, the door jamb and arch, will have a plain splay and en-
gaged columns in a rebate.

‘Two small windows, with splayed sills, jambs, and arches, will be cut
for the sides of first story.

: The water table, under the second story, will be splayed on its upper
ed.

The second story will have panelled sides, with semicircular heads,
formed by the buttresses and arches, projecting from six to eight inches
from the wall. All the corners of the tower, buttresses, and arches, will be
well and truly cut. In each side of this story, there will be two small
windows, with splayed sills, jambs, and arches.

Under the coping of the second story, a corbel course of nine hand-
sed moulded corbels or dentils on each side of the tower, will be car-
ried.

The octagonal coping will be well cut.

The base course and water table of the third story of the tower will be
well cut.

Windows of third story —'The four windows of the third story will have
sills seven inches high.

The jambs will be of the section of a splay and engaged column ina
rebate, with handsomely-moulded plinths, bases, and foliage caps.

The tracery will be a trefoil head, well cut, and eight inches thick.
The arches will be splayed, and an octagonal label resting on two hand-
some corbels will be carried round the arches,
“Ts

89 [ 23 ]

A corbel course of 44 corbels will be carried around the third story
under the coping, which will be octagonal.

The base course and water table of the fourth story will be well cut.

The windows will have sills eight inches high.

The jambs of the four windows will be a splay and engaged column in
arebate. he mullion will be a column, all with plinths, caps, and foliage
bases.

The arch and tracery will be well cut, and an octagonal label resting on
two corbels will be carried around the arch of each window.

The cornice will consist of five mouldings:

1st. An ovolo or ogee moulding.

2d. A zigzag or chevron, deeply and well cut.

3d. A splay.

Ath. A corbel course of semicircular arches, resting on foliage corbels
and projecting from eight to twelve inches.

5th. A hook label mould for the coping, 15 inches high, and 18 inches
lower bed, with a groove, &c.

Apsis, or semicircular projection.—The apsis will be divided by eight
buttresses, projecting eight inches from the face of the wall, into seven
bays.

The upper base course or water table will project eight inches.

A sill course of octagonal form will be carried around under the sills
between the buttresses.

The sills of the windows will be seven inches high.

The jambs and arches will be a plain splay, or a rebate.

In each bay, between the buttresses, there will be a corbelling of two
semicircular arches, rising from the sides of the buttresses, and supported
by a handsomely-carved and moulded corbel in the centre.

A corbel course of handsomely-moulded corbels, or dentils, will be car-
ried all around under the octagonal coping of the first story.

An octagonal coping or cornice will be carried all around over the first
story of the apsis.

Base course of second story will be a plain band, splayed on upper edge
to shed water. ‘

Over this and under the columns a stylobate of cut stone will be carried,
from eighteen inches to two feet in height, well cut on the upper surface,
between the column bases, to form the sills of the windows between the
columns.

An arcade of columns and arches, having 14 arched openings, will be
carried round the second story of the apsis. '

The columns will have plinths, bases, and carved capitals, and will be
detached entirely from the wall behindthem. 'The wall behind the column
will consist of pilasters, with plain bases and capitals.

The pilaster will project eight inches from the face of the sash. The
arches will be of the section directed by architect, and will be cut in the
best manner.

The face work over the arches will be set back three inches from the
face of the arches, and well cut.

A corbel table, of semicircular arches, resting on moulded brackets, will
be carried all around the apse, under the coping, (not dentils, as in plan,)
and will project from eight to twelve inches from the face of the wall
below.
[23] 90

The coping will be octagonal, 12 inches by 24 inches, well eut, and
grooved to receive roof.

The wall behind apse will have a label course run across it, on a level

of the top of the roof of the apse. ?

Circular window.—The jamb will be of the section directed by architect,
and well cut.

The tracery will be 18 inches in thickness, exclusive of the columns on
the face.

The quatrefoils and six-foil will be pierced through, and well and finely
cut.

The columns will have plinths, bases, and caps, well cut and moulded.
The moulding on which the columns rest will be octagonal, and well cut,
and all the remaining work of the window will be cut in the best manner.

Cornice of gable will consist of a splay, with a double billet-mould, a
band eighteen inches wide, well cut, and an octagonal coping 12 by 24
inches, grooved to receive the roof covering.

A handsome finial will be well cut, and for the apex of the gable.

Buttresses will be cut with base courses, buttress caps with mouldings,
and arres on the corners, cut in the best manner.

South front of west wing.—Base courses will be carried across the front,
of size, &c., hereinbefore. specified...

Two small double windows, with splayed jambs, sills, , and arches,
will be cut for each side of the door-way.

The porch will project one foot from face of wall; all the arres will be
well and truly cut.

The door will have a jamb of the section of a splay and an engaged
column in a rebate, and will be 18 inches in depth, to the front of the
door, and 24 inches depth in all.

All the columns of the door will have plinths, bases, and foliage caps.
The arch will have an octagonal mould, in place of a shaft of column.
Over the door, the quatrefoil will be well cut and deeply sunk. ‘The co-
ping will be cut to the form of an octagon, 8 inches high by 24 inches bed,
well cut.

The water table over the basement will be well and truly cut, and hand-
somely splayed.

Over the water table, the sill course under the windows will be carried
from buttress to buttress, and will be well cut to the form of five sides of
an octagon.

The sills of the windows will be 12 inches in thickness.

The jambs of the windows will be cut to the form of a splay and en-
gaged column in a rebate.

The centre columns or mullions will be well cut, and all the columns
will have plinths, bases, and foliage capitals, well cut.

All the tracery will be 19 inches thick, the arches will be raised, and a
quatrefoil will be pierced through the sunk panels of the tracery heads.
There will be three windows in the east front.

Circular windows.—T he jambs will be splayed.

The tracery will consist of columns, with handsome plinths, bases, and
caps, with trefoil arches between the columns; the spaces on the backs of
the trefoil heads will be panelled; the thickness of the tracery will be eight
inches. ‘lhe moulding -under the bases of the columns and the central
quatrefoil will be well cut.

A corbel table will be carried up under the cornice of the gables, of semi-
91 [23°]

circular arches resting on moulded brackets, and projecting 10 to 12 inches
from the face of the wall. The coping will be L2 by 24 inches, cut to the
form of five sides of an octagon.

A handsome finial will be well cut for the apex of the gable.

The buttresses will have the corners well and truly cut, with moulded
caps, finished in the best manner.

Sides of west wing.—The east side of the west wing will be finished in
precisely the same manner as the west side, except so far as it is covered
by the connecting range.

The base courses will be carried all around.

There will be six small windows in the basement, with splayed jambs,
arches, and sills. {

The water table will be carried all around over the basement, per direc-
tions of architect. |

The buttresses projecting eight inches from the face of the walls, and
connected with arched heads, will be carried up perfectly plumb, true, and
even, and all the arres of the buttresses and arches will be well and truly
cut.

Sill course under the windows will be cut to the form of five sides of an
octagon.

The sills will be eight inches in thickness.

The jambs and arches of the windows will be splayed or rebated.

A corbel course will be carried all around both sides of the building, of
large semicircular arches, supported on foliage brackets. The corbelling
will project from 10 to 12 inches from the face of the wall.

The coping will be 12 by 24 inches, cut to an octagonal form, with a
groove to receive roofing material.

The walls connecting the central rear tower and the main central build-
ings will be cut with doors, windows, arches, corbel courses, mouldings,
and battlements, precisely similar to those hereinbefore described ; connect-
ing the central front towers with main central building.

GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.

All the window sills will be splayed.

All the doors will have sills and steps of the size, rise, and tread, di-
rected by architect.

All the door and window sills will be well patent-hammered, and brought
to a joint not exceeding 3-16 of an inch. All the jambs and arches, with
the labels over them, will be fine cut and patent-hammered, and no
spauls will be allowed on their faces. In the jambs and arches of the
principal doors, the joints shall not exceed 3-16 of an inch. In the
jambs, arches, &c., of the remaining doors, and of all the windows, the
joints shall not exceed 3-Sof aninch. In all the capitals of all the columns
the foliage will be well relieved and truly cut, and the plinths of the
columns will be in some cases octagonal, and in others circular and
square, and well cut.

All the bands and mouldings will be well and truly cut, or rubbed.

All the ornamented bands and mouldings will be well relieved, and truly
eut, or rubbed.

All the moulded and ornamented corbels will be cut in the best manner.»
The foliage will be well relieved.
[ 23 ] 92

And all the battlements, labels, buttress caps, and all the remaining cut
work, will be executed in the most true and perfect manner.

All the cut work hereinbefore specified, of every description, will be of
the form and dimensions and according to the plans furnished by the
architect.

Contractors are referred to the following architectural works for the char-
acter of the different mouldings, capitals, and other ornaments, used in the
building.

Doors, windows, and cloisters.—For capitals, bases, and plinths, see
Moller’s Denkmahler, part I, plate VI. Door of cathedral of Mayence,
(A,) plate IX. Details of columns, cathedral of Mayence, (B,) plate XI.
Door of church of St. Leonard at Frankfort, (C,) plate XII. Door of the
sacristy of the cathedral of Mayence, (D,) plates XIV, XV, and XVI.
Details of the cloister of the church of Aschaffenburg, (E,) plate XVII.
Details of the church of St. Paul at Worms, (F',) plate XVIII. Details of
the doors of the transept at Frieburg cathedral, (G.)

Also, Pugin and Le Keux’s Normandy, plate V.

Also, Glossary of Architecture, plate 28; St. Nicholas, Caeu, and St.
Peter’s, Northampton.

For corbel courses.—See Pugin and Le Keux’s Normandy, plates 1, 10.
Than church, plate 1, and Glossary of Architecture, plate 37.

For ornamented mouldings.—See Glossary of Architecture, all on plates
76, 77, and 78. Plate 79—cable, intersecting and cable, nail-head, star,
lozenge and enriched lozenge. Plate 81—reticulated, diamond frette, and
embattled frette. Plate 82—trellis and hollow square.

The above references are made with a view of presenting to the con-
tractor the general style for the finish and character of the ornaments.

As the above specification, with the plans, is intended to cover the en-
tire completion of the building, in every respect, in the most perfect man-
ner, no extra claims will be allowed, unless caused by actual alterations in
the plans. And the contractor will be bound by the sum of $10,000 to
submit all questions, controversies, and claims to the architect, whose de-
cision upon the same shall be final and conclusive between the parties.

Specification of the carpenter's and joiner’s work for the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

TIMBER.

Basement story.—The floors of the basement of the west wing, and
west connecting range, will be supported on yellow pine timber, 3 by 12
inches, set two feet (2 ft.) from centre to centre.

First story.—All the floors of the first story, except those of the chemi-
eal lecture room, students’ working laboratory, front towers, campanile
tower, octagonal tower, and central rear tower, will be supported on 3 by
12 inch timbers, of the best white pine, set sixteen inches (16 in.) from
centre to centre. The girders into which these will be framed will be
twelve inches (12 by 12 in.) square. The trimmers and trimmer beams
will be 5 by 12 inches, and one trimmer will be placed at every hot-air
flue, or one at every pier in the wall of the building. There will be one

7
93 [ 23 ]

longitudinal trimmer in the west wing, one in the west connecting range,
four in the library, three in the central hall, three in the lecture-room,
and two in the east connecting range.

Second story.—The timbers in the floor of the second story will be 3
by 12 inches, set 16 inches from centre to centre. The girders will be
twelve inches square (12 by 12 in.) running longitudinally through the
museum. ‘The trimmers and trimmer beams will be 5 by 12 inches.
The timbers will be of the best white pine.

Lowers, §*c.—Ail the floors of the towers will be of the best white pine
timber, 3 by 12 inches square. ‘There will be seven floors in the higher
central front tower; five floors in the lower front tower; four floors in the
central rear tower; seven floors in the octagonal tower; seven floors in
the campanile tower ; five floors in the tower of the west wing ; two floors
in the porch of the chemical lecture-room.

The floor-beams of the galleries of the museum, library, and lecture-
rooms will be 3 by 10 inches, of the best white pine timber, set 16 inches
from centre. ‘The girders of the gallery fronts, 8 by 12 inches.

All these timbers and girders will be firmly anchored to the walls.

All the floors in the building will have one row of herring-bone bridg-
ing of joists, 3 by 4 inches, for every 12 feet of length of beain.

Columus.—TVhere will be 56 columns, six inches square and twenty-
two (22) feet high in the library, set per plan.

In the great lecture-room there will be 10 columns of iron, twenty-
seven (27) feet high. (Plan No. 1.)

In the museum there will be 120 columns, six inches square, and
27 feet high.

Roofs.—The roof of the central building to be framed with a tie beam,
one king post, two queen-posts, and four strutts.

‘he timbers in all of the frames will be of the following forms, dimen-
sions, and materials :

Tie-beam, 6 by 15 inches, of the best white pine.

Two rafters, 6 by 12 inches, of best white pine.

King-post, 6 by 8 inches, of best white oak.

wo qucen-posts, 6 by 6 inches, of best white oak.

Four strutts, 6 by 8 inches, of best white pine.

The roof plate will be 3 by 12 inches, of best white pine.

The purlines will be of the best white pine timber, 3 by 10 inches, set
three feet (3 ft.) from centre to centre, quartered into the rafters two in-
ches, (2 in.) and kept from slipping by brackets of white pine eighteen
inches (18 in.) in length, firmly fastened to the rafters.

The roof of the east lecture room will be framed in the same manner
as that of the central building, of timbers of the same size and material.
Its span will be forty-nine feet, (49 ft.) and the number of frames seven

G
The roof of the east connecting range will also be framed in the same
manner, of timbers of the same size and material. ‘The number of frames
in it will be six (6.) '

The roof of the western wing will be framed in the same manner, and
with timber of the same description, but of the following dimensions: tle-
beam, 4 by 12 inches; rafters, 4 by 10 inches; king-post, 4 by 8 inches ;
queen-posts, 4 by 6 inches; strutts, 4 by 6 inches ; purlines, 3 by 10
[ 23] 94

inches ; set three feet (3 ft.) from centre to centre. The number of frames
in the west wing will be six (6.)

The roofs of the side aisles of the gallery of art, and of the cloisters in
front of the two connecting ranges, will be framed according to section.
(Plan BE, No. 3.)

Tie-beam 3 by 8 inches, rafter 3 by 12 inches, strutt 3 by 6 inches,
upright 3 by 6 inches, all of the best white pine timber.

There will be six frames in each side aisle and cloister.

The roof of the clerestory of the gallery of art will be framed of the fol-
lowing dimensions and materials :

Tie. beam, 5 by 12 inches, best white pine.

King-post, 5 by 7 inches, best white oak.

Two rafters, 5 by 10 inches, best white pine.

Two strutts, 5 by 6 inches, best white ie

The purlines will be 6 by 10 inches, set three feet (3 ft.) from centre to
centre. ‘The number of frames will be six (6.)

The roofs of the square towers will be framed in the form of a flat hip-
ped roof, with diagonal and square tie beams, king post, strutts, rafters,
and purlines, of the same materials as above, and of dimensions suited for
their respective spans.

The roof of the octagonal tower will be framed in a similar manner.

The roofs of the other towers will also be framed with diagonal and
square tie beams, and hip-rafters, curved to the shape of roofs, and stongly
braced with diagonal braces, strutts, and uprights throughout.

All the remaining roofs, if any, including those of the porches, &c., are
to be framed in such manner, and of such dimensions, timber, and work-
manship, as shall be directed by the architect.

Deafening.—All the floors except those of the chemical lecture-room and
students’ working laboratory, and other fire- proof rooms, will be prepared
for deafening, with strips and plank, in the best manner.

FLOORS.

Basement.—The floors of the basement of the west wing, and west cen-
tral range, will be of the best Georgia yellow pine narrow plank, not
more than five inches (5 in.) wide, laid in courses, and blind-nailed.

First story.—The floors of the library, lecture-room, cloisters, apparatus
room, campanile tower, and in general all the floors of this story, except
such as are directed to be tiled or flagged, and including the cloisters and
side slides, which will be planked under the flagging, will be of the best
clear Georgia yellow pine, narrow, 14 inch plank, laid in courses not more
than five inches (5 in.) wide, and blind-nailed.

Second story.—T he floor of the museum will be laid, first, of 14 inch nar-
row white pine plank, over which will be laid a mosaic or tesselated floor
of black walnut, yellow pine, white oak, maple, and other American woods,
arranged in such patterns as may be directed by the architect. The
upper floor will be blind nailed to the lower one, and all its joints will be
glued up strongly in the best manner.

Galleries, §-¢.—The floors of all the galleries of both stories, and all the
floors of all the towers, will be of the best Georgia yellow pine, not more
than five inches (5 In.) 1m width, blind-nailed, and laid In courses.

All the above floors will be of thoroughly seasoned 14 inch plank, planed,
95 [ 23]

tongued and grooved, and laid in courses in the best manner. All the
butts and joints will be planed true, after the floors are laid. The plank
must be free from sap, shakes, and black or unsound knots; and when
clear plank is specified, it must be free from all blemishes.

Roof.—All the roofs of every part of the building and towers to be
sheathed with 1; inch merchantable white pine plank, mill-worked, and
strongly nailed to the purlines. ‘The sheathing to be free from sap, shakes,
sun-cracks, and black or rotton knots.

Partitions and centres.—TVhere will be a stud partition between the
‘Regents’ room and the rear staircase, which will be framed up of 3 by 4
inch joists, well bridged and trussed, and set twelve inches (12 in.) from
centre to centre.

All the centres for the mason work, and stone-setting, to be furnished
by the carpenter.

Furring.—All the outside walls, which are not lined with brick, to be
furred with best 2 by 3 inch furring, set twelve inches (12 in.) from cen-
tre to centre.

Ceilings.—All the flat ceilings to be cross-furred with 13 by 2 inch stuff,
set twelve inches (12 in.) from centre to centre.

Groined cetlings.—The ceilings of the west wing, east wing, west con-
necting range and its cloister, museum, rooms in the front towers, and
the room in the campanile on the museum floor, of the principal porch,
the Regents’ room, the staircases, vestibules, central hall, and library,
will be groined and ribbed, per plans, sections, and directions of the architect.

‘These ceilings will be groined as follows:

West wing.—Divided by columns and arches into three (3) aisles, each
of seven (7) sections of groining, and composed of an artificial clerestory,
under the roof, lighted by sky-lights, and two side aisles. ‘The apsis will
also be handsomely groined.

West connecting range.—The gallery of art will also be divided into a
central nave with a clerestory, and two side aisles, each containing seven
sections of groining or twenty-one (21) in all. ‘The cloister will also have
seven (7) sections of groining.

The library will be divided by pillars and arches into five aisles, each
containing seven sections of groining, not including the small groins be-
tween the pillars, which will be groined per plan and directions of archi-
tect. ee

The central hall will be in one aisle, containing sections of groining, per
plans.

The staircases will be groined per plans and directions of the architect.

The east wing will be in a single aisle, handsomely groined.

The Regents’ room will have one section of groining, and a groined
ceiling to the bay window. i Fie:

The museum will be divided by pillars into five (5) aisles longitudinally,
with a transept or transverse aisle, at the centre, groined in a single aisle.
Each of the longitudinal aisles will contain fifteen sections of groining.
The transverse aisle will contain two sections of groining, in front of the

ongitudinal aisles. ba

The rooms in the front towers will have each groined ceilings. _

The front and rear staircase halls will be groined per directions of
architect. ;

The ceiling of the rear staircase hall will be groined per plans and di-
[23] 96

rections of architect, as will also be the rear vestibule of the museum under
the gallery. : .

The ceiling of the porch and vestibule, or stair hall of chemical lecture-
room, one ceiling of campanile tower, and one ceiling on the first floor of
the octagonal tower, will also be groined per directions of architect.

The ceiling of the principal porch will be groined per directions or
architect.

The east cloister will be furred for a flat ceiling, with square panels and
heavy ribbing.

The ceiling of the great lecture-room will also be panelled with heavy
ribbing.

All the remaining ceilings in the building, and of the towers to the top,
will be cross-furred.

Bracketing.—At the intersection of all the groins, as also when they
meet the walls, and on all the rib lines shown on the ground plans, brack-
ets for ribs will be formed in the best manner, to receive four (4) nails to
each lath. Cornices will be bracketed out whenever required. All the
pillars will be bracketed, as well as the half and quarter pillars, on the
walls. Brackets for pillars will be set on the outside of all the wooden-
door jambs, and at all the window jambs. There will be a boss or half-
boss at every intersection of the ribs, all which bosses will be strongly
bracketed, and in general all the bracketing necessary to complete the
building will be furnished and put up.

All the above furring will be made of three thicknesses of 14 inch plank,
strongly nailed and spiked together, and strongly hung from the floor and
roof beams, by two inch plank.

All the brackets will be secured in the strongest manner.

Seats, §c.—TVhe lecture-rooms and their galieries will have handsome
settees of black walnut, with fronts carved to the shape of old stalls to
each. ‘The settees to have neat cap moulds and backs, and to be finished
and carved in the best manner.

All the above black walnut will be oiled with the best raw linseed oil,
three coats, well rubbed in.

Platforms and stage.—At one end of the great lecture-room a platform
will be raised from 4 to 8 feet from the floor, for the length of one of the
bays, to form a stage, and will have in front of it, and at the same level,
an octagonal projection for the lecturer. ‘The front of the platform will be
wainscoated with narrow black walnut, 14 inch plank, tongued and grooved,
and not more than four inches in width. 'The plank will be set on end,
and will be neatly capped. On the projection a handsome carved table of
black walnut will be provided, and a seat for the lecturer. Over the stage
a canopy will be formed of joists, well framed, hanging down five feet from
the ceiling, to conceal the rollers on which the illustrations are to be placed,
and on each side of the stage a partition of joists (3 by 4 inches) will be
carried out from the walls as far as the line of the front of the gallery, and
terminating at the last pillar of the gallery. ‘Thirty rollers of wood, six
inches (6 inches) in diameter, and twenty-five feet (25 feet) long, will be
hung behind the canopy. ‘The rollers will have iron axles at their ends,
working in iron eyes; and each roller will have a twelve inch sheave at one
end for an endless cord to pass over, to work them. The endsof these roll-
ers will also be concealed by a canopy of 3 by 4 inch joist hanging down
five feet (5 feet) from the ceilings, and well framed.
97. [ 23 ]

Chemical lecture-room furniture.—A platform two feet (2 feet) high will

be made, of strong joists and plank, raised from the front of the professor’s
front desk (A) to the rear of the room. On this the desk (A) will be placed,
which will be of the dimensions shown on the plans, and will have drawers
on all sides. The other desk (B) will be made in the same manner and
similarly furnished.
_ Behind the front lecturer’s desk a partition will be carried across, having
sliding doors handsomely panelled, 3 inches in thickness, with proper fix-
tures, per plans. In the side of this partition, facing the lecture-room, there
will be closets, with shelves, three feet in depth, and having sash doors,
filled with good American glass.

The laboratory behind the lecture-room will be divided into two stories,
connected by two flights of handsome staircases.

The first story will be divided into three apartments; the centre one of
which will contain the working table (B) hereinbefore described, and will
be shelved all around, except where occupied by doors and windows, to a
height of eight feet. 'These shelves will be enclosed above a line three
feet high, by panelled doors hung in boxes with weights, cords, and pulleys,
like sash, and below that line the closets will be projected to form a table
15 inches wide, below which there will be a range of drawers about 6
inches deep, and below the drawers a range of closets with panelled doors.
On the room to the right hand there will be two tables (A) two feet wide
and eight feet long, made of three thicknesses of narrow 14 inch white
pine plank, not more than three inches in width, planed on both sides,
tongued and grooved, and put together diagonally with glne and screws,
and having strongs legs. ‘he remaining part of the walls will be shelved
off as in the preceding apartment.

On the room to the left there will be a working table (G) three teet wide
and seven feet long, made similarly to those above described. ‘The parti-
tion wall next centre will be shelved off as in the other apartments.
Racks of shelves, with holes bored in them, will be placed on each side of
the sink (F’.) In the second story of the laboratory, which will also be
divided into three apartments, the centre one will contain in the centre a
series of shelves, resting like steps from the partition wall to the rear, to a
height of seven feet. ‘The walls will be shelved with shelves one foot in
width, enclosed in sash doors hung with weights, cords and pulleys, like
window sash, and, with the two remaining rooms, will be lighted with
skylights of best double-thickness American glass in the root, and interior
skylights in the ceiling, with fancy sash, filled with best English crown
glass, (A.) : je ; ;

In the east connecting range, which will be also divided internally into
two (2) stories above the basement, the first story will contain a students
working laboratory, in the centre of which will be two strong tables in the
form of the letter 'T’, the tops of which will be of soapstone flags. ‘These
tables will be furnished with drawers, shelves and closets.

All around the sides of the rooms not otherwise occupied, there will be
tables two feet nine inches wide with wooded tops, and drawers and closets;
below and above ‘these tables shelved closets, with sash doors hung
with weights, cords and pulleys, will be carried to a height of eight feet
from the floor. Stairs three feet wide, and well finished, will connect this
laboratory with the second story. ‘The second story above the laboratory
will be divided into three apartments, one 15 by 14, as a private room for
[ 23] 98

the lecturer; and the other two 12 by 25, one of which will have strong
tables all around, and the other fitted with closets, drawers and shelves,
with sash doors, as above, all around.

Sash and glass.—All the windows of every kind, size, and description,
in every part of the building and towers, both interior and exterior, will be
fitted with square sash, set diamond-wise, and filled with the best Eng-
lish crown glass. The windows will be hung in frames with cords,
weights, and pulleys, and will be finished in every respect in the best pos-
sible manner.

Inside windows, balustrades, gallery fronts, carving, §c.—There will
be two circular windows in the central hall (per plan of library) carved
of the best white pine; also one triple or two double windows between
the Regents’ room and the rear stairway, and 12 triple windows in the
clerestory of the west wing. These willbe carved in the best manner,
of the best white pine, according to the directions of the architect. All
these windows will have frames and sash, and be filled with glass, as
described above. Their mullions will be of wood, painted four (4) coats,
to resemble the walls of the interior, and sanded.

There will be open balustrades three feet six inches (3 feet 6 inches)
high, of black walnut, or of best white pine painted and grained, as may
be directed, carried all around the front of the galleries of the museum
and library, as well at the ends as at the sides, per plans.’ ‘Fhe balus-
ters will be circular pillars with turned bases and carved capitals, sup-
porting carved trefoil arches, over which a handsome moulded top rail
will be carried, per plans.

The gallery front of the great lecture-room will consist of pillars with
carved bases and capitals, as above, supporting semicircular carved arches,
over and under which will bea large hook label mould welland deeply sunk,
all of black walnut. At the distance of two inches (2 inches) behind this
arcade, a wainscoating of one inch black waluut boards, not more than
four inches wide, and set vertically, will be carried around to form the
front of the gallery, and from the top of the label to this wainseoat a top
board of black walnut 13 inch thick will be carried, to form a book board
for the gallery front.

The gallery front will be four feet six inches (4 feet 6 inches) in height.

The gallery fronts of the chemica! lecture-room will be framed ‘of strong
2 by 10 inch timber, which will be wainscoated on both sides four feet .
(4 feet) high, with 3-inch black walnut boards, not more than four inches
in width, capped on the outside with a handsome label, and having a
label mould at bottom. And in general, all the work necessary to make
the gallery fronts complete, is to be performed.

Stairs.—TVhe principal front stairs will consist of two double flights,
_ one on each side of the entrance hall. The steps will be five feet three

nches (5 feet 3 inches) in width, and the well will be from eighteen inches
to two feet (18 inches to 2 feet) in width. ‘There will be a 7-inch square
_ carved newel to each flight, with the sides handsomely panelled.

The balusters will be octagonal pillars, with turned bases and caps,
having a semicircular arch with a wefoi! head between them, and will be
surmounted by a top rail, 4 by 6 inches, handsomely moulded. The
Stairs will have handsome coves and brackets hanging down below the
underside of the steps. ‘The steps will be supported by wrought-iron
frames, properly put together to insure stability. The risers will be of
99 1 23]

the best white pine, and the treads of the best Georgia yellow pine. And
the underside of the stairs will be furred ready for plastering,

The stairs will rise from the ground floor to a point four feet (4 feet)
below the under side of the roof timbers, say a height of forty-three feet
(43 feet) or thereabout. At this height the upper platforms or landings
will be placed. At one end of each of these a door will be placed which
will communicate with the front towers. A spiral staircase will be car-
ried up from the level of these upper platforms to the top of the higher of
the two front towers. ‘This staircase will be six feet (6 feet) in diameter,
and will be partitioned off in one corner of the tower. It will have
proper platforms and doors of communication to the different stories of the
tower, of which there will be four (4) above the roof of the main build-
ing. This staircase will open on the roof of the tower, which will be
nearly flat, and is to be used as a place of observation.

A similar staircase will extend from the same level upwards to the floor
of the upper story of the lower central front tower.

Both of the above stairs will have treads and risers of yellow pine, with
handsome coves and nosings. They will be ceiled in with }-inch
white pine plank, will have windows in the partitions for light, and will
have neat 3 by 4-inch black walnut hand rails, supported by iron elbows.

The principal rear stairs, about twenty-three feet (23 feet) in height, of
rise and of the form and dimensions shown on plans, will be finished in
a manner exactly similar, and of the same materials and workmanship,
as the principal front stairs described above.

Staircases in campanile tower.—The interior of the campanile tower
will be eleven feet (11 feet) square, and will be occupied, at the level of
the museum floor, with a staircase having steps four feet (4 feet) in width,
and a well three feet square in the centre. ‘his staircase will lead from
the ground floor of the museum to its gallery, and have steps, risers, bal:
usters, newels, coves, brackets, &c., of a similar character to the principal
stairs above specified. Above the level of the gallery floor a small stair-
way two feet six inches in width will be carried in flights, per direction
of architect, to the upper story of the tower. ‘The stairway will be par-
titioned off from the tower by joists, and in the partition doors will be
framed and set to communicate with the two upper stories of the tower.

Staircases of octagonal tower.—A winding staircase with steps three feet
in width, having a clustered column in the centre, will lead in this
tower from the floor of the library to the gallery. ‘The steps will be sup-
ported against the wall and the central column by iron stringers, and the
hand-rail will be of black walnut. ‘The sides of the tower will be wains-
coated up to the under side of the hand-rail, and the central column will
be formed of clusters of circular columns of wood. ‘The wainscoat and
columns will be painted four coats, and column sanded to represent
marble. A hand-rail of black walnut, supported on handsome iron elbows,
will be carried around the column. The ceiling of the octagonal tower
over this staircase will be groined. A staircase, similar in all respects,
and similarly furnished, will lead from the floor to the gallery of the mu-
seum. Above this line a smaller staircase will be carried to the summit
of the tower. All the treads and risers in these stairways will be of the
best yellow pine. ;

On each side of the rear entrance to the museum a flight of steps
three feet wide will lead from the ground floor to the gallery, with balus-
[23] 100

ters, rails, arches, trefoils, neweis, coves, and brackets, similar to those of
the principal front’stairs. .

The stairs to the chemical lecture-room and its gallery will be placed in
the porch on the eastern end of the chemical lecture-room wing. 'They
will consist of two flights: one in the porch, leading level of the porch floor
to that of the chemical lecture-room floor, and one in a double flight, land-
ing from the latter level to the gallery. ‘The latter will have steps, coves,
newels, balusters, arches, &v., similar in character to those of the two
principal staircases, but of smaller horizontal dimensions. Beneath the
latter stairs a flight of steps will lead from the level of the chemical lecture
room floor to the floor of the basement beneath it. These will have risers
and treads of yellow pine, and plain octagonal newels five inches (5 inches)
in diameter. ‘The balusters will be octagonal, two inches (2 inches) in
diameter, with 8 by 4 inch rails, all of black walnut.

The stairs in tower of west wing will be square, filling the whole of the
tower, and will be carried first to-a level with the floor of the first story,
and then to the top of the side aisle arches, with handsome octagonal bal-
usters two inches (2 inches) in diameter, with semicircular arches between
those of the same finish, &c., as the two principal staircases, with a square
newel handsomely carved, and a 3 by 4 inch moulded hand-rail, all of
black walnut. ‘The sides of the tower will be wainscoated to the height
of the hand-rail.

The private slairs to Regents’ room, lecturers’ room, and muniment
room, will be in the small octagonal tower attached to the central rear
tower. ‘hey will be carried from the level of the surface of the ground,
to the third story of the tower, or muniment room, a height of about sev-
enty feet, (70 feet.) "They will wind around a column from 8 to 12 inches
in diameter, and will have treads and risers of yellow pine, and a hand-
some moulded hand-rail, 3 by 4 inches, of black walnut, secured to the
walls by iron elbows. 'The walls will be wainscoated, on end, with black
walnut, as specified in former instances, to the height of hand-rail. »

Laboratory stairs.—Private stairs, with steps three feet in width, having
octagonal balusters two inches (2 inches) in diameter, and 3 by 4 inch
moulded rail, of black walnut, will be carried from the ground floor of
laboratory, at the end of the chemical lecture-room, to the second floor.
A flight of stairs, also three feet (8 feet) in width, will be carried from the
first story of the east connecting range to the second story of the same, a
height of about thirteen feet. ‘They will be partitioned off with 3 by 4
inch joists, and will have a 3 by 4 inch hand-rail fastened to the wall,
both with iron elbows. Under these stairs a flight of similar width, and
similarly finished, will be carried from the first floor to the cellar.

Stairs in library and museum.—Twelve small flights of circular stairs
will be carried, at the places shown in the plans, from the ground floor and
to the galleries of the library and museum. They will be supported on
iron, and there wii! be a trap-door above each of them in the gallery floor,
hung on. best hinges, which will serve for the purpose of communicating
with the galleries.

Hlevators.—In each of the smaller towers at the corners of the main
building, elevators, having each three (3) shelves, set three (3) feet apart,
and framed strongly together, will be furnished. They will be provided
with sheaves, cords, and will have cast iron counterpoises running in
boxes on the four sides of the tower. ‘The elevators will be worked by a
101 [ 23]

crank, and will be used for raising books and other heavy weights from
the bottom to the top of the building.

Doors and their furniture.—All the doors of every part of the building

will have semicircular heads, and handsome trimmings and casings, of
the same style as the building.
_ ‘The central front and rear doors will be made of four thicknesses, of 14
inch white pine plank, laid together diagonally. The outside plank will
be of the best clear white pine, and the two inner layers of the best mer-
chantable white pine, all perfectly seasoned. The plank will be narrow,
and all of the even width of six inches, (6 inches.) ‘The outer layers will
be set diagonally, and all beaded and cross-beaded.

All the plank will be planed, tongued, and grooved, and will be strongly
screwed or rivetted together, with white lead in the joints, and painted on
all sides.

The hinges, and key plates, and knob plates, will be of heavy wrought
iron scroll work, bronzed in the best manner; and the doors will be grained
white oak, and will be varnished four coats.

Furniture of apparatus rooms.—The room in the east connecting range
behind the east lecture-room, and the room on the same floor in the cam-
panile tower, will be shelved all around, with closets, having panelled
doors below, and sash doors above, glazed with good single-thickness
American glass.

Furniture of ibrary.--See plans and sections for the arrangement of
the cases. ‘The cases will have sash doors, and will be shelved per direc-
tion of architect. The doors will be glazed with good single-thickness
American glass, in diamonds, or squares set diamond-wise, or wiil be filled
with wire gauze. All the pillars of the cases will be handsomely turned,
the doors. and sashes of the best workmanship. All the mouldings in the
arches will be well worked, and all the capitals and bases neatly turned,
and ornamented with stucco ornaments, or well carved.

On the ground floor of the library, at every alcove formed by the pillars
and cases, a sliding door, handsomely panelled and moulded, 25 inches
thick, filled with ground glass and sash in the panels, will be made to
slide between the longitudinal bookcases, so as to shut off the alcove
completely from the central aisle. 'These doors will be fourteen (14) in
number, with handsome trimmings, and will each be furnished with an
astragal lock, astragal sheaves and sheaveway, of the best description.

The spaces between the bookcases of the galleries and the ceilings of
the aisles will be furred up for plastering.

Four tables, each fifteen feet (15 feet) long and five (5 feet) broad, will
be made of black walnut, to be set along the centre aisle of the library.
These tables will have handsome carved legs, and be covered with green
broadcloth. p

A small desk of black walnut will be furnished for each of the alcoves.

The librarian’s room, adjoining the library, will have handsome book-
cases finished in a style similar to those of the library, with glass doors,
&c. All the furniture of the apparatus rooms and library, except where
otherwise specified, will be of the best clear, thoroughly seasoned white
pine, painted three coats with the best oil paint, grained, if so directed, to
resemble oak, and varnished four coats.

Museum furniture.—The museum furniture will be arranged per plans
and directions of the architect. All the cases will be of the designs shown
[ 23 ] 102 a

on the plans, and will be made of the best thoroughly seasoned clear white
pine, handsomely carved, turned, and moulded, with caps and bases simi-
lar to those of library, and neat mouldingson the arches. The sashes will
be filled with the best French cylinder glass. The spaces between the
tops of the gallery cases and the ceilings of the side aisles of the gal-
leries will also be furred up for plastering. The cases will vary in width
from four to five feet, (4 to 5 feet.) There will be two rows of cases
running longitudinally, in the larger spaces between the columns, the
whole length of the room below the galieries, and one case on each side
of each of the alcoves, both of the ground floor and, galleries. At both
ends of the room, cases three feet (3 feet) wide will be carried up to the
under side of the end galleries, as per plan.

All the above cases will be ornamented, carved, and finished per plan
and directions of architect, painted three coats best white lead in oil,
grained and varnished three coats.

The transverse aisle of museum will have cases of similar make and
finish carried around. the sides and front, except at the stair entrances.
‘These cases will be eighteen inches (18 inches) in depth.

he two rooms in the front tower will be covered all around with cases
nine feet (9 feet) high, of similar design, make, and finish, as will also the
room in the companile tower.

The room over the rear stairs will have cases nine feet (9 feet) high, of
similar design, make, and finish with the above.

The room over the Secretary’s room, in the rear central tower, will be
fitted with plain cases, shelved, and with doors glazed with good single
thickness American glass all around.

All the remaining outside doors will be made in a similar manner, and
of similar material to the above, of three thicknesses of one and a halr
inch plank.

All the inside doors of the basement will have neat and plain casings,
with semicircular heads of white pine, painted and grained, white oak or
any other wood that may be directed, and varnished four coats. ‘The
doors will be made of black walnut or white pine one a half inch plank,
put together diagonally in two thicknesses, grained to imitate such wood
as may be directed, and varnished three coats.

All the doors of the towers above the roof line will have handsome
jambs and arches of white pine, grained and varnished as above.

The doors will be of two thicknesses, of one and a half inch black wal-
nut, or butternut, or white pine, painted, grained, and varnished as above.

The principal doors of the library, museum, galleries of art, Regents’
room, and lecture rooms, will have jambs and arches of the section of a
double rebate, with an engaged column or octagonal mould each. The
columns will have plinths, bases, and-caps, well trimmed and handsomely
carved.

The doors will be made of three thicknesses of one and a quarter inch
plank, butternut, or black walnut, or white pine, grained in the best man-
ner, and varnished four coats, with bronze scroll hinges, key, and knob
plates, &c.

All the smaller doors of the above rooms, and of the remainder of the
building, will be made of three thicknesses of three and a quarter inch
plank, of the same description of materials and workmanship as the above,
103 [ 23 ]

and with similar hinges, &c. The jambs and arches to be of similar de-
scription and workmanship to those of the principal doors.

All the knobs of all the above doors to be of bronze. The locks to be
of the best manufacture, and largest size, suitable to the dimensions of
the doors. All the outside doors and principal room doors to have strong
bolts. ;

The sliding doors in the library alcoves to be furnished with sheaves,
sheave-ways, astragals, and astragal locks, of the best description.

And in general all the doors for the whole building to be finished as
above-described, in the best and most workmanlike manner, and in
all respects in accordance with the directions and plans of the architect.

Roofing, §:c.—All the roofs, except those of the central front towers,
campanile towers of the main building and west wing, and smaller octa-
gonal and square towers of the central building, will be tinned with best
single-cross tin, soldered together in the best manner, painted two coats,
and warranted tight for five years. All the gutters of every part of the
building, and the roof of the larger central front tower, will be of the best
double-cross tin, and painted two coats. All the leaders, which will be
put in in sufficient numbers to carry off the water to the cisterns in the
roofs, and to the ground, will be of best double-cross tin, varying from
four to six inches in diameter, and made square or octagonal. If so di-
rected, they will be painted three coats, and sanded in the second coat,
the third coat being coursed to resemble stone; and they will be put in of
such sizes and in such number and situations as the architect shall di-
rect.

All the remaining roofs (i. e. of the towers, &c.,) above excepted, will
be made of the best Welsh slate of large size, and laid in the best man-
ner, according to the directions of the architect.

Cisterns.—In each of the roofs of the two connecting yanges a cistern
of 10 feet square, and four feet six inches deep, which will receive the
water of the main building, will be made of best three-inch narrow
yellow pine plank, framed up with best 6 by 6 inch joist, like a mill
race, and lined with best sheet lead, weighing five pounds to the square
foot. These will be fed by a leader from the roofs of the main building,
and will have an overflow or waste weir communicating with another
leader, which will carry off the surplus water to the ground.

In the spaces between the central front and central rear towers and the
main building, two cisterns, 6 by 12 feet, and four feet six inches | deep,
of similar materials and workmanship to the above, will be placed. ‘hese
will be fed by the water from the towers of the front and rear.

The roofs where all of the above cisterns are placed will be strength-
ened to bear their weight, by additional rafters, tie-beams, king posts,
and strutts. ;

Wauer closets —There will be two water closets, one on eachs side of
the rear staircase, between the Regents’ roomand museum, on the ae
floor, which will. be furnished with cisterns, ball cocks, traps, er 7
basins, cocks, &c., of the best description, with brass furniture, an a
be finished complete in every respect. They will be fed by ae ah a
half inch extra strong lead pipe, from the cisterns above oer ‘ .
waste-pipe will be five inches in diameter, of best sheet ae ve Pas of
to the square foot, which will be carried to a sess-pool on the outs!
the tower.
[ 23 ] 104

There will also be one water closet in the thickness of the walls of the
large front central tower, one in the campanile tower, or near it, one in the
basement of the chemical wing, and one in the west connecting range. All
of the above to be completely finished in the best mannef, with all fixtures
necessary to render them complete, fed from the cisterns in the reofs, and
having waste pipes of five inches diameter, as above, communicating with
sess-pools on the outside of the building.

Bases of best clear white pine, painted three coats, grained in the best
manner to imitate such wood as may be directed, or of black walnut or
butternut, varnished in all cases four coats, will be carried around the
rooms, halls, galleries, &c., of heights varying from four to fifteen inches,
and they will be all handsomely moulded, and worked in the best man-
ner, according to the directions of the architect.

Mantel_—aA large mantelpiece of very handsome design, as may be
directed by architect, will be carved from best black walnut, for the Sec-
retary’s room. The whole mantel, with its columns, frieze, and shelf,
and the ornaments on it, shall be filled with carved Norman mouldings,
deeply sunk, and of best description.

Finish of Regents’ room and bay window connected with it.—All the
walls of the above will be wainscoated with black walnut or butternut,
as may be directed by architect, handsomely panelled, and carved all
around with pateras, quatrefoils, and capped with a heavily-carved mould
corbel.course, surmounted by a carved cable-mould.

In the side bays of the triple arch, between the room and the bay win-
dow, seats of black walnut, or butternut, handsomely carved, will be
formed.

All the jambs and arches of the triple-window arch will be moulded
and carved per plans and directions of architect.

Highteen heavily-carved arm-chairs, and one heavily-carved table, in
the Norman style, will be carved for the Regents’ room, from best black
walnut, varnished four coats, and polished. ‘The whole to be carved ac-
cording to the designs and directions of the architect.

Skylights.—There will be six skylights, five feet square, in the roof
to the chemical laboratory ; two skylights, five feet square, in the central
front stair hall; two of same dimensions to rear stair hall; and twelve
skylights, five feet square, to the west wing; all filled with good donble
thickness American glass, in 2-inch sash. And under these, in all the
ceilings of the above rvoms, will be interim skylights, filled with best
single thickness American glass in handsome fancy sash.

Painting.—All the wood work, of every deséription, including the
shelves of the cases, and in general all the wood work not otherwise
specified, to be painted three coats of best white lead and boiled oil.

All the doors and their jambs to be varnished four coats.

All the wood of every description to be perfectly seasoned, and to be
free from sap, shakes, black or rotten knots, and all imperfections that
might endanger its strength or durability.

All the workmanship, of every kind, to be performed in the best and
most perfect manner.

‘The whole of the above carpenter work, of every description, and all
the work connected with it, to be performed according to the plans and
directions of the architect.

As it is intended that the above specifications and the plans will cover
~

105 [ 23]

the whole and perfect completion of the building, and all of its appurte-
nances, no claim for extra work will be allowed unless caused by actual
alterations of the plans. And the parties to the contract will be bound to
submit to the decision of the architect of the building, in the sum of ten
thousand dollars.
JAMES RENWICK, Jr.,
Architect and Civil Engineer.

Mr. Hough offered the following resolution, which was adopted :

Resolved, Thatin locating the building for the Smithsonian Institution,
the centre of the principal building, exclusive of projections, be placed
upon the centre of the lot or site of said institution from north to south,
and upon the centre of ‘Tenth street.

Mr. Hough, in offering the above resolution, stated, that as he was
compelled, on Monday next, to leave the city, he desired to say, that if
this resolution should be reconsidered, so as to place the building centrally
between 7th and 12th streets, he would make no objection.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

SIXTEENTH MEETING—Marcu 24, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. Jong
The chairman submitted from Mr. Renwick, architect of the institution,
the following

Report to the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution.

GentLemen: In compliance with your resolution of Friday, the 19th
ultimo, by which, in company with Dr. Owen, I was directed to examine
and report upon the quarries of freestone on the farm of Mr. Peter, at Sen-
eca creek and Bull run, and those on the adjacent lands, with a view of
ascertaining their capability of affording a sufficient quantity of building-
material of good quality, and of color suitable for the purposes of the Insti-
tution, I beg leave to state that we proceeded on Saturday morning to the lo-
calities of the quarries of freestone occupying the whole eastern bank of the
Potomac, from the mouth of the Seneca creek to a point distant about one
mile north of it, where our examination terminated. We also found the
stone extending up all the valleys of the smaller streams, as far as we ex-
amined them.

The quality of the stone varies from that which is highly argillaceous,
and easily decomposed, to that which is silicious, and well calculated to
stand the weather and the attacks of frost.

It also varies in color and texture; some of the strata being highly lam1-
nated, and others what is technically termed liver-rock, showing but little
signs of stratification; and the color varies from a cold blue to a warm lilac
gray.

The quarries which appear to have been worked to the greatest extent,
are those called the College quarries, from their belonging to the College
at Georgetown. The color of the stone in these Is generally a blue gray,
(see specimen 21, of Dr. Owen’s report,) and is rather cold and u Haass
in its aspect; though several of the strata or layers in the middle of the
[ 23 ] 106

quarry were of a pleasant and warm gray. See specimen No. 23. These
latter, however, are difficult of access, having several strata of inferior
stone over them, and cannot therefore be obtained without great and un-
necessary expense, and should only be resorted to in the event that no
other stone of equal color and quality can be found in a more favorable
position.

The College quarries lie to the northwest of Bull run and Seneca creek.
The dip of the strata is at an inclination of about 20° to the southwest.

To the northwest of these quarries, and on the same face, are quarries
belonging to Mr. Peter, where we found the buff-colored stone; (specimen
No. 24.) Itis much to be regretted that this stone is neither sufficiently
durable, from its being argillaceous, nor found in sufficient quantities for
the purposes of the institution, as, in my opinion, it surpasses in color any
stone [ have as yet seen in this country; resembling in hue that used in
Edinburgh, and the Caen and Bath stones, which were so much used and
so highly esteemed by the architects of the middle ages.

To the north of this quarry is one belonging to Mr. Lee. 'The color of
the stone in this is a warm gray, and the texture is fine and highly sili-
cious, and the quality is excellent. It is a liver-rock, and is found in»
several strata of considerable thickness, which would afford an abundant
supply. Some of the layers, however, contain copper, which might possi-
bly render it liable to stain by long exposure, unless carefully selected.
See specimen No. 25.

From this quarry, the most northern one we examined, we proceeded
in a southeasterly direction, recrossing the College quarry to the Bull run,
belonging to Mr, Peter. The quarry on this run has been opened ata
point up the stream, distant about 300 yards east of the Potomac.

The stone is of excellent quality, of even color, being of a warm gray,
a lilac tint resembling that known as ashes of roses, and can, from all
indications, be found in sufficient quantities to supply all the face work for
the institugjon.

There appear to be three layers of this color, which are, respectively,
20, 24, and 30 inches in thickness.

‘The stone is highly silicious, rmgs when struck with the hammer, and
where it has been exposed in the bed of the Bull run to the action of the
water and frost apparently for ages, and in the culvert under the canal for
several years, shows little or no signs of decay.

We traced strata of this color from the present quarries to the mouth of the
Bull run, and found it between an overlying layer of a shaly or slaty ar-
gillaceous quality, (which is easily decomposed, and must therefore be very
carefully avoided,) and a substratum of the dark red-colored stone, (see No.
18 of Dr. Owen’s report.) We also found stone of the same color and
quality in an old quarry, distant about 600 feet south from the mouth of
the Bull run; thus rendering a sufficient supply almost certain.

The strata lie well for quarrying, having but a slight covering and slo-
ping towards the run, thus enabling it to be quarried without binding,
which will render the expense small; and the color is equal to that of any
stone we examined, except the buff. In company with Mr. Peter, we
next visited a house built of coursed and hammered rubble masonry of
stone of this color, in which it hada pleasing and airy effect upon the
eye. Mr. Peter’s stable is also built of stone of this color, and produces
107 [23 4

an excellect effect. From the above examinations, we were therefore of
opinion that Lee’s quarries, and those on the Bullrun, combine, more than
any of the others we have visited, the requisites most necessary for struc-
ture, durability, and beauty.

We would also recommend, if the quarry on the Bull run be chosen,
that none darker than specimen No. 19 in Dr. Owen’s report be allowed
to be used in the building, and that great care be taken to prevent any of
the argillaceous stone being used; and if Lee’s quarry should be selected,
that all rock showing indications of copper be prohibited from being used.
I subjoin herewith a rough topographical map of the region, in which the
distances and localities are put down from memory, as the limited time of
our visit prevented any accurate measurements.

Respectfully submitted.

JAMES RENWICK, Jr., Architect.

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was

Resolved, 'That the architect cause to be procured and dressed a block
of freestone, of the warm gray color, from Lee’s quarry; and also, that he
cause to be dressed, in ashlar finish, a portion of the block of freestone from
Bull run quarry, now lying before the west wing of the City Hall.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That the chairman address a letter to the president of the
Chesapeake and Ohio canal, asking a reduction of the rates of toll on said
canal, in favor of the contractor.

Mr Mills, superintendent, submitted to the committee several specimens
of freestone, of excellent quality and good color, from the neighborhood of
Aquia creek, Virginia.

On motion of Mr..Owen, it was

Resolved, That Dr. Owen visit and report upon the Aquia creek quar-
ries of freestone.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

SEVENTEENTH MEETING—Marcu 25, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Owen and Seaton.

The chairman laid. before the committee the copy of a letter, which, in
accordance with the instructions, he had addressed to the president of the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, as follows:

Wasuineton, March 25, 1847.

Str: I am instructed by the building committee of the Smithsonian In-
stitution to inquire of you, whether, in the event ot the selection of a build- |
ing material by them from quarries in the neighborhood of Seneca creek,
your company would consent to reduce the rate of toll, so far as regards
the buildings of the Smithsonian Institution.

The amount required by us may, in a measure, depend upon your an-
swer, as it is not yet determined upon what we will back the walls with.
If Seneca stone be taken for the entire walls, I suppose that 10,000 perches
of 25 feet may be required. ;

The Maryland railroad companies had agreed, in event of our selecting
[ 23 ] 108

marble, to reduce their rates of freight,in our favor, from 4 cents to 24
cents per ton per mile.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
Chawman of the Building Committee.
To the PresIpENT

of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company.

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was
Resolved, That the architect be, and he is hereby instructed, during
the course of the present year, to commence and carry on to completion
the whole of the east wing and the east connecting range, so far as is con-
sistent with the safety of the structure; and also, to commence the founda-
tions of the west wing and the west connecting range, and take such pre-
paratory steps towards the work of the said wing and range as may allow
the contractors to prosecute the work with proper economy.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was
Resolved, 'That the architect be authorized to cause to be prepared two
perspective views of the building—one of the north front, from the north-
west, and one of the south front, from the southeast—provided the cost of
completing the two said views in the best style of art shall not exceed two
hundred dollars; and that the same be colored to correspond with the
color of the stone that may be adopted for the facing of the building.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was
Resolved, That Mr. Owen endeavor to procure from the several railroad
companies between this city and New York, a free passage for the architect
of the institution, pending the erection of the building.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

BIGHTEENTH MEETING—Marcn 26, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Owen and Seaton.
The chairman submitted the following letter from Mr. Peter, owner of
Bull run quarry, and other quarries in the vicinity of Seneca creek :

Monte Vipro, (near Darnestown, Montgomery County,
Maryland,) March 22,1847.

Drar Sir: Yours of the 18th instant was received on Saturday last,
in which you state that the building committee have decided to use as
the material in the erection of the Smithsonian Institution the stone from
some one of my quarries, and that they accept the terms as communica-
ted in my letter of the 9th of December to Mr. Seaton, to wit:

‘Twenty-five cents a perch for all stone intended for face or cut work,
and twelve and a half cents per perch for all calculated for backing or
rubble work.

‘The whole number of quarries will be subject to your preference, and
1 will be pleased if you will make the selection at as early a day as con-
venient, as there are several persons applying for permission to obtain
stone for other purposes.

Yours, very respectfully,
JOHN PC) PETER.

Hon. Rosr. Date Owen,

Chairman Building Commitice.
109 [ 23 ]

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That the final decision on the subject embraced in Mr.
Peter’s letter be delayed until the return of Dr. Owen from Aquia creek,
and until his report on the qvarries there is received.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That among the trees to be planted within the grounds of
the institution there be included the following :

Elm, beech, oak, osage, orange, pecan, sugar maple, silver-leafed maple,
weeping-willow, silver-leafed willow, magnolia grandiflora, pride of China,
common laurel, tulip tree, dogwood, holly, hawthorn, horsechesnut,
Spanish chesnut, walnut, hickory, mountain ash, lime tree, evergreens,
(including the several varieties of pines,) aspen, and sycamore.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

NINETEENTH MEETING—Manrcg 30, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.
The chairman submitted from Dr. Owen the following

Report on the Aquia creek and other Stafford county freestones.

To the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Institution :

GenTLEMEN: On the 26th of March, agreeably to a resolution passed
by your committee, I proceeded down the Potomac to examine the quar-
ries of freestone of Stafford county, Virginia.

On arriving at the mouth of Aquia creek, which is 50 miles from
Washington, I learned that the quarries which have been chiefly wrought
for the public buildings lie about seven miles up that stream.

On my way | stopped at Major Brook’s, five miles on this side of
Fredricksburg, to obtain some information about the route. Learning
from that gentleman that there were several good quarries of freestone
in his immediate vicinity, on Accokeek creek, and near the line of the rail-
road, I determined to visit them.

I found them situated on both sides of Accokeek creek, close to Major
Brook’s mill-dam. The upper beds here are about six to eight feet above
the level of the creek, and are of a coarse texture, approaching to the na-
ture of aconglomerate. Beneath, about four to five feet above the level
of the creek, the rock is finer-grained, with some yellow and gray streaks,
(see No. 26.) The rock on this part of Accokeek is below the level of
the water when the flood-gates of the mill-race are closed. It was here
that the rock of which the mill-dam is constructed was quarried. So far,
it has stood the test of exposure in this situation well. ‘The abutments
of the railroad viaduct over Accokeek creek are constructed of rock from
these quarries ; and though the selection does not seem to have been very
carefully made, it still remains a substantial work. Tia

The quarries on Aquia creek most convenient to navigation, and those
which furnish a rock lightest colored, finest grained, and most uniform,
are situated on what is called the Island, being a neck of land seven
miles by the course of the stream from its mouth. This island is eleva-
ted 15 to 20 feet above a flat swampy plain, which surrounds it on every
side, and which, in the early settlement of the country, Was an inland
bay, navigable for small craft.
[ 23 ] 110

At present the waters are contracted into the narrow channel of Aquia
creek, about 15 feet wide.

One of the quarries on this island is known by the name of Stewart’s
quarry, but now owned by Mr. Symington, of Baltimore. To the north
and south of it are two others, belonging to the United States.

The columns of the east portico of the Capitol, each of a single piece
weighing 18 tons, were obtained at these United States quarries.

The principal ledge hitherto worked here has a covering of only two or
three feet of earth, and lies nearly horizontal, in a vast bed from six to
eight or 10 feet in thickness, without the slightest apparent seam. For
this reason, though the bed is so near the surface, it has been quarried at
great expense, at least by the method hitherto employed, which is to
groove it behind and on one side two feet wide, (or suflicient to receive a
man,)in a vertical direction, even to its base, and then “ loft” it off in a
horizontal direction by the introduction of wedges at the bottom of the
bed in the direction of the stratification.

This Island freestone is of light color, almost white when dry; and is
equal, if not superior, in texture and color, to any of the sandstones in
this neigborhood. ‘That on Symington’s tract (see specimen No. 27) is
rather of a finer grain than in either of the United States quarries; (see
specimen 28.)

Part of the rock employed on the inside of the Post Office was procured
on this island.

Numerous other quarries are found in this vicinity, many of them well
opened and wronght toa considerable extent. None are, however, imme-
diately on the bank of Aquia creek. Some lie to the east of the swamp,
in the ridge which lies between Aquia creek and the Potomac river, and
distant from the latter stream from three to seven miles. ‘These were not
visited, as there were no means of crossing the swamp. Others have
been opened in many places along the banks of Rocky run.

The stream empties into Austin’s run, which bounds the island and
swamp on the southwest. ‘I'hat nearest to Aquia creek is distant from
half a mile tb three quarters of a mile, and is situated on the south side
of Rocky run, close to the road which leads from the island to Captain
Towson’s. ‘This quarry affords a tolerable freestone, (see specimen No.
29,) but it has spots and streaks in it, and is of rather a coarser texture
and not so uniform in color as the Island quarry.

About one mile further on the same road, and distant about a mile
and a half from Aquiacreek, on the north side of Rocky run, is ‘l’owson’s
Beech quarry, which has been wrought to a considerable extent, and has,
as most of the quarries here, a fine face on it, all having been worked on
the old-fashioned plan of “grooving” and ‘“lofting,’” as heretofore de-
scribed. ‘The rock at this locality is of a very fair quality; little inferior
to Symington’s Island quarry, (see specimen No. 3U,) and well situated
as regards drainage and covering for quarrying. Occasional clay and fer-
ruginous spots are visible ; but a large supply could probably be obtained
here, by proper selection, free from any very unsightly flaws or blemishes.

Half a mile further on, or two miles from Aquia creek, on the south
side of Rocky run, is Robinson’s quarry, the property of Mr. Galehorn.

It will be observed, by specimen numbered 31, that the texture of the
rock at this place is rather finer, and the color more of a buff, than at the
previously described quarry.
111 [ 23]

| Two and a half miles from. Aquia creek, and distant about half a mile
to a quarter of a mile from Captain ‘lowson’s house, is another quarry of
freestone belonging to that gentleman. ‘lhe beds here are free to work,
but much more interlaminated or leafy in structure, than any of the quar-
ries examined, and certainly less durable; (see specimen No. 32.) ‘he
face of this specimen on which the number stands, gives a good idea
of the tint which this rock acquires by time and exposure.

On jackson’s branch of Rocky run, from a mile toa mile and a half
south trom the island, 1s a bold quarry, owned by Peggy Norman. The rock
here is no doubt durable, but exceedingly indurated, and would be nearly
as expensive to cut as granite; (see specimen No. 33.)

Besides the quarries here enumerated, various others have been opened
on both sides of Rocky run, of similar quality and appearance to those
already described. In fact, every hill for many miles in this neighbor-
hood is composed of solid beds of freestone, varying in texture trom a
conglomerate and even pudding stone, to a fine grained rock similar to
number 25, and varying in shade from a yellowish brown and a buff
color, to anearly pure white. Itis probable enough, that as new quar-
ries are opened a better material may be found than any yet disclosed.

in none of the quarries visited in Stafford county did I observe red
and pink freestones like those of Seneca creek. Neither did | see there
any of those schistose beds, with green cupreous incrustations, SuCIL as
occur in the sandstone formation of the upper Potomac, in the cupfer-
schiefer of Germany, the copper States of England, and the Permian
system of Russia. On the geological charts of this region, these free-
stones are designated as of the same age as the red sandstones of the
Connecticut valley and New Jersey. ‘hey differ from these materially
in lithological character, and apparently in associated minerals, so far as f
have had opportunity of judging; nevertheless, they may be cotempora-
neous; this can be ascertained only by a careful search after organic re-
mains, which time did not permit. ;

On my return to the watering station on Accokeek, I stopped at Major
Brook’s tor the purpose of seeing a quarryman who has had long experl-
ence not only in the quarries of Aquia and Accokeek creeks, but also in
tlle marble aud granite quarries of the eastern States.

He informed me that at seven miles from the mouth of Aquia creek,
close to the railroad, at the high bridge on Potomac run, there are solid
ledges of freestone in an escarpment of 90 feet; and according to his state-
ment, there is at that locality a bed very similar in texture and color to
that previously described as owned by Symington. Unfortunately, it lies
deep seated, and would require a stripping of about 15 feet to get at 1t;
but he says that the strata rise, as you proceed up the Potomac run, to the
west, and that there is reason to believe that the ledge in question can
be found near the-surface about a quarter of a mile from the railroad. it
it remains of uniform texture for that distance, a material not inferior in
quality to the best rock on the island might be quarried there more conn
nient to transportation, and in a much more healthy situation, than ary e
island, surrounded, as that locality 1s on all sides, by low marshy p ee

On questioning this man with regard to the comparative ee
quarrying freestone there and on Seneca creek, he confidently te a
that by a judicious mode of drilling and very careful blasting, ee ": a
be quarried even cheaper here than on Seneca creek, although at the la
[23] 112

ibeatiey the beds, being thinner and of a less “ livery” nature, can be easily
split by the “plug and feather,” because on Aquia and Accokeek creeks,
and Potomac run, there is much less stripping, and because the beds lie
more level and undisturbed, ‘This, however, is certain —that by the old
method employed by Captain ‘Towson, dimension stone from Aquia creek
has hither cost $6 per ton of 15 cubic feet, or 40 cents per foot ; and even
these prices have not afforded an extravagant profit to the owners of
quarries ; whilst there can be little doubt that dimension-stone can be fur-
nished from Seneca creek for half that amount.

If good material could be obtained near the line of the railroad, either
in the neighborhood of Potomac run, or, still nearer, the mouth of Aquia
creek, transportation would certainly not cost as much as from the quar-
ries on the Island and Rockyrun. ‘There are several obstructions between .
the quarry and the mouth of the creek, which render it often necessary
to lighten the vessels by means of scows, over these bars, and none of the
vessels of suitable draught for the navigation of Aquia creek carry over
80 to 100 tons; whereas, if laden at the terminus of the railroad, they
could easily carry double that amount, requiring but the same number of
hands.

From all the workable beds of freestone of Stafford county, so far as
they had been opened, a very considerable portion must be rejected on
account of flaws and stains; but, as a general rule, there is less than in
the Seneca quarries.

The general appearance of the lighter (buff-colored) beds of the free-
stones of Stafford county, Virginia, laid up in range work, may be seen
by inspecting the east gate-way of the President’s House, the entrances
to the Capitol grounds, and the inside work of the Post Office.

Under the magnifier, minute dark specks may be observed of the color
of blacksmiths’ scales, which are probably small grains of a mixture of
the protoxide and peroxide of iron. If this be their composition, they
will, doubtless, in peroxidating, acquire a yellowish or reddish color. Still,
in many specimens these are so minute, that the effect would be only to
mellow the celor, without materially affecting the durability of the mass.
That a proportion of this stone is free from material blemish and is a du-
rable material, is confirmed by an inspection of the ledges and blocks in
sight, and in the structures composed of the best rock, long exposed to
atmospheric vicissitudes ; by the glistening particles disseminated on the
face of fresh fractures ; by the action of the rock on the edge of the dress-
ing tool, indicative of a tolerably pure grit-stone, free from argillaceous
admixture; by the heavy solid bed: in which it lies in the quarry, gen-
erally free from interlamination ; and, finally, by the hardening of the
mass by exposure.

I incline to believe that the sample of Aquia creek freestone furnished
to Dr. Page for examination was not equal to the average quality of the
better quarries in Stafford county.

Mr. Dixon, the contractor,is of opinion that the general run of the free-
stones will be somewhat but not very much more expensive to work and
carve than the Seneca sandstones. |

As the result of my examination of these quarries, in connexion with
those of the upper Potomac, I state my belief, that the Stafford county region
can furnish an unlimited supply of freestone, of which, by dint of care-
ful selection, a portion may be obtained both sound and durable; not,
113 [ 23]

indeed, free from yellowish or gray streaks, nor, certainly, of as fine a
grain as the lilac-gray of Seneca creek, but not disfigured by conspicuous
holes, pebbles, or stains, such as are almost universal in the blocks to be
et in the public buildings in Washington, where this material has been
used.

I think it owes its present bad character as much to indiscriminate
selection as to inherent defects. Its color, occasionally approaching that
of marble, is in its favor, though time and the weather change it for the
worse. (See specimen No. 32, on the face where marked.) —

It would make a lighter and more airy-looking building than the lilac-
gray. But i am convinced that it could not be delivered in Washington
nearly as cheap as the latter ; especially if, as the owners of the Aquia creek
quarries thought, slave labor only could be employed there. And [ feel
assured that, even with reasonable care in selection, the chance of pro-
curing the white sandstones unblemished by disfiguring spots or stains,
is uncertain; far more so than in the case of the lilac-gray.

Upon the whole, this latter material, as found in the middle beds of Bull
run quarry, seems to me the safest and best of the Potomac freestones ;
somewhat darker, indeed, than one would desire, if the choice were free,
but uniform in color, improving in its tint by the bleaching effect of time,
not liable to be disfigured by accumulation of smoke and dust, and of un-
‘questionable solidity and durability.

I annex to this report a rough chart of the freestone quarries of Aquia
creek, drawn by the eye, without actual measurement. It will give a
general idea of their relative situation.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

DAVID DALE OWEN.
Wasuineton, March 30, 1847.

Specimens referred to in the foregoing report.

No. 26. Major Brook’s quarry, lower beds.

No. 27. Symington’s island quarry.

No. 28. United States island quarry.

No. 29. Beard’s quarry on Rocky run.

No. 30. T'owson’s Beech quarry.

No. 31. Robinson’s quarry, owned by Galehorn.

No. 32. Towson’s quarry, near his house.

No. 33. Peggy Norman’s quarry, on Jackson’s branch.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That the material for the external walls of the building be
freestone, of the lilac-gray color, similar to specimen No. 19 of Dr. Owen’s
report on the freestones of Seneca creek, and that none be used darker
than that specimen; to be taken either from Bull run quarry, or from any
one contiguous quarry furnishing freestone of the same color and of equal

uality.
Resobeedl, That a copy of this resolution be furnished to the contractors,
and that specimen No. 19, above referred to, be carefully preserved for
__ reference. . f 3
Resolved, That if two wells be opened by the contractors, of such size
and description and in such spots as may be designated by the architect,
8
[ 23 ] 114

the committee will allow for them, when the building is completed, what-
ever they may then be worth.

Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing resolution be furnished to the
contractors.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTIETH MEETING—Maercu 31, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

The chairman laid before the committee the following letter, in reply to
that addressed by him to the president of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company :

Freperick, March 29, 1847.

Sm: Your letter of the 25th instant, making inquiry whether the Ches-
apeake and Ohio Canal Company would consent to reduce the rates of toll
on stone, ‘so far as regards the buildings of the Smithsonian Institution,’”
has been received, and I will present it to the consideration of the board
of president and directors at their next meeting, on the 7th of April, and
communicate to you their answer.

I would here, however, merely remark, that the toll charged on stone at
present on the canal is 1 cent per perch per mile for twenty miles, and 13
cent per perch per mile for any greater distance it may be carried ; and that
with their rates and the usual charge made by boatmen for transporting It,
the cost by the canal would, I think, be less than by the railroad, even at
the reduced charge mentioned in your letter.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

j..M. COALE,
President of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canai Company.
To the Hon. Ropert Date Owen.

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was

Resolved, That Mr. Seaton be a sub-committee to see the Commissioner
of Public Buildings, and endeavor to procure from him permission for the
contractors to use the remains of the old fence standing on such portions
of the mall between 7th and 12th streets as is not included in the site of
the institution.

Mr. Owen stated to the. committee that it was his intention to proceed
to-morrow to New York, for the purpose of making preliminary arrange-
ments regarding the preparation and publication of the work on ‘ Public
Architecture’’ intrusted to him, as per resolution passed by this committee
on the 6th instant, and that he would take that opportunity of communi-
cating with the several presidents of the railroad companies between Wash-
ington and New York, and endeavor to procure a free ticket on those roads
for the architect of the institution.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-FIRST MEETING—Apriz 6, 1847.
Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

Mr. Owen having returned from New York, made, in regard to his pro-
ceedings there, the following report :
115 [ 23 ]

After conversing with the principal publishers in New York, in regard
to the terms on which they would be willing to publish the volume of
<¢ Public Architecture,’’ of which the preparation was intrusted to me by
resolution of the committee of the 6th March, I finally, with the aid of
Mr. Drayton, (to whom [ am greatly indebted for the valuable information
and assistance he gave me,) made with Wiley & Putnam, one of the most
respectable firms of the city,the following contract:

Agreement between Wiley §* Putnam, publishers of the city of New York,
of the first part, and the Building Committee of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, by the chairman of said committee, of the second part, dated this
3d day of April, 1847.

Whereas the said building committee are charged with the preparation
and publication of a volume on architecture, to be entitled ‘‘ Hints on
Public Architecture,’’ and to contain numerous and valuable illustrations,
including two perspective views of the buildings of the said Smithsonian
Institution, and also to have an appendix containing the results of a re-
search about to be made under the auspices of the said institution, to test
the properties of the most important building-materials throughout the
United States :

Now the parties of the first part hereby contract and agree to have the
said work set up in small pica, of such face as the said committee shall
select, thin-leaded for the body of the work, and either small pica solid or
long primer for the appendix, at the option of said committee. And the
said parties of the first part agree, that the letter-press paper shall measure
193 inches by 26, and that it shall be of such quality as to cost not less
than 16 cents per pound, and that each ream shall weigh not less than 40
pounds. And the parties of the first part further agree, that the printing
shall be done in the best manner, with ink of the first quality, and the
wood-cuts carefully overlaid, (so as to give their full effect,) by a suitable
person accustomed to such work; and also, that the copperplate paper shall
be of quality as good as the letter-press paper, of the same size, and of
the proper thickness and qualities required for fine illustrations, and that
the copperplate printing shall be done in the best manner. And the said
parties of the first part further agree, that the page of printed matter shall
be about five inches and three-quarters by nine inches, and that the bind-
ing shall be in cloth, gilt lettered, and of such material as shall cost thirty
cents per volume. And the said parties of the first part agree to do the
whole of the above work, including materials, at their own cost and ex-
pense.

And the party of the second part agree that they will furnish, at their
own cost and expense, the entire illustrations for said work, including two
perspective views of the Smithsonian Institution, and that the said illustra-
tions shall be of such number and quality as shall cost one thousand dollars,
and said illustrations shall be executed in the best style of art; and that as
many of the said illustrations as are to be incorporated with the text shall be
wood-cuts, and that the rest shall be either copperplate or steel engravings;
and that they will deliver the same to the parties of the first part free of all
charge, and completely ready for printing. And the said parties of the
second part further agree that they will furnish to the parties of the first
part the manuscript of the said work free of all charge, and that the same

.
o
[ 23 ] 116

shall not exceed, including the appendix, one hundred and fifty printed
ages.

And for and:in consideration of the furnishing, by the said parties of the
second part, of the illustrations and manuscript as aforesaid, the parties of
the first part agree to deliver to the parties of the second part five hun-
dred copies of the said work, complete and bound as aforesaid, so soon as
the same can be prepared ; and they further agree that, so soon as the sale
of the said work shall have returned to them the cost of composiuon,
printing, paper, and binding, then, out of the first profits of the same they
the said party of the first part will further deliver to the parties of the
second part additional copies of the said work until the said additional
copies amount to five hundred, so that the whole number of copies fur-
nished shall be one thousand in all, free of all charge to the parties of the
second part.

And it is mutually agreed that after the delivery of the said thousand
copies the said illustrations shall be and remain the property of the parties
of the first part; but the said parties of the first part agree that they will
at any time, on being thereto required by the parties of the second part,
deliver to the said parties of the second part any number of impressions
from any of the said plates at the cost of paper and printing.

And the said parties of the first part agree that so soon as the illustra-
tions and manuscript are delivered to them, they will cause the said
work to be published without unnecessary delay.

In testimony whereof, the parties of the first part have hereunto set
their hands and seals, and the chairman of the said building committee
has hereunto subscribed his name, on the behalf of the said building
committee, the day and year above written.

ROBERT DALE OWEN, Chairman,
on behalf of Building Committee of Smithsonian Institution,

RaTHBUN ALLEN,
Witness as to siguature of Robert Dale Owen.

; WILEY & PUTNAM.
WitrraM B. Graves,
Witness as to signature of Wiley § Putnam.

The size selected is what is called long quarto, and its somewhat ob-
long shape is suitable for plates. The price stipulated for the paper, $6 40
a ream, insures its good quality. The size of the paper and of type, and
the size of the printed page, were selected in part with reference to the
probable form of our Transactions, which form, I think, might advanta-
geously be copied, without variation, from this volume.

I found that no publisher would agree to deliver to us one thousand
copies at once, nor until they had secured a return of the money actually
expended by them. ‘They were all of opinion that so large a number as
one thousand copies distributed at the outset, would so injure the sale as
to make it a losing business.

As it was necessary to obtain considerable assistance from Mr. Ren-
wick in preparing drawings for wood-cut illustrations, revising text, &c.,
I made a verbal agreement with him that, in return for such assistance as
I might have occasion to require of him, he should receive twenty-five
117 [ 23]

copies of the work out of the first 500, and 25 copies more out of the
second five hundred received by us.

By these arrangements the entire sum of one thousand dollars, appro-
priated for the publication of this work, can be expended on illustrations,
giving much increased value to it.

With a view still to increase that value, I took some steps which I hope
will secure us additional illustrations executed in the best style.

Finding that the marble front of Stewart’s new dry-goods store in Broad-
way was probably the finest specimen of the modern Italian style of ar-
chitecture in the United States, I procured an introduction to Mr. Stew-
art’s partner, (Mr. S. being now in Europe,) and proposed to him that
if he would expend $100 to furnish us an elevation of his store, on steel,
we would afterwards, if he desired it, furnish him as many copies as he
might require at the cost of paper and printing. He said he would write
immediately to Mr. Stewart ; that he did not doubt that he would agree to
it. He is to communicate the result to Mr. Renwick, who will superin-
tend the preparation of the plate.

I was also introduced by Mr. Renwick to the principal vestrymen of
Grace church; and he expressed to me his hope that he could obtain
from the vestry a vote for a similar plate of that church, a fine specimen
of the latter or Flamboyant gothic.

I also commissioned Mr. Renwick, who is acquainted with some of the
vestry at Trinity church, to see them, and try to obtain a plate of that
edifice.

These plates, if obtained, would furnish excellent illustrations of the
most suitable character, and give much additional character to the publi-
cation.

I called upon A. B. Durand, president of the Academy of Design, now
a portrait and historical painter, and formerly the best engineer in the
United States, and ascertained his opinion, that the best engravers for
portraits in the United States are Cassilear, 22 Bleeker street, New York,
and Cheeney, of Philadelphia.

He considers Roberts, of New York, the best wood-cutter. He thinks
that to Cassilear or Cheeney the portrait of Smithson, for our ‘Transac-
tions, should be intrusted.

I called on Robert Schuyler, president of the Brunswick and New
York railroad, in regard to a season ticket, or free ticket, for our architect,
Mr. Renwick. ‘There is no chance of obtaining a free ticket. A season
ticket at a reduced rate may possibly be obtained. Mr. Schuyler promised
to write to me on the subject.

I did not until further consultation decide whether the perspective
drawings of our institution, &c., should be in quarto or double quarto
form. ‘Ihe folding of the latter seems to me so objectionable, that I in-
cline to the former, though it be somewhat small for so extensive a
building.

Respectfully submitted, by :
ROBERT DALE OWEN.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was ;
Resolved, That the prospective views of the institution, alluded to in
the above report, be executed in quarto form.
The chairman submitted from the superintendent the following com-
munication :
[ 23 ] 118

Aprit 6, 1847.

Dear Sir: On consulting with the Commissioner of Public Build-
ings in relation to the use, by the committee, of the old fence around the
mall, between 7th and 12th streets, to enclose the lot of the institution,
between the same points, he agrees to allow so much of the same as is
necessary for this purpose.

I have made an estimate to determine what the expense would be of
removing, repairing, and enclosing this open fence with a five feet height
of palings, and found it would amount to four hundred dollars.

The circuit of these grounds is 3,680 feet.

Mr. Dixon reports that the expense of conducting the water from the
Market-house pipe to the building, will cost six hundred and fifty dollars.

Respectfully submitted.

ROBERT MILLS,
Assistant Architect and Sup’t Smithsonian Institution.

To the Hon. Roperr Date Owen,
Chairman of the Building Committee
of the Smithsonian Institution.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That, for the purpose of conveying to the building a supply
of water, as well for the builders as for the permanent uses of the institu-
tion, the consent of the Commissioner of the Public Buildings be re-
quested for drawing a supply from the water plug at the Centre Market-
house, to be conveyed thence, by a leaden pipe, to the institution.

Resolved, That an arrangement be made with some responsible con-
tractor for laying said pipes, provided the cost thereof does not exceed .
$650.

Resolved, 'Vhat the resolution of the 30th ultimo, in regard to the dig-
ging two wells, be, and the same is hereby, rescinded.

Resolved, 'That Mr. Downer, or some other responsible person, be em-
ployed to build a substantial paling fence around the institution ground,
provided the same cost not more than $400, and that the fence be as high
as the present rails will permit with safety.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-SECOND MEETING—Apriz 9, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

Mr. Owen stated to the committee that he had spoken with one of the
Regents, Mr. A. D. Bache, on the subject of procuring a steel plate of the
Girard College, from the managers of the said institution, on the same
terms proposed to Mr. Stewart, as mentioned in his (Mr. O.’s) report of
April 6; and that Mr. Bache promised to write on the subject to the prin-
cipal manager of the Girard Colleze, and to communicate the result to the
committee.

Mr. Owen also stated that he had written on the same subject to Mr.
Richard Rush, Regent, from Philadelphia, requesting him to use his in-
fluence to procure for us the said plate.

Mr. Seaton stated that he was about to write a similar letter to
Mr. Ogden Hoffman, one of the vestrymen of Calvary church, New
119 [ 23 J

York, with the view of procuring a plate of that church on similar terms,
as a specimen of the lancet gothic style of architecture; and that he
would communicate the result to the committee.

Mr. Owen submitted from the contractor, Mr. Dixon, the following :

WasHIneton, April 8, 1847.

GENTLEMEN : After minute examination of all the quarries on Mr. Peter’s
land, it is extremely doubtful to me whether or not a sufficient quantity of
the stone on which the contract is based can be procured in any of his
quarries, as that stratum seems to be nearly exhausted. There seems to
be abundance of stone in the bed under which No. 19 has been worked
off ; but it appears to be of a much deeper color, and a great deal harder
in its texture, and could not be cut at anything like the price of No. 19
stone.

There are, I am told, a great many quarries of sandstone on Seneca
creek, on Mr. Vincent’s* land; but knowing that your board was about to
adjourn, I hastened back to make this statement, and had not time to ex-
amine them.

Respectfully, &c.,
JAMES DIXON.

To the Burtp1ine CommirrEeE

of the Smithsonian Lnstitution.

P. S.—If I am right in my opinion that the Bull run quarries will not
produce the stone that you have selected, it might be well enough for the
board, before their final adjournment, to pass a resolution to this effect:
that some discretionary power be left with the architect to change or modi-
fy the material, otherwise the building would necessarily come to a stand;
but this I leave to your better comprehension.

hae 3

Laid on the table. |
_ Mr. Owen submitted from Mr. Joel Downer, carpenter, the following
offer to put up a temporary fence around the grounds of the institution:

Wasnineton, April 8, 1848.

GentLemen: I will contract to enclose the ground with a paling fence
from 5 feet 8 inches to 6 feet, average; the palings to be sawed, three
inches wide, of the best quality that comes to our market; the palings to
be nailed on the rails with three nailings, and 6 nails in each paling,
with a bottom board averaging 12 inches in width. It is understood that
the posts and rails now standing on 12th street and B street are to be
righted up and made use of; and the posts and rails for the north and east
line are to be taken up from the public enclosure, and used for that pur-
pose. I will put up the fence in a good and substantial manner for four
hundred dollars.

Respectfully, ;
JOEL DOWNER.
To the Burtpine ComMITTEE
of the Smithsonian Institution.

* Supposed Charles Vinson: see p. 43.—R. D. 0.
; *
[ 23] 120 a tet
r ab j
Notre.—On inquiry, I learn that the aiove bid includes all materials,
though not expressly so stated. . ot

ROBERT DALE OWEN.])

Laid on the table. f
Ordered, That, for the present, the services of Win. McPeak, messen-
ger, be dispensed with. ae
On motion of Mr. Owen, e 4 , <a?

Resolved, That the architect be authorized to cause to be erected on the
ground a secure temporary building, as an office for the said Sud ba
provided the same shall not cost over two hundred dollars.

The chairman stated to the committee the request of Mr. Mills, the su-
perintendent, that he be allowed the use of the lower rooms in the City
Hall which were granted by the corporation to the building committee,
until the same are “required by the committee. ;

Ordered, That Mr. Mills be allowed the use of said rooms Sdcordinely.

On ‘motion of Mr. Owen, it was ,

Resolved, That the city surveyor be requested to make out a plat of the
grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, laying down the levels at each
intersection of one hundred feet.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-THIRD MEETING

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

Mr. Owen submitted for consideration the following fedblutiony. relative
to the work on “ Public Architecture,’’ of which Bee deg had been
intrusted to him:

Resolved, 'That the work on “ Public Architécture,”? to ie published by
the com mittee, contain a comparative review of the advantages, economy,
and facility of adaptation to modern purposes, of various styles of publie
architecture, particularly the Grecian, modern Italian, Gothic of different
ages, and Norman; giving the actual cost, compared to extent of accom-
modations, of some of the principal public edifices in the United States, in
the various styles, including some of the public. buildings in W ashington,
and others erected by the general g sovernment.

Resolved, That, so far as the funds permit, the said work contain illus-
trations, in the best style ofart, representing such among the public buildings
of the United States as exhibit the purest specimens of architecture, in
various styles, including two perspective views of the Smithsonian In-

Stitution, on steel; one ‘perspective view of the gothic plan submitted for

competition by Mr. James Renwick, jr., architect of the institution; one
perspective view of the Norman plan submitted by Mr. Haviland, provided
he (Mr. H.) will, at his own cost, reduce the drawing to the required size;
one perspective view either of the plan submitted by Mr. Arnot, or that
submitted by Mr. Notman, provided the architect will, at his own cost,
reduce the drawing to the required size; one ceometrical elevation of the
Italian plan submitted by Mr. Daniel, of Cincinnati, provided he will re-
duce the same; also ground plans and ‘geometrical elevations of the Smith-
sonian Institution, and one or two interiors of the same.

Resolved, That application be made, in the proper quarters, for plates of
the following public edifices, to wit:

_#*
' , [ 23 ]

. Girard College. “

Stewart’s dry-goods store, Broadway, New York.
Grace Church, New York.

Trinity Church, New York.

Calvary Church, New York.

And if the respective authorities are willing to furnish such plates, with-
out cost, then that the same be used in the said work, accompanied by a
brief description of each edifice. And in that case, that the chairman of
the building committee be empowered to agree with those furnishing the
said plates, that the Smithsonian Institution will, at any time, furnish to
them as many impressions from the plates thus furnished by them as
they may desire, at the cost of paper and printing.

Resolved, 'That, if the funds permit, the said work contain a geometri-
cal or perspective view of the east front of the Capitol of the United States,
and a geometrical elevation of the south front of the General Post Office.

In submitting the above resolutions, Mr. Owen stated to the committee
that it was his intention, in order as far as possible to avoid expense to the
institution, to prepare as much of the work as practicable at home, and for
that purpose he would take with him a few works on architecture; but
that it would be necessary for him.to spend some weeks in New York,
and probably in Washington, to consult authorities, to which he had not
access at home, to receive the necessary aid from Mr. Renwick, and to
take steps for the preparation of the illustrations.

‘The above resolutions, after deliberation, were adopted.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

OTB 09 DO

TWENTY-FOURTH MEETING—Arriz 11, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.
The chairman laid before the committee the following letter:

Darnestown, Monrcomery County, Mp.,
; April 7, 1847.
Dear Sir: Mr. Dixon was here yesterday, and made a superficial ex-
amination of the quarries, but made no selection, as you informed me
would be his purpose, in your letter to me dated the 31st of March. He
admitted, as [ think must be apparent to any one, that stone of similar
character with the specimen which he says the committee have adopted
may be found in abundance for all your purposes. Indeed, upon exam-
ination we find it embraced in a much larger field than I had before ob-
served, and { have no doubt it could be obtained to any extent that may be
required. of
The quarries, from the characteristic position of the stone and the par-
tial manner in which they have been worked, present a different appear-
ance from such as we commonly see ; but as an evidence of the facility
with which they may be worked, there is a party now engaged in getting
stone from them for the use of Mr. Berry, who has contracted to deliver
the same in Washington for twenty cents a cubic foot; and I have a
doubt Mr. Dixon could get his stone delivered much more readily for the
same, as the quantity he would require would justify the contractor In
working the quarry to a much greater advantage.
[ 23 ] 122

I would only add that the kind of stone that I understand you have
selected may be obtained here in any quantity you may require, and the
difference in the expense of using it is a full justification for its selection.

I have been induced to make this communication to guard you against
any unfavorable impression Mr. Dixon may be induced to make, in which
I feel justified by expressions he used when here.

Yours, very respectfully,
JOHN P. C. PETER.

Hon. Roserr Date Owen,

Chairman of the Building Committee Smithsonian Institution.

Laid on the table.

Mr. Owen, in connexion with the subject of the above letter, stated to
the committee that he had written to the architect, Mr. Renwick, inform-
ing him that the committee adhere to their resolution regarding the color
and quality of building-material for the external walls, and look to him
to see it strictly carried out.

The chairman laid before the committee, from the ex-messenger, Mc-
Peak, the following letter ;

Wasuineton, April 11, 1847.

Sir: Believing that I can render good service to the committee in my
capacity as messenger, both in attending in the office and overlooking the
grounds of the institution, and removing nuisances, therefore I would re-
spectfully offer my services to the committee at one dollar per day.

Respectfully,
WM. McPEAK.

Hon. Roperr Date Owen,

Chairman of the Building Committee Smithsonian Institution.

Laid on the table.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-FIFTH MEETING—Apnrix 12, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Totten, Seaton, and Owen.

Mr. Totten, having returned from Mexico, took his seat on the com-
mittee.

The chairman laid before the committee several specimens of building-
stone, similar in color and quality to specimen No. 19 of Dr. Owen’s re-
port on the sandstones of the Potomac, from the quarries of Charles Vin-
son, Seneca Mills; (see his letter to the building committee, page 42 of
this journal.) The chairman stated that Dr. Owen had examined the
specimens, and considered them equal to specimen No. 19.

The journal of the building committee, contract with James Dixon &
Co., and specifications and plan of foundations of the building, prepared
by the architect, were submitted to Mr. Totten, and examined by him.

Mr. ‘Totten stated to the committee that the duration of his stay in
Washington was uncertain, and that he might be called upon to visit
some of the fortifications of the United States in the course of two or
three weeks.
123 [ 23 ]

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was
Resolved, That Mr. Renwick be requested to return to Washington
within a fortnight, so as to confer on the subject of the details of erection
of the building with Mr. Totten.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-SIXTH MEETING—Apnriz 14, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

Mr. Seaton submitted to the committee the following letter from Captain
Buckingham, whom he stated to be known to himself as having executed
with faithfulness and ability, both for the city corporation and the gov-
ernment, work of the same character as that for which he kere proposes
to contract:

Wasuineton, April 14, 1847.

Sir: I have made a calculation of the expense of conducting the water
from the Market square to the buildings of the Smithsonian Institution,
on the mall.

I will agree to furnish all the necessary material, and put down the
pipes to said building, for six hundred and fifty dollars, and take the ne-
cessary risk. I calculate that there are about 2,000 feet in all.

Respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. BUCKINGHAM.

Wm. W. Szearon, Esq.

Captain Buckingham appeared; and, on being questioned, informed
the committee that his proposal was fora leaden pipe of inch-bore, and of
the quality called “strong pipe;” that he proposed to lay the pipe down
not less than two feet under ground, and to cross the canal with a two-
inch iron pipe, laid down below the bed of the canal.

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was

Resolved, That a contract with Captain Buckingham be prepared, in
accordance with the above offer; stipulating that the work be completed
in one month from this date.

The communication of William McPeak, laid on the table on the 11th
inst., being called up, it was

Ordered, That William McPeak be re-engaged as messenger, to com-
mence from the 7th inst., at six dollars per week.

Mr. French, masonic Grand Master of the District of Columbia, ap-
peared before the committee, and expressed, on behalf of the Grand Lodge
of the District of Columbia, their willingness to assist in laying the cor-
ner-stone of the Smithsonian Institution with masonic ceremonies.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was wey

Resolved, That the Grand. Lodge of the District of Columbia be invited,
in connexion with any other masonic lodges who may unite witn them,
to aid in laying the corner-stone of the Smithsonian Institution ; and
that Saturday, the first day of May, be recommended as a suitable day for
that purpose. ’

Resolved, That Mr. Owen be a committee to wait upon the President
of the United States and invite him, as head of the corporation, to lay the
[ 23 ] 124

said foundation-stone ; and also to wait upon the Vice President of the
United States and invite his presence, as Chancellor of the institution, to
deliver a brief address on said occasion.

Resolved, That Mr. Seaton be authorized to pay any incidental expenses
that may be necessarily incurred on said occasion.

Resolved, That the contractor be requested to prepare a suitable corner-
stone.

Mr. Owen expressed to the committee his intention—as Colonel Totten
had returned, and a quorum could thus be obtained without him—of re-
turning, within a few days, home to Indiana; and his regret that, in con-
sequence, he would not be able to be present at the proposed ceremony.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-SEVENTH MEETING—Aprit 15, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

The chairman presented a contract with Captain Buckingham to con-
vey water to the building site, which, in accordance with the resolution of
yesterday, he had prepared and had submitted to Captain Buckingham
and to Colonel Totten; both of whom had signified their approbation of
it, and Colonel Totten had signed it.

It was approved and signed. It is as follows:

This agreement, made the fifteenth day of April, 1847, between Caleb
Buckingham, of the city of Washington, of the first part, and the Build-
ing Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, of the second part, wit-
nesseth :

That for and in consideration of the sum of six hundred and fifty
dollars, to be by the party of the second part paid to the party of the
first part, as hereinafter provided, the said party of the first part agrees
to furnish all the necessary materials, of the best quality, and all the ne-
cessary work, to be done in the best and most substantial manner, to con-
duct the water from the fire-plug at the engine-house, in Market square,
in the said city, to the building about to be erected for the Smithsonian
Institution, on the mall, between 9th and 12th streets. And the party of
the first part agrees, that he will lay down a leaden pipe of inch-bore, and
of the quality called “strong pipe,” at least two feet below the ground ;
and he will furnish the same with a stop-cock of the best quality, at the
end where the said fire.plug is tapped; and also a hydrant cock of the
best quality at the end of the pipe next to the building. And the said
party of the first part further agrees that he will convey the water across
the canal in an iron pipe of two-inch bore, and of the best quality ; which
iron pipe shall be sunk below the bed of the canal. And the said party
of the first part agrees, that he will conduct the said leaden pipe so as to
terminate at any point, not more than fifty feet from the foundations of
the building, that may be pointed out by the architect or superintendent
of the institution. .

And the said party of the first part further agrees, that he will complete
the laying of the said pipe, with its appurtenances, so that water can be
used from the same one month from the date of this agreement.

And the party of the second part agree, that so soon as the said work
shall have been completed to the entire satisfaction of the architect or
superintendent of the said institution, and the said architect or superin-

-
125 [2s]

tendent shall have certified that fact to the parties pf the second part, the
said parties of the second part will pay to the said party of the first part
the above sum of six hundred and fifty dellars. In testimony whereof,
the said party of the first part has hereunto set his hand and seal, and the
said building committee, on behalf of the said institution, have hereunto
subscribed their names, the day and year aforewritten.

C. BUCKINGHAM,  {1.s.]

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
A ae © Amma! M8 MA
W. W. SEATON,
Building Committee.

The chairman presented from Mr. Randolph Coyle, city surveyor, a
chart of the grounds belonging to the institution, crossed with lines of
equal levels marked at each crossing of one hundred feet.

Ordered, 'That the above chart be preserved as a record of levels, by in-
serting it in the journal of the committee.

The chairman stated to the committee that he had waited upon the
President, in accordance with the resolution of yesterdzy, and expressed
to him the desire of the committee that he would consent to lay the cor-
ner-stone of the Smithsonian building ; and that he, the President, has
expressed his willingness to do so.

The chairman further informed the committee that the President stated
to him that he (the President) would order the attendance of the marine
band on the occasion.

The chairman stated to the committee that he had waited upon the Vice
President, in acordance with a resolution passed yesterday, and that he
(the Vice President) promised, if he could so arrange his business, to at-
tend on the occasion of laying the foundation-stone of the Smithsonian
building, and to deliver a brief address on that occasion.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-EIGHTH MEETING—Apnrit 16, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

The letter of Mr. Joel Downer, carpenter, dated April 8th, and submit-
ied to the committee at their twenty-second meeting, coming up for con-
sideration, Mr. Owen submitted a contract which he had prepared in ac-
cordance with the offer made by Mr. Downer for the erection of a tempo-
rary fence around the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution, and which
he stated to the committee had been submitted to the superintendent and
Mr. Downer, and had been approved by them.

The said contract was approved, and signed by the committee and by
Mr. Downer, and is as follows:

This agreement, made the 16th of April, 1847, between Joel Downer, of
the city of Washington, of the first part, and the Building Committee
of the Smithsonian Institution of the second part, witnesseth:

That for and in consideration of the sum of four hundred dollars, to be
by the party of the second part paid to the party of the first part, as me
inafter provided, the party of the first part agrees to fence in the lot or plat
[23] 126

of land belonging to the said Smithsonian Institution, and situated on that
portion of the mall which lies between 9th and 12th streets, containing
nineteen acres, or thereabout; the said fence to be made in the most substan-
tial and workmanlike manner, and to be completed in one month from the
date of this agreement. And the said party of the first part agrees that the
said fence shall be of sawed paling, of the best quality that comes to the
Washington market, each paling to be about three inches wide, and to be
nailed on the rails with three nailings, and six nails to each paling, and
the palings not more than two and a half inches apart.

And the said party of the first part further agrees, that the said fence
shall have a bottom board averaging twelve inches in width, firmly nailed
on, and the ground levelled up to the bottom of the same.

And the said party of the first part further agrees that the said fence
shall be from five feet eight inches to six feet high, and that the posts shall
be well and securely set in the ground, and that the fence shall stand, as
nearly as convenient, on the boundary of the said lot, except on the north
side; on which north side the fence shall be placed fifteen feet north of the
boundary-line of the land of the said institution. And the said party of
the first part agrees that he will furnish all the materials whatever for the
said fence: Provided, however, ‘That the posts and rails now standing on
12th street and on B street south may be used by the said party of the first
part. And provided further, 'That in case the Commissioner of Public
Buildings consent thereto, the posts and rails now standing on such por-
tion of the mall as lies between 7th and 12th streets, and is not the prop-
erty of the said institution, may also be used by the said party of the first
part as part of the material of said fence.

And the party of the first part further agrees that he will leave openings
for gates in said fence, at such points as may be pointed out by the con-
tractor or superintendent; but no gates are included in this contract.

If there be not sufficient rails on the said lot between 7th and 12th
streets, then the contractor, Mr. Dixon, will furnish the same to the party
of the first part, as per annexed agreement.

And the party of the second part agree, so soon as the said fence shall
be completed to the full and entire satisfaction of the architect or superin-
tendent of the Smithsonian Institution, and that fact shall have been cer-
tified to the parties of the second part by the said architect or superintend-
ent, that they, the said parties of the setond part, will pay to the party of
the first part, in full for said fence and material, the sum of four hundred
dollars.

In testimony whereof, the said party of the first part has hereunto set
his hand and seal, and the said parties of the second part, members of the
said building committee, have hereunto, on behalf of the said Smithsonian
Institution, subscribed their names the day and year aforewritten.

JOEL DOWNER, [L. s.]

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
JOS. G. TOTTEN,
W. W. SEATON,

Building Committee.
127 [23]
Agreement with Mr. Dizon, referred to in the foregoing contract.

If the old rails now standing on the mall between 7th and 12th streets
be not sufficient to complete the fence around the grounds of the Smith-
sonian Institution, I hereby agree to furnish to Mr. Joel Downer, at my
own cost, a sufficient number of good rails to make up the deficiency. J
also agree to have made, at my expense, not less than two gates, at con-
venient points in said fence, to be hung on good and substantial gate-posts.

JAMES DIXON.

Mr. John P. C. Peter appeared before the committee, and reiterated in
presence of the contractor, Mr. Dixon, his (Mr. Peter’s) complete assurance,
as formerly expressed in his letter, (page 121,) that there was in his Bull
run quarry a sufficiency of rock to erect the buildings of the Smithsonian
Institution, of a tint not darker than No. 19 of the specimens appended to
Dr. Owen’s report on the Potomac sandstones; a portion being of lighter
tint. He was informed that the committee adhered to their decision not to
use for the external walls any material darker than No. 19, but they did
not object to some portions of the building being of a lighter shade. He
_was further informed that the architect. Mr. Renwick, and perhaps one of
the committee, would shortly visit Bull run quarry, for the sake of ascer-
taining, by actual excavation and otherwise, whether the supply from the
stratum in question was sufficient.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

TWENTY-NINTH MEERTING~-Aprit 17, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That the Corporation of the city of Washington, the Inde-
pendent Order of Odd-Fellows, the volunteer companies, and the citizens
generally, be invited to joinin the ceremony of laying the foundation
stone of the Smithsonian Institution.

‘he chairman stated to the committee that he had consulted Mr. Dray-
ton as to the actual size which the plates of the proposed volume on
architecture might be made, so as to leave adequate margin ; and that it
was found that they might be eleven inches by seven inches, (or, if neces-
sary, eleven inches by seven inches and a half.)

Mr. Owen stated to the committee that he had written to Mr. Renwick,
instructing him to cause the perspective views of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution to be of that size.

The chairman submitted an inscription, prepared by the superintendent,
for a plate to be placed under the corner-stone of the Smithsonian build-
ing.

It was adopted, and is as follows:

Inscription for the foundation-stone of the Smithsonian Institution.

On the first day of May, 1847, was laid, in the city of Washington, this
foundation-stone of a building to be appropriated for the
Smithsonian Institution ;

FOUNDED BY BEQUEST OF JAMES SMITHSON, OF GREAT BRITAIN,
James K. Poin, President of the United States.
[23] i28
Corporation.

President of the United States. Y ¥ 4
Vice President of the United States.
Secretary of State.
Secretary of the ‘Treasury.
Secretary of War.
Secretary of the Navy.
Postmaster General.
Attorney General.
Chief Justice.
- Commissioner of Patents.
Mayor of the city of Washington.

Officers.

George M. Dallas, Chancellor.

W. W. Seaton, Chairman, )

Jos. G. Totten, > Haxecutive Commitice.
Robert Dale Owen,

Joseph Henry, Secretary.

Charles C. Jewett, Assistant Secretary.

Board of Regents.

George M. Dallas, Vice President.

Roger B. 'Vaney, Chief Justice.

W. W. Seaton, Mayor of the City.
Lewis Cass, U. S. Senator.

Sidney Breese, U. S. Senator.

James A. Pearce, U. S. Senator.

Robert Dale Owen, U. S. Representative.
Wm. J. Hough, U. S. Representative.
Henry W. Hilliard, U. S. Representative.
Rufus Choate, Massachusetts.

Richard Rush, Pennsylvania.

Gideon Hawley, New York.

Wm. C. Preston, South Carolina.

A. Dallas Bache, National Institute.
Jos. G. Totten, National Institute.

Building Committee.
Robert Dale Owen, Chairman.
Jos. G. Totten.
W. W. Seaton.

James Renwick, jr., Architect.
Robert Mills, Assistant Architect and Superintendent.
-

Pe. 129 [ 23 ]
h 5 my .
On motion of Mr. Owen, it was
" Resolved, That the superintendent be authorized to contract for the
engraving of said plate, at an expense not exceeding fifteen dollars.
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTIETH MEETING—Aprin 19, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen. |
‘he chairman laid before the committee, from Dr. Owen, the following
communication relative to details of arrangements in the laboratory :

Aveust 17, 1847.

GentTLemen: Several details connected with the arrangement of the
laboratory of the Smithsonian Lustitution have recently occurred to me,
or been suggested by conversation with gentlemen experienced in chemi-
cal manipulation. I place them at your disposal, in case you may see fit
to adopt all or any of them.

J advise that the sliding doors between the laboratory and lecture-room
be of sheet copper, blackened, so that they may serve as black boards for
the purpose of illustration.

Pulleys in the ceiling of.the laboratory, behind the lecturer’s table, will
be found very convenient to suspend illustrations, so that they cau be
raised or lowered. Black boards of blackened sheet copper or Iron, in
nests or sets to slide one behind the other, will be found extremely useful
to the lecturer, thus suspended by pulleys.

The floor of the laboratory may advantageously be covered with thick
sheet zinc.

The roof of the laboratory is best covered with slate, as the rain-water
eaught from a slate roof is purer than from a metal one.

The tops of all the tables in the laboratory, including the narrow tables
below the shelving, should be of serpentine, and from one to two inches
thick. Serpentine can be procured from Proctorsville, Vermont. Even
the tops of the tables to hold the balances are best of this material. It
is not acted upon by acids; that is, the Vermont variety.

The flues of the furnace over the hot air chambers should be of half-
inch soapstone slabs.

There should be in the basement, gasometers for hydrogen or car-
buretted hydrogen—very convenient in organic analyses. Wine
_ The air should be admitted above the ash-pits in the cellar; for if it be
not, the ashes blow up with the draught.

The furnace flues should all be smoothly plastered inside, especially
those of furnaces to raise high temperature. For such furnaces Dr. Jack-
son, of Boston, recommends fiues tapering from below upwards, the larger
flues being a little over 12 inches in the basement, and tapering to nine
inches at top; and the area at top being somewhat greater than that
of the flue throat next the furnace. He is of opinion that by this foum of
flue, the lateral currents of cool air that usually pass dewn chimneys are

_ prevented, and thus all the cold air must pass through the furnace. I

have tried the plan, and they draw well.
It is unnecessary to line the flues with fire brick, except at the throat
leading from the furnace’
[ 23] 130

Every table, both in the laboratory and in the working laboratory, should
be furnished with a blast pipe, proceeding either from a large bellows in the
basement, or a small bellows fixed under the table, or a condensing
syringe.

If, in the course of the erection of the Smithsonian laboratory, I can be
of any service in furnishing further details, { shail do so with pleasure, if
written to on the subject; and to avoid misapprehension, | may add, with-
out any charge to the institution.

I regret that my occupation as geologist of Wisconsin is likely to take
me to so great a distance from your city, that i shall have little chance to
aid by personal supervision, as otherwise I should have been happy to
do.

Respectfully submitted, by

DAVID DALE OWEN.

To the Burnpine CommirrEeE

of the Snuthsonian lnstitution.

On motion, the above communication was referred to the architect of
the institution.

Mr. Renwick, the architect, appeared before the committee, and stated
that it was probable that plates of Grace church, and of Trinity, could be
procured, if he (the architect) were authorized, by resolution of the com-
mittee, to make application for the same.

On motion of Mr. Owen, the following preamble and resolution were
adopted:

Whereas it has been represented to this committee that some members
of the vestry of 'T'rinity church, New York, have liberally expressed their
willingness to furnish to the Smithsonian Institution a plate on steel or
copper, containing a perspective view of ‘Trinity church, to be printed in
the forthcoming volume on Public. Architecture, about to be published by
this committee: "Therefore,

Resolved, That Mr. James Renwick, architect of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, be and he is hereby authorized, on behalf of the said institution,
to state to the said vestry that if they decide to furnish said plate. it will be
accompanied in the said volume with a description of Trinity church,
as exhibiting the best example in the United States of the style of archi-
tecture in which it is erected; and that the building committee, if thereto
required by the above vestry, will furnish to them, at any time, as many
impressions from the said plate as they may desire, at the cost of paper
and printing.

And, on motion, the following additional preamble and resolution were
adopted:

Whereas it has been represented to this committee that some members
of the vestry of Grace church, New York, have liberally expressed their
willingness to furnish to the Smithsonian Institution a plate on steel,
containing a perspective view of Grace church, to be printed in the forth-
coming volume on Public Architecture, about to be published by this com-
mittee: ‘Therefore,

Resolved, That Mr. James Renwick, architect of the Smithsonian In-
sutution, be and he is hereby authorized, on behalf of the said institution,
to state to the said vestry that if they decide to furnish said plate, it will
be accompanied in the said volume with a description of Grace church, as
131 [ 23 ]

exhibiting the best example in the United States of the style of architec-
ture in which it is erected, and that the building committee, if thereto re-
quired by the above vestry, will furnish to them, at any time, as many im-
pressions from said plate as they may desire, at the cost of paper and
printing.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTY-FIRST MEETING—Apnriz 20, 1847.
[Held at the office of Mr. Totten.]

Present, Messrs. 'Totten, Seaton, and Owen.

The architect appeared before the committee, and the various specifica-
tions, especially those connected with the foundations of the building,
having been revised, the following items in regard to the same were agreed
to:
That the concrete, as given in the specifications, is unnecessarily rich
in mortar, and that about 14 parts of stone or brick fragments to 2 of dry
cement, and one of lime paste, and eight of sand, is a suitable compo-
sition.

That the concrete under the foundation be laid in two steps, and in six-
inch courses.

That a bench mark be set up in some convenient spot in the vicinity of
the building, for permanent reference.

That when the foundations are excavated, they be tried with a ram-
mer; and if any impression be produced, that the bottom be thoroughly
rammed.

That the architect ascertain from the contractor, and report to the com-
mittee, what sum would be saved by substituting two-inch furring and
lathing for the brick lining wall; the flues being sunk to a sufficient addi-
tional depth in the wall.

That a pattern of the jamb of one window, and of such other portions of
the cut-work of the building as may be designated by the architect, be
prepared asa sample; and, after being approved, be preserved for reference.

On motion of Mr. Owen, the following preamble and resolution were
adopted:

Whereas it has been represented to this committee that one of the part-
ners of the firm of Alexander T’. Stewart & Co., of New York, has signi-
fied the probability that the said firm might supply an elevation, on steel or
copper, of the front of their marble store in Broadway, to insert in the vol-
ume on Public Architecture about to be published by this committee:
Therefore,

Resolved, That Mr. James Renwick, architect of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, be and he is hereby authorized, on behalf of the said institu-
tion, to state to Messrs. Stewart and Company, that if they decide to fur-
nish said plate, it will be accompanied in the said volume with a descrip.
tion of their store, as exhibiting the best example in the United States of
street architecture in the modern [talian style; and that the building
committee, if thereto required by Messrs. Stewart and Company, will
furnish to them, at any time, as many impressions from the said plate as
they may desire, at the cost of paper and printing. | '

The committee then adjourned to the building site belonging to the in-
F232.) | 132

stitution, where they found the excavation for the foundations of the east
or chemical wing commeuced, examined the character of the ground, as
shown In a square trench dng for the purpose of ascertaining its character;
and decided, that the foundations as specified in the contract were sufficient.

The committee then returned to the City Hali; and, on motion, ad-
journed,

THIRTY-SECOND MEETING—Aprit 21, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.
The chairman laid before the committee, from the president of the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, the following letter, received to-

day :

FREDERICK, April 20, 1847.

Dear Sir: As promised in my former letter, I laid your proposal for
the reduction of the toll on stone for the use of the Smithsonian dusutu-
tion before the board cf president and directors of the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal Company, at their meeting on the 10th inst., and now ap-
prize you that, whilst the board entertain the best wishes for the success
of the great undertaking you have in charge, they yet feel. constrained to
decline making the reduction suggested.

As I mentioned in my letter to you, the cost of transportation on the
canal, estimating the toll by the perch, as is the practice on our caial, is
at present much less than the rival improvement you allude to,and 1 hope
this consideration will suffice to determine you in fayor of the. Seneca
quarries.

With great respect, yours, &c.,
J..M. COALKH,
President of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Co
tf

On motion, the letter was referred to the contractors, Messrs. Dixon and
Cameron.

The chairman stated to the committee that he should. set out to-morrow
morning forthe west ; but if, at any time during the summer, his presence
should become necessary on the committee, he would endeavor to return
at as short a notice as possible. :

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTY-THIRD MEETING—May 1, 1547.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and ‘Totten.

On motion, it was

Resolved, That William Beverly Randolph be appointed marshal-in-
chief during the ceremonies of tne day.

And then, this being the day appointed,to lay the corner-stone of the
building destined to be occupied as the Smithsonian Institution, the com-
mittee adjourned to join in its ceremonies; of which the following de-
scmpuon is extracted from the National Intelligencer:

‘“iarly in the morning the -banners in frout of the City Hall and at
other public places gave “indication of a holyday and a day of public re-
joicing. At nine o’cloek the volunteer companies, under the command of
133 [ 23]

Captain Tucker and Lieutenant Tate, were formed at their respective
parade grounds, near the City Hall. At about the same hour the cars
arrived fronr Baltimore, bringing hither a large delegation of the Free Ma-
sons of Baltimore and Philadelphia, to unite with their honored brethren
in this District in the grand and interesting ceremonies of laying the
foundation of an institution whose object is the ‘increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.’

“At ten o’clock the members of the various lodges of Free and Ac-
cepted Masons of the District united with the delegations from Maryland
and Pennsylvania, and took the station assigned them in the order of the
procession by the marshal-in-chief, Beverly Randolph, esq., who appeared,
as most of the assistant marshals, in appropriate badges. ‘he masonic
part of the procession was unusually grand. We never witnessed so nu-
merous a turn out in this city of that ancient and respectable fraternity,
who embrace in their body, persons of every condition in life and
of allcountries. The Philadelphia delegation, headed by Colonel James
*Page, Grand Master of Pennsylvania; the Baltimore delegation, headed by
Charles Gilman, esq., Grand Master of Maryland; and the Washington,
Georgetown, and Alexandria delegations, headed by B. B. French, esq.,
the popular Grand Master of the District of Columbia; all these function-
aries, and several other officials whose names we do not know, with the
long line of members in full regalia, with their splendid banners and em-
blems, presented a very interesting and imposing spectacle.

‘<Not less so the very numerous and respectable body of the Indepen-
dent Order of Odd Fellows, comprehending many of the lodges of this Dis-
trict. The Odd Fellows, by their number, splendid regalia, banners, em-
blems, excellent music, and rich costume, added greatly to the imposing
appearance of the interesting pageant. Dr. W. B. Magruder, splendidly
decorated, acted as grand marshal of the Odd Fellows, whose chief officers
are Dr. Joseph Borrows, Grand Master, and Dr. Flodoardo Howard, Dep-
uty Grand Master, who appeared in their proper places, supported by other
prominent officers and members of the Order.

“I'he procession (formed agreeably to the programme of the day) moved
from tiie City Hall to the President’s House about 11 o’clock. ‘lhe mar-
shal-in-chief and his aids were all on horseback, and wore white scarfs
and blue rosettes. ‘lhree bands of music accompanied the procession,,
which was more than a mile in length. Of the music we cannot avoid
saying, that it was excellent. The marine band is uniformly so. ‘The
national brass band, recently formed under Mr. Massoletti, played ad-
mirably. Gareia’s band, from Alexandria, attracted particular attention by
its excellent performances. This band, being uniformed, was taken by
several persons for Deem’s celebrated Baltimore band; a great compli-
ment, truly.

“ The column moved down 4} street to Pennsylvania avenue, then up
the avenue to 7th street, up 7th to E,up E to 11th, up 11th to F, and
thence on F to the presidential mansion, where the President, heads of
departments, diplomatic corps, Wc., were received into the line. ‘The en-
tire column then moved by Pennsylvania avenue and 12th street to the
site of the Smithsonian Institution. ;

“'The military was then formed in line on the south side of the site,
and the President, heads of departments, diplomatic corps, Regents,
mavor and corporation of Washington, &c., passed in front, receiving
[ 23 ] 134

their salute, and repaired to an elevated platform erected for the occasion
near the corner-stone, and beautifully arched and decorated with festoons
and wreaths of flowers and evergreens.

“The column then opened to the right and left, and the masonic bodies,
preceded by the Grand Master of the District of Columbia, passed up the
line to the corner-stone.

“lhe masonic ceremonies were then performed, for the details of which
we are indebted to an official source, as follows:

“ Proclamation for silence having been made by the Grand Marshal—

‘““B. B. French, esq., the Grand Master, accompanied by James Page,
esq., the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, and Chas.
Gilman, esq., the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Maryland, took
his stand at the corner-stone, and. having announced the object of the
meeting, called upon the Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge of Mary-
land, brother McJilton, to address the Throne of Grace, which he did as
follows :

“ PRAYER.

“Q Lord God of nations! There is none like thee in heaven nor in
earth; which keepeth covenant, and showeth mercy unto thy servants
that walk before thee with all their hearts. ‘Chou hast kept with thy
people that which thou has promised them in all generations ; and that
which thou hast spoken with thy mouth thou hast fulfilled with thy
hand even unto this day. (2 Chron. vi, 14, 15.) As thou didst with
thine ancient people Israel, of small beginning, thou hast raised up a
mighty nation in this western world. By thy power it has prospered ;
by thine arm it has been begirt with strength; by thine hand it has been
overstrewn with blessings.

“Few in number and feeble in strength our fathers came upon these
shores. They hewed themselves a home in the wilderness, and sat down
weary and toilworn amid the wilds of the forests. But they abode be-
neath the shadow of the Almighty. (Ps. xci,1.) Thou wast to them
as rivers of water in a dry place, and as the shadow of a great rock in a
weary land. (Isa. xxxii, 2.) Thou gavest them rain in season. The land
yielded her increase, and the trees of the field yielded their fruit. The
threshing reached unto the vintage, and the vintage to the sowing time.
‘They did eat their bread to the full, and dwelt in the land in, safety.
When their enemies rose against them, thou wast the shield of their de-
fence. In thy strength they had power to overcome, and their foes fled
before them. Thou gavest them independence and peace, and madest
them to lie down in safety, with none to make them afraid. Thou didst
set up thy tabernacle among them; thou didst break the bands of their
yoke, and made them to go upright and free. (Lev. xxvi.)

“ Thy second Israel has been greatly blessed at thy hands. Thou hast
given her plenty of corn and wine. ‘Thou hast made peace in her bor-
ders, and filled her with the finest of the wheat. Thou hast strength-
ened the bars of her gates, and blessed her children within her. (Ps.
exlvil, 13, 14.) Thou hadst respect unto our fathers. ‘Chou madest
them to be fruitful, and didst multiply their prosperity. ‘Thou didst estab-
lish thy covenant with them. Under thy fostering care the land became
the heritage of freedom, the asylum of the oppressed, the home of the
stranger, a blessing to the nations. The gloomy clouds of ignorance and
135 [23]

superstition are resting darkly upon other lands ; but the sun of enlight-
enment and religion is beaming brilliantly upon ours. The shackles of
civil bondage are binding the nations of the Hast, and they bow in their
captivity to the despot’s iron rule; but no fetters of oppression bind the
free of this favored land.’ Civil discord has reared its hydra head, and
rent asunder the bond that united other States, but ours is unharmed,
and no enemy appears that has power to sever it. The pestilence with
fearful step has trodden other shores, and desolation fierce and fell has
marked its direful way; but the rude form of the ravager has not reached
our favored clime, and the trail of his burning footstep is not found upon
. our soil. The famine has marred the beauty of a sister land, and the
shrill cry of the suffering still rises from the soil that is made desolate by
its terrible tread ; but our barns are yet full of the harvest’s yield. We
have enough and to spare. While the oppressed can find a home of hap-
piness in our wide domain of liberty, we have bread for the starving, and
our ships are bearing it to the sufferers beyond the seas. Truly the Lord
has been good to us. He has remembered us in mercy; he has rewarded
us beyond our deservings.

“ And now, O Lord God of nations, that hast so highly favored and so
greatly prospered the people of this land, hear thou in heaven, thy dwell-
ing place, the cry and the prayer of thy servants when they pray before
thee, that thy fatherly care and protection may be continued over us; that
thy power may still be our prosperity, thine arm the girdle of our strength,
thy hand the security of our blessing. ;

“¢ Let thy mercy cover our sins; for we must acknowledge that, like lost
sheep, we have erred and strayed from thy righteous ways. We have de-
parted from the path of thy holy commandments, and we have done evil
im thy sight. Give us true repentance for our many and grievous offences.
Overrule the rebellion of our hearts, and the disobedience of our lives, by
the interposition of thy abounding mercy, and let not our guilt be visited
in merited vengeance upon us.

“¢ May we never, either in word or deed, deny the Lord, nor neglect his
sacred worship. But may his blessed name, his doctrine and worship, be
so inwoven with our institutions of freedom, that the names of American
and Christian may ever be one and inseparable. As a nation, as well as
individuals, may we spurn the creeds of infidelity, and in the acknowl-
edgment of the Divine authority supplicate the overruling providence of
God, remembering always that it is He that maketh us to differ from oth-
ers, and that crowneth us with mercy and loving kindness.

“Grant us wisdom, and purity, and integrity of purpose, that we may
preserve unhurt the inheritance of freedom that our departed sires have be-
queathed us. May it be nothing impaired, nothing dimmed, but strength-
ened and brightened by our having used it and enjoyed its blessings. And
may we deliver it to the succeeding generation as spotless as we received
it; as beautiful, as rich a treasure, as it came to us, drenched in the blood
and crowned with the victorious bays of two fierce ensanguined wars.

‘In the day of battle thou hast been our defence, and our enemies have
not trumphed over us. In the face of our foes thou hast ‘ redeemed us
from the sword,’ (Job, v. 20,) and no weapon formed against us has pros-
pered. So be it ever, when the hand of dishonor shall assail us, or the rod
of the oppressor be uplifted to our hurt.

“Jn peace may we possess our territory. Do thou make the shout and
[23] ea eee Te

the noise of the battle to cease from our shores, and may friendship, and
love, and righteousness prevail. Make us to know that. wisdom is better
than weapons of war, and a peaceful heritage than much spoil. May the
spear of the warrior be speedily exchanged for the plough and the pruning-
hook, and the dread thunder of battle for the shout of thanksgiving to
God.

“¢ Guide us ever in the choice of our rulers, thatthe wisdom and viriue of
the nation may appear in the characters and: deeds of those. who may be
honored with majesterial distinctions. May the praise which is sounded
by thy Church be echoed from the high places of the republic, and re-
echoed from the multitudes of the people, until, like the rushing of many
waters, the voice shall go forth proclaiming the Lord Omnipotent to be our’
God. And in the pursuits of our lives, in the expressions of our lips, and
in our daily worship, may we prove that we know no other God but him.

“ With thy favor we beseech thee to behold and bless thy servant the
President of the United States, and all others in authority, and so replen-
ish them with the grace of thy holy spirit, that they may always incline
to thy will and walk in thy way. ‘Teach thou our Senators wisdom, that
they may establish suéh laws as are wholesome and good. Direct ‘thou
the minds of our judges, that they may decree justice, and that their judg-
ments ane] be rendered with equity. Imbue the people with a spint of
patriotic devotion, and enlighten them with heavenly wisdom, that they
may be zealous of their country’s honor, and exercise with prudence the
fearful trust of freemen which is committed into their hands. Make us a
people fearing thee and honoring thy most holy name; loving each other
as brethren, and living for the good of mankind.

“¢ We invoke thy blessing upon this present undertaking of thy servants.
Grant that the structure here commenced under the eye, and, we trust, by
the direction of thy Providence, may be reared up in thy name, and re-
dound to thy glory. May the building here to be erected as a depository
of the curious works of art and nature, and emblems of national distinc-
tion, be more than sufficient for this worthy and honorable purpose. May
it become a monument of usefulness to us as a nation, and a matter of
admiration to the nations of the world. In the deposite of national sym-
bols, may it be a central point of peace and friendship for the kingdoms
and governments of the earth. And may the nations which shall be rep-
resented in its halls find themselves in union, firmly leagued for the en-
couragement of national prosperity, the promotion-of art and intelligence,
and the increase of human happiness. May it be as a central sun of sci-
ence, about which systems may revolve, and from which light and knowl-
edge may be reflected throughout every clime and kingdom of the globe.
And, in the accomplishment of these great and important results, may the
blessings of the nations follow the memory of the projector, and America
become the almoner of a bounty whose benefits shall not cease to flow
until time shall be no more.

“Tn all our civil and domestic relations may we remember our religious
duties, and contribute of our means and services and characters to the in-
crease of thy Church, and the advancement of thy glory; that we may be
a people truly serving thee, honoring thy name in our walks and works of
righteousness, and in the possession of happiness under thy smiles and.
favor.

“Let thy priests, O Lord, be clothed with righteousness, and thy saints
137 ; [ 23}

rejoice in goodness. (2 Chron. vi, 41.) Let thy way be known in all
the earth, thy saving health among all nations.

“¢ Grant that the course of this world may be so peaceably ordered by thy
governance, that thy Church may joyfully serve thee in all godly quiet-

ness ; that thy people may walk in the ways of truth and peace, and at
last be numbered with thy saints in glory everlasting.

‘« Hearken, O Lord God, we beseech thee, to the prayers and supplica-
tions which we have now presented before thee. And let it be thy good
pleasure to grant us our requests, which we offer in the name and through
the merits of thy son Jesus, and our Lord, to whom, with thee and the
Holy Ghost, be all honor and glory: world without end. Amen.

‘‘There was then deposited in a cavity in the corner-stone a leaden
box, containing the following articles, viz:

‘<'Phe gold and silver coins of the United States; report of the Com-
mittee on Organization; Constitution of the United States; the New Tes-
tament; Declaration of Independence; Congressional Directory for 1847;
bulletins of the National Institute; report of the first National Fair at
Washington; report of the United States agent appointed to receive the
legacy of James Smithson; medal portrait of James Smithson; reports of
the Commissioner of Patents; journal of the proceedings of the Board of
Regents, 1846; an engraved plate, with the following inscription:

“On the Ist day of May, 1847, was. laid, in the city of Washington, this
“¢foundation-stone of a building to be appropriated
“‘for the Smithsonian Institution;

“ FOUNDED BY BEQUEST OF JAMES SMITHSON, OF GREAT BRITAIN.
<¢ James K. Poix, President of the United States.

“<< Corporation.

<< President of the United States.

<¢ Vice President of the United States.
<< Secretary of War.

‘¢ Secretary of the 'l'reasury.

‘¢ Secretary of State.

“<< Secretary of the Navy.

<¢ Postmaster General.

<¢ Attorney General.

“¢ Chief Justice.

<¢ Commissioner of Patents.

‘< Mayor of the city of Washington.

“¢ Board of Regents.

‘George M. Dallas, Vice President.

“¢ Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice.

<< W. W. Seaton, Mayor of the City.

‘¢ Lewis Cass, United States Senator.

«‘ James A. Pearce, United States Senator.
<<Robert Dale Owen, United States Representative.
‘¢ William J. Hough, United States Representative.
‘Henry W. Hilliard, United States Representative.
[ 23 ] 138

“¢ Rufus Choate, Massachusetts.

“¢ Richard Rush, Pennsylvania.
“Gideon Hawley, New York.

‘¢ William C. Preston, South Carolina.
‘¢ A. Dallas Bache, National Institute.
*< Joseph G. Totten, National Institute.

“¢ Officers.

“‘George M. Dallas, Chancellor.

‘<oW. W. Seaton,

“Joseph G. Totten, ¢ Hzecutive Comittee.

“¢ Robert Dale Owen, —

“< Robert Dale Owen,

“¢ Joseph G. Totten, Building Committee.

“ William W. Seaton,

“ Joseph Henry, Secretary.

“©. C. Jewett, Assistant Secretary.

“James Renwick, jr., Architect.

“* Robert Mills, Assistant Architect and Superintendent.
“¢ James Dixon and Gilbert Cameron, Contractors.

“<The address of the Chancellor of the institution on laying the corner-
stone; astronomical observations made at the National Observatory; a copy
of the Directory of the city; the city newspapers of the day.

“‘'There was also deposited in the same cavity, by the Free Masons, a
leaden casket containing the following articles, viz:

“¢ An elegant copy of the Holy Bible, presented by the Rev. Charles A.
Davis, on behalf of the Bible Society of Washington; a stereotype page of
Bancroft’s History of the United States; Constitution of the Grand Lodge
of the District of Columbia; an impression of its seal in-metal; a copy of
its proceedings for 1846; a silver plate, inscribed with the names of the
Grand and subordinate lodges of the District.

‘“'Phe Grand Master then applied the square, level, and plumb, and
pronounced the stone properly squared, duly laid, ¢rue and trusty.

‘‘He then proceeded to place upon the stone the corn, wine, and oil,
preceding this ceremony by an appropriate explanation of their symbolic
meaning, concluding his remarks by the following quotation from the
venerable Harris: ‘ Wherefore, brethren, do you carry corn, wine, and
oil in your procession, but to remind you that, in the pilgrimage of hu-
man life, you are to impart a portion of your bread to feed the hungry, to
send a cup of your wine to cheer the sorrowful, and pour the healing oil
of your consolation into the wounds which sickness hath made in the
bodies or afiliction rent in the hearts of your fellow-travellers.’

“¢ Upon pouring the corn upon the stone, the Grand Master said: ‘I do
this, expressing a hope that the hearts of those who are charged with car-
rying into effect the intentions of the generous donor whose legacy has
established the Smithsonian Institution, may be strengthened in the per-
formance of all their duties.’ In pouring thereon the wine, the Grand
Master said: ‘ May the Regents of this institution, and all connected there-
with, be cheered onward and rejoice in the success of all their measures
connected with the erection of this building and with the government of
139 [ 23 ]

the institution.” In pouring the oil upon the stone, he said: ¢ May har-
mony, peace, and brotherly love prevail among all connected with the
Smithsonian Institution, and may they witness the placing of the cap-
stone of the complete edifice under circumstances as propitious as those
which attend the present ceremonies.’

‘<The Grand Master then informed the assembled multitude that he held
in his hand the identical gavel used by the immortal Washington in con-
ducting the masonic ceremonies upon laying the corner-stone of the Capi-
tol of these United States—this happy and glorious Union, which had now
so greatly extended, and was still extending, so that no man could foresee
its magnitude or its power. He also stated that he had the honor then to
Wear an apron worn upon the same occasion by the Father of his Country,
which was presented to Washington by the Grand Lodge of France,
through that great and good patriot and mason, General Lafayette. This
apron, he said, had been in possession of Mount Nebo Lodge, of Shep-
herdstown, Virginia, for many years, and that that lodge had kindly dele-
gated a brother, 8S. McElroy, esq., to bear the apron to this city, and to
present it to the Grand Lodge, with a request that it be worn by the
Grand Master on this occasion, which he had done at the meeting of this
morning.

“'Phe Grand Master then gave three raps upon the stone with the
gavel of Washington, the masonic brethren present gave the grand ma-
sonic honors, and the masonic ceremonies were concluded.

“Mr. Dallas, fhe Chancellor of the Board of Regents, then rose and de-
livered the following

“¢ ADDRESS.

“ Friends and fellow-citizens: It has been deemed proper, that, ata
ceremony so interesting as the present to the Smithsonian Institution, its
chief officer should make to you a few general remarks explanatory of its
origin, its purposes, its plans, and its prospects. Let me, therefore, ask
your attention while | undertake that duty.

“The Congress of the United States, by an act passed on the 10th of
August last, organized ‘ an establishment,’ through the instrumentality of
which to apply faithfully to its directed objects a legacy of five hundred
thousand dollars, received by our government under the will of a philo-
sophic and benevolent Englishman. ‘This ‘establishment’ is composed
of our highest public fuctionaries for the time being: the President, the
Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the Heads of the six Executive
Departments, with the Commissioner of the Patent Office and the Mayor
of Washington; and, as the active council of management, a board is
created of fifteen, known in the act by the scholastic name of ‘ Regents,’
one-fifth of them chosen by the Seuate, another fifth by the House of
Representatives, and of the remainder, two-fifths, by the joint action of
both legislative chambers. It is to accommodate this imposing agency,
to give it permanent and suitable means with which to effectuate its 1m-
portant and various purposes, and to shelter as well as exhibit its col-
lections and property, ‘that Congress enjoined to be erected, ‘of plain
and durable material and structure, without unnecessary ornament,’ the
edifice whose corner-stone you have seen deposited.

“ James Smithson, a Londoner born, and claiming to be the son of a
[23] 140

distinguished nobleman, gave his life exclusively to intellectual pursuits,
and plies: to researches in physical and experimental science. Sup-
plied with larger means than his wants required, and steadily practising
a strict scheme of personal economy, he amassed considerable fortune. He
died at Genoa in 1829, and, by his will, bequeathed his accumulated
property to this Union—a country that, notwithstanding his frequent
change of abode, he had never visited, whose citizens he had never as-
sociated with, but in whose inevitable future he saw the most solid ground
on which to cast the anchor of his fame. "his legacy, for some time the
subject of litigation in the British Court of Chancery, was finally secured,
brought over, - anid received into the treasury of the United States on the
Ist of September, 1838. Its exact amount, when deposited, was five hun-
dred and fifteen thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars.

“The legacy was accompanied by a declaration of its design; and the
execution of that design has been assumed, as well by an acceptance of
the money, as by several open and formal ‘avowals by our government.
It was to ‘found an institution at Washington for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men ;’ to found, not an academy, not a college,
not a university, but something less technical and precise, something
whose import and circuit should be bolder and more comprehensive ; an
Institution not merely for disseminating, spreading, teaching knowledge,
but also, and foremost, for creating. originating, Increasing it. Where at?
In a city whose name recalls itlie wisest, purest, and noblest spirit
of the freest, newest, and broadest land. And among whom ? Not a
chosen or designated class—not the followers of a particular sage or sect—
not the fewouites of fortune, nor the lifted of rank; but among meN—men
of every condition, of every school, of every faith, of every nativity.
Men! It was with a purpose thus elevated and expansive, thus as well
distinct as undiscriminating, that James Smithson committed his wealth
to the guardianship of the American republic. Whatever may be the
difference of opinion as to the comparative merits of the many modes of
practically realizing this purpose, it is quite certain that the good faith
and best exertions of our country are solemnly pledged to its fulfilment.
We must try it—try it sincerely, indefatigably, trustworthily—try it
through all the diversified and promising chaunels—try it with no narrow
exclusiveness of choice or prejudice as to systems, sciences, or arts ‘The
intention of the benefactor was to make his endowment a perennial foun-
tain of wisdom, as well practical as theoretic or imaginative, whose living
waters should be unceasingly distributed to advance the intelligence,
comfort, and happiness of human beings.

“ When, at no distant day, I trust, it ‘shall be seen that within the walls
of this building the truths of nature are forced by persevering researches
from their hidden recesses, mingled with the stock already hoarded by
genius and industry, and thence profusely scattered, by gratuitous lectures
or publications, for the benefit of all; whén it shall be seen, that here
universal science finds food, implemeuts, and a tribune—art her spring to
invention, her studio, and her models; and both shall have throngs of
disciples from the ranks of our people, emulous for enlightenment or eager
to assist—then the condition of our legacy will have been performed, and
the wide philanthrophy of Smithson have achieved its aim!

‘‘ Asa beginning to the plan for effecting a result so interesting, Con-
gress have deemed and declared the erection of a large and commodious

.

<=

141 [23]

edifice indispensable. The Board of Regents were, by the legislative
charter, instructed to select, as scon as they were organized, a site, and
to cause a structure to be reared, and that structure to make <‘ of sufficient
size, and with suitable rooms or halls for the reception and arrangement,
upon a liberal seale,’ first, of objects of natural history, including a geologi-
eal and mineralogical cabinet; second, of a chemical laboratory; third,
of a library; fourth, of a gallery of art; fifth, of the necessary lecture-rooms;
and, sixth, of the national cabinet of curiosities and relies, now poorly and
partially accommodated in the upper story of the Patent Office. It is the
first duty.of the Regents to obey the unequivocal behests of Congress, to
earry them out faithfully on the scale and in the spirit they obviously im-
port; and to let their measures flow, not from their own discretion, but
from the provisions of the law which they are empowered to execute. I
say this in explanation of the dimensions which the building must neces-
sarily take. It is consecrated to the various and boundless objects that
tend to ‘increase and diffuse knowledge.’ It is designed to participate,
as a satellite, in the duration and march of our glorious Union, to be the
depository of all the rare productions of nature and art which centuries
may gather, and to throw: open halls sufficiently ample to contain the
knowledge-seeking- masses of our countrymen. . Congress have stamped
this character upon it, by prescribing and appropriating its vast interior com-
partments, and by other positive expressions of their will.

‘<'Mo conform strictly to instruction, and yet keep within the pecuniary
limits assigned to them; to provide the space called for, and yet ayoid even
the appearance of unnecessary expansion; to combine solidity with archi-
tectural beauty, and wholesome ventilation, and to satisfy at once true
taste and stern economy by banishing useless embellishment, were aims
always controlling aud uppermost with the Regents. How far they have
succeeded, time will show, and must be left to the candor of public opinion.
Not doubting that the experienced and reliable contractors for the work
will accomplish their undertaking, in all its details, with exactitude and
fidelity, | may venture to give you an anticipation in brief of the building
Whose first stone is now laid.

‘< Its exterior will present a specimen of the style of architecture that pre-
vailed some seven centuries ago, chiefly in Germany, Normandy, and south-
ern Kurope, which preceded the Gothic, and continues to recommend it-
self, for structures like this, to the most enlightened judgment. It is
known as the Norman. or, more strictly speaking, the Lombard style. It
harmonizes alike with the extent, the grave uses, and the massive strength
of the edifice; it exacts a certain variety in the forms of its parts; and it
authorizes any additions that convenience may require, no matter how
seemingly regular they may be.

‘<< It will extend, east and west, an entire front of four hundred and
twenty-six feet, having a central building of fifty by two hundred feet in
the clear inside, with two towers; two wings of unequal fronts, the east
one forty-five by seventy-five feet in the clear inside, with a vestibule and
porch attached to it; the west one thirty-four by sixty-five feet in the clear
inside, with a northern semicircular projection. ‘These wmgs will be con-
nected with the central building by two ranges sixty feet in length in the
clear inside. It will have a central rear tower, and other towers of diffe-
rent heights, sizes, and characters, two of them placed in the wings. All
these numerous towers are essential te arrangements within, as flues,
[ 23 ] 142

stairways, ventilators, and detached rooms; and are of different heights,
varying from sixty to one hundred and fifty feet.

‘<<’ The first story of the central building will be occupied by the library,
the chief lecture-room, and the principal hall; the second story by the
museum. ‘The laboratory and chemical lecture-room will occupy the east
wing; the gallery of art the western wing and western connecting range.
The chosen material is a freestone of a lilac-gray color, drawn from a
quarry on the banks of the Chesapeake and Ohio canal, near Seneca creek,
and twenty three miles from this spot.

‘It is gratifying to me to be able to accompany this imperfect sketch
with the statement, that the entire pile is to be finished, and furnished, and
fitted up, for a sum less, by thirty-seven thousand dollars, than the one
set apart by Congress as applicable to the building alone.

<¢ How best to put this Smithsonian Institution in progress; to give it
definite character and views; to shape its line of march as Congress has
either ordered or intimated that it should be, and to let the testamentary
purpose be apparent in all its operations, was a task on which ability and
much consultation have been expended.” There were, | may almost say,
necessarily, and of, course there were on this cardinal point, great diver-
sities of sentiment and construction, as there had been during the mas-
terly debates which prefaced the passage of the law. What constituted
‘ knowledge,’ in the sense of Smithson’s bequest? In what manner shall
its ‘ ancrease’ be provided for? By what method shail its ‘ diffusion’
be sought? Should the developments of the laboratory be more engrossing
than the stored resources of the library? Will oral expositions or printed
treatises be preferable? Are permanent professorships to be systematized,
or temporary teachers to be enlisted? In fine, what should be the instru- |
ments and the orbit of an establishment whence the light of knowledge
was required constantly to radiate among men ?

““'They to whom was confided the resolution of these problems into prac-
tical measures, have felt the weight and delicacy of their mission. "hey
began by profoundly studying the subject in its several aspects. ‘They
cherished with ardor, and discussed with freedom, their respective projects.
The conflicts of upright minds, however, rarely fail to end in mutual con-
cession and compromise; and thus scarcely a single measure was adopted
except by unanimous concurrence. ‘The Regents have submitted their
labors and conclusions to the country—the report of their proceedings was
duly made for legislative supervision; and may they not confidently hope
for (what they know nothing of theirs can succeed without) the co-opera-
tion and sympathy of the American people ?

‘< "There are some results to be anticipated from the success of the institu-
tion, which, though not as obvious as others, are nevertheless such as no
sound American heart can wholly disregard, and which it may not be mis-
placed to glance at. That we shall fulfill, in the presence of watchful
civilization, an admitted obligation, and that the common mind of our
country, on which the permanency of its liberties so closely depends, will
be exalted and invigorated, are considerations abundantly strong to rally
us all to the manly effort. No greater shame, and no greater loss can
readily be incurred, than would be consequent on ignoble failure. But
may it not be justly said, that the mild and genial influence of this estab-
lishment will strengthen "and tighten the cords of our Union, and give to
the capital of that Union a new charm, with greater stability ?
143 [ea]

“The Smithsonian design is, as I have already suggested, a peculiar one.
ft cannot, as a scene of educational training, have any pretensions or pro-
voke any jealousies. It is no rival of the many admirable schools which
adorn the respective States, and can in no manner intrude upon their
spheres of action. Yet it will be a factory and a storehouse of knowledge,
accessible to all the agents of this vast confederacy—its executive, legisla-
tive, judicial, civil, military, foreign and domestic agents. It will be the
recipient, too, of such fruits of the labors, and such acquisitions of the
enterprise and travels of these agents, as may contribute to illustrate, and
explain, and facilitate the public service, or to give precision and vigor to
its operations of every kind. As a resource and a sanctuary for intellect,
the institution can hardly fail to become an object of patriotic pride and
attachment, and must be felt as a persuasive inducement to preserve invi-
olate the constitution, with whose fate its own is identified.

“¢} will not dwell upon its special claim to the fostering kindness and hos-
pitality of the Metropolis. Her citizens doubtless appreciate that justly.
By designating Washington for its local habitation, the generous testator
has summoned the intelligence, the courtesy, and the philanthropy of her
inhabitants, as auxiliaries to his beneficent project. Already it has added
to her social scene a fixed star, whose beams pervade the scientific world;
and, ere long, this rising temple, consecrated to the highest of human pur-
suits, KNOWLEDGE, will give fresh attraction and firmness to her destiny.

<¢ Mr. Dallas having concluded, a national salute was fired by the Colum-
bian artillery, while the band played a national air.

«<The benediction was then pronounced by the Rev. F. 8. Evans, and
thus were concluded the ceremonies of the day, which were witnessed by
at least six or seven thousand persons.”’

THIRTY-FOURTH MEETING—May 25, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Totten.

Mr. C. Buckingham appeared before the committee, and represented that,
in laying the water pipe from the fire plug on the Market square to the site
of the Smithsonian building, according to his contract, (see page 124,) he
had incurred (over the amount of $650, as agreed on in that contract) an
excess of expenditure which, including the sum of $84 for his personal

services, amounted to $138 23; as shown in the following specification of

items :

Building Comunittce of the Smithsonian Insiztution,

May 18, 1847. To C. Buckingham.
To lead pipe to conduct water from avenue to the site of Bpild-) <2
ing, 8,090 Ibs., at 6} cents —- . - - $000 25
107 Ibs. of lead pipe, at 7} cents - - - - J 50
156 lbs. of lead pipe, at T$ cents - - : : - 70
iron pipe across the canal - - - = ; 42 (2
plumber’s bill for making joints — - - - : zt a
excavation and filling in same —- - - : 0
one hand, ten days, at $1 50 : = : z . 0

one laborer, ten days, at $1 - -
rt

[ 23 ] 144

To two stop-cocks . : - = - L S5 50.
boxes in pipe at canal, and box atend ~ - Ss 3 00

a cylinder for cock at Market square = = . 2 50
relaying pavement on 9th street and market ~ = : 2 00
my own services 28 days, at $3, - - - - 84 00
788 23

650 00

‘ 138 23

‘The amount of $138 23 Mr. Buckingham asked to be allowed, over and
above the amount in the contract agreed to be paid to him.

Mr. Buckingham further alleged, in support of his request, that he had
laid down ezira strong pipe, instead of strong pipe, as by his contract he
was alone bound to lay—say about 1,860 lbs. weight of pipe beyond the
contract, at 65 cents, making $117; that when he received this pipe he
had called on one of the committee, (Mr. Seaton,) and informed him that
he proposed to return it, as his loss in so doing would have been but $50,
in the shape of freight; ‘put was disstiaded by Mr. Seaton from so doing.

The committee declined acting upon Mr. Buckingham’s application,
but informed Mr. B. that they would lay the case before the Board of
Regents.

The commitiee instructed Mr. Seaton to pay over to Mr. Buckingham
the amount of his contract, to wit, $650; which was accordingly done.

Mr. Seaton stated to the committee, that on the 22d inst. Mr. Downer,
contractor jor the erection of the fence enclosing the Smithsonian lot, (see
page 125.) had represented to him (Mr. 8.) that the said fence would cost
him uch more than the sum of $400, for which he contracted to erect
it; and that he (Mr. Downer) offered to relinquish to the committee all
the work he had already put on the fence; they releasing him from the
contract and paying him the cost of the materials purchased.

The committee, after consultation, decided that it was inexpedient
either to release Mr. Downer from his contract, or to make him any allow-
ance beyond the sum in that contract specified to be paid for the work.
And the suprintendent was instructed to inform Mr. Downer what had
been the decision of the committee in his case, and in that of Mr. Buck-
ingham.

‘Mr. Seaton submitted to the board the following letter, which had been
forwarded by Mr. Owen from Indiana, with a request that it be spread on
the journal of the committee : d b

Orrice or New Jersey R. R. anp Trans. Co.,
New York, April 8, 1847.

Dear Sir: I am insiructed by the directors of the New Jersey Railroad
and ‘Vransportation Company to inform you, that it is not in their power —
to give a favorable reply to your application for reduced rates of fare over
their road, in favor of Mr. Renwick, as the architect of the Smithsonian
Institution. ‘The board, as I mentioned to you, do not feel themselves
authorized to act in favor of applications in cases where there may be a
145 [ 23 ]

diversity of opinions and interests among the stockholders whom they
represent.
3 I am, respectfully, yours, .
ROBERT SCHUYLER,
ey oe Vice President.
New Harmony, Indiana.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTY FIFTH MEETING—Jury 23, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Totten.
Mr. Seaton submitted from one of the contractors the following letter:

Wasutneron, June 1, 1847.

GentLemen: By an agreement between Mr. Cameron, my present
partner, and myself, | have determined (provided it be agreeable to you)
to retire from the firm of Dixon and Cameron, as contractors of the Smith-
sonian Institution. {fam anxious to be released from all responsibility,
provided the building committee should deem proper to release me.

Mr. Cameron offers Mr. Horace Butler, of New York, as his security for
the completion of the building, should the committee deem the same
sufficient. ;

Yours, very respectfully,
JAMES DIXON.

To the Burtpiné ComMItrEeE

of the Smithsonian Institution.

This letter was, without any action upon it, on motion, laid on the
table.
Mr. Seaton submitted from Mr. Cameron, one of the contractors, the

following letter:

Juty 10, 1847.

GentTLemen: In consequence of the withdrawal of Mr. Dixon from the:
contract for erecting the Smithsonian building under your charge, which
leaves me wholly dependent on my own funds to fulfil the contract which
we jointly entered into with your honorable body, I would respectfully
solicit of the committee the privilege of being paid once a month on my
contract, with the architect’s certificate, in place of every two months.
My expenses for work, and also for materials, and heavy outlay at the
Seneca quarries, and payments to my men once every two weeks, absorb
my means very fast.

Praying you, gentlemen, to take these things into your consideration, I
beg to add, that the compliance of the committee with this, my respectful
request, will much oblige your obedient and humble servant,

GILBERT CAMERON.

To the Burrpine ComMITTEE

of the Smithsonian Institution.

LG;
[23 ] 146

After consultation with the architect, it was

Ordered, That payments be hereafter made to the contractor monthly,
upon the architect’s estimate, and with reduction of fifteen per cent. as
heretofore.

Mr. Seaton stated to the committee, that on examining the fence around
the Smithsonian lot, though executed according to contract, he believed it
would be insecure and exposed to frequent injury without a stout top-
rail; and he submitted, on this subject, from the architect, the following:

JuLty 22, 1847,

Dear Sir: Mr. Carr has made an estimate for putung a3 x 14 inch
top-rail on the fence, with two wrought iron nails to each paling, and says
that it can be done for sixty dollars.

Will you be so kind as to let me know by McPeak whether he shall
proceed with it?

Very truly and respectfully yours,
JAMES RENWICK, Jr.
W. W. Seaton, Esq.,
Member of Building Committee.

On motion, it was
Resolved, ‘That the architect be authorized to contract for the addition
of a3 x 14 inch top-rail, to be firmly nailed to the fence, at a cost not
exceeding sixty dollars.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was further
Resolved, Vhat the architect be authorized to make a contract for white-
washing the fence around the lot, at an expense not exceeding sixty dol-
lars.
Mr. Seaton submitted, on the subject of a resolution heretofore passed
by the Committee, (page 12U,) the following letters, which he received
from Mr. Owen:

SUYDENHAM, NEAR Pumapereuta,
May 20, 1847.

My Dear Sir: Referring to my former letter, 1 now enclose you the
answer from the Girard College, through their architect, Mr. Walter,
which would have been transmitted immediately, but that I was from
home when it arrived. I regret its nature, and endeavored by personal
exertions to render it otherwise, but without success.

The engraving of the college, to which Mr. Walter alludes in no
commendatory terms, I will leave with my son, 98 South Fourth street,
Philadelphia, (Benjamin Rush,) subject to your order at any moment,
should you desire to have it.

On the eve of my departure on the French mission, I cannot lose this
occasion of saying with what constant interest I shall continue to follow
up the proceedings of the Smithsonian Regents; and of adding, that if it
ever be thought | could render the least service to the insutution while
in Paris, it would afford me the greatest pleasure to be called upon.

I beg you to believe in the esteem with which I am, dear sir, very
faithfully yours, .

RICHARD RUSH.

Hon. Roperr Date Owen.
147 [ 23 ]

Girarp Cottece, May 8, 1847.
F Dear Sir: I received your favor of the 15th ultimo, enclosing a letter
from the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, both of which I laid before the build-
ing committee of the Girard College; and I am sorry to say, that in con-
sequence of their having no power nor right to expend the funds intrusted
to them for any other purpose than the building of the college, they find
themselves unable to comply with the request.

‘They desire me to say that they highiy appreciate the flattering notice
Mr. Owen has taken of the work under their charge, and their inability to
meet his views by furnishing an engraving for the contemplated work.

The only engraving of the college over which they have any control
is no doubt entirely too large for the proposed book, and its execution is
not such as would do credit either to the institution or the college.

I send you an impression, by which you will see that it is by no
means fit for a work like the one in question.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOS. U. WALTER.

Hon. Ricuarp Rusu.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTY-SIXTH MEETING—Ocroser 18, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

Mr. Seaton stated to the committee that he had received several letters
from Mr. Notman, of Philadelphia, one of the architects to whom a pre-
mium of $250 had been awarded, and who at first had declined to receive
said premium in full compensation for his plans; and that Mr. Notman
had finally agreed to receive said premium in full, as appears from the
annexed check on him (Mr. Seaton) for the amount:

Puitape puia, September 28, 1847.

Hon. W. W. Searon,
Regent of the Smithsonian Institution.
Sir: At sight pay to my order two hundred and fifty dollars, being in
full of premium awarded me as compensation for my design for the in-
stitution, by the Board of Regents; this being my receipt in full for the

same, as ordered.
JOHN NOTMAN.
$250.

Mr. Seaton further stated to the committee that Mr. Notman requested
the return of his drawings, stating that “ drawings are invariably return-
ed, except the one preferred.”

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was ;

Resolved, That the request of Mr. Notman, for the return of his draw-
ings, be referred to the Board of Regents at their next session. |

Mr. Seaton submitted from Mr. William Archer, of Washington, the
following letter :
[ 23 ] 148

WasHInaTon, August 27, 1847.

Sir: I address you as a member of the building committee of the
Smithsonian Institution. It will be remembered the subscriber furnished
a plan, specification, and estimate of an edifice for the institution.

That plan was made to suit what was believed to be the object of the
testator, and according to the true meaning of the act of Congress—to “be
of the best and most durable materials, and fire-proof.”” ‘Yhat plan was re-
ceived by the building committee, and taken by them to the eastern cities
and shown to the artists, architects, and builders, along with, and in con-
trast with, the plan of Dr. Owen. And as Dr. Owen was paid for his
plan, though not adopted, and as all the other architects that copied
from him were paid, surely | have the same if not a better right to be
paid than they, as both the committee and the architects had the benefit
of my specification and estimate for comparison, or to copy from. ‘There-
fore I hope the committee will allow me the same consideration as the
others.

I am, with all due respect, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM ARCHER.

To W. W. Seaton, esq..

Building Commitice Smithsonian Institution.

Mr. Seaton was instructed to inform Mr. Archer, in reply to the above
communication, that he is mistaken in supposing that Dr. Owen’s plan
was paid for; that although the general internal arrangements of that plan
were substantially adopted, and though one of the present wings is a copy,
somewhat modified, of the original elevation submitted by him, (Dr. O.,)
yet that he (Dr. O.) received no remuneration whatever for his plans, they
being considered, like Mr. Archer’s, a voluntary offering to the institu-
tion ; further, that no portion whatever of Mr. Archer’s design, either of
its general plan or its elevation, had been adopted or copied, with or with-
out modifications ; and therefore, even if it be considered as submitied in
competition with the other plans, it stands but in the same situation as
many others that were returned to the respective architects without any
remuneration ; and finally, that the committee has no authority to award
a premium or grant remuneration in this or any similar case.

‘Che chairman submitted, as a memorandum regarding the condition
of the building fund, a copy of a letter yesterday addressed by him to
the Chancellor, as follows :

WasuHineton, October 17, 1847.

My Dear Sir: J arrived here last evening from Baltimore, and called
upon Mr. Seaton this morning. He showed mea letter from you, in reply
to a request of his for a power of attorney to draw $7,500 of the funds of
the Smithsonian Institution to pay contractors, &c., for which same $7,500
you had previously, to wit: on the 4th instant, signed a requisition ; and
he requested me to write to you, and comply with your request to be fur-
nished with a copy of such portion of the minutes of our board as gives
authority to draw or apply this sum.

I see you have forgotten how this matter of appropriation stands. Just
previously to the appointment of the building committee, to wit: on the
28th January last, the board passed resolutions that the said committee
149 [ 23]

contract for the building at an amount not exceeding $210,000,

with 10 per cent. added—say : - - - $231,000
For warming and lighting the same - - - - 5,000
For fitting up and furnishing the same - - - 20,000
For fencing the lot - - - . - - 10,000

and some other appropriations.

After which, the board passed the following resolution :

“ Resolved, 'That the Executive Committee certify to the Chancellor
and Secretary of the board the total amount of debts incurred, contracts
entered into, and contracts authorized by the board ; and that the Chan-
cellor and Secretary, after examination and approval of the same, certify
the same to the proper officer of the treasury for payment.”

This, you will recollect, was done, and $250,000 of treasury notes ob-
tained.

And they also passed, the same“day, the following additional resolution:

“ Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to receive
said payment in treasury notes, payable to the order of the Chancellor of
the Smithsonian Institution in one year from date, bearing an interest of
six per cent. per annum; and that they be further authorized to exchange
$150,000 of said notes as soon as practicable for an equal amount of six
per cent. stock of the United States, payable in twenty years, which
stock shall be payable to the Chancellor of the institution; which said
notes and stock shall be deposited for safekeeping only with the Treasurer
of the United States, or such other person as they may deem proper, to
be drawn out only upon checks or warrants signed by the Chancellor, the
Secretary, and the chairman of the Executive Committee.”’

Now the amount of $7,500, which we now want, and for which you
have already signed a requisition, (not the proper form; it should have been
“a check or warrant signed by the Chancellor, the Secretary, and the chair-
man of the Executive Committee,’’) we desire to draw in the shape of in-
terest, namely: the half-yearly interest due in August last on the above
treasury notes, which treasury notes are the result of a requisition already
duly made in accordance with the first of the above resolutions for
$250,000, and now, as it were, in the hands of a disbursing agent.

It is clearly expedient and proper to draw the interest first, and not to
touch the notes themselves till we are compelled to do so; and to obtain
this interest a power of attorney from you, it seems, is necessary.

The Chancellor, Secretary, and chairman of the Executive Committee,
have the full authority to draw not only the interest, but, in proportion as
they may be required, the treasury notes themselves also, without any
ulterior appropriation, or other action whatever, of the board.

To make our payments to the contractors, we shall have to draw a por-
tion of the notes themselves, and sell them before New Year’s day, the
date when our semi-annual interest on the principal sum of $515,169 be-
comes due.

You may remember that the understanding was, that of the entire sum
at which the building might be contracted, not more than one fifth was
to be spent by the building committee in each of the five years during
which the building will be in progress of construction. Now you will
see by the items of expenditure since the Ist of March last, which Mr.
Seaton informs me he has sent you, that we have in the present year, so
far, paid to the contractor but $14,088. I learn that the probable amount
[ 23] 150

we shall have to pay to him up to the Ist January next, may be about
$10,0U0; and up to the 19th March next, (being one year from the date
of the contract,) perhaps $5,000 more; making the total payments in the
first year but $29,000, instead of $41,000, (one-fourth the amount at
which the building was contracted,) being the amount we were author-
ized to expend.

We have thus, you will perceive, husbanded our resources so as to save
interest much beyond the anticipations of the board.

The building proceeds as well as could be desired ; and its appearance,
so far as I can learn, gives universal satisfaction.

I am, my dear sir, faithfully yours,
ROBERT DALE OWEN.
The Hon. Georce M. Datuas,
Chancellor.

The chairman, in connexion with the subject of the treatise on Public
Architecture, of which the preparation by resolution of the 6th March last
(see page 22) was intrusted to him, stated to the committee that he had
commenced the collection of materials for said work, but had been able
to make but little progress in it while at home, for lack of the necessary
works of reference; that it was his intention now to devote his time to it,
without interruption, in the hope that he might be able to complete the
letter press before the meeting of the board in December, and that some
of the chief illustrations were already in hands in New York.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTY-SEVENTH MEETING—Ocroser 22, 1847.
[Held on the site of the Institution. ]

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Totten, and Owen.

Representations having been made to the committee by sundry indi-
viduals, in regard to the insufficient quality of some of the materials em-
ployed by the contractor in the building, they proceeded to the building,
and after carefully examining the materials complained of, they decided
that, although there were some pieces of timber in the east connecting
range which were not merchantable, these were not of such a character,
nor so placed, that any practical injury would result to the structure from
their use; and, therefore, the committee decided that it was not necessary
to condemn or remove them. They instructed the architect, however, for
the future to throw out every piece of timber, no matter how unimpor-
tant its destination, which was not strictly merchantable.

The committee fully approved all the other materials used in the build-
ing.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTY-EIGHTH MEETING—Ocroser 26, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.

The chairman informed the committee that he had visited, in company
with the architect and contractor, the several quarries of Bull run from
which material is now getting out for the building, and had inspected the
blocks prepared for transportation, of which a large number had accumu-
151 [23]

lated in the quarry in consequence of the injury done to the canal by the
freshet several weeks since. He was completely satisfied with the quality
and color of all that had been quarried. The stone quarries with remark-
able facility, and with such regularity that the face, as it splits, is often
smooth and regular enough to resemble stone roughly dressed for the ex-
ternal face of a building. Lt resembles in this respect the granite described
by Dr. Owen, (page 32,) and is quarried in the same manner.

As to the quantity, it seems, as the quarries open, to be absolutely in-
exhaustible; the representations of Mr. Dixon, former contractor, (see
page 119,) to the contrary notwithstanding. ‘he contractor proposes to
open another quarry, immediately on the bank of the canal, and some
300 or 400 yards nearer Seneca creek than that which has heretofore fur-
nished material; in which new quarry the face of the rock, so far as it is
disclosed, promises even a better quality and color than that in the old,
while the transportation from the quarry to the scow will be greatly short-
ened.

Nothing can be more satisfactory than the aspect of these quarries, the
facility with which they are worked, the grain and tint of the material
they have furnished, and their promise for the future.

On motion, the committee adjourned.

THIRTY-NINTH MEETING—Novemper 1, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton, Totten, and Owen.

The chairman submitted the first chapter of the work which, in accord-
ance with a resolution of the committee (page 22) he is preparing, on
Public Architecture.

It was approved.

The chairman, in connexion with the preparation of the said work,
stated to the committee his intention to visit New York in a few days,
as well to examine the illustrations now in progress, and put others in
hand, as to consult authorities not to be found in this city.

And, on motion, the committee adjourned.

FORTIETH MEETING—Novempser 9, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.
On motion of the chairman, it was
Resolved, ‘Vhat the architect be requested to cause to be prepared, so
as to be ready next summer, the furniture of the Regents’ room, as set
down in the specifications, to wit: eighteen chairs and a table; and that
he cause also to be made, as furniture for the Secretary’s room, and to be
ready at the same time, a desk, six chairs, and a small centre table.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was
Resolved, That the remuneration of William McPeak, messenger, be,
from the date of his last payment, to wit: the second of August last, seven
dollars per week.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was - ;
Resolved, That the chairman order, for the use of the board, 250 copies
of Senate document No. 212, being the first report of the Board of Regents
to Congress; provided the cost of the same do not exceed fifteen dollars..
And, on motion, the committee adjourned.
[ 23 ] 152
FORTY-FIRST MEETING—Novemeer 26, 1847.

Present, Messrs. Seaton and Owen.
The chairman, on his return from New York, made the following

REPORT.

In regard to the illustrations of the work on Public Architecture, I find
that to procure execution in a manner that shall be creditable to the insti-
tution, will cost more than I had anticipated. Mr. Drayton, who has
charge of the publications of the Exploring Expedition, and has, in con-
sequence, great experience, both in regard to the relative talents of en-
gravers and to the proper cost of engravings, has afforded me much assist-
ance in this matter. We found it impossible, however, to contract for the
steel engravings, giving two perspective views of the institution, one from
the southeast, and the other from the northwest, and executed in the best
style of art, for less than from three hundred and fifty to four hundred
dollars for the two ; which is fifty per cent. more than I had expected to
pay.

Having satisfied myself, however, that engravings of this character
could not be obtained for less, I empowered Messrs. Sherman and Smith,
corner of Broadway and Liberty street, to whom Mr. Drayton recom-
mended that they should be intrusted, to proceed with one specimen ;
after which, they would be able to fix the exact price at which the two
could be completed.

For the reasons above stated, and considering the very limited amount
placed at the disposal of our committee, for illustrations, I judge it pru-
dent chiefly to trust, for the other illustrations, to wood cuts, which are
now executed in New York in very good style, and which will not cost
more than half as much as steel engravings.

Accordingly, I called on Mr. Adams, by whom were executed the wood-
cuts in Harper’s Pictorial Bible, and who has since, as I learn, retired
from the profession. I had been advised to consult him as one who knew
more about the relative talents of wood-cutters in this country than prob-
ably any other man, and he recommended, as the best for architectural
engraving, Mr. John H. Hall, Fulton street. 1 had several interviews
with Mr. Hall, obtained his prices, and inspected several specimens of his
work, with which I was well pleased, and of which two are herewith
submitted to the committee. The effect does not seem to me greatly in-
ferior to that of steel engraving. .

Mr. Hall offered to execute the perspective view of the Gothic plan of
Mr. James Renwick, ordered by resolution of this committee of April 10,
(see page 120,) and which requires more work than the perspective view
of the institution, for $100.

It will be necessary to employ more than one wood-cutter, in order to
complete the illustrations in reasonable season ; and if the committee de-
cide that it is best to procure the illustrations chiefly on wood, I have
made the arrangement for putting them in hands. Mr. Roberts, whom I
stated in my report of April 6 (see page 117) to have been recommended
by Mr. Durand as the best wood-cutter in this country, I found exclu-
sively engaged by one of the tract societies.

In regard to the application made by resolutions of this committee,
153 [ 23 ]

under date April 19, to the vestry of Grace church, and of Trinity church,
and to the firm of Alexander Stewart & Co., for plates of Grace church,
Trinity church, and Stewart’s new marble store, I have to state that the
Grace church vestry have liberally agreed to pay one hundred dollars for
a plate. of their church, on the terms of our resolution. The Trinity
vestry have not yet come to a final decision. Mr. Stewart was not seen,
though twice called on; but one of his partners informed Mr. Renwick that
they would probably furnish an engraving of their building, as it is to be
ultimately completed.

By the terms of our resolution, the engraving of Grace church must be
executed on steel or copper; and as it is a much less elaborate engraving
than that of the Smithsonian building, Mr. Drayton thinks we can have
it executed on steel for a hundred dollars.

Even if we decide to let all the other illustrations be cut on wood, it will,
I think, be impossible to execute those already embraced in our resolu-
tions, (see page 120,) and such as are indispensable to a due explanation of
the text to the general reader, for the sum of $1,000, to which the appro-
priation is at present limited. Nor do I believe that the treatise itself, in-
cluding the appendix, can be advantageously condensed into a hundred
and fifty pages of letter-press,as by the agreement with Wiley & Put-
nam (page 115) it was stipulated it should. I deemed it proper then to
seek to obtain from these publishers a conditional supplement to that agree-
ment, based on the contingency that the Board of Regents might vote an
additional appropriation. ‘They agreed to the proposal I made to them,
and signed the following

Supplement to the agreement of April 3, 1847.

Whereas, by an agreement made the third day of April, 1847, between
Wiley & Putnam, publishers of New York, and Robert Dale Owen, on
behalf of the building committee of the Smithsonian Institution, Te-
garding the publication of a treatise, to be entitled “ Hints on Public
Architecture,” it was stipulated that the illustrations of the said treatise
(that is to say, its engravings and wood-cuts) should cost not less than
one thousand dollars, and that the number of pages of said treatise should
not exceed one hundred and fifty pages of letter-press: Now, therefore,
it is further agreed, that in case the said building committee should see fit
to increase the value of the said illustrations, then the said Wiley &
Putnam agree that the number of pages of letter-press may be propor-
tionably increased ; as, if five hundred dollars additional be expended for
the illustrations, then one half of one hundred and fifty pages—-say seventy-
five pages—may be added to the letter-press ; and so of any larger or
smaller sum: Provided, however, that the entire number of pages of letter-
press shall not, in any case, exceed two hundred and fifty.

Witness our hands and seals this 22d of November, 1847.

WILEY & PUTNAM. [L. s:]

In presence of THos. B. Graves,

as to Wiley & Putnam.

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
on behalf of the Building Commitee
of the Smithsonian Institution.
-

[234 154

I recommended that in the report of the building committee to be
made to the board at their next meeting, it be proposed that they should
increase the appropriation accordingly.

I examined, with a good deal of care, most of the churches that have been
recently erected and are now in progress of erection in New York. They
are, aS a general rule, very creditable to the architectural talent of the
country. Among those yet unfinished, one of the most promising is St.
George church, (Episcopalian,) situated at the corner of Sixteenth street
and Stuyvesant square, built in the same style as our building, namely,
in the Lombard style of the twelfth century. The general effect will, I
think, be very fine, especially of the front towers. ‘The rear terminates
in an absis, somewhat similar to that on the north front of our west wing—
a beautiful feature. The building when completed, it is said, will cost
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars; and though J could not obtain
its exact size, it will be one of the largest churches in New York, being
some ninety feet in width. Its galleries are to be supported from the side
walls, without pillars. Some of its details appeared to me faulty, as the
corbel course along the upper portion of its side walls and on its towers is
feeble, and not sufficiently projecting for a building of such magnitude;
and I think the architect would have done better to trust to the flat Nor-
man buttress running into the corbel course above, rather than to intro-
duce a buttress of a much later date, deep and heavy, and which, from
many points of view, wholly conceals the windows. 'The latter (the win-
dows) are both wider and higher than is usual in the Lombard style ;
but I think the effect is good.

I purchased, and herewith submit, a perspective view of this church,
as one of the first proofs that the opinion | expressed when the style of
our building was objected to on the score of its singularity, (namely, that
a greater objection might hereafter be, that Lombard buildings would be
repeated all over the country, as Grecian and Gothic have been, until we
were tired of them,) is not uy to be verified.

I visited also some of the o!der churches—among the rest St. Paul’s, in
Broadway, near the Astor House. It exhibits great beauties and great
defects. Its spire is,in my opinion, one among the prettiest in its style
(the Roman) in the world; and as such, | had it daguereotyped, and shall
use it as an illustration in our work. The interior, with its Grecian pil-
lars and broken entablatures, forming imposts for the arches of its galle-
ries, furnishes a striking illustration of the bad effect produced by that
heterogenous mixture of “Gothic forms and Grecian details that goes under
the name of Roman.

Through the kindness of Professor Renwick, I obtained admittance to
the New York Society library, and spent some time there examining its
works on architecture.

I also obtained, through Professor Renwick, an opportunity of exam-
ining Canina’s oreat work on Egyptian, Grecian, and Roman architec-
ture ; published a few years sinceat Rome. It may be said, in each style of
whieh it treats, almost to exhaust the subject—at least to furnish the best
and most extensive modern illustrations of Egyptian, Grecian, and Ro-
man buildings, to be found in any one collection now extant. As almost
all the works on architecture heretofore purchased by us have been on
Gothic and Norman architecture only, I think this work would be a val-
uable and important purchase. It is the property of a private gentleman,
,

155 [ 23]

Mr. Parish, who imported it; and I understand from Professor Renwick
it could be had from him at first cost in Rome, with duty added. It
would be of much use to me in the preparation of the work I have
now in charge.

At Philadelphia | saw Mr. Notman, and at New York Mr. Arnot;
both of whom expressed a desire that their designs should be pub-
lished in our work. 1 think it likely that if we agreed to furnish each
of them a hundred copies of the engraving, (which we can obtain at
the cost of paper and printing,) they would supply us, at their own cost,
with a reduced perspective view from which to engrave ; and if the board
votes us an additional appropriation, | recommend that such a propo-
sition be made to them; and also to Mr. Daniel, of Cincinnati, who
has signified to me a similar desire in regard to the publication of his
design—a design, as the committee may remember, in the Italian style.

At Philadelphia I called upon Mr. Joseph R. Ingersoll, who has always
shown much interest in the institution, and he has promised to procure
for me, from authentic sources, the exact dimensions of the Girard Col-
lege building; its cost to the present time; and the estimated cost of its
completion. He also stated to me that he would endeavor to procure
some particulars regarding the style and dimensions of a large cathedral
of which the foundations have recently been laid by the Catholics of
Philadelphia.

I made the acquaintance in New York of Mr. Kellogg, the artist who
has charge of Mr. Power’s “Greek slave.’ He expressed to me a strong
desire that some arrangements might be made by which our institu-
tion should obtain that statue, and fit up one of the rooms in our build-
ing (perhaps in one of the central fowers) for its reception. It is, in my
opinion, one of the finest statues that has ever been produced, in ancient
or modern times, and as well worthy of a separate tribune as the Venus
de Medicis.

ROBERT DALE OWEN.

Wasuineton, November 26, 1847.

On motion of Mr. Owen, it was
Resolved, That Professor Renwick be authorized to purchase on behalf
of the institution, cf Mr. Parish, Canina’s work on Egyptian, Grecian, and
Roman architecture, provided the same can be obtained at the first cost in
Rome, with the duty added.
Resolved, That the chairs for the Regents’ room and Secretary’s
room be covered with maroon-colored leather.
[ 23 j 156
No. 3.

Report of the Executive Committee, on the state of the funds.

The Executive Committee report the state of the funds of the institution,

on the Ist instant, as follows:

The Board of Regents have drawn from the treasury, of accruing interest,

to pay the current expenses of the institution -

- $40,660 81

The disbursements from this fund have been as follows:

For expenses of Board of Regents and its commit-
tees - - - - -
For materials and erection of specimen walls, and
superintendence thereof - - -
For books purchased - - 5
For compensation to architects for designs, &c. -
For recording and copying - - -
For services of Assistant Secretary - -
For services of messenger - - -
For postage - : . - -
For printing - - - . -
For examination of quarries, including expenses
of geologist - - - - -
For perspective views of institution - -
For chemical examination of building-materials -
For expenses connected with ceremonies, &c., on
the occasion of laying the corner stone of build-
ing - 2 - - - -
For stationery - : 5 F :
For philosophical and chemical apparatus -
For salary of Secretary - - : -
For expence of first volume of Transactions, in part
For incidentals, including furnishings, freight, car-
riage, hack- hire, &e. .- -
For surveying and recording levels of institution
grounds - - - -
For expenses of building, including SUDED ELAM
ence = - - - - -

Balance in the hands of Corcoran & Riggs, De-
cember 1, 1847 - - “ a

83.876 47

393 63
555 99
1,325 00
378 98
200 00
402 50
28 99
347 63
370 76
200 00
94 50

————

37,670 02

2.990 79
2s = 40.660. 81

The entire amount of the funds of the institution on the Ist instant
was $758,159 79, being $861 79 more than the amount of its funds on
the day of the passage of the act by which it was organized ; and on the
first of next month there will be due of interest, $15,455.

‘The institution has no debts, except a few unimportant items not yet
rendered, and also an account for the seal of the institution.

Wi We:

SEATON

ROBERT DALE OWEN,
DecemsBer 15, 1847. A. D. BACHE.
157 [ 23 ]
No. 4.

Proceedings of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, from
the date of their last annual report to the 27th December, 1847.

WEDNESDAY, Decemper 8, 1847.

This being the day fixed, by resolution of September 9, 1846, for the
regular meeting of the Board of Regents, the board convened at the room
of the Vice President of the United States, in the Capitol.

‘There appeared George M. Dallas, the Chancellor, and the following
Regents: A. D. Bache, Sidney Breese, Gideon Hawley, Henry W. Hil-
liard, Robert Dale Owen, William W. Seaton, and Joseph G. Totten.

A quorum being’ present, the board proceeded to business, the Chan-
cellor in the chair.

Mr. Owen, from the Building Committee, presented a report, together
with a complete copy of the journal of the committee.

Laid on the table.

FRIDAY, DrecremsBer 10, 1847.

The board met pursuant to adjournment.

Present, in addition to those in attendance at the last meeting, Lewis
Cass and J. A. Pearce.

The Secretary made a report relative to the transactions of the past year,
the acceptance of memoirs, the purchase of apparatus, &c., and including.
a programme of organization.

SATURDAY, December 11, 1847.

Mr. Owen, from the Executive Committee, made a report relative to a
plan of finance and of general appropriation of funds up to the i9th of
March, 1852, or until the building shall be completed.

On motion of Mr Hawley,

Resolved, Vhat the report of the Building Committee, the report of the
Secretary, and the report of the Executive Committee, be inserted at large
in the journal of the board.

(See documents 1, 2, 5, and 6.)

MONDAY, DecemBer 13, 1847.

On motion of Mr. Owen,

Resolved, That the Executive Committee cause to be printed, in the
same form as the report on organization, one thousand copies of the ad-
dress delivered by the Chancellor on occasion of laying the corner-stone
of the institution, and that the Secretary cause to be laid on the desk of
each member of the Senate and of the House of Representatives two
copies of the same, as soon as it shall be printed.

On motion of Mr. Bache,

Resolved, That so much of the programme presented to the Board of
Regents by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, in his recent re-
port, as is contained in sections Nos. 1 and 2 of said programme, be pro-
[23] 158

visionally adopted; that the Secretary be charged with the execution of its
details, as far as the funds appropriated for the several objects may permit,
and that he be directed to report annually to the board his progress in the
execution of this duty. ‘

Resolved, That the Executive Committee be directed to report, after
consultation with the Secretary, to the Board of Regents, in relation to the
special appropriations desirable for the year beginning March 19, 1848, in
execution of parts of the programme which have been provisionally adopted.

Mr. Owen asked to be excused from service as a member of the Execu-
tive Committee, representing to the board that the most important duties
of this committee would hereafter be to select among various scientific ob-
jects and researches those to which appropriations should be made, and
that there were gentlemen on the board, not members of the committee, par-
ticularly a Regent from Washington, better qualified than himself to make
such selection.

The motion to excuse Mr. Owen from service on the Executive Com-
mittee being put by the Chancellor, it was lost.

Mr. ‘Totten asked to be excused from service as a member of the Exe-
cutive Committee, representing to the board that the time spent by him as
a member of another committee of the board was as much as he could
spare from his professional duties.

The motion to excuse Mr. Totten being put by the Chancellor, it was
carried.

Thereupon the board proceeded, by ballot, to fill the vacancy thus crea-
ted; and, on counting the ballots, it appeared that Mr. Bache was elected.

The Secretary presented a list of books received in virtue of the pro-
vision contained in the tenth section of the act organizing the institution;
also, a list of books presented to the institution.

WEDNESDAY, December 15, 1847.

Mr. Seaton, from the Executive Committee, presented a report on the
state of the finances of the institution.

Mr. Bache, from the Executive Committee, to whom was referred the
resolution of the 13th instant, relative to appropriations for the year com-
mencing on the 19th of March, 1848, made the following report:

«The committee, after consultation with the Secretary, recommend the
passage of the following resolution:

“That the appropriations for the year commencing on the 19th of March,
1848, for objects other than those provided for out of the building fund,
be for the present as follows:

“¢ For the publication of Transactions, the sum of three thousand and five
hundred dollars;

“For computations relative to occultations, two hundred and fifty dol-
lars ;

‘< For purchase of magnetic instruments, six hundred dollars;

‘For instruments and other expenses connected with meteorological
observations, one thousand dollars;

‘For arrangement of apparatus, &c., in such portion of the building
as shall be completed next autumn, one hundred and fifty dollars;

‘‘For expenses of lectures, including lighting of lecture-room, five
hundred dollars;
159 [ 23 ]

“ Mor publication of scientific reports, five hundred dollars ;

““ For general expenses of the institution, including salary of officers
expenses of board and its cominittees, clerk hire, postage, &c, seven
thousand five hundred dollars; ‘

‘* For purchase ef books, and incidentals connected therewith, one thou-
sand dollars;

“Or so much of each of said sums as may in the said year be required.’”

On motion of Mr. Hough, the above resolution was adopted.

On motion of Mr. Bache,

Resolved, 'That the Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution be the
organ of communication of the Smithsonian Institution with the public
and that the Secretary be the organ of communication between the officers of
the institution and the Chancellor, and also between the officers of the in-
stitution and the board.

FRIDAY, Drcemper 17, 1847.

On motion of Mr. Hough,

Resolved, 'That by the appointment of Hon. Richard Rush, of Penn-
sylvania, to the office of minister plenipotentiary to France, and his con-
tinued absence from the United States, and residence at a foreign court for
an indefinite length of time under such appointment, his office of Regent
of the Smithsonian Institution has become vacant, and that Mr. ———— be
a committee to introduce into, and procure to be passed through the Sen-
ate of the United States, the necessary joint resolution of the two houses
of Congress for the appointment of ————a Regent of said institution, to
fill such vacancy, pursuant to the third section of the act incorporating
said institution.

On motion of Mr. Hough, it was

Resolved, ‘That the first blank be filled with the name of Mr. Pearce,

and the second with that of Mr. Owen.
On motion of Mr. Bache, it was

Resolved, That the Board of Regents recommend to the establishment
the election of the Hon. Richard Rush, of Pennsylvania, late a member
of the Board of Regents, as an honorary member of the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, 'That the Chancellor be deputed to request a meeting of the
establishment for the purpose of proposing the Hon. Richard Rush as an
honorary member of the Smithsonian Institution.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, 'That the Chancellor be requested to address a letter to Mr.
Rush, conveying to him the regret of the Board of Regents at his abserice,
and consequent retirement from the board.

FRIDAY, Decemper 21, 1847.

In addition to the members previously mentioned as attending the ses-
sion of the board, Mr. Choate, of Massachusetts, appeared.

The Secretary presented various letters and reports from different indi-
viduals and societies, recommending the plan of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution given in the programme presented to the board in
his report; which, on motion, were laid on the table.
[ 23] 160 '

The Secretary presented a letter addressed to himself by Professor Jewett,
containing suggestions as to the formation of the library.
(See appendix to document No. 6.)

TUESDAY EVENING, December 21, 1847.

The resolutions appended to the report of the Executive Committee rela-
tive toa scale of expenditure up to the 19th of March, 1852, coming up
for consideration, they were adopted.

On motion of Mr. Bache,

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to infortn the Assistant Sec-
retary, Professor Jewett, that the Board of Regents will expect him to en-
ter upon his duties on the 19th March, 1849, at which time his salary will
commence.

Mr. Choate offered the following resolution; which, on his suggestion,
was laid on the table:

Resolved, hat a committee of three be appointed by the Chancellor, to
consider, in conjunction with the Secretary, and to report at the next
meeting, what services may be rendered by the Assistant Secretary, acting
as Librarian , between this time and the 19th March, 1847, and what may
probably be the expense of these services.

WEDNESDAY, DecemBer 22, 1847.

Mr. Owen renewed the request previously made by him to be excused
from serving on the Executive Committee, stating that if, in accordance
with the tenor of a resolution heretofore passed by the board, he should be
re-elected Regent, his duties as a member of the Building Committee
would demand much of his time, as the committee had referred to him
the preparation of the manuscript of the volume on public architecture,
with the publication of which they have been charged by the board; and
hy excusing him from service now, the board would have an opportunity,
before they adjourned, to fill the vacancy.

The motion to excuse Mr. Owen from service on the Executive Com-
mittee being put by the Chancellor, it was carried.

Whereupon, by unanimous consent, the board proceeded to fill the va-
cancy on the Executive Committee thus created, by resolution; and,

On motion of Mr. Hilliard, it was

Resolved, 'That Mr. Pearce be appointed a member of the Executive
Committee.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, 'That the salary of the messenger be hereafter at the rate of
four hundred dollars per annum.

THURSDAY, December 23, 1847.

George P. Marsh, of Vermont, and Robert McClelland, of Michigan,
members of the board appointed ‘from the House of Representatives to fill —
the places of Mr. Owen and Mr. Hough, whose term of service has ex-
pired, appeared and took their seats,as also Mr. Hilliard pagaurorated a
member of the board.
161 [ 23]

The resolution offered by Mr. Choate on Tuesday, the 21st instant, rela-
uve to the appointment of a committee of three to consider what services
may be rendered by the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, between
this time and March 19, 1849, coming up for consideration,

it was adopted.

And the Chancellor appointed Messrs. Choate, Bache, and McClelland
the said committee.

The Secretary stated to the board that during the past year he had, with
the consent of the Executive Committee, given a course of lectures at
Princeton, for which he had received, including the rent of the house oe-
cupied by his family, a compensation of one thousand dollars. For this
sum, after deducting certain expenses for clerk hire, assistance, &c., he
had given credit to the board in his account for the present half year.

FRIDAY, Decemper 24, 1847.

The Chancellor presented the following letter from Mr. Cass:

Wasuineton, December 24, 1847.

Srr: Finding it impossible, consistently with my other duties, properly
to execute the trust of a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, I request
that this may be considered as my resignation of that office.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

LEWIS CASS.

To the Hon. Georce M. Daxxas,

Vice President of the United States.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was
Resolved, That Mr. Breese be requested to move in the Senate of the
United States for the appointment of a successor to Mr. Cass.
On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was
Resolved, That the account of expenditures rendered by the Executive
Committee, after being certified by the Chancellor and the Secretary, be
entered on the journal. [See document No. 3.]

MONDAY, DecempBer 27, 1847.

Mr. Choate, from the committee appointed on the 23d instant, relative to
the duty of the Assistant Secretary, made the following report, with accom-
panying resolutions:

The committee appointed at a meeting of the Board of Regents on the
23d instant, to inquire and report in what manner the Assistant Secretary,
as librarian, may be employed (if at all) with advantage to the Smithsonian
Institution, between the present time and the 19th March, 1849, respect-
fully present for the consideration of the board the following resolutions,
embracing the matter of their inquiries, together with a report from the As-
sistant Secretary.

Respectfully submitted by R. CHOATE

A. D. BACHE,
R. McCLELLAND,
11 Comuttee.
te

[ 23 ] 162

The resolutions accompanying the report of the committee were as fol-
lows:

Resolved, That the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, may be em-
ployed with advantage to the Smithsonian Institution, during a portion of
the time between this date and the 19th of March, 1849, in the following
duties, to wit:

1. The preparation of catalogues of books suitable for the commence-
ment of the library, in accordance with the plan of organization heretofore
adopted by the Board of Regents.

2. The purchase of the more necessary books on bibliography.

3. The collection and systematic arrangement, for purposes of comparison,
of the printed catalogues of the principal libraries throughout the United
States; together with information in regard to the expenditures, plans of
increase, and other particulars relating to the said libraries.

4. The collection of works to which the institution may be entitled un-
der the tenth section of the act organizing the institution.

Resolved, That the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, be employed
for the purposes specified in the foregoing resolution under the direction of
2 committee of three members of the board, to be appointed by the Chan-
cellor, and to act in conjunction with the Secretary, at a compensation to
be fixed by the Executive Committee, but not to exceed one thousand dol-
lars, for any services he may render between this date and the time fixed
for the commencement of his regular duties as Assistant Secretary.

The said resolutions coming up for consideration, they were adopted.

Whereupon, the Chancellor appointed Mr. Choate, Mr. Marsh, and Mr.
Bache the said committee.

The Secretary presented to the board the subject of the remuneration of
the Assistant Secretary for services rendered during the past year: where-
upon,

On motion, it was

Resolved, 'That the subject of compensation to the Assistant Secretary
for services rendered during the past year, be referred to the Executive
Committee.

The board then adjourned sine die.
163 | [ 23]
No, 5.

Report of the Executive Committee of the Smithsonian Institution, em-
bodying a proposed scale of expenditure for four years from the 19th of
March, \847 ; being the remainder of the term of the contract for the
erection of the institution building.

The contract for the institution building has been made; the building
itself is considerably advanced ; and the building committee have had an
opportunity of ascertaining, with some degree of accuracy, the entire
amount of expenditure made, or authorized, or necessarily to be incurred,
on the said building, and on the lot on which it stands, until the same
shall be completed —say on the 19th of March, 1852.

Some progress has also been made in the preparation of transactions,
and in carrying out other measures in fulfilment of the will of the testa-
tor, to “increase and diffuse knowledge among men.”

At this point of progress, the Executive Committee—knowing the great
desire ofien expressed by various members of the board during former
meetings, that the erection of the institution building, though necessarily
spacious on account of the special requirements of the act organizing the
institution, should not withdraw from the funds of the institution more
than a moderate portion even of that accumulated interest which the ap-
propriation by Congress authorizes to be thus employed ; remembering,
also, that the Chancellor and one of the members of the board have here-
tofore introduced resolutions embodying their wish that the sum thus
withdrawn should not, if possible, exceed one hundred thousand dollars ;
but more especially calling to mind the fact that a certain prospective
plan of finance and scale of expenditure, throughout the years in which
the building shall be in progress, has been heretofore submitted to the
board by one of its members, and, though not spread formally upon its
minvtes, did, in fact, receive the sanction of the board—ask leave here to
submit a scheme of expenditure for four years from the 19th of March
next, based upon that plan of finance, and differing from it only in some
details suggested by the present state of the financial affairs of the insti-
tution, by which the above objects may substantially be accomplished ;.
so that,on the 19th of March, 1852, when the building:shall be com-
pleted, including its fitting up, furnishing, lighting and heating, and the
lot belonging to the institution shall be laid out, planted, and permanently
fenced; and when, in a word, everything shall be prepared, so that the
institution can go into full operation, without any necessity to take from
its current income thereafter any amount to add to its buildings or to
secure or adorn its grounds, there shall still remain as a permanent fund,
bearing six per cent. interest, payable semi-annually, the original capital
of $515,169, and the interest that had accumulated on the same, specified
in the second section of the act organizing the institution, to wit: the
sum of $242,129, deducting from these two sums about one hundred
thousand dollars only; or, in other words, so that the sum of $657,398,
or thereabouts, should remain on the 19th March, 1852, as the permanent
fund of the institution. > lene

To carry out a plan having this desirable object in view, two condi-
tions (both within the power of the board) are necessary : the first, that
the entire cost of the building—including the complete fitting up and fur-
[ 23] ae

nishing of the same; lighting and heating, ventilating and draining the
same; supplying the same with water; laying out in grass and planting
with trees and shrubs the lot; fencing the same, both with the present
temporary fence and the final permanent one; also all expenses for super-
intendence of erection, including the cost of architect’s office, and other
incidentals, so as, in fact, to cover all expenses whatever that have been
incurred and are to be incurred on the building, and on the lot on which
it stands, until the completion of the building and of the preparation of
the lot, up to the 19th of March, 1852—shall not exceed two hundred and
jifty thousand dollars ; of which the balance unexpended on the 19th
of March, 1848, shall be expended in nearly equal proportions in each
of the four years next following that date.

The second condition is, that the current expenses of the institution,
exclusive of those just enumerated, but including the expenses of the
board and its committees; the salaries of oflicers, including messenger ;
the expense of all publications, researches, or other similar undertakings ;
the purchase of books and apparatus; and all incidentals whatever, not
enumerated in the foregoing paragraph, shall not exceed, for each one of
the four years next after the 19th of March, 1848, fi/teen thousand dol-
lars.

The committee proceed to furnish the details necessary to substantiate
the position here taken.

In pursuance of instructions contained in a resolution of the board of
the 28th of January last, this committee, after certifying to the Chancellor
and Secretary the amount of contracts entered into and authorized by the
board, received the said amount, to wit: the sum of two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars, in treasury notes, payable to the order of the Chan-
cellor of the Smithsonian Institution, dated the 17th of February, 1847,
and bearing six per cent. interest, payable semi-annually thereafter.
These treasury notes are deposited for safekeeping with the ‘Treasurer of
the United States; and the board will recollect that, by its resolution of
the 28th of January last, they can be drawn out only upon checks or
warrants signed by the Chancellor, the Secretary, and the chairman of
the Executive Committee. Of these treasury notes, ten thousand dol-
lars were thus drawn out on the 30th of October last, to pay the con-
tractor and other expenses. ‘The remainder, to wit: the sum of two hun-
dred and forty thousand dollars, still remains invested in said treasury
notes. ‘I'he ten thousand dollars sold netted $10,121 67, being par, with
interest added to the day of sale.

By this arrangement, very favorable to the finances of the institution,
the whole of its funds, both original, principal, and accumulated interest,
at present amounting to the sum of $755,169, become productive ; bearing,
under the safest possible investment, six per cent. annual interest, payable
semi-annually.

So long as no more treasury notes are sold, the annual income of the
institution, from the above sum thus invested, will be on original princi-
pal $30,910, and on treasury notes $14,400—together, forty-five thousand
three hundred and ten dollars annually.

If the entire annual expenses of the institution, for building and all
other purposes, could be restricted to the above sum of forty-five thousand
three hundred and ten dollars, it is evident that the annual income of the
institution would remain permanently at that amount.
165 [ 23]

Whenever any amount of treasury notes is sold, the interest from
that source, of course, ceases. Whatever annual amount, therefore, be-
yond the above $45.310, shall, in the course of four years after the 19th
of March, 1848, be expended by the institution, that amount, together
with six per cent. interest on each item of treasury notes sold, from the
date of the several sales to the 19th of March, 1852, will be so much de-
ducted from the present investment; that is to say, from the sum of
$755,169.

It remains to be seen what the annual excess beyond the above annual
income will be in each of the four years next following the 19th of March,
1848, if the suggested scale of expenditure be adopted, and how much of
the present capital of the institution the said excess will absorb.

The balance on hand, to meet current expenses, on the Ist instant, as
will appear by reference to the bank book of the institution, herewith sub-
mitted, was $2,991. The amount of interest which will be received by
the institution previously to the 19th of March next, is $22,655, to wit:
on the Ist of January next $15,455, and on the 17th of February next
$7, 200. These two items added to the balance in hand give $25,646;
being the amount available, without encroaching on the present invest-
ment, up to the 19th of March next; that is to say, up to the termination of
the first year of the building contract.

The committee, after consultation with the Secretary of the institution
as to the several amounts which may be required in the course of the
winter and spring, for the various objects intrusted to him; after carefully
calculating, also, the expenses to arise from this time to the 19th of March,
have introduced a series of resolutions, appropriating the above amount of
$25,646.

The committee learned from the Secretary that the expense of the first
volume of the Transactions of the institution would be considerable, on
account of the number of plates; and, at his suggestion, they have put the
appropriation for that object, out of the above fund, at $2,000, instead of
$1,000, as formerly voted. At his suggestion, also, they have set apart
for apparatus one thousand dollars. In accordance with a request made
in the report of the building committee to the board, they have also in-
creased the appropriation for the forthcoming volume on Public Architec-
ture, from one thousand dollars to two thousand dollars. ‘The items for
contingencies, including the expenses of the board and its committees,
they have put at $1,646. If, as the committee recommend, a resolution
be passed that there be hereafter but one annual meeting of the board, its
expense will not exceed $500 or $600, which will leave a margin of up-
wards of one thousand dollars for incidentals and contingencies, inclu-
ding the seal of the institution, not yet paid for.

After these various items have been, as the committee think, all fully
provided for, so that they shall not fall upon the current expenses of the
year commencing on the 19th of March next, there still remains, out of the
above $25,646, the sum of seventeen thousand dollars, to be appropriated
to the building fund, as by the following synopsis of receipts and appro-
priations will more clearly appear.

Proposed appropriations, viz:

For first number of Transactions - ~ - - - $2,000
For work on ‘‘ Public Architecture’’ - - : - 2,000
[231 166

For experiments on building materials, heretofore ordered

by the board - - - - - - $500
For part salary of Secretary - - - - 1,500
For apparatus - - - - - - 1,000
For the building fund - - - - - 17,000

For contingencies, including expenses of the board and of
its committees - - - - - - 1,646
Total - - - - $25,646

Receipts from interest, up to the 19th March, 1848, viz:

On the Ist of January - - - - $15,455
On the 17th of February - ont Re - 1'7;200
Total from interest - Eh) OF VER Gob
On hand 1st December, 1847 - - = 223991
Total available funds to 19th March, 1847 ~ $25,646

By the report of the building committee, dated the 1st instant, it will be
seen that the expenditure for the building and grounds, including super-
intendence and other contingencies, was $25,002 67; say twenty-five thou-
sand dollars. Add to this amount the above proposed appropriation of
$17,000, and it will appear, that up to the 19th of March next there is
provided towards the building fund the amount of $42,000, being some
six thousand dollars more than the probable expenditure to that date, as
estimated by the building committee.

If the above amount of $42,000 be deducted from the entire amount of
building fund, as now proposed to be fixed at $250,000, it will leave to be
provided towards that fund in the four years next following the 19th of
March next, the sum of $208,000. If, as proposed, this amount be spread
equally over the said four years, it will give an expenditure each year for
these objects of $52,000.

If, now, we deduct from the annual income of the institution as it will
stand on the 19th of March next, the sum of $15,000, hereinbefore pro-
posed to be annually appropriated for objects not “connected with the build-
ing and grounds, it will leave an annual amount from accruing interest of
$30,310, “which may go to the building fund, so long as the present m-
vestment remains undiminished.

But if we deduct this sum of $30,310 from the annual amount still to
be provided for building purposes in each of the four last years of the
building contract, as shown above, to wit: from the sum of $O2 ,000, we
shall have an annual excess of expenditure over available interest of
$21,690, which annual excess must be provided for by sale of treasury
notes; and as, in proportion as these are sold, the interest on them until the
end of the term of the building contract will be lost to the building fund,
the annual excess thus to be provided for by sale of treasury notes will, if
Wwe suppose it to be drawn at the commencement of each year, (which is
the most unfavorable supposition,) reduce the invested fund in the course
of the four years ending 19th March, 1852, nearly $100,000, thus:
167 [23]

Excess during the first year - - - - - $21,690 00

Four years interest on ditto - - - - - 5,205 60
Excess during the second year - - - - 21,690 00
"Three years interest on ditto - - - - 3,904 20
Excess during the third year - - - - 21,690 00
Two years interest on ditto - - - - - 2.602 SO
Excess during the fourth year - - - - 21,690 00
One year’s inierest on ditto - - - . - 1,301 40

rn)
ite)
fe
-~)
cs
ls
>

It appears, therefore, that, after setting aside sufficient appropriations for
all objects now in progress, together with an adequate allowance for con-
tingencies up to the 19th March, 1848, we may, commencing from that
date, authorize the annual expenditure until the completion of the build-
ing of fifteen thousand dollars for objects unconnected with the building
fund; and then if we restrict the building fund to $250,000, and provide
that of the last $208,000 of that fund not more than one-fourth of the
same—that is to say, $52,000—shall be spent in each of the last four years
of the contract, we shall be able to complete the building and grounds, in-
cluding all expenses thereon, without withdrawing more than one hun-
dred thousand dollars from the present invested funds of the institution.

And as these invested funds, to wit: the sum of $755,169, amount to
within $2,229] as much as the total amount of principal and interest by
the charter conveyed to the institution, it follows, that by the proposed
plan the building may be completed without withdrawing from the origi-
nal funds of the institution, as they stood on the day it was chartered, more
than about $102,000.

To the conditions necessary to bring about a result which will be con-
fessed to be desirable, there is not, the committee think, any just objec-
ton.

The building committee, after some experience, and a careful examina-
tion of the subject, express in their report the opinion thata building fund
of $250,000 will probably be sufficient.

The expediency of applying to the building fund, for four years to come,
the interest accruing over and above an annual sum of fifteen thousand
dollars, alone remains to be considered.

It is evident that the act organizing the institution contemplated the ap-
plication of a portion of the current interest, while the building was in pro-
gress, to its erection; for, after appropriating the accumulated interest for the
erection of a building. it adds, in the fifth section, ‘together with such sum
or sums out of the annual interest accruing to the institution as may in any
year remain unexpended, after paying the current expenses of the institu-
tion.”? The sole question, then, is, what amount of that interest may judi-
ciously be thus applied ?

Tt will be admitted that the amount suggested for the current expenses
of the institution until the building shall be completed, to wit: the annual
sum of fifteen thousand dollars, is a sufficient one gradually to bring its
plans into execution, provided a considerable portion of the same be not
annually expended in the purchase of books and collections. ‘The com-
mittee think this cannot wisely or advantageously be now done ; and that
for the present, the only purchase made of books for the institution should
[ 23 | 168

be, as heretofore expressed in the report of the Committee on Organization,
of ‘‘such valuable works of reference as in the prosecution of its plan may
be required.’ In accordance with these views the committee report a reso-
Jution.

If any considerable amount of books, beyond those required for present
reference, be purchased at this time, they will lie in boxes, with much risk
of injury, and no possibility of being accessible to the public. Nor, the
committee think, will it be prudent or desirable while the main building
is in progress, and while temporary arrangements must be made in one of
the wings for the reception of such works as by purchase, by exchange,
and from other sources, shall have accumulated in the library, to open that
provisional library to the public. Few would be hkely to resort to it as a
place of study, amid the noise and confusion incident to the erection of an
extensive building.

Again, though no large sums be spent directly for books, for the pres-
ent, every appropriation made for the publication of Transactions or other
works, to be distributed to learned and scientific societies throughout the
world, is a virtual contribution to the library. It cannot be doubted that
the exchanges to which, by such extended distribution, the institution
will be entitled, will in many cases overpay, in the shape of additions to
the library, the cost of the works distributed.

And, finally, it should be remarked, that under the scale of expendi-
ture herein proposed, the sum of a hundred and forty thousand dollars
will be added to the original capital of the institution; making an addition
to its income of eight thousand four hundred dollars annually, forever;
one half of which, by the resolutions hereinafter recited, commonly called
the compromise resolutions, will inure to the benefit of the library. It
was doubted, at the time of the passage of these resolutions, whether,
under their operation, and supposing the entire income of the institution to
be the interest from its original capital, the permanent annual appropria-
tion for the purchase of books could exceed from four to five thousand
dollars.

By the operation of the present plan it may, therefore, be considered as
doubled, or nearly so. The additional four thousand two hundred dollars:
added by that plan annually, forever, to the library appropriation, is far
more than an equivalent for the delay it presupposes, in the accumulation
of works not wanted for immediate reference, or present purposes; a delay
extending only to the period when suitable permanent arrangements can
be made for their reception.

In accordance with the views herein given, the committee append to
their report a series of resolutions, of which they recommend the passage.

All which is respectfully submitted.

W. W. SEATON,
ROBERT DALE OWEN,
JOSEPH G. TOTTEN,

Coanmitéee.

Resolutions appended to the report of Executive Committee.

“Resolved, That the balance on hand, standing to the credit of the
chairman of the Executive Committee, on the first of December current,
together with all interest accruing to the institution up to the 19th of
March next, to wit: the interest due on the first of January next, and on
169 [ 23]

the 17th of February next, amounting in all to the sum of $25,646, be
appropriated as follows—that is to say:

1. To the publication of the first volume of the Smithonian Contribu-
tions to Science, two thousand dollars; being one thousand dollars in ad-
dition to the thousand dollars appropriated for this object by resolution
of the 26th of January last.

2. To the publication of one thousand copies of a brief treatise, to be
entitled ‘‘ Hints on Public Architecture,’’ heretofore authorized to be pub-
lished by the building committee, to be illustrated with designs of the in-
stitution buildings, &c., two thousand dollars; being one thousand dol-
lars in addition to the thousand dollars appropriated for this object by reso-
lution of the 5th of February last.

3. For experiments heretofore authorized to be instituted to determine
the economical value of building-materials throughout the United States,
five hundred dollars; being the same sum appropriated for that object by
resolution of the 1st of March last, but still unexpended.

4. To purchase philosophical and chemical apparatus, one thousand dol-
lars; being a portion of the four thousand dollars appropriated for this ob-
ject by resolution of the 4th of December last.

5. To part of salary of the Secretary, fifteen hundred dollars.

6. To the building fund, seventeen thousand dollars.

7. To incidental expenses and contingencies, including the expenses of
the board and its committees, sixteen hundred and forty-six dollars, or so
much of that sum as may be required for these purposes.

Resolved, That during each of the four years next following the 19th
of March, 1848, being the four years throughout which the unexpired
term of the building contract runs, the proportion of expenditure shall be
as follows—that is to say: out of the interest annually accruing to the in-
stitution, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars in each year may be appro-
priated for the current expenses of the institution, exclusive of all expendi-
tures whatever properly belonging to the building fund, but including the
expense of the board and its committees, the salaries of officers, including
messenger, the expense of all publications, researches, or other similar
undertakings, the purchase of books and apparatus, and_ all incidentals
whatever, not connected with the expenditure on the building or grounds.
And the remainder of the interest accruing to the institution shall, during
each of these four years, be appropriated to the building fund.

Resolved, That it is the deliberate opinion of this board that the entire
cost of the institution building—including the complete fitting up and fur-
nishing of the same; lighting and ‘heating, ventilating and draining the
same; supplying the same with water; laying out in grass and planting 1n
trees and shrubs the lot, fencing the same, both with the present temporary
fence and the ultimate permanent one; also all expenses for superintend-
ence of erection, including the cost of architect’s office and other incidentals;
so as to cover all expenses whatever that have been and are to be incurred
on the building and on the lot on which it stands, until the comple-
tion of the building and of the preparation of the lot, up to the 19th
of March, 1852—shall under no circumstances exceed the sum expended
thereon up to the Ist of this month, to wit: the sum of twenty-five thou-
sand dollars, and seventeen thousand dollars by a preceding resolution
appropriated to the building fund; together with the annually accruing
interest over $15,000 in each of the four years next following the 19th of
[23] 170

March next, as in a former resolution provided, and the further sum of one
hundred thousand dollars, to be raised by sale of that amount of the trea-
sury notes now the property of the institution, to be sold,at not less than
their par value; which said sum of seventeen thousand dollars, together
with said annual interest over and above fifteen thousand dollars, and said
sum of one hundred thousand dollars now invested in_treasury notes, is here-
by declared to be the building fund of the institution. And the building
comuiittee are hereby expressly instructed and required so to arrange their
expenditures on the building and lot, including all items heretofore enu-
merated, that these expenditures shall not exceed the amount of the said
building fund, it being understood that the said building committee have
discretionary power in regard to such modifications and alterations as
may suggest themselves in the progress of the building, within the limits
of the said building fund, but no other. And if, in order to keep within
the limits of expenditure by this resolution prescribed, it shall be necessary
so to modify the plan as to reduce the cost of some portion of the building,
the building committee are hereby authorized and empowered so to do.

Resolved, That the building committee be, and they are hereby instruct-
ed, so to arrange the expenditures from the said building fund that the
amount paid owt of it (exclusive of any balance that may remain, on the
19th of March next, unexpended of the sum of seventeen thousand dol-
lars hereinbefore appropriated) shall not, at the closeof any one year of the
last four years of the building contract, exceed an average annual expendi-
ture, throughout the said years, of fifty-two thousand dollars, to wit: at
the end of one year an expenditure of fifty-two thousand dollars; at the
end of two years an expenditure of a hundred and four thousand dollars,
and so on.

Resolved, That all appropriations heretofore made by this board for the
erection of the institution building, and the preparation of the institution
campus, including appropriations made on the 28th of January last for
fitting up and furnishing the building, and for lighting and heating the
same, also for laying out and planting and fencing the campus, be and
the same are hereby rescinded, and the sole appropriations for these ob-
jects are hereby declared to be those included in the preceding resolutions.

Resolved, That, for the present, the resolution of the board passed on
the fourth December last, and authorizing an appropriation of twenty
thousand dollars for the purchase of books, and which said appropriation
is to commence from the Ist of January next, shall be strictly construed
to authorize only the purchase of such valuable works of reference as the
Secretary, or the Building or Executive Committee, may consider useful
for present purposes, or otherwise likely to be immediately demanded in
the prosecutions of the plan of the institution: Provided, however, That
nothing in this nor in the preceding series of resolutions contained shall
be construed to rescind, or in any way impair the force of, certain resolu-
tions passed by the board on the 26th and 28th of January last, including the
following: ‘‘ Resolved, That for the purpose of carrying into effect the two
principal modes of executing the act and trust pointed out in the resolu-
tions herewith submitted, the permaneut appropriations out of the accruing
interest shall, so soon as the buildings are completed, be annually as fol-
lows—that is to say:

“First, for the formation of a library composed of valuable works per-
taining to all departments of useful knowledge, and for the procuring, ar-
sf ;

171 [23]

ranging, and preserving of the various collections of the institution, as well
of natural history and objects of foreign and curious research, and of elegant
art, as others, including salaries and all other general expenses connected
with the same, excepting those of the first complete arrangement of all
such collections and objects as now belong to the United States in the
museum of the institution when completed, together with one-half of the
salary of the Secretary, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars.

‘* Secondly, for the preparation and publication of transactions, reports,
and all other publications of the institution, including appropriations for
original researches and premiums for original papers, for the delivery of all
lectures and payment of all lecturers, and for all general expenses connect-
ed with said lectures and publications, together with one-half of the salary
of the Secretary, the remainder of the annually accruing interest, it being
understood that all general and incidental expenses not specially connected
with either of the above two great divisions of the plan of the institution
shall be equally divided between them.’’? And including also the follow-
ing: “Aesolved, That itis the opinion and intention of the board, that in the
appropriation for the objects of the institution of any surplus of accrued
interest which may remain after the completion of the buildings of the
institution, an equal division shall be made between the two great
branches; that is to say, one-half shall be appropriated to the library and
museum fund, and the other half to the fund for original research, pub-
lications, and lectures; and that in regard to all other funds hereafter to
accrue to the institution, the same division be made:” And provided
also, That the present series of resolutions shall not be construed to re-
scind or impair the force of a certain other resolution of the 26th of Jan-
uary last, passed by the board, for the election of an Assistant Secretary,
to act as librarian, and whose salary it was therein declared should com-
mence “ whenever the building is ready for the reception of the library.”
And provided further, That nothing in the present resolutions contained
shall be construed to take from the Executive Committee the power
heretofore, to wit: by resolution of the 26th January, granted to them, to
make to the Assistant Secretary elect such compensation as they may deem
reasonable for services he may render from time to time, in making cata-
logues or performing other similar duties for the institution.

Resolved, That there shall hereafter be one regular meeting of the Board
of Regents, and no more, unless specially called according to the provi-
sions of the act organizing the institution, and that said annual meeting
be held on the first Wednesday in January of each year: Provided, 'That
the regular annual meeting for the year eighteen hundred and forty-eight
shall be held on the second Wednesday in December of that year.
[ 23 J 172
No. 6.

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the Board of
Regents, December 8, 1547.

GENTLEMEN: A statement of the financial condition of the Smithsonian
Institution, and of the progress made in the erection of the building, hav-
ing been presented to your board by the committees charged with the care
of these objects, it becomes my duty, as Secretary of the institution, to give
an account of what has been done relative to the development of the plan
of organization, and of the steps which have been taken in the way of
carrying it into operation.

In accordance with my instructions, I consulted with men of eminence,
in the different branches of literature and science, relative to the details of
the plan of organization, and arranged the various suggestions offered, in
the form of the accompanying programme. ‘This, after having been sub-
mitted to a number of persons in whose knowledge and judgment I have
confidence, is now presented to the board, with the concurrence of the
Committee on Organization, for consideration and provisional adoption, f
regret that my engagements have been such as to render it impossible for
me to call upon many persons whose counsel would have been valuable,
but I hope hereafter to avail myself of their advice in behalf of the institu-
tion. Talso regret that I could not give the names of those whose sug-
gestions have been adopted in the programme; the impossibility of ren-
dering justice to all, has prevented my attempting this. Many of the sugges-
tions have been offered by different persons, independently of each other;
and, indeed, the general plan of the increase and diffusion of knowledge
as adopted by the board, is such as would naturally arise in the mind of
any person conversant with the history of physical science, and with the
means usually employed for its extension and diffusion.

The introduction to the programme contains a series of propositions,
suggested by a critical examination of the will of Smithson, to serve as a
guide in judging of the fitness of any proposed plan for carrying out the
design of the testator. The first section of the programme gives the de-
tails of the plan proposed for the increase and diffusion of knowledge by
means of publication and original researches. 'The second section fur-
nishes the details, so far as they can be made out at the present time, of
the formation of a library, and a collection of objects of nature and art.
These two plans combined, embrace the general propositions adopted by
the Board of Regents at their last meeting, as the basis of future operations.
It is intended in the proposed plan to harmenize the two modes of increasing
and diffusing knowledge, and to give to the institution the widest influ-
ence compatible with its limited income. ‘That all the propositions will
meet with general approval cannot be expected; and that this organization
is the best that could be devised is neither asserted nor believed. To
produce a priort a plan of organization which shall be found to succeed
perfectly in practice, and require no amendment, would be difficult under
the most favorable circumstances, and becomes almost impossible where
conflicting opinions are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of
the act establishing the institution are to be observed. It is not intended
that the details of the organization, as given in the programme, should be
permanently adopted without careful trial; they are rather presented as
173 [ 23 ]

suggestions to be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into operation
gradually and cautiously, with such changes, from time to time, as expe-
rience may dictate.

PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.
[Presented to the Board of Regents December 8, 1847.]
INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a plan of
organization.

1. Witt or Smrruson. The property is bequeathed to the United States
of America, ‘‘ to found at Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian
Tnstitution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.”’

2. 'The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator.

3. The institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup-
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and perpetuate
his name.

4. 'The objects of the institution are—Ist, to increase, and 2d, to diffuse
knowledgesamong men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of
new truths; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus increased,
among men.

6. ‘The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating and
promoting the discovery of new truths, and can be mostefficiently diffused
among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as tu enable the institution to produce results in the way of increas-
ing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the existing
institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provisionally,
can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be abandoned,
in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to make up for the loss of time occasioned by the delay
of eight years in establishing the institution, a considerable portion of the
interest which has accrued should be added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the construc-
tion of the building; and not only should the first cost of the edifice be
considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair, and of
the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it. There
should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by
the plan of the organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be benefited
by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on local
objects would be a perversion of the trust.
[ 23 ]

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from the
will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the act of
Congress establishing the institutions 'These are a library; a museum, and
a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to contain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the institution, in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To Increase Know ence. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. ‘l'o appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To Dirruse Know LepGe. It is proposed—

1. 'To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the different
branches of knowledge; and,

2. 'I’o publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general in-
terest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE’ KNOWLEDGE.
“
I. By stimulating researches.

1. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original me-
moirs on all branches of knowledge.

2. ‘The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes, in
a quarto form, and entitled ‘‘ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.”’

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be acccepted for pub-
lication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge
resting On original research; and all unverified speculations to be rejected.

4. Hach memoir presented to the institution to be submitted for exami-
nation to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the branch
to which the memoir pertains, and to be accepted for publication only in
case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the institution, and
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favorable
decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the Transactions of
literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the colleges
and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies
may be offered for sale; and the other carefully preserved, to form complete
sets of the volumes, to supply the demand from new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs to be
given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to Congress.

Il. By appropriating a portion of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by
counsellors of the institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in course
of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.
175 [ 23]

3. 'The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, with
the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contri-
butions to Knowledge.

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, for solving the
problem of American storms. i
_ (2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, magnet-
ical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation of a
Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination of
the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light; chemical
analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of articles of science,
accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral,
and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in
American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the different
races of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surveys of
the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

I. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the
new discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interesting,
but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the reports
may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the income of the
institution, or the changes in the branches of knowledge, may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators, eminent in the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publications,
domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report; to be
paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-page of the
report.

4. The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons interested
in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, without pur-
chasing the whole. !

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribution ;
the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institutions, and
sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the
reports.

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and
meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4. Application of science to arts.
[ 23 J 176
II. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, an-
tiquities, &c.

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world ; penal reform, &c.

III. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

Il. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general in-
terest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valnable memoirs, trans-
lated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction of
the institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposition of
a given subject.

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of
competent judges previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the table
of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Committee on
Organization, viz: the statistics of labor, the productive arts of life, public
instruction, &e.

SECTION II.

at . . . . .

Plan of organization, ii accordance with the terms of the resolutions of
the Board of Regents, providing for the two modes of increasing and
diffusing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, in-
cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the
income into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. ‘The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library and
a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4. 'T'o carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings
of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important cur-
rent periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the
periodical reports.

5. 'The institution should make special collections, particularly of ob-
jects to verify its own publications.
177 [ 23 ]

~ 6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of experi-
mental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those mentioned
above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should
be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may be such
as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and
other materials, should be collected for rendering the institution a centre
of bibliographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any
work which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase by
donation, as rapidly as the income of the institution can make provision
for their reception, and therefore it will seldom be necessary to purchase
any articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of arts casts of
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense,
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of anta-
quities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides the
Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act as
librarian.

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, with
the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establishment, of
the literary and scientific operations of the institution; to give to the
Regents annually am account of all the transactions; of the memoirs which
have been received for publication; of the researches which have been
made;.and to edit, with the assistance of the librarian, the publications of
the institution.

15. The duty of the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, will be, for
the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and pur-
chase, under the direction of the Secretary and a committee of the board,
books and catalogues, and to procure the information before mentioned ; to
give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the Secretary in editing
the publications of the institution and in the other duties of his office.

16. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art; also distinguished individuals should be invited to give
lectures on subjects of general interest.

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the
act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the
Smithsonian Institution, other assistants will be required.

Explanations and illustrations of the programme.

Though the leading propositions of the programme have been fully dis-
cussed by the board, yet it will be important to offer some remarks in ex-
planation and illustration of them in their present connexion.

12
[ 23 ] 178

That the institution is not a national establishment, in the’sense in whreh
institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must be evi-
dent when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely given to the
United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely: the estab-
lishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name of the
donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of all the
good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest. ‘The operations
of the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be mingted as little as
possible with those of the government, and its funds should be applied ex-
clusively and faithfully to the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.

That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and that
its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even nation,
may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also from the
character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote, from a scrap of
paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on this point:
<‘'The man of science has no country; the world is his country—ali men,
his countrymen.”’ The origin of the funds, the bequest of a foreigner.
should also preclude the adoption of a plan which does not, in the words
of Mr. Adams, ‘‘ spread the benefits to be derived from the institution not
only over the whole surface of this Union, but throughout the civilized
world.’? ‘‘ Mr. Smithson’s reason for fixing the seat of his institution at
Washington obviously was, that there is the seat of government of the
United States, and there the Congress by whose legislation, and the Ex-
ecutive through whose agency, the trust committed to the honor, intelli-
gence, and good faith of the nation, is to be fulfilled.’’ The centre of
operations being permanently fixed at Washington, the character of this
city for literature and science will be the more highly exalted in proportion
as the influence of the institution is more widely diftused.

That the terms increase and diffusion of knowledge are logically dis-
tinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, must be
evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, and not’as
mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to which Smithson
devoted his life. In England there are two classes of institutions, founded
on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. ‘The Royal Society, the Astro-
nomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the Antiquarian Societies, all have
for their object the increase of knowledge; while the London Institution, the
Mechanics’ Institution, the Surry Institution, the Society for the Diffusion
of Religious Knowledge, the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge,
are all intended to diffuse or disseminate knowledge among men. In
our own country, also, the same distinction is observed in the use of the
terms by men of science. Our colleges, academies, and common schools,
are recognised as institutions partially intended for the diffusion of know!l-
edge, while the express object of some of our scientific societies is the pro-
motion of the discovery of new truths.

The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowl-
edge; though propositions have been frequently made for devoting the
funds exclusively to the promotion of certain branches of science having
more immediate application to the practical arts of life, and the adoption of
these propositions has been urged on the ground of the conformity of such
objects to the pursuits of Smithson; but an examination of his writings
will show that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general
a ae, sae

179 [ 23 ]

knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philosoph-
ical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great system of
truth. ‘To restrict, therefore, the operations of the institution to a single
science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor, as well as
to the cause of general knowledge. If preference is to be given to any
branches of research, it should be to the higher, and apparently more ab-
stract; to the discovery of new principles, rather than of isolated facts. And
this is true even in a practical point of view. Agriculture would have for-
ever remained an empirical art, had it not been for the light shed upon it _
by the atomic theory of chemistry; and incomparably more is to be ex-
pected as to its future advancement from the perfection of the microscope,
than from improvements in the ordinary instruments of husbandry.

The plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge, presented in the first
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance with the sev-
eral propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in the in-
troduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of interesting
the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the institution,
and of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms an active
organization, exciting all to make original researches who are gifted with
the necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, now only ac-
cessible to the few, among all those who are willing to receive it. In
this country, though many excel in the application of science to the prac-
tical arts of life, few devote themselves to the continued labor and patient
thought necessary to the discovery and development of new truths. The
principal cause of this want of attention to original research, is the want,
not of proper means, but of proper encouragement. ‘Ihe publication of
original memoirs and periodical reports, as contemplated by the programme,
will act as a powerful stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by pla-
cing in bold relief the real laborers in the field of original research, while
it will afford the best materials for the use of those engaged in the diffu-
sion of knowledge.

The advantages which will accrue from the plan of publishing the vol-
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, are various. In the
first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favorably known
wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep it in continual
remembrance with each succeeding volume, as loug as knowledge is val-
ued. A single new truth, first given to the world through these volumes,
will forever stamp their character as a work of reference. ‘lhe contribu-
tions will thus form the most befitting monument to perpetuate the name
of one whose life was devoted to the increase of knowledge, and whose
ruling passion, strong in death, prompted the noble bequest intended to
facilitate the labors of others in the same pursuit.

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs will
afford to the institution the most ready means of entering into friendly
relations and correspondence with all the learned societies in the world,
and of enriching its library with their current transactions and proceedings.
But perhaps the most important effect of the plan will be that of giving to
the world many valuable memoirs, which, on account of the expense of the
illustrations, could not be otherwise published. Every one who adds
new and important truths to the existing stock of knowledge, must be
of necessity, to a certain degree, in advance of his age. Heuce the
nuwnber of readers and purchasers of a work is generally in the inverse
[ 23 ] 180

ratio of its intrinsic value; and consequently, authors of the highest
rank of merit are frequently deterred from giving their productions to
the world on account of the pecuniary loss to which the publica-
tion would subject them. When our lamented countrymen, Bowditch,
contemplated publishing his commentary on La Place, he assembled his
family and informed them that the execution of this design would sacri-
fice. one-third of his fortune, and that it was proper his heirs should be con-
sulted on a subject which so nearly concerned them. The answer
was worthy of the children of such a father: ‘‘ We value,’ said they,
‘your reputation more than your money.’’ Fortunately, in this in-
stance, the means of making such a sacrifice existed; otherwise one of
the proudest monuments of American science could not have been given
to the world. In the majority of cases, however, those who are most
capable of extending human knowledge are least able to incur the expense
of the publication. Wilson, the American Ornithologist, states, in a letter
to Michaux, that he has sacrificed everything to publish his work: ‘ I
have issued,’’ he says, ‘‘ six volumes, and am engaged on the seventh, but.
as yet I have not received a single cent of the proceeds.’’ ‘In an address
on the subject of natural history, by one of our most active cultivators of
this branch of knowledge, we find the following remarks, which are directly
in point: ‘‘ Few are acquainted with the fact that from the small number
of scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates, our naturalists not
only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecuniary loss from their publi-
cations. Several works on different branches of zoology, now ia the course
of publication, will leave their authors losers by an aggregate of $15,000.
I do not include in this estimate works already finished—one, for instance,
the best contribution to the natural history of man extant, the publication
of which will occasion its accomplished author a loss of several thou-
sand dollars. A naturalist is extremely fortunate if he can dispose of 200
copies of an illustrated work, and the number of copies printed rarely exceeds
250.”’ It may be said that these authors have their reward in the reputa-
tion which they thus purchase; but reputation should be the result of the
talents and labor expended in the production of a work, and should not
in the least depend upon the fact that the author is able to make a pecu-
niary sacrifice in giving the account of his discoveries to the public.

Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published in
the Smithsonian Contributions free of expense, his labors will be given to
the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of learned men; and
his merits will be generally made known through the reports of the insti-
tution. ‘Though the premiums offered may be small, yet they will have
considerable effect in producing original articles. Fifty or a hundred dollars
awarded to the author of an original paper, will, in many instances, suf-
fice to supply the books, or to pay for the materials, or the manual labor
required, in prosecuting the research.

‘There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to much
discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation; I allude
to that which excludes from the contributions all papers consisting merely
of unverified speculations on subjects of physical science. The object of
this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which would occur in
rejecting papers of an unphilosophical character; and though it may in
some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet the strict observance
of it will be found of so much practical importance that it cannot be dis-
181 [ 23 ]

pensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption of this proposition
that we are disposed to undervalue abstract speculations: on the contrary,
we know that all the advances in true science—namely, a knowledge of the
laws of phenomena—are made by provisionally adopting well-conditioned
hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and subsequently verifying
them by an appeal to experiment and observation. Every new hypothesis
of scientific value must not only furnish an exact explanation of known
facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind and quantity, the phe-
nomena which will be exhibited under any given combination of cir-
cumstances. ‘Thus, in the case of the undulatory hypothesis of light, it
was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the supposition were true
that light consisted of waves of an ethereal medium, then two rays of light,
like two waves of water under certain conditions, should annihilate each
other, and darkness be produced. The experiment was tried, and the
anticipated result was obtained. It is this exact agreement of the deduc- ,
tion with the actual result of experience that constitutes the verification of
an hypothesis, and which alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to
a place in the Transactions of a scientific institution. It must be recollected
that it is much easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few
of all the hypotheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific
verification.

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a
memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication, I
would refer to the correspondence, given in a subsequent part of this report,
relative to the memoir now in process of publication by the institution.
As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of other insti-
tutions, but to co-operate with them, so far as our respective operations are
compatible, communications may be referred to learned societies for inspec-
tion, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, and abstracts of them
given to the world through the bulletins of these societies, while the details
of the memoirs and their expensive illustrations are published in the vol-
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions. The officers of several learned
societies in this country have expressed a willingness to co-operate in this
way.

Since original research is the most direct way of increasing knowl-
edge, it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the bequest
should be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons can
be found, and their labors be directed to proper objects. ‘The num-
ber, however, of those who are capable of discovering scientific prin-
ciples is comparatively small; like the poet, they are ‘born, not
made,” and, like him, must be left to choose their own subject, and
wait the fitting time of inspiration. In case a person of this class has
fallen on a vein of discovery, and is pursuing it with success, the better
plan will be to grant him a small sum of money to carry on his investiga-
tions, provided they are considered worthy of assistance by competent
judges. This will have the double effect of encouraging him in the pursuit,
and of facilitating his progress. The institution, however, need not depend
upon cases of this kind, even if they were more numerous than they are,
for the application of its funds in the line of original research. There are
large fields of observation and experiment, the cultivation of which, though
it may afford no prospect of the discovery of a principle, can hardly fail
[ 23 ] 182

to produce results of importance both in a practical and a theoretic point of
view. As an illustration of this remark, I may mention the case of the in-
vestigations made afew years ago by committees of the Franklin Institute,
of Philadelphia. 'The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
placed at the disposal of this society a sum of money, for the purpose of
making experiments with reference to the cause of the explosion of steam-
boilers. A committee of the society was chosen for this purpose, which
adopted the ingenious plan of writing to all persons in the United States en-
gaged in the application of steam, and particularly to those who had observed
the explosion of a steam-boiler. In this way opinions and suggestions in
great variety, as to the cause of explosions, were obtained. ‘he most
plausible of these were submitted to the test of experiment: the results ob-
tained were highly important, and are to be found favorably mentioned in
every systematic work on the subject of steam which has appeared, in any
language, within the last few years. New and important facts were es-
tablished; and, what was almost of as much consequence, errors which had
usurped the place of truth were dethroned.

In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original re-
search to which the attention of the institution may be turned. I will
mention one in this place, which, in connexion with the contents of our
first memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude toa small appro-
priation made annually for researches with reference to the remains of the
ancient inhabitants of our country. This is a highly interesting field,
and what is done in regard to it should be done quickly. Every year the
progress of civilization is obliterating the ancient mounds, cities and vil-
lages are rising on the spots they have so long occupied undisturbed, and the
ne marks of these remains are every year becoming less and less
egible.

In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affecting
men in general by the operations of the institution, it is evident that the
principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the press. ‘Though lec-
tures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to direct
the establishment of his institution, yet, as a plan of general diffusion of
knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inadequate; every
village in our extended country would have a right to demand a share of
the benefit, and the income of the institution would be insufficient to supply
a thousandth part of the demand. It is also evident that the knowledge
diffused should, if possible, not only embrace all branches of general in-
terest, so that each reader might find a subject suited to his taste, but also
that it should differ in kind and quality from that which ean be readily
obtained through the cheap publications of the day. These requisites
will be fully complied with in the publications of the series of reports pro-
posed in the programme. A series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all
the discoveries in science from time to time, and giving a well digested ac-
count of all the important changes in the different branches of knowledge, ©
is a desideratum in the English language. 'The idea is borrowed from a
partial plan of this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and for an
example of what the work should be, | would refer to the annual report to
the Swedish Academy of its perpetual Secretary, Berzelius, on physical
science. ‘I'he reports can be so prepared as to be highly interesting to the
general reader, and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive
) 183 [ 23 ]

cultivator of a particular branch of knowledge. Full references should
be given, in foot-notes, to the page, number, or volume of the work from
which the information was obtained, and where a more detailed account
can be found. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the preparation of
these reports should be intrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted
with the subjects to which they relate—namely, to those who are devoted
to particular branches, while they possess a knowledge of general princi-
ples. Sufficient explanations should be introduced to render the report in-
telligible to the general reader, without destroying its scientific character.
Occasionally reports may be obtained from abroad—as, for example, ac-
counts of the progress of certain branches of knowledge in foreign coun-
tries—and these may be translated, if necessary, and incorporated into other
reports, by some competent person in this country.

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro-
poses to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. ‘There
are always subjects of generai interest, of which brief expositions would
be of much value. 'The preparation of these, however, should be intrusted
to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be subjected
to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they are given to
the public. ‘hey may be presented in the form of reports on the existing
state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may sometimes consist
of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of literature and science,
translated from foreign languages. The reports and treatises of the insti-
tution, sold at a price barely sufficient to pay the expense of printing, will
find their way into every school in our country, and will be used not as
first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of reliable information for the
teacher.

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been
made out, the details of the part of the plan of organization directed by
the act of Congress establishing the institution. The two plans, namely,
that of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects
of nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoni-
ously with each other. The only effect which they will have on one
another is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds
given to the other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical
expenditure of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the plan
of finance, suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the building,
much good may be effected in each of the two branches of the institution.
To carry on the operations of the first, a working library will be required,
consisting of the past volumes of the transactions and proceedings of all
the learned societies in every language. These are the original sources
from which the most important principles of the positive knowledge of our
day have been drawn. We shall also require a collection of the most 1m-
portant current literature and science for the use of the collaborators of the
reports; most of these, however, will be procured in exchange for the pub-
lications of the institution, and therefore will draw but little from the h-
brary fund. For other suggestions relative to the details of the library, I
would refer you to the annexed communication from Professor Jewett, As-
sistant Secretary, acting as librarian. (See appendix No. 1.)

The collections of the institution, as far as possible, should consist of
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the
[ 23 J 184

visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan be
kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. A_per-
fect collection of all objects of nature and of art, if such could be obtained
and deposited in one place, would form a museum of the highest interest;
but the portion of the income of the bequest which can be devoted to the
increase and maintenance of the museum, will be too small to warrant
any attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. It is hoped that in due
time other means may be found of establishing and supporting a general
collection of objects of nature and art at the seat of the general govern-
ment, with funds not derived from the Smithsonian bequest. For the
present, it should be the object of the institution to confine the application
of the funds, first, to such collections as will tend to facilitate the stady of
the memoirs which may be published in the Contributions, and to estab-
lish their correctness; secondly, to the purchase of such objects as are not
generally known in this country, in the way of art, and the illustration of
antiquities, such as models of buildings, &c.; and, thirdly, to the formation
of a collection of instruments of physical research, which will be required
both in the illustration of new physical truths, and im the scientific inves-
tigations undertaken by the institution.

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the institution
at Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on stated
evenings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assem-
blies, after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution in
London. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture,
new truths in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited.
Besides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects by
the officers of the institution, or by distinguished individuals invited for
the purpose.

Commencemené of the operations of the institution.

I was authorized, in connexion with the Committee on Organization, to
commence the publication of the Smithsonian Contributions to Kuowl-
edge, and to receive any memoir which might be presented on any subject,
provided it was found, on examination, to furnish an interesting addition
to the sum of human knowledge, resting on original research. ‘The
first memoir presented, and found to be of the character prescribed by
the resolution of the board, was one on the remains of the ancient in-
habitants of the North American continent. It contains the result of
several years’ labor in the survey and exploration of the mounds and earth-
works of the Mississippi valley, and will furnish a highly interesting addi-
tion to the antiquities of our country, which could not have been given to
the world, but for the timely aid extended to it by this institution. ‘The
memoir was referred to the American Ethnological Society, with a request
that a committee of its members might be appointed to examine and re-
port on its character, as to fitness for publication in the Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Knowledge. On the favorable report of this committee, and
on the responsibility of the society, the memoir has been accepted for pub-
lication. The following correspondence will serve to give an account of
the work, and to illustrate the manner in which it is proposed to submit the
papers which may be presented for publication to a commission of com-
petent judges.
185 [ 23]

CORRESPONDENCE RELATIVE TO THE ACCEPTANCE FOR PUBLICATION OF THE
ETHNOLOGICAL MEMOIR OF MESSRS. SQUIER AND DAVIS.

From Messrs. Squier and Davis to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

Cuitticotue, O., May 15, 1847.

Dear Sir: Itis proposed in the recognised plan of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution, of which you are the executive officer, to publish,
under the title of “ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,”’ such original
papers and memoirs ‘‘as shall constitute valuable additions to the sum of hu-
man knowledge.’ Under the belief that it falls legitimately within the scope
of the above plan, the undersigned herewith submit for acceptance and publi-
cation, subject to the prescribed rules of the institution, a MS. memoir, entitled
“ Ancient MonuMENTS OF THE Mississipp1 VALLEY, comprising the results of
Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations: by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis.”
The extent of these investigations, and their general character, are sufficiently
indicated in the prefatory remarks to the volume.

With high consideration, we are truly yours,

E. GEO. SQUIER.
E. H. DAVIS.
Josery Henry, Esq.,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

From the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the President of the Ameri-
can Ethnological Society.

WasuinctTon, June 2, 1847,

Dear Sir: I am authorized by the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
to publish, in the numbers of the ‘“ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,”
any memoir which may be presented for this purpose, provided that, on careful
examination by a commission of competent judges, the memoir shall be found
to furnish a new and interesting addition to knowledge, resting on original re-
search. The accompanying memoir, entitled “Ancient Monuments of the Mis-
sissippi Valley,” &c., having been presented for publication, I beg leave to refer
the same, through you, to the American Ethnological Society, with the re-
quest that a committee of the members may be appointed to examine and
report on its character, in reference to the particulars above mentioned. If the
report of the committee be favorable, the memoir will be accepted for publica-
tion; full confidence being placed in the ability of the committee to judge o
the character of the article, and in their caution in making up their opimon.

I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

Hon. Arsert GALLATIN,

President American Ethnological Society.
[ 23 ] 186

Extract of aletter from the President of the American Ethnological Society to
the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

“New York, June 12, 1847.

“Dear Sir: [have the honor to enclose a copy of the proceedings and
resolutions of the New York Ethnological Society upon the MS. work on
American Antiquities, by Messrs. E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, submitted with
your letter of the 2d inst.

‘“‘J approve entirely of the resolutions and recommendations of the society.

“Whatever may be the intrinsic value of the remains of former times which
are found in the United States, it is necessary that they should at least be cor-
rectly described, and that existing gross errors should be corrected; andI re-
peat my conviction that, though ardent, Messrs. Squier and Davis are animated
by that thorough love of truth which renders their researches worthy of entire
confidence.

‘‘T have the honor to be, &c.,

‘* ALBERT GALLATIN.

“ Prof. J. HENRY,

“ Secretary of Smithsonian Institution.”

At a regular meeting of the American Ethnological Society, held at the
house of the Hon. ALBERT GALLATIN, on the evening of the 4th of June, the
president laid before the members a communication from Professor J Henry,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting, for the examination and
opinion of the society, a MS. work on the Ancient Aboriginal Monuments of
the United States. On motion, the letter and accompanying MS. were refer-
red to a committee consisting of Epwarp Rosinson, D. D., Joun R. Barrier,
Professor W. W. Turner, Samuet G. Morton, M. D., and Hon. Georce P.
Marsu, to report upon the same. At a subsequent meeting of the society,
this committee submitted the following report and resolutions, which were
unanimously accepted and adopted :

REPORT.

The committee of the American Ethnological Society, to which was referred
the communication of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, transmitting
a manuscript work, entitled ‘“‘ Anctent MoNUMENTS OF THE Mississippi VAL-
LEY, comprising the results of Extensive Original Surveys and Explorations,”
by E. G. Squier and E. H. Davis, beg leave to report, that

They have examined the work in question, and regard it not only as a new
and interesting, but as an eminently valuable addition to our stock of knowl-
edge on a subject little understood, but in which is felt a deep and constantly
increasing interest, both in our country and abroad. In their judgment, the
work is worthy of the subject, and highly creditable to the authors. Its chief
features are, a scientific arrangement, simplicity, and directness of statement,
and legitimate deduction from facts, while there is no attempt at mere specula-
tion or theory. If published, it will be an enduring monument to connect the
names of the investigators in honorable and lasting remembrance with the great
subject of American Archeology.

The existence and progress of these investigations were made known to
the society by correspondence early in the year 1846; and in June of that year
187 [ 23 ]

specimens of the relics recovered, accompanied by numerous maps and plans of
ancient earthworks and sectional views of the mounds from which the remains
were taken, were laid before the society by Mr. Squier in person. These ex-
cited deep interest and surprise in all who saw them; and the society imme-
diately took measures to encourage further investigation, and secure the publi-
cation, under its own auspices, of the important results already obtained. A
few months later, the chairman of the present committee, being in Ohio, was
enabled, through the kindness of Messrs. Squier and Davis, to visit several of
the more important monuments in the immediate vicinity of Chillicothe, and,
among these, ‘‘Mound City,” so called, from which very many of the minor relics
and specimens were procured. He was struck with the accuracy of the plans
and drawings, as well as of the accounts which had been laid before the socie-
ty, and bears full testimony to the fidelity and integrity with which the process
of investigation and delineation has been conducted.

During the last and present season the researches of these gentlemen have
been actively prosecuted and widely extended, and the above work, largely il-
lustrated, comprising the results, has been prepared. These results are so nu-
merous and important, and consequently such is the extent and magnitude of
the work itself, as to put its publication beyond any means which the society
can command. Under these circumstances, your committee learn with pleas-
ure that preliminary arrangements have been made for its publication by the
Smithsonian Institution, among its ‘Contributions to Knowledge.” It can only
be a matter of sincere gratification to this society to see that which it cannot
itself accomplish for the history and antiquities of our country, taken up and
carried out under such favorable auspices: and they cannot but rejoice that an
opportunity is thus afforded to that noble institution of opening its high career
by fostering scientific researches into the interesting problems connected with
the Ante-Columbian history and Aboriginal monuments of our own country.

In view of these facts, your committee would recommend the adoption of the
following resolutions by the society: —

Resolved, That this society regard the researches of Messrs. Squier and
Davis as of very great importance in American Archeology, and as casting much
light upon our aboriginal antiquities, especially upon the character and habits
of the earliest races which had their seat in the Mississippi valley.

Resoived, That we regard the work prepared upon this subject as one of
great general interest, and as worthy to be adopted for publication by the Smith-
sonian Institution, both as resting on original researches, and as affording re-
markable illustrations of the history of the American continent.

Your committee would also append to this report the accompanying letters
from Samuel G. Morton, M. D., of Philadelphia, and Hon. George P. Marsh, of
Vermont, both members of this society, and joint members of this committee.
~ Allof which is respectfully submitted.

EDWARD ROBINSON, )
JOHN R. BARTLETT, ; Committee.
W. W. TURNER, ‘

New York, June, 1847.

New York, June 9, 1847.

I have examined with much interest and attention the manuscripts, drawings,
and ancient relics in the possession of Mr. E. G. Squier, and am happy to
say that my previous impressions concerning the value of the researches of that
gentleman and his associate are fully confirmed. | It is fortunate for the cause
of American Archeology that the first systematic attempt at its elucidation
[23] 188

should have been conceived and executed in so truly philosophical a spirit; and
rich as this age already is in antiquarian lore, if has, I think, received few more
important contributions than that which the enlightened and generous zeal of
these two private gentlemen is about to confer upon it. ‘Phe Smithsonian col-
lections could not begin with a more appropriate or creditable essay; and I
hope that every facility may be afforded to the authors in bringing before the
public the results of their honorable labors in as suitable a form and with as

little delay as possible.
GEO. P. MARSH.

Puivapetputia, June 8, 1847.

As a member of the committee of the American Ethnological Society, ap-
pointed to report on the memoir on American Archeology, by Messrs. E. G.
Squrerand KE. H. Davis, [have great pleasure in saying that after a careful and
repeated inspection of the materials in the hands of those gentlemen, I am con-
vinced they constitute by far the most important contribution to the Arche-
ology of the United States that has ever been offered to the public. The num-
ber and accuracy of their plans, sketches, &c., have both interested and sur-
prised me, and it is gratifying to learn that the preliminary arrangements have
been made for their publication under the honorable auspices of the Smithso-
nian Institution.

SAML. GEORGE MORTON.

The memoirs of Messrs. Squier and Davis will occupy the greater portion,
if not the whole, of the first volume of the Contributions. The illustra-
tions will consist of fifty-five quarto plates of the mounds, earthworks, and
maps of the adjacent country; also, of about two hundred woodcuts,
principally delineations of the various articles found in the mounds.
Those who consider no branch of knowledge of any value but such as
relates to the immediate gratification of our physical wants, have objected
to the acceptance of this memoir as one of the first publications of the
institution; but it must be recollected that the will of Smithson makes no
restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowledge, and that each
branch is, therefore, entitled to a share of his bequest. The Ethnological
memoir of Messrs. Squier and Davis was the first, of the proper character,
presented for publication, and hence it was entitled to the first place in the
series of Smithsonian Contributions. Besides this, it furnishes an addition
to a branch of knowledge which is at this time occupying the attention of
a large class of minds, and which cannot fail to be interesting to every
intelligent person who would learn something of the changes to which
man has been subjected.

One of the volumes of the Contributions will contain a sketch of the life
of Smithson, by the Chancellor. The materials for this have been col
lected from the several volumes of the Transactions of the Royal Society,
and the scientific journals of the beginning of the present, and the latter part
of the last century. The first volume will be published as soon as the
wood-cuts and plates, now in the course of preparation, are finished.

Besides the memoirs before mentioned, a number of others have been
presented, some of which, though apparevtly of interest, and the product
of thought and labor, were not of the character required by the resolution
of the board, and these have either been returned to the authors, or are in
189 [23]

the possession of the Secretary. A number of others have also been pro-
visionally adopted, or are in the course of preparation. Some of these are
on the most abstruse parts of physical science, and all will do honor to the
intellectual character of our country. Though the number of original
memoirs which will be found worthy of a place in the Contributions will
probably not be large, yet it will, perhaps, be best to set apart a definite
portion of the income of the bequest—as, for example, at present three or
four thousand dollars annually—to defray the expense of tls part of the
plan of increasing knowledge. A considerable portion, however, of the
sum thus expended will be returned to the institution in the form of addi-
tions to its library. I may also suggest, in this place, the propriety of the
adoption, by the board, of a resolution inviting all engaged in original re-
search to send the results of their labors for publication in the Smithso-
nian Contributions.

The board also directed me to commence the collection of apparatus,
and I accordingly sent orders to Europe, to the amount of twelve hundred
dollars, for the purchase of such articles as could not be procured in the
United States. Most of the instruments have been received, and will
be found of importance, not only in the way of original research, but
also in illustrating some of the most interesting and recent phenomena
of physical science, as well as serving as samples for imitation to the art-
ists of this country. It was thought that these articles would be admitted
free of duty, and a petition to this effect was presented to the Secretary of
the ‘Treasury; but, though this officer is well known to be much interested
in the prosperity of the institution, such is the nature of the law that the
duty could not be remitted.

There is an article of apparatus which, within a few years past, has
opened almost a new world of research in the phenomena of life and
organization, the use of which is now indispensable in advancing our
knowledge of physiology and its kindred branches of science. I allude to
the achromatic microscope, to increase the power of which, the artists of
Germany, France, and England have vied with each other. On account
of the small number of persons who are capable of constructing the proper
~ lenses, the best specimens of this instrument are very scarce in this coun-
try, and can be procured only at a great expense. Under these circum-
stances, it was a matter of much interest to learn, from a source which
could be relied upon, that an individual in the interior of the State of
New York had successfully devoted himself to the study of the micro-
scope, and that he was able to produce instruments of this kind which
would compete with the best of those constructed in Europe. In order to
do justice to the talents and labors of this person, as well as to furnish the
institution with a valuable instrument of research, I requested him to con-
struct a microscope, to be paid for out of the funds for the purchase of
apparatus, provided that a commission, appointed by myself, should find it
capable of producing certain effects. ‘This proposition was accepted, and
the result will probably be given to the board at the next meeting.

Preparations have also been made for instituting various lines of physi-
cal research. Among the subjects mentioned in the programme as an ex-
ample for the application of the funds of the institution, is terrestrial magnet-
ism. I need scarcely say that this is a subject not only of high interest in
[ 23 J 190

a theoretical point of view, but also in its direct reference to navigation and
the various geodetical operations of civil and military life: A resolution
of Congress, authorizing the exploration of the mineral lands adjacent to
the great lakes, has given to us the means of advancing this Pench of
knowledge with but little expenditure of the funds of the institution. The
Secretary of the Treasury readily agreed to the proposition that there
should be added to the mineralogical and geological surveys of these
regions, determinations of the dip, 1 the variation, and the intensity of the
magnetic forces, provided that the Smithsonian Institution would furnish
one set of the instruments, and take charge of the direction of the obser-
vations, and of reducing ‘and publishing them. In the survey of the min-
eral lands in the vicinity of lake Michigan under Dr. Jackson, Dr. Locke,
of Cincinnati, has been employed with his own apparatus; and to supply
the necessary instruments for the survey in Wisconsin, preliminary steps
have been taken to procure other instruments from London.

Another subject of research mentioned in the programme, and which has

been urged upon the immediate attention of the institution, is that of an ex-
tensive system of meteorological observations, particularly with reference
to the phenomena of American storms. Of late years, in our country,
more additions have been made to meteorology than to any other branch
of physical science. Several important generalizations have been arrived at,
and definite theories preposed, which now enable us to direct our attention,
with scientific precision, to such points of observation as cannot fail to
reward us with new and interesting results. It is proposed to organize a
system of observations which shall extend as far as possible over the
North American continent; and in order to this, it will be necessary to en-
gage the co-operation of the British government. I have accordingly ad-
dressed a letter on this subject to Lieutenant Colonel Sabine, corresponding
secretary of the Royal Society, who assures me that, as soon as the plan
is fully matured for this country, there will be no difficulty in establishing
a system of corresponding observations in the British provinces. I have also
addressed letters to several gentlemen distinguished for their attainments in
meteorology, asking for suggestions as to the plan of observation; and | beg
leave to refer the board to the accompanying report of Prof. Loomis, of New
York University, and also to the communication of Prof. Espy, received in
answer. (Appendix Nos. 2 and 3.) ‘The former contains an exposition of
the advantages which may be derived from the study of meteorology, and
what has been done in this branch of science in this country, and what
encouragement there is for the further prosecution of the same subject,
together with a general plan of operations. The present time appears to
be peculiarly auspicious for commencing an enterprise of the proposed
kind. The citizens of the United States are now scattered over every part
of the southern and western portion of North America, and the extended
lines of telegraph will furnish a ready means of warning the more northern
and eastern observers to be on the watch for the first appearance of an
advancing storm.

All which is respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary.
To the Recents of the Smithsonian Institution.
191 [ 23]

APPENDIX No. 1.

Extract from a communication of Professor Jewett, Assistant Secretary

of the institution, acting as librarian.
_ My pear str: As Ido not expect to have the pleasure of seeing you again
before the meeting of the Regents, I will, with your indulgence, refer to
some of the principal matters which will require attention in commencing
the library. They would no doubt all occur to you in their order, but I
have thought you might find it convenient to have this part of the busi-
ness in some degree prepared to your hands. A great deal of preparatory
work is to be gone through with, before any books can be placed on the
shelves.

1. On the plan proposed for the library, it seems to me that the first
thing to be done is to make arrangements for obtaining catalogues, printed
or in manuscript, of the principal libraries of the United States; to ex-
amine these libraries, as far as can be done personally, in order to know
their general character, the statistics of their increase, &c.; and to form
such alliances with the librarians as will be indispensable in making the
library of the institution, in conformity with the suggestion of Dr. Bache,
a supplemental one, and a centre of bibliographical reference. Some
libraries. possess printed catalogues complete nearly down to the present
time; others are several years behindhand. It will be necessary to pro-
cure manuscript catalogues in continuation of those which have been print-
ed, and to make arrangements for receiving, from month to month, or from
year to year, lists of all future accessions. These supplementary cata-
logues should all be prepared ona uniform plan. The titles should be written
on cards of the same size, so that they may be placed together in one al-
phabetical arrangement, in order to facilitate research. A mark placed
on the back of each card will designate the library from which it came.
Now, in every library with which we are in correspondence some one must
be employed to do this. It would be merely clerk’s labor, where the cata-
logues are properly kept, and no doubt the librarian or assistant might in
every case be induced to undertake it for a small compensation.

2. The next thing to be done will be to make arrangements for pro-
curing the books to which we are entitled by the 10th section >f the char-
ter of the institution. Unless something be done, this provision, in course
of time, will bring in comparatively few books in ayear. I have no doubt
that publishers generally would readily send their books, if the subject were
properly presented to them, and arrangements made by which they could
transmit them to Washington without subjecting the institution or them-
selves to expenses altogether disproportioned to the value of the books.
It has occurred to me that perhaps the several district clerks might be in-
duced to attend to the business: it is perhaps legally their duty to do so, but
I suppose it would be unsafe to rely upon their performing faithfully such an
unexpected duty, unless they received for it some additional compensation.
Besides this, a circular might be printed and sent to publishers, setting
forth the advantages which would result directly to the cause of letters,
and indirectly to themselves, from compliance with this requirement. By
these means I think we should obtain nearly all the publications of impot-
tance issued from the American press.
[ 23 ] 192

3. The selection of books for the first purchase must be made. This
will, [ suppose, comprise three classes of works: 1. Those which may be
immediately needed in the scientific department; 2. Bibliographical works
and descriptions, histories and catalogues of similar mstitutions; and, 3.
The general collection, consisting of the memoirs, transactions, and jour-
nals of the learned societies of Europe and America. These three classes of
books will form a library quite unique, and one of great utility. ‘The
catalogue, if it be made with fulness and accuracy, will be a valuable pub-
lication. I think, further, that a somewhat extended list of books should
be made out for future purchases. ‘These lists should be intrusted to
honest and faithful men in some of the principal book marts in Europe,
with orders to buy the books whenever they can find them—at say one-
half the ordinary prices. In this way we should obtain at very low prices
great numbers of the books which we shall want. Of course, the same
list should not be left with different men. 'The work should be done
with care, and by consultation with the best scholars in the country. It
will be difficult to find the necessary bibliographical helps. 'The best col-
jection of them in the country is in the library of the Brown University,
but this is very imperfect.

4. The first purchases are to be made, and the arrangements for future
purchases. ‘These, of course, should not be commenced until the lists are
as far completed as they can judiciously be in this country.

5. Another subject contemplated in the programme of organization, and
which should receive iminediate attention, 1s the procuring of copies of some
of the most celebrated works of art. It will probably be best to confine the
purchases at first principally to plaster casts of some of the finest specimens
of ancient and modern statuary. ‘I'hese can be procured very cheap, and
convey, of course, a perfect representation of the original. I have nodoubt
that for a public institution, and one under national auspices, we could,
whenever we desire it, obtain permission to take casts directly from the
statues. 3

The expense of doing so would of course be somewhat greater than
that of purchasing such copies as might be found in the market, but a
small difference in expense is not to be thought of in such acase. It
would further be desirable to commence the purchase of the models of an-
tiquities, such as models in cork of some of the houses, temples, theatres,
baths, &c., &c., in Pompeii and Herculaneum. These can be procured
at comparatively small prices. Models of every interesting part of Pompeii
which has been excavated, presenting in miniature a perfect view of nearl
the whole on the scale of 1 foot to 150, might be procured for about $2,000.
It might also be weli to procure a few Etruscan vases; also a few antique
coins and medals, sufficient to convey some illustration of numismatics, as
a subsidiary branch of history. ‘he Regents should of course decide
what proportion of the appropriation for collections should each year be
expended for these purposes. I will merely remark that $1,000, or even
$500 at the outset, prudently expended, would procure a very interesting
collection.

I have thus stated quite in detail the work which must be done before
the library can be ready for use, or rather before any part of it can be placed
upon the shelves. Before it can be ready for use, much more is to be done
in arranging and cataloguing. ‘To lay properly the foundation of a large

, 193 [23 ]

library is a slow work, and much time must necessarily be consumed in
producing but small visible results.
Tam, my dear sir, very truly, your friend and servant,
ii C. C. JEWETT.
Proressor Henry, LL. D.,

A Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX No. 2.

Report on the Meteorology of the United States: By Professor Looms
Subnutted to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

My pear sir: Believing that the science of meteorology has now ar-
rived at that stage of advancement in which a more powerful combination
of observers is needed to secure any rapid progress, I fully concur in the
importance of establishing an extended system of observations under the
direction of the Smithsonian Institution, and propose in this report briefly
to inquire,

IT. What advantages society may expect to derive from the study of me-
teorology, particularly that branch of it which relates to the phenomena of
storms.

Il. What has already been done in this country, ist, towards making
the necessary observations; and, 2d, towards deducing from the observa-
tions general laws.

iil. What encouragement there is to a further prosecution of the same
researches; and,

IV. I shall offer a plan for securing these advantages in their fullest ex-
tent.

I. Of what importance to society is the study of meteorology ?

Very little argument is needed to prove that our comfort and convenience,
and not unfrequently our lives and property, are dependent upon meteoro-
Jogical phenomena. ‘This is proverbially true of the mariner. ‘The mo-
ment he embarks upon the treacherous sea, he finds himself at the mercy
of the winds. His life often depends upon the fidelity with which he
watches every change in the aspect of the sky. Ina single hour he may
exchange the deceptive calm for the fatal tornado. ‘The number of dis-
asters upon the sea is frightful, and is far greater than is generally known.
In the gale of December 15, 1839, 89 vessels were wrecked on the Massa-
chusetts coast; and of these, 61 ona single cape. In the great hurricane of
1780, 13 battle-ships were lost, and 16 more dismasted. England and
America alone suffer an annual loss from wrecks of more than 1 ,J0U ves-
sels, and nearly one-half of this is on the American coast. oe

But how can the study of meteorology benefit the sailor? Will it en-
able him to calm the tempest—to subdue the raging of thesea? ‘I'his we
do not expect; yet, if he can anticipate the approach of a stormeven by a
few hours, he may generally place himself beyond the reach of its .ury.
Is it in the power of science to enable the navigator to anticipate the
coming tempest? If so, then,it would be difficult to name a subject
of more vital importance to our commerce. How far this object has been

13
[23 ] 194
already attained, and what encouragement there is to expect further dis-
coveries, I shall consider hereafter.

The sailor is not the only person who has an interest in the study of
meteorology. Although buta small part of the population of the United
States are directly engaged in foreign commerce, yet so important has this
department of industry become, and so interwoven with all the business
of the country, that there is not a trade or profession which does not feel
the shock of any great disaster at sea. Aside from this indirect interest,
the farmer is directly dependent upon the weather for the consummation of
his plans, almost equally with the sailor. Severe drought or excessive
rains, untimely frost or a scorching sun, may blast all the hopes of the
husbandman. Here it may be asked, do you expect to produce rain or
sunshine at pleasure? Probably not. But if we can anticipate the gene-
ral character of a season, the farmer may regulate his time of planting or the
nature of his crops, so as to be least injuriously affected by unpropitious
weather; so that, if we cannot strip the lightning of its power, we may at
least direct it harmlessly to the earth.

Again, an extensive series of meteorological observations may prove of
immense importance to the scientific physician. It cannot be doubted
that the salubnity of a climate is to a great extent dependent upon its me-
teorology—on its mean temperature, the range of the thermometer, the
suddenness of its changes, the moisture of the air, excessive rains or un-
usual droughts, &c. ‘To trace the connexion between these causes and
prevalent diseases, requires an accumulation of precise meteorological ob-
servations made in every variety of exposure, and continued for a long pe-
riod of time. ‘That it is possible to discover such 2 connexion, if it really
exist, cannot adniit of a reasonable doubt; nor is it difficult to anticipate
the important consequences which must flow from it. To discover the
cause of disease is the first step towards a cure; and itis by no means
chimerical to suppose that acomplete system of meteorological observations
throughout the United States might be the means of extending the dura-
tion of human life.

It cannot, then, be questioned that meteorology is a subject of the greatest
practical importance, provided it has any solid foundation for a science. If
the laws of storms can be discovered, this knowledge must be of the |
highest importance to mankind, particularly to those who are employed in
navigating the sea. If the prevalent character of a season can be antici-
pated, it would save the husbandman much bitter disappointment from the
failure of his crops. If the influence of cliniate upon disease could be
detected, it might add years to the mean duration of human life. What
encouragement there may be to anticipate that these results will ever be at-
tained, I shall consider after inquiring— f

IJ. What has already been done for the promotion of meteorology,

1, In the way of making the necessary observations.

Previous to the year 1819, no combined systematic effort had been made
in this country for the promotion of meteorology. Registers had been in-
dustriously kept by various private individuals, but they were without
any concerted action. In 1819, under the direction of the then Secretary
of War, John C. Calhoun, a system of meteorological observations was
commenced at the different military posts, which has been continued to the
present time. ‘his was a highly important movement, and was prompted.
by a most liberal spirit. It has furnished us with an approximate knowl-
195 [ 23]
edge of the mean temperature of a considerable number of stations, many
of them remote from the more populous parts of the United States. It
should, however, be remembered that the instruments provided never ex-
ceeded a thermometer and a rain-gauge ; and the observations, therefore,
had of necessity a limited range.

In 1825, a similar system of observations was introduced into the State
of New York, almost without modification. Each of the academies incor-
porated by the Board of Regents was furnished with a thermometer and a
rain-gauge, and was required to keep a register, after a prescribed form, in
order to be entitled to a portion of the public literary fund. This system
has now continued fer more than twenty years, and the number of
academies reporting has increased from ten to forty. The plan was highly
creditable to the public spirit and scientific taste of New York. It wasa
movement in advance of public sentiment in the other States, and the ob-
servations were, perhaps, as extensive as it was expedient to undertake at
that time. These observations have determined, with considerable aceu-
racy, the mean temperature of the State; and the annual report contains
a vast amount of important meteorological statistics.

More recently, Pennsylvania has setan example of the same lind to her
sister States. In 1837 the legislature of that State appropriated $4,000 for
the advancement of meteorology; and out of this sum, which was placed
at the disposal of a joint committee of the American Philosophical Society
and Franklin Institute, a barometer, two common thermometers, a self-
registering thermometer, and a rain-gauge, were purchased for each county
in the State, to be placed in the hands of some skilful observer who
should volunteer to keep a journal of the weather, according to a com-
mon form prescribed by the committee. ‘The observations were com-
menced with little delay, and have been regularly continued. Here are
made observations of the barometer and thermometer three times a day; of
the self-registering thermometer; the winds estimated for sixteen points of
the compass; the depth of rain; and, at some stations, observations of the
dew-point. *

In the year 1843, the system of observations at the military posts was
reorganized upon a scale more in accordance with the claims of science.
They now comprise observations of the barometer, attached and external
thermometer, wet-bulb thermometer; direction and force of the wind; dl-
rection, velocity, and amount of clouds; each at four hours of the day,
viz: sunrise, 9a. m.,3 and 9p. m.; together with the amount of rain,
and the times of its beginning and ending:

Thus it appears we have observations from the general government at
about sixty posts, stretching along the entire Atlantic coast, the gulf of
Mexico, the Indian territory beyond the Mississippi, and the chain of
the northern lakes. Next come the observations of two large States,
New York and Pennsylvania. And then we have amateur observers,
pretty numerous in New England—seattered more sparingly over the south
and west.

I now come to the inquiry, what progress has been made,

2, Towards deducing from these observations general laws. | ‘

In the list of philosophers who have contributed to create science qs )
_ the crude materials furnished by observation, I shall first ease r.
Redfield. His first paper on the storms of the Atlantic coast appears a
April, 1831, in volume 20 of the American Journal of Science. is
[ 23 ] 196

paper gives a full account of the hurricane of September, 1821, which was
traced from the West India islands northward along the whole line of our
coast. It contained also a notice of the storm of August 17, 1830, and two
or three other storms of the same year. From a comparison of all the ob-
servations, Mr. Redfield derived the conclusion that those storms were
great whirlwinds. In 1833 he published the following general proposi-
tions, as embodying the results of his investigations:

1. The severe storms of the Atlantic coast often originate in the tropical
latitudes, where they are distinguished by the name of hurricanes.

2. These storms cover, at the same moment of time, a surface whose
diameter varies from one to five hundred miles, and in some cases they
have been much more extensive. They act with diminished violence
towards the exterior, and with increased energy towards the interior.

3. While south of the parallel of 30° these storms pursue their course
towards the west, on a track which inclines gradually to the northward.
In the vicinity of latitude 30° their course changes somewhat abruptly to
the northward and eastward, and the track continues to incline gradually
to the east, towards which point, after leaving the lower latitudes, they ad-
vance with an accelerated velocity. The rate of progress may be estimated
at from 12 to 30 miles an hour.

4. The duration of the storm at any place within its track depends upon
its extent, and the rate of velocity with which it moves.

5. The direction of the wind over the greater portion of the track is not
the direction of the progress of the storm.

6. In the lower latitudes, while drifting to the westward, the direction of
the wind at the commencement of these storms is from a northern quarter,
usually from northeast to northwest, and during the fatter part of the gale,
it blows from a southern quarter of the horizon.

7. North of the parallel of 30°, and while pursuing their course to the
nortiward and eastward, these storms commence with the wind from an
easterp or southern quarter, and terntinate with the wind from a western
quarter. A at :

8. On the outer portion of the track, they exhibit at their commence-
ment a southerly wind, which, as the storm comes over, veers gradually to
the westward, in which quarter it terminates.

9, Along the central portion of the track, the first force of the wind is
from the southeast; but after blowing for a certain period, it changes sud-
denly to an opposite point, from which quarter it biows with equal vio-
lence, till the siorm has passed over: it is under this portion of the storm
that we notice the greatest fall of the barometer, and the mercury usually
begins to rise a short time previous to the change of wind.

10. On the inner portion of the track the wind commences from a more
eastern or northeastern point of the horizon, and afterwards veers by north
to a northwest or westerly quarter, where it finally terminates.

11. Hence Mr. Redfield infers that the portion of the atmosphere which
composes the body of the storm blows ina horizontal circuit around a verti-
cal axis of rotation, which is carried onward with the storm, aud that the
direction of the circuit is from right to left.

12.. The barometer always sinks while under the first portion of the
storm, and rises again under the jast portion of the gale. i

In 1835 Mr. Redfield published an analysis of several additional storms
which visited the American coast, and accompanied his paper with a chart,
197 [ 23 ]

upon which eleven of these tracks were carefully represented. In subse-
quent years Mr. Redfield continued his investigations, and in 1846 he
published an analysis of three additional hurricanes, making sixteen storms
whose tracks are delineated upon his chart of the Atlantic coast. The re-
sults of all these investigations served to confirm substantially the conclu-
sions published in 1833.

In the Journal of the Franklin Institute for April, 1836, Mr. Espy
commenced the publication of a series of essays, in which he announced a
new theory of storms; and he has since continued his researches up to
the present time. The following generalizations, given in his own words,
are the latest at which he has arrived:

Ist. The rain and snow storms, and even the moderate rains and snows,
travel from the west towards the east, in the United States, during the
months of January, February, and March, which are the only months yet
investigated.

2d. There is a depression of the barometer near the central line of
the storm.

3d. The central line of minimum pfessure is generally of great length
from north to south, and moves sideforemost towards the east.

Ath. This line is sometimes nearly straight, but generally curved, and
most frequently with the convex side towards the east.

5th. The velocity of this line is such, that it travels from the Mississippi
to the Connecticut river in about twenty-four hours; and from the Con-
necticut to St. John, Newfoundland, in nearly the same time, or about
thirty-six miles an hour.

6th. When the barometer falls suddenly in the western part of New
England, it rises at the same time in the valley of the Mississippi, and also
at St. John, Newfoundland.

7th. In great storms, the wind, for several hundred miles on both sides
of the line of minimum pressure, blows towards that line directly or ob-
liquely.

8th. The force of the wind is in proportion to the suddenness and
amount of the barometric depression.

9th. In all great and sudden depressions of the barometer, there is much
rain or snow; and in all sudden great rains or snows, there is a great flue-
tuation of the barometer.

10th. Many storms are of great and unknown length from north to
south, reaching beyond our observers in the gulf of Mexico, on the one
hand, and beyond the northern lakes on the other, while their east and west
diameter is comparatively small. The storms, therefore, move side-
foremost.

11th. Most storms commence in the “ far west,’’ beyond the stations of
our most western observers; but some commence in the United States.

12th. When a storm commences in the United States, the line of mini-
mum pressure does not come from the ‘ far west,’’? but commences with
the storm, and travels with it towards the east. &

13th. There is generally a lull of wind at the line of minimum pressure,
and sometimes a calm.

14th. When the wind changes to the west, the barometer begins to mse.

15th. There is generally but little wind near the line of maximum pres-
sure, and on each side of that line the winds are irregular, but tend out-
wards from that line.
[ 23] 198

16th. The fluctuations of the barometer are generally greater in the
northern than in the southern parts of the United States.

17th. The fluctuations of the barometer are generally greater in the
eastern than in the western parts of the United States.

18th. In the northern parts of the United States, the wind, in great
storms, generally sets in from the north of east, and terminates from the
north of west.

19th. In the southern parts of the United States the wind generally sets
in from the south of east, and terminates from the south of west.

20th. During the passage of storms the wind generally changes from
the eastward to the westward by the south, especially in the southern parts
of the United States.

The importance of verifying, modifying, or refuting these generaliza-
tions, will appear more fully by a consideration of the following theory,
which first led to the adoption of the plan of laying down the phenomena
of storms on maps, as here recommended to you:

1st. When the air near the surface of the earth in a particular locality
acquires a higher temperature or a higher dew-point than that of surround-
ing regions, it will ascend, on account of a less specific gravity—perpen-
dicularly if there is a calm.

2d. As it ascends it comes under less pressure and expands, and be- -
comes colder by expansion, about one degree and a quarter for each hun-
dred yards.

3d. The dew-point falls about one-quarter of a degree, by the expansion
of the vapor, for each hundred yards; and, therefore, when the ascending
air rises as many hundred yards as the dew-point is below the temperature
of the air at the surface of the earth in degrees of Fahrenheit, the cold of
expansion of the air will begin to condense the vapor contained in it, and
thus form cloud.

Ath. As soon as the vapor begins to condense into cloud, the latent
caloric will begin to be evolved, which will diminish the cooling effect of
its expansion in its further ascent, sometimes a little more and sometimes
a little less than one-half, according as the dew-point is above or below
70° of Fahrenheit.

5th. When the air has ascended high enough to have condensed by
the cold of expansion, from diminished pressure, one-hundredth of its
weight of vapor, its temperature will be about 48° warmer from the evolu- |
tion of the latent caloric than it would be by going up to the same height
without vapor in it, and will then be about 48° warmer than the air around
the cloud at the same elevation, and of course about one-tenth lighter.

6th. The air in the cloud being thus specifically much lighter than the
surrounding air, will ascend, and, in ascending, spread out in all direc-
tions above, overlapping the air of surrounding regions, and thus causing
the baromeier to rise all round the cloud to a distance proportional to the
magnitude of the cloud.

7th. Whilst the barometer is rising all round the cloud from the in-
creasing weight of the air, it will fall under the central regions of the cloud
in proportion to the quantity of air spreading out above.

8th. The air near the surface of the earth will now rush in on all sides
from the regions around the cloud, where the barometer stands high, to-
wards the central regions, where the barometer stands low, witha volocity
proportional to the square root of the difference of pressure.
199 [ 23]

9th. The air thus rushing in under the cloud on ail sides will ascend,
and carry up its vapor with it, and will condense it into cloud by the cold
of expansion from diminished pressure, as before, and thus the process of
cloud-forming will be continued. r

10th. As the principal part of this upmoving current of air is in the upper
regions of the atmosphere, which move all the year, over the United States,
from west to east, the cloud, with its whole column of light air, must also
move in the same direction.

‘Dr. Hare has turned his attention to the electrical phenomena which
accompanies the more violent exhibitions of the storm when it assumes
the form of a tornado. He agrees with Mr. Espy in opinion as to in-
ward and upward direction of the wind towards the middle of the storm,
but differs from him with respect to the cause of the current. He proposes
a definite theory of the phenomena of the tornado, founded on well-known
laws of electrical action, combined with facts of observation. It has been
fully, established by experiment in different parts of the earth that there is
an accumulation of positive electricity in the upper regions of the atmo-
sphere, that the surface of the earth relative to the lower stratum of air is
slightly negative, and that space void of air may be considered an electrical
conductor. Fyrom these facts Dr. Hare infers that the surface of the
earth, the surrounding atmosphere, and the space immediately around
and exterior to the atmosphere, form three concentric spheres, of which the
outer and inner are constantly charged with opposite electricity. The
arrangement is, therefore, precisely that of a charged leyden jar, of which
the exterior sphere is analogous to the outer coating, the surface of the earth
to the inner, and the intervening atmosphere to the non-conducting glass.
The clouds are insulated conductors floating between the two coatings, and
therefore liable to be variously charged by induction as their position rela-
tive to each other and the two coatings is varied. In some cases the ar-
rangement may be such as to forma series of steps of intermediate con-
ductors, each electrified by induction, so as to produce a violent ascending
current or conveetive discharge from the surface of the earth upwards.

“<The theories of Redfield, Espy, and Hare may not be found incompati-
ble in all points; and whatever may be the future state of our knowledge
relative to them, they point to definite objects of inquiry, which cannot
fail to reward proper cbservation with a rich harvest of important results.”

The idea occurred to me that more might be learned from a complete
analysis of a single storm, than from a partial analysis of several storms;
and that any storm of strongly marked characteristics, if fully investi-
gated, must prove a complete experimentum erucis, at least between
the theories of Messrs. Redfield and Espy. I accordingly selected the
storm of December 20, 1836, for a thorough examination. I obtained
barometric observations from 27 different stations within the United States
and the neighboring British possessions. I also obtained meteorological
journals, not containing barometric observations, from 28 military posts,
from 42 academies in the State of New York, and from five other stations;
making 102 in all, besides several stations beyend the probable limits of
the storm. ’ :

In analyzing these materials, the barometric observations were all graphi-
cally represented by curves, showing the fall and rise of the barometer,
with the time of its minimum height. Then joining by a line all those
places where the minimum of the barometer occurred at the same Instant,
[234 200

we are furnished with the means of measuring the rate of progress of the
great atmospheric wave. On the southern border of the United States, this
velocity varied from 17 to 29 statute miles per hour; and on the northern
border from 17 to 37 miles. The leading characteristics of this storm were
as follows: After a clear and cold interval, with barometer high, the wind
commenced blowing from the south. The barometer fell rapidly; the
thermometer rese; rain descended in abundance. 'The wind veered sud-
denly to northwest, and blew with great violence. The rain was succeeded
by hail or snow, which continues but a short time. The barometer rises
rapidly; the thermometer sinks as rapidly. These changes are experienced
progressively from west to east.

This storm was not circular. ,.'The area of rain and snow was about
500 miles broad from east to west. Hts length from north to south was
known to be 800 miles, and probably was not less than 1,500. For nearly
a day before the crisis, the wind blew from the southern quarter, and gen-
erally for several hours from the southeast. After the minimum of the
barometer, the wind blew with great violence from nearly the opposite point;
commonly the northwest. Here was clearly indicated a prevalent tendency
of the wind towards a central line; but, unfortunately, the observations em-
braced only one-half the area of the storm. ‘The oscillation of the barom-
eter showed a steady increase from latitude 25° to Quebec. The centre
of the storm, therefore, could not have been south of Quebec, and north
of this place we could obtain no observations.

I was now desirous of investigating a storm of marked characteristics
which could be entérely surrounded, so that more of its features would
need to be supplied by conjecture. ‘Two storms which occurred in Febru-
ary, 1542, appeared tolerably well suited to my purpose, and were selected
for a new investigation. Great pains were taken to collect materials from
every part of the United States. I succeeded in obtaining barometric ob-
servations from 64 different stations. If also procured registers, without
barometric observations, from 41 military posts, and 22 other stations, ma-
king 127 in all, not including registers from several stations too remote to
be of any service in the proposed investigation.

I commenced the analysis of the storm of February 1-5, by following
the same course I had pursued with the storm of 1536, viz: representing
the barometric observations by curves which should exhibit the fall and
rise of the mercury, with the time of minimum height; and from the time
of minima I proposed to deduce the progress of ‘the storm. But I was
disappointed in my expectations. I did not obtain such a uniform rate of
progress as [had anticipated. After some time I perceived that my observa-
tions embraced two centres of disturbance; that I had got at least two
storms in close juxtaposition, and interfering with each other. J then dis-
covered that my lines of barometric minimum represented relations which
were extremely complex, and were not well adapted to my purpose, which
was the development of physical causes. I therefore sought for some mode
of graphically representing the observations which should be founded upon
simple relations, and be better adapted to suggest the causes of the phenom-
ena. I atlast settled upon a method which appears to me well suited to this
purpose, and substituted for lines of minimum pressure, lines of equal pres-
sure. Having determined, as well as I was able, the mean height of the
barometer at each station, I compared each observation with the mean. I
then drew a line upon a map of the United States, passing through ali
201 [ 23 J

those places where the barometer stood at its mean height. This line
may be called the line of mean pressure. I then drew a line through all
the places where the barometer stood 2 inches above the mean, and another
for 4 inches above the mean. So, also, I drew a line through all the places
where the barometer stood 2 inches below the mean; another for 4 inches be-
low; and others for 6 inches, 8 inches, and 100 inches below the mean height.
These lines must, from the nature of the case, be continuous curves; and
the centre of these curves must be a point of maximum or minimum
pressure. Near the middle of a great storm we find a point of minimum
pressure—that is, the centre of a vortex; and the lines of equal pressure
will indicate at a glance whatever connexion there may be between the
weight of the air and the direction of the wind.

Upon a similar principle, all the observations of the thermometer were
graphically represented upon the same chart. A line joining all those
places where the thermometer stands at its mean height for the given hour
and month is marked zero, and may be called the line of mean tempera-
ture. Another line joins all those places where the thermometer is 10°
above the mean, and others for 20° and 30° above the mean. So, also,
lines are drawn for 10° and 20° below the mean temperature. ‘There are
also continuous lines surrounding a point of maximum or minimum ther-
mometric disturbance; not points of maximum or minimum temperature
absolutely, for we only regard the deviation from the mean temperature of
the place for the given hour and month. 'These barometric and ther-
mometric curves exhibit some conformity to each other, but are far from
being identical. The direction of the wind is represented by arrows, and
its force is indicated, so far as convenient, by their length.*

Other phenomena are now indicated by colors. Those regions where
the sky was unclouded, or where the cloudiness was less than one-half,
are colored blne; those where the sky was entirely overcast, or the cloudi-
ness exceeded one-half, but without rain or snow, are colored brown.
Those regions upon which snow is falling, are colored green; and those
where rain is falling, are colored yellow. 'Thus, nearly every important
circumstance of a storm is presented to the eye ata single glance. All
these particulars will be understood from the two accompanying charts,
illustrating the progress of the storm of February 16, 1842.

In both the storms of February, 1842, after they had acquired consider-
able violence, there was a prevalent motion of the winds inward, with a
tendency to circulate around the centre, in a direction contrary to the sun’s
motion. The motion of the wind, therefore, was neither wholly centrip-
etal nor wholly rotary, but a combination of the two. As long as the
wind was moderate, neither of these tendencies was clearly marked, and
there were numerous perplexing anomalies, probably occasioned in many
instances by the inequalities of the earth’s surface. The storm of Febru-
ary 16 travelled in one day 560 miles in a direction N. 53° E., making its
velocity 23 miles per hour. The storm of February 1-5 remained for
two days nearly stationary, and then travelled N. 62° EB. at the rate of 36
miles per hour. On the whole, then, we may conclude that when storms
are violent, and there is a great depression of the barometer, the direction
of the wind presents considerable regularity, being spirally inward towards

ficients Rin nile tale 0b Up cise ns es SOR oe 3

*For an account of the method employed by Mr. Espy in representing the phases of storms,
see his communication, appendix No. 3.
[23] 202

the centre of the storm; but when the winds are moderate, which is the case
of most frequent occurrence, this tendency is very fully developed, and
the subject demands more particular investigation.

III. I now proceed to inquire what encouragement there is to a further
prosecution of meteorological researches.

In all our investigations respecting natural phenomena we assume that
the operations of nature are subject to laws, and that these laws are uni-
form in their operation. A law of nature knows no exceptions. ‘There
is no place for science except upon this basis. Are storms subject to laws,
and are these laws invariable? Such a question may appear almost like
trifling, and yet many argue as if they had but feeble faith in these princi-
ples. It is presumed that no philosopher will seriously question them; but
it may be said that these laws are so complex that they can never be dis-
covered. What right have we to make such an assumption? Have not
the laws of nature been actually discovered in many cases in which they
appear equally complex? How long is it since comets were believed
to rush through the planetary system in defiance of all law; or if subject
to law, then a law of such complexity that all attempt to discover it seemed
hopeless? Now, these laws appear so simple that we wonder they were
not sooner discovered. All the laws of nature appear complex while they
remain unknown; but when once discovered, we are surprised at their sim-
plicity. Why should storms form an exception to this rule? Does the
past history of meteorological investigations justify such a conclusion ?
Have our researches been rewarded with no success? Far otherwise.
During the brief period that meteorology has been cultivated we have ar-
rived at many important generalizations, which, if not entitled to the name
of laws of nature, afford the strongest assurance that such laws exist, and
that we are on the eve of their discovery. We have discovered that the great
storms of the United States travel nearly from west to east. No instance
has yet been found in which a violent storm in these latitudes has travelled
from east to west, although some great rain storms have remained nearly
stationary fora day or two. Violent storms usually travel at the rate of
about 25 miles per hour, although this velocity has been observed to rise
as high as 40 miles. ‘These storms are of various dimensions. While
summer showers may cover an area of but a few miles, winter storms some-
times have a diameter of 1,000 miles and upwards. The duration of a
storm at any place depends upon its extent, and upon the velocity of its
progress. If the diameter of a storm is 500 miles, and its progress 25
miles per hour, its duration at a place situated in the centre of the track
will be 20 hours, and less for places out of the centre. Hence we may
form some estimate of the superficial extent of a storm from its duration at
any place. ‘The direction of the wind is generally inward towards the
area of rain, and in violent storms there is a tendency to rotation about a
vertical axis. Over arugged country there are so many obstacles to the
wind’s progress, that observations at the surface of the earth present a great
many anomalies; but at sea there are no such obstacles, and the observa-
tions of the wind exhibit a greater uniformity and simplicity. The ba-
rometer falls under the first half of the storm, and rises as the storm re-
cedes; the centre of the storm coinciding nearly with the greate$t depres-
sion of the barometer. ‘The passage of this centre is marked by a sudden
change of wind toa point of the compass nearly opposite to that from
which it had previously been blowing.
203 [ 23 ]

_ The preceding propositions are deductions from a large number of par-
ticular cases which have been investigated. If any one of these proposi-
tions requires some modification, the fact will be disclosed by a contin-
uance of the same system of observations. This is a legitimate subject of
investigation. Further observations will either prove or disprove these
propositions. Some of them may require a little modification, although it
is believed they are all substantially true.

We are justified, then, in inferring that storms are subject to laws; that
these laws are uniform in their operation, and that they may be discovered.
We have already made important progress in this discovery, and we are
persuaded that we have only to follow up the same methods of investiga-
tion, and our labor will be rewarded with more brilliant discoveries. The
results of such knowledge are too important to be overlooked. When we
have fully learned the laws of storms, we shall be able to predict them.
This attainment is of the highest practical importance. If the navigator
can anticipate the approach of a storm by 24 hours, this interval will be
quite sufficient to place him beyond the reach of its fury; and although
the landsman could not remove his habitation from the approaching torna-
do, he might withdraw his family and the most valuable of his effects to
a place of security.

When the magnetic telegraph is extended from New York to New Or-
leans and St. Louis, it may be made subservient to the protection of our
commerce, even in the present imperfect state of our knowledge of storms.
The severe winter storms which desolate the Atlantic coast come from the
valley of the Mississippi, and require about 24 hours to travel from St.
Louis to New York. ‘The approach of a dangerous storm might therefore
be telegraphed at New York hours before its arrival, while the sky was
yet unclouded and the wind propitious, in season to save a fleet of ships
from putting to sea, to be engulphed in the bottomless deep. ‘The science
of meteorology is already sufliciently advanced to render important service
to commerce, if practical navigators would but heed the indications of the
barometer, and make themselves familiar with the principles which obser-
vation has established.

It is, then, not without reason that we expect to be able to predict an ap-
proaching storm, long enough in advance to render such knowledge of the
highest importance; but it may admit of more serious question, whether
we shall ever be able to predict the general character of a season with sufli-
cient precision to be of any value to the farmer. But why should we des-
pair of ultimately attaining even this result? If one season is remarkable for
its cold, and another for its heat, is there no reason for it? Is there not some
cause acting upon a grand scale to bring about this result? Is there no
eause which brings an excess of winds from the north, or an excess from
the south—which brings an unusual amount of precipitation, or an extra-
ordinary degree of cloudiness? And cannot this cause be discovered ?
This discovery may require the exercise of patience—it may require a
long continued series of observations; but to assume that a principle can-
not be discovered, is unphilosophical. This is a legitimate subject of In-
vestigation, and it is a field in which the laborer cannot fail of reaping his
reward. Weonly need adequate observations—observations sufficiently
precise, and upon a scale of proper extent. We conclude, then, that there
is the highest encouragement to the prosecution of meteorological inqui-
ties—that by continuing our researches we may hope to arrive at general
[ 23] 204

laws, and that a knowledge of these laws cannot fail to contribute to the
wealth and happiness of mankind.

I proceed, therefore, to inquire—

IV. Upon what plan the observations should be conducted to secure the
object proposed.

Violent winter storms appear most suitable for investigation, because
they are of longer duration, and their features are more strongly marked.
The oscillation of the barometer affords the surest criterion for identifying
a storm in its progress from day to day; and these oscillations are greatest
in winter.

1. How large an area should be covered by our observations, to enable
us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our winter storms?

Our observations ought plainly to embrace the entire region of the
storm, and even extend somewhat beyond its margin, for in no other way
could we be sure that we had found its limits. Now, the great storms
which are experienced between the parallels of 40 and 45 degrees are fre-
quently felt as far south as latitude 30°, and sometimes to 25°. South of
this line, the oscillations of the barometer, except in a few rare instances,
are quite small; and itis probable that the limiting parallel of the trade
winds forms a dividing line between the ordinary storms of the torrid and
temperate zones. We should therefore extend our system of observations
to the southern margin of the United States. The northern limit of our
ordinary winter storms remains unknown. In the storm of December 21,
1836, the oscillation of the barometer increased uninterruptedly with the
latitude as far as the most northerly station, Quebec. Only the southern
half of the storm was included within the United States. This storm was
probably experienced as far northward as to the northern shore of Hudson’s
bay. We should therefore extend our system of observations to the north-
ern margin of the United States; and to render our system complete, re-
quires the co-operation of the British government to extend the observa-
tions to the entire region of Hudson’s bay.

If we merely wished to embrace in our observations the area of a storm
for asingle hour, then the interval between the Mississippi and the Atlan-
tic would ordinarily be sufficient. But we could not thus expect to dis-
cover the origin of astorm. We musttrace it in its progress from its com-
mencement to its greatest violence, and thence to its decline. By observing
under what circumstances it takes its rise, we may hope to be able to dis-
cover the cause of its activity. We should therefore aim to trace every
storm from its origin to its close. At the ordinary rate of progress a great
storm would travel from the Rocky mountains to the Atlantic in two days.
What influence this range of mountains may have upon our storms is un-
known, except from conjecture. We cannot suppose that a storm could
travel from the Pacific to the Atlantic without experiencing some modifi-
cation in passing over a range of mountains rising into the region of per-
petual snow. What this modification is, can be determined by corres-
ponding observations on both sides of the mountain. I therefore conclude
that it is important to embrace in our system of observations the entire
continent from the Pacific to the Atlantic, and from the gulf of Mexico to
the northern shore of Hudson’s bay.

2. At what distance from each other should stations of observation be
selected ?

If we were investigating the phenomena of a summer shower, it would
205 [ 23]

be indispensable to have stations at very short distances from each other;
but in winter storms this is less important. I consider it, however, desira-
ble to have stations at intervals of fifty miles from each other, and such
might probably be obtained in the more thickly settled parts of the United
States. In other parts of the country this would be impracticable; but I
would strive to obtain at least one station for every hundred miles square.
At this rate we should need about three hundred observers for the United
States. It is not doubted that this number might be obtained; indeed, we
have well nigh this number already, but, unfortunately, they are very une-
qually scattered over the country.

3. What materials have we to depend upon, and what is wanting to
complete the plan of one observer to every hundred miles square ?

We have the government observations at the military posts, now 57 in
number. We have observations from 41 academies in the State of New
York, and 25 stations in Pennsylvania. Then we have borometric obser-
vations from about 40 other individuals scattered promiscuously over the
country; and thermometric observations from about 20 others. There is,
besides, a large number of those who have meteorological instruments,
which they occasionally consult, but do not feel sufficient interest in the
subject to keep a systematic journal. If a grand meteorological effort were
made, with a prospect of yielding important results, probably most of
those persons might be pressed temporarily into the service. New Eng-
land is pretty well manned with observers, except in the northern part,
where three or four more are greatly needed. Probably, if instruments could
be furnished without expense, volunteers might be found to make the obser-
vations. New York and Pennsylvania are fully organized; but throughout
the remainder of the United States the stations are few and scattered.
Excluding Oregon and the Indian territory, the remaining States embrace
about a million and a half square miles, and at our lowest estimate would
require about 150 observers. We have 50 observers already in the field,
leaving 100 to be provided for. How is this deficiency to be supplied ?
If our government would direct meteorological observations to be made at
the principal light-houses along our coast and the chain of the great lakes,
it would leave only the interior of the country to be provided for; and if
instruments could be furnished without expense, volunteers might proba-
bly be found to take the observations at most of the remaining stations. _

To extend this system of observations further westward must be attend-
ed with serious difficulties. We already have registers kept at most of the
military posts in the Indian country; and as new posts are established, it
is presumed that the government will direct them to be improved for obser-
vations. We may thus hope ere long to obtain a line of stations reaching
to the mouth of the Columbia river; and as settlements extend, observa-
tions will multiply on the other side of the Rocky mountains. On the
whole, then, it is believed we might occupy the whole United States from
its northern to its southern border, and from the Atlantic to the Indian
territory, beyond the Mississippi, with an army of meteorologists suiliciently
numerous to enable us to investigate advantageously the phenomena of our
great storms, provided instruments could be furnished gratuitously for about
100 stations; and, moreover, we might probably have a line of observers
at unequal intervals, reaching even to the Pacific ocean. ‘I he expense of
100 sets of meteorological instruments may be estimated at $3,000.

It is believed that the Smithsonian Institution might undertake \o furnish
[ 23] 206

these instruments and organize a grand system of meteorological observa-
tions upon this continent, in perfect harmony with the views of James
Smithson. Mr. Smithson bequeathed his property, in trust, to this coun-
try, for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men. It is believed
that by carrying out the plan now suggested, knowledge would be in-
creased and diffused, and it would be that kind of knowledge which
would contribute to the comfort and happiness of society, as much as
perhaps any other which can be named.

4. Specific plan of operations proposed.

The following is proposed for the consideration of the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution, as the outline of a grand meteorological cam-
paign.

Let a meteorological department of the institution be organized, under
the direction of the Secretary, with a suitableassistant. Leta united effort
be made to secure for a limited period, and to the greatest possible extent,
the co-operation of the general government, the several State governments,
scientific societies, and the friends of science throughout the country. Let
the general government be requested to give the greatest possible exten-
sion to their system of observations at the military posts, and to authorize
similar observations to be made at certain light-houses, so far as may be
necessary to complete a line of stations at intervals of 100 miles along the
whole extent of our coast, and the chain of the northern lakes. Let the
regents of the University of the State of New York be requested to reor-
ganize the system of observations in that State, by furnishing barometers
to about 20 of their academies, and directing the observations to be report-
ed regularly to Washington. Let the committee having charge of the
observations in Pennsylvania be requested to adopt the same plan of ob-
servations which shall be agreed upon for the other States, and report regu-
larly to Washington. Let application be made to the legislatures of each
of the other States, inviting them to co-operate in this noble scheme,
by emulating the examples of New York and Pennsylvania. Let the
scientific societies throughout the United States be appealed to, to assist in
organizing an efficient corps of observers, each in its appropriate sphere;
and let individual observers throughout the country be requested to unite
their efforts in oe uniform and systematic plan of operations. Let them
be requested to report their equipment of instruments, and state whether
they will undertake to provide whatever may be wanting, at their own ex-
pense. Let then the entire country be divided into sections not exceed-
ing 100 miles square; and in each section not already provided for, let an
observer be sought out, who shall volunteer to make the observations if
instruments are furnished him. Let then the Smithsonian Institution
assume the burden of furnishing the necessary instruments to those who
are unable to do it themselves. It is estimated that the sum required for
this purpose would not exceed three thousand dollars. Let a form of ob-
servations be provided, and instructions to all the observers, who shall re-
port at least quarterly to the Secretary at Washington. Let it be the duty
of the meteorologist to take charge of the observations, to discuss and ana-
lyze them, and endeavor to deduce from them the laws of storms. Let
these investigations be published, in as much detail as may be thought de-
manded by the claims of science, and let a copy of whatever may be pub-
lished be forwarded to each observer, in order that he may be stimulated
in his work by finding that his labor is not wholly in vain.
207 [ 23 }

Finally, to give to this system its greatest efficiency, the co operation of
the British government and of the Hudson’s Bay Company is absolutely
indispensable. 'The greater part of our severe storms extend far beyond
the limits of the United States on the north. Observations confined to the
United States will therefore seldom give us the entire area of a storm, and
frequently only half of it. The remaining half must then be supplied by
conjecture. ‘l'his would leave all our investigations in an unfinished and
unsatisfactory state. We wanta line of stations through Canada, along
the shores of Hudson’s bay, to the farthest outpost of civilization. At
every government station a meteorological journal might doubtless be kept;
and it is confidently believed that if the Smithsonian Institution would
embark in earnest in a grand meteorological crusade, the British govern-
ment would cheerfully contribute its efficient co-operation.

A system of observations like that here contemplated, if faithfully pros-
ecuted for one year, would well nigh exhaust the subject. The storms of
each year are probably but a repetition of those of the preceding. Never-
theless, it would be unsafe to calculate upon concluding the war after a
single year’s campaign. Experience in similar cases has shown that it
requires considerable time to organize so large a plan of operations, and
the system would not, probably, attain its greatest efficiency the first year.
It would be unwise, therefore, to calculate upon a less period of operations
than three years. But it is believed that in this period, results would
be developed which would more than repay all the expense of time and
money incurred; while, upon the existing scale of operations, the progress
of discovery must be slow and uncertain. In order to enable us to inves-
tigate advantageously the phenomena of a single storm, we must have
simultaneous observations from a vast number of stations. Observations
from a few stations, though continued to the end of time, will not accom-
plish the same object. How, then, can the Regents of the Smithsonian
Tnstitution more faithfully carry out the views of its benevolent founder,
than by vigorously prosecuting these researches to their completion? How
can they contribute more directly and powerfully to the prosperity of our
commerce; and, through commerce, add to the wealth and happiness of
the whole country?

I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ELIAS LOOMIS.

Josep Henry, LL. D.,

Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

APPENDIX No. 3.

Extract from a communication from Professor Espy on the subject’ of
Meteorology. .

My pear sir: I am much pleased to learn from your letter that the Re-
gents of the Smithsonian Institution would probably make an appropria-
tion for the purpose of establishing a series of observations <‘ to solve, if
possible, the problem of American storms.’’ I am of opinion that no sub-
ject of science is more worthy of the attention of the institution ; and in
answer to your request that I should furnish you with suggestions on the
subject, I refer you, in the first place, to my work entitled ‘‘ Philosophy
of Storms,” from page 77 to page 172, for a full development of the plan

e
[ 23 ] 208 iad .
adopted twelve years ago of investigating the phases of storms, by the joint
committee of the American Philosophical Society and the Franklin Insti-
tute, of the State of Pennsylvania.

The plan then suggested, and in part carried out, was adopted in the
investigation of the phases of storms during the five years in which I was
in the service of the government. In my ‘circular to the friends of
science,’’ in which I invited all persons in the United States keeping
journals of the weather to send them to the office of the Surgeon General,
Washington, | announced my intention to lay down on skeleton maps of
the United States, by appropriate symbols, all the most important phases
of great storms which might come within the range of our simultaneous
observations ; and thus it was hoped we should be able to determine the
shape and size of all storms; whether they are round or oblong; and if ob-
long, whether they move sideforemost or endforemost, or obliquely; and to
ascertain their velocity and direction in all the different seasons of the
year; the course of the wind in and beyond the borders of the storm; the
Jiuctuacion of the barometer and change of temperature which generally
accompany storms, and the evtent to which their influence is felt beyond
their borders.

Having obtained observations from a wide extended correspondence, I
laid down the phases of the storms on maps, as presented in my first re-
port, and [ have continued the same plan in my second report, now ready
to be printed. In the investigation of the materials of the second report,
comprising the observations of three years and three-quarters, I have dis-

covered no facts contradictory to the generalizations deduced from the
winter storms of three months embraced in the second report. 1 consider
it of the highest interest, by an extended series of observations, which L
hope the Smithsonian Institution will cause to be made over a much wider
territory than my observation embraced, to verify, or, if necessary, modify
these generalizations, and also to investigate the laws of summer storms,
which I fear cannot be done without much more numerous observers than
I was able to procure.*

* # * + * * * * x oy

The elements of the theory I have given you are the same as those pre-
sented in my work on storms; and though I have demonstrated them ap-
proximately, and have no doubt of their general accuracy, yet f am con-
vinced that nothing will establish the truth on this subject in such a man-
ner as to carry conviction to every mind but a series of wide extended
simultaneous observations, continued for a long time, by numerous observ-
ers. Such a series I hope is now about to be made.

It would be inappropriate to extend this communication to a greater
length; but I will explain to you at another time some experiments con-
nected with meteorology, which I wish to see performed, on the electricity
of steam, and on the specific caloric of atmospheric air and other gases,
with the aid of my nephelescope, and on the law of cooling of air in great
expansions of air by diminished pressure.

I remain, very respectfully, yours, &c.,

Prof. J. Henry, f
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.

JAMES P. ESPY.

* The generalizations and theory of Mr. Espy are giyen in the preceding report of Professor
Loomis, page 197.
30th ConarEss, [HO. OF REPS. ] MIscEeLLANEOovs.

2d Session. No 48
“ iNO. .

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TO
THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
SHOWING
THE GPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION

DURING THE YEAR 1848.

Frpruary 19, 1849.
Laid upon the table, and ordered to be printed.

ee

WASHINGTON : '
TIPPIN & STREEPER, PRINTERS:

————

1849.
MAD Wwe

Mis. No. 48,

CONTENTS.

. List of Officers and Members - - - :

. Third Annual Report of Regents -

. Journal of the Third Annual Meeting of the Recents

. Second Annual Report of the Secretary

. Report of the Assistant Secretary, relative to the Library
. Report of the Executive Committee - - -

. Report of the Building Committee — - . -—
. Appendix - - - - - -
Mis. No. 48. 3

i *FEICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

THe Presivent or THe Unrrep STATES,
' Er-oficio Presiding Officer of the Institution.

Tue Vice Presipenr or rae Unirep STATES,

Eix-officio Second Presiding Officer.
Georce M. Datwas,

Chancellor of the Institution. :
JosEPH HENRY,

Secretary of the Institution.
Cuartes C. Jewerr,

Assistant Secretary, acting as Librarian.
Witiiam W. Seaton,

jee ALEXANDER D, Bacar, } Executive Committec.

James A. PEaRcE, ‘

' REGENTS :

Grorce M. Datuas, Vice President of the United States.
Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States.

Wiitiam W. Seaton, Mayor of the city of Washington.

James A. Pearce, Member of the Senate of the United States.
James M. Mason,* Member of the Senate of the United States.
Jerrerson Davis, Afember of the Senate of the United States.
Henry W. Hitrrarp, Member of the House of Representatives.
Grorce P. Marsa, Member of the House of Representatives.
Roperr McCietianp, Member of the House of Representatives.
Rurus CuHoate, Citizen of Massachusetts.

Ginron Haw rey, Citizen of New York.

Wm. C. Preston, Citizen of South Carolina.

Ricuarp Rusu, Citizen of Pennsylvania.

Avexanper D. Bacue, Member of National Institute, Washington.
JoserH G. Torren, Member ef National Institute, Washington.

MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION :

James K. Potx, President of the United States.

Georce M. Datuas, Vice President of the United States.

James Bucwanan, Secretary of State*of the United States.

Rosert J. Warxer, Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.
Wiruam L. Marcy, Secretary of War of the United States.

Joun Y. Mason, Secretary of the Navy of the United States,

Cave Jounson, Postmaster General of the United States. .
Isaac Toucry, Attorney General of the United. States.

Rocer B. Taney, Chief Justice of the United States. .

Epmunp Burke, Commissioner of Patents of the United States.
Wittiam W. Searon, Mayor of the city ef Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS OF THE INSTITUTION.
[No honorary members have yet been elected.]

PSE ERI Oe SEC 0S TTS UW San ny ee Se ee ee bi ie
* Appointed in place of Mr. Breese, resigned.
4 Mis. No. 48.

THIRD ANNUAL REPORT

Or

THE BOARD OF REGENTS
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

o
s

The operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up to Janw- 3
ary 1st, 1849.

To the Senate and House of Representatives :

In obedience to the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Insti-
tution for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men, the under-
signed, in behalf of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and con-
dition of the Institution, the following documents, viz:

1. Proceedings of the Board of Regents at their last session.

2. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the operations
of the Institution during the past year, accompanied by a report from the
Assistant Secretary, relative to the library.

3. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting an account of the -
eens of the Institution, and-of its financial condition on the Ist of
January, 1849.

4. Report of the Building Committee relative to the progress made in
the erection of the Smithsonian edifice, and in the improvement of the
grounds, with a statement of the expenditures which have thus far been
made on the same.

From these documents it will be seen that the Smithsonian Institution |
nas already commenced its operations for the increase and diffusion of
xnowledge among men; that the plan of organization which has been
adopted, and the works which have been completed and begun, have met
with the approbation of men of eminence in literature and science both in’
this country and in Europe; that the Institution has received a valuable
donation of chemical and philosophical apparatus from our distinguished
countryman, Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, and that its financial affairs
are in a very favorable condition.

From the report of the Building Committee it wilk be seen that tha
Smithsonian edifice is:as far advanced as the financial arrangements which
have been adopted would permit; that the two wings and connecting
ranges will be ready for occupation early in the present year, and that the
whole will be completed in three years from next March.

The report of the Executive Committee shows, that after all the ex-
penditures for the erection of the building and the improvement of the
Mis. No. 48. 5

grounds, for the purchase of books and apparatus, for publications and
researches, and for all other purposes, the value of the funds at the present
time exceeds by a small amount that of the original appropriation of the
act of Congress of September, 1846, establishing the Institution.
Respectfully submitted.
G. M. DALLAS,
Chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution.
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
6 Mis. No. 48.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

OF THE

REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

AT THEIR

THIRD ANNUAL MEETING.

WEDNESDAY, DecemsBer 13, 1848.

This being the day fixed by their resolutions of September 9, 1846,
and of December 21, 1847, for their regular annual meeting, the Board of
Regents of the Smithsonian Institution convened in the room of the Vice
President of the United States, in the Capitol, at 12 o’clock, m.

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Breese, Davis, Hilliard, Marsh,
McClelland, Pearce, Seaton, and Totten.

A quorum being present, and the Chancellor being obliged to leave in
consequence of his dutiesin the Senate, Mr. 'Votten was called to the chair.

The Secretary stated to the meeting that Messrs. Choate and Hawley
had been reappointed as regents to fill the vacancies occasioned by the
expiration of their first term of service.

The Secretary also stated that he had sent telegraphic messages to
Messrs. Choate and Hawley announcing their reappointment, and inform-
ing them that the board would probably transact no business for some
days in order to give them an opportunity to be present.

Whereupon, on motion,

The board adjourned to meet on Monday, the 18th instant, at 11 o’clock,

a. m.

MONDAY, Decemser 18, 1848.

The board met agreeably to adjournment.

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Davis, Marsh, McClelland,
Pearce, Seaton, and 'Yotten. .

Mr. Seaton, from the Executive Committee, presented a report of the
expenditures and state of the funds of the institution.

Mr. Totten, from the Building Committee, presented a report on» the
progress of erection of the Smithsonian edifice and improvements of the
grounds, with estimates of future expenses, &c.

The Secr@tary presented his annual report of the operations of the In-
stitution, accompanied by a report of the Assistant Secretary relative to
the library.

Or motion, it was

Resolved, That these several reports be recorded on the pages of the

journal. ,
On motion,

The board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, the 20th instant, at 11

o’clock, a. m.
Mis. No. 48. : 7
WEDNESDAY, Detemper 20, 1848.

The board met agreeably to adjournment.

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Breese, Davis, Marsh, Pearce,
Seaton, and Totten.

On motion of Mr. Marsh, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary and Executive Committee be authorized
to present to Messrs. Squier and Davis two hundred copies of their memoir
SLi in the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowl-
edge.

Mr. Marsh presented a letter from John R. Bartlett, of New York, ac-
companying a plan for the preparation of a new and improved dictionary
of the English language, under the auspices of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

On motion, it was

Resolved, That the forementioned letter and plan be referred to the Sec-
retary, the Executive Committee, and Mr. Marsh.

~ On motion of Mr. Marsh, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to purchase, for the sum of
one hundred and fifty dollars, the lithographic stones upon which are
traced the designs for the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to
Knowledge.

Mr. Seaton presented letters from several persons making application
for employment in the institution.

The Secretary called the attention of the board to the statement made in
his report relating to the valuable donation of apparatus, made to the insti-
tuion by Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia.

’ Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Seaton, it was unanimously

Resolved, That a committee be appointed, to consist of the Chancellor,
Secretary, and Mr. Pearce, to communicate in suitable terms to Dr. Hare,
the thanks of the Board of Regents for the munificent present of his ex-
tensive and very valuable apparatus to the Smithsonian Institution.

The Secretary stated to the board the progress made in the distribution
of the first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge among
colleges, learned societies, and large libraries ; no copies having as yet been
given to individuals. tee

The Secretary presented a list of donations to the Institution.

The Secretary also presented letters from several distinguished individ-
uals highly approving the plan of the proposed Bibliographia Americana,
mentioned in his report. (See appendix A.) age

On motion, the board adjourned to meet on Wednesday, the 27th instant,
at 11 o’clock, a. m.

WEDNESDAY, DecemsBer 27, 1848.

The board met agreeably to adjournment.

Present, Messrs. Bache, Davis, McClelland, Seaton, and ‘Totten.

he Chancellor being absent, Mr. Davis was called to the chair.

The Secretary presented a letter’ from J. Disturnell, of New York city,
accompanying a copy of a memorial to Congress relative to the preparayon
of a new Gazetteer of North America, which letter and memorial were re-
ferred to the Secretary and Executive Committee. :
8 Mis. No. 48.

The Secretary also presented a letter from Francis Markoe, esq. of Wash-
ington, offering for sale to the Institution the collection of objects of natural
history belonging to the estate of the late British minister to the United
States, H. S. Fox, esq.,; which was referred to the Secretary and Exec-
utive Committee, it being understood that the financial arrangements of
the board do not for the present allow the purchase of collections in natu-
ral history.

The Secretary also presented a letter from Archibald Campbell, esq.,
Deputy Secretary of the State of New York, accompanying adonation to
the Institution, made in accordance with an act of the legislature of that
State, of the 14 published volumes in Ato of the Natural History of New
York.

On motion, the Chancellorand Secretary were requested to present the
thanks of the Board of Regents for this valuable donation.

The Secretary also’ presented letters from several presidents of colleges ;
also reports from several learned societies, highly commending the pro-
gramme of organization of the Institution.

Whereupon, it was ;

Resolved, Vhat the Secretary be instructed to insert in the records of the

Institution the names of all such individuals and societies.
On motion, it was

Resolved, That the Chancellor, Secretary, and Chairman of the Exec-
utive Committee be requested to prepare the annual report of the Regents to
Congress, giving an account of the operations; expenditures and condi-
tion of the Institution.

On motion of Mr. McClelland, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to return the thanks of the
Board of Regents to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, to
the Secretary of the Navy, and to the Secretary of War for their assistance
in promoting the objects of the Institution. Also, to the Hon. Mr. Irwin
and Mr. 'Trist for their donations; and to Mr. Downs, of Philadelphia, for his
computations of occultations.

At the request of Mr Seaton, the Executive Committee were allowed
to withdraw their report, in order to enable them to include therein the dis-
bursements and condition of the finances of the Institution up to the end of
the year 1848.

At the request of Mr. Totten, permission was given to the Building Com-
mittee to withdraw their report for the purpose of making the same more
complete. ;

On motion, it was ,

Resolved, 'Vhat the board adjourn, to meet on Wednesday next, at LL
o’clock, a. m.

WEDNESDAY, January 3, 1849.

The board met agreeably to adjournment.

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Marsh, McClelland, Seaton and
Totten ; also, by invitation, Dr. Hare, of Philadelphia.

Mr. Seaton presented the revised report of the Executive Committee,
which had been withdrawn for the purpose of extending the accounts up
to the Ist January, 1849 ; which was accepted.

The Secretary read a letter from Dr. Hare, relative to the presentation
of his apparatus to the Institution; which was ordered to be placed upon
the journal. (See appendix B.)
Mis. No. 48. . 9

Mr. Bache presented letters from J. Guillemard, esq., of Woodford,
England, and from Professor Faraday, of London, concerning James
Smithson; which were ordered to be preserved in the archives of the In-
stitution.

Mr. Seaton, from the Building Committee, read a letter from Mr. Owen,
late a Regent and Chairman of the Building Committee, relative to the
publication of the work entitled “‘ Hints on Public Architecture.”’

Whereupon, on motion, it was ; .

Resolved, 'That the Building Committee be authorized, provided the
same be required by the publishers, to transfer out of the appropriation
originally made for experiments on building materials, a sum not exceed-
ing two hundred dollars, to the appropriations heretofore made, for the pub-
lication of a volume on public architecture.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, the following appropriations, recommended
by the Executive Committee for the service of the ensuing year, were
taken up, considered, and adopted, viz:

For publication of ‘‘ Contributions to Knowledge”’ - - $3,000 00
Scientific researches and computations - : 700 00
Meteorological instruments and researches - - 1,000 00
Public lectures, &c.  - - - - - 500 OO
Publication of scientific reports : - - 500 00
Preparation of the general catalogue of American

libraries - - - = - - 1,000 00
Purchasevof biblicgraphical works and books of general

reference - - - - - - 2,000 00
Binding, blank books, stamps, certificates, &ec. - 250 00
Purchase of books needed by authors of reports, &c - 400 00

General expenses, including salaries of officers, expenses
of the meetings of the board and of committees,
clerk hire, postage, &c. - - - - §,000 00

17,350 00

On motion, it was

Resolved, That the Chancellor and the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution be authorized to exchange the treasury notes belonging to the
Institution for United States stock; that the certificates for the said stock be
taken in the name of the Chancellor and Secretary, and that the stock and
its proceeds be at the disposal of the same, under the regulations heretofore
existing as to the treasury notes for the purposes of the Institution, in accord-
ance with the several appropriations of the board.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint some suitable
person, at a salary not to exceed four hundred dollars per aunum, to act as
book-keeper and accountant of the Institution and to perform such other
duties as are specified in.the report of the Executive Committee. .

The Secretary exhibited a copy of the last edition of Dr Hare’s Chem-
istry, presented to the Institution by the author, containing illustrations of
his apparatus now the property of the Institution, and mentioned that
among the articles presented by Dr. Hare, were the blocks from which
these illustrations were printed.
10 Mis. No. 48.

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Bache, it was

Resolved, 'That the Secretary be requested to prepare for the use of the
Institution, a descriptive catalogue of, Dr. Hare’s apparatus, illustrated by
impressions from the original blocks.

On motion, the board adjourned to meet on Saturday next, at 10
o’clock, a. m.
SATURDAY, January 6, 1849.

The board met agreeably to adjournment.

Present, the Chancellor, Messrs. Bache, Davis, Hilliard, McClelland,
Marsh, Pearce, Seaton, and Totten.

Mr. Totten presented the revised report of the Building Committee;
which was accepted. ;

Mr. Hilliard read a letter from Mr. Squier, which was referred to the
Secretary and Executive Committee.

On motion of Mr. Bache, it was.

Resolved, That as the discharge of the duties assigned to the Assistant
Secretary, acting as Librarian, are now such as to give entire employment
to his time, he receive from the first instant the full compensation pro-
vided by the resolution of the board, adopted January 26, 1847.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That when the board adjourn, it adjourn to meet on Wed-
nesday, the 7th of March next, at 10 o’clock, a. m., in the Vice President’s
room in the Capitol, for the purpose of electing a Chancellor, in the place
of Mr. Dallas, whose term of office as Regent expires on fhe 4th of March
next.

The Assistant Secretary, acting as Librarian, read his report relative to
the Library.

The board then, on motion, adjourned to meet on Wednesday, the 7th
of March next.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN IN-
STITUTION, GIVING AN ACCOUNT OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE YEAR 1848.
PRESENTED DECEMBER 13, 1849.

GENTLEMEN: By a resolution of the Board of Regents, at their Jast an-
nual meeting, I was charged with the execution of the details of the pro-
gramme, which had been provisionally adopted, and was directed to report
annually to the board the progress made in the execution of the duty as-
signed tome. In accordance with this resolution 1 present the following
statement of the operations of the past year.

The programme of the plan of organization of the institution has been
submitted to a number of literary and scientific societies, and in every
case has received their unqualified approbation. The principal officers of
these societies have expressed a willingness to co-operate with the Smith-
sonian Institution in carrying out the plans which have been adopted,
and it is confidently believed, that as soon as these are fully developed
and brought into practical operation, they will meet with general approval.

It was recommended in my last report that the details of the plan should
be adopted provisionally, and should be carried into operation gradually
Mis. No. 48. 11

and cautiously, with such changes from time to time. as experience might
dictate. ‘The Institution is not one of a day; but is designed to endure as
long as our government shall exist, and it is therefore peculiarly important
that in the beginning we should proceed carefully and not attempt to pro-
duce immediate effects at the expense of permanent usefulness. The pro-
cess of increasing knowledge is an extremely slow one, and the value of
the results of this part of the plan cannot be properly realized until some
years have elapsed. Independently of these considerations, the financial
arrangements adopted by the Board of Regents, are such as to prevent
the full operation of the Institution until after three years from next
March; up to that time more than one-half of the income is to be devoted
to the erection of the building, and indirectly to the increase of the perma-
nent fund.

It will be recollected that the programme embraces—

Ist. The plan of publishing original memoirs on all branches of knowl-
edge,.in a series of quarto volumes.

2d. The institution of original researches under the direction of compe-
tent persons.

3d. The publication of a series of reports from year to year, giving an
account of the progress of the different branches of knowledge.

Ath. The formation of a library and a museum of objects of nature and
art.

Publication of original memoirs.

The first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge has
been published and partially distributed. It consists of a single memoir
on the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley, comprising the results
of extensive original surveys and explorations by E. G. Squier, A. M.,
and E. H. Davis, M. D. {tis illustrated by forty eight lithographic plates,
and by two hundred and seyen wood engravings. ‘The mechanical exe-
cution of the volume will bear comparison with that of any publication
ever issued from the American press. er apse

In the publication of the first volume of the Contributions, the question
occurred as to the propriety of securing the copyright to the Institution. I
had not an opportunity of conferring with the Hxecutive Committee on
this point, and was therefore obliged to settle iton my own responsibility.
I concluded that it would be more in accordance with the spirit of the in-
stitution to decide against the copyright. The knowledge which the
Smithsonian Institution may be instrumental in presenting to the world
should be free to all who are capable of using it. The republication
of our papers ought to be considered as an evidence of their importance,
and should be encouraged rather than prohibited.

The first memoir occupies an entire volume, and this accidental cir-
cumstance has given rise to a misconception of the plan. It has been sup-
posed that each volume of the Smithsonian Contributions is in like man-
ner tconsist of a separate treatise on a particular subject selected with a
view to popular interest. But such is not the case; each volume will gene-
rally contain a number of separate memoirs, on different branches of knowl-
edge, similar to the usuai published transactions of learned societies. Phe
only reason why the first volume is occupied with a subject of general in-
terest rather than one on some more abstruse branch of science 1s, that the
12 Mis. No. 48.

memoir it contains was the first which was presented of the character pre-
scribed by the plan. No preference is to be given to any branch of knowl-
edge. ‘ihe only questions to be asked, in considering the acceptance of
a memoir, are, whether it is a positive addition to knowledge, resting on
original research, and of sufficient importance to merit a place in the Smith-
sonian Contributions.

‘The rules adopted for the acceptance of a memoir are the same as those
generally followed by learned societies. ‘The memoir is surrendered by
the author to the Institution, and no additions or alterations are allowed to
be made after it has been submitted to the commission appointed to ex-
amine it, unless by their consent. A certain number of copies is presented
to the author for distribution, with the privilege of striking off, at his own
expense, additional copies for sale; which in most cases, particularly when
the memoir is of popular interest, will be all the remuneration expected
by the author.

From what has been said, it will be evident that the papers published in
the Contributions cannot generally be of a popular nature. ‘lhe popular
effects to be produced by the Institution are principally those which may
be attained by the reports on the progress of the different branches of
knowledge, and by the occasional publications in connexion with these of
separate treatises on some subject of special interest.

Applications have been made for the first volume of the Contributions
from many academies and private institutions, and were our means suf-
ficient, we would be pleased to supply all demands of this kind. But
this is obviously impossible, for they alone would exhaust all the income
of the Institution.

Preparations have been made for the publication of the second volume
of the Contributions, and a sufficient number of memoirs have been already
accepted, or are in preparation, to furnish the materials. Five of these are
on astronomical subjects, and afford as important additions to this science
as have ever been made to it in this country, ~'Two of them relate to in-
vestigations on the new planet Neptune, which are only second in value
to the original discovery of this distant member of our system. Abstracts
of these have been given to the world, and have been received with gene-
ral approbation. A third is a determination of the zodiac of the asteroids,
or the zone in the heavens to which the positions of these small planets
are confined. ‘This paper is of much practical importance in facilitating
the researches now in progress in different parts of the world relative to
the nature of these fragments (as they would seem to be) of a large planet
between Jupiter and Mars. It may be at once determined, by an inspec-
tion of the table annexed to this paper, whether any star mapped in an old
catalogue, and now no longer to be found in the same place, can possibly
be one of the asteroids. A fourth paper is an account of a néw comet, the
discovery of which by an American lady is one of the first additions to
science of this kind, so faras I am informed, ever made in this country.
The fifth memoir is an account of the Georgetown Observatory, gre in-
struments with which itis furnished, the mode of,using them which has
been adopted, and the results of the observations which have been made.
An important paper is also in process of preparation for the same volume
on the gigantic fossil cetacean remains which are found in the southern and
western States of the Union.

Other papers are in progress which partake of the character of original
researches, since they are in part at least prepared at the expense and un-
Mis. No. 48. 13

der the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. They will be mentioned
under the next head.

In a few cases, memoirs have been presented which, though exhibiting
research and considerable originality, are not of a character to warrant
their adoption as parts of our volumes of Contributions to positive knowl.
edge. he rule given in the programme has been rigidly adhered to,
viz: to decline accepting any paper on physical science which consists
merely of an unverified hypothesis, however ingenious and plausible such
an hypothesis may be. A law of nature is not susceptible of-a logical
demonstration, like that of a proposition of geometry, but is proved by its
fitness to explain old, and to predict new, phenomena. The verification
of an hypothesis, as we have stated in the last report, consists in deducing
consequences from it, and ascertaining by a direct appeal to observation or
experiment, the truth or falsity of these deductions. Any paper, therefore,
on material sclence which does not contain original experiments and ob-
servations cannot be admitted as a part of the Contributions to Knowledge.
The rule we have adopted is in accordance with the practice of cautious
investigators. ‘T'he law of universal gravitation existed for several years
in the mind of Newton as a well conditioned hypothesis, before it was given
to the world as a verified and established theory. Besides this, the rules
of logic which are employed in discussing the questions of ordinary life
are not applicable to the precision of scientific inquiry. ‘The materials in
this case, to borrow an expression of an author of celebrity, ‘‘ must be
weighed in the scale of the assayer, and not like the mixed commodities
of the market, on the weightbridge of common opinion and general
usage.”’ :

It has been objected to our publishing original memoirs, that in so
doing we are merely performing the duties of a learned society. ‘The
answer is, that the learned societies in this country have not the
means, except in a very limited degree, of publishing memoirs which
require expensive illustrations, much less of assisting to defray the cost
of the investigations by which the results have been obtained. The
real workingmen in the line of original research hail this part of the
plan as a new era in the history of Amerigan science. ‘The assistance
which the Fhstitution will thus render to original research, will occupy
the place of the governmental patronage of other countries, and will enable
true genius, wherever found, to place its productions before the world,
free of cost, and in a manner most favorable for securing due attention and
proper appreciation. } Seay

From our experience thus far, I am convinced that circumscribed as is
the class of memoirs accepted by the Institution, we shall have no want of
materials to fill at least one quarto volume a year. ‘There has been in our
country within the last few years a remarkable increase in the attention
given to original research, not only in material science, but in every
branch of knowledge susceptible of increase. And this is evinced by
the character and variety of the papers which have been presented for pub-
lication. The wide difference between the increase of knowledge and
its diffusion is beginning to be seen and appreciated, and the time 1s not
far “distant when we shall be as distinguished for our additions to science
as for its diffusion and application. ‘The revolutions of Europe are not
only sending to our shores the choicest specimens of art, but also
men of reputation and skill in scientific investigation. Besides this, the
14 Mis. No. 48.

present state of France is attended with such an interruption of
the ordinary means of scientific publication, that the manuscript volumes
on natural history of one of the most distinguished professors of the
Jardin des Plantes are offered to us for publication in the Smithsonian
Contributions for no remuneration, save a few copies for distribution
among friends. Were the Institution fully in operation I should not hesi-
tate, in accordance with the liberality which should characterise an estab-
lishment founded on the bequest of a foreigner, to recommend the adop-
tion of these memoirs for publication at the expense of the institution, and
perhaps we might now distribute them through several of our volumes and
finish the publication of them in the course of a few years.

Origthal researches.

The second part of the plan consists in instituting original researches,
the results of which are to be publishéd, with the other memoirs, in the
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. Under this head may be first
mentioned the publication of the tables ordered at the last meeting of the
board, for facilitating the calculation of the time of appearance of occulta-
tions of the fixed stars by the moon. The object of these tables is to
assist in the accurate determination of the longitude of important places on
the continent of North America, and their importance has been attested by
the recommendation of some of the most distinguished astronomers of this
country. .The accurate establishment of the longitude of any place renders
ita landmark to the surveyor, the geographer ‘and the astronomer, and
furnishes a most important element in determining its relative position on
the map of the country. ‘The observation of occultations affords one of the
most ready means of solving this most difficult practical problem. ‘The
tables were calculated at the expense and under the direction of the Insti-
tution, and were sent to all persons known to be interested in practical
astronomy, with a request that the observations which might be made in
connexion with them might be sent to the Institutioh for computation, or
published in some accessible journal. ‘These tables have been so well re-
ceived by astronomers, that with the concurrence of the Executive Commit-
tee, I have ventured to order the computation of a set of the same kind on
a more extensive scale for the year 1849. Copies of these will be sent to
United States officers on the coast of Oregon and California, and will be
distributed among all the other observers in this country. ‘They will be
found of much practical importance to the corps engaged by the general
government in establishing the boundary lines of our new possessions.
It is hoped that the remuneration allowed for the labor of computing these
tables will not be considered extravagant, when it is mentioned that it has
occupied the whole time of Mr. Downes for nearly six months, at the rate of
eight hours a day.

With the concurrence of the Executive Committee, I have also publish-
ed an ephemeris of the planet Neptune, or in other words, a table indica-
ting its position in the heavens during each day of the present year, by
which those interested in astronomy are enabled readily to find the place
of the new planet in the heavens, or the direction in which the teles¢ope
must be pointed in order to observe it. Copies of this have been sent to
all the principal astronomers in the world, and it has received the highest
commendation. It was calculated by Mr. S. C. Walker from the orbit
Mis. No. 48. © 15

deduced by himself, a full account of which forms one of the papers of the
second volume of the Contributions. [tis the first accurate ephemeris
which has ever appeared of this newly-discovered member of oftr solar
system.

An appropriation of one thousand dollars was made at the last meeting
of the board for the commencement of a series of meteorological observa-
tions, particularly with reference to the phenomena of American storms.
According to the estimate of Prof. Loomis, appended to my last report,
three thousand dollars will be required for the purpose of reducing this
part of our plan to practice. It is hoped that one thousand dollars in
addition will be appropriated this year, and an equal sum the next, so that
at the end of that time, we shall be prepared for full operation. At the
last session of Congress an apptopriation was made for meteorology under
the direction of the Secretary of the Navy, and in order that the observa.
tions thus established may not interfere with those undertaken by the
Smithsonian Institution, that officer has directed Prof. Espy to co-operate
with the Secretary of the Institution. .

It is contemplated to establish three classes of observers among those
who are disposed to join in this enterprise. One class, without instru-
ments, to observe the face of the sky as to its clearness, the extent of
cloud, the direction and force of wind, the beginning and ending of rain,,
snow, &c. A second class, furnished with thermometers, who, besides
making the observations above mentioned, will record variations of tem-
perature. The third class, furnished with full séts of instruments, to
observe all the elements at present deemed important in the science of
meteorology. It is believed that much valuable information may be ob-
tained in this way with reference to the extent, duration, and passage of
storms over the country, though the observer may be possessed of no other
apparatus than.a simple wind vane.

With the instruments owned by private individuals, with those at the
several military stations, and with the supply of the deficiency by the
funds of the Smithsonian Institution, it is believed that observations
can be instituted at important points over the whole United States, and
that with the observations which we can procure from Mexico and the
British possessions of North America, data will be furnished for important
additions to our knowledge of meteorological phenomena. As a beginning
to this extended system, six sets of instruments have been forwarded
to the coast of Oregon and California, for the purpose of establishing pe-
riodical observations on the western side of the Rocky mountains. Also,
a set has been forwarded to Bent’s Fort, and another to Santa Fe. Cireu-
Jars have been prepared and will shortly be issued for the purpose of as-
certaining the number and locality of all those who, with or without in-
struments, aré willing to join. in the enterprise. Iam indebted to Prof.
Coffin, of Lafayette College, fora list of all persons, as far as they are
known, who have heretofore been accustomed to make meteorological
observations in North America, which will be of much importance in our
future investigations relative to this subject.

As:a part of the system of meteorology, it is proposed to employ, as far
as our funds will permit, the magnetic telegraph in the investigation of
atmospherical phenomena. By this means, not only the notice of the
approach of a storm may be given to distant observers, but also the atten-
tion may be directed to particular phenomena, which can only be properly
16 _ Mis. No. 48.

studied by the simultaneous observations of persons widely separated from
- each other. For example, the several phases presented by a thunder-
storm, or by the aurora borealis, may be telegraphed to a distance, and

the synchronous appearances compared, and recorded in stations far re-
removed from each other. Also, by the same means, a single observatory
at which constant observations are made during the whole 24 hours, may
give notice to all persons along the telegraphic lines, of the occurrence of
interesting meteorological phenomena, and thus simultaneous observations
be secured. The adv antage to agriculture and commerce to be derived
from a knowledge of the approach. of a storm by means of the telegraph,
has been frequently referred to of late in the public journals. And this, we
think, isa subject deserving the attention of the general government.

Under the head of researches, I may mention that several papers are in
preparationy under the direction and partly at the expense of the Institu-
tion. ‘The first of these relates to a series of valuable observations on the
temperature and velocity of the Gulf stream, the author of which the
science of our country was called to mourn while he was engaged in an
important public service. ‘The observations are now in progress of reduc-
tion, and the results will furnish an interesting memoir for the next vol-
ume of our Contributions.

The drawings and engravings of a paper on the botany of Oregon are
also in progress, and as a small advance has been made to assist in complet-
ing these, the memoir will fall under the head of original researches, in part
conducted by the Institution.

In the last report, it was mentioned that a magnetic survey of the mine-
ral regions of the northern lakes had been added to the geological and
mineralogical survey, the results of which were to be submitted to the
Smithsonian Institution. An appropriation was made by the Secretary of
the Treasury during the past summer for a continuation of this survey ;
but on account of the lateness of the season at which the arrangement
was made, the person to whom the work was entrusted, was not enabled
to engage in it this year. Operations, however, will probably be com-
menced as soon as practicable, next spring.

There is in the Land Office a large collection of facts relative to the
variation of the compass, which have “been derived from the observations
of the public surveyors, who are directed in all cases to give the varia-
tion of the needle, from the true meridian, at the several stations of
their surveys. The observations are made with an instrument called the |
solar compass, which probably gives the variation at each place within a
quarter of a degree of the truth. ‘The number of these observations, it is
believed, will make up in a considerable degree for their want of greater
precision, and from the whole, the lines of declination may be determined
with considerable accuracy. The Secretary of the Treasury has liberally
directed that all the matter relating to this subject in the land office may
be placed at my disposal, and Mr. ‘Wilson has’ undertaken to present the
whole in a series of maps, the publication of which in the Contributions,
cannot fail to be received as an interesting addition to terrestial magnetism.

Among the objects of research enumerated in the programme, is the
analysis of soils and plants; but it is the policy of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, in order to employ its funds most effectually in the way of in-
creasing and diffusing knowledge, not to engage in any operation which
could be as well if not better carried on under the direction and with the
Mis. No. 48. — 17

funds of another institution. Jn accordance with this, an arrangement has
been made with the Commissioner of Patents that the two institutions may
not interfere with each other; and as, at the request of Mr. Burke, an ap-
propriation has been made by Congress for a series of experiments on the
above-mentioned subjects, the Smithsonian Institution will, therefore, for
the present abandon this field of research for others less effectually oc-
cupied.

I may also mention in this connexion, that the Smithsonian Institution
has been the means of starting an important literary enterprise, intended
to facilitate the study of the history and literature of our country. Mr.
Henry Stevens, who has been engaged for a number of years as the agent
in this countiy of the British Museum, and other European libraries, has
commenced the preparation of a bibliographical work, comprising a de-
scription of all books relative to, or published in America prior to the
year 1700, and indicating not only the contents and value of the books,
but also the principal libraries in this and other countries where they
are to be found. ‘The preparation of a work of this kind will be in ac-
cordance with that part of our plan which contemplates rendering the
Institution a centre of bibliographical knowledge, and will have a direct
influence in promoting the objects of the various historical societies which
are now established in.almost every State of the Union, and in bringing
the Institution into friendly relations with them. A certificate has been
given to Mr. Stevens to the effect that this work, if found, by a commis-
sion to whom it shall be referred, properly executed, will be accepted for
publication as part of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
Assured by this certificate that the work will be properly executed, a
number of gentlemen and institutions, whose libraries will be examined and
referred to, have liberally subscribed to defray the necessary expense of its
preparation. With with this encouragement, Mr. Stevens has started for
Europe to commence investigations in foreign libraries. 'To satisfy our-
selves as to the importance of a work of this kind, a circular letter was ad-
dressed to a number of individuals distinguished for their knowledge of
such subjects, and the answer in all cases was. highly favorable to the
scheme. Some of these answers I have given in the appendix, together
with the details of the plan of the work as proposed by Mr. Stevens.—(See
appendix A.

wt the ie session of Congress an appropriation of $5,000 was made, on
motion of Mr. Stanton, for a series of astronomical observations in the
southern hemisphere for the purpose of a new determination of the paral-
lax of the planets, and consequently of their distance from the sun by simul-
taneous observations on the planets Venus and Mars, made at places
situated north and south of the equator. ‘This appropriation has been
found inadequate to furnish all the instruments required, and inasmuch as
the expedition should not be undertaken unless the observers are pro-
vided with all the aids which the latest improvements in modern science
can furnish, and since, to wait for an additional appropriation from Con-
gress would cause the delay of a whole year, Lieut. Gilliss has applied to
the Institution to purchase and lend to him an achromaticte lescope, ieee
if not paid for by an additional appropriation from the government, will,
after its return from the south, form part of the apparatus of the Institution.
his instrument will cost about $2,000, to be paid at the end of three
years. The Executive Committee, to whom I applied for counsel on this

2
18 Mis. No. 48.

subject, agreed with me in opinion, that this was a proper occasion for the
application of the funds of the Institution to the promotion of science. The
instrument las accordingly been ordered to be constructed by an American
artist, and to be accepted only in case its performance shall meet the ap-
proval of acommission of practical astronomers appointed to examine it.

The position on the coast of Chili to be occupied by the southern
observers, is peculiarly favorable to the study of the facts connected with
one of the most mysterious and interesting phenomena of terrestrial phy-
sics—namely, the earthquake. Lieut. Gilliss has been requested to give
particular attention to this subject, and for the purpose of facilitating his
inquires a pseismometer, or instrument for measuring the intensity and di-
rection of the earthwave, has been ordered at the expense of the Institution,
to be placed in charge of the expedition during its absence. ‘The cost of
this instrument is not yet ascertained; it will, however, not exceed one
hundred and fifty dollars.

I think it highly probable that these instruments will be paid for by the
general government. ‘The liberal spirit which dictated the original appro-
priation will, I doubt not, complete the outfit by the addition of a sum
sufficient to defray all the necessary expenses.* ;

Under the head of original researches, I may recall to the Regents the
fact of my having been directed to continue my own investigations on
physical science, and to report occasionally to the Board my progress
therein. In the course of last year, I found an opportunity while at
Princeton, to commence a series of investigations on radiant heat, which
apparently produced some results of interest, but which my subsequent
engagements have prevented me from fally developing. I was also directed
to cause to be made a series of experiments on the economical value, of
building material. It will give me much pleasure to obey this instruction
of the Board as soon as a place in the Smithsonian building and the neces-
sary apparatus are procured for properly conducting the research.

Reports on the progress af knowledge. °

The Smithsonian Contributions are intended to consist of entirely
original additions to the sum of human knowledge, and are to be prin-
cipally exchanged for the transactions of learned societies, and to be distri-
buted among public institutions. ‘The reports, on the other hand, are to
be of a more popular kind, and are intended for as wide a distribution as
the funds of the Institution or the means of publishing them may permit.
They will give an account of the progress of the different branches of
knowledge in every part of the world, and will supply a desideratam in
English literature.

The objects of the Smithsonian Institution are not educational. The
press in our’country already teems with elementary works on the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge, and to expend our funds in adding to these,
would be to dissipate them without perceptible effect. Neither do we be-
lieve that the ‘distribution of penny magazines, or tractson the rudiments
of science, can ever supersede the labors of the school-master. As a gene-
ral rule, knowledge presented in a fragmentary form, can only be useful to
minds well stored with general principles, to which the isolated facts may

* Since writing this report, the appropriation has been made by Congress.

\
Mis. No. 48. 19

be referred, and knowledge, both fragmentary and diluted, is almost worth-
less, even in the way of popular distribution. The elementary principles
of science may be systematically taught to a certain extent in common
schools, and the reports we intend to publish will be found of value to
the teacher, and through him to the pupil, as well as interesting to the
general reader. While these reports are rendered as free as possible from
technical terms, they will treat of subjects requiring attention and thought
to understand them. We think it better that they should be above, rather
than below the average intelligence of the country; that they should start
from a given epoch, and in most cases should be preceded by a brief ex-
position of the previous state of each subject.’

Arrangements have been made for commencing some of these prelimi-
nary reports, as well as reports on the state of our knowledge of special
subjects; among these are—

1. A report on the present state of chemistry as applied to agriculture.

2. A report on the forest trees of North America, giving their economi-
cal uses, their mode of propagation, and their history.

3. A report on the present state of our knowledge of lightning, and
the best means of guarding against accidents from its effects.

A. A report on the late discoveries in astronomy:

5. A report on meteorological instruments, with practical observations
and directions with reference to the use of them.

In connexion with this last report, 1 may mention that a proposition has
been made to the Institution by Prof. Guyot, of the University of Neufchatel,
relative to the importance of commencing at this epoch, and at the be-
ginning of the labors of the Smithsonian I[nstitution, the adoption of the
centigrade scale of the thermometer. This is a subject, indeed, worthy
of the attention of the Regents. It should, however, be discussed with
caution, and be decided only after due deliberation.—(See appendix ©.)

The first idea of reports on the progress of knowledge, with which we
are acquainted, is due to the Emperor Napoleon, who called upon the
French Academy of Science to present him with accounts of the progress
of the different branches of knowledge within a given period. Until within
the last few years the only regular reports of the kind were those presented
to the Swedish Academy. Since that time, however, a series of annual
reports ou chemistry have been commenced by an association of gentlemen
in France, and also a series on the different branches of material science,
by the Physical Society of Berlin. ‘The several numbers of the latter are
now in progress of translation, in order to furnish in part the materials for
the reports, to be prepared for the Smithsonian Institution during the com-
ing year. ;

Although comparatively little has been done in our country in the way
of original research, yet it might be important that the Institution should
call for the preparation of a report on the history of the progress of original
science in America down to the end of the present half century. ‘This re-
port would exhibit a constant increase in the number and importance of
the researches made in our country, and might be found of much service
in giving due credit to the labors of those who have been really engaged
in the advance of knowledge among us. A report of this kind, however,
would require the association of a number of persons combining literary

with scientific attainments.
20 Mis. No. 48.

Occasional publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

This part of the plan of organization requires to be carried into operation
with much caution. It is liable to much abuse, unless the publication be
confined to a narrow class of subjects, viz: to scientific reports on the
present state of knowledge of a given subject, to precede the periodical re-
ports, to translations from foreign languages of papers of general interest,
and occasionally, perhaps, the exposition of a subject on which, at a par-
ticular time, popular knowledge is required. We should be careful not to
establish a precedent which may lead us into difficulty, in the way of de-
clining the publication of works which may be presented to us. Scarcely
a week passes in which the Institution is not requested to publish some
essay or compilation, and the funds which can be devoted to all our pub-
lications would not suffice for one-half of those offered of this kind. ‘The
only work of this class which has yet been attempted by the Institution, is
one entitled ‘‘ Hints on Public Architecture,’’? under the direction of the
Buildmg Committee. Although the Secretary’s name was mentioned in
the resolution authorizing the publication of this treatise, yet he has thus
far had no connexion with it. The publication was authorized before the
details of the plan of organization were fully settled. It was at first in-
tended merely as a report of the Building Committee, giving an account of
the plans submitted, and the one adopted for the Smithsonian building,
together with a report of the investigations of the committee with regard
‘to the materials of construction, &c. It was afterwards changed into the
form of a regular treatise im order that it might be referred to a commission
; aa chosen to examine it, and that the Institution might thus be re-
lieved from the responsibility of pronouncing upon its fitness for publica-
tion. I think it important that besides the preface of this work, a full ac-
count of its origin should be given in an introductory advertisement.

Library.

During the past year the library has continued to increase by donations, »
and by the books which have been deposited by publishers, in accordance
with the 1Uth section of the Act establishing the Institution. The require-
ments of this Act are, however, not strictly observed by all publishers; and
I would direct the attention of the board toa special report of the Assistant
Secretary with reference to the point. 'The whole subject will probably
come before Congress during its present session.

Prof. Jewett, the Assistant Secretary, has been industriously engaged
during the past year in procuring statistics of the libraries in the United
States, and in digesting plans for the details of the library of the institution,
and I beg leave to refer you to the able and interesting report of the results
of his labors, herewith submitted. A considerable portion of the copies of
the Smithsonian Contributions will be presented to public institutions
which publish transactions, and which are able to present us in return
with additions to our library. The volume now in process of distribution
has been preceded by a circular requesting exchanges of the works of all
institutions which issue transactions and catalogues of all libraries to
which the Contributions may be sent.
Mis. No. 48. 21

Preparation for lecturing.

The plan of organization contemplates a series of free lectures, particu-
larly during the session of Congress. ‘These will be commenced as soon
as the building is ready for the purpose. This partof the plan also cannot
be put into full operation until after the building is completed. A number
of gentlemen have consented to favor us with their services. Men of
talents, however, cannot be expected to leave their homes and subject
themselves to the expense of visiting Washington, and to the trouble of
preparing for a course of lectures without a proper remuneration. It will
be necessary, therefore, that an annual appropriation be made for this pur-
pose. ‘The amount, however, must necessarily be small until the building
is completed, or until all the interest of the fund can be devoted to the
primary objects of the Institution. Besides this, the lecture-room in the
east wing, now finished, will scarcely hold more than five hundred persons,
while the one in the main building is intended to accommodate twice
as many.

Donation.

Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia, having resigned the chair of chemistry
in the University of Pennsylvania, which he had filled with honor to
himself and his country for nearly thirty years, has presented to the
Smithsonian Institution the instruments of research and illustration, col-
lected and used by himself during his long and successful scientific career.
Many of these instruments are the invention of the donor, are connected
with his reputation, and belong to the history of the science of our day.
The gift is important, not only on account of its intrinsic value, but also as
establishing a precedent ‘of liberality, which we trust will be frequently
observed by others, as well as being an expression of Dr. Hare’s approba-
tion of the plan and confidence in the stability of the Institution A num-
ber of other donations have been received, of which a list, with the names
of the donors, will be given in the next report.

In view of what has been stated in the foregoing report, the Secretary
trusts that the Board of Regents will be satisfied, if ever they had any
doubts on the subject, that the plan adopted is one well calculated to carry
out the benevolent intentions of the donor, of increasing and diffusing
knowledge among men; and that a satisfactory answer has been given to
the question frequently asked, namely, when is the Institution to begin?
It will be seen that it has commenced the most important part ofits opera-
tions, and the results are now in progress of dissemination in every part of
the civilized world.

For convenience of reference, I have appended for republication the pro-
sramme and its explanations, given in my last annual report.

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH HENRY, |
Secretary of the Smithsonian Instituivon.
a Mis. No. 48.

Programme of organization of the Smithsonian Institution, presenicd in
the first Annual Report of the Secretary and adopted by the Board of
Regents, December 13, 1847.

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS WHICH SHOULD SERVE AS A GUIDE IN ADOPTING
A PLAN OF ORGANIZATION.

1. Witt or Smrruson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.”’

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The government of the
United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently sup-
posed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and perpetu-
ate his name.

A. The objects of the Institution are—Ist, to increase, and 2d, to diffuse
knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to increase the existing stock of knowledge by the addition of
new truths ; and the second to disseminate knowledge, thus increased,
among men.

6. ‘The will makes ‘no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge ; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating and
promoting the discovery of new truths, and can be most efficiently diffused
among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the organization should be
such as to enable the Institution to produce results in the way of increasing
and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced by the existing insti-
tutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provision-
ally, can be easily reduced to practice, receive modifications, or be aban-
doned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to make up for the loss of time occasioned by the delay of
eight years in establishing the Institution, a considerable portion of the in-
terest which has accrued should be added to the principal.

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should therefore be consulted in the construc-
tion of the building ; and not only should the first cost of the edifice be
considered, but lso the continual expense of keeping it in repair, and of
the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it. ‘There
should also be but few individuals perntanently supported by the Institution.

12. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by
the plan of organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be benefit-
ed by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure on
local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from the
will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the act of
Congress establishing the Institution. ‘These are a library ,amuseum, and
a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to contain them.
Mis. No. 48. 23
SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the institution, in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To Increase Know ence. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. 'To appropriate annually a portion of the income for particular re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To Dirruse Know epee. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the differ-
ent branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish» occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general in-
terest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.

_L. By stimulating researches.

1. Rewards, consisting of money, medals, &c., offered for original me-
moirs on ali branches of knowledge.

2. The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
in a quarto form, and entitled «‘ Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.”’

3. No memoir, on subjects of physical science, to be accepted for pub-
lication, which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge
resting on original research; and ali unverified speculations to be rejected.

4. Kach memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for exami-
nation to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the branch
to which the memoir pertains, and te be accepted for publication only in
case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. ‘he commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favorable
decision be made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions of
literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the colleges
and .principal libraries in this country. One part of the remaining copies
may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved, to form complete
sets of the volume, to supply the demand from new institutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs to
be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to Con-

Sress.

Il. By appropriating a portion of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects, and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by
counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in course
of time, each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published, with
the memoirs before mentioned, in the volumes of the Smithsonian Contn-
butions to Knowledge.
24 Mis. No.'48.

4. Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations, particularly with
reference to the phenomena of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag-
netical, and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation of
a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determination of
the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of light; chemical
analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication of articles of science,
accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical, moral,
and political subjects.

(5.) Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated in
American history. :

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the different
races of men in North America; also explorations and accurate surveys of
the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

A. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interesting,
but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the reports
may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the income of the
Institution, or the changes in the branches of knowledge may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators, eminent in the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge. :

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publications,
domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report, to be
paid a certain sum for his labors, and to be named on the title-page of the
report.

(4.) The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons in-
terested in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it, without
purchasing the whole. " ;

(5.) These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribution;
the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institutions, and
sold to individuals for a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the
reports. “
I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and
meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zoology, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4. Application of science to arts.

Il. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

_ 5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology, an-
tiquities, &e.
Mis. No. 48. | "25

6. Statistics and political economy.
7. Mental and moral philosophy.
8. A survey of the political events of the world, penal reform, &c.

‘* Ill. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. ‘The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.
12. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

Il. By the publication of separote treatises on subjects of general in-
terest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs, trans-
lated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the direction of
the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the best exposition of
a given subject.

2. The treatises should in all cases be submitted to a commission of
competent judges previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the table
of reports. Also of the following subjects, suggested by the Committee on
Organization, viz: the statistics of labor, the productive arts of life, public
Instruction, &c.

SECTION Il.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the
Board of Regents, providing for the two modes of increasing and diffu-
sing knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum; and the Board of Regents, including
these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the income
into two equal parts.

2. One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library and
a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

A. To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, 1st, of a complete collection of the transactions and proceedings
of all the learned societies in the world; 2d, of the more important cur-
rent periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing the
periodical reports.

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of ob-
jects to verify its own publications. ;

* 6. Also a collection of instruments of research in all branches of expert-
mental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those mentioned
above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United States should
be procured, in order that the valuable books first purchased may be such
as are not to be found in the United States.
26° Mis. No. 48.

, 8. Also catalogues of memoirs, and of books in foreign libraries, and
other materials, should be collected for rendering the institution a centre
of bibliographical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any
work which he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increasesby
donation, as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make provision
for their reception, and therefore it will seldom be necessary to purchase
any articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should be made to procure for the gallery of arts casts of
the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of expense,
for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other similar socie-
tles.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of anti-
quities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &c.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to act
as librarian.

14. The duty of the Secretary will be the general superintendence, with
the advice of the Chancellor and other members of the establishment, of
the literary and scientific operations of the institution; to give to the
Regents annually an account ofall the transactions; of the memoirs which
have been received for publication; of the researches which have been
made; and to edit, with the assistance of the librarian, the publications of
the Institution.

15. The duty of the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian, will be, for
the present, to assist in taking charge of the collections, to select and pur-
chase, under the-direction of the Secretary and a committee of the board,
books and catalogues, and to procure the information before mentionéd; to
give information on plans of libraries, and to assist the Secretary in editing
the publications of the Institution, and in the other duties of his office.

16. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveriés in science, and to exhibit new
objects of art; also, distinguished individuals should be invited to give lec-
tures on subjects of general interest.

17. When the building is completed, and when, in accordance with the
act of Congress, the charge of the National Museum is given to the Smith-
sonian Institution, other assistants will be required.

Explanations and illustrations of the programme.

The programme embraces the general propositions adopted by the Board
of Regents at their last meeting, as the basis of future operations. It is
intended to harmonize the two modes of increasing and diffusing knowl-
edge, and to give to the Institution the widest influence compatible with
its limited income. That all the propositions will meet with general
approval cannot be expected; and that this organization is the best that
could be devised is neither asserted nor believed. ‘To produce a priori a
plan of organization which shall be found to succeed perfectly in practice,
and‘require no amendment, would be difficult under the most favorable
circumstances, and becomes almost impossible where conflicting opinions
are to be harmonized, and the definite requirements of the act establishing
Mis. No. 48. 27

the Institution are to be observed. It is not intended that the details of
the organization, as given in the programme, should be permanently
adopted without careful trial; they are rather presented as suggestions to
be adopted provisionally, and to be carried into operation gradually and
amy? with such changes, from time to time, as experience may dic-
ate.

: That the Institution is not a national establishment, in the sense in which
institutions dependent on the government for support are so, must be evi-
dent when it is recollected that the money was not absolutely given to the
United States, but intrusted to it for a special object, namely: the estab-
lishment of an institution for the benefit of men, to bear the name of the
donor, and, consequently, to reflect upon his memory the honor of all the
good which may be accomplished by means of the bequest. 'The opera-
tions of the Smithsonian Institution ought, therefore, to be mingled as little
as possible with those of the government, and its funds should be applied
exclusively and faithfully to the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.

That the bequest is intended for the benefit of men in general, and that
its influence ought not to be restricted to a single district, or even nation,
may be inferred not only from the words of the will, but also from the
character of Smithson himself; and I beg leave to quote from a scrap of
paper in his own hand, the following sentiment bearing on this point:
‘“"The man of science has‘no country; the world is his country—all men,
his countrymen.’’ The origin of the funds, the bequest of a foreigner,
should also preclude the adoption of a plan which does not, in the words
of Mr. Adams, ‘‘ spread the benefits to be derived from the Institution not
only over the whole surface of this Union, but throughout the civilized
world.’’ ‘‘ Mr. Smithson’s reason for fixing the seat of his Institution at
Washington obviously was, that there is the seat of government of the
United States, and there the Congress by whose legislation, and the Ex-
ecutive through whose agency, the trust committed to the honor, intelli-
gence, and good faith of the nation, is to be fulfilled.’’ The centre of
operations being permanently fixed at Washington, the character of this
city for literature and science will be the more highly exalted in proportion
as the influence of the Institution is more widely diffused. ;

That the terms increase and diffusion of knowledge are logically dis-
tinct, and should be literally interpreted with reference to the will, must be
evident when we reflect that they are used in a definite sense, and not as
mere synonymes, by all who are engaged in the pursuits to which Smithson
devoted his life. In England there are two classes of institutions, founded
on the two ideas conveyed by these terms. 'The Royal Society, the Astro-
nomical, the Geological, the Statistical, the Antiquarian Societies, all have
for their object the increase of knowledge; while the London Institution,
the Mechanics’ Institution, the Surry Institution, the Society for the Dif
fusion of Religious Knowledge, the Society for the Diffusion of Useful
Knowledge, are all intended to diffuse or disseminate knowledge among
men. In our own country, also, the same distinction is observed in the use
of the terms by men of science. Our colleges, academies, and common
schools, are recognized as institutions partially intended for the diffusion of
knowledge, while the express object of some of our scientific societies 1s
the promotion of the discovery of new truths. ok

The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of knowl-
28 Mis. No. 48. |

edge; though propositions have been frequently made for devoting the
funds exclusively to the promotion of certain branches of science having
more immediate application to the practical arts of life, and the adoption of
these propositions has been urged on the ground of the conformity of such
objects to the pursuits of Smithson; but an examination of his writings
will show that he excluded from his own studies no branch of general
knowledge, and that he was fully impressed with the important philosoph-
ical fact, that all subjects of human thought relate to one great system of
truth. To restrict, therefore, the operations of the institution to a single
science or art, would do injustice to the character of the donor, as well as
to the cause of general knowledge If preference is to be given to any
branches of research, it should be to the higher, and apparently more ab-
stract; to the discovery of new principles, rather than of isolated facts. And
this is true even in a practical point of view. Agriculture would have for-
ever remained an empirical art, had it not been for the light shed upon it
by the atomic theory of chemistry; and incomparably more is to be ex-
pected as to its future advancement from the perfection of the microscope,
_ than from improvements in the ordinary instruments of husbandry.

The plan of increasing and diffusing knowledge, presented in the first
section of the programme, will be found in strict accordance with the sev-
eral propositions deduced from the will of Smithson, and given in the in-
troduction. It embraces, as a leading feature, the design of interesting
the greatest number of individuals in the operations of the Institution, and
of spreading its influence as widely as possible. It forms an active organ-
ization, exciting all to make original researches who are gifted with the
necessary power, and diffusing a kind of knowledge, now only accessible
to the few, among all those who are willing to receive it. In this country,
though many excel in the application of science to the practical arts of life,
few devote themselves to the continued labor and patient thought neces-
sary to the discovery and development of new truths. The principal
cause of this want of attention to original research, is the want, not of
proper means, but of proper encouragement. The publication of original
memoirs and periodical reports, as contemplated by the programme, will
act as a powerful stimulus on the latent talent of our country, by placing
in bold relief the real laborers in the field of original research, while it will
afford the best materials for the use of those engaged in the diffusion of
knowledge.

The advantages which will accrue from the plan of*publishing the vol-
umes of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge,are various. In the
first place, it will serve to render the name of the founder favorably known
wherever literature and science are cultivated, and to keep it in continual
remembrance with each succeeding volume, as long as knowledge is val-
ued. A single new truth, first given to the world through these volumes,
will forever stamp their character as a work of reference. The contribu-
tions will thus form the most befitting monument to perpetuate the name
of one whose life was devoted to the increase of knowledge, and whose
ruling passion, strong in death, prompted the noble bequest intended to
facilitate the labors of others in the same pursuit.

Again, the publication of a series of volumes of original memoirs will
afford to the institution the most ready means of entering into friendly
relations and correspondence with all the learned societies in the world,
and of enriching its library with their current transactions and proceedings.
Mis. No. 48. 29
”

But perhaps the most important effect of the plan will be that of giving to
the world many valuable memoirs, which, on account of the expense of the
illustrations, could not be otherwise published. Every one who adds
new and important truths to the existing stock of knowledge, must be of
necessity, to a certain degree, in advance of his age. Hence the number
of readers and purchasers of a work is generally in the inverse ratio of its
intrinsic value; and consequently, authors of the highest rank of merit are
frequently deterred from giving their productions to the world on account
of the pecuniary loss to which the publication would subject them. When
our lamented countryman, Bowditch, contemplated publishing his com-
mentary on La Place, he assembled his family and informed them that the
execution of this design would sacrifice one-third of his fortune, and that
it was proper his heirs should be consulted on the subject which so nearly
concerned them. The answer was worthy of the children of sucha father:
‘‘ We value,”’ said they, “your reputation more than your money.”
Fortunately, in this instance, the means of making sucha sacrifice existed;
otherwise one of the proudest monuments of American science could tiot
have been given to the world. In a majority of cases, however, those
who are most capable of extending human knowledge are least able to in-
cur the expense of the publication. Wilson, the American Ornithologist,
states, in a letter to Michaux, that he has sacrificed everything to publish
his work: “I have issued,’’ he says, ‘* six volumes, and am engaged on
the seventh, but as yet I have not received a single cent of the proceeds.”’
In an address on the subject of natural history, by one of our most active
cultivators of this branch of knowledge, we find the following remarks,
which are directly in point: ‘‘ Few are acquainted with the fact that from
the small number of scientific works sold, and the great expense of plates,
our naturalists not only are not paid for their labors, but suffer pecuniary
loss from their publications. Several works on different branches of zoology,
now in course of publication, will leave their authors loses to an aggregate
amount of $15,000. I do not include in this estimate works already fin-
ished—one, for instance, the best contribution to the natural history of
man extant, the publication of which will occasion its accomplished author
a loss of several thousand dollars. A naturalist is extremely fortunate if
he cah dispose of 2U0 copies of an illustrated work, and the number of
copies printed rarely exceeds 250.’’ It may be said that these authors
have their reward in the reputation which they thus purchase; but rep-
utation should be the result of the talents and labor expended in the pro-
duction of a work, and should not in the least depend upon the fact that
the author is able.to make a pecuniary sacrifice in giving the account
of his discoveries to the public.
Besides the advantage to the author of having his memoir published in
the Smithsonian Contributions free of expense, his labors will be given to
the world with the stamp of approval of a commission of earned men, and
his merits will be generally made known through the reports of the insti-
tution. Though the premiums offered may be small, yet they will have
considerable effect in producing original articles. Fifty or a hundred dol-
lars awarded to the author of an original paper, will, in many instances,
suffice to supply the books, or to pay for the materials, or the manual labor
required, in prosecuting the research. ; : i
There is one proposition of the programme which has given rise to muc
discussion, and which, therefore, requires particular explanation; I allude
30 Mis. No. 48.

to that which exelndes from the contributions all papers consisting merely
of unverified speculations on subjects of physical science. ‘The object of
this proposition is to obviate the endless difficulties which would occur in
rejecting papers of an unphilcsophical character; and though it may in
some cases exclude an interesting communication, yet the strict observance
of it will be found of so much practical importance that it cannot be dis-
pensed with. It has been supposed, from the adoption of this proposition,
that we are disposed to undervalue abstract speculations: on the contrary,
we know that all the advances in true science—namely, a knowledge of
the laws of phenomena—are made by provisionally adopting well-condi-
tioned hypotheses, the product of the imagination, and subsequently veri-
fying them by an appeal to experiment and observation. Every new hy-
pothesis of scientific value must not only furnish an exact explanation of
known facts, but must also enable us to predict, in kind and quantity, the
phenomena which will be exhibited under any given combination of cir-
cumstances. ‘hus, in the case of the undulatory hypothesis of light, it
was inferred, as a logical consequence, that if the supposition were true
that light consisted of waves of an ethereal medium, then two rays of light,
like two waves of water under certain conditions, should annihilate each
other, and darkness be produced. 'The experiment was tried, and the
anticipated result was obtained. It is this exact agreement of the deduc-
tion with the actual result of experience that constitutes the verification of
an hypothesis, and which alone entitles it to the name of a theory, and to
a place in the transactions of ascientific institution. It must be recollected
that it is much easier to speculate than to investigate, and that very few
of all the hypotheses imagined are capable of standing the test of scientific
verification.

For the practical working of the plan for obtaining the character of a
memoir, and the precaution taken before it is accepted for publication, I
would refer* to the correspondence relative to the memoir now in process
of publication by the institution. ‘The memoir was referred to the Ameri-
can Ethnological Society, with a request that a committee of its members
might be appointed to examine and report on its character, as to fitness for
publication in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. On _ the
favorable report of this committee, and on the responsibility of the society,
the memoir was accepted for publication.

As it is not our intention to interfere with the proceedings of other in-
stitutions, but to co operate with. them, so far as our respective operations
are compatible, communications may be referred to learned societies for in-
spection, as in the case of the above mentioned memoir, and abstracts of
them given to the world through the bulletins of these societies, while the
details of the memoirs and their expensive illustrations are published in the
volumes of the Smithsonian Contributions. 'The officers of several learned
societies in this country have expressed a willingness to co-operate in this
way.

Since original research is the most direct means of increasing knowledge,
it can scarcely be doubted that a part of the income of the bequest should
be appropriated to this purpose, provided suitable persons can be found,
and their labors be directed to proper objects. The number, however, of
those who are capable of discovering scientific principles is comparatively

* See first volume of the Smithsonian Contributions.
Mis. No. 48 31

small ; like the poet, they are “born, not made,”’ and, like him, must be
left to choose their own subject, and wait the fitting time of inspiration.
In case a person of this class has fallen on a rein of discovery, and is” pur-
suing it with success, the better plan will be to grant him a small sum of
money to carry on his investigation, provided they are considered worthy
ofassistance by competent judges. This will have the double effect of en-
couraging him in the pursuit, and of facilitating his progress. 'The Institu-
tion, however, need not depend upon cases of this kind, even if they were
more numerous than they are, for the application of its funds in the line of
original research. There are large fields of observation and experiment,
the cultivation of which, though it may afford no prospect of the discovery
of a principle, can hardly fail to produce results of importance both in a
practical and a theoretic point of view. As an illustration of this remark,
I may mention the case of the investigations made a few years ago by
committees of the Franklin Institute, of Philadelphia. The Secretary of
the ‘Treasury of the United States placed at the disposal of this society a
sum of money, for the purpose of making experiments with reference to
the cause of the explosion of steam-boilers. A committee of the society
was chosen for this purpose, which adopted the ingenious plan of writing
to all persons in the United States engaged in the application of steam, and
particularly to those who had observed the explosion of a steam-boiler.
In this way opinions and suggestions in great variety, as to the cause of
explosions, were obtained. ‘The most plausible of these were submitted to
the test of experiment: the results obtained were highly important, and are
to be found favorably mentioned in every systematic work on the subject
of steam which has appeared, in any language, within the last few years.
New and important facts were established; and, what was almost of as much
consequence, errors which had usurped the place of truth were dethroned.
In the programme, examples are given of a few subjects of original re-
search to which the attention of the Institution may be turned. I will men-
tion one in this place, which, in connexion with the contents of our first
memoir, may deserve immediate attention. I allude to a small appropria-
tion made annually for researches with reference to the remains of the an-
cient inhabitants of our country. This is a highly interesting field, and
what is done in regard to itshould be done quickly. Every year the pto-
gress of civilization is obliterating the ancient mounds, cities and villages
are rising on the spots they have so long occupied undisturbed, and the
distinctive marks of these remains are every year becoming less and less
legible. -
In carrying out the spirit of the plan adopted, namely, that of affecting
men in general by the operations of the Institution, it is evident that the
principal means of diffusing knowledge must be the press. ‘Though lec-
tures should be given in the city in which Smithson has seen fit to direct
the establishment of his Institution, yet, as a plan of general diffusion of
knowledge, the system of lectures would be entirely inadequate ; every vil-
lage in our extended country would have a right to demand a share of the
benefit, and the income of the institution would be insufficient to supply
a thousandth part of the demand. Itis also evident that the knowledge
diffused should, if possible, not only embrace all branches of general mter-
est, so that each reader might find a subject suited to his taste, but also that
it should differ in kind and quality from that which can be readily obtained
through the cheap publications of the day. ‘I'hese conditions will be fully
32 Mis. No. 48.

complied with in the publications of the series of reports proposed in the
programme. A series of periodicals of this kind, posting up all the discov-
eriesan science from time to time, and giving a well digested account of all
the important changes in the diflerent branches of knowledge, is a desider-
atum in the English language. The idea is borrowed from a partial plan of
this kind in operation in Sweden and Germany; and foran example of what
the work should be, I would refer to the annual report to the Swedish
Academy of its perpetual secretary, Berzelius,on physical science. ‘The re-
ports can be so prepared so as, to be highly interesting to the general reader,
and at the same time of great importance to the exclusive cultivator of a par-
ticular branch of knowledge. Full references should be given, in foot-
notes, to the page, number or volume of the work from which the informa-
tion was obtained, and where a more detailed account can be found. It is
scarcely necessary to remark, that the preparation of these reports should
be intrusted only to persons profoundly acquainted with the subjects to
which they relate—namely, to those who are devoted to particular branches,
while they possess a knowledge of general principles. Sufficient explana-
tions should be introduced to render the report intelligible to the general
reader, without destroying its scientific character. Occasionally reports
may be obtained from abroad—as, for example, accounts of the progress ef
certain branches of knowledge in foreign countries—and these may be
translated, if necessary, and incorporated into other reports, by some com-
petent-person in this country. |

Besides the reports on the progress of knowledge, the programme pro-
poses to publish occasionally brief treatises on particular subjects. ‘There
are always subjects of general interest, of which brief expositions would
be of much value. The preparation of these, however, should be intrusted
to none but persons of character and reputation, and should be subjected
to a revision by competent and responsible judges before they are given to
the public. ‘They may be presented in the form of reports on the existing
state of knowledge relative to a given subject, and may sometimes consist
of memoirs and expositions of particular branches of literature and science,
translated from foreign languages. The reports and treatises of the insti-
tution, sold at a price barely suflicient to pay the expense of printing, will
find their way into every school in our country, and will be used not as
first lessons for the pupil, but as sources of reliable information for the
teacher.

The second section of the programme gives, so far as they have been
made out, the details of the part of tlie plan of organization directed by the
act of Congress establishing the Institution. The two plans, namely, that
of publication and original research, and that of collections of objects of
nature and art, are not incompatible, and may be carried on harmoniously
with each other. The only effect which they will have on one another
is that of limiting the operation of each, on account of the funds given to
the other. Still, with a judicious application, and an economical expendi-
ture of the income, and particularly by rigidly observing the plan of finance,
suggested by Dr. Bache, in the construction of the building, much good
may be effected in each of the two branches of the institution. To carry
on the operations of the first, a working library will be required, consisting
of the past volumes of the transactions and proceedings of all the learned
societies in every language. ‘These are the original sources from which
the most important principles of the positive knowledge of our day have
Mis. No. 48. | 33

Seen drawn. We shail also require a collection of the most important cur-
rent literature and science for the use of the collaborators of the reports ;
most of these, however, will be procured in exchange for the publications
of the Institution, and therefore will draw but little from the library fund.
For other suggestions relative to the details of the library, I would refer to
the report of the assistant secretary, acting as librarian.

The collections of the Institution, as far as possible, should consist of
such articles as are not elsewhere to be found in this country, so that the
visitors at Washington may see new objects, and the spirit of the plan be
kept up, of interesting the greatest possible number of individuals. A
general collection of all objects of nature and of art properly arranged and
‘deposited in one place, would form a museum of the highest interest; but
the portion of the income of the bequest-which can be devoted to the in-
crease and maintenance of the museum, will be too small to warrant any
attempt towards an indiscriminate collection. It is hoped that in due time
other means may be found of establishing and supporting a general collec-
tion of objects of nature and art at the seat of the general government, with
funds not derived from the Smithsonian bequest. For the present, it
should be the object of the Institution to confine the application of the
funds, first, to such coHections as will tend to facilitate the study of the
memoirs which may be published in the Contributions, and to establish
their correctness; secondly, to the purchase ofsuch objects as are not gene-
rally known in this country, inthe way of art, and the illustration of anti-
quities, such as models of buildings, &c.; and thirdly, to the formation of
a collection of instruments of physical research, which will be required
both in the illustration of new physical truths, and in the scientific in-
vestigations undertaken by the institution. ye

Much popular interest may be awakened in favor of the institution at ©
Washington, by throwing the rooms of the building open, on stated even-
ings during the session of Congress, for literary and scientific assemblies,
after the manner of the weekly meetings of the Royal Institution in Lon-
don. At these meetings, without the formality of a regular lecture, new
truth in science may be illustrated, and new objects of art exhibited. Be-
sides these, courses of lectures may be given on particular subjects by the
officers of the Institution, or by distinguished individuals invited for the
purpose.

Res ectfully submitted.
" ‘ JOSEPH HENRY,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
24 | Mis. No. 48.

REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY RELATIVE TO THE LIBRARY.—
PRESENTED DECEMBER 13, 1848.

To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution :

Srr: At the last meeting-of the Board of Regents the following duties
were assigned to me for the year which is about to close, viz:

1. “ The preparation of catalogues of books suitable for the commence-
ment of the library, in accordance with the plan of organization adopted
by the Board of Regents.

2. “The purchase of the more necessary works on bibliography.

3. <* The collection and systematic arrangement for purposes of comparison
of the printed catalogues of the principal libraries throughout the United
States, together with information with regard to the expenditures, plans of
increase, and other particulars relating to said libraries.

4. ‘* The collection of works to which the institution may be entitled
under the tenth section of the act establishing the Institution.”’

The first of these duties which demanded my attention after the ad-
journment of the Board of Regents, was the collection of the works to
which the institution is entitled by the tenth section of the charter. After
examining the subject carefully, { made a special report thereon to the Sec-
retary and Library Committee, a copy of which is herewith submitted.

The next subject to which I devoted my attention was the gathering of
information respeeting public libraries in the United States. It is a singu-,
lar, and to us a mortifying fact, that the most accurate account of American
libraries was published in Germany, and has never been translated into
English. In 1845,_’6 there appeared in the ‘‘ Serapeum,*’’ a journal
published at Leipzig, a series of articles upon bibliography and libraries in
the United States. These articles, forming about ninety pages octavo,
were written by Hermann HE. Ludewig, formerly of Dresden, at pres-
ent a lawyer in the city of New York. Having a strong predilec-
tion for bibliographical pursuits, he collected, during a journey which he
performed through the United States, all the information within his reach
respecting the libraries, public and private, the book trade, and the bibli-
ography of the general and local history of thecountry. The results of his
researches have been given to the public in the articles to which If have
already referred, and in an 8vo. volume of 180 pages, published for private
distribution, entitled “‘ The Literature of American Local History; a Bibli-
ographical Essay; New York, 1846.’ The fullness and accuracy of the
details which he has given are remarkable. I have made free use of them,
and have found my labors much facilitated by so doing.

I have, besides, visited and examined many of the principal libraries.
I have also prepared, for the purpose of eliciting further information, a cir-
cular letter to librarians, a copy of which accompanies this report.
This letter was distributed together with the first volume of our ** Contri-

* Serapeum. Zeitschrift fiir Bibliothekwissenschaft, Handsehriftenkunde, und aeltere Literatur.
Heraus. von Dr. Robert Naumann, Leipz g, T. O. Weigel, 1840 ff. (See 1845, pp. 209—224, and
1846, pp. 113—172, 177—190, 190—192, 204—206.)
Mis No. 48. . 35

butions to Knowledge.” I regret that the answers to the queries have not
all been received, so that 1 am unable at present to offer a full report re-
specting them. ‘The most important statistics have, however, been ob-
tained. ‘These are presented in an accompanying document. I beg leave
here to offer some important deductions from the facts contained in this
paper.

‘The aggregate number of volumes in the public libraries of the United
States is about 1,294,000. These are distributed among 182 libraries. Forty-
three of these libraries contain over 10,080 volumes each; nine over 20,000
each; and only two over 50,000. The library of Harvard University, the
largest this side the Atlantic, contains, together with the libraries of the
law school and divinity school, upwards of 70,000 volumes.

These statements enable us to institute an instructive comparison be-
tween our libraries and those of the principal nations of Europe. It should
be premised, however, that itis a very difficult thing to procure exact statistics
of libraries. With reference to France, Germany, Belgium, Russia, and
Spain, we are in possession of comparatively accurate returns. With re-
spect to Great Britain, Holland, Sweden, Denmark, and Norway, those
which I give below are as accurate as I could procure, though certainly
not very satisfactory. Lam not acquainted with any book which gives a
good account of the present condition of libraries in several of these coun-
tries except one,* to which I have not had access. For greater conve-
nience of reference and comparison, I present these statistics in a tabular
form.

‘he first column of the table gives the name of the country.

The second, the year to which the statistics relate.

The third, the number of public libraries.

By public libraries are not meant those exclusively which are opened to
the public without restriction, but rather those belonging to public insti-
tutions, and which are accessible under proper regulations to persons who
wish to censult them for literary purposes.

The fourth column contains the aggregate number of volumes in the
libraries.

The fifth gives the number of libraries containing over 10,000 volumes
each. Hijabs Ws ab: dipera iin
The sixth, the average number of volumes in libraries containing over
10,080 volumes each. '

The seventh, the number of volumes in the largest library of each
country. um

‘ne eighth, the number of volumes to every million of inhabitants,

*{ allude to the Archiv der Gesellschaft fiir aeltere deutsche Gesehitskande. — Herausg. v. G.
H. Periz. Bd. 8. Hannov, Hahn, 1843, 8°. Petzholdt in the Anzeiger fiir Literatur der
Bibliothekwissenschaft for 1843, terms this an almost inexhaustible source of information on
European Libraries. 7 ; '

Sitive writing the above, I have received the volume alluded to. The information
which it contains, though fully justifying the expression of pean’ relates principally to the

i ibrari i f a statistical character.

anuscript treasures of the libraries, and 1s not of |
Sines che report was prepared, I have seen in the Serapewm, a translation of Ls de of an
article containing a statistical account of libraries in Europe and America, first published in the

isti i by Edward Edwards, esq., of the British Museum.
Journal of the Statistical Society of London, oy a Sa i eas are beed eae

The original article | have not as yet been able te
with great care and a wide.examination of authorities. It would doubtless have saved me much

laborious research had 1 seen it before writing my report.
Mis. No. 48.

N=)
ae)

000‘0ST
00008
0000S
OO0'EST
000°0EE
000°F9
000°86
OQ00SES
O00 SFT
6L0°981

au)

*sjUeyqeyur UOT]
-jtw Auaaa 01 “ONT
‘uonetndod

0} SyYooq Jo Jaq
-wnu darjerediuoy

000°9&I
000° 00%
000°0ST
000°00T
000° 007
000502

O00 POP
000°0&P
000008
000°009

ey

-eIqI] 380910] arp
UI SOWINJOA JO ‘ON

000°FL
000° Lg
000°&F
000. SE
000°SaT
O00. LT
00069
000°¢8
000°SE
000°08

-I] JO OZIS VovIBAY

-[OA puesnoy) Ue}
JaAO0 JO sal1RIq

puesnoy] ua) taA0

YIIA SaTABIGT] JO “ON

SSLLST
LEG'VSs
000°8SS
GOLLY
000°099
000° F6%T
GIL 1¢8‘T
000‘ L00°%
000° LLLP
086‘SLg°¢

2

Jaqunu 9jR50105V

*SOWNIOA JO

VI
1G
OF
1&
rey
cSt
OGT
Ig
Ve
cor

*SaLIwAGT] JO ‘ONT

cvsl
S81
VSI
Wst
OVsl
LV81
SVs 1
OVST
VVST
SVSI

*SISIBIS JO 3eq

‘finnsoxy pun ‘umdy Suapany “unsjag
‘ywmuuay ‘pouawy Jo sagnjy popu “missnay ‘wopug way ‘sounng Shunwsay ur saruviqy fo soysyojs aarynsnduog

Ae mony
uredg
uapamg
WIS [OF
yIeUUIa -
BOLLOUIY JO seqwjg pailuy,
- BIssny
- UleILIGg yea
aouRl
puvjia
-ZVIAG puevlysny Surpnzout ‘Aueullerxy

*AQUNOD 9Y} JO OUIEAT

Mis. No. 48. 37.

This table enables us to estimate ata glance, and with a good degree of

accuracy the relative value of the public provisions made in Europe and

America for general intellectual culture, as well as of those for the most
extensive scientific and literary research.

Tt will be seen that in the number of public libraries, France is the only
country in the world which excels us. It should be observed that the
returns respecting F'rance are official and minute, including libraries of not
more than 500 volumes. Many of our public schools, however, possess
libraries larger than these, but they are not enumerated in our lists. If
they were, they would swell the number of American libraries far beyond
that of any other country in the world.

In the aggregate number of volumes in the public libraries, Germany,
France, Great Britain, and Russia, are before us. , Were all the district
school libraries and village collections in the United States included in the
estimate, we should probably take the fourth rank.

In the average size of libraries containing over ten thousand volumes we
are the dast of ail.

In the size of the largest library we also stand last of all.

In the number of volumes, compared with the population, we rank below
all but Russia and Spain.

These results show that in public provisions for the general diffusion of
knowledge by means of libraries, we stand in the very first rank among
the nations; and when we consider the cheapness of our publications,
and the vast number of them scattered over the land, with the extent of
our periodical literature, we may justly and proudly challenge a compari-
son with any nation in the world for the means of general culture. This,
certainly, is much for a country so new, whose chief energies have, as a
matter of necessity, been directed to the felling of forests, the clearing
of lands, and the support of physical life. It shows, as well remarked by
a foreign writer, “‘ that the men who, with steady and vigorous hand, have
known how to rule themselves, and be completely free, have well dis-
cerned the foundations upon which alone the weal of a free State can safely
repose.”

But this deduction, so full of encouragement, so fraught with matter for
gratulation and pride, must be followed by others of a different character.

The statistics given indicate, that while no country in the world has
done so much for diffusing knowledge, none has done so little towards
furnishing the means which public libraries can supply for its increases
It was doubtless the first duty of the infant republic to provide that all
should know something, that the mass of the people should be elevated
and enlightened. It has now become her duty to see to it, that no bounds
are placed to the culture that each. may obtain if he chooses. Now, in
the hour of her strength, she ought to provide for her citizens the means of
as high culture, of as profound research, of as noble advances in science,
literature, and art, as are enjoyed by the citizens of any other nation Jn the
world. She should take care that while the poor man’s son may obtain
that elementary education which will enable him to perform the duties ofa
good and intelligent citizen, he be not, by his poverty, debarred from the
higher walks of science and literature; that there be no monopoly of ‘i
ing by the rich—by those who are able to study at the eiviglnt a : Eu-
rope, or to surround themselves by the books which they need at home.
Our condition in these respects has been deeply lamented’ by our scholars,
38 Mis. No. 48.

At various times strong efforts have been made for its improvernent. At
length the munificent bequest of a foreigner, placed at the disposal of
Congress, furnished the means of meeting this, among other demands
of science and letters. In the act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian
Institution, and in the acts of the Board of Regents for the organization of
the same, a large public library forms a prominent feature.

It has been supposed by some, not acquainted with researches requiring
many books, that very large libraries are superfluous. They calculate,
perhaps, how many books a man can read ina long life, and ask what
can be the use of more. Nay, even many men fond of reading feel like an
English writer of some note, who describes his pain as amounting to
“midsummer madness’’ when he entered a large library and reflected how
small a number of all the books it contained he could read through.

“‘In my youthful days,’’ says De Quincey, ‘I never entered a great
library, say of 100,000 volumes, but my predominant feeling was one of
pain and disturbance of mind, not mttch unlike that which drew tears from
Xerxes, on reviewing his immense army, and reflecting that in 100 years
no one soul would remain alive. ‘T'o me, with respect to the books, the
same effect would be brought about by my death. Here, said I, are
100,000 books, the worst of them capable of giving me some pleasure and
instruction, and before I can have had time to extract the honey from one-
twentieth of this hive, in all likelihood I shall be summoned away.”’

‘“ Now | have been told by an eminent Engtish author, that with res-
pect to one single work, viz: the History of ‘Thuanus, a calculation has
been made by a Portuguese monk, which showed that barely,to read over
the works, and allowing no time for reflection, would require three years
labor at the rate of, I think, three hours a day. Further, I had myself
ascertained that to read a duodecimo volume in prose of four hundred
pages, all skipping being barred, and the rapid reading which belongs to
the vulgar interest of a novel, was a very sufficient work for one day.
Consequently 365 per annum, that is with a very small allowance for the
claims of life on one’s own account.and on that of one’s friends, one thou-
sand for every triennium, that is ten thousand in thirty years, will be
as much as a man who lives for that only can hope to accomplish. Fyrom
the age of twenty to eighty, the utmost he could hope to travel through
would be twenty thousand volumes, a number not, perhaps, above five
per cent. of what the mere current literature of Kurope would accumulate
in that period of years.”’

Now, supposing for a moment that there were no other use to be made
of books but the reading of them through at so many pages the hour, one
would think it might have occured to this writer that there are among the
frequenters of a large library a great variety of men, with a wide diversity
of interests, tastes and pursuits; that though each might not be able to read
through more than two thousand books—one-tenth part of the supposed
number—still fifty men, whose reading was in diffierent directions, might
call for a hundred thousand.

But apart from this consideration, and above it, is another of far more
importance to the scholar. It is that this view of the use to be made of a
large collection of books is founded upon an utter misapprehension of the
relation of books and libraries to learning.

There are three uses to be made of books by those who understand their
value.
Mis. No. 48. 39

The first is for reading. This, paradoxical as the assertion may sound,
is the least important of their uses. By reading I mean cursory perusal,
such as the writer above quoted describes. Reading as a pastime—read-
ing for the acquiring of general information—reading as a means of refining
and cultivating the tastes—is, indeed, indispensable to every well edu-
cated man. And the means of such reading in this country are largely
supplied by our circulating libraries, athenazeums, book auctions, and cheap
publications. But the scholar has need of books for other and higher pur-
poses.

A second important use of books is for study. By study, I mean that
vigorous mental application, which is necessary in order to fully compre-
hend, weigh, analyse, and appropriate the thoughts, facts, and arguments
of an author. Itis study which disciplines the mind; which trains the
intellect for the rapid accumulation and appropriate use of knowledge. It
is study which gives education, which developes the faculties. But it is
evident that for study one needs even fewer books, if they be rightly chosen,
than for reading.

The third use to be made of books is for reference. :

Every man has occasion to refer to a dictionary or an encyclopedia. Yet
who ever undertakes to read one through? Every one accustomed to coni-
position sometimes has occasion to trace the history and meaning of a
word. ‘There are cases,’’. says Coleridge, ‘‘in which more knowledge
of more value may be conveyed by the history of a word than by the his-
tory of acampaign.’’? But to learn the history or usage of a single word
we may be compelled to look into five, twenty, or fifty dictionaries in dif-
ferent languages.

Now the use of books by scholars is in general analogous to the use of
a dictionary by any intelligent man. There are some sciences which seem
to require less the aid‘of libraries than others. It may even be true that
some important discoveries have been the result of mere accident. But
such is uot the general rule. The progress of science 1s not fortuitous.
Nature does not often disclose her treasures upon a blundering invitation.
She must be diligently sought. He who would make valuable paras
must, as a general thing, prepare himself by a thorough Acapaniaeeree 1
the present condition and tendencies of the science which he wae S.

He must do more, much more. ‘Of every branch of the two great
subdivisions of human learning,’’ (viz: science and literature,) says a
able writer, “its history is a constituent part, absolutely neler a to he
who would be competent to form just opinions on Its present state. ie e o na
know the past in order to appreciate the present, and in order to help : ap
the future. He must not only be able to place himself on the line of de-
marcation between the unknown and the known, butif he would a Seors
the darkness of the former, he must have gained his direction by a ae ‘
tracing out of the analogies of the latter. Consequently he ards 5 aa °
self to longe-continued, patient, laborious study of the ery : eeaneres

Moreover, it is not only necessary to study asehs iy r meant eres
to enlarge by his discoveries: he must be familiar with ies My ns een
are allied to it. But where can we find the limits of any wma =
knowledge is bound together by an indissoluble, though a Pee
invisible bond. He who is’ versed in but one depai pan -gikeah ae.
and is entirely ignorant of others, cannot Laon aaa cat nl
guainted with any. In the words of the writer already q )
40 Mis. No. 98.

could be arranged in order. of relevancy, with respect say to natural
science, from the one which is mostessential to it down to the one which is
least essential to it, there would be no perceptible break anywhere, no point
at which natural knowledge ends and other knowledge begins.”” What,
then, must he who would devote himself to the enlargement of one de-
partment of knowledge, wait’ ere he commences till he bas mastered all?
By no means, such is not the inference. The legitimate conclusion from
the argument is, that no thorough student in any one department of knowl-
edge can safely say that he may not need 10,000, or even 50,000, books,
and many of them of a character at first sight most remote from his path,
not, indeed, for the purpose of reading or of studying them, but in order to
settle, by momentary references, questions which may arise, the settling
of which may be of the greatest importance to his progress.

If this be true with respect to those sciences where there is the least ap-
parent want of books, much more is it so of those whose deductions are
drawn from researches among the records of the past. The demands of
the statesman, the jurist, the political economist, the historian, cannot be
met without furnishing the materials for the widest investigation, nor al-
ways, indeed, those of the novelist or the poet. I have sometimes heard it
said that the knowledge of the middle ages to be gained from one of the
novels’ of Sir Walter Scott is far more valuable than that to be acquired
from the perusal of a library of dusty tomes. But who that has ever lived
was a more constant delver amidst the dusty lore of the past, in old
libraries, among worm-eaten books, than the illustrious author of these vol-
umes. He could not otherwise have produced them. Without the large
libraries we could not have had the enchanting romance.

If it be asked, whether the libraries which we already possess are not
sufficient to meet this demand, we reply, in the first place, that the large
libraries of Europe, containing from 200,000 to $09,000 volumes, some of
them selected with great care, have not been found large enough to meet
the wants of her scholars, and we may not allow that our countrymen
are less fond of learning, less thorough and profound in their investigations,
when they have the means of pursuing them, than their transatlantic
brethren.

It may, however, justly be supposed that the number of volumes is a
very inadequate criterion of the value of a library; that a judicious selec-
tion may do much to compensate for numerical inferiority, and,scense-
quently, that our libraries, although smaller, may be more useful to learn-
ing than the larger collections of Europe. This may be sufficiently
answered by applying another and the most satisfactory method of testing the
real value of our libraries; which is to take some works of acknowledged
learning and importance, and i inquire what books were necessary for their
composition, and how many of them our public libraries can furnish ?
This process, it will be seen, is a tedious one. . I have, however, pursued it
in reference to a considerable number of books on a variety of subjects.
Some of the results thus obtained may be stated in a few words, and they
are fair specimens of all the others.

In Mr. Wheaton’s History of International ieee a production which
reflects great credit upon American talent and scholarship, and which pro-
cured for its lamented author the honor of ‘election to the French Insti-
tute—139 works are referred to in the notes. A much larger number
were, of course, consulted, many of which are mentioned in the body of
the work. Thirty-nine among the most important and expensive of those

Mis. No. 48. 41

which are formally cited, are not to be found in the largest law libraries in
the United States. More than one-half of the remainder are common
books, to be found in any well selected general library of 5,000 volumes.
This work was written in Hurope. It could not have been written in this
country from the materials contained in our public libraries.

If we take a book of a different kind, demanding for its composition a
thorough knowledge of the history of one of the physical sciences, and,
consequently, requiring the assistance of authorities less accessible and of
less general importance, the result will be all the more striking.

In the first volume of Hoefer’s History of Chemistry, 251 works ate re-
ferred to. Of these, about fifty are common books, to be found in almost
any library of 5,000 volumes.: Of the remaining 191, I cannot find 75 in
all our public libraries.

The plan of our Institution contemplates the publication of a series of re-
ports on the condition and progress of various branches of knowledge, pre-
pared by collaborators who are to be furnished with all the journals, domestic
and foreign, necessary to aid them in their labors. Such reports, if properly
prepared, will be very useful. We need merely refer, for iliustration, to
those published by the Swedish Academy. But the preparation of them
will require the purchase of a great number of books which are not at
present to be found in our public libraries. This will be made manifest
by a few facts. Of 38 publications, mostly periodical, referred to in a late
report of Berzelius on the progress of chemistry, I can find but 13 in our
public libraries. :

My. J. R. Bartlett informs me that of 204 works which he refers to in
his report.on the progress of ethnology, 129 are not to be found in the
public libraries of New York, nor in any others probably in the United
States. The cost of the books which, in order to prepare his work, he
had jo procure at his own expense, was $1,000. And yet this report is
only a pamphlet of 151 pages. td

F'rom these facts it is manifest that there is no exaggeration in the
language of one of the members of our Board of Regents, from South
Carolina, who, in a report to the Senate in 1836, stated that ‘our
whole body of literature, if collected in one place, would not afford
the means of investigating one point of science or literature through all, or
even a considerable portion of what has been written on it.’’ Here, he
adds, ‘‘ where the foundations of government repose on the aggregate In-
telligence of the citizens, the assistance afforded by public institutions to
the exertions of intellect is but one-tenth of that within the reach of the
mind of civilized Europe.”’ ’

The complaints of our scholars testify to our deficiency. Their
wants have weighed heavily upon them. ‘They have repressed genius.
They may have condemned to oblivion names that would have rivalled
the brightest in the history of science and letters. I might menton,
it is trae, Americans who have ranked among the most learned of the
world. But they, like others less renowned, have had sorrowful ex-
perience of the deficiency of which we complain. ‘They, however, 1
most instances, have, from their own private wealth, supplied the de-
fects of public provisions. Had they been poor they would not gene-
rally have been the authors they were. They could not have had ACCESS
to the necessary books, had they not possessed the wealth for buying
them, or for crossing the Atlantic to consult them where they were already
42 Mis. No. 48.

accumulated. The pages of our literary journals, the eloquent speeches
elicited in Congress by the bills to establish the Smithsonian Institution,
and the united voices of the friends of good letters throughout the land
bear sad and unvarying testimony to our deficiencies.

Now, to supply these wants, or, in other words, to place American
students on a footing with those of the most favored country of Europe, is
the design of the Smithsonian Library.

We have, as yet, been able to make no purchases, except of those books
which were of immediate and indispensable importance to the officers of
the Institution, including the Building Committee. It is profoundly to be
regretted that we were not in a position to avail ourselves of the extraor-
dinary opportunities for the purchase of books which have been offered in
Kurope during the last eight months. In May or June last, or even later,
in September and October, more valuable books could have been purchased,
it is said, for five thousand dollars than at ordinary times for fifty thousand.
I felt it my duty to lay before the ccmmittee, last summer, the facts which
I had collected on this subject, and to express the earnest hope that we
might be able to profit by the juncture; but the financial arrangements of
the Board entered into for the purpose of completing the building prevented
any immediate appropriation for this purpose. It is gratifying to know,
that although this profiting must be lost to us in particular, our country
will share in it, through the exertions of the gentleman to whom—most
fortunately for American scholarship—has been entrusted the task of select-
ing and purchasing a large library for cur chief city. }

I should deem it hardly necessary at this time to allude to an idle story
which was circulated about a year ago, to the purport that the Institution
had expended $2,500 for the purchase of an old Bible, valuable principally
as a typographical curiosity, were it not that many of our citizens are not to
this day disabused respecting it, and really stippose that we committed the
folly thus imputed to us. No such purchase has been made or contem-
plated. On the contrary, I believe that all the officers of the Institution
are decidedly opposed to any such expenditure of the fund. We wish
books for use and not for the gratification of mere curiosity.

By a decision of the Regents, the income of the institution, which, after
the completion of the building, will amount, it is hoped, to nearly $40,000
per annum, will be permanently divided between two great methods of
increasing and diffusing knowledge which had been proposed and dis-
cussed; the one by publications and original research, the other by collec-
tions in literature, science, and art. ‘The share of money which, in ac-
cordance with this arrangement, will fall to the library, will not be suffici-
cient to enable it to meet at once the demands of our expectant scholars.
It will be many years before their wishes can be fully gratified; but in the
meantime, by a wise expenditure of the funds, and by other assistance
which our arrangements provide for, it is hoped that the library will be
such as to afford great aid to learning.

The plan of collecting the library is as fellows :

1. To purchase such bocks as may be needed by the various officers of
‘the institution, and by persons preparing memoirs and reports for our
publications, or engaged in researches under the direction of the Secretary.

2. ‘To procure such works as may be required to render the institution
a centre of bibliographical reference.

3. ‘T'o procure a complete collection of the memoirs and transactions of
learned societies throughout the world, and an entire series of the most
Mis. No. 48. | 43

important, scientific, and literary periodicals. 'The continuation of these
may be obtained in exchange for our own publications.

A. The remaining funds of this department will be devoted to the pur-
chase of books of general importance; at first, most especially those which
are not to be found in other libraries of the country.

In pursuance of this plan, I have been occupied in making lists of books
to be purchased.

With reference to the first class of books, namely: those needed by the
authors and collaborators, it is, of course, impossible to do any thing more
than to meet wants as they arise. 3

_ Of the second class of books, viz : those necessary to make the institu-
tion a centre of bibliographical knowledge, I have the honor herewith to
present a list selected with great care and the best counsel which [ could
command. ‘This list contains about 3,000 volumes. The work of Namur,
published in 1837, purporting to be a complete catalogue of bibliographical
works, contains 10,236 titles. A complete bibliographical library would
contain nearly 20,000 volumes. The 3,000 volumes of the list, now pre-
sented, are not therefore to be considered ‘as constituting a complete cata-
logue of books in this department, but merely as a selection of those most
immediately important.

Every list of this kind should include not only works professedly biblio-
graphical, but also histories of literature, of science, and of art, as well as
many biographical and critical works.

It is impossible to estimate too highly the value of such a collection.
In a large library these works are the guides to research, showing what to
read, study, or consult. In the absence of such a library, they supply to
some extent the deficiency by describing books in such a way as often-
times to enable us to dispense with the books themselves.*

And yet the importance of bibliographical studies is in this country but

#“Tn literature and science books are the tools, and it is impossible to under-estimate the
use of acritical acquaintance with them except to those who underrate knowledge itself. Of
every branch of the two great subdivisions of human learning, (viz: literature and science,) its
history is a constituent part, absolutely necessary to all who would be competent to form just
Opinions on its present state.

“The scientific societies are not very anxious to have in their libraries the rare books belong-
ing to their several departments. For this, one reason is want of funds; but this might be
avercome if it were not for another, namely, a general indifference among the members to exact
and minute knowledge of the history of science. The pew nous importe aw reste with which De-
lambre often dismisses a secondary point, of which a satisfactory settlement does not come
readily to hand, had been readily agreed to by his critics and his readers. The consequence is,
that any one who proceeds to examine closely the actual records of the progress of science, finds
confusion upon confusion and mistake upon mistake in all matters which are not of general in-
terest.

“It is worthy of note how completely several of the best histories of branches of science are
on a bibliographical basis, proceeding rather from book to book than from man to man. Such
are those of Weidler, Delambre, and Kistner, for though the nominal arrangement of the first is
by men in order of time, yet the men are only constituent parts of their own ttle pages.

“In Jiterary history books are the main facts, and none but those who have tried it can tell
how many difficulties are thrown in the way of an investigator who has truth for his object and
permanent rules of evidence for his guide, by the misstatements which exist upon works 4 are
however necessary it may be to know them, it may hardly be worth while to name. ree ate,
the author’s christian name, the very size of a book may be the turning points of the proof ofa
fact. The inquirer cannot have all the books before him, of many he wants only the proper
description, and being certain of this, he could almost dispense with any knowledge of the
contents. a ass ; ta

“But let the reader think what he pleases, the historion of science knows that he cannot do
well without complete and correct bibliography.”— Dublin Revicw, September, 1846, .2rl. 1, on
Mathematical Bibliography.
Ad Mis. No. 48.

too little appreciated. In truth, the neglect of them is the most fruitful
source of superficial, conceited, and rash authorship. On the continent of
Europe, however, they are held in the highest esteem. This is doubtless
one principal cause of the acknowledged superiority of the Germans in all
matters requiring wide research.

} Every student worthy of the name, when about to investigate a subject,
wishes to know first what has been done by others in the same field.

Now, on almost every important branch of learning some diligent
scholar has collected from the whole domain of literature the books per-
taining thereto, arranged them for convenience of reference, analyzed their
contents, and described their absolute and relative merit, with their external
peculiarities and history. He has thus given a bibliography of that branch
of knowledge. Such a work should manifestly be the first to be taken
up, and among the last to be laid down by any one who would intelligently
study that subject. A collection of such works, pertaining to all depart-
ments of knowledge, ought to be the first purchase for every general
library.

Yet there 1s no respectable collection of them in any of our public libra-
ries. ‘The best is, I believe, that of Brown University, which contains
but a few hundred volumes. Without question, therefore, by procuring
the books necessary for carrying out the plan of making the library a
centre of bibliographical reference, we shall furnish one class of books most
immediately important to American scholars, as well as one most needed
in making judicious selections for the future, and in aiding other libraries
in the country in their-choice of books.

The selection here offered is intended to cover nearly the whole ground
of bibliography, and is arranged under the following divisions:

1. BreLioTHECAE BIBLIOGRAPHICAE, or catalogues of bibliographical
works. .

2. ELEMENTARY BIBLIOGRAPHY, including treatises of the origin and
progress of writing; of ancient manuscripts, their materials, form, orna-
ments, preservation, and the method of deciphering them; of printing, its
history, and practice; of the arts of engraving, binding, paper-making,
&c.; of the forms of books; of the rights of authors, publishers, and
readers; of the book trade; of the use and abuse of books; of libraries,
their history, statistics, selection, arrangement, preservation and use.

3. PRactricaL BiBLIoGRAPHY. Works designed to be used in the selec-
tion and purchase of books. ‘These may be—

(1.) Universal, comprising bocks in all languages, onall subjects, and
of all periods.
(2.) Limited — ;
a ‘To particular countries or languages.
6 'To particular periods of time.
e ‘To particular branches of knowledge.
d 'l’o works classed according to some accidental peculiarity, as
rare, anonymous, pseudonymous, polyonomous works, books
privately printed, books prohibited, books condemned to be
burned, &c. -
e To particular kinds of composition, as poetry, proverbs, &c.

Under most of these heads are comprised works of several kinds, viz: 1.
The history of the subject; 2. The bibliography, properly so called, i. e.
the catalogue raisonné of all books relating to it; 3. The biography of its
Mis. No. 48. ° AB

cultivators; 4. The journals which contain tke record of its progress,
Thus, in the department of natural history, would be included Cuvier’s
History of the Natural Sciences, Engelmann’s Bibliography of Natural
History, Callisen’s Biographical Dictionary of Naturalists, and the Annals
of the Natural Sciences; and inasmuch as neither of these is perfect of its
kind, there must be many others of each description.

With regard to the third class of books, viz: the memoirs and transac-
tions of learned societies, I have made, and herewith present a list which
I believe to be nearly complete, of all the publications of learned societies
in actual operation throughout the world. Doubtless these publications
possess various grades of merit; But it is difficult, and I think undesira-
ble, to reject any of them. Papers of the greatest importance are some-
‘times published in the. transactions of the most obscure provincial acade-
mies.

The Department of Public Instruction of the Freuch government pub-
lished in the year 1847 the first volume of a work intended to be continued
annually, entitled “ Annuaire des Sociétés Savantes de la France et de
PEtranger.’? The volume for the first year, an octavo of more than 1,000
pages, contains historical sketches of all the learned societies in France,
the regulations of the institutions, an account of their various publications,
and other works, and the names of their members. A similar account of
the academies of other countries was promised for the second year, but
I cannot learn that it has yet appeared. The labor upon it was probably
interrupted by the revolution of February, and has not yet been resumed.

The lists which I now present are made from the Rev. Dr. Hume’s
“Tearned Societies and Printing Clubs of the United Kingdom”? for Great
Britain, the ‘‘ Annuaire’’ for France, and from various other sources, prin-
cipally from the first volume of the catalogue of the printed books in the
British Museum for other countries.

The remaining duty assigned me was the systematic arrangement for
purposes of comparison of the printed catalogues of the principal libraries
in the United States. This, also, is a partof the plan for rendering the In-
stitution a centre of bibliographical knowledge. — ie

I have commenced the work in the following manner: Taking the
printed catalogue of the library of Harvard University, I separate the ws
and paste each one upon a card about six inches long by four wide. ‘This
size of card was selected in order to allow room for long titles with the
annotations which may be necessary. The letters ‘ H. U. a " be
stamped upon the card to denote that the book belongs to rk he ni-
versity. When the titles of the Harvard catalogue are finished it nora
posed to begin upon the catalogue of the Philadelphia Library. en
ever the titles are the same it will be sufficient to stamp upon the car
in addition to the letters ‘“«H. U.’’ the letters “P. L. C., thus deno-
ting that the book belongs also to the Philadelphia Library vir act
When new titles are found, they should be placed upon cards Sen
others. The catalogues of all the other libraries are to be treated In
like manner. When the arrangement of the printed catalogues pies
pleted, it will be necessary to obtain manuscript continuations. hese

i ds. It will then be easy to arrange
must be copied on the same kind of car ibn
the titles in alphabetical or other order, and to preserve them 7 oe ;
however frequent and numerous the accessions which ian a mt Smee

It is hardly necessary to enlarge upon the great value ol s
46 " Mis. No. 48.

logue. From it we could readily ascertain what books there are in the
various public libraries, and how well each department of learning is pro-
vided for. We should thus be enabled to fill up our own library with a
more intelligent reference to the actual wants of the country.

Such a catalogue will also enable us to direct the student to the books
which he may want, if they are to be found in any of our libraries.

There will be also an incidental advantage gained by it of great impor-
tance to the department of American history and bibliography. The in-
stitution proposes to publish among its ‘‘ Contributions”’ a complete bibliog-
raphy of the materials of American history prior to A. D. 1700. This
will be one of the most valuable contributions ever offered to the facilities
for studying the early history of our country. But it is only a commence-
ment. The books relating to and printed in America after i700 are vastly
more numerous and certainly of great importance. They relate to the
period of our early struggles, to the ‘achievement of our independence, to
the formation and consolidation of our government. No proper biblio-
graphical survey of this wide fitld has ever yet been made. ‘The books
and pamphlets relating to it were published, the larger part, perhaps, in
America, but many of them in Europe, and they are now scattered far and
wide, Some very valuable collections have been made of them, the best
of which is due to the diligence, learning, and devotion of a distinguished
gentleman of this city.* No collection, however, that Has yet been made

can be considered complete. Stil we may safely say that a large propor-
tion of the books extant relating to this period are to be found among the
libraries of the United States. One great difficulty heretofore encountered
by our bibliographers has been to “ascertain where they are preserved.
Many libraries have no printed catalogues; of others the catalogues are far
invatrears. E'rom our proposed general catalogue it will be easy to find
every book of this description which is preserved i in any of our collections,
and to ascertain at a glance the place of its deposite.

I have made, of course, but a commencement on this work. 'To bring it
to completion will be the labor of more than another year.

In conciusion, I may add that the plans in operation for the library
will, it is hoped, soon render ita valuable aid to American scholarship.
Its sphere is quiet and unobtrusive, but none the less useful. Tre long it
is destined, we hope, to rank among the largest, the best selected, and the
most available literary treasure-houses of the world. Wherever such a
collection is formed, be it in a large metropolis or a provincial town, thither
students will resort. They will soon give tone and character to society
around. Even in the great emporium of commerce, under the overshad-
owing power of trade, its influence would soon be recognized. Here, at
the political centre of the nation, where assemble her statesmen and her
orators, under a benignant sky, amid. scenes consecrated in her history, a
spot as “accessible as any other from all parts of the country, 1s the most fa-
vorable location fora great library. Such a library will attract hither our
scholars, now pursuing their investigations in Europe, or mourning at
home over noble projects abandoned before the necessity of so long and

*T allude to the library of Colonel Peter Force. It contains more than 20,000 books, with
Jarge numbers of manuscripts, pamphlets, handbills, maps, &c., mostly relating to American
history—an invaluable collection, one of the chief ornaments of our city, where ¥ we trust it will
ever remain.
Mis. No. 48. 47

expensive a pilgrimage. It will render Washington the centre of Ameri-
ean learning. Its influences will descend noiselessly upon the community
around, and spread in ever-widening circles over the land, softening the
asperities of party contentions, calming the strifes of self interest, elevating
the intellect above the passions and the senses, cherishing all the higher
and nobler principles of our being, and thus contributing more than fleets
and armies to true national dignity.
Respectfully submitied.

C. C. JEWETT.

No. 2.

The Executive Committee submit to the Board of Regents the following
report of the expenditures, state of the finances and condition of the
Smithsonian Institution.

The whole amount of Smithson’s property received into the treasury of
the United States on the Ist September, 1838, was $515,169. The iter-
est which had accrued on the same up to Ist July, 1846, when, by the

‘act of Congress, the funds were placed under the direction of the Board of

Regents, was $242,129. This sum, together with the accruing interest,
the Board of Regents were authorized to expend in the erection of a build-
ing and in defraying the current expenses of the institation.

During the last two years and four months, in which the institution has
been under the charge df the Regents, there has been expended towards
attendance of the Regents, and incidental and miscellaneous expenses,
the erection of the building, improvement of grounds, salaries of officers,
the sum of $106,520 19, as will be seen in the following exhibits, viz:

Construction of buildings, including superintendence $51,678 48
Expenses of architect’s office, traveling expenses, sta-
tionery, draughtsman, &c. - - . 1,213 00
Laying cornerstone —- - - - - 2i OU
IPG ved ese ee “4 00
Examination of quarries and specimen walls - - 74 00
Improvement of grounds . - - : 1,290 SS
Publication of ‘‘ Hints on Public Architecture”’ - 1,147 25
Occultations and researches — - - - - hte 00
Philosophical and chemical apparatus - : - 332 7
Public lectures - - - - > ye 80 U0
Publication of Contributions to Knowledge — - . 3,709 be:
Library, and salary of librarian . - - 1,741 38
388 13
> a VOC v

Pay of messenger : . é
Recording and copying for Board of Regents,

Executive Cominittee, &c. - - Lr ae
Do for Secretary - . - - 32
o for Secretary Bay
Incidental expenses - - - 533 10
Do for Secretary, including office rent - 177 65 pe es
_ ‘ (e
Expenses of Board of Regents and Committees : G66 9

Expenses of Secretary consequent upon the delivery of
- lectures at Princeton, and expenses to New York and mal"
Philadelphia on business of the Board - : a)

é
48 Mis No. 48.

N. B. The proceeds of the lectures at Princeton,
&1,000, have been paid by the Secretary. ]
Jails rent of Secretary for two years - - 8550 00
Payments to Secretary on account of salary — - ° 3,824 31

el } 68,880 17
Disbursements as exhibited by previous reports - 37,670 02

106,550 19

During the same time, there has been received from in-

terest and the sale of treasury notes, the sum of - $115,964 60
From the Secretary’s lectures at Princeton - - 1,000 00
116,964 60

Leaving a balance on hand of | - - . ~ 10,444 Al

Funds of the Inséitution.

‘

Amount of Smithson’s bequest - - $515,169 00
Interest due thereon to Ist July, 1846 - 242,129 00
a $757,298 00
Balance on hand Ist January, 1849 - 10,444 21
‘Treasury notes on hand - - 226,000 00
Permanent fund - - - - 615,169 00

731,613 AL

If to this we add the premium of 8 per cent., which
treasury notes now bear, say - - - 18,000 00 »

’
—

The funds of the Institution will be - - - 773.613 21

Thus showing, that after an expenditure of $106,550 19, the cash on
hand and the value of the cash investments, exceed the amount on hand,
on the organization of the Institution, in September, 1846, by nearly
$16,000, subject, however, to a few outstanding accounts not yet present-
ed, estimated at $7,500.

The committee are confident that by continuing the system of finance
recommended by the committee and adopted by the Board of Regents at
their last annual session, the building can be completed and the institution
be put into full operation at the end of three years from March next, with-
out withdrawing more than $100,000 from the fund of $242,169 set apart
by Congress for buildings, “&e. , leaving the residue, $142,000, to be
added to the amount of the original bequest of Smithson, and making the ~
permanent fund of the Institution $657,000, yielding an annual income of '
$39,420, (which may thereafter be readily increased to $40, 000 per an- |
num,) for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.

During the past year the committee has held frequent meetings at the
call of the Secretary, for consultation with that officer on the affairs of the
Institution. ‘che several operations mentioned in the Secretary’s report
Mis. No. 48. 49

make compensation to the Assistant Secretary, acting as librarian , for his
services to the Building Committee, and relative to the library, have

An extra edition of the Secretary’s report for the year 1847 was ordered
to be printed for the use of the Board of Regents from the forms used by

Mr. Bache and the Secretary were appointed a committee to confer with
Dr. Hare relative to the presentation of his extensive and valuable chemical
apparatus to the Institution; which committee afterwards reported that
Dr. Hare had unconditionally presented his apparatus to the Institution,
and that workmen had been employed to clean and pack the same for
removal to Washington. A complete set of the “ Annales de Chimie’’
was authorized to be purchased of Dr. Hare, to accompany his apparatus.

The Secretary was authorized to order, conditionally, the instruments
necessary to complete the outfits of Lieutenant Gillis of the navy, on his
scientific expedition to Chilé.

_A number of propositions relative to publications, researches, &c., have
been submitted to the Executive Committee, and have been referred to the
Secretary and Dr. Bache.

On consultation with the Secretary and Librarian, the committee re-
commends the following appropriations for the operations of the Institu-
tion during the year commencing on the 19th March next, viz:

For publication of Contributions to Knowledge . - $3,000 00
Scientific researches and computations — - . - 700 00
Meteorological instruments and researches - - 1,000 00
Expenses of public lectures, including lights - - 500 00
Publication of scientific reports - Hs te - - 500 00
General catalogue of American libraries - - - 1,000 00
Purchase of bibliographical works and books of general

reference - . - 2,000 00

Binding of books, blank books, stamps, certificates, &c. 250 00
Purchase of books needed by authors of memoirs, re-

ports, &c. - ' 7 : “i . - 400 00
General expenses, including salaries of officers, expenses

of ee ae committees, clerk hire, postage, &c. - 8,000 00

: 17,350 00

ate of the above estimates exceeds, by the sum of $2,350,
Phe ee fica by the finance resolutions of the. Board of Regents ,
December 1, 1847, as applicable each year for the operation of He Ange
_ tution, exclusive of the building fund, until the year 1852, when ; 5
_ building is to be completed and the entire income of the seen
free for the prosecution of the objects contemplated by the Rate Sele is
ing the Institution; but as the present available funds exceed the fore
anticipated when these resolutions were adopted, it is believed that the
59 Mis. No. 48.

additional $2,350 may be spared in the ensuing year for the objects speei-
fied, without trenching on the annual building fund, or endangering the
accomplishment of the end had in view by the Board of Regents in adopt-
ing the finance resolutions of December 1, 1847, namely, the saving of
a certain sum to be added to the permanent fund. In conclusion, the
committee would beg leave to submit to the .Board that the amount and
variety of disbursements which the Executive Committee have to make,
and the proper keeping and recording the accounts and appropriations of
the Institution, require the services of a skillful accountant and book-keeper
for the performance of this duty, as well as the examination of accounts
for payment, the preparation of estimates on which to base requisitions,
the preparation of statements of expenditures for the examination and ap-
proval of the proper officers, as required by law, preliminary to their presenta-
tion to the Treasury Department for settlement, and such other duties of
accountant, book-keeper, and clerk, as the Board of Regents, the Exe-
cutive, and Building Committees, and the Secretary may have oceasion to
require of him.

The committee therefore recommend the appointment of such an officer,
at an annual salary not exceeding four hundred dollars.

All of which is respectfully submitted,

W. W. SEATON,
J. A. PEARCE,
A. D. BACHE:
Wasuineton, January 1 1849.

No. 4.

During the past year the Smithsonian building has been advanced in a
manner satisfactory to the committee.

An inexhaustible supply of freestone of excellent color and quality is
afforded by the quarries; and the deliveries have met with no such inter-
ruptions from failures in the canal as were experienced last year, to the
great delay of work upon the building.

The east wing of the building, and the adjacent connecting range, are
so far completed that the architect promises a state of readiness for occupa-
tion early in January. He reports the whole interior of this part to be
finished, with the exception of the shelving of the cases—purposely de-
layed to enable the Secretary of the Institution to adjust it to the apparatus
which it is to receive. He reports, also, that the furnaces for supplying
warm air to these rooms, and also the ventilating apparatus, will be com-
pleted at the same time.

The west wing and its connecting range are completed externally, and
the interior of the hall of the gallery of art—intended to be used tempora-
rily as a library—is well advanced. A portion of the book-cases are in
progress, and will be placed in this apartment until the library-room proper,
in the centre building, shall be ready for their reception.

The foundations of the whole of the main building, including the
towers, are laid, and the superstructure carried about five feet high. The
campanile and octagonal towers, and two smaller corner towers of the centre,
are 30 feet above their foundations.

The architect also represents that the contractor, Mr. Cameron, has cut
Mis. No. 48, 51

ail the stone for the first story of the main building, and designs, if possi-
ble, to have the whole of this part of the structure under roof before the
winter of 1849-’50, in order the better to protect the walls.

The committee see no reason to doubt that the whole structure will be
completed within the time specified in the contract, namely, by the 19th
day of March, 1852.

The total amount expended on the building and on the

fencing of the lot, including superintendence, and all in-

cidental expenses connected therewith, up to the Ist of

December, 1847, was, as stated at that time - - $25,002 67

The amount expended on the building and its appurtenances from the
ist of December, 1847, to the 31st December, 1848, is as follows:

Paid Mr. Cameron, contractor P - - - $50,860 00
Paid Mr. Renwick, architect’s salary - - - 1,800 00
Paid Mr. Renwick for travelling expenses - - - 330 94

The expenses of architect’s office, including furniture for
and incidental expenses of the same, drawing instruments,

stationery, and pay of draughtsman - . - 253 69

_ Paid Mr. Robert Mills, assistant architect and superintendent,
for part of the year - - - - : 392 73
Paid Mr. Brown, superintendent, for three months : 187 50
Paid for improvement of grounds - - - - 109-88
Total - . - - $53,934 74

The total expenditure on the Smithsonian building from the beginning
up to the 3lst of December, 1848, may be thus stated :

Paid Mr. Cameron, contractor for the building - - $71,700 00
Paid Mr. Renwick, architect, as salary - . - 3,475 48
Paid Mr. Renwick for travelling expenses - - - 629 78

The expenses of architect’s office, including furniture for
and incidental expenses of the same, stationery, drawing

instruments, and pay of draughtsman - - - 583 23
Paid Mr. Mills, as assistant architect and superintendent - — 1,247 84
Paid Mr. Brown, as superintendent, for three months - 187 50
For improvement of grounds - - : - 743 38
For water-pipes and laying the same - - - 660 00
Making a total to the end of the year 1848, of - - 79,227 21

At the last annual meeting (December, 1847,) it was resolved :

that there should be considered applicable = Ea eee

(including preceding expenditures,) up to the 19th day o

March, 1848, the sum of - - - - - $42,000 00
And for the year ending March 19, 1849, the further sum of 52,000 00

: Total 5 f - 94,000 00
But, as shown above, the expenditures to the endof the i"
. year 1848, have been - - - - - 79,227 21

Leaving a balance applicable, of the buiiding fund, between se
1st January and 19th March, 1849, of  - - 14,772 79
52 Mis. No. 48.

Judging from the progress already made, the committee are of opiniou
that the contractor will be able to finish the building, and all other matters
comprised in his contract, for the stipulated amount; and that all expendi-
tures connected with the building, including the laying out of the grounds,
planting, sodding, fencing, road-making, heating, ventilating, &c., may
be comprised within the limit of $250,0U0, set by resolution of the board at
the last meeting.

During the past year the committee have entered into contract, amount-
ing to $1,050, with Mr. John Douglass, of Washington, for enclosing the
grounds of the Institution with a bedge, and for planting trees and shrub-
bery. ‘The architect having marked out the paths and roads, and indicated
the positions of the trees and shrubs, these, comprising about 160 species,
principally American, have already, for the greater part, been planted, as
well as the surrounding hedges, which are to consist of pyrocanthus,
Osage orange, Cherokee rose, and hawthorn, respectively, on the four
sides of the lot. Investigations and inquiries that have been made on this
subject, satisfy the committee that this climate is favorable to the growth
and maintenance of hedges, and that for a moderate expense a permanent
and beautiful enclosure will be secured. The architect has been requested
to prepare drawings and estimates of the gateways necessary to connect the
building with the adjacent streets.

Proposals have been obtained for putting up furnaces in the east wing;
also, for sodding a portion of the ground immediately around the building,
and for making permanent roads and paths from the streets to the building
and through the grounds; but itisnot contemplated to engage in these last-
mentioned works at present.

In relation to the work entitled “‘ Hints on Public Architecture,’ pre-
pared by the late Chairman of the Building Committee, for publication by
that committee under resolution of the Board, it is to be stated that the
manuscript has been submitted, under vote of the committee, to the in-
spection of Judge J. K. Kane, of Philadelphia, Governeur Kemble, esq.,
oi New York, and President Everett, of Cambridge University. From
all of whom letters communicating their opinions of the work have been
received, and are submitted with this report.

Mr. Owen, in a late letter to one of the committee, states his intention to be
in New York by the 20th December, to superintend the printing; the printer
refusing without his supervision and arrangement of the illustrations, &c.,
to put it to press, and expresses his confident belief that it will issue by the
10th of February—certainly, before the adjournment of Congress.

The architect of the Institution, who has drawn many of the illustrations,
and superintends the engraving gratuitously, states that all the engravings
are ready, or nearly so, and that the illustrations will amount to upwards of
100, of which six will be lithographs and the remainder wood-cuts by
the best engravers in the country.

The wood-cuts generally do great credit to the engravers; a few of
the principal ones have been brought on by the architect, and are herewith
laid before the board.

‘The expense of the engrayings contrated for will be $2,000, of which
$ has been paid up to lst December, 1848, the remainder being due
the engravers.

The vestry of Grace Church, in the city of New York, have presented
to the committee a lithograph of that building, which will cost the vestry
»

Mis. No. 48. 53

$100. The draughtsman, Mr. Wade, Messrs. Bobbett & Edmonds, en-
gravers, and Mr. Putnam, the publisher, have presented a beautiful illus-
trated title page which was designed by the architect of the building.

As it may be satisfactory to. the board to learn as much as can now be
communicated in relation to such expenditures—not embraced in the con-
tract with Mr. Cameron—as have been, or will be, necessary upon the build-
ing and grounds; and which must fall within the building fund of
$250 ,000—the commitee proceed to add the following statement:

Amount of Mr. Cameron’s contract - - - $205,250
Remainder applicable to other objects connected with the

building or grounds than those provided for in said con-

tract - - - - - - - 44,750

Amount applicable as above - - - : 44,750
Portions of the expenditures now referred to, are either

fixed and definite in their nature, or have been al-

ready settled by resolution ; they are as follows:

Architect’s salary for five years - - - 9,000
Superintendent’s salary for five years - - 5,000
Incidental expenses allowed to architect - - » 2,000
Facing area wall with cut stone, extra work, allowed

by resolution - - - - - 480
Adding battlements to cloisters of east wing, extra

work, allowed by resolution -. - 200
Additional cases for apparatus, ordered by Secretary - 200
Contract for hedging, with Mr. Douglass — - - 250
Contract for planting trees and shrubs, with the same

person - - - - - - 800
Furnaces for warm air, registers, &c., already con-

tracted fer—say - - - - - 600

Which amount of $18,530, deducted from the above

sum of $44,750, leaves applicable to other objects

of the same nature, the sum of — - - - 26,220
Two or three other small expenditures may be set

down as admitting specific and close estimate, v1Z:
Two chimneys to east wing, being extra work already

done, and which, in the opinion of the architect,

should be allowed - - ae - - 400
Sodding ground near building, estimated at - . 100
Deducting this total, viz - - a 500
There still remains the sum of - - - 3 25,720

Some of the matters to which attention is addressed as having claims
upon this sum, are: the addition of other battlements to cloisters; of a clere

*
54 Mis. No. 48.

story to the museum; the substitution of flights of tron for wooden steps
in the towers; other hot-air furnaces; registers for ventilation; gateways
into the grounds; additional trees and shrubs; making roads and paths
&c., &c., &c. These objects, some indispensable, others more or less
urgent, all conducive to utility, permanence, beauty, or convenience, will
be decided on by the committee under the authority with which they con-
sider themselves intrusted, and as occasion shall arise, only after mature
deliberation on careful estimates in detail, and in aspirit of strict economy.
The committee, above all things, intend to keep an earnest regard upon the
pecuniary limits set to their operations, and to allow no transgression there-
of, either by actual expenditure, or by engagements, or pledges.

A few words remain to be added in explanation of the extra work and al-
terations of plan alluded to in the preceding statements : as to which it is
due to the architect to premise that these have not been caused by any
omissions in the specifications of the contract. One item is for facing the
areas withscut-stone—the contract having provided a facing of good blue
Potomac gneiss. ‘The change was adopted because it was thought that a
stone facing of the same material as the face of the superstructure would
be more harmonious with, and conducive to, the general effect of the
exterior of the structure.

2. Battlements of cloisters.— After the cloisters of the east wing were
completed, it became evident to the architect that from the comparatively
low situation of the building, the roofs were too conspicuous, and should
be concealed by an appropriate battlement. He therefore advised, and the
committee sanctioned, the expenditure of $200 for the battlements of the
eastern cloister. ‘lhe committee has yet to act upon a lke suggestion as
to the western range.

3. Two extra chimmes in the east wing were added by the building com-
mittee after the plans were made, but before the contracts were signed. Mr.
Cameron states that he was not aware of this addition, as it was made af-
ter he had completed his estimate ; and the architectis therefore of opinion
that his claim of extra compensation is just and eguitable.

JOS. G. TOTTEN,

W. W. SEATON,

HENRY W. HILLIARD.
Wasuineton, December 31, 1S48.
Mis. No. 48. 55

APPENDIX A.

PROSPECTUS.

BIBLIOGRAPHIA AMERICANA:

A Bibhographical Account of the Sources of Early American History;
comprising a description of books relating to America, printed prior to
the year 1700, and of all books printed in America from 1543 to 1700,
together with notices of many of the more important unpublished manu-

scripts.

Prepared by Henry Stevens, and published under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution at
Washington.

PLAN OF THE WORK.

1. It will contain a descriptive list of all books relating to America,
and of all books printed in America, prior to the year 1700, which may be
found in the principal public and private libraries of Europe and America,
or which are described in other works; together with notices of many of
the more important unpublished manuscripts.

2. The descriptions will be made, as far as possible, from an examina-
tion of the books themselves. If any be taken from other sources of in-
formation they will be distinguished by some peculiar mark.

A. The titles, including the imprint or colophon, will in all cases be
given in full, word for word, and letter for letter.

4. The collation of each book will be given; that is, such a description
as will indicate a perfect copy.

5. The market value of the books, with the prices at which they have
been sold at public sales, will, whenever possible, be given.

6. Different editions and various translations of the principal works will
be diligently compared with each other, and their variations and relative
merits pointed out, especially of such works as the Collections of Voyages
and Travels by De Bry, Hulsius, Ramusius, Hakluyt, Purchas, Thevenot,
etc.; the corresponding parts of which will be compared, not only with
each other, but with the editions of the works from which they were
translated, abridged, or reprinted.

7. Bibliographical notes will be appended when deemed necessary,
containing abstracts of the contents of the works when the titles fail to
give a proper idea of them; anecdotes of authors, printers, engravers, ete. ;
important items of historical and geographical information; notices of pe-
culiarities of copies, as large paper, vellum, concelled leaves, ete. ; the num-
ber of copies printed; together with the comparative rarity and intrinsic
value of the works. ;

8. The notes upon the books printed in America will comprise a full
history of the origin and progress of printing in North and South America,
from the year 1543 to 1700.
56 Mis. No. 48.

9. Under the title of every work will be designated one or more libraries
in which it may be found.

10. The titles will be arranged alphabetically, under the names of the
authors, or the leading word of the title.

11. The work will contain a full introductory memoir upon the mate-
rials of early American history, together with an account of the principal
collections of them which have been made in Europe and America.

12. Three indexes to the contents of the work will be given, viz: 1. A
chronological index, in which the titles will be arranged according to the
years in which the works were printed; 2. An index of the subjects
treated in the books; 3. An alphabetical index of the persons and subjects
mentioned in the notes and introductory memoir.

PREPARATION OF THE WORK FOR THE PRESS.

1. The expense of preparing the work for the press will be defrayed by
subscription.

2. It is estimated that the work will contain not less than five thousand
titles, which are to be obtained from the public and private libraries of
England, Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Hol-
land, Belgium, Spain, Italy, America, etc. It is obvious that if any
single individual possessed the requisite knowledge of languages and bib-
liography for this task, it would require of him several years of unremitting
toil. In order, therefore, to accomplish the labor within a reasonable
period, it will be necessary to employ upon it several persons. ‘These
should be learned and responsible men. Such men cannot be employed
unless their services be well requited. Besides this, the whole work must
be superintended and revised by Mr. Stevens himself; who, for this pur-
pose, will be subjected to heavy travelling and other expenses. _ It is esti-
mated that the necessary expenses attending the preparation of the work
for the press, to say nothing of Mr. Stevens’s own time and services, will
amount to $5,000 (or £1,000.) The work will not, therefore, be com-
menced until this sum is subscribed.

3. Any public institution or any individual possessing books of this
class may join in the subscription on the following conditions, viz:

(1.) That all the books of this class, belonging to each subscriber be
submitted to the inspection of Mr. Stevens, and all reasonable
facilities and assistance be afforded him in his work.

(2.) That the name of the subscriber be indicated under the title of
every book which he contributes, so that when the work is
completed, it will show not only the treasures, but also the
deficiencies in this department of the library of each subscri-
ber, and enable him by marginal marks against the titles of
books which he may subsequently procure, to preserve a per-
petual record of his collection and of its deficiencies.

(3.) That each subscriber be entitled to contribute not only the title
of every book of this class which he may possess at the time
of subscribing, but also of all other books of this class, which
he may procure for his own library previously to January, 1850,
or before the work shall go to the press.

(4.) That the sum subscribed by each be in proportion to the number
of titles contributed, or be such as Mr. Stevens may accept.
Mis. No. 48. 57

(5.) That this sum be paid to Mr. Stevens on the acceptance of the
manuscript for publication by the Smithsonian Institution.

(6.) That each subscriber be entitled to receive from the Smithsonian
Institution ten copies of the work for every $500 (or £100)
subscribed, and in the same proportion for a larger or smaller
subscription.

4. Inasmuch as the library of the British Museum contains a larger
number of this class of books than any other library in the world, and at
the same time affords extraordinary facilities for bibliographical research,
it is proposed to commence the work there. All the titles which this
library can furnish will be written out upon cards, made for the purpose,
‘Measuring about eight inches by six. When these have been carefully
revised and copied, they will, if it be desired, be sent in small parcels to
each of the subscribers for their inspection and remarks. When the work
is completed, so far as the library of the British Museum can furnish the
materials, Mr. Stevens will himself visit each of the other libraries for which
he shall have received subscriptions, comparing and revising the titles, and
_ adding such other books as he may find, which had not been previously
described.

5. Itis hoped that sufficient force can be advantageously employed upon
the work, to prepare it for the press in eighteen months.

Publication of the Work.

When the manuscript of the work shall have been completed, according
to the plan detailed above, it is to be delivered to the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, at Washington, who will, in accordance with the
rules of the institution as published in the Programme of Organization,’
of December 8, 1847, submit it to a commission of competent judges. If
this commission report favorably as to the faithful execution of the work,
it is to be published and distributed at the sole expense of the Smithsonian
Institution, constituting one or more volumes of the quarto series of Smith-
sonian Contributions to Knowledge, similar in form and style of execu-
tion to the first volume, about to be published. It will be uniform with
the quarto edition of the United States Exploring Expedition.

Boston, July 7, 1848.

GentLEMEN: I beg leave to offer for your consideration the enclosed
plan of a Bibliographia Americana, and to solicit for the enterprise the pa-
tronage and encouragement of the Smithsonian Me er: “4

I have the honor to be, gentlemen, your obedient and humble servant.

A; HENRY STEVENS.

Prof. JosepH Henry, ay

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
Prof. Cuartes C. JEwerr, ee
Librarian of the Smithsonian Institution.
58 Mis. No. 48.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, July 17, 1848.

We highly approve of the foregoing plan of the Bibliographia Americana,
submitted to us by Henry Stevens, esq., accompanying his note of July 7,
1848, and certify that the work will be accepted for publication in the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, provided the execution is found
satisfactory to a commission of competent judges, appointed by the Institu-
tion for its examination. .
JOSEPH HENRY,
CHARLES C. JEWETT.

Letter addressed to several gentlemen.

Smrrnsonran Instirution, July 14, 1848.

My pear sir: Mr. Henry Stevens has submitted to me,as Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution, his proposition to prepare a bibliographical
account of books relating to or printed in America prior to 1750, the de-
tails of which he informs me have been submitted to you. I beg leave to
request an expression of your opinion as to the importance of such a work,
and whether it would be of sufficient interest to the student of American
history to warrant its publication in the series of volumes forming the
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

My object in making this request is to satisfy myself as to the propriety
of giving Mr. Stevens the necessary encouragement on the part of the In-

‘stitution to commence the preparation of the work. In conformity with
the rules adopted, it will not be accepted for publication by the Institution
unless it be approved of as to character and execution by a commis-
sion of competent judges.
I remain respectfully and truly, yours, .
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Snuthsonian Institution.

Wasuineton, July 15, 1848.

Dear sir: You do me the honor in your note of yesterday’s date to re
quest my opinion respecting Mr. H. Stevens’s plan of ‘a bibliographica
account of books relating to, or printed in America prior to the year 1700.”’

Mr. Stevens has, as you understand, been so kind as to acquaint me
with the details of his plan. I take great interest in its success. Hxe-
cuted in the manner in which it will be by Mr. Stevens, the work will, I
conceive, constitute a contribution to our literature, of great value, and
richly deserve a place in the series of volumes proposed to be issued by
the Smithsonian Institution.

I have the honor to be, dear sir, with great respect and esteem, your
obedient servant,

. JOHN G. PALFREY.

Prof. J. Henry.
Mis. No. 48. 59

Wasuineton, July 15, 1848.
My pear sir: I have examined Mr. Stevens’s plan for a Bibliographia
Americana, and believe it to be an excellent one. * * * e
As an evidence of my belief in the importance of the work and of Mr.
Stevens’s qualifications for preparing it for the press, I may refer to the
fact that I have subscribed two hundred and fifty dollars towards it upon
the terms detailed in Mr. Stevens’s prospectus.
Yours, very truly, :
Prof. JosepH Henry, binge omega
Secretary of Smithsonian Institution.

CamBRIDGE, July 24, 1848.

My pear str: You ask my opinion of Mr. Stevens’s plan of a biblio-
graphical account of books relating to America, and of those printed in
America prior to 1700. Having examined his plan, and from the nature
of my studies having attended much to this subject, I cannot hesitate to
express the belief that such a work completely and faithfully executed,
would be a most important acquisition to our historical literature. He
proposes not only to give the titles of the books, but to inspect every work,
and to add bibliographical remarks to such ds require illustrations of this
kind, and moreover to indicate the principal libraries in which they may
be found.

Many of these books are extremely rare, and are scattered in various
libraries. I think; it may be with safety affirmed, that not a single work
on the first settlement and early history of any one of the old States has
been written with the use of all the books relating to the subject; first, be-
cause in many cases, the authors did not know of the existence of the
books; and secondly, because when they possessed this knowledge they
had no means of ascertaining where the books could be found. Hence
all the books relating to our early history, written in modern times, are
more or less defective and erroneous, even where the authors have done
their best to secure fullness and accuracy. Itis easy to perceive what ad-
vantage these writers would have derived, and the public through them,
from a work like the one proposed.

For use in libraries it will also be of great value, serving not only as a
catalogue of all the books relating to America in any library, but likewise
ot all in which it is deficient, thereby enabling librarians to ascertain this
deficiency at a single glance, and to supply it as occasions may arise.

If 1 may judge from my own experience, the want of such a book is
more extensively felt than may at first be imagined. During the last few
years I have had innumerable applications from persons making historical
researches in various parts of the country, requesting me to point out ma-
terials and their sources.

Mr. Stevens possesses uncommon facilities for executing the task. He
has been educated at one of our principal universities, and his employment
in collecting and purchasing this class of books for the British Museum,
and other libraries, has given him a practical knowledge essential to this
undertaking, and which can scarcely be attained by any other individual,
as the same combination of circumstances is not likely again to occur.
60 Mis. No. 48.

The sale of the work must necessarily be limited, and can not possibly
pay the cost of preparing it for the press, or of its publication, and I think
Tam not deceived in the impression, that few works in the literary class
are more worthy of the patronage of the Smithsonian Institution, or more
in accordance with its original design.

I am, dear sir, with great respect and regard, very truly, yours,

Y ; JARED SPARKS.

JosepH Henry, LL.D.,

Secretary of Smithsonian Institution.

Senate U.S., August 4, 1848.

Dear sir: Mr. Stevens’s prospectus of his Bibliographia Americana
has been submitted to the Joint Committee on the Library. They approve
his plan, and thinking it worthy of such encouragement as they can give,
have subscribed two hundred and fifty dollars, on the terms mentioned in
the prospectus, it being also understood that for this sum he will catalogue
such books on America, in the Library of Congress, as are within the
period proposed by him.

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J? AS PHARCE:

ANTIQUARIAN Hatt,
Worcester, September 23, 1848.

Dear srr: I addressed‘a line to Mr. Stevens some weeks since, in-
forming him that the council of the American Antiquarian Society would
subscribe two hundred and fifty dollars towards the expense of preparing
his Bibliographia Americana. Yesterday I received his acknowledge-
ment, in which he expresses his satisfaction with the amount, and states
that the work meets with every encouragement he could wish; the sub-
scription having nearly reached the sum of five thousand dollars.

I presume this contribution by the council of the Antiquarian Society
will be regarded as the best evidence of their estimate of the importanze of
the proposed work, and of their confidence in the manner of its execution
under the patronage and supervision of the Smithsonian Institution.

Very respectfully and truly yours,
SAML. F. HAVEN.

Prof. Jos. Henry.

APPENDIX B.

To the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution : ;

GENTLEMEN: The apparatus for the purpose of scientific illustration and
investigation which I had been for many years accumulating while occu-
pying the chair of chemistry in the University of Pennsylvania, on my
retiring from that office was replaced by another apparatus belonging to my
Mis. No. 48. 61

successor. Under these circumstances, I signified my willingness to
bestow mine on any institution for the promotion of science which would
_ give it suitable apartments and cases, so as to have it kept in due order
and to render it available for the advancement of scientific knowledge.

Subsequently, Professor Henry, the distinguished Secretary of the Jn-
Stitution over which you are the legitimate, guardians, suggested to me
that I should offer my apparatus to that Institution in the following com-

plimentary language: ‘‘ 1 hope you will conclude to present itto the Smith-», |

<<)
\’ aN

sonian Institution. Several of the articles belong to the history of, fie
science of our country, and would be interesting mementos of the past
which should be preserved in some public institution.’? In reply, YAvrote
informing him that it would be agreeable to me to comply with his proposal, *:
it being understood that the cost of the removal of the apparatus and of its
being put in good order should be defrayed by-the Institution, so that -
while, on the one hand, I should receive nothing, on the other, I should not s
be at any expense; also, that suitable apartments and cases should be pro-
vided for the keeping and using of the apparatus for the purpose of investi-
gation and illustration. a\

Having been subsequently advised that you were willing to do me the
honor of accepting the apparatus on these terms, I put-it at the disposal of
the Secretary, leaving it to his discretion to reject all that might not be:
considered of use to the [ustitution. I did not deem it proper that I should
determine how far articles, which I had preserved under the idea of a con-
tingent utility, might be worthy of the cost of transportation and of the
space which they would occupy in the buildings of the Institution. I
understand that Professor Henry gave to Mr. De Beust, for many years
employed as my laboratory assistant, directions to pack up all that might,
in his opinion, be useful in the way of research or illustration.

Agreeably to these directions, the apparatus was packed up last summer
during my absence. I owe it to myself to state these circumstances, as it
“may happen that every body may not consider all the articles packed up
by my assistant as meriting the honor done to them by their transfer to
the halls of the Institution.

I am, gentlemen, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

ROBT. HARE...

Wasuineron, January 3, 1848.

APPENDIX C.

Extracts from Communications from Professor Guyot to the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution.

There is no man of science who does not deplore the want of uniformity
in the scales of scientific instruments adopted by different civilized
nations. ‘The comparisons between the observations, made in different
countries—comparisons indispensable in establishing the general results to
which meteorology aspires—are at present impossible, except by means of
reductions, which are a source of errors 1n calculation, (against which it 1s
difficult to guard,) and which impose heavy labor and a considerable loss
of time. It is therefore very desirable, for the interest of meteorology, that
a uniform system of annotation should be established.

,

mo
>
\U
62 Mis. No. 48.

Of the three systems now in use for thermometric and barometric scales, ©
(the Reaumur and the French inch, the Fahrenheit and the English inch,
and the centigrade with the millimetre,) that to which preference is gene-°
raily given on the continent of Europe, isthe centigrade and the metric
system. Germany is gradually abandoning the Reaumur division and the
E‘rench inch for the centigrade and the millimetre. In some of its most
important scientific works, as the Meteorology of Kaemtz, several memoirs
of Dove, the Physical Atlas of Berghaus, and the accompanying text the
latter have been adopted. By degrees, Italy is doing the same, and we
shall soon have for choice only the Fahrenheit and the English inch on
one hand, and the centigrade and the millimetre’on the other.

But to which of these two systems ought we to give the preference? I
do not hesitate to say, to the second. It is the most rational and the most
convenient, it is that which has the greatest chance of uniting all suffrages
and of becoming universal. But itis reserved to America to settle this
question. Her weight in the balance will be decisive. If, renouncing the
system she has inherited from England, she adopts the centigrade and me-
tric scales, the scientific world may hope soon to arrive at that uniformity
in measures’so desirable. England would not be able to hold out long
alone.

It would be worthy of the Smithsonian Institution, which owes its origin
to a love of science transcending all spirit of nationality, to take here the
initiative, which its position, so perfectly independent, permits. The
adoption of these scales for the numerous instruments, which it intends to
spread over the whole surface of the United States, together with the
regular publication of observations under this form, will soon compel all
observers to conform to it. I am not ignorant of the objections which
might be urged against this measure, nor do I undervalue them. Never-
theless, I believe that I should be able to meet them, and I would do so in
advance, did I not fear to extend this communication beyond suitable lim-
its.

The co-operation of Professor Bache would be of very great importance.
As superintendent of the coast survey, he has a number of publications to
make on the temperature of the sea at different depths, for example, and
others, for which it would be useful to adopt the centigrade scale, or at
least to place the centigrade opposite to the Fahrenheit degrees, ‘This scien-
tific authority, joined to thatof the Smithsonian Institution would, I doubt
not, be sufficient to introduce gradually so desirable a reform. The mo-
mentis critical—later, a change would be almost impossible.

* * * * * * a * *
The importance which the subject of the change of scales seems to me to
possess, and the exigency of the moment, induce me to offer some further
considerations thereon, for which I crave your indulgence.

Uniformity of notation in all scientific works is the essential and imme-
diate result at which we should aim. We might, strictly speaking, admit
any scale, provided it were universally adopted; but since, among the
number of those which have been proposed, there are three which have
divided the suffrages, it is from among these that we should select. Other
things being equal, two reasons (as I have already remarked) it seems to
me should determine our choice; the first is the relative perfection of the
scale; the second is the probability of its adoption by all men of science.

As to the first point, the centigrade scale has the advantage over the
Mis. No. 48. 63

two others of being in harmony with the decimal system, and of facilitating
calculations. It has the advantage over the Fahrenheit of possessing a natn.
ral zero, a point of departure fixed by nature herself, easy to determine, and
which corresponds to a point of temperature so critical, that from the
moment of reaching it, meteorological phenomena are suddenly and pro*
feundly modified, vegetation ceases, and all nature assumes another as-
pect. It is then highly proper that this temperature, which is a point of
change marked by nature herself, be also the principal one on the ther-
mometric scale. :

The English adduce, as one of the reasons which causes them to retain
the Fahrenheit scale; the absence of negative quantities. This, it is true, is
an advantage; for I admit that the mixing of negative and positive quan-
tities is a source of error, and embarrasses the calculation. But this advan-
tage, which is real, disappears the moment we wish to make a uni-
versal one of the Fahrenheit scale, for in nearly half the countries of the
earth, and particularly in North America, the Fahrenheit thermometer fur-
nishes every year many negative quantities. Ithas been said further, that
the Fahrenheit degree, measuring a smaller difference of temperature, allows
of a more exact reading than the centigrade. but it is only requisite
to mark half degrees upon the centigrade scale in order to obtain, the
tubes being equal, a still greater approximation, that is to say, accord-
ing to the ordinary method of estimation of twentieths of degrees; which
is much more than it is right to demand of instruments destined for meteoro-
logical observations, since various causes prevent, even with the best, that
one could guarantee the temperature of the air within two or three tenths
of a degree.

But the strongest reasons for the adoption of the centigrade scale are,
without contradiction, the predominance already secured to it in the greater
part of the scientific world, the considerable amount of meterological
labors in which it is employed, and the decided tendency continually to ex-
tend itself. America has not here to open a new path, she has only to as-
sociate herself with the movement which is carrying scientific Europe
along with it. ButI repeat, her influence will be decisive, she holds in
her hands the future, and if she well understands her part, here as in other
domains, she should break with the past in its narrowness, and render
herself cosmopolitan in the interest of general utility. —

What I have just said applies equally to the barometric scale, The met-
tical scale is the most convenient; it is rational, easy to verify, invariable;
it has also the future in its favor.

There remain to be considered material difficulties which attend every
change of system. I will take the liberty of calling your attention to the
fact that they only concern other institutions. ‘The Smithsonian Tnstitu-
tion is perfectly free to take the course which may seem to it most in accord-
ance with the interests of meteorology. It has, moreover, a right here to
an influence proportioned to its expenditures in this department. If, for ex-
ample, it takes upon itself the gratuitous publication of the observations
made in stations already existing, may it not in time claim to regulate also
the form of these observations.

Besides, the question is not about changing at once the nan the
people, put simply those of scientific observers, which is a a i cn
affair. ‘Ihe detailed publication of the observations will principally circulate
in the scientific world for which it is designed. But nothing would pre-
64 Mis. No. 48. ’

vent the publication, for some time to come, of reports of general results,
with the old scales opposite the new.
I am, sir, your very obedient servant,
A. GUYOT,
Josern Henry, LL. D.,
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
® s

31st Conaress SENATE ’
lst Session. ‘ ie J mace ae”

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT

OF THE

BOARD OF REGENTS

OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

TO

THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

SHOWING
THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION

DURING THE YEAR 1849,

Jury 29, 1850.
Read.
Jury 30, 1850.

Ordered to be printed, and that 5,000 additional copies be printed without the appendix, 500 of
which are for the Smithsonian Lastitution.

WASHINGTON :

PRINTED BY THE RRINTERS TO THE SENATE.

1850.
Smirusontan Institution,
July 26, 1850.

Sir: I have the honor herewith to transmit to you the annual report of
the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, and beg leave to
request that you will present the same to the Senate of the United States.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, .
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary S. I.
Hon. Wititam R. Kina,
President United States Senate.
3 [ 120 }

OFFICERS, &. OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

#@ACHARY T'AYLOR,
Lx officie Presiding Oficer of the Institution.

Miniarp Fmiitmore,
Lx officio second Presiding Officer of the Institution, +
and, by election, Chancellor of the same.

JosmpH Henry,
Secretary of the Institution.

‘Carnes C. Jewett,
Assistant Secretary, acting as Librarian.

Howarp Foreman,
Assistant.

Witiiam W. Seaton,

Arex’r D. Bacue, Executive Commitiee.
James A. Pearce,

JEFFERSON Davis,

Wituiam W. Seaton, > Building Committee.
Henry W. Hinriarp,

James Renwick, Jr., Architect.

Grpert Cameron, Contractor.
LIST OF REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

Miniarp Finimore,
Vice President of the United States.

Rocer B. Taney,
Chief Justice of the United States.

Wituram W. Seaton,
Mayor of the city of Washington.

James A. PEARCE,
Member of the Senate of the United States.

Jerrerson Davis,
Member of the Senate of ihe United States.

James M. Mason,
Member of the Senate of the United States.

Henry W. Ainuiarp,
Member of the House of Kepresentatives..

GrauaM N, Fircu,
Member of the House of Representatives.

Wiuiiam EF, Cotcock,
Member of the House of Representatives.

Rurus Cuoare,
Citizen of Massachusetts.

GipEon Haw try,
Citizen of New York.

Witiram C. Preston,
Citizen of South Carolina.

Ricuarp Rusu,
Citizen of Pennsylvania.

ALEXANDER D. Bacue,
Member of Nat. Inst., Washingtor.

Josers G. Torren,
Member of Nat. Inst., Washington.
5 [ 120]

MEMBERS EX-OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION,

@ACHARY ‘TAYLOR,
President of the United States.

Mriiarp Firimore, 1
Vice President of the United States.

Joun M. Crayton,
Secretary of Slate.

Wirtiam M. Mrerepira,
Secretary of the Treasury.

“GEorGE W. CrawForb,
Secretary of War.

Wittiam B. Preston,
i Secretary of the Navy.

Jacos CoLuaMeER,
Postmaster General.

REVERDY JOHNSON,
Attorney General.

Rocer B. Taney, :
Chief Justice of the United States.

‘THomas Ewsang,
Commissioner of Patents.

Wiriiiam W. SEATON,
Mayor of the eity of Washington.

HONORARY MEMBERS.
Repert Hare, Bensamin SILLIMAN,

*ALBERT GALLATIN, WasnHinaton IrviNG.

 weiblind mlenialamos Yo uit od) jo aoleuetre an yd ieee ob Daeoe
* Dead.
f 120} 6

FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT
OF

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

Or

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

SHOWING

The operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution up to Jar-
uary 1, 1850.

Lo the Senate and House of Representatives:

In obedience to the act of Congress of August 10, 1846, establishing
the Smithsonian Institution, the undersigned, in behalf of the Regents,
submit to Congress, as a report of the operations, expenditures, and con-
dition of the institution, the following documents:

First. Annual report of the Secretary, giving an account of the opera-
tions of the institution during the year 1849, accompanied by a report
from the Assistant Secretary, relative to the library, and by other docu-
ments.

Second. Report of the Executive Committee, exhibiting an account of
the expenditures of the institution during the year, and of its financial
condition on the first of January, 1850.

Third. Report of the Building Committee, relative to the progress made
in 1849 in the erection of the Smithsonian edifice, and in the improve-
ment of the grounds, with a statement of the expenditures which have
thus far been made on the same.

Fourth. Proceedings of the Board of Regents at their fourth annual
session.

Fifth. Proceedings of the first meeting of the establishment.

Sixth. Appendix.

From these documents it will be seen that the Smithsonian Institution
has been gradually extending its sphere of usefulness in carrying out the
plan of its organization. ;

An accident which happened to one of the apartments of the building,
as will be seen from the proceedings of the board, has induced the Re-
gents to change the original plan of finishing the interior, and to adopt in
its stead a system of fireproofing, better adapted to security and perma-
nence. ‘This will be attended with an additional expense, which it is pro-
posed to meet by an extension of the time of completing the building.

F'rom the report of the Executive Committee it will be perceived that
the funds of the institution are in a very favorable condition, and
from the proceedings of the Regents that the Secretary has been di-
rected to make application to Congress for permission to increase the prin-
cipal of the Smithsonian fund, by adding thereto $150,000 of accrued
7 [ 120]

interest now on hand, and such other sums as may ‘hereafter come into
the possession of the Regents, by donation or otherwise, until the sums so
added to the original bequest shall amount to $200,000.
The presentation of this report to Congress has been delayed beyond
the usual time, on account of the continued session of the board, render-
ed necessary by the protracted investigations relative to the building.
MILLARD FILLMORE, —
Chancellor, Sc.
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN: In accordance with the resolution that the Secretary shall
present at each annual meeting of the Board of Regents an account of
the operations of the institution during the past year, I respectfully sub-
mit the following:

Agreeably to the scheme of finance adopted by the board, the greater
portion of all the income of the Smithsonian fund is at present devoted
to the erection of the building; and until this is paid for, the money
which can be appropriated to the active operations of the institution will
be comparatively small; not only small in proportion to the demands made
upon it, but small in reference to the results which the public generally
expect it to produce. Itis believed, however, that a proper consideration
of the facts presented in the following report will warrant the conclusion,
that the institution, during the past. year, has been gradually extending
its sphere of usefulness, and successfully bringing into operation the dif-
ferent parts of its plan of organization.

It will be recollected that the several propositions of the programme
were adopted provisionally, and it is gratifying to be able to state that ex-
perience thus far has indicated no important changes. ‘The general plan
has continued to receive the approbation of the enlightened public both
in this country and in Europe, and to increase general confidence in the
power of the institution to confer important benefits on our country and
the world.

In presenting the different operations of the institution, I shall adopt, :
as in my last report, the principal divisions of the programme: 7

Ist. Publication of memoirs in quarto volumes, consisting of positive
additions to knowledge.

2d. Institution of original researches, under the direction of competent
persons. ; gy

3d. The publication of a series of reports, giving the present state and
progress of different branches of kuowledge. .

Ath. Formation of a library and museum of objects of nature and art.

5th. Lectures.

Publication of Memoirs.

Agreeably to the plan of the institution, these memoirs are intended to
embody the results of researches which could not otherwise be readily
published, and are to be distributed to societies, public libraries, and other
[ 120] 8

institutions. An account of the first memoir was given in the last report.
‘It relates to the ancient monuments of the Mississippi valley, and oecu-
pies an entire volume. It has been presented, as far as opportunity would
permit, to the principal literary and scientific societies of the world, to all
the colleges and larger libraries of this country, and has everywhere been
received with much commendation. Ali the societies from which we
have as yet heard, have declared their willingness to co operate with the
institution, and to give us their publications in exchange, from which
source our library has already been enriched with valuable additions.

It is to be regretted that our means would not permit us to distribute
the first volume more liberally than we have done, and that the price put
upon the copies offered for sale has placed them beyond the reach of
many persons desirous of obtaining them. ‘This arose from the fact that
in order to remunerate the authors for the expense and labor bestowed on
the memoir, they were allowed to strike off from the types and plates of
the institution an edition to be sold for their own benefit. To avoid risk
of loss, the edition was a small one, and the price put at ten dollars. An
occurrence of this kind will not happen again; for, although it would be
desirable to pay authors for their contributions, yet it is now found that
materials will be offered, free of all cost, more than suflicient to exhaust
the portion of the income which can be devoted to publications.

Tn printing the future volumes it will be advisable to strike off an extra
number of copies for sale on account of the institution, and to dispose of
these for little more than the mere cost of press-work and paper.

The second volume of Contributions is now in the press, and will con-
sist of a number of memoirs which have been submitted to competent
judges and found worthy of a place in the Smithsonian publications. In
this volume we have adopted the plan of printing each memoir with a
separate title and paging. The object of this is to enable us to distribute
extra copies of each memoir separately, and also to furnish the author
with a number of copies regularly paged for his own use. It will also
enable us to classify the memoirs according to subjects.

The following is a brief account of the memoirs contained in the sec-
ond volume, so far as they have been reported on by the commissioners
to whom they have been submitted:

1. A Memoir on the planet Neptune, by Sears C. Walker.—An abstract
of this memoir has been published in the proceedings of the American
\Philosophical Society, and has received the approbation of the scientific
world. It presents the several steps of the discovery of an orbit which
has enabled Mr. Walker to compute the place of the new planet with
as much precision as that of any of the planets which have been known
from the earliest times.* Starung from the observations of the motion
of the planet during a period of about four months, Mr. Walker caleu-
lated an empirical orbit which enabled him to trace its path among the
stars of the celestial vault through its whole revolution of 166 years. He
was thus enabled to carry its position backward until it fell among a cluster
of stars accurately mapped by Lalande towards the close of the last cen-
tury, and, after a minute and critical investigation, he was led to eonclude

* [tis proper to state that a part of the researches given in this memoir was made during the
author’s connexion with the National Observatory, nnder the direction of Lieutenant Maury.
An account of these will probably soon be published in the next volume of the records of opera=
tions of this observatory.
9 [ 120 ]

that one of the stars observed by Lalande on the night of May 10, 1795,
was the planet Neptune. This conclusion was rendered almost certainty by
the observation, made on the first clear night, that all the stars in the cluster
above mentioned were found in place, except the one previously fixed upon
as the new planet. Some doubt was created, however, by noting that the
missing star in Lalande’s maps was marked as doubtful. In order to set-
tle this difficulty, the original manuscript of the astronomer deposited in
the observatory of Paris was referred to. It was then found that Lalande
had twice observed the same star; and not finding the right ascension and
declination each time the same, and not dreaming it was a planet, he
selected one of the observations for publication, marking the position indi-
cated doubtful. The planet had moved during the interval of obserya-
tion, and thus produced the discrepancy. By allowing for the movement
during the time elapsed, the two observations precisely agree. ‘There
could, therefore, be no longer any doubt that this star, observed and
mapped fifty years ago as a fixed star, was in reality the planet Neptune.
Mr. Walker, availing himself of this discovery, had now a series of obser-
vations embracing not a few months of the motion of the planet, but
which carried it back fifty years. From these data he was enabled to
deduce a pure elliptical orbit, or one which the body would describe were
there no other planets in the system. This orbit has been investigated
by another of our countrymen in a series of profound and beautiful re-
searches, adding much to our knowledge both of Neptune and Uranus. I
allude to the labors of Professor Peirce, of Cambridge.

It is well known that the planet Neptune was discovered by mathe-
matical deductions from the perturbations observed in Uranus, and that
Leverrier and Adams, the independent authors of this discovery, not only
pointed out the direction in which the unseen planet was to be found, but
also, from @ priori considerations, gave the dimensions, form, and position
of the orbit it describes around the sun. he direction indicated was the
true one, but the elements of the orbit were widely different from those
subsequently found to belong to the actual orbit of the planet. Professor
Peirce submitted the data used by Leverrier and Adams to a new and
critical examination, and succeeded in discovering the cause of their error,
and of verifying the conclusions of Mr. Walker. He afterwards proceeded
to consider the inverse problem, viz: that of deducing BT le ake
which Neptune ought to produce in the planet Uranus. His BpsE Aree ts
gave a perfect explanation of all the anomalies in the motions of U Fi ane
and furnished the data, for the first time since its discovery in 1781, or
correct tables for determining its position in the heavens. i rofessor | cee
also investigated the action of all the other planets on Neptune, and his
results enabled Mr. Walker, by applying them to his elliptical orbit, > some
pare the actual with the calculated place of the planet. his led to i mia
correction of the elliptical orbit, and a more perfect table af CALS AEE
places. In this way, by a series of profound and beautiful pF ay tape pa
alternately combining the data of observation with eat
ations, these two astronomers have perfected our BROWS HED ; ne af HO
of the most distant planets of our system, 184, SASH pane fe i ‘e
giving their past and future position ae sl time. Wee aoe saan?
Peirce’s paper have not yet been prepared for the Pa ute eae
ably be given in due time to the world as a part of the Suu
tributions.
[ 120] 10

The investigations mentioned in the foregoing account have been at-
tended with very laborious arithmetical calculations. A small appropria-
tion has been made to defray, in part, the expense of these. Indeed,
without the aid thus given, the discoveries we have related would
scarcely have been made—at least at this time, and in our country.

2. The next memoir is an account of the discovery of a comet by Miss
Maria Mitchell, of Nantucket, with its approximate orbit, calculated by her-
self. he honor of this discovery has been duly awarded to the author. A
medal has been presented to her by the King of Denmark, and the comet
itself is now known to astronomers in every part of the world by her
name. From the peculiarities of the case, the Executive Committee re-
commended that a small premium be presented to Miss Mitchell.

3. The third memoir is 07 a new method of solving cubie equations, by
Professor Strong, of New Brunswick, New Jersey; a purely mathematical
paper, which has been pronounced an interesting addition to that branch of
science.

4. The fourth memoir is a contribution to the physical geography of the
United States. It presents a section, from actual surveys, of the descent
of the bed of the Ohio river from its source, in the State of New York, to
its mouth, on the Mississippi. By a series of observations and elaborate
calculations, the author exhibits the amount of water which passed down
the river during a period of eleven years prior to 1849. ‘This, compared
with the amount of rain which fell during the same time on the surface
drained by the river, gives a series of interesting results in reference to
evaporation.

It also contains a proposition for improving the navigation of the Ohio,
founded upon data givenin the preceding part of the memoir. Whatever
may be the result of the plan here proposed, this memoir has been recom-
mended for publication as a valuable addition to the physical geography of
the United States. The author is Charles Ellet, jr., the celebrated engi-
neer of the wire bridges over the Niagara and Ohio rivers. Another me-
moir is promised by the same author, which will be a continuation of the
same subject.

5. The fifth memoir is contributed by Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia,
and is intended to elucidate the remarkable phenomenon exhibited at the
great fire in the city of New York on the 19th of July, 1845, during which
two hundred and thirty houses were destroyed, containing merchandise
amounting in value to sixty-two millions of dollars. ‘‘A series of detona-
tions, successively increasing in loudness, were followed by a final explo-
sion which tore in pieces the building in which it took place, threw down
several houses in its vicinity, and forced in the fronts of the houses on the
opposite side of the street.’? These effects were attributed to gunpowder,
though the owner of the building in which the explosion occurred declared
that none of this article was present, but that the house contained a large
quantity of nitre, in connexion with merchandise of acombustible nature.

This memoir contains a series of investigations relative to the explosions
which may be produced by heated nitre in connexion with carbonaceous
matters. “he author shows, by numerous experiments, that explosions of
a violent kind can be produced by forcibly bringing into contact at a high
temperature, nitre, and substances of an inflammable character. [talso con-
tains several new experiments on the combustion of gunpowder under
different circumstances.
I} [ 120 ]

6. The sixth memoir is on the ancient monuments of the State of New
York, by E. Gi. Squier, and may be regarded as a continuation of the me-
moir by Squier and Davis on the ancient monuments of the Mississippi
valley. ‘The expense of the explorations which form the basis of this
memoir was two hundred dollars, one half of which was defrayed by the
members of the Historical Society of New York, and the remainder by
this institution.

7. Another memoir is by Professor Secchi, a young Italian of much inge-
nuity and learning, a member of Georgetown College. It consists of a new
mathematical investigation of the reciprocal action of two galvanic cur-
rents on each other, and of the action of a current on the pole of a mag-
net. It begins with the assumption that the force between the elements
of the currents and the magnet is inversely as the square of the distance,
and directly as the sine of the inclination, and then presents the mathe-
matical inferences which legitimately flow from these data. ‘I'he deduc-
tions are of such a nature that the author has been able to verify them by
means of well devised experiments, and the results accord as nearly with
the deductions as the complex nature of the subject will admit. ‘The in-
vestigations involve the mathematicai theory of the galvanometer, and the
experiments furnish much interesting and useful information, aside from
the principal object of the memoir, particularly on the comparative value
of different kinds of batteries.

8. The next paper is by Professor Louis Agassiz, of Harvard University,
and is entitled Te Classification of Insects upon Embryologival Data, It
gives an account of a series of new and interesting facts observed by the
author relative to. the metamorphosis of insects, which have an Important
bearing on general questions in zoology, and which will probably lead to
the arrangement of these animals according to a new system of classifica-
tion, founded upon more definite principles than those heretofore adopted.

9. The next is a memoir by Dr. R. W. Gibbes, on the Mosasaurus and
some new allied genera of the gigantic lizards which formerly inhabited
our planet, and of which the remains are now found in different parts of
the United States, particularly in the marl beds of various parts of the
country. This is an interesting addition to paleontology, and has re-
ceived a favorable report from the commission to whom it was referred.

Researches.

The programme of organization contemplates the establishment of re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons, the expense to be
borne in whole or in part by the institution. In the last report it was
mentioned that a telescope and other apparatus had been ordered for
Lieutenant Gilliss in his astronomical expedition to Chili, and that, with-
out this assistance, the expedition would have been delayed a year. i om
now, however, happy to state that the expense of these instruments : as
since been paid by an appropriation of Congress; and the nerbnp re: i
thus been the means of promoting the objects of the expedition wit 1
_ any expenditure of its income. Certain improvements 1In eT cnatadl
instruments, however, have been made since the departure of HA kre
Gilliss which would much facilitate his observations, and enable ira.
do much more'with his small number of assistants, and it may be well
for the institrition to furnish him with instruments of this kind, Pra

Under the head of researches it may also be mentioned that, during the
[ 120] 12

past year, we have caused to be computed, at the expense of the institu-
tion, an ephemeris of Neptune, giving the position of the planet in the
heavens from August 4, 1846, to February 4, 1848, and also in the last
half years of 1848 and 1849. This ephemeris is based on the orbit of
Neptune established by Mr. Walker and corrected by the perturbations of
the planet Neptune by the action of Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, as de-
duced from the mathematical investigations of Professor Peirce, of Har-
vard University.

We have distributed copies of this ephemeris to all persons known to
us who are interested in practical astronomy, not only in this country but
in Europe. It has been received with high commendation, and is found
to give the actual place of the planet in the heavens within the limits of a
few tenths of a second of are; indeed, the coincidence of the calculated
and observed places is so marked, that, were the actual planet of the
heavens and that of the ephemeris to be considered as a double star, they
would have so close a proximity that no telescope yet constructed could
separate them.

Occultations for 1850.

¥

A set of tables in continuation of those mentioned in the last and
preceding report for facilitating the calculation of the appearance of oc-
cultations of fixed stars by the moon during the year 1850 has been prepared
by Mr. Downes, of Philadelphia, and published by the institution. At
the last session of Congress an appropriation was made for establishing a
Nautical Almanac, which will furnish, among other aids to astronomical
observation, sets of tables of the kind just mentioned. Lieut. Davis, of
the United States navy, to whom the superintendence of this national
work has been intrusted, recommended that the expense of the preparation
of the tables for 1850 should be defrayed from the appropriation for the
almanac; and this recommendation has been concurred in by the Secretary
of the Navy. ‘The institution has, therefore, been called upon merely to
pay for the printing and distribution of the tables, and thus again en-
abled, with a small outlay of its funds, to afford important facilities for
the advance of science.

Meteorology.

Under the general head of researches we may also give an account of
the progress inade in establishing the system of meteorological observa-
tions proposed in the preceding reports. Circulars describing the plan of
operation were distributed to the several parts of the Union through mem-
bers of Congress at the last session, and the results fully equalled our
anticipations. From localities widely separated from each other, and dis-
tributed over the greater portion of the United States, about one hundred
and fifty monthly returns are now regularly received. ‘T'o carry on this
system efficiently, much labor is necessarily required in the way of cor-
respondence; but it bids fair to furnish the institution with a wide field
of usefulness in bringing it into communication with individuals who,
though secluded in position, are desirous of improving themselves, as
well as of promoting general knowledge. The correspondence we have
13 [120]

thus established, and which we hope to extend, through the aid of the
members of the present Congress, will enable us to acquire definite inform.
ation on a variety of subjects besides those which relate to meteorology.
We have already accumulated in this way a mass of curious and in-
structive information relative to various subjects, which we hope, in the
progress of the development of the plan of the institution, to digest and
present to the public. 7

We would mention in this connexion that two of our meteorological
correspondents have proposed the collection of statistics of diseases, in-
cluding the rise, progress, and decline of epidemics. This is a subject
we would commend to the American Medical Association. 'The Smith-
sonian Institution could assist in an enterprise of this kind by receiving
the information which is attainable, and collating it, under the direction
of a committee of gentlemen belonging to the medical profession.

It will be recollected that our plan of meteorological observations em-
braces three classes of observers—one to record the changes in the aspect
of the sky, the direction of the wind, beginning and ending of rain,
snow, &c.; another, in addition, to give an account of the changes of
temperature indicated by the thermometer; and a third, furnished with a
full set of instruments for recording the most important atmospheric
changes. The importance of the information which may be derived from
a careful record of the weather without instruments -can scarcely be
realized by persons who have given but little attention to the subject.
The place of origin, direction, velocity of motion of a storm, as well as
the direction and velocity of the wind which composes it, whether gyra-
tory or inward and upward, may all be determined by a suflicient amount
of data of the kind we have mentioned. Also, a careful record of the
observations of meteors seen by individuals from diflerent positions would
furnish interesting data for determining the elevation and velocity of
these mysterious visitors.

There are other data which can only be obtained by the use of accu-
rate instruments: fortunately, however, a comparatively small number
of observers are sufficient for determining these. ‘The instruments should
be of the best possible construction, placed in important situations, observed
at suitable times and with undeviating regularity by competent observers.
Few persons are acquainted with the difficulty of procuring accurate me-
teorological instruments. The ordinary thermometers for sale in the
shops frequently differ several degrees from each other, particularly at the
higher and the lower temperatures, ard even the same thermometer is
liable, for a time after its construction, to undergo a change in the size of
the bulb, and thus to derange the accuracy of the scale. An accurate
barometer is another instrament which cannot readily be obtained, unless
at too great a price for the means of ordinary observers. ‘I'he common
weather glasses, sold under the name of barometers, though they may be
of use in indicating variations of atmospheric pressure, and thus assist in
furnishing data for determining the progress of aerial waves, are inappli-
cable to the precise and accurate observations necessary to determine the
minute changes of atmospheric pressure, or of ascertaining the height of
places above the level of the sea.

Considerable pains have been taken during the past year to ascertain
the best form of a barometer, which could be procured at a reasonable
[ 120 ] 14

cost, and, after considerable inquiry and comparison of different instru-
ments, we have at length decided upon one, with an adjustable cistern
and enclosed in a brass case, which may be transported to a distance, and
will serve as well for a mountain barometer as for indicating meteorologi-
cal changes. For the construction of these instruments, we have em-
ployed Mr. James Green, formeriy of Baltimore, now of New York; and
in order that the instruments furnished by him to ourselves, or sold to our
observers, may be comparable with each other, we have procured a
standard barometer from London, with which each instrument, previously
numbered, is accurately compared, and the record carefully preserved. We
have also decided upon the forms of rain and snow gauges and wind vanes,
and have ordered a number of these to be constructed by Benjamin Pike
& Son, Broadway, New York.

It is the policy of the institution to do as much with its funds as possi-
ble, and to call in aid from every quarter whence it may be obtained.
With reference to the system of meteorology, I am happy to inform the
board that we have received assistance from a number of sources from
which it could scarcely have been expected at the commencement of the
scheme. The last Congress appropriated two thousand dollars for
meteorology, to be expended under the direction of the Navy Depart-
ment. It was understood that Professor Espy was to be engaged in the
investigations to be made in accordance with this appropriation, and, in
order that his labors might co-operate with those of the institution, the
late Secretary of the Navy directed him to apply to me for instructions.
During the past year he has been engaged in directing observations and
making preparation for a series of experiments having an important bear-
ing on the explanation of meteorological phenomena. It is understood
that the remainder of this appropriation, after paying the salary of Mr.
Espy, will be expended in defraying incidental expenses, such as print-
ing, engraving, &c.

The Regents of the University of the State of New York, in 1825, or-
ganized a system of meteorology, which has continued ever since, and
which has added many interesting facts to the stock of scientific knowl-
edge. In order to extend the usefulness of this system, the Regents of
the University have lately resolved to reorganize the whole, and to supply
the observers with accurate and well-compared instruments. This work
has been intrusted to Dr. 'T’. Romeyn Beck and one of our Regents,
Gideon Hawley, esq., both of Albany. ‘They have adopted the same
system and instruments as those of the Smithsonian Institution, and have
agreed to co-operate fully with us in the observation of the general and
particular phenomena of meteorology. A similar movement has been
made in the legislature of Massachusetts for the establishment of a system
of observations, and it is hoped that the other States of the Union will
follow these examples. Weare also happy to state that the medical depart-
ment of the army, under the direction of Surgeon General Lawson, has
signified its willingness to unite with us in the same system, and to fur-
nish the new military posts with instruments constructed on the same
plan, and compared with the Smithsonian standard. We hope, there-
fore, within the coming year, that there will be established at least fifty
stations in different parts of North America, furnished with accurate in-
struments of this kind.

During the past summer I visited Canada, principally for the purpose
15 [ 120]

of examining the meteorological instruments and the method of using
them employed at the observatory of Toronto. Captain Lefroy, the di-
rector of this institution, afforded me every facility fur acquiring the de-
sired information. He also furnished me with a list of military posts in

Canada at which observations may be made, and gave assurance of the
hearty co-operation in our labors of the officers attached to these posts.
We have also a prospect of procuring permanent observations from Ber-
muda, some of the West India islands, and from Central America.

_ From all these statements it will be seen we are in a fair way of estab-
lishing a general system of meteorology, extending over a great portion of
North America, including many stations furnished with compared instru-
ments referred to the same standard. When fully organized, it will con-

stitute one of the most important systems ever instituted; but to bring
it fully into operation will require a judicious expenditure of all the funds
at our disposal for this purpose. At the last session of the board, one
thousand dollars were appropriated for meteorological purposes, the greater
portion of which has been expended for instruments, among which are
those to serve as standards; an equal sum, at least, will be required for
the next year.

In connexion with the regular meteorological system, successful appli-
cations have been made to the presidents of a number of telegraph lines
to allow us, at a certain period of the day, the use of their wires for the
transmission of meteorelogical intelligence. We propose to furnish the
most important offices along the lines with sets of instruments, and to
give the operators special instructions for the observation of particular
phenomena. It is hoped by this means to obtain results not otherwise
accessible. Instruments for this purpose are now in process of construc-
tion, and as soon as they are completed the transmission of observations
will commence.

The establishment of the extended system of meteorology, which we
have just described, is a work of time and labor—the correspondence alone
being sufficient constantly to occupy the time of-one person, and the ad-
justment of the several parts of the plan has required more time than my
‘other engagements would permit me to devote to it.

Magnetic Observations.

A set of magnetic apparatus was ordered from London for the purpose of
determining the lines of magnetic intensity, declination, and inclination.
These are intrusted to Colonel Emory, of the boundary commission, and
in his possession they will probably be made to do good service in the
cause of science. As soon as the funds will admit of the appropriation, It
would be advisable to purchase several sets of instruments of the same kind,
to be placed in the hands of the scientific explorers of our new territories ,
and for determining the principal magnetic lines across the United States.

Physical Geography. r

Another subject of much interest connected with the physical geography
of our country is the collection of the statistics of all railway and ee ex-
plorations which have been made in various parts of the United _
and Canada. This information, at present 1 the possession of indl-
[ 120] 16

viduals, is of little value, and, unless collected by some public institution,
will soon be lost to the world. Surveys of this kind furnish the most ex-
act data for the determination of what may be called the mountain bases,
or general water sheds of the surface; and no portion of the world of the
same extent has been so thoroughly traversed with these explorations as
the United States. Connected with these, sketches should be made of
the principal mountain ranges, barometrical measurements of the higher
peaks, with geological sections of the strata through which the public
works are carried. For the purpose of commencing this collection, we
have addressed letters to all persons within our knowledge who possess
information of this kind, requesting memoirs from them containing results
of their own measurements and observations. By this means we hope to
present a series of papers of the same character as that of Mr. Ellet, and
thus furnish materials for a more accurate physical map of North America,
as well as the means, in connexion with our operations in meteorology,
for a more exact study of our climate.

During the past year Professor Guyot has made a barometrical explora-
tion of the mountain system of New Hampshire, and he purposes to de-
vote a portion of each year to investigations of this kind.

Natural History.

Our new possessions in Oregon, Californias and Mexico offer in-
teresting fields for scientifie inquiry, particularly in the line of natural
history, and Dr. Gray, of Cambridge, and Dr. Engleman, of St. Louis,
aided by several scientific gentlemen, interested in this branch of science,
have sent a number of collectors to develop the resources of those regions,
particularly so far as the botany is concerned.

Among these, Mr. Charles Wright has been engaged to make explora-
tions during the past year in New Mexico, at the expense of a subscription
by individuals and institutions. He has just returned laden with a valu-
able collection of plants, seeds, &c., which are to be divided among those
who defrayed the expense. In behalf of the Smithsonian Institution $150
was subscribed towards this enterprise, and for this we are entitled to a
full set of all the objects collected. These are to be submitted to Dr.
Gray, of Cambridge, to be described in a memoir by him, and to be pub-
lished in the Smithsonian Contributions. Mr. Wright is expected to start
on another expedition early in the spring, for the purpose of making ex-
plorations in natural history in the regions around El Paso, and it will be
well for the Smithsonian Institution to further assist this laudable enter-
prise with another subscription of an equal amount.

We have also purchased, for the sum of 20, a set of the plants collected
by Mr. Fendler im the vicinity of Santa Fe, during the year 1847. This
adventurous explorer, under the direction of the gentlemen previously
mentioned, is now engaged in investigating the botany of the great valley
of the Salt Lake; and it is proposed further to assist him by the purchase
of a set of the collections he may obtain. By co-operating in this way with
individuals and institutions, we are enabled, at a small expense, materially
to advance the cause of science.
17 [ 120 ]
Ancient Monuments.

Another object, the prosecution of which falls particularly within the
province of the Institution, is that of obtaining descriptions of the ancient
monuments of North America. Circulars have been sent to gentlemen in
various parts of the country, requesting them to furnish surveys and explo-
rations of mounds, and other ancient works, which are reputed to exist in
their vicinity. To facilitate these investigations, we have requested
the authors of the first volume to draw up, from the results of their ex-
perience, a set of instructions for the proper examination and description
of works of this kind. The same subject has also been placed before
several historical societies, established in places where mounds are known
to exist. In connexion with this subject, we cannot too highly commend
the policy of the new Territory of Minnesota, which, among the first of its
acts, has established a Historical Society, to gather up the record of events
as they occur, and thus to preserve the unappreciated facts of the present—
destined to become history in the future. An important and interesting part
of the labors of such societies would be the survey and exploration of
the ancient monuments which might be found in their vicinity. Brief ae-
counts of these might be published in the proceedings of the societies,
while detailed descriptions and drawings could be given to the world at
the expense and through the transactions of the Smithsonian Institution.

The publication of our first volume has awakened a lively interest in
this subject, and we have received accounts of various locations of mounds
and other ancient works in different parts of the country which were pre-
viously unknown. A gentleman, well qualified for the task, is now engaged
in preparing for usan ethnological chart indicating the relative positioris, as
far as they are known, of all the monuments of this kind. This chart may
be improved from time to time, and will be the means of eliciting important
gdditional information. Indeed this whole subject should be prosecuted by
the institution, until all accessible information has been collected. The
Smithsonian Institution owes this to the world. The work should be done
quickly, for the plough, as well as the elements, are every year rendering
less visible the outlines and distinctive forms of these remnants of the arts
and policy of the aucient inhabitants of this continent.

Bibliographia Americana.

In the last report an account is given of the preparation of a work on
the bibliography of America, by Henry Stevens, of Vermont. This work,
it will be recollected, is to contain a brief account of every book published
in, or relating to, North America, prior to 1700, with references to the dif-
ferent libraries in this and other countries, in which these works are to be
found. The institution agreed to publish this work at its own es
provided, on examination by a commission of competent judges, it y foun.
properly executed. Mr. Stevens is now engaged in the British ¥ ae
cataloguing all the works embraced in his plan, and informs me that he
is making good progress in his enterprise.

Reports on the Progress of Knowledge.

Of the reports on the progress of knowledge proposed in the plan of
organization, none have as yet been published, though several of those
Mis.—-2
[ 120] 18

mentioned in my report of last year have been completed, or are very
nearly ready for the press. ‘The appropriations, however, for the last year
were not found sufficient for carrying out further this part of the plan.

The most important report now in progress is that on the forest trees of
North America, by Dr. Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard University.
It is intended in this work to give figures from original drawings of the
flowers, leaves, fruit, &c., of each principal species in the United States
proper, for the most part of the size of nature, and so executed as to furnish
colored or uncolored copies—the first being intended to give an adequate
idea of the species, and the second for greater cheapness and more general
diffusion.

This work will be completed in three parts, in octavo, with an atlas of
quarto plate—the first part to be published next spring. A portion of this
will be occupied with an introductory dissertation giving the present state
of our knowledge, divested as much as. possible of all unnecessary tech-
nical terms—of the anatomy, morphology, and physiology of the tree—
tracing its growth from the embryo to its full development and reproduc-
tion in the formation of fruit and seed. This will be illustrated by draw-
ings from original dissectious under the microscope, and sketches made,
in every instance, from Nature. As the work will be adapted to general
comprehension, it will be of interest to the popular as well as the scientific
reader.

Report on the history of the discovery of the planet Neptune.—The first
part of a report on recent discoveries in astronomy has been completed,
and is ready for the press. This is written by Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cam-
bridge, editor of the American Astronomical Journal. Copious references
to authorities are given in foot-notes, which will render the work interest-
ing to the professed astronomer as well as to the less advanced student.

A report has been prepared by Professor Guyot, late of the University
of Neufchatel, on the construction and use of meteorological instruments,
more particularly designed for distribution among our meteorological ob-
servers. ‘This gentleman is now engaged, at the expense of the Regents
of the University of the State of New York, in establishing a new system
of meteorology, and in instructing the observers in the use of the instru-
ments; for which service he is well adapted by his experience in a similar
undertaking in Switzerland.

‘The report on the application of chemistry to agriculture is also nearly

ready for the press. ‘This is by Dr. Lewis C. Beck, of Rutgers College,
New Jersey.

Collections.

Apparatus.—The plan of organization also contemplates the formation
of a museum of physical instruments, which may be used for experimen-
tal illustration and original research, and may serve as models to work-
men as well as to illustrate the general progress of inventions in this line.

The munificent donation of Dr. Hare has enabled us to commence this
collection with very flattering prospects. It now contains, besides the
articles of Dr. Hare, instruments for the illustration of the principles of
light, heat, and sound, procured from, Paris, and a full set of pneumatic
instruments, of superior size and workmanship, constructed expressly for
the institution by Mr. Chamberlain, of Boston; also, a number of chemi-
19 [ 120]

eal articles purchased during the last year; a set of magnetical instru-
ments, already noticed; a standard barometer and thermometers, and other
meteorological instruments, procured from Europe. It is proper that I
mention, in this place, that we are indebted to Professor Snell, of Am-
herst, for superintending the construction of a set of ingenious instru-
ments devised by himself for the illustration of wave motion. It is be-
lieved that the collection of instruments of research will, in due time, not
only form a feature of great interest, but that it will surpass in extent
similar collections in other countries.

It is intended to publish a descriptive catalogue of all the instruments,
for the use of visiters, and it may be advisable to illustrate this by wood-
cuts, particularly as we have had presented to us all the wood engravings
employed by Dr. Hare in describing his apparatus.

It is not in accordance with the plan of organization to confine the in-
struments of observation to the immediate use of the officers of the
institution, but to suffer them to be employed, under certain restrictions,
by others who are possessed of the requisite degree of skill. This prac-
tice may be attended in some cases with loss, and the breakage of instru-
ments, but the expenditure which may be incurred on this account will
probably be more than compensated by the advance to knowledge result-
ing from the adoption of the plan.

A small appropriation has been made for collections in natural history
during the past year; and, under the direction of a distinguished young
naturalist, upwards of ten thousand specimens of vertebrated animals,
principally reptiles and fishes, have been obtained. Many of these are
rare specimens from unexplored parts of our country, and a considerable
number of them consists of undescribed species. ‘They furnish the mate-
rials for an interesting series of memoirs on physiology, embryology, and
comparative anatomy. ‘The whole cost of making this collection did not
exceed $140. We are convinced, from the important results obtained by
this small expenditure, that a most valuable working collection of objects
of the natural history of North America can be obtained at a very modet-
ate outlay of funds.

Library.

During the past year the process of developing the plan of the library,
as given in the programme, has been carried out by Professor Jewett as
far as the funds which could be devoted to the purpose would allow.

Considerable progress has been made in the plan of forming a general
catalogue of all the important libraries in the United States, and Professor
Jewett has wisely commenced the preparation of a catalogue of all the
books to be found in the different libraries in the city of Washington,
including those of the several departments of the government, and in
this way he will be enabled to exhibit the importance of catalogues of
this kind. :

‘He has also devoted much time to the continuation of his researches
relative to the statistics of libraries in this country, and for an account 1n
detail of his valuable labors in this line I must refer to his report here-
with transmitted. I will also direct attention fo some important suggest-
ions in his report on the subject of the deposite of books for securing copy-
right, and the establishment of a bulletin.
[120 J 20
Museum.

The formation of a museum of objects of nature and art requires much
eaution. With a given income to be appropriated to the purpose, a time
must come when the cost of keeping the objects will just equal the amount
of the appropriation; after this no further increase can take place. Also,
the tendency of an institution of this kind, unless guarded against, will
be to expend its funds on a heterogeneous collection of objects of mere
curiosity; whereas the plan presented in the programme contemplates
complete definite collections arranged for scientific purposes, rather than
for popular display. For some suggestions on this point see page 24.

In this connexion there is one point which I beg to present to the con-
sideration of the board as one of much importance, and which, if possi-
ble, should be decided at this meeting, because on it will depend the ar-
rangement of that part of the building devoted to natural history. I al-
lude to the acceptance of the museum of the exploring expedition.

By the law incorporating this institution, “all objects of art and of
foreign and curious research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and geological and mineralogical specimens belonging to or hereafter to
belong to the United States, which may be in the city of Washington, in
whosesoever custody the same may be, shall be delivered to such persons
as may be authorized by the Board of Regents to receive them.”’

This law evidently gives to the Smithsonian Institution the museum
in the Patent Office, the conservatory of plants, and all specimens of
nature and art to be found in the several offices and departments of the
government. The act, however, cannot be construed as rendering it
obligatory on the Regents to take charge of these articles, if, in their opin-
ion, itis not for the best interests of the institution that they should do
so. ‘Though one of the reasons urged upon the Regents for the imme-
diate erection of so large a building was the necessity of providing aecom-
modation for this museum, I have been, from the first, of the opinion that
it is inexpedient to accept it.

This museum was collected at the expense of ‘the government, and
should be preserved as a memento of the science and energy of our navy,
and as a means of illustrating and verifying the magnificent volumes
which comprise the history of that expedition. If the Regents accept
this museum, it must be merged in the Smithsonian collections. It could
not be the intention of Congress that an institution founded by the liber-
ality of a foreigner, and to which he has aflixed his own name, should
be charged with the keeping of a separate museum, the property of the
United States. Besides this, the extensive museum of the Patent Office
would immediately fill the space allotted for collections of this kind in
the Smithsonian edifice, and in a short time another appropriation would
be required for the erection of another building. Moreover, all the objects
of interest of this collection have been described and figured in the vol-
umes of the expedition, and the small portion of our funds which can be
devoted to a museum may be better employed in collecting new objects,
such as have not yet been studied, than in preserving those from which
the harvest of discovery has already been fully gathered.

The answer made to some of these objections has usually been, that
the government would grant an annual appropriation for the support of
the museum of the exploring expedition. But this would be equally ob-
‘ 21 [ 120 ]

jectionable, since it would annually bring the institution before Congress
as a supplicant for government patronage, and ultimately subject it to
political influence and control.

After an experience of three years, I am fully convinced that the true
policy of the institution is to ask nothing from Congress except the safe-
keeping of its funds; to mingle its operations as little as possible with
those of the general government, and to adhere in all cases to its own dis-
tinct organization, while it co-operates with other institutions in the way
of promoting knowledge; and on the other hand, that it is desirable that
Congress should place as few restrictions on the institution as possible,
consistent with a judicious expenditure of the income, and that this be
judged of by a proper estimate of the results produced.

Lectures.

At the last meeting of the board an appropriation of five hundred dol-
lars was made to defray the expense of lectures to be given before the
Smithsonian Institution, a part of which only is expended. The first
course, in accordance with this part of the plan of organization, was by
Professor Koeppen, of Denmark, on Modern Athens. ‘These lectures were
illustrated by a number of large drawings, for the use of which the in-
stitution is indebted to the Lowell [nst:tute, of Boston. A second course
was delivered by Dr. Hitchcock, President of Amherst College, on ge-
ology, in the lecture-room of the east wing of the Smithsonian building;
and both courses were attended by large and apparently interested audi-
ences. ‘I'he results of these lectures indicate that much good may be
effected in Washington by this means of communicating knowledge. No
city, perhaps, of the same number of inhabitants, contains so many intel-
ligent and well-educated persons desirous of obtaining information, and
no point in our country is so favorably situated for the dissemination of
opinions by means of lectures as the political centre of the American
Union. Invitations have been given to a number of distinguished gen-
tlemen in different parts of the United States to favor us with courses of
lectures during the present session of Congress, and in almost every case
the invitation has been accepted. It is intended to extend these invita-
tions so as to call here in succession all who have distinguished them-
selves in literature or science. We shall not seek mere popular lecturers,
whose chief recommendation is fluency of speech or powers of rhetorical
declamation, but chiefly those who are entitled, from their standing and
acquirements, to speak with authority on the subjects of their discourse,
and whose character will tend to give due importance to their communt-
cations. Itis to be regretted that the amount of funds which can be
devoted to this object is not as great as could be wished. AA ceed af
ever, that many persons will consider the opportunity of visiting Wash-
ington, and the compliment paid by the invitation, as in part a remunera-
tion for the labor and time which their lectures may cost. But in all cases
sufficient should be allowed to defray all necessary expenses, and, as soon
as the state of the funds will permit, to reward liberally, rather Bai
wise, those who are called to assist the institution in this way. I for sp:
to publish the names of those who have consented to lecture, ae Hi
should be accidentally prevented from filling their engagement, and the

publie thus be disappointed.
[1204] 22

To facilitate the approach to the building at the time of these lectures
the walks were temporarily improved, at a considerable expense to the in-
stitution. It is hoped that the authorities of the city of Washington will
cause bridges to be erected across the canal, and walks to be constructed
through the public grounds, to facilitate the approach to the building, and
nee institution will not be expected to provide accommodations of this
cind.

Building.

The east wing of the building was taken possession of by the Secretary
in April last, and has since been constantly occupied. ‘The west wing is
now finished, and it is contemplated to occupy it temporarily as a library
until the portion of the main building intended for this purpose is com-
pleted.

The plan of the Smithsonian building was designed by the architect,
and recommended to the board by a committee of the Regents, before the
programme of organization was adopted. It is not strange, therefore, when
the building came to be occupied, that changes in the internal arrange-
ment should be deemed advisable which would better adapt it to the
wants of the institution. Such changes, at my suggestion, have. been
made; and for the propriety of these I am responsible. ‘They are princi-
pally, however, those of simplification, and in themselves add nothing to
the cost of the edifice. An increased expense, however, will arise out of
the furnishing of new rooms which have been acquired by the alterations.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary af the Smithsonian Institutian.
23 [ 120 ]

APPENDIX

TO

THE SECRETARY'S REPORT.

_ The following is a detailed account of the botanical explorations in
New Mexico and California, referred to in the report:*

Mr. Lindheimer was sent to Texas, and an account of hig collections

was published in the Boston Journal of Natural History, vol. 5. They
were made in 1845-4, near Houston, and west of the Colorado, and
have long since been distributed to subscribers.
; His collections made further west, at New Braunfels, and in excursions
in the dangerous regions westward, on the Llanos, &c., in 1845-’8, are
now in course of study by Dr. Gray and Dr. Engleman. The sets will
soon be distributed to the subscribers. It is desirable that the Smithso-
nian Institution should become a subscriber, The sets at furthest will
comprise not more than five hundred species, which, at $8 per hun-
dred specimens, willamount to $40.

Mr. Augustus Fendler was sent to Santa Fe in August, 1846, passed
the winter there, and explored the country around until August, 1847,
when he was obliged to return. (See memoir on his collections, published
in the Memoirs of the American Academy, vol. 3, new series.) The
fuller sets of these plants have all been disposed of. The largest on hand
contains only two hundred and five species, which the Secretary has taken
for the Smithsonian Institution at the usual price of $10 per hundred
specimens.

Next, aided by advances from a citizen of Boston interested in encour-
aging these scientific investigations, who advances $200 a year for three
years, Mr. Fendler was provided with the necessary outfit, and, with his
brother as an assistant, was sent to explore the great interior valley be-
tween the Rocky mountains and California, tomake his headquarters at the
Mormon city on Utah lake, and explore the surrounding regions—especially
the country south and southeast between that place aud Santa Fe, which
is entirely new ground, and bids fair to be of great interest. Meeting
with an accident near Fort Kearny, on his way out, which destroyed
much of his paper and other indispensable equipments, with a part of his
mules, he has, as I learn from accounts received, been obliged to turn
back to Independence, and is now refitting, in the hope still of reaching
his ground this autumn, so as to begin his researches early next spring.
If the Smithsonian Institution would subscribe to this enterprise the same
as the private gentleman of Boston referred to, or half that sum, it would
afford very important—indeed, I must now say, almost indispeusable—
assistance; and it would receive, in return, an equivalent share of the
Desk cfovsned china Loo piesaiy geeteten ess Me Nalipl oy clone tal SET ede Te,

*'l'his information is from Dr. Gray, of Cambridge.
[420] 24

scientific proceeds of the expedition. Fendler is a collector of extraordi-
nary aptitude and skill, and his specimens have been pronounced to be
unsurpassed in perfection.

Mr. Charles Wright started last summer from San Antonio, Texas, to
El Paso del No orte, in the southern part of New Mexico, accompanying
the United States troops. He went on his own risk and that of Dr.
Gray, aided by an advance of $125 made up by two gentlemen of Bos-
ton. It is desirable to keep him in New Mexico to explore the unvisited
regions of it for another year at least, if not fortwo or three. A subserip-
tion of $150 per year for this and next year, at least, on the part of the
Smithsonian Institution, would be a most important contribution to the
advancement of American science, and would bring this enterprise to a
suecessful issue. ‘The collections made during the present season in a
region never before visited by a naturalist are expected to come to hand,
and to be distributed, in the course of the ensuing winter.
Communication from Professor Agassiz, relative to the formation of a

Museum.

<‘As you do not contemplate forming a general museum in the Smith-
sonian Institution, but limit yourself to preserving the specimens re-
ferred to in the papers published in the Contributions, and to collecting
materials upon some few special subjects, I would respectfully suggest
that a special collection of living and tertiary shells of the United States,
and anether of embryos and young animals of all classes, be the subjects
to which you direct the attention and care of the keeper of the natural
history collections. ‘These collections should be made with special ref-
erence to the solution of some most important questions now pending in
the study of natural history.

‘Let me first point out to you the objects of a special collection of living
and tertiary shells. It is a problem to ascertain the mean annual tem
perature of the different geological periods anterior to the present condition
of our globe. Various estimates have been made, but they do not rest
upon sufficient data, Now the United States are most favorably situated for
the solution of this question. There is a shore extending north and south
over more than twenty-three degrees of latitude, along which shells are
phe common, and present a succession of remarkable changes in
their distribution and mode of association from the northernmost bound-
aries of that zone to its southern extremity, clusely connected with the
differences of climate under whose influences they live in different lati-
tudes. A more minute investigation inte the limits of this distribution,
which has already been correctly ascertained by Dr. A. A. Gould for the
northern States, would soon show such precise relations with the climate
as to enable the observer to conclude from the shells the climate, (where
he knows only the shells without mdications upon their origin) and vice
versa. What renders the United States particularly adapted for such in-
vestigations is the fact, that there is along the same shore a belt of tertiary
deposites extending over as wide a zone as the present seashore. In these
deposites shells abound; and, what is most remarkable, the older or lower
beds contain a greater proportion of species similar to those which at pres-
ent occur further south, whilst the uppermost layers contain such as are
still to be found alive in the same vicinity. Large collections of these
25 [ 120]

fossil shells, made from the different tertiary beds in different latitudes fi
Maine to Florida, judiciously | ham ics aah
Wi aatide di J y kept apart, would no doubt in time afford
S p . ea rage = ascertaining the mean annual temperature of these

ng the different periods of the tertiary times, as a series of
thermometric observations. ‘The person intrusted with the collection of
these materials should of course know the difference between the suc-
cessive beds of the tertiary deposites, and also the importance of never
mixing fossils from different beds. Nothing would contribute more
directly to advance the solution of this problem than to obtain fiom the
superintendent of the United States coast survey some soundings and
dredgings at different depths, as the shells which live about low-water
mark are very different from those which occur successively at different
depths, and such collections would contribute to establish the ratio of in-
flnence which climate has upon living beings. Species which are found
near the shores at a given point occurring also at various depths further
south, it is plain how important it would be to ascertain minutely their dis-
tribution in both directions horizontally and vertically. Such collections
should be extended to the classes of corals and echinoderms, including
in the latter the star fishes and sea urchins.

“<The other collection to which I call your attention: is a series of em-
bryos and young animals. There is no museum at present in which
there is anything like a collection of this kind, as it should be every-
where, since the importance of embryology has been fully appreciated.
Taking care that such series be put up in the Smithsonian Institution,
would'at once give to the collections of that establishment the stamp of
a true progressive scientific museum, even if it was confined to but few
branches. Embryonic collections can be made with a two fold object:
first, with a view of tracing the mode of formation and successive changes
of organs, constituting anatomical and physiological embryology; second,
with a view of comparing the changes of forms which young animals
undergo With the permanent forms of others similar to them, constituting
zoological embryology. ‘To contribute to the progress of both these
branches of embryology, distinct coliections should be made and kept as
distinct as our zoological and anatomical collections generally are. My
idea is, that an anatomical museum of preparations from embryos and °
young animals of all classes should be made at the same time as a zoolog-
ical museum of young in all ages and stages of growth, preserved whole.
Having but recently called attention to the importance there is in compar-
ing the different stages of growth of all animals in order to ascertain thei
true relative position in a natural system, there is no possibility at present
of appreciating the full value which such a collection will have for the
future. Every day I feel the want of it, and hundreds of questions,
which arise constantly since the idea has been started, cannot be settled,
simply because there are no materials at hand anywhere for comparison.
Devoting a portion of your resources to such collections would at once
give you a start before all other museums, and the time may come, even
within a few years, when that collection would be as much in advance of
all other collections, as the museum of comparative anatomy in Paris was
in advance of all similar establishments so long as Cuvier devoted his
attention to it. "The expenses would not be very great, as, in the beginning,
series made from the most common animals would be quite sufficient.
I can but repeat what I have said more than once, that the best chance
[ 120 ] 26

for making rapid progress in this, as in every other branch of natural
history, is to be largely supplied with the most common things. Hunting
for varieties kills the spirit of deep investigation. Series of skeletons,
brains, hearts, intestines, sexual organs, skins, &c., &c., of the same
common animals in all ages, for the different classes, would fully answer the
purpose. Making such collections, for instance, for the class mammalia
only from the cat or dog, the rabbit, the bat, the mole, the hog, the horse,
the sheep, goat, or cow, the opossum, would be quite suflicient. For
birds, from a hawk, a pigeon, a hen, a heron, a duck, a raven or crow, a fly-
catcher, a sparrow, a woodpecker, a humming-bird, and a parrot, would be
enough. For reptiles, froma turtle, a lizard, a snake,a salamander, anda
frog. For fishes, from a shark, a skate, a lamprey eel, &c., &c. You see
nothing rare, but complete series of anatomical preparations of young in
different stages of growth, and also complete series of these young pre-
served whole for zoological comparison. An appeal should be made
throughout the country to furnish materials. A stay of a few weeks in one
of the great centres, where hundreds of thousands of pigs are killed, would
afford invaluable materials to clear up the history of their growth, and to
establish the true relations between living and fossil pachyderms—nay,
perhaps give us the most correct outlines of those types which have be-
come extinct, and the forms of which are perhaps only preserved in our
days in some transient state of our living species. I entertain, indeed,
no doubt about the practicability of drawing correct figures of the fossil
paleotherium, anoplotherium, &c., from the embryos of our hogs and
horses.

‘There is a third point to which I would call your attention. It has
struck me that the reason why comparative anatomy is so much neglected
in this country, and scarcely at all studied by the young physicians, whilst
in Germany it is made the foundation of all medical studies, is to be
attributed to the fact that there is no text-book, no atlas of anatomical
plates, made upon materials which can be obtained on this continent, and
hence the impossibility for the beginner to make use of the works, even the
best treatises, which we now possess. A chemical, philosophical, astro-
nomical, mineralogical or geological text-book, and the necessary appa-
ratus for studying the phenomena of inorganic nature, can be and have been
imported, and found useful; as the laws which govern them are not only the
same, but the materials themselves thus concerned are identical. Not so
with animals and plants. Let a medical student in this country open
Cuvier’s wonderful papers upon the anatomy of molluscs, which have
for nearly halt a century been the models offered to our students for imi-
tation, and he will not find one single identical species here for examina-
tion or comparison. All the investigations which have most directly con-
tributed to the advancement of comparative anatomy and physiology
within the last twenty years have been made upon animals which do not
occur upon this continent, and Ido not see how American students in
general can be induced to take part in this movement unless they are pro-
vided with a set of illustrations resting upon native animals, easily ob-
tained anywhere.’’
27 [120 J

The thanks of the Board of Regents are due to the following gentlemen
who have undertaken the labor and responsibility of examining memoirs
which have been submitted to them. It is proper to observe that the
commissioners have no means of verifying, by their own experience, the
correctness of the statements presented to them for examination, and there-
fore they cannot be expected to vouch for more than the general character
of the memoir.

John Torrey, M. D., T. W. Harris, M. D.,
Colonel J. J. Abert, Professor H. Salisbury,
Lieut. M. F. Maury, Professor Gibbs,

Lieut. Charles H. Davis, J. EK. Holbrook, M. D.,
Professor Stephen Alexander, Professor Louis Agassiz,
Professor Benjamin Peirce, Professor Charles Davies,
Professor W. C. Bond, Professor Hackley,

Major A. Mordecai, Charles C. Page, M. D.,
Captain Frederick A. Smith, Right Rev. Bishop Alonzo Potter,
Lieut. M. L. Smith, Brant# Mayer, esq.,

by Gale, Wi. D:; Colonel J. D. Graham.
C. D. Meigs, M. D., T. H. Lane, esq.

A list of observers from whom monthly meteorological returns have been re-
ceived at the Smithsonian Institution during the year 1849.

MAINE.

Samuel H. Merrill, Old Town. Joshua Bartlett, Whitehead.

Milton Welch, Houlton. J. D. Parker, Steuben.
George B. Barrows, Fryeburg. Stephen Gilman, Bangor.
James G. Garland, Biddeford. S. Eveleth, Patten.

Rufus Buck, Bucksport. George Prince, Thomaston.

S. A. Eveleth, Winaham.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

William Prescott, Concord. Thomas B. Laighton, Isle of Shoals.

Robet C. Mack, Londonderry. Doctor Charles Chase, U.S. Navy,

Rev. L. W. Leonard, Dublin. Portsmouth.
VERMONT.

Rev. Zadock Thompson, Burlington. Professor W. H. Parker, Middicbury.
Charles C. Frost, Brattleboro. R. M. Manly, Randolph.
D. P. Thompson, 2fontpelier.
[120] 28

MASSACHUSETTS.

Jacob Bachelder, Lynn. James Ritchie, Duxbury.
Charles J. Gillis, Lowell. Henry Rice, Mendon.

Samuel F. Haven, Worcester. Abraham 8. Peet, Stuckbridge.
Benjamin Kent, Roxbury. Amasa Holcomb, Southwick.
Gustavus A. Hyde, Framingham. John G. Metcalf, Mendon.
William Bacon, Richmend. Thomas Bailey, New Bedford.

Professor E. 8. Snell, Amherst.
RHODB ISLAND.
Professor A. Caswell, Providence.
CONNECTICUT.
Rev. T. Edwards, New London. M. H. Cobb, North Colebrook.
Prof. Aug. W. Smith, Middletown. Doctor Ovid Plumb, Salisbury.
Professor EK. Cutler, New Haven. Charles H. Hoadly, Hartford.

NEW YORK.

L. F. Munger, Albion. Cornelius Chase, Chatham.

Kzra Parmelee, Morley. Ki. Giddings, Lockport.

C.F. Maurice, Sing Sing. John FE. Jenkins, North Salem.

E. A. Dayton, Madrid. J. W. Karle, Springville.

John Bowman, Baldwinsville. C. Strong, Oswego.

Walter D. Yale, Houseville. U.S.Naval Station, Sackett’s Harbor.
J. E. Breed, Simithville. U.S. Navy Yard, New York.

Ephraim N. Byram, Sag Harbor, William E. Guest, Ogdensburg.
Prof. Chs. B. Warring, Poughkeepsie. Albert G. Carll, Jericho, Long Island.

John Lefferts, Lodi. Professor Wetherill, Rochester.
James M. 'Tower, Waterville. J. P. Chapman, Clockville.

O. W. Morris, New York city. Jas. H. Ball, Alps, Rensselaer county.
Elisha Foote, Seneca Falls. James B. Trevor, Lockport, N. Y.
John P. Fairchild, Seneca Falls. L. A. Beardsley, South Hdmeston,
Dr. F. B. Hough, Somerville. Otsego county.

A. Hosmer, Buffulo.

NEW JERSEY.
Thomas B. Merrick, Belleville. Dr. 8. C. Thornton, Moorestown.
Jacob 8. Gary, Lambertsville. W. A. Whitehead, Newark.
Professor Adolph Frost, Burlington. John Clement, jr., Haddonfield.
R. L. Cooke, Bloomfield.

PENNSYLVANIA.

Lorin Blodget, Sugar Grove. J. F. Coorlies, Philadelphia.
A.R. McCoy, Easton. Dr. Paul Swift, Philadelphia.
Prof. J. R. Williams, Canonsburg. William A. Stokes, St. Mary’s.
Edward Fenderich, Pittsburg. Ebenezer Hance, Morrisville.

Prof. M. Jacobs, Gettysburg. I’. L. Stewart, Canonsburg.
29 [ 120]
Messrs. Edwards & Miller, Zima. Prof. 8. F. Baird, Carlisie.

C. P. Jones, Valley Forge. Dr. D. Alter, Freeport.
Freeman Lewis, Union 7owwn. L. R. Huebener, Bethlehem.
Andrew Roulston, Freeport. Prof. L. D. Williams, Aveadville.
John Jackson, Darby. Dr. Alfred Creigh, Washington.
John Wise, Lancaster. F. A. Muhlenburg, jr., Lancaster.
David Peelor, Indiana. Henry W. Thorp, Wellsboro.
Corydon Marks, Manchester. U.S. Navy Yard, Philadelphia.
Dr. H. Smyser, Pittsburg. Lieut. Joseph Reed, U.S. N., Phila.
R. P. Stevens, Ceres. Dr. J. Heiseley, Harrisburg.
Benjamin Grant, Lie.

DELAWARE.
Prof. W. A. Norton, Newark. John Burton, Lewes.

MARYLAND.
Josiah Jones, Walkersville. Isaac Bond, Sandy Hill, Montgom-
A. P. Dalrymple, ‘Nottingham. ery county.
T. C. Atkinson, Cumberland. Henry W. Thorp, Port Deposite.
Professor William Baer, Sy/esville, Carroll county.

VIRGINIA.
J.C. Wills, Heathsvitle. R. F. Astrop, Diamond Grove.
N. F. D. Browne, Leesburg. J. B. Imboden, Staunon.
Professor Frs. J. Mettaner, Prince U.S. Navy Yard, Gosport.
Edward Court House. Charles J. Meriwether, Charloties-

Benjamin Hallowell, Alexandria. ville.

B. R. Wellford, Fredericksburg. David'Turner, Richmond.
NORTH CAROLINA.

Rev. J. A. Shepherd, Lake Seup- Prof. James Phillips, Chapel Hill.
pernong. J. W. Calloway, Rutherfordion.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Dr. John P. Barratt, Barratsville. Thomas A. Elliot, Orangeburg,

J. A. Young, Camden. H. W. Ravenel, St. John’s, Berke-
Joseph T. Zealy, Orangeburg. ley county.

GEORGIA.
J. M. Cotting, Afilledgeville. R. T. Gibson, Whitemarsh Island.
Prof. C. W. Lane, Milledgeville. Charles Grant, Darien.

FLORIDA.
John Newton, Uchee Anna. Dr. John E. Peck, St. Augustine.

U.S. Navy Yard, Pensacola.
[ 120 ] 30

ALABAMA.

S.J. Cumming, Monroevil’e. Benjamin F. Holley, Weokaville.

Dr. S. B. North, Mobile. Dr. Samuel K. Jennings, rie.

Dr. Charles Frederick Percival, Benton, Lownde’s county.
MISSISSIPPI.

George L. C. Davis, Natchez. Charles A. Folsom, Gainesville.

A. L. Hatch, Vicksburg. Thomas Oakley, Jackson.

David Moore, McLeod’s post office. James H. Vincent, Granville.
E. W. Beckwith, Como, Panola county.

TEXAS.

T. C. Ervendberg, New Wied, H. Yoakum, Huntsville.
Comal county.

LOUISIANA.
D. E. H. Barton, New Orleans.
ARKANSAS.
* Philip L. Anthony, Little Rock.
TENNESSEE.
Dr. W. W. McNelly, Fuyetteville. B. F.Tavel, Dover.
Prof. James Hamilton, Nashville. U.S. Navy Yard, Memphis.
William Rothrock, Nashville.
KENTUCKY.

J.E. Younglove, Bowling Green. A. Beatty, Prospect Hil.
Mrs. L. Young, Springdale, near Louisville.

OHIO.

Professors Fairchild and Dascomb, Geo. L. Crookham, Jackson Court

Oberlin. House.
W.D. Watkins, Norton. Kugene Pardee, Wooster.
Professor W. W. Mather, Athens. Michael Beecher, Middlebury.
Dr. E. C. Bidwell, Keene. John Lea, Cincinnati.

Professor J. W. Andrews, Marietta. William Lapham, Mount Tabor.
Professor P. Carter, Granville. Dr. S. N. Sanford, Granville.
Joseph C. Hatfield, Lebanon. EF’. A. Benton, Keene, Coshocton
Prof. 8S. G. Irvine, New Concord. county.

MICHIGAN.

Charles Betts, Burr Oak, St. William A. Raymond, Deéroit.
Joseph's county. Franklin Everett, Grand Rapids.
31 [ 120 ]

Rev. George Duffield, Detroit. Dr. H. R. Schetterly, Howell,
Dr. W. M. Campbell, Battle Creek. — Livingston county.

-James G. Birney, Lower Saginaw. Dr. H. Holliston, Grand Rapids.
Thomas Whelpley, Brest.

INDIANA,

W. W. Austin, Walnut Hills. Prof. A. C. Huestis, ort Wayne.
Dr. John T’. Plummer, Richmond. Prof. 8. H. Thompson, South
B. M. Newkirk, Laporte. Flanover.

Prof. Joseph Tingley, New Castle. Dr. D. D. Owen, New Harmony.
ILLINOIS.

Rev. Geo. B. Giddings, Quincy. Silas Meacham, Monroe.
S. Y. McMasters, Alton. Norton Johnson, Alton.
Dr. W. H. Joslyn, Waukegan. William Holt, Rockford.
Prof. William Coffin, Jacksonville. Dr. S. B. Mead, Augusta.

IOWA.
T. S. Parvin, Muscatine.
WISCONSIN.

Dr. B. F. Mills, Baraboo, Sauk Rev. John Gridley, Southport.

county. Prof. S. P. Lathrop, Belozt.
James C. Brayton, Aztalan. Orrin Dinsmore, Emerald Grove.
J. A. Lapham, Milwaukie.

MINNESOTA.

Rev. Robert Hopkins, Travers des Joseph W. Holt, Fond-du-Lac.
Sioux.
BRITISH POSSESSIONS.

Captain J. H. Lefroy, Toronto, H. B. M. Military Station, S¢.
Canada West. John’s, New Foundland.
Henry Poole, Pictou, Nova Scotia.

INDIAN TERRITORIES.

P. P. Brown, Doaksville, Choctaw T.B. Van Horne, Tahlequah,
Nation. Cherokee Nation.
120) 32

SECOND REPORT OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION, RELATIVE TO THE LIBRARY—PRESENTED JAN. 2, 1850.

To the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution:

Sir: In anticipation of the annual meeting of the Board of Regents, I
beg leave to present to you the following report of operations during the
year 1849, in the department committed to my care. [

A rapid growth of the library during this period was not expected. We
had notat our disposal funds for the extensive purchase of books. But
although we have been compelled to postpone the fulfilment of our de-
sign in one of its most essential features, the delay has been improved in
making arrangements which will greatly facilitate our future progress, and
in advancing, to a degree which would not otherwise have been possible,
the plans detailed in my last report, for rendering our library a centre of
bibliographical reference.

Statistics of the Library.

Previous to the present year, the books belonging to the institution
were few, and were in the hands of the\ various officers, the Building
Committee, and gentlemen engaged in preparing memoirs for our publica-
tions. ‘They have been collected together, arranged, and prepared for
use. For the first two or three months they were lodged in a room in
the Patent Office, obligingly placed at our disposal by the Hon. E. Burke,
then Commissioner of Patents. In March, the books were transferred to
the second story ofthe eastern range of our own building, where they still
remain. ‘The spacious rooms of the western wing are now nearly ready
for occupation. Temporary shelves have been erected for the accommo-
dation of the books, and we propose soon to remove them thither.

The collection, though small, forms a respectable beginning.

The following table exhibits the number of books and other articles be-
longing to the library, including a few deposited by an individual for the
use of the institution:

-

Books - E = e é 3 - 4,238
Pamphlets = 5 as ss : * oy) ee
Engravings, in sheets or framed - . - - 15383
Maps and charts, in sheets or mounted - - - 42
Music, in sheets - u E nay = - 106
Architectural drawings - - - a . 30
Other articles, (five MSS., two medals, &c.) - - = 29

Whole number of articles - : - - - 6,578

33 [ 120}

These have been derived from the following sources:

| xt bo |g

| s|8 lg | 2

Log é z Siliw sro!"tS eae :

iy: E Balt lit dene | attest Be | s | 3

6 SI = = = oe °
I ae ed = GS A | ed | © o
| bo wy |

Purchates.....-....2-2+- 2, 316 DR ES Fi eae cope Tear | 5] (3,688
Donations. ...eee....-00. 157 695 | 47 2 IN tet ont | 30 2 953
Copyrights... .scsseviecseee | 887 35 | LO O20 OGM. 2 ieee 1,071
Deposits..... SoRee Been | ads Burke per=feees | eorarese Spall 4 60 gilése sil shin bol -D)a'oks 873

—— — — —|—_ 2a 2

| 4,233 755 | 1,383 |* 42) 106] * 30 | 29! 6,578

| \

__ The books purchased may be classified as follows:
Memoirs of learned societies, and literary and scientific

journals - - - - - - 1,062 volumes..
Works on the fine arts, including those purchased by

the Building Committee - - . -. Adsl cA
Bibliographical works - - - Wey ee PA
Scientific works purchased for the use of authors - ., 124 :

The purchases, it will be seen, have been few, for the imperative reasom
already mentioned. They do not comprise all the books in either of the
selections, which I had the honor to present last year; nor can we hope
to buy them all with even another annual appropriation. It will be-
observed, too, that some books have been bonght in other departments
than those to which the selections mentioned were confined. For a large
library, it is sometimes wise to depart from a plan of purchasing, which,.
on general principles, may have been adopted as the best. The exigen-
cies and opportunities of the book-market may not only justify but de--
mand such a departure. A collectiou of books which may have occupied
in gathering it the best years of an active life, and the constant thoughts:
of a highly cultivated mind, may be offered to us at a low price. In
buying it, we get not only the books, but the study and labor which
were necessary fer selecting and procuring them. Although, therefore,
the collection be out of the line of our immediate plans, it should not, on
that account alone, be refused. 'The temptations to swerve from an es-
tablished system are, however, fiom this source, both numerous and
strong; and good judgment is necessary to determine, in each case, the
course to be pursued.

With reference to donations, those already received are believed to be
no criterion by which to judge of our probable annual accessions from
this source. It is not generally known that we are ready to receive such
presents. No formal invitation for them has been issued. ‘The history
of all the libraries in this country is, however, singularly instructive upon
this point. More than three-fourths of all the books in our public libra-
ries are presents. Nearly the same thing may be said of some of the large
libraries of Europe. Of 435,000 volumes in the British Museum, more
than 250,000 were presented. Our situation in this respect is peculiarly
promising. 'The seat of government of the United States must have an
important and growing influence in literary affairs. There will always
be among the officers of the government, the members of Congress, and.
[ 120 ] 34

the foreign diplomatic corps, men of high attainments in science and _Jlet-
ters. Our institution will, we may hope, receive their warmest sympathy.

During the sessions of Congress, there will be also a large concourse of”

visitors from our own and other lands, whose interest is strong in learning,
and who will rejoice to find here the facilities for the gratification of their
favorite tastes. ‘There will thus, we may hope, grow up here, aside from
political circles, a literary influence like that around many of the universi-
ties of Hurope, and like that which has added so much lustre to the capi-
‘tal of Prussia. If we are true to our position, if we secure and retain the
confidence of that part of the community most interested in. our opera-
tions, we shall attract the donations and bequests of a wide and ever en-
 larging circle of the friends of science and good letters. ‘The meagreness
of our public libraries has led men of wealth and of study to collect for

themselves, in special departments, private libraries quite complete within.

the range to which they are limited. The aggregation of these libraries,

1

as they now exist, would make perhaps a better library for research than -

could be formed by the union of all our public collections. It is not .im-
probable that some of these will eventually be intrusted by their proprie-
tors to the permanent guardianship of our institution. A scholar of ade-

quate means nowliere, excepting in his own writings, presents to the;

world so good a representation of his tastes, pursuits, and attainments, as
in the collections which he makes of the writings of others. . His library
shows the friends whom he chose, the companions in whom he delighted.
It shows the range of his sympathies and the extent and minuteness of
his investigations. It is the exponent of his intellectual life. It is asso-
ciated with his severest struggles, his best aspirations, his noblest triumphs.
He shrinks from the thought of its being scattered when he can no longer
use it, and he seeks a safe depository where it may remain—the most
enduring monument that can be erected to his learning and his munifi-
cence.

{tis upon this honorable principle in the scholar’s character that ‘our
hopes are founded. Such a depository as he seeks we wish to form here.
Purchases of books, even were our whole income devoted to them alone,
would never place us on an equal footing with the scholars of Europe.
We have, however, other reliance. If we make a beginning; if we provide
room, safe custody, and the proper facilities for rendering such a collec-
tion in the highest degree subservient to its legitimate purposes, private
liberality will come vigorously to our aid.

Another source to which we may look for considerable accessions to our

‘library, and ene from-which we have, as yet, little to report, is exchanges.
The publications of the several State governments are numerous, and we
-ean, without doubt, procure most of them by exchange and donation.
“The various learned societies to which we have presented copies of our
first volume of Contributions, in thanking us for the gift, have assured us
of their intention to send us their own memoirs and transactions in return.
These will be of great value as the sources of current information in
science and literature, and will go far towards remunerating us for the
expense of our own publications. Even from libraries which put forth no
regular publications, we have been promised valuable returns.

{ herewith present a list ofall the books, maps, charts, musical compo-
sitions, &c., deposited in our library by authors and proprietors, for the
security of the copyright, in compliance with the requirement of the
10th section of the act of Congress establishing the. institution. The
35 [ 120]

whole number of volumes and other articles received, from the 10th of
August, 1846, to the Ist of January, 1849, is 1,071. Of these, 521 (viz:
389 books, 94 pieces of music, and 38 other articles) were received from
January 1 to December 31,1849. I have no means of ascertaining the
exact number of copyrights secured in the United States during this
period. 'The system of record and deposit in the clerks’ offices and State
Department is such as to render it difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain
with accuracy the statistics of this subject. The librarian of the copy-
right rooms of the State Department informs me that the number of books
annually deposited there is about 400. This cannot be more, I think,
than one half of the whole number for which copyrights are nominally
secured each year in the United States.

For the first two years and a half from the date of our charter, but few
publishers complied with the requirement of the act of Congress, so far
as our institution was concerned. During the last year, however, the
number has greatly increased; and now, we regularly receive the publi-
cations of most of the large publishing houses in the country. ‘The mere
cost of the books sent is not regarded by publishers; but the transmis- -
sion of them is sometimes troublesome and expensive. If they could be
forwarded without expense to the publishers, and if we could render the
deposite more immediately advantageous, no doubt many more books
would be sent to us.

To the public, the importance, immediate and prospective, of having a
central depot, where all the products of the American press may be gath-
ered, year by year, and preserved for reference, is very great. ‘The inter-
est with which those who in 1950 may consult this library would view
a complete collection of all the works printed in America in 1850, can
only be fully and rightly estimated by the historian and_bibliographer,
who has sought in vain for the productions of the past. ‘These publica-
tions should be kept apart from the rest of the library, in chronological
order. They should be so marked that they may be readily and surely
identified.- ‘They should be restricted to the library room, except when
required in case of dispute respecting titles; but they should be freely
accessible to all who wish to consult them in the library. Thus, in coming
years, the collection would form a documentary history of American let-
ters, science and art. It is greatly to be desired, however, that the col-
lection should be complete, without a single omission. We wish for every
book, every pamphlet, every printed or engraved production, however
apparently insignificant. Who can tell what may not be important in
future centuries?

‘<Itis in the fragments, now so rare and precious, of some alphabets, of
‘some small grammars published for the use of schools about the middle of
the 15th century, or in the letters distributed in Germany by the religious
bodies commissioned to collect alms, that bibliographers now seek to dis-
cover the first processes employed by the inventors of xylography and.
typography. It is in a forgotten collection of indifferent plates, published
at Venice by Fausto Verantio, towards the end of the sixteenth century,
that an engineer, who interests himself in the history of the mechanical
arts, might find the first diagram of iron suspension bridges. —[Libri.]

But neither the collection of copyrights at the State Department, nor
that in the library of Congress, nor our own, is complete, or approaching
[ 120] 36

completeness. Thus, the historical and bibliographical importance of each »
is greatly diminished.

To publishers it is necessary, for the security of their property, that a
certified copy of each work should somewhere be preserved. The depos-
iting of the copy in the office of the disctrict clerk for the State Depart-
ment, has been by the Supreme Court of the United States declared to
be essential to securing a valid copyright. Whether the same be true
with reference to the copies required for our institution and the library of
Congress, is a question of law which I am unable to answer. The in-
terest of publishers, as well as of the public, seems to require additional
and more explicit legislation on this subject.

in this connexion I beg leave to suggest the establishment of a monthly

bulletin, 1 which the list of all works received during the preceding
month, with the titles in full, the date of deposite, and the name of the pro-
prietor, should be printed. Copies of this might be sent to every publisher
who complies with the law. This journal might be widely and gratui-
tously distriouted among the literary institutions of this country, and of
Europe. The record would then be, as an advertisement, far more val-
uable to the proprietor than the book sent and the expense of transmission.
Although I suggest the commencement of a bulletin in this particular
connexion, L would not by any means confine it to the publication of the
lists of copyright works. It might include a scientific as well as a biblio-
grapincal department.
_ In the bibliographical department might be published: 1st. Lists of
publications deposited for the security of the copyright; 2d. Lists of ac-
cessions to the library and other collections, with the names of donors;
3d. Lists of new works published in Europe; 4th. The contents of the
current numbers of the most important reviews and journals in this
country and Europe, translating the titles of articles published in other
languages than English; 5th. Items of intelligence and short essays of
interest to book producers and readers.

This bulletin might at first be published at irregular intervals, as we-
find the materials, and it should be of such a general character as not to:
conflict with any established journal.

General catalogue of American libraries.

An important part of the plan for rendering our library immediately
useful to American scholars is the proposed general catalogue of the books
contained in all our public libraries. Lam not aware that such a thing
has ever before been atterapted on so large a scale. The Navy Department
of the French government published, a few years ago, a general catalogue
of the boédks belonging to the various hbraries (eleven in number) con-
necied with that department. This useful work is contained in five large
octavo volumes.

The French Department of the Interior, a few years ago, ordered a gen-
eral catalogue to be made of all the manuscripts in the public libraries of
France, and considerable progress has been made in the work.

But nothing like a general catalogue of ail the hbraries of a country has
ever, to my knowledge, been undertaken. It has indeed been found next
to impossible to make a catalogue of the largest library of each country.
Much less possible would it be to make a general catalogue of all the
87 [ 120,
libraries. The project, however, has lately been discussed in England,
sas appears from the report and minutes of evidence of the Select Com-
mittee of the House of Commons on public libraries. The discussion
‘may have been suggested by the plan proposed by our institution. Be
this as it may, it resulted in a strong recommendation, on the part of the
committee, of great attention to a system of catalogues, and acentral col-
lection of catalogues—obijects which would seem too obviously important to
require formal announcement, and yet which have been much disregarded.
“There are few countries, indeed, where a general eatalogue would be at
all practicable. It is not an easy task even here; but it is not impossible.
To its accomplishment, I have, during the past year, devoted consider-
able.time. ..

The plan ofthe work I gave in my last report. On this plan, fifty-

five thousand titles have been prepared from printed catalogues, and four
thousand have been transcribed.
_ The titles must, of course, partake of the imperfections of the cata-
logues from which they are derived. These are neither few nor small.
I say this not for the purpose of finding fault with their compilers:
such censure would often be misplaced and unjust. The fault for imac-
curate catalogues is frequently attributable less to the librarians who make
them, than to their employers, whose impatience will not brook the delay
necessary for the preparation of a valuable catalogue, or whose false no-
tions of economy lead them to select incompetent librarians because they
will work cheaply, or require competent ones to perform so many other
duties, that they have not time to devote to the catalogue; or, finally, who
cripple and trammel them by prescribing absurd and unsuitable systems.
Were the original registries in all our library catalogues satisfactory, a bet-
‘ter service could hardly be rendered. to learning, in this country, than by
completing and printing this general catalogue.

The work at present furnishes us with a catalogue, in one alphabet, ,of
‘the several libraries in. Washington, as well as in Cambridge. But we
hope that it will be found practicable, through the agency of the Smith-
‘sonian institution, to secure a general uniformity among the various libra-
‘Ties in the preparation of catalogues, and to establish a system of stereo-
typing them by separate titles; which will enable each library to print an-
nual editions of its catalogue, incorporating the titles of the last accessions
to the collection; and which will enable.us, by means of the same ti-
tles, to print a general catalogue of all the libraries. The adjustment of

-.all the details of such a system must, of course, be the work of time, and
it may be found impracticable for us to commence the enterprise until we
have a printing office of our own. .

Statistics of American Libraries.

In my last report, I stated that I had sent to the various librarians in
the country a circular letter containing queries intended to elicit import-
‘ant information respecting the public libraries. I had not then received a
:sufficient number of reports to warrant my presenting detailed statements.

_ During the last'year I have received alarge number of returns, and have
‘collected, from various other sources, information respecting most of the
\public libraries of the United States, which I have the honor herewith to
[120] 38

- present. I cannct suppose that this list contains all the public libraries:
in the country. Ihave reason to fear, on the contrary, that great num-
bers have been omitted, which are more important than some which have
been noticed. J have sent out, however, more than 900 circulars, have
written several hundred letters, and have endeavored to obtain full and ac-
curate statistics. But, in the vast extent of our favored land there are
almost innumerable colilections of books, which are unknown beyond the
sphere of their own usefulness. Of these it is impossible at once to gather
perfect accounts. We may hope that the publication and circulation of
the notes now collected will lead the officers of institutions, which we:
have unintentionally neglected, to give us knowledge of their existence and
character. We hope to be useful to all of them in return, and to be in constant
correspondence with them. Our own publications, and those intrusted to
us for distribution, will be to them, as we have reason to suppose, accept-
able and useful. We wish to ascertain the actual literary wealth of the-
country. This is necessary, to enable us to provide intelligently for its
wants. My investigations have not been limited to the public libraries,
though I have not felt at liberty to make detailed statements respecting
private collections. ‘These last, however, are of great value. In one sense
they are public libraries. Almost without exception, access to them is
freely allowed to all persons who wish to use them for research. The lar-
gest of all the private libraries in this country—that of our honored fellow-
citizen, Col. Force—is the almost constant resort of the students of Ameri--
can history. The liberality of private collectors of books in this country is
highly commendable. They are not “bibliomaniacs,’’ nor ‘‘bibliotaphs,”’
but men of sense and learning, who have been compelled, by the poverty
of public collections, to supply for themselves the means of pursuing
their investigations. They are not the men to be literary misers, or to
give way to mean and unscholarly envy. Happy is it for the progress of
our nation that such is the case.

These notices are not cenfined to the mere statement of the number of
* volumes and other articles in each library, but were intended to include a
historical sketch of each, a general account of the kind of works of which
it is composed, and a detailed account of many rare and valuable books and
manuscripts; with the statement of the resources, the rate of increase, and
the use made of the collection. For these details [ must, of course, refer
to the appendix. It may not, however, be out of place to insert here a
summary of the number of libraries, with their size and general character.

The whole number of libraries, (including those of the district

schools,) of which I have been able to collect accounts, is - 10,640
The aggregate number of volumes _ - - - - 3,641,765.
The whole number, exclusive of district school libraries - 644
‘The aggregate number of volumes in these - - - 2,144,069:

(These are exclusive of pamphlets, manuscripts, maps and

charts, &c.)

The number of libraries said to contain 50,000 volumes and

upwards, is but four, namely: Harvard University, (inclu-

ding the public library, 56,000; Law, 13,000; Theological,

3,000; Medical, 1,200; students’ libraries, 10,000 volumes,) 83,200
The Philadelphia and Loganian Libraries - - - 60,000
Congress Library - - - - - - 50,000:
Boston Atheneum - - - - - = 50,000
39 [ 120]

The number cf libraries containing over 20,000, (counting
with the college libraries those of societies of students con-
necied with the colleges, and ercluding the four libraries

above mentioned) * - - - - - - 1G
The number of libraries containing from 10,000 to 20,000 vol-

umes - - - - - . 38
The number of libraries coniaiming from 5,000 to 10,000 - 75
"The wholeé nuinber of libraries containing over 5,000 volumes

each - - - “ - - - 138:
Whole number of libraries containing between 1,000 and 5,000

volumes - - : - - . - A3T

These libraries may be classed as follows:

1. State libraries, including those of the general government and those:
of the State courts. Almostall the States in the Union have organized
State libraries. Those which have not, possess collections of books
which will ere long serve as the foundations of such Libraries. These
libraries are composed, to a great extent, of public documents of the gen-
eral and State governments, with works on statistics, political economy,
history, &c. Some of them, as the Congress library, the New York
Stete library, &c., take a much wider rauge, and are extremely valuable
collections for general reference.

‘The whole number of these libraries is - - - 38
‘The aggregate number of volumes contained in them is - 283,037.

2. Social libraries, including atheneums, lyceums, young men’s asso-
_ ciations, mechanics’ institutions, mercantile libraries, &c.—'These libraries:
are generally composed of popular works for reading rather than for refer-
ence. But among them are many of the best collections in the country.
"They generally contain only English books. I think, however, that any
one, looking over the catalogues of these libraries, would be surprised and.
gratified to find them so well selected. History, biography, travels, fic-
‘tion, and periodical literature, constitute the staple in most of them,
‘though many are well! supplied in almost every branch of knowledge.

I have reason to fear that the statistics which I have been able to collect
are more incomplete with reference to this than to any other class. In
‘some States, almost every town has, under some name, a social library.
Most of these collections, it is true, are very small, containing less than
‘a thousand volumes; but there doubtless are a great many, far more
considerable in size, which [ have unintentionally overlooked, but of
which [ hope hereafter to be able to give information,

“The whole number of social libraries included in the notices is  %
“Their aggregate number of volumes is . - - §62,229:

3. College libraries, (exclusive of students’ libraries.)—Our colleges
‘are mostly eleemosynary institutions. Their libraries are frequently the
chance aggregations of the gifts of charity; too many of them discarded,
as well nigh worthless, from the shelves of the donors. This is not true
_of all our college libraries; for among them are a few of the choicest and
most valuable collections in the country, selected with care and competent
learning, purchased with economy, amd guarded with prudence, though
“ever available to those who wish to use them aright.
~The number of college libraries in the notices is - Sse
The aggregate number of volumes - - - - 580,901
{ 120 ] 40

A. Studeniés’ libraries in colleges, professional schools, academies, &c.—
‘The societies formed by students in our seminaries of learning for mu-
tual improvement in debate and composition, for the most part, possess
libraries. These are generally valuable collections of books of a popular
character. Sometimes (in Yale College particularly) they are large, well-
selected, and admirably arranged and kept. Dust seldom gathers on the
books in such collections.

‘The whole number of which I have obtained statistics is - 134

‘The aggregate number of volumes - - - - 259,089
5. Libraries of professional schools and incorporated acadenvies.

Whole number reported - - - - - 222

‘Number of volumes - : - - - - 315,237
6. Libraries of learned societies, scientific, historical, &c.

Whole number - - : - - - 33

Number of volumes - - - - 143,576

7. Public school lbraries.—The State of New York has 8,070 district
-school libraries, containing - - - - 1,338,848 vols.
The State of Massachusetts has, in some 1,500 libraries 91,539
The State of Michigan has, in 374 libraries. - - AT ,220,. <<
The State of Rhode Island has, in 35 libraries - 19,631) 15°

(This State has a library in every town but three.)

_. Other States have commenced such collections, and it is to be hoped
‘that they may be greatly multiplied. They are not intended for pupils
alone, but for parents also. ‘They are composed of valuable books, de-
signed and adapted to communicate useful knowledge in a popular way,
and to cultivate all the higher elements of character. ‘These, with the:
public journals, are the true enlighteners of the people. It is impossible
to over-estimate their influence. It would hardly be possible for books of
an immoral and injurious tendency to find their way among such collec-
tions.

8. Sunday school libraries.—Of these it has not been in my power to
collect reliable statistics. ‘The number of books which they contain is
“very great. These books, though mostly for juvenile readers, are always
of ‘a moral or religious character, and they have vast influence in forming
the intellectual as well as the moral character of the people.

The comparative statistics presented in my last report, though not so
full as I desired, were sufficiently so to show the general condition of the
country in comparison to that of other countries, with reference to the ap-
paratus for extensive study, as well as to the means of a more superficial
but a widely diffused general culture and enlightenment. That some
books should be accessible to all who are disposed to read, is more import-
-ant as a means of general education, than that vast collections should be

*offered to the learned few. Our own condition is that of the wide diffu-
sion of facilities for general reading. We havea large number of libra-
ties; they are widely scattered; they are freely open to the public; the
conditions of their use are so easy that none are deprived of them who are
disposed to use them aright. Of this we may be justly proud. It is strict-
ly in accordance with the nature of our institutions that we should con-
sult first for the education and mental improvement of the great body of
the population. Our institutions are founded upon the intelligence of the
many; not upon the power, or wealth, or learning of the few. The
diffusion of knowledge is our safeguard. ‘The common school, the
Al [ 120 J

village library, the cheap free press, are the supports, the guarantees, the

champions of liberty. We shall never be found pleading for anything
that interferes with these or abridges their usefulness. It is rather in their
interest that we ask for the means of the highest literary acquisitions. The
stream cannot rise higher than the fountain; if the source be not well sup-
plied, the river fails. Teachers must have the facilities for learning; and
as the standard of education is raised, higher attainments are demanded.
from teachers—attainments which cannot at present be made in this coun-
try by the aid of our public institutions. I use the word “‘teachers’’ in
its widest acceptation, including all who attempt to instruct the public. It
is in the appliances for thorough study, for original research, for inde-
pendent investigation, that we are deficient. If a studious and reflecting
American desires to review the history of the world, or some portion of

~ it, from his American position, unless he be able to expend thousands of
dollars in the purchase of books, he must abandon his design, for he can-
not procure them from our public collections.

‘There has recently appeared from the American press, written by aa
American scholar, one of the most comprehensive, profound, and elegant
works which has ever been published in the department of literary his-
tory. We receive it with patriotic pride. But this work could be written,
in this country, only by one who was able to procure for himself the ne-
cessary literary apparatus. The library of the author contains some 13,000
volumes, and in the department of Spanish literature is one of the richest
in the world. Our object is to provide that every man in America, though
he be poor, whose mind kindles with a great theme, may be able to pur-

sue it and enrich our national literature with the results of original inves-
tigations. It is sometimes said, in reply, that if any one desires books not
already to be found, he may order them from Europe, and receive them
in six weeks or two months. But the scholar may be, and generally is,
poor. If not, he cannot, from the outset, foresee the extent of the field
“over which he must range, the side-paths which he must trace out in or-

der to settle the true route; he will thus be subjected to great delay in as-
certaining and collecting his materials. But the ordering of books is a
very different matier from what is generally supposed. If the book be a
new one, still in the market, it may be received within afew weeks; but
‘if, as is the case with two-thirds, or perhaps nine-tenths of the books
which may be needed, it be an old work, and only to be found at long in-
tervals and by diligent search, the case is very different. His order will
be answered only by the phrase, ‘‘out of print.’”? He may order again,
and receive for reply, ‘“‘cannot be obtained.’’ ‘This will be his experience

“till he devotes years to gathering his materials, or till, discouraged by his
ill success, he abandons his design and sinks down to be a mere copyist
and compiler; to take his opinions at second-hand, from perhaps superfi-
cial and prejudiced writers—the only ones to whom he can gain access.
We are thus, as a nation, condemned to literary dependence, if not imbe-
cility.

The government, and the educated men of every State in Europe, have

* felt the importance of having at least one library in each country, where
“the materials for thorough scholarship should be garnered, and opened to
“the studious; yet no nation in Europe is in a situation so much demand-

ing such a collection as ourselves. If Roscoe could not obtain, as has

*been stated, in Enzland, the books which he wanted for writing the his-
[ 120 ] 42

tory of Leo X, it was comparatively easy for him to cross the channel and
consult larger collections on the continent; but for our authors a voyage of
several thousand miles, and the expense of a residence abroad, are almost.
insurmountable barriers to literary exertion.

To lay the foundations ofa large library is nota short nor an easy task.
Few persons, even among learned men, estimate its difficulties aright.
Much timeand labor must be expended with but small immediate results.
Patience and toil must be exercised by those intrusted with the task, and
tolerated, if not appreciated, by the public. ‘The history of similar insti-
tutions must be studied in order to avoid their mistakes, and profit by
their successful experience. Lists of books must be made by a diligent
study of the literature of every department of knowledge, and a wide con-
sultation with men profeundly acquainted with each. Plans must be
formed, not merely for the moment, and to meet temporary exigencies;
but such as are capable of indefinite extension; suchas will not require to
be remodelled even when the library is expanded to its greatest magni-
tude.

How much expense, delay, mortification, and complaint might have
been spared, had the directors of the large libraries of Europe, from the:
outset, foreseen and provided for the ‘great enlargement of these estab-
lishments.

The large public library is, in truth, a modern, a new institution. It
is only within the last half century that the uses of such libraries have:
been fully understood and appreciated, and the method of forming and
conducting them studied upon true principles, and with satisfactory re-
sults. The public libraries of the ancients, and those of later times,
down nearly to the present century, were, as aids to learning, or means of
popular progress in knowledge, not to be compared with those of our own.

ay.
Books, as Voltaire has well said, rule the whole civilized world. But
so rapid has been of late years the multiplication of them, that few
scholars indeed can procure, by their own private resources, all that they
need for their investigations. Yet, with the multiplication of books has
increased the number which it is necessary for every one to consult who
would not be behind the age in his learning. Hence public libraries have-
become an indispensable requisite to the attainment of liberal scholarship.
The books in a public library cannot, however, be so well known to any
particular student as those of his own shelves, nor can they be equaily
accessible to him; for he is not the only one who has a right to them, nor
is it his convenience alone that is to be consulted. Hence arises the im-
portance of so arranging, cataloguing, and keeping the library, as to facil-
itate the researches of each, without prejudice to the claim of any, or to:
the transmission of the privilege unimpaired to others. ‘That the meet-
ing of all these demands is no light matter, may be inferred from the fact
that it has been made the serious study of some of the ablest minds in
Kurope; that its principles have been in Germany so thoroughly dis-
cussed and reduced to system, as, within the last twenty years, to have
claimed admission into the family of the sciences.

It was in view of considerations like these, that the plans of the Smith-
sonian Library were made to embrace the early accumulation of works
for bibliographical reference on all branches of learning; the collection of
information respecting existing libraries of this and of other countries;
43 [ 120 ]

the opening of a correspondence with these libraries for the interchange
of opinions, and for mutual aid and encouragement, 18 well as the novel
and important project of forming a central catalogue of all the different
works to be found in the public, and, as far as practicable, the private
‘libraries of the country.

Nothing of course can fully compensate for the want of books; but
while we are gathering them slowly, and waiting for the means of more
rapid accumulation, these plans will, it is believed, promote the immedi-
ate usefulness of our institution, and prepare the way for the ampler reali-
zation of our hopes with respect to it in the future.

Respectfully submitted.

C.C. JEWETT.

January 1, 1850.
[ 120 ] 44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITU-
TION, AT THEIR FOURTH ANNUAL SESSION, COMMENCING WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 2, 1850. ,

Adjourned meeting of the third annual session of the Board of Regents,
for the purpose of clecting a Chancellor.

Marcu 7, 1849.

The board met at 10 o’clock a. m., in the Vice President’s room, in
the Capitol, agreeably to adjournment.

Mr. Seaton was called to the chair.

Present: Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fillmore, Hilliard, Mason, Seaton, and
Totten.

The chairman stated the object of the meeting to be to elect a Chan-
cellor in the place of Mr. Dallas, whose term of office as Regent had ex-
pired. On the ballot being counted, it appeared that Mr. Fillmore was
unanimously elected.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was unanimously

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary be requested to commu-
nicate to the Hon. George M. Dallas the high appreciation entertained by
the board of his services as a Regent—particularly during the period.
of the organization of the institution—their thanks for the manner in
which he has discharged the duties of presiding officer of the institution,
and. their respect for his character as a gentleman and a scholar.

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was unanimously

Resolved, That the Secretary inform the President of the Senate that a
vacancy exists in the Board of Regents by the expiration of the term of
Mr. Pearce, of the Senate.

The board then adjourned sine dic.

FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE BOARD.
Wepnespay, January 2, 1850.

This being the day appointed for the annual meeting of the Regents,
the board met at half-past twelve o’clock, in the eastern range of the
Smithsonian building.

Present: Messrs. Davis, Fillmore, Mason, Rush, Seaton, and Totten.

Mr. Fillmore, Chancellor of the institution, took the chair.

The proceedings of the last meeting, held March 7, 1849, were read.
and approved.

Professor Henry, the Secretary, stated to the board that since the last
meeting, the Hon. Mr. Pearce, of Maryland, had been appointed a Re-
gent from the Senate of the United States, and that there were now three
vacancies in the board to be filled from the House of Representatives.
‘The Secretary also stated that his report on the operations of the institu-
tion was ready to be laid before the board, but as the new members
45 [ 120)

would probably be appointed in a few days, he would suggest that the
reading of it be deferred until the next meeting.

Mr. Seaton, chairman of the Executive Committee, stated that this
meeting occurred too soon after the close of the fiscal year to permit the
accounts to be made up, and requested that his report be postponed until
the next meeting.

General Totten, chairman of the Building Committee, made a similar
request.

‘No objection being made, the presentation of these reports was deferred
until the next meeting. '

In answer to a question from the Chair, the Secretary stated, in general
terms, what business would occupy the attention of the board at this:
session.

On motion of Mr. Seaton,
The board adjourned, to meet on Friday, 11th inst., at 11 o’clock a. m.

January 11, 1850.

The Board of Regents met this day, agreeably to adjournment, in the
Smithsonian building.

The meeting was called to order by Mr. Seaton. The Chancellor being
absent, on motion of Mr. Seaton, Mr. Pearce was called to the chair.

The Secretary announced to the board that the Hon. Mr. Hilliard, of
Alabama, Hon. Mr. Colcock, of Georgia, and Hon. Mr. Fitch, of Indiana,
had been appointed Regents from the House of Representatives. These
gentlemen appeared and took their seats at the board.

The members then present were Messrs. Colcock, Davis, Fillmore,
Fitch, Hilliard, Mason, Pearce, Rush, Seaton, and Totten.

The proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.

The report of the Secretary of the institution was presented and read.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That the report of the Secretary be recorded, and form a part
of the report of the Regents to Congress.

Mr. Seaton, on behalf of the Executive Committee, presented a report
oi the financial condition of the institution, and stated that the report was
complete thus far, and that the portion relating to appropriations for the
ensuing year would be presented at another time.

Gen. Totten presented the report of the Building Committee.

_ On motion of Mr, Pearce, it was ordered that these reports also be
recorded.

_ The Secretary suggested that the journal of the meeting of the establish-
ment beread. It was accordingly read.

| On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

_ Resolved, That the honorary members of the Smithsonian Institution
be, and are hereby, invited to att@nd the meetings of the Board of Regents
whenever they may think fit; and that the Secretary communicate to the
present honorary members, and from time to time to such persons as may
be elected honorary members, this resolution and invitation of the Board
of Regents. ,

Mr. Davis presented, by request, a proposition of Mr. Harmon, of Ohio,
for the encouragement of architecture.
[ 120] 46

This proposition was, on motion of Mr. Davis, referred to the Secretary
and Executive Committee. ;
Mr. Rush presented a letter from Harrison Hall relative to the purchase

of books; which was laid on the table.

The Secretary stated that he had received a note ‘from the Hon. Abbott
Lawrence, United States ambassador to Great Britain, concerning a
communication from H. P. Bohn, offering for sale, at the price of thirty
guineas, a small portrait of James Smithson, now in the possession of Mrs.
Fitall, widow of a servant of the late Mr. Smithson.

This communication having been read,

On motion of Mr. Mason, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to purchase the portrait of
the late Mr. Smithson, spoken of by Mr. Lawrence in his letter of 10th of
December, 1849.

On motion of Mr. Davis, the board adjourned, to meet on Saturday, the
18th instant, at 11 o’clock a. m.

SaTuRDAY, January 18, 1850.

Several of the Regents met this day, agreeably to adjournment. A
quorum not being present, the meeting adjourned. to the 22d instant.

Tuespay, January 22, 1850.

The Board of Regents met, agreeably to adjournment, at half past 6
o’clock p. m., in the Smithsonian building.

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Hilliard, and Pearce.

The Chancellor called the meeting to order, and the proceedings of the
last meeting were read and approved.

The first business in order being Professor Jewett’s report on the Libra-
ry, the same was presented by the Secretary, ane ordered to be read: it
was accordingly read, and ordered to be printed.

A letter was presented by the Secretary, from Rev. N. Paddock, re-
questing the co-operation of the Smithsonian Institution with an Educa-
tional Institution proposed to be established in the city of Washington—
together with the proposed answer of the Secretary: in which answer the
board concurred,

A list of Chinese boeks for sale, and an accompanying letter from the
Hon. Caleb Cushing, were laid before the board, read, and referred to the
Secretary.

The proposition of Mr. Harmon, of Ohio, relative to architecture, was
called up: no action, however, was taken upon it, and the board adjourned,
to meet on Saturday, 26th instant, at 10 o’clock a. m.

Saturpay, January*26, 1850.

The Board of Regents met this day at 11 o’clock, agreeably to adjourn-
ment.

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Davis, Hilliard, ason, and Pearce. _

The Chancellor took the chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting
Were read.

The Secretary called the attention of the board to the astronomical ex
AT [ 120].

pedition of Lt. Gilliss, and a letter was read from him, dated at his station
near St. Jago, Chili. ‘The information thus placed before the board con-
cerning the object and progress of the expedition, made apparent the im-
portance of furnishing Lieut. Gilliss with improved instruments. _

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Mason, it was

Resolved, 'Vhat the Secretary be directed to furnish Lieut. Gilliss with
instruments for facilitating his physical and astronomical observations in
Chili, at an expense not exceeding one thousand dollars.

The consideration of Mr. Harmon’s plan for the encouragement of archi-
tecture was then resumed and discussed; when, on motion of Mr. Hilliard,
it was

Resolved, 'That the Secretary be instructed to report on the scheme sub-
mitted by Mr. Harmon for the improvement of architecture, exhibiting
such features of the scheme as may be found to be within the plan of or-
ganization adopted for the operations of the Smithsonian Institution.

The Secretary presented to the board a list of the names of gentlemen
who had undertaken the labor and responsibility of examining memoirs
and propositions submitted to the institution.

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Davis, it was

Resolved, Vhat the Secretary be requested to address a letter to each of
the gentlemen named, and convey to them the thanks of the Board of Re-
gents for their assistance in carrying on the operations of the institution.

Mr. Davis presented a communication from Charles B. Wells, esq.,
relative to a series of archeological researches made by himself in Peru,
and requesting the assistance of the institution in their publication, which
was referred to the Secretary.

A letter was presented from Daniel Peirce, detailing a method of edu-
cating the Indian tribes, which was also referred to the Secretary.

The Secretary called the attention of the board to the engagement ex-
isting between the institution and Hiram Powers, relative to the purchase
of his statue of the Greek Slave, which subject was referred to the Secre-
tary, with the understanding that he would communicate with Mr. Powers,
or his agent, for the purpose of effecting an alteration in the terms of the
contract.

The Secretary made a verbal report, on the progress made by Henry
Stevens in the compilation of the ‘‘ Bibliographia Americana.”

He also presented a letter from Pierre Margry, of Paris, requesting the
assistance of the institution to enable him to publish his researches upon the
history of the ancient French colonies in North America; which letter
was referred to the Secretary, for a reply, in accordance with the rules
adopted by the board.

On motion of Mr. Davis, it was

Resolved, That the board adjourn, to meet on Saturday next at 10
clock a. m.

Whereupon the board adjourned.

Frepruary 2, 1850.

F The following gentlemen attended, agreeably to adjournment, viz:
Messrs. Davis, Fitch, Seaton. .

No quorum being present, the meeting adjourned to the 9th inst., at 10
o'clock a.m.
[120] 48
Freerudry 9, 1850.

The Board of Regents met, agreeably to adjournment, at 11 0’clock a.m.

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Hilliard, Pearce, and
Seaton.

The Chancellor took the chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting
were read.

A verbal report on the proposition of Mr. Harmon, of Ohio, for the im-
provement of architecture in the United States, was made by the Secre-
tary, accompanied by a synopsis of the plan. He stated that he considered
no part of Mr. Harmon’s plan to be absolutely at variance with the pro-
gramme of organization, but he was not clear with regard to its practical
application, and the propriety of its adoption. It might, however, be sub-
mitted to the public through the Regents’ report to Congress.

The following is a synopsis of the plan referred to:

PART FIRST.

1. Invite architects to send to the institution designs for building.

2. Reter these to a commission, comprising at least one practical archi-
tect.

3. The examiners to select from the number submitted, those of a cer-
tain degree of merit, to be honored with a place in the gallery.

4. The accepted designs to be re-executed, in a uniform and attractive
style of art, before being placed in the gallery, and undersigned by the
name of the architect.

PART SECOND.

1. Invite building committees, or others charged with the erection of”
public buildings, to send to the Smithsonian Institution, specifications,
limit of cost, and amcunt of premium offered.

2. The Secretary"to advertise, in the usual form, for designs, and to
refer them to a commission of competent judges, one of whom to bea
practical architect.

3. From among the designs submitted, the commissioners to select a
few of the best and return them to the Building Committee, stating their
preference, if any.

4. The plans of extraordinary merit, selected from among the designs
submitted, shal! be entitled to a place in the prize gallery.

5. 'Vhe expense of the commission for making the estimate, and adver-
tising, shall be paid from a percentage on premiums accompanying the
specifications.

6. A person well skilled in practical building to be employed, and the
designs adopted, to be submitted to him for a correct estimate of the cost.

This synopsis being considered, the first article of the first part was
adopted, after being amended by Mr. Davis, to read as follows:

fesolved, 'That architects be invited to send in designs for buildings,
and that notice be given that models of ancient or modern architecture
will be received by the Smithsonian Institution, and that such designs or
models, at the discretion of the Regents, will be placed in the gallery of
art. .

The second and third articles were struck out; and, on motion of Mr.
Fiteh, it was

Resolved, 'That the fourth article be referred to a committee consisting.
of the Secretary and Mr. Seaton, with instructions to ascertain from Mr.
49 [ 120 ]

Harmon what is his plan of re-executing the architectural drawings, and
the probable cost; and that the remainder of the synopsis be laid upon
the table.

The Secretary laid before the board the resignation of General J. G.
Totten as a member of the Building Committee, which was accepted.

The board proceeded to fill the vacancy, and Mr. Davis was elected.

A map of the public grounds west of the Capitol was laid before the
Regents, and their attention called to the recommendation of a general
plan for improving the mall.

The Secretary directed the attention of the board to a part of the build-
ing contract which required elucidation, and requested that they would
express their opinion as to the sum to be paid annually to the contractor;
whereupon the following preamble and resolution, offered by Mr. Fillmore,
(Mr. Pearce being in the chair,) were adopted:

The Board of Regents having examined the building contract, for the
purpose of determining its true construction:

Resolved, That, in the opinion of this beard, the contractor is only enti-
tled, in each year, to forty-one thousand dollars for work done during that
year, deducting therefrom 15 per cent., which is to be paid him at the end
of the five years, with 6 per cent. interest.

The Secretary presented a report from Professor C. C. Jewett, on the
subject of copyright, which was referred to a committee consisting of
Messrs. Davis, Mason, and Pearce.

The board then adjourned to the 23d instant, at 10 o’clock a. m.

Frpruary 23, 1850.

The Board of Regents met this day.

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Bache, Fitch, and Seaton.

A quorum not being present, it was agreed to adjourn to Saturday,
March 2, 1850.

Marcy 2, 1850.

The Board of Regents met this morning at 10 o’clock, in the Smith-
sonian building. en

Present: Messrs. Bache, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Hilliard, Mason, Pearce,
and Seaton.

In the absence of the Chancellor, Mr. Seaton was called to the chair.

The proceedings of the last meeting being read, the committee on
Mr. Harmon’s plans of architectural drawings made a report, which was
read and adopted. ; ' l

Mr. Davis moved that the further consideration of the fourth article of
Mr. Harmon’s synopsis be indefinitely postponed, which was carried.

Mr. Davis then offered the following resolution, which was adopted:

Resolved, That, although the board do not deem it expedient to adopt
Mr. Harmon’s plan of executing architectural drawings; yet, for the pur-
pose of placing in the institution a specimen of a peculiar art of drawing
architectural designs, the Executive Committee be authorized to engage
Mr. Harmon to execute the elevation of the Smithsonian Institution in
his peculiar style, with a view to placing itin the institution, if the Re-
gents shall, 4B ir a approve of so disposing of it.

is.—
[ 120 ] 50

The Secretary brought before the board the subject of ai accident
which had happened since the last meeting, in the unfinished part of the
building. He stated that, at about 6 o’clock p. m., on Tuesday, the
abth ult., a portion of the interior framing and floors of part of the main
building, intended to contain the museum of apparatus, fell down into thie
basement. He had himself just before left the ground; but as soon as he
heard of the occurrence he returned to the building, and after ascertain-
ing the charaeter of the accident, he addressed a letter to the architect, in
New York, requiring his immediate attendance. He next gave directions
that the part of the building containing the fallen timbers should be closed,
and that everything should remain in the same condition until the arrival
of the architect. Mr. Renwick reached Washington on Thursday morn-
ing, February 28. Immediately afterwards, a meeting of the Building
Committee was called, at which the state of the work was examined,
and a request made that the architect, superintendent, and contractor
should each furnish a report on the cause of the accident.

‘These reports were presented to the board, and the following resolution,
offered by Mr. Fitch, was adopted:

ftesolved, 'That the Building Committee be requested to take under
consideration the reports of the architect, superintendent, and contractor,
on the subject of the late accident; that they associate with them Profes-
sor Bache, General Totten, the Secretary of the mstitution, and some
competent and entirely impartial architect or architects; that they make a
survey of the whole building, report the manner, faithfulness, and se-
curity in which the building contract has hitherto been executed, and
upon the plan most proper in their estimation to repair the damages and
finish that portion of the building in which the accident happened, and
other unfinished portions thereof.

The board ther adjourned, to meet again at the call of the Secretary.

Avrit 20, 1856.

The Board of Regents held a meeting this day, at the call of the Sec-
retary, at 10 o’clock a. m., in the Vice President’s room at the Capitol.
Present: Messrs. Bache, Davis, Fillmore, Fitch, Mason, and Seaton.

The Chancellor being in the chair, the proceedings of the last meeting
were read.

The Secretary made a communication from Mr. Harmon, in which he
requested to substitute a view of another building for that of the Smithso-
nian Institution inmaking the drawing, in his style, for the gallery of art.

On motion of Mr. Davis, the subject was laid on the table.

The committee, on the part of the Regents, charged with the examina-
tion of the building, consisting of the Building Committee, together with
Messrs. Bache, 'lotten, and the Secretary, made a report, including the
report of the commission of architects appointed to examine the building;
also the remarks of James Renwick, jr:, architect, upon the same.

On motion of Mr. Fitch,

Resolved, ‘Vhat the report of the committee on the building, and the ac-
companying documents, be recommitted for such further action as may be
deemed necessary. Also, }

Resolved, That the Building Committee be directed to take legal advice
as to the power possessed by the Regents, under the contract, and the
51 [120 J

course to be pursued should it be found necessary to declare it void; and
that notice thereof be given to the contractor.
On motion of Mr. Bache,

Resolved, 'That the thanks of the Board of Regents be transmitted to
Hon. E. G. Squier, esq., United States chargé d’atffaires at Guatemela, for
the gift of aboriginal relics recently made by him to the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

On motion, the board adjourned, to meet at the call of the Secretary.

June 1, 1850.

The Board of Regents met this day, at the call of the Secretary, at 11
o'clock a. m., in the Smithsonian building.

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Fitch, Hilliard, Pearce, Seaton, and Totten.

The Chancellor took the chair, and the proceedings of the last meeting
were read.

The Secretary laid before the board a proposition from Francis Markoe,
esq., relative to the deposite in the Smithsonian building of his cabinet
of minerals, with a view to their future purchase.

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Colcock, it was

Fiesolved, ‘That the board decline the proposition of accepting the de-
posite with the view to a future purchase.

The Secretary stated that the portrait of Smithson, which was ordered
to be purchased at a previous meeting, had been received from England;
and also, that five volumes of an Encyclopedia, formerly the property of
James Smithson, had been purchased through the Hon. Abbott Lawrence.

Cn motion of Mr. Davis, it was

Resolved, That the thanks of the board be returned to the Hon. Abbott
Lawrence, for the attention he has given to the interests of the institution
abroad.

On motion of Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary and chairman of the Executive Committee
be appointed a committee, whose duty it shali be to report a system of
keeping and disbursing the funds of the institution.

The Secretary next brought before the board a proposition to ask Con-
gress to receive from the institute $150,000, to be funded as an irre-
deemable 6 per cent. stock, to be added to the principal of the Smithso-
nian bequest.

The following resolutions in reference to this, offered by Mr. Seaton,
were adopted:

Resolved, That the Chancellor and Secretary be authorized to sell
200,000 of stock of accrued interest, or any part thereof, not less than
$150,060, the proceeds to be deposited to the eredit of the Chancellor and
Secretary, subject to be drawn at any time, with Coreoran & Riggs, at
not less than 4 per cent., provided they shall give security therefor, in
United States stock.

Resolved, That whatever the premium on the above stock, when sold,
shall amount to, it be deposited, subject to be drawn for the current ex-

enses of the institution, on requisition in the usual form.

Resolved, That it is expedient to enlarge the permanent fund of this
institution, by the investment of such sums, not exceeding $200,000, as
may have been or shall be received for accrued interests, or otherwise, 11

\
[ 120 ] 52

addition to the principal sum of the Smithsonian bequest, augmenting
the principal sum to that amount; and that application be made to Con-
gress to receive such sums, not exceeding $200,000, as may have been
or shall be received for accrued interest, or otherwise, into the United
States treasury, upon the same terms on which the original bequest has
been received.

On motion of Mr. Pearce,

Resolved, That the Secretary be requested to communicate a copy of
this resolution to Congress, and to request that provision be made by law,
in accordance therewith.

The Secretary next brought forward the subject of the contract for the
building. The letter of J. M. Carlisle, esq., the counsel employed to
give an opinion of it, was read.

On motion of General Totten, it was

Resolved, That the committee on the building be authorized to negoti-
ate a compromise with the contractor relative to the defective work and
materials in the Smithsonian building, and also with regard to a modifi-
cation of the contract, subject to the approval of the Board of Regents at
their next meeting.

The Secretary laid before the board a volume of magnetical and mete-
orological observations, made at l'oronto, Canada, and presented to the
institution by the British government. ‘The board being informed that
the duration of the ‘Toronto Observatory is limited by law, on motion of
Mr. Seaton, it was

Resolved, 'Vhat the Chancellor and Secretary be requested to acknowl-
edge the receipt of the volume, with the expression ef the hope of this
board that Her Majesty’s government may find it expedient to continue
an institution of such utility to science.

On motion, the board adjourned, to meet at the call of the Secretary.

Juty 3, 1850.

The board met this day, at the callof the Secretary, in the Smithsonian
building, at 9 a. m.

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, Hilliard, Mason,
and Pearce.

The Chancellor tock the chair.

Mr. Lenox, elected mayor of Washington, and ex-oflicio Regent of
the Smithsonian Institution, appeared and took his seat.

The journal of proceedings of the last meeting was read and approved.

The Secretary presented the final report of the committee charged with
the examination of the building, which was read as follows:

Final report of the Committee of the Regents charged with the examin-
ation of the building.

Under the resolutions of March 2 and of April 20, 1850, offered by Mr.
Fitch, and also the resolution of June 1, 1850, offered by General Totten,
the committee charged with examinations relative to the building submit
the foliowing report:

In accordance with the first resolution of Mr. Fitch, the committee as-
sociated with themselves three disinterested architects, viz: Col. Wil-

*
53 [ 120]

fiam Turnbull, of the United States topographical engineers; Edward
B. White, esq., of Charleston, South Carolina; and John,R. Niernsee,
esq., of Baltimore, Maryland. These gentlemen were highly recommended
as practical architects and engineers, of established reputation, and the
committee have full confidence in their experience, judgment and integrity.

The committee are indebted to the Hon. Alexander Evans, of Mary-
land, for an examination of the building, with reference to a comparison
of the different reports; and to Mr. Joel Downer, for an additional inspec-
tion and opinion as to the character of the timber and wood-work. In
accordance with the second resolution of Mr. Fitch, they have also taken
legal advice as to several points of the contract.

After a careful study of the reports of the contractor, superintendent, Mr.
Renwick, the commission of architects, and of Mr. Evans, also the written
opinion of their legal adviser, the committee have unanimously arrived at
the following conclusions, which they respectfully submit for the con-
sideration and action of the board.

1. That the workmanship of the cut-stone of the exterior is good, and
the masonry generally, though in some respects not of the best quality, is
of a passable character with reference to the terms of the contract.

2. That the interior of the main building is defective in the kind of
materials originally adopted, and to a considerable degree in the quality
of the materials employed. These consist principally of, wood, and are
not of a proper character for a building intended to contain valuable de-
posites, many of which will be donations to the institution, presented with
the imped condition that they are to be properly secured against danger
from fire. ‘This mode of construction was probably adopted by the origi-
nal Building Comimittee, in order to lessen the cost of the edifice, and to
‘bring it within the sum appropriated by the board. ,

3. Although the committee are anxious to save the accrued interest,
and to devote it to objects more in accordance with the spirit of the be-
quest than the erection of a costly building; yet, they would recommend
that the interior work of the centre building, as now existing, be removed,
and that there be substituted for it a fire-proof structure, in accordance
with the plan recommended in the reports of Mr. Renwick and of the
commission of architects.

4. The completion of the building on this plan, according to the esti-
mate of the commission, requires an additional outlay of about $44,000.
To meet this additional expense, the committee recommend the adoption
of the suggestion of their chairman, Col. Davis, that. the exterior of the
building and the interior of the towers be completed in accordance with
the plan, and within the time specified by the contract, and that the re-
mainder of the interior be finished agreeably to the new plan, in the course
of a number of years, and in such portions as can be paid for out of the
annual interest of the Smithsonian fund, not otherwise appropriated. ‘The
object of this part of the proposition is to prevent the derangement of the
plan of finance originally proposed by Dr. Bache, and adopted by the
Board of Regents, viz: of saving out of the accrued and accruing inter-
est, after paying for the building, the sum of $150,000, to be added to
the prineipal.

5. By the addendum to the contract, the Regents have the power of
stopping the building at any stage of its progress, on paying the contract-
or prorata for the work done, according to the prices specified in the con-
[ 120 J 54

tract, and allowing for reasonable damages, if the circumstances require
the payment of them. The estimates in this case are to be made by the
architect of the institution, or other architects selected by the Regents.
But with reference to the quality of the work which has been done, it is
the opinion of the legal adviser of the committee that the decision of the
architect of the building is final, both with regard to the Regents and the
contractor.

6. In accordance with the forementioned stipulations of the contract,
the-committee have requested Mr. Renwick to furnish an estimate pro rate
for completing the whole exterior of the building, and the interior of the
towers, making deductions for materials and workmanship which he would
have condemned, had the building been completed according to the ori-
ginal plan. ‘The following is the decision of the architect, which has beem
agreed to by the contractor, with the understanding that nothing is to be
paid him on account of profit on work omitted by the proposed change,
Viz:

For finishing the whole exterior of the building, all the inte-
rior rooms of the towers and of the wings, the sum of - $185,154

7. he committee recommend to the Board of Regents that they agree
to this proposition, and that a resolution be adopted directing the contract-
or to proceed with the work in accordance therewith. In recommending
this course to the board, the committee act in conformity with the advice
of two of the commission of architects, viz: Mr. E. B. White and Mr.
J. R. Niernsee, who undertook the examination in detail of the,parts of
the building, and gave an estimate as the basis of an equitable settlement.

8. By adopting the above sum of $185,154, us the amount to be paid
to the contractor, Mr. Renwick gives the following estimate of the cost of
finishing the building in accordance with the fire-proof plan, viz:

Amount of proposed contract - - - - $185,154
Eixpense of fire-proofing the centre building according to plans

and estimates of the architects - - - - 44,000
Plastering centre building, : { $8,000
Gallery fronts, eer common } 2,000
Staircase of Library and Museum, ( to both plans.  ) 425
Furniture of do. do. | L 4,700

- ) 15,125

I'xtra cartage - - - Seraiye - 200

Materials now on the ground, but which may not be used - 1,000

Total expense of the building, including fire proofing - - 245,479

—-

9. The original contract, with the addition made to it by direc

tion of the Building Committee, is - - - $209,810
Add the estimate of fire- proofing . - - - 44,000

ee

Thus we have for the cost of the building, according to the es-
timate of the commission — - - - - - 253,810

Nore.—The foregoing estimates are exclusive of the salaries of the architect and super
intendent; also of the cust of the improvement of the grounds and partof the furniture.
55 [ 120 ]

This last. sum is greater than the preceding, by 48,331. The differ-
ence, according to the statement of Mr. Renwick, is due to the various de-
ductions he has made on account of defective materials, imperfect work-
manship, and changes in the plan.

In conclusion, the committee are fully of opinion—and in this they are
sustained by the commission of architects—that, by adopting the plan of
fire-proofing proposed by Mr. Renwick, and the proposition of the con-
tractor, the building will be rendered safe and durable, at a very reason-
able cost, considering the amount of work which has been bestowed
upon it.

The committee do not consider it necessary to offer any remarks on the
cause of the accident which led to these investigations. If these recom-
mendations be adopted, the whole structure of the interior of the main
building, in which the accident occurred, will be exchanged for one
more in accordance with the permanence and utility of the edifice; and in
this case they will consider the accident as a fortunate event.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

JEFFERSON DAVIS, Chairman.
W. W. SEATON.

A. W. HILLIARD,

JOS. Go POTPREN:

ALEX. D. BACHE.

JOSEPH HENRY.

On motion of Mr. Pearce, it was

Resolved, That the report of the committee of the Board of Regents
charged with the examination of the building, presented this day, be ac-
cepted; and that the Building Committee be directed to proceed with the
work, in accordance with the recommendation thereof.

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Davis and amended by Mr.
Fitch, was adopted:

Resolved, That the Executive Committee he authorized to advance to
the contractor within the year ending 19!h March, 1851, in addition to
the sum which he is now allowed to expend upon the building within the
aforesaid year, the sum of $17,989, in proportion to work done in addition
to what would otherwise have been done, and on condition of his paying
interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum upon the said advance from
the time at which he receives it to March 19, 1851.

The committee, consisting of the Secretary and chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee, to whom was referred a resolution directing them to report
a system of keeping and disbursing the moneys of the institution, reported
the following resolutions; which were read, and on motion adopted:

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint an assistant, to
act as treasurer, to take charge of the funds for the current expenses of
the institution, who shall give security for the safekeeping of all money
belonging to the institution which shall come into his possession:

That the funds before mentioned be deposited, until otherwise ordered,
with Messrs. Corcoran and Riggs, to the credit of the treasurer of the
institution: t ;

That all bills presented for payment shall be audited and certified by
the Secretary, on whose order the treasurer shall pay them:
[ 120 ] - 56

That the treasurer report to the Secretary, monthly, all payments made
by him during the preceding month:

That all the monthly accounts be examined and certified by the Execu-
tive Committee quarterly.

That the account-books be kept in the Smithsonian building, so that
the Secretary and Executive Committee may have ready access to them:

The Secretary then nominated Mr. Seaton as a suitable person to per-
form the duties of treasurer, and the nomination was unanimously con-
firmed by the board.

The Secretary stated to the board that Mr. Seaton would accept the office
of treasurer, but would not consent to receive any compensation for his.
services.

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Mason, was unanimously
adopted:

Kesolved, 'Vhat the thanks of the board be, and they are hereby, tendered
to the Hon. W. W. Seaton, late mayor of the city of Washington and ex-
officio Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, for his able and valuable
services as a member of the board, now terminated by the expiration of
his term of office as mayor of Washington.

On motion, the board adjourned, to meet on Friday morning, 5th instant,

at 9a. m.

Jury 5, 1850.

The Board of Regents held a meeting this day, at 9 a. m., in the east
wing of the Smithsonian building.

Present: Messrs. Fillmore, Colcock, Davis, Fitch, and Lenox.

The Secretary stated that vacancies in two committees of the board were
occasioned by the retirement of Mr. Seaton; whereupon, on motion of Mr.
Fitch, it was

Resolved, "That General 'Totten be appointed a member of the Executive
Committee.

Also, on motion of Mr. Davis, it was

Resolved, 'Tnat Mr. Lenox be appointed a member of the Building
Committee.

The Secretary stated that, in order to the development of the plans of
the Institution, it was necessary that additional assistants should be ap-
pointed. With the officers now engaged, little more could be done than to
attend to the general correspondence, which now extends to every part of
the world, and the details of business, which have been continually
increasing. The labor of reading manuscripts and attending to the press,
would almost occupy the time of one individual. He therefore requested
that he be allowed to appoint an assistant secretary in the department of
natural history, to take charge of the museum and aid in the publica-
tions, &c.

On motion of Mr. Davis, it was

Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to appoint an assistant sec-
retary in the department of natural history, to take charge of the museum,
and to render such other assistance as the Secretary may require, ata
salary of fifteen hundred dollars per annum.

‘The Secretary thereupon appointed Professor Spencer F'. Baird
the foregoing resolution; and, on motion, the board approved ”
ment.
BY [ 120]

The Secretary then stated that Dr. Edward Foreman had been engaged
during the past year as a general assistant; that he had been elected pro-
fessor of chemistry in the National Medical College of this city, the duties
of which, however, did not materially interfere with his labors in the
Smithsonian Institution; and the Secretary requested that his connexion
with the institution might be placed on a more permanent basis.

Whereupon, on motion of Mr. Fitch, it was

Resolved, 'That the Secretary be authorized to appoint a general assist-
ant, at a salary of twelve hundred dollars per annum.

The Secretary thereupon, under the foregoing resolution, appointed
Dr. Edward Foreman; and, on motion, the board approved the appoint-
ment.

The following resolution, offered by Mr. Coleock, was adopted:

Resolved, 'That a sum not exceeding twenty thousand dollars be appro-
priated for the current expenses of this year; the objects of the expendi-
ture to be those designated in the programme of the institution, and the
allowance to each to be fixed by the Hixecutive Committee.

The Secretary presented to the board a plan, by Professor Jewett, for
stereotyping or electrotyping catalogues of libraries, by ¢it/es, in a uniform
style, and of forming a general stereotype catalogue of the public libraries
of the United States. ‘The Secretary stated that this was a proposition
which appeared to him of great importance in carrying out the objects of
the institution, and in rendering available the aids to literary labor now
in our country. He suggested that the proper course would be to refer
it to the Secretary and Executive Committee, to be referred by them toa
commission of literary gentlemen for examination.

On motion, the subject was referred to the Secretary and Executive
Committee.

On motion, the board adjourned, to meet again at the call of the Secre-
tary.

Meeting of the Establishment of the Smithsonian Institution.

Since the adjournment of the board, a meeting of the establishment, or
of the Smithsonian Institution proper, was called by order of the President
of the United States, and in compliance with the suggestion of the Board
of Regents. The principal object of the meeting was the election of a
number of honorary members. The following is a copy of the record of
this meeting:

Aveusr 1, 1849.

A meeting of the establishment of the Smithsonian Institution was held
this day, at 5 o’clock p. m., in the eastern range of the Smithsonian
building. Me

Present: Zachary Taylor, President of the United States, and ex officio

President of the institution.
John M. Clayton, Secretary of State.
Wm. M. Meredith, Secretary of the Treasury.
Jacob Collamer, Postmaster General.
Thomas Ewbank, Commissioner of Patents.
W. W. Seaton, mayor of Washington. — ee
Joseph Henry, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
[ 120 ] . 68

The President took the chair.

This being the first meeting of the establishment, the Secretary gave
an account of the institution, of the plan of organization adopted by the
Board of Regents, and of the progress made in carrying the several parts
into operation.

The chairman of the Executive Committee gave to the meeting an ac-
count of the disbursements of the institution and the state of its funds.

The following gentlemen having been recommended by the Regents
and officers of the Institution, and being duly considered by this meeting,
were, on motion of Mr. Meredith, unanimously elected honorary members
of the Smithsonian Institution, viz:

Dr. Robert Hare, of Philadelphia.
Albert Gallatin, of New York.

Dr. Benjamin Silliman, of Connecticut.
Washington Irving, of New York.

On motion of Mr. Clayton, it was

Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to draught and re-
port by-laws and regulations for the future meetings of the establishment.

Whereupon, the President appointed Mr. Clayton, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. Seaton, the committee.

On motion of Mr. Collamer, the Secretary of the institution was added
to the said committee.

On motion, the meeting then adjourned, to meet again on the call of
the President.

Letters have been received from the gentlemen elected, signifying their
acceptance of the appointment, acknowledging the honor conferred upon
them, and stating their willingness to assist in advancing the objects
of the institution.

Since the meeting, one of the distinguished gentlemen chosen as hon-
orary members of the institution has departed this life, full of years and
honor—namely, the Hon. Albert Gallatin—distinguished for his attain-
ments in several branches of science, and his additions to the sum of
human knowledge. He took a lively interest in the establishment of this
institution, and was particularly active in furthering the publication of the
first volume of its Contributions. 'Though we lament his departure, it is
a matter of satisfaction that he lived to receive the testimony of the
highest honor which the Smithsonian Institution could bestow upon his
worth.

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Lo the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution :
The Executive Committee submit to the board the following report of

the expenditures, state of finance, &c., of the Smithsonian Institution:
"
a 59 [ 120 ]

The whole amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the United
States treasury was $515,169. The interest which had accrued on the
same up to July L, 1846, was $242,129, making in all $757,298.

The Regents were authorized to expend on the building the $242,129
which had accrued in interest, together with such portions of interest on
the original bequest as might remain unexpended in any year. They
concluded, however, to limit the whole expenditure on the building and
the grounds to a sum not exceeding $250,000; and, in order that this
might not exhaust the accrued interest, it was resolved that this expendi-
ture should not be made at once, but in the course of five years, and that
in the mean time the sum of $242,060, authorized to be expended on the
building, should be invested so as to yield an interest which might in part
serve to defray the expense of the building. 'To carry out this plan, the
$242,000, with the addition of accrued interest sufficient to make up the
sum of $250,000, were invested in treasury notes; and in order that the in-
stitution might not be a loser by a possible depreciation of these notes, the
contracts for the building were made payable in them at par value or in
specie, at the option of the Regents. Up to this time, only $50,000 of
these notes have been disposed of. They have thus been made to yield a
constant interest, besides increasing in value on account of the rise in gov-
ernment securities. The whole expenditure since the commencement of
operations to the present time, is $199,157 21; the whole of which has
been made from the accruing interest on the fund and the sale of $50,000
of notes above mentioned.

The fillowing is a synopsis of the present state of the finances of the
institution:

Amount of Smithson’s bequest - - - - $515,169 00
Interest due thereon to July 1, 1546 - - - 242,129 00
757,298 OO
Balance on hand January 1, 1850 - - : - $8,277 35
Treasury notes funded - - - - - 200,000 00
Permanent fund — - - - - . - 515,169 00
Present rate of United States loan, 112 per cent.; there-
fore add - - - e - - 24,000 00

747,446 35
From this should be deducted, for accounts not rendered - 6,000. 00

741,446 35

The whole amount paid on the building and grounds up to this time
is $134,876 21. :

From this it appears that, after paying for more than one-half of the build-
ing, carrying on the operations of the institution, collecting a library and
philosophical apparatus, the sum originally intrusted to the Regents has
only been diminished by less than $16,000. The object of this scheme
of finance is to increase the original fund, which, though sufficient to
establish a library and a museum, is found inadequate to meet the
demands which result from the comprehensive plan of organization
which has been adopted. The result has thus far been so successful,
[ 120 ] 60

that there can now be no doubt that, if the same plan be continued until the
end of the five years, and the funds do not greatly depreciate, there will
remain the sum of $150,000 in accrued interest to add to the principal.
‘To secure this desirable end without the possibility of failure, it may be
now advisable to petition Congress to receive from theSRegents the sum
of $150,000, and place it with the original principal stim, never to be ex-
pended, and to complete the building out of the remaining funded notes
and the accruing interest.

WW SEATON,

ALEXANDER D. BACHE,

JAS. ALFRED PEARCE.

REPORT OF THE BUILDING COMMITTEE.
Wasutneron, January 2, 1850.

The Building Committee have the honor to report as follows:

In the great desire of the contractor to get the whole Smithsonian build-
ing under roof before winter, the progress thereon during the year just
elapsed has been rapid—that object having been fully attained before the
occurrence of severe weather. The Building Committee deemed this re-
sult so important for the protection of a large amount of masonry and wood
work, that they participated in this desire of the contractor; and did not
hesitate to permit an expenditure on the building somewhat larger than
the year would have been entitled to under the project of extending the
process of construction through a period of five years. Itmust not, how-
ever, be supposed that the expenditures have exceeded the portion of the
building fund liable to expenditure under existing resolutions. The por-
tion of this fund thus liable up to the 19th of March next, reckoning from
the beginning, is $146,000; the aggregate expenditure on building and
grounds now falls short of that sum $10,678 83—which last sum must
therefore be the limit of expenditure in the interim—that is to say, from
the Ist of January to the 19th March, 1850.

Should the Board of Regents leave the project of a five-years course of
construction undisturbed, it will be necessary to lessen, for the next two
years, the rate of expenditure on the building. On the other hand,
should circumstances lead the board to desire an earlier completion than
has heretofore been contemplated, the advanced state of the building re-
sulting from the labors of the past year will be in lucky accordance with
such change of policy.

Besides carrying up the walls of the main cell of the building, and fin-
ishing its roof, the central front towers and the four corner towers of the
main building are carried up as high as the walls of the main building—
the central rear tower being 30 feet high.

‘The architect reports that the stones for the unfinished portions of the
building are nearly all quarried; and that the stone-cutting for the cam-
panile south, and two north towers, is nearly completed.

The east and west wings, and ranges, are finished, except some few
matters of detail, and are ready for occupation. ‘The workmen are now
fitting the west wing with bookeases, for a temporary library; and the
west connecting range, for uses connected with the library.

During the past year, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the in-
stitution, and under the advice of the architect, the committee have
61 [ 120]

caused the following alterations to be made in the interior arrangement of
the building:

The original lecture-room, in the east wing, proving to be entirely too
small, the adjoining apparatus and laboratory rooms were removed, and
the whole wing formed into one large lecture-room, provided with seats
for one thousand persons. By this arrangement, the apparatus rooms in
the east connecting range are in close proximity with the lecturer’s table;
with which, also, direct and easy communication will be had from the
large apparatus museum mentioned in the sequel.

This lecture-room, thus enlarged, being capable of containing as many
persons as the lecture-room which was originally designed to occupy about
half the lower story of the main building, the latter has been dispensed
with, and the space thus obtained divided—giving a room of 6550 feet
as a depository of physical apparatus, and throwing the remaining space
into the library.

Besides a manifest gain of useful room by this alteration, it tends to
security against fire—since the lecture-room, and the researches and ex-
periments connected with it, will be iu a separate wing, easily cut off from
alJ the other parts of the structure, by fire-proof doors of iron.

Another change of internal arrangement is as follows: The two stair-
ways, that in the original plan were carried up between the middle north
front towers and the main building, have been dispensed with, and the
space they occupied added to the library; as also the central hall; and, as
before said, a portion of the former lecture-room. By these several altera-
tions, the library has been nearly doubled in area, and a spacious museum
obtained for physical apparatus. ‘lhe central staircase of the north front
will now be carried up within one of the front towers.

The changes above mentioned in the interior of the building will be
accomplished, on agreement with the contractor, at an extra cost of $100.

It must be considered, however, that the large addition to the library
room will require a large addition to the library equipment and furniture.
But as it must be many years before the contents of the library can spréad
beyond its limits, as first planned, and provided for in the contract, the
committee would consider it unwise now to incur any portion of this con-
siderable expense. lin

A clere story to the long upper room, or museum, of the centre building,
has been adopted by the committee. The architect states that this was
originally contemplated by him, and was explained at the time the con-
tract was made. The committee understand that the adoption of the re-
commendation was left to further consideration. They were satisfied,
however, that it was a necessary modification; the great length of this
room—nearly 200 feet—being out of all proportion to the low pitch of 27
feet, originally contracted for. The additional amount for which Mr.
Cameron, the contractor, engages to carry out this improvement, is $2,350.

No other alterations have been made in the building, and the commit-
tee think no others will be needed: none, at least, that will involve much
expense. *

The arrangement of the west wing and range for a temporary library
and reading-room, has entailed an expense of $372, which should prop-
erly, perhaps, be charged to the library fund. It has, however, been
comprised in the following statement of expenditures:
F260 1, - 62

The total amount expended on the building, and on the
fencing of the lot, including superintendence and all in-
cidental expenses connected therewith, up to Ist Decem-
ber, 1847, was, ag then stated - - -

The amount expended on the building and its appurte-
nances, from the Ist of December, 1847, to the 31st of
December, 1848, was, as stated in the last annual report,

Total expended on the building, &c., up to the 31st De-
cember, 1848 - - - - - -

The expenditures on the building and its appurtenances
during the year 1849 have been as follows:

Paid Mr. Cameron, contractor forthe building, $50,300 00

Paid Mr. Renwick, architect, as salary - 1, 800 00
Paid Mr. Renwick for travelling expenses = - 266 15

Paid Mr. Renwick for expenses of architect’s
office, including incidental expenses of the

same, stationery, pay of draughtsman, &c., 268 25
Paid Mr. Brown, as superintendent, one
year’s salary . - - - 750 00
Paid Messrs. Culver & Co. for three furnaces, 786 11
Paid Mr. Barrows for one furnace - - 349 52
Paid Mr. Cassiday for three scrapers - - 3 75
Paid Mr. Beckert for recoloring east wing —- 50 00
Paid Mr. Buckingham for plumbing - - 12 00
For additional furniture of library, - $60 47
ce. (<4 “ce 50 15
5 ce ce 95 ore)
ce a4 ce 176 Qs
ce ce ce 319 62
Paid also for temporary library furni-
ture - - - - 372 00 b
1,004 09
Paid Mr. Cameron for extra work on
building - - - - 21 50
Do do do 31 62
— 53 12
Paid Mr. Cameron for coal - - - 39 72
For improvement of grounds—
Mr. Douglass for trees, &c. - 520 00
Mr. S. Bryan for plank road - 62 00
Mr. Cameron, for road-ma-
king - . -45 43
a3 ce 56 2
101 55
a 683 55
Paid for hack-hire for Building Committee - 17 50

56, 383 76

ian nee ee ae

—_

78,987 AL

—

63 [ 120 ]

Amount expended on the building and its appurtenances up
to the 3lst December, 1848 - - - - $78,937 41
Amount expended on the same during the year 1849 - 56,383 76

Total amount expended on the same up to the end of the
year 1849 - - - - - -*135, a21. 17

At the annual meeting in December, 1847, it
was resolved that there should be considered
applicable to the building and grounds (in-
cluding preceding expenditures) up to the
19th day of March, 1848, the sum of - 42,000 00
And for the year ending March 19, 1849, the
further sum of — - - - - §2,000 00
And for the year ending March 19, 1850, the :
further sum of - - - - 52,000 00 f
—————. $146, 000 09
But, as shown above, the total expenditures to the end of
1549 has been - - - - - - 135,321.17

Leaving, of the building fund, a balance applicable between
the Ist of January and 19th of March, 1850, of  - - 10,678 83

The furnaces that have been set up in the building for heating the
rooms have not proved satisfactory to the architect, nor to the persons
who have occupied some of the rooms. He reports that they do not dif-
fuse the heat equally throughout the rooms—that while some apartments
are highly heated, others cannot be made comfortably warm; owing, as
he thinks, to the difficulty in conveying the heated air horizontally. He
also objects to the number of fires which are necessary in the use of
furnaces, and has advised that the other portions of the building should
be warmed with steam. The committee have requested the architect to
obtain full and definite information of all circumstances involved in the
use of steam as suggested by him, and to furnish a report such as will
enable a judgment to be formed of its adaptation to our purposes, and of
- itsrelative cost. ‘The Secretary of the institution is also engaged in some
inquiries of the same nature.

The work entitled ‘Hints on Public Architecture,’’ authorized to be
published by the Building Committee, has been issued, and is submitted
to the inspection of the Regents.

The amount expended being somewhat beyond the amount appropri-
ated by the Board of Regents, the committee requested an explanation
from the Hon. R. D. Owen, who had superintended the publication of the
work. That gentleman states that the landscapes of the lithographs at first
executed were so badly done as to be unfit for the press; and that though
the lithographer who engraved the building was the only one who would
undertake the architectural portion, he did not prove suificiently expert-
enced in landscape drawing, to render that part of the plates either
artistical or effective—this portion was, therefore, re-drawn by another
lithographer, at an additional expense of $30: that the remainder of the
additional expense was incurred by the necessity of altering the size and
form of many of the wood-cuts, in order to enable them to come properly

be:
[ 120 ] 64

into the letter-press; that this was an unforeseen expense, and could not
have been ascertained before the work was about being set up in the print-
ing office: that he was compelled to make the alterations in the cuts, or to
destroy the beauty of the pages cf the book. ‘These additions to the cost
of the work having materially enhanced its beauty, the committee hope
the Board of Regents will sanction the course of the Committee in
paying the extra charges.

The committee now present a statement of the expenditures as yet in-
curred, or pledged on the building and grounds, and chargeable to the
building fund of $250,000, heretofore set apart.

Total amount appropriated for building and grounds - $250, 000
Amount of Mr. Cameron’s contract - - $205, 250 00
Architect’s salary for five years : - 9,000 00
Superintendents aid draughtsmen for 5 years, 5,000 60
Incidental expenses allowed architect - 2, 000 00
Facing areas with cut-stone - - - A480 00
Building battlements to cloisters - - 200 00
Additional apparatus cases - e- : 200 00
Hedging and planting : - - 1,050 00
Furnaces already put up - - - 1,135 63
Addition of clere-story tomuseum — - ° 2,350 00
Alteration of stairway, &c. - - - 100 00
Chimneys added to the east wing” - - A400 00
Sodding ground near building - - 100 00

Heating central building with steam, inclu-
ding cellar for boiler and as a coal vault—

approximate etsimate of the architect - 3,200 00
Additional furniture and incidental expenses—

say - - - - . 1,600 00
—_____———— _ 231, 465 63

Leaving, as applicable to unforeseen expenses connected with
the building or grounds, the sum of . - - 18,544 37

A contract made with Mr. John Douglass, jr., for planting and cultiva-
ting trees and shrubs within the Smithsonian grounds, and another
with the same person for planting and cultivating hedges along the margin
of the same, not having been complied with on his part, have been annul-
led by the committee. The committee are sorry to say, that from these
failures the year just past may be considered as almost wholly lost, as re-
spects the establishment of trees or hedges. They look, however, for better
results from their future arrangements of this nature.

JOS. G. TOTTEN,
W. W. SEATON,
H. W. HILLIARD.

TIPLE DLXXMHT.

rr

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

TITLE LXXIIL.

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

Sec. Sec
5579. Incorporation of the Institu- | 5587. Library.
tion. 5588. Evidence of title to site and
5580. Regents. buildings.
5581. Appointment of regents. 5589. Protection of property.
5582. Organization of Board. 5590. Appropriation of interest.
5583. Duties of Secretary. 5591. Acceptance of other sums.
5584. Salary and removal of Secre- | 5592. Disposal of unappropriated
tary, &e. money.
5585. Special meetings of members. | 5593. Disbursements.
5586. Reception and arrangement of | 5594. Right of repeal.

PREAMBLE. James Smithson, esquire, of London,

specimens and objects of art.

Will of James
S

Smithson.

in the kingdom of Great Britain, having by
his last will and testament given the whole of
his property to the United States of America,
to found, at Washington, under the name of
the “Smithsonian Institution,’ an establish-
ment for the increase and diffusion of knowl-
and the United States
having, by an act of Congress, received said

edge among men;

property and accepted said trust; therefore,
for the faithful execution of said trust, accord-
ing to the will of the liberal and enlightened
donor,

Sec. 5579. The President, the Vice-President,

the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treas-

Incorporation
f the institu-
tion.
4. SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

3, shy. 9,p, Ury, the Secretary of War, the Secretary of the
ot, March. 171, Navy, the Postmaster General, the Attorney Gen-
eral, the Chief Justice, the Commissioner of the
Patent Office, and the Governor of the District
of Columbia, and such other persons as they may
elect honorary members, are hereby constituted
an establishment, by the name of the ‘ Smithso-
nian Institution,” for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men; and by that name
shall be known and have perpetual succession,
with the powers, limitations, and _ restrictions

hereinafter contained, and no other.

_Seen's| Sec. 5580. The business of the Institution shall
wae Y-% P- be conducted at the city of Washington by a
1 vipse- 2) ~Board of Regents, named the Regents of the
eee? * Smithsonian Institution, to be composed of the
Vice-President, the Chief Justice of the United
States, and the Governor of the District of
Columbia; three members of the Senate and
three members of the House of Representatives ;
together with six other persons, other than mem-
bers of Congress, two of whom shall be resident
in the city of Washington; and the other four
shall be inhabitants of some State, but no two of

them of the same State.

Appointmentof SEC. 5581. The Regents to be selected shall be

regents.

7d Ang. 18850. appointed as follows: The members of the Senate

tee by the President thereof; the members of the
House by the Speaker thereof; and the six other
persons by joint resolution of the Senate and

Honse of Representatives. 'The members of the
TITLE LXXIII.

House so appointed shall serve for the term of
two years; and on every alternate fourth Wed-
nesday of December a like number shall be
appointed in the same manner, to serve until the
fourth Wednesday in December, in the second
vear succeeding their appointment. The Sena-
tors so appointed shall serve during the term for
which they shall hold, without re-election, their
office as Senators. Vacancies, occasioned by
death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled as
vacancies in committees are filled. The regular
term of service for the other six members shall
be six years; and new elections thereof shall be
made by joint resolution of Congress. Vacan-
cies occasioned by death, resignation, or other-
wise may be filled in like manner by joint resolu-
tion of Congress.

Sec. 5582. The Regents shall meet in the city
of Washington and elect one of their number as
Chancellor, who shall be the presiding officer of
the Board of Regents, and called the Chancellor
of the Smithsonian Institution, and a suitable
person as Secretary of the Institution, who shall
also be the Secretary of the Board of Regents.
The Board shall also elect three of their own
body as an executive committee, and the Regents
shall fix on the time for the reguiar meetings of
the Board; and, on application of any three of
the Regents to the Secretary of the Institution,
it shall be his duty to appoint a special meeting
of the Board of Regents, of which he shall give

Organization of

board.

Ibid.
6

Duties of Sec-
retary.

Salary and re-
moval of Secre-
tary, &c.

Ibid.

_ Special meet-
ings of members.

Ibid.,s. 8.

Thid., s. 7, p.
105. >

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

notice, by letter, to each of the members; and,
at any meeting of the Board, five shall constitute
a quorum to do business. Each member of the
Board shall be paid his necessary traveling and
other actual expenses, in attending meetings of
the Board, which shall be audited by the execu-
tive committee, and recorded by the Secretary of
the Board; but his service as Regent shall be

gratuitous,

SEC. 5583. The Secretary of the Board of Re-
gents shall take charge of the building and
property of the Institution, and shall, under their
direction, make a fair and accurate record of all
their proceedings, to be preserved in the Institu-
tion; and shall also discharge the duties of libra-
rian and of keeper of the museum, and may, with
the consent of the Board of Regents, employ

assistants.

Src. 5584. The Secretary and his assistants shall
respectively receive for their services such sums
as may be allowed by the Board of Regents, to be
paid semi-annually on the first day of January
and July; and shall be removable by the Board
of Regents whenever, in their judgment, the

interests of the Institution require such removal.

Sec. 5585. The members and honorary mem-
bers of the Institution may hold stated and special
meetings, for the supervision of the affairs of the
Institution and the advice and instruction of the
Board of Regents, to be called in the manner
TITLE LXXIII.

provided for in the by-laws of the Institution, at
which the President, and in his absence the Vice-
President shall preside.

Sec. 5586. Whenever suitable arrangements
can be made from time to time, for their recep-
tion, all objects of art and of foreign and curious
research, and all objects of natural history, plants,
and geological and mineralogical specimens, be-
longing to the United States, which may be in
the city of Washington, in whosesoever custody
they may be, shall be delivered to such persons
as may be authorized by the Board of Regents
to receive them, and shall be so arranged and
classified in the building erected for the Institu-
tion as best to facilitate the examination and
study of them; and whenever new specimens in
natural history, geology, or mineralogy, are ob-
tained for the museum of the Institution, by
exchanges of duplicate specimens which the
Regents may in their discretion make, or by
donation, which they may receive, or otherwise,
the Regents shall cause such new specimens to
be appropriately classed and arranged. The
minerals, books, manuscripts, and other property
of James Smithson, which have been received by
the Government of the United States, shall be
preserved separate and apart from other property
of the Institution.

Sec. 5587. The Regents shall make, from the
interest of the fund, an appropriation, not

exceeding an average of twenty-five thousand

Reception and
arrangement of
specimens and
objects of art.

Ibid., 8. 6.

Library.
Ibid,,s, 8,
8 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

dollars annually, for the gradual formation of a
library composed of valuable works pertaining to
all departments of human knowledge. [See §
94, 99, 100. ]

Evidence of SEC. 5588. The site and lands selected for

title to site and

— buildings for the Smithsonian Institution shall be
a’ ™ deemed appropriated to the Institution, and the
record of the description of such site and lands,
or a copy thereof, certified by the Chancellor and
Secretary of the Board of Regents, shall be
received as evidence in all courts of the extent
and boundaries of the lands appropriated to the

Institution.

pe rotection of Suc. 5589. All laws for the protection of public
Ibid.,s.5. property in the city of Washington shall apply
to, and be in force for, the protection of the
lands, buildings, and other property of the
Smithsonian Institution. All money reeovered
by or accruing to, the Institution, shall be paid
into the Treasury of the United States, to the
credit of the Smithsonian bequest, and separately

accounted for.

Approfriation Suc. 5590. So much of the property of James

of interest.

iid 8: 2, p- Smithson as has been received in money, and

3 6. 2) ¥. Md p. paid into the Treasury of the United States,
being the sum of five hundred and forty-one
thousand three hundred and seventy-nine dollars
and sixty-three cents, shall be lent to the United
States Treasury, at six per centum per annum
interest, and six per centum interest on the trust

fund and residuary legacy received into the
TITLE LXXIII.

United States Treasury, payable in half-yearly
payments, on the first of January and July in
each year, is hereby appropriated for the per-
petual maintenance and support of the Smith-
sonian Institution; and all expenditures and
appropriations to be made, from time to time, to
the purposes of the Institution shall be exclu-
sively from the accruing interest, and not from
the principal of the fund. All the moneys and
stocks which have been, or may hereafter be,
received into the Treasury of the United States,
on account of the fund bequeathed by James
Smithson, are hereby pledged to refund to the
Treasury of the United States the sums hereby
appropriated.

SEc. 5591. The Secretary of the Treasury is
authorized and directed to receive into the
Treasury, on the same terms as the original
bequest of James Smithson, such sums as the
Regents may, from time to time, see fit to deposit,
not exceeding, with the original bequest, the sum

of one million dollars.

Src. 5592. The Regents are authorized to
make such disposal of any other moneys which
have accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, as inter-
est upon the Smithsonian fund, not herein appro-
priated, or not required for the purposes herein
provided, as they shall deem best suited for the

promotion of the purpose of the testator.

Src. 5593. Whenever money is required for
the payment of the debts or performance of the

eo)

Acceptance of
other sums.

5 Feb., 1867, c.
34,8: 1, ve 4; pi
391.

Disposal of un-
appropriated mo-
ney.

10 Aug., 1846, c.
378; 8:95 Vv. 95D.
105.

Disbursements.

Ibid., 8. 3, p.
103.
10

Right of repeal.

Dpide se Lie ep:
106.” p

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

contracts of the Institution, incurred or entered
into in conformity with the provisions of this
Title, or for making the purchases and executing
the objects authorized by this Title, the Board of
Regents, or the executive committee thereof,
may certify to the Chancellor and Secretary of
the Board that such sum of money is required,
whereupon they shall examine the same, and, if
they sball approve thereof, shall certify the same
to the proper officer of the Treasury for pay-
ment. The Board shall submit to Congress, at
each session thereof, a report of the operations,

expenditures, and condition of the Institution.

Sec. 5594. Congress may alter, amend, add
to, or repeal any of the provisions of this Title ;
but no contract or individual right made or
acquired under such provisions shall be thereby
divested or impaired.
ceca.
x < “c

vat acco
aces rc <a SS,
aS << SS. Pane
CHE que. EAS
a. Kc. <

EE
ES

Sic KE, i
fa. <a a

AGATA

AR

ANE

ans’ Ant
aia

A
f

EE
de El a
EC Ci EE"
i SE iy

\

Wh

Ninn

ann

oA

WANN
Naat fe

AN

AK

AA

<
<<

AANA,
A

in RINE Ow AT A

a
A
A

A
A

AAA
anh
A
A
AA
AR
AANA

A

A

A
-A7AAAAAA AA

UNA
PAADA
NNAWAn

'

ANAAN

TAA
nf
\
Somso

A
A

td

yn
inal
Aan

n\

<

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

“willl! oa

3 9088 01421 6121 it a

Lote.

ee a

So Par a a
a a BA! iN,
a ne ee 5 Pew hea
retytahy a Wein e
»), senha arate ya sty

| pees Seen

| eee 8 6 8
7 ee ce “ a% ae
aa a8 maths

a ay

oh meee

ee * y € 4 . *,' a

ee ae a, “ BS * % « ween a’ 1 eatats
} NE Datta A

ee) ‘*
ke . oa 8 Matas
ae Ane one za Hn Ne “ ayia

_

7 ane tt Artes! e 6 Oe ee .
wee . a a! gg
Stee ‘aa extn Se

| ava

. — = a a en
th

“a
q oe 62m « _ »
: es
. - el
‘
<
‘
2
¢ 7 7
s
\
; Z s
tne

558

