‘Se. ue:
FE. b $ ‘6
SRS ws SE heer es Pe

= ee 4 :

wat ahh oe Reagan
; Ss
ERs Sprain LT Nee aT. pa

oe

4 poe
are 4
OT aaa, ites anaes <7
aks eae Pe

bets
es a me

eee re

i ‘ 4 ‘A
; hi Eat %
i ma) Spee ar ra ui.
‘ 2 ek cme — : ps i =
be Dos .) ae oo Sy . w
og 8 . ae } an ;
hk ey wt f by a8 Ae ry a a
Me Revd: Ree Bee i
By \ Upers We 8
4 i ¥
¥ , *:

eo PN re M 'y om ee lp.
WY vow ES

Pe : ® My
et v » ay y cal OE ae $ yg
BPE PO IM ie Se Me ;. +7 os ‘ r ¥ ”

Oy os iefcax’ ww
my nae ”

AS stat

ee me ae
Annual Report of the Board of Regents

of the

SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION

PUBLICATION 4232

Showing the Operations, Expenditures, and Condition of the

Institution for the Year Ended June 30

1955

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON 1956

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office
Washington 25, D.C. - Price $4 (cloth)

NOV © - 1955
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, December 29, 19565.

‘o the Congress of the United States:

In accordance with section 5593 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, I have the honor, on behalf of the Board of Regents,
to submit to Congress the annual report of the operations, expendi-
tures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
June 30, 1955. I have the honor to be,

Respectfully,
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary.

‘CONTENTS

Page
Tes GRO tO M1 Cla) Saye rene ee ee ee er en eae Vv
Greneralesvatemen tes = a= sates SAN Mice AE eee ee eee oe 1
PanOBPSUADUSHINICHGr oe Sat sa tk oc Se oe ae eee eae fee 5
iio DoOATa Of Nerents.. =) Soe So Geen eect cele ee oe nese eseees 6
TESTA COS beeen ne ee es oe eee eee he ee a eae eae ae ee 4
MtILOt sae oe Se ee ae he Saat e tetas eee hee at ei
WectUress= 2.5. eee ee Ss See ee eee ee aa ie che ee eee eee eee 9
Riwarceot Langley medal. 2.2.08 S222 eh oe ee eee eee 9
me wp DOn NONOLCU a aso 8 ee oe eon ame ae oem 10
ninea ton che: Instieutions—.- ose ene coe ee ook ea eee eee 10
Bio-Sciences Information Exchange___._._________------------------- 11
rcanizaWou an Stale on a een ate Sa Et oem aan eaS 11
Summary of the year’s activities of the Institution-________-__--_---_-- 12
Reports of branches of the Institution:
United States National Museum..2.-0... 2.224. sone 16
Bureau of American Ethnology.........--.=-.-.-=-=-.---+<2-~-- 36
Rei TOD VSICAl ODSCEVALOLY << > amen Sen oh Sn se eee ee 60
National Collection, of Fine. Arts_....=..--..-...s-s-24se.-ce5e5-- 64
reer iG alleryiO! ATtL oso. Do ee eee we oe eomeeote eee tee aes 76
NACIONAL Aart) VINISAUI) = os on oi a eas oe eee ee ee ee 88
Naional-ZOOOpiCal. Park... s.8 2. 8s.ctes pase co see oe eee oe 104
Wanale7one Biological Ares... = eos eo oe eee nce and eae Soe 129
International Exchange Service._....._._.-.---------------------- 136
Nations) Gallery Ol ATt.6 5262+ 2.8 econ stewed hcl eee et eeeceece 145
BOOT OM DUG MOIATY soe ee eee eae ad eee eee ae Sick 157
Report OueDUDUCRHONSs. cof owls seeks woe toes os ee eee ae 160
Report of the executive committee of the Board of Regents____-_------- 167
GENERAL APPENDIX
Science serving the Nation, by Lee A. DuBridge__--_------------------ 177
The development of nuclear power for peaceful purposes, by Henry D.

PSH 7 gee ga a Oe a Cs Pa Pe) seg gg 189
The time scale of our universe, by E. J. Opik___._._..--.------------- 203
Solar activity and its terrestrial effects, by Sir Harold Spencer Jones- ---- 227
Forty years of aeronautical research, by J. C. Hunsaker_____._____----- 241
A transatlantic telephone cable, by H. A. Affel___._...--._-__---------- 273
Genetics in the service of man, by Bentley Glass___.____--------------- 299

Cultural status of the South African man-apes, by Raymond A. Dart... 317
The history of the mechanical heart, by George B. Griffenhagen and
WAlvinereuehes. . 2228 oo ea Oe 2 Se Seca eelse 339

rit
IV CONTENTS

Page
Some chemical studies on viruses, by Wendell M. Stanley________._____ 357
The scent language of honey bees, by Ronald Ribbands__..___.________ 369
The army ants: by “l.'C. Schneirla 2325232 )5 see ae eee ae ne 379
The hibernation of mammals, by L. Harrison Matthews___-._._________ 407
Parasites common to animals and man, by Benjamin Schwartz_______ ___ 419
Some observations on the functional organization of the human brain, by

Wilder*Benfield-.222.0222 052. Saee ea See Se ae ee oe ee ee eee 433
The place of tropical soils in feeding the world, by Robert L. Pendleton__ 441
Tree rings and history in the western United States, by Edmund Schulman_ 459
New light on the dodo and its illustrators, by Herbert Friedmann__--____ 475
George Catlin, painter of Indians and the West, by John C. Ewers_______ 483

LIST OF PLATES

Secretary’s Report:

Plates*l 2ss2o ss ooo sn oo ee ee 46

Plates-3, 4252222200 os saee es ee ee ee ee ee ee 86

Istes 5, sO iec as Se Nae ee ee a Si eae ee 118
Solaractivity, (Spencer, Jones)* Plates 1.22 20-2 2-2 een ee 230
Forty years of aeronautical research (Hunsaker): Plates 1-10___________ 262
South African man-apes (Dart):

Blates alas at 2e So 5S ee Sr ae rs is ae ee ee 326
Mechanical heart (Griffenhagen and Hughes): Plates 1-4______________ _ 842
Viruses: (Stanley); sb lates aoe eo nose sen eas oO ee ee ee eee 358
Scent language of honey bees (Ribbands): Plates, 1, 2-...___-___.--___~ 374
Army ants (OCHNnGITIA) VE lAtes ly 2a aah ne ete Soe anys ee re eee es 390
Hibernation of mammals (Matthews): Plates 1, 2__....----__________- 414
Parasites common to animals and man (Schwartz): Plates 1-4______ pene emny: 97
Functional organization of the human brain (Penfield): Plate 1__._______ 488
Tree rings and history (Schulman): Plates 1-4___._._.-_-._-__.___-__- 470
Dodo (Biriecmiamm) ee Ce se me wee ae eas ae ee 478

George’ Catlin ‘(Ciiwers)s -Piatestl—202 2. ls. ose os eee = oe ee Sy bits
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

June 30, 1955

Presiding Officer ex officio—DwicHt D. EIseENHOWER, President of the United
States.
Chancellor.—HarL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
Members of the Institution:
Dwicut D. EISENHOWER, President of the United States.
RicHArp M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States.
EArt WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States.
JOHN Foster DULLES, Secretary of State.
GrEorGE M. HUMPHREY, Secretary of the Treasury.
CHARLES FE. WILSON, Secretary of Defense.
HERBERT BROWNELL, JR., Attorney General.
ARTHUR E.. SUMMERFIELD, Postmaster General.
Dovetas McKay, Secretary of the Interior.
Hizra TAFT BENSON, Secretary of Agriculture.
SINcLAIR WEEKS, Secretary of Commerce.
JAMES P. MITCHELL, Secretary of Labor.
Oveta CuLp Hossy, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Regents of the Institution:
EARL WARREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor.
RicHARpD M. Nixon, Vice President of the United States.
CLINTON P. ANDERSON, Member of the Senate.
LEVERETT SALTONSTALL, Member of the Senate.
H, ALEXANDER SMITH, Member of the Senate.
CLARENCE CANNON, Member of the House of Representatives.
OvERTON Brooks, Member of the House of Representatives.
JOHN M. Vorys, Member of the House of Representatives.
VANNEVAR Bus3H, citizen of Washington, D. C.
ARTHUR H. Compton, citizen of Missouri.
Roeert V. FLEMING, citizen of Washington, D. C.
JEROME C. HUNSAKER, citizen of Massachusetts.
zecutive Committee—Rosert V. FLEMING, chairman, VANNEVAR BUSH, CLAR-
ENCE CANNON.
Secretary.— LEONARD CARMICHAEL.
Assistant Secretaries.—Joun EK. Grar, J. L. Keppy.
Administrative assistant to the Secretary.—Mrs. LOUISE M. PEARSON.
Treasurer.—THOMAS F. Clark.
Chief, editorial and publications division —PaUL H. OEHSER.
Assistant chief, editorial and publications division.—JoHN S. Lea.
Librarian.—Mrs. Leta F. CLARK.
Superintendent of buildings and grounds.—L. L. OLIvER.
Assistant superintendents of buildings and grounds.—CHARLES C. SINCLAIR,
ANDREW F.. MICHAELS, JR.
Chief, personnel division.—Jack B. NEWMAN.
Chief, supply division —ANrHOoNY W. WILDING.
Chief, photographic laboratory.—F. B. KEstNeEr.
VI ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

Director.—A. REMINGTON KELLOGG.

Evhibits specialist —J. EK. ANGLIM.

Exhibits workers.—T. G. Baker, Don H. Berkerpsite, R. O. Hower, BENJAMIN
LAWLESS, W. T. MARINETTI, EpwAaRD W. NORMANDIN, JR., Morris M. PEARSON,
GEORGE STUART.

Chief, office of correspondence and records ——HELena M. WEISS.

DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY :
Frank M. Setzler, head curator; A. J. Andrews, exhibits specialist ;
Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, Smithsonian fellow in anthropology ;
W. W. Taylor, Jr., collaborator in anthropology.

Division of Archeology: Waldo R. Wedel, curator; Clifford Evans, Jr., asso-
ciate curator; George S. Metcalf, museum aid; Mrs. Betty J. Meggers,
research associate.

Division of Ethnology: H. W. Krieger, curator; J. C. Ewers, C. M. Watkins,
associate curators; R. A. Elder, Jr., assistant curator.

Division of Physical Anthropology: T. Dale Stewart, curator; M. T. Newman,
associate curator; W. J. Tobin, research associate.

Associate in Anthropology: Neil M. Judd.

DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY :
Waldo L. Schmitt, head curator; W. L. Brown, chief exhibits preparator ;
C. R. Aschemeier, W. M. Perrygo, E. G. Laybourne, C. S. Hast, J. D.
Biggs, exhibits preparators; Mrs. Aime M. Awl, scientific illustrator.

Division of Mammals: D. H. Johnson, acting curator; H. W. Setzer, Charles
O. Hanley, Jr., associate curators; J. W. Paradiso, museum aide;
A. Brazier Howell, collaborator; Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., associate.

Division of Birds: Herbert Friedmann, curator; H. G. Deignan, associate
curator; Gorman M. Bond, museum aide; Alexander Wetmore, research
associate and custodian of alcoholic and skeleton collections.

Division of Reptiles and Amphibians: Doris M. Cochran, associate curator.

Division of Fishes: Leonard P. Schultz, curator; E. A. Lachner, associate
curator; Robert H. Kanazawa, museum aide.

Division of Insects: J. F. Gates Clarke, curator; O. L. Cartwright, W. D.
Field, Grace E. Glance, associate curators; Sophy Parfin, junior ento-
mologist; W. L. Jellison, M. A. Carriker, R. E. Snodgrass, C. F. W. Muese-
beck, collaborators.

Section of Hymenoptera: W. M. Mann, Robert A. Cushman, assistant
custodians.

Section of Diptera: Charles T. Greene, assistant custodian.

Section of Coleoptera: L. L. Buchanan, specialist for Casey collection.

Division of Marine Invertebrates: F. A. Chace, Jr., curator; Frederick M.
Bayer, T. E. Bowman, associate curators; Mrs. L. W. Peterson, museum
aide; Mrs. Harriet Richardson Searle, Max M. Ellis, J. Percy Moore,
collaborators; Mrs. Mildred 8. Wilson, collaborator in copepod Crustacea.

Division of Mollusks: Harald A. Rehder, curator; Joseph P. E. Morrison,
associate curator; W. J. Byas, museum aide; Paul Bartsch, associate.

Section of Helminthological Collections: Benjamin Schwartz, collabo-
rator.

Associates in Zoology: T. S. Palmer, W. B. Marshall, A. G. Biéving, C. R.
Shoemaker.

Collaborator in Zoology: R. 8. Clark.

Collaborator in Biology: D. C. Graham.
SECRETARY’S REPORT VII

DEPARTMENT OF BOTANY (NATIONAL HERBARIUM) :
Jason R. Swallen, head curator.

Division of Phanerogams: A, C. Smith, curator; H. C. Leonard, EH. H. Walker,
Lyman B. Smith, Velva B. Rudd, associate curators; BE. P. Killip, research
associate. cae ae

Division of Ferns: C. V. Morton, curator.

Division of Grasses: Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator; Mrs. Agnes Chase,
F, A. McClure, research associates.

Division of Cryptogams: C. V. Morton, acting curator; Paul S. Conger, asso-
ciate curator; John A. Stevenson, custodian of C. G. Lloyd mycological
collections and honorary curator of Fungi.

DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY :
W. F. Foshag, head curator; J. H. Benn, museum geologist; L. B. Isham,
scientific illustrator.

Division of Mineralogy and Petrology: W. F. Foshag, acting curator; E. P.
Henderson, G. 8. Switzer, associate curators; IF’. 8. Holden, physical science
aide; Frank lL. Hess, custodian of rare metals and rare earths.

Division of Intertebrate Paleontology and Palcobotany: Gustav A. Cooper,
curator; A. R. Loeblich, Jr., David Nicol, associate curators; Robert J.
Main, Jr., Mrs. Vera M. Gabbert, museum aides; J. Brookes Knight, Mrs.
Helen N. Loeblich, research associates in paleontology.

Section of Invertebrate Paleontology: J. B. Reeside, Jr., custodian of
Mesozoic collection; Preston Cloud, research associate.
Section of Paleobotany: Roland W. Brown, research associate.

Division of Vertebrate Paleontology: C. L. Gazin, curator; D. H. Dunkle,
associate curator; F. L. Pearce, G. D. Guadagni, F. 0. Griffith, IIT, exhibits
workers.

Associates in Mineralogy: W. T. Schaller, 8S. H. Perry.

Associate in Paleontology: R. S. Bassler.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND INDUSTRIES:
Frank A. Taylor, head curator.

Division of Engincering: R. P. Multhauf, curator; William HE. Bridges, Mu-
seum aide.

Section of Civil and Mechanical Engineering: R. P. Multhauf, in charge.

Section of Tools: R. P. Multhauf, in charge.

Section of Marine Transportation: K. M. Perry, associate curator.

Section of Electricity : K. M. Perry, associate curator.

Section of Physical Sciences and Measurement: R. P. Multhauf, in
charge.

Section of Horclogy: S. H. Oliver, associate curator.

Section of Land Transportation: S. H. Oliver, associate curator.

Division of Crafts and Industries: W. N. Watkins, curator; Edward ©. Ken-
dall, associate curator; HE. A. Avery, museum aide; I. L. Lewton, research
associate.

Section of Textiles: Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator.

Section of Wood Technology : W. N. Watkins, in charge.

Section of Manufactures: Edward C. Kendall, associate curator.

Section of Agricultural Industries: Hdward C. Kendall, associate
curator.

Division of Medicine and Public Health: George B. Griffenhagen, associate
curator; Alvin HE. Goins, museum aide.

Division of Graphic Arts: Jacob Kainen, curator; J. Harry Phillips, Jr.,
museum aide.

Section of Photography : A. J. Wedderburn, Jr., associate curator.

‘
Vill ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY:
Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator.

Divisions of Military History and Naval History: M. L. Peterson, curator;
J. R. Sirlouis, assistant curator; Craddock R. Goins, Jr., junior historian.

Division of Civil History: Margaret W. Brown, associate curator; Frank E.
Klapthor, museum aide.

Division of Numismatics: S. M. Mosher, associate curator.

Division of Philately: Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator.

BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY

Director.—MAaTTHEW W. STIRLING.

Associate Director—FRANK H. H. Roperts, Jr.

Anthropologists.—H. B. CoLuins, Jr., PHILIP DRUCKER.

Collaborators.—FRANCES DENSMORE, JOHN R. SwANTON, A. J. WARING, JR., R. J.
Squier, R. F. Herzer, Sister M. Inez Hincer, RALPH S. SoLEcKI.

Research associate-—JOHN P. HARRINGTON.

Scientific illustrator —K. G. ScHUMACHER.

River BASIN SuRVEYS.—IFRANK H. H. Roserts, Jr., Director.

ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Director.—Loyat B. ALDRICH.
DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH :
Chief.—[Vacancy.]
Astrophysicist—FREDERICK A. GREELEY.
Instrument makers.—D. G. TALBERT, J. H. HARRISON.
Research associate-—CHARLES G. ABBOT.
Table Mountain, Calif., field station—AtrFrep G. FRromanp, STANLEY L.
ALDRICH, physicists.
Calama, Chile, field station—James E. ZIMMERMAN, physicist; JoHNn A.
Pora, physical science aide.
DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS:
Chief.—R. B. W1THROW.
Plant physiologists —WiLi1aAM H. Kretn, Leonarp Price, V. B. Exstap, Mrs.
AxicrE P. WitHrow, CHAo C. Mon.
Biochemist.—JoHN B. WOLrFr.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director.—THoMAS M. Braas.

Curator of ceramics.—P. V. GARDNER.

Chief, Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service—Mrs. ANNEMARIE H. Pope.
Nehibits preparator.—RowLanp Lyon.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director.—A. G. WENLEY.

Assistant Director—Joun A. Pork.

Assistant to the Director—Burns A. Srupss.

Associate in Near Eastern art.—RicHArD ErrinGHAUSEN.
Associate in technical research.—RUTHERFORD J. GETTENS.
Assistant in research.—Harotp P. Stern.

Research associate.—Grace DUNHAM GUEST.

Honorary research associate —Max LOEBR.

Consultant to the Director—KATHERINE N. RHOADES.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM

Advisory Board:
LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Chairnian.
Mag. Gen. GEORGE W. Munpy, U. S: Air Force.
Rear ApM. APOLLO Soucek, U.S. Navy.
GROVER LOENING.
WILLIAM B. Stout.
Head curator.—PavuL E. GARBER.
Associate curator.—R. C. STROBELL.
Manager, National Air Museum Facility —W. M. Mate.
Museum aides.—StTANLEY Porrer, WINTHROP S. SHAW.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director.—WILLIAM M. MANN.
Assistant Director.—ERNEST P. WALKER.
Head Animal Keeper.—F RANK O. LOWE.

CANAL ZONE BIOLOGICAL AREA

Resident Manager.—JAMES ZETEE,

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE

Chief.—D. G. WILLIAMS.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Trustees:
EARL WarREN, Chief Justice of the United States, Chairman.
JOHN Foster DULLES, Secretary of State.
Grorcre M. HumpuHrey, Secretary of the Treasury.

LEONARD CARMICHAEL, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

SAMUEL H. Kress.

FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.

DUNCAN PHILLIPS.

CHESTER DALE.

PavuL MELLON.
President.— SAMUEL H. Kress.
Vice President.—FERDINAND LAMMOT BELIN.
Secretary-Treasurer.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Director.—Davip HE. FINLEY.
Administrator.—ERNEST R. FEIDLER.
General Counsel.—HUNTINGTON CAIRNS.
Chief Curator.—JoHN WALKER.
Assistant Director.—MAacGILL JAMES.
| delete ouksmrs DL Wietes
Ths (4

i 7 Dai ey,
; Parti hi iio Ah Oe BAY re
i without amis a pee
a a

pyres
“Bertin yf ® ‘Pisses Blaevn et

- phar aa
bite ne) Stone ie iy ie: be

Wm enti Os
WR ee + yy 7 , -
. ; pee
ere Ad <e p ar
eae oe inns sierra
oa ee :

Nella Weer at
i ve tah Th
ut bh ella |
ND eee
Mie oe, 1) ats ave
Lae
ln i .

Caste: Some

| oud ON
He Pies |
mts ath lah ninarrdgl wn

ia Be AD
~

Report of the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

LEONARD CARMICHAEL
For the Year Ended June 30, 1955

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

GENTLEMEN : I have the honor to submit a report showing the activ-
ities and condition of the Smithsonian Institution and its branches
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1955.

GENERAL STATEMENT

The period covered by this report has been an active and fruitful
one for the Smithsonian Institution.

It was noted in last year’s report that much time has been devoted
to preliminary planning for the new buildings so urgently needed to
make the museums of the Smithsonian comparable to the modern
national museums of other great nations. The Institution’s collec-
tions are probably the largest in the world, but because of the inade-
quacy of its present buildings these collections can now be presented
to the public in only most limited ways.

Building Program Gains Congressional Support

It is a great satisfaction to be able to report that legislation pro-
viding for the planning and erection of a new museum building for
the Smithsonian Institution was enacted during the first session of the
84th Congress. The bill, authorizing a $36-million Museum of His-
tory and Technology, was signed by President Eisenhower on June 28,
1955. Subsequently, Congress appropriated $2,288,000 for the im-
mediate planning of this great new museum, bringing it even further
toward the realm of actuality. During the discussion of this legis-
lation on the floor of the House of Representatives, many favorable
statements were made about the place of the Smithsonian Institution
in our national life. All of us at the Smithsonian are indeed grateful
for the hard work done by so many people in connection with this leg-
islation, which clears the great hurdle from the path toward providing
adequate and fitting housing for many of the Nation’s priceless treas-
ures, Certainly it is the greatest event for the Smithsonian Institu-
tion since the erection of the Natural History Building half a century
ago.
2 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

The new Museum of History and Technology will house all the
national collections that record and illustrate the political, cultural,
industrial, scientific, and military development of the United States.
For the most part the materials to be exhibited in this new museum are
those now on display or stored in the Arts and Industries Building.
Some collections now temporarily housed in the Natural History
Building will also find a place in the new building.

The new museum as we plan it will be both a museum of United
States history and a museum of science, engineering, and industry.
This combination is especially appropriate for a nation in which the
industrial revolution achieved a most luxuriant flowering—matching
the earlier American Revolution that gave our country its freedom
and its unique institutions.

The Museum of History and Technology will be the Nation’s his-
tory book of objects. In it the main elements of our national progress
will be represented and related. To replace the clutter of cases and
machines that crowd the old Arts and Industries Building, we plan
a series of modern halls highlighting the principal periods of our
history from colonial days to the present. Each main hall will illus-
trate the dominant character of a particular period (the exploration
of the West, for example) against a background of the times. This
story of our national development will be told with original docu-
ments, machines, costumes, inventions, home furnishings, weapons,
the personal effects of famous Americans, and many other classes of
authentic objects.

Connected with these main halls will be others in which the exhibits
will amplify the themes of the main halls with subjects that might
include Agriculture and Trade in the Colonies, Transportation to
the Frontier, and others. Many halls will illustrate the development
of particular devices or subjects, such as automobiles, mining, medi-
cine, costumes, manufactures, engineering, and science. Here will be
demonstrated the painstaking study, work, management, and trials
that have been the lifeblood of our Nation’s progress. Likewise will
be shown the Smithsonian’s world-famous collections of stamps and
coins, guns, watercraft models, and all the others that have made the
Institution a mecca for scholars, collectors, and hobbyists, the country
over.

The site chosen for the new building is the Mall area of Washington
bounded on the north by Constitution Avenue, on the east by 12th
Street, on the south by Madison Drive, and on the west by 14th Street.
Naturally much difficult and prolonged work lies ahead before such
a monumental task can be consummated, but it is our earnest hope
that the final planning of this new building may be done in 1956 and
that construction may begin in 1957,
SECRETARY'S REPORT 5

Other Buildings Planned

By the use of private funds given to the Institution specifically for
the purpose, preliminary architectural studies were made during the
year for the projected new National Air Museum. ‘The proposed site
for this museum is between 9th and 12th Streets, SW., on the south
side of Independence Avenue, where it would be closely associated
with other Smithsonian buildings. No final estimates have yet been
given of the new Air Museum’s cost or of the time when it may be
most appropriate to ask for public or private funds for its erection.

This new building is urgently needed. The airplane is in many
respects a product of the genius of the American people. The Smith-
sonian collections in this great field, beginning with the Wright
brothers’ “Kitty Hawk” itself, are unrivaled in the world. ‘Today
many of the most important treasures of the Smithsonian collection
of aircraft and associated objects are crated and held in storage. They
are thus not available either for the public or even for the use of en-
gineers and patent authorities. As soon as possible it is important to
find means, public or private, or both, for the erection of a suitable
building for this great collection.

The National Collection of Fine Arts is now also most inadequately
provided for in an incongruous setting in the Natural History Build-
ing. As was especially emphasized in last year’s report, a new Smith-
sonian Institution Gallery of Art to house the great historical paint-
ings in this collection, the National Portrait Gallery, and the work of
deserving living artists is most urgently needed. The collections that
will be displayed in the proposed new gallery would include painting,
sculpture, ceramics, and other forms of decorative art.

Authorization to construct wings on the Natural History Building
was approved by Congress in 1932, but it has never been implemented
by an appropriation. Our superlative study collections in natural
history are crowded from attic to basement and have extensively in-
vaded the exhibition halls. ‘lo be of the greatest use to the Nation,
these collections must continue to grow, for only in this way can they
become more complete and thus more useful in the scientific and eco-
nomic researches conducted by many other agencies. Room for ex-
pansion is urgently needed for all the collections in anthropology,
geology, and zoology. Also far below our needs is laboratory space
for the scientists and aides working on these collections, and for the
visiting specialists who so freely and generously assist in this work.
The over-all situation is such that the addition of wings on the Natural
Wistory Building must hold high priority in the Institution’s build-
ing program.
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Exhibits Modernization in Full Swing

During the year further progress was made in the renovation of
major exhibits at the Smithsonian Institution, under the long-range
modernization program authorized by Congress. President and Mrs.
Dwight D. Eisenhower honored the Smithsonian by coming to the
Institution on May 24. On that occasion Mrs. Eisenhower officially
opened the new First Ladies Hall at special ceremonies in the Arts and
Industries Building. This hall displays in authentic settings gowns
worn by each of the ladies in the history of the country who have
served as Presidential hostesses. In creating the new settings the de-
signers wherever possible have combined real architectural details
taken from the White House in its various renovations with furniture
and fixtures owned by or associated with both the White House and
the First Ladies. The dresses are thus seen in the type of surround-
ings in which they were worn. All the objects, for example, in the
room in which Martha Washington’s dress is displayed, belonged to
President Washington. <A large and beautiful mirror on exhibit in
this room which belonged to President Washington has been at the
Smithsonian Institution for more than 60 years, but never before has
it been on display. The amazing success of this new hall is attested
by the crowds of visitors that it attracts.

In the Natural History Building a modernized hall illustrating the
life of various Indian tribes of California, southwestern United States,
and Latin America was formally opened on June 2, as a feature of
the program of the 50th Annual Convention of the American Asso-
ciation of Museums held in Washington. These exhibits, numbering
more than 50 in all, use mainly materials long in the possession of the
Smithsonian but present them in such an attractive way that the
visitors may learn easily and quickly how these primitive peoples
actually lived. ‘They stress the remarkable ingenuity of the American
Indians in utilizing the natural resources of such different environ-
ments as seacoasts, deserts, grasslands, Jungles, and mountain valleys
to provide food, clothing, shelter, and materials for arts and crafts.
The ability of the primitive Indian to wrest a living from the most
uninviting environments is a striking characteristic. The wide range
of Indian skills in handicrafts is represented in displays of California
Indian baskets (some of the world’s finest basketwork) , Navaho weav-
ing and silverwork, Pueblo Indian decorated pottery, colorful weav-
ings of Guatemalan Indians, religious wood carvings of the San Blas
Cuna in Panama, and paintings on guanaco skins worn as robes by
Tehuelche Indians in Argentina. Included are nine large, dramati-
cally lighted groups of life-size Indian figures engaged in typical
tribal activities. Another shows Navaho weavers and silversmiths
SECRETARY’S REPORT 5

at work. Still others illustrate the preparation of acorn meal by
Hupa Indians of northern California, the processing of cassava by
Carib Indians in British Guiana, and Tehuelche horsemen packing
their belongings in moving camp. Five dioramas portray the life
of other Indian tribes. One of them recreates in miniature a village of
Lucayan Indians in the Bahamas in which the natives are excitedly
viewing the approach of Columbus’s ships. Another diorama rep-
resents a simple hunting camp of the sparsely clothed, poorly housed
Yahgan Indians of Tierra del Fuego, the southernmost people of the
world. Themes of wide popular interest are interpreted in other ex-
hibits—such as the process of shrinking human heads employed by
Jivaro warriors of the Ecuadorian jungles, the construction of a
Pueblo Indian apartment house, and the use of shells for money in
native California.

A companion hall will soon be started interpreting the lives of the
Eskimo and the Indians of Canada and of the United States east of
the Rocky Mountains. Progress was made during the year on a new
hall in which selected portions of the magnificent bird collection of
the Smithsonian can be displayed. Work has also been done on the
new North American mammal hall, on a hall that will show the de-
velopment of power machinery, and on another hall that will illus-
trate the cultural history of the United States. Although some of
the exhibits in these halls will be moved to the new building, it is
especially important to prepare them as soon as possible, because the
labor involved in each such presentation is very time-consuming, and
only by having modern exhibits ready to be installed in the new
building can maximum use be made of the improved facilities of such
a structure as soon as it is opened.

During the year the public comfort rooms of the Natural History
Building, which had not been generally repaired since 1910, were
modernized. The steam supply lines of the Arts and Industries
Building and of the Freer Gallery of Art were replaced. This latter
building for the first time since its erection was thoroughly cleaned
inside and repainted. More than half of the exhibit halls of the
Arts and Industries Building were repainted. Some of the paint
in these rooms had peeled from the plaster, and in other places it
was seriously stained. The bright new colors of present-day paints
have done much to improve the visibility of exhibits and the attrac-
tiveness of the building.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846, in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson, of
England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
6 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

of America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” In receiving the property and accepting
the trust, Congress determined that the Federal Government was
without authority to administer the trust directly, and, therefore,
constituted an “establishment” whose statutory members are “the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the
executive departments.”

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

The affairs of the Institution are administered by a Board of Re-
gents whose membership consists of “the Vice President, the Chief
Justice of the United States, and three members of the Senate, and
three members of the House of Representatives; together with six
other persons, other than members of Congress, two of whom shall be
resident in the city of Washington and the other four shall be in-
habitants of some State, but no two of them of the same State.” One
of the Regents is elected Chancellor of the Board. In the past the
selection has fallen upon the Vice President or the Chief Justice.

The past year brought the death of a valued member of the Board
of Regents. Former Justice of the Supreme Court Owen Josephus
Roberts died on May 17, 1955. Justice Roberts had been a Regent
only since July 23, 1953, and on account of illness had been able to
attend only one meeting of the Board. The death of this eminent
jurist and public servant was a severe loss to the Institution.

The Board is honored to welcome as a new member the Honorable
Overton Brooks of Louisiana to succeed the Honorable Leroy John-
son. It is my pleasure also to record the reappointment to the Board
of the Honorable Clarence Cannon, the Honorable John M. Vorys,
the Honorable Clinton P. Anderson, the Honorable Leverett Salton-
stall, and Dr. Jerome C. Hunsaker.

The annual informal dinner meeting of the Board was held in the
main hall of the Smithsonian Building on the evening of January 13,
1955, amid various exhibits showing phases of the work being carried
on at present. Brief illustrated talks on their special fields of research
and activities were made by three staff members: Frederick M. Bayer,
Dr. George S. Switzer, and Archibald Wenley.

The regular annual meeting of the Board was held on January 14,
1955. At this meeting the Secretary presented his published annual
report on the activities of the Institution and its bureaus; and Robert
VY. Fleming, chairman of the executive and permanent committees of
the Board, presented the financial report for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1955.
SECRETARY’S REPORT i

The roll of Regents at the close of the fiscal year was as follows:
Chief Justice of the United States Earl Warren, Chancellor; Vice
President Richard Nixon; members from the Senate: Clinton P.
Anderson, Leverett Saltonstall, H. Alexander Smith; members from
the House of Representatives: Clarence Cannon, John M. Vorys,
Overton Brooks; citizen members: Vannevar Bush, Arthur H. Comp-
ton, Robert V. Fleming, and Jerome C. Hunsaker.

FINANCES

A statement on finances, dealing particularly with Smithsonian pri-
vate funds, will be found in the report of the executive committee of
the Board of Regents, page 167.

APPROPRIATIONS

Funds appropriated to the Institution for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1955, total $3,048,146, obligated as follows:

Man ao emen teres a= se oe a on See ae eae Co $63, 830
United States National Museum__-___ ae as Poe see ee So, 1, 154, 232
Bureaulof American EKthnology--—- = ===. = = === 2 ee zines 58, 730
Astrophysical Observalory esc fos 2 Oe os Fe I ee LO, G80
National Collection of Hine Ants. - = "== =2_ ee ee 44, 523
IPO ARM PNG MAY G0 Ee) 1 00 Ree ee are, Se I ee ee eee 86, 119
international Exchange Service____.-_=_--___-__-=__-=_____. 79, 376
Canal Zone Biological Area___--__-______ oe et Se eee sere es 8, 478
Maintenance and operation of buildings___________________--__-____ 1,215 69
Other-weneral services 2 2. Se ee eae ee Pe bietec. ae 320, 846

SLY Tick mers ee ee ae et te ee eee ee ee ee 3, 048, 146

Besides these direct appropriations, the Institution received funds
by transfer from other Government agencies as follows:

From the District of Columbia for the National Zoological Park______ $648, 000
From the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, for the
RIVET OES ASIII SUEY CVS a= een ce ee ee 52, 700
VISITORS

Visitors to the Smithsonian group of buildings during the year
reached a record total of 3,895,017, nearly a quarter of a million more
than the previous year. April 1955 was the month of largest attend-
ance, with 585,916; May 1955 was second, with 551,820; August 1954
third, with 490,035. Largest attendance for a single day was 55,096
for May 7, 1955. Table 1 gives a summary of the attendance records
for the five buildings. These figures, when added to the 3,476,584
estimated visitors at the National Zoological Park and 814,932 recorded
at the National Gallery of Art, make a total number of visitors at
the Smithsonian Institution of 8,186,533.

870930—-56-—-2
8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Many visiting scientists and scholars from Federal departments,
universities, and research organizations all over the world have come
to the Smithsonian Institution during the past year. We were espe-
cially honored by a visit on November 5, 1954, from Mrs. Dwight D.
Eisenhower and Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother.

Taste 1.—Visitors to certain Smithsonian buildings during the year ended
June 30, 1955

Smithson- | Arts 4 Natural
Year and month jan Build. facets History Bare Building Tota
ing Building | Building
1954
aly. ne en ae es 74, 040 230, 332 29, 726 54, 289 9, 505 457, 892
Auguste 22s). 2.2: -SS3s2 See 88, 610 236, 958 98, 239 61, 231 10, 997 490, 035
September 2222-2 esas Se 48, 842 133, 332 55, 912 34, 721 7, 256 280, 063
Octohere= 2222s ae eae | 37, 042 102, 130 59, 197 25, 835 5, 491 229, 695
November!) 2255 _ Sie, Sea ee 31, 748 85, 346 54, 394 25, 976 4, 470 201, 934
Mecomber-=-=.-= 25-2222 54 19, 418 45, 168 32, 915 15, 359 2, 942 115, 802
1955 H
Tanta rye ge ts oe ee 21, 745 50, 459 44, 924 18, 182 4, 305 139, 615
MO DEUAGY aces oe eee as oa name e 26, 674 58, 848 41, 154 19, 151 4, 396 150, 023
INFaT Ch Agitse oa Sean) 2 See ee 35, 373 109, 107 60, 722 27, 790 4,734 237, 726
Aprilee ss: 2) ced ees shes 100, 687 251, 946 129, 425 92, 040 11, 818 585, 916
IW y Sea Sa he ee ee 104, 462 237, 728 132, 205 65, 849 11, 486 551, 820
June =e eee ees ee ea 76, 620 206, 963 166, 389 53, 618 10, 906 454, 496
Rota) Ase tee wae sieces 665,261 | 1, 742,317 905, 292 494, 041 88, 306 | 3,895, 017

A special record was kept during the year of groups of school
children visiting the Institution. These figures are given in table 2:

TABLE 2.—Groups of school children visiting the Smithsonian Institution, 1954-55

Mehitandomouth: Number of | Number of

groups children

1954
Ul yt we Bes eae ae Si ae al RE a ea a ah 95 2, 986
NLU: T=) Helge OE ig ae pe pe Ue IR STL ARN lL a aoe HG 91 2, 211
September sts 22 20 Ae Sen hee ie eee a 63 2, 065
October!t incre waren oe Eee eer 245 7, 703
INOVeMpers mice ee ke ey ae a ee ie 301 9, 958
PO COTADET ee ee hy ater Beene eet ky ee en ier aR eR 139 3, 829

1956
VI ay ee LS ae eS A NC eee 201 5, 693
Mebruarye se ees eae eet cp ohio eee posers 277 8, 415
WMiarchic. 2 aires oe eee ae ee a ee od pe gE 752 23, 960
7.40) 4 Aaya a a REE Ne ae IN rt oh pene ero ws Bak 1, 742 71, 376
Miayath Jt oft of bo hha sodue pan it- ope 2, 468 116, 032
BJD a= eee pace aE le ie De ie Ue anh haley 942 33, 967

Fe, aad lest pp adage 2h A Fees 7, 516 288, 195

SECRETARY’S REPORT 9

LECTURES

In 1931 the Institution received a bequest from James Arthur, of
New York City, a part’ of the income from which was to be used for
an annual lecture on some aspect of the study of the sun. The twenty-
second Arthur lecture was delivered in the auditorium of the Natural
History Building on the evening of April 27, 1955, by Sir Harold
Spencer Jones, Astronomer Royal of Great Britain. This lecture,
on the subject “Solar Activity and Its Terrestrial Effects,” will be
published in full in the general appendix of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for 1955.

Dr. Konrad Z. Lorenz, director of the Research Institute for Com-
parative Ethology, Max-Planck Institute, Bulden, Westfalen, Ger-
many, delivered a lecture in the auditorium of the Freer Gallery of
Art on the evening of November 17, 1954, on “Evolution of Behavior
Patterns in Animals.” ‘This was one of a series of lectures that this
distinguished foreign scientist delivered in America that season.

Dr. Sumner McKnight Crosby, professor of the history of art at
Yale University and curator of medieval art at the Yale Art Gallery,
lectured on “Excavations in the Abbey Church at St.-Denis” in the
Freer Gallery auditorium on the evening of February 3, 1955, under
the joint sponsorship of the Smithsonian Institution and the Archae-
ological Institute of America. Dr. Crosby’s lecture was accompanied
by a colorful film showing the church as it is today, the technique
of excavation, the reconstruction of the earlier buildings, and the
important results.

AWARD OF LANGLEY MEDAL

The Langley gold medal, established in 1908 in memory of the
late Secretary Samuel Pierpont Langley “for specially meritorious
investigations in connection with the science of aerodromics and its
application to aviation,” was awarded by the Institution on April
14, 1955, to Dr. Jerome Clarke Hunsaker, chairman of the National
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics and professor emeritus of aero-
nautical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Although Dr. Hunsaker is a member of the Smithsonian Board of
Regents, he did not know of the award until the presentation was
made, at a private reception and dinner held in the great hall of the
Smithsonian Building, by the Honorable Earl Warren, Chief Justice
of the United States, acting in his capacity as Chancellor of the Smith-
sonian Institution. The occasion also marked the fortieth anniver-
sary of the founding of the National Advisory Committee for
Aeronautics. The citation accompanying the presentation reads as
follows:

In recognition of your unique and superlatively important contributions to
aeronautics as a distinguished designer of aircraft, as the creator of a great
10 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

center for instruction in aeronautical engineering, and as the scientific genius
under whose leadership the present-day National Advisory Committee for Aero-
nautics has become the world’s greatest scientific aeronautical research organi-
zation.

The Langley medal has previously been presented seven times: to
Wilbur and Orville Wright in 1910, to Glenn H. Curtiss in 1918, to
Gustave Hiffel in 1913, to Col. Charles A. Lindbergh in 1927, to Rear
Adm. Richard E. Byrd in 1929, to Charles E. Manly (posthumously)
in 1929, and to Dr. Joseph S. Ames in 1935.

DR. ABBOT HONORED

Dr. Charles Greeley Abbot, retired Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and one of the nation’s most eminent astrophysicists, was
honored by a reception in the great hall of the Smithsonian Building
on the afternoon of May 31, 1955—his eighty-third birthday. This
also marked the sixtieth anniversary of Dr. Abbot’s association with
the Institution. In connection with the occasion, a bronze bust of
Dr. Abbot by Alicia Neathery, Washington sculptress, was unveiled.
It is now on permanent view in the Smithsonian Building.

FUNDS FOR THE INSTITUTION

At its January 1955 meeting, the Board of Regents gave careful
consideration to the problem of what can be done to call public at-
tion to the Smithsonian Institution as the beneficiary for large or
small gifts of money to advance the “increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge” in the areas covered by the Smithsonian. Since that time cer-
tain general statements concerning the needs of the Institution have
been prepared, and through the kindness of various members of the
Board of Regents, the Secretary has had an opportunity to present
the need for generous additional endowments to a number of indi-
viduals and groups who may be in a position to help the Smithsonian
Institution in this important material way. Only a beginning has
been made on this program. It is urged that in the present year and
in future years everyone interested in the Smithsenian will do every-
thing possible to assist in providing substantial increases in the In-
stitution’s endowments for general or specific purposes. One of the
suggested possibilities is that a single donor or group of donors may
wish to present to the people of the United States through the Smith-
sonian Institution a memorial museum building for the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts and other related materials.

As shown in last year’s report, the Institution continues to receive
subventions from Federal agencies and nongovernmental organiza-
tions. Work assisted by such grants includes studies and publications
in anthropology, zoology, botany, geology, psychology, and the gen-
SECRETARY'S REPORT Ly

eral scientific programs of the Institution at Barro Colorado Island.
A list of such grants made during the year is given in the Financial Re-
port of the Executive Committee, at the end of this report.

BIO-SCIENCES INFORMATION EXCHANGE

By a cooperative arrangement with all branches of the armed forces
and with other Federal agencies, the Smithsonian Institution con-
tinued to administer the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange under
the directorship of Dr. Stella L. Deignan.

The Exchange is charged with the responsibility of “preventing
the unknowing duplication of research support by the several
Government agencies concerned.” In carrying out this responsibility,
it has developed techniques that maintain a rapid interchange of con-
cise information on the support of research in the bio-sciences and on
its content in both broad and specific subject areas. The Exchange
reports that it has been able to supply adequate information in re-
sponse to every request it has received from its sponsors. The body
of information, at first confined almost entirely to medical research,
now contains sizable components in basic biology, psychology, and
mental health. An increasingly close liaison with nongovernmental
granting agencies has been developed. During 1955 the active proj-
ects registered exceeded 9,000, bringing the present total to more than
19,000 projects.

ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

A number of important personnel changes affecting Smithsonian
staff members occurred during the year. Loyal B. Aldrich retired
on June 80, 1955, after 46 years with the Astrophysical Observatory
of the Smithsonian Institution, since 1945 as its director. In his place
Dr. Fred L. Whipple was appointed, effective July 1. At the time
of his appointment Dr. Whipple was chairman of the department
of astronomy at Harvard University. At the same time, headquarters
of the Astrophysical Observatory were changed to Cambridge, Mass.,
where its astronomers will work in close proximity to Harvard’s pro-
gram of solar research. Some administrative and mechanical work
will continue in the laboratories and shops of the Astrophysical Ob-
servatory in Washington, and the two field observatories in Chile and
Table Mountain, Calif., will be maintained.

On September 13, 1954, by transfer from the U. S. Department of
Agriculture, Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke assumed the position formerly
held by Dr. Edward A. Chapin as curator of insects in the United
States National Museum.

John D. Howard, Smithsonian Treasurer, retired effective Decem-
ber 31, 1954, and Thomas F. Clark, chief of the fiscal division, was
12 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

named to succeed him. Mr. Clark will also continue as chief of that
division.

From time to time the Smithsonian endeavors to recognize the aid
and encouragement received from the Institution’s outstanding col-
laborators and benefactors by conferring upon such persons honorary
status. A new class of such appointments—Fellows of the Smith-
sonian Institution—was established during the year, and the first Fel-
low to be named was Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood, of Marlboro, Mass.,
in recognition of her generous and important contributions to the Na-
tional Museum’s collections of American colonial material and an
entire seventeenth-century house.

Other honorary appointments made during the year were as fol-
lows: Drs. Robert J. Squier and Robert F. Heizer, both of the Uni-
versity of California, as collaborators in connection with the Smith-
sonian Institution-National Geographic Society’s archeological ex-
pedition to southern Mexico; Dr. Helen Tappan Loeblich, of Wash-
ington, D. C., as honorary research associate, with particular reference
to her achievements in the field of Cretaceous Foraminifera and her
active participation in the work of the National Museum’s depart-
ment of geology; Dr. Betty J. Meggers, of Washington, D. C., as
honorary research associate in recognition of her close and continuing
participation in the scientific work, exhibits, and other activities of
the National Museum’s division of archeology; Dr. William J. Tobin,
of Washington, D. C., as honorary research associate for his valued
scientific contributions and his active participation in the work of
the National Museum’s division of physica] anthropology; and Sister
Inez M. Hilger, of St. Cloud, Minn., in recognition of her many years
of collaboration with the Bureau of American Ethnology and her
valued contributions to the study of the American Indian.

SUMMARY OF THE YEAR’S ACTIVITIES OF THE INSTITUTION

National Museun.—The year saw a large increase in numbers of
specimens added to the Museum collections, due to receipt of several
million fossil foraminiferans from Europe. In all, approximately
7,600,000 specimens were received, bringing the total catalog entries
in the National Museum to 42,864,645. Some of the year’s outstand-
ing accessions included: In anthropology, a wood, cloth, and basketry
figure of a human being recovered from a Peruvian grave (A. D.
1100), ethnological objects from Iraq, Afghanistan, and Ethiopia, and
an entire 2-story, 4-room colonial house from Massachusetts; in
zoology, collections of mammals from Korea, Pakistan, and Panama,
birds from Panama, large collections of fishes from the Gilbert Islands,
Liberia, and the southeastern United States, the W. M. Mann collec-
tion of ants, 3,200 polychaete worms, mostly from New England, and
SECRETARY'S REPORT 13

400 corals from the Great Barrier Reef; in botany, plant collections
from Mexico, Central and South America, and [raq; in geology, sev-
eral gifts of rare minerals and gems, 35 specimens of meteorites, 2,000
Silurian and Devonian fossils, from Canada, about 3,500,000 mounted
foraminiferan specimens, 600 rare Paleocene and Eocene mammals
from Wyoming, and about 750 otoliths of Eocene teleostean fishes
from England; in engineering and industries, an early Curtis steam
turbine, the Dodrill-GMR mechanical heart, and important electro-
cardiograph equipment; and in history, much desirable material
needed to complete the settings for the First Ladies Hall, including
the loan of a piano used in the White House during the administration
of John Quincy Adams.

Members of the staff conducted fieldwork in Ecuador, Mexico, the
Belgian Congo, Panama, the Caribbean, and many parts of the United
States. Several studied collections in other museums in America
and in Europe.

In the Museum’s program of exhibit modernization, two new halls
were formally opened to the public during the year—the First Ladies
Hall and the American Indian Hall. Construction work was begun
on the hall depicting colonial life in North America, and the renova-
tion of the hall devoted to birds saw good progress.

Bureau of American H'thnology.—The Bureau staff continued their
researches in archeology and ethnology: Dr. Stirling his Panamanian
studies, Dr. Collins his archeological work in the Canadian Arctic,
and Dr. Drucker his field researches of the La Venta culture in Mexico.
Dr. Roberts continued as Director of the River Basin Surveys.

Astrophysical Observatory.—Solar radiation studies were con-
tinued at the Observatory’s two field observing stations—Montezuma
in northern Chile and Table Mountain in southern California. Vol-
ume 7 of the Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory was published
in July 1954. Cooperative work with the U.S. Weather Bureau was
continued. In the division of radiation and organisms studies were
made on the photocontrol of the processes of plant growth and on the
mechanism of action of the plant hormone auxin in the control of
growth.

National Collection of Fine Arts —The Smithsonian Art Commis-
sion met on December 7, 1954, and accepted two oil paintings for the
National Collection of Fine Arts, one oil painting of President Eisen-
hower for the National Portrait Gallery, and one pastel for the
Smithsonian Institution. The Gallery sponsored 14 special exhibi-
tions during the year. The Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice circulated 68 exhibitions, 57 in the United States and 11 abroad.

Freer Gallery of Art——Purchases for the Freer Gallery collections
included Chinese bronzes, lacquerwork, paintings, and pottery; Per-
14 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

sian jade, metalwork, and paintings; Japanese lacquerwork, paintings,
and pottery; Indian paintings; Iraqi illustrated manuscript; and
Turkish pottery. The first number of Ars Orientalis was published
during the year. The Gallery sponsored again a series of illustrated
lectures by distinguished scholars on various phases of Oriental art.

National Air Museum.—By the end of the year the task of moving
the Museum’s stored materials from Park Ridge, U1., to Suitland, Md.,
was virtually completed. The Museum participated in celebrating
the fortieth anniversary of the founding of the National Advisory
Committee for Aeronautics, a feature of which was the awarding of
the Langley medal to Dr. Jerome C. Hunsaker. Added to the aero-
nautical collections during the year were 117 specimens in 31 separate
accessions, including the midget racing airplane Buster (formerly
named Chief Oshkosh), built in 1931 and flown in more than 50 races.
Nearly 22,000 photographs pertaining to aeronautics were added to
the Museum’s library of reference materials during the year.

National Zoological Park.—The Zoo accessioned 2,347 individual
animals during the year, and 1,917 were removed by death, exchange,
or return to depositors. The net count of animals at the close of the
year was 3,410. Noteworthy among the accessions were a pair of
baby gorillas, several young chimpanzees, and two Goeldi’s marmo-
sets; emperor, Adelie, and Humboldt’s penguins; two examples of
the rare Mona Island iguana and a horn-nosed iguana; and a domestic
donkey. In all, 280 creatures were born or hatched at the Zoo during
the year—77 mammals, 141 birds, and 62 reptiles. Visitors totaled
approximately 3,476,000.

Canal Zone Biological Area.—More than 600 visitors came to Barro
Colorado Island during the year; 43 of these were scientists who used
the facilities of the station to further their various researches, par-
ticularly in biology and photography.

International Exchange Service—As the United States official
agency for the exchange of governmental, scientific, and literary pub-
lications between this country and other nations, the International
Exchange Service handled during the year 1,146,972 packages of
such publications, weighing 812,960 pounds—slightly more than last
year. Consignments were made to all countries except China, North
Korea, Outer Mongolia, the Communist-controlled areas of Viet Nam
and Laos, and the Haiphong Enclave.

National Gallery of Art.—The Gallery received 842 accessions dur-
ing the year, by gift, loan, or deposit. Gifts included paintings by
Stuart, Raeburn, Renoir, Romney, R. Peale, Pater, Blake, Carriera,
and Goya; sculptures by Renoir, Ward, and Daumier; and about 400
prints. Six special exhibits were held, and 138 traveling exhibitions of
prints from the Rosenwald Collection were circulated to other gal-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 15

leries and museums, Exhibitions from the “Index of American
Design” were given 60 bookings in 20 States and the District of
Columbia. About 41,000 persons attended the Gallery’s “Picture of
the Week” talks, and, 10,000 persons attended the 44 Sunday lec-
tures in the auditorium. The Sunday evening concerts in the west and
east garden courts were continued.

Library.—A. total of 71,179 publications were received by the
Smithsonian library during the year. Approximately 650 new ex-
changes were arranged. More than 150 individual donors sent gifts
of desirable books and periodicals. At the close of the year the hold-
ings of the Smithsonian library and all its branches aggregated
951,409 volumes, including 585,592 in the Smithsonian Deposit in
the Library of Congress but excluding incomplete volumes of serials
and many thousands of reprints and separates from serials.

Publications —Seventy publications were issued under the Smith-
sonian imprint during the year (see Report on Publications, p. 160,
for full list). Outstanding among these were “The Material Cul-
ture of Pueblo Bonito,” by Neil M. Judd; “The Black Flies (Diptera,
Simuliidae) of Guatemala and Their Role as Vectors of Onchocer-
ciasis,” by Herbert T. Dalmat; “Check List of North American Recent
Mammals,” by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., and Remington Kellogg; “Frogs
of Southeastern Brazil,” by Doris M. Cochran; “The Horse in Black-
foot Indian Culture,” by John C. Ewers; “A Ceramic Study of Vir-
ginia Archeology,” by Clifford Evans; Volume 7 of the Annals of the
Astrophysical Observatory; “Masters of the Air,” by Glenn O.
Blough; and Volume 1 of the new series Ars Orientalis. In all,
428,286 pieces of printed matter were distributed during the year—
192,108 copies of publications and 226,178 miscellaneous items.
Report on the United States National
Museum

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the con-
dition and operations of the United States National Museum for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1955:

COLLECTIONS

During the year 7,596,646 specimens were added to the national col-
lections and distributed among the six departments as follows: An-
thropology, 34,450; zoology, 363,500; botany, 58,526; geology, 7,-
056,121; engineering and industries, 5,609; and history, 78,440. ‘This
increase is markedly greater than last year and results from the col-
lection in Europe during the year of several million minute fossils
known as Foraminifera. The other accessions for the most part were
received as gifts from individuals or as transfers from Government
departments and agencies. The Annual Report of the Museum, pub-
lished as a separate document, contains a detailed list of the year’s
accessions, of which the more important are summarized below. Cat-
alog entries in all departments now total 42,864,645.

Anthropology.—A unique gift to the division of archeology was
a figure of a human being made from wood, cloth, and basketry, re-
covered from a grave along the central coast of Peru and dating from
about A. D. 1100. This unusual object was presented by Mrs. Vir-
ginia Morris Pollak as a gift from the Arther Morris Collection. A
series of large archeological collections taken from excavation projects
in various parts of the Missouri Basin has been transferred to the
Museum by the River Basin Surveys. A willow-splint figure of a
quadruped, probably prehistoric, from a cave in Grand Canyon, was
presented by Dr. J. D. Jennings, University of Utah.

The division of ethnology received from Ralph Solecki numerous
ethnological objects which he collected from his native employees
and their relatives among the Shirwani Kurds of Kurdistan while he
was conducting archeological work in Iraq. Also accessioned were
28 items of Afghan material culture, consisting of pottery, basketry,
weaving, and quilted clothing, a Khyber knife, and Mohammedan cult
objects, collected in 1954 by the donor, Miss May Wilder, from
villagers and country folk in Afghanistan. Another gift was a well-
documented collection of 34 miscellaneous ethnographical specimens

16
SECRETARY’S REPORT 1

from the Anuak, a Sudanese tribe living in the environs of the Akobo
River, collected by the donor, Miss Joan Yilek, prior to 1953 at
Pokwo, Ethiopia, while she was stationed there as a missionary. Most
extraordinary was the gift by Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Greenwood
of Marlboro, Mass., of an entire 2-story, 4-room house built in Everett,
Mass., in 1678. The hand-hewn timbers of this early American home
were dismanteled and reassembled for future exhibition. W. Dan
Quattlebaum, Pasadena, Calif., presented two outstanding examples
of eighteenth-century glass, consisting of an engraved glass bowl
blown in 1789 at John Frederick Amelung’s New Bremen Glassworks
in Frederick County, Md., and a decanter of about 1795 bearing an
engraved American eagle.

The division of physical anthropology had an opportunity through
collaborative studies to restore a badly crushed human skull that had
been recovered by Dr. Fred Wendorf near Midland, Tex. This skull
was found associated with Folsom-type projectile points. Dr. T.
Dale Stewart, curator of physical anthropology, who restored the
skull, arranged with Dr. F. J. McClure, of the National Institute of
Dental Research, to test the skull and associated Pleistocene animal
bones for the amount of fluorine. On the basis of these tests and the
excavation record, its age is considered to be about 12,000 years.

Zoology.—The armed forces research teams operating in various
parts of the world continued to make major contributions to the mam-
mal collections. Specimens of Korean mammals, including the Mu-
seum’s first collection from Quelpart Island, were transferred through
the Hemorrhagic Fever Commission from the Army Medical Service
Graduate School. <A transfer from Naval Medical Research Unit
No. 3 at Cairo included about 350 specimens from Egypt and the
Sudan. The U.S. Army, through the 25th Preventive Medicine Sur-
vey Detachment, transferred a collection of specimens obtained by
Capt. Gordon Field and C. M. Keenan in Panama and the Canal Zone.
Dr. Robert K. Enders contributed three separate collections of small
mammals from Pakistan, the Island of Saipan in the Marianas, and
Wyoming. An especially fine collection of dog and wolf skulls was
included among specimens excavated from an aboriginal site on
Southampton Island by Dr. Henry B. Collins, Bureau of American
Ethnology, on the National Geographic Society-Smithsonian Institu-
tion-National Museum of Canada Expedition.

Most noteworthy among the accessions recorded by the division of
birds was a gift of 1,255 bird skins from the “Benson Grubstakers”
(a group of young men living in Panama who are interested in nat-
ural history) and the Panama Canal Natural History Society. A
gift from Maj. Gen. G. R. Meyer of 119 sets of eggs with full data,
largely from the Canal Zone, added important information to that
18 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

already available on the breeding dates of Panamanian birds. A de-
posit made by the Smithsonian Institution comprised 959 skins, 54
skeletons, 2 alcoholic specimens, and 1 set of eggs collected by Dr. A.
Wetmore. ‘The National Geographic Society presented a geographic-
ally important collection of 131 birds obtained in French Equatorial
Africa by Walter A. Weber.

A considerable number of valuable herpetological specimens were
accessioned as gifts: A type and 18 paratypes of a new species of frog
taken in Jamaica by Dr. W. Gardner Lynn; 119 reptiles and amphib-
ians from Virginia, including a type and paratypes of a new species of
salamander, from Richard L. Hoffman; 8 reptiles from Puttur, Chit-
toor District, South India, including a genus and three species not for-
merly contained in the Museum collection, presented by Rev. Erwin
Chell. A transfer from the Naval Medical Research Unit No. 3 at
Cairo, yielded 390 Egyptian reptiles and amphibians.

The largest collection of fishes received during the year consisted
of 2,341 specimens from fresh-water streams in the southeastern United
States collected for the Museum by Dr. Ernest A. Lachner and Frank
J. Schwartz. Another large gift was composed of 1,818 reef fishes
collected in the Gilbert Islands by the donor, John Randall. Addi-
tional gifts included the holotype of a new scorpaenid fish from the
eastern Pacific from John KE. Fitch; and the holotype of a new Mono-
centris from Mas-a-Tierra Island from Dr. Edwyn P. Reed, Valpa-
raiso, Chile. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service transferred to the
Museum the most important Atlantic collection received in several
years consisting of 983 fishes obtained by George C. Miller in Liberia.
Through exchanges with other institutions the Museum received 6
paratypes of cyprinids from Mexico through Dr. José Alvarez, Escuela
Nacional de Ciencias Biolégicas; the paratype of a frogfish from the
Chicago Natural History Museum through Loren P. Woods; and 3
paratypes of a Mexican catfish from the Instituto Mexicano de Re-
cursos Naturales Renovables, through Dr. Jorge Caranza.

One of the most valuable acquisitions of insects received was the
W. M. Mann collection consisting of 136,288 specimens of which over
116,000 are ants. Approximately 700 types and hundreds of species of
ants from many areas in the world not previously represented in
Washington were included in this group. Among the important trans-
fers from the U. S. Department of Agriculture was the S. W. Bromley
collection of well over 35,000 insect specimens. This accession, rich
in material representative of the dipterous family Asilidae, places
the Museum high on the list of institutions possessing extensive col-
lections of these flies. Another transfer included 34,258 entomologi-
cal specimens from the Department’s Laboratory of Forest Insects,
New Haven, Conn. Over 9,000 medically important black flies were
SECRETARY’S REPORT 19

received as a transfer from the U. S. Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare. .

Two notable gifts gréatly enhanced the collection of polychaete
worms maintained by the division of marine invertebrates; 3,645
specimens, mostly from New England, including 3 holotypes and 3
paratypes, from Dr. Marian Pettibone, University of New Hampshire,
and more than 200 identified specimens from the Gold Coast, Africa,
received from the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden,
through Dr. L. B. Holthuis. Twelve lots of octocorals were received
from His Imperial Majesty’s collections, laboratory of the Imperial
Household, Tokyo, Japan. Other noteworthy gifts to the collections
were 7 remarkable fossil sea-pens presented by H. G. Kugler, Pointe:
a-Pierre, Trinidad, and 3 large balanoglossid worms from Grand Isle,
La., given by Dr. Harry J. Bennett, Louisiana State University.
Three exchanges from Dr. Alejandro Villalobos F., Universidad
Nacional A. de México, netted 54 isopod and decapod crustaceans, of
which 34 were paratype specimens. Among the transfers was one
from the Fish and Wildlife Service, U. S. Department of the Interior,
which included more than 1,019 crustaceans and other invertebrates
collected in the Gulf of Mexico by the exploratory fishing vessel
Oregon under the direction of Stewart Springer.

The division of mollusks received types of seven new species of
nudibranch mollusks described and presented by J. M. Ostergaard.
Thirty-four specimens of gastropods from the Gulf of Mexico, includ-
ing the types of three new species, were donated by Daniel Steger.
As in the past, Jeanne S. Schwengel gave many fine specimens to the
Museum, including a specimen of the rare cowrie, Cypraea armeniaca,
from South Australia. Of the year’s five accessions of helminths two
are worthy of special mention because they brought types of two new
species, Onchocotyle somniosi, a trematode, described by the donor,
Dr. David Causey, and Gigantobilharzia huttoni presented by the
author, Dr. W. Henry Leigh.

The most important accession of corals comprises 400 specimens
from the Great Barrier Reef off Queensland, Australia, collected and
donated by Dr. John W. Wells, Cornell University.

Botany—Two significant collections were obtained for the Museum
by staff members: 2,850 specimens, largely grasses, in the states of
San Luis Potosi and Chiapas, Mexico, collected by Dr. Ernest R.
Sohns, and 3,445 specimens from Big Pine Key, Fla., and Isle of
Pines, Cuba, obtained by E. P. Killip, research associate.

Among the numerous collections received as gifts, with names re-
quested, one is especially noteworthy, 588 plants from the Herbario
“Barbosa Rodrigues,” Itajaf, Santa Catarina, Brazil. The Ohio State
University presented 4,084 plants of Guatemala collected by W. A.
20 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Kellerman many years ago, including numerous historically impor-
tant specimens. E. C. Leonard of the department staff donated his
private herbarium consisting of approximately 9,300 specimens ac-
cumulated over a period of many years.

Transfers from other Government agencies yielded several fine col-
lections: From the Agricultural Research Service, U. S. Department
of Agriculture, 983 specimens collected by Richard Evans Schultes in
Colombia; 5,066 specimens collected in India, Afghanistan, and Iran
by Walter Koelz; and a historic set of 575 central European crypto-
gams, the Kryptogamae Germaniae Exsiccatae. From the U. S.
Geological Survey, 1,360 plants of Alaska with a request for identifi-
cations; and 1,105 plants of Micronesia collected by F. R. Fosberg.
The National Research Council, through the Pacific Science Board,
transferred 532 plants of the Caroline Islands collected by S. F.
Glassman.

Important exchanges included 2,009 plants of Mexico, Central
America, and South America, from the Academy of Natural Sciences
of Philadelphia collected by the late F. W. Pennell.

Geology.—Outstanding gifts to the mineral collections are examples
of the rare minerals hurlburtite and bismutotantalite from Prof. E.
Tavora; rare iron and manganese phosphates from Finland from
Dr. Mary Mrose; a superb specimen of crystallized wolframite from
Korea from ©. S. Whetzel; the rare uranium mineral kasolite, Hahns
Peak, Colo., from C. R. Reddington; and a combination of the rare
minerals schallerite and hedyphane, Franklin, N. J., from J. S.
Albanese.

Included in the exhibition material added to the Roebling collection
were a group of large flawless axinite crystals of smoky lavender
color on actinolite from Madera County, Calif., a large benitoite
crystal in neptunite from San Benito County, Calif., and a bastnaesite
crystal from Madagascar weighing 11 pounds. A mass of native
lead weighing 80 pounds is one of the largest masses of this rare
mineral found at Langban, Sweden. A sharp dodecahedral crystal
of grossularite of an unusual pink color is one of the largest crystals
of this mineral known.

Among the outstanding exhibition specimens added to the Canfield
collection were a rich nodule of precious turquoise from the mines at
Villa Grove, Colo., a rare group of tourmaline crystals of bronze-green
color from Brazil, and a fine exhibition group of apophyllite on prehn-
ite from a newly discovered occurrence near Centreville, Va.

Gifts to the gem collection included a pink pearl from East Pak-
istan presented by the former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammed
Ali, and an outstanding collection from W. F. Ingram, of 33 cut
tourmalines weighing 118 carats, selected to show the color range
SECRETARY’S REPORT 21

of this gem stone. An uncommon specimen received for the ore
collection was the limb bone of a dinosaur partially replaced by
unarinite, from the are Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Co. through
T. O. Evans.

During the past year Dr. “s. H. Perry donated 35 specimens of
meteorites. Among them was a stone of the Sylacauga fall, weighing
1,682 grams. Another individual of this fall became celebrated as
the first known case of a meteorite striking a person.

The support of the Walcott fund again permitted staff members
to obtain important accessions in invertebrate paleontology and paleo-
botany. Specimens numbering 15,000 of Paleozoic invertebrates were
collected by Dr. G. A. Cooper and Robert Main, and a very large
group of Mesozoic and Tertiary Foraminifera from the classic local-
ities of Europe was cbtained by Drs. A. R. Loeblich, Jr., and Helen
Tappan Loeblich.

Particular mention is made of the gift of 2,000 specimens of Silurian
and Devonian fossils from little-known areas in New Brunswick, Nova
Scotia, and Quebec, received from Dr. Arthur Boucot, and 800 Trias-
sic invertebrate fossils from the Italian Alps from Dr. Franco Ra-
setti. Important foraminiferal donations included 275 type speci-
mens from the Cretaceous rocks of Cuba and Trinidad presented by
Dr. P. Bronnimann, and 320 slides of type Recent Foraminifera and
305 foraminiferal slides from the North Atlantic from Dr. Fred
Phleger. Another very valuable gift presented by Drs. A. R. Loeb-
lich, Jr., and Helen Tappan Loeblich consisted of 1,000 micro-samples
and 3,500,000 specimens of mounted Foraminifera with many types
from the Cretaceous of Texas.

Through the income of the Walcott fund a collection of about 600
specimens of rare Paleocene and Eocene mammals was obtained by
Dr. C. L. Gazin and F. L. Pearce from southern Wyoming. Of par-
ticular interest were an excellent skull and some skeletal material of
the large pantodont mammal Coryphodon and two well-preserved
skulls of the condylarth mammal MMeniscotheriwm. Under the same
fund Dr. D. H. Dunkle collected fossil fish and reptile remains from
Devonian, Triassic, and Cretaceous rocks of Utah, Idaho, and Wyo-
ming. An outstanding gift was a nearly complete skull of the large
saber-toothed cat Smilodon fatalis collected from the Pleistocene de-
posits of Texas by George Klett and presented to the Museum through
James E. Conkin. A remarkable collection of about 750 otoliths of
ieleostean fishes from the Eocene lower Barton beds of Hampshire,
England, representing 22 genera and 28 species, was given by Dr. F. C.
Stinton.

Engineering and Industries—A turbine reputed to be the first built
by Charles Curtis, America’s best-known pioneer steam-turbine in-
22 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

ventor, was presented by the Stevens Institute of Technology. Origi-
nal radio apparatus was received from the widow of Edwin Arm-
strong, comprising his regenerative receiver made about 1912, three
superheterodyne receivers, a superregenerative circuit, and what is
considered the oldest surviving frequency-modulation receiver.

The Dodril-GMR mechanical heart, the first to be used successfully
for the complete bypass of the human heart during surgery, was pre-
sented by the General Motors Corporation through C. L. McCuen of
the Research Laboratories Division. The Rockefeller Institute for
Medical Research gave the first Kinthoven string galvanometer made
in the United States for an electrocardiograph. This was made in
1914 by Charles F. Hindle for Dr. Alfred E. Cohn. The electro-
cardiograph used by Dr. Frank E. Wilson, a pioneer in the field of
electrocardiography, was presented by the University of Michigan.

Several hundred drawings, mostly of the details of early Bessemer-
process steel plants made by the distinguished engineer Alexander
Lyman Holley, were the gift of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

An elaborately carved roller cotton gin from India was received
from Mrs. Stanley M. Walker. A pink brocaded taffeta christening
blanket, known to have been used in 1827, was presented by Faith
Bradford, and a commemorative linen, “We Offer Peace, Ready for
War,” was given in the name of Sibyl Avery Perkins, deceased, by
her daughter, Mrs. Robert C. Johnson, Jr.

An unusual board section of curly yellow buckeye showing beautiful
blue stain markings was presented by Ray E. Cottrell of the Wood
Collectors Society. Fifty microscope mounts of woods of the family
Celastraceae were received from John A. Boole, Jr., and 20 woods
and 20 corresponding mounts of the genus Garrya, through Prof. J. E.
Adams, from the University of North Carolina.

A linoleum block print, “Le Coup de Vent,” by Felix Vallotton
(1865-1925), an important figure in the revival of the woodcut, was
purchased through the Dahlgreen fund.

Two etchings by Giovanni Baptista Piranesi (1720-1778), “Veduta
del Palazzo dell’ Academia” and “Veduta sul Monte Quirinale del
Palazzo Kccelentissima,” were received as Smithsonian Institution
deposits. Eight etchings illustrating Homer’s Odyssey, by the well-
known Polish artist Sigmund Lipinsky (1873-1940), were presented
by Mrs. Elinita K. Burgess Lipinsky.

History.—A very interesting specimen received in the division of
civil history was a piano used in the White House during the adminis-
tration of President John Quincy Adams. ‘This piano, on loan from
the Juilliard School of Music in New York, is a very early one of
American make, bearing the type of label used between 1822 and 1829
by Alphaeus Babcock who worked in Boston.
SECRETARY'S REPORT PPS)

A large collection of vases, andirons, and other ornamental pieces
donated by Mrs. W. Murray Crane of New York City helped to com-
plete the exhibition of almost every setting in the First Ladies Hall.
As a loan the Museum received from B. Woodruff Weaver two gold
sofas which were missing from the White House suite of furniture
previously acquired. These sofas were sold at auction by the White
House in 1902 to a private party. They were purchased by the
Barnes family of Washington.

Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower presented the gloves, evening purse,
jewelry, and slippers that she wore with her inaugural dress. ‘These
accessories complement this unit for exhibition. Two fans and a blue-
and-white Chinese porcelain vase belonging to Mrs. Herbert Hoover
were presented by Mrs. Herbert Hoover, Jr. A hickory walking stick,
inlaid in silver and bearing the name of Abraham Lincoln, was given
by Samuel J. Prescott.

A gift to the division of military history from Joseph Cummings
Chase contained 79 portraits of World War I officers and enlisted men,
and one portrait of an enlisted man in service during the Korean
conflict.

Outstanding among the accessions in the division of numismatics
was the gift from Mrs, William D. (Gorgas) Wrightson, comprising
43 award medals and decorations given to Dr. William Crawford
Gorgas, 1854-1920, Sanitation Engineer fer the Panama Canal Com-
mission and later Surgeon General of the United States.

The Post Office Department continued as the principal means where-
by the philatelic collections are kept up to date, forwarding one speci-
men of each new stamp distributed by the Universal Postal Union.
Three shipments of approximately 38,000 stamps were transferred.
The Treasury Department through the cooperation of T. Coleman
Andrews, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, transferred an addi-
tional 49,642 specimens of United States revenue stamps and proofs.

Among gifts from private donors, especial mention is made of two
additional collections of great value from Ernest Lowenstein. One
collection comprised four volumes of Honduras airmails, replete with
rarities, and the other consisted of a 3-volume collection of Paraguay
airmails.

EXPLORATION, FIELDWORK, AND RELATED TRAVEL

During November 1954, Frank M. Setzler, head curator, department
of anthropology, and C. Malcolm Watkins, associate curator, division
of ethnology, excavated a number of test pits at Marlborough Point,
Stafford County, Va., to obtain evidence of the former location of
houses, taverns, and industries of this long-abandoned colonial town.
The acquisition of such information will supplement existing knowl-

370930—56——3
24 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

edge of the origins of Virginia and its subsequent influence in the
settlement of the country west of the Allegheny Mountains.

From August 15 to August 30, 1954, Dr. Clifford Evans, associate
curator, division of archeology, examined collections at Belém and
Rio de Janeiro and attended as official delegate the 31st International
Congress of Americanists at Sao Paulo, Brazil. New acquisitions in
the Museo National and the Museo de Anthropologia at Lima and
the Regional Museum at Cuzco, Peru, were examined during the first
week of September. Archeological investigations involving strati-
graphic technique and survey were undertaken from September 8 to
November 1, 1954, in the Guayas Basin, Guayaquil, Ecuador, to estab-
lish sufficient evidence to evaluate the previously collected materials
in the museum of Sr. Emilio Estrada.

The study of early Virginia pottery in the collections of the National
Park Service at Jamestown and Williamsburg by C. M. Watkins, asso-
ciate curator, division of ethnology, was continued during March and
April 1955. Mr. Watkins also made two trips to New England and
New York to obtain materials and data for incorporation in the
Cultural History Hall.

Dr. Waldo R. Wedel, curator, division of archeology, was detailed
to represent the U. S. National Museum in conferences with River
Basin Surveys personnel at Lincoln, Nebr., relative to the division of
archeological specimens collected in the Missouri River Basin since
1946. Specimens from important archeological and historical sites
in North and South Dakota, Nebraska, and Wyoming have been re-
ceived on the basis of the arrangements concluded at Lincoln, and
other needed material from Montana, Wyoming, and Kansas will be
forwarded for incorporation in the national collections.

From September 20, 1954, to January 21, 1955, Dr. T. D. Stewart,
curator, division of physical anthropology, was detailed to the Army
Graves Registration Service to conduct research on skeletal aging of
American war casualties returned from North Korea at the 8204th
A. U., Jono Area, Kukura, Kyushu, Japan. Since in all instances the
age at death is known, it will be possible when analysis of these records
is completed to set up more accurate standards for determining the
age of unidentified skeletons.

Dr. Ernest R. Sohns, associate curator, division of grasses, con-
ducted botanical fieldwork in the state of San Luis Potosi, Mexico,
from August 29 to October 16, 1954. Grasses were collected in the
Sierra de Alvarez, Sierra de San Miguelito, Sierra de Cuates, Sierra
de Guadalcazar, Sierra Madre Oriental, Sierra de Catorce, and Sierra
de Mexiquitic, as well as at intermediate localities. At the request of
Dr. Juan Leonard, general secretary, EK] Centro de Investigaciones
Antropolégicas de México, Dr. Sohns was detailed to accompany
SECRETARY’S REPORT 25

an expedition to the unexplored region of southeast Chiapas, near
Lake Miramar, for the purpose of participating in a coordinated
exploratory program. Fieldwork was carried on from March 15 to
April 1, 1955, and some 648 botanical specimens were obtained.

The last five days in December 1954 were devoted by Dr. Robert P.
Multhauf, curator, division of engineering, to the inspection of dis-
play and lighting techniques in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the
American Museum of Natural History, and the International Business
Machines Co., for utilization where suitable in the Power Hall. The
collections of the Henry Ford Museum in the fields of power machin-
ery, electrical apparatus, machine tools, and transportation were ex-
amined late in March 1955, and the Edison Institute in Greenfield
Village, Dearborn, Mich., was visited. Dr. Multhauf also represented
the Smithsonian Institution at the 75th anniversary meeting of the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers during June 1955.

George Griffenhagen, associate curator, division of medicine and
public health, in January 1955 consulted with representatives of
Merck & Co., Rahway, N. J., relative to a proposed vitamin exhibit.
In February 1955 he inspected the Apothecaries Hall in the Charleston
(S. C.) Museum, La Pharmacie Francaise and the Cabildo (State
Historical Museum) at New Orleans, La., to examine the types of
early pharmaceutical equipment, the materia medica collections, and
archival records. During June 1955 he inspected a number of pharma-
ceutical and medical exhibits housed in institutions in New York and
Philadelphia. AJ] these visits were made to obtain suggestions and
assistance in the planning of the Hall of Health.

Edward C. Kendall, associate curator, division of crafts and in-
dustries, during the last week of September and the early part of
October 1954, visited a number of New England museums, chiefly at
Hartford, Worcester, Salem, Durham, Boston, Burlington, Benning-
ton, Ithaca, and Corning, to examine handicraft tools, agricultural
implements, and historical materials.

Grace L. Rogers, assistant curator, crafts and industries, during
December 1954 visited the Henry Ford Museum at Greenfield Village,
Mich., to obtain detailed data relative to textile machines, particularly
the Scholfield wool-carding machine, and the sewing machines, as
well as to inspect the exhibition and storage techniques for textile
fabrics. She also observed exhibition techniques at the Detroit Insti-
tute of Arts and the Detroit Historical Museum. During the first
week of March 1955 Miss Rogers examined the collection of textile
machinery at Old Slater Mill, Pawtucket, R. I., historical papers on
the Rhode Island Historical Society at Providence, the textile collec-
tion in the Rhode Island School of Design, the handwoven textiles in
the Essex Institute at Salem, and the collections of the Connecticut
2°26 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Valley Historical Society and Old Sturbridge Village for ideas ap-
plicable to the improvement of our textile exhibits.

Jacob Kainen, curator, division of graphic arts, made a critical
study of six color prints made in 1744 by John Baptist Jackson in the
print department of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts to determine
the number of wood blocks used in making the prints, and gathered
additional data for the descriptive catalog of Jackson’s color prints.

A survey of the paleobotanical materials in the collections of the
American Museum of Natural History, including specimens formerly
exhibited, was made by Dr. G. A. Cooper, curator, division of inverte-
brate paleontology and paleobotany, in November 1954. During
April 1955 Dr. Cooper obtained collections of invertebrate fossils
from the Porterfield Quarry near Saltville, Va., and from the reef
and interreef beds at Blacksburg, Va. A short field trip, financed by
the income from the Walcott bequest, was made by Dr. Cooper during
May 1955, when invertebrate fossils were collected from the Middle
Devonian near Hamilton, N. Y., and from Ordovician rocks north
and east of Utica, N. Y. During June 1955, he studied the prepara-
tion techniques and the displays of fossil marine invertebrates 1n the
Museum of the University of Michigan and the Chicago Natural
History Museum. The Laudon collection at the University of Wis-
consin was examined and conferences were held with Dr. A. IX. Miller
of the State University of Iowa on problems related to the stratigraphy
of the Permian of the Glass Mountains in Texas.

The rather poor representation in the national collections of
Foraminifera from the Miocene deposits of northern Florida and from
the upper and lower Cretaceous of Texas and Oklaboma was ma-
terially improved by fieldwork undertaken by Dr. A. R. Loeblich,
associate curator, division of invertebrate paleontology, and Prof.
Eugenia Montanaro Gallitelli of the University of Modena, Italy,
during January 1955 under the Walcott fund. From April 24 to
May 12, 1955, Dr. Loeblich was engaged in making a reconnaissance
collection of Foraminifera from nearly every major stratigraphic level
on Trinidad Island and in studying faunal assemblages in the
geological laboratory of Trinidad Leasehold, Ltd.

Dr. David Nicol, associate curator, division of invertebrate
paleontology, examined pelecypod material, particularly Conocardi-
um, in the collections of the American Museum of Natural History
and the Museum of Comparative Zoology during late December 1954.

Under the income of the Walcott bequest, Dr. D. H. Dunkle, associ-
ate curator, division of vertebrate paleontology, was engaged in field-
work from July 24 to September 12, 1954. Prospecting in the ex-
posures of Middle Cretaceous Mowry shale south of Cody, Wyo., was
carried on for 12 days, and he then proceeded to Logan, Utah, for
SECRETARY’S REPORT 27

collecting in the Lower Devonian Water Canyon formation. After
five days in this area, Dr. Dunkle moved his camp and obtained an
extremely important collection of marine Lower Triassic fishes from
the Woodside formation in Paris Canyon. Subsequently the occur-
rences of fossil fishes in‘the upper half of the Triassic Chinle forma-
tion in Big Indian Wash near Monticello, Colo., were investigated.
On the return trip to Washington stops were made at Upper
Cretaceous Niobrara Chalk exposures at Sharon Springs, Oakley, and
near Hays, Kans., to ascertain the possibility of securing needed ma-
terials for the exhibition program. Museum officials of the University
of Oklahoma were consulted relative to the possibility of acquiring an
exhibition specimen of the large pelycosaurian reptile Cotylorhynchus.

Inasmuch as additional fish display material is needed for the lower
vertebrate hall now in the planning stage, Dr. Dunkle, assisted by
Don Guadagni, exhibits preparator, proceeded by Museum truck on
May 18, 1955, from Washington to western Kansas. Enroute arrange-
ments for the exchange of European fossil fishes were completed with
the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, and a small collection of fish re-
mains was made in excavations in the Upper Devonian along the new
Ohio Turnpike right-of-way. On arrival at Hays, Kans., George F.
Sternberg guided the party to the Havertield Ranch in southwestern
Gove County where camp was established. Collections of fish were
obtained from exposures of the Smoky Hill member of the Niobrara
formation.

Through the generosity of Dr. Stuart H. Perry, of Adrian, Mich.,
in providing travel funds, EB. P. Henderson, associate curator, division
of mineralogy and petrology, was enabled to examine the meteorite
collections of the British Museum (Natural History) at London, as
well as those at the universities of Bonn and Munich in Germany.
More than 450 meteorites were reviewed at the Institute de Mineralogie
et Petrographie, Université de Strasbourg, France. At Vienna, Aus-
tria, he examined the meteorite collection in the Naturhistorischen
Hofmuseum, which is regarded as the best in Kurope. He devoted
approximately a week to the examination of the collection of the Lab-
oratorido Astrofisico, Castel Gondolfo, Specola Vaticana, near Rome,
Italy, and subsequently examined the meteorites housed in the Mu-
séum National d’Histoire Naturelle at Paris, France, and those not
represented in our national collections were listed. This trip covered
the period from August 20 to October 30, 1954.

The generosity of Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Bredin, of Greenville, Del.,
enabled the Smithsonian Institution to undertake a field investigation
of the plant mites and other types of the smaller animal life of central
Africa. The field party, which assembled at Leopoldville, Belgian
Congo, April 8-11, 1955, consisted of Dr. Waldo L. Schmitt, head
a8 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

curator of zoology, leader of the expedition, Dr. Edward W. Baker,
acarologist, on detail from the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and
Dr. Roy Lyman Sexton, physician, of Washington, D. C., as medical
consultant and photographer, assisted by his son, Roy Lyman Sexton,
Jr., as microphotographic specialist. Traveling by auto and truck,
except for a short plane flight from Leopoldville to Stanleyville, they
spent some 50 days in the Belgian Congo and the mandate territory
of Ruanda-Urundi; 4 days in Uganda on the way to the head of navi-
gation on the Nile at Juda; and 19 days in the Sudan and Egypt, the
descent of the Nile being made by steamer and by train around the
cataracts. The expedition concluded its travel at Cairo on June 17,
1955, the collections having been forwarded by train from Kampala,
Uganda, to the port of Mombassa, British East Africa, for shipment
to Washington. Through the courtesy of the Institute des Parcs
Nationaux in Brussels and particularly its president, Dr. Victor van
Straelen, permission was given for photographing many of the larger
big-game mammals inhabiting the Garamba, Albert, and Kagera Na-
tional Parks on the route of the expedition. Scientifically profitable
visits were made also to the leading goological, medical, and agricul-
tural research stations operated by the government, including those
at Leopoldville, Yangambi, Nioka, Lwiro, and Bukavu.

At the end of December 1954, Dr. Alexander Wetmore, research
associate, returned to Panama to continue the ornithological survey of
the Republic. Until late in January he was located at the Juan Mina
field station of the Gorgas Memorial Laboratory for Tropical Medi-
cine on the Rio Chagres, a short distance below Madden Dam, an area
on the Caribbean drainage, which, through the formation of Gattin
Lake, has become especially favorable for birds that choose a fresh-
water habitat, as well as those that frequent forest.

Late in January, accompanied by Mrs. Wetmore, Dr. Wetmore
drove by jeep to El Volcan in the mountains of western Chiriqui to
remain until the end of March. The Finca Palo Santo of Don Pablo
Brackney was again made available for a base, and from here he
worked into the lower Temperate Zone on Cerro Picacho on the Con-
tinental Divide and also covered the lower and middle slopes of the
great Chiriqui Volcano. In February the party located at the finca
of Alois Hartmann at Santa Clara, visited also last year, and from
here it was possible, through use of a jeep, to make valuable collections
across to the Panamanian-Costa Rican frontier near E] Sereno. Here
the forest on the Panamanian side still remains only on the hills and
in the steeper valleys, as in the more accessible areas timber has been
cut. Studies made later from the small settlement of Cerro Punta,
located at 6,100 feet elevation toward the Continental Divide, were
especially interesting since this place gave access to high, heavily
SECRETARY’S REPORT 29

forested valleys in the true Temperate Zone. Here quetzals, jays,
and a variety of little-known, high-mountain birds ranged through
trees grown heavily with-moss and dense undergrowth constantly wet
from misty rain. Morning temperatures ranged down to 45° F.

Following this, a few days were devoted to Cerro Chame, a low,
isolated mountain on the coast below Bejuco, and a day each to the
La Jagua marshes, near Pacora, and the high ridge of the Cerro Azul,
beyond Tocumen. The latter mountain is especially interesting as
the haunt of an unusual species of hummingbird, known first from its
discovery by E. A. Goldman during investigations for the Smithsonian
in 1912, and named Goldmania violiceps.

The field investigations concluded with two days on Barro Colorado
Island, the Smithsonian biological station in Gattin Lake, the time
being devoted mainly to observation from cayuco along the island
shoreline. The work, during which Armageddon Hartmann served
again as assistant, was completed on April 5. During the 3-month
period notes were secured on approximately 400 species of birds.

During the last week of September 1954, Dr. David H. Johnson,
acting curator, division of mammals, devoted a week at the Chicago
Natural History Museum to the study of types and other specimens
of mammals in that collection from Formosa, Borneo, and Siam. On
the recommendation of the Commission on Hemorrhagic Fever,
Armed Forces Epidemiological Board, military air transportation to
London and return was furnished on March 29, 1955, to Dr. Johnson
for the purpose of studying the types and other related specimens
from northeastern Asia in the collections of the British Museum
(Natural History). This commission requested Dr. Johnson, with
the assistance of Lt. J. Knox Jones, to undertake a review of Koreap
mammals collected by Army field teams between 1952 and 1954.

From March 27 to April 8, 1955, Dr. Charles O. Handley, Jr.,
assistant curator, division of mammals, was engaged in comparative
studies of foxes, bats, and marsupials in the collections of the Museum
of Comparative Zoology and the American Museum of Natural
History for the purpose of advancing completion of revisionary
studies.

Dr. Ernest A. Lachner, associate curator, division of fishes, assisted
by Frank Schwartz of the University of Pittsburgh, collected in the
interval between September 9 and 14, 1954, several thousand fishes
in furtherance of his projected study of the fresh-water fishes of the
mountain streams of Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia.

Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke, curator, division of insects, left Washington
on May 25, 1955, for an extended field trip to the Pacific Northwest,
financed by a grant-in-aid from the American Philosophical Society.
This research project involved the collection of larvae of small moths
30 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

of the genera Depressaria and Agoropteria, as well as experimental
observations on their host specificity and host relationships. Field-
work was commenced in Wyoming and carried on subsequently in
Utah, Idaho, Oregon, Washington, Montana, North Dakota, and
Minnesota.

Frederick M. Bayer, associate curator, division of marine inverte-
brates, under a cooperative arrangement with the Marine Laboratory
of the University of Miami, conducted a search from August 20 to
September 14, 1954, for a reef among the Florida Keys suitable for
reproduction, in part at least, as a coral reef group in the projected
Hall of Ocean Life. An unusually luxuriant, actively growing
Acropora reef with conspicuous sea-fans and other gorgonians was
located, and will furnish all the materials needed for an instructive dis-
play. Underwater pictures were taken of the reef and some material
was collected for use in the preparation of this exhibit. On June 21,
1955, Mr. Bayer was detailed to join an expedition to the Palau
Islands sponsored jointly by the George Vanderbilt Foundation and
the Office of Naval Research.

Mendel L. Peterson, acting head curator, department of history,
participated in a cruise sponsored by Edwin A. Link, of Binghamton,
N. Y., to the Bahamas, Haiti, and Cuba from May 1 to July 7, 1955.
The objective of this cruise was to investigate Spanish wreck sites on
Silver Bank and to retrace the probable route followed by Columbus
in the Bahamas during his first voyage to America, as well as to in-
vestigate the marking and decoration of muzzle-loading cannon.
Photographs and measurements were taken of cannon in the old forts
at, Nassau in the Bahamas, at Turks Island, at the Citadelle of Henri
Christophe at Port au Prince, and those in Morro Castle and the
Cabana Fortress in Havana, Cuba.

Between December 12 and 16, 1954, Margaret W. Brown, associate
curator, division of civil history, visited New York City and vicinity
for consultations relative to the installation of materials in the First
Ladies Hall. Franklin R. Bruns, Jr., associate curator, division of
philately, participated during the past year in first-day ceremonies
for postage-stamp issues and in exhibitions containing portions of
the national postage stamp collections at Chicago, New York, and
Philadelphia.

To obtain three bison for display in the North American Mammal
Hall, W. L. Brown, chief taxidermist, proceeded on October 11, 1954,
from Washington to the National Bison Range at Moiese, Mont.,
where arrangements had been made with the National Park Service
for skins of three suitable surplus animals. Subsequently, Mr. Brown
traveled to Amidon, Slope County, and to Bismarck, N. Dak., to obtain
Rocky Mountain and columnar cedars, willow, dwarf juniper, sage-
brush, and grasses for use as background materials in this exhibit.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 31

John E. Anglim, exhibits specialist, visited the Chicago Natural
History Museum for the purpose of studying the exhibition techniques
employed in the newly completed bird, invertebrate paleontology, gem,
mineral, and mammal halls. Discussions were held with the exhibits
preparators and the respective curators. Several trips were also made
to the Museum of Science and Industry at Chicago, between June 19
and June 27, 1955.

EXHIBITION

The program for modernization of exhibits initiated during the
preceding year was continued in 1955 by a Congressional allotment of
$360,000. Contracts were awarded and work commenced on the com-
pletion of the North American Mammal and Bird Halls and on the
construction of the Cultural History Hall (Colonial tradition in
America) and the Power Machinery Hall.

After many months of planning by Associate Curator C. Malcolm
Watkins, with the cooperation of John EX. Anglim, chief exhibits
preparator, and the Public Buildings Service, construction was begun
in Hall 26 on exhibits depicting colonial life in North America.
Household furnishings and useful and decorative arts illustrating do-
mestic customs from the earliest settlements along the Atlantic coast
to about 1830 will be displayed in 50 cases and 6 period rooms. ‘Two
of the latter will be ground-floor rooms of a complete 2-story seven-
teenth-century house from Everett, Mass., the gift of Dr. and Mrs.
Arthur M. Greenwood, of Marlboro, Mass.

An instructive exhibit of “Folk Pottery of Early New England”
was installed in an alcove of the ground-floor foyer of the Natural
History Building by Mr. Watkins and the exhibits preparators. The
redware and stoneware displayed in this special exhibit were selected
from the gift collection of Mrs. Lura Woodside Watkins.

On the evening of June 2, 1955, the President of the American Asso-
ciation of Museums, Dr. William M. Milliken, and the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Leonard Carmichael, formally opened to
the public the newly modernized American Indian Hall. This cere-
mony was scheduled as part of the program of the 50th anniversary
meeting of the American Association of Museums. The ethnographic
exhibits in the hall range geographically from Tierra del Fuego at the
southern tip of South America, through Latin America, to the south-
western United States and California, and display various aspects of
the ways of life of these historic Indian cultures. The life-size groups,
a legacy from the past, were designed by the talented artist and former
head curator of anthropology Dr. William H. Holmes. Five minia-
ture dioramas supplement the life-size family groups and portray the
Indians who met Columbus, life in a Yosemite Indian village in
autumn when acorns are being collected in the valley below the tower-
32 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

ing Yosemite Falls, a sacred ceremony in the Antelope Kiva of the
Hopi Indians, terrace farming among the Inca, and a camp scene
among the Yahgan Indians, the southernmost people in the world.
Wall cases display the basic economy of each culture, such as food,
clothing, shelter, and handicrafts.

During the year the exhibits staff of the department of zoology com-
pleted the installation of the puma, Alaska wolf, pronghorn antelope,
and Virginia deer in the recently constructed display units. For the
bison group in this North American Mammal Hall, the Fish and Wild-
life Service provided three animals from the National Bison Range.

In the hall devoted to birds, all construction work and one habitat
group depicting the bird life of the Antarctic were completed. Five
emperor and three Adelie penguins, a skua, a kelp gull, and a snow
petrel are included. The paintings on the backgrounds of five addi-
tional display units—the hoatzin, Carolina parakeet, bowerbird,
honeyguide, and palm chat—were practically finished at the close of
the fiscal year. The paintings of flying birds for the ceiling of this
hall were reported to be completed and the installation of exhibits in
some of the alcove cases was commenced.

A special series of small! exhibits of insects was prepared and placed
in the foyer of the Natural History Building. Notable among these is
an exhibit of Morpho butterflies, showing sexual dimorphism and the
contrast between physical and chemical coloration. The display tech-
nique developed by Thomas G. Baker of the exhibits staff should be
of decided interest to other museums because of its novelty and
effectiveness.

Planning for the modernization of the geological exhibits has been
resumed. The general plans and layouts of the halls for minerals,
invertebrate fossils, and the lower vertebrate fossils have now been
determined. Preparation of the giant ground sloth material from
Panama has been completed, and two skeletons have been assembled
for mounting and installation in the exhibition hall. Changes in the
mineral exhibit consist of replacing specimens by finer examples as
they are acquired.

The detailed planning of the Power Machinery Hall was completed
during the year, the plans and specifications were reviewed, and the
preparation of exhibits for installation was in progress. The exhibits
in this hall will portray the story of the development of power ma-
chinery by using original machines, models, and graphic devices.
Several new models of pioneer power machines were constructed by
Donald H. Berkebile, modelmaker, in the exhibits workshop. The
actual construction of this hall will start shortly after the close of
this fiscal year.

An outline of the plans for the Hall of Health was circulated to
professionally interested individuals and institutions for their com-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 33

ment. The theme of this hall will be “Man’s Knowledge of His
Body Then and Now,” a comparison of past and present ideas and
knowledge of the human-body.

Jacob Kainen, curator, and J. Harry Phillips, Jr., aide, division of
graphic arts, began a complete revision of the exhibits in the portion
of the Smithsonian Building known as the “chapel” with a view to
presenting a graphic explanation of the techniques of picture printing
and to tracing the development of the important processes employed
to reproduce pictures mechanically. The photogravure and roto-
gravure sections have been completed and the halftone relief process
is partially completed. The old built-in display cases have been
painted a light gray, and lighting has been installed in the hall for the
first time.

In the section of photography material was gathered for exhibits
relating to the history of stereophotography and to early motion-
picture devices. A series of new exhibits in the northwest gallery
relating to the development of the camera shutter, the camera, lens,
artificial light, and instantaneous photography, and the applications
of photography to everyday life, to science and industry, to welfare,
and to education are now in the planning stage.

The First Ladies Hall in the Arts and Industries Building was
formally opened on May 24, 1955, with the President of the United
States and Mrs. Eisenhower participating in the dedication. The
eight large display units in this hall are designed to represent dif-
ferent rooms in the White House from its earliest period to the present
time. These settings afford the visitor an opportunity to view the
dresses in surroundings similar to those in which they were originally
worn. Architectural details received from the White House during
the recent reconstruction have been incorporated in the rooms. Each
room contains from three to six dresses representing a time span of
about 20 years, and in consequence a style of background and fur-
nishings typical of the period was selected to create an appropriate
setting for all the dresses. Changing styles in White House decora-
tion, from the earliest days to the present, shown in these rooms are
actually based on written descriptions of the White House as well as
available pictorial evidence.

An exhibit illustrating the history of the United States Marine
Corps was dedicated on August 10, 1954, in a section of the Hall of
Naval History, by Dr. Leonard Carmichael, Secretary of the Smith-
sonian, and Gen. Lemuel C. Shepherd, Commandant of the Marine
Corps. <A colorful parade of the Marine Corps band preceded the
dedication. This exhibit reveals the historical development of this
organization by means of a series of uniforms, swords, and miscella-
neous items owned by notable officers and enlisted men.
34 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

A special exhibition, “History Under the Sea,” was installed in
the foyer of the Natural History Building where it was displayed
from July 20 to August 20, and subsequently for about three months
in the rotunda of the Arts and Industries Building.

Seventy-six double frames in the philatelic exhibit cases were
utilized for display of an exceptionally complete series of United
States revenue stamps which were transferred by the Internal Rev-
enue Service. The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service,
T. Coleman Andrews, made the presentation to Dr. Leonard Car-
michael, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, on Octover 12,
1954.

VISITORS

During the fiscal year 1955 there were 3,312,870 visitors to the
Museum buildings, an increase of 50,730 over the attendance in 1954.
The average daily number of visitors was 9,668. Included in this
total are 288,195 school children, who arrived in 7,316 separate groups.
April 1955 was the month of the largest attendance with 482,058
visitors; May 1955 was the next largest with 474,485; and August
1954 was the third with 417,807. On one day, May 7, 1955, 55,096
visitors were recorded. Attendance records for the buildings show
the following number of visitors: Smithsonian Building 665,261;
Arts and Industries Building, 1,742,317; and Natural History Build-
ing 905,292.

BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT

On June 28, 1955, the President of the United States approved the
Act of Congress which authorizes and directs the Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution to plan and construct a suitable building for
a, Museum of History and Technology at a cost not to exceed $36,000,-
000. Itisa gratifying recognition of the value of the collections and
exhibits which the staff have developed over the years. When com-
pleted, adequate facilities will make possible the long-contemplated
effective presentation of objects in these fields.

The outward appearance of the Arts and Industries Building was
materially improved by the installation of stainless steel doors, tran-
som, and finished framing at the north entrance. The outmoded
doorway was divided into three passageways which not only imparted
a somewhat unsightly aspect but also hampered the inflow and exit
of visitors. In continuation of the renovation program, the north,
east, and south halls in the Arts and Industries Building were painted
for the first time in many years.

CHANGES IN ORGANIZATION AND STAFF

Dr. Thomas E. Bowman was appointed assistant curator in the
division of marine vertebrates on August 2, 1954.
SECRETARY'S REPORT Bde

On September 18, 1954, Dr. J. F. Gates Clarke replaced Dr. E. A.
Chapin who retired on January 31, 1954, as curator of the division
of insects under a transfer from the Insect Identification and Parasite
Introduction Section of the Entomology Research Branch of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture.

Dr. Richard E. Blackwelder, associate curator, division of insects,
resigned effective October 29, 1954. Dr. R. Tucker Abbott, associate
curator, division of mollusks, resigned November 10, 1954, to accept
a position at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.

Austin H. Clark, research associate, who retired as curator, divi-
sion of echinoderms, December 31, 1950, after serving more than
42 years as a member of the staff, died on October 28, 1954, at Wash-
ington, D. C.

The department of geology lost, through death, on June 6, 1955,
the valuable services and stimulating associations of Dr. John Putnam
Marble, research associate in the division of mineralogy and petrology
since 1948.

Respectfully submitted.

Remineton Krixoae, Director.

Dr. Leonarp CarMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Bureau of American

Ethnology

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the field
researches, office work, and other operations of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1955, conducted
in accordance with the Act of Congress of April 10, 1928, as amended
August 22, 1949, which directs the Bureau “to continue independently
or in cooperation anthropological researches among the American
Indians and the natives of lands under the jurisdiction or protection
cf the United States and the excavation and preservation of archeo-
logic remains.”

SYSTEMATIC RESEARCHES

In addition to his administrative duties, Dr. M. W. Stirling, Direc-
tor of the Bureau, completed the preliminary studies of the archeologi-
cal collections made in Panama in 1953, and prepared for publication
the sections relating to Taboga, Taboguilla, and Urava Islands, and
also that from Almirante Bay on the Panama north coast.

Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr., Associate Director of the Bureau,
was occupied principally with duties pertaining to the management
of the River Basin Surveys, of which he is Director (see his report,
p. 40). He reviewed and revised a number of manuscripts on the
results of excavations at sites in various areas. In the latter part of
September Dr. Roberts went to Lincoln, Nebr., to discuss the opera-
tions of the field office located there and to talk with the men who
were coming in from the field. En route to Lincoln he visited the
Department of Anthropology at the University of Michigan where
he examined various archeological collections and spoke to a group
of students on the problem of Early Man in America. In November
he attended the 12th Plains Conference for Archeology held at the
Laboratory of Anthropology, University of Nebraska, and took part
in discussions on the archeology of the Missouri Basin. During the
winter months he devoted a portion of his time to the preparation
of a manuscript covering the high points and summarizing the activi-
ties of the River Basin Surveys from the beginning of fieldwork in
the summer of 1946 to the end of the calendar year 1954. In May he
attended the annual meeting of the Society for American Archaeology
at Bloomington, Ind., and participated in a symposium on the archeo-
logical salvage program. Thence he proceeded to Lincoln where he

36
SECRETARY’S REPORT 37

spent a week reviewing the activities of the field office and laboratory
and assisting in the preparation of plans for the summer field season.
Toward the end of June Dr. Roberts again went to the headquarters
at Lincoln to assist in the preparations for sending parties to the field
and started on an inspection trip through the Missouri Basin in com-
pany with Dr. John M. Corbett and Paul Beaubien of the National
Park Service. At the end of June the group was at Cherokee, Iowa,
where Dr. Reynold J. Ruppe, Jr., of the University of Iowa, was
directing a joint party of the University and the Sanford Museum in
excavations at an archeological site on Mill Creek.

At the beginning of the fiscal year Dr. Henry B. Collins, anthro-
pologist, was in the Canadian Arctic, conducting archeological work
on Southampton Island in Hudson Bay. The expedition was spon-
sored jointly by the Smithsonian Institution, the National Geographic
Society, and the National Museum of Canada. Dr. Collins was as-
sisted by Dr. J. N. Emerson, assistant professor of anthropology, Uni-
versity of Toronto, William E. Taylor, Jr., research assistant, Museum
of Anthropology, University of Michigan, and Eugene Ostroff, pho-
tographer, of Washington, D. C.

The party left Coral Harbour, Southampton Island, on June 25,
traveling by dog team over the sea ice, and camped for the greater part
of the summer at Native Point, 40 miles down the coast. This aban-
doned Eskimo village of 85 stone and sod house ruins was once the
principal settlement of the Sadlermiut Eskimos, who became extinct
in 1903. Excavation of selected house ruins, graves, and midden areas
yielded a valuable collection of cultural and skeletal material of this
little-known Eskimo tribe.

One mile from the Sadlermiut site, on an 85-foot elevation and
almost a mile from the sea, is a much older site of the Dorset culture,
probably 1,000 years or more old. Covering an area of well over 20
acres, this is the largest Dorset site thus far known. Excavations there
yielded thousands of artifacts of stone, ivory, and bone, some of them
typically Dorset, others representing types that were new to the Dorset
culture. The site represents a phase of Dorset culture different in
certain respects from any previously reported. Among the new types
were several forms of microlithic blades recalling those of the upper
Paleolithic and Mesolithic of Eurasia but not previously found in
America. Wood was entirely absent at the site, having disintegrated,
and the bird and mammal bones and the ivory, bone, and antler arti-
facts were uniformly patinated and weathered, in striking contrast to
the fresh, well-preserved similar material from the Sadlermiut site.
This suggests a considerable age for the Dorset site and bears out other
indications that the Dorset culture in Canada and Greenland flourished
at a time when the climate was milder than today.
38 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Over 45,000 mammal bones were excavated at the Dorset and Sadler-
miut sites, and of these some 6,000 were identified in the field. One
result was the demonstration of some striking differences in the food
economy of the Dorset and Sadlermiut people. Twenty graves con-
taining complete skeletons were excavated, and an additional 15 un-
associated skulls were collected. In mid-July a trip was made by
Eskimo boat to Coats Island where two Sadlermiut houses were
excavated.

A preliminary report illustrating and describing the results of the
Southampton investigations was prepared for publication. Another
article was prepared describing the current status of Arctic archeology,
results accomplished, and problems toward which research should be
directed.

Dr. Collins continued to serve as a member of the Research Com-
mittee of the Arctic Institute of North America and of the subcommit-
tee responsible for planning and supervising the scientific work of the
Point Barrow Laboratory, operated by the Office of Naval Research.
He also continued as chairman of the directing committee supervising
the work of the Arctic Bibliography, which the Arctic Institute is pre-
paring for the Department of Defense, under an Office of Naval Re-
search contract, with funds provided by the Department of the Air
Force. Volume 4 of Arctic Bibliography, 1,591 pages, was issued by
the Government Printing Office in August 1954. It lists and describes
the contents of 7,627 publications in all fields of science relating to the
Arctic and sub-Arctic regions of America and Eurasia. The material,
which is extensively indexed and cross-indexed according to subject
and geographical locality, covers papers published in English, Rus-
sian, Scandinavian, and other languages. Volume 5 of the bibliog-
raphy, containing analysis of contents of 5,494 publications, was is-
sued in April 1955. Though all fields of science are included, volume
5 gives special emphasis to health and disease in the Arctic, environ-
mental effects, and anthropology, particularly the native peoples of
northern Siberia and Europe. Material for volume 6 was turned
over to the printer on June 20, 1955.

On June 6, 1955, Dr. Collins left again for Southampton Island,
to continue the excavations begun last year. The work is being spon-
sored by the National Museum of Canada and the Smithsonian, with
a grant received from the American Philosophical Society.

At the beginning of July, Dr. Philip Drucker was at his official
station in Washington, D. C., preparing a report on field researches
completed during the previous year. The report, entitled “Modern
Inter-tribal Organizations on the Northwest Coast,” was later sub-
mitted to, and accepted by, the Arctic Institute of North America, the
foundation that supported the major portion of the research, with
SECRETARY’S REPORT 39

supplementary financial assistance from the American Philosophical
Society and the Smithsonian Institution. During the same interval
he also completed a theoretical paper on “The Sources of Northwest
Coast Culture,” for publication in the New Jnterpretations of Ab-
original American Culture History, 75th Anniversary Volume of the
Anthropological Society of Washington.

Thanks to the liberal support of the National Geographic Society,
it was possible to plan an ample program of archeological research
at the important Olmec site of La Venta, Tabasco, Mexico. Plans
were drawn up for a cooperative project, in which the National Geo-
graphic Society, the Smithsonian Institution, and the University of
California were to participate. Dr. Drucker, representing the Smith-
sonian Institution, and Dr. Robert F. Heizer, of the University of
California and honorary research associate of the Smithsonian, were
to function as coleaders of the expedition. During the latter part
of November and early in December, Dr. Drucker made a preliminary
trip to La Venta to obtain clearances from local, civil, and military
authorities, recruit labor, select a camp site, and negotiate other de-
tails. On January 10 he left Washington to initiate the work, being
joined on February 1 by Dr. Heizer and two of the latter’s graduate
students serving as archeological assistants. An additional member
of the party was Ing. Eduardo Contreras S., assistant archeologist
and representative of the Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e
Historia de México. In passing, due tribute must be given the offi-
cers of this organization, whose whole-hearted cooperation made the
fieldwork possible.

The primary aim of the expedition was to carry out architectonic
investigations at La Venta, since in past years National Geographic
Society-sponsored parties have recovered a good deal of information
on Olmec ceramics and art. Excavations were restricted almost ex-
clusively to the ceremonial] enclosure, where tests in previous years
had shown a variety of structures to exist. Working through a 314-
month season with a crew of about 50 local laborers, the party ex-
cavated a series of structures of the ceremonial enclosure complex.
It proved possible to identify a series of constructional phases in each
of the individual structures and to work out a correlation of the phases
throughout the ceremonial enclosure. From the drift-sand overbur-
den that covered the structures, materials were recovered pertaining
to one, or possibly two, post-Olmec occupations of the site. Deter-
mination of the cultural affiliations of these later inhabitants is of
special interest. Carbon samples from post-Olmec deposits and from
various structural phases of the Olmec occupation were collected for
the purpose of obtaining accurate O-14 dates of the phases and
periods.

370930-—56——4
40 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

In addition, a series of offerings were found, consisting of objects
of pottery, jade, serpentine, hematite, quartz crystal, and other min-
erals, which add considerably to the stock of available knowledge of
Olmec art and technology.

At the end of the fiscal year, Dr. Drucker was at the Museo Nacional
de Antropologia in Mexico, D. F., studying the collections made
during the field season.

RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

(Prepared by FRANK H. H. ROBERTS, Jr., Director)

The River Basin Surveys continued investigations in cooperation
with the National Park Service and the Bureau of Reclamation of the
Department of the Interior, the Corps of Engineers of the Department
of the Army, and various State and local institutions. Because of a
further curtailment of funds the Inter-Agency Salvage Program did
not produce as extensive results as in former years. During the fiscal
year 1954-55 the work of the River Basin Surveys was financed by a
transfer of $52,700 from the National Park Service to the Smithsonian
Institution. The funds were entirely for use in the Missouri Basin.
An additional carryover of $3,691.44 made a total of $56,391.44 for
operations in the area. That amount was approximately 25 percent
less than moneys available for the preceding year, which also had
suffered a drastic reduction. As a consequence, there was a corre-
sponding progressive decrease in the program.

Field investigations during the year consisted mainly of excavations.
On July 1, 1954, three parties were in the field; two were doing in-
tensive digging—one in the Fort Randall area in South Dakota and
one in the Garrison Reservoir area in North Dakota, and the third,
also operating in the Fort Randall basin, was engaged in test excava-
tions at a number of sites. In each case some reconnaissance work
was carried on, but that constituted only a minor activity. At the
end of the fiscal year no parties were in the field, but preparations
were under way to send out three groups for intensive digging opera-
tions in two reservoir areas. Because of lack of funds no paleontologi-
cal studies were made during the year and none were planned for
fiscal 1956.

By June 380, 1955, areas where archeological surveys had been made
or excavations carried on since the start of actual fieldwork in the
summer of 1946 totaled 248 located in 27 States. In addition, one
lock project and four canal areas had also been investigated. As a
result some 4,345 sites have been located and recorded. Of that num-
ber 852 were recommended for excavation or limited testing. Pre-
liminary appraisal reports were completed for all the reservoirs
surveyed, and where additional reconnaissance has resulted in the
SECRETARY'S REPORT 4}

discovery of other sites supplemental reports have been prepared.
During the course of the year one such report was issued. Since the
start of the program 180 reports have been distributed. The dif-
ference between that figure and the total number of reservoir areas
investigated is in part due to the fact that where several reservoirs
form a unit in a single subbasin they are included in one report.

At the end of the fiscal year 324 sites in 44 reservoir basins located
in 17 different States had been dug either extensively or in part. In
some of the reservoir areas only a single site was excavated while in
others a whole series was examined. At least one example of each
type of site found in the preliminary surveys has been investigated.
In previous years the results of certain phases of that work appeared
in technical journals and in Bulletin 154 of the Bureau of American
Ethnology. Six manuscript reports on earlier excavation work were
completed during the present year and are ready for publication. One
major technical report was issued in December as Bulletin 158 of the
Bureau of American Ethnology, and a summary statement of the
program in the Missouri Basin for the years 1950-51 appeared in
April 1955 in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections.

The reservoir projects that have been surveyed for archeological
remains as of June 30, 1955, were distributed as follows: Alabama, 1;
California, 20; Colorado, 24; Georgia, 5; Idaho, 11; Llinois, 2;
Kansas, 10; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 2; Minnesota, 1; Mississippi, 1;
Montana, 15; Nebraska, 28; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 13; Ohio,
2; Oklahoma, 7; Oregon, 27; Pennsylvania, 2; South Dakota, 9; Ten-
nessee, 4; ‘Texas, 19; Virginia, 2; Washington, 11; West Virginia, 2;
and Wyoming, 22.

Excavations have been made or were under way in reservoir basins
in: California, 5; Colorado, 1; Georgia, 4; Kansas, 3; Montana, 1;
Nebraska, 1; New Mexico, 1; North Dakota, 4; Oklahoma, 2; Oregon,
3; South Carolina, 1; South Dakota, 3; Texas, 7; Virginia, 1; Wash-
ington, 4; West Virginia, 1; and Wyoming, 2. The foregoing figures
include only the work of the River Basin Surveys or that in which
there was direct cooperation with local institutions. Projects that
were carried on by local institutions under agreements with the Na-
tional Park Service are not included because complete information
about them is not available.

Throughout the year the National Park Service, Bureau of Recla-
mation, Corps of Engineers, and various State and local institutions
continued to provide helpful cooperation in the Inter-Agency Salvage
Program and furnished valuable assistance to the River Basin Sur-
veys. In several cases mechanical equipment was made available by
the construction agency, and at other projects temporary office and
laboratory space was provided. Transportation and guides were
42 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

furnished in a number of instances. The River Basin Surveys men
received helpful assistance from the field personnel of the other
agencies, and for that reason their accomplishments were much
greater than would otherwise have been the case. As in previous
years the National Park Service served as the liaison between the
various agencies both in Washington and in the field. It also was
mainly responsible for preparing estimates and justifications and pro-
curing funds to support the investigations. ‘The wholehearted coop-
eration of Park Service personnel greatly aided all phases of the
operations.

The main office in Washington continued general supervision over
the work, while the field headquarters and laboratory at Lincoln,
Nebr., was responsible for the activities in the Missouri Basin. The
materials collected by excavating parties in the Missouri Basin were
processed at the Lincoln laboratory. During the year there was a
general distribution of specimens and materials from the laboratory to
the U. S. National Museum and to various State and local agencies.
The only activities outside the Missouri Basin pertained to the com-
pletion of reports on work done in previous years and a brief check
on the status of two construction projects in Tennessee.

Washington office—The main headquarters of the River Basin Sur-
veys, at the Bureau of American Ethnology, continued under the
direction of Dr. Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. Carl F. Miller, archeolo-
gist, was based at that office and from time to time assisted the director
in general administrative problems.

At the start of the fiscal year Mr. Miller was in the office continuing
his studies on the material obtained at the John H. Kerr (Buggs
Island) Reservoir on the Roanoke River in southern Virginia and in
the preparation of his report on the results of investigations at that
locality. During the fall and winter months he completed a manu-
script, “Reevaluation of the Eastern Siouan Problem with Particular
Emphasis on the Virginia Branches: the Occaneechi, Saponi, and
‘Tutelo.” He also presented papers before several archeological socie-
ties and interested study groups. In June, at the request of the Bu-
reau of American Ethnology, he made a brief trip to visit and examine
various Archaic and Paleo-Indian sites in Alabama and Tennessee.
He made an examination of Russell Cave in Jackson County, Ala.,
where three and possibly four occupation levels are present. He also
visited several Paleo-Indian sites in the vicinity of Decatur and Hunts-
ville, Ala., and studied collections of materials that had been obtained
from them. From Alabama Mr. Miller went to Nashville, Tenn., and
after conferring with the Corps of Engineers officers in that city pro-
ceeded to the Cheatham and Old Hickory projects on the Cumberland
River to determine the exact status of the reservoir pools in relation
SECRETARY'S REPORT 43

to the archeological sites in their basins. En route from Tennessee
to Washington Mr. Miller stopped in Georgia and picked up materials
collected during the course of investigations at the Allatoona Reser-
voir and brought them to the National Museum. At the end of June
Mr. Miller was making preparations to proceed to Montana to conduct
excavations in the Tiber Reservoir area on the Marias River.

Columbia Basin and Texas.—The River Basin Surveys did no field-
work in these areas during the fiscal year, but two technical reports
on previous investigations were completed and submitted for pub-
lication. Joel L. Shiner, formerly in charge of the River Basin
Surveys field headquarters at Eugene, Oreg., and now an archeologist
with the National Park Service, turned in a manuscript, “The Mc-
Nary Reservoir, a Study in Plateau Archeology,” based on the results
of excavations at nine sites. Edward B. Jelks, who was in charge of
the field headquarters at Austin, Tex., before it was transferred to the
National Park Service and who is still an archeologist with that or-
ganization, completed a report, “Excavations at Texarkana Reservoir,
Sulphur River, Texas,” detailing the results of the digging at three
sites. As his duties at the Lincoln, Nebr., office permitted, Robert L.
Stephenson continued work on his “Archeological Investigations in
the Whitney Reservoir Area, Hill County, Texas.” Mr. Stephenson
made the excavations on which it is based before transferring to the
Missouri Basin.

Missouri Basin.—Throughout fiscal 1955 the Missouri Basin Project
continued to operate from the field headquarters at Lincoln, Nebr.
Robert L. Stephenson served as chief of the project from July 1 to
September 3, when he was granted leave of absence to complete aca-
demic work on an advanced degree at the Department of Anthro-
pology, University of Michigan. After Mr. Stephenson’s departure,
G. Hubert Smith took over direction of the project as archeologist in
charge. Activities during the year were concerned mainly with ex-
cavations, the processing of the collections obtained from the digging,
analyses and study of the materials, the preparation of general and
technical manuscripts on the results, and the publication and dissemi-
nation of scientific and popular reports. At the beginning of the
fiscal year the Missouri Basin Project had a permanent staff of twelve
persons. There were two temporary part-time employees assisting in
the laboratory. During July, August, and part of September, 1 tem-
porary assistant archeologist and 24 temporary student and local non-
student laborers were employed in the field. During the field season
three of the regular staff were engaged in excavation activities. The
temporary employees were gradually laid off as the excavations and
test digging were brought to a close and by the first of October only the
permanent staff, a temporary assistant archeologist, and a part-time
44 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

office worker were on the rolls. By the first of November it became
evident that the funds available for 1955 would not permit the con-
tinuance of as large a staff and a reduction in force became necessary.
As a result on June 30 the staff had been cut to seven persons.

During the year only three River Basin Surveys field parties op-
erated in the Missouri Basin. Two of them were primarily occupied
in conducting full-scale excavations while the third was engaged in
making a series of test excavations. The latter and one of the full-
scale digging parties worked in the Fort Randall Reservoir area in
South Dakota while the other excavating party worked in the Garri-
son Reservoir area in North Dakota. All three parties were in the
field at the start of the fiscal year. At the Fort Randall Reservoir,
which has been flooding since the closing of the dam in July 1953,
excavations were carried on by a group under the direction of Harold
A. Huscher at the Oldham Village site where previous digging had
revealed evidence for several components but the relationships were
not clear. Because of the rising waters of the reservoir pool and un-
satisfactory working conditions, the investigations were brought to
a close on July 24. The results of the season’s efforts clarified the sit-
uation at the Oldham site and will make possible a much more satis-
factory story of the occupations there in the period A. D. 1500 to 1700.
Shortly after the departure of the field party, the Oldham site went
under water and will continue to be flooded throughout the indefinite
future.

The second party in the Fort Randall area under Paul L. Cooper
continued its intensive sampling operations until September 20. Dur-
ing the season 13 sites ranging from the Woodland to the historic pe-
riods were studied. The sites varied from small temporary camps
to the remains of extensive earth-lodge villages. Several cultural
traditions are represented in the material obtained from them. Mr.
Cooper had planned to dig at several additional locations but the rising
waters of the reservoir prevented his doing so.

During the period the two field parties from the Missouri Basin
Project were engaged in the Fort Randall area, a third party repre-
senting the Nebraska State Historical Society, led by Marvin F.
Kivett, and working under an agreement with the National Park
Service, excavated at Crow Creek Village site. The imposing re-
mains of that former fortified earth-lodge village have been well
known. to students for many years, but it was not until the summer
of 1954 and excavations were under way that the presence of a second
village area, also fortified, was established. In the latter, evidence
for two occupations, both prehistoric, was found. These are sig-
nificant because one of them shows definite relationships with cultura]
materials in Nebraska while the other clearly defines a cultural phase
SECRETARY’S REPORT 45

found during an earlier season at another site in the Fort Randall area
and which was not well understood. Important data were also ob-
tained on earth-lodge types. In the vicinity of the village areas two
burial mounds were tested and information was obtained on burial
customs. The work at that location contributed so much to knowl-
edge of aboriginal occupation in that portion of the Missouri Basin
that the Historical Society in cooperation with the National Park
Service again sent a party to the site on June 14 where it was
continuing excavations at the end of the fiscal year.

In June a party from the University of Kansas led by Dr. Carlyle
S. Smith proceeded to the Fort Randall Reservoir area to begin
excavations under a cooperative agreement with the National Park
Service. The Kansas group started digging at a site near Fort
Thompson. By the end of the fiscal year they had cut cross trenches
and quadrants in the remains of a large earth lodge approximately
52 feet in diameter and had tested several refuse mounds in a nearby
field. The materials recovered by the close of the year indicated that
the site had relationships with certain occupations at two sites pre-
viously excavated in the Fort Randall area. The party planned to
continue its operations through the month of July, and the additional
information obtained should make possible a better understanding
of aboriginal activities in that immediate district.

The River Basin Surveys did no work in the Oahe Reservoir area
during the fiscal year, but a party from the South Dakota State
Archeological Commission and the W. H. Over Museum, under a
cooperating agreement with the National Park Service, carried on
excavations directed by Dr. Wesley R. Hurt at a location known as
the Swan Creek site. Three and possibly four occupations were found
there. The most recent of them represents the historic period. Parts
of two fortification ditches with palisades, earth lodges, and caches,
and burials of two types were uncovered. The sites proved to be so
important and so complex that Dr. Hurt and his party returned there
on June 15 and was continuing its excavations at the close of the fiscal
year.

In the Garrison Reservoir area at the beginning of the fiscal year
a party from the Missouri Basin Project under G. Hubert Smith and
a group from the State Historical Society of North Dakota led by
Alan R. Woolworth, operating under an agreement with the National
Park Service, were continuing their joint investigations at the sites
of Forts Berthold I and IT and the remains of the aboriginal village
named Like-a-Fishhook. Fort Berthold IT had been partially dug by
Smith in 1952 and parties from the State Historical Society of North
Dakota had carried on studies in the remains of the Indian village
during three previous seasons. Toward the close of the 1952 season
46 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

the North Dakota party found indications of the remains of Fort
Berthold I but had no opportunity to study them. Because of lack
of funds nothing was done there in the summer of 1953. The plans
for the 1954 season included the clearing of several features at Fort
Berthold II, excavation of the remains of Fort Berthold I, and some
additional digging in the aboriginal area. When the project was
brought to a close on July 10 the remains of the original Fort Berthold
trading post were fully exposed and the stockade which surrounded
the original Indian village had been found and completely defined.
The excavations were greatly accelerated by the use of mechanical
equipment. Fort Berthold I was built and occupied from 1845 to
1862 and the adjacent Fort Berthold II, which originally was called
Atkinson, was occupied from about 1858 to 1890 by both fur traders
and American military forces. Like-a-Fishhook Village was situ-
ated between the two trading posts and was built about 1845. It was
occupied by groups of Mandan, Hidatsa, and Arikara who had joined
forces against the Sioux. Information obtained from the digging of
the various features in the area has made possible the preparation of
the first complete map showing the extent of the two posts and the
village and has added considerable information pertaining to the fur
trade and other white and Indian contacts during the period involved.
The entire area went under water in the spring of 1955.

From Fort Berthold, Woolworth and the State Historical Society
party moved farther upstream and excavated the remains of Kipp’s
Trading Post. The stockade was outlined and the positions and
extent of the log buildings originally within the enclosure were de-
termined. A representative collection of objects characteristic of the
period was obiained. ‘This supplemented and broadened the informa-
tion from test excavations made there by a River Basin Surveys party
in the fall of 1951. The site is of particular interest because it was
occupied for a short time during the winter of 1826-27 when the
period of organized trade on the Upper Missouri was just getting
under way and because Kipp’s Post seemingly was the immediate
predecessor of Fort Union which became the great trade capital for
that part of the Plains area. After completing the work at that
location, the party made some further investigations at Grandmother’s
Lodge, a site where some preliminary digging had been done during
& previous season. Grandmother’s Lodge was the traditional dwell-
ing place of the Mandan or Hidatsa supernatural being who was
considered to be the patroness of gardens and crops. Investigation
of the remains provided data that can be compared with the legendary
story which is one of the important myths of the Indians in that
district.

Three detailed technical reports, all pertaining to excavations at
sites in the Garrison Reservoir area in North Dakota, were completed
Secretary's Report, 1955 PLATE 1

1. Operations of River Basin Surveys. Exposed floor areas being taken from top of tall
ladder. Rising waters of Fort Randall Reservoir appear in background.

2. Operations of River Basin Surveys. Portion of the Oldham site as seen from the
ladder. Holes in floor of area in left foreground outline former circular earth lodge,
Entire site is now under water.
Secretary's Report, 1955 PLATE 2

1. Operations of River Basin Surveys. ‘Tracing floor of earth lodge at village site near
Chamberlain, §. Dak. Missouri River in background. Area has since been destroyed.

tL

Operations of River Basin Surveys. Mechanical equipment was used successfully removing
upper part of fill from house pits and for excavating long trenches.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 47

and submitted for publication. Considerable progress was made in
the preparation of the reports on the results of investigations in one
reservoir area in South Dakota, a second reservoir area in North
Dakota, and two reservoir areas in Wyoming. In addition several
short articles and papers were written and sent to technical journals.
Two major manuscripts were printed and distributed and several
short articles were published.

During the year the reduced laboratory staff processed 46,602 speci-
mens from 51 sites in 4 reservoir areas. A total of 6,155 catalog num-
bers was assigned to the series of specimens. The work in the labora-
tory also included: reflex copies of records, 7,423; photographic nega-
tives made, 685; photographic prints made, 787; photographic prints
mounted, 2,854; manuscript prints mounted, 35; transparencies
mounted in glass, 362; drawings, tracings, and maps, 110; specimens
drawn for illustration, 81; pottery vessels restored, 2; pottery vessel
sections restored, 32. Photographic activity was at a minimum be-
cause the position of staff photographer left vacant by the death of
the photographer at the end of the preceding fiscal year was not filled.
However, the photographic laboratory at the Smithsonian Institution
in Washington assisted by performing some of the required work.
Drafting and specimen illustrating were also at a minimum because
there were not sufficient funds to replace the draftsman-illustrator who
resigned in October. The laboratory staff devoted considerable time
during the fiscal year to transferring analyzed records and special
materials to various permanent repositories. In accordance with the
policy adopted at the start of the program, various collections and
the data pertaining to them were sent to several State and local agen-
cies as well as to the United States National Museum.

Archeological specimens and records from the following were trans-
ferred to the division of archeology, U. S. National Museum: Am-
herst Reservoir, 12 sites; Baldhill Reservoir, 11 sites; Beaver City
Reservoir, 4 sites; Box Butte Reservoir, 1 site; Boysen Reservoir, 1
site; Brewster Reservoir, 1 site; Broncho Reservoir, 6 sites; Buffalo
Creek (renamed Bison) Reservoir, 1 site; Cushing Reservoir, 2 sites;
Devil’s Lake Reservoir, 3 sites; Dickinson Reservoir, 3 sites; Enders
Reservoir, 5 sites; Ericson Reservoir, 5 sites; Fort Randall Reservoir,
11 sites; Garrison Reservoir, 117 sites; Heart Butte Reservoir, 1 site;
Jamestown Reservoir, 1 site (human bone only); Medicine Creek
Reservoir (Harry Strunk Lake), 24 sites; Medicine Lake Reservoir,
5 sites; Mullen Reservoir, 8 sites; Niobrara Basin (a series of 10 small
reservoirs), 44 sites; Oahe Reservoir, 8 sites; Red Willow Reservoir,
3 sites; Rock Creek Reservoir, 1 site; Sargent Canal, 4 sites; Tiber
Reservoir, 4 sites; sites not in reservoirs: Kansas, 1; Missouri, 1; Mon-
tana, 11; Nebraska, 8.
48 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Archeological specimens and records were transferred as follows:
From 107 Tuttle Creek Reservoir sites to the Department of Econom-
ics and Sociology, Kansas State College. From one site in the Keyhole
Reservoir to the Department of Economics and Sociology, University
of Wyoming. From one site in the Garrison Reservoir to the Depart-
ment of Anthropology and Sociology, Montana State University.
From 14 sites in the Big Sandy Reservoir to the Department of An-
thropology, University of Nebraska. From one site in the Garrison
Reservoir to the Nebraska State Historical Society. From 3 sites
in the Garrison Reservoir to the North Dakota State Historical Soci-
ety. Virtually all the material worth preservation from one of the
sites, Fort Stevenson, went to Bismarck.

Total number of sites from which archeological specimens were
transferred to other organizations in fiscal 1955: 484.

Transfers of archeological specimens made prior to fiscal 1955 and
not previously reported: Department of Anthropology, University of
Denver, a total of 19 sites representing Bonny, Cherry Creek, Narrows,
and Wray reservoirs. Department of Anthropology, University of
Nebraska, a total of 11 sites representing Harlan County Reservoir.
Museum of Natural History, University of Kansas, a total of 66 sites
representing Cedar Bluff, Glen Elder, Kanopolis, Kirwin, Lovewell,
Norton, Pioneer, Webster, Wilson, and Wolf Creek reservoirs. Divi-
sion of archeology, U. S. National Museum, a total of four sites repre-
senting Harlan County and Tuttle Creek reservoirs.

Total number of sites from which archeological specimens were
transferred prior to fiscal 1955: 100.

As of June 30, 1955, the Missouri Basin Project had transferred to
other agencies the archeological specimens from a total of 534 sites.
Of these, 513 sites were in 52 reservoirs. Twenty-one sites were not in
reservoirs.

In addition to transfers of archeological specimens in site lots, the
Missouri Basin Project had, just prior to fiscal 1955, transferred rep-
resentative series of potsherds to the following agencies: Ceramics
Repository, University of Michigan; W. H. Over Museum, University
of South Dakota; Museum of Natural History, University of Kansas;
Nebraska State Historical Society.

Upper Republican sherds were transferred from Medicine Creek
Reservoir sites 25FT13, 17, 39, and 70. Sites 39ST14 and 80, in Oahe
Reservoir, furnished sherds of the following wares: Anderson, Fore-
man, Monroe, and Stanley.

All identified, unworked shell in storage was transferred to the
University of Nebraska State Museum in November 1954. Except
for specimens in the comparative collection in the Lincoln laboratory,
this transfer included all specimens collected prior to 1954. Reser-
SECRETARY'S REPORT 49

voir distribution is as follows: Amherst, 2 sites; Angostura, 11 sites;
Baldhill, 7 sites; Beaver City, 1 site; Bixby, 3 sites; Boysen, 2 sites;
Buffalo Creek, 1 site; Canyon Ferry, 7 sites; Cushing, 1 site; Edge-
mont, 1 site; Fort Randall, 35 sites; Garrison, 18 sites; Glendo, 8
sites; Glen Elder, 18 sites; Harlan County, 8 sites; Heart Butte, 3
sites; Kanopolis, 6 sites; Keyhole, 8 sites; Kirwin, 4 sites; Medicine
Creek, 14 sites; Medicine Lake, 1 site; Moorhead, 1 site; Niobrara
Basin, 7 sites; Oahe, 58 sites; Sheyenne, 2 sites; Tiber, 5 sites; Tuttle
Creek, 10 sites; Wilson, 1 site; not in reservoirs, 3 sites.

Total number of sites from which identified, unworked shell was
transferred : 236, of which 233 were in 29 reservoirs and 3 were not in
reservoirs.

As of June 380, 1955, the Missouri Basin Project had transferred
the identified, unworked animal bone from 453 sites to the University
of Nebraska State Museum. No such transfers were made during
fiscal 1955. Reservoir distribution of previous transfers is as follows:
Amherst, 1 site; Angostura, 34 sites; Baldhill, 2 sites; Big Sandy, 1
site; Bixby, 3 sites; Bonny, 1 site; Boysen, 12 sites; Canyon Ferry, 4
sites; Clark Canyon, 1 site; Des Lacs, 1 site; Devil’s Lake, 1 site;
Dickinson, 2 sites; Edgemont, 6 sites; Enders, 1 site; Ericson, 1 site;
Fort Randall, 85 sites; Garrison, 60 sites; Gavins Point, 1 site; Glendo,
14 sites; Glen Elder, 4 sites; Harlan County, 8 sites; Heart Butte, 5
sites ; Jamestown, 7 sites; Kanopolis, 5 sites; Keyhole, 9 sites; Kirwin,
4 sites; Kortes, 1 site; Medicine Creek, 13 sites; Medicine Lake, 2
sites; Moorhead, 5 sites; Mullen, 3 sites; Niobrara Basin, 10 sites;
Norton, 1 site; Oahe, 93 sites; Oregon Basin, 9 sites; Red Willow, 1
site; Tiber, 22 sites; Tuttle Creek, 1 site; Wilson, 4 sites; Yellowtail,
3 sites; not in reservoirs, 12 sites.

A special exhibit illustrating and explaining the Missouri Basin
Salvage Program was prepared and installed at the Nebraska State
Fair held at Lincoln during September. Considerable attention was
shown the display by visitors, and numerous requests were received
for literature pertaining to the operations of the project and the re-
sults obtained from the various excavations. ‘Temporary interpre-
tative displays were also installed from time to time in the windows
of the Laboratory in the business section of Lincoln. They attracted
favorable attention and numerous passers-by dropped into the oflice
to ask questions about different projects. Much local interest has
developed since the Salvage Program has been under way.

Paul L. Cooper, archeologist, was in charge of the intensive testing
party in the Fort Randall area from July 1 until September 20. Dur-
ing that time he supervised the digging in 13 sites which were soon to
gounder water. Mr. Cooper returned to Lincoln on September 22 and
during October and the early part of November devoted his time to the
50 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

study of the materials obtained during the summer and analysis of
the information contained in his field notes. He also read proof on
his report, “The Archeological and Paleontological Salvage Program
in the Missouri Basin, 1950-51,” which appeared in April in the Smith-
sonian Miscellaneous Collections, vol. 12, No.2. Because of the short-
age of funds and the necessity of curtailing the staff of the Missouri
Basin Project, Mr. Cooper’s employment was terminated November 20
by a reduction-in-force action.

Harold A. Huscher, assistant archeologist, was in charge of the
party excavating at the Oldham site in the Fort Randall Reservoir area
from July 1 to July 24. He returned to headquarters at Lincoln on
July 27. During August, September, and the early part of October he
devoted his time to analyzing and studying the materials obtained
during the field season and in correlating his results with those of
previous seasons’ work at the site. He resigned from the Missouri
Basin Project on October 15 to return to Columbia University and
continue his work on an advanced degree.

George Metcalf, formerly a member of the regular staff of the Mis-
souri Basin Project but now a member of the division of archeology,
U.S. National Museum, completed and turned in a manuscript, “Notes
on Some Small Sites on and about Fort Berthold Indian Reservation,
Garrison Reservoir, North Dakota.” The data contained in the man-
uscript were collected by Mr. Metcalf during several seasons of field-
work while a member of various River Basin Surveys parties,

At the beginning of the fiscal year G. Hubert Smith, archeologist,
was in charge of the Missouri Basin Project party which was cooper-
ating with the North Dakota State Historical Society party in the
Garrison Reservoir where excavations at the sites of Fort Berthold I,
Fort Berthold II, and Like-a-Fishhook Village were being brought to
completion. The work was finished on July 10 and Mr. Smith pro-
ceeded to Bismarck, N. Dak., where he devoted a week to the study of
documentary records in the archives of the State Histerical Society.
Materials there contain considerable information about both of the
forts as well as the Indian village and Mr. Smith deemed it advisable
to be familiar with the records because of the light they might throw
on the evidence obtained by the digging. Mr. Smith was on duty at
the Lincoln headquarters from July 19, 1954, to May 20, 1955. From
August 16 to August 31, during an absence of Robert L. Stephenson,
he served as archeologist in charge. He again took over in the latter
capacity from September 3, 1954, until May 20, 1955. While at the
project headquarters Mr. Smith revised and completed the draft of his
report on excavations at the site of Fort Berthold II, made largely in
1952 and completed in 1954, and in collaboration with Alan R. Wool-
worth of the North Dakota State Historical Society prepared a pre-
SECRETARY'S REPORT dl

liminary report of the investigations at the site of Fort Berthold I.
Throughout the fall and winter months Mr. Sinith talked about salvage
archeology before numeréus groups in Lincoln. He reported on the
current work of the Missouri Basin Project at the 12th Plains Confer-
ence for Archeology which was held at Lincoln in November. He also
presented a paper at the May meeting of the Nebraska Academy of
Sciences. At the request of the Indian Claims Section, Lands Divi-
sion, Department of Justice, Mr. Smith was detailed to that organiza-
tion on May 20 to assist in gathering data for an Indian land-claims
case. He completed that assignment on June 30. A paper by
Mr. Smith, “Excavations at Fort Stevenson, 1951,” was published in
North Dakota History for July 1954.

Robert L. Stephenson, chief of the Missouri Basin Project, was at
the headquarters in Lincoln on July 1. Shortly thereafter he left on
a tour of inspection of the field parties working in the Missouri Basin.
He accompanied Dr. John M. Corbett and Paul Beaubien of the Na-
tional Park Service. The party visited the excavations at the Old-
ham and Crow Creek sites and the several sites under investigation by
Paul L. Cooper. It also went to the Swan Creek site in the Oahe
Reservoir area. After his return to Lincoln, Mr. Stephenson, in addi-
tion to directing the operations of the project, continued work on sev-
eral technical reports. Mr. Stephenson left the field headquarters at
Lincoln on September 3 and proceeded to Ann Arbor, Mich. He was
still in leave status at the end of the year.

Richard P. Wheeler, archeologist, returned to the Lincoln head-
quarters on July 1 from Jamestown, N. Dak., where he had been con-
ducting excavations and making surveys in the Jamestown Reservoir
basin. Wheeler remained in the office throughout the fiscal year. He
devoted his time to the preparation of reports on the results of his
excavations in previous years in the Angostura Reservoir area, South
Dakota, the Boysen and Keyhole Reservoir areas in Wyoming, and
on the Hintz site in the Jamestown Reservoir area, North Dakota. He
also prepared several short articles on specific artifact problems and
wrote several reviews for professional journals, His paper, “A Check
List of Middle Missouri Pottery Wares, Types, and Subtypes,” was
published in the Plains Anthropologist, No. 2, December 1954. In
November Wheeler served as chairman of a symposium on the arche-
ology of the western plains at the 12th Plains Conference for Arche-
ology and read a paper summarizing the results of his investigations
in the Jamestown Reservoir area in 1954. In April he served as chair-
man of the anthropology section at the 65th Annual Meeting of the
Nebraska Academy of Sciences held at the University of Nebraska.
At that time he also read a preliminary statement relating to a study
of aboriginal dwellings and settlement types in the Northern Plains.
52 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

During the period when Mr. Smith was absent from the office, Mr.
Wheeler performed such duties of the archeologist in charge as were
required. At the end of the fiscal year he was preparing to take a
field party to the Oahe Dam area in South Dakota where excavations
were planned for two sites.

Cooperating institutions.—A number of State and local institutions
continued to cooperate in the Inter-Agency Salvage Program through-
out the year. Some of the State groups worked independently but
correlated their activities closely with the over-all program. A ma-
jority of the projects, however, were under agreements between the
National Park Service and the various organizations. The Historical
Society of Indiana continued making surveys of proposed reservoir
areas as part of its general program for archeological studies in that
State and made reports on the results of its work. The Ohio State
Archeological and Historical Society carried on salvage operations in
several localities. In a number of cases the sites involved were not
in reservoir areas but the need for the recovery cf materials was just as
great as though they were ultimately to go under water. ‘The Archeo-
logical Survey Association of Southern California continued its volun-
tary recovery of materials at several projects in the San Diego area,
and the University of California Archeological Survey included sev-
eral proposed reservoir areas in its general survey program.

A number of institutions worked under agreements with the Na-
tional Park Service. The University of California Archeological
Survey had a party under Dr. Adan EH. Treganza, research associate,
excavating in sites in the Berryessa Valley in the Monticello Res-
ervoir basin in Napa County, California. The area is an important
one for linking known Indian groups with specific types of prehis-
toric remains and the California party obtained valuable information.
In the Columbia Basin a party from the University of Oregon, under
the direction of Dr. L. S. Cressman, excavated several sites on the
Oregon side of the river at The Dalles. At that locality there is a
record of long occupation extending possibly from the closing days
of the last glacial period to historic times. Dr. Cressman and his
associates collected valuable data and interesting specimens in the
course of their digging. On the Washington side of the Columbia
River, above The Dalles, a party from the University of Washington
under Warren Caldwell excavated at the Wakemap Mound, an im-
portant site in the area because of its depth and stratified deposits.
Parties from the University of Missouri, under the direction of Carl
TH. Chapman, excavated at a number of sites in the Table Rock Res-
ervoir area, on the White River in Missouri. They investigated five
open village locations and one cave. At one site evidences were found
for three different Indian occupations. Several cultural complexes
SECRETARY'S REPORT 53

were represented in the materials recovered by the excavations. The
Table Rock area is important because of the large number of sites
occurring there and the variety of cultures represented. It is the
only area remaining in which extensive remains of the Ozark Bluff
Dwellers are still to be found. Special funds were appropriated for
fiscal 1956 for the Table Rock area and the University of Missouri
will continue its operations there throughout the year. Mention has
already been made of the work of the cooperating institutions in the
Missouri Basin. The River Basin Surveys aided the field activities
of those groups by the loan of vehicles and other equipment and in
one instance by making a survey of the site and preparing a detailed
map locating the numerous features involved. One other project
in the Missouri Basin consisted of a basin-wide survey of archeologi-
cal resources by Dr. Jesse D. Jennings of the University of Utah.
That also was a cooperative agreement with the National Park Service
and while it was not strictly a salvage undertaking, various phases
of the survey had a direct bearing on the problems of salvage
archeology.
ARCHIVES

The Bureau archives continued during the year under the custody
of Mrs. Margaret C. Blaker.

MANUSCRIPT COLLECTIONS

There has been increasing utilization of the manuscript collections
of the Bureau during the year by students through personal visit,
mail inquiry, and the purchase of photoreproductions. Approxi-
mately 225 manuscripts were used by research workers as compared
with 150 last year. Visitors frequently express surprise as well as
considerable satisfaction at having located little-known, unpublished
sources. Publication of at least a skeleton catalog of the collection is
being considered.

Additions to the manuscript collection included the personal papers
of Alice Cunningham Fletcher and her adopted son, Francis La
Flesche, an Omaha Indian, which were deposited with the Bureau
by Mrs. G. David Pearlman, Washington, D. C., on indefinite loan.
Preliminary examination indicates that the collection contains little
unpublished ethnographic data; its principal interest is biographical
and historical.

Dr. Frances Densmore made several additions to her personal
papers which are in the Bureau, the most substantial being her diaries
for 1899 and 1905-50.

The following short manuscripts were received in the past year:
4467. Lyford, Carrie A. “Dolls of the American Indians.” N. d. (ca..19388). 40

pp., 40-50 illus. Deposited by Harry Lyford, brother of the author,
Washington, D. C.
54 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

4425. Whitaker, C. H. (U. S. Consul, Colén, Panama). “A Report on the
Customs of the San Blas Indians.” 1954. 36 pp., 62 photographs,
1map. Forwarded by the U. 8S. Department of State.

4424, Witthoft, John. “Dakota (?) ‘Border and Box’ Painted Bison Robe.”
2 pp.,1 illus. Forwarded by the author.

A number of manuscripts received in previous years but heretofore
uncataloged were arranged, described, and made available for ref-
erence, reducing the backlog of such material by about one-third.
In this group were the papers accumulated by Dr. John R. Swanton
while acting as chairman of the United States De Soto Expedition
Commission, 1935-39. ‘These papers contain an extensive series of
photocopies of documents in Spanish archives.

Other manuscripts cataloged and now available for general ref-
erence are as follows:

4430. Anonymous. Drawings of tipis and robes obtained by George Miller
from an Omaha Indian. N.d. 8 pp. Annotated by J. O. Dorsey.

4452, Anonymous. Drawings by Indians of the Southern Plains. Ca. 1880.
In two ledger books of 104 numbered pages each. With one-page letter
of transmittal from William H. Myer, Washington, D. C., June 3, 1952.

4442, Bonnerjea, Biren. “Folk-lore in Some Languages of Northern India.”
Address to Anthropological Society of Washington, February, 1933.
18 pp.

4450. Capron, Louis. “The Hunting Dance of the Cow Creek Seminoles, Octo-
ber 1946.” 11 pp., 8 illus.

4444, Carter, John G. (recorder). “Picture Writing of the North American
Indians Translated by Richard Sanderville, Chief Bull, a member of
the Blackfeet tribe of Indians of Montana, at the Bureau of American
Ethnology ... June 13 to June 18, 1934, from material furnished
by the Bureau.” 27 pp., 5 illus.

4445. Carter, John G. “Statement of Robert Friday of Fort Washakie, Wyoming,
member of Arapho tribal council, concerning his grandfather, Friday.”
Washington, D. C., 1938. 3 pp., typed.

4446. Carter, John G. “Statements by Gilbert Day, a Shoshone Indian of
Fort Washakie in regard to the Peyote Church among the Shoshone
Indians.” Washington, D. C., 1988. 22 pp.

4447. Carter, John G. “Memorandum on the Proper Usage of the Word
‘Blackfoot’ or ‘Blackfeet’ as Applied to the Siksika, Kainah and Pikuni,
or Blackfoot, Blood, and Piegan Tribes.” N.d. 8 pp.

4448. Carter, John G. “Big Snake, Oh-muck-see Sin-a-kwan, or Loud Voice,
also Called Black Snake Man, a Piegan Indian Chief.” N.d. 15 pp.

4451. Cleveland, A.G. “The San Blas Coast.” N.d. 77 pp. Also miscellaneous
items relating to the Cuna and Tule Indians, including a notebook of
picture writing and 8 pp. of interpretations.

4438. Clifford, Capt. Walter. “The Indian Campaign of 1876.” Chapters
written for the Rocky Mountain Husbandman. N. d. About 50 pp.,
unarranged.

“Notes at Random.” Journal, Oct. 6, 1879-Nov. 4, 1879.
Copy. 15 pp.

4433. Cuoe, Jean Andre. Mohawk-French Dictionary. N. d. 1 Vol., 973 pp.
Dialect spoken at Lake of Two Mountains, Caughnawaga, and St. Regis
in Quebec, Canada.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 55

4436, Fenton, William Nelson. Papers accumulated while acting as representa-
tive of the Smithsonian Institution on the Policy Board of the National
Indian Institute, 1948-50. About 80 pp.

4429, Giroux, Louis J. “Sketch of the Mayo and Yaqui Indians, who are helping
to fight Carranza.” . Nogales, Ariz (sic), 1920. 5 pp.

4468. Harrington, John P. “The Indian Place Names of Maine.” 1949. 2
boxes, contents itemized in catalog.

4421. Genealogical chart by Hewitt showing his ancestory. 3 oversize sheets.

4459. (Lee, Dale?). Field plans and profiles of Murphy Mound, North Carolina.
N. d. (W. P. A. period.) Miscellaneous oversize sheets in 1 roll.

4435. Newcomb, Franc J. “Navaho Ceremonies.” Observations made on Navaho
Reservation, Newcomb, N. Mex., 1939. About 80 pp., with snapshots,
drawings, and botanical samples.

4441, (Schoolcraft, Henry Rowe?). “The Age of Science: A Satire in Ten
Numbers.” Verses to Washington Irving, George Bancroft, B. Butler,
John Torrey, Frederick Hall, Dr. Skinner, Charles F. Hoffman, John A.
Dix, Henry Inman, and Lewis Cass. 1840. About 42 pp.

4437. Snider, G. L. “A Maker of Shavings.” Manuscript based on information
from Edward Forte, known to the Indians of Standing Rock Agency as
Chau Cozhepa (A Maker of Shavings), formerly First Sgt., Troop “D,”
7th Cavalry, and said to be the last white man who talked with Sitting
Bull. With miscellaneous notes, including 4-page statement by Set.
Forte, 12-page letter from Forte to Frank Fiske, Oct. 21, 1932, and 4
photographs.

4432. Stirling, Matthew W. Field notes on archeological work in the vicinity
of Mobridge, S. Dak., 1923, with extracts from various sources.
150-200 pp.

4439. Swanton, John R. “The Psi Capacities.” Discussion of extrasensory

perception. Ca. 1950. 94 pp.

4443. Tauber, Charles. “Entzifferung der Osterinsel-Hieroglyphen.” 386 pp.
(In German.)

4434. Taylor, Douglas. “Notes on the Carib of Dominica.” Text, notes, an-
thropometric data, photographs, drawings, and correspondence received
1938-40.

4440. Verrill, John. “Results of Preliminary Survey of the Archeology and
Ethnology of the Atrato Valley of Colombia, South America.” 27 pp.
Cuna glossary, 8 pp. Glossary with ethnographic notes, tribe uniden-
fied, 11 pp. 5 maps. About 59 snapshots of Cuna and Choco Indians,
with 8 pp. of captions and background information. N. d. Received
1933.

4431. Woodbury, George. “Preliminary Report on Excavation of Mortuary
Mounds in Brevard County, Florida East Coast.” Archeological Report
of CWA Project 5-F-70, Dec. 18, 1933-Feb. 15, 1934. 12 pp., 11 maps,
about 200 photographs (mainly uncaptioned).

Additional progress was made in the amplification of the catalog
by preparing new and detailed descriptions of manuscripts that had
been only briefly listed in the original catalog many years ago. The
usefulness of the catalog has been increased by cross-referencing the
additional subjects.

A number of nonmanuscript items, which had previously been
housed in the archives, were transferred to more suitable repositories.

370930—56——5
56 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Among these were wax cylinder recordings of Indian songs, which
were transferred to the Bureau’s record deposit in the music division
of the Library of Congress. Ten cylinders contained Hopi songs
recorded about 1900 and bore descriptive labels largely unintelligible
except to a specialist in the Hopi language. Dr. Frederick Dock-
stader, a Hopi specialist, assisted in the interpretation of these labels
before the recordings were sent to the Library.

A collection of mounted plant specimens unrelated to ethnological
studies collected by Dr. A. E. Jenks early in his professional career
were transferred to the University of Minnesota, with which Dr. Jenks
was long associated.

PHOTOGRAPHIC COLLECTIONS

Public interest in the photographic collections continues to grow.
Additions to the photographic collection included an album of photo-
graphs relating principally to Indians made by William S. Soulé in
the vicinity of Fort Dodge, Kans., Camp Supply, Okla., and
Fort Sill, Okla., in 1867-74. Although numerous examples of the
fine work of this frontier photographer have long been in the Bureau,
and have appeared in Bureau publications, the new volume is notable
in that it belonged to the photographer and contains captions written
by him. It also contains a number of prints not previously received,
including a likeness of Soulé himself. The photographs were pre-
sented by Miss Lucia A. Soulé of Boston, the daughter of the photog-
rapher.

A group of 32 negatives made on the Madeira, Tapajoz, and Xingt
Rivers, Brazil, in 1911-12, were presented by the photographer,
Francisco von Teuber, engineer. They include views of the country
and the Indians of the region.

Copy negatives were made for the Bureau files of a number of
photographs from the personal collection of the late A. K. Fisher,
well-known naturalist. The photographs were lent by Dr. Fisher’s
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Walter K. Fisher, of Pacific Grove, Calif.,
before she donated Dr. Fisher’s personal papers, including photo-
graphs, to the Manuscript Division of the Library of Congress.

Photographs copied include views of Tlingit and Haida villages on
the Alaskan coast and of habitations at Plover Bay, Siberia, all made
on the Harriman Expedition to Alaska in 1899. A few photographs
of Hawaiians made by H. W. Henshaw about 1900 and a series of
photos made and collected by E. W. Nelson in Mexico in 1902 were
also copied.

A group of commercial portraits of Indians, collected by Gen. E. R.
Kellogg while in command at Fort Washakie, Wyo., about 1891, was
donated by his daughter, Mrs. Robert Newbegin, of Toledo, Ohio.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 57

Two important sets of photographs were obtained for reference
purposes from other institutions (which retain the negatives and the
right to grant publication permission). The first is a set of 86
photographs of paintings of Indians by Paul Kane and a microfilm
copy of Kane’s sketchbook, made on his trip across the continent to
the Pacific Northwest in 1845-48. The photographs were purchased
from the Royal Ontario Museum of Archaeology, Toronto, which
owns the original paintings. The second reference collection con-
sists of approximately 400 copy prints of photographs relating to the
Indians of the Plains made by Stanley J. Morrow in the 1870’s and
1880’s. The prints were received from the W. H. Over Museum of the
University of South Dakota, through the River Basin Surveys.

In addition to photographs recently received from sources outside
the Bureau, a collection of some 1,000 photographic prints made in
the years 1880-1905 and representing about 1380 Indian tribes was
transferred from the photographic laboratory. A number of re-
searchers have benefited this year from the newly available material,
and copy negatives are being made as required.

Another project making available additional photographic re-
sources in the Bureau was begun in the past year. It was found that
a number of former staff members and collaborators had deposited
rather extensive series of snapshot and other small negatives. Most
of these were in labeled jackets, now deteriorating, and were without
prints.

Prints were requisitioned for some 260 of James Mooney’s negatives
of Arapaho, Kiowa, Comanche, Navaho, and Cherokee; by the end
of the year about half of these had been sorted and arranged with
proper identification, and placed in protective vinylfilm albums. It
is hoped that in time similar groups of photographs by M. C. Steven-
son, W. J. McGee, W. H. Holmes, F. W. Hodge, A. E. Jenks, J. O.
Dorsey, and others may be processed in the same way.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Throughout the year work was continued by E. G. Schumacher,
illustrator, on drawings, charts, maps, diagrams, and sundry other
illustrative tasks concerning the publications and work of the Bureau
of American Ethnology, including the River Basin Surveys. He also
made a variety of drawings for other branches of the Institution.

EDITORIAL WORK AND PUBLICATIONS

There were issued 1 Annual Report and 4 Bulletins, as follows:

Seventy-first Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1953-1954.
ii+17 pp. 1955.
58 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Bulletin 157. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 48-48. iii+-415 pp., 76 pls., 23 figs.
1955.

No. 43. Stone monuments of the Rio Chiquito, Veracruz, Mexico, by
Matthew W. Stirling.

No. 44. The Cerro de las Mesas offering of jade and other materials, by
Philip Drucker.

No. 45. Archeological materials from the vicinity of Mobridge, South Da-
kota, by Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 46. The original Strachey vocabulary of the Virginia Indian language,
by John P. Harrington.

No. 47. The Sun Dance of the Northern Ute, by J. A. Jones.

No. 48. Some manifestations of water in Mesoamerican art, by Robert L.
Rands.

Bulletin 158. River Basin Surveys Paper No. 7. Archeological investigations
in the Oahe Dam area, South Dakota, 1950-51, by Donald J. Lehmer. xi+190
pp., 22 pls., 56 figs., 6 maps. 1954.

Bulletin 159. The horse in Blackfoot Indian culture, with comparative mate-
rial from other western tribes, by John C. Ewers. xv+374 pp., 17 pls., 33
figs., 1955.

Bulletin 160. A ceramic study of Virginia archeology, by Clifford Evans. With
an appendix: An analysis of projectile points and large blades, by C. G. Hol-
land. viii+196 pp., 30 pls., 23 figs., 1 chart. 1955.

The following publications were in press at the close of the fiscal
year:

Bulletin 161. Seminole music, by Frances Densmore.

Bulletin 162. Guaymi grammar, by Ephraim S. Alphonse.

Bulletin 163. The Diné: Origin myths of the Navaho Indians, by Aileen
O’Bryan.

Publications distributed totaled 24,533 as compared with 21,222 for

the fiscal year 1954.
COLLECTIONS

Ace. No.

202531. Archeological materials consisting of potsherds collected by Dr. Matthew
W. Stirling on Taboguilla Island in 1953.

203786. Insects, 95 mammals, and 15 marine invertebrates from Southampton
and Coats Islands collected by National Geographic Society, National
Museum of Canada, and Smithsonian Institution Expedition, 1954,
led by Dr. Henry B. Collins.

204571. 385 plants collected by James Mooney at Cherokee Reservation, Qualla,
N. C., in 1888.

205978. Models of heraldry, peyote and game equipment, collected by James
Mooney among the Kiowa Indians.

206445. 1 badger from New Mexico.

FROM RIVER BASIN SURVEYS

2021

Ww
on

. Archeological material from the Allatoona Reservoir area on the Etowah
River, Cherokee, Bartow, and Cobb Counties, Ga.

202358. 327 specimens of archeological material consisting of potsherds, copper,

stone, bone, and shell objects, from 3 sites in Tuttle Creek Reservoir,

Pottawatomie County, Kans., collected by Missouri Basin Project

field parties in 1952-53.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 59

202532. 120 archeological specimens from site 35-WS-5, Dalles Reservoir on
Columbia River, Wasco County, Oreg.

202537. Archeological materials from the Conomaugh Reservoir, Pennsylvania,
scattered sites in- Marshall and Wetzel Counties, W. Va., and Cheatham
and Old Hickory Reservoirs, Tenn., collected by Ralph S. Solecki,
1950 and 1954.

203964. Archeological material from 2 sites in Cachuma Reservoir areas on Santa
Ynez River, Santa Barbara County, Calif.

205436. Archeological material in and about Broncho Reservoir, Mercer County ;
Dickenson Reservoir Area, Stark County; Kochler site, Heart Butte
Reservoir, Grant County, all in North Dakota.

205437. 21,046 archeological specimens from 2 sites in Oahe Reservoir, Stanley
County, S. Dak.

205438. Archeological material from sites in and about Garrison Reservoir, in
Dunn, Mercer, McLean, Mountrail, and Williams Counties, N. Dak.

205526. 797 archeological specimens from Allatoona Reservoir area, Cherokee
County, Ga.

206347. 3,648 archeological specimens from Montana, collected by the Missouri
Basin Project.

MISCELLANEOUS

Dr. Frances Densmore, Dr. John R. Swanton, Dr. Antonio J.
Waring, Jr., and Ralph S. Solecki continued as collaborators of the
Bureau of American Ethnology. Dr. John P. Harrington is continu-
ing his researches with the Bureau as research associate. On April 12,
1955, Sister M. Inez Hilger, an ethnologist and a teacher at the School
of Nursing, Saint Cloud Hospital, Saint Cloud, Minn., was appointed
an honorary research associate of the Smithsonian Institution.

Information was furnished during the past year by members of the
Bureau staff in reply to numerous inquiries concerning the American
Indians, past and present, of both continents. The increased number
of requests from teachers, particularly from primary and secondary
grades, from Scout organizations, and from the general public, indi-
cates a continuously growing interest in the American Indian. Vari-
ous specimens sent to the Bureau were identified and data on them
furnished for their owners.

Respectfully submitted.

M. W. Sriruine, Director.

Dr. Lronarp CaRMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Astrophysical Observatory

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the opera-
tions of the Astrophysical Observatory for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1955:

The Astrophysical Observatory includes two research divisions: the
Division of Astrophysical Research, for the study of solar radiation,
and the Division of Radiation and Organisms, for investigations
dealing with radiation as it bears directly or indirectly upon bio-
logical problems. Three shops, for metalwork, for woodwork, and
for optical and electronic work, are maintained in Washington to
prepare special equipment for both divisions.

On November 20, 1954, I reached the mandatory age for retirement.
No successor having been chosen at that time, however, I was asked
to continue in office pending the installation of a new director. Dr.
Fred L. Whipple, professor of astronomy at Harvard University, will
become Director of the Astrophysical Observatory effective July 1,
1955. At Dr. Whipple’s request, A. G. Froiland, director of the
Table Mountain station, was transferred to Washington to act as
liaison officer.

DIVISION OF ASTROPHYSICAL RESEARCH

During the fiscal year 1955 the two high-altitude observing sta-
tions, Montezuma in northern Chile and Table Mountain in southern
California, remained in continuous operation.

Work in Washington—The cooperative work with the U. S.
Weather Bureau, mentioned in last year’s report, was continued. ‘This
concerned the calibration of Eppley pyrheliometers and the simplifi-
cation and automatic recording of silver-disk pyrheliometry. The
progress of this work is summarized in two papers by T. H. MacDonald
and Norman B. Foster, published in the Monthly Weather Review for
August 1954 and February 1955.

The loss of William H. Hoover, whose sudden death in September
1953 was recorded in last year’s report, has continued to delay not
only the preparation and testing of improved equipment but also the
statistical studies of field observations normally carried on in Wash-
ington. No one has been appointed to succeed Mr. Hoover since it
was felt that the new director should choose his own staff.

Orders were received during the year from interested institutions
and laboratories for three silver-disk pyrheliometers and five modi-
fied Angstrom pyrheliometers. Preparation and calibration of these

60
SECRETARY’S REPORT 61

instruments are nearly completed. In addition, silver-disk SI+69
was repaired, recalibrated, and returned to the Servicio Meteorolégico
National, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and modified Angstrom SI412
was built, calibrated, and forwarded in March 1955 to the Meteorolo-
gisches Observatorium, Hamburg, Germany. Silver-disk SI#¢52
was received in March 1955 from the University of Miinster in dam-
aged condition. Repairs and recalibrations are in progress. In May
1955, modified Angstrém SI2t13 was lent to Drs. P. R. Gast and
Ralph Stair for temporary use on Sacramento Peak, N. Mex.

Work in the field —The quality of the skies at our two field obsery-
ing stations during the current year proved inferior to the average of
previous years. At Montezuma, our high-altitude station in north-
ern Chile, the sky pollution due to the smelting operations at nearby
copper mines, mentioned in last year’s report, continued unabated.
A study of the average quality of the sky before and after starting the
smelters (in March 1953) shows the magnitude of the pollution. A
summary by months, covering the period 1940-55, shows that in each
of the 12 months, the direct solar beam (at solar altitude of 30°) has
been reduced between 1 and 7 percent since the smelters started. The
sky brightness around the sun on the same days increased between 1.3-
and 2.6-fold after the smelters started. A summary of long-method
observations during the same period indicates that the direct solar
beam after the smelters started decreased some 2 to 6 percent and the
sky brightness increased 1.6- to 2.5-fold. The atmospheric trans-
mission coefficients show the following change at the wavelengths
indicated :

Wavelength 0.39, a decrease of 2 to 7.5 percent.
Wavelength 0.61y, a decrease of 1.5 to 4.5 percent.
Wavelength 0.97y, a decrease of 1 to 2 percent.

As a result of the variable daily output of gas and smoke from the
smelters, Montezuma skies are now definitely less uniform than
formerly.

At Table Mountain we have noted for some years a gradual increase
in the amount of smog from the Los Angeles area, which rises at in-
tervals above the level of Table Mountain. As civilization expands
it becomes increasingly difficult to find high-altitude locations that
combine clearness, dryness, and uniformity of skies with accessibility
and bearable living conditions.

Publications—During the current year the following publications
concerned with the work of the Division of Astrophysical Research
appeared :

Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, volume 7, [July 7], 1954.
Pyrheliometer calibration program of the U. S. Weather Bureau, by T. H. Mac-

Donald and Norman B. Foster. Month. Weather Rey., vol. 82, No. 8, August
1954.
62 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

A method for the measurement of atmospheric ozone using the absorption of
ozone in the visible spectrum, by Oliver R. Wulf and James E. Zimmerman.
Smithsonian Mise. Coll., vol. 123, No. 8, October 27, 1954.

Concerning Smithsonian pyrheliometry, by C. G. Abbot, L. B. Aldrich, and A. G.
Froiland. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 123, No. 5, November 2, 1954.

Silver-disk pyrheliometry simplified, by Norman B. Foster and T. H. MacDonald.
Month. Weather Rev., vol. 83, No. 2, February 1955.

Washington, D. C., precipitation of 1954 and 1955, by C. G. Abbot. Smithsonian
Misc. Coll., vol. 128, No. 2, March 1, 1955.

Sixty-year weather forecasts, by C. G. Abbot. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 128,
No. 3, April 28, 1955.

Periodic solar variation, by C. G. Abbot. Smithsonian Misc. Coll., vol. 128, No. 4.
June 14, 1955.

DIVISION OF RADIATION AND ORGANISMS

(Prepared by R. B. WITHROW, Chief of the Division)

The work of the Division of Radiation and Organisms was con-
cerned with three general areas of biological research during the year:
(1) the photocontrol of the formative and developmental processes in
plant growth; (2) the inhibition and potentiation of X-ray damage by
red and far-red visible and near infrared energy; and (3) the mecha-
nism of action of the plant hormone, auxin, in the control of growth.

1.—Sunlight exercises its effect on plants chiefly through two groups
of photochemical or light reactions. The first is a high-energy process
and provides the plant’s food supply, converting the energy of sunlight
into chemical energy through the synthesis of simple carbon com-
pounds. The second group, which is one of the areas of the Division’s
research, involves the photocontrol of the formative growth processes,
which require relatively little energy but are just as essential to the
normal functioning of plant life as is carbohydrate synthesis. These
Jatter photochemical reactions control the development of stems, leaves,
and reproductive structures, and are most actively promoted by light
from the red end of the visible spectrum. This formative action of
the red can be blocked by irradiation with energy from the far-red im-
mediately adjacent to the red.

Previously the laboratory had established that the region of maxi-
mum effectiveness in promoting the normal formative processes in
seedling development is at 6605 my, in the red, the results substanti-
ating those of other laboratories investigating seed germination and
flower-bud initiation. This year the photoreversal reaction involving
the blocking of the formative processes has been found to have two
maxima in the far-red at 710 and 730 mp, with a minimum of 480 muy.
Several rather poorly defined secondary maxima occur at 520 to 550
mp and 650 my. Since the maximum efficiency of the far-red energy
occurs about 1.5 hours after the end of the red irradiation period
rather than immediately following, the results are indicative that the
SECRETARY’S REPORT 63

far-red energy interferes with the developmental process by acting
cn a product of the photochemical reaction initiated by the red energy.
These studies have all been done on seedlings of the bean plant, using
the changes in growth of the bean hypocotyl hook as an assay of the
growth regulating effects of the radiant energy.

2.—One of the first evidences of damage to living organisms by any
form of ionizing radiation, including X-rays, is the breaking of the
threadlike hereditary structures of the cell known as chromosomes.
It has been found that if X-rays are preceded by exposure to red visi-
ble light, the incidence of X-ray-induced chromosome damage is mark-
edly reduced on the order of 30 to 50 percent. If, on the other hand,
the X-rays are preceded by exposure to radiant energy from the far-
red or near infrared, the damage is potentiated by these wavelengths
by as much as 380 to 40 percent at the energy levels used. The plant
material employed for these studies was the root-tip cells of broad
bean (Vicia faba), the chromosomes of which are extremely sensitive
to X-ray damage.

Work is now in progress to study the mechanism of these reactions
of inhibition and potentiation of X-ray damage and how the results
may be applied to the mediation of the damaging effects of ionizing
radiations. The medical implications of these findings are extremely
important in the control of damage by ionizing radiation and in
cancer therapy.

3.—Auxin, the only plant hormone isolated to date, controls certain
phases of the growth process such as cell elongation. The effects of
auxin may be produced or modified by a number of growth-regulating
chemicals, including the common weed killers and other materials
used for controlling rooting of plants, fruit set, and sprouting.

Although auxin has been identified for many years as indole acetic
acid, it has not been possible to quantitatively measure its activity on
any metabolic function and biological assay methods have been used
in the past to determine auxin activity. During the past year, how-
ever, using differential centrifugation methods to fractionate plant
tissues, it has been found that the fraction remaining after sediment-
ing cell walls, nuclear material, mitochondria, plastids, and other par-
ticles within this size range, contains an enzyme system which, on the
addition of auxin, brings about a marked oxygen consumption. The
rute of auxin activity can be measured quantitatively on this cell-free
fraction. Avocado fruit tissue is being used as the experimental plant
material. Studies are now in progress to determine the initial bio-
chemical steps of the process.

Respectfully submitted.

L. B. Aupricu, Director.

Dr. Leonarp CarMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the
National Collection of Fine Arts

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the National Collection of Fine Arts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1955:

SMITHSONIAN ART COMMISSION

The 32d annual meeting of the Smithsonian Art Commission was
held in the Regents Room of the Smithsonian Building on Tuesday,
December 7, 1954. Members present were: Paul Manship, chairman;
Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; Leonard Carmichael, secretary
(member, ex officio) ; John Nicholas Brown, Gilmore D. Clarke, David
K. Finley, Lloyd Goodrich, Walker Hancock, George Hewitt Myers,
Charles H. Sawyer, Archibald G. Wenley, Lawrence Grant White,
Andrew Wyeth, and Mahonri Young. Thomas M. Beggs, director,
and Paul V. Gardner, curator of ceramics, National Collection of Fine
Arts, were also present.

Resolutions on the deaths of George H. Edgell (June 27, 1954),
and Reginald Marsh (July 3, 1954), members of the Commission, and
of Ruel P. Tolman (August 24, 1954), former director of the National
Collection of Fine Arts, were submitted and adopted.

The Commission recommended to the Smithsonian Board of Regents
the names of Bartlett Hayes to succeed Mr. Edgell, whose term ex-
pires in 1955, and Stow Wengenroth to succeed Mr. Marsh, whose
term expired in 1954. The Commission also recommended the re-
election of Gilmore D. Clarke and Andrew Wyeth for the next 4-year
period.

The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Paul Man-
ship, chairman; Robert Woods Bliss, vice chairman; and Leonard
Carmichael, secretary.

The following were elected members of the executive committee
for the ensuing year: David E. Finley, chairman, Robert Woods
Bliss, Gilmore D. Clarke, and George Hewitt Myers. Paul Manship,
as chairman of the Commission, and Leonard Carmichael, as secre-
tary of the Commission, are ex officio members of the executive
committee.

Dr. Carmichael explained briefly the main points of the Smith-
sonian building program, especially in relation to proposed improve-
ments in Southwest Washington, and displayed models of Smithsonian

64
SECRETARY’S REPORT 65

structures, existing and contemplated. Salient features of the pro-
posed National Air Museum were pointed out.

Mr. Goodrich recalled that recommendations for early erection of
a Smithsonian Gallery of Art.had been made in the report on Gov-
ernment and Art by the Fine Arts Commission, in the report by the
Committee on Government and Art, of which Mr. Goodrich is chair-
man, and in the minority report of the hearings on the Howell and
12 other bills offered in the 83d Congress. Mr. Goodrich’s motion
that the Smithsonian Art Commission recommend to the Board of
Regents that it go on record as favoring the early construction of a
Smithsonian Gallery of Art was unanimously approved.

Dr. Carmichael and Mr. Beggs reviewed accomplishments during
the year, making particular mention of the exchange of traveling ex-
hibitions with foreign countries and the urgent need for the proposed
Smithsonian Gallery of Art building to provide necessary office, as-
sembling, and exhibition space for its distinguished temporary shows
as well as to house the permanent collections.

The Commission accepted the following objects:

Oil, The Bathers, by Robert Reid, N. A. (1862-1929). Gift of Mrs. Francis
Marion Wigmore, in memory of her husband. Accepted for the National Col-
lection of Fine Arts.

Oil, The Rapids, by W. Elmer Schofield, N. A. (1867-1944). Henry Ward
Ranger Bequest. Accepted for the National Collection of Fine Arts.

Oil, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, Supreme Commander of Allied Powers in
Europe, 1949, by Capt. Sir Oswald Birley (1880-1952). Gift of British friends
of the artist to the people of the United States. Accepted for the National
Portrait Gallery.

Pastel, Huichol Indian, by Anton Sario. Presented through the Department
of State. Accepted for the Smithsonian Institution with recommendation that
it be assigned to the Bureau of American Ethnology.

TRANSFERS ACCEPTED

One gold necklace set with 30 garnets; a round-headed fibula with
garnet inlay; a brooch; an amethyst ball pendant framed in gold with
garnets; a gold ring studded with 3 garnets; a Y-shaped fibula, and a
coin of Constantine II (317-340), were transferred from the
Department of State on September 21, 1954.

Three heroic-size oil portraits by Chester Harding (1792-1866),
George Washington, Henry Clay, and Andrew Jackson, were trans-
ferred from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on
November 24, 1954.

One unframed watercolor, Miinich Model, by William H. Holmes
(1846-1933), was transferred from the United States National
Museum (Division of Graphic Arts) on December 8, 1954.
66 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

WITHDRAWALS BY OWNERS

Two oil portraits, Gen. John J. Pershing and Adm. William S.
Sims, by E. Hodgson Smart, lent in 1932 by the artist, were released
on August 17, 1954, to James Shenos, in accordance with a court
decision.

Two pastel portraits of George and Martha Washington, by James
Sharples, lent in 1934 by Mrs. Robert E. Lee, Dr. George Bolling Lee,
Mrs. Hanson FE. Ely, Jr., and Mrs. William Hunter de Butts, were
withdrawn and delivered to the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
of the Union on September 14, 1954.

Two miniatures, Unknown Gentleman, by Robert Field, and Mr. W.,
by an undetermined artist, lent in 1952 by Mr. and Mrs. Ruel P.
Tolman, were withdrawn by Mrs. Tolman on April 4, 1955.

An oil portrait of George Washington, by Charles Willson Peale,
lent in 1914 by John S. Beck, was withdrawn by Mrs. Beck through
her attorney, Robert S. Bains, on May 26, 1955.

A miniature of Martha “Patty” Custis, painted at Mount Vernon in
1772 by Charles Willson Peale, lent anonymously in 1934, was with-
drawn on June 15, 1955.

ART WORKS LENT

The following art works were lent for varying periods:

To the City Art Museum of St. Louis for its Westward America Exhibition,
October 23 to December 6, 1954; then forwarded to the Walker Art Center,
Minneapolis, Minn., for a special exhibition, January 14 to February 28,
1955 (shipped September 21, 1954) :

Cliffs of the Upper Colorado River, Wyoming
Territory, by Thomas Moran. (Returned
March 8, 1955.)

To the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia, Pa., for its 150th
Anniversary Exhibition, January 15 through March 13, 1955:

Cardinal Mercier, by Cecilia Beaux. (Returned
April 8, 1955.)

Man in White (Dr. Henry S. Drinker), by
Cecilia Beaux. (Later included in a selec-
tion of paintings from the 150th Anniversary
Exhibition for an 8-month European tour
sponsored by the U.S. Information Agency.)

To the White House, Washington, D. C.:

September 17, 1954_________ Summer, by Charles H. Davis.

Sundown, by George Inness.

Niagara, by George Inness. (Returned Novem-
ber 30, 1954.)

Temple Mountain, by Chauncey F. Ryder.
(Returned November 30, 1954.)

October 2251954_ 2. Sacre — Wild Parsley, by Sarah Paxton Ball Dodson.

Evening on the Seine, by Homer Martin.

Fired On, by Frederic Remington. (Returned
November 30, 1954.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT 67

AD TIE20 ee ee ee Groton Long Point Dunes, by Henry Ward
Ranger.
Shinnecock Hills, by William M. Chase.
Mountain Scene, by Frederick Edwin Church.
“(Returned May 2, 1955.)
Tohickon, by Daniel Garber. (Returned May 2,
1955.)
November, by Dwight W. Tryon. (Returned
May 2, 1955.)
Mavala, 1950 = ene ee eee George Washington, by William Winstanley,
after Stuart.
Mountain Scene, by Frederick Edwin Church.
To the Supreme Court, Washington, D. C.:
October 29, 1954___________. Mountain Scene, by I. Diday.
Scene from the “Gentlemen of France,” by
Antoine Etex.
The Wreck, by Harrington Fitzgerald.
Landscape, by Herman Saftleven.
One Day in June, by William Thomas Smedley.
Mountain Scene, by Frederick Edwin Church.
(Returned November 26, 1954.)
The Mysterious Woods, by Roswell M. Shurt-
leff. (Returned November 26, 1954.)
Rockwell Studio, by Macowin Tuttle. (Re-
turned November 26, 1954.)
To the U. S. Court of Military Appeals, Washington, D.C.:
November 24, 1954_________ Andrew Jackson, by Chester Harding.
George Washington, by Chester Harding.
To the Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.:
Marchal 71 9002222- 22.0 2e—— Temple Mountain, by Chauncey F. Ryder.
The Mysterious Woods, by Roswell M. Shurtleff.
Abrabam Lincoln, by George H. Story.
Fog, by James Craig Nicoll.
The Figurine, by William M. Paxton.
Late Afternoon near Providence, by Joseph F.
Cole.
A Group of Elk, Wind River Mountains, Wyo-
ming, by Edwin W. Deming.
The Cornfield, by Henry Ward Ranger. (Re
turned May 23, 1955.)
The Grand Canal, Venice, by Gabrini. (Re-
turned May 23, 1955.)
Marshlands at Sundown, by Alice Pike Barney.
(From the Smithsonian Lending Collection. )
To the Barney Neighborhood House, Washington, D. C.:
Mareh 295 9052 sees "===. Lady in White, by an undetermined artist.
Three fans from the DeArcos Collection.
Eight items from the Eddy Collection.
Three items from the Pell Collection.
To the Octagon House, Washington, D. C., for the National Trust Tour:
ADprilmlo v1 9opesee Leese The Signing of the Treaty of Ghent, Christmas
Eve, 1814, by Sir Amedee Forestier. (Re-
turned to the U.S. District Court on April 18,
1955.)
68 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

To the Bureau of the Budget, Washington, D. C.:
Aprili22- O55 S2 22252 ee Shallow wall case. (Returned May 27, 1955.)
June 291956. 852 See ee Gen. Dwight D. Hisenhower, by Capt. Sir
Oswald Birley.
Mists of the Morning, by George Glenn Newell.

LOANS RETURNED

Oil, Prince Kimmochi Saionji, by Charles Hopkinson, lent May 5,
1954, to the Institute of Contemporary Arts, Boston, Mass., was re-
turned July 6, 1954.

Oil, portrait of Dr. George F. Becker, by Fedor Encke, lent April
17, 1953, to the National Academy of Sciences, Washington, D. C.,
was returned July 23, 1954.

Two oils, Fired On, by Frederic Remington, and Westward the
Course of Empire Takes Its Way, by Emanuel Leutze, lent April 16,
1954, to the Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebr., were returned July 26,
1954.

Model of prize-winning design for the Smithsonian Gallery of Art,
by Ehel Saarinen, lent October 1, 1953, to the American Institute of
Architects, Washington, D. C., was returned September 16, 1954.

Wash drawing, The Devil’s Tower from Johnston’s, Crook County,
Wyoming, by Thomas Moran, lent December 18, 1953, to the Smith-
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service, was returned October 11, 1954.

Two oils, A Group of Elk, Wind River Mountains, Wyoming, by
Edwin W. Deming, lent December 8, 1953, and Tohikon, by Daniel
Garber, lent February 2, 1954, to the Supreme Court, Washington,
D.C., were returned November 26, 1954.

SMITHSONIAN LENDING COLLECTION

Two paintings, The Dimple and Waterlily, by Alice Pike Barney,
were returned by the Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, Nebr., on July 26,
1954.

Oil, Where Desert and Mountain Meet, by Evylena Nunn Miller
(1888— ),a gift of Joseph S. Wade, was accepted December 7, 1954,
for the Smithsonian Lending Collection to be exhibited in the Geology
Hall, Natural History Building.

Ten paintings by Edwin Scott—La Concorde; Marine; Place de la
Concorde No. 2; Porte Saint Martin No. 1; Rue de Village; Rue des
Pyramides; Rue San Jacques, Paris; St. Germain des Pres No. 1;
The Seine at Paris, Pont de la Concorde; and Self Portrait—lent to
the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, on January 18,
1954—were returned on January 18, 1955.

ALICE PIKE BARNEY MEMORIAL FUND

Additions to principal during the year totaling $2,608.44 have in-
creased the total invested sums in this fund to $34,603.85.
SECRETARY’S REPORT

69
THE HENRY WARD RANGER FUND

According to a provision in the Ranger bequest that paintings pur-
chased by the Council of the National Academy of Design from the
fund provided by the Henry Ward Ranger bequest and assigned to
American art institutions may be claimed during the 5-year period
beginning 10 years after the death of the artist represented, one paint-
ing, The Rapids, by W. Elmer Schofield, N. A. (1867-1944), was
recalled and accepted by the Smithsonian Art Commission at its
meeting on December 7, 1954.

The following paintings, purchased by the Council of the National
Academy of Design since the last report, have been assigned as
follows:

Title and Artist

Assignment

163. Still Life in Winter (watercolor), Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.
by Charles E. Burchfield N. A.
(1893- ):
164. Head of Red Moore, by Bugene Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, Buffalo,
Speicher, N. A. (1883- We N. Y.
165. Tuscany, by Ogden M. Pleissner, Cincinnati Art Museum, Cincinnati,

N. A. (1905- Ye

Ohio.

166. Tree Forms, by Sidney Laufman, Georgia Museum of Art, University
N. A. (1891- ). of Georgia, Athens, Ga.
167. The Falls of Schuylkill, by Walter Whitney Museum of American Art,
Stuempfig, A. N. A. 1914- Ne New York, N. Y.
168. Ryder’s House, by Edward Hopper Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass.

(1882- ye

. Sunset Cornwall (watercolor), by

Gordon Grant, N. A. (1875- ).

Cooper Union for the Advancement
of Science and Art, New York, N. Y.

170. Alviso Slough (watercolor), by Staten Island Institute of Arts and
Maurice Logan (1886- Ve Sciences, Staten Island, N. Y.
171. Grape Hill, Manayunk, by Giovanni JButler Art Institute, Youngstown,

Martino, N. A. (1908- Ne

Ohio.

172. Still Life with Ground Pink, by Springfield Art Museum, Springfield,
Eugene R. Witten (1920- +). Mo.

173. Study of a Young Man, by Nancy Art Museum of the New Britain
Ellen Craig (1927- ie Institute, New Britain, Conn.

174. Circus Performers, by Ben Kami- (Not yet assigned.)
hira (1925- de

175. West 4th Street (watercolor), by Farnsworth Museum, Wellesley Col-

sverri Ricci, A. N. A. (1916- Die

. On Strike, by Robert A. Hitch (1920—

lege, Wellesley, Mass.
(Not yet assigned).

Ve
177. Still Life #98, by Robert Brackman, The Parrish Art Museum, South-
N. A. (1898- ye ampton, Long Island, N. Y.
178. San Barnaba, by Louis Bosa, N. A. Art Association of Indianapolis,
(1905- ie John Herron Art Institute, Indian-
apolis, Ind.
179. The Eviction, by Everett Shinn, Wilmington Society of Fine Arts,

N. A. (1876-1953).

Wilmington, Del.
70 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

No. 7, Shrine of the Rain Gods, by E. Irving Couse, N. A. (1866-
1936), permanently assigned to the Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo,
Ohio, in 1946, was returned to the National Academy of Design and
reassigned to the Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation,
New York, N. Y., as its absolute property, on May 31, 1955.

No. 107, The Blue Jar, by Cullen Yates, N. A. (1886-1945), as-
signed to the Portland Art Association, Portland, Oreg., in 1933, was
reassigned to the Norfolk Museum of Art and Sciences, Norfolk, Va.,
on November 16, 1954.

No. 150, End of Winter, by A. Lassell Ripley (1896- ), was
assigned to the High Museum, Atlanta, Ga., on June 18, 1954.

SMITHSONIAN TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Sixty-three exhibitions were circulated during the past season, 52
in the United States and 11 abroad, as follows:

UNITED STATES

Paintings and Drawings

Title Source

American Indian Painting__.________ Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa.

American Natural Painters__.__--__- Galerie St. Etienne and private collec-
tors.

Austrian Drawings and Prints_____- Albertina, Vienna; Austrian Embassy.

Paintings by Austrian Children____- Superintendent of Schools in Vienna;
Austrian Embassy.

Paintings by George Catlin_-________ Smithsonian Institution, Department of
Anthropology.

Children’s Paintings from Forty-five Embassy of Denmark; Friendship Among

Countries. Children, and Youth Organization.
Children’s Paintings from Japan___. United Nations Educational, Scientific,

and Cultural Organization.
Chinese Paintings, by Tseng Yu-ho__._ Art Institute of Chicago; artist.

Contemporary American Drawings... American Academy of Arts and Letters;
artists.

Ethiopian ‘Paintings’... 222) George Washington University; Dr.
Bruce Howe; Embassy of Ethiopia.

Museli, “Drawin@s oe. ee ee Pro Helvetia Foundation, Zurich; Lega-

tion of Switzerland.
Watereolors and Drawings by Walters Art Gallery, Baltimore; Rosen-

Gavarni. wald Collection, National Gallery of
Art.
German Drawings and Watercolors__ Dr. Charlotte Weidler; artist.
Gloria S202) s 3 ew RE ee British Embassy; artist, John Piper.
Goya Drawings and Prints__________ Prado and Galdiano Museums, Madrid;

Spanish Embassy; Rosenwald Collec-
tion, National Gallery of Art.
Winslow Homer Drawings___-----__ Cooper Union Museum; American Acad-
emy of Arts and Letters.
Watercolors and Prints by Redouté__ Luxembourg State Museum; private col-
lectors; Legation of Luxembourg.
SECRETARY’S REPORT rat

Title Source
19th Century American Paintings Maxim Karolik; Museum of Fine Arts,
from the Karolik Collection. Boston.
Contemporary Swedish Paintings___.. National Museum, Stockholm; Swedish
‘ Embassy.
Swedish Children’s Paintings________ National Museum, Stockholm; Swedish
Hmbassy.
Painters of Venezuela_______________ Ministry of Education at Caracas; Pan

American Union.
Birds of Argentina by Salvador Artist; Williams Foundation; American
Magno. Museum of Natural History.

Graphic Arts

Title Source
American Color Prints__-__-_-_____ Library of Congress.
Recent British Lithographs_________ British Council; British Embassy.
Children’s Picture Books __---_-_-__ Washington Post Children’s Book Fair.
Contemporary Japanese Prints______ Art Institute of Chicago; Japanese As-
sociation of Creative Printmakers.
Japanese Woodcuts______-__-.-____- United Nations Educational, Scientific,
and Cultural Organization.
Prints 1942-1952__.____________ Brooks Memorial Art Gallery; artists.
Southern California Serigraphs_____ Los Angeles County Museum; artists.
Woodcuts by Antonio Frasconi______ The Print Club of Cleveland; The Cleve-
land Museum of Art; Weyhe Gallery;
artist.
Architecture
Title Source
New, hibraries: 2: 52) 22.5 220 American Institute of Architects.
The Re-Union of Architecture and American Institute of Architects.
Engineering.
Building in the Netherlands_________ Bond of Netherlands Architects and
Bouwcentrum; Netherlands Embassy.
The Crystal Palacets222. 32-22 Smith College Museum of Art; Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology.
Design
Title Source
American Craftsmen, I_____________ University of Illinois, Urbana.

American Jewelry and Related Ob- Huntington Galleries, Huntington, W. Va.
jects.

Brazilian WLandscape Architecture Brazilian Embassy; artist.
New Designs by Roberto Burle

Marx.
Dutch Arts'‘and Crafts__-...-______ Department of Education, Art and Sci-
ence in The Hague; Netherlands
Embassy.
Fifty Years of Danish Silver________ Georg Jensen, Inc.; Danish Embassy.
Italian Arts and Crafts_____________ Compagnia Nazionale Artigiana, Rome;

Italian Embassy.
370930—56——_6
4 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Photography
Title Source
Ansel Adams Photographs 19383-1953_ Artist; George Eastman House, Roches-
ter.
Birds in Color by Dliot Porter____-_ Artist; American Museum of Natural
History.
Venetian Villas2) 250s i ee a eae Soprintendenza ai Monumenti Medievali

e Moderni, Venice; Italian Hmbassy.

Folk Art
Title Source

AMM OCTICGAN as ao ewe Sea RNa oe ne Index of American Design, National Gal-
lery of Art.

Eskimo Art, I Eskimo Art, Inc.; Canadian Handicrafts

EskimovArt, Eh se Ocha ote Guild ; Canadian Hmbassy.

Norwegian Decorative Painting___-~__ Norwegian Artists Guild; Embassy of
Norway.

Popular Art in the United States____. Index of American Design, National Gal-
lery of Art.

The Art of the Spanish Southwest_.__ Index of American Design, National Gal-
lery of Art.

Oriental Art
Title Source
Chinese Gold and Silver from the Dr. Carl Kempe; Embassy of Sweden.
Kempe Collection.

Ethnology
Title Source
Art and Magic in Arnhem Land_-_---~ Smithsonian Institution, Department of
Anthropology.
Carl Bodmer Paints the Indian Karl Viktor, Prinz zu Wied; German
Frontier. Embassy.
ABROAD
Title Source
American Primitive Paintings__---~- Museums; private collectors.
Children’s Picture Books____-----_~_-. Washington Post Children’s Book Fair.
American Indian Painting___________ Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, Okla.
American ‘Churchs(2) 2. - eee Design and Production; Mrs. Stephen
Dorsey.
The American Theatre (2)_--_---____ Tom Lee Limited; ANTA.
Community Art Centers (8) -.-_--_-- The Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio.
Contemporary American Glass______- Corning Museum of Glass, Corning Glass

Center, Corning, N. Y.

These displays were scheduled as an integral part of the programs
of 145 museums and galleries, located in 39 States and the District
of Columbia.
SECRETARY'S REPORT 73

INFORMATION SERVICE AND STAFF ACTIVITIES

In addition to the many requests for information received by mail
and telephone, inquiries made in person at the office numbered 2,342.
Examination was made of 774 works of art submitted for identifica-
tion.

An article, “Harriet Lane Johnston and the National Collection of
Tine Arts,” by Thomas M. Beggs, was prepared for the General Ap-
pendix to the Smithsonian Institution Annual Report for 1954.

Special catalogs were published for the following seven exhibitions:
American Primitive Paintings and Fifty Years of Danish Silver
(published abroad) ; Austrian Drawings and Prints; Brazilian Land-
scape Architecture by Roberto Burle Marx; Goya Drawings and
Prints; Nineteenth Century American Paintings from the Maxim
Karolik Collection; and Watercolors and Prints by Redouté. The
last five contained acknowledgments written by Mrs. Annemarie H.
Pope, chief of the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service.

At the invitation of its Foreign Office, Mr. Beggs was guest of the
Federal Republic of Germany from October 18 to November 17, 1954,
visiting leading museums and art centers.

Mr. Beggs served as sole juror of the Sixth Annual Exhibition of
the Florida Artists Group at the Norton Gallery, West Palm Beach,
Fla., and spoke at its symposium April 29 and 30, 1955. On March 21,
he was one of two judges for the 22d Annual Exhibition of the Minia-
ture Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D. C.

Paul Gardner, curator of ceramics, gave talks (illustrated) to the
Garden Club, Largo, Md., on October 19, 1954, and the Arlington
Branch of the American Association of University Women (gallery)
on January 20, 1955. He served as one of the judges for the 24th
Annual Photographic Salon at the Washington County Museum,
Hagerstown, Md., on January 26, 1955.

Mrs. Pope visited 11 European countries, including England,
France, Italy, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands, Sweden,
Finland, Norway, and Denmark, between June 4 and August 17, 1954.
She discussed exhibitions from these countries for circulation in the
United States and American exhibitions which might be sent abroad.

Mrs. Pope represented the Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice at the Southeastern Museums Conference held at Miami, Fla., Oc-
tober 19-23, 1954, and also spoke at the opening of the Goya Drawings
and Prints Exhibition at the City Art Museum, St. Louis, Mo., June
8-10, 1955. She attended the opening of the new wing at the J. B.
Speed Art Museum, Louisville, Ky., and the opening of the Goya
Drawings and Prints exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art,
New York, N. Y.
74 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

An exhibition of 25 block prints, by Rowland Lyon, exhibits prepar-
ator, opened at the Casa Americana Biblioteca in Madrid, Spain, on
November 25, 1954, and later toured other Spanish cities. Mr. Lyon
served on the juries of four local exhibitions. He gave a demon-
stration on the Restoration of Oil Paintings at a meeting of the
Society of Washinton Artists on October 6, 1954, was chairman of
the May Arts Fair at the Arts Club on May 20, and acted as moderator
at a panel discussion, “The Status of Washington Art,” held at the
Workshop Center on May 22, 1955.

The canvases of 9 paintings in the permanent collection, and 10 bor-
rowed from the U. S. National Museum for use in the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service, were cleaned and varnished. Twenty-
one frames were renovated for use for permanent or loan exhibitions.

Fluorescent lights were installed in 7 cases in the Gellatly Collec-
tion. Eleven cases were rearranged.

Miss Doanda Wheeler finished repairing the Turfan frescoes in the
Gellatly Collection in September 1954.

The renovation of the tapestry “Julius Caesar Crossing the Rubi-
con” was completed by Neshan G. Hintlian in April 1955.

Glenn J. Martin cleaned and restored 2 paintings in the permanent
collection and 6 in the Smithsonian Lending Collection.

Newly decorated offices were occupied by the curator of ceramics
August 27, 1954, and the preparator of exhibits February 1, 1955.

SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS

Fourteen special exhibitions were held during the year:

July 21 through September 24, 1954.—Portrait of General Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, Supreme Commander of Allied Powers in Europe, 1949, by Capt. Sir
Oswald Birley (1880-1952), gift of British Friends of the Artist to the People of
the United States.

September 1 through 28, 1954.—An Exhibition of Creative Crafts under the
joint sponsorship of the Kiln Club and the Potomac Craftsmen consisting of 133
pieces. Demonstrations of the basic steps involved in the production of work in
the various crafts were given twice daily. A catalog was privately printed.

October 18 through 28, 1954.—The Fourth Biennial Exhibition of Sculpture by
the Washington Sculptors Group, consisting of 75 pieces of sculpture. A catalog
was privately printed.

October 18 through November 19, 1954.—A Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition entitled “Building in the Netherlands,” sponsored by the American
Institute of Architects, and held under the patronage of His Excellency, the
Netherlands Ambassador, Dr. J. H. van Roijen. Included were 92 photographs
and 3 medels of Dutch architecture. A catalog was privately printed. A film
in connection with the exhibition was shown on November 2, 1954.

November 7 through 26, 1954.—The Seventeenth Metropolitan State Art Con-
test held under the auspices of the D. C. Chapter, American Artists Professional
League, assisted by the Entre Nous Club, consisting of 229 paintings, sculpture,
prints, ceramics, and metalcraft. A catalog was privately published.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 75

December 10 through 29, 1954.—The Eleventh Annual Exhibition of the Artists’
Guild of Washington, consisting of 77 paintings and sculptures. <A catalog was
privately printed.

January 6 through 26, 1955.—“Carl Bodmer Paints the Indian Frontier,” held
under the patronage of His Excellency, the German Ambassador, Heinz L,
Krekeler, consisting of 118 watercolors and drawings. A catalog was privately
printed. This exhibition was circulated to 11 other Institutions by the Smith-
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service.

January 25, 1955.—-A bronze statue, Laboring Youth, by Hermann Blumenthal,
presented to the American Nation by His Excellency, the German Ambassador,
Heinz L. Krekeler, on behalf of the German people, was received by President
Dwight D. Eisenhower for the people of the United States in the auditorium of
the United States Natural History Building. It was on special exhibition in
the lobby until April 25, 1955.

February 4 through 27, 1955.—The Fifth Interservice Photography Contest,
consisting of over 250 photographs.

March 6 through 25, 1955.—The Fifty-eighth Annual Exhibition of the Wash-
ington Water Color Club, consisting of 171 watercolors, etchings and drawings.
A catalog was privately printed.

April 3 through 24, 1955.—Exhibit of 60 photographs and 37 watercolors under
auspices of the Audubon Society, D. C. Chapter.

April 8 through 24, 1955.—The Twenty-second Annual Exhibition of the Minia-
ture Painters, Sculptors, and Gravers Society of Washington, D. C., consisting
of 235 examples. <A catalog was privately printed.

May 8 through 31, 1955.—“Under Freedom,” an exhibition depicting 300 years
of Jewish Life in the United States, presented by the Greater Washington Com-
mittee for the American Jewish Tercentenary, consisting of ritual objects, por-
traits, sculpture, engravings, photographs, books, letters, documents, charts,
maps, and innumerable other items. A catalog was privately printed.

June 15 through July 7, 1955.—The Sixty-third Annual Exhibition of the So-
ciety of Washington Artists, consisting of 65 paintings and 15 pieces of sculpture.
A catalog was privately printed.

Respectfully submitted.
Tuomas M. Beaos, Director.
Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Si

Freer

Report on the Freer Gallery of Art

: I have the honor to submit the thirty-fifth annual report on the
Gallery of Art, for the year ended June 30, 1955.

THE COLLECTIONS

One hundred and twenty objects were added to the collections by
purchase, as follows:

54.22.

54.121.

54.122.

55.1.

54.120.

55.7.

54.19.

54.18.

54.118.

54.115.

BRONZE

Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). LHight-lobed mirror; backed
with a sheet of silver decorated with floral and animal designs in
repoussé on a punchwork ground; some green patina, earthy adhe-
sions, and traces of silk wrapping. Diameter: 0.245.

Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (5th-3d century B. C.). Garment hook in-
laid with silver, gold, glass, and jade. Length: 0.220.

Chinese, Early Chou dynasty (11th-10th century B. C.). Ceremonial
vessel of the type tsun; decorated with cast designs in intaglio and
low relief; grayish-green patina. 0.275 x 0.247. (Illustrated.)

Chinese, Shang dynasty (12th—11th century B. C.). Ceremonial vessel
of the type tsun; decorated with casting in intaglio and low relief;
gray patina, fossae filled with chalcolite; single character inscrip-
tion cast inside foot. 0.254 x 0.204.

JADE

Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (5th-3d century B. C.). Garment hook,
carved, white jade in a gold mounting. Length: 0.123.

Persian, Safavid period (16th century). Dark-green jug with canine
head on handle; intaglio carving of arabesque rinceaux inlaid with

gold. 0.087 x 0.100.
LACQUER

Chinese, Late Chou dynasty (5th-8d century B. ©.). Circular wood
tray lacquered with designs in red and yellow on brown ground.
Diameter: 0.312.

Japanese, Tokugawa period (18th century). Small chest of drawers
lacquered in several techniques with landscape scene and flora. 0.206
x 0.168 x 0.245.

Japanese, Tokugawa period (18th century). Incense box in four pieces
lacquered in several techniques with landscape, birds, and flowers;
inlaid with mother-of-pearl, gold, and silver; tray signed Shogyoku.
0.118 x 0.113 x 0.106. (Ilustrated.)

METALWORK

Persian, Safavid period (16th-17th century). Silver bowl decorated
with arabesques and a poem in nasta‘liq script inlaid in gold; niello
in background. 0.032 x 0.112.

76
SECRETARY’S REPORT riié

54.128. Persian, Seljuq period (12th-13th century). Nine-sided bronze candle-
stick inlaid with nine bands of silver decoration showing enthroned
rulers, musicians, and conventional designs. 0.163 x 0.180.

~

PAINTING

54.20. Chinese, Yiian dynasty, attributed to Ch‘eng Ch‘i (13th century). Hand-
scroll illustrating sericulture; full color on paper; 40 seals and 8
inscriptions on mount; 92 seals and 49 inscriptions on painting; 1
seal on label on outside. 12.493 x 0.819.

54.21. Chinese, Ytian dynasty, attributed to Ch‘eng Ch‘i (13th century). Hand-
scroll illustrating rice culture; full color on paper; 96 seals and 10
inscriptions on mount; 306 seals and 45 inscriptions on painting; 1
seal on label on outside. 10.340 x 0.326.

54.126. Chinese, Sung dynasty, by Li Chih (11th century). Parakeet on an
apricot branch; full color on silk. 0.270 x 0.225.

04.27. Indian, late 16th century, Mughal, school of Akbar. Emperor Babur
with attendants in a garden pavilion; line drawing, partly colored
and gilded, on paper. 0.191 x 0.122.

54.29. Indian, early 17th century, Mughal, attributed to Kinhai and Mansur.
Leaf from a Babur-ndmeh; recto: 2 water buffaloes in a landscape,
text; verso: 2 miniatures, each with two antelopes in a landscape,
text ; full colors on paper, text in black nasta‘lig. 0.2583 x 0.151.

54.30. Indian, early 17th century, Mughal, attributed to Manohar. Leaf from
a historical manuscript; recto: text; verso: scene of an army on
the march, text; full colors and gold on paper, text in black nasta‘liq.
0.482 x 0.279.

54.31. Indian, late 16th century, Mughal, school of Akbar. Leaf from a Chin-
giz-nameh; a Mongol emperor (Khubilai Khan) enthroned with em-
press and attendants; full colors on paper. 0.388 x 0.253.

54.116. Indian, early 17th century, Mughal, school of Akbar. Leaf from im-
perial album; recto: prince on horseback handing a drink to a youth
in a tree; verso: text, and margin with figures; full colors and gold
on paper, text in black nasia‘liq. 0.425 x 0.266.

54.33— Iraqi, late 14th century (Baghdad?). 82 leaves from a manuscript of

54.114. Qazwini’s “Wonders of Creation”; each has 23 lines of text and one or
more illustrations; full colors and some gold on paper, text in black
naskhi, captions in red or blue. Average leaf, 0.327 x 0.224. (54.95
illustrated. )

54.119. Japanese, Tokugawa period. Ukiyoe school, by Hokusai (1760-1849).
Portrait of a courtesan walking; ink, colors, and gold on silk; 1 sig-
nature and 1 seal on painting. 1.105 x 0.415.

Japanese, Tokugawa period. Nanga school, by Tani Bunehd (1764-1840).
Peacock and peonies; ink and colors on paper. 1.230 x 0.517.

55.3- Japanese, Tokugawa period, Ukiyoe school, by Hokusai (1760-1849).

5 Four paintings for the block-print series Hyakunin Isshii Ubaga
Etoki, Nos. 72, 57, 70, 83; ink on paper; inscription, signature, and
seal on each. Average sheet, 0.259 x 0.376.

54.23. Persian, Timurid period (mid-15th century). Leaf from a Kalila Wa-
Dimna manuscript; recto: “The battle between the crows and the

owls,” 2 lines of text; verso: gold caption, 13 lines of black text, 1
red subheading; colors on paper, nasta‘liq script. 0.229 x 0.146.

OU
OH
iw)

N
78

54.24,

54.25.

54.26.

54.28.

54.32.

54.117.

54.124.

54.125.

54.127.

54.123.

55.8.

55.9.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Persian, Safavid period, time of Shih ‘Abbas (early 17th century),
Isfahan school, signed Riza. Reclining nude asleep at a watercourse;
picture and illumination in colors and gold on paper; black nasta‘lig
text. 0.321 x 0.208. (Illustrated.)

Persian, Safavid period (late 16th century), signed Jan Quli. Mounted
prince with attendants approaching a pavilion; colors and gold on
paper; mounted on a leaf speckled with gold. 0.245 x 0.162.

Persian (about A. D. 1500), Shiraz school. Leaf; recto: groom with
horse in a wooded grove; colors and gold on paper; verso: black
nasta‘liq text, blue headings. 0.168 x 0.097.

Persian, Safavid period (early 17th century), Isfahan school. Leaf;
recto: two youths embracing in a landscape; ink and slight color on
paper; verso: quatrain in black nasta‘liq on floriated ground ; signed
Muhammad Husain al-Tabrizi. 0.834 x 0.229,

Persian, Safavid period (mid-16th century). Leaf; recto: a hunting
scene, line drawing, with light colors and gold, mounted on an album
page; verso: illuminated text; dark blue and gold, and black nasta‘liq
script. 0.3835 x 0.232,

POTTERY

Chinese, Ming dynasty (early 15th century). Vase of albarello shape;
fine white porcelain; glossy, transparent glaze; decorated in under-
glaze blue with floral scrolls, hatching, and stylized waves. 0.212
x 0.132.

Chinese, T‘ang dynasty (A. D. 618-906). Circular dish on three low
feet; buff-white clay; soft lead glazes, transparent, green, brown, and
blue; impressed decoration of floral motifs surrounding a flying
goose. 0.064 x 0.285.

Chinese, Han dynasty (207 B. C.-A. D. 220). Cylindrical covered jar of
the type lien on three low feet; soft brick-red clay; soft, dark-green
lead glaze, yellowish brown inside; decoration molded in relief.
0.197 x 0.201.

Chinese, Ch‘ing dynasty, Ch‘ien-lung period (1736-1796). Bottle-shaped
vase with “onion mouth”; fine, white porcelain; glossy, transparent
glaze; decorated in delicate enamel colors, a woman and two boys in
a landscape, poem in black, three simulated seals in red; 4-character
Ch‘ien-lung mark in gray enamel on the base. 0.172 x 0.095.

Japanese, Tokugawa period (17th century). Chrysanthemum-shaped
bowl of Kakiemon ware; fine, white porcelain; lustrous milk-white
glaze, brown rim. 0.095 x 0.225.

Turkish, Ottoman (16th century), probably Isnik. Dish with flattened
rim ; buff clay, transparent glaze; decoration of floral motifs in cobalt
and some turquoise blue; base glazed. 0.068 x 0.376.

Persian (late 12th century), signed Hasan al-Qashani. Bowl with octa-
gonal rim and high foot; soft earthenware; soft, cream-white glaze
with splashes of blue; decoration molded in clay, large naskhi in-
scription, small kufic signature, arabesque ground and band of
leaves. 0.117 x 0.152.

Total number of accessions to date (including above) --._-- 10, 952
SECRETARY’S REPORT 79

REPAIRS TO THE COLLECTIONS

Thirty-six Chinese and Japanese objects were restored, repaired,
or remounted by T. Sugiura. W. N. Rawley strengthened the joints
of a Chinese gilt bronze by soldering and mended a Japanese lacquer
box with silver nails,

CHANGES IN EXHIBITIONS

Changes in exhibitions totaled 955 as follows:
American art:

NtChIN CS teen ee ee ee a Se a ee ee Pe 32
ithographs.-- 272520 s See ee 15
Oil paintin gs 22 os") exe os ee a es eee eS 34
Pastels eand) drawines 222282 22 eee 23
WATCrCOLOIS s+ one eee a ae er ee See eee 18
Chinese art:
Bron Ze seri ee Perth s 31 e Se ea fie scar i  e £o See 201
GO ee eo ee ae ee eee ee ee ee 8
EY SUL Cece se a PR ot ee Se ee oe 42
epi G11 os ee a ee ee 97
DilVereanGeSilVer Pi lts See ee ee ee ee 28
Stone “sculpture l= Sees es oe eee eS eee 2
Christian art:
CRY S te eee ee re ee ee ee 4
Gla sg eee ae ie A ee eee 12
Manuscripts ==.225 2 2 ee ee ae ee es 65
Me tallies ee ee 86
Paintings 2256 on ee he eee 26
Stone: sculpture: 22s 624 <2 95 oe ee 1
Japanese art:
18 Cqer Sa Sie a 26 eh ee eee ee eee 8
Paintings #225. o ss ee ot eet eee Sees 26
POtteny ane tos sass oe 2 Sa Se 13
Korean art:
Painting Soa ee ee Se eee ar ee 60
Potteryiet a2 fash es Sr oe ee eee 10
Near Eastern art
Bookbindings sees 262 8222 -Foeee be ee ee esa 10
Ory stall Sams 23 oe ee a ee eee eee 2
GlaSSi2e = 6) ities Sa ss Bee Sea 8
Manuscriptscac&s226sces ihe a a sk eee ae eee 16
Metal works aca ace see ak lee a Se en ees 31
Paintings. 2s sok. 6. fat) ele fee ee Re ees oe 83
POttOny 2a2 anne wa oS ea nk eee bt ee ee ee 42
Stone'sculpture 223 eh te ee al
Wioodearvingin- 3 25322 Seo eo oe aa ee ea 1.
LIBRARY

Accessions of books, pamphlets, periodicals, and study materials
totaled 802 pieces, of which over half were received by gift or exchange
from generous friends and institutions.
80 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Cataloging included 471 analytics, 219 books and pamphlets, and 35
titles recataloged and reclassified. A total of 3,188 cards was added
to the catalog and shelf lists. The specialized nature of the library
and its unique importance for the study of Oriental art are under-
scored by the fact that less than 10 percent of the necessary cards are
available at the Library of Congress.

Six bibliographies were prepared in response to outside requests,
and two were made for Freer Gallery publications which were also
indexed by the librarian. In all, 426 items were bound, labeled,
repaired, or mounted.

Since December 2, 1954, the library has been closed to the public
for extensive reconstruction, including the installation of steel stacks
and special folio shelves. Rearrangement under way and to be com-
pleted at the time of reshelving involves discontinuing the old
geographical divisions and shelving of all Western material by classi-
fication, and moving all periodicals from an obscure closet into the
library. Orientalia will be cataloged und shelved separately as before,
but all have been marked with special insignia for ready identifica-
tion. These changes will greatly increase the librarian’s control over
her material and facilitate its use by the staff and the public.

PUBLICATIONS

Four publications were issued by the Gallery as follows:

Ars Orientalis, The arts of Islam and the East, vol. I, 267 pp. + 98 collotype pls.
and text illus. (Smithsonian Publ. 4187. Published jointly with the Depart-
ment of Fine Arts, University of Michigan. Two members of the staff
contributed to this issue.)

Gettens, Rutherford J., and Usilton, Bertha M.: Abstracts of technical studies in
art and archaeology, 1943-1952. 408 pp. Occasional Papers, vol. 2, No. 2.
(Smithsonian Publ. 4176.)

The Freer Gallery of Art of the Smithsonian Institution. Revised edition, 16
pp. + 9 halftone illustrations and 3 plans. (Smithsonian Publ. 4185.)
Annotated outline of the history of Japanese art. Revised edition. (Multi-

graphed.)

Papers by stafl members appeared in outside publications as
follows:

Wenley, A. G.: A spray of bamboo, by Wu Chén, in Archives of the Chinese Art
Society of America, vol. VIII, 1954.

Pope, J. A.: Blue-and-white in London, in Far Eastern Ceramic Bulletin, vol. VI,
No. 2, serial No. 26, 1954.

. Communication on Bahrami’s paper on Chinese porcelains, in Far East-

ern Ceramic Bulletin, vol. VI, No. 4, serial No. 28, 1954.

. The art of Gandhira, in Baltimore Museum of Art News, No. 18, 1955.

Ettinghausen, R.: The “snake-eating stag’ in the East, in Late Classical and
Medieval Studies in honor of Albert Mathias Friend, Jr. Princeton, 1955.

. D. S. Rice, The baptistére de St. Louis, Paris, 1954, reviewed in The

Muslim World, vol. 44, No. 1.

SECRETARY'S REPORT 81

Ettinghausen, R.: Harry W. Hazard, The numismatic history of late medieval
North Africa (Numismatic Studies No. 8, American Numismatic Society,
New York 1952), reviewed in The Muslim World, vol. 44, No. 1.

Gettens, R. J.: Calcium sulphate minerals in the grounds of Italian paintings, in
Studies in Conservation, No. 4 (co-author with Miss Mary Mrose).

. A visit to an ancient gypsum quarry in Tuscany, in Studies in Conserva-
tion, No. 4.

Stern, H. P.: James A. Michener, The floating world, New York 1954, reviewed in
The Saturday Review, Jan. 1, 1955.

REPRODUCTIONS

The photographic laboratory made 4,881 items during the year
as follows: 2,752 prints, 563 negatives, 1,527 color transparencies, 39
black-and-white slides. Total negatives on hand, 10,850; lantern
slides, 9,216.

Two reproductions of objects in the collection were completed by
the Alva Studios of New York and placed on sale.

BUILDING

The general condition of the building is good, and maintenance
and operation have been satisfactory. The exterior needs cleaning
and pointing and water valves need repair or replacement through-
out. Air-conditioning is badly needed and there is hope that it may
be installed in the near future. Fixtures for fluorescent lighting are
on hand and will be installed shortly. A new 500-gallon hot-water
tank was put in operation. Complete redecoration of the exhibition
galleries was begun under contract in April but came to a standstill
after one week because of a local painters’ strike. Work had not been
resumed as the year ended. All offices, laboratories, storage rooms,
and shops are in sore need of general upkeep such as painting and
floor covering.

The major work of the cabinet shop was devoted to the reconstruc-
tion of the library including rearrangement of the space, installation
of steel stacks, new ceiling, and new lighting facilities in stack area.
Miscellaneous odd jobs related to storage, exhibition, restoration,
crating, and maintenance of office and Gallery equipment continue
as usual.

Court planting maintains steady growth, and, as the year ended,
plans were under consideration for major alterations in the planting
and for a revised maintenance program.

ATTENDANCE

The Gallery was open to the public from 9 to 4:30 every day ex-
cept Christmas Day. The total number of visitors to come in the main
entrance was 88,306. The highest monthly attendance was in April,
11,818, and the lowest was in December, 2,942.
82 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

There were 1,866 visitors to the office for the following purposes:

Hor general information: 2205 225) a ee eee 692
To submit objects for examination____________________ 374
Toisee stall membersacss ae eee ee te ee 133
To take photographs in court or exhibition galleries___t09 121
TOS CUGY TTT Toye ee eS eel a ee ee *67
To see building and installations____._._____.._________ 30
To examine, purchase, or borrow slidegs________________ 29
Tovsketch-in’galleries =]. 3. wreee aie Bie ea. eee 11
To! useiHerzfeld!) Archivesss2essecese ial eee es 1
To see objects in storage:
Far Eastern paintings and textiles____._...--.______ 103
Mar; Hastern-metalworke.2 ene BY Siieee DAT 20
Mar sMastern) potteryac. + 52 83 ee es 39
Far Eastern jade, lacquer, wood, ivory, ete_________ 33
Near Eastern painting, miniatures, MSS___________ 89
Near Hasternimetal works) ie 2a Lo isan aoe 8
Near Eastern pottery22t oak wa 2 ee TO eOre 1
Near Eastern glass, bookbindings, ete___.________ == 8
Christian Art (Washington MSS.)_-...___________ 59
MAST E Ts] CEUTA PANT Eats ea ae ne REIL Seed eer 183

*Library closed after Dec. 2, 1954.

AUDITORIUM

The series of illustrated lectures was continued as follows:

1954
October 20.

November 16.

1955
January 18.

February 15.

March 15.

April 19.

Soame Jenyns, British Museum. “Kakiemon Porcelains of
Japan,” Attendance, 123.

Dr. Schuyler Cammann, University Museum, Philadelphia.
“Symbolism in Chinese Bronze Mirrors.” Attendance, 128.

George N. Kates. “Chinese Household Furniture.” Attendance,
201.

Prof. Sirarpie der Nersessian, Dumbarton Oaks. ‘Armenian
Illuminated Manuscripts in the Freer Gallery of Art.’ At-
tendance, 128.

Dr. George C. Miles, American Numismatic Society. “Arabic
Inscriptions in Art and History.” Attendance, 96.

Eliot O’Hara, “Oriental Brushwork.” (Motion pictures.) At-
tendance, 320.

In addition, one staff member gave a lecture in the auditorium:

1955
March 16.

Dr. Ettinghausen addressed members of the American Associa-
tion of University Women, Arlington Branch, and others on
Near Hastern art in the Freer Gallery. Attendance, 45.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 83

Five outside organizations used the auditorium as follows:

1954
November 17. Lecture sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Konrad
Z. Lorenz, Director, Research Institute for Comparative Eth-
nology, Max Planck Institute, Bulden, Westphalia, Germany.
“Hvolution of Behavior Patterns in Animals.” Attendance, 350,
1955
february 3. Lecture sponsored by the Archaeological Institute of America and
the Smithsonian Institution. Prof. Sumner McKnight Crosby,
“Bxcavations in the Abbey Church of St.-Denis.” (Motion pic-
tures.) Attendance, 414.

March 30. Far Eastern Association (Art Section). A. G. Wenley, Chair-
man. H. P. Stern read one of the papers. Attendance, 28.

May 7. National Capital Parks. Camp Counsellors training course,
Attendance, 1387.

May 14. [Same.] Attendance, 76.

May 21. {Same.] Attendance, 76.

June 2. American Association of Museums (Art Technical Section).

R. J. Gettens read one of the papers. Attendance, 350.

STAFF ACTIVITIES

The work of the staff members has been devoted to the study of new
accessions, of objects contemplated for purchase, and of objects sub-
mitted for examination, as well as to individual research projects in
the fields represented by the collections of Chinese, Japanese, Persian,
Arabic, and Indian materials. Reports, oral or written, and exclusive
of those made by the technical laboratory (listed below) were made
on 4,111 objects as follows: for private individuals, 2,233; for deal-
ers, 1,427; for other museums, 451. In all, 482 photographs were
examined, and 680 Oriental language inscriptions were translated for
outside individuals and institutions. By request 24 groups totaling
611 persons met in the exhibition galleries for docent service by staff
members.

In the technical laboratory 42 objects from the Freer collection
and 87 from outside sources were examined. Investigation of the
copper corrosion product on ancient Egyptian bronze was concluded
and prepared for publication as the identification of a new mineral.
X-ray diffraction studies of copper corrosion products were con-
tinued, and similar studies of jade objects in the Freer collection were
begun. Analysis of inlays on ancient Chinese bronzes was begun.
New equipment included platinum gage electrodes and stand for elec-
trolytic analysis and two new lamps for comparison microscope.

By invitation the following lectures (illustrated unless otherwise
noted) were given outside the Gallery by staff members:
84 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

1954

July 26. Dr. Ettinghausen lectured at the Art Historical Institute,
Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey. “Turkish and Is-
lamic Art in the Freer Gallery of Art” (in German). At-
tendance, 50.

September 23. Dr. Ettinghausen at the Victoria and Albert Museum, Lon-
don, addressed staff members of that museum and the
British Museum who are interested in Islamic art.
“Tslamic Art in the Freer Gallery of Art.” Attendance, 5.

1955

January 13. Mr. Wenley addressed the Regents of the Smithsonian In-
stitution. ‘The Freer Gallery of Art—A Retrospective
Glance.”

March 20. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Arlington Unitarian Church, Arling-
ton, Va. “Shiite Islam’’ (not illustrated). Attendance,
95.

March 23. Dr. Ettinghausen, at Vienna Episcopal Church, Vienna, Va.
“Tran—Land and People.” Attendance, 85.

March 29. Dr. Ettinghausen, at the Cosmos Club, Washington. “In

pursuit of Art Treasures in Iran.” Attendance, 250.

Members of the staff traveled outside Washington on official busi-
ness as follows:

1954
July 1- Dr. Ettinghausen continued his studies in the Near East
November 1. and Europe. In Iran he worked in Tehran and also visited

Mashhad and the sites of Nishapur and Tus. He then pro-
ceeded to Istanbul, Vienna, Munich, Berlin, Paris, Marie-
mont (Belgium), London, Oxford, and Cambridge where he
attended the 23d International Congress of Orientalists.
En route home he stopped in Dublin to study the famous
collection of manuscripts in the library of Sir Chester
Beatty. In all cities he visited collections and conferred
with scholars; much of the time was devoted to the study
of materials relating to the Shih Jahan album which he
is preparing for publication by the Freer Gallery of Art,
and to arranging for contributions to the new journal,
Ars Orientalis.

September 13-18. Mr. Gettens in New York attended meetings of the American
Chemical Society; inspected the restoration laboratories
of Joseph Ternbach, the Brooklyn Museum, and the Metro-
politan Museum of Art; in Philadelphia attended the
Micro-chemical Symposium and the International Congress
and Exposition of Instruments.

October 11-13. Mr. Gettens in Oberlin, Ohio, visited the Intermuseum Lab-
oratory to discuss restoration methods and techniques:
examined objects in the laboratory.

November 6. Mr. Pope in Alfred, N. Y., attended the meeting of the Far
Eastern Ceramic Group held at the New York State College
of Ceramics, Alfred University.

November 8. Mr. Wenley in Ann Arbor for meeting of the Freer Fund
Committee at the University of Michigan.
1954
November 19.

December 1-5,

December 13-18.

December 21-22.

1955
January 24-27.
January 26-31.

January 27.

February 16-22.
March 16-17.
March 30.

April 25-27.

May 20.

May 30-81.

SECRETARY’S REPORT 85

Dr. Ettinghausen in Baltimore examined objects in the
Baltimore Museum of Art and the Walters Art Gallery.
Mr. Pope i» New York examined objects belonging to dealers.
Mr. Wenley in. New York examined objects belonging to
dealers.

Mr. Wenley in Cleveland to visit loan exhibition of Chinese
landscape painting at the Cleveland Museum of Art; ex-
amined objects in museum and belonging to a dealer.

Mr. Wenley in New York examined a private collection of
Chinese furniture offered for sale, and also objects belong-
ing to dealers.

Dr. Ettinghausen in New York examined objects belonging
to dealers, and in museums and private collections.

Mr. Gettens in Baltimore at the chemical laboratory of the
Johns Hopkins University to observe progress of the work
on the Dead Sea Scrolls; at the Walters Art Gallery visited
the technical laboratory to examine equipment.

Mr. Stern in New York examined objects belonging to
dealers, museums, and the New York Public Library.

Mr. Wenley in New York examined objects belonging to an
estate, and others belonging to a dealer.

Dr. Ettinghausen and Mr. Gettens in Baltimore examined
objects at the Walters Art Gallery.

Mr. Wenley in Ann Arbor for meeting of the Freer Fund
Committee at the University of Michigan; examined ob-
jects in a private collection ; discussed problems of printing
Ars Orientalis with the University Press.

Dr. Ettinghausen in Baltimore examined objects at the
Walters Art Gallery.

Mr. Weniley in Baltimore for meeting of the Association of
Art Museum Directors at the Baltimore Museum of Art.

Members of the staff held honorary posts, received recognition, and
undertook additional duties outside the Gallery as follows:

Mr. Wenley:

Member, Visiting Committee, Dumbarton Oaks Research
Library and Collection.

Research Professor of Oriental Art, Department of Fine
Arts, University of Michigan.

Board member of the Board of United States Civil Service
Examiners at Washington, D. C., for the Smithsonian In-
stitution.

Member, Board of Trustees, Textile Museum, Washington,
DAO:

Member, Board of Trustees, Hermitage Foundation, Norfolk,
Va.

Member, Council of the Far Eastern Ceramic Group.

Member, Smithsonian Art Commission.

Member, Consultative Committee, Ars Orientalis.

Chairman of the Louise Wallace Hackney Scholarship Com-
mittee of the American Oriental Society.

Member, House Committee, Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.
86 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Mr. Wenley:

Mr. Pope:

Dr. Ettinghausen:

Mr. Gettens:

On July 21, 1954, made a tape recording of a short talk on
Chinese bronzes, for use on Collector’s Items program
(NBC).

On April 4, 1955, at the National Gallery of Art, attended a
meeting of the Washington Committee on Arrangements
for the annual meeting of the American Association of
Museums.

President, Far Eastern Ceramic Group.

Art Editor, Far Hastern Quarterly.

Member, Editorial Board, Archives of the Chinese Art Society
of America.

Member, Board of Governors, Washington Society, Archae-
ological Institute of America.

American Member, Consultative Committee, International
Exhibition of Chinese Art, Venice.

Member, Art Committee, Cosmos Club.

President, Association of the Southern Alumni of the Phillips
Exeter Academy.

On August 20, 1954, at the studios of WCFM, made a tape
recording, “The Freer Gallery of Art,” for the series of
programs called “The Washington Art Scene,” a Series con-
ducted by Mrs. Portner, art critic of the Washington Post—
Times Herald.

Research Professor of Islamic Art, Department of Fine Arts,
University of Michigan.

Near Eastern editor, Ars Orientalis.

Member, Editorial Board, The Art Bulletin.

Trustee, American Research Center in Egypt.

Member, Comitato Internazionale di Patronato, Museo
Internazionale delle Ceramiche, Faenza, Italy.

On Saturday, March 12, 1955, appeared on TV program
“What in the World,” in Philadelphia, Pa. (University
Museum program.)

On March 25, 1955, was one of three jurors at the Annual
Art Fair held in Alexandria, Va., under the auspices of the
Alexandria Junior Women’s Club.

Associate Editor, Studies in Conservation published for the
International Institute for the Conservation of Museum
Objects.

Abstractor for Ohemical Abstracts, American Chemical
Society.

Sponsor of the Artists Technical Research Institute, 240
East 20th Street, New York 3, New York.

Socio Corrispondente, Centro de Storia della Metallurgia
(Associazione Italiana di Metallurgia). Via Moscova 16,
Milano, Italy.

Consultant, Advisory Board of the Intermuseum Conserva-
tion Association, Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio.

Member of the Committee of Scientific Laboratories, Inter-
national Council of Museums, 10 Pare du Cinquantenaire,
Bruxelles, Belgique.

Vice President, Washington Society, Archaeological Institute
of America.
Secretary's Report, 1955

54.118

th A, eS

Recent additions to the collection of the Freer Gallery of Art.
Secretary's"Report, 1955

PLATE 4

Sie SPs

| 4b . US. tay, Cucbkoleteg bts - a \e ry siyla3 2-7 ape
me

| a Pers pera A Desf apa ds: Sid) SN Ton
feces Wec2e bliin Gh + ee tase Cooder Us) f

54.95

Recent additions to the collection of the Freer Gallery of Art
SECRETARY’S REPORT 87

Mr. Stern: Member, the Program Committee of the Far Eastern Asso-
ciation.
On October 12, 1954, attended a meeting of the Council of
Art Museums, at the Smithsonian Building; was ap-
pointed chairman of a committee on Guidebook for
Museums in Washington, D. C.
On October 21, 1954, made a tape recording for the Voice of
America on “The Freer Gallery of Art and its Collections.”
On February 1, 1955, took Mr. Sugiura to Vice President
Nixon’s office where they assembled a suit of Japanese
armor.
Mr. Sugiura: On October 28, 1954, made a tape recording in Japanese for
the Voice of America on “The Freer Gallery of Art and
its Collections.”

Respectfully submitted,
A. G. Wrentry, Director.
Dr. Lzonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

370930-—56——7
Report on the National Air Museum

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activities
of the National Air Museum for the fiscal year ended June 80, 1955:

STATUS OF PROPOSED NATIONAL AIR MUSEUM BUILDING

The advancement of plans for the construction of the National Air
Museum building involves procurement of a site and planning of the
structure. The requirements for a site are that it shall be of adequate
size, in a location accessible to the maximum number of visitors, and
close to other Smithsonian buildings. The most desirable site would
be on Independence Avenue between 9th and 12th Streets, south to
C Street. On November 5, 1954, formal application was made by the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the National Capital
Planning Commission for assignment of this site to the National
Air Museum. Action by the Commission was delayed by their con-
sideration of a plan for developing southwest Washington submitted
by the New York firm of Webb & Knapp, headed by William Zecken-
dorf. On June 14, 1955, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, using a large map especially prepared for the purpose, showed
the Commission that the lecation of the National Air Museum build-
ing on the proposed site would not conflict with the Zeckendorf plan
but instead would enhance the South Mall, which is one of the features
of that plan. With the close of the fiscal year, action on this appli-
cation was still pending.

In the previous annual report grateful acknowledgment was made
to the Aircraft Industries Association and the Air Transport Associa-
tion for providing the Smithsonian Institution with funds for a study
of building plans for a National Air Museum building. The archi-
tectural firm of McKim, Mead & White of New York City was chosen.
The study began early in July when the Navy made available to the
National Air Museum a helicopter, pilot, and photographer, and
views of the Mall area were made from various angles and altitudes.
Shortly thereafter the architects made a detailed examination on the
ground of the recommended site and studied the requirements of the
building.

It is important to realize that an aeronautical museum has never
yet been constructed. Existing collections of aircraft make use of
existing buildings. For example: a group of notable aircraft in Ger-
many, prior to World War II was displayed in a railroad station; in
France, their famous air mementos are in a former balloon assembly

88
SECRETARY'S REPORT 89

shed; and those in England are in the South Kensington Museum,
which was built for general scientific displays and not specifically for
aireraft. The United States National Air Museum exhibits are
housed for the most part in a, World War I hangar, while the Wright
brothers’ original “Kitty Hawk Flyer,” the Spirit of St. Louis, the
Winnie Mae, and 14 other famous aircraft are inadequately displayed
in the Arts and Industries Building constructed in 1880.

The architects were, therefore, undertaking this work without pre-
vious examples to guide them. More than 80 separate plans and
renderings were prepared and from each concept the best features were
selected. One of the most impressive details was the plan to enshrine
the “Kitty Hawk Flyer” in a scene reproducing the historic moment
when man first flew in a powered heavier-than-air craft, December
17, 1903. In a full-scale diorama the airplane would be seen just
rising from the ground, Orville at the controls, and Wilbur running
beside it, the amazed Coastguardsmen in the background, and with
the sheds built by the Wright brothers and Kill Devil Hill in the
distance. Next would be the Hall of Famous Flying Firsts exhibit-
ing eight outstanding American pioneer aircraft; and beyond that the
main exhibition hall where about 75 aircraft including commercial
types, fighters, bombers, racers, seaplanes, flying boats, autogyros,
helicopters, and lighter-than-air craft would be arranged, some shown
on the floor to permit close technical study and others suspended as
though poised in flight. Other unit displays of this first true aero-
nautical museum would feature the old wood-and-wire craft of the
“Karly Birds,” heroic warrior planes of World War I, interesting and
unique experimental types, ex-enemy planes of World War II con-
trasted with our own victorious fighters, technical exhibits showing
details of aeronautical developments from the flight of a kite to the
sonic boom, dioramas illustrating the varied and valuable uses of
aircraft, an aeronautical Hall of Fame, provision for special displays,
and manufacturers’ shows, together with the necessary facilities for
museum operations.

Two scale models of this Air Museum building were constructed,
one showing the early layout and the other a more recent refinement.
As the fiscal year came to a close the architects were preparing esti-
mates of cost and computations of the cubic footage assigned to specific
purposes.

ADVISORY BOARD

Although no formal meetings of the Board were held during the
year, contacts were maintained with all members. Their assistance
was very helpful. The Air Force member, Maj. Gen. George W.
Mundy, made several visits to the Museum, studying the collections
pertaining to the Air Force and discussing their improvement with
90 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

the Secretary and the head curator. General Mundy’s aide, Maj.
Jchn P. Clowry, and the curator of Air Force Historical Properties,
Henry Caldwell, cooperated with the head curator in planning a
group of five displays featuring the role of the air arm in warfare.
These exhibits are under construction. By direction of General
Mundy, repairs and improvements to Air Force planes in the Museum
were made by personnel of Bolling Air Force Base, who installed
engines in America’s first jet airplane, refinished all struts of the
Douglas World Cruiser, re-covered the tail surfaces of the World
War I Voisin bomber, and painted the cowling of the Spad—XIII.

The Navy member of the Board, Rear Adm. Apollo Soucek, aided
the Museum by approving the transfer of significant naval aircraft
items. Toward the end of the fiscal year Admiral Soucek was forced
by illness to relinquish his duties, and it was with a keen sense of
loss that the news of his death was received shortly after the close
of the fiscal year.

Grover Loening continued to give stimulating advice; it was at
his suggestion that the cooperation of the Aircraft Industries Associ-
ation and the Air Transport Association in financing the architec-
tural study for the proposed new National Air Museum building was
sought and obtained. The other civilian member of the board, William
Stout, during his visit to Washington in April, took time from a busy
program to discuss the progress and needs of the Museum. He has
aided throughout the year in procuring exhibits and enlisting the
cooperation of air lines and aeronautical manufacturers.

STEPHENSON BEQUEST

The statue of the famous pioneer of air power Gen. William
Mitchell, provided for in the bequest of George H. Stephenson, of
Philadelphia, is progressing satisfactorily. By the fall of 1954, the
sculptor, Bruce Moore, had completed his initial study in plastiline,
one-third size. It represents the General in World War I uniform
standing beside his open-cockpit airplane, braced against the air-
stream and ready for flight. After approval by the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, on October 28, 1954, the model was cast in
plaster and submitted to the Commission of Fine Arts, by whom it
was approved at their meeting of February 10, 1955. The formal
contract between the Smithsonian Institution and Mr. Moore was
signed April 7, and a duplicate cast of the one-third size study was
deposited with the Museum to insure the preservation of the original
concept during the making of the full-size enlargement.

SPECIAL EVENTS AND DISPLAYS

On October 26, 1954, the National Air Museum was host at an eve-
ning meeting of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, Washington
SECRETARY’S REPORT 91

chapter. The subject under discussion was the development of human
flight, and each of the three speakers eminently represented the period
assigned to him. Gen. Frank P. Lahm, USAF retired, described his
first flight in 1908 when he rode as a passenger with Orville Wright,
told of his early training as one of the first two oflicers assigned by the
Army to receive flight instruction, and of his experiences during the
period of the first World War, when he performed outstanding serv-
ice. Col. Bernt Balchen, renowned transatlantic, arctic, and antarctic
flier, spoke of the “Golden Age” of aviation when many famous first
flights were made. He recalled his experiences with Admiral Byrd,
Roald Amundsen, Sir Hubert Wilkins, and other fliers of the 1920’s
and 1930’s. The present era was represented by Maj. Arthur Murray,
who had but recently piloted the supersonic Bell XI-A airplane to
a new world’s altitude record of 82,325 feet. His description of the
physical stresses exerted on both plane and pilot at such great heights,
in rarefied air, and at speeds twice that of sound brought a vivid
realization of the great extent to which aeronautics has advanced in
half a century. The meeting was enhanced by a tour of the aircraft
collection and comparisons between such aircraft as the Wright
brothers’ “Kitty Hawk Flyer,” Lindbergh’s Spirit of St. Louis, and
the Bell supersonic X-1.

Considerable interest was aroused by the delivery on its own wings
of the famous racing airplane Buster, constructed in 1931 by Steve
Wittman of Oshkosh, Wis., and flown by him and other pilots in more
than 50 races, winning many events until it was finally retired in 1954.
It is a small type of “homemade” airplane embodying excellent con-
struction and aerodynamics, and has earned the title “King of the
Midget Racers,” holding several world records for speed and perform-
ance in its class. The 750-mile flight from Oshkosh to Washington
piloted by Robert Porter was made in less than 5 hours and required
only 11 gallons of gasoline. The Goodyear Aircraft Corporation,
sponsor of national contests which stimulate the designing and flying
of these little planes, kindly arranged for the formal presentation of
this airplane.

December 17, 1954, marked the 51st anniversary of the Wright
brothers’ first flight. On that date, the Early Birds, an organization
of pioneer fliers, unveiled a monument on Governors Island, New
York, to the early airmen who had flown there when that military
post included an aviation field. The monument is a granite boulder
on which is mounted a copy of a Wright brothers’ propeller in bronze.
The pattern for that casting was one of the propellers from the first
military airplane in the world, built by the Wright brothers in 1909,
and preserved in the National Air Museum. The monument was un-
veiled by a helicopter, which lifted a parachute canopy from the
92 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

boulder. The head curator represented the National Air Museum at
the ceremony and spoke of progress and plans for better exhibition of
the national areonautical collections.

For the meeting of the Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents,
on January 13, 1955, there was prepared a special exhibit of an
ejection seat used in modern military aircraft. Photographs showing
the ejection, release of the seat, and descent by parachute, illustrated
the utility of this apparatus.

This year the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics cele-
brated its fortieth anniversary and because the NACA had its genesis
in the Smithsonian Institution it was appropriately decided to com-
memorate the anniversary in the Great Hall of the Smithsonian
Building. The principal feature of that occasion was the awarding
of the Langley gold medal for aerodromics to Dr. Jerome Hunsaker,
professor emeritus of aeronautical engineering at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution,
who has been prominent in the development of aircraft and aeronau-
tical knowledge for a period even longer than the existence of the
NACA. For this occasion the National Air Museum prepared a
series of 40 model airplanes, all of the same scale and illustrating
successive developments in design from the Wright brothers’ airplane
to a current naval supersonic delta-winged fighter. These were
suspended above the banquet table.

William B. Stout has been responsible for numerous developments
in transportation during the past 40 years. One of his many ad-
vanced aircraft designs was the Stout Air Pullman of 1924, a high-
wing monoplane of all-metal construction. It was the forerunner
of the renowned Ford-Stout trimotored transport popularly called the
“Tin Goose.” Air Pullmans were used for inaugurating Contract Air-
mail Route +441 between Detroit, Cleveland, and Chicago in 1926.
The Museum has wanted to add a scale model of this type of plane
to the series illustrating the development of postal aviation. Thanks
to the generosity of the Women’s National Aeronautical Association,
which encouraged the use of airmail in those critical pioneer days,
a model was formally presented on April 16, 1955, at a luncheon at
which Mr. Stout was the guest of honor. His description of the
difficulties encountered and surmounted in the manufacture and
operation of these airplanes was supplemented by stories of flight
experiences recalled by Edward G. Hamilton and Lawrence G. Fritz,
who piloted the plane on many of its flights with cargo and airmail.
The model, 1:16 size, was made by Herbert Hartwick. The
presentation was made by Mrs. Chester S. Bleyer of the Association.

The head curator served again this year on the Brewer Trophy
Committee, which honors leaders in air-youth education and which
SECRETARY’S REPORT 93

is administered by the National Aeronautic Association. He repre-
sented the National Air Museum at the meeting of the American
Helicopter Society on April 27, and at the inauguration of flight of
members of the Ninety-Nines, association of women pilots, in Wash-
ington, June 7, prior to their take-off for Havana, Cuba. On January
20, he received the trophy of the Washington Air Derby Association
for his promotion of air education and recording of aeronautical
history.

IMPROVEMENTS IN EXHIBITS

Assistance was extended by the United States Air Force in im-
proving the condition of Air Force planes in the collection.

The painting of the four main halls of the Arts and Industries
Building required the partial dismantling, draping, and erection of
scaffolding around the eight aircraft suspended in those halls. Upon
completion of the project, all these planes required cleaning and re-
pairing. In the East Hall of that building it was necessary tem-
porarily to remove the three Langley aerodrome models, the Lilien-
thal glider, the Stringfellow triplane model, and the Gallaudet
hydro-kite. Renovation of exhibits in the Power Hall of the Arts
and Industries Building required the removal of two aircraft: the
Voisin bomber and the Pitcairn-Cierva autogyro; while the instal-
lation of the racing plane Buster in the Aeronautical Hall necessitated
the removal of the Pitcairn Roadable Autogyro. A number of other
planes in the Aircraft Building required repair. These projects
continued throughout the year and limited the time available for
preparing new exhibits.

The Goodyear Aircraft Corporation assigned expert personne! to
remove, reconstruct, and replace the gas-bag canopy of the Pilgrim,
first airship designed to use helium gas, 1925. It has been shown in
the Aircraft Building since 1933. Goodyear cooperated with Rohm
and Haas in supplying a new Plexiglas canopy for the cockpit of
the Republic F-84 Fighter airplane. The Pratt & Whitney Aircraft
Division of the United Aircraft Corporation designed and constructed
a new base for the Type 4360 engine of 3,500 h. p., which was one of
four that powered the first nonstop flight around the world, accom-
plished by the Lucky Lady II bomber in 1949. The continued assist-
ance of these companies is sincerely appreciated.

Three exhibits were added to accredit renowned fliers. From
Gen. Frank P. Lahm, USAF retired, there was received a group of
gold medals and other awards given to him and his father, F. S. Lahm,
recalling the winning by General Lahm of the first International
Gordon-Bennett balloon race in 1906 and the beginning of military
aviation in the United States, 1908 and 1909. The story of a World
94 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

War IJ ace and executive officer, Lt. Col. H. H. Hartney, whose service
extended from the beginning of the war in 1914 to victory in 1918, is
told in a new display assembled with the cooperation of his widow.
This exhibit shows the types of aircraft flown and encountered during
that period, and enables the Museum visitor to appreciate more fully
the limited training received by those early fighting pilots, their
heroism, and the difficulties they had to overcome. Another famous
World War I aviator was Capt. Vernon Castle who was a member
of the Royal Flying Corps in 1916. He served with distinction as a
combat pilot but after the entry of America into the war was assigned
to the instruction of cadet fliers at Benbrook Field in Texas. He lost
his life, February 15, 1918, but avoided injuring his student and two
fliers in another airplane. The story of his heroism is revealed in an
exhibit prepared with the assistance of Mrs. O. D. Cook, of Portland,
Oreg., and his widow, Irene Castle Enzinger. The biographical ex-
hibit of Wiley Post, which supplements the display of his famous air-
plane Winnie Mace, has been improved with a map showing the routes
of his two world flights, the radio from that airplane, and the super-
charger from his engine. The exhibit memorializing Amelia Earhart
has been improved by the substitution of a bronze portrait for the
former plaster cast. The portrait was sculptured by Grace Wells
Parkinson and provided by the Amelia Earhart Post +678 of the
American Legion. Underwood & Underwood, photographers, have
provided a selection of historic pictures for this exhibit.

The accessions received this year, listed in the final section of this
report, have each required care in their preparation for exhibition or
storage. Improved labels have been composed and printed for many
exhibits but a great deal remains to be done to improve the presentation
and labeling of existing displays.

STORAGE

Two projects continued into this fiscal year, namely, transfer to
the Suitland, Md., storage facility of aircraft material stored at Park
Ridge, Il., and reduction of the amount of space devoted to storage
in Smithsonian buildings in Washington, D. C.

At the close of the previous fiscal year, there remained at the Park
Ridge storage facility 58 full-sized aircraft, 147 engines, some pro-
pellers and instruments, and all the equipment and supplies in the
office and shop. These occupied over 25,000 square feet of outdoor
space and nearly 65,000 square feet indoors. The outdoor area was
reduced to half its size by eliminating access aisles and fire lanes, and
superimposing boxes wherever possible. The indoor space was re-
duced to an absolute minimum of about 60,000 square feet.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 95

It was suggested to the Air Force Advisory Board member that
the Air Force would save money in the long run by financing the
shipment of these Museum specimens, all of which were of Air Force
origin, to Suitland, Md. Examination by Air Force storage and
traffic officials confirmed the fact that the cost of storage and servicing
space would in less than a year balance the cost of this shipment, and
so the Air Force agreed to finance this move. By the first of October
all arrangements had been completed for starting shipments, which
were organized in three phases: aircraft, engines, and equipment and
supplies. A schedule of four rail cars per week was planned, and
a target date of January 1, 1956, was set.

By the end of March 1955 the indoor area was reduced to 30,000
square feet, and all the boxes remaining in the outdoor area had been
brought under cover.

The strenuous work during the winter involving transportation of
very heavy loads in bitter weather and over rough and icy surfaces
had exacted a toll upon the Museum’s vehicles and handling equip-
ment, requiring continuous attention to the repair of the crane, fork-
lifts, truck, and dollies, but with the coming of spring the shipping
program was resumed. As the final aircraft were being moved out,
engines were loaded on the flatcars and in boxcars, and items of office
and shop equipment were inserted wherever an opening permitted.
By the close of the fiscal year, with only one aircraft remaining and
more than half of the engines shipped, the Park Ridge unit was
reasonably certain of meeting the deadline for complete evacuation
of the storage area.

Owing largely to the efforts and abilities of the Museum’s senior
aide, supplementing those of the superintendent of buildings, the
storage facility at Suitland—about 6 miles from the Smithsonian
exhibition premises—was able to keep pace with the shipping pro-
gram of the Park Ridge unit. The loads of aircraft that began
arriving the second week of November were stored in Building 7,
which had just been completed at the close of the previous fiscal
year. Owing to the rapid shipping rate maintained at Park Ridge,
the entire 20,000 square feet of floor space in that building was occu-
pied by the end of January. Construction of storage buildings 8, 9,
11, and 12, each of 4,000 square feet area, built of prefabricated steel
with concrete floors, was started early in August and completed by
mid-October. Building 12 was erected on 3-foot concrete walls to
make it high enough to receive the taller boxes. Material was pur-
chased for Building 10, which is to be constructed during the fiscal
year 1956.

By the end of the fiscal year all completed buildings were filled to
capacity except Building 11, in which there is a small space for the
storage of the engines yet to be received.
96 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

RESEARCH

The continuing efforts to improve the national aeronautical collec-
tion, collect related data, label specimens, plan improved displays
and premises, and perform educational service, require constant re-
search in aeronautical history and development, and museum tech-
niques. In addition, whenever time permits, individual research
projects are advanced.

During this fiscal year the text for the 9th edition of the Handbook
of the National Aeronautical Collection was completed and all il-
justrations assembled. This edition, much larger than previous ones
which were limited to describing the exhibited portion of the collec-
tion, will include many of the aircraft necessarily kept in storage
until an adequate building can be provided, as it was felt that their
interesting histories and important technical characteristics should
be made known.

Material is being assembled to provide an interesting and authori-
tative description of kite specimens in the Museum collection, together
with a brief history of kites and their practical utility, and instruc-
tions for building and flying several of the principal types.

THE LINK FOUNDATION

Through the sponsorship of the foundation established by Edwin
A. Link, of Binghamton, N. Y., two projects were promoted this
year. The first was the publication by the Smithsonian Institution
of a popular booklet entitled “Masters of the Air,” describing 12 of
the famous aircraft in the collection. Technical assistance in the
preparation of this booklet was given by the staff of the National
Air Museum. The second project—a catalog of the man-carrying
aircraft in the national collection—has been approved by the Founda-
tion and was assigned to the associate curator, who, by the end of the
fiscal year, had assembled photographs of most of the aircraft and
was engaged in writing the texts for each one.

INFORMATIONAL SERVICES

The national aeronautical collection has long since outgrown any
characterization as a group of aeronautical oddities. Instead it is
recognized as a record of progress, and the proof of its value is evi-
denced by the constantly increasing number of visitors and corre-
spondents who utilize these aircraft, the associated documentary files,
and the expert knowledge of the staff. These requests for informa-
tion have increased nearly two and a half times in the past three years,
but during the same period the curatorial staff has been reduced from
four persons to two, who are each, therefore, endeavoring to accom-
plish about five times the amount of informational service formerly
SECRETARY’S REPORT 97

undertaken. This service requires more than three times the man-
hours applied to other functions. Every effort is made, however, to
maintain this valued service to the many inventors, engineers, design-
ers, historians, authors, teachers, students, and others who consult the
Museum and request assistance in their many projects, all bearing a
relationship to the aeronautical progress of the Nation. The follow-
ing examples are representative of the more than 4,600 inquiries
attended to this year:

The Department of the Navy was assisted in the preparation of
articles, including one describing the development of parachutes and
another recalling the first time that the United States flag, attached
to an airplane, was under fire; that was during the operations against.
Veracruz, Mexico, in 1914, when Lt. P. L. Bellinger was the pilot.
Engineers of the Bureau of Aeronautics were provided with facts
about early power plants, first instances of cannon fired from aircraft,
and technical data on a jet-engined installation involving recessed ex-
haust areas, the latter being required in defense of a patent suit against
the Government. A number of inquiries regarding historical facts
received by the Air Force Office of Public Relations were referred to
the National Air Museum. The United States Air Force Office of
Historical Records was furnished with biographies of noted Air Force
pilots and with squadron histories. Several graduating classes of Air
Cadets were assisted in preparation of their yearbooks where infor-
mation was needed to describe noted events in Air Force progress.
Discussions were heid with officers planning the curriculum for the
new Air Force Academy. Arrangements were made to trade periodi-
cals and books in order to supply missing issues. Contractors to whom
research projects had been assigned by the Air Force consulted the
Museum for developments in airplane structures and operation. The
Department of Justice, engaged in assembling information with which
to consider the claims of inventors against the Government, consulted
Museum specimens and files pertaining to helicopters, autogyros, wing
radiators used for the cooling of engines, and the origin of safety
belts and shoulder harnesses dating back to World War I and also
during the earlier period around 1911. An early example of a high-
aspect ratio stabilizer, embodied in one of the Museum’s pioneer
airplanes, provided a helpful source for contesting another suit against
the Government. An official of the Bureau of the Budget, engaged
in preparing a treatise on air photography, was shown valuable refer-
ences in the Museum library and useful illustrations in the photo-
graphic file. The National Bureau of Standards was assisted in the
preparation of scale models of aircraft to be used in determining the
best locations for electrical installations.
98 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Fifteen schools and colleges are listed among the educational organ-
izations that applied to the Museum for assistance, ranging from de-
tails of performance and design of aircraft to the planning of
instruction courses. The Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences was
helped in preparation of a special exhibit honoring the Wright broth-
ers, the Air Education Council was supplied with descriptions of
Museum aircraft, and the National Geographic Society consulted the
Museum to check details of manuscripts pertaining to aeronautics and
noted aviators. The Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago
was helped in planning a hall to include exhibits of Naval aircraft,
and the French Musée de ]’Air received assistance in the preparation
of exhibition models of American airplanes. Among the organiza-
tions that came to the Museum for assistance was the Air Transport
Association, which required information about the Junkers-Larsen
airplane of 1919. The Army and Navy Club in Washington, search-
ing for illustrations of air squadrons for its walls, found in Museum
files an excellent group picture of the First Aero Squadron. The
American Helicopter Society was assisted in planning exhibits for its
annual meeting, and the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the District
of Columbia received help in planning a contest for youthful model-
makers.

Ten authors and four illustrators of aeronautical books consulted
Museum specimens and records for facts. Many newspaper reporters
checked details of their stories with the Museum staff. Magazines that
turned to the Museum for help included Life, Aero Digest, Popular
Mechanics, True, and Aviation Daily; and the World Scope Encyclo-
pedia and Aircraft Yearbook depended upon the Museum for as-
sistance in the preparation of several articles. Commercial photog-
raphers received identification of photographs in their files by
referring to the Museum staff. Model-airplane manufacturers, who
cater to tens of thousands of enthusiasts of that sport, requested
Museum aid to insure the accuracy of their products. United, Capi-
tal, and Pan American Airlines received assistance in preparing ad-
vertisements and publicity; the Boeing Aircraft Co. obtained facts
about refueling history; North American Aircraft consulted Museum
airplanes to check details of engine cooling; the General Electric Co.
came to the Museum for photographs of early jet engines; and Fokker
Aircraft of Holland received assistance in restoring its files from
which valuable records had been lost during World War II. ‘Toward
the close of the fiscal year three motion-picture companies were en-
gaged in producing pictures about famous events in aeronautical
history. Warner Brothers’ film on the Spirit of St. Louis depended
upon the original airplane in the Museum for the accuracy of the re-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 99

productions being constructed ; and their technical experts assembling
facts about the trial of Gen. William Mitchell used Museum photo-
graphs in preparing some of the scenes. Paramount Pictures found
in the Museum’s three Wright brothers’ aircraft, and in the series of
scale models showing types developed by the Wright brothers and the
Wright Company, the technical data required for the copies of those
aircraft now being made for the film about Wilbur and Orville
Wright.

Radio and television have found in the National Air Museum sub-
jects and data for numerous programs. The General Electric Co.
based one of its commercial announcements advertising their impor-
tant accomplishment during World War II, when they made copies
of the English Whittle jet engine to power America’s first jet airplane,
on a visit to the National Air Museum exhibits. Fulton Lewis, Jr.,
stood beneath the Spirit of St. Louis while he described its importance
in stimulating confidence in the reliability of aircraft and thus giving
great impetus to the progress of commercial airlines. Arlene Francis,
in her Home Show, told her audience about one of the Museum’s
helicopter exhibits; and some interesting facts about the development
of helicopters were related by the head curator in the “Collectors’
Item” radio broadcast. In a series of television programs broadcast
over Station WMAL-TYV, under the auspices of the Greater Wash-
ington Educational Television Association, one prepared by the Na-
tional Air Museum on the history of aeronautics received wide
acclaim; and Station WTOP-TV carried two programs which origi-
nated at this Museum, one describing the national aeronautical collec-
tion and the other telling about the design, construction, and uses of
kites. Six television stations located in other cities broadcast pro-
grams based on Museum material and information.

Numerous requests were received during the year from organiza-
tions and groups for conducted tours of the collection, and for lectures
on various aspects of aeronautics. Whenever possible these were pro-
vided. Sixteen lectures on aeronautics were given by the head curator
during the year, most of them in the evening and illustrated by motion
pictures and slides. With the exception of the talk on the history of
aeronautics to the American Airlines’ Gas Model Club at Cleveland
January 29, all were in the Washington area. Among these lectures
was a description of the purpose and progress of the National Air
Museum given to the Sphinx Club of the Masonic Fraternity, the story
of the Wright brothers told to the local chapter of the League of
American Penwomen, the history of air mail described to the National
Airport Club, and talks on various phases of aeronautical history and
development presented to several Reserve Officers associations.
100 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

REFERENCE MATERIAL AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Museum maintains a brary and file of books, periodicals, docu-
ments, and contemporary records of aeronautical data to supplement
the exhibits and serve as sources of reference both for the staff and
others who consult the Museum in connection with their research
projects. The improvement of these sources and the arrangement of
this material in readily available form are necessary factors in main-
taining the service described in the previous section of this report.
Many persons who appreciate the importance of the National Air
Museum reference collection have donated to it their own files, thus
preserving them and extending their usefulness.

The following lots of reference material were received:

Arro DicEest, Washington, D. ©: 19,998 photographs pertinent to aeronautics—a
collection accumulated in connection with the publication of “Aero Digest,”
“The Sportsman Pilot,” and ‘Aircraft Yearbook.” Mostly 8 x 10 inches in
size and dating from the early 1920’s.

Arr TRA Hogsies, New York, N. Y.: Approximately 1,500 photographs dealing
with aeronautics in general, from 1920 to 1940.

BEILSTEIN, CHris W., Arlington, Va.: A collection of clippings contained in 67
envelopes and file folders, covering aviation in general. Selected from maga-
zines, books, and newspapers from 1920 to the present.

CHANCE Vouant ArecrartT, Dallas, Tex.: 45 enlarged photographs, framed,
covering the history of Vought aircraft from 1917 to date.

CurTISS-WRIGHT CORPORATION, Wood-Ridge, N. J.: 11 books relating to aero-
nautics in general.

GLEDITSCH, Ernest W.: 770 aeronautical magazines, including “Aviation,” “Aero
Digest,” and “Flight,” published between 1917 and 1935.

GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION, Bethpage, L. I., N. Y.: A collec-
tion of aviation magazines covering 12 titles, some dating back to 1919.

HARrcGRAVES, Mrs. W. R., New York, N. ¥.: A piece of the fabric from the NC-38
which was one of the flying boats of the U. S. Navy’s first transatlantic
squadron, 1919.

Iyams, Mrs. J. Horton, Lawrence, L. I., N. Y.: A collection of “Air Facts” in
three binders, complete from February 1, 1938, through 1941.

Navy, DEPARTMENT or, Washington, D. C.: Drawings, assembly, for Douglas
D-558-1 “Skystreak.”

Prarr & WHitNey Arrcrarr, East Hartford, Conn.: A collection of manuals,
drawings, and brochures covering data and specifications on the Pratt &
Whitney #2180 Twin Wasp E-1 powerplant.

WEEKS, BE. D., Des Moines, Iowa: 289 photographs of European aircraft, 1909-
1914, which were purchased in Germany from Heinz J. Nowarra.

WoLFrsouN, Hans J., Suffern, N. Y.: A series of the magazine The Aeroplane
Spotter, 1941 through 1946. Five issues of Flughafen und Luftverkehr, 1942,
1948, and 1954; 16 issues of Der Flieger, 1953 and 1954.

Other acquisitions included several motion-picture films: “We Saw
It Happen,” and the story of the Sikorsky helicopter, received from
United Aircraft Corporation of East Hartford, Conn.; the picturiza-
tion of 50 years’ progress in aeronautics, assembled by the Shell Oil
SECRETARY'S REPORT 101

Corporation, and a group of films pertaining to Charles Lindbergh’s
famous transatlantic flight given to the Museum by the Aircraft In-
dustries Association. Grateful acknowledgment is also due the fol-
lowing for their valuable contributions to the reference collection:
D. J. Harrill of Arlington, Va.; J. W. Gwinn, Jr., of Wayne, Mich. ;
Jesse Davidson, of Underwood & Underwood, New York City;
Bert Williams of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; the Institute of
Aeronautical Sciences of New York City; Col. Floyd J. Sweet of the
Soaring Society of America; Maj. Richard R. Sheak; Mrs. M. S.
Gilpatric of New York City; Charles J. MacCartee of Orlando, Fla. ;
Maj. Kimbrough Brown, USAF, of Brookfield Air Force Station,
Brookfield, Ohio; Col. J. E. Jarrett, curator of the Army Ordnance
Museum at Aberdeen, Md.; Ray Fife of Coronado, Calif.; Harvey
Lippincott of Hebron, Conn.; Wright-Patterson Air Force Base;
Hiller Helicopters of Palo Alto, Calif.; North American Aviation,
Incorporated; and Mr. and Mrs. Keith C. Whitehouse, who permitted
copies to be made of their pictures illustrating Curtiss aircraft.

The Book Exchange maintained at the Library of Congress con-
tinued to be an excellent source for issues of magazines required to fill
gaps in the Museum series.

ACCESSIONS

Additions to the national aeronautical collections received and re-
corded this year total 117 specimens in 31 separate accessions. Those
from Government departments are entered as transfers; others were
received as gifts except as noted.

ALEXANDER, MAry, Los Angeles, Calif., through Amelia Earhart Post #678,
American Legion: Flying suit designed by Amelia Earhart for the Ninety-
Nines, an international organization of licensed women pilets, and typical
of the apparel worn by Miss Earhart during her many flights (N. A. M. 858).

ALLEN, SitoAn, Omaha, Nebr.: Kite, 3-stick frame, hexagon outline, incorporating
improvements made by the donor through extensive practice, and flyable
through a wide range of wind velocity (N. A. M. 861).

Army, DePaRTMENT oF, Washington, D. C.: Clothing and equipment of the
type used by U. 8S. paratroopers during World War II (N. A. M. 857).

ATCHISON, JOSEPH ANTHONY, Washington, D. C.: Plaster bust of Wiley Post,
sculptured by the donor in 1940 (N. A. M. 853, loan).

BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION, SCINTILLA MAGneETO Diviston, Sidney, N. Y.:
Two magnetos from the Wright Whirlwind J-5 engine which powered the
Bellanca “Columbia,” flown by Clarence Chamberlain and Charles A. Levine,
nonstop, New York to Hisleben, Germany, June 4-6, 1927. Ignition systems for
Pratt & Whitney R-2800, Pratt & Whitney R-2000, Allison V—1710, and Wright
R-3350 aircraft engines (N. A. M. 856).

Briem, Mrs. Arma W., Alhambra, Calif.: Cup given to Harriet Quimby, first
American woman licensed to pilot an airplane, as she landed after flying
across the English Channel from Deal, England, to Epihen, France, April 26,
1912.
102 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF, NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS, Washington, D. C.:
Five impellers of the types used for rotating aircraft generators, 1915-25
(N. A. M. 842).

Coox, Mrs. O. D., Portland, Oreg.: Hub of propeller from an airplane flown by
Capt. Vernon Castle, renowned dancer and aviator, who achieved an impres-
sive combat record in the Royal Flying Corps during World War I and, fol-
lowing America’s entry into the War, was assigned to the aviation section
of the Signal Corps, U. S. Army, to train student fliers (N. A. M. 863).

ELLs, FRANK H., West Vancouver, B. C.: Two scale models of airplanes asso-
ciated with the early development of aviation by Canadians; model of the
multiplane designed and built in 1910-11 by W. W. Gibson, Victoria, B. C.,
and flown in 1911; and a model of the Aerial Experiment Association’s “Red
Wing,’ designed by members of that Association organized by Alexander
Graham Bell, and first flown by Frederick W. Baldwin, the first British subject
to pilot an airplane at Hammondsport, N. Y., on March 12, 1908 (N. A. M.
851).

HartTIGAN, Cot. JoHN D., Washington, D. C.: Tunic, cap, and Sam Brown belt
worn by the donor as part of his uniform as an officer in the Signal Corps
Aviation Section during service in France, World War I, 1917-18 (N. A. M.
854).

HvutTcHinson, Carr. J. D., Denver, Colo.: Five drop bags used for air to ground
deliveries of messages by the U. 8. Air Service and U. S. Army Air Corps
during the 1920’s and 1930's; and a pair of mittens worn during winter flying
operations, representing regular issue equipment of the same period (N. A. M.
867).

KAMAN AIRCRAFT CORPORATION, Bloomfield, Conn.: Scale model, 1:20, of the
HOK-1, a four-place helicopter which uses a servo-flap control for its two
intermeshing rotors; developed by the donors for the U. S. Navy, 1953
(N. A. M. 848).

KOLLSMAN INSTRUMENT Co., Elmhurst, N. Y.: Air speed indicator and clock
developed by the donors for use in aircraft of the World War II period
(N. A. M. 845).

LAuM, Brig. GEN. FRANK P., Huron, Ohio: Medals and awards received and col-
lected by the donor and his father, Frank §. Lahm, including the Aero Club
of France gold medal awarded to Frank S. Lahm in recognition of his services
to aeronautics, 1906, the Gordon Bennett gold medal, the Aero Club of America
gold medal, and the Aero Club of France bronze medal awarded to Frank P.
Lahm for winning the first international balloon race, 1906 (N. A. M. 855).

LocKHEED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION, Burbank, Calif.: Two scale models of aircraft
developed by the donors: a 1: 72 model of the YC-30 and a 1: 64 model of the
type 1049 Superconstellation (N. A. M. 860).

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS, Washington, D. C.: Display
item representing the award, in 1929, of the Robert J. Collier Trophy, awarded
annually since 1911 for the “greatest achievement in aviation in America, the
value of which has been truly demonstrated by actual use during the preceding
year.” It was awarded to the NACA for development of a cowling for radial
air-cooled engines which improved flight performance. The display consists
of a scale model of the Lockheed “Air Express” airplane which, equipped with
the cowling, established a transcontinental record of 18 hours 21 minutes 59
seconds, February 4-5, 1929, piloted by Frank Hawks. The cowling made
possible a 29 m. p. h. increase in speed (N. A. M. 868).
SECRETARY’S REPORT 103

Navy, DEPARTMENT OF, Washington, D. C.: Collection of spark plugs used with
aircraft engines produced in various nations and dating from pre-World
War I era to recent years; and a Heinkel Hirth RR2 gas turbine engine of
experimental type produced in Germany during World War II in 1944 (N. A.
M. 840). A waist hatch door from a Martin PBM-5 “Mariner” flying boat of
the World War II period: The door is equipped with racks for mounting
jato tanks used for increasing takeoff power and reducing the distance re-
quired to be airborne (N. A. M. 848). <A collection of flight instruments, engine
instruments, and miscellaneous aircraft accessories of Japanese origin, pro-
duced and used during World War II (N. A. M. 846).

RicuMonp, Lr. JAck J., Hollywood, Calif.: Crash helmet worn by the donor,
1918 (N. A. M. 866).

RurFe, Inc., Miami, Fla.: Cutaway example of an ejection seat catapult used
in many current types of jet-engined fighter airplanes (N. A. M. 864).

SmiryH, Mitton M., Shreveport, La.: Insigne of the Lafayette Escadrille, famous
squadron of American pilots who fought with the French prior to America’s
entry into World War I, removed by the donor from an airplane used by Raoul
Lufbery, one of America’s most famous pilots of that war (N. A. M. 850).

UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION, HAMILTON STANDARD Division, East Hartford,
Conn.: Air-conditioning unit, heat-exchanger type, developed for use in the
North American F-86H “Sabre” (N. A. M. 847). R-2180 Twin Wasp aircraft
engine, developed by the donors in 1947 for powering medium transport air-
craft, with complete installation equipment including the nacelle and the asso-
ciated electrical fuel and lubrication accessories (N. A. M. 849).

Unirep Arr Lines, Chicago, Ill.: Scale model, 1:16, of the Laird “Swallow”
which was flown by Varney Air Lines, predecessor of United Air Lines, on the
original Contract Air Mail Route 5, April 1926 (N. A. M. 862).

U. S. NATIONAL MUSEUM, DEPARTMENT OF HistTorY, Washington, D. C.: German
bomb of World War I (N. A. M. 839). Radio receiver, transmitter, and ac-
cessories of the type used in Naval aircraft during World War I and the early
1920’s (N. A. M. 844).

UNIVERSITY OF Detroit, Detroit, Mich.: Collection of aircraft engine instruments,
flight instruments, and engine accessories used during World War I (N. A. M.
838).

VERVILLE, ALFRED V., Washington, D. C.: Group of personal items presented to
the donor by Gen. William Mitchell, including the General’s swagger stick and
the pennant flown from his airplane (N. A. M. 865).

WITTMAN, S. J., Oshkosh, Wis.: Buster, a midget racing airplane formerly named
“Chief Oshkosh” designed and built by the donor in 1931, and entered in
numerous races throughout the period 1981-54, winning many notable com-
petitions and placing among the leaders in most of the more than 50 compe-
titions entered (N. A. M. 859).

WoeErver, C. E., Geneva, Ohio: Warner ‘‘Scarab” aircraft engine of the type
produced in 1928 (N. A. M. 852).

Respectfully submitted.
Pau E. Garser, Head Curator.
Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

370930-——_56——_8
Report on the National Zoological Park

Sir: Transmitted herewith is a report on the operations of the
Nationa] Zoological Park for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1955.

In all, 934 accessions, comprising 2,347 individual animals, were
added to the collection during the year by gifts, deposits, purchases,
exchanges, births, and hatchings. Among these were many rare speci-
mens never before shown in this Zoo. The addition of new kinds of
animals enhances the value of the collection, which is maintained not
only for exhibition but also for research and education, thus foster-
ing the Smithsonian’s established purpose of “the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge.” Opportunities for research are afforded students
of biology, particularly vertebrate zoology, as well as artists, photog-
raphers, and writers. Methods of study that do not endanger the
welfare of animals or the safety of the public are encouraged.

In addition to the regular diversified activities of carrying on all
the operations of the Zoo, the services of the staff included answering
in person or by phone, mail, or telegraph questions regarding animals
and their care and transportation; furnishing to other zoos and other
agencies, public and private, information regarding structures for
housing animals; cooperating with other agencies of Federal, State,
and municipal governments in research work; and preparing manu-
scripts for publication.

The stone restaurant building, which was constructed in the Park
in 1940, is leased at $46,212 a year. This money is deposited in the
United States Treasury to the credit of the General Fund, District of
Columbia. The concessionaire serves meals and light refreshments
and sells souvenirs.

FUNDS

The regular appropriation for the fiscal year was $645,000, which
is carried in the District of Columbia Appropriation Act. This
amount was supplemented by $3,000, which was transferred to the
appropriation in accordance with Public Law 123, for payment of
retroactive pay made necessary by the Federal Employees’ Salary
Increase Act of 1955, approved June 28, 1955, effective the first pay-
day of the first pay period beginning after February 28, 1955.

THE EXHIBITS

Animals for exhibition are acquired by gift, deposit, purchase,
exchange, birth, and hatching, and are removed by death, exchange,

104
SECRETARY'S REPORT 105

or return of those on deposit. Although depositors are at liberty to
remove their specimens, many leave them permanently.

As in any colony of living things, there is a steady turnover, and the
exhibits are constantly changing. Thus, the inventory of specimens
in the collection on June 80 of each year does not show all the kinds
of animals that were exhibited during the year, for sometimes crea-
tures of outstanding interest at the time they were shown are no
longer in the collection at the time the inventory is made.

The United States National Museum is given first choice of all
animals that die in the Zoo. If they are not desired for the Museum
they are then made available to other institutions or scientific workers.
Thus the value of the specimen continues long after it is dead.

ACCESSIONS

The Zoo has been particularly fortunate in having friends who
show their sincere interest by bringing in specimens or arranging for
acquisitions from foreign countries.

FIRSTS

“Wirsts” that are desirable are welcomed in almost every organi-
zation, and the fiscal year covered by this report had a gratifying
number of “firsts” for the Zoo. These are listed below.

The greatest rarities obtained during the year were two Goeldi’s
marmosets (Callimico goeldit) which until recently had been known
from only half a dozen specimens from habitats in widely scattered
localities far up the tributaries of the Amazon River. The Zoo’s
examples are black throughout, with brown tips to the hairs on the
back of the head and portions of the back which are conspicuous
when back-lighted. They also have what looks like a crew cut of
two different lengths, that on the front of the head being fairly
short and that on the back of the head somewhat longer.

Also acquired were two of the little-known dinomys paca (Dinomys
branickii), a rather large rodent that is apparently rare in the wild
as well as in captivity.

Another outstanding accession was a rare and little-known foussa
(Cryptoprocta ferox) of Madagascar, obtained by purchase. This
is a relative of the civets that looks somewhat like a large, slender-
bodied, short-haired brown cat.

Two young southern sea lions (Otaria flavescens) were purchased.
When received they were about 3 and 4 feet iong.

An interesting accession was a pair of rat kangaroos (Hypsiprym-
nodon moschatus), which produced a baby that was observed in the
pouch of the mother on June 30, 1955. These are not conspicuous as
exhibition animals but help to round out the collection, giving the
visitors a glimpse of the remarkable variation of the marsupials.
106 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

An African dormouse (Graphiurus murinus), an attractive little
mouselike creature, was sent to the Zoo by Dr. Lawrence Kilham of the
National Institutes of Health from his Entebbe, Africa, headquarters.
Dr. Kilham also sent two specimens of the black-and-white casqued
hornbill (Bycanistes subcylindricus) , a rare species of showy birds.

Two elder ducks (Somateria mollissima) were obtained by exchange.

The bird collection was also enriched by specimens of the Mahal
weaver (Plocepasser mahali) and cliff chat (Zhamnolaea cinna-
momeiventris) .

Six African chameleons (Chamaeleon dilepis) were hatched on
June 23, 1955, from eggs laid April 2, 1955. Perhaps other estab-
lishments have had African chameleons lay eggs that hatched, but
this Zoo is unaware of such an event.

OUTSTANDING GIFTS

The outstanding gift of the year was a pair of baby gorillas
(Gorilla gorilla) presented to the National Zoological Park by Rus-
sell Arundel, of Warrenton, Va., a longtime friend of the Zoo. They
were captured by the Arundel Expedition in French Equatorial
Africa, near the Belgian Congo. In the Belgian Congo they were
cared for in the home of John L. Biname, then director of the Zoo
at Leopoldville, and at Antwerp in the home of Walter Van den
Bergh, head of the Zoo there, so they received especially good atten-
tion on their trip to the States. The male, “Nikumba,” weighed 17
pounds and the female, “Moka,” weighed 20 pounds on arrival. These
are the first gorillas the Zoo has had since 1932 and are highly de-
sirable additions to the collection. They are thriving and are popular
entertainers, as they are very active.

The Hon. Charles S. Thomas, Secretary of the Navy, presented to
the National Zoological Park 7 emperor penguins (Aptenodytes
forstert) and 4 Adelie penguins (Pygoscelis adeliae). These birds
had been obtained by Navy explorers while on an Antarctic expedi-
tion on the U.S. 8S. Atka with Commander Glen Jacobsen in charge.
Emperors are the largest living penguins, and this group, together
with the king penguins received a few days before, made an outstand-
ing exhibit. At the request of Secretary Thomas two of the emper-
ors were turned over to the Bronx Zoo in recognition of the assistance
given by the New York Zoological Society in transporting the birds
from Miami to Washington.

The Ambassador of Pakistan, Syed Amjad Ali, presented a beauti-
ful young jungle-caught Bengal tiger through the Foreign Operations
Administration.

The Japanese Ambassador Sadao Iguchi presented to Secretary of
Defense Charles E. Wilson a pair of long-tailed fowl (Gallus gallus)
which are being kept on display in the National Zoological Park.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 107

This is a domesticated bird that has developed, through painstaking
breeding by the Japanese, exceptionally long upper tail coverts. The
feathers of these birds are sometimes as much as 20 feet in length.

Dr. Lawrence Kilham, of the National Institutes of Health, who was
spending a year in the vicinity of Entebbe, Uganda, East Africa,
kindly sent several shipments of African animals, all of which were
well selected and desirable additions to the Zoo. These animals are
enumerated in the donors’ list.

Dr. Robert Rausch, of the National Institutes of Health at the
Arctic Health Research Center, Anchorage, Alaska, continued to
show his interest in the National Zoological Park. Through his or-
ganization there have been received 1 Canada lynx (Lyna canadensis),
1 emperor goose (Philacte canagica), and 1 black brant (Branta
bernicla nigricans). These were all desirable additions as there were
none of these species in the collection at the time, nor had there been
for some years.

The Walter Reed Army Medical Center, the National Institutes of
Health, and Johns Hopkins University continued to deposit with the
Zoo young chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) used in their medical ex-
periments. These animals are all suitable for exhibition and are
available to the medical research workers when needed. ‘This is prov-
ing to be a thoroughly satisfactory arrangement, and when the chim-
panzees are no longer suitable for the work of the scientists they are
turned over to the Zoo permanently. A young female chimpanzee
(Pan troglodytes) was presented by Mr. and Mrs. John T. Smith, Jr.,
of Monrovia, Liberia.

The United Cerebral Palsy of Washington, D. C., presented a baby
howler monkey (Alouwatta), three cottontop marmosets (Callithria
oedipus), six blue tanagers (7’hraupis cana), and four saffron finches
(Sicalis luteola) after they had been used for publicity purposes by
the organization.

A domestic burro or donkey (F'quus asinus), the first one exhibited
in the Zoo in many years, was presented by Del Rensel, president of
Slick Airways. Donkeys, of course, are not rare, but by reason of
their religious, agricultural, and other associations, and of their odd
appearance, they are of considerable interest to the visiting public.

Through the kind interest of Dr. Juan Rivero, College of Agri-
culture, Mayagtiez, Puerto Rico, the Zoo received two of the rare
Mona Island iguanas (Cyclura stejnegeri). These are large, heavy-
bodied lizards that look like miniature dinosaurs of past ages. One
of these was dead on arrival, and the other refused to eat at first but
was finally hand-fed and soon became a pet. Shortly after her ar-
rival she laid 16 eggs.
108

Eleven Humboldt’s penguins (Spheniscus humboldti) were received
as gifts from the Perfection Stove Co. of Cleveland, Ohio.

A green conure (Aratinga leucophthalmus) was a gift from N. H.
Caudell, of College Park, Md.

A horn-nosed iguana (Jguana iguana rhinolopha) obtained by Jack
Reed, of Tampa, Fla., while on a cruise along the Mexican coast, was
given to the Zoo. It is a beautiful example and, although closely
related to the common iguana, is sufficiently different to make a very
desirable addition to the collection.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

GIFTS AND DEPOSITS

This year, as in many years past, various individuals have deposited
in the Zoo animals to which they desired to retain title. These are
most acceptable additions to the exhibits. Depositors are assured
that the animals will receive routine care, but the Zoo assumes no
responsibility and no obligation to replace any that do not survive.

DEPOSITORS AND DONORS AND THEIR GIFTS

(Deposits are marked*; unless otherwise indicated, addresses of donors are
Washington, D. ©.)

Ackerman, Mrs. Anita, Pittsburgh, Pa.,
black-widow spider.

Adams, W. A., Hyattsville, Md., 2 Pe-
kin ducks.

Akins, Ken, Indian Head, Md., hog-
nosed snake.

Allen, Louis §., Silver Spring, Md.,
caiman,

Amber, Dianne, Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin
ducks.

Anderson, Louis E., Alexandria, Va.,
rhinoceros beetle.

Andreano, Joseph, Takoma Park, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Andrews, David, Silver Spring, Md.,
snapping turtle.

Andrews, Richard, Silver Spring, Md.,
2 Pekin ducks.

Angleton, Cicily, Arlington, Va., skunk.

Anonymous, salt-water gray crab.

Archer, Mrs. 8S. R., pigeon.

Arctic Health Research Center, An-
chorage, Alaska, Canada lynx, em-
peror goose, black brant.

Armstrong, Mrs. Amelia,
Va., guinea pig.

Armstrong, W. T., Silver Spring, Md.,
domestic rabbit,

Arnold, Mrs. Joseph, Falls Church, Va.,
dblue-fronted parrot.

Arlington,

Aronson, Michael, Belgian hare.
Arundel, Russell, Warrenton, Va., 2

gorillas.

Ashworth, James T., Arlington, Va.,
Pekin duck.

Atzinger, Dorothea, 2 strawberry

finches, society finch, white zebra
finch.

Ayers, Lorraine, domestic rabbit.

Babbitt, Lewis H., Petersham, Mass.,
5 toads, 2 Cuban boas.

Badinelli, Joseph, Takoma Park, Md.,
common newt.

Balderson, R. H., gray fox.

Balderson, Warren, purple gallinule.

Baldwin, Mrs. Fred, Cumberland turtle.

Ball, Mrs. S. M., Arlington, Va., 2
Cumberland turtles.

Ballman, Barbara, Silver Spring, Md.,
2 Pekin ducks.

Bannockburn Cooperative School, Be-
thesda, Md., 2 guinea pigs.

Barnes, John P., Arlington, Va., opos-
sum.

Barnes, Mrs. Sara M., 3 Pekin ducks.

Barney, Mrs. C. N., Takoma Park, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Barr, Mrs. J. A., Jr., Takoma Park,
Md., Pekin duck.

Baskett, T. S., flying squirrel, hamster.
SECRETARY'S REPORT

Baxter, Bruce, 2 Florida “chameleons.”

Beck, Mrs. Rivi, Silver Spring, Md.,
2 Pekin ducks.

Belintende, Sam J., salamander.

Benton, Bobby, Silver Spring, M4d.,
snapping turtle.

Bernstein, Edward, *white-throated
capuchin.

Betesh, Stanley, 4 domestic chickens.

Bierly, Edward, Arlington, Va., Pa-
cific pond turtle, desert tortoise.

Billington, R. C., Silver Spring, Md.,
2 red-lined turtles.

Bird, Arthur, barred owl.

Bishop, Robert T., domestic rabbit.

Bissonette, H. A., domestic rabbit.

Black, Cordell, Arlington, Va., snap-
ping turtle.

Blish, Linda, Pekin duck.

Blush, Mrs. Ernest, Kensington, Md.,
3 domestie rabbits.

Booher, Joe, McLean, Va., great horned
owl,

Botkin, Marshall, Mount Rainier, Md. |
box turtle. |

Bowman, Gary, and Korab, Harry,
University Park, Md., snapping
turtle.

Boyd, Charles H., 2 grass parakeets.

Boyd, Naney, Alexandria, Va., Pekin
duck.

Bradley, Daniel E., 4 gray squirrels.

Bridge, David, Greenbelt, Md.,
bellied turtle.

Brittain, Charles, Lanham, Md., water
snake.

Brown, Mrs. Jane, Arlington, Va., gray
squirrel.

Brown, Thaddeus III, 2 caimans.

Brown, Tom, Bethesda, Md., snapping
turtle.

Brunhouse, Mrs. Helen, raccoon.

Brunhouse, Mrs. W. A., skunk.

Buffett, Cheryl, guinea pig.

Burgess, G. S., 3 alligators.

Burgess, Jack, Riverhead, Long Island,
N. Y., black racer.

Burkhart, Paul, sparrow hawk.

Burris, Robert, Cabin John, M4d.,
*squirrel monkey.

Burton, Chip, Florida king snake.

Burton, Mrs. Esther, 2 hamsters.

red-

109

Burton, Mrs. Louise H., Arlington, Va.,
alligator.

Bush, William R., white-faced capuchin.

Cahnmann, Hans J., Bethesda, Md.,
opossum.

Cain, R. M., Landon Hills, Md., 2 Mus-
eovy ducks.

Calandera, Fred A., Pekin duck.

Caleb, I. B., Chevy Chase, Md., 2 Pekin
ducks,

Calvert, Gordon L., Silver Spring, Md.,
2 domestic rabbits.

Campanella, S. Joseph, opossum.

Campbell, Mrs. Josephine, Mount Rai-
nier, Md., *mallard duck.

Cantona, Pascal J., Jr., *kinkajou.

Carlson, Carl, University Park, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Carmack, Angela, Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Carnicero, George, domestic rabbit.

Carrena, Cariota, sparrow hawk.

Carroll, P. G., domestic rabbit.

Cartner, Helen, 2 raccoons.

Cassett, Charles and Michael,
Spring, Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Catholic University (through Dr. Ro-
land Nardone), 2 Arctic ground
squirrels.

Caudell, N. H., College Park, Md., green
conure.

Chambers, R. A., domestic rabbit.

Chase, Joseph C., Franklin, Va., brown
water snake, red-bellied water
snake.

Chauvenet, Allen R., Silver Spring, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

Cheargam, Chuck, Arlington, Va., Mus-
ecovy duck.

Cheatham, B. B., Arlington, Va., 3 Mus-
covy ducks.

Cheatum, Chuck, Arlington, Va., Mus-
covy duck.

Cheney, Sheldon, musk turtle.

Chevy Chase Pet Shop, *indigo snake.

Chick, Drew, copperhead snake.

Cholden, Mrs. Lea, Kensington, Md.,
robin.

Chueng, Mrs. Mary, guinea pig.

Churchill, David, Arlington, Va., snap-
ping turtle.

Claar, Lester, Bradbury Heights, Md.,
woodchuck.

Silver
110

Clagett, R. B., Silver Spring, Md., cai-
man.

Clark, David L., Bethesda, Md., 2 pine
lizards, water snake.

Clarke, George L., Arlington, Va., Petz’s
parakeet.

Clarke, Mrs. J. H., Arlington, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

Clepper, Fred, Pekin duck.

Cockrell, Maj. Henry B., Arlington, Va.,
3 cottontail rabbits.

Cohan, Hank P., 5 domestic rabbits.

Cohen, Mrs. Wallace, Chevy Chase, Md.,
domestic goat.

Collins, Billy and Dickey, 5 toads.

Compton, Mrs. Richard, snapping turtle.

Connolly, Capt. D., least bittern.

Cox, H. A., McLean, Va., woodchuck.

Craddock, Roger, Alexandria, Va., *alli-
gator.

Crawford, John D., Jr., Alexandria, Va.,
Pekin duck.

Crigler, J., snapping turtle.

Crimmins, Col. Martin L., San Antonio,
Tex., green rattlesnake.

Crumley, H. W., Hillcrest, Md., turkey
vulture.

Crumly, Barbara and Hal, 2 Pekin
ducks.

Daniels, J. W., Jr., Silver Spring, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Dankers, George, Arlington, Va., 3 Pe-
kin ducks.

Dayis, Malcolm, troupial.

Davison, Doreen, caiman.

Deahl, Dennis, Bethesda, Md., caiman.

Degutis, John J., College Park, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Deininger, Estelle, 2 domestic rabbits.

Delaney, Peter H., Java finch.

DeMent, Walter, box turtle.

DePrato, Jack, Langley Park, Md., gar-
ter snake, 2 pine lizards, pilot black
snake, 5 fence lizards, 4 blue-tailed
skinks, 2 common toads.

DePrato, Joe, Langley Park, Md., mole
snake.

DePrato, Mario, Langley Park, Md.,
Florida water snake, black racer,
gopher turtle, gopher frog.

Deskins, Leon D., Arlington,
caiman.

Va.,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Deutsch, Richard, Bethesda, Md., guinea
pig.

Dickson, Mrs. R., Alexandria, Va., Pe-
kin duck.

Dieterich, L. F., grass parakeet.

Dillon, Allen, Arlington, Va., Florida
water turtle.

Dix, Michael, *black snake.

Doehrer, Allen, Silver Spring, Md., do-
mestie rabbit.

Donohoe, Charla, Falls Church, Va.,

alligator.
Dornin, Walter W., Phoenix, Ariz., 15
western diamond-backed  rattle-

snakes, 2 sidewinders, 2 western
bull snakes, 2 gila monsters.

Douglass, Beverly, *caiman.

Dustin, Commander F. G., *grass para-
keet.

Duvall, George C., Lanham, Md., Nubian
goat.

Haster, Louis, Finsch’s parrot.

Edwards, A. M., Arlington, Va., domes-
tic rabbit.

Edwards, Sheffield, Alexandria, Va.,
pilot black snake, garter snake,
*yellow chicken snake.

Edwards, Mrs. S. T., Arlington, Va., 2
guinea pigs.

Kgan, Denise, 2 Pekin ducks.

Hisenberg, Philip, Takoma Park, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Elias, Alix, horned lizards.

Ellis, Richard D., Falls Church, Va.,
caiman.

Eskew, William, alligator.

Estep, Gary, Falls Church, Va., caiman.

Ktter, Dr. Harry S., Chevy Chase, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Evans, Mrs. James M., Bethesda, Md.,
2 caimans.

Byans, Nancy,
caiman.

Ewing, J. Hunter, Arlington, Va., 2 Pe-
kin ducks.

Faison, Walter E., Falls Church, Va.,
grass parakeet.

Falck, Bengt H., Alexandria,
sereech owl.

Farrier, John, Hyattsville, Md., kinka-
jou.

Falls Church, Va.,

Va.,
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Fay, Mrs. William M., Chevy Chase, Md.,
*American crow.

Feeney, Lt. Harold, Arlington, Va.,
cottontail rabbit. “

Ferguson, Gary, Alexandria, Va., in-
digo snake, boa constrictor, musk
turtle, painted turtle, *common
iguana, *collared lizard.

Ferretti, Domingo, hog-nosed snake.

Fillman, Ralph A., Lanham, M4d.,
horned lizard.

Finlay, Capt. John §S., Jr., Bethesda,
Md., gila monster.

Fitzpatrick, John, eastern skunk.

Follin, James W., Centreviile,
great horned owl.

Ford, Bertelle E., Rockville, Md., 2
common iguanas.

Fowler, J. G., domestic rabbit.

Franklin, R. D., Arlington, Va., 2 alli-
gators.

Frazier, Elmer E., Brookmont, Md.,
osprey.

Freshman, D., Silver Spring, Md., snap-
ping turtle.

Frishmann, Michael and Steven, Silver
Spring, Md., pied-billed grebe.

Fu, Hua Priscilla, domestie rabbit.

Fuller, Robert J., Arlington, Va., domes-
tic rabbit.

Gaines, Mary, Silver Spring, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Garths, E. C., Bethesda, Md., 3 domes-
tic rabbits.

Gatti, Stephen A., Jr., *pigeon hawk.

Gaver, Gordon P., Thurmont, Md., *4
alligators, *rhesus monkey, *Java
macaque, *2 gopher turtles, *alli-
gator snapping turtle, *4 black
tegus.

Geigan, F. Stewart, opossum.

German, Robert, caiman.

Geyser, Robert J., Prince Georges
County, Md., green frog.

Gillespie, Mrs. Hilda G., Takoma Park,
Md., 3 flying squirrels.

Ginberg, Joseph, parakeet.

Gleason, James, Herndon, Va., pied-
billed grebe.

Gleason, Shirley, Vienna, Va., skunk.

Glidden, Richard S., black snake.

Va.,

111

Godfrey, Harry, Hyattsville, Md. 5
black-tailed platys, 2 guppies, 10
pearl danios, red-tailed barbus, 12
Siamese fighting fish.

Goldthorpe, Freddy, Bethesda,
skunk.

Gordon, Marvin, woodchuck.

Granam, Mrs. John H., 2 grass para-
keets.

Grant School, sparrow hawk.

Gray, Albert G., Suitland, Md., 2 black-
widow spiders.

Gray, Gary, Hyattsville, Md., Pekin
duck.

Grayson, Marilyn, 2 Pekin ducks.

Green, Robert H., Arlington, Va., mal-
lard duck.

Green, William, canary.

Greenbaum, Samuel M., 9 box turtles.

Greenwood, Walter B., Arlington, Va.,
snapping turtle.

Grosskopf, W. H., eastern skunk.

Guilford, L. W., Silver Spring, Md.,
hamster.

Gunthrop, James, bantam hen.

Haber, Mrs. L. J., Riverdale,
*douroucouli monkey.

Hackenbrock, Charles R., Staten Island
Zoo, Staten Island, N. Y., 5 cane-
brake rattlesnakes.

Hagler, Walter, Arlington, Va., guinea
pig.

Hahn, Lt. Walter, Dahlgren, Va., osprey.

Haines, Tracy, Mt. Rainier, Md., *alli-
gator, *wood turtle.

Hambleton, Edson J., copperhead snake.

Hare, Mrs. A. E., Camp Lejeune, N. C.,
white-tailed deer.

Harnsberger, H. P., pilot snake.

Harrison, W. P., Alexandria, Va., barn
owl.

Hartsell, Mrs. Mary, 3 parakeets.

Hay, Michael, domestic rabbit.

Haymaker, Capt. John, Chevy Chase,
Md., yellow-naped parrot.

Hecht Co., 2 mute swans, *3 penguins.

Hennessy, R. E., Annandale, Va., Pekin
duck.

Herbert, Paul, Bethesda, Md., 2 domes-
tie rabbits.

Heslop, Bill, Mt. Rainier, Md., indigo
snake,

Md.,

Md.,
112

Higley, John R., barred owl.

Hileman, George, McLean, Va., 4 rac-
coons.

Hoffman, Irvin M., Cabin John, Md.,
silky bantam.

Hopkins, J. R., Takoma Park, Md.,
squirrel monkey.

Hopkins, Mrs. R. J., Arlington, Va.,
blue jay.

Hord, Earlene, Alexandria, Va., Cum-
berland turtle.

Hord, Eugene R., Silver Spring, Md.,
snapping turtle.

Hough, Dr. L. Frederick and family,
New Brunswick, N. J., 2 pottos.

Hudgins, Tommy, Arlington, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

Huebner, Mrs. Robert, Ijamsville, Md.,
raccoon.

Hutchinson, Bobby,
domestic rabbit.

Ikao, Tanit, Jamaica, N. Y., *5 alli-
gators, *boa constrictor, *Indian
python.

Ingham, Rex., Ruffin, N. C., *African
palm civet.

Izenour, Frank M., Arlington, Va.,
Pekin duck.

Jacobs, J. C., gray squirrel.

Jacobson, N. M., 2 Pekin ducks.

Japanese Ambassador, Sadao Iguchi
(through the Hon. Charles BE. Wil-
son, Secretary of Defense), *2 long-
tailed fowls.

Jawarski, Stephen, Bethesda,
maUard duck hybrid.

Jennings, Michael, 8 common waxbills.

Johnson, Mrs. H. W., Arlington, Va.,
horned lizard.

Johnson, Julia V., Arlington, Va., east-

Arlington, Va.,

Md.,

ern skunk.

Johnson, R. E., East Riverdale, Md.,
blue jay.

Jones, Brenda, Arlington, Va., 4 Pekin
ducks.

Jones, Mrs. H. T., Norfolk, Va., raccoon.

Jones, Melvin, Silver Spring, Md.,
spotted salamander.

Jones, Tom, Arlington, Va., snapping
turtle.

Jones, William W., Jr., Arlington, Va.,
hog-nosed snake.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Judson, Marcia, black rabbit.
Kahn, Sharon, Silver Spring, Md., 2

Pekin ducks.
Kale, D. R., Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin
ducks.

Kerr, Mrs. Victor H., Falls Church, Va.,
8 blue jays, sparrow, cardinal.
Kilham, Dr. Lawrence, Entebbe,
Uganda, 4 hornbills, African side-
neck turtle, African yellow-billed
kite, starling, African ground
squirrel, 22 chameleons, monitor
lizard, African palm civet, boom-
slang snake, 2 hinge-backed turtles,
dormouse, 5 rats, 2 genets.

Kirouac, Kathleen, Accokeek, Md.,
white skunk.

Kise, W. Kent, Takoma Park, Md.,
caiman.

Kuntz, Dr. Robert E., Bethesda, Md., 2
pilot black snakes.

Ladiges, Werner, Hamburg, Germany,

hedgehog.

Laney, Culbert, Silver Spring, Md.,
opossum.

Lardner, Mrs. Lyn, Silver Spring, Md.,
8 Pekin ducks.

Latta, Mrs. James B., Bethesda, Md.,
crab.

Laurell, Mrs. 8. F., caiman.

Leizear, Reginaid, Derwood, Md., red
fox.

Leverenz, Joseph, Alexandria, Va., do-
mestie rabbit.

Libby, Mrs. Lionel M., Kensington, Md.,
cedar waxwibg.

Liebenberg, M., American anclis.

Lillie, H. D., sparrow hawk.

Lilly, Hileen, domestic rabbit.

Linden, Charles J., Falls Church, Va.,
Cumberland turtle.

Lindner, Leonard Charles, Gakton, Va.,
horned owl.

Lions International, Chicago, Ill., Afri-
can lion.

Lloyd, Daniel B., black-widow spider.

Locke, Otto Martin, New Braunfels,
Tex., 31 horned lizards, 4 Texas
diamond-back rattlesnakes.

Long, W. C., caiman.

Lonquar, Mrs. Mary, domestic rabbit.

Lovell, W. D., Hyattsville, Md., osprey.
SECRETARY'S REPORT

Lowell, Brenda, Pekin duck.

Ludwig, Charies G., Arlington,
*Cuban Amazon parrot.

Lynch, Dana, domestic rabbit.

Lyon, James, Chevy Chase, Md., Pekin
duck.

Lyon, Margaret, Arlington, Va., 2 Pekin
ducks, domestic rabbit.

Macari, Denise, Indian Head, Md., box
turtle.

MacDaniel, Ruth, talking catfish, sucker
eatfish.

MacKichan, Robert, Takoma Park, Md.,
painted turtle.

MacMaugh, Mrs. F. J., red-headed wood-
pecker,

Malley, Mrs. John W., Chevy Chase,
Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Manoogian, David, opossum.

Marett, W. C., Bethesda, Md., Pekin
duck.

Marker, Mrs. Catherine, Florida water
turtle.

Marshall, Dr. F. P., pigeon.

Martin, Mrs. Elsie S., Arlington, Va.,
Pekin duck.

Maske, Jerry, turtle.

Mathews, T. O., Arlington, Va., guinea
pig.

Mattingly, Bernard, Arlington, Va., 2
domestic rabbits.

McAfee, Mrs. D. D., Seat Pleasant, Md.,
English sparrow.

McCabe, John, Arlington, Va., *10 duck
hawks.

McDonald, Paul, Arlington, Va., rac-
coon.

McDonald, Set. 8S. D., and Mr. Holt,
Fort Myer, Va., gray fox.

McGruder, Mrs. Virginia, Richmond,
Va., *squirrel monkey.

McQuown, Tom and Jim, Silver Spring,
Md., opossum.

Mechlin, Dianne, 2 Pekin ducks.

Meryman, Harold T., Cabin John, Md.,
water snake.

Metcalf, Robert and Richard, caiman.

Metzler, John C., Fort Myer, Va., com-
mon crow.

Meyer, Lt. Col. C. R., Alexandria, Va.,
horned lizard.

Va.,

Mickey, Donald, Bethesda, Md., pilot

black snake.

1138

Miller, Catherine, Richmond, Va., gray
squirrel.

Miller, Edward, 200 guppies, 200 snails.

Miller, Joseph B., White Piains, Md.,
turtle eggs.

Milis, Maj. Gen. John S., caiman,

Mills, Vinn and Laura, Silver Spring,
Md., 2 Pekin ducks.

Miracle, Hector, Arlington, Va., Vir-
ginia rail.

Moliz, Charles, Alexandria, Va., cotton-
tail rabbit.

Moncure, Griff, Arlington, Va., 2 flying
squirrels,

Money, Mark Lawson, Jr., Vienna, Va.,
snapping turtle.

Monks, Dr. 'T. R., *wooliy monkey.

Monohan, Frank, Silver Spring, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

Moore, Howard §., 10 guinea pigs.

Moran, John C., Alexandria, Va., Pekin
duck.

Morris, Charles A., domestic goat.

Moser, Glen L., Hyattsville, Md., Flor-
ida water turtle.

Murphy, ©. F., Jr., Chevy Chase, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Myers, Z., College Park, Md., 2 Pekin
ducks.

Navy, U.S. Department of the (through
the Hon. Charles S. Thomas, Sec-

retary), 7 emperor penguins, 4
Adelie penguins.

Nelson, Mrs. Alverina H., domestic
rabbit.

Nelson, Wallace, Silver Spring, Md.,
corn snake.

Newton, Joanne, Silver Spring, Md.,
Cumberland turtle.

Nicholson, John W., Beltsville, Md.,
raccoon.

Nicodemus, G. K., Bethesda, Md., do-
mestie rabbit.

Nicolls, Barrett, Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Norman, David,
horned lizard.

Norris, O. ©., 2 Pekin ducks.

North Atlantic Fertilizer & Chemical
Co., New York, N. Y., *2 Indian
pythons.

O’Meara, Patrick J., Arlington, Va.,
pilot black snake.

Hyattsville, Md.,
114

Over, Mrs. Frank, Jr., Falls Church,
Va., cedar waxwing.

Paden, Janie, Arlington, Va., skunk.
Pakistan Ambassador, Syed Amjad Ali
(through FOA), Bengal tiger.
Palm, Harry W., Arlington, Va., flying

squirrel.

Pan American World Airways, New
York, N. Y. (through Mr. Samuel
Pryor, vice president), 2 lion-
headed marmosets, 2 Baillon’s
toucanets.

Parish, William, gray fox.

Parker, James, 2 Pekin ducks.

Parks, F. N., Silver Spring,
caiman.

Payne, Fenton, coatimundi.

Payne, Melvin, Jr., Silver Spring, Md.,
smooth-scaled grass snake, 2 Pekin
ducks.

Perfection Stove Co., Cleveland, Ohio,
11 Humboldt’s penguins.

Perry, Eugene, Hyattsville, Md., 8 do-
mestic rabbits.

Pertin, Mrs. Margaret Ann, Bethesda,
Md., 2 domestic goats.

Peterson, Edwin H,, *caiman.

Philadelphia Zoological Gardens, Phila-

delphia, Pa., 10 southern copperhead
snakes.

Pitterling, Eric, Arlington, Va., squirrel
monkey.

Poole, Edwin, W., Hyattsville, Md., hy-
brid duck.

Possinger, Karlin, Takoma Park, Md.,
red-lined turtle.

Post, Mrs. Herbert A., Chevy Chase,
Md., 3 Pekin ducks.

Potter, Mrs. Lloyd A., Bethesda, Md.,
copperhead snake.

Powers, Jimmy, Silver Spring, Md., do-
mestice rabbit.

Press, Arthur F., Jr., Bethesda, Md.,
copperhead snake, timber rattler.

Proctor, Carol, Chevy Chase, Md.,
opossum.

Pumphrey, Don, Bladensburg, Md., com-
mon water snake, queen snake, *2
giant toads, *Murray turtle.

Purcell, Ralph M., Chevy Chase, Md.,
skunk.

Racoosin, Robert H., 8 Cumberland
turtles.

Ma.,

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Rare Bird Farm, Miami, Fla., *3 king
penguins.

Reed, Jack, Tampa, Fla., horn-nosed
iguana.

Regan, Joseph H., College Park, Md.,
domestie rabbit.

Reichel, R. J., Silver Spring, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Rein, Gerald, grass parakeet.

Reinke, Mr. and Mrs. William A., Mount
Rainier, Md., skunk.

Reiter, C. H., Jr., opossum.

Remington, Edward, Bethesda,
raccoon.

Rensel, Del, president, Slick Airways,
New York, N. Y., burro.

Rew, Raymond, Frederick, Md., 4 wood-
chucks.

Rhodes, K. G., Alexandria, Va., canary.

Richelsen, H., 4 domestic geese.

Rickard, Mrs. Nelson, Virginia rail.

Ridgely, Mrs. A. O., blue jay, robin.

Riley, Don, skunk.
Rivero, Dr. Juan, Mayagtiez, Puerto
Rico, 2 Mona Island iguanas.
Robbins, Larry, Silver Spring, Md., pilot
black snake, mud turtle, musk tur-
tle, 2 painted turtles.

Robert, Lawrence Wood, caiman.

Robertson, A., 2 Pekin ducks.

Rogg, David, Fails Church, Va., caiman.

Rollins, Wade, Forestville, Md., pilot
black snake.

Rubel, Mary, Bethesda, Md., domestic
rabbit, guinea pig.

Rudkin, John T., W. Hyattsville, Md., 2
alligators.

Russell, Mrs. Edward, gray squirrel.

Sanner, Roland B., Pekin duck.

Saunders, Stephen, Falls Church, Va.,
*13 parakeets.

Savage, Frank, Rockville, Md., *rhesus
monkey.

Scherer, Michael,
mander.

Schribner, A. E., Hyattsville, Md., Java
finch.

Schwartz, J. M., domestic chicken.

Scofield, John, blue honey creeper, *sul-
phur-breasted toucan. ;

Seegers, Scott, McLean, Va., *boa con-
strictor, *Florida chameleon.

Md.,

pine lizard, sala-
SECRETARY’S REPORT

Seielstad, David, Silver Spring, Md.,
hog-nosed snake.

Sepulveda, Bobby, snapping turtle.

Shaoshan, Mrs. H. M., Bethesda, Md., 84
ring-necked doves.

Shaw, Bink, Pam, Crict, and Al, Fair-
fax, Va., 4 foxes.

Sherwood, Robert, Silver Spring, Md.,
eastern weasel.

Sholar, Lynn J., Alexandria, Va., white-
throated capuchin.

Shook, George R., Youngstown, Ohio, 2
horned lizards.

Sidwell Friends School, 4 guinea pigs.

Simmons, Carl S., Newmarket, Va., 3
copperhead snakes, pectoral sand-
piper, laughing gull.

Simonds, Joseph, Silver Spring, Md., do-
mestic chicken.

Singleterry, Martha, Bethesda, Md., 2
horned lizards.

Skelton, E. H., caiman.

Smith, Arthur, Arlington, Va., *turtle.

Smith, D. W., opossum.

Smith, Mr. and Mrs. John T., Jr., Mon-
rovia, Liberia, chimpanzee.

Smith, Mike, Bethesda, Md.,
squirrel.

Smith, William A., Arlington, Va., 3
Pekin ducks.

Snyder, Capt. Francis C., 3 cottontail
rabbits.

Solomon, Daniel L., Hyattsville, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Southard, Robert L., Falls Church, Va.,
domestie rabbit.

Spencer, William, Rockville, Md., do-
mestic rabbit.

Spitzer, Gisele,
caiman,

Staley, Capt. P. C., 4 rice birds.

Steinbarge, Wayne, Chevy Chase, Md.,
*American crow.

Stepp, Dick, Riverdale, Md., pilot black
snake.

Stevens, Judy and Hric, Arlington, Va.,
weasel.

Stevens, Mrs. Mary E., Silver Spring,
Md., flying squirrel.

Stevens, Robert A., Silver Spring, Md.,
caiman,

Stewart, Caroline, homing pigeon.

gray

Silver Spring, Md.,

115

Stewart, Mrs. H. C., white-throated
capuchin,

Stone, Kenneth M., Arlington, Va., 2
Pekin ducks.

Storo, Harold Helmer, Silver Spring,
Md., pilot black snake.

Strong, Robert, Silver Spring, Md., 2
Pekin ducks.

Stroop, M. A., Newmarket,
iguanas.

Stuart, Frank, 2 chickens.

Stubbs, Mrs. F., domestic pigeon.

Sturino, Joe, 7 baby opossums.

Style, Thomas W., Takoma Park, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Swift, Mrs. H. M., Kensington, Md.,
ring-necked pheasant.

Symonds, Mrs. Edward, McLean, Va.,
gray fox.

Teagle, Douglas, copperhead snake.

Temple Manor Kindergarten, opossum.

Terrell, W. B., Takoma Park, Md.,
*pygmy rattlesnake, *5-lined skink.

Thomasson, Mrs. B. E., Arlington, Va.,
domestic rabbit.

Thornton, Peter, domestic rabbit.

Tice, Mrs., white-throated capuchin.

Tinnis, Leo M., Jr., Silver Spring, Md.,
caiman.

Tomlinson, R. C., Alexandria, Vai. 2

Va., 6

=“

Pekin ducks, Geoffroy’s marmoset.

Tourtelotte, Lt. Col. Franklin K., Alex-
andria, Va., *spider monkey.

Towers, Richard, Hyattsville, Md., 2
domestie rabbits.

Towner, Nancy, Fort Lee, Va., 2 flying
squirrels,

Trigger, Mrs. Lona, Gaithersburg, Md.,
white-throated capuchin.

Trundle, EB. H., owl menkey, red fox.

Twigg, Susan, Alexandria, Va., *boa
constrictor.

Tyler, F. D., Alexandria, Va., American
crow.

Tyrrell, W. B., Takoma Park, Md., red-
bellied turtle.

Ullman, Mrs. Virginia, raccoon.

Underwood, John, Silver Spring, Md.,
domestic rabbit.

United Cerebral Palsy of Washington,
D. C., red howler monkey, 3 cotton-
top marmosets, 6 blue tanagers, 4
saffron finches.
116

U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Cam-
bridge, Md. (through Daniel Russ),
eanvasback duck, red-headed duck,
lesser scaup duck, coot, bald eagle.

U. &. Fish and Wildlife Service, Sagi-
naw, Mich., 2 whistling swans.

University of Colorado Museum, Boul-
der, Colo., chipmunk.

Ursin, Mrs. P. M., McLean, Va., skunk.

Van Dusen, W. R., Alexandria, Va.,
alligator.

VanPoucke, Alfonso, 22 parakeets.

VanPoucke, Mrs. A., 6 parakeets.

Via, Dr. Hugh, Portsmouth, Va., box
turtle.

Vinikoor, Robert, domestic rabbit.
Vinson, W. E., Falls Church, Va., Cali-
fornia spotted skunk, guinea pig.
Virginia Reptile and Tropical Bird
Farm, Newmarket, Va., peach-
faced lovebird, 4 Java rice birds,
yellow tegu lizard, African knife
fish, 18 cottonmouth moccasins, 9
water snakes, 2 Florida water
snakes, 3 pilot black snakes, 2
racers, 13 baby copperheads, *South
American boa, *emerald tree boa,
*vyellow bull snake, *pine bull
shake, *indigo snake, *chicken
snake, *2 red rat or corn snakes,
*§ alligators, *timber rattiesnake,
*copperhead, *Florida king snake,
*2 ringed toucanets, *sulphur-

breasted toucan, *3 cockatiels.

Yeager, W. B., Silver Spring, Md., do-
mestic rabbit.

Young, Bob, domestic rabbit.

Young, Ron, Chevy Chase, Md., raccoon.

Wagner, E. C., 2 alligators.

Walkup, Joe, Landover,
snake,

Walsh, Mrs. E. J., Pekin duck.

Walter Reed Army Medical Center, *17
chimpanzees.

Wannell, Raymond, Silver Spring, Md.,
toad, hog-nased snake.

Ward, F. E., 8 white mice.

Ward, Steve, Takoma Park, Md., red-
lined turtle, Florida water turtle.

Warner, Tony, Bethesda, Md., water
snake.

Washington Animal Rescue League,
weeping capuchin, ocelot.

Md., night

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Watkins, Howard B., Jr., alligator.

Watts, Charles D., Jr., 2 Java finches,
red-lined turtle.

Weaver, Chief Warrant Officer W. H.,
Fort Myer, Va., domestic rabbit.

Webb, Henry, opossum.

Weber, Billy, Mt. Rainier, Md., 2 alli-
gators.

Weber, Walter A., Oakton, Va., vervet
monkey.

Webster, Clark G., glass lizard.

Wegener, John B., Arlington, Va., Pekin
duck.

Weir, Mrs. R. H., Silver Spring, Md., 2
flying squirreis.

Wenderott, Mrs. Pat, Bethesda, Md., 2
opossums,

West, David W., Chevy Chase, Md.,
cottonmouth moccasin.

Whalen, Billy, Silver Spring, Md., cai-
man.

Wheeler, Kendall, Chevy Chase, Md.,
Pekin duck.

Whetzel, Mrs. Hilda L., Manassas, Va.,
2 raccoons.

White, Capt. Robert C., Arlington, Va.,
coatimundi.

Whitley, W. F., Jr., caiman.

Williams, P. B., Hyattsville,
raccoon.

Williams, Mrs. Robert E., Riverdale,
Md., domestic rabbit.

Williams, Robert H., Falls Church, Va.,
domestic rabbit.

Wilson, Randy, opossum.

Wink, L. J., Silver Spring, Md., Pekin
duck.

Winnacker, Paul, Chevy Chase, Md., 4
guinea pigs.

Wise, W. W., Silver Spring, Md., do-
mestie rabbit.

Witt, J. B., 2 copperhead snakes.

Wolff, Steven, 2 hamsters.

Woodson, H. B., Arlington, Va., 2 spar-
row hawks.

Work, Fred A., Alexandria, Va., alli-

Md.,

gator.

Workman, Mrs. Ira, Crestview, Md.,
opossum.

Worthington, Sandra, Takoma Park,
Md., chicken.

Wright, R. T., Chevy Chase, Md., rabbit.
Wyckoff, William, Arlington, Va., ring-
necked pheasant.
SECRETARY’S REPORT LT7
PURCHASES AND EXCHANGES

Outstanding animals obtained by purchase or exchange were:

A pair of rare flat-tailed otters (Péeronura brasiliense) of Brazil.
These have thrived and made a remarkable growth. They are still
youngsters, but the larger one of the two is now about the size of the
big North American river otters. They have peculiarly flattened tails
that look like oars. The Zoo has previously had only two small young
ones, which did not survive.

Four king penguins (A ptenodytes patagonica) were purchased and
three others were deposited for a few days by the dealer. These are
slightly smaller than emperor penguins but because of the rich golden
color on the upper breast they are even more beautiful than the em-
perors. These are the first king penguins in the collection since 1947.

Through exchange with Sir Edward Hallstrom of Sydney, Aus-
tralia, a choice collection of Australian animals was obtained. In-
cluded were a pair of rat kangaroos (Hypsiprymnodon moschatus),
which are marsupials about the size of a fox squirrel; four kinds of
wallabies, which are small kangaroos; and six kinds of birds, all choice
from an exhibition standpoint.

Through exchange with A. M. Greenhall of the Zoological Society
of Trinidad, British West Indies, nine kinds of animals from the
Island of Trinidad were obtained. These were highly desirable ad-
ditions to the collections. Outstanding among them was an excep-
tionally large bushmaster snake (Lachesis muta).

Two of the extremely rare Allen’s monkeys (Allenopithecus nigro-
viridis) were received. Only two of these had been in captivity, in
England, prior to the spring of 1953, when the Zoo obtained two of
them in May of that year. A few have since been brought to this
country.

Another interesting accession was a young female hippopotamus
(Hippopotamus amphibius) about 3 years old and weighing 865
pounds when it was received on June 29, 1955. It is hoped that she
will grow and produce young. The Zoo has benefited greatly over
the years from the exchange of young hippos born here for other
animals needed in the collection and not otherwise obtainable.

During the year there have been received from J. D. Handman,
of Nyasaland, East Africa, several shipments that have been particu-
larly desirable accessions. By getting the animals directly from the
collector, many not ordinarily available through animal dealers have
been obtained.

The following were also obtained by purchase:

Twenty-five African mammals, birds, and reptiles from the Kenya
region in Africa. Outstanding among these were two giant Aldabra
turtles (Testudo elephantina) of stock that is now thriving in Africa
118 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

where they were introduced from Aldabra Island in the Indian Ocean.
There was also a black-backed jackal (Canis mesomelas), the first
that has come to this collection since 1924.

Two beautiful examples of the red uakari monkeys (Cacajao rubi-
cundus). These monkeys are rare in collections. Their long red hair
and brilliant red faces make them outstanding exhibit animals.

Twelve pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea). 'Two have been
born in the group and are thriving. Until the last year or two these
marmosets were very rare in collections, but apparently the region
inhabited by them is now being drawn upon by animal dealers.

Two Philippine Islands monkey-eating eagles (Pithecophaga
jeffreyt). These large remarkable eagles are rare in the wild and in
captivity. The national collection has previously had only one.

Two young Asiatic tapirs (Acrocodia indica).

A fine specimen of white-handed gibbon (Hylobates lar).

A tame serval cat (Felis serval) of Africa, the first of its kind the
Zoo has had for many years. It is a cat of remarkable appearance,
with very long ears and fairly long legs.

A galago (Galago crassicaudatus) from an African contact. This
is one of the large galagos, a nocturnal primate that bears but little
resemblance to the monkeys.

Through exchange two young ostriches (Struthio camelus), a fe-
male mouflon (Ovis musimon), and a tahr (Hemitragus jemlahicus)
were received.

Other accessions were: Rare and beautiful birds of the parrot
group—Finsch’s parrot (Amazona finschi) of South America, Rosella
parakeet (Platycercus eximus) from Australia, and rainbow para-
keet (Z'richoglossus moluccanus) from Australia, the last being the
first of the kind in the collection.

A tawny frogmouth (Podargus strigotdes), an Australian bird that
looks like a gigantic light-colored whip-poor-will. The peculiar form
and pose of this bird is a never-ending source of wonder and interest
to visitors.

Two concave-casqued hornbills (Buceros bicornis). 'These are
large showy Asiatic birds which, with other specimens in the col-
lection, give a good idea of the remarkable forms attained by this
group of birds.

A white phase of the peafowl (Pavo cristatus). It is many years
since the Zoo had one of these showy birds, and although it is not
particularly rare, it is an interesting exhibit because it is so beautiful.

BIRTHS AND HATCHINGS

Conditions under which animals are kept on exhibition are usually
not favorable for breeding or raising young. However, occasionally
young are born or hatched that are of outstanding interest to the
Secretary’s Report, 1955 PLATE 5

se ce

-
aa

Eight species of hornbills on exhibition in the National Zoological Park simultaneously:

1, Black-and-white hornbill (Bycanistes subcylindricus); 2, Malayan hornbill (dceros
undulatus); 3, wreathed hornbill (Aceros plicatus); 4, Philippine hornbill (Buceros hydro-
corax);5, Malabar hornbill (Anthracoceros malabaricus); 6, concave-casqued hornbill (Buceros

bicornis); 7, black-and-white casqued hornbill (Anthracoceros coronatus); 8, Aby ssinian
ground hornbill (Bucorvus abyssinicus). (Photographs by Ernest P. Walker.)
PLATE 6

a

oe
ee

ee

Secretary's Report, 1955

(19x ‘qd Woury Aq sydeisoioyg) *sioyseur oy} OUT IYBno1q usoq davy [esioAas U9Y BdUTS Ing “FC6] OF Jold pjiom syUAIDS ay} OF UMOUY a19M “OAT
uOoZzEUY oY} JO SIoleMpvoy oy} Iv sjulod pasojess AjepIm woz ‘suswdads may e ATUQ *(11p]203 OMMIIVD) JOSOUILU SIP[a0n) Wysty *AjANded ul sAUTR
Jou ssop 1 asnevdeq ATUleUT suOTIdaT[09 UI UOUTWIOOUN si AeyUOU sIyT,  “yxAeg [eoIsojoo7 [euoNeN] ul pariqiyxs (1904 pi9ayig) Asyuou 1yeVg poyseyy WfaT

cota

Secretary's Report, 1955 PLATE 7

1. Foussa (Cryptoprocta ferox), a Madagascar animal that is related to the civet and is ex-
tremely rare in collections. ‘This example is the first that has been exhibited in the
National Zoological Park.

S4oet, 4

2. Branick’s paca (Dinomys branickii) in National Zoological Park, an extremely rare rodent
that has been exhibited in zoos on only a few occasions. Inhabits the mountains of central

Peru. (Photographs by Ernest P. Walker.)
SECRETARY'S REPORT 119

public, and are valuable as additions to the group, or for exchange.
Outstanding among the births at the Zoo were the following:

A female gaur (2ibos gaurus). These magnificent wild cattle are
of such rarity in collections that very advantageous terms can be ob-
tained in exchange for those in excess of the Zoo’s needs.

A female Grant’s zebra (Z'quus burchelli bohmi). It is an attrac-
tive youngster and a valuable addition to the wild horse group.

A DeBrazza’s guenon (Cercopithecus neglectus), a moustache mon-
key (Cercopithecus cephus), and two Barbary apes (Macaca sylva-
nus), all of them thriving.

The pygmy hippopotamus (Choeropsis liberiensis) produced one
young during the year. The baby (female), born January 30, 1955,
to Matilda, weighed 15 pounds and was the mother’s ninth child. This
is the sixteenth produced in the National Zoological Park.

Three more bear cubs (2 females and 1 male) were born on January
1, 1955, to one of the pairs of hybrids. These are a cross between an
Alaskan brown bear mother (Ursus middendorffi) and a polar bear
father (Thalarctos maritimus). They regularly produce young, but
so far only one, now 51% years old, has survived.

The herd of Chinese water deer (Hydropotes inermis) continues to
multiply in a gratifying manner, sometimes producing as many as four
at atime. The mortality of the young is rather high, but in spite of
this the herd increases rapidly.

One of the group of pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea) gave
birth to two young which have grown rapidly. Until the past year
or two, these marmosets have been rare in captivity and have generally
not done well, but this group is doing well.

A water civet (Atilax paludinosus) was born February 28, 1955, to
the pair obtained August 19,1953. Itis thriving and growing rapidly.

Three crested screamers (Chauna torquata) were hatched. They are
South American birds about the size of a large chicken but are related
to the ducks.

Following is a complete list of the births and hatchings:

MAMMALS
Scientific name Common name Number
Ammotragus-lervia.... -o2.22-2222--2-6. Aoudad, or Barbary sheep_-_---- 5
Atlas naludinosus...cuksoouoesosen che W ater civets.ce 225 fet eee 1
sUOS TOUTS Se are ot ee he Se Gain so oe ee eae 2
Bob iat oer Park cattle...22-.25222- 2
Reece gi ae ee a SSS Pa West Highland cattle._........ 2
PS UDOIUS DUDGIes so) oe ae ok Water buftslovcec--s--- 3 ese 1
Capra hircus_...........-.----e------- Common coatscceos esa eeaseee ff
Cebuella pygmaea___.._-.-_.----------- Pygmy marmosets...-..------- 2
Cercopithecus cenhus: 5-5 Moustache monkey__---------- 1
Cercopithecus neglectus__._...-...-------- DeBrazza’s guenon...--.------ 1

370930—_56——-9
120 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Scientific name Common name Number
Cervus claphus.. 28 = eso eee Redideer.. 32-3 seme eel Te 1
Choeropsts tiberiensis. <2520 25. 202 ees Pygmy hippopotamus________-_- 1
Choloepus didactylus. =n eae ae ee Two-toed sloth... 25>2)"--- +2. 2
Cantculus*pacal 222 “ive eas ee PacaShielin 09 Uh Vieiet 200 1
Daind datnd<.oe BOOS alld To tae eee fallow deer.______.____- 3
Ais FL ic d pitatnt White fallow,deer.._¢) 2-2-4 1
Equus burchells bohmi. = 222-2 2-= Grants: zebra 6a. se = ake 1
TRCVSHEO = Maan ee eRe ay ee ee Mion ae eeen. Osea ae eee 8
Grraja camelopardalis== ==" 22 ee Nubianspiraiies tec. eae 1
Hiydropotes inermis 23a). Sse nee NESE Chinese water deer__________-- 8
Hypsiprymnodon moschatus_------------ Rat kangaroos: sia42 2 sind 1
Tiystrisigaleara 928 2 ea ee. Sey African porcupine___._..-_.--. 2
LGMG OLIGO 2222 = he eee Se ee See eS Dilla mn gs ge gai 2 oe oe Sos Seno 2
USGING MACOS Sag corneas a ae AIPAC soe an ee eee 1
eontocebus rosauial> 2= 22s VE eee Lion-headed marmoset_-______- 1
Macaca eylvanust sc? ees a Barbary apel tuys Gt eastew al 2
Odocotlens costaricensis. =. 2422-23. lac2 ou Costa Rican’ deers 2).<+<s2 2224 a
Odocoileus virginianus.___-...-.-------- Nirginia deers. e450). eae 2
OUrE RUSLINOT = oe Be eer ee Mouflons- 222s 4 a2 soa oe 1
PRIGCOMYS CUMINGto=-= ee Slender-tailed cloud rat__._...._ 2
iPoephagus grunnvenss. 22 2b Eee k_ Va iste he Bash bal Ap SS! 1
S2ka Nippon... = Sasa nn oes ae ee Sika;deers le. 24.4. res ies 1
Thalarctos maritimus X Ursus middendor fi. Hybrid bear (2d generation)_.._ 3
BIRDS
ANAS DAUENYNChOS eo eaten ele MallardYduck 22 2228252 38
IBRONUG CONGAEN 809 sone ee Canadajcooneres eee ate ee 9
Catrina moschaia® Ouoies tk Seeoi gs Muscovy; duckuful. S11 30 om 3
Chauna:torquetatsia0 Po. os ele ae aeega: Crested screamer________-_---- 3
Wightine fowls! <s.2 2 a 2
Gollusigaliuss Dat WARS NS tases eens (ee jungle fowl. 2422.55 2
Larus novdehollandie.2 .. 2222 Li = Silver pUullSoc once eee 2
Melopsittacus undulatus 2.528 Fei S32 Grass*parakects+ 2 144 Sas Oir rs 14
Padda onyzwora ye tute malic Te ty Java sparrowiLe So! 8i0e th 24
Pavoeristatus 2 ated anes eke Peatowleerercecerens Loa ave, eee @
Sphentecus humbolatis: 4. .=. hasan oe Humboldt’s penguin__________- 2
SLNEMLOMELIG CCCOOCLOs 2 ee ay Ree ee Ring-necked dove... - 2-25-25 8
Taeniopygra castanoties. 22 {ee ZODTA MING he ok harcore ees 27
REPTILES
Ancistrodon mokeson......-..-2-. 2422838 Copperbead snake....--_22---. 2
Ancistrodon piscivorus_....---------- .-. Cottonmouth moccasin snake... 4
Chameleon dilepisessf2ih-26 Bekse Roo African chameleon___-_.--.---- 6
Epicrates cenchria_.....- g59te ahte? 288 Rainbow boa- = — Sc eves258otee a 2
Natris cyclopion es. 22 oa eee Green water snake_____-___.--. 14
iNatriz sinedon...- sitjeoodect sesh 2k Wiatersnaket ess fe 5 oko ee 11
Natriz septemuittatass J2-J2 268) foe) @ucenisnakestetet=--. ee eee 10

Scincus oficenalis. —_.- ssa: 5 mute 2 Egyptian sand skinks_____---~- 13
SECRETARY’S REPORT 121

PROBLEMS

One of the most challenging of Zoo problems is caring for new
animals or those that have not generally thrived in captivity under
methods used before. This is particularly difficult with penguins.
They are kept in a glass-fronted refrigerated room 22 by 13 feet under
conditions suitable for these birds from the far south. Several dif-
ferent kinds have been kept successfully and even emperor penguins
have been kept as long as six years. However, they are especially
susceptible to aspergillosis, a fungus growth that develops in the
respiratory tract and even progresses into other portions of the body.
Prior to the receipt of the king and emperor penguins, the cage they
were to occupy was given a thorough cleaning, and after their arrival
improvements were made to better their environment. For the most
part, these consisted of lowering the temperature, reducing the hu-
midity, and providing more perfect filtering of the incoming air. In
spite of all efforts, however, only one emperor penguin was living on
June 30. The king penguins, which were received shortly before the
arrival of the emperor and occupy the same cage, are still thriving.

Since the problem is of far more than academic interest, it might
be well to point out that the Aspergillus spores are known to exist in
soil and are probably of very wide distribution. Under some condi-
tions chickens, turkeys, and ducks are subject to aspergillosis to such
an extent that raising them is a difficult problem, and diseases some-
what similar occasionally occur in humans. Therefore, what is
learned in efforts to control aspergillosis in penguins may be of use in
solving the problem of control of the disease in domestic fowls and
human beings.

The flat-tailed otters (Pteronura brasiliense) are so rare in cap-
tivity that every possible effort was made to insure their survival.
Since they are animals of the warm waters of the Amazon, a special
installation to fill their tank with water at an accurately controlled
temperature of 80° was provided, as were facilities for them to dry
themselves quickly when coming out of the water so that they would
not become chilled. They are making splendid growth and because
of their great activity are first-class entertainers of the public.

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS

The routine work of maintenance and construction, which is car-
ried on practically every day of the year, consists of such varied tasks
as the removal of stoppages from drains and sewers, repairs of faucets,
doors, cages, water lines, steam lines, boilers, refrigeration equipment,
buildings, roads, and walks, and innumerable miscellaneous jobs nec-
essary to keep the National Zoological Park in a safe and presentable
condition. The need for the exercise of great care in working around
122 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

animals makes it necessary that practically all this kind of work be
done by the Zoo’s own specially trained workmen, who must not only
perform mechanical work but must cooperate with the keeper force
and at all times exercise the utmost care that nothing is done that will
injure the animals, the public, or themselves.

Because of inadequate funds, maintenance and repair work for the
year was limited to that which was most urgently needed.

A new roof was put on the lion house, and new skylights were con-
structed and installed. Much of the material used in the skylights
had been salvaged, and some had been obtained as surplus from the
armed services reduction in stock.

At the end of the fiscal year reroofing of the antelope building was
well under way.

Two frame buildings used for emergency housing and as winter
quarters for some animals were given an outside sheathing as pro-
tection against the weather and to obtain some degree of added in-
sulation.

Throughout the year, and particularly during the warm weather,
the entire heating plant is given a thorough overhauling to make cer-
tain that it is in first-class condition and to reduce to a minimum the
hazard of heating failure. This is an extensive job for the Zoo’s
limited maintenance force.

Ventilation systems and refrigeration plants for the penguins and
for the preservation of food are all watched carefully and maintained
in the best possible condition to prevent breakdown.

Working at odd times between other urgent maintenance jobs, the
mechanical force has made a remarkable transformation at one end
of the monkey house. Eight old, small, poorly lighted cages were
removed and the platform on which they stood enclosed with glass
and wire fabric. Heavy tree limbs were added so that there is now
an excellent large indoor cage for miscellaneous monkeys. At the
close of the fiscal year there were 16 individuals in this cage getting
along nicely and providing outstanding entertainment, as well as
giving people an opportunity to study their movements and ways of
life in the wild. Living together in this manner is highly beneficial
to the monkeys as it stimulates much-needed exercise.

No other major repair work could be attempted during the year.

As pointed out in previous reports, the funds now available for
operating the Zoo are not adequate to keep pace with deterioration
of materials in the buildings and other structures that are now reach-
ing such an age that an increasing amount of repair work must be
done if they are to be kept in use. Six enclosures in the ravine above
the sea lions have had to be abandoned because of inability to keep
them in repair.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 123

Over a period of years there has been a gradual increase in the
amount of trimming of trees necessary along the roads, walks, and
paths and in the exhibition area. Because of disease or age, some of
the trees are dying and must be cut down. Others must be trimmed
to remove dead or broken limbs that might fall and injure people
or animals, or damage automobiles or structures.

The job of cleaning up the grounds is a major undertaking. Using
all available manpower, it usually takes 5 to 10 days to pick up the
trash and restore the park to a fair degree of presentability after
Easter Sunday and Monday. This work has of necessity been reduced
to a minimum, with the result that the Zoo has been criticized by cor-
respondents and the press for the condition of the grounds.

The lawns, shrubs, and trees cannot be kept in as attractive condi-
tion as they might be because of lack of maintenance funds. However,
curtailment of this work results in less harm than does the neglect
of structures and fences.

During the year Congress provided money for the employment of
a veterinarian but the position had not been filled at the end of the
year. However, a veterinarian has now been appointed and will be
on duty early in the fiscal year 1956.

Temporary policemen were employed this year to assist the regular
police during days of heaviest attendance or when the force was
short-handed. This is a satisfactory arrangement and much more
economical than employing additional full-time policemen when the
permanent personnel now authorized is adequate for a large propor-
tion of the time.

From time to time during the year earth has been received for the
fill across the road from the large-mammal house. After the fill is
completed a sidewalk will be laid on that side of the road, providing
a greater measure of safety for the public. Until the fill settles, the
area will be used for a car-parking site, and later paddocks will be
placed on it.

NEW BUILDING

The rest-room building, with headquarters for the police and office
and storage space for the gardener, should be finished during the fiscal
year 1956. The building was designed by the Department of Build-
ings and Grounds of the Government of the District of Columbia in
accordance with provisions of law. Inasmuch as bids under the
original specifications exceeded the appropriations by about $30,000,
it was necessary to prepare new plans and specifications, omitting
about $30,000 worth of desirable but least-needed features, and to
readvertise. This delayed final letting of the contract until April
19, 1955.
124 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

VISITORS

The estimated number of visitors to the Zoo was 3,476,584, which
was 139,636 less than for the year 1954.

Since the daily attendance record of visitors is based entirely upon
estimates rather than actual counts, it is entirely possible that there
was not really a decline in the total. In spite of possible errors, it is
obvious that the attendance is regularly between 3 and 34% million
visitors each year.

By actual count, 10,674 visitors entered the reptile house on Sunday,
September 5, 1954, and 9,318 on Monday, September 6. The esti-
mated total attendance for the Park on those dates was 45,000 and
40,000, respectively. These figures are typical of holiday and weekend
attendance.

Estimated number of visitors for fiscal year 1955

uly O04) See se ee 4845000) Mebruarys2es) 222 ee 101, 750
PAUP IG Gee ee Sees 2 ee eee 5o0::000;|-March.-2 22... 225 eee 197, 500
September: 8. es ee 398000) |CAprile 222. sen eee Soe 468, 384
October see Sere Ne ee 21200 Maye ase See eee 403, 500
Novemberiv2: 2. etry st 143%400;|(Junelts2 tse eee 836, 500
Wecembers) 0 3) ae ae 58, 800 —--—
January, (195) #522 eee 127.550 | Rotel 35 ee 3, 476, 584

Groups came to the Zoo from schools in Canada, Colombia, South
America, and 31 States, some as far away as Maine, Florida, Missis-
sippi, and Minnesota.

Number of groups from schools

Number | Number Number | Number

Locality of groups | in groups Locality of groups | in groups
Alabama tt fea ees eo ee ee 22 804s Michigan? 2202) = Se eee 9 623
IAT Ransas Se 2S eee eee 2 43 ib IMinniesota tees wiiek lee 4 155
Canadavaa eee Ue 1 22) | MUSSissippis tones een e ns eee 8 357
Colombia; /Si7Ac iso. soe es 1 37 || New Hampshire-_---.--.------ 2 112
Connecticut22 2 ae 16 TOS New Jersey oc se- ee eee 10 574
Dela wares ss s.e ee Eee oe ee 8 284): |MNGwaVOrkascee sue ene eee ose 103 6, 759
District of Columbia__-_------ 138 7 0373||\INOttboY @arolingacosseass= 2 -2— 256 10, 433
Blorida ss. eee ee aa ae 11 S78 tT Ohig eee eee eee ee eee 48 2, 244
Georglas 2S ee eee 66 6,595) || Pennsylvania_-2-2—--22-=--.- 241 12, 573
MN inGise se Sie eee ee 4 122::\\) South Carolina: 22-2 222 s22— 2 84 3, 503
Indiana. 2 seo ek a eles 8 628:||) Tennessee: . 2s ios: eee 73 3, 412
OWS soe eee ee eae a aoke 1 QT lheVireinig seks eee ease ae 566 33, 010
WKWansasii22 Sooo Sees 1 830i] Wiest) Virginia. 2-2 2224 S25 2 48 3, 766
IKON GUCKy 25 ee Sees ue Bold Wasconsin 22) 222 oe sao 3 257
Missing ss 8a: ot ees Se 20 900 a are
Maryland ise eee ee 549 34, 294 Totals Ao 2. sees 2, 319 130, 458
Massachusetts_..--.-....-=--. 10 470

About 2 p. m. each day the cars then parked in the Zoo are counted
and listed according to the State, Territory, or country from which
they came. This is, of course, not a census of the cars coming to the
Zoo, but is valuable in showing the percentage of attendance, by
States, of people in private automobiles. Many District of Columbia,
SECRETARY’S REPORT 125

Maryland, and Virginia cars come to the Zoo to bring guests from
other States. The tabulation for the fiscal year 1955 is as follows:

Percent Percent
Maney an dee eee ge O55) OhiQues= eee eee ee 1.6
Vireinig= =. ao ee eee eee ee, ¢ West Virginia==22- 25 2 2s2s 2 1.2
District of Columbia____-_ tS 21.5 Massachusetts_____-___________ 1.1
Pennsylvania = 2222-2 =2 asGu Hloridase- cna. = Si! ear ee 0.9
ING Wit) OT Re oe ee ee ee Oe ie LAT OS Bene oat ee eo ee 0.7
Northe Carolinas === es. Dek, }Calitonmide2 22a = eee ae 0.7
INeWe J GDSeCY cose sone e ese ck se i South Carolinas ss. == 22a 0.6

The cars that made up the remaining 10.6 percent came from every
one of the remaining States, as well as from Alaska, Austria, British
Columbia, Canada, Canal Zone, Cuba, England, Germany, Hawaii,
Japan, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Okinawa, and Puerto Rico.

On the days of even small attendance there are cars parked in the
Zoo from at least 15 States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and
foreign countries. On average days there are cars from about 22
States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and foreign countries;
and during the periods of greatest attendance the cars represent not
less than 34 different States, Territories, and countries.

COOPERATION

At all times special efforts are made to maintain friendly contacts
with other Government and State agencies, private concerns and indi-
viduals, and scientific workers for mutual assistance. As a result the
Zoo receives much help and advice and many valuable specimens, and
in turn it furnishes information and, whenever possible, specimens it
does not need.

Particular thanks are due C. W. Phillips, Paul R. Achenbach, and
R. S. Dill, of the National Bureau of Standards, for their advice and
assistance in bringing about the best possible conditions in the refrig-
erated penguin room.

Dr. Willard H. Eyestone, veterinary pathologist of the Cancer Divi-
sion of the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md., gave much
valuable advice on matters pertaining to the welfare of the animals,
and made every effort to help save the emperor penguins. He and
other members of the National Institutes of Health isolated the organ-
ism Aspergillus and established pure cultures of it, and are now trying
to find a chemical or bacterial agent to combat the fungus.

Dr. Eyestone also continued his own project of making autopsies
on animals that died in the Zoo, in order to obtain information re-
garding cancer and other diseases affecting human beings.

Special acknowledgment is due to the United States Dispatch
Agent in New York City, Howard Fyfe, an officer of the State De-
126 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

partment, who has frequently been called upon to clear shipments of
animals coming from abroad. This he has done, often at great per-
sonal inconvenience, and the animals have been forwarded to Wash-
ington without the loss of a single specimen.

For several years past the Zoo has been given, or has been able to
buy at greatly reduced prices, considerable quantities of food ma-
terials such as rice, flour, beans, and canned and packaged foods that
had been condemned by the courts as unsuitable for human consump-
tion. But this year almost no material of this type was made avail-
able and the lack has been reflected in the additional expenditures
necessary for the purchase of food for the animals.

The National Institutes of Health, the Army Medical Center, the
Navy Medical Center, and the Nutritional Laboratory of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture gave the Zoo mice, rats, guinea-pigs, rabbits, and
other animals no longer suitable for their purposes. These are valu-
able food for many animals.

The Poultry Division of the Department of Agriculture gave a
considerable number of day-old chicks that were hatched in connec-
tion with certain of their experiments. These are a highly desirable
addition to the diet of many animals.

Samuel M. Poiley, associate chief of the Animal Production Sec-
tion, National Institutes of Health, continued to supply surplus lab-
oratory animals and some that were raised for laboratory purposes,
which were desirable additions to the exhibition collection.

NEEDS OF THE ZOO

Replacement of antiquated structures that have long since ceased
to be suitable for the purposes for which they are used is still the
principal need of the Zoo. Urgently required are:

A building to house antelopes and other medium-sized hoofed ani-
mals that require a heated building.

A new administration building to replace the 150-year-old historic
landmark that is still in use as an office building but that is neither
suitably located nor well adapted for the purpose.

A fireproof service building for receiving shipments of animals,
quarantining them, and caring for those in ill health or those that
cannot be placed on exhibition.

A new ventilating system for the bird house.

Lesser items of equipment that are needed are a vacuum pump for
more efficient and economical operation of the heating system in the
reptile house; a band saw to replace one that is more than 40 years
old; and an air compressor for general use about the Park.

The enclosures and pools for beavers, otters, seals, and nutrias, in
the ravine, need to be reconstructed. Owing to lack of funds for up-
SECRETARY’S REPORT 127

keep, and consequent deterioration, this area has become unsightly
and inadequate for the proper care and exhibition of these animals,

In addition to new buildings, new paddocks are needed. Over the
years, space for the exhibition of such animals as deer, sheep, goats,
and other hoofed animals has been so curtailed that the collection no
longer contains the proper assortment of these attractive and valuable
animals, This has been brought about by the natural deterioration of
materials, making some of the paddocks no longer usable; elimination
of some paddocks for the construction of buildings on the sites; and
abandonment of some paddocks that were in undesirable locations.
Further abandonment of some paddocks is imminent to make way for
parking space for cars and buses to offset losses in such space that will
occur if the Rock Creek—Potomac Parkway is extended through the
Zoo property on the east side of the creek. Construction of ten new
paddocks and rehabilitation of six old cnes are urgently needed.

Provision of new parking space necessitates grading and surfacing
about 14,000 square yards of land in several different locations.

The establishment of parking space near the mechanical shops will
make unavailable an area that has been used for the storage of a
reserve pile of coal. As this location has never been an entirely satis-
factory one, it would be highly desirable at this time to build an
addition to the regular coal bunker to increase the capacity and elimi-
nate the need for maintaining a separate reserve pile.

The steadily increasing popularity of the Zoo, as a source of both
entertainment and education, has developed such a volume of requests
for information that there is now need for an additional scientist to
share the load of answering queries and to assist in other administra-
tive work so that the Director and Assistant Director can devote more
time to general supervision of the Zoo.

One additional general mechanic is needed to assist the maintenance
personnel in what has hitherto been a losing race in trying to keep pace
with natural deterioration in the structures. The newest of the ex-
hibition buildings are 18 years old, the reptile house is 24 years old,
and the bird house is 27 years old. The minimum of maintenance has
fully occupied the mechanical force, mainly on the larger structures, so
that there has been almost no opportunity to take care of the lesser
structures such as paddocks and outside cages, with the result that an
increasing number of these are unusable.

Two additional permanent laborers are needed for proper mainte-
nance, removal of dead or fallen tree limbs and other safety hazards,
and repair of walks, guard rails, and other structures, for the protec-
tion of the public.

To comply with the requirements of keeping property and inventory
records, in accordance with the program laid down by the General
128 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Services Administration, by authority of the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (Public Law 152, 81st Congress,
approved June 30, 1949), General Regulation 100 of the General Ac-
counting Office, and Budget-Treasury Regulation No. 1, there is need
for three additional clerks.

STATUS OF THE COLLECTION

Class Baa as Individuals
Mammals: 325-53. Shee ane oe eee ee eee 242 836
BW fea A A gl ge ey 302 1, 383
Reptiles = cose Se eee 20 eA ae Se aes a deka ses CPE ae et 146 701
Amphibians? : 262 Ase ool oe Oe Nei ee eee ee 26 95
Mishi= S28 s See eres See Se eee te eee na eee eee 25 292
‘Arachnids:'3 2 ut ete so 3 Serene a eee ee Ses 2 1 3
ATR SO CUS ees a a eae eat eee ee ea 1 100
Totaliy.6 se bsese See ee ek ie ee eerie ess 743 3, 410
Animalsonshandiduly il, Ob aes es Se ee a eS 2, 980
Accessions: during, the) years~2_=224- 2820-3 ee ee eee 2, 347
Total number of animals in collection during the year____________ 5, 327
Removals for various reasons such as death, exchanges, return of animals
on *deposlt,vetes ees Lok Seed tee ee Se eerie See eee 1, 917
In <collection won) June 30); 195022ee 6 beet ee ee ee ei eee 3, 410

Respectfully submitted.
W. M. Mann, Director.
Dr. Leonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

1 Many small creatures are given to the Zoo that have been pets in homes where they
are no longer welcome, or where circumstances necessitate giving them up. These include
ducks, chickens, and rabbits given to children at Easter time, parakeets, alligators, caimans,
guinea-pigs, ete. Also many of the common local wild things that are found by children
or adults who think the creatures need help are brought to the Zoo. This includes a wide
array, but particularly gray squirrels, cottontail rabbits, opossums, skunks, raccoons,
foxes, woodchucks, blue jays, robins, sparrows, box turtles, as well as other less plentiful
forms. The quantity of these received far exceeds the need for exhibition animals and
facilities to care for them; therefore, some are used in exchange for other animals that
are needed, and some are liberated. During the past year there were 925 individuals of
27 different kinds of such unneeded animals brought in. ‘These were accessioned and
therefore are recorded, which accounts in part for the large number of removals listed.
Report on the Canal

Zone Biological Area

Sir: It gives me pleasure to present herewith the annual report on
the Canal Zone Biological Area for the fiscal year ended June 380,

1955.

SCIENTISTS AND THEIR STUDIES

During the fiscal year 43 scientists came to Barro Colorado Island
to do research in their respective fields. This is 21 more than last year.
The following list does not include the large number who came to get
acquainted with the island but who could spend only a day or two

there.

Investigator
Abegg, Dr. Roland,
University of Louisiana.
Ansley, Dr. Hudson,
Johns Hopkins University.

Barnard, Dr. J. Laurens,
Allan Hancock Foundation.
Chickering, Dr. A. M.,
Albion College, Michigan.
Clark, Dr. Walter,
Eastman Kodak Research Labora-
tory, Rochester, N. Y.
Dawson, Dr. J. Wm.,
New Zealand to California.
Hisenmann, Dr. Eugene,
New York City.
Enders, Dr. Robert K.,
Swarthmore College.

Freund, Rudolf,
Life Magazine.

Grégoire, Dr. Ch.,
L’Université de Liége.
Grégoire, Dr. Jenny Legasse,
Brussels, Belgium.
Haig, Miss Janet,
Allan Hancock Foundation.
Harrell, Dr. Byron E.,
University of Minnesota.

Principal interest or special study

Observational studies of birds and
plants.

Collection and preservation of certain
pentatomids, scutigerids, and related
forms for spermatogenesis studies.

Fresh-water amphipods.

Continuation of intensive study of the
spider fauna.

Evaluation of extensive corrosion and
deterioration tests.

To know the richness of the island’s
flora and plant ecology.

Continuation of studies of birds of the
island.

Survey of mammalian fauna and pres-
ervation of material for histological
and embryological studies of agouti,
Proechimys, and sloth.

Photography of army ant life for ex-
tensive paper on these, and collection
of much new data and specimens for
future articles.

Mechanism of coalgulation of insect
haemolymph.

Collection of insects for Dr. Grégoire’s
studies.

To study the biota for future trips.

Natural areas in middle America, dis-
tributional studies of birds in cloud
forests, ecology of birds of neotropi-
cal rain forest ; behavior of Peripatus.

129
130

Investigator
Henry, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R.,
Smithsonian Institution.
Huber, Hugh,
Tubingen, Germany.
Humphrey, Richard,
Albion College, Michigan.
Linford, Mr. and Mrs. James B.,
Oakland, Calif.
Lichtwardt, Dr. Robert W.,
University of Illinois.

Lichtwardt, Mrs. Robert W.,
University of Illinois.

Littau, Dr. Alan S.,
Barnard College.
Littau, Dr. Virginea,
Barnard College.
Lloyd, Ivan,
Eastman Kodak Tropical Research
Laboratory, Panama City.
Lundy, Wm. E.,
Assistant Treasurer, Panama Canal.
McEvoy, J. P.,
Pleasantville, N. Y.
Mitchener, Dr. C. D.,
University of Kansas.
Morris, Robert C.,
U. S. Department of Agriculture.

Olivares, Tito,
Eastman Tropical Research Labora-
tory, Panama City.
Patrick, Dr. Ruth,
Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia.
Pippin, Miss Mary Ellen,
Allan Hancock Foundation.
Rettenmeyer, Carl,
University of Kansas.

Roberts, Dr. H. Radclyffe,
Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia.

Schneirla, Dr. T. C.,
American Museum of Natural His-
tory.

Schrader, Dr. Franz,
Columbia University.

Schrader, Dr. Sally Hughes,
Columbia University.

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Principal interest or special study

To collect more material on plants and
animals for press releases.

Naturalistic studies in association with
Dr. Ansley.

Assisting Dr. Chickering with his spider
studies.

Studies of bird behavior and nesting.

Study of fungi of the Hccrinales living
within the hind guts or on the exo-
skeleton of various arthropods.

Collection of host material of the
Eccrinales order of fungi and re-
lated forms.

The ecology of fungus-growing ants,
and photography.

EKeology of fungus-growing ants and
related species.

Deterioration and corrosion studies.

Further biological and ecological studies
of mammals, birds, and insects.
Material for The Readers’ Digest.

Biology of soil-nesting halictine bees.

Annual inspection of the termite tests
begun in 1923 and his extensive new
test areas.

Biological aspects of corrosion and
deterioration.

Appraisal of the islands limnological
possibilities.

Plants and animals for future studies.

Associate of Dr. Schneirla and aid to
Mr. Freund; observations and collec-
tions of bees and social wasps.

A revisit to study the surrounding forest
improvements.

Continuation of his studies of the army
ants and preparation of manuscripts
and his forthcoming book on army
ants.

Continuation of extensive cytological
studies.

Further cytological studies; research
on chromozones and preparation of
preserved material for further study.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 131

Investigator Principal interest or special study

Schubert, Dr. Bernice, Survey of plants of pharmaceutical im-
U. S. Department of Agriculture. portance for more intensive future

, studies.

Soper, Dr. Cleveland C., Direction of deterioration and corrosion
Eastman Kodak Tropical Research studies with particular emphasis on
Laboratory, Panama City. photographic equipment.

Swift, Paul, Physical and chemical studies related

Eastman Kodak Tropical Research to corrosion and deterioration.
Laboratory, Panama City.

Weber, Neal A., Cultivation of the fungi cultivated by
Swarthmore College. fungus-growing ants.

Wetmore, Dr. and Mrs. Alexander, Inspection of the physical plant and
Smithsonian Institution. continuation of his bird studies.

Wislocki, Louis, Survey of mammal fauna and collec-
Swarthmore College. tion of tissues for histological and

embryological studies.

VISITORS

In all, 636 local visitors spent at least a day on the island, and some
stayed several days. All were most enthusiastic. Visitors and scien-
tists alike were most interested in taking pictures, especially in color.
Scientists are finding photographs increasingly valuable aids in their
research and teaching. It is unfortunate that the high cost of trans-
portation still keeps many away or considerably curtails their stay.
It is hoped that means can be found to hold seminars of 20 or so under-
graduate students for about 3 months each year. Such a program has
tremendous possibilities and is receiving careful consideration.

Anyone contemplating a visit to this unique spot in the American
Tropics should communicate with the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution, Washington 25, D. C., or with the Resident Manager of
the Canal Zone Biological Area, Drawer C, Balboa, Canal Zone.

RAINFALL

In 1954, during the dry season (January through April) rains of
(0.01 inch or more fell on 40 of the 120 days (94 hours), and amounted
to only 5.84 inches, as compared to 12.83 inches during 1953.

During the wet season of 1954 (May through December) rains of
0.01 inch or more fell on 191 of the 245 days (724 hours) and amounted
to 99.84 inches, as compared to 92.14 inches during 1953.

During 1954 rain fell on 21 days (818 hours), and averaged only
0.45 inch per day, almost 0.13 inch per hour.

March was the driest month (0.21 inch) and November the wettest
(17.14 inches.) The wettest year of record (30 years) was 1935 with
143.42 inches, and the driest year of record was 1930 with only 76.57
inches.
132 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

The maximums of record for short periods were: 5 minutes, 1.30
inches; 10 minutes, 1.65 inches; 1 hour, 4.11 inches; 2 hours, 4.81
inches; 24 hours, 10.48 inches.

TaBLy 1.—Ananual rainfall, Barro Colorado Island

Total Station Total Station

Year inches average Year inches average
qOgge . Revie Ol 1Osts7) (oe O40) sot 3 etek Ae es 86.51 109. 43
EOQ62 Beste ree on aie US 220 PltS 756) OF ee eee 91.82 108. 41
LO (ie ca SO ee te ye 116. 36 LUA 6S VO4DEs ae oe ee 111.10 108.55
OZ Sess hia ae ee OTD 20 ep LTE S'S) | LS Aes eee 120.29 109. 20
ODO ees ee ee eae Sie o4,) LOG 256 | O44 4a eae 111. 96 109. 30
OS Ose es Bee 4650 TOM 51) | O45 see eee eee 120. 42 109. 84
11,0 P35) bee hs ee ey 123. 30 1042691946 a eee ee 87.38 108. 81
VOSD ews hae fie ek MSS Zee LOS 676i 194s oe eres 77.92 107. 49
VO Se eee ee ee 101. 73 LOS SZ MOA eae ee eee 83.16 106. 48
OBA oe era Se son te 224A SO OAIMNO4OL Ss a ee 114.86 106. 76
Ue ea ST eee a ey, AF ALIN) S455 || SOG e Se ee 114. 51 107. 07
LOS Gee. See O25 8S iP lOSsOSi MOE t= eso aan 272 AO 28
OZ Tak ees ER Le 124. 13 ORT | 195 2se2 = See eee 97.68 106. 94
JUS ke tone = cee ee pe rea A709) 9 VLO6 2) | MO53eeas ae 104.97 106. 87
OS Oe Rimes si Mee es oe L564 OFS Onde eee 105.68 106. 82

TABLE 2.—Comparison of 1958 and 1954 rainfall, Barro Colorado Island (inches)

Total Accumu
Month Station | Years of | Excess or lated

average | record | deficiency | excess or

1953 1954 deficiency
VANUATY sans seo eee on enee 4.30 1, 24 1. 84 29 —0. 60 —0. 60
Mebriary2 22022 he i ee . 69 1, 29 1. 25 29 +0. 04 —0. 56
Marche 2 oe ae een seers ere 1. 20 0. 21 1.16 29 —0. $5 —1.51
Ari soe ee Ree a 6. 64 3.10 3.16 30 —0. 06 —1.57
MSY 2522 os oot oon nee acca sa neon cee 9. 21 11. 09 10. 84 30 +0. 25 —1.32
JUNO2 ss oe ese ees se 3. 81 12. 06 11.17 30 +0. 89 —0. 43
JUN Ye oe con roe se oweoacanesaneecceass= 15. 93 15. 05 11. 66 30 +3. 49 +3. 06
ATI OSt 22 - aes oA ee 15. 60 12. 92 12. 30 30 +0. 62 +3. 68
Septemberttie-. 2c oees. cone aeee nares 5. 70 11.19 9. 95 30 +1. 24 +4. 92
Octoberzs22- usb) so ee eet 18. 27 13. 14 13. 66 30 —0. 52 +4. 40
INOVOIM Deis ase secre soca se se cen eaaceee 19. 28 17.14 19. 04 30 —1.90 +2. 50
Mecember..2 S522523. 25.4 2 Sk Se oe 4.34 7. 25 10. 89 30 —3. 64 —1.14
We@arissc* £o2022.52 8. - 3st 104. 97 105. 68 106%82))| <Sesse2 4 |e Sees —1.14
Dry season. = 2222 5... se 12. 83 5. 84 (i ee eee —1.57
Wot season seas esas ee oree 92.14 99. 84 O04 | ee a et iceceeees —0. 43

BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND IMPROVEMENTS

The 110-220-volt, 60-cycle overhead electrical installation was com-
pleted.

The electrical installation in the new building is about half com-
pleted. The necessary pipes, sinks, and valves have been obtained
and six electric dehumidifiers purchased. New meta] shelving was
purchased for two of the rooms on the upper floor, which will house
the library and in which humidity control is readily possible, and a
supply of Dexion slotted angles was purchased for additional shelv-
ing, laboratory tables, and benches. Metal is being used wherever
possible instead of wood, which is so susceptible to termite infestation.

All the old metal beds were repainted, and four comfortable new
beds were purchased for the two large laboratory-dormitory rooms
SECRETARY’S REPORT ise

on the lower floor of the new building. This ground floor has a large
dark room, four toilets, and shower baths with hot water. Much of
the material for the dark room is on hand for early installation.

The large laboratory building, built in 1923, is in good condition,
though a few changes are contemplated which will add to the facili-
ties it offers. |

The kitchen was repainted inside, and a new 66-inch white enameled
cabinet sink was ordered to replace the stained and corroded iron sink.
An electric water heater was purchased and will be installed shortly.

Two of the cottages were repainted and the screening repaired and
are now in very good condition. Corrugated iron sheets were pur-
chased to replace the roof on the Haskins building. The repairs made
to the Chapman house, plus liberal use of coal-tar creosote, should
make this important building serviceable for several years to come.
The three other cottages are serving their purpose well, and the few
relatively inexpensive changes to be made will enhance their useful-
ness.

Of the trail-end houses, only the Drayton and Fuertes are in good
shape. The one at the end of Zetek trail could be used if repaired.
Neither the Bangs house nor the one at the end of Barbour trail is
usable.

A 14-foot metal boat and a 10-horsepower Johnson outboard motor
were purchased to permit more effective patrolling of the island and
in which it will be possible to reach Frijoles faster in emergencies.
A new 102-horsepower Gray-Marine Express engine was purchased
and installed in the U. S. Snook to replace the worn-out Red-Wing en-
gine, and glass windows were made and installed, replacing the in-
adequate and unserviceable canvas curtains. The U. S. Moon is still
serviceable.

A railing made of galvanized iron pipe was installed along the
north side of the long line of steps from the dock to the laboratory
levels. This safety measure has long been needed.

MOST URGENT NEEDS

A new water tank is very badly needed, for the one fed from the
roof of the old laboratory building is of coal-tar, creosote-treated tim-
ber and may collapse at any time. The use of concrete is not feasible
because of the stratigraphy of the area in which it is located. A new
tank of California redwood should be purchased without delay. It
would cost less than concrete and would last long enough to be eco-
nomical,

Two of the metal septic tanks, which were installed at least 15
years ago, have rusted through and are a menace. They should be re-
placed with concrete tanks as soon as possible.
134 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

The laboratory storerooms in the new building, which will also
house the library, herbarium, and species index, should be stocked
with chemicals, preservatives, laboratory glassware, and other neces-
sary equipment.

A separate dry room should be built on the ground floor of the new
building to provide a storage area free from mold for visiting scien-
tists to store their cameras, clothing, and luggage. A similar dry room
is needed in the old large building for the storage of such items as
linens, towels, and bedding to keep them free from the musty odors
of the humid tropics; and dry closets should be installed on the up-
per floor of this building and in the old Z-M-A cottage, the old Chi-
chi cottage, the Barbour guest house, and the Chapman house.

Tables are needed for the additional laboratory rooms, the library,
herbarium, and kitchen to replace the miscellaneous collection of odds
and ends that have been serving as tables. These can be economically
built of Dexion slotted angles and heavy plywood.

Repainting of the exteriors of all buildings is needed. Considera-
tion is being given to making this a paint-test program to determine
which paint gives the longest and most satisfactory service at the least
cost.

Since electricity is now available 24 hours a day, 4 attic fans, 6
oscillating fans, and 2 window air-conditioning units should be in-
stalled in carefully chosen areas. These will help to reduce the in-
terior temperatures and humidity of the laboratory buildings, and
thus contribute to the comfort and efficiency of the scientists.

The 29-year-old building occupied by the three laborers is in a bad
state of disrepair and must be rebuilt. Originally the U. S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture used this building for long-term termite tests,
and termite damage has contributed largely to its present unsatisfac-
tory condition.

The dock at the island, though it has been extended each year be-
cause of silting from the Allee and Lutz streams, is already at an un-
safe distance from the shore. Consideration is being given to the
relocation of the dock on the south shore of laboratory bay where soil
deposition is less likely to occur. A trail will have to be made from
the dock to the landing and this will require the purchase of more
Decauville track.

The engine of the U.S. Afoon, which carried the heavy burden when
the U. S. Snook was laid up for repairs, is still serviceable, but needs
to be overhauled soon to prevent more extensive and costly repairs at
a later date.

FINANCES

The rate for scientists and visitors for one-day visits is $3 per
person. This provides for the launch trip from Frijoles to the island,
a guide on the trail, noon meal, and launch trip back to Frijoles in
SECRETARY’S REPORT 135

time for the evening train. Scientists from institutions that con-
tribute to the support of the island through table subscriptions pay
$4 per person for each full day; others pay $5 per person for each
full day. The full-day rate provides for three consecutive meals and
lodging, in addition to the two launch trips required to reach and
leave the island.

The grant made by the National Science Foundation to the Smith-
sonian Institution for the Canal Zone Biological Area was received
with sincere appreciation. These funds enabled the Institution to
continue the operation of the island without interruption.

The following institutions continued their table subscriptions:

Hastmanwwod tke Company 22 aan ee eee ee eee $1, 000
New York Zoological Societys. 2.222002 eh se a ee eee 300
American Museum of Natural History___-_____________-_--___---___--- 300
Smithsonians Unstl tutions ae ee ee ee eee 300

[The Smithsonian Institution provides other funds as needed.]

Donations from the following are also gratefully acknowledged:
E. G. Cherbonier, Dr. Eugene Eisenmann, Dr. Margaret Fulford,
Dr. C. M. Goethe, Father J. L. Hartman, Robert M. Laughlin, Dr.
Harold L. Pierson, James Reid, Dr. Herbert Schwartz, and Dr. G. C.
Shattuck.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Thanks are due to the Canal Zone Government, its Executive Secre-
tary, the Customs and Immigration Divisions, the officials and em-
ployees of the Panama Railroad, and especially the Police Division;
the Panama Canal Company, particularly its Dredging and Com-
missary Divisions and the Storehouses; and also Dr. Soper, Dr. Swift,
and other staff members of the Eastman Kodak Tropical Research
Laboratory, especially Dr. Soper. Without such generous and un-
failing assistance, the Area could not function so successfully.

Respectfully submitted.

JameEs ZeTEK, Resident Manager.

Dr. Lronarp CaRMICHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

370930—56——10
Report on the International Exchange
Service

Sm: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activ-
ities of the International Exchange Service for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1955:

The Smithsonian Institution is the official United States agency for
the exchange with other nations of governmental, scientific, and lit-
erary publications. The International Exchange Service, initiated
by the Smithsonian Institution in the early years of its existence for
the interchange of scientific publications between learned societies and
individuals in the United States and those of foreign countries, serves
as a means of developing and executing in part the broad and compre-
hensive objective, “the diffusion of knowledge.” It was later desig-
nated by the United States Government as the agency for the trans-
mission of official documents to selected depositories throughout the
world, and it continues to execute the exchanges pursuant to conven-
tions, treaties, and other international agreements.

The number of packages of publications received for transmission
during the year increased by 126,463 to the yearly total of 1,146,972,
and the weight of the packages increased by 15,640 to 812,960 pounds.
The average weight of the individual package decreased to 11.34
ounces, as compared to the 12.49-ounce average for the fiscal year 1954.

The total weight of the foreign packages is higher than that received
in any year since 1939. The 63 cases received from the National
Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan, China, partially accounts for the
increase. This is the first shipment from China since the one received
from the National Central Library (then at Nanking) in 1949.

The publications received from foreign sources for addresses in the
United States and from domestic sources for shipment abroad are
classified as shown in the following table:

Classification Packages Weight

Number Number Pounds Pounds
United States parllamentary documents sent abroad_- 620/990) 2222-222 2es O72) 438 none cneaeae
Epp leeHons received in return for parliamentary docu-

wa 2 Ne oe 2 od ee | Pena eee ee 85582) |g Boe see 16, 432

United | States departmental documents sent abroad---- DYE EGP) Fi tee eee 175;893)|-22s2-c--e5—
Publications received in return for departmental docu-

MONtSe see Sees ak Pe ee Se |e ee 8.455) |2keee-22225- 21, 306
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications sent

abroadta.22. Se a ea de ee ee ee 168908 Ihe oS ence ee 208; 1845|-2.2--2225-
Miscellaneous scientific and literary publications re-
ceived from abroad for distribution in the United

States ane eas aaa | eee eee 96; 400) |ooc==5=----= 118, 712
"Rotel ese ee renee a a rer pee 1, 033, 535 118, 437 656, 510 156, 450
Grand:total.. 2... se ee a oe 1, 146, 972 812, 960

136
SECRETARY’S REPORT 137

The packages of publications are forwarded to the exchange bu-
reaus of foreign countries by freight or, where shipment by such
means is impractical, to the foreign addressees by direct mail. Dis-
tribution in the United States of the publications received through the
foreign exchange bureaus is accomplished primarily by mail, but by
other means when more economical. The number of boxes shipped
to the foreign exchange bureaus was 2,836, or 730 less than for the
previous year. Of these boxes 897 were for depositories of full sets
of United States Government documents, these publications being fur-
nished in exchange for the official publications of foreign governments
which are received for deposit in the Library of Congress. The num-
ber of packages forwarded by mail and by means other than freight
was 212,789.

There was allocated to the International Exchange Service for
transportation $41,000. With this amount it was possible to effect
the shipment of 800,308 pounds, which was 12,552 pounds less than
the weight of publications received during the year. However, ap-
proximately 14,000 pounds of the full sets of United States Govern-
ment documents accumulated during the year because the Library of
Congress had requested suspension of shipment to certain foreign
depositories.

Ocean freight rates to the English and European ports were in-
creased 15 percent in April, and the rates to Japanese, Philippine, and
other eastern ports were increased 10 percent in May.

The total outgoing correspondence was 2,568 letters, exclusive of
information copies.

With the exception of Taiwan, no shipments are being made to
China, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Communist-controlled area of
Viet Nam, Communist-controlled area of Laos, or the Haiphong
Enclave.

With certain exceptions the regulations of the Bureau of Foreign
Commerce, Department of Commerce, provide that each package of
publications exported bear a general license symbol and a legend,
“Export License Not Required.” ‘The International Exchange Serv-
ice accepts for transmission to foreign destinations only those pack-
ages of publications that fall within the exception and those packages
of publications to which the general license symbol and legend have
been applied by the consignor.

FOREIGN DEPOSITORIES OF GOVERNMENTAL DOCUMENTS

The number of sets of United States official publications received
by the Exchange Service for transmission abroad in return for the
official publications sent by foreign governments for deposit in the
Library of Congress is now 105 (62 full and 43 partial sets), listed
138 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

below. Changes that occurred during the year are shown in the

footnotes.
DEPOSITORIES OF FULL SETS

ARGENTINA: Divisién Biblioteca, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto,
Buenos Aires.

AUSTRALIA; Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.
New SourH WaAtLEgEs: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Parliamentary Library, Brisbane.

SourH AvsTRALIA: Public Library of South Australia, Adelaide.

TASMANIA: Parliamentary Library, Hobart.

Victoria: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.
AvustriA: Administrative Library, Federal Chancellery, Vienna.
BrierumM: Bibliothéque Royale, Bruxelles.

BraziL: Biblioteca Nacional, Rio de Janeiro.

Bu.earta: Bulgarian Bibliographical Institute, Sofia.’

Burma: Government Book Depot, Rangoon.

CAanaDA; Library of Parliament, Ottawa.

MAnITosA: Provincial Library, Winnipeg.

OnTARIO: Legislative Library, Toronto.

QueEBEC: Library of the Legislature of the Province of Quebec.
CryLon: Department of Information, Government of Ceylon, Colombo.
CHILE: Biblioteca Nacional, Santiago.

CHINA: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.”

Perrine: National Library of Peiping.?

CoLoMBIA: Biblioteca Nacional, Bogota.

Costa Rica: Biblioteca Nacional, San José.

CuBA: Ministerio de Estado, Canje Internacional, Habana.

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: National and University Library, Prague.’

DENMARK: Institut Danios des Exchanges Internationaux, Copenhagen.

EayPt: Bureau des Publications, Ministére des Finances, Cairo.

FINLAND: Parliamentary Library, Helsinki.

France: Bibliothéque Nationale, Paris.

GERMANY: Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.®
Free University of Berlin, Berlin.

Parliamentary Library, Bonn.

GREAT BriraiIn:

Hnatanp: British Museum, London.

Lonpon: London School of Economics and Political Science. (Depository

of the London County Council.)

Huneaky: Library of Parliament, Budapest.’

InprA: National Library, Calcutta.

Central Secretariat Library, New Delhi.

INDONESIA: Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Djakarta.

IRELAND: National Library of Ireland, Dublin.

IsraEL: Government Archives and Library, Hakirya.

ITaty: Ministerio della Publica Istruzione, Rome.

1 Shipment suspended.
2 Changed from National Central Library, Nanking.
® Name changed from Offentliche Wissenschaftliche Bibliothek, Berlin.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 139

JaPAN: National Diet Library, Tokyo.‘

Mexico: Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores, Departmento de Informacién para
el Extranjero, México, D. F.

NETHERLANDS: Royal Library, The Hague.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Utenriksdepartmentets Bibliothek, Oslo.

Perv: Seccién de Propaganda y Publicaciones, Ministerio de Relaciones BEx-
teriores, Lima.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLanD: Bibliothéque Nacionale, Warsaw.’

PortTuaaL: Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

SPAIN: Biblioteca Nacional, Madrid.

SweDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SWITZERLAND; Bibliothéque Centrale Fédérale, Berne.

TURKEY: Department of Printing and Engraving, Ministry of Education, Is-
tanbul.

Union oF SoutH AFrica: State Library, Pretoria, Transvaal.

Union oF Soviet SociAList RePusrics: All-Union Lenin Library, Moscow, 115.

UnIreD Nations: Library of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.

Uruevay: Oficina de Canje Internacional de Publicaciones, Montevideo.

VENEZUELA: Biblioteca Nacional, Caracas,

Yueostavia: Bibliografski Institut, Belgrade.‘

DEPOSITORIES OF PARTIAL SETS

AFGHANISTAN: Library of the Afghan Academy, Kabul.

ANGLO-EGYPTIAN Supan: Gordon Memorial College, Khartoum.

Kotrv1a: Biblioteca del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, La Paz.
BRAZIL:

Minas Gerais: Directoria Geral de Estatistica em Minas, Belo Horizonte.
BriTIsH GUIANA: Government Secretary’s Office, Georgetown, Demerara.
CANADA:

ALBERTA: Provincial Library, Edmonton.

BritisH CoLuMBIA: Provincial Library, Victoria.

New Brunswick: Legislative Library, Fredericton.

NEWFOUNDLAND: Department of Provincial Affairs, St. John’s.

Nova Scotia: Provincial Secretary of Nova Scotia, Halifax.

SASKATCHEWAN: Legislative Library, Regina.

Dominican REPUBLIC: Biblioteca de la Universidad de Santo Domingo, Ciudad
Trujillo.

Ecuapor: Biblioteca Nacional, Quito.

EL SALvapor:

Biblioteca Nacional, San Salvador.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, San Salvador.
GREECE: National Library, Athens.

GUATEMALA: Biblioteca Nacional, Guatemala,
Hrati: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.
HONDURAS:

Biblioteca y Archivo Nacionales, Tegucigalpa.

Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa.
IckLAND: National Library, Reykjavik.

“ Receives two sets.
140 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

INDIA:
BIHAR AND OrISsSA: Revenue Department, Patna.
BompBay: Undersecretary to the Government of Bombay, General Depart-
ment, Bombay.
UNITED PROVINCES OF AGRA AND OUDH:
University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
Secretariat Library, Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow.
West BeneaL: Library, West Bengal Legislative Secretariat, Assembly
House, Calcutta.
IRAN: Imperial Ministry of Education, Tehran.
Iraq: Public Library, Baghdad.
JAMAICA: Colonial Secretary, Kingston.
University College of the West Indies, St. Andrew.
LEBANON: American University of Beirut, Beirut.
Linerta: Department of State, Monrovia.
MaALayA: Federal Secretariat, Federation of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur.
Manta: Minister for the Treasury, Valleta.
Nicaracua: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Managua.
PAKISTAN: Chief Secretary to the Government of Punjab, Lahore.
Central Secretariat Library, Karachi.
PanaMA: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Panama.
PARAGUAY: Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Seccién Biblioteca, Asunci6n.
ScorLtanp: National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh.
Sram: National Library, Bangkok.
SineAPore: Chief Secretary, Government Offices, Singapore.
VaTIcaN City: Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, Vatican City, Italy.

INTERPARLIAMENTARY EXCHANGE OF THE OFFICIAL JOURNAL

There are now being sent abroad 92 copies of the Federal Register
and 94 copies of the Congressional Record. This is an increase over
the preceding year of 2 copies of the Federal Register and a decrease
of 10 copies of the Congressional Record. The countries to which
these journals are being forwarded are given in the following list.

DEPOSITORIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD AND FEDERAL REGISTER

ARGENTINA:

Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires.

Biblioteca del Poder Judiciai, Mendoza.*

Boletin Oficial de la Reptiblica Argentina, Ministerio de Justica e Instruc-

ci6n PGablica, Buenos Aires.

Camara de Disputados Oficina de Informaci6n Parlamentaria, Buenos Aires,
AUSTRALIA :

Commonwealth Parliament and National Library, Canberra.

New SoutH Wates: Library of Parliament of New South Wales, Sydney.

QUEENSLAND: Chief Secretary’s Office, Brisbane.

Vicrorta: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.®

WestERN AUSTRALIA: Library of Parliament of Western Australia, Perth.

5 Federal Register only.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 141

BRAZIL:
Biblioteca da Camera dos Deputados, Rio de Janeiro.
Secretaria de Presidencia, Rio de Janeiro.°
Amazonas: Archivo, Biblioteca e Imprensa Publica, Manios.°
Banta: Governador do Estado da Bahia, Sio Salvador.’
EsPeriTto SANTO: Presidencia do Estado do Espirito Santo, Victoria.®
Rio GRANDE DO SUL: Imprensa Oficial do Estado, Porto Alegre.
SAo Pavu.o: Imprensa Oficial do Hstada, SAio Paulo.
SercirE: Biblioteca Piblica do Estado de Sergipe, Aracaju.®
British Honpuras: Colonial Secretary, Belize.
CANADA:
Library of Parliament, Ottawa.
Clerk of the Senate, Houses of Parliament, Ottawa.
CEYLON: Ceylon Ministry of Defense and External Affairs, Colombo.®
CHINA:
Legislative Yuan, Taipei, Taiwan.°
Taiwan Provincial Government, Taipei, Taiwan.
Cupa: Biblioteca del Capitolio, Habana.
Biblioteca Publica Panamericana, Habana.®
Biblioteca Marti Camara de Representantes, Habana.
Eeypt; Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Egyptian Government, Cairo.®
Ex SAtvabDor: Library, National Assembly, San Salvador.
FRANCE;
Bibliothéque Assemblée Nationale, Paris.
Bibliothéque Conseil de la République, Paris.
Library, Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Paris.®
Publiques de l’Institut de Droit Comparé, Université de Paris, Paris.°
Research Department, Council of Europe, Strasbourg.’
Service de la Documentation Etrangére, Assemblée Nationale, Paris.®

GERMANY:
Amerika-Institut der Universitiit Miinchen, Miinchen.®
Archiv, Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.

Bibliothek der Instituts fiir Weltwirtschaft an der Universitit Kiel, Kiel-
Wik.

Bibliothek Hessischer Landtag, Wiesbaden.®

Der Bayrische Landtag, Munich.® 7

Deutscher Bundesrat, Bonn.°

Deutscher Bundestag, Bonn.®

Hamburgisches Welt-Wirtschafts-Archiv, Hamburg.’

Gotp Coast: Chief Secretary’s Office, Accra.®

GREAT BriTAIn:

Department of Printed Books, British Museum, London.®
House of Commons Library, London.®

Printed Library of the Foreign Office, London.

Royal Institute of International Affairs, London.®

GREECE: Bibliothéque, Chambre des Députés Hellénique, Athens.

GUATEMALA: Biblioteca de la Asamblea Legislativa, Guatemala.

HAITI: Bibliothéque Nationale, Port-au-Prince.

Honpvurss: Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional, Tegucigalpa.

® Congressional Record only.
7 Three copies.
® Added during year.
142 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

INDIA:
Civil Secretariat Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.*
Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi.°
Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly, Srinagar.‘
Legislative Assembly, Government of Assam, Shillong.®
Legislative Assembly Library, Lucknow, United Provinces.
Legislative Assembly Library, Trivandrum.‘
Madras State Legislature, Madras. ®
Parliament Library, New Delhi.’
Servants of India Society, Poona.*
IRELAND: Dail Eireann, Dublin.
IsraEL; Library of the Knesset, Jerusalem.
ITALy:
Biblioteca Camera dei Deputati, Rome.
Biblioteca del Senato della Republica, Rome.
European Office, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome.‘
International Institute for the Unification of Private Law, Rome.®
JAPAN: Library of the National Diet, Tokyo.
Korea: Secretary General, National Assembly, Pusan.
LUxEMBOURG: Assemblée Commune de la C. E. C. A., Luxembourg.
MExIco;
Direccién General Informacién, Secretaria de Gobernacién, México, D. F.
Biblioteca Benjamin Franklin, México, D. F.
AGUASCALIENTES: Gobernador del Estado de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes.
Basa CALIFORNIA: Gobernador del Distrito Norte, Mexicali.
CAMPECHE: Gobernador del Estado de Campeche, Campeche.
CuIaPAs: Gobernador del Estado de Chiapas, Tuxtla Gutiérrez.
CHIHUAHUA: Gobernador del Estado de Chihuahua, Chihuahua.
COAHUILA: Periéddico Oficial del Estado de Coahuila, Palacio de Gobierno,
Saltillo. oo Sees
CoLtIma: Gobernador del Estado de Colima, Colima.
DurRaANGO: Gobernador Constitucional del Estado de Durango, Durango.®
GUANAJUATO: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado, Guanajuato.’
GUERRERO: Gobernador del Estado de Guerrero, Chilpancingo.®
JALISCO: Biblioteca del Estado, Guadalajara.
Méxroo: Gaceta del Gobierno, Toluca.
MicHosaoANn: Secretaria General de Gobierno del Estado de Michoacfn,
Morelia.
MoreELos; Palacio de Gobierno, Cuernavaca.
NayagIT; Gobernador de Nayarit, Tepic.
Nuevo LE6n: Biblioteca del Estado, Monterrey.
Oaxaca: Periddico Oficial, Palacia de Gobierno, Oaxaca.’
Pursia: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Puebla.
QUERETARO: Secretaria General de Gobierno, Seccién de Archivo, Querétaro.
San Luts Porosf: Congreso del Estado, San Luis Potosi.‘
SINALOA: Gobernador del Estado de Sinaloa, Culiacin.
Sonor4: Gobernador del Estado de Sonora, Hermosillo.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 143

Mexitco—Continued
Tasasco: Secretarfa de Gobierno, Sessién 3a, Ramo de Prensa, Villaher-

mosga.*
TAMAULIPAS: Secretarfa General de Gobierno, Victoria.
TLaxcaLa: Secretaria de Gobierno del Estado, Tlaxcala.®
VERACRUz: Gobernador del Estado de Veracruz, Departamento de Gober-
nacién y Justicia, Jalapa.
YucatAn: Gobernador del Estado de Yucatfin, Mérida.
NETHERLANDS: Koninklijke Bibliotheek, The Hague.®
New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.
Norway: Library of the Norwegian Parliament, Oslo.
PAKISTAN; Punjab Legislative Assembly Department, Lahore.
PANAMA: Biblioteca Nacional, Panama City.®
Peru: CAimara de Diputados, Lima.
PoLaND: Ministry of Justice, Warsaw.®
PorTuGaL: Secretaria de Assembla National, Lisbon.°
PortuGuEsE Timor: Reparticio Central de Administracio Civil, Dili.
SWITZERLAND: Bibliothéque, Bureau International du Travail, Geneva.’
International Labor Office, Geneva.” ®
Library, United Nations, Geneva.
UNION oF SOUTH AFRICA:
Carr oF Goop Hore: Library of Parliament, Cape Town.
TRANSVAAL: State Library, Pretoria.
UNION or Soviet Soclarist Republics: Fundamental’niia Biblioteka Obschest-
vennykh Nauk, Moscow.®
Urvuauay: Diario Oficial, Calle Florida 1178, Montevideo.
VENEZUELA: Biblioteca del Congreso, Caracas.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE SERVICES

Exchange publications for addresses in the countries listed below
are forwarded by freight to the exchange services of those countries.
Exchange publications for addresses in other countries are forwarded
directly by mail.

LIST OF EXCHANGE SERVICES

Austria: Austrian National Library, Vienna.

BeELcIum: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale de Bel-
gique, Bruxelles.

CuH1nA: National Central Library, Taipei, Taiwan.”

CZECHOSLOVAKIA: Bureau of International Exchanges, National and University
Library, Prague.

DenMakK: Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Royale,
Copenhagen K.

Eayrt: Government Press, Publications Office, Bulaq, Cairo.

FINLAND: Delegation of the Scientific Societies, Snellmaninkatu 9-11, Helsinki.

FRANCE: Service des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale, 58 Rue

de Richelieu, Paris.
GEEBMANY (Eastern): Deutsche Staatsbibliothek, Berlin.

®Two copies.
1° Changed from National Central Library, Nanking.
144 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

GreMANy (Western): Notgemeinschaft der Deutschen Wissenschaft, Bad
Godesberg.

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND: Wheldon & Wesley, 83/84 Berwick Street, London,
Wot

Huneary: National Library, Széchényi, Budapest.

InprA: Government Printing and Stationery, Bombay.

INDONESIA: Minister of Education, Djakarta.™

IsRAEL: Jewish National and University Library, Jerusalem.

ITaLy: Ufficio degli Scambi Internazionali, Ministero della Publica Istruzione,
Rome.

JAPAN: Division of International Affairs, National Diet Library, Tokyo.

NETHERLANDS: International Exchange Bureau of the Netherlands, Royal Li-
brary, The Hague.

New SoutH WALES: Public Library of New South Wales, Sydney.

New ZEALAND: General Assembly Library, Wellington.

Norway: Service Norvégien des Kchanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque de
l'Université Royale, Oslo.

PHILIPPINES: Bureau of Public Libraries, Department of Education, Manila.

PoLanp: Service Polonais des Echanges Internationaux, Bibliothéque Nationale,
Warsaw.

PortuGaL: Seccio de Trocas Internacionais, Biblioteca Nacional, Lisbon.

QUEENSLAND: Bureau of Exchanges of International Publications, Chief Secre-
tary’s Office, Brisbane.

SoutH AusTRALIA: South Australian Government Exchanges Bureau, Govern-
ment Printing and Stationery Office, Adelaide.

Spain: Junta de Intercambio y Adquisici6én de Libros y Revistas para Bibliote-
cas Ptblicas, Ministerio de Educacién Nacional, Avenida Calvo Sotelo 20,
Madrid.

SwEDEN: Kungliga Biblioteket, Stockholm.

SwirzerLaAnp: Service Suisse des changes Internationaux, Bibliothéque Cen-
trale Fédérale Palais Fédéral, Berne.

TASMANIA: Secretary of the Premier, Hobart.

TurKEY: Ministry of Education, Department of Printing and Engraving, Istan-
bul.

UNION or SoutH AFricA: Government Printing and Stationery Office, Cape Town,
Cape of Good Hope.

UNION oF Soviet SocraList RePuBLics: Bureau of Book Exchange, State Lenin
Library, Moscow 19.

VictorIA: Public Library of Victoria, Melbourne.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Public Library of Western Australia, Perth.

Yuaostavia: Bibliografski Institut FNRJ, Belgrade.

Respectfully submitted.
D. G. Wiu1ams, Chief.
Dr. LronarD CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.

14 Between the United States and England only.
14 Changed from Department of Cultural Affairs and Education, Djakarta.
Report on the National Gallery of Art

Sim: I have the honor to submit, on behalf of the Board of Trustees,
the eighteenth annual report of the National Gallery of Art, for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1955. ‘This report is made pursuant to the
provisions of section 5 (d) of Public Resolution No. 14, Seventy-fifth
Congress, first session, approved March 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 51).

ORGANIZATION

The statutory members of the Board of Trustees of the National
Gallery of Art are the Chief Justice of the United States, the Secre-
tary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution, ex officio. The five general trustees continu-
ing in office during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1955, were Samuel
H. Kress, Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Duncan Phillips, Chester Dale,
and Paul Mellon. The Board held its annual meeting on May 3, 1955.
Samuel H. Kress was reelected President and Ferdinand Lammot
Belin Vice President, to serve for the ensuing year.

All the executive officers of the Gallery continued in office during
the year. The executive officers of the Gallery as of June 30, 1955,
are:

Huntington Cairns, Secretary-Treasurer.
David E. Finley, Director.

Ernest R. Feidler, Administrator.
Huntington Cairns, General Counsel.

John Walker, Chief Curator.
Macgill James, Assistant Director.

The three standing committees of the Board, as constituted at the
annual meeting May 3, 1955, were as follows:

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Chief Justice of the United States, Harl Warren, Chairman.
Samuel H. Kress, Vice Chairman.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin,

Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Leonard Carmichael.

Paul Mellon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE

Secretary of the Treasury, George M. Humphrey, Chairman.
Chester Dale, Vice Chairman.

Samuel H. Kress.

Ferdinand Lammot Belin.

Paul Mellon.

145
146 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

ACQUISITIONS COMMITTEE

Ferdinand Lammot Belin, Chairman.
Dunean Phillips.
Chester Dale.
Paul Mellon.
David E. Finley.
PERSONNEL

On June 30, 1955, full-time Government employees on the staff of
the National Gallery of Art numbered 301, as compared with 306
employees as of June 30, 1954. The United States Civil Service
regulations govern the appointment of employees paid from appro-
priated public funds.

APPROPRIATIONS

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1955, the Congress of the United
States appropriated for the National Gallery of Art $1,300,000, to
be used for salaries and expenses in the operation and upkeep of the
Gallery, the protection and care of works of art acquired by the Board
of Trustees, and all administrative expenses incident thereto, as
authorized by Joint Resolution of Congress approved March 24, 1937
(20 U. S. C. 71-75; 50 Stat. 51), and a supplemental appropriation
of $23,264 to meet the Gallery’s requirements for the fiscal year under
the “Federal Employees Salary Increase Act of 1955.” The total
appropriation for the fiscal year was $1,323,264. The following ex-
penditures and encumbrances were incurred:

PETSONAlRELVICER een bese eee, NENA ORD NEA Seamer a *$1, 173, 681. 41

Printing wand reproductions sse soe ea. See eee 3, 082. 05

Hlectricity, supplies, equipment, etc__-__.__.____.------_----_---~. 146, 500. 54

Totalas 2.5208 oe ee oe Se Be pee eh eae Sco 1, 323, 264. 00
ATTENDANCE

During the fiscal year 1955 there were 814,932 visitors to the Gal-
lery—an average daily attendance of about 2,245.

ACCESSIONS
There were 842 accessions by the National Gallery of Art as gifts,
loans, or deposits during the fiscal year. Most of the paintings and
a number of the prints were placed on exhibition.

1 This includes the $23,264 of the supplemental appropriation and $2,572 of the other-
wise unobligated balance of the regular appropriation.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 147

GIFTS

During the fiscal year 1955 the following gifts were accepted by
the Board of Trustees:

PAINTINGS
Donor ; - Artist Title
Mrs. Charles D. Draper-_---- Mitathso. ee eee eee George Washington
Mrs. Charles D. Draper._--- Dulari se aciaceer lees Ann Barry.
Mrs. Charles D. Draper_--_-- NElerGecewedleeeaoe Mary Barry.
Mrs. Charles D. Draper----- Raeburn ss -o26.52.2 <3 Jean Christie.
Mrs. Margaret S. Lewisohn_. Renoir__._-----_---- The Vintagers.
Mrs. Dwight Davis__._--_-- ROMMNGY 222 see ose Captain Forbes.
Mrs. Leland Harrison_-__-_~- it hesle-- 22202 aes Thomas Sully.
Mrs. Wm. D. Vogel___-_---- Raten= 22 eee ee On the Terrace.
Lessing J. Rosenwald__-_-_-- Blakezes sisson nse The Last Supper.
Lewis Einstein__.--._---.-- Rosalba Carriera_--_-- Portrait de Femme,
Comtesse Orzelska.
Lewis Einstein. ......-.-.-- Pateten score eet etad Scene Champétre.
Arthur Sachs 22-42-47 6 e Goya, attr. to........ The Bullfight.
SCULPTURE
Mrs. Margaret S. Lewisohn. MRenoir___.---------. Coco.
Miss Mildred Howells_____--_ Js, Os As Warde..2 5... Wm. Dean Howells.
Lessing J. Rosenwald___---- Daumier2olesesse2 Le Bourgeois qui flAne.
Lessing J. Rosenwald-_--_---- Daumierse2 2 soot 5. ke L’ Amoureux.
PRINTS

Lewis Hinstein-__._____--_____. “Jeu de Cartes” by Du Rameau.
Mrs. W. Murray Crane________. 27 prints.
George Matthew Adams_______. 56 prints.
Lessing J. Rosenwald_________. 253 prints.
People of the Federal Republic

Of Germany==a son ne aaa 64 prints.

EXCHANGE OF WORKS OF ART

The Board of Trustees during the year accepted the offer of Lessing
J. Rosenwald to exchange the following prints for superior impres-
sions of the same works:

Artist Title
Mantegna____________________. Bacchanalian Group with a Press.
Man teen at ae eae See) Entombment.
Zoan Andrea_______________ A Nereid and Two Children Playing Musical
Instruments.
ZOSNPANGT CRS 2. se ee Griffins and Two Cupids Crossing Halberds.
Zoan Andrea_________ A Nereid Ridden by Two Children.

Zoan Andrea__________________ Three Children Blowing Horns.
148 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

WORKS OF ART ON LOAN

During the fiscal year 1955 the following works of art were received
on loan by the National Gallery of Art:

From— Artist
Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:
Chrysanthemums 2-22.55 55) 2.2 Le See ee William Chase.
Portrait ofiahyoung Woman! 2222) 22 eee eee ss ee David D’Avignon.
Edward T. Wailes, Washington, D. C.:
Ttalianwbamd Scape te oa ee eee El a ea hkl Jan Both.
Robert Thayer, Washington, D. C.:
Harrison Grays ee ae ee ee Copley.
HMlizabeth*GrayjOtis.2. 42 ee eee ee ee ae Copley.
SamuelvAdleyne) Otis 22) a ee ee Stuart.

Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch, New York, N. Y.:
Sixty-three early American paintings.

Robert Woods Bliss, Washington, D. C.:
Nineteen objects of Pre-Columbian art.

LOANED WORKS OF ART RETURNED

The following works of art on loan were returned during the fiscal
year 1955:

To— Artist

Chester Dale, New York, N. Y.:

Ralphewaldowmersonse 2 a es ee ee Thomas Sully.

The SeineiatiGiverny ses) awe soe ae Monet.
Mrs. Charlotte Fuerstenberg, Johannesburg, South Africa:

Breadrand (WE e sss ae ee pe ee Cézanne.

The Bridzevotebanglolsesss = iis Se oe oe eee ee Van Gogh.

TEAL O NT CG Ee eS re esti eS te Aes al aI ah OR Toulouse-Lautrec.
John S. Broome, Oxnard, Calif.:

Lostion: the Grand Banks. 20220 202 ee Se Homer.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Wrightsman, Palm Beach, Fla.:

Girl’ with ‘a Cate. 2 sem 2 an er Renoir.

WORKS OF ART LENT

During the fiscal year 1955 the Gallery lent the following works of
art for exhibition purposes:

To—

Kennedy Galleries, New York, N. Y.: Artist
Arctic: Hares cos se es eee J. J. Audubon.
Sharp-Tailed, Sparrow 22-8 = = oe ee J. J. Audubon.
Vellow Warbleriss 2-222. 2-22 26 oe ee eee J. J. Audubon.
Orchard Oriole 2e So ee ee ee ee eee J. J. Audubon.
MArmMyard WP OWISS sone ree ee ee J. J. Audubon,
John James AUGUDON === 52 = ee ee J. Woodhouse Au-

dubon.
Armed Forces Medical Library, Washington, D. ©.:
Christ Healing the: Sick (print) 22222 Rembrandt.
The White House, Washington, D. C.:
Ships in the Scheldt Estuary__._.________---_--_----_.. Storck.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 149

To— Artist

The Morgan Library, New York, N. Y.:

Philosophy (print) e222 eae ee Diirer.

Nam Of SOTrOWSuGpri Nt) Se ons Diirer.

Young Woman (Costume Study) (print)_---___________- Diirer.
The Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Philadelphia, Pa.:

ERO Uhh yew) cil OC kee ee ee ee ee Charles Willson

Peale

Lady with a Harp; Eliza Ridgely_______-____-_______-_- Sully.

Young, Woman int Whites2250 022 se a ee Henri.
The Supreme Court, Washington, D. C.:

Vue general des Alpes et Glaciers_____-__________--___ Descourtis.

Wieder Schad aes ees aan Sete ee el ee Descourtis,

@huteldelS tau bbach= ==] se ee eee Janinet.

Vue de Thun du Cote du Midi___________._-_--__ Janinet.
Boston Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass. :

Ntonm over Dao0ss- 2-5. eee BP BP beet a eat ods Marin.
Phillips Memorial Gallery, Washington, D. C.:

SCOLMMVOVEL NaOS see =e ene eee ae ee oe Marin.
The San Francisco Museum of Art, San Francisco, Calif. :

StODMPOVers Ui OS ees ssa ee ete en ee Marin.

EXHIBITIONS

The following exhibitions were held at the National Gallery of Art
during the fiscal year 1955:

American Primitive Paintings. From the Collection of Edgar William and
Bernice Chrysler Garbisch. Continued from previous fiscal year, through
July 11, 1954.

Renaissance Prints by Lucas van Leyden, Marcantonio Raimondi and Jean
Duvet. From the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection. October 24, 1954, through
February 6, 1955.

Austrian Drawings and Prints. From the Albertina Museum, Vienna. February
20 through March 20, 1955.

Goya Drawings and Prints. From the Prado Museum and the Lazaro Galdiano
Museum, Madrid. April 2 through April 24, 1955.

American Primitive Paintings. From the Collection of Edgar William and
Bernice Chrysler Garbisch. Opened May 29, 1955.

Miniatures and Prints. From the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection. Opened
May 29, 1955.

TRAVELING EXHIBITIONS

Rosenwald Collection.—Special exhibitions of prints from the
Rosenwald Collection were circulated to the following places during
the fiscal year 1955:

Milwaukee Art Institute, Milwaukee, Wis. :
Prints for an exhibition, “Music in Art.”
September 1954.
The Print Club of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Exhibition of prints from the collections of Board Members. Anonymous
German, “Christ’s Entry into Jerusalem.”
September 1954.
150 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Portland Art Museum, Portland, Oreg.:
Exhibition of Early German Prints.
October 1954.
Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio:
Renoir, “Portrait of Wagner” (lithograph). Lent to “Composer Portraits
and Autograph Scores.”
October 3—November 7, 1954.
The Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, Ohio:
Two Huber drawings lent to the Chinese Landscape Exhibition.
November 4, 1954—January 2, 1955.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.:
Loans to the exhibition, “American Drawings,” sent to Munich, Rouen, and
London, by the United States Information Agency.
1954-55.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C.—Traveling Exhibition:
Goya Drawings and Prints. Rosenwald Goya prints added to those from
Madrid.
1955.
The Pierpont Morgan Library, New York, N. Y.:
Diirer Prints and Drawings.
March-April 1955.
Davidson Art Center, Middletown, Conn.:
Early French Prints.
Modern French Monotypes.
April 1955.
Fogg Museum of Art, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. :
Early prints showing musical themes to illustrate two concerts called
“Love Songs of the Renaissance.”
April 1955.
Marion Kogler McNay Art Institute, San Antonio, Tex. :
Daumier Drawings.
May 1955.
Tyler School of Art, Elkins Park, Philadelphia, Pa.:
Hobby Show—F our American Contemporary prints.
May 12-14, 1955.
American Federation of Arts—Traveling Exhibition:
Nuremberg and the German World.
1955-1956.

Indew of American Design.—During the fiscal year 1955, 33 travel-
ing exhibitions of original watercolor renderings of this collection,
with 60 bookings, were sent to the following States:

State Pe etons
ATKansas2® 36 222 eS ee eee 1
Colorad Ota 222252 22 ae ee eee ee ee eee 3
Connecticut=2-22 222 2 2 ee ee eee eee ee af
District ofiColumbia-— 2 22 2 ee BE Ee Tee eee neat 6
Wlorida 225 ae Le 2
Georgiaic. Ses oe ie A ae AE RE Berne Oh BS) ALE 1
MNT Iino ise ss 4 Baie BE MAU adh ESE EE ee. ieee rea Wasa an ARES 1
loWass2 22 bse eaten ye OE ee ee ala
SECRETARY’S REPORT 151

Number of
State evhibitions

MASS CRUSE tS ee ee ee ee ee ee ee
SIVA ba Te sain ee a a ee ee ee ee
Missouri 2-22-2223 ee ee for ors eee ee ee bee

Penns yivaniagors ee ee OOS 8 Bo 2 bet See ee ens ee Se
MENNCSSCC wees ee ee Ge a ee et ae ee orl ee

Valine 0 ee ee ee ee ok Se ee eS
SV VS COIS LT pe eo 2 a re eB Bh cae eS

(o)
9
_
(=)
!
1
!
i)
t
1
1
i]
i]
!
1
i]
i}
1
i}
i}
1
i}
1
|
|
i]
1
1
i}
i
1
|
1
i}
if
I
1
I
1
1
1
1
i}
I
|
i]
1
|
1
i]
1
1
1
1
aAawnnwwrhkhrHownhy &w

CURATORIAL ACTIVITIES

The Curatorial Department accessioned 417 gifts to the Gallery
during the fiscal year 1955. Advice was given regarding 365 works
of art brought to the Gallery for expert opinion, and 65 visits to col-
lections were made by members of the staff in connection with offers
of gift or for expert opinion. About 1,500 inquiries requiring re-
search were answered verbally and by letter. John Walker, Chief
Curator of the Gallery, gave a lecture at the Seattle Museum of Art
on the occasion of the opening of the Samuel H. Kress Collection in
that museum. Mr. Walker also lectured on masterpieces of painting
in the National Gallery of Art to the Woman’s Club in Richmond, the
museum Class at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, and the Twentieth
Century Club in Pittsburgh. Miss Elizabeth Mongan gave a series
of five lectures on the history of printmaking at the Pennsylvania
Academy of Fine Arts. She gave a lecture at Wesleyan University
on the First French Engraving. She also conducted a symposium
at Bryn Mawr College on Piranesi and one at Swarthmore College
on Rembrandt. Charles M. Richards conducted two courses in art
history under the auspices of the Department of Agriculture.

Mr. Richards, as chairman, prepared the program for the regis-
trar’s section of the American Association of Museums meetings held
in Washington this spring. He attended the Southeastern Museums
Conference in Miami, and Miss Katharine Shepard was the official
delegate to the General Meeting of the Archaeological Institute of
America in Boston.

William Campbell selected reproductions of Gallery paintings
which are to be installed in new domiciliary buildings of the U. 8.
Soldiers’ Home, Washington, D. C.

Mr. Walker served as trustee for the American Federation of Arts,
the American Academy in Rome, and the Bureau of University
Travel. He also served on the following committees: Dumbarton
Oaks Visiting Committee, Harvard University Press Visiting

870980—56——12
152 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Committee, Art Committee of the New York Hospital, Harvard
Committee on the Visual Arts, Committee for the Exhibition of
Nineteenth Century French Paintings from American Collections in
Paris. Mr. Walker was also a member of the United States National
Commission for UNESCO. Perry B. Cott served as President of
the Washington Society, Archaeological Institute of America. Miss
Shepard was secretary of this organization.

Mr. Cott served on the following art juries: Corcoran Alumni
Association, Arts Club, National Museum Sculpture Exhibition.

RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF WORKS OF ART

Necessary restoration and repair of paintings and sculpture in the
Gallery’s collection were made by Francis Sullivan, resident restorer,
at the Gallery.

PUBLICATIONS

During the year Huntington Cairns contributed an article on
“Legal Theory” to a Jurisprudential Symposium in Memory of Felix
S. Cohen, published in the Rutgers Law Review, and reviews of
“Aesthetics and the Gastalt,” by Ian Rawlins, to Philosophy and
Phenomenological Research; “Definition and Theory in Jurispru-
dence,” by H. L. A. Hart, to the Philosophical Quarterly ; “The Age of
Ideas,” by George R. Havens, to the Washington Post and Times
Herald; and “The Law of Primitive Man,” by E. Adamson Hoebel, to
the Journal of Politics.

Mr. Walker wrote an article on a painting by Delacroix in the
National Gallery, London, for the Ladies Home Journal. He also
prepared the text for a “pocketbook” of works of art in the Gallery’s
collection to be published by the Harry N. Abrams Company. Mrs.
Fern R. Shapley wrote an article on Bingham’s “Jolly Flatboatmen”
for the Art Quarterly. Mr. Cott wrote an article for the Gulf Oil
Orange Disc publication on Della Robbia sculpture. An article by
Miss Mongan entitled, “New Acquisitions in the Lessing J. Rosen-
wald Collection” appeared in Arts Digest, and she also wrote an ar-
ticle on Norma Morgan for the International Graphic Arts.

A total of 125,000 leaflets describing paintings in galleries 8, 52,
and 57 have been printed and are being distributed to the public in
the respective galleries.

Mr. Walker’s monograph on Bellini’s “Feast of the Gods” has gone
to press.

Publications in process include Mr. Walker’s text for a portfolio of
works of art in the Gallery’s collection to be published by the Harry
N. Abrams Co., an article written by Mrs. Shapley for The Studio,
and a book she is preparing to be published by the Phaidon Press.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 153

Gallery publications in process include the catalog of paintings and
the catalog of paintings and sculpture acquired by the Samuel H.
Kress Collection since 1951 for the exhibition in 1956.

During the past fiscal year the Publications Fund published seven
new 11- by 14-inch color’ reproductions and acquired five new Christ-
mas card color plates. Two large collotype reproductions of paint-
ings in the collection and nine sculpture reproductions distributed by
two New York publishers were placed on sale.

A new Portfolio No. 4 entitled “Landscape Paintings in the Na-
tional Gallery of Art” (containing text by a staff member and twelve
11- by 14-inch color reproductions, of which seven were completely
new prints) is in the process of publication. The catalog of ““T'wen-
tieth Century French Paintings from the Chester Dale Collection”
was reprinted during the year. The Fund made available to the pub-
lic a National Gallery of Art engagement calendar.

Exhibition catalogs of the Austrian Drawings and Prints, and Goya
Drawings and Prints, were distributed.

Representations of Gallery works of art in 2- by 2-inch color slides
and in “stereo” color slides are now being sold in the Gallery Infor-
mation Rooms. These slides, which are all original photographs, are
an entirely new type of item in Publications Fund stock.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

The attendance for the general, congressional, and special tours, and
the “Picture of the Week” totaled 41,023, while that for the 44 audi-
torium lectures on Sunday afternoons was approximately 10,025 dur-
ing the fiscal year 1955.

Tours, lectures, and conferences arranged by appointment were
given to 256 groups and individuals. The total number of people
served in this manner was 6,042. This isan increase of 110 groups and
2,586 people served over last year. These special appointments were
made for such groups as representatives from leading high schools,
universities, and museums, other governmental agencies, wives of
members of the Cabinet and of Congressmen, women’s clubs, store su-
pervisors, and attaches from foreign embassies.

Three separate training programs for volunteer docents from the
Junior League, the American Association of University Women of
Arlington County, and members of the Parent-Teacher Association
of the Barrett School of Alexandria were carried forward during the
year by several members of the Education Department.

Lecture programs on “American Cultural Life” have been prepared
for librarian members of the United States Information Agency, and
for members of the Department of State, who may act as cultural at-
taches on overseas duty. The wives of the officers in the Departments
154 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

of State, Army, and Navy at Fort McNair, who are preparing for
overseas duty, also attended these programs.

The staff of the Education Office delivered 14 lectures in the audi-
torium on Sunday afternoons, and 30 were given by guest speakers.
During March and April, Dr. Etienne Gilson, Director of Studies at
the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies at Toronto, delivered
the Fourth Annual Series of the six A. W. Mellon Lectures in the
Fine Arts on the theme, “Art and Reality.”

During the past year 150 persons borrowed 4,697 slides from the
lending collection. The 16 centers throughout the country that dis-
tribute the National Gallery of Art film, report that approximately
49.564 viewers saw the film in 260 bookings.

Members of the Education Office prepared and gave 32 broadcasts to
accompany the Sunday night concerts over Station WGMS. The
Curator of Education prepared and produced a half-hour television
program entitled “Rembrandt and the Art of the Dutch Homeland”
as part of the project of the Citizens Committee on Educational
Television.

The printed Calendar of Events announcing all Gallery activities
and publications is distributed monthly to a mailing list of 5,316
names.

LIBRARY

The most important acquisitions to the Library during the fiscal
year 1955 were 1,940 books, pamphlets, periodicals, subscriptions, and
photographs purchased from private funds made available for this
purpose. Gifts included 639 books, pamphlets, and periodicals, while
717 books, pamphlets, and bulletins were received on exchange from
other institutions. There were more than 540 visits and phone calls
to the Library by persons other than Gallery staff during this fiscal
year.

The Library is the depository for photographs of the works of art
in the collections of the National Gallery of Art. A stock of repro-
ductions is maintained for use in research by the curatorial and other
departments of the Gallery; for the dissemination of knowledge to
qualified sources; for exchange with other institutions; and for sale
at the request of interested individuals.

INDEX OF AMERICAN DESIGN

In March 1955 the Gallery began to take part in the orientation
program for United States Information Agency personnel about to
be sent overseas. The Index was included in this program, and once
a month the group listened to an illustrated lecture given by the Cura-
tor in charge of the Index. The Index material was also studied
during the year by 638 persons who were interested in the material
SECRETARY’S REPORT 155

for publication, for special research, exhibitions, designers, and those
who wanted an idea of the collection as a whole.

There were 33 sets of 2- by 2-inch slides (consisting of 1,416 color
slides) circulated in 22 States and Alaska.

MAINTENANCE OF THE BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The usual care of the building and its mechanical equipment and
the grounds was maintained at the established standard throughout
the year.

Contracts were entered into with Eggers & Higgins, architects, and
Vermilya-Brown Co., Inc., general contractors, for the alteration of
a portion of the library area in the Gallery building. The remodeled
space is intended for the exhibition of the Samuel H. Kress Collection
of Renaissance Bronzes.

Alterations were made in gallery 11 so that the opening in the north
wall of that gallery now matches in architectural design the openings
in the east and west walls. These modifications were made to enable
the more effective and suitable exhibition of the Donatello “David,”
which stands in the center of gallery 11. Eggers & Higgins were the
architects, and Vermilya-Brown Co. the general contractor.

The Gallery staff constructed an L-shaped, 3-compartment green-
house within the southwest moat wall; and the staff is now construct-
ing a cold-conditioning unit to be used in conjunction with the green-
house. These facilities will enable the horticultural staff to supply
suitable flowering and foliage plants for the garden courts and for
special exhibitions at almost any time of the year.

A new plaque of Andrew Mellon, sculptured by Walker Hancock,
was installed in the Constitution Avenue Lobby.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

David E. Finley, Director, delivered the following speeches during
the fiscal year: “The Museum in the Cold War” at a luncheon meeting
prior to the opening of the Kress Wing at the Denver Art Museum
in September 1954; the principal address at the annual meeting of
the National Trust for Historic Preservation in Chicago in October
1954; in May 1955, in New York, he delivered a speech entitled “A
Bridge for the Arts” at a meeting of the Columbia Associates of
Columbia University; and at the annual meeting of the American
Association of Museums in Washington in June 1955 he spoke on
“Museums and their Public Relations.”

Forty Sunday evening concerts were given during the fiscal year
1955 in the West and East Garden Courts. The National Gallery
Orchestra, conducted by Richard Bales, played 10 concerts at the
Gallery, with additional performances at the United States Naval
156 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

Academy at Annapolis, Md.; at the Corcoran Gallery of Art; and in
Alexandria, Va. Two of the orchestral concerts at the National Gal-
lery were made possible by the Music Performance Trust Fund of the
American Federation of Musicians. A preseason concert was played
by the National Gallery Orchestra on Tuesday, September 7, 1954,
sponsored by the International Congress of Clinical Pathologists at
a reception held at the National Gallery.

During April and May, six Sunday evenings were devoted to the
Gallery’s Twelfth American Music Festival. All the concerts were
broadcast in their entirety by Station WGMS-FM, Washington, and
the Good Music Network. The intermissions, during these broadcasts,
featured discussions by members of the curatorial staff on painting
and sculpture in the National Gallery of Art, as well as on musical
subjects by Richard Bales.

In October 1954, the Columbia recording of “The Confederacy” by
the National Gallery Orchestra with the Church of the Reformation
Cantata Choir, soloists, and speaker was released. It has received
widespread press notice, including an article in the Saturday Review
of March 19, 1955, by former President Truman.

The photographic laboratory of the Gallery produced 7,368 prints,
366 black-and-white slides, 20,101 color slides, 105 color transparen-
cies, in addition to 1,820 negatives, color-separation negatives, infra-
red and ultraviolet photographs and X-ray shadowgraphs; also 2,936
lantern slides were bound.

During the fiscal year, 1,289 copies of press releases were issued in
connection with Gallery activities, and 302 permits to copy and 141
permits to photograph in the Gallery were also issued.

OTHER GIFTS

Gifts of money were made during the fiscal year 1955 by the Old
Dominion Foundation and the Avalon Foundation.

AUDIT OF PRIVATE FUNDS OF THE GALLERY

An audit of the private funds of the Gallery has been made for
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1955, by Price Waterhouse & Co., public
accountants, and the certificate of that company on its examination
of the accounting records maintained for such funds will be for-
warded to the Gallery.

Respectfully submitted,

Hunrrneron Cairns, Secretary.

Dr. Lronarp CarmMIcHAEL,

Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on the Library

Sir: I have the honor to submit the following report on the activi-
ties of the Smithsonian library for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1955:

The library owes its growth in strength and in the richness of its
collections primarily to the extension and continuity of its exchange
relations with scientific and other learned and cultural establishments
and societies throughout the world, and the larger number of the
71,179 publications recorded in the receiving room during the past
year came in exchange for Smithsonian publications. There were
654 new exchanges arranged, and 5,038 volumes and parts needed to
complete sets of serial publications were obtained by writing special
requests for them to the issuing agencies.

The continuing generosity of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science and of the American Association of Museums
accounted for a very large number of the 24,801 pieces recorded as
gifts, but other organizations and more than 150 individual donors
sent gifts of important and much-appreciated books and periodicals
as well.

The high cost and ever-rising prices of much-needed books and
journals not obtainable by exchange permitted the purchase of only
488 volumes and 419 periodical subscriptions this year.

Additions to the Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress
numbered 6,348 publications, chiefly volumes and parts of long-estab-
lished sets of serial publications issued by foreign institutions and
societies. Other current accessions sent to the Library of Congress
were 3,106 doctoral dissertations, mostly from European universities,
6,201 foreign and State documents, and 21,382 miscellaneous publica-
tions on subjects not immediately connected with the work of the
Institution.

Because of their special subject interest to other agencies of the
Government, 5,133 incoming publications were transferred to their
respective libraries. Most of them went to the Armed Forces Med-
ical Library and to the libraries of the Geological Survey, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and the Naval Observatory.

By the employment of part-time temporary helpers for a few weeks
during the summer good progress was made in putting the library’s
large collection of duplicates in order. From among this newly ar-
ranged material the Library of Congress selected 38,906 pieces for

157
158 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

use in its own collections, and 61,017 others were sent to the United
States Book Exchange for exchange credit.

The catalog section classified and cataloged 4,949 volumes, entered
21,305 periodicals, and filed 32,371 cards. The important work of
combining into a single comprehensive dictionary catalog the two
separate Smithsonian union and Museum catalogs was finished, but
there is still a great deal of revisionary work to be done on it. This
catalog cannot be a fully effective key to all the library’s resources
until the many thousands of incompletely or wholly uncataloged
volumes in bureau and sectional libraries and in special collections
have been cataloged in full.

The use of the library which, with its branches and sectional li-
braries on special subjects, is a series of reference and research collec-
tions, is always difficult to show statistically, even in those areas where
it is possible to keep accurate records at all. The library is freely
open to anyone who wishes to use it for reference, but circulation of
its books and periodicals is restricted to individual members of the
staff of the Institution and, within certain necessary limitations, to
other libraries; therefore 10,2638, the recorded number of loans during
the year, represents only a fractional part of the large and continuous
use of library books in evidence all day, every day, in the main ref-
erence rooms, in the bookstacks, and in the many decentralized units
throughout the Institution.

Demands on the staff of the reference section for reference and
bibliographical assistance were heavy, as usual, and it was especially
gratifying to receive recognition from outside as well as from within
the Institution of the painstaking and time-consuming skill of the
staff in answering difficult questions. Visiting scientists and other
scholars from Europe and South America, as well as from institutions
throughout the United States, made more or less extensive reference
use of the library, and the sphere of its usefulness was further ex-
tended by loans to 94 different libraries.

There were 1,527 volumes, mostly of serial publications, prepared
and sent to the bindery for binding or rebinding, and 1,540 volumes
were repaired in the library. Most of these latter were old and rare
volumes in the Bureau of American Ethnology which had been ac-
quired through the years, not at all because of their rarity, but because
they were rich and sometimes unique sources of material on the
American Indians.

The installation of 200 feet of shelving in the National Collection
of Fine Arts library helped a little to relieve the congestion there, but
was only a temporary palliative to the serious overcrowding that
threatens deterioration to many beautiful books, and handicaps the
ease of their use.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 159

Understaflfing continues to be the most immediately serious obstacle
to giving the Institution better library service, based on orderly, well-
kept, and well-cataloged collections. With so many of the larger
decentralized units left without regular full-time attendants it is im-
possible to give proper custodial care and supervision of the books.

SUMMARIZED STATISTICS

ACCESSIONS
votes | Tetaruonss

Smithsonian Deposit at the Library of Congress___- 1, 002 585, 592
Smithsonian main library (includes former Office

and Museum libraries)_................-...._. 4,020 297, 277
Astrophysical Observatory (includes Radiation and

raisins use ee ee ee het et mc een a merae ats 480 14, 701

Bureau of American Ethnology__..._.-..---------- 78 35, 590

NationalvAir Museum 2-2-0582. — 5s on04 eee eee e 12 335

National Collection of Fine Arts_....__.-___--___-_ 254 13, 709

National Zoological Park_...._......--.---------- 1 4, 205

AO UML eee as Line ee Stee 5, 847 951, 409

Unbound volumes of periodicals, and separates and reprints from
serial publications, of which there are many thousands, have not been
included in these totals.

EXCHANGES
INGWReXchancesnatranged asses = oe ee eee ee eee ee 654
316 for the Smithsonian Deposit.
Specially requested publications received_________________-_--_- 5, 038

806 to fill gaps in Smithsonian Deposit sets.

CATALOGING
VOLUMES Catal O ved h xian Bhs was ee Seas ee ee 4, 949
@atalog cards fled a2 e252 ae ee eee 32, 371
PERIODICALS
Periodical parts entered a 2.8 soe es et ee 21, 305
5,314 sent to the Smithsonian Deposit.
CIRCULATION
Hoans of books and: periodicals=—oo22--< s22 50a 10, 263

Circulation in sectional libraries is not counted except in the Division

of Insects.
BINDING AND REPAIR

WU UIeR ER en CO mtn e WinGery 205 0 oo ee ae ek ee 1, 527
Volumes repaired in the library__...._..._..__.-._.-.___..__=...-- 1, 540
Respectfully submitted.
Lema F. Cuarx, Librarian.
Dr. Lzonarp CARMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report on Publications

Sim: I have the honor to submit the following report on the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian and its branches for the year ended June
30, 1955:

The publications of the Smithsonian Institution, comprising 14
different series, are issued partly from federally appropriated funds
(Smithsonian Reports and publications of the National Museum, the
Bureau of American Ethnology, the National Collection of Fine Arts,
and the Astrophysical Observatory) and partly from private endow-
ment funds (Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, publications of
the Freer Gallery of Art, and some special publications). The Insti-
tution also edits and publishes under the auspices of the Freer Gallery
of Art the series Ars Orientalis, which appears under the joint im-
print of the University of Michigan and the Smithsonian Institution.
The first volume in this series was issued during the year. In addi-
tion, the Smithsonian publishes a guide book, a picture pamphlet,
postcards and a postcard folder, a color-picture album, and color slides
for sale to visitors. Through its publication program the Smith-
sonian endeavors to carry out its founder’s expressed desire for the
diffusion of knowledge.

During the year the Institution published 17 papers and title page
and contents of 3 volumes in the Miscellaneous Collections, 1 Annual
Report of the Board of Regents and separates of 19 articles in the Re-
port appendix, 1 Annual Report of the Secretary, and 4 special
publications,

The United States National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 8 Pro-
ceedings papers, and 2 Bulletins.

The Bureau of American Ethnology issued 1 Annual Report and 4
Bulletins.

The Astrophysical Observatory published Volume 7 of the Annals
of the Astrophysical Observatory.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, under
the National Collection of Fine Arts, published catalogs for 5 of the
circulating exhibits.

The Freer Gallery of Art issued 1 paper in the Occasional Papers
series, 1 booklet, and Volume 1 of Arts Orientalis.

There were distributed 428,286 pieces of printed matter—192,108
copies of the publications and 226,178 miscellaneous items. Publica-
tions: 40 Contributions to Knowledge, 37,495 Miscellaneous Collec-

160
SECRETARY’S REPORT 161

tions, 10,907 Annual Reports and 20,620 pamphlet copies of Report
separates, 579 War Background Studies, 26,595 special publications,
232 reports of the Harriman Alaska Expedition, 40,069 publications
of the National Museum, 24,533 publications of the Bureau of Ameri-
can Ethnology, 24,243 publications of the National Collection of Fine
Arts, 699 publications of the Astrophysical Observatory, 1,339 pub-
lications of the Freer Gallery of Art, 3,515 Reports of the American
Historical Association, and 1,242 publications not issued by the Smith-
sonian Institution. Miscellaneous: 7 pictures of the Harriman
Alaska Expedition, 7 sets and 613 prints of North American Wild-
flowers and 2 Pitcher Plant volumes, 23,388 picture pamphlets, 71,378
Guide Books, 122,498 postcards, 2,003 postcard folders, 3,222 photo
sets, 3,806 color slides, and 9,257 color picture albums.

The 1955 allotment from Government funds of $93,000 for printing
and binding was entirely obligated at the close of the year.

POPULAR PUBLICATIONS

The Institution published during the year the first of a series of
popular publications on scientific and historical subjects related to its
important exhibits and collections. Designed for both young and
adult readers, the booklet, entitled, “Masters of the Air,” depicts in
story and pictures the progress of aviation from the first glider flight
by the Lilienthal brothers of Germany in the 1890’s to the superjets of
today that fiy faster than sound. Included are the stories of the
Smithsonian’s own former Secretary Samuel P. Langley; flying planes
of the first World War; the early flights across the ocean and around
the world; and the achievements of the famous “firsts,” such as Lind-
bergh, Wiley Post, and Sikorsky. The text of the booklet was pre-
pared by Prof. Glenn O. Blough of the University of Maryland and
formerly science and education specialist of the U. S. Office of Educa-
tion, with the technical assistance of Paul E. Garber, head curator of
the National Air Museum, and was designed by William D. Crockett,
of the staff of the Editorial and Publications Division. The publica-
tion was made possible by a grant from the Link Foundation.

SMITHSONIAN PUBLICATIONS
SMITHSONIAN MISCELLANEOUS COLLECTIONS
VOLUME 121
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4220.) 1955.
VOLUME 122

No. 14. A new genus and species of plankton diatom from the Florida Straits,
by Paul 8S. Conger. 8 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 4171.) July 15, 1954. (30 cents.)
Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4219.) 1955.
162 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

VOLUME 123

No. 2. The dragonfly larva, by R. E. Snodgrass. 38 pp., 11 figs. (Publ. 4175.)
September 21, 1954. (385 cents.)

No. 8. A method for the measurement of atmospheric ozone using the absorp-
tion of ozone in the visible spectrum, by Oliver R. Wulf and James E. Zimmer-
man. 14 pp. (Publ. 4177.) October 27, 1954. (25 cents.)

No. 4. Revision of the flea genus Peromyscopsylla, by Phyllis T. Johnson and
Robert Traub. 68 pp., 1381 figs. (Publ. 4178.) November 23, 1954. (65
cents.)

No. 5. Concerning Smithsonian pyrheliometry, by C. G. Abbot, L. B. Aldrich,
and A. G. Froiland. 4 pp. (Publ. 4179.) November 2, 1954. (5 cents.)
No. 6. A new pictographic autobiography of Sitting Bull, by Alexis A. Praus.

4pp.,7pls. (Publ. 4180.) January 20,1955. (35 cents.)

No. 7. Early Cenozoie vertebrates in the red conglomerate at Guanajuato,
Mexico, by Carl Fries, Jr., Claude W. Hibbard, and David H. Dunkle. 25 pp.,
1 pl., 6 figs. (Publ. 4181.) February 17,1955. (30 cents.)

Title page and table of contents. (Publ. 4218.) 1955.

VOLUME 124

The material culture of Pueblo Bonito, by Neil M. Judd. With appendix, Canid
remains from Pueblo Bonito and Pueblo del Arroyo, by Glover M. Allen. 398
pp., 101 pls., 101 figs. (Publ. 4172.) December 29, 1954. ($5.00.)

VOLUME 125

No. 1. The black flies (Diptera, Simuliidae) of Guatemala and their role as
vectors of onchocerciasis, by Herbert T. Dalmat. 425 pp., 44 pls., 21 figs., 14
maps. (Publ. 4173.) April 5, 1955. ($5.00.)

No. 2. The pyramidellid mollusks of the Pliocene deposits of North St. Peters-
burg, Florida, by Paul Bartsch. 102 pp., 18 pls. (Publ. 4186.) May 5,

1955. ($1.40.)
VOLUME 126

No. 2. The archeological and paleontological salvage program in the Missouri
Basin, 1950-1951, by Paul L. Cooper. 99 pp., 12 pls., 1 fig. (Publ. 4188.)
April 28, 1955. ($1.35.)

No. 3. A revision of some glanduline Nodosariidae (Foraminifera), by Alfred
R. Loeblich, Jr., and Helen Tappan. 9 pp.,1 pl. (Publ. 4189.) February 3,

1955. (20 cents.)
VOLUME 128

No. 1. Amphipoda collected at the Arctic Laboratory, Office of Naval Research,
Point Barrow, Alaska, by G. A. MacGinitie, by Clarence R. Shoemaker. 78
pp., 20 figs. (Publ. 4209.) June 21,1955. (75 cents.)

No. 2. Washington, D. C., precipitation of 1954 and 1955, by C. G. Abbot. 3 pp.,
1 fig. (Publ. 4210.) March 1, 1955. (10 cents.)

No. 3. Sixty-year weather forecasts, by C. G. Abbot. 22 pp., 11 figs. (Publ.
4211.) April 28, 1955. (25 cents.)

No. 4. Periodic solar variation, by C. G. Abbot. 20 pp., 5 figs. (Publ. 4213.)
June 14, 1955. (25 cents.)

No. 6. A revision of the chiggers of the subgenus Gahrliepia (Acarina: Trombi-
culidae), by Robert Traub and Mary Lou Morrow. 89 pp., 194 figs. (Publ.
4215.) June 30, 1955. ($1.00.)
SECRETARY’S REPORT 163

ANNUAL REPORTS

Report for 1953—The complete volume of the Annual Report of
the Board of Regents for 1953 was received from the printer Sep-
tember 2, 1954:

Annual Report of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution showing
the operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year
ended June 30, 1953. 481 pp., 83 pls., 27 figs. (Publ. 4149.)

The general appendix contained the following papers (Publs. 4150-
4168) :

Science, art, and education, by R. E. Gibson.

Recent progress in astronomical photography, by C. E. Kenneth Mees.

Radioisotopes—New keys to knowledge, by Paul C. Aebersold.

The push-button factory, by Frank K. Shallenberger.

The science of musical instruments, by E. G. Richardson.

Genetics and the world today, by Curt Stern.

Climate and race, by Carleton Coon.

Vegetation management for rights-of-way and roadsides, by Frank E. Egler.

Applied systematics: The usefulness of scientific names of animals and plants,
by Waldo L. Schmitt.

The geological history and evolution of insects, by F. M. Carpenter.

The coelacanth fishes, by Errol White.

Barro Colorado—Tropical island laboratory, by Lloyd Glenn Ingles.

Norsemen in North America before Columbus, by Johannes Br¢gndsted.

The mountain village of Dahr, Lebanon, by Raymond E. Crist.

The problem of dating the Dead Sea Scrolls, by John C. Trever.

Kinreizuka—The “Golden Bells Tomb” of Japan, by Motosaburo Hirano and
Hiroshi Takiguchi.

The archeology of colonial Williamsburg, by Thomas J. Wertenbaker.

The story of the Declaration of Independence desk and how it came to the
National Museum, by Margaret W. Brown.

Charles Bird King, painter of Indian visitors to the Nation’s Capital, by John C.
Ewers.

Report for 1954.—The Report of the Secretary, which will form
part of the Annual Report of the Board of Regents to Congress, was
issued January 14, 1955:

Report of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution and financial report of
the Executive Committee of the Board of Regents for the year ended June 30,
1954. 175 pp., 4 pls. (Publ. 4182.)

SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS

History under the sea, by Mendel L. Peterson. 16 pp., 7 pls. (Publ. 4174.)
[August 9], 1954. (25 cents.)

Bess Wallace Truman, by Margaret W. Brown. (Supplement to ‘Dresses of
the First Ladies of the White House,’ by Margaret W. Brown. Publ. 4060.)
4 pp.,2 pls. [September 1], 1954. (50 cents.)

Masters of the Air, by Glenn O. Blough. 382 pp., illustr. (Publ. 4183). [Decem-
ber 16], 1954. (50 cents.)

First Ladies Hall, by Margaret W. Brown. 10 pp., 8 pls. (Publ. 4212.) [May
25], 1955. (25 cents.)
164. ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL MUSEUM

The National Museum issued 1 Annual Report, 8 Proceedings
papers, and 2 Bulletins, as follows:

ANNUAL REPORT

The United States National Museum annual report for the year ended June 30,
1954. ix+100 pp. [January 14, 1955.]

PROCEEDINGS

VOLUME 103

No. 3334. A supplement to W. M. Tattersall’s review of the Mysidacea of the
United States National Museum, by Albert H. Banner. Pp. 575-583. July 8,
1954.

No. 3335. On the anatomy and relationships of glossy cuckoos of the genera
Chrysococcyx, Lampromorpha, and Chalcites, by Andrew H. Berger. Pp.
585-597, figs. 69-71. January 19, 1955.

No. 3336. Supplement and corrections to J. A. Hyslop’s genotypes of the
elaterid beetles of the world, by Ross H. Arnett, Jr. Pp. 599-619. April 14,
1955.

No. 3337. Neotropical Miridae, LXIV: New bugs of the subfamily Cylapinae
(Hemiptera), by José C. M. Carvalho. Pp. 621-632, figs. 72-76, pl. 15. March 2,
1955.

VOLUME 104

No. 3338. Revision of the vittate species of the chrysomelid beetle genus
Disonycha from the Americas south of the United States, by Doris Holmes
Blake. Pp. 1-86, figs. 1-75. April 4, 1955.

No. 3339. A revision of the Nearctic species of the beetle genus Meligethes
(Nitidulidae), by Alan M. Easton. Pp. 87-103, figs. 76-78. February 25, 1955.

No. 3340. Four new Venezuelan reduviid bugs, by Maldonado Capriles. Pp.
105-113, figs. 79, 80. March 28, 1955.

No. 3341. Some polyclad flatworms from the West Indies and Florida, by
Libbie H. Hyman. Pp. 115-150, figs. 81-89. May 2, 1955.

BULLETINS

205. List of North American Recent mammals, by Gerrit S. Miller, Jr., and
Remington Kellogg. xii+954 pp. March 3, 1955.

206. Frogs of southeastern Brazil, by Doris M. Cochran. xi-+423 pp., 28 figs.,
frontispiece and 34 pls. June 22, 1955.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE BUREAU OF AMERICAN ETHNOLOGY
There were issued 1 Annual Report and 4 Bulletins, as follows:

ANNUAL REPORT

Seventy-first Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology, 1953-1954.
ii+17 pp. 1955.
BULLETINS

Bulletin 157. Anthropological Papers, Nos. 43-48. iii+415 pp., 76 pls., 23 figs.
1955.
No. 48. Stone monuments of the Rio Chiquito, Veracruz, Mexico, by Mat-
thew W. Sterling.
SECRETARY’S REPORT 165

No. 44. The Cerro de las Mesas offering of Jade and other materials, by
Philip Drucker.

No. 45. Archeological materials from the vicinity of Mobridge, South Da-
kota, by Waldo R. Wedel.

No. 46. The original Strachey vocabulary of the Virginia Indian language,
by John P. Harrington.

No. 47. The Sun Dance of the Northern Ute, by J. A. Jones.

No. 48. Some manifestations of water in Mesoamerican art, by Robert L.
Rands.

Bulletin 158. River Basin Surveys Paper No. 7. Archeological investigations
in the Oahe Dam area, South Dakota, 1950-51, by Donald J. Lehmer. xi+190
pp., 22 pls., 56 figs., 6 maps. 1954.

Bulletin 159. The horse in Blackfoot Indian culture, with comparative mate-
rial from other western tribes, by John C. Hwers. xv+874 pp., 17 pis., 33 figs.,
1955.

Bulletin 160. A ceramic study of Virginia archeology, by Clifford Evans. With
an appendix on An analysis of projectile points and large blades, by ©. G.
Holland. viii+196 pp., 30 pls., 23 figs., 1 chart. 1955.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory, vol. 7. 184 pp., 8 pls., 13 figs. (Publ.
4188.) 1954.

PUBLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Brazilian landscape architecture. New designs by Roberto Burle Marx. (Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Hxhibition Service catalog.) 16 pp., illustr.
[July 1954.]

Nineteenth century American paintings, 1815-1865, from the private collection
of Maxim Karolik. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
catalog.) 22 pp., including 11 pls. [October 1954.]j

Watercolors and prints by Redouté. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service catalog.) 12 pp., 1 pl. [December 1954. ]

Austrian drawings and prints from the Albertina, Vienna. (Smithsonian Insti-
tution Traveling Exhibition Service catalog.) 27 pp., 6 pls. [February 1955.]

Goya. (Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service catalog.) [April
1955.]

PUBLICATIONS OF THE FREER GALLERY OF ART

Abstracts of technical studies in art and archaeology, 1943-1952, by Rutherford
J. Gettens and Bertha M. Usilton. Occasional Papers, vol. 2, No. 2, 408 pp.
(Publ. 4176.) 1955. ($3.00.)

The Freer Gallery of Art. (Rev. ed.) 16 pp., 8 pls. 3 figs. (Publ, 4185.)
1955. (15 cents.)

Ars Orientalis, vol. 1. 267 pp., 93 pls., 80 figs. (Publ. 4187.) 1954. ($16.00.)

REPORT OF THE AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

The annual reports of the American Historical Association are
transmitted by the Association to the Secretary of the Smithsonian
Institution and are by him communicated to Congress, as provided
166 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

in the act of incorporation of the Association. The following reports

were issued during the year:

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1952. Vol.
2. Writings on American History, 1950. xiii +609 pp. 1955.

Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1953. Vol.
1. Proceedings. 52 pp. 1955.

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION

The manuscript of the Fifty-seventh Annual Report of the Na-
tional Society, Daughters of the American Revolution, was transmitted
to Congress, in accordance with law, on March 21, 1955.

DIVISIONAL ACTIVITIES

The chief of the division continued to represent the Institution on
the board of directors of the Greater Washington Educational] Tele-
vision Association, Inc., of which the Smithsonian is a member.
During the year the Association produced a series of educational
television programs broadcast over Washington stations, and the
Smithsonian participated in two of these.

The assistant chief of the division, John S. Lea, devoted consider-
able time during the last half of the year to the preparation of a
brochure explaining the history, purposes, and accomplishments of
the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Lea also served as chairman of
a committee formed to assist the Washington Area School Study
Council, representing the school boards of the area, in working out
a method of making more effective use of the educational potential
of the Institution.

Members of the division, particularly Ernest E. Biebighauser, as-
sisted the Personnel Division in planning and inaugurating publi-
cation of The Torch, a multigraphed house organ for Smithsonian
employees superseding the monthly newsletter of the Smithsonian
Employees Federal Credit Union. The first number appeared in
March 1955.

Respectfully submitted.

Pau. H. Oxrxser,
Chief, Editorial and Publications Division.
Dr. Lronarp CaRMICHAEL,
Secretary, Smithsonian Institution.
Report of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian

Institution
For the Year Ended June 30, 1955

To the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution:

Your executive committee respectfully submits the following re-
port in relation to the funds of the Smithsonian Institution, together
with a statement of the appropriations by Congress for the Govern-
ment bureaus in the administrative charge of the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN ENDOWMENT FUND

The original bequest of James Smithson was £104,960 8s. 6d.—
$508,318.46. Refunds of money expended in prosecution of the claim,
freight, insurance, and other incidental expenses, together with pay-
ment into the fund of the sum of £5,015, which had been withheld dur-
ing the lifetime of Madame de la Batut, brought the fund to the
amount of $550,000.

Since the original bequest, the Institution has received gifts from
various sources, the income from which may be used for the general
work of the Institution. These, plus accretions, are listed below, to-
gether with a statement showing the income for the present year.

ENDOWMENT FUNDS

(Income for the unrestricted use of the Institution)
Partly deposited in the United States Treasury at 6 percent and partly invested
in stocks, bonds, and other holdings

Fund Investment 1955 | Income 1955

Parent Fund (original Smithson bequest, plus accumulated savings) -- $729, 112. 87 $43, 735. 37

Subsequent bequests, gifts, and other funds, partly deposited in the
U. S. Treasury and partly invested in the consolidated fund:

FAD DOtt Wills, SHOCIA Reece ese ~ coke oor ee eae 16, 960. 64 729, 45
AVOLY PHODCIEIS., (ONG: uy Cldea asses oes nasa ee ee ee ee eee 61, 655. 14 3, 330. 03
Mindowanents: 03.222 aS te a ee ee een eee! 426, 417. 89 22, 280. 66
OS E301) FOO Bolt = See a ag =e ees 500. 00 30. 00
Hachenberg, George P., and Caroline........-....---...------------ 4, 852. 15 253. 31
MTATNTON WU aN CS. 2 sees seca aa eee cane en oe ee ees 2,987 02 175. 43
HenrynC Srolin@ 222 a een seek on eee ees eee ee eae 1, 459. 14 76. 24
od ekcin'ssn nonias: Gas oes one once ee ee eee ee 152, 547. 21 8, 869. 61
POntersHenrysiGink @seeenstestt secs cease ose eee a eae n eee 345, 528. 58 18, 054 12
Rhees) William: JoneS-..--=--222----- oo aoa) accep oaaascecaeennes 1, 160. 79 65. 24
Sanford Genre) bases ee eee ea ee oe eee ee ene nee 2, 174. 00 122. 11
Wiitherspoon> Phomas Aj. 2 poo. 2a cae cane eee ween ee 155, 696. 68 8, 135. 27

FT Cal eee ee ae we one enue aan auaacaeeee wae 1, 171, 939. 24 62, 121. 47

Geran Gto Gel eres ae ee ee era eee a ee eee oe 1, 901. 052.11 105, 856. 84

870930—58——12 167
168

ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

The Institution holds also a number of endowment gifts, the income
of each being restricted to specific use. These, plus accretions to date,

are listed below, together with income for the present year.

Fund

Abbott, William L., for investigations in biology-.----.---.------------
Arthur, James, for investigations and study of the sun and annual lec-
tureion'same=222. 3 foe es et Ee ee ha eee ss
Bacon, Virginia Purdy, for traveling scholarship to investigate fauna
of countries other than the United States_...._--.---._---_------_---
Baird, Lucy H., for creating a memorial to Secretary Baird__._...__-_-
Barney, Alice Pike, for collection of paintings and pastels and for en-
couragement of American artistic endeavor--_-___---.----.-----------_
Barstow, Frederick D., for purchase of animals for Zoological Park____
Canfield Collection, for increase and care of the Canfield collection of
mineralSio' 2S. eee 2 ose ee a sh ee Se ee ee ee rE
Casey, Thomas L., for maintenance of the Casey collection and promo-
tion of researches relating to Coleoptera_....._-----------------------
Chamberlain, Francis Lea, for increase and promotion of Isaac Lea
collectioniof gems and: mollusks22 22-22 2-— =~ sone os nae eeaneneeneeee
Dykes, Charles, for support in financial research_..__---_---------------
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort, for preservation and exhibition of the
photographic collection of Rudolph Eickemeyer, Jr_._--_------------
Hillyer, Virgil, for increase and care of Virgil Hillyer collection of light-
ingioblects 2252 sce 28 hae te a et
Hitchcock, Albert S., for care of the Hitchcock Agrostological Library--
Hodgkins, specific, for increase and diffusion of more exact knowledge
in regard to nature and properties of atmospheric air_._.__.--.--_----
Hrdlitka, Ale§ and Marie, to further researches in physical anthro-
pology and publication in connection therewith. __.....__.-.-_------
Hughes, Bruee; to‘found Huchesaleove.2-22-.-. 25-22 5-22-22 -seee 2S
Loeb, Morris, for furtherance of knowledge in the exact sciences--.---_-
Long, Annette and Edith C., for upkeep and preservation of Long
collection of embroideries, laces, and textiles....-__.-----------------
Maxwell, Mary E., for care and exhibition of Maxwell collection______
Myer, Catherine Walden, for purchase of first-class works of art for
use and benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts__-------_---_
Nelson, Edward W., for support of biological studies_--__.---.----+---
Noyes, Frank B., for use in connection with the collection of dolls
placed in the U. S. National Museum through the interest of Mr.
anders: NOVGS2. 2 sass22 eee tose k a ees ae ace h ene eee see eae
Pell, Cornelia Livingston, for maintenance of Alfred Duane Pell
Collection. fee ee ee a ate eee nn ee Stee one ee
Poore, Lucy T. and George W., for general use of the Institution when
principal‘amounts:to!$250!000 ls 222. 2 ae oe Se ee ea ee nee aaa eee
Rathbun, Richard, for use of division of U. S. National Museum con-
taining} ©rustaceiens- aoos2ceee cs sesn coe ee ae eee oe eee ee
Reid, Addison T., for founding chair in biology, in memory of Asher

Roebling Collection, for care, improvement, and increase of Roebling
collectioniofiminerals: 225.52 on oe ee ee a en eeee

Roebling Solar Researehe i... 2. 825 2 ae ee ea eee

Rollins, Miriam and William, for investigations in physics and chemis-

Smithsonianiemployees’ retirements 200-2 ek ee eee een ee
Springer, Frank, for care and increase of the Springer collection and

Strong, Julia D., for benefit of the National Collection of Fine Arts__--
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, for development of geological
and paleontological studies and publishing results of same--.--------
Walcott, Mary Vaux, for publications in botany__-__._-.-.-.----------
iounger, Felen| walcott, heldun trust--2-s2-se5- os eons sae sneeaneaeee
Zerbee, Frances Brincklé, for endowment of aquaria___..-.-.---------.

Investment 1955

$126, 133. 83
48, 251. 29

60, 445. 71
29, 048. 33

34, 603. 85
1, 206. 20

46, 144. 43
15, 122. 61

33, 975. 14
61, 949. 32

13, 114. 20

7, 929. 25
1, 903. 73

100, 000. 00
42, 591.09
23, 093. 68

105, 148. 40

655. 11
23, 664. 64

24, 369.74
15, 481. 54

1, 159.14

8, 943. 00
187, 379. 67
12, 832. 12
33, 057. 38

145, 608. 17
41, 358. 82

113, 285. 62
31, 506. 84

21, 635. 66
12, 062. 97

576, 151. 56
69, 837. 46
76, 483. 45

1, 144. 42

2, 137, 278. 37

Income 1955

$6, 658. 00
2, 552. 98

3, 198. 16
1, 536. 97

1, 830. 87
63. 81

2, 441. 50
800. 16

1, 797. 62
2, 748. 27

693. 89

419. 56
100. 72

6, 000. 00
2, 125. 40
1, 221. 90
5, 563. 39

34. 68
1, 252. 11

1, 210. 05
697. 44
61.35
473.18
9, 600. 62
678. 96

1, 813. 97

7, 704. 13
953. 75

5, 993. 93
1, 703. 67

1, 144. 76
638. 27

29, 674. 11
3, 695. 10
3, 765. 36

60. 55

110, 909. 19
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 169

FREER GALLERY OF ART FUND

Early in 1906, by deed of gift, Charles L. Freer, of Detroit, gave
to the Institution his collection of Chinese and other Oriental objects
of art, as well as paintings, etchings, and other works of art by
Whistler, Thayer, Dewing, and other artists. Later he also gave
funds for construction of a building to house the collection, and finally
in his will, probated November 6, 1919, he provided stocks and se-
curities to the estimated value of $1,958,591.42, as an endowment
fund for the operation of the Gallery. The fund now amounts to

$7,230,968.48.
SUMMARY OF ENDOWMENTS

Invested endowment for general purposes___-___-_-_--_-__------ $1, 901, 052. 11
Invested endowment for specific purposes other than Freer en-

CLOW CT ere ae ee a ee 2, 137, 278. 37

Total invested endowment other than Freer endowment. = 4, 088, 330. 48

Freer invested endowment for specific purposes___-_-__--__----- 7, 230, 968. 48

Total invested endowment for all purposes_____--_---- 11, 269, 298. 96

CLASSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS
Deposited in the U. S. Treasury at 6 percent per annum, as au-
thorized in the U. S. Revised Statutes, sec. 5591___---_-_----- $1, 000, 000. 00
Investments other than Freer endowment (cost or market value
at date acquired) :

IS ONG S=as0 Sate see ee Ae eee ee $1, 144, 322. 62
STO Cy ea ae a 2 ee rae 1, 872, 085. 09
Real estate and mortgages______--_--------- 5, 936. 00
Uninvested eapital____________________---- 15, 986. 77

—_—_—_—_—_—_——____ 8, 088, 330. 48

Total investments other than Freer endowment____.___ 4, 038, 330. 48
Investments of Freer endowment (cost or market value at date

acquired) :

OTN Se ee eS eee Se ae $4, 374, 757. 31
SS LOCKS ere a a et ee ee 2, 835, 878. 90
Wninvested capital_.-_----2--_ = 3-3-2 20, 332. 27

-——__—_—_—_———._ 7, 230, 968. 48

EUR EEN Sh TN VCS Grn 1a ee ee ee 11, 269, 298. 96

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL YEAR

1955*
Cash balance on hand June 30, 1954_______-_..___.--_____.-_-_--- $867, 671. 10
Receipts, other than Freer endowmeit :

Income from investments________-_______-_- $233, 712.18
Gifts and contributions___________________- 355, 562. 07
Books and publications____________________- 76, 751. T2
Miscellaneous) 2-32-58 eee 87, 105. 24
Proceeds from real estate_______________--_- 45. 00

1 This statement does not include Government appropriations under the administrative
charge of the Institution.
170 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

CASH BALANCES, RECEIPTS, AND DISBURSEMENTS DURING FISCAL YEAR
1955—Continued

Receipts, other than Freer endowment—Continued
Proceeds from sale of securities (net) --_---_ ($338, 782. 94)
Proceeds from sale of cash securities (net)_- ( 1,450.00)

Total receipts other than Freer endowment___---~--~ $362, 943. 27
Receipts from Freer endowment:
Income from: investments: 2222 ft ose eee a see 346, 395. 48
FTO Gai Se Sa e a  e SE 2 A BIS Mea Sd oa 1, 577, 009. 85
Disbursements other than Freer endowment:
Administration 22232 ee eee $98, 488. 50
PULTE One aig re ee a a 60, 837. 53
D1 OG Wea Le AR tt Nac ne eres EN a oy 535. 47
Custodian fees and servicing securities______ 2, 538. 12
MaScell ain US ae a arena nema Eanes eS Ne eee 2, 069. 44
Payroll withholdings and refund of advances
(6) ee a a i ee eee 1, 073. 65
Researches and explorations_____-___________ 473, 806. 28
SE Retirement System ssa aoe 2, 375. 10
Total disbursements other than Freer endowment__-__~ 641, 734. 09
Disbursements from Freer endowment:
ESE EW y(cy sabe eo hl RL Al Se ee $122, 868. 40
Purchases ‘for collection==-=--—— = eae 175, 435. 00
Custodian fees and servicing securities______ 12, 678. 14
Miscellaneous 32s ee een See 37, 440. 84
Total disbursements from Freer endowment__------- 348, 422. 38
Total disbursement S22 ees 2 ee ee 990, 156. 47
Cash’ balance: June {se lO = ae ee a ee eee 586, 853. 38
TD Ge 2 i RR a ep Ss Wee a eee 1, 577, 009. 85
ASSETS
Cash:
United States Treasury cur-
rent account. 2asessee. $192, 330. 69
In banks and on hand__-__- 394, 522. 69
586, 853. 38
Less uninvested endowment
oF UTT Cl See ees nets etc 36, 319. 04
—_ $550, 534. 34
‘Travel-and <othercsadvances=-22-eees isa ee ee 10, 555. 00
Cash invested (U. S. Treasury notes) -----_-_- 725, 960. 92

$1, 287, 050. 26
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE LZ

ASSETS—Continued
Investments—at book value:
Endowment funds:
Freer Gallery of Art:
Stocks and bonds------ $7, 210, 636. 21

Uninvested cash. ----- 20, 332. 27
SS SP ec os)
Investments at book value other

than Freer:
Stocks and bonds_--------- $2, 939, 736. 63
Uninvested cash. --------- 15, 986. 77

Special deposit in U. S.
Treasury at 6 percent in-

teresti 2222 Se os ees 1, 000, 000. 00
Other stocks and bonds-_---- 76, 671. 08

Real estate and mortgages- 5, 936. 00
——————__——— 4,038, 330. 48
$11, 269, 298. 96

Total____.____----------------------------------------- 12, 556, 349, 22

UNEXPENDED FUNDS AND ENDOWMENTS
Unexpended funds:

Income from Freer Gallery of Art endowment__------------ $535, 740. 89
Income from other endowments:
Restricted 22.822 es ee eee $325, 014. 80
Genet a a ee 222, 876. 06
547, 890. 86
Gifts and grants___----------------------------------------- 203, 418. 51
1, 287, 050. 26
Endowment funds:
reer Gallery OleA itso = eee $7, 230, 968. 48
Other:
Restricted. 222.22 -—— $2, 187, 278. 37
General) 222 22022422 1, 901, 052. 11
4, 038, 330. 48
11, 269, 298. 96

Total___..=_ =e ens = -S = == = = 12, 556, 349. 22

The practice of maintaining savings accounts in several of the
Washington banks and trust companies has been continued during the
past year, and interest on these deposits amounted to $3,162.17.

Deposits are made in banks for convenience in collection of checks,
and later such funds are withdrawn and deposited in the United States
Treasury. Disbursement of funds is made by check signed by the Sec-
retary of the Institution and drawn on the United States Treasury.
172 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

The Institution gratefully acknowledges gifts and grants from the
following:

American Museum of Natural History, additional gift, for a study of the eth-
nology of the Tsimshian Indians of the British Columbia coast.
American Philosophical Society, for studies on the behavior and life histories
of solitary wasps.
Dr. Robert A. Vines, Director of the Museum of Natural History of Houston,
for improvement of the United States National Herbarium Collections.
Agnes Chase, additional gift, for copying the index to grass names.
The Washington Fashion Group, additional gift, for the costumes collection.
Geological Society of America, for services of a scientific illustrator.
Johns Hopkins University, additional gift, for publications on Arctic research.
Link Foundation, additional gift, for preparation and distribution of materials
related to the contributions of the National Air Museum to aviation education.
EB. A. Link, Link Aviation, Inc., additional gift, for historical research (marine
archeology).
Merck & Co., Inc., for preparing a vitamin exhibit.
National Academy of Sciences, for typing the manuscript of the second edition
of the Flora of Okinawa.
National Geographic Society, to establish the Olmec Archeological Fund.
National Geographic Society, additional grant, for the publication of “The Mate-
rial Culture of Pueblo Bonito.”
National Science Foundation, for the publication of “Annotated Subject-Heading
Bibliography of Termites.”
National Science Foundation, grant to provide maintenance and operation of the
Canal Zone Biological Area, Barro Colorado Island, Canal Zone.
National Science Foundation, grant for research on “Taxonomy of the Bamboos.”
J. Townsend Russell, to secure archeological series from the Scandinavian
countries.
Harvard University, for the Peabody Museum, Harvard—Smithsonian Institution
Kalahari Expedition.
Maleolm MacGregor, for “The Philatelic Fund.”
I. A. O’Shaughnessy, for publication of Sister Inez Hilger’s manuscript of her
study of Araucanian Child Life and its Cultural Background.
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Bredin, for an expedition to the Belgian Congo.
State Department, grant to cooperate on Educational Exchange Services.
Guggenheim Foundation, additional grant, for the wax metabolism fund.
The Wenner-Gren Foundation, for use in connection with a seminar on the role
of physical anthropology in the identification of human remains.
For support of the Bio-Sciences Information Exchange:
Atomic Energy Commission.
Department of the Air Force.
Department of the Army.
Department of the Navy.
National Science Foundation.
Public Health Service.
Veterans Administration.

The foregoing report relates only to the private funds of the Insti-
tution.

The following appropriations were made by Congress for the Gov-
ernment bureaus under the administrative charge of the Smithsonian
Institution for the fiscal year 1955;
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 173

Salariestand expenses 2222 nae a a ee $3, 048, 146. 00
INeGl OLA ZOO) 0 21 Ceil a ee Ye eee ce ae re 648, 000. 00

These figures include supplemental appropriations to pay salary
increases of approximately 714 percent voted by Congress effective
March 18, 1955.

In addition, funds were transferred from other Government
agencies for expenditure under the direction of the Smithsonian In-
stitution as follows:

Working funds, transferred from the National Park Service, Interior
Department, for archeological investigations in river basins
throuzhout the United States==2- 32222 22s ee ae $52, 700. 00

The Institution also administers a trust fund for partial support of
the Canal Zone Biological Area, located on Barro Colorado Island in
the Canal Zone.

AUDIT

The report of the audit of the Smithsonian private funds follows:

Wasutneron, D. C., August 8, 1955.

To THE BoArp OF REGENTS,
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington 25, D.C.

We have examined the financial statements and schedules, as listed in the
accompanying index, of the Smithsonian Institution relative to its private en-
dowment funds and gifts (but excluding the National Gallery of Art and other
departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution under Fed-
eral appropriations) for the year ended June 30, 1955. Our examination was
made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly
included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing proce-
dures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

The Institution maintains its accounts on a cash basis and does not accrue
income and expenses. Land, buildings, furniture, equipment, works of art,
living and other specimens and certain sundry property are not included in
the accounts of the Institution.

In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present fairly the
position of the private funds and the cash and investments thereof or the Smith-
sonian Institution at June 30, 1955 (excluding the National Gallery of Art
and other departments, bureaus or operations administered by the Institution
under Federal appropriations) and the cash receipts and disbursements for the
year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
applied on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.

Peat, Marwick, MitcHELL & Co.

Respectfully submitted.

CLARENCE CANNON
VANNEVAR BusH
Rosert V. FLemMina

Executive Committee.
| Nees Fe AP di, pit A rool
| ake Autti ns ; i |
Nihal ny mati watt if at
avr it bith: pare i j a Saty si
err! pene fe ise CLR ae oe. eR WEA wae
to.tren que betsmaqaot bank Jars. 2 <astpiniotbsox! sar
ae Hhrtafad maaan: so Badaval rig a
ory eae .
Sasol Pek ive te Penal aig m ihe rie ne
Mason. Aocteny wh Paley, Soe Ay hs eH wanty et Die paceet otitis

cee bie igs aay caine, ae oat} to dogo ort

Nae Myra) aes hits Hea C lia ‘mi ye eae ae eal Avia) 40 ant whee Menten: i

er Sir ate a,

op OO! Belang a ee er tw ae Sih) ay \ytae - Sing )
Pena unin tite wet ‘ i sae : a , Pe fs . _

ratians Plan petted Pb mittolt, ene Na civge pon el
Ro ON Sata Ea Anita ame LUaviA Delgo be ‘wer

Sule rite dae dak Wine npee 1alsitea ce See Batiudes si

“lng! Bhi iy neil “MUP ILe f Waliuaske wis Ts eset: e ae

holy MtrA to ¢rglings Ipijotialh ody giuibiilogs sud) Tia bara. nt fi

ee ii ehasteath sith ie Desa ct NW noe ime 4 aeerUd ale

bi Pia ites Ree att oat. oo Fane att ‘ait (uae disierae rad |

tote “Ow ena wirtiioh a bt RY, ine) tye ootutty rm
uy es eis Hoth’ eg Gilde th} 1th a as) HY Sey’ eit See a a

Se

waeagiae dod coupeteeRrNnS ht Wana) how bier ow ee eo
Ber ed pene New eben thang ey aval peaait’ att’ wicket i ait? |
ri ch ae oid Pie eae bitte “fant tasinies a o,

Ww bbaigal 's idea's Sefer Padi | abso’ ‘Ejie W eax?
Hy yw ery ie Lib “SMT i Senos att “tational
eas Vis shoseie sae pti saab eclytac he ae aati were set,
Bult ure BHoe AE HAR We ily od huis Sted edealny ot to Kolteong
uk hate fi a Ah tae f° acibaloe9), abet 6 outwit te! adhe bea! aalaog

Aaa) hacia baa ogun ‘pal! i

biticiy, KOU do, ", ty Leh. Age a ii ae -
‘hs to soi y Ning cee aes evi a eee
ee RRA a h)7 Per Pal wt the f Aunithaalem,,.°

GENERAL APPENDIX

to the

SMITHSONIAN REPORT FOR 1955

175
ADVERTISEMENT

The object of the Grnrrat Arpenprx to the Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution is to furnish brief accounts of scientific dis-
covery in particular directions; reports of investigations made by
staff members and collaborators of the Institution; and memoirs of a
general character or on special topics that are of interest or value to
the numerous correspondents of the Institution.

It has been a prominent object of the Board of Regents of the Smith-
sonian Institution from a very early date to enrich the annual report
required of them by law with memoirs illustrating the more remark-
able and important developments in physical and biological discovery,
as well as showing the general character of the operations of the Insti-
tution ; and, during the greater part of its history, the purpose has been
carried out largely by the publication of such papers as would possess
an interest to all attracted by scientific progress.

In 1880, induced in part by the discontinuance of an annual sum-
mary of progress which for 30 years previously had been issued by
well-known private publishing firms, the Secretary had a series of
abstracts prepared by competent collaborators, showing concisely the
prominent features of recent scientific progress in astronomy, geology,
meteorology, physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, and
anthropology. This latter plan was continued, though not altogether
satisfactorily, down to and including the year 1888.

In the report of 1889, a return was made to the earlier method of
presenting a miscellaneous selection of papers (some of them original)
embracing a considerable range of scientific investigation and discus-
sion. This method has been continued in the present report for 1955.

Reprints of the various papers in the General Appendix may be
obtained, as long as the supply lasts, on request addressed to the Edi-
torial and Publications Division, Smithsonian Institution, Washing-
ton 25, D.C.

176
Science Serving the Nation

By Ler A. DuBRIDGE

President, California Institute of Technology

WE ARE SOMETIMES INCLINED to think that the phenomenon of
science being of service to the Nation is a development of recent
years—say since 1940. However, as a matter of fact, science has
always been a national asset and has always been in the Nation’s
service. Science and technology indeed have been among the deci-
sive influences that have improved the condition of the American
people, and thus made this Nation fine and strong.

However, even if we think of science directly serving the govern-
ment, rather than serving the people generally, we are still not dealing
with anew phenomenon. Beginning with the day Benjamin Franklin
invented the postage stamp, the United States Government has needed
and has used science and technology, not only to promote the general
welfare of the people but also to advance the special functions of the
Federal Government, including, of course, the function of national
defense.

This long experience has led this Nation to the conclusion—a conclu-
sion not always expressed or adequately implemented, but nevertheless
definite—that the Government and the Nation are heavily dependent
for strength, welfare, and security on science and technology. Hence,
it follows that the Government must do two things: (1) Make pro-
vision for the carrying on of scientific and technological activities
within the framework of government to serve specific government
needs, and (2) encourage and support throughout the country a strong
nongovernment science and technology. Both of these activities are
necessary for a strong and prosperous nation in time of peace; both
are vital to bring military strength in time of war.

However, it is one thing to recognize these two facts and obligations;
it is quite another thing to do anything sensible about them. The
history of government relations with science is replete with examples

1 Address delivered at opening ceremonies of new building of The Johns Hop-
kins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Howard County, Maryland, October
16,1954. Reprinted by permission of the Laboratory.

177
178 ANNUAL REPORT SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, 1955

of good intention and bad implementation. A desirable agency is
established and is then deprived of funds. Laws enunciating high-
sounding ideals are passed, and then the men who are appointed to
implement them are denied secretarial help and travel funds. Scien-
tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

tists are saluted as being essential to the Nation’s progress, and are

fheneatedens PSV ia CAS AMAT nel ana emer Prukhe ConsEn:

Pay Eom Pne ee nest [Rey Deer PRM en PRA cde nT pe ey Bina) tye yan i) PECL Cae! Ee ee Een ate Se eye ea TS [he
