al , A

ee elated

f
f
i

ANNUAL REPORT

OF

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

THE OPERATIONS, EXPENDITURES, AND CONDITION OF THE INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR 1869.

WASHINGTON:
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.
1872.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
FOorrTyY-FIRST CONGRESS, SECOND SussiOn, July 12, 1870.

Resolved by the House of Representatives, (the Senate concurring,) That ten thousand addi-
tional copies of the Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1869 be printed,
three thousand of which shall be for the use of the Senate, four thousand for the use
of the House, and three thousand for the use of the Institution: Provided, That the
ageregate number of pages of said report shall not exceed four hundred and fifty, and
that there shal] be no illustrations except those furnished by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution.

On the 13th of July, 1870, a message was received from the Senate, by Mr. Gorham,
its Secretary, notifying the House that the Senate had agreed to the said resolution
without amendment.

Attest: EDW. McPHERSON, Clerk.
Per GEO. FRS. DAWSON, Assistant Clerk.

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
ForTY-SECOND CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION, May 29, 1872.

The following resolution, originating in the House of Representatives on the 23d
instant, has this day been concurred in by the Senate:

Resolved, (the Senate concurring,) That two thousand extra copies each of the reports
of the Smithsonian Institution, of which the stereotype-plates are now in the Con-
egressional Printing-Office, be printed for distribution by the Smithsonian Institution
to libraries, colleges, and public establishments.

Attest: EDW. McPHERSON,

Clerk.
Ut rd bad a a es

FROM THE

SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONTAN INSTITUTION,

TRANSMITTING

The annual report of the Smithsonian Institution for the year 1869.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,
Washington, March 1, 1870.
Sir: In behalf of the Board of Regents, I have the honor to submit
to the Congress of the United States the annual report of the operations,
expenditures, and condition of the Smithsonian Institution for the year
1869.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH HENRY,
Secretary Smithsonian Institution.
Hon. 8. CoLFax,
President of the Senate.
Hon. J. G. BLAINE,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR 1869.

This document contains: 1. The programme of organization of the
Smithsonian Institution. 2. The annual report of the’secretary, giving
an account of the operations and condition of the establishment for the
year 1869, with the statistics of collections, exchanges, meteorology, Xe.
3. The report of the executive committee, exhibiting the financial affairs
of the Institution, including a statement of the Smithson fund, the re-
ceipts and expenditures for the year 1869, and the estimates for 1870.
4, The proceedings of the Board of Regents. 5. A general appendix,
consisting principally of reports of lectures, translations from foreing
journals of articles not generally accessible, but of interest to meteorol-
ogists, correspondents of the Institution, teachers, and others interested
in the promotion of knowledge.
THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

ULYSSES 8S. GRANT..-.-.- President of the United States, ex officio Presiding Officer of
the Institution.

SALMON P. CHASE..... Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor of the Insti-
tution, President of the Board of Regents.

JOSEPH HENRY...-..-.- Secretary (or Director) of the Institution.

REGENTS OF THE INSTITUTION.

Sy lie (CISUNS DR ee eee ee eee Chief Justice of the United States, President of the Board,
‘Sb: O10 DY. See eee Vice-President of the United States.

See DO WIEN ss as05/2> 55). Mayor of the City of Washington.

Tis f Ol £2) O04 033) 00 bt Be eee ee Member of the Senate of the United States.
GARRET DAVIS .....---- Member of the Senate of the United States.

H. HAMLIN ..--...-........Member of the Senate of the United States.

Ae dak (GUN 1) i De eee Member of the House of Representatives.

Pee elOLAND: <2) 233--. Member of the House of Representatives.

ish th CONE See ae eee Member of the House of Representatives.

Weer AG ON, 22 ccc005 acces Citizen of New York.

ee WOOLSEY ...-......-. Citizen of Connecticut.

Ibi, LAVAS) VAR ee eee Citizen of Massachusetts.

RICHARD DELAFIELD. .- Citizen of Washington. |

PEPER PARKER, ........- Citizen of Washington. 4 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
JOHN MACLEAN ......... Citizen of New Jersey. |

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO OF THE INSTITUTION.

Die Sa GAIN Toe see so o-5 ce President of the United States.

Be ONOWA KS ccc sen, soe dle Vice-President of the United States.
rej d Se) (O18 U.S) DS eae ee Chief Justice of the United States.
Pte is tee ares Soo oso oe Secretary of State.

Gas. DO WLWiibli--. 02. -se Secretary of the Treasury.

Wie). DELEINAPY 23. 5. . -22 Secretary of War.

Gavi ROBESON s255.- Secretary of the Navy.

J. A. J. CRESWELL. ...--- Postmaster General.

din We (C0). eas eee ree Secretary of the Interior.

1B Ue 1a OFS ee pean eee Attorney General.

‘Sh fab JOS a0 ee Aeneas Commissioner of Patents.

ee WEIN occa cacgencs cn Mayor of the City of Washington.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION.

JOSEPH HENRY, SECRETARY,

Director of the Institution.

t

SPENCER F. BAIRD, AssIsTANT SECRETARY,

In charge of Museum, Exchanges, de.

WILLIAM J. RHEES, Corer CLERK,
In charge of Accounts, Printing, and General Business.

DANIEL LEECH, CiLerx,

In charge of Correspondence.

HENRY M. BANNISTER, CLERK,

In charge of Meteorology.

JANE A. TURNER, CLERK,
In charge of Records of International Exchanges.

SOLOMON G. BROWN, CLERK,

In charge ef Transportation.

JOSEPH HERRON,

Janitor of the Musewm.
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION

OF THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

.

[PRESENTED IN THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY, AND
ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS, DECEMBER 13, 1847.]

INTRODUCTION.

General considerations which should serve as a guide in adopting a Plan
of Organization.

1. WILL OF SmiTHson. The property is bequeathed to the United
States of America, ‘to found at Washington, under the name of the
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, an establishment for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge among men.”

2. The bequest is for the benefit of mankind. The Government of
the United States is merely a trustee to carry out the design of the
testator.

3. The Institution is not a national establishment, as is frequently
supposed, but the establishment of an individual, and is to bear and
perpetuate his name.

4. The objects of the Institution are, 1st, to increase, and, 2d, to
diffuse knowledge among men.

5. These two objects should not be confounded with one another.
The first is to enlarge the existing stock of knowledge by the addition
of new truths; and the second, to disseminate knowledge, thus increased,
among men.

6. The will makes no restriction in favor of any particular kind of
knowledge; hence all branches are entitled to a share of attention.

7. Knowledge can be increased by different methods of facilitating
and promoting the discovery of new truths; and can be most exten-
sively diffused among men by means of the press.

8. To effect the greatest amount of good, the crganization should be
such as to enable the Institution to produce results, in the way of in-
creasing and diffusing knowledge, which cannot be produced either at
all or so efliciently by the existing institutions in our country.

9. The organization should also be such as can be adopted provis-
ionally ; can be easily reduced to practice; receive moditications, or
be abandoned, in whole or in part, without a sacrifice of the funds.

10. In order to compensate in some measure for the loss of time
occasioned by the delay of eight years in establishing the Institution,
a considerable portion of the interest which has accrued should be added
to the principal. —

11. In proportion to the wide field of knowledge to be cultivated, the
funds are small. Economy should, therefore, be consulted in the con-
struction of the building; and not only the first cost of the edifice shouid
be considered, but also the continual expense of keeping it in repair,
8 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

and of the support of the establishment necessarily connected with it.
There should also be but few individuals permanently supported by the
Institution.

. The plan and dimensions of the building should be determined by
the plan of the organization, and not the converse.

13. It should be recollected that mankind in general are to be bene-
fited by the bequest, and that, therefore, all unnecessary expenditure
on local objects would be a perversion of the trust.

14. Besides the foregoing considerations, deduced immediately from
the will of Smithson, regard must be had to certain requirements of the
act of Congress establishing the Institution. These are, a library, a
museum, and a gallery of art, with a building on a liberal scale to con-
tain them.

SECTION I.

Plan of organization of the Institution in accordance with the foregoing
deductions from the will of Smithson.

To INCREASE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To stimulate men of talent to make original researches, by offering
suitable rewards for memoirs containing new truths; and,

2. To appropriate annually a portion ‘of the income for particular re-
searches, under the direction of suitable persons.

To DIFFUSE KNOWLEDGE. It is proposed—

1. To publish a series of periodical reports on the progress of the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge; and,

2. To publish occasionally separate treatises on subjects of general
interest.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE.
I. By stimulating researches.

1. Facilities afforded for the production of original memoirs on all
penis of knowledge.

2, The memoirs thus obtained to be published in a series of volumes,
in a quarto form, and entitled Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.

3. No memoir on subjects of physical science to be accepted for pub-
lication which does not furnish a positive addition to human knowledge,
resting on original research ; and all unverified speculations to be re-
jected.

4. Hach memoir presented to the Institution to be submitted for
examination to a commission of persons of reputation for learning in the
branch to which the memoir pertains; and to be accepted for publica-
tion only in case the report of this commission is favorable.

5. The commission to be chosen by the officers of the Institution, and
the name of the author, as far as practicable, concealed, unless a favor-
able decision is made.

6. The volumes of the memoirs to be exchanged for the transactions
of literary and scientific societies, and copies to be given to all the col-
leges and principal libraries in this country. One part of the remain-
ing copies may be offered for sale, and the other carefully preserved,
to form complete sets of the work, to supply the demand from new insti-
tutions.

7. An abstract, or popular account, of the contents of these memoirs
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. 9

to be given to the public through the annual report of the Regents to
Congress.

Il. By appropriating a part of the income, annually, to special objects
of research, under the direction of suitable persons.

1. The objects and the amount appropriated, to be recommended by
counsellors of the Institution.

2. Appropriations in different years to different objects; so that in
course of time each branch of knowledge may receive a share.

3. The results obtained from these appropriations to be published,
with the memoirs before mentioned, in the tolumes of the Smithsonian
Contributions to Knowledge.

4, Examples of objects for which appropriations may be made.

(1.) System of extended meteorological observations for solving the
problem of American storms.

(2.) Explorations in descriptive natural history, and geological, mag-
Mer and topographical surveys, to collect materials for the formation
of a Physical Atlas of the United States.

(3.) Solution of experimental problems, such as a new determina-
tion of the weight of the earth, of the velocity of electricity, and of
light; chemical analyses of soils and plants; collection and publication
of scientific facts accumulated in the offices of government.

(4.) Institution of statistical inquiries with reference to physical,
moral, and political subjects.

(5.) ’ Historical researches, and accurate surveys of places celebrated
in American history.

(6.) Ethnological researches, particularly with reference to the dif-
ferent races of men in North America; also, explorations and accurate
surveys of the mounds and other remains of the ancient people of our
country.

DETAILS OF THE PLAN FOR DIFFUSING KNOWLEDGE.

J. By the publication of a series of reports, giving an account of the new
discoveries in science, and of the changes made from year to year in all
branches of knowledge not strictly professional.

1. These reports will diffuse a kind of knowledge generally interest-
ing, but which, at present, is inaccessible to the public. Some of the
reports may be published annually, others at longer intervals, as the
income of the Institution or the changes in the branches of knowledge
may indicate.

2. The reports are to be prepared by collaborators eminent in the dif-
ferent branches of knowledge.

3. Each collaborator to be furnished with the journals and publica-
tions, domestic and foreign, necessary to the compilation of his report ;
to be paid a certain sum ‘for his labors, and to be named on the title-
page of the report.

The reports to be published in separate parts, so that persons inter-
al in a particular branch can procure the parts relating to it without
pur chasing the whole.

5. These reports may be presented to Congress, for partial distribu-
tion, the remaining copies to be given to literary and scientific institu-
tions, and sold to individuals for : a moderate price.

The following are some of the subjects which may be embraced in the
reports :*

* This part of the plan has been but partially carried out.
10 PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION.

I. PHYSICAL CLASS.

1. Physics, including astronomy, natural philosophy, chemistry, and
meteorology.

2. Natural history, including botany, zodlogy, geology, &c.

3. Agriculture.

4, Application of science to arts.

Il. MORAL AND POLITICAL CLASS.

5. Ethnology, including particular history, comparative philology,
antiquities, &e. .

6. Statistics and political economy.

7. Mental and moral philosophy.

8. A survey of the political events of the world; penal reform, &c.

Ill. LITERATURE AND THE FINE ARTS.

9. Modern literature.
10. The fine arts, and their application to the useful arts.
11. Bibliography.

2. Obituary notices of distinguished individuals.

Ii. By the publication of separate treatises on subjects of general interest.

1. These treatises may occasionally consist of valuable memoirs
translated from foreign languages, or of articles prepared under the
direction of the Institution, or procured by offering premiums for the
best exposition of a given subject.

2. The treatises should, in all cases, be submitted to a commission of
competent judges, previous to their publication.

3. As examples of these treatises, expositions may be obtained of the
present state of the several branches of knowledge mentioned in the
table of reports.

SECTION II.

Plan of organization, in accordance with the terms of the resolutions of the
Board of Regents providing jor the two modes of increasing and diffusing
knowledge.

1. The act of Congress establishing the Institution contemplated the
formation of a library and a museum, and the Board ot Regents, in-
cluding these objects in the plan of organization, resolved to divide the
income* into two equal parts.

2, One part to be appropriated to increase and diffuse knowledge by
means of publications and researches, agreeably to the scheme before
given. The other part to be appropriated to the formation of a library
and a collection of objects of nature and of art.

3. These two plans are not incompatible with one another.

4, To carry out the plan before described, a library will be required,
consisting, Ist, of acomplete collection of the transactions and proceed-
ings of all thé learned societies in the world ; 2d, of the more important
current periodical publications, and other works necessary in preparing
the periodical reports.

* The amount of the Smithsonian bequest received into the Treasury of the

United (Statesisien 22.325 we,6 cists Seale ee ee oe eee ea eee $515, 169 00
Interest on the same to July 1, 1846, (devoted to the erection of the building) 242,129 00
Annualluncometromubtlve Meihiwesten- jones ae nee seek eieeee aiie re eis 30,910 14
PROGRAMME OF ORGANIZATION. TE

5. The Institution should make special collections, particularly of
objects to illustrate and verify its own publications.

6. Also, a collection of instruments of research in all branches of ex-
perimental science.

7. With reference to the collection of books, other than those men-
tioned above, catalogues of all the different libraries in the United
States should be procured, in order that the valuable books first pur-
chased may be such as are not to be found in the United States.

8. Also, catalogues of memoirs, and of books and other materials,
should be collected for rendering the Institution a center of bibliograph-
ical knowledge, whence the student may be directed to any work which
he may require.

9. It is believed that the collections in natural history will increase
by donation as rapidly as the income of the Institution can make pro-
vision for their reception, and, therefore, it will seldom be necessary to
purchase articles of this kind.

10. Attempts should ke made to procure for the gallery of art casts
of the most celebrated articles of ancient and modern sculpture.

11. The arts may be encouraged by providing a room, free of ex-
pense, for the exhibition of the objects of the Art-Union and other
similar societies.

12. A small appropriation should annually be made for models of an-
tiquities, such as those of the remains of ancient temples, &e.

13. For the present, or until the building is fully completed, besides
the Secretary, no permanent assistant will be required, except one, to
act as librarian.

14. The Secretary, by the law of Congress, is alone responsible to
the Regents. He shall take charge of the building and property, keep
a recor d of proceedings, discharge the duties of librarian and keeper of
the museum, and may, with the consent of the Regents, employ assistants.

15. The Secretary and his assistants, during the session of Congress,
will be required to illustrate new discoveries in science, and to exhibit
new objects of art. Distinguished individuals should also be invited to
give lectures on subjects of general interest.

This programme, which was at first adopted provisionally, has be-
come the settled policy of the Institution. The only material change
is that expressed by the following resolutions, adopted January 15,
1855, viz:

Resolved, That the 7th resolution passed by the Board of Regents,
on the 26th of January, 1847, requiring an equal division of the income
between the active operations and the museum and library, when the
buildings are completed, be, and it is hereby, repealed.

Resolved, That hereafter the annual appropriations shall be appor-
tioned specifically among the different objects and operations of the
Institution, in such manner as may, in the judgment of the Regents, be
necessary and proper for each, according to its intrinsic importance and
a compliance in good faith with the jaw.
REPORT

or

PROFESSOR HENRY, SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION,

FOR

HB O:009"

To the Board of Regents:

GENTLEMEN: The Institution intrusted to your guardianship by the
Congress of the United States, has, during the past year, continued its
operations in the line of increasing and diffusing knowledge with una-
bated energy. The sphere of its influence in this country and abroad
has from the first been constantly on the increase, and it is now not too
much to say that no institution founded by the liberality of a private
individual ever attained a wider or more favorable reputation. It is
true, its character is sometimes misunderstood, but this cannot be a
matter of surprise when we reflect that it differs in many particulars
from all other institutions, and that without an attentive perusal of the
annual reports, no adequate idea can be obtdined of its varied field of
labor, or of what it has done and is doing to promote the special objects
denoted in the will of its founder. It is here sufficient to mention that,
besides adding to the sum of human knowledge by its own operations,
and connecting its name with the history of almost every branch of
science, it has become the general agent through which the intellectual
labors of the eastern and western hemispheres are brought into efficient
cobperation. The importance of its labors and the influence of the
international communication which it has established, ean only be pro-
perly estimated by those who are acquainted with the distinctive char-
acteristics of modern civilization, and who realize the fact that it
mainly rests on the development of a knowledge of the laws of nature
and the application of these laws to the uses of life. Science not only
gives man control over the physical elements, and thus tends to eman-
cipate him from the curse of brute labor, but also serves to widen the
domain of his intellectual activities and enlarge the sphere of his moral
sympathies. By an attentive perusal of the following report, I think it
will be admitted by all who are competent to form a proper opinion on
the subject, that what I have claimed for the Institution is not too
much, and that any departure from the general policy which has been
constantly pursued from the beginning, would be attended with unfortu-
nate consequences.

FINANCES.—At the last session of the Board it was resolved that a
memorial be presented to Congress, setting forth the large expendi-
14 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

ture to which the Institution had been subjected by reason of the ac-
commodation and maintenance of the National Museum, and asking
that the usual appropriation of $4,000 that had been made on this
account be increased to $10,000; also, that $25,000 be appropriated
toward fitting up the large room in the second story of the main build-
ing, for the better exhibition of the government collections. In accord-
ance with this resolution a petition was prepared, signed by the Chan-
cellor and Secretary of the Institution, and presented to the House of
Representatives by General Garfield, one of the Regents. It was re-
ferred to the Committee on Appropriations, and although forcibly ad-
vocated by the members of the Board belonging to the House, it was not
granted, and only the usual sum was appropriated. The same memo-
rial has, through the Secretary of the Interior, again been presented to
Congress. The reasonableness of this petition must be manifest when
it is considered that $4,000 is the sum which the maintenance of the
museum cost the government when it was in charge of the Patent Office,
and that since its removal to the Institution it has increased to three
times its original size, while the money has depreciated to one-half its
former value. From an accurate analysis of the accounts it appears
that the items directly chargeable to the museum during the past year
amount to $15,000. This sum is exclusive of the interest on $144,000,
which has been expended’ since the fire in the restoration of the build-
ing, principally for the accommodations for the museum. Owing to the
fallin the premium on gold, and the non-payment of interest by the
State of Virginia on bonds held by the Institution, the income during
the past year has been less than the estimate by upward of $2,400. It
has, therefore, been necessary to diminish expenditures in certain direc-
tions, in order to carry out the plan of accumulating a sufficient surplus
in the treasury at the beginning of the year to defray, in cash, as far as
possible, all the current expenses. From the report of the Executive
Sommittee it will be seen that this plan has been rigorously carried out 5
that the balance on hand at the beginning of 1870 was nearly $21,000,
with outstanding bills of $3,000, which is about the amount of indebted-
ness at the commencement of last year. The finances of the Institution
may, therefore, be exhibited as follows:

The whole bequest of Smithson in the United States Treas-

TIDY 2 sc See hee cco cee a ent URE (Sn tO St) 9 $541, 379 63
Additions from savings, &c., also in the United States
Wreasury \. .<Seeieeee ces se eis cee ee ae ee ee 108, 620 37
Virginia State stock, ($72,760,) valued at..........------ 42, 200 80
Sashieone Mami... ose sees ee oo. ee a eae On een ee ee 20, 969 65
Potale’. 20): 0... See ee eee - 713,170 45
Dednetbills dne,. (about) .. 22 esos. eee SENLEE, chan S eyo 2,969 65

Which leaves, as the present capital.........---.- 710, 200 80
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 15

The income from the Smithson fund during the year 1869, including
the premium on gold, was $49,515.

In a late report from the Treasury Department, giving a list of the
appropriations of Congress for the District of Columbia, a large amount
is put down to the Smithsonian Institution. This statement, without
explanation, would give an erroneous impression. From the organiza-
tion of the Institution to the present time it cannot properly be said
that the government has appropriated a single dollar from the public
treasury for the Institution. The principal “appropriations” mentioned
in the report in question were not from the public money, but from the
Smithson fund deposited in the Treasury of the United States. The only
appropriation from the national treasury which might appear to be for
the benefit of the Institution, is that of $4,000, annually made for the
care and exhibition of the Government Museum, and, also, at one time
$10,000, and at another $4,000, to erect cases for the better preservation
of the specimens; and even in these instances, as has been shown, the
Institution was far from being reimbursed for the actual expenditure on
the care of the museum.

COOPERATION WITH GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS.—It has always
been a prominent feature in the policy of the Institution to act in unison
with other institutions, and especially to codperate with the several
departments and bureaus of the general government in all cases in
whieh their respective functions would admit of such codperation.
It is in accordance with this policy that the extensive and rapidly
increasing library of the Institution has been incorporated with that of
Congress, and that a similar arrangement, mentionéd in the last report,
for transferring to the Department of Agriculture the large Smithsonian
herbarium, has been completed. It is also in accordance with this policy
that an arrangement has been made with Surgeon General Barnes by
which all the crania and other of the osteological specimens of the In-
stitution have been transferred to the Army Medical Museum.

These codperations, while they relieve the-Institution from the expend-
iture of more than $10,000 annually, and thus enable it to more vigor-
ously prosecute its researches, to publish a larger number of contribu-
tions, and to extend its system of international exchanges, tend also to
increase the amount of scientific material in the capital of the United
States, as well as to facilitate its employment in the advance and diffu-
sion of knowledge.

This Institution and its collaborators have the use not only of its
books deposited in the Capitol, but also that of those in the National
Library, as may be seen by the terms of the deposit given in a previous
report. Also, agreeably to the terms upon which the plants were trans-
ferred, they are accessible to the public for practical or educational
purposes, and to the Institution for scientific investigation. Further-
more, a botanist approved by the Institution has been appointed, who
16 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

is to have charge of the specimens and be ready at all times to give
botanical information that may be required by the general public or by
the Smithsonian correspondents. Moreover, in return for the specimens
transferred to the Medical Museum the Institution receives from the
officers of the army all collections made in ethnology and in special
branches of natural history.

PUBLICATIONS.—The publications of the Institution form an essential
part of its operations and constitute the principal basis of the great sys-
tem of Smithsonian international exchanges. As has been frequently
stated in previous reports, they are of three classes: the Contributions
to Knowledge, the Miscellaneous Collections, and the Annual Reports.
The first consist of memoirs containing positive additions to science
resting on original research, and which are, principally, the result of
investigations to which the Institution has in, some way rendered assist-
ance. The Miscellaneous Collections are chiefly composed of, works
intended to facilitate the study of ethnology, natural history, and mete-
orology. They are designed to facilitate the progress of those who en-
gage in special studies, to which, in their leisure moments, their thoughts
may recur, and in connection with which, while contributing to their
own pleasure, they may advance the cause of science. The Annual

teports, besides giving an account of the operations of the Institution,

furnish, in an appendix, matter of importance to the meteorological
observer and of interest to the general public. The Contributions and
Miscellaneous Collections are published at the expense of the Smithson
fund, while the Reports, with the exception of the illustrations, are
printed by the government.

The following is a list of the quarto publications that have been
printed during the present year:

1. On the Gray Substance of the Medulla Oblongata and Trapezium.
By John Dean, M. D.

2. On the Orbit and Phenomena of a Meteoric Fire-ball, seen July 20,
1860. By Professor J. H. Coffin, LL. D.

3. On the Transatlantic Longitude. By Benjamin A. Gould.

4, The Indians of Cape Flattery, at the Entrance of the Strait of Fuca,
Washington Territory. By J. G. Swan.

5. Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family. By
Lewis H. Morgan.

6. On the Gliddon Mummy Case in the Museum of the Smithsonian
Institution. By Chas. Pickering.

7. A new edition of Brewer’s North American Odlogy.

Of these Nos. 1 to 6, together with Hildreth’s and Cleveland’s Meteor-
ological Observations, previously deseribed, form the 16th volume of
Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, which will be distributed to
the foreign correspondents of the Institution in the next invoice, and,
as soon as an additional number can be bound, to the public institutions
of this countiy.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. Ly

The following are the titles of the articles of the octavo series that have
been printed during the year, or, are now in press:

1. Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America. Part I By W.
G. Binney and T. Bland.

2. Photographic Portraits of North American Indians in the Gallery
of the Smithsonian Institution.

3. List of Foreign Correspondents of the Smithsonian Institution.
New and enlarged edition.

4, Directions for Collecting, Preserving and Transporting Specimens
of Natural History. Prepared for the use of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. (New edition.)

_ §. Tables, Meteorological and Physical, prepared for the Smithsonian

Institution. By A. Guyot, P. D., LL. D. (New edition.)

6. Circular in Reference to the Degrees of Relationship among Differ-
ent Nations. (New edition.)

At the request of the Institution the preparation of the Manual of the
Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America was undertaken by W.
G. Binney. The second and third parts of this work were published
some years ago, and have been described in previous reports. The
first part, which completes the work, was issued during the year
1869, and forms by itself a volume of 328 pages, illustrated with many
woodeuts. The work was at first undertaken by Mr. Binney alone, but
he afterward, in this part, associated with himself Mr. Thomas Bland, of
New York. It contains a description of all the species of land shells
known in January 1868, within the geographical limits of North Amer-
ica, from the extreme North to the Rio Grande and Mazatlan. It is con-
sidered a valuable contribution to the study of conchology and is in
great demand among those interested in the pursuit of this branch of
natural history.

From the stereotype plates of these octavo works, from which impres-
sions have been printed and separately distributed in pamphlet form, two
additional volumes of the Miscellaneous Collections have been made up,
and are nearly ready for distribution.

On account of the great outlay for the building during the last few
years, the appropriations for publications have been restricted; yet from
the foregoing it will be seen that we shall be able to distribute in our
next foreign invoice one quarto and two octavo volumes, which, with
the Annual Report, will make four volumes of publications issued dur-
ing 1869.

A brief account has been given in previous reports of the contents of
all the papers forming the 16th volume of Contributions, excepting the
Gliddon Mummy Case, the Indians of Cape Flattery, and the Trans-
atlantic Longitude.

The first of these is by Dr. Charles Pickering, of Boston, one of. the
ethnologists of the United States Exploring Expedition, under Admiral
Wilkes. f It relates to an interesting specimen of Egyptian archeology

=S
18 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

presented, in 1842, by Mr. Gliddon, the Egyptologist, to the national
collection now in charge of the Smithsonian Institution, but at that time
in the United States Patent Office. It consists of a part of the lid of
a mummy case procured at Sacara from an Arab. It does not bear any
inscription by which its date can be determined, but it is supposed by Dr.
Pickering to belong to a very early period, and to be among the oldest—
if not the very oldest—of specimens of hieroglyphic writing known.
The earliest writing, of ascertained date, was executed in the third dy-
nasty from 3110 to 3080, B. C.; but, according to Dr. Pickering, the
writings on the mummy case in the Institution are of a style different
from, and clearly anterior to, that executed in the third dynasty. To-
ward the beginning of this era, on the authority of Manetho, writing
was improved, and as all improvements of this kind have tended in the
direction of an increased facility, this mummy case at least seems to
have preceded such a change. The lid was divided by Mr. Gliddon into
three parts ; the first part is the one just described, the second was pre-
sented to the Naval Lyceum of Brooklyn, the third to Mrs. Ward, of
New York. Diligent though unsuccessful inquiry has been made for the
missing parts, in order to have them also figured and described; and
now, through this report, attention is again called to the subject, with
the hope that if the other portions of the lid are still in existence, in-
formation of the fact may be communicated to the Institution. The
part of the lid above described is represented on a large plate which
presents a fac-simile of the figures as to size and color.

The second undescribed paper is that on the Indians of Cape Flattery,
which, there is no doubt, will be considered an interesting contribution
to ethnology. It was prepared, at the request of the Institution, by Mr.
James G. Swan, an agent of the United States government, who had
long resided with the tribe of which he has given an account. This °
tribe occupies the extreme northwestern part of Washington Territory,
opposite Vancouver's Island, from which it is separated by the Strait of
Fuca. The paper contains a full account of the manners and customs
of these Indians, and a description of their implements, utensils, cloth-
ing, modes of travel, fashion of constructing houses, &e. It also gives
a minute account of the festivals and ceremonies of these Indians, and
of the various myths with which these are connected. Among other
singular superstitions is that of the resurrection, as it were, of the flesh
of the body but not of the bones, which are left in the graves; that
the spirit world is in the center of the earth, where the inhabitants are
somewhat incommoded by the want of the osseous part of their bodies.
The memoir is illustrated by a large number of woodcuts, most of them
copied from specimens now in the museum of the Institution. In the
absence of the author of the work it was edited by George Gibbs, esq.,
who has added occasional notes, and also a vocabulary of the Makah
tribe, furnished by Mr. Swan.

The third memoir to be described is the report of Dr. B. A. Gould on
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 19

the Transatlantic Longitude. The principal results of this investigation
were communicated by Dr. Gould to the meeting of the National
Academy of Sciences, during its session in 1867, and the report in full
was presented to the Institution for publication, with the consent of the
Superintendent of the Coast Survey, Professor Peirce, in February
1869. It relates to the determination of the difference of longitude
between England and America, by means of the electro-magnetic tele-
graph. This method was first practically applied in the Coast Survey
of the United States, between places in this country, and received its
full development in this great national work before it began to be used
elsewhere. Previous to the introduction of this method, three others
had been employed on the Survey. First, that of observations of the
time of the culmination of the moon at the two places between which
the difference of longitude, or, in other words, of time, was to be deter-
mined; second, that of observing the times of beginning and ending of
eclipses of the sun and of occultations of known stars by the passage
over them of the moon; and third, that of transporting a large number
of chronometers between England and America a number of times in
succession and obtaining the average difference of time as indicated by
the whole series. The determinations of the transatlantic longitude
which have been obtained by these methods have been generally re-
ferred to the Capitol at Washington and the Observatory at Greenwich,
England, as standard points. From the several methods just men-
tioned, and also from that of the electro-magnetic telegraph, the fol-
lowing results have been obtained :

From eclipses and occultations the difference in time
between the dome of the Capitol and the Greenwich

SUR VeAIMIE Viel 905-2) 5)<) ltos  8 hee 5 = eS einen Ces | Dt Oke AS Oe
From moon culminations the difference is..........-- 5m Sa" 10812
From the transportation of chronometers the difference

CR Ey ore ER Po ama ts = ye Sn a eines ojos 2s 5 8™= 125.30

From the transmission of electricity through the cable,
and the use of the electro-magnetic telegraph, the dif-
fEEPMEC WandOUnd LOINGl. © on 1,2 2 soo eee se oe Tg edad |. ly

By the last method the difference of time between the ends of the.
eable was probably determined within the fraction of a second, but as
the signals could not be sent directly between Greenwich and Washing-
ton, a somewhat greater departure from the actual difference must be
allowed. ‘This difference is, however, very small, not exceeding, per-
haps, a single second.

The process of ascertaining the difference of time, or in other words,
the difference of longitude of two points, by means of the telegraph,
consists in transmitting a series of signals either way through the con-
ductor, and in observing the exact time of the appearance of the signal
at one station, while its time of starting is registered at the other. If
20 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

the transmission of the signal were instantaneous, the difference of time
observed would be the exact difference of longitude; but if any time
elapses between the making of the signal at one station and its appear-
ance at the other, the difference of time will be greater than the true
time when the signal is sent eastward, and less than it when sent west-
ward. If the velocity of transmission be the same in both directions,
the true difference of longitude will be obtained by taking the mean of
two sets of differences, the one giving the longitude as much too great
as the other gives it too small.

From experiments on the velocity of transmission of electrical im-
pulses through long conductors, it is probable that the first part, as it
were, of the electrical wave reaches the distant station in an inappre-
ciable moment of time, but that in order to overcome the inertia, and
give perceptible motion to the signal apparatus, an accumulation of
power is required. The time necessary to this accumulation will
depend on the weight, and other causes of resistance in the apparatus,
and also on the intensity of the electrical current; hence, the two instru-
ments ought to have precisely the same degree of sensitiveness, and the
battery during the continuance of the experiment should retain the same
electro-motive power. _

The method of telegraphing, employed with the cable, is that devised
by Sir William Thomson, of Glasgow, and is founded on the applica-
tion of the principle of reflection first applied to instruments of pre-
cision by our countryman, Joseph Saxton, of the Coast Survey. It
consists of a mirror of about half an inch in diameter, to the back of
which is attached a small magnetic needle, the joint weight of the two
being less than one grain, which is suspended, by a single fiber from
the cocoon, in the center of a coil of many spires of fine wire, forming
part of the galvanic circuit. Upon this mirror is thrown a beam of
light through a slit in front of a bright kerosene lamp, and the deflec-
tions of the neédle are noted by the movements of the reflected beam
received upon a slip of white paper. The exquisite delicacy of this gal-
vanometer, as well as the conducting power of the telegraphic cable,
may be appreciated from the result of an experiment in which signals
were sent from Ireland to Newfoundland, a distance of 2,160 miles, by
means of a battery composed of an ordinary percussion gun cap, in
which was inserted a morsel of zine and a drop of acidulated water.

For determining the time in these observations, a small transit instru-
ment, a chronograph, and an astronomical clock were required at each
station, for the accommodation of which a temporary observatory was
erected. The observations on the American side were in charge of Mr.
G. W. Dean, with the assistance of Mr. E. Goodfellow, while those on
the coast of Ireland, as well as the general direction of the enterprise,
were under the charge of Dr. Gould, assisted by Mr. A. T. Mosman.
The use of the cable was freely granted by the Anglo-American Com-
pany, and Dr. Gould received from the astronomer royal, Dr. Airy, and
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 21

the electricians of the company, all the facilities and assistance neces-
sary to the undertaking. The report contains a series of investigations
relative to the time of transmission of signals, and other points, which
zan only be properly understood by a study of the work itself.

The Annual Report for the year 1868 was printed, as usual, by order
of Congress, and the extra number of ten thousand copies ordered. I
would again urge upon Congress the propriety of increasing the num-
ber of copies, since the demand has become so great that it is impossi-
ble, with the number above mentioned, to meet the applications for them
of the correspondents of the Institution or of the constituents of the
members of Congress themselves.

In addition to the report of the Secretary giving an account of the
operations, expenditures, and condition of the Institution for the year,
and the proceedings of the Board of Regents, it contains the following
articles: List of Smithsonian meteorological stations and observers in
North America and adjacent islands, from 1849 up to the end of 1868;
Memoirs of Cuvier, and history of his works, of Oersted, Schénbein,
Encke, and Hodgkinson; Articles on recent progress in relation to the
theory of heat; Principles of the mechanical theory of heat; Continu-
ous vibratory movement of all matter; Radiation; Synthetic experi-
ments relative to meteorites; Catalogue of meteorites in Yale College;
The electric resonance of mountains; Experiments on aneroid barome-
ters; Anniversary address of the president of the Royal Society of
Victoria; Report of the transactions of the Society of Physics and
Natural History of Geneva, and of the Anthropological Society of Paris;
An original communication on drilling in stone without metal, and ona
deposit of agricultural flint implements in Southern Illinois, by Charles
Rau; Notice of the Blackmore Museum, England; Programmes of
several foreign societies; An account of the assay of coins at the United
States Mint; Table of foreign coins; and a complete list of the publi-
cations of the Smithsonian Institution.

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGES.—The two objects of the bequest of
Smithson, as briefly, though clearly, expressed in his will by the terms
“increase” and “diffusion” of knowledge, are both fully provided for in
the plan of organization. The increase of knowledge is principally effect-
ed by the researches that are instituted at the expense of the Smithson
fund in the various branches of science, and the diffusion of knowledge
by the publication of the results of these researches and their distribution
to all the principal libraries of the world, and still more generally by
the great system of international exchange which has been established.
The effect of this system, in its present enlarged dimensions, in the way
of facilitating direct correspondence between the scientific men of the
Old and New World, can scarcely be overestimated.

During the year that has just closed, 1,734 packages, containing many
thousand different articles, have been transmitted to 1,569 parties in
yap REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

foreign countries. These packages were contained in 112 boxes, having
a cubical content in the aggregate of 1,033 feet, and weighing 23,376
pounds. The packages were not only from institutions within the limits
of the United States, but also from those in Canada, Central and South
America. The parcels received at the Institution for parties in this
country numbered 2,600, about one-third more than were received during
the preceding year. The separate volumes, parts of volumes, and pam-
phlets contained in these parcels would amount to many times the num-
ber just given, those for the Institution alone amounting, as will be sub-
sequently stated, to 5,555. When it is considered that these works are
the published original records of the discoveries of the day in the various
branches of science; that they mark the progress of man in a higher
civilization, and that the system of exchange tends to unite in one effort,
as it were, the labors of those who are endeavoring to enlarge the bounds
of knowledge, it is impossible to conceive of a system more efficient or
better calculated for realizing one of the conceptions of Smithson, that
of diffusing knowledge among men.

The exchanges thus far have principally been confined to books,
although large numbers of specimens have been sent abroad on the part of
the Institution. Full returns have not yet been asked for these, but one
of the conditions on which the specimens are given is that whenever the
government shall see fit to make provision for the full support of a
national museum, then specimens will be required in return. It is
proper to state, however, that in all cases in which the Institution has
signified its desire to obtain specimens for special investigations, or
for the illustration of a particular subject, such as geology and anthro-
pology, liberal responses have been made.

The Smithson packages, with the single exception of those for Italy,
are passed through all the custom-houses of the world free of duty and
without examination; and this exception will, we think, be removed as
soon as the negotiations now in progress are completed. Efficient aid
during 1869, as in previous years, has been rendered the Institution in
the transportation of its packages to and from the United States, free
of charge, by the following companies, viz: The Pacific Mail Steamship
Company, North German Lloyd, Hamburg American Steamship Com-
pany, General Transatlantic Steamship Company, Pacific Steam Navi-
gation Company, Inman Steamship Company, Cunard Steamship Com-
pany, California and Mexico Steamship Company, Panama Railroad
Company, Mexican Steamship Company, Union Pacific Railroad, United
States and Brazil Steamship Company, North German Lloyd, (Balti-
more line,) and the Atlantic Mail Steamship Company. It gives me
much pleasure to make this public statement in regard to an act which
deserves commendation, not only on account of the liberal spirit which
it manifests, but also on that of the enlightened appreciation which it
evinces of the objects of the Institution. Notwithstanding the aid
which has been thus liberally extended, the cost of the exchanges now
amounts to about $5,000 per annum.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 23

The following are the centers to which the Smithson invoices are
consigned: Leipsic, care of Dr. Felix Fliigel; London, care of William
Wesley; Paris, care of Gustave Bossange; Amsterdam, care of Frederic
Miller; Milan, care of L. dell’ Acqua; Christiana, care of Professor
Holst, of the University. The packages for Asia, Africa, and Oceanica
are principally sent through London or the American Missionary Socie-
ties. The invoices to South America are forwarded, through the gra-
tuitous services of Mr. Hillier, of the New York custom-house, by
regular trading vessels from that city.

In 1567 a proposition was made to the Institution by the Librarian of
Congress relative to establishing and conducting a system of exchange
of official documents between the government of the United States and
that of other nations. In accordance with this, a cireular was addressed
to the different governments having relations with the United States
for the purpose of ascertaining their views as to such anexchange. In
every case the proposition was regarded with favor, and at the ensuing
session of Congress an act was passed directing that fifty full sets of all
documents published at the Government Printing Office should be set
apart for the purpose in question, and appropriating a sufficient sum to
defray the necessary expenses. Unfortunately, however, Congress
neglected to direct the Public Printer to strike off the copies requisite
for this purpose, in addition to the regular number previously required
for the use of the government, and it was not until recently that the
necessary legislation was procured to remedy this omission. As soon
as the printing and binding of the documents of the last session of
Congress are completed the proposed exchange will be initiated. In
anticipation of the receipt of the annual supply of the documents of
our government, several large packages containing documents of foreign
countries have been already received.

On account of the large additions that have been made of late years
to the number of societies and other parties in correspondence with the
Institution, a new and revised edition of the list of the former became
necessary, and this was prepared during the last year. In order to
insure accuracy in the titles and localities of the various establish-
ments, proof-slips of the list were sent to the leading foreign societies
through our agents, and also to the diplomatic representatives in this
country. In all cases prompt attention was given to our request, and
many important corrections and suggestions were received. This list,
which now numbers 1,587 literary and scientific establishments, is not
only essential to the Institution in addressing its foreign packages, but
also, for a similar purpose, to the libraries and societies in different parts
of the United States, Canada, and South America.

Liprary.—the works, which have been received from all parts of the
world in exchange for the publications of the Institution, after being
recorded are transferred to the National Library, agreeably to the
24 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

arangements described in former reports. The following is a general
statement of the number of books, maps, and charts received through
exchange during 1869:

Volumes:

OCHAV ORE ee Sie ic ae ee aie w wloke olen 5,0 eho eRe eon oie 946
QUUPATCOR 2s re ora a oho geo eke erst. wo ae ere 245
FOnO--4- Soe ace eet eby = o> SS ae 43
— 1,234
Parts of volumes and pamphlets:
COA ROS Se Beeson 6 Seer Saab ou Sse eh oa 5 3, 238
JOIN a td Se ee eee SaaS Roe = 709
JA Ge ee eee eS SNARE Cte eS heme 142
—- 4,089
IN Ey OSG NG VEN Gri se eee ameter bial ko Soo oo5 oan eee s 232
EO Galen ae SA 2s een ye 2 Cee pn hr a ene ie 5) D515)

Of the larger donations received during the year in question are the
following:

From Iceland Foundation Library, Reikiavik, 44 volumes and 12
pamphlets.

Swedish Academy of Sciences, Stockholm, 56 volumes and 5 pam-
philets.

From the Emperor of Austria, 8 volumes and 9 charts.

Publie Library, Stuttgart, 118 volumes.

University, Greifswalde, 114 pamphlets, Inaugural Dissertations.

From the Institut de France, 31 volumes.

Ministére de la Marine et des Colonies, Paris, 6 volumes and 40 pam-
phiets.

Commission Impériale de Exposition Universelle de 1867, Rapports
du Jury International, volumes I-XII.

Société de Statistique, Paris, 13 volumes and 28 pamphlets.

Académie de Montpellier, Faculté de Médecine, 22 volumes, Theses.

From the Society of Engineers, London, 8 volumes, Transactions.

British Museum, 9 volumes and 8 pamphlets.

Royal Archeological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, 20 volumes,
Journal,

From the Bombay Government, 15 volumes, Selections from the
Records of the Bombay Government.

National University, Athens, Greece, 37 volumes and 132 pamphlets.

Legislative Assembly of Canada, 17 volumes.

State of Minnesota, 6 volumes, Plate, Documents.

C. M. Hovey, editor Boston Magazine of Horticulture, Botany, &c.,
| 35 volumes.

The Smithson books have been well cared for by Mr. Spofford, the
efficient Librarian of Congress. Several thousand have been bound,
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 25

and a large number are now in the hands of the binder, each volume
being marked on the back with a stamp indicating that it is a Smithson
deposit.

In the arrangement of the National Library the publications of learned
societies, of which the Smithson books principally consist, form one
chapter of the general collection, which occupies the greater portion of
the south wing of the western projection of the Capitol. It is desired
by the Institution, as well as by the National Library, that this collec-
tion should be as complete as possible in the publications of all learned
societies which have existed from their first establishment in Italy, about
the middle of the sixteenth century, until the present time. Through
the kindness of the older societies of Europe a larger collection of their
publications has been made by this Institution than was ever before
formed in this country, or, with few exceptions, in any of the cities of
the Old World. Still, there are many series wanting, and several of
those now in our possession are defective; exertions will therefore be
made, through our correspondents, to supply deficiencies. The value of
the scientific collections as well as of the general library will be much
enhanced by the catalogue of books, and particularly that of subjects now
in progress, and which, as we are informed, will be completed during the
present year. The third volume of the index of scientific papers, pre-
pared by the Royal Society of London, has been printed and will soon
be distributed. The completion of this great work will have an import-
ant influence on the use of the National Library, to which it will be
especially applicable.

The national library has increased sorapidly during the past three years,
that the three-fold space allotted to it in the Capitol is now insufficient for
its accommodation. Further room, as we learn, has been asked for,
and we would suggest that this might be best secured by the erection
of a separate building, in whose plan of construction should be incor-
porated all the latest improvements for the use and protection of books.
But whatever may be done in this way, greater facilities than now
exist for the consultation of the library should be afforded, by making
it accessible in the evenings to those who are precluded from the use of
its collections by their official occupation during the hours at which it
is now open.

GALLERY OF ART.—It was stated in the last report that Mr. W. W.
Corcoran, with an enlightened liberality only commensurate with his
means, had resolved to found in Washington an institution exclusively
devoted toart. This design,which would long since have been carried into
execution, was interrupted by the war, the building erected fer the pur-
pose having been applied to the uses of the government; but weare gratified
in being able to state that the possession of it has been restored to Mr.
Corcoran, and that he has placed it in charge of trustees, who are to fill
vacancies in their board and direct all the affairs ef the establishment.
AS) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The gallery will probably be open for exhibition to the public and to
students in art during the present year. The establishment of this col-
lection, as we have said in a previous report, will obviate the neces-
sity of expending any of the funds of the Institution in supporting a
national gallery, and I would suggest that the same policy which has
directed the transfer of the library, the herbarium, and osteological
specimens to the National Library, the Agricultural Department, and
the Medical Museum, be also extended to the Corcoran Gallery. The
Institution has a number of pictures and a large collection of plaster
busts, which are scarcely in place in the midst of specimens of natural
history, but which would produce a better effect in connection with other
works of art of a similar character. There need be no danger as to
impoverishing the Institution by this liberal policy, since it is in reality
but another method of increasing its usefulness.

The saving which is made by transferring the keeping of the library
and botanical collections can scarcely be estimated at less than $12,000
per annum, a sum which adds to the efficiency of the Institution in the
way of increasing, by the exchange of its products, the collections of
objects of nature and art in the national capital, besides adding to the
intellectual wealth of the whole country.

Musium.—During the past year the space occupied by the museum
has been enlarged by appropriating to it the portion of the building
known as the western connecting range, which consists of a room 61
feet long by 38 feet wide. On either side of this room has been erected
a row of (seven) upright cases, and in the middle a series of tables ex-
tending the whole length of the apartment. The upright cases on the
south side have been entirely filled with ethnological specimens from
China and Japan, comprising the presents from the governments of these
countries to the President of the United States. In the cases on the
north side is arranged a large and valuable collection of the dresses of
the Indians of the northwest coast and of the Esquimaux of North
America. The table cases are also filled with ethnological specimens,
among which are many exhibiting the rarer specimens of Indian work-
manship, and also those of prehistoric times, from the explored caverns
of France, presented by Professor Lartet.

During the year 1869, 390 packages, containing many new specimens
and thousands of duplicates, have been received at the Institution, and
of these, as far as time would permit, a single choice series has been
selected for the museum; the remainder are placed aside to be classified
and made up into labeled sets for distribution. In pursuing this policy,
to which the Institution is bound by its office of curator of the govern-
ment collections, it is impossible to restrict the increase of the museum,
and now, notwithstanding the great number of specimens that have
been given away, nearly the whole of the available space in the building
18 filled to overflowing. An appropriation for finishing the large hall in
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. PAY |

the second story is, therefore, very desirable, but as this room is wanted
for the accommodation of the National Museum, and not for the uses of
the Institution, it would be highly improper to finish it by a further en-
croachment upon the capital of the Smithson fund.

We have mentioned in a previous report that the architecture of the
large room, in which the specimens are at present exhibited, is not well
adapted to an advantageous display of many of the articles, since a
considerable portion of the space is occupied by two rows of colossal
columns, between which and the walls the cases, forming alcoves, are
placed. The ceiling, however, of the hall in the second story is to be
attached to the long, iron girders which span the space from wall te
wall, and it will not, therefore, require the introduction of columns. It
is hoped that in the finishing of this room the primary object of its use
will be kept in view, namely, the exhibition of specimens. There is
pleasure in perfect adaptation as well as in wsthetical effect; the two,
however, are not incompatible, and a proper conception of the true
spirit of architecture will never sacrifice the former to obtain the latter.

Since the date of the last report the museum has been increased by
specimens in every branch of natural history and ethnology, especially
in those of ornithology and the products of the explorations of mounds.
An unusual amount of labor has also been expended on the specimens
during the same period. The large number of birds in the drawers, as
well as those on exhibition, have been re-poisoned to prevent the attack
of insects, while those in the cases have been furnished with new stands,
and their plumage brightened by washing them with benzine. The cases
themselves have been repaired and painted. The mounting of the
archeological collections on boards, and the repairing of the articles of
pottery, have been continued, and are now nearly completed. The speci-
mens of quadrupeds belonging to the older collections of the govern-
ment present rather an unsightly appearance, through injury by insects
before they were brought from the Patent Office, and because they were
not well prepared. Many of them, however, are very rare, and should
be kept until better specimens can be obtained.

No small amount of labor is required, in a large museum, to keep up
a descriptive catalogue of the various articles it receives, and to this
work alone the entire time of a clerk might properly be devoted. The
whole number of entries in the catalogue of the National Museum is
now 158,662; and of these 16,265 were made during: the last year, while
of the specimens of the general collection of which no types have been
selected for exhibition many thousands of entries yet remain tobe in-
serted.

By the co-operation previously alluded to in this report, the Army
Medical Museum, the Museum of the Agricultural Department, and the
National Museum are rendered supplementary to each other, each col-
lecting and preserving articles that are not contained in the others.
The Commissioner of Agriculture, General Capron, has shown much

v
28 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

zeal and good faith in carrying out the conditions previously mentioned,
on which the transfer of the plants was made, by fitting up a spacious
room with cases which contain 600 separate compartments for the recep-
tion of as many different families of plants, and by appointing a bot-
anist fully approved by the Institution. Dr. Parry, the botanist in
question, was a pupil of Dr. Torrey, and for the last twenty years has
been engaged in various government explorations, mostly in the western
part of the United States. He was warmly recommended by the first
botanists of the country, and, I doubt not, will discharge the duties of
his office to the satisfaction of all interested in the advancement of this
branch of natural history. He has begun to arrange the plants in sys-
tematic order for immediate reference, and finds the number of species
to be about 15,000, included in 25,000 specimens. The additions that
have been made to the collection during the past year, embracing those
which have been supplied by the Institution and the Department itself,
according to Dr. Parry number 8,000 specimens, including 3,000 species.
Besides the specimens of dried plants transferred to the Agricultural
Department, a large and interesting collection of woods, from Mexico
and South America, has been added to the deposit.

LECTURES.—Previous to the fire which destroyed the upper portion of
the main building, in 1865, courses of free lectures were given by the
Institution to the visitors and citizens of Washington. These at first,
or as long as the novelty continued, were well attended, but in time,
owing, in part, to the difficulty of access, in the winter season, to the
building, and the absorption of the public mind by the events of the
war, the interest diminished, while the management of the system be-
came much more difficult, inasmuch as it was impossible to prevent the
introduction of political subjects. The call, however, on the part of the
citizens for lectures has lately been renewed. But it must be evident,
on a little reflection and from past experience, that the original plan
cannot again be adopted without great inconvenience and an expense
not commensurate with the value of the results produced. In order,
however, to assist in the establishing in this city, during the present
winter, of a course of lectures on scientific subjects, and at a low price
of admission, it has been thought advisable to grant a moderate ap-
propriation to the Young Men’s Christian Association, to enable it to
secure the services of distinguished popular lecturers. The building
which has been erected by this society not only serves asan ornament tothe
city, but supplies a want long felt in affording a spacious hall for lec-
tures, conventions, &c. The lectures to which the Institution con
tributed were of a scientific character, requiring expensive illustration,
and, therefore, though they were well attended, they could not have

been given at the low price charged for admission, had not aid been
afforded.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 29

EXPLORATIONS AND COLLECTIONS IN NATURAL HisToRy.—In tiiis re-
port, as in other of the Smithsonian reports, a distinction is made between
the collections of the Institution and those of the National Museum under
itscharge. Theformer consists of the large number of specimens (in some
instances including hundreds of duplicates of rare as well as of more com-
mon species) which have been collected under the auspices of the Institu
tion or through its special agency. These are studied and classified by
experts for the formation of monographsand the determination of species
and their geographical distribution; or, as is the case in ethnological speci-
mens, are compared for the purpose of tracing anthropological peculiari-
ties; and, finally, made up into properly labeled sets for distribution to
museums in this country and abroad. The organization of explorations
and the collection of specimens would be important parts of the oper-
ations of the Institution were it entirely disconnected from the National
Museum. Natural history and ethnology are interesting branches of
knowledge, and justly merit a portion of the Smithson patronage; but
the National Museum has no just claim on the Institution other than for
a perfect series of all the duplicates collected; and it is too much to ask,
in addition to this, that the Smithson fund should continue to provide
it with house-room, and, in a large degree, with attendance. The dis-
tinction we have made is an obvious one, though it may be difficult, in
some instances, to draw a line between the specimens in the museum and
those of the Smithsonian collections.

Explorations and collections in Natural History have been con-
tinued, as in previous years, by the Institution alone, or in connection
with other establishments. In giving an account of what has been done
under this head, the geographical order adopted in other of the Smith-
sonian reports will be followed.

Northwest Coast of America.—Mr. McFarlane and Mr. McDougal still
continue to collect specimens of the natural products of the Mackenzie
River district. Mr. Ferdinand Bischoff has kept up his researches in
Alaska, first at Kodiak, then at Kenai. Major General George H.
Thomas, of the United States Army, has rendered especial service in
collecting in the same region specimens of coal and of zojlogy. The
remainder of the natural history collections of Mr. Dall, referred to
in the last report, has been received and found of much interest as an
illustration of the natural productions of our new possessions in the
Northwest. His collections in ethnology will be mentioned further on.
Captain C. M. Scammon has continued his explorations, and has pre-
sented interesting collections from Alaska and Puget Sound, in addition
to several communications relative to the natural history and habits of
the seals of the adjacent coast. Dr. Minor has also continued his valu-
able contributions from the same region.

Western United States —The geological survey of the fortieth parallel,
under Mr. Clarence King, referred to in the last report, has been con-
tinued during this year, and the collections made in zodlogy, botany,
30 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

mineralogy, and geology, have been deposited in the Institution. They
are now in process of examination, and an account of them will be given
in the valuable report of Mr. King, which Congress has ordered to be
printed. At the last session of Congress an appropriation of $10,000
was made for the continuance of the geological surveys of Dr. F. V.
Hayden. He was instructed by the Department of the Interior, under
whose direction the money was to be expended, to examine especially
the geology, mineralogy, and agricultural resources of the Territories of
Colorado and New Mexico. The exploration began at Cheyenne, Wy-
oming Territory, and was continued through Denver, the silver and
gold mining regions of Georgetown and Central City, the Middle Park,
Colorado City, and Fort Union to Santa Fé, returning to Denver by way
of the San Luis Valley and South Park. In the language of the Secre-
tary of the Interior, “this exploration, though brief and rapid, was emi-
nently successful, and the collections in geology, mineralogy, botany, and
zovlogy were extensive.” These collections have been deposited in the
Institution, from which they will be sent for examination to persons who
have made special study of the branches of natural history and zodlogy
to which the specimens pertain.

Mexico and Central America.—The explorations of Colonel Grayson,
in Northwestern Mexico, spoken of in previous reports, were continued

‘in the early part of the year, and an additional series of specimens
transmitted to the Institution. It is, however, with deep regret we have
to announce that the labors of this enthusiastic and enterprising nat-
uralist were suddenly terminated by death, from fever contracted in an
attempt to explore the Island of Isabella. By his decease the Institu-
tion has lost a highly-valued correspondent, and the cause of science a
successful cultivator. He devoted many years of his life to the devel-
opment of the natural history and physical geography of Northwestern
Mexico and the adjacent islands; and it is much to be regretted that he
had not lived to complete the work in which he was so much interested.
The explorations of Professor Sumichrast, on the Isthmus of Tehuan-
tepec, have been nearly completed, and the large number of well-pre-
served specimens in all branches of zoédlogy, received at the Institution
from this region, attest his continued enthusiasm and persevering indus-
try. From our veteran correspondent, Dr. C. Sartorius, of Mirador,
important collections have been received during the past year.

South America.—Mr. Hudson, of Buenos Ayres, and Mr. Reeve, of
Ecuador, have furnished a continuation of the results of their orni-
thological explorations in these localities, while an interesting series of
the birds of Demerara has been contributed by Colonel Figyeimesy.

Most of the collaborators just mentioned have furnished information
in regard to the physical geography and the inhabitants of the country
from which the specimens were derived, and in this way the Institution
has accumulated a large amount of manuscript material relative to the
natural history, geology, and ethnology of the different parts of North
America, not generally known.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 31

EXPLORATIONS AND COLLECTIONS IN ETHNOLOGY.—During the past
year the effort has been continued to increase the collections of ethnology
and archeology of the North American continent. It has been considered
of special importance to prosecute this subject, since the remains of
the ancient people who have inhabited this continent are every year be-
coming more rare. The mounds are disappearing in the process of
agriculture, in the construction of railways, or in the extension of cities,
and their interesting contents destroyed or scattered beyond the hope of |
future recovery. A very extensive correspondence on this subject has
been kept up during the year with persons in every part of North
America, soliciting information and specimens, giving directions for
examining mounds and shell-heaps, and in several cases making a small
appropriation for defraying the expenses of special investigations.

Nearly all the explorers mentioned in previous reports have contri-
buted valuable material in this line. During his visit to the Bay of
Fundy, Professor Baird, of this Institution, made extensive explorations
among the ancient shell-heaps and gathered some facts and specimens
of much importance in connection with the subject of the American
Kjoekkenmoedding. In these labors he was assisted by Mr. G. A. Board-
man, Professor H. G. Webster, Professor Nelson, Mr. Elias Kinny, Mr.
Gardner, Mr. Hallett, and also by Captain Treadway, of the United
States revenue service.

As ethnology is a branch of study which, at this time, is occupying
popular attention, it may be proper to give a more detailed account
than usual of the additions that have been made in this line during the
year which has just closed. This account is compiled from the descrip-
tive inventory made by Dr. Foreman, under the direction of Professor
Baird, in a record book of the collections. For convenience of reference
the geographical division is adopted.

British America, Arctic Region.—Mr. Robert McFarlane, stationed at
Fort Anderson, one of the Hudson Bay Company’s posts in the MeKen-
zie River district, with unabated perseverance, has continued making
collections in natural history and ethnology, and has presented to the
Institution, with a liberality which cannot be too much commended, a
great number and variety of articles to illustrate the character of the
people among whom he has so long resided. Intercourse with traders and
others has considerably modified their arts of life, and they now pre-
sent an example of a people in a state of transition from the stone to
the iron age. Among the articles from Mr. McFarlane, which illustrate
this change, are knives of pieces of iron hoops, spear-heads and fish-
hooks of the same material; pipe-bowls of copper and of pewter, and a
drilling apparatus, with an ordinary bow and drills tipped with bits of
steel; boxes, of which the parts are fastened together with wooden
nails, iron being too precious to be used for this purpose; other boxes,
of which the parts are joined in the more ancient fashion by stretching
over them, in a moist condition, a casing of leather.
32 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

The greater part, however, of the articles are of a primitive character,
among which, for out-door use, are dog harness, lassos of moose-hide for
large animals, and more slender ones, carrying rounded pieces of bone,
nut size, to entangle the legs of geese; different models of the sledge
for hauling wood and provisions; a stretcher of deer-skin; bows, with
arrows, quivers, and cases; a long line of whalebone for fishing; a net
of sinew, with bone fish-hooks, fishing floats, spears, throwing-sticks,
spear-rests for the deck of the canoe; a whistle or call used in hunting;
snow-shoes and models of canoes; screens of wood to protect the eyes
from snow blink, concave on the inner side, with two very narrow slits
for looking through. Of the articles relative to indoor occupation are
deer-skin boots; white and black wolverine gloves; children’s garments,
neatly made, of soft materials; capuchons, or coverings for the head;
tools, with which this and other work is performed, such as awls, drills,
polishing implements, of either jasper or carnelian, frequently of bone;
a small leather bag of red paint, with pitch or other cementing material.
There are also needles of bone, needle cases of ivory, pouches ornament-
ed with beads, for containing sewing fiber. Bunches of this material,
arranged as if for a chignon, appear to belong to articles used by
women. A rattle of deer or musk-ox hoofs, used in dancing, and bone
implements for gambling, suggest the character of native amusements.

From the same district have been received, through the Rev. W. W.
Kirkby, a leather pouch, filled with quills of the porcupine, which are
used to ornament moccasins, belts, and fire bags; also a fur coat made
by the Dog Rib: Indians. There are not many articles of personal
decoration, except some labrets, thick buttons of white limestone, and
bits of blue glass, cemented together, to be worn in a slit of the corner
of the mouth after the manner of a sleeve button.

Alaska.—The collections of Mr. W. H. Dall in the Aleutian Islands,
at Norton Sound, and in the Yukon region, mentioned in the last report,
have been received. and are found to be very extensive and interesting.
Those from the Aleutian Islands are specimens of native carving in
walrus ivory, which exhibit considerable imitative skill in copying the
forms of objects introduced by white traders. Among them are a table
knife and two spoons, neatly executed. The greater part, however, of
Mr. Dall’s collection are from the various tribes of Esquimaux living on
the shores of Norton Sound, more particularly the articles of clothing
made of furs and leather, prepared from the skins of the deer and other
animals. These consist of outer and inner garments, for both sexes, and
of boots, gloves, and mittens. It would appear from the specimens that
the skins of the larger fishes, and also of the seal, are used for articles
of dress, adapting the material to the change required for winter and
summer. From the region of the River Yukon there are snow-shoes,
moccasins, fur dresses, straw-shoes and boots, for riding and dancing,
all made and used by the Mahlemuts. The domestic implements of
the people are exhibited in a series of spoons or dippers, made of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 30

broad horns of the Rocky Mountain sheep, wooden bowls, ladles, platters,
cups, and trays; bags and haversacks made of seal or fish skin, of all
sizes, universally used by the Esquimaux for keeping provisions and other
materials; also earthenware lamps, fire bags with flint, steel, and tinder;
tobaceo pouches, pipes, and snuff-boxes. The articles made of seal-skin
on the coast are imitated farther up the river in the skins of the larger
fishes, the intercourse between the localities being difficult since the pass-
es are held by a few trading Indians, who act as middle men in exchanging
commodities and as guards to prevent access to the coast. From the
Unaleets there are neatly-made housewives of fish-skin, and from the
Pastolic Esquimaux a small workbag woven of grass, ivory needle cases
ornamented with blue beads, and a store of thread made of filaments of
dried sinews. The weapons received are interesting illustrations of the
character and habits of the people. The bows in this collection, used
by the Esquimaux for killing large birds or fish, are of very un-
usual weight, and many of the arrows employed in shooting
the wild goose are tipped with a blunt knob. The sharp arrow-
points are the most beautiful and delicate of any we have seen, and are
of obsidian, green jasper, or glass. The seal and fish lines are of the:
long, flexible stems of a fucus which grows in deep water and equals
whalebone in tenacity and toughness. The harpoons for striking seals
are furnished with a horn or bone termination, carrying a barbed point,
the whole being detachable from the shaft. From the Ekogmut there
are several of these, with others used in killing the whale; also models
of canoes, oars, &c., from the Lower Ingaleeks along the Yukon and the
Unaleets on the coast. In the way of personal ornament there are a
quantity of red paint and a yoke, or necklace, oval pieces of wood or
stone to be inserted in a slit in the lower lip, the nose, or the ear; fin-
ger-rings, principally of stone, of two kinds, one of which is used on
mourning and the other on ordinary occasions.

Aleutian Islands.—From the Aleutian Islands there are in Mr. Dall’s
collection several hideous masks of gigantic dimensions used in the
ceremonies of the people. Dr. T. T. Minor, surgeon United States rev-
enue steamer Wayanda, Captain Howard, commander, who visited
Sitka, Kodiak, Unalaska and some points of the Aleutian group, has
furnished collections exhibiting the dress, occupations, and habits of the
Coloshes, Nuhegags, and Aleutes. The scarcity of stone implements in
this collection is worthy of notice, since but two specimens, a pestle and
axe, are all that were found, and these were regarded as very ancient.
Among the articles are the following: Heavy corded bows for fishing,
armed with three prongs; blunt spears, with. barbs, and fish spears
ornamented with feathers; lines of sea-weed or kelp, with detachable
spear-heads; throwing-sticks, to give a longer leverage in projecting the»
spear. Thereare also chisels for making aperturesin the ice, to which fish)
resort for air; dog sledges, canoes, paddles, reindeer skin overcoats and |

boots; an overall perfectly waterproof, and exceedingly light, made
os
34 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

of the intestines of the seal, the edges being sewed or cemented, and
the whole ornamented with tufts of hair or feathers in brilliant colors.
Glimpses of in-door arts and employments are obtained from specimens
of carvings, baskets, woven articles, sewing, paintings, and implements.
together with the ever-present pipe, of which there is one with a deco-
rated stem, carved by a Colosh. The illustrations are further extended
by wooden trays and dishes, ornamented with carved figures of animals ;
water-tight baskets, in which provisions are boiled by dropping red-hot
stones into the water; mats of simple checquer pattern; carved
handles of the black horn of the Rocky Mountain goat, exhibiting an
intricate series of ornaments, and fastened by the aid of heat and pres-
sure to the broader horn of the moose, or of the Rocky Mountain sheep,
to form a spoon or a ladle. Among the carvings is a remarkable series
in walrus ivory of objects in miniature, representing table knives, spoons,
candlesticks, boiling kettles, with covers, copied from objects introduced
by foreigners; also the animals of the country, such as beaver, moose,
whales, seals; a female otter followed by her young; likewise a man
spearing a bear; a group of men attacking a reindeer, and several other
human figures. These miniature specimens of carvings, which are exe-
cuted with great neatness and fidelity, evince a minute observation of
nature, aS well as considerable skill in art. A Colosh painter’s kit
belonging to this collection, contains a number of brushes very neatly
made and of sizes suitable for fine or coarse work. Although the assort-
ment of colors is small, being limited to red, blue, yellow, and black, yet
the whole collection of specimens relative to art shows an advance in
this line beyond anything before observed in the northern races. Among
other articles is the dance rattle, commonly used by the coast tribes, and
consisting of a hollow, oval, wooden box, usually in the form of a bird,
gaily painted, containing pebbles; also head ornaments, of grotesque
form; head dresses, with wooden masks, having distorted features; like-
wise ornaments of stone finely executed, and representing birds, fish, and
Serpents in the form of a ring; besides numerous samples of the same in
wood and bone.

From Lieutenant T. M. Ring, United States Army, stationed at Fort
Wrangel, in Alaska, we have received an important collection of ob-
jects, among which are models of the bardoska, or canoe, with paddles,
of very neat workmanship; the head of a fish spear, and severai bul-
lets made of copper; two fish-hooks of a metal resembling silver,
and halibut hooks of wood ; also two specimens illustrating the form in
which provisions are preserved for winter use, one of which is a spheri-
cal ball of the fruit of Rubus chamamorus, and the other is the com
pressed inner bark of a coniferous tree, which may serve to allay hun-
ger by distending the stomach. A stone hammer and two pestles are
samples of articles still in use, and an ancient barbed and notched bone
fish spear exhibits the forms of similar implements discovered in the
prehistoric caves of Europe. A full series of carved wooden dishes
a

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 35

and of horn spoons illustrate the table service of the natives, while
masks, rattles of wood and of basket-work, neck and lip ornaments of
stone, a dressed doll with a head carved in stone, a human image, and a
bird of the same material, exhibit some of the occupations and amuse-
ments of this primitive people. From Mr. FE. E. Smith, of the scientific
corps of the Western Union Telegraph Company, the Institution has
received a bow and arrows of the Smagamut Indians, for shooting wild
geese ; and from Dr. A. H. Hoff, United States Army, a very fine sample
of the membranous waterproof dresses used by the Alaskans, also a
pair of carved chop-sticksof whalebone. The latter articles were received
through the officers of the Army Medical Museum.

Washington Territory—F rom this quarter we have obtained collections
made by Dr. J. T. Ghiselin, United States Army, stationed in Washing-
ton Territory, consisting of bow, quiver and arrows in use among the
Flathead Indians; also,-a number of arrow-heads and a pair of mocca-
sins, collected among the Cascade Indians; we have also a riding whip,
wedding hat or bonnet, a berry basket, and specimens of food preserved
for winter, consisting of the eggs of the salmon, of the size and cousist-
ence of dried peas. Dr. Whitehead, United States Army, also trans-
mits from the same region some bones exhumed from a shell mound,
and a metal spoon from an Indian grave.

Idaho Territory.x—From among the Nez Percés, Dr. E. Storror, United
States Army, has collected specimens of preserved food, consisting
of the bulbs of the camas, Scilla esculenta, and the kouse bread, an
unleavened mass, an inch thick, of the seeds of wild rice, Zezania aqua-
tica, pounded up with water, and baked. Accompanying these are spear-
heads of flint and iron, strong hair rope or lariat, a woman’s saddle,
blanket, panniers, a drum, a carved pipe stick, and a handsome pipe of
red stone, a skull cap of woven grass, a comb, sewing awl, thread, an
ornamented belt worn by a woman, and a model of a cradle, affording
glimpses of domestic life. Dr. C. Wagner, United States Army, has for-
warded a bow, quiver, arrows, and arrow-heads, obtained from the Snake
Indians; and Hospital Steward E. Lyons, a basket, woven scoop, and
bow and arrow from the same tribe. From Montana, Dr. R. B. Hitz
has transmitted a stone pestle.

Utah Territory.—Dr. H. E. Waters, United States Army, stationed ati
Fort Bridger, in Wyoming Territory, has collected and forwarded some of
the implements of war and the chase used by the Shoshone, Bannock,
Ute, and Navajo Indians, consisting of a bow and arrows, a bow case,
quiver, tomahawk, and war club. The arrows of the Navajos are said
to be poisoned. T'rom Dr. Meacham, United States Army, have been
received fragments of pottery found in the same Territory.

Oregon Territory.—Dr. C. Moffat, United States Army, has presented
a small but interesting collection from Oregon, near the vicinity of
Malheur River and the Stein Mountain. In it we find the bow, quiver,
and arrows of the Malheur River Indians, a drinking cup, fire stick, paint
36 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

bag, carved wooden comb, and beads; also a specimen of preserved food,
consisting of camas root, dried and compressed into a thin cake.
These Indians are somewhat away from the beaten route, and everything
from them is of much interest.

California.—From mounds in Alameda County, California, examined
by Dr. L. G. Yates, who has frequently contributed articles of interest
from that State, we have received many specimens of the ancient stone
age, consisting of stone pestles, perforators or awls, sinkers, a phallus,
spindles, a soapstone ladle, stone mortar and pestle, pipe bowls, shell
and perforated stone ornaments, an ancient awl and serrated implements
of bone. The race of Indians at present occupying the country are said
to be entirely ignorant of the art of making these objects and of their
use. From the Pott River Indians, California, Dr. Powell, United
States Army, has sent a bow, quiver and arrows; and from the Pah Utes
of Owen’s Valley, California, we have similar weapons from Dr. Th.
MeMillan, United States Army, who has likewise contributed a war club
of the Mohaves.

Nevada.—Clarence King, esq., director of the United States geological
survey in Nevada, presented a portion of a beautifully worked pestle of
syenite, obtained in Lower California.

Dakota.—The post surgeons stationed at the military posts on the
Upper Missouri, chiefly within the Territory of Dakota, have shown
much zeal in collecting objects to illustrate the pursuits and customs of
the numerous tribes occupying the country bordering on this river.
First among these, in point of interest, are the collections of Surgeon
©. ©. Gray and Dr. Matthews, United States Army, stationed for some
time at Fort Berthold. From the Mandans they have furnished a head
dress mounted with buffalo horns, with an ornamental pendant of dressed
buffalo hide falling behind the head; a war shield of the Gros Ventres,
with bow, case, quiver and arrows, in the highest style of Indian orna-
mentation; a bow of the Arickarees, ingeniously fashioned of an elk
horn; a stone hatchet from the same, together with the scalp taken from -
a Blackfoot Indian; also from the Yanktonnais Sioux, a hoe, made of the
shoulder blade of an elk, accompanied by a wooden saddle and append-
ages, a pad saddle, a whip with a horn handle, parfleche meat case,
sheath for a scalp knife, and a rake of wooden material. The Mandans
and the Berthold Indians generally, are addicted to gambling, and
accordingly in the collection there are dice, and a small basket to contain
them; also the gambling implements in use among the women; and,
finally, a wheel or roulette, the workmanship of Gros Ventres. There are
also domestic implements of the same tribe, consisting of a basket
for carrying provisions, a wooden desk, an earthen pot, implements of
bone for scraping skins, with horn spoons and ladles; several medicine
rattles, indicating the superstitions of the tribe, and a musical instra-
ment of their invention, illustrating the innate tendency to cultivate
the fine arts; while children’s toys, including a popgun, not unlike those
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 37

in use among the whites, show the unity of intellect among races the
most widely separated. A needle case, porcupine quills, and bead orna-
ments, together with a corn bag, illustrating female occupation, are
from Hospital Steward J. E. Jones. “From the same Territory, Dr. J.
P. Kimball, United States Army, has contributed a large number of
objects, such as the bow, quiver and arrows of the Assiniboines;
also of the Sioux, Mandans, and Arickarees; scalpknife, sheath,
and scalp. of Yankton; war club, bonnet, shirt, and leggings,.drum,
and other fighting equipments; a fleshing knife for dressing skins, a
pemmican mallet, wooden cups, dishes, ladles, spoons, pipe and stems,
a peace pipe of the Blackfoot Indians, two pairs of ornamental mocca-
sins, and an ornamented dance rattle. From Fort Wadsworth, Dr. A.
J. Comfort, United States Army, has sent a bow, case, quiver and ar-
rows; a collar made of bears’ claws; an ornamented sheath for knife ;
stone hammer; stone spear and arrow-heads; several riding whips;
the instruments used in games of ball; a perforated horn implement
from a mound; two red stone pipes with carved stems; three ornamented
pouches of beaver and other skins; a stone palm thimble for sewing
with a large needle; a worked quilt, a bunch of perfumed dried grass,
scalp feathers, and a gourd dance rattle, which closes the list. From
the Upper Sioux, Dr. James F. Boughter, at Fort Dakota, has obtained
for the Institution from the Sioux a bow, with case and arrows, leggings,
embroidered with beads; saddle cloths handsomely ornamented, riding
whips, war feathers, knife sheath, moccasins, ear rings, &c., the trap-
pings of the warrior. Dr. A. B. Campbell, United States Army, contri-
butes from the Yanktons a handsome necklace of the claws of the grizzly
bear; a smoking pipe; war club armed with knives; stone war mace;
stone hammer or mallet; a mortar and pestle, the former made of a stout
piece of buffalo hide gathered at the corners; with the usual bow and
arrows of this tribe, and three arrows of the Kaw Indians. From the
vicinity of Fort Randall, Dr. G. P. Hardenburgh has obtained for us
another head dress of buffalo skin with the hair on, and surmounted by
the horns, with a broad pendant of skin furred and feathered to hang
down the neck; also a rubbing stone for dressing skins, and a horn
spoon.

Dr. Gardner, United States Army, has forwarded from the same Terri-
tory a Chippewa bow, quiver and arrows, saddle, drum and sticks, a
Sissiton pipe stick, medicine bag, bow, and a heavy scraper of bone, used
in dressing skins. Dr. W. H. Forwood, United States Army, has contri-
buted a bow, bow case, quiver and arrows of the Cheyennes, also arrows
from the Sioux; Dr. H. G. Schell, United States Army, from near Fort
Laramie, has sent a collection consisting of the bow, bow case, quiver
and arrows of the Ogalalla band of Sioux; Dr. C. S. De Graw, United
States Army, a bow and quiver of the Kiowas; Dr. A. Muller, United
States Army, a hickory war bow of the Yanktons and Sissitons. From
the same tribes a battle ax and pouch has been presented by F. B.
38 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

McGuire. Brevet Brigadier General Crane has contributed a pair of
moccasins and a pipe of the chief Little Bear; Dr. A. Muller sends from
Fort Ridgely arrows used by the Yanktons, Sissitons, and Upper and
Lower Sioux. Mr. W. L. Toole, from the same Territory, has furnished
a handsome red stone pipe, stone ax, chisel, and a stone war club or
casse-téte.

Upper Missouri River.—F rom this region, Captain Little, United States
Army; has contributed a slab of sandstone, upgn which the impression of
two human feet are rudely carved. Mr. Leopold Biddle, a stone chisel ;
and Dr. F. V. Hayden, avery perfectly preserved soapstone vessel, frag-
ments of pottery, arrow-heads, and other objects from the site of an an-
cient Pawnee village.

Nebraska.—From Nebraska, Dr.S. M. Horton, United States Army, has
furnished several important and interesting articles from the Ogalalla
band of the Sioux. Among these are a buffalo robe, as prepared by the
Cheyennes; a saddle from the Crow Indians; a Sioux war club; a
pouch, knife and sheath, and a bunch of feathers, used in taking
scalps; specimens of arrows of the Crows, Sioux, Cheyennes, and other
tribes; several pairs of moccasins, and a skin prepared for making
others; a gun case of Sioux construction ; a riding whip; a lariat; pro-
vision case of tanned buffalo hide; tanned skins of the Rocky Mountain
sheep and of the elk, and smaller articles consisting of several stone pipes
from the Arapahoes, a paint bag and a comb, used by the Crow In-
dians, the latter made of the stiff appendages on the tail of a porcupine.

Kansas.—From the vicinity of Walnut Creek in this State, we have
received through Dr. G. M. Sternberg, United States Army, the burial
case and its appendages of a male Cheyenne child about three years of
age. The wrappings enveloping the body, and the articles of dress, or-
nament, or daily use which accompanied it, form the most curious and
interesting assemblage of objects of the kind we have ever received.
The burial case is made of long flexible withes of willow, stripped of the
bark, and lashed together somewhat in basket fashion, built up from an
oval base, five feet in the longer and three feet in the shorter diameter,
the sides and top being arched and rounded, rising about three and a
half feet from the base. An opening on one side is left for the intro-
duction of the corpse and a large number of articles of the greatest
value to the Indians. These articles consisted of seven highly-finished
and valuable buffalo robes; six blankets, white, red and blue; a hood,
ornamented with beads; a cape; several worsted scarfs; belts, orna-
mented with beads and metal disks; a leather belt, covered with metal
buttons; apparently all the child’s wardrobe, as jackets, underclothes,
stockings, moccasins, fur cap, leather gloves; together with a small tin
dish, beads, metal plates, ornaments of German silver, and others made of
the shells of the haliotis, which is not found nearer than the Pacific coast.
There were also several articles which can scarcely be recognized as the
property of so young a child, such as spur straps, tobacco pouches, hide
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 39

lariats, paint bags, and an oblong piece of stout bull hide. It is the
opinion of Dr. Sternberg, that this sepulchral offering of valuable effects
was not solely from the immediate relatives of the deceased, but that
being the lineal descendant of a great chief, and heir to his rank in the
tribe, many families or bands being present at the burial, contributed of
their wealth to signalize their connection with the child’s family, and the
widespread sorrow at the loss they all had sustained. <A full account
of this interesting collection, with drawings of the articles, has been
prepared for publication by Dr. Otis, of the Medical Museum, in the In-
stitution Contributions to Knowledge.

From Fort Harker, Kansas, Dr. E. B. Foyer, United States Army, has
presented a number of the arrows used by the Kaws, Apaches, Chey-
ennes and Kiowas, which are commonly pointed with iron, and have the
feathered end painted with the adopted colors of the band or tribe, so
that they can at once be recognized by Indian scrutiny.

Colorado Territory and Adjoining Regions.—The collection of ethnology
has also been enriched, through the Army Medical Museum, by speci-
mens from the tribes which occupy the plain on both sides of the Rocky
Mountains in Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona. Dr. B. A. Camp-
bell, United States Army, from the first-named Territory, has sent a
singular neck ornament, made of turtle shell, and two fine pouches of
mink skin for holding tobacco. From the Kiowas, Dr. W. H. Forwood,
United States Army, has presented a whip, a pipe, and a medicine rattle;
Dr. I’. G. A. Bradford a tobacco pouch, an earthen water vessel, a Na-
vajo necklace, a pair of Cheyenne moccasins, claws of the grizzly bear,
and a pair of Sioux moccasins. Dr. Lippincott, United States Army,
from the Comanches has presented a whip, and Dr. J. Readles the hat
of a medicine man, and a wooden spur. From Twin Springs, near Fort
Fetterman, Dr. C. Sutherland, United States Army, has contributed
two fine stone lance-heads, and Dr. H. 8. Schell six Sioux arrows. Dr.
P. Moffatt has presented a bow, neatly made and covered on the con-
vex side with the skin of a rattlesnake ingeniously cemented to the
wood. From Mr. James Stevenson, of Dr. Hayden’s corps, we have a
very fine Arapaho saddle, padded and ornamented with beads. To
these may be added several arrows of the Apaches and Comanches,
presented by F. B. McGuire, esq., of Washington City.

In New Mexico, the Navajos are the most troublesome Indians that re-
side within the present boundary of the United States, and in the nu-
merous conflicts between them and our military forces many interesting
objects have been captured. Dr. John Brooke, United States Army, has
procured for us, from Fort Sumner, Navajo bows and arrows, a bridle bit,
and a pair of moccasins; Dr. B. A. Clements, United States Army, a
lot of arrows; Dr. J. T. Weed a saddle blanket, shield, two bows, bow-
case, quiver and arrows, a belt, and a curiously made shield for the
back ; Dr. McKee, United States Army, a bow case, quiver and arrows,
a rough stone implement for dressing skins, and an earthenware dish.
40 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Mr. M. Kayser, of Santa Fé, has contributed from the same tribe a
blanket made of the wool of the native sheep. From the Wachita bat-
tle ground, inthe Indian Territory, Dr. Lippincott, United Stetes Army,
has obtained for us a lot of bows, cases, quivers, iron arrow-heads,
metal tubes for nose ornaments, and finger rings of German silver.
These all belonged to the tribes engaged in the conflict, namely, the Co-
manches, Arapahoes, Wachitas, and Kiowas.

From Arizona, the principal contributions in former years were’ by
Dr. E. Palmer, acting as medical officer at the Indian agency. The ar-
ticles presented last year, by the same explorer, were such as relate
mostly to the domestic occupations of the Apaches—a pouch with bul-
lets, bone for dressing skins, awls for sewing, resin for finishing bows
and arrows, paint bag, with black and red pigments, the former
color being derived from the inspissated juice of the mescal plant,
and curious necklace, woven of strips of the inner bark, complete
the collection. From Dr. John C. McFerran, United States Army, have
been received a battle-ax; and from Dr. E. Coues several Apache ar-
row-heads. From the western part of the Territory Mr. Manning F. Force
has sent a (syenite or porphyry) stone axe of symmetrical shape and
beautifully polished. Mr. Henry C. Force, from the Gila River, has
presented fragments of pottery and shell ornaments, and, from the Mo-
qui Indians, a small, red, earthenware vase. Mr. H. C. Fernald has
given a small stone axe, obtained near the same locality.

From Wisconsin, Dr. R. P. Hoy, of Racine, well known for his re-
searches in aboriginal ethnology, has presented an ancient earthenware
vase, nearly entire, having a conical or sugar-loaf bottom, with frag-
ments of another vessel. Dr. Moses Barratt, of Waukesha, has sent
numerous stone relics, axes, chisels, arrow-heads, and a stone disk; also
an arrow straightener, consisting of two flat pieces of sandstone with
semi-cylindrical grooves, through which the shaft is drawn when the
stones are fitted together. He has also sent fragments, apparently of
brick, which formed part of a wall so ancient as to be attributed to
Aztee workmanship.

In Illinois, the Chicago Academy of Sciences, energetically engaged
in promoting research in aboriginal remains, has had made electrotype
copies of a fine specimen of copper knife, one of which has been pre-
sented, through Mr. H. Shimer, to this Institution; also a similar cast of
a copper chisel, and a cast in plaster of a remarkable terra-cotta image.
From Mount Carmel, [linois, Mr. Robert Ridgway has presented two
fine stone axes, several spear and arrow heads; and from the same place
Mr. Granville Turner has sent a hoe of jasper, three spear-heads of chert,
and a lot of arrow-heads; also from the same State, Dr. Hall has pre-
sented a stone axe, a chisel, and a number of arrow-heads; and J. E.
Kendrick, of Des Moines, has contributed a series of specimens of
pottery. —

From Indiana, Dr. R. M. White, United States Army, has presented
eo Tees

REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 41

a curious earthenware pipe and a dress ornament; Drs. MeCoy and
Maxwell, for themselves and friends, a collection of stone hatchets,
spear-heads, and other stone relics. The most remarkable objects, how-
ever, from this State are from near Cannelton, and consist of two stone
mace-heads or casse-tétes, of hard ferruginous quartz, perforated through
their longer axes, polished and finished ina perfect manner. They were
presented by Mr. Hamilton Smith, with other stone relics. From Frank-
lin County, Indiana, Dr. R. Haywood and his friends and neighbors have
favored the Institution with a considerable collection of stone imple-
ments, many of fine workmanship, among which may be enumerated
Stone pestles, axes, chisels, spears, and arrow-heads, stone ornaments,
and pottery.

From Ohio, Mr. W. R. Limpert has contributed a collection, found at
Graveport, of well-finished articles; consisting of a variety of stone pestles,
a mortar for grinding paint, a number of stone knives or chisels, and axes,
a perforated stone disk, over one hundred arrow-heads, a stone awl, and
other miscellaneous objects in stone. From Rev. Dr. Thompson, at
Milnersville, Ohio, we have received arrow-heads collected in his vicinity.

From Kentucky, My. 8. 8. Lyon, whose archeological researches in
1868 were of such interest in the mounds of Union County, has forwarded
additional articles, consisting of shell disks ornamented by carvings, @
fishing sinker of the same material, perforators of stone, and small
masses of galena worked into a rounded bead-like form.

From Tennessee, Mr. S. L. Wilkinson, near Clarksville, has sent five
Spear-points, a large number of arrow-heads, a stone disk, and a mortar
for grinding paint. Dr. Curtis has also favored us with a lot of arrow-
heads from Knox County. We have likewise to record the liberal
douation, by Mr. J. H. Devereux, of a very valuable series of stone im-
plements and other objects, collected by himself, chiefly in Tennessee,
though some of the articles were obtained in other Southern States, as
well as a few from Ohio and Massachusetts. The perfect condition and
fine finish of these articles are remarkable, and they are so numerous as
to fill a separate case. They consist of every variety of form of axes,
chisels, gouges, knives, spear and arrow-heads, pipes, ornaments for the
person, of stone and of pottery articles, many of which are entirely
unique.

From Arkansas, Mrs. Governor Throckmorton, of Little Rock, has
presented a pestle, grinding stone, and two paint mortars; and from the
same State, Mr. J. M. Stanley has sent a quantity of quills of the porcu-
pine, colored for use by the Indians in their embroidery.

In Mississippi, Mr. T. J. R. Keenan, of Brookhaven, has shown zeal
in examining the natural and ethnological curiosities of his vicinity, and
has presented to us a large number of handsome arrow-heads of brown
jasper, a curious cylinder of the same mineral, a stone disk, and a pair
of ear pendants made of silver coins by an Indian boy.

In Louisiana, opposite Vicksburg, Dr. E. Swift, United States Army,
4? REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

od

has examined the contents of several mounds and Indian graves, from
which he obtained for us many interesting articles, the principal of which
are earthenware vases in good preservation and of curious forms, ap-
proaching that of the vessels common among the tribes of Chili and Peru,
evidently for holding water, most of them having very narrow openings,
and being spherical in shape; also, stone hammers, chisels, pestles,
carved pipes of sandstone, a disk of quartz, bowls and cups of earthen-
ware, &e.

In Texas, Dr. D. H. McEldérry, stationed at Fort Griffin, has assid-
uously collected from the tribes near his post many objects of interest ;
among which we may enumerate three Comanche war shields painted
and ornamented, bows, bow case, arrows, quiver, scalp knife, and sheath,
war drum, tomahawk, and riding whip, all of which belong to a warrior’s
equipment. The other articles are implements for dressing skins;
tinder bag; dance ornaments; two head dresses, one made of Comanche
hair and the other of a bear’s ear; a girdle and pouch made of a Coman-
che’s skin; a square girdle and arm and head ornaments, some of silver
plates, with toy bows and arrows, and two rag dolls decorated with
Comanche hair. Dr. J. Middleton, of Camp Verde, has presented a
saddle obtained from the Kickapoos, and Mr. George Kean, some bony
plates of the Lepidosteus, or great western gar, having been used by the
southern and western Indians as arrow-heads; a fact in accordance with
a statement of William Bartram in his travels in Florida during the last
century.

In Florida, explorations have recently been made in the shell heaps
near Tampa Bay by Dr. William Stimpson and Mr. B.C. Stearns. J*rom
the former we have received a curious shell implement formed of the
columella of the great Fasciolaria gigantea, the use of which is unknown.
From Mr. Stearns, a large soapstone vessel, a stone sinker, a spear-head
and fragments of pottery. Mr. H. Clark, of the same place, has pre-
sented several hammers, a fishing sinker, a number of arrow-heads, and
an earthenware vase.

From Alabama, we have received specimens of arrow-heads, princi-
pally of jasper or agate, and of good finish, presented by Mr. Isaac Slee,
of Baldwin County, and specimens of the same kind from Mr. Henry C.
Force, collected in Northern Alabama, and also specimens of pottery and
arrow-heads presented by Dr. Reynolds, United States Army.

From Georgia, at St. Simon’s Island, a favorite station of the South-
ern tribes, Dr. C. H. Taylor, United States Army, has forwarded a num-
ber of stone axes and arrow-heads, and also pottery from Brunswick
County.

From Virginia, Fayette County, Mr. A. G. Grinnan has presented
a collection of stone axes, hammers, chisels, and a finely formed
fishing sinker made of hematite, of which we have several specimens
from localities widely separated, the weight of the material being its
great recommendation for this service. Mr. E.C. Meade, of Albemarle
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 43

County, has given an Indian hatchet and a lot of arrow-heads. Major
H. C. Williams has presented arrow-heads from Fairfax County; Mr.
Robert Burford, arrow-heads from Isle of Wight County; and from Mr.
C. R. Moore we have received a fine lancé-head, a pipe, pipe-stem, and
arrow-heads, found on the east shore of Virginia.

. From North Carolina, Rev. M. A. Curtis, of Edgecombe County,
has presented two stone axes, a collection of arrow-heads, and specimens
of pottery.

District of Columbia.—From Mrs. M. H. Schooleraft, of the District
of Columbia, to whose liberality we were previously indebted for large
collections, we have received additional specimens of stone hammers, a
stone disk, and other implements. From the Agricultural Department
we have received avery perfectly finished war mace with handle, its
locality being unknown. Contributions of specimens from the Dis-
trict of Columbia, were made this year by Joseph Saxton, esq., of
the United States Coast Survey. They include very numerous examples
of all the usual stone implements, such as axes, chisels, hatchets, gouges,
spear-heads of very great size, tomahawks, several perforated stone im-
plements, disks, a vessel carved out of soapstone, and a great num-
ber of arrow-heads collected on both sides of the Potomac River, and
of every variety of material accessible to the Indians, mostly of quartz
and quartzite, slate, jasper, &c., with a large quantity of pottery frag-
ments.

From Maryland, Mr. F. B. McGuire, of Howard County, has pre-

ented numerous arrow-heads; a lot of the same collected at West
River has been given by Mr. W. Q. Force. Dr. C. Sutherland, United
States Army, has presented a stone battle ax and arrow-heads from
near Annapolis, and Mr. John Cameron, of Prince George’s County, has
given us a collection of over a hundred arrow-heads, neatly arranged
for exhibition. From Charles County, we have received from Mr.
O. N. Bryan, an industrious collector, many objects of this class, such as
stone knives, chisels, spear-points, pestles, hatchets, awls, and a variety
of Indian pottery. J'rom the same vicinity, Mr. James Slagle has pre-
sented arrow-heads and a quantity of fragments of pottery.

Pennsylvania.—Mr. J. H. Mellvaine, an ardent inquirer into the man-
ners and customs of the aborigines, has presented a fine stone ax and
a stone tomahawk from Northumberland County, a flanged stone ring
or wheel; a stone wrought into the form of a bird; a slate chopping-
knife and a breastplate of shells and beads, with specimens of pottery.
From b. Smith, Upper Darby, we acknowledge the receipt of a stone
ax and some arrow-heads; from R. Christ, at. Nazareth, Pennsylvania,
two stone chisels and an ax; from Harry Hoover, a flint knife and
arrow-heads, collected in Clearfield County ; and from Dr. E. Michener
a soapstone dish, a hoe, a number of axes, chisels, pestles, a lot of ar-
row-heads, a tomahawk, and a polished ornament for the neck.

From New Jersey, at Shrewsbury, Mr. Samuel Wilson has sent us a
44 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

number of stone axes, chisels, and arrow-heads, a stone tomahawk, paint
mortar, and pipe. From Tuckerton, Mrs. Lewis Blackman has presented
a stone hoe, a sinker, numerous arrow-heads, and other stone imple-
ments. To Isaac Lea, LL. D., of Philadelphia, we are indebted for a
very fine stone ax found in New Jersey.

From New York, Messrs. S. P. Forman and R. Howell,,near Nich-
ols, have contributed ethnological articles, consisting of stone flesh-
ing chisels, arrow-heads, and flint knives; and also, from Mr. Merritt,
near Farmingdale, we have a number of arrow-heads. From Western
New York, Dr. F’. B. Hough, a diligent codperator and accurate observer,
who long since began to make contributions to the Institution, has for-
warded from his extensive collections a number of interesting objects. We
may mention a bowl, or deep dish, carved in soapstone; a stone mortar,
a number of pipe-bowls, pipes, &c., with chisels, spear-heads, gouges,
and an Indian cradle profusely ornamented.

From New England, Mr. 8S. A. Ladd, from the vicinity of Mere-
dith Village, New Hampshire, has contributed a considerable variety of
stone implements, including two of those remarkable chisels, or gouges,
having a curved cutting edge; also straight chisels, spear-heads, pestles,
fishing sinkers, perforated stone ornaments, and arrow-heads. From
Vermont, sent by Messrs. J. M. Currier, W. G. Norris, and R. Wheeler,
we have received a spear-head of native copper, of good workmanship,
but much corroded. The metal of this may have been obtained in barter
from the Indians of Lake Superior, or from others living in Nova Scotia,
where the native metal exists. It was accompanied by a stone hoe, a
flat, triangular implement with acutting edge, of which examples are some-
what rare, stone pestles, and lance-heads. Mr. Fearing Burr has presented
a cast in plaster of the most perfectly shaped pestle yet obtained, which,
at the end grasped by the hand, is worked to a sharp edge or comb,
pointed at one side. It was exhumed from an ancient Indian cemetery
near Hingham. Very large collections of stone implements have been
received from Dr. W. Wood, of Hast Windsor Hill, Connecticut, who
has devoted much time and exhibited great zeal in this branch of
research as well as in others connected with natural history. A liberal
donation is recorded from him of axes, hammers, chisels, spear-heads,
knives, gouges, pestles, perforated stones and hoes, and from these and
other parcels received from him, it may be justly inferred that his vicinity
was densely populated in former times by the savages who wrought
these articles.

Canada, New Brunswick, &e.—Much attention has been excited in the
Dominion of Canada upon the subject of aboriginal remains, chiefly
through the exertions of Principal Dawson, of McGill University, Mon:
treal, from whom a valuable series of Indian pottery, pipes of stone and
earthenware, perforated stone implements, We., has been received.
Professor L. W. Bailey, of New*Brunswick, also has presented several
stone axes, strings of wampum, spear-points, and arrow-heads, which
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 45

were collected in his vicinity. From a long-esteemed correspondent of
the Institution, Mr. W. E. Guest, formerly of Ogdensburg, New York,
now of Canada, have been received a number of curiously-worked bone
implements, chiefly awls or perforators, employed anciently in sewing
leather garments and moccasins. An unknown donor has sent us a fine
sample of the heavy stone mauls used by the mound builders or their
predecessors, in mining the native metallic copper from the Lake Supe-
rior region, where the vast deposits of this metal were resorted to for the
materials out of which to make spears, tomahawks, fish-hooks, sinkers,
and. personal ornaments.

Mexico.—F rom other districts not included within the United States, the
Institution has received important contributions in ethnology. Dr. Sar-
torius, from near Mirador, in Mexico, has sent specimens of the stone im-
plements and ornaments formerly in use among the aboriginal races of
that country. Some of these, namely, the perforated ornaments, beads,
knives, and chisels, are prepared from a variety of jade—a hard green
mineral, held sacred by the natives—and others, such asknives, flakes and
arrow-points, are of obsidian, a material from which long-bladed portions
can be flaked off by a slight pressure on the sides of the core. The tra-
ditional knife for the rite of circumcision among the Jews was of stone,
and the suggestion has been made by Dr. Foreman that the custom
originated with a people living in Asia Minor or Arabia during the stone
age. This collection also contains earthenware images, saucers, incen-
sories, bowls, cups, candlesticks with and without handles, together with
domestic utensils made of dried gourds, which are sometimes converted
into children’s rattles. All these are of modern workmanship and now
in use among the people of the country. From Dr. Sumichrast, also of
Mexico, we have received a perforated stone tube—probably part of a
pipe.

Porto Rico, West Indies—From Porto Rico, George Latimer, esq.,
who has long been a very liberal contributor to the collections of the
Institution, has sent three additional specimens of remarkable elliptical
stone rings, resembling an ordinary horse collar, made from a very hard
syenite rock, and carefully sculptured and polished. It is suggested that
they were placed on the neck of the human sacrificial victims during
religious ceremonies, probably for effecting strangulation before the fatal
stroke of the obsidian knife. One of them is of a different pattern, being
shaped like a horse-shoe, or the letter U, and of more massive propor-
tions. Included in this interesting collection are also several ancient
stone chisels similar to those found in the United States, and a number
of terra-cotta images of grotesque form. ,

From Barbadoes, West Indies, through the kindness of Granville
Chester, esq., we have obtained several ornaments of carved shells and
a hatchet of the same material. Articles made of shell are now exciting
much interest, as this substance seems to have been widely employed at
as early a period as that of the age of the mound-builders.
46 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

British Guiana.—P. Figyelmesy, esq., United States consul, has pre-
sented a valuable series of articles in use among the tribes of Indians
now living in the interior of that country, including sets of bows and
arrows, war clubs, a blow-gun, with two cases of arrows poisoned with
the wourali; an emblem of office, consisting of a club and a paddle com-
bined; a stone chisel, and also head dresses, made of brilliant-
colored feathers, bracelets of the green and gold wing cases of a large
species of beetle, (Buprestis,) beaded aprons worn by females, a necklace
of the teeth of the peccary, and a flute constructed of the long bones of
a wading bird.

From Central America, Dr. Earl Flint, while examining the Island of
Ornatepé, in Lake Nicaragua, obtained for the Institution, from ancient
tombs, an idol and three earthenware vases of much interest. From
Chiriqui, an unknown donor has contributed an earthenware vase.

France.—The prehistoric caverns and rock shelters of France, under
the persevering investigation of Professor E. Lartet, have yielded
such a harvest of precious relics, and of ingenious and interesting de-
ductions, as to have conferred on him a world-wide renown. Out of
his abundant materials he has with much liberality presented to the
Institution several cases filled with objects, of which it will suffice to
enumerate a few prominent specimens. Of the animals contempo-
raneous with man in those obscure times, there are bones of the horse,
some of them gnawed by wolves; of the aurochs, rhinoceros, wild goat,
chamois, hyena, reindeer, including a very perfect jaw and teeth of the
cave-bear. Associated with these are two small bones of the human
Skeleton, apparently belonging to the phalanges of the hand. Among
the implements of war, of domestic use, and articles of ornament, are
casts of bone implements, chiefly for making perforations, stone knives,
sculptured horn of reindeer, and bone aigrettes, probably for fastening
skin or fur dresses; also a mortar for grinding grain or fruits, and casts
of arrow-heads, in forms very similar to those of American specimens;
and many flakes of flint struck from the core while making knives,
arrow-points, or other articles. The European flint is better adapted
to this manufacture than any stone found in America, except obsidian.
These flint chips were gathered from fourteen different localities in
France, indicating the prevalence of the art of forming cutting imple-
ments of stone and the density of the population. Professor Lartet
has also contributed several large masses of the breccia which occupies
the floor of the caves, consisting of bones and teeth of animals, flint
flakes, pebbles, and other objects cemented together into a solid pave-
ment. The composition of these masses apparently indicates the great
antiquity of man, since they present the stone implements of his con-
struction embedded in the same materials with the bones of the rhinoc-
eros and other extinct animals. The most remarkable portion of this
collection may, however, be said to consist of the illustrations of the
art of sculpture as it existed among the prehistoric races. The material
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 47

employed was the broad portion of the horns of the reindeer or the
ivory tusks of the elephant. These carvings exhibit a remarkable ap-
preciation of form and composition, undoubtedly derived from constant
observation of the wild animals depicted. They chiefly represent the
more remarkable quadrupeds, such as the elephant, reindeer, bear,
aurochs, &c. These are all exhibited in motion or in striking attitudes,
such as leaping, fighting, or flying from pursuit.

Polynesia.—It is proper here to record an addition to the collections
from Commodore John H. Aulick, United States Navy, consisting of a
large cape or mantle entirely covered with brilliant plumage of scarlet,
gold, and black feathers, derived from birds which are extremely rare
in that country. It was made for the personal decoration of King
Kamehameha on state occasions, and presented by his Majesty to the
commodore when he officially visited the Sandwich Islands, some years
ago. From Commodore Magruder, United States Navy, we have re-
ceived several warlike implements of the Feejee Islands.

METEOROLOGY.—The system inaugurated atthe beginning of the In-
stitution has been carried on as usual during the past year. The whole
number of observers reporting to the Institution during this period has
been 479, and to the Medical Department of the United States Army,
120, making in all 599. Among these, 167 report indications of the
barometer and the other instruments, and the remainder those of the
thermometer, rain-gauge, and wind-vane. Owing to the necessarily un-
settled condition of the army since the war, many changes have taken
place in the posts at which observations are made, and therefore the
permanent, or, rather, normal condition of the whole system has not yet
been established. I say “normal” because, since the observations made
for the Institution are from voluntary observers, and some changes must
take place in the disposition of troops, therefore more or less variation
in the number and locality of points of observation must always occur,
and a condition of absolute permanency is not to be expected. Nearly
all the material that has been collected by the Institution during the
last twenty years is in the hands of computers, with the exception of
that relative to the rain-fall, which has been discussed and of which the
results are now passing through the press. The material relative to tem-
perature has been put in charge of Mr. Charles A. Schott, and will be
completed during the present year, provided the usual number of com-
puters are retained. The discussion of the material relative to the
winds of the northern hemisphere, collected by the Institution from
various sources, is in charge of Professor Coffin, of Lafayette College,
who, with a number of assistants, will press .on the work of its reduc-
tion and discussion as rapidly as the means appropriated for the purpose
will allow. The previous discussion of the winds of the same region by
Professor Coffin, published in the transactions of the Institution, has
been adopted as a part of the basis of the pilot charts of the British
Hydrographic Office, which fact may serve as an indication of the value
48 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

attached to the publications of our Institution and to the labors of one
of its collaborators. Few persons not having experience in the matter
could imagine the amount of labor required in the reduction and dis-
cussion of physical observations. In the case of the observations re-
ported to the Smithsonian Institution nearly three millions of figures
have to be gone over. But this is not all. Various hypotheses have to
be provisionally assumed, and the deductions from them tested by com-
parison with the actual results of observations, while many special re-
sults have to be deduced in accordance with previously established for-
mulas. The result of the discussion of the rain-fall, besides being given
in tables, is illustrated by curves and rain-charts. The printing of the
tables is necessarily a slow operation, requiring special care in the cor-
rection of the proof. The printing of the charts has been facilitated by
exhibiting the relative fall of rain in each part of the country by dif-
ferent depths of shading in the original engraving, the distinction being
made more obvious by a second printing in a single color. The rain-
charts are three in number; one exhibits the relative fall of rain for the
whole year; another for the three months of summer; and a third dur-
ing the months of winter. For agricultural purposes the rain-fall in the
summer is most important, but data are given in the tables to ascertain
it for every month of the year.

The distribution of rain is very materially affected by the prevailing
direction of the wind, and this again is modified by the declination of
the sun, a fact which must be evident when we consider that the motive
power of the great currents of the aerial ocean is the greater heat of
the equatorial regions derived from the perpendicular rays of the sun,
which, expanding the air, causes it to ascend and flow over in each
direction toward the poles. The medial line along which this expansion
takes place must move north and south with the sun in his varying de-
clination. If the earth were covered entirely with water, and were at
rest, the currents of the air would be comparatively simple; but, since
the earth isin arapid rotatory motion eastward, the currents which flow
at the surface toward the medial line move on one side from the north-
east and on the other from the southeast, thus forming what are called
the ‘“trade-winds,” while the same currents continued upward and
northward on one side, and upward and southward on the other, cury-
ing eastward, form the great stream of western return-trades which in
the northern hemisphere, in summer, continually flow over the United
States, at a high elevation, and which waft the higher clouds eastward,
giving a similar direction to the principal storms of every season. In
midsummer, when the medial line we have referred to is carried north-
ward by the northern declination of the sun, the upper current reaches
the earth beyond the fiftieth parallel of latitude, and precipitates the
vapor which it brings from the Pacific Ocean in the form of rain on the
western coast of America, to the depth, at Sitka, of ninety inches. As
the sun declines to the south the rain belt gradually descends along the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 49

coast until it reaches, in diminished quantity, the southern portion of
California. As the sun ascends again toward the north the rain also
gradually returns northward, until it leaves almost entirely, during the
summer, that portion of the western coast south of 50° north latitude,

The primary currents of air we have mentioned are modified by the
varying relative temperature of the ocean and the continents. The
capacity of water for heat being about six times that of land, the latter
becomes relatively much warmer in summer and colder in winter than
the former; and since the air at the surface of the earth tends to flow
from the colder to the warmer region, there must be a tendency of the
wind from the ocean toward the land in summer, and the contrary in
winter; though this may not be powerful enough to reverse the general
currents, it is yet sufficiently so to produce in them the modifications of a
very perceptible character.- In summer, the greater heat of the surface
of the middle portion of North America keeps the return trade-current
at a high elevation, and produces a surface current from the Gulf of
Mexico, which, on account of the motion of the earth, assumes a direc-
tion from southwest to northeast, bearing with it the moisture which is
precipitated in rain, principally throughout the region east of the Mis-
sissippi River. Were the earth at rest the same current would flow
over the whole of the Mississippi Valley to the base of the Rocky Moun-
tains, and the aridity of the western portion of this region would no longer
exist.

In winter, when the upper current, after sweeping across the Pacific
Ocean, ascends along the western slopes of the mountains, it precipi-
tates its moisture on their crest in the form of snow, which, melting in
summer, gives rise to humerous streams which, although not sufficient to
irrigate all the region between the Rocky Mountains and the fertile
country adjoining the Mississippi on the west, may yet, by well-directed
enterprise, serve very much to circumscribe the arid regions in the
Mississippi Valley, as well as to mitigate the droughts of the great in-
terior basins of the mountain system.

In summer, the sun approaching, in its northern declination, a posi-
tion nearly vertical to the extremity of the Peninsula of Florida, heats
the land and produces inflowing and upward currents of air, charged
with moisture, which, perhaps more frequently in the after-part of the
day, falls in copious showers. In winter, on the contrary, the sun being
far south of the latitude of Florida, the surface currents are almost
neutralized, or tend to flow from the land, and, hence, the rain-fall at
this season is much less.

In the region east of the Mississippi, including the whole Appalachian
system, the direction of the surface wind is the same as that of the trend
of the mountains, and hence both sides and crests of the latter and in-
tervening valleys are covered with vegetation.

The region along the eastern coast of the United States is also sup-
plied with vapor from the Atlantic Ocean, which is borne inland in all
cases where an approaching storm gives rise to a wind from an easterly

4s
50 REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

direction. The preceding sketch gives a general explanation of the
marked contrast between the rain-fall of the eastern and western halves
of the United States.

Most of the records of meteorological phenomena which were made
previous to a comparatively late date had for their object the determin-
ation of, what may be called, the statical condition of the weather in dif-
ferent places, or, in other words, the determination of the average atmo-
spheric pressure, temperature, direction of the wind, and the fall of rain.
A knowledge of these elements is of great importance in ascertaining the
relative climates of different countries, particularly in regard to sanitary
and agricultural considerations. In later years, however, systems of
meteorology have been established having more especially for their ob-
ject the record of the simultaneous conditions of the atmosphere in differ-
ent portions of the earth, and the origin and progress of storms; that is,
to discover, if possible, the dynamie principles which regulate the phe-
nomena of the weather. Systems of this kind have been established in
almost every part of Europe and in several parts of Asia, even in Turkey,
in the East Indies, and in North America. These systems are not only
intended to indicate the laws according to which the atmospheric dis-
turbanees are produced, but, also, to predict, by the aid of the telegraph,
the weather that may be expected within a given time.

The Smithsonian Institution was the first to make use of the tele-
graph for this purpose. The state of the barometer and thermometer
and the direction of the wind were received from the various telegraphic
stations at 8 o’clock each morning and recorded on a large map fastened
to a board, into which small iron pins were driven to support circular
cards of different colors, which indicated the character of the sky and
of the weather—whether cloudy or clear, raining or snowing. On each
card was drawn an arrow, the direction of which could be varied by
suspending the ecard from one of eight holes with which it was pierced.
A glance at this map showed at once the condition of the sky and direc-
tion of the wind over the whole country, and knowing from previous
observation the direction of the movement of storms, the weather could,
in most cases, be predicted, frequently more than a day in advance.
In Europe the prediction of the weather is founded on the probable
direction of the wind at a given place as deduced from telegrams
giving the maximum and minimum pressures of the air as indicated
by the barometer. It has been found from observation that the
wind which may be expected will blow nearly at right angles toa line
joining the maximum and minimum pressure of the air, and that the
face being turned toward the minimum point, the wind will come trom
the left-hand side. This rule, however, may be theoretically deduced
from the movement of the air in the form of a cyclone, but will scarcely
hold true in case of the storms observed in the eastern portions of the
United States. The storms that visit the west of Europe are those
which come directly from the ocean, where the cyclonal character of the
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY. 51

wind finds little disturbance from inequality of surface, while the storms
on the opposite American coast have their origin far inland, and are sub-
ject to greatchanges of form by mountains or other obstructions in their
passage to the Atlantic Ocean. The system adopted by the Institution
for predicting changes in the weather was interrupted by the war, and
‘since the restoration of peace the “telegraph companies could not be in-
duced to furnish the transmission of the necessary telegrams free of
charge; and as this project was intended as a practical application of
science and would require a much larger appropriation for its support
than could be afforded by the Smithson fund, the proposition to renew
the system has been allowed torest. At the present session of Congress,
however, a resolution was offered by Mr. Paine, of Wisconsin, which
was adopted, authorizing an appropriation of $25,000 for a system of
weather signals, especially along the northern lakes. The general direc-
tion of this system has been placed in charge of the Chief of the Signal
Corps of the Army, General Myer. The plans which have been adopted
for the carrying out of the proposed object have not been communicated
to the Institution. We shall, however, be ready to give any advice or
assistance in conducting the enterprise which may be required, and also
to avail ourselves of any facilities which it may afford us in the study
of the climatology of the northern hemisphere.
Respectfully submitted. :

JOSEPH HENRY.
JANUARY, 1870.
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT OF THE SECRETARY.

Table showing the entries in the record books of the Smithsonian Museum
in 1868 and 1869.

se ee —_ ee

Class. 1868. 1869.

Salas enels nl hy pesca esacmosboses sacbos des Sone Sen She ccc 8, 150 9,708
Mannimalls 22 na cote acec cee ee ceetemteere tele e = ee ctata = aate lait 9, 300 9, 516,
IB nt) aaa a eee Sepiones Bede Oneo coon coe sao coaboraer 95D PDoD doscac 54, 000 58, 976
Reptiles ....-. ---- ------ 2-22 2-2-2 eee ne eee ene renee eee eee eee 7, 200 7, 017
IMSS) eaenes poscupnostos 4 codaao sous soacRondace decc geodon oSsos 5, 625 7, 885
Eggs of birds ..-.--.----- ++ +--+ 2-2 2-22 ee eee rere ree eee 14, 100 15, 500
(ClCH eey og Booo ao O SSA BSab oo coocnecoaasocohosc sqDesquooc 1, 287 1, 287
Wo NG) Sigs 2 pened Sonoe socadeiacedinsn4 Cooponisbre ascaea tase eds sc 18, 500 21,770
IR OWENS gees se oee obo aecn pe soneess obSeCd ascacSchce eno ssan ones 2, 729 2, 725
JATIN ES 5e4 abe sen eoes bons boocodooss coderabhs dase unsostesccs 110 100
IROSSIIS( eee eee eee eae aie none eise miaiete Oe ee eka ne toreere 7, 200 7, 283
IW GY els) eye aeesecs capac soeods> Cade aEba cans cesaccaseecnoudouc 6, 625 6, 977
Ethnological specimens. -----.----------------+-----+-+---+----- 7, 400 9, 233
IDB Bene Send obnd Gcoscn dana sen cop soc ceagpocoau send gesSaC 175 175

INNIS Ss eB aS sooeostcomenseaeouscensoogenesdoues aaseucoe 142, 397 158, 652

The total number of entries during the year thus amounts to 16,255;
of which nearly 5,000 are birds and 1,800 ethnological objects; 1,400
eggs, &e.

Approximate table of distributions of duplicate specimens to the end of

1569.
Distribution to the | Distribution in 186°. Total.
Class.

Species. |Specim’ns.| Species. |Specim’ns.| Species. |Specim’ns.
Skulls and skeletons. 129 163 25 430 154 593
NN GhmvaoG ills Seqooaeese 852 1, 667 33 39 885 1,706
(Binge eee cass ices 10, 008 15, 440 2, 943 3,556! 12,951 18, 996
Reptiles eaee. - is -- 1, 699 2, 822 2 8 1,701 2, 830
MiShess=ee eee ee coe 2, 424 5, 200 10 10 2, 434 5, 210
Eggs of birds. .-----. 4,151 10, 627 230 1, 084 4,381 g/L
SM ses oes ooscccll SPAM ue 5, 421 5, 455 78, 39] 177, 925
iadiabes se 22 eereere 551 G20 | Sacerss fois Sonera er 551 727
Crustaceans’ --.2--.- 1,013 2,516 10 10 1, 023 2, 526
Marine invertebrates 1, 838 5; 152 ils stcee Seo Seeeeeece 1, 838 5, 152

Plants and packages
Of SeCdS')— 2-5, Ssee 13, 658 19: B18 se Seee es wales ee oe 13, 658 19, 218
IOSSIISs Agee creme 3, 401 9, 002 557 982 3, 958 9, 984
Minerals and rocks... 2,118 6, 654 762 1, 120 2, 880 7,774
Ethnology.......--- 1, 107 tMOTA een 47 1, 107 1, 154
EAB SCLS oe is- 2.5 sc/2inimre 1, 420 2, 587 112 259 1, 532 2, 846
Diatomaceous earth. 15 555 11 11 26 566
Mo ballis <ceteisece 117,354 | 255, 909 10, 116 13,011 | 127,470 268, 920

eee en) SS ee

’
Se ee Ce

|

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. — 53
Additions to the collections of the Smithsonian Institution in 1869.

’ Alden, Dr. C. H., United States Army.—One box fossil bones and teeth,
Wyoming Territory.

» Allard, C. T.—Collection of minerals, Mlinois.

VAthens, Greece; Museum of Natural History—Fossil bones from Mount
Pikermi.

el Commodore John H., United States Navy.—Feather cape of
King Kamehamaha, from Sandwich Islands.

Ave y, Adam —Indian spear head, Indiana.

“Baird, Professor S. F.—Skull of mephitis, Massachusetts; portions of
Acie of whale, Grand Manan, New Brunswick; bones, stone imple-
ments, &c., from caves near Carlisle, Pennsylvania; "40 skulls of porpoise,
Bay of Fundy; bones and relies from shell mounds, Maine.

Barnes, Major General J. K., Surgeon General United States Army.—
See Washington, Medical Department United States Army.

v Barrait, Dr. Moses——Indian relics and fresh-water shells, Wisconsin.

Bartholf, Dr. John A., United States Army.—Ardea herodias, Missis-
sippi.

Beales, A. C., hospital steward United States Army.—Box bird skins,
North Carolina.

DLehrens, James.—One box insects, California.

-Biddle, Leopold.—Carboniferous fossil, stone chisel, &¢., Iowa.
v¥ Bischoff, Ferd.—Kight boxes zoélogical collections, from Alaska.

, Blackburn, George and Charles.—One box birds’ eggs, Lowa.
+ Blackman, Mrs. Leah.—One box Indian stone relics, &c., New Jersey.
“Blakeslee, C. T.—One hornet nest, Olio.
Boardman, G. A.—Indian relics from shell heaps of Maine; and 100
skins of birds from Florida.
‘Bolles, Rev. EL. C.—Box of shells, (Zymnea ampla,) Maine.
, Boucard, A.—Coleoptera and reptiles from Mexico.

Breslau, K.; Ober-Berg-Amt.—Collection of minerals and fossils of
Germany.

- Brevoort, J. Carson.—South American deer in flesh.
Bryan, O. N.—Miscellaneous Indian relies, Maryland.

Burr, Fearing.—Cast of Indian stone pestle, Massachusetts.

v Byrne, Dr. C. C., United States Army.—Indian stone scrapers, Ar-
kansas.

‘Cambridge ; Herbarium of Harvard College.—One box seeds of acacia,
&c., Australia.

“Cameron, John.—One card Indian arrow-heads, Maryland.
vv’ Canfield, Dr. C. A.—One box marine animals, and two boxes nests
and eggs, California.

v Capel, J. H.—Bones of elk from Canada.

~ Capron, General H., Commissioner of Agriculture —See Washington, De-
partment of Agriculture.

Carter, Mr.—One box fossils and minerals from near Fort Bridger.

(Charbonnier, Dr. A. V., United States Army.—Minerals and fossils from
Mammoth Cave, Kentucky.

- Chester, Rev. G. T.—Three shell implements, Barbadoes.

y Chicago; Academy of Sciences.—Copy in terra cotta of an image from a
mound, Missouri; electrotype cast of copper-knife from mound in Illi-
nois; cast of ancient vase.

v Christ, Richard.—Egg of Sawwhet owl, Pennsylvania.

By H.—Indian pottery, stone and shell implements, skulls, &c.,
‘lorida.

54 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

‘ Collett, John.—Three Indian arrows, trilobites, fossil ferns, &c., Indi-
ana.

vv oues, Dr. E.—Two boxes bird skins and osteological collections, North

Carolina.
 Orocker, Allen.—Fossils and zodlogical specimens, Kansas.
y Currier, Dr. J. M.—Indian stone relics, Vermont.
Curtis, Rev. M. A.—Teeth of, cyprinoid fish, Indian relics, and Indian
beads from a grave, North Carolina.

‘~ Dall, W. H.—Paper currency from Pekin, China; and 22 boxes zoolo-

gical and ethnological collections from Alaska.
Davis, J. H.—Skin of panther.

v Davis, H.—F¥ossil coralline, (?) Minnesota.

¥ Davis, Dr. Samuel.—Indian stone relics, Indiana.

VDeCrery, P. A—Specimen of magnetic rock, Martinique.

De la Verney, Mr.—Supposed meteorite, New York.
De Oca, R. Montes—Mounted peceary, (Dicotyle torquatas,) Mexico.

VDe Selding, Charles.—Skull of dog, Tennessee ; bit and reins of bridle
from Lima, South America; black slate carved pipe, Northwest Pacific ;
fishing line, hook, and net, Otaheite.

. Deems, J. W.—One box copper and silver ores, &c., Mexico and Cali-
fornia.

u Denny, Henry.—Set of casts of the great seals of England; skull of
dog and portion of pelvis of rhinoceros from Dowkerbottom Cave, Eng-
land; Huplectella speciosa, Philippine Islands; fossil erinoid, ( Woodocrt-
nus,) from York, England.

‘Department of Agriculture, General H. Capron.—Mounted rabbit, nest
of oriole, stone war-club, &c., Pennsylvania.

Destruge, Dr. A.—Two boxes birds, Ecuador.

v Dille, Mr.—Teeth of fossil horse, Illinois.

Dodd, P. 8.—Eggs of tern, merganser and ring plover, Nova Scotia.

\ Edwards, Amory.—Skins of six species of jay, California.

v Edwards, Henry.—Oné box insects, and living Helix arrosa, California,

“Endres, J. R.—Two boxes of humming birds, Costa Rica.

Fauntleroy, Thomas W., per O. N. Bryan.—Indian mortar, axe, &e., Vir-
ginia.

v Fernald, Charles.—Neuropterous insects, California.

Figyelmesey, P., United States Consul.—Three boxes birds, insects, and
curiosities, British Guiana.

’ Flint, Dr. Earl.—Ancient pottery and seeds of the turkey flower,
Nicaragua.

Force, Henry C.—Shell ornaments from Casa Blanca, near Gila River,
with fragments of pottery, stone axe, &e.

Foreman, Stephen.—Indian relics, New York.
-Gardner, E. F.—Indian relies from shell heaps, Maine.
Gardner, Dr. W. H., United Stdtes Army.—indian implements and
relics, Dakota.
/Geisdorf, Dr.—Two skulls of Indians and one beaver skull, Montana
Territory.
Ghisclin, Dr. J. T., United States Army.—Indian implements, &e., Ore-
on.

/ Giddings, Edward.—Skulls of Nisqually Indian and of mammals; ser-
pula, and casts of shells, Washington Territory.

Gilliss, John R.—Skull and other bones of human skeleton, Utah.

VGoss, B. F.—One box birds’ eggs, Wisconsin.

Gray, Dr. C. C., United States Army.—Skeleton of Indian child, Da-
cota.
—————————e

—e.. ror

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 55

“**vGrayson, Colonel A. J.—Four boxes birds, insects, &c., Mexico.
/Griffith, Amos L.—Nest of humming bird, Tennessee.
“Grinnan, A. G.—Indian stone implements, Virginia.
‘¥ Gruber, Ferdinand.—Six skins Harporhycheus redivivus, California;
and one box birds, Australia and California.
, Hagan, J. W.—Indian stone relics, Kentucky.
Hall, Dr. E—Indian stone relies, linois.
VHancock, B. M.—Birds’ eggs, Lowa.
v Harper, W. J. W.—One box shells, California.
Av Hayden, Dr. F. V.—Ancient soapstone bowl, Wyoming Territory ;
and 22 boxes geological and other collections, Colorado.
vHaymond, Leigh.—Indian stone implements, Indiana.
/Haymond, Dr. Rufus.—One box Indian stone relies, Indiana.
Heverin, John T.—Menopoma alleghaniensis, Missouri.
/ Holmes, Professor IF. S—Phosphate of lime from Ashley River, South
Carolina.
\ Howe, Rev. S. S—Indian pipe and other relics, Dakota and Iowa.
“Hoxie, Walter.—One box birds and birds’ eggs, South Carolina.
‘Hough, Dr. F. B—Bones of Sus from depth ot 18 feet in Loess, and one
box Indian relics, New York and Canada.
vHoy, Dr. P. R.—Skull of a Pottawatomie chief and Indian vase from
mound; also birds’ nests and eggs, Wisconsin.
v Hubbard, Dr. E. W.—Helices trom various localities.
v Hudson, W. H.—Two boxes birds, Buenos Ayres.
VHurt & Bros.—Box iron ore, clay, &c., Virginia.
“Jewett, Colonel H.—Corallines in chalcedony, Florida.
’ Jones, Rev. C. M.—One box birds, Connecticut.
- Keenan, T. J. R.—Two boxes insects, one box shells, Mississippi.
/ Kelley, Dr. A. Way, United States Army.—Fragmert of tooth of mas-
todon, Mississippi.
Kilpatrick, General J.—Mummied child from Arica, Peru.
/Kimball, Dr. J. P., United States Army.—Indian scalps, rattle, &e.
King, Clarence.—Twenty-six boxes and two kegs, geological and natu-
ral history collections from Utah.
Kirkby, Rev. W. W.—One box specimens natural history, birds’ eggs,
&c., Fort Simpson, Hudson Bay Territory.
/ Kluge, Dr. J. P.—Reptiles and insects, Panama.
vKnudsen, Valdemar.—Ninety human erania, Sandwich Islands.
vLadd, S. A.—Twelve Indian stone relics, New Hampshire.
yLartet, Prof. E.—One box prehistoric remains, France.
w Latimer, George—One box bird skins and one box stone implements,
Porto Rico.
/ Lawrence, G. N.—Graculus mexicanus mounted, Cuba.
, Le Carpentier, Jules.—One box beetles, New Mexico.
VLea, Isaac.—Indian stone axe, Pennsylvania; specimen of granite per-
forated by Pholas, Nantes, France.
v Lee, Dr. J—Golden eagle in flesh, Maryland.
/ Leer, James.—Lignite and iron pyrites, District of Columbia.
_Lewis, Dr. James.— One box fresh-water univalves, New York.
v Lewis, 8S. G.—Diallogite and other minerals, California.
V Limpert, W. &.—Indian stone relics and eggs of woodcock, mallard,
&e., Ohio.
yLincecum, Dr. Gideon.—One box Lepidoptera, Texas.
v/ Lincecum, G. W.—Humming birds, and four boxes birds, insects, &c.,
Texas.
v Lockhart, James.—One box insects, Hudson Bay Territory.
56 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

¥ London; Royal College of Surgeons, through Professor Flower.—Skulls
of lion, tiger, jackall, &¢. j

v Lyons, Dr. W. B.—Fossil Saurians, New Mexico.

_ Lyons, B., Hospital Steward, United States Army.—Indian implements,
Dakota.

‘March, William T.—One box birds, Jamaica.

Matthews, Dr. W., United States Army.—Bird-skins, eggs, &¢., Dakota.

vMaynard, E. J—One box bird skins, Florida,

MeCoughtry, Miss EB. G.—Indian stone implements, Kentucky.

MeOoy, Miss E. M.—Indian arrow-heads, Indiana.

MeCoy and Maxwell, Drs.—Massasauga rattlesnake, Indiana.

-Mellvaine, J. H.—Collection of bird skins and Indian relies, Pennsyl-
vania.

( McKee, Dr. J. C., United States Army.—Navajo bracelet, Indian Terri-
tory.

Me Ween, J. M.—Skull of mound-builder, Indiana.

Merritt, J. C.—Indian arrow-heads, New York.

- Moffatt, Dr. P., United States Army.—Indian implements, Oregon.

Michener, Dr. E.—Indian stone relics and type specimen of Huspiza
townsendii, Pennsylvania.

/ Michener, Captain J—Skin of purple gallinule and ancient relics in
iron and brass, Maine. |

Milborn, Caleb—Carving in ornamental green marble, Delaware.
“Minor, Dr. T. T.—Five boxes ethnology and natural history, two
skeletons of sea otter, and box of Indian curiosities, Alaska.

, Montreal; MeGill University, from Principal Dawson.—One box Indian
antiquities, Indian axes, &ec., Canada.
v Moore, C. R.—Indian pipes, arrow-heads, &c., Eastern Shore of Vir-
ginia.
/Morris, W. F.—Head of diamond rattlesnake, Mississippi.
V Nelson, Peter—Teeth and bones of mastodon, Florida.
“Newsom, W. Lewis.—A cane carved by Andrew Oliver, a revolutionary
soldier, and prisoner to the British in 1783, New York.
«New York; Central Park Commission.—Two living European swans,
New York.
’ Nichols, Dr—Raccoon in the flesh, District of Columbia.
Nixon, J. Sharpe.—One bird (Regulus satrapa) in flesh, Pennsylvania.
‘Norris, H. W.—Indian stone relies, Vermont.
/ Norris, W. G.—Indian stone relics, Vermont.
J Orton, Professor. —Collection of bird skins, Ecuador.

Otis, Dr. George A., United States Army.—lour sets bows, bow eases,
quivers, and Indian trinkets, from the battle-ground of Washita River,
Indian Territory.

v Palmer, Dr. E.—One box birds’ nests and eggs, Fort Wingate.

Parker, H. G.—Bill of white pelican, &c., Nevada.

Parrish, Henry M.—Egg of screech owl, Alabama.

Philadelphia; Academy of Natural Sciences.—Kgg of Alca impennis, or
great auk, Iceland.

‘ Phillips, M. W. S.—Indian stone relics, Kentucky.
Pitch, Captain, through Agricultural Department.—One crab; Caribbean
Sea.

Plumbo, G.—Indian stone relies, Kentucky.

-Plunmer, R., and Comegys, H. C.—Twenty-three bird skins, Con-
necticut.

Portland ; Society of Natural History.—Postpleiscene fossils, Maine.

| Post, Dr. S. A.—Quartz geodes, Syria.
_—_———

ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS. 57

“Powell, Dr. R., United States Army.—Bow, quiver, &e., Pitt River
Indians, Oregon.
v Ravenel, Dr.—Land shells and alcoholic preparations, Texas.
vReeve, J. F.—Collection of bird skins, EKeuador.
VReinert, Dr. Paul.—Three packages of dried plants, Germany.
“Reynolds, Dr. I. M.—Indian pottery, arrow-heads, &c., Alabama.
w Ridgway, Robert—One box birds, Illinois.
Ring, Lieutenant F. M., United States Army.—Forty-two objects Indian
curiosities, Alaska.
vRobinson, Windham.—Bones of young mastodon, &c., Virginia.
yRothhammer, as . S. M.—One Indian soapstone dish, Florida.
ve Sartorius, Dr. C.—One box specimens of natural histor y and ethnolog
and a specimen of Lystra cerifera, Mexico.
v Saxton, Joseph.—Indian stone relics, seeds, &e., District of Columbia.
vy Scammon, Captain C. M.—Rostrum of sw ord- fish, Pacific Ocean ; one
ie alcoholic specimens, skulls of seals, skins of fur ‘seal, cetacean skulls,
&ce., Pacific Coast.
, Sehliitter, William.—One package birds’ nests, Germany.
v Schultz, Dr. C. F.—Indian stone axe, Pennsylvania. —
/ Sclater, Dr. P. L.—Nine'bird skins, Bogota.
Sessions, Lewis.—Nest and eggs of birds, Connecticut.
Shanks, William.—Indian stone relics, Indiana.
Shimer, H.—Electro copy of an Indian copper knife, Ilinois.
‘Smith, Benjamin H.—Indian stone relics, Pennsylvania.
vSmith, Hamilton.—Two polished Indian implements of quartz, Indiana.
St. John ; 3 Natural History Society —Devonian fossil plants, 2 New
Brunswick.
« Stearns, K. LE. C_—Collections of ancient relies from shell heaps; twenty-
two species of shells in aleohol, Florida.

SY;

WW Sternberg, Dr. G. M., United ‘States Army.—Burial case of an Indian

child, five boxes vertebrate and other fossils, Kansas.
v Stevenson, James.—Arapahoe (Indian) saddle, Wyoming Territory.
v Stimpson, Dr. William —Indian shell implement, Florida.
¥ Storrow, Dr. E., United States Army.—Indian implements and relics,
Idaho Territory.
v Sumichrast, Dr. F.—Three boxes birds, mammals, reptiles, &c., Mexico.
V Swift, Dr. Jom United States Army. —Indian pottery y, stone implements,
pipes, &e., Louisiana.
v Tate, Ralph.—One box shells, Nicaragua.
v Thomas, General G. H., United States Army.—Bones of walrus, and
one box coal, Alaska.
\ Thompson, R. O.—Three fossil shells, Missouri.
vy Throckmorton, Mrs.—Indian stone mortar, Arkansas.
»Todd, Dr. W. ’ H.—Indian relics from shell heaps, Maine.
/ Totten, Dr. G. M.—Cormorant and flying fish, Straits of Magellan.
( Turner, Granville—Indian stone relics, Ilinois.
Unknown.—One box specimens of coal, one box alcoholic specimens
insects.
Vanardale, Henry.—Indian stone hatchet, Indiana.
V Wagner, Dr. Clinton, United States Army.—Squirrel and bird skins
and Indian implements, &e., Idaho Territory.
¥ Wakefield, Dr.—Skin of wren, Campylorhyneus brunneicapillus, Sonora.
Warner, John G.—Specimens of rotten stone, Pennsylvania.
Washburn, Hon. Thomas.—Indian arrow-heads, Indiana.
Washington; Army Medical Musewm.—See Medical Department United
States Army.
58 ADDITIONS TO THE COLLECTIONS.

Washington; Medical Department United States Army.—See Drs. Alden,
Byrne, Cherbonnier, Gardner, Ghiselin, Gray, Kelley, Kimball, Lyons,
W. B., McKee, Moffatt, Otis, Powell, Reynolds, Sternberg, Storror, Swift,
Wagner, White, Whitehead, and Lyons, E., hospital steward, United
States Army. ,

Washington, Agricultural Department United States.—See Capron,
General H., Ravenel, Dr., Geisdorf, Dr.

. Wellstood, Stephen.—Cane made of wood of steamer Charlotte Dundas,
1803, Scotland.

Wheeler, Ruel—Indian stone relics, Vermont.

‘White, Dr. R. H., United States Army.—Ancient pottery from mound,
Alabama.

\ Whitehead, Dr. W. E., United States Army.—Indian implements, Wash-
ington Territory.

‘Whitney, Joseph.cIndian beads, gouge chisel, &c., Maine.

Wilkinson, S. L.—Collection of Indian relics, minerals, plants, Ten-
nessee.

VWilliams, H. C.—Stone implement, Virginia.

/ Wilson, Dr. S. W.—Four living Amphiuma, Georgia.
‘Wilson, Samuel.—Indian stone implements, New Jersey.
‘Wilson, Thaddeus.—Indian stone relics, New York.

Wingate, John D.—Two salamanders and box of insects, Indiana.

v” Yates, Dr. L. G.—Indian skulls and fossil ox bones, and Indian stone
relics, California.

‘Yeager, Mr.—Indian arrow-heads, flint-flakes, &c., New York.

- Young, Nathan.—Specimens in alcohol, Indiana.
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Table showing the statistics of the Smithsonian exchanges in 1869.

a x ° O43 8 DB
et ui s = we =3
| oo deus aw of we &
Agent and country. 1. cen . ae og
ou Sa a) Be Shey
ae a = a= er
E z BE | ae | 34
Neate a:
Dr. Felix Fliigel, Leipsic:
MNES ee eee Soicid oS 2 arn:c,,ccietesis < sete 73 G2 bapeasnlleaeseeae banoeoae
Germanys sso ee ase 590 ON eterers a | cer ereeo ee | ieee
Swwlozerland ti sis soon cee ce ersee 60 G5) (2S Sale seeees lee eee
Mate eens eke eh eee eae 723 796 | 42 418 | 10,625
Royal Swedish Society of Sciences, Stock-
holm:
Syed enls.= sae. ot 1s as sas Saneee/eoee 16 19 2 23 500
Royal University, Christiania: Pe
MOEWUYice a cet ses can acts ae we 10 14 1 tas) 250
Royal Danish Society of Sciences, Copen-
hagen :
GOLA Onecce Someone tee Cece eee 1 Di cpa aks Oc Re ee eee
Wonmiarkys ss solos costes esas mess 20 Pe aes steele ar ee satos
Motalres = se <ieises so atae,t we ac cyeee 21 23 3 23 | §25
Frederick Miiller, Amsterdam : i
ELoM and eeu asoee sis oU ee ohonesesese 64 AOS atte eer. ere [aera eee
Be OMe asec ee Ws toca aes etic: 30) Ab) ||) sete elena ss aco] | eet eae =
ovale eA es seme eeceee casa 100 115 6 66 1, 425
Gustave Bossange, Paris:
FEEAINC OMe aerate ces a Seminole ee aelescieee © 186 710k Pose ese en eee |
SPAIN sea a'aSaie tS hase eamecnepo cas cee 7 al SoS ats See eee eae 2
BORO G ale nectvnas~o,o eres ese aes 4 Sie eon o cree. eee
Motaliets. (5c. eter sear aercae 197 217 9 98 2, 500
R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere, |
Milan:
iballivpiires os a sicasaais eefes ues oe ec ranic 83 85 3 33 825
——— !——— ————— =
| William Wesley, London:
. Great Britain and Ireland ........... 291 309 16 161 A, 025
University of Melbourne :
Australia and New Zealand ......-... 20 41 4 40 1, 000

Rest.of the worldsst5.P ost) cece 108 | 115 |- 20 160 | 2, 000

Grand totaleee2ses 3. saa eee [509] Pel otae to t0S3 | eeawado

60

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages reccived by the Smithsonian Institution from parties in America,
Sor foreign distribution, in 1869.

Address.

ALBANY, NEW YORK,

Regents of New York State Univer-

GIR, SSH SA a OOo Raa aricbe oe
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.

Professor A. Winchell

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND.
ee UME D2 setae see een ace
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.
American Academy of Arts and Sci-

American Social Science Associa-

UOT Die pl pe RT pew gape a BE
American Statistical Association -.-.
Board of State Charities.......-..-
Boston Society of Natural History-
Massachusetts Historical Society -- -
IP GO: ION AMA Se Seto odessa uese
Dre vANGOUldEet ae seein ee eee
Dr. Howe, (Perkins Institute for

(Sina) eee oe Store eee cee oe ee
Si SCUCC eRe sane tsene ee snes

CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Association for Advance-

ment of Science
Harvard (College... 2 2.02. sse0-%
Museum of Comparative Zodlogy --
ProressonsleeACasslZea-eeee eee eee
ALOR AAIDASSIZicies cies seclecomec Sone
IPTOTESSO CA ayan ayes ee eee

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.
Medical Society of South Carolina..
COLUMBUS, OHIO.

Ohio State Agricultural Society -...
Draw Ba Sullivanteees seems eee:
men AWwesquerenx.- 02s. eeeeee eee
DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
Dre dward Jarvisiessscess cosneeee
EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA.

Protessorsie Ow Porters ee cee ce eee

No. of
packages.

26

wo

54
24
416

16
14

19

10

Address.

HAVANA, CUBA.
Professor | POcveeseteeeeeas ences
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.
Institution for Education of Blind.
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Institution for the Blind......---.
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN.
Professor L. A. Lapham --...-<---
MONTREAL, CANADA.
Professor J. W. Dawson.-.--.-.---
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. |
Geological Survey of Tennessee- -.
NEW ALBANY, INDIANA.

Dr. E. S. Crosier

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

State Lunatic Asylum
NEW YORK.

American Journal of Mines -...---
New York Lyceum of Natural His-
COLY, <i 562: Pasece ee cssee oes see
American Christian Commission. - -
United States Sanitary Commis-
SOM = ee eee eae eee

TS. -bickmoOreseeesacn soe aes
KH eSteipereceaaets ce er ee ee

PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.

Academy of Natural Sciences - --.-
American Pharmaceutical Society -
American Philosophical Society - --
American Entomological Society --
Pennsylvania House of Refuge... -

.

No. of
packages.

21

100

10

10

14
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from parties in America, &ce.—Continued.

n

; w oO

2 of

low]

Address. Sad

Ag

a
PHILADELPHIA, PA.—Continued.
Pennsylvania Institute fer Deaf and

Wintihperssssc ses. oes ese o coe 25

uiblie Schools 2. =. -2)..-= So. ne see 1
Society for Alleviating Miseries of

Public Prisons. 25
MOIS ACOA saeco see eee hee 199
Dreeohnels: WMecontesaseesooce. sacs 13

PORTLAND, MAINE.
Natural History Society. -.-..----.| 150

PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY.

PACES DLO WA = 2 acsaccis ts Soa eiceciersiss 12
PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND.
Ki. I. Historical Society .--.---.---- 3

QUEBEC, CANADA.
Literary and Historical Society ---.; 11

SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.

BIGNESS LUG UGO =: =72) 25 = <i121~ Sia stsloreeiele 149

Peabody Academy of Science...--.- 115
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.

California Academy of Natural Sci-

DRGs = de phan Eo ones SOeEEO sece 0
Honnye Hdwards...s.- 522-2 j2anees 2
(Hee GUOWV CLS s/)='5) == 2514 os Swicfeaeeee 1

ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI.
macademy-of Sciences:..----..s--lce= 190

Address.

ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK.

Natural History Society

ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Minnesota Historical Society..--...
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS.
Professor Hl. Ay Worthen: =2...-----
TORONTO, CANADA.

Canadian institmter sess. .es sees ee
Observatory secon. seacae scene
Dr. C. J. Bethune

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Bureau of Statisties.-.....----.--
Interior Department.............-
Nautical Almanac Office...--..-..-
United States Coast Survey. ..----
United States Agricultural Depart-

MENG) 2.2.35 2c ems acest ee SaaS
United States Department of Edu-

CalblOms 15520552 Leesa eects omer
United States Naval Observatory - -
United States Patent Office..-.--.-
Wallan Es Dalat ere = re eva tee
DrekeaVerelaydens = -oseees semceae
Drs @hCsRarryss oe st enclsele ase
Drh Bb yeougheeonesce ce ae eee

WINNEBAGO, ILLINOIS.
WG De 8f2)0) Vecboconnescpo occ. .ceaeor

Wilken owillksn- researc are meet eee or

61

47

5, 220
62 LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received by the Smithsonian Institution from Europe, in 1869,
Jor distribution in America.

Address.

ALBANY, NEW YORK.

Albanyalnstimtepeeseces. csi ces eee
Bureau of Military Statistics ...--.
Dudley, Observatory. -.-----.-.----
New York State Agricultural Society
New York State Cabinet of Natural

SHOR ieee aoe cise cease ween ns
_ New York State Library -.-.--.----
New York State University -.....--
Hon. Francis ‘©: Barlow.--.--------
Broressoro dalle. Spee cet cece
Dr homas Hun Seo ee eeccece cee

AMHERST, MASSACHUSETTS.
Aoniherst:Colleses sss. 52 occc4 soe
Professor EH. itehcock 22-224. -2---
Professor. Tuckerman .-.. 2... -.--

ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.
United States Naval Academy....--

ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.

University of Michigan..-.--.-.....-
ObsenviacOuyies sates etree eee
DINO EM yaa ao ceese a eee
AO PNAS OMe mek cerca cere ele ait oe

ATHENS, ILLINOIS.
Professor Elihu dalle 2e 25 45 eee
ATHENS, OHIO.

Ohio University -.---- Receretejereretertees
AUSTIN, NEVADA.

Dra Mororcubees 4.2 cecoeeme sete
BALDWIN CITY, KANSAS.

BakerUmiversitive sss ee ose eee
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND.

Maryland Historical Society- ------
ReabodyaImstinmbtes-seasssesna- ie
University of Maryland-...--.....
ev ues Dalrevmplemsecese arco nee
Professor §. 8. Haldeman. -...-.---.
DirxeiG. MOMs s-c2-eseeoce ee see
Aree ULES <9 toccy ore tayo yaiere siemerets

BETHLEHEM, PENNSYLVANIA.
Dr. Chazles M. Wetherill...........

Address.

kr 0 CO

OF Wwe

PORE EE oO

BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS.

Illinois Natural History Society-. -

BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA.

Indiana State University-.........

BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

American Academy of Arts and Sci-
ENCES eee ac coe ese eee
American Social Science Association
American Statistical Association --
Board of State Charities.----:-..--
Boston Athenwum. 22223222222...
Boston Mercantile Library Associa-
OMS e seco Saas eee Sere
Boston Society of Natural History~
Bowditch ibranyeeenese a eee
Geological Survey of Massachusetts
Massachusetts Historical Society -.
Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
NolOey. 425 se ioeee = See eRe
Massachusetts Society for Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals... ---
Massachusetts Teacheft-----..--.--
New England Historic-Genealogi-
cal Societys sns sss ae 52 ee

|| North American Review.-.-.--.----

Prison Discipline Society ---.-.---
Public inbranyes=-eeeene eee
State Jaibramyse 3. Sees ees
Rev Weak: Alloenie eee eee
Dr Bre wel aesso-13- ote hbo

C. Hovey s2sc2 se Sted eeececeece
Dry Charles4t-Jacksonvesseeee sees
IDS dish UG Onl sss cece sesecon
Missi. Marmodelizencesess nee eee
Johnw Perry ssa eee eteseh ease
AvP. Rockwelleecste tassesonie ser
WB AROS Crs: sete oe eo ser eee
EBs San borneeee ee ceeae aes tree
SP HeS cud dere eae nae ee
RAC uStearngemecemee ses oeeee
Drab SH Storeweetsccise eer eee
Walker, Bullleric Co eaeeceeeeee

BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.

Long Island Historical Society... .
James Alchurst22 5 4-esce eee
HC Murphy 22eem ee see een ae

BRUNSWICK, MAINE.

BowdomliC@olleseeeenessmassea= =e
Historical Society of Maine -...--.

No. of
packages.

1

ra)
= b)
Se SB NWWOeE Seow ”

ONWwwnwnw

1

—
wwe

—_
me WIRE WOW Ree eee ee

ee we)
it ain

——

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from

[op )
Oo

Hurope, &e.—Continued.

Address.

BUFFALO, NEW YORK.

Buffalo Historical Society.-..--..---. 1
Natural History Society.--.....--.- il
BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY.
WrrtGwbInney: <<. 5-.s4c-sscse ee 1
BURLINGTON, VERMONT.
University of Vermont .....-...... 3
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS.
American Association for Advance-

MEM pT OM SCONCE = - o> ic cineia = ao~ 33
Astronomical Journal.............- 2
ianvard: College: 2. -<----2--.2-.-- 108
Herbarium of Harvard College -.... 2
Museum of Comparative Zodlogy.-| 30
Observatory of Harvard College...) 46
dk, INCPISEIG, SS Anne aseenacpEoecopeeoe 3
iRrotessor iu. Avassiz 2... ...---2-.---|. 6
rebels Clank sa 45-2 n 3-22 il
Dire Toh vat (EGU lee So Oe Se aoeoesee 14
IBTOLESSOL ASA, GLAY sas ook ace coils 1
Dik, lal Isp S 35 Se Goce se oseeeodcee 1
re eae LO Vili= 2 Sse aj etnies
re Dnomas) Piymam. + 5-552. <c1ssnc
Wien GA) MAACK Co Ss sec ce sce: sated
PMIDECRUROLC WAY =- sete s-ac0 cee eee ecce
IBTOLESSOL Ub OILGO s.c1- ce one. oan =
Professor Jared Sparks ....---..-..
Professor J. D: Whitney =... ------.-

Dye dig \Wii ye ee Rees eee ec
IEROLESSOL J. VW yManl=— 2.2 2.2.2 =

CENTRE COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA.

Professor H.’J. Clark: . :2-=-...< sie 1
CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS.
State Industrial University ...-..--. 1

CHAPEL HILL, NORTH CAROLINA.
University of North Carolina ....--. al

CHAPPELL HILL, TEXAS.
Soule: Universibyossse-=-lsasccsete 2

CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.

Charleston Museum -......---.---- 2
Elliott Society of Natural History..| 18
Socicuy Wabrary...<-- Sss-essc sce 1
South Carolina Historical Society... 1

CO C2 CO bet OD et et CO 0 OO

Address.

No. of
ackages.

c

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA.
University of Virginia............ 3

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS,

~~

Chicago Academy of Science.-.---.
Chicago Board of Trade -......-..
Dearborn Observatory .-..-...-.---
Wminersitivess see se ese soe ces
Young Men’s Association Library.
Pr eAndrews sco saaee en ee cis ie oc
Marien Bani eset. on a eee oe
Professor F. H. McChesney ...-.. a
ty Pp OAMOLU anes a Saar eee oe eee

(w)
Oe See ee WR ON

CINCINNATI, OHIO.

| American Medical College.--......
Astronomical Observatory ....-.-:- 3
| Mercamtile: brary =*2-222e-'2-2-2-
|
|
|

PAN aoLOTI EN OTmalles = as Seees here

Ree

CLINTON, NEW YORK.

| Observatory of Hamilton College - 9
Dies Gable We ebeRsy emai e ce ener 2

| COALBURGH, WEST VIRGINIA.

WisEEes Hdiwanrdsinsas eyecare

on

COLUMBIA, MISSOURI.

Geological Survey of Missouri --. -} 2
Nussourl University -2-2ss2s2scrs- 2
Wel re Gots Coe ive Ores ease eee = 4

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA.

South Carolina College ---.---.--, 1
University of South Carolina -.--..- 1

COLUMBUS, OHIO.

Ohio Educational Monthly-....-.-.
Ohio State Board of Agriculture. . -
Professor Leo Lesquereux...------
John GAC) Norms... 22. 72a s= seen
Dr. William B. Sullivant....-..-.-

pd

CH Aaco-

CONCORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

New Hampshire Historical Society - 1
CREDIT, ONTARIO, CANADA.

| Reve Cr Je So pethuneresst is. tooo 16

64.

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

Address.

DECORAH, IOWA.
Lutheran College.......-..-
DELAWARE, OHIO.

Ohio Wesleyan University...----..-
Dr. Slotner

DES MOINES, IOWA.

Geological Survey of Iowa...-....- |

Towa School Journal
Staverinbranyewe aco sees. ecm tees

DETROIT, MICHIGAN,

Michigan State Agricultural So-

ClOtivh ses eae sepa meric Rents
DORCHESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.

Dr Edward Jarvis 22.20.4000. 28

EASTON, PENNSYLVANIA.

la Fayette College....5.....25-.2.
IEToTessor aC. Lorjers-e e222 soeeee

ENTERPRISE, PENNSYLVANIA.
JOsephyGibbonseseeee eect eee eee
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA.
Rey,du. G. Olmstead... -ces-.cce.
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS.
OliverMarcy... 22-01-75 anos see osee
FARMINGTON, CONNECTICUT.

Ha ward sNorpon 255 5.ceesee sieeeee
FORT MACON, NORTH CAROLINA.
ir; ENiopiCouespeetee. 22222. scale
FRANKFORT, KENTUCKY.
Geological Survey of Kentucky...
GAMBIER, OHIO.

Kenyon. College 12s 2..2kkus seeeeee

GEORGETOWN, D.C.

Georgetown College

No. of
packages.

Oro

20

oR

(oa

11

| State Library

Address.

GREENCASTLE, INDIANA. .

Indiana Asbury University

eee nese

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA.

Nova Scotian Institute of Natural
Science

HAMILTON, NEW YORK.

Madison University

HANOVER, INDIANA.

Frank H. Bradley

“HANOVER, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Dartmouth College. ..-...-...----
Dartmouth Obervatory

HARLEM, NEW YORK.
Dr Seyttarthe-esses qe seeeece ee ae
HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.

HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT.

Young Men’s Institute.....-..... 2
Physical Society
Mrs. Samuel Colt. .

mete ew cee eee ee ee

HAVERFORD, PENNSYLVANIA.

Haverford College

HAZLETON, PENNSYLVANIA.

JN. Porter ieecraceetisns see coe
HUDSON, OHIO.
Western Reserve College. ........
INDEPENDENCE, TEXAS.

Baylor University

INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA.

Institution torsclindaeee ese seco
Dri We Wi buttertieldese., ssae ose.

No. of
packages,

a
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.

g
3 &
Address. Su
ae
=
INMANSVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Wisconsin Scandinavian Society- -- 1
IOWA CITY, IOWA.
Grand Lodge of Iowa--.--.---.---- 1
BuAbe,UMILVETSlby ..--s.cs-s-5s55-5- 38
ierotessor G: Hinric¢hs-*=- 222... ---- 5
Dr. Charles A. White .---.. Boje Sats sins 1
ITHACA, NEW YORK.
Goal Collezo. 3.22 222-2... .--; 5, |
JACKSONVILLE, ILLINOIS.
Hnsiitution for Blind: ...----..--..- 2 |
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN.
Wisconsin Institution for Blind.-.. 4
JEFFERSON CITY, MISSOURI.
Governor of the State of Missouri-. - 1 |
LEBANON, TENNESSEE.
Cumberland University...........- ih |
Professor James Safford.--........- 2
LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY.
University of Transylvania....-...- 1
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA.
Washington College..-....-..-..-- 1
IY 1261 iC eee 1
Commodore Semmes.-..-....-..--.- 1
LEWISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA.
MMOS yeaa 25 Shas. ots il
LITTLE* ROCK, ARKANSAS.
Phate Library sass ees assess cs 34
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.
University of Louisville...:....... 1
MADISON, WISCONSIN.
MIMUSEANDON..- - 225 n1-- 2 SS Se et 1
Geologieal Survey of Wisconsis= 1
State Historical Society of Wiscon-
Ren ests Se tac ain) | sees tains eet 10

Address.

MADISON, WISCONSIN—Continued.

State Eabrarys oo. 5-2 2822-288
University of Wisconsin.--....-...
Wisconsin Natural History Society -
Wisconsin State Agricultural So-

ciety

MARIETTA, OHIO.
Professor E. B. Andrews..--.-.-.--

MIDDLETOWN, CONNECTICUT.

Wesleyan University
MILLEDGEVILLE, GEORGIA.

Oglethorpe University

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN.

German Natural History Society...
Hon. J. A. Lapham

MONTPELIER, VERMONT.

State Library

MONTREAL, CANADA.
Geological Survey of Canada. -.-.--
Natural History Society
P. P. Carpenter
Professor J. W. Dawson-.---.-----
Siz W. E. Logan

wee cee wee eee ew eee wwe

| Dr Sterey Hunt 52.75 ce oe eee

NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE.

| University of Nashville....-....-.

Dri JONES <2 8 ares sees Sees ae

NEGAUNEE, MICHIGAN.
Major 2-BoBrooks).<.=-4-:.5-5+ =:
NEW

ALBANY, INDIANA.

New Albany Society of Natural
History ......----.-------------

NEW BEDFORD, MASSACHUSETTS.
John H. Thomson

NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY.

| Geological Survey of New Jersey --

Professor George H. Cooke..-..--.-.

fon)
Cr

No. of
packages,

tO

6

66

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.

Address.

No. of
packages.

NEW HAVEN, CONNECTICUT.

American Journal of Science and

Art
American Oriental Society
Connecticut Academy of Science-. -
NalouColecetcer ese osc recicoe scene
Professor G. F. Brush
Professor J. D. Dana
Professor D) Cy Hatton) -----s2e-2- a
iRrotesson By Wu0OmISs ---cees see ae ee |
Professor O. C. Marsh
IBTOTessOLeAS NEWlOMee =o nce ase eee |
Protessor D: Olmstead-:-2=-..-2=--
PTOLeESROLA be alMeres see eee aoe eee
IP TOLESSORMS soll Meme seer eee
Professor A.C. Twine: 22... 5 ----
Professor A. E. Verrill
Professor Wis Ds Wihttiney eseersees =

ee ee

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. |

New Orleans Academy of Sciences. -|
NEW OXFORD, PENNSYLVANIA. |
DryiGePheferete sce seer ce. se =e

NORTHAMPTON, MASSACHUSETTS.

Dr. Earle

NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

American Christian Commission... - -
American Ethnological Society ---.. -
American Geographical and Sta-

hisb Cal SOClebyer ee so - eerie re eee
American Institute
American Journal of Mining..-----
American Microscopical Society - -- -
Astor Library

ColumbiaiColleve = 2255 22 sa-ce soe
Herbarium of Columbia College -.- -
Lyceum of Natural History. .------
Mercantile Library Association - --. -
he Nationeezoac .2Ses seer se sees
New York Academy of Medicine...
New York Historical Society ...--.-
Numismatic and Archeological
SOClebywEe tate Peete sas Gee cee
School of vases SOR ee rics eae

Tienes ps ey tae yer
AilbertiS. pickmore.-S2sceeecessoe
Mbomas Blan. 2.255500 5e cee eee
Dr. Brown, (Bloomingdale) -..-----
Dr Jonnie Waltons ss aos ceeeee
BrotessorbC. Days 4-- oases

Captain J. M. Dow

eek 2)
ee ol

RUE WORHWRROM

mon

WR Ree WW ae

i
© &
Address. S ee
Az
New York, N. y.—Continued.
Drs JW Drammen ete ae 2 Seine 5
DrVAS a Mabe meas Seiecei,c oe Aeee 1
General J, ehrémonteesseece coe an €
Dr Gescheldtseates epeete tame. em 1
Henry Grinn ellis ae oe ee re 6
Dr. William A. Hammond....-.-.-- 2
Mir Harlan 52 F< ene eee 1
Rev. GCs Hols saa -5 sere ce eae 1
Dr shrancis Wieber-.=-- 42s i
(ORI DOSEN Se she aeods ssecosneseos 2
IDEs Seam NOW DEREY cr sists eee 7
Drv CNottees sess cosees see ae 3
Baron R. Osten-Sacken-...---. ---. 2
Or Rae Sep eee ee eee os | 1
Messrs. Parker & Douglas--.-..--- 5
Dr Wi. Raymond sj 8 pees 1
Wicton@) Reeve:-ocso semesters 1
| ewiseM Rutherford! 522225 -s-=eee 3
BG. Squier se3 ze oe sce ee 6
Professor George Thurber.--.--.--- 1
Professor John Worrey s2os--=4s== 3
| J. Watts de Peyster :--.---.22-.-- 2
OSWEGO, NEW YORK.
Professor Raphael Pumpelly ------ 3
OXFORD, OHIO.
| Maan Universtbyss-- =... 122 =e 1
OXFORD, MISSISSIPPI.
University of Mississippi --------- 1
Hugene W. Hileard!- 22-2 ---- == 2-- 2
PEORIA, ILLINOIS.
Dr. eBrendellaceee-- ee see eee 1
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA.
Academy of Natural Sciences- ---- | 180
American Entomological Society - - | 15
American Journal of Conchology.- -| 1
American Journal of Medical Sci-
€NGCO:. ae anise ene oer eee sees 2
American Pharmaceutical Associa-
bLOME 222 eee ne roe errs ae eee 2A
American Philosophical Society...) 111
Athenweum Cees se. eee 1
Central High School..-......----- | 3
Franklin Institute...... ...-. ----| 23
GirardiColleset tose eer eee 1
Historical Society of Pennsylvania. 7
liMHlouselorehetnoen = aeeeeee = eeee 1
|| Library Company Se eee de 3
Medical Society of Pennsylvania. - t
Mercantile Ibibrary---- =... 25... 1
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &c.—Continued.

67

un B «8
o om
Address. sa Address. -&
of ow
4 As
PHILADELPHIA, PA.—Continued. PROCTORSVILLE, VIRGINIA.
North American Medico-Chirurgical | Professor Albert D. Hager ........ 1
LR VIO, Ce Oe ee etme ac 4
Numismatic and Antiquarian Society 3 PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND.
Observatory of Girard College. -.-. 2
Pennsylvania Horticultural Society. i Browns Universivy.s-e- 3.52 8 e 4
Pennsylvania Institute for Blind. 1 || Rhode Island Historical Society. - 3
Pennsylvania Institute for Deaf and evar: Cas welll cesses =a seo2 5. 1
Domibss> Jape sees oss eee ose. hss 1 || Stephen ae Ee ee eee 1
Pennsylvania Society for Prevention Hawan. Ma iSnoweeteascsssee score 7
of Cruelty to Animals.--...-.--.-. 1)
Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. a1 QUEBEC, CANADA.
Rubles Sehools=2- 22.52.32 /55.-22-: 1 ae ee Phage SE aie ln Se
University of Pennsylvania... .... 3 || Literary and Historical Society... 3
WraGe binney2s. f22s22.- 22225 35. 1 || Professor Rossmiassler ......-..-.- }
eblodeetice --5-2.= 2-5 258225205: 2
ig 8s Carey ieee a nine atthe = Sere oe 5 RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA.
ae as. PPE OW a ee i WD rseeRNShers 3827 cosas seks eee 1
ttt tte fee eee eee eee give 77 ‘
oe 0 ee 1 | IPEOTESSOL Wei © uINGITy ae i
ay Ae ler BOT eee TES alae’ : RED WING, MINNESOTA.
W. H. Edwards See oma 2 ee 2 || Hamline University..-:-.-. 22-2: j
NeeM Gabber es 22. fs sous 22 ae 2
Cate Hapegorn 2.252225. 0s S452 1 RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.
pe anO meee a cas oc ee A= Soest aise 1 ‘
Dr. Isaac Hays 0.220022 Boarder nema, 6c ea
HraGeorve EH. Horm : 2. ..<22--2+ 2 Enea LOR apes Ste pe
Dr. John L. Lo Govte.- 0.0 -..] | _R0custen, xew your.
Wr weld y=. = 5.2220 tt eee ee Sis: Ward se .1 as ote oe oe ee 1
Pmeaminesle yi. 22225525 Sete Lessee 2
IbmaveeMargh:. 2225 222 ls Stec sUieee o 1 ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS.
Dimdeeac Meirs. 2242.27 505 228s ash 4 4
Dr. S. Weir Mitchell..........-...- | ee Were ae i
BEE shanisoa se. mo) yp St. LOUIS, MISSOURI
WremUMNCISS <6 525% ise wsss Sects oKeay 1 || Deutsches Institut zur ce derung
CoaWeekryony jt <.2s 2<is%2s52-2 522 8 der Wissenchaften.......-.:.:.2 1
professor Wi. Wapmner..%-..--55-22 1 || Journal of Education........-..-- 1
Prot oWOOd. == 252550205 22822 1 || St. Louis Academy of Sciences--.. 113
Wniversitive.= 2s eos gos hn nee 33
PORTLAND, MAINE. brnst von Angelrodt, 2--=-5..-so-- 3
F Professor William Chauvenet ----.- 2
Maine Journal of Education ...--.- bers Geekmee liane s.r s ye ae 4
Portland pony of Natural Mistery.) 39° || DrEfolmes)2 22-5... -.<ben sees 1
Dry Av C ae armlinivs© = 22.225 .20e.c 1 Drs EAS PEOUb ss... =.= ssa eee 1
Maurice: Schuster s3-25- see see ee 2
POUGHKEEPSIE, NEW YORK. Aer Bed Shum anne. ee 8
Observatory of Vassar College-...- 1 ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Bis Mepis Mitchell. os. )+ S22 seca 1
Minnesota Historical Society...... 6
PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY.
SALEM, MASSACHUSETTS.
Collereiof New Jersey ...=..-.---.- 10
1D. RO (0, 6a ae ae 2) || skex Insttutessse2. cscs <,55-.--5: 61
irGlessorran GUYO0U~.. 25. — ~<a 5 ~~~ 8 || Peabody Academy of Science -.--- G
68

LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC EXCHANGES.

Packages received from Europe, &e.—Continued.

a || a
tO | GD
So of © &
Address. 4 § Address. < =
Ag Rae
= y
aoa! aati a
SALEM, MAss.—Continued. | UTICA, NEW YORK.
Dr. A. S. Packard, jr---.----------- 14 | American Juurnal of Insanity. ..-. 4
AWAllberin iss MWWES Sesqngseeesoscooos | IC DISC yes 5 tte 2 Seema ge ao il
| Colonel E. Jewett .....------.---- 1
SALEM, OREGON. |
| WASHINGTON, D. C.
Willamette University ...--..----- | 1 |
President (Grant. =~ - ease ee 3
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA. American Nautical Almanac....-. 8
California Academy of Sciences --.-) 61 | Sete ov a pees ae alee és
Geological Survey of California. -.-- il | pemele See Eee a aes 1
HaG: BlOOMeR a= S221 se sae ee ee eleels Te | esa a eae ae a
ONO Belander ce case he bee ae 1 | Bureau of Statistics .........--.-- 12
Sinan 1 | Census Bureau... .----.---+----- 6
‘T Fea aa. hy pa od 1 Corps of Topographical Engineers.- 1
7 eam iendee papi ear ee RT 3 || Department of Acriculture ~~. - 142
ae Pecnthoren aa Cg eis Tae Le 1 | Department of Education..-...--. 8
i aa ge beara bes Engineer Borean2o--. esac ese se 1
’ Estee Hydrographic Office. ----..----..- 9
SANTA BARBARA, CALIFORNIA, Tmterion Department Pris iis = 2
Alexander Taylor.----..----------- 1 || Library of Congress.-.-...------- | BB:
| National Academy of Sciences. .--.| 38
SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA. Navya Deparhmentes. en -—ere= 1
: ; +p Ordnance Bureaus. ee ee i
University of the Pacilic..--------- | 1 || Quartermaster General’s Office... . 1
y goth vies | Secretary of the Naivy::-2.-.-d25- ]
SAUK RAPIDS, MINNESOTA. Secretary of Sate ee eee jl
dio JEIS RUG OSs anaS5 SosbacononeenSe Sse 6 || Secretary of the Treasury...----. 1
i Secretary Ot. Whaltnae= se eee eee 6
SING SING, NEW YORK. State Department = 2224-2. ce eae 4
: Surgeon General’s Office .-...----- 83
t S 9 ie 2) oT J
Dr. G. J. Pisher -- ~~ 222.2 = =220 cee ‘, || Survey of North American Lakes.. 1
Dr. W. H. Helm =e 3 || ’ ;
Sa aaah aL PE os er Ra 15 | Topographical Bureaw-.---..---=-- 1
e ea | United States Coast Survey..-.-..- 5
BERING aN General Land Office ----.----.---: 6
Geological Survey of Illinois. ..---- 1 || United States Naval Observatory..| 101
Illinois State Agricultural Society -- ft | United States Patent Office..-.... 149
The Schoolmaster, Normal-..-.-.--- 1, War Department..-----.----- 2
Professor A. H. Worthen....-:----- ¥) | Washington Public Schools -.-----. 6
| Colonel He LvAbbott Ss 2.-6-= eee 1
TORONTO, CANADA. 286 Ibe UNE SS S54 e6s056 cosasa ococe 1
; ; 5 IMP roressonio. bom bannd ese. e mesa eee 18
Canadian Institute..-..---.-..----- 8 | fore yes eZ
Literary and Historical Society-.--- 1 | Hon. ‘Henry ‘Barnaitd..----]-27-7 :
Obsenvablotyee ess. i-- = -— l= | ; E
; A ATERVILLE, MAINE.
University of Canada........-----. 1 || 3H a EE) SNE
1D Spree) WWW Os aa ses goassé coos 1 || Waterville Collere se axe ays Serine soe 1
TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA. | | WORCESTER, MASSACHUSETTS.
|
University of Alabama .-.-----.----- 1 || American Antiquarian Society.... 11
|
Gopal ErabR aes) Ore, NS INLE NO 59 5 ning sae ages asosod SaseSccnds dbeese casas 238
Motaltaddresses of: 11 tva Cue Sees ele ela aera eee eee 263
501
Total number of parcels to institutions....--.- .------------------------ 3, 245
Total number of parcels to individuals...--..-+--. --------------------- 835

4,130

=— ss

LIST OF METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FOR THE YEAR 1869.

B. signifies barometer; P. psychrometer; T. thermometer; R. rain gauge; A. all four instruments;
N. no instrument.

Station.

Name of observer.

BRITISH AMERICA.

St. John, Newfoundland.........

Stanbridge, Quebec, Canada ..-.|

Wolfville, (Acadia College,)
Nova Scotia.

Clifton, Ontario, Canada

Abitibi Post, Hudson Bay Terri-

tory.
St. John, New Brunswick

Winnipeg, Assiniboin....-...--.

MEXICO.
Mirador, Viera Cruz............-

BERMUDA.

Center Signal Station, St.Georges

ALABAMA.

Carlowville, Dallas Co....---.---

Near Havana, Hale Co.....-...- |

Moulton, Lawrence Co....------
Opilika, Lee Co
Mobile, Mobile Co..-.-..---------
Greene Springs School, Hale Co.
Fish River, Baldwin Co......-...

ALASKA.
SUT AD) ..ceage cocshS popes soeeseece
ARKANSAS.
Helena, Phillips Co

CALIFORNIA.

Monterey, Monterey Co.....---.

Mincowbntte COo! (52. 2022<.52 5.5
Watsonville, Santa Cruz Co.....
Murphy’s, Calaveras Co...--.--.
are Island
acayille, Solano Co
Stony Point, Sonoma Co...-..---

Paradise City, Stanislaus Co. .-.|

COLORADO TERRITORY.
Denver, Arapahoe Co..-....--...

Cation City, Fremont Co

CONNECTICUT.

Pomfret, Windham Co.....-.-..-.
Middletown, Middlesex Co.-.-.-..-
Colebrook, Litchfield Co
Brookfield, Fairfield Co
Waterbury, New Haven Co.....
Columbia, Tolland Co....-.-..-.

Caswell, Rey: B.C. ..-..-
Higgins, Prof. D. F..----

| Jones, W. Martin. ...-.-
| Lockhart, James. .-.-----

PeMirardocle) Gree sense
Stewart, James ...-...---

Sartorius, Dr. Charles. -.}

Royal Engineers, (in the
| toyal Gazette.)

Alison, HIE. Mi. D225. |

Jennings, S. K., M.D....
Peters, Thomas M ......
Shields, Miss Ella B..-..
| aleR A tS baN Seeeees aes
| Tutwiler, Prof. H
1 Vian WW Olees = see

Bryant, Gharlés,'--2- 2s"

Canfield; Dr: C. A. <-..--
| Cheney, “Dr. W. F'.:.----
Compton, Dr. A. J...-.-.--

Naval Hospital. -.......-
| Simmons, Prof. J.C...--
Thornton, Dr

S. Y. Sopris.
Macon, Thomas-..------

| Hunt, Rev. Daniel

Johnson, Prot. John:.--.
| Rockwell, Miss C......-
| Roe, Rey. Sanford W....

|

DELAWARE, |

Milford, Kent Co...-.-.-- eee
FLORIDA.
Jacksonville, Duval Co..-.-...-.---

Ocaly Marion Co: 22. 225.2-~<-s.---
Manatee, Manatee Co......-.---

!

| Whittier, Mrs. A.C......

|

| Baldwin Dr. AG SNesbmes:
| Barker, Edward..-...---
| Coachman, B. A

GulmoureAt hese aoe

| Russells Owasso ese

Cutting, Ephraim -...--.|

Wright, J. W.A....._--

| Yeomans, William G..-.!

Byers, William N., and ;

|

19

34

wo

West longi-
tude.

96 25

COO
tbe?
~
-

~

16 15

tea
f=}
oo
ur

75 30

3, 600

10

Instruments.

Hosea hte

No. months
received.

oe

a
WWNWNWONWW

70 METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c., for the year 1869.—Continued.

oe =) 2 |g
ma 2 = |es
Station. Name of observer. a3 = 5 gq 25
Ez Zoe ah Meee eee
i=) oO nD oc
Z 2 Ea le
FLoripA—Continued.
is) ‘ wt fo} / “ Feet.
Pilatica we mina CO on. tees oe ye) SSG! INV op VT Diy 2 sce petted 3 3
Port Orange, Volusia Co ......-. 1 Bayes Dri; MEG ands so eee ee ence <deees sleeceioe ope 12
rs.
Lake City, Columbia Co..-...... Ives, Edward R...-.-.-.- 30 10 82 40 184] T.R. 1
Chattahgochie Arsenal, Gadsden | Martin, M......-.....-.. 30 48 84 48 180 | T.R. 9
Co.
Near Pilatka, Putnam Co ....--- Robinson, Gen. Geo. D---| 29 45 82.20 ee Alsat nee lg Be eee q
GEORGIA.
Mocon Bibb © One see. =e a= er ANGER 518 Soca onsce oss 32 50 83 37 339 | T.R 5
AtlantaWalton Coze..-co-2ss.=- Deckner, F., and sons..-| 33 45 84 1,050 | TLR di
St. Mary’s, Camden Co.....--..- labile Is bie (Ae eee 30 50 81 40 PAY te i We. Ys Ff
BNnRcone sib b) COMse nese spses acne Proctor, Miss §. M....-. 32 50 83 30 30/1, 500 A. 3
Penfield, Greene Co..----------- Santord Prot: hee. as eeaee eee [eee = ane = [eee ee Res | ee
MnconsBipbi@o nese seesenee: Whitney, Miss S. J--.--- 32 47 83 47 1,300] A. 5
ILLINOIS.
Elmore, Peoria Co...------------ Adams; With 2s 2eseas: epee eee tt en eS elias et R 10
Near Tiskilwa, Bureau Co -..-.-.- IATdrichs WerTnye =. 2 ses 41 15 89 15 550 T 12
Sandwich, De Kalb Co .---.------ Ballon, INH. aeceee= eee 41 31 88 30 665 IX 12
Hlmiray Stalk COse25s2ssseee= Blanchard, ©. A..--....-. 41 12 9009S, 4 alzseee= TR: 9
_Andalusia, Rock Island Co..-.-.. Bowman, HE. H .....-.-.- 41 25 9046) = YP 2oe- Bak. 12
Peoria veo aioe. cesses ee eae Brendely Dr eheee- eo ee 40 43 89 30 440 A 12
Springfield, Sangamon Co......- Brinkerhoff, Geo. M.---. 39 48 89733 eee persen aut 12
Chicago, CooliGo ee a Brookes, Samuel .---..---. 41 SUE Sete See Ls 12
Alta, eel Gon a eee: Carey, Danieli.2-o--=- -- 41 45 89) pil seeee a 12
Louisville, @layiCok 22: - 2ase2 525 Chase eDrE D: Heese 38 40 8830" Saale ee T.R. 11
Loammi, Sangamon Conse s25-25 Dudley, Timothy -.----- 39 40 99 680 | T.R. 8
Decatur Macon Co)--2- ssc ss. - Dudley, Timothy -.-.--- 39 40 89510) wanleeeese SR: 3
Mount Sterling, Brown Co ...--- Duncan, Rev. Alexander.| 40 OLAS) leet ee TTR. 12
Golconda,)Pope|Con-2-------- 2. Eldridge, IWEAViSee ress 37 41 SSi46 nea eeeece TRY 2
Pana wohristiani©O-cee--ssece-se Finley, Dr. Thomas ---.| 39 24 21 896 5 i300, seeks Fe
Near South Pass, Union Co... -.. HMreeman wel. Cres tee eee a ser ae 650*| T.R. 9
Manchester, Scott Co....---...-. Grant, John, and C. W..| 39 33 901436 yee A. 12
‘Wapella, De WAttiCore ccs oe: Gratt sh Monise-2 eee 40 11 BORG) ro 6 aS N. 12
Mattoon, ColesCo..-.-------.-.. Henry: \WivEicses-ssese 19395 29)51 OF Wl eee ee 740) “TR. BS
Marengo, MeHenry COP -e-—- = JAMES el. Wie seeaenen | 42 13 88 31 2805) eR. 8
Chicago, (Chole COs Ssaspoccase ane Langgith, John G., J 42 87 30 600 A. 11
Galesburg, UGityg OWssceanceassce Livingston, Prof. W.. 40 55 S0)25 el earene A. 12
Evanston, Cook Co.-.------------ Marcy, Prof. Oliver -.--- | 42 1 87 38 570 A, 12
Augusta, "Hancock Co..-...----- Meads Dr iS.3- om eaee ee 40 10 OU Vallee A. 12
Ottawa, La Sallei@ozzeeeeea.e se Merwin, Mrs. E. H..-..-.- 41 20 BST 7 ieee eee ER: 10
Belvidere, IBOONEIC Ose yest aie Moss. GiB: cr ocsoeeee | 42 15 88.47 <4 lEete-. ‘RR: 12
Near Wyanet, Bureau Co...-.--.- Phelps, E. S., and Miss | 41 30 BY C5) | saecoe Do. 11
L. E.
Marengo, McHenry Co....-.-.--- Rogers, OfP anda heeeas | 42 14 88 38 842 |B. T. R. 3
King’s Mills, Kane Co...---.-.--. Sp panlding, Dr. A., and | 41 45 88 22 696 ING 9
rs.
Dubois, Washington Co.----.--. Spencer WiC = ce see seee | sos 89 16 405,:|" Sto: 12
Waterloo, Monroe Co...-----.--- SH ran cise. eee 38 30 SUL2D i pe Rees I Re 5
Winnebago Depot, Winnebago | Tolman, J. W., and Miss.| 42 17 89 12 900) (Beans |e ake,
Effingham, Effingham Co...-..--. Thompson, Dr. W..-.--- 39.3 88 5 592 | T.R 4
Wiarsaw, Hancock Co: -_..--.--- IWihitaker Be 26 ss once. 40 20 (ils Ra Pelee ee OR; 12
INDIANA.
Near Laporte, Laporte Co.-..---- ‘Andrew: Bred. Gil aicae |) a-eee et ees reaee e 184*| T.R. 6
Mount Carmel, Franklin Co -..-. Applegate, J. A. and | 39 22 84 51 900*| T. R. 8
daughter.
Malparaiso, Porter Co -.-.-------- Beer, Rev. Robert ...-..- 41 29 81 Gre a eee R. 2
Vevay, Switzerland Co.....-.-.- Boerner, Charles G..---- | 38 46 84 59 20.5 | 525 A. 12
New Harmony, Posey Co..-..--..- Chappelsmith, John eee 38 08 87 50 350 A.. 12
Laconia, Harrison Co .....------ Crosrer eal: ae ae a 37 47 Sb 50i, sly ieee th) 6
New Albany, Bloyd'Co:-=--5-5- Crosier, TOTS OMS wee ere 38 02 85 32 bos Be OR 2
Spiceland, Henry Co .......--.-. Dawson, William ....-.-. 39 48 85 18 1,025 |B. T. BR.) 10
_Knightstown, Rush Co.......-. Deem, 1p eee ie ie ota 85 24 800 | A. 12
Bloomington, Monroe Co ...----- Dodd, ’Prof.C. M........ 39 15 86 28 al A. 10
Merom, Sullivan Co............. Holmes, Mhomass 522 es3 39 5 87, 40599 ee ee TR. 12
Jalapa, SOD Ss ccl ec: font Irwin, IAT Va Cee 40 40 85.43) ) eeeess a: 5
Muncie, Delaware Co ........... Kemper, G. W. H., M.D.| 40 12 8516 9 jesse. AM o\f ob
Rensselaer, Jasper Co.......---- Loughridge, J. H...-...- | 40 56 figs RSH) LE de 8

* Estimated.
— eo

a ed eee

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §'c., for the year 1869—Continued.

~]
—

ao a L 2
~ ep a =
alt Ss : s |ae
Stations. Name of observer. ae aks = EB a5
ne ge ee 2 3
‘S) = S) D hes

A a isa) 4 Ia

InpiAnNa—Continued.
- fe) Uy “ (o} / “r Feet
Columbia City, Whitley Co .--.. McCoy, Dr. F. and Miss -| 41 10 Sois0l elses T.R. iL
Lafayette, Tippecanoe Co.-...-.-. ING WwhOlela ie tee sae oe sane eceer |lane ee asain BOER es
Canuelton, Perry Co .........--. Smith, Palmer .-.......- 37 57 86 41 30 36%) | BLS ee
Kentland, Newton Co.....-..-..--. Spitler, Daniel .........- 40 56 87 12 725) |) TOR: 8
Aurora, Dearborn Co..-.-..------- Sutton; George.-.-.....- 39 5 54 84 54 509 ASS 12
Harveysburg, Fountain Co..-...-. Williams, Mrs. Dr. B.C-..| 39 55 SiMe Ge Sel eee TAR: 10
Indianapolis, Marion Co..-....-.. Woolen, Dr. G. V...-....- 39 47 S7a0G 698 ‘A® 12
IOWA.
Boonsboro, Boone Co.....------- Babcock, Hy eeees saeco 42 93 14 P60) | RA a
Lizard P. O., Pocahontas Co ...--. IBLUCE; Okc csesee weiss See 42 30 Cy tay) | M25 5 SRE ig bu 1
Vawter’s Grove, Adair Co ..--.- Bryant AG Pec ec= eee 41 20 94 30 1,500 | T. R. 12
Mount Vernon, Linn Co.....-..- Collin, Prof. Alonzo ..... 42 OM 30FN 2 ieee qv 12
Guttenberg, Clayton Co ....-.--.. Dickinson, James P--.-- 43 90 50 690 a. 12
Near Algona, Kossuth Co ...---- Dorweiler, Py --2.- 55... 43 94 26 1,500 T. 12
Near Newton, Jasper Co ......-.| Failor, A ....--. .------- 42 ODP Al Micros TGR S 5
Clinton, Clinton Co: --.:--..:---.. Farnsworth, P. J..------ 41 47 90 10 630 | T.R. 12
Dubuque, Dubuque Co-.--...---. Horr, Dr. A. and E. W...| 42 30 90 39 51 666 A. 12
Waukon, Alamakee Co-..-..--.-- Hancock He MGs-s- 2 ene- Hectares ton ee ee ee pel | TAR: 9
Fort Dodge, Webster Co ..-.-.-- Jorgenson, C. N .-.--..-- 42 30 Oa eee ANS i 3
West Union, Fayette Co .....-.- McClintock, F .......... 42 58 91 50 1,300*| BT. | 5
Near Fort Madison, Lee Co ..... McCready, Daniel. ------ 40 37 OOS Rs esas Ts 12
Grant City, Sac Co...-.--.-.--.. Miller, E., and Mrs. R...| 42 16 94051365 ||--—-- = TOR: 12
Monticello, Jones Co..-....------ Moulton, M-M ..-..----- 42 15 91 15 800 | TR. 12
Iowa City, Johnson Co......-.-- Parvin, Prof. Thomas § -} 4i 36 53 9130/40" “ease A. 12
Davenport, Scott Co......-.-.--- Sheldon, Prof. D.S ...--- 40 31 90 40 737 A. 8
Waterloo, Black Hawk Co..-.... such dD eee eeeses a oeEeos 42 30 9orS0in. | a Peeece ab 12
Harris Grove, Harrison Co....-. Stern, Jacob B.--.:=:=-- 41 95 928 | T.R. 12
Near Rolfe, Pocahontas Co.-...-- Strong, Oscar [....-...-. 42 50 94 34 1,000*| T. R. 11
Mineral Ridge, Boone Co...-..-- Sulliivant deeb oo. 2280 te 42 6 93 40 1.200%). wR 7
Spring Grove, Hardin Co......-. Townsend, N= .2055---:- 43 32 931200) 0 ee eeee aR 9
Muscatine, Muscatine Co...----- Wialtony dt) sos. oa-26 oe 41 25 91 2 582 PACS
The Woodlands, Floyd Co..-.-.... Wradey,7bh 225.224 shee: 43 930i eV Re aeee iu 12
Independence, Buchanan Co... -. Warne, Dr. George ...-.. 42 25 92 6 940 |B. T.R. 12
Algona, Kossuth Co.......-...-. Warren, James H...-... ASS 94S yh eh + Ate 12
Byron Township, Buchanan Co..| Wheaton, Mrs. D. B .-.-.- 42 29 25 OT 5028" 5 |Seesee RABE 10
Whitesboro, Harrison Co.-..-.-..-- Wiley D. K. and Miss | 41 38 95:40) , 59. lesa Eo Rew ee
Wanton; bentou:Co =... 220... Wood, James ...-.-..... 42 15 92 45 CO rFalf ee Bae ee,
Bowen’s Prairie, Jones Co..----- WooodworthiS 3.222282 POR ETSY cael Ga ceme eT ee 800 |B. 2.) 12
KANSAS.
Olathe, Johnson Co .-...-.-. ----- Beckwith W .----s- -4-- 38 50 O49S0seees eee ORS, ed
Near Ames, Story Co.-..--..--.- Cotton, John M.-....-.- 42 93 30 7 ua
Burlington, Coffey Co ...---.---. Crocker, Allen -..-.-...- 38 8 95 27 825 13, il
Crawfordsville, Crawford Co -....| Daniels, Percy ....--..-- Sir 58) SOS Ie Waleseoee Abe 18%. 6
Neosho Falls, Woodson Co ...... Groesbeck, Mrs. E. W...| 37 C0 eines tetete TORS 9
Atchison, Atchison Co-.--....-... Horn, Dy H. B. and | 39 42 95 1,000} T.R 12
Miss C.
Baxter Springs, Cherokee Co....| Ingraham and Hyland ..| 37 3 94, STEN Pelee TRE 12
Manhattan, Riley Co....--..-- .| Mudge, Prof. B. F .....-.- 39 12 96 40 1,300 |B.L.R.| 12
Near Leroy, Coftey Co .........- Shoemaker, J.G .-...--- 38 6 28 Uy Pa eH) eeesce B: Dos ae
‘Lawrence, Douglas Co ..-...---.- SHOWAerOte Ea elyeee eee 38 55 95 15 e50 A. 12
Leavenworth, Leavenworth Co..| Stayman, Dr. J.---.--.--. 39 20 94 33 ei ERS 12
Near Paoli, Miami Co..-.....-... Wialrad sD ase ep eeeee 38 30 955300 1703 Vileeeeee TOR: 8
Molton Jackson’ Co; --.-.-01----.- Walters, Dr. James ..--. 39 27 95 10 1,172 Ty 12
Council Grove, Morris Co ...--..- Woodworth, Dr.:A ...... 38 40 96304 =) ieee es weven |) whe
KENTUCKY.
Danville, Boyle Co .-.-.-..----.- Beatty, O...-.---------.- 37 40, 84 30 900?) B. T. R.| 9
j@lintoneuckinan Co. ..--.2--2-- Cleland As ee od. 36 40 89°10) rt sles eae AT SaR: 7
‘Louisville, Jefferson Co ..-...-.- aM Eris WWadiey heey nts, | 1D ERS Se Oa = Seana ae A. 4
Pine Grove, Clark Co ...-..-..-.- Martin, Dr.Samuel D'.../ 38 4  |........... 978 | A. 12
Arcadia, Lincoln Co.-.--<.-..--- Shriver, Howard ......-- 37 34 84 30 900*| A. 3
Lexington, Fayette Co .--...---- WalliamsyiNie=--<jens = 38 «6 84 18 950 A. 2
Lexington, Fayette Co........-. AWillitamisy Sikes dees 38 6 84 18 950 IN 2
Springdale, (near Louisville,)Jef-| Young, Mrs. L....--..-. 38 6 55 85 24 13 570 A. 10
ferson Co. be

* Estimated.

72

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c., for the year 1869—Continued.

Station.

LOUISIANA.

Benton, Bossier Parish .-....-.--
New Orleans, Orleans Parish... -
Shreveport, Caddo Parish

MAINE.

Houlton, Aroostook Co
Gardiner, Kennebec Co
WormisheVorki@0\-------s--~ o=-
Lisbon, Androscoggin Co
Standish, Cumberland Co
Steuben, Washington Co
Rumford Point, Oxford Co
Williamsburg, Piscataquis Co-.-.
Oxford, Oxtord Co
Cornish, York Co
West Waterville, Kennebec Co. -

MARYLAND.

Annapolis, Anne Arundel Co... .
Frederick, Frederick Co
Emmittsburg, Frederick Co
Woodlawn, Cecil Co
Emmittsburg, Frederick Co
St. Mary’s City, St. Mary’s Co...

MASSACHUSETTS.

Richmond, Berkshire Co
West Newton, Middlesex Co. .--
Newbury, Essex Co.....--..-..:
Lunenburg, Worcester Co
Hinsdale, Berkshire Co
Worcester, Worcester Co
Lawrence, Essex Co
Williamstown, Berkshire Co -.--
Topsfield, Essex Co --..---..--.-
Mendon, Worcester Co......-.--
North Billerica, Middlesex Co...
Kingston, Plymouth Co
Georgetown, Essex Co
Cambridge, Middlesex Co

New Bedford, Bristol Co
Amherst, Hampshire Co
Milton, Norfolk Co

MICHIGAN,

Old Mission, Grand Traverse Co.
Litchfield, Litchfield Co
Otsezo, Alleoan\Cos:--. 3-5.
Ontonagon, Ontonagon Co. ...---
Pennsylvania Mine, Kewenaw

0.

Grand Rapids, Kent Co
Lansing, Ingham Co........-.--
Oshtemo, Kalamazoo Co

Pleasanton, Manistee Co
Muskegon, Muskegon Co
Sugar Island, Alpena Co
Coldwater, Branch Co..........-
Homestead, Benzie Co
Holland, Ottawa Co....-....----
North Port, Leelanaw Co
Monroe, Monroe Co............-
Central Mine, Keweenaw Co..-.-

MINNESOTA.

Afton, Washington Co.-.......--
Sauk Centre, Stearns Co......-:
Minneapolis, Hennepin Co

Name of observer.

Carter, J. 1.
Foster, R. W
Leavenworth, F. P

Fernald, C. H
Gardiner, R. H
Guptill, G. W .--
Moore, Asa P
Moulton, John P
Parker, J. D
Pettingill, W
Pitman, Edwin
Smith, Howard D. .....-
Wiest Silas): ss. oe
Wilbur, B. F

Goodman, William R...-
Hanshew, John K
Jourdan, Prof. C. H
McCormick, James O ..-
Smith, Eli
Stephenson, Rev. J

Bacon, William
Bixby, John H
Caldwell, John H
Cunningham, George A -
Dewhurst, Rev. E
Draper, Joseph, M.D...
Fallon, John
Hopkins, Prof. A
Merriam, Sidney A
Metealf, J. G
Nason, Rev. Elias -.----.
Newcomb, Guilford § ...
Nelson, S. Augustus, -.-..
Perry, Rev. J. B., and
Mrs.

Rodman, Samuel
Snell roi Sess sess
Teele, Rev. A. K

Chase, Dr. Milton
Ellis, Dr. Edwin
Griffith, Richard H

Holmes Dr BiS=-eeesee
Kedzie, Prof. R. C

Pattison, H. A
Paxton, J. W
Southworth, N. L
Steele, George E
Streng, L.
Smith, Rev. George N..-
Whelpley, Miss Helen I.
Whittlesey, S. H

Babcock, Dr., & Mrs. B. F
Bloomfield, Smith
Cheney, William

* Above Concord River.

+ Estimated.

a 4g,
= =g
wale 23
A &
4 E
Oo / n fo} / ul
32 30 93 45
sg2) Si" eae 9345 | 237
46 7 67 49 24
44 53 | 69 45 50
43 40 10 44
44 70 4
43 45 70 30 :
44 3121 | 67 57 34
44 30 70 40
45 21 69 71
44 8 70 33
43 33 70 50
44 30 69 46
38 58 76 29
39 24 77 26 30
39 40 V7 20
39 38 16 4
39 43.15 | 77 26 45
38 10 76 30
42923 * | 73 20
42 21 W117
42 45 10 55
42 35 11 43
43 27 13 7
421617 | 71 48 13
42 4213 | 71 10 13
42 4237 «| 73 12 42
42 38 70 57
42 6 23,23] 71 33 35.97
42 35 9 70 16 30
42 70 45
42 42 “1
42 20 ralab
41 39 70 56
422217 | 72 34 30
42 14 37.30| 71 6 2.30
44 65 85 30
42 045 | 84 46 10
WIE al 4652  |8930 | 620
43 85 40
44 25 56210. cht
“45 212 |83 540 —
“agen ats eo ig0'-oe ie
42 42 86
45 8 85 41
41 58 83 23
AY 37 54
44 50 93
45 5355 | 95 22 2
44 48 93 10

Instruments.

months

received.

oO.

| N

i

he
ole Ol ONoiT e)

ee
He WO HD 1 1D

Bee
wwww

|
;
)
|

METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c., for the year 1869—Continued.

Station.

MINNESOTA—Continued.

St. Cloud’ Stearns Co...=+..--.--
Rochester, Olmsted Co...-.-.--.
Madelia, Watonwa Co .....-..-..-.
Saint Paul, Ramsey Co.-...-.-.---
White Earth Reservat’n, Becker

Co.
New Ulm, Brown Co.....--....-..
Beaver Bay, Lake Co...-.----.--.
Dibley sibley (Con. =. 2.0 sstec soe:
Koniska, McLeod Co.-........-.

MISSISSIPPI.

Marion, Landerdale Co....--..-.--
Columbus, Lowndes Co.....---.
Near Brookhaven, Lawrence Co.
Natchez, Adams Co...--.-.....-
Grenada, Yalabusha Co......-.-.
Brookhaven, Lawrence Co....--
Near Paulding, Jasper Co..-...-

MISSOURI.

St. Joseph, Buchanan Co........
Harrisonville, Cass Co..........
Jefferson City, Cole; Coz} 3.24224.
Allentown, St. Louis Co.........
Orepon. Holt Co----5 -- 25.6525. -
East Prairie, Mississippi Co ----
Hermitage, Hickory Co.........
Warrensburg, Johnson Co.....-.
TOW a OUR As aie sioaicm 3st amie
Near Rolla, Phelps..-....-.....-
Hematite, Jefferson Co.-........
St. Louis, St. Louis Co..........

Kevtesville, Chariton Co......-.
MONTANA.

Beuton City, Chouteau Co ..-.-.-.
Deer Lodge City, Deer Lodge Co.

Richland, Washington Co.......
Dakota City, Dakota Co...-......
Near Bellevue, Sarpy Co.....---
Meccan BartiCo.2<----.o.\..c072
Glendale, Cass:\Co......---.--.--

Fontanelle, Washington Co...-.
Blackbird Hills, Burt Co..-.-..---
Peru.aNemana(Co). 222... < b-\0
Nebraska City, Otoe Co...-..-.-.
De Soto, Washington Co .....-...
Nebraska City, Otoe Co.........

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

Tamworth, Carroll Co .-.....-..
Siraptord., Coos Col --5- 5.2 ==
Dunbarton, Merrimack Co......
South Antrim, Hillsboro’ Co....
Whitefield, Coos Co.............
Shelburne, Coos Co...-----------
North Barnstead, Belknap - See
Concord, Merrimuck-..-......-...

NEW JERSEY.

Chester Township, Burlington Co
Haddonfield, Camden Co...-.--..

= 4 2
tte 2. 8
Name of observer. as ar 4 5
==} Pend ira
S o
A E ss 4
Oo / ur (9) vy a“ Feet
Garrison, 0: B)..-55..53- 45 36 94-16. sh bashes TRS
Milmine, Alfred ........ 44 OBnab yet Mister ee.
Murphys We aWs.s---- 5 44 94'30..0 uleetece THRs
Paterson, Rev. A.B ....| 44 54 46 94 4 54 800 |} TT. R.
Pyle: Dre eset tee 47 30 CBee ooAooe TR.
Roos; Charles c=. .-.--== 44 16 94 26 S215 RoR:
WiclandM@ressa.22 55 2cee 47 12 96 19 6a) ADRS
Woodbury, C.W.,&C.E.| 44 31 Oe bscsos SRR
Young, Thomas M...... 45 10 940200" Pp aleeees TR.
MORE Wesccees sees 32 25 88 5 S3ilie DR.
Lull, James WSkosessapeo: 35 30 88 29 22 |) Re
Keenan, TPS Siena snietociaes 31 34 90:40) THe See PAR.
McCary, W.. ea eee 31 34 OI D4 An” |S ssses BR
Moore, Mibert eae oe 33 45 SOON IOs /eleteses 4 Dd
Moore, Thomas B....-.-- 31 37 90 15 ASO eluek.
Robinson, Rev. E.8:.... 32 10 89 10 215 A.
Bullard’ Reys:H-:2 2-250 39 45 94535) o5 aoerss TR:
CHrIshian ODD seen eee oe | acemttasee salmon aR:
Weywiepls Nise vasasseens 38 20 92 650) |) Ba:
Mendlerv Asi sacs: x as s2 38 29 90 45 482 tAS,
Karicher (Wace seuce es 39 58 40 95 10 1, 100 A.
Maller tan. 22 ees eae BOND oNete "|| ecsereee ees | eee *PR:
Moore, TOM Wiste smear 37 56 OS Gi: (anlar oe be DR
Pollock, ROVid nh sceees 38 45 93 40 CAO) 1 A ee
Race, Sit ea eS eh 37 30 93: 20 1 OOO8 i eRe
Ruggles, Homer .....--. 37 38 OT33) yan eats ROR
Smith, John M.........- 38 11 90 37 Eyl) aul are
Stuntebeck, Rev. F. H., | 38 37 28 90 15 470 JaNe
and Rev. I. Straetmans.
Wieateby Charles 23 S2 ses: ines seeteers oa terete tele laze Ne cictere Bay
Clevenger, Dr: Si Vis. = 2s} sesh ee eo: | ae sot tian Sele ee = A Roya he
Stuart, Granville ....... 46 40* 112 46 $240) 1) ER:
Bowen, John S.....-.--- 41 22 96 12 1, 350* Ave
STOWE ele ele os ee eos 40 30 OG 30) = eee sa: ays
eae ib fs Peo Dia Deere 41 8 95.467) 7 a eeeee bigate
Caseebrs Ge Cho aceence: 42 G5r 30% Fe tees TR:
Child, Dr. A. L., and | 40 55 96 05 1010) ak
Miss J. E.
(Gas rie elie atom wee oe = St nee es ote ace eicncreceete c [lb ater OR:
Hamilton, Reve ee see 42 10 OGTne |ptostater= T. R.
McKenzie, J. M.....:.-. 40 95 45 1, 000* ey
Petting erwe Wiessaee 40 42 95 45 1 22 5n | elke
Seltz, Charles:...-=22-2- 41 50 96 975) DOR:
ZaManerV Ps asseosas 40 42 95 45 1 225) we vs
BrewstervaAsces-eccnte 43 48 30 184 i) R eee aR:
TRO Wa wiles es sale eye 44 40 a 1 O00) || Rea.
ColbiyatAt ee omaries srt 43 6 71 35 #30) |) PSR:
ErarlineReve Walliams ss bases 22. - lh cen soeeees Eee ING
Kidder, (CRD eer ae eee ae 44 20 TL 15; Wah eee EDGR:
OdeHR AE Si sanersitec. Fas 44 23 71 6 NOOU | es-L Ls
Pitman, Charles H...--- 43 38 71: QT) > > Oe EAR:
Wheeler, De Sposa eset 43 12 71 29 550 AEs
Beans) Mhomasidi..-2-.-- 39 59 Ra 5a) ME SRese Tere
Boadlond). and) clrelsine || Pa aecteemaieta mi lnte oles aeei-rtel-l} > oto =e A.

pincott.
* Estimated.

-]
Oo

months |
!

received.

No.

heed
mem Datel Or tow

12
10
74

METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §¢c., for the year 1869—Continued.-

~
o
Station. Name of observer. as
ts
A
New Jersey—Continued.,

’ fe) (f “uf
Paterson;-Passaie'Co.----2.-.--- Brooks, William....-.-.-. 40 55
Trenton, Mercer Co. ..--------.- Cook, Ephriam R ..----- 40 14
Newtield, Gloucester Co......-.. CouchsEe De = eee 39 30
Readington, Hunterdon Co...-.-. Fleming, John.-.--- Dodd Beene Bee ee
Mechanicsville, Hunterdon Co -. ee, John ANG Wit sees eee

. Herr.
New Brunswick, Middlesex Co..| Hasbrouck, I. E......--. 40 30
Vineland, Cumberland Co..----- Impram Worn di i 22cm cells eects ce
New Germantown, HunterdonCo} Noll, A. B .-...--..-..-- 42 40
Rio Grande, Cape May Co ...-.- Palmer, Miss J.R-.-.----- 39 16
Newton, Sussex Co.----...----- Ryerson, Dr. Thomas ..-|} 41 2 45
Greenwich, Cumberland Co...-. Sheppard, Miss R. C ..-..| 39 20
Dover MorrisiCo- 5262-2 5-) Shriver, Howard.-.-...-.. 40 54
Newark, Essex Co..-..---.--+-- Whitehead, W. A.....-- 40 45
NEW YORK.

Ardenia Philipstown, Putnam Co Arden, Thomas B....--- 40 20 22
iIMalow Waites: Cossectens.--ereces Baker, Gilbert D ......-. 42 30
South Trenton, Oneida Co .-..--- Barrows, Captain Storrs | 43 10
Palermo, Oswego Co .....------- Bartlett}. Be sess een 43 26
Minaville, Montgomery Co.-.--.. Bussing, John Wee == se = 42 54
Fort Edward, Washing ton Co-.. Cooley, . Prof. James 8...| 43 13
Nyack, Rockland '- 02. Bee, Mo levierny;) Cees 41 4 35
Little Genesee, Allegany Co....| Edwards, Daniel........ 42 015
Newburg, Orange Corse. as -ee 4 | Gardiner, Goel 5 ae eee ae 41 30 53
Near Depauville, Jietersonk Gores Me agss Hy essa eee eee 44 10
Hudson, Columbia Co...-.--.--. Hachenberg, Dr. G. P 42 14
Near Kingston, on the Hudson, | Hendricks, oD Bie 41 50

Uisieno ceo eee
Nichols, Tioga 'Co..-...-..-...:- iHowellsmrobert)...eeeeee 42
South Hartford, Washington Co-.| Ingalsbe, G. M.-...----- 43 18
Buffalo, Erie CRE Laas tag ae ya IGVOsh, Wadley es eee e ose 42 50
Newark Valley, Tioga Co..-...-. Johnson, Rev. Samuel ..|.-----.-----
New York, New York Co......- ions, 1eidaye (Oh JG oe ee a. 4043
Cooperstown, OisesoiCorer er = Keese, G. Pomeroy.-.-..- 42 50
Flatbush, Kings Co BCE Qe IY EKO ei) ODES ME eee eee Se 4037 2 ||
Oswego, Oswego (Ofe ne aae aereene Malcolm, Wi. S.<------.- 43 28
Rochester, Monroe Co ......---- Mathews, H. W...--.-.- 43 08
Locust Grove, Lewis Co........ iMerriams@hCiea-cee.- 43 32 30
Farmingdale, ‘Queens Goreer ani Merritt. Close o-eee eee 40 40 40
Central Park, New: WOrkece oe ose Meteorological observ’y-| 40 45 58
Throg’s Neck, Westchester Co..} Morris, Miss E ..--..... 40 49 15
New York, New York Co.....-.- Morris, Prof. 0. W...--- 40 50 25
Ludlowville, Tompkins Co...--- Mirphiva Cesare cece. a= 42 33
New York, New York Co...--.-- Naval Hospital -........ 40 41 30
North Volney, Oswego Co .----- PAR InICKeh evil tees aaeseee aes
Sloansville, Schoharie Cole Se: Potter iG-eW. cece ee ses 42 41
Germantown, Columbia Co....-- Roe, IRGWAS We acc: Son lbataeeeees
Gouverneur, St. Lawrence Co... RUSselliCa Hiss. oe eeceee 44 19
New York, New York Co....... Rutgers Female College } 40 42
Brookhaven, Suffolk Co.......-. Smith, BE. <A., and | 40 49

daughters.
Cazenovia, Madison Co.......... Soule, “Prot. William . 42 55
Oneida, Madison Co..-....-.---- Spooner, 1 DRS eeeeemarac 43 4
Waterbur g, Tompkins Co...---- Trowbridge sy. - 2 -o ses 42 30
White Plains, Westchester Co..| Willis, O. aR ghatent eet! AND
N. Hammond. St. Lawrence Co... Wooster, CAT eee ease 44 30
Houseville, Lewis Co ........... Yale, Walter D.......-. 43 40
NORTH CAROLINA.

Goldsboro, Wayne Co..-.-..-.--- Adams; Prof. E. W ..-.-- 35 20
Near Statesv ile, Iredell Co ..... Allison, Thomas P...-.-. 35 30
Asheville, Buncombe Co...-.... Aston idiwamrd Iie =-- a-\secaseneeae ed
Raleigh, Wake Cb cl rosea Brewer, Musee eeeee 35 47
Asheville, Buncombe Co......-. Hardy, Din GAB osc e 35 30
Oxford, Granville Co............ Hicks, William R....... 36 23
Attaway Hill, Stanly Co........ Krom, Oars Heace eaneee 30 20
pone sh pune me eet Patrick, Prot sD Se sete soca ecee

rinity College, Rando y 36 45
Mt. Olive, Wayne Co. 2 a Pearsall, E. D......-.- ; 35 45
Kenansville, WDaplin( Cok eeec is Sprunt, Rev. J. M ....-. 34 53

* Estimated.

i]

West longi-

3

tude.

08

Instruments.

=
c
mr

Fai:
rams? bd
a

el
5
Fs

bed

{SHH Hs
Perse:

HB
bad

B.T. RB.

No. months
received.

|

—
TW CW UWMWUN AD

aa

—

WMWWWWW

i)

Pr fed pe ee et
wr a

_
WWM DWI

—
———-

METEOROLOGICAL

List of meteorological stations and observers, §'c., for the year

Station.

Name of observer.

NortH CarotrynAa—Continued.

Guilford Mine, Guilford Co
Raleigh, Wake Co

ono.

New Lisbon, Columbiana Co - --.
Amesville, Athens Co
North Fairfield, Huron Co
Near Bowling Green, Wood Co --
Bethel, Clermont Co
Steubenville, Jefferson Co
Little Mountain, Geauga Co --.-
Westerville, Franklin Co
College Hill, Hamilton Co..-..---
Cincinnati, Hamilton Co
Springfield, Clark Co
Smithville, Wayne Co
Kelley’s Island, Erie Co..-.-.....
Cleveland, Cuyahoga Co
Edgerton, Williams Co-.-...---.--
Ripley, Huron Co.......-.-..--.
Hillsboro, Highland Co
Gilmore, Tuscarawas Co....-.---
North Bass Island, Ottawa Co---
Margaretta Township, Erie Co-.
Jacksorburg, Butler Co.....-.---
Cincinnati, Hamilton Co
Gallipolis, Gallia Co
Martin’s Ferry, Belmont Co....-.
Kenton) Hardin Col: ..:.-----.--
Gambier, Knox Co

Milnersville, Guernsey Co
Toledo, Lucas Co
Marion, Marion Co.-.-.-.--.----
North Bend, Hamilton Co. .-.-.---
Mt. Auburn, Hamilton Co

Williamsport, Pickaway Co
Urbana, Champaign Co
Wooster, Wayne Co

PENNSYLVANIA.

Avondell, Perry Co
uo ca i083 O0--------- == === -
Silver Spring, Lancaster Co
Phenixville, Chester Co
Carlisle, Camberland Co
Plymouth Meeting, Montgomery
Co.
Pocopson, Chester Co
Dyberry, Wayne Co
Harrisburg, Dauphin Co
Near Pennsville, Clearfield Co. --
Blooming Grove, Pike Co
Fallsington, Bucks Co
Harrisburg, Dauphin Co
Mount Joy, Lancaster Co..-..---
Brownsville, Fayette Co
Lewisburg, Union Co
Philadelphia, Philadelphia Co. - -
Whitehall, Lehigh Co
Newcastle, Lawrence Co.....---.
Westchester, Chester Co. ....-.-.
Germantown, Philadelphia Co. -
Williamsport, Lycoming Co---.-.
Philadelphia, Philadelphia Co._.
Johnstown, Cambria Co..-.-.-.---
Reading, Berks Co.-...----------
Abington, Luzerne Co
Canonsburg, Washington Co....
Mooreland, Montgomery Co
Ephrata, Lancaster Co.-.-.--.---

* Estimate.

Wray, Alexander. -.--.-
Taylor, Miss M. H

Benner, J. F
Brawley, E. H

Borrasy Owe .2 soe sae |
Clarke, dohntesce 5 a= |

Crane, G. W
Doyle, Joseph B
Ferriss, E. J
Haywood, Prof. J..-..---
Hammitt, John W...---
Harper, G. W
Herron, Rev. J. H
Hoover, William
Huntingdon, George C..
Hyde, Gustavus A
Knight, A. B
Marsh, Mrs. M. M
Mathews, J. McD
Moore, Sam’l M

Morton, Geo. R., M. D .-!
Neill Thomas: 2-22--e-44

Owsley, Dr. J. B
Phillips, R. C
Rodgers, A. P
Shreve, Miss M. B
Smith, Dr. C. H
Stillwell, C. A.,
others.
Thompson, Rey. D
Trembley, Dr. J. B
True, Dr. H. A
Warder, R. B
White, Miss A. J., and
others.

and

Baker, William E
Bentley, E. T
Brockharise Geo ee <3
Coftman, I. Z
CWOOk@ Wie essen ses

Marline ton Hee. 55
Day, Theodore
Egle, Dr. William H..-.
Fenton, Elisha...-....--
Grathwohl, J
Hance, Ebenezer..-----.-
Heiseley, Dr. J.--.--.---
Hoffer, Dr. J. R.and U. E.
Hubbs, Dr. J. Allen
James, Professor C. 8...
Kirkpatrick, Prof. J. A. .
Kohler, E
McConnell, E. M......-.
Martin, Dr. George. .-...
Meehan, Thomas. -.-.-..
Moyer, H. C

Naval Hospital..........
Peelor, David
Raser, John Heyl.-.----
Sisson, Rodman
Smith, Rev. Dr. William
Spencer, Miss Anna. ....
Spera, William H.......

+t Above Ohio River.

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

~]
On

received.

1869—Continued.
ag ac re D
E z a
Ss fee 33 le
=e BE ae eee
3} red e D ]
Z, es a | 8
Cc ‘ “ (o} i} “ Feet.
36 80 990 N.
35 47 78 46 3% Re
|
40 45 80 45 961 |B. T.R
39 Igoe t Sipura R:
41 8 R2 40 660 AG
41 22 83 40 700*| TR.
39 a4 Byte) tb T see
40 45 eG re ey eee B.TR
41 38 81 16 600 A.
40 4 Bae © eae ID
39 19 84 14 45 800 | T.R.
39 6 84 29 3051, B. T. R.
39 53 25 SEPeuiplay © Wines eae Gn ee
40 52 81 51 934 | T.R.
41 35 44 82 42 32 5O7 Ae
41 30 80 :40ne |e Bato.
41 32 e4 45 8310 e Re
41 82 30 965) <A.
SWI; ACP 2, oe eared ewe A.
40 18 81 18 akstiy||) ERE
41 36 82 41 53 22+] TLR.
41 27 82 46 ee IN
39 30 84 17 1152) || eR
Be ey a | een eee tem abe aie B. T. BR.
39 82 | 600| TR. |
40 10 Sores fe Cieees: TOR:
Se eae akeo into a he SA Sls Tes
ADSONRSIN | |b ae tens ya 1,000] A.
|
40 10 81 45 Dey ae? SRE
41 38 SSS 0 se gee BETeR:
40 35 SB (On eee
39 8 (84 35 1 800s]. TeRo |
5a a ues hae gis pe 11,000} A.
39 37 4 Bot ERO al sae se TR:
40 6 83 43 1,015 |B. TR.)
40 48 47 BL S537. =|) Sine eR:
40 26 40 | 77 22 50 515| TR. |
42 | 77 (1,000 | T.R. |
40 51 76 45 eee ats
40 10 | 75 26 HT OO) eee
ere nee Veeseaeesessleees Bede Rs
TAY oie Ohl SOP ee sat Pee ena
39 54 15 37 ) 218; ))) Woe
41 36 7501 Neen eee TR:
40 16 76 15 11,400 | A.
41 fee) meg el aE Bene
41 30 75 ieee | ER
42 12 74 48 30 |B. TR.
40 16 76 15 | ees A.
40 8 76 32 gee 2 Bee
40 80)... a eee ant
40 58 76°58) |. -\Saeeee AC
39 57 30 op iiet GO| A.
40 44 75 28 450%, TT.
40 80 12 be Sap 7
39 57 31.3] 75 36 3 460 | A.
Liter epee mien paras Le) A DE iT
41 19 77 30 583i Bsa
39 56 75 10 36 |B. T. R.
ea RI Ra | ee Se eed yk 1,200] A.
40 20 RST Pee tcae Aner.
41 30 Ui Ss | eh ae TR:
40 16 41 80 10 850 |B. T. R.
40 75 11 250 Wy
40 12 asin pe Miles eee TR:

t Above Lake Erie.

ft ek es
SSORBDNNWWAKWANWWNWAK S|]

a

a

_——

—

_ _
be we

_
ee

ee
ewe

—

od
wwVoake >
76

METEOROLOGICAL

STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, §c., for the year 1869.—Continued.

: Ms 2s
Station. Name of observer. at Sz
ES Ba
J &
A Se
PENNSYLVANIA—Continued.
[e) / “ lo} / u"
Salem; WayNe1O0- se... a-c- Stocker\n Were se a=) 41 30 78 30
Near Connellsville, Fayette Co..| Taylor, John..--..-/.----- 40 79 36
Beaver, Beaver Cos.-...-2..---- Pavlor. wReveshels eens 40 43 80 23
Franklin, Venango Co-..-.-.--- Tolman, Rev. M. A.....- 41 24 WY 51
Germantown, Philadelphia Co Turner Hrnest, Cn acc sees aceel eee eae
Fountain Dale, Adams Co ...--- Walkera SnC@sacessosncee 39 44 77 18
RHODE ISLAND.
Newport, Newport Co.......--.. | Crandall, W. H.........- 412822 | 12114
SOUTH CAROLINA. |
Auken; Barmwell'Co...----.-.--- Cornish, Rev. John H...} 33 32 81 34
Evergreen, Anderson Co ..--.--- HMarleMbass ane ees 34 30 82 50
Camden, Kershaw Co.......-.--- Macrae) Colinas se es-- 34 17 80 33
Aiken, Barnwell (Oteepacee seaene iRercival, Or Weekes eeee | 33 32 81 34
Wilkinsville, Union Co......-..- Petty, Charles: -.--2 ..-- 34 50 81 36
Horie ViOrkkCoos- oan ere ea Springs, Re cAs i heas es ee 35 81
TENNESSEE.
Lookout Mountain Educational | Bancroft, Rev. C. F. PP...) 35 tell
Institute, Hamilton Co. ‘
Austin; Wilson Co.-..--...:.--- Calhoun Pub Sscnes tee | eaece eee an ee eee eee
Greenville ;Greeni@o---- sence | Doak Ss. & Wi.S ----2- 36 5 82 51
Memphis, Shelby Comes creche Goldsmith, Hl----- =22-. 35 8 90
Trenton, Gibson Co-.--.-<-.---. Grigsby, William T..--. 36 89
Elizabethton, Carteri Cort. e--oe Lewis, Charles H.... .-- 36 25 82 15
Knoxville, Knox Comrwrer ees: Payne, Prot dh kee 36 84
Clarksville, Montgomery Co... -. | Stewart, William M..... | 36 29 87 13
|
TEXAS
EID uSHOn, Ea ERISG Onesie een ee Baxter, Mass Hass 5---2e- 29 50 95 30
Galveston, Galveston Co .....--.| Beazley, Dr. A. H ---..-.- | 29 18 196 6
ceca or ove Plantation, Brazo- | Bostwick, J. B------.---| 29 10 95 56
ria Co
Palestine, Anderson Co...-. ---. IBTOOKS ING Sicas ececeee ee 31 40 95 35
Wear Dallas, Dallas'Co...---..-- Coit, JohnVLe secs. a-ae6 | 32 53 96 45
BellonayhallsiCoresasee cee see eee Combs, Burke ssc Seal seen See al ee eee
Near Gilmer, WpshuriCo--=----- Glaser (J) Miso 2-2. Bene 32 46 94 51
Lavaca, Calhoun Co...-..-....-. Heaton el Deeee sees see | 28 304 96 40+
Waco, McLennan Co........--.- Wicril a Die deesenS soe sel) 8 es 96 50
Austin, Travis Co......-.:....-. | Van Nostrand, J.-...-.. | 30 29 97 46
Mine Creek, Burleson Co.....--. Wade HS Sco 2cseccscee 30 25 97 26
Worktown, WenWwath Co. .sccclce White rieAL Ce ee eno. 97 37
Lockhart, Caldwell Co ........-. pWioodratt Al J.22 eke sl Seall esse deme an leee ean
UTAH.
Coalville, Summit Co...........- Bullock; "Phomas.<scc-a- |) sone sess sel ese
Wanship, Summit Co. ... 2.2.22: Bullock, Thomas.....--. 40 42 111
Harrisburg, Washington Co..... | Whe was (OAIMES 2 ees ace sano ee ee ae eee ee meee
St. George, Washington Conse se iP.6arce vest as) sven 37 il 114
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake Co... 4 Phelps, We Wises neae coe 40 45 111 26
VERMONT.
Panton, Addison’ @o. .------2-2-- | Barto: 1D Clé& Ma Be 22 44 74
Brandon, Rutland Co....-....-.- Buckland sHepeses sees | 43 45 73
Newport, Orleans Co !)/---.-2.)| Currier! Ji, Me-2--. 2222) 44 55 72 20
Lunenburg, Essex Co. .... ae ans Curbing, SEL VAS 2 nec neetoere 44 28 71 41
Woodstock, Windsor Co....-... Doten, H., & L. A. Miller} 43 36 7) 35)
Barnet, Caledonia Co............ Eaton, Dr. oi pee waar | 4418 i2po
Hartford, Wandsori@omeme Eaton, Dresses 43 44 72 20
Randolph, Oranee| Coles eee ee Paine, CUSPE ESTES eae 43 55 72 36
Middlebury, Addison Come ces Sheldon, H. ik oe eet cine 43 59 73 10
Craftsbury, Orleans Co........-- Wild, Rey. EPs ee 44 40 72 30
Castleton; Rutland Co........... Williams, Rev. R.G.....|- Aa ScmiRopand|sheekabncecs
Charlotte, Chittenden Co........ Wing, (Mass) ME 22s. 20a hes SUE aa ee
* Estimated. + Approximate.

Instruments.

No. months

received,

OTE On

Ree eR
COnnr Owner e&

aa
BhWONWNWK CNM UD

be ba

rr
rm
—_ eo

METEOROLOGICAL. STATIONS AND OBSERVERS.

List of meteorological stations and observers, &c., for the year 1869—Continued.

Station.

VIRGINIA.
Mulberry Hill, Isle of Wight Co.
Wytheville, Wythe Co........-.-
Mount Solon, Augusta Co.-...-..
Staunton, Augusta Co.........-.
Cottage Home, Surrey Co..-.---

Mechanicsville, Fauquier Co....
Near Lynchburg, Bedford Co. --.
Prospect Hill, Northampton Co.
Nortolke Nortolk Coz... =< s.<2--
Near Lexington, Rockbridge Co.
Hampton, Elizabeth City Co....
Wytheville, Wythe Co.--...-.-.-.
Ashland, Hanover Co...--...-.-.-
Snowville, Pulaski Co. .-.....-.-.
Powhatan Hill, King George Co.
Near Piedmont, Fauquier Co. ...
Near Vienna, Fairfax Co....-....

WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

Tatoosh Island Light-house,Clal-
lam Co. +
Walla-Walla, Walla-Walla Co...

WEST VIRGINIA.

Huttonsville, Randolph Co.....-.
Romney, Hampshire Co..--.....
Ashland; Cabell'Co--......-..22:
White Day, Mongalia Co........

WISCONSIN.

Embarrass, Waupacca Co.......
Rocky Run, Columbia Co
Madison. Wane CO.-<\--.<s-5-s00.
Holland, Sheboygan Co..-....--.
New Lisbon, Juneau Co. .-...---
Appleton, Outagamie Co..-......
Milwaukee, Milwaukee Co-.....-
Manitowoc, Manitowoc Co.....-
Waupacca, Waupacca Co
Plymouth, Sheboygan Co.-.-..-..-
Edgerton, Rock Co.....-.-------
Bayfield, Bayfield Co.....--....-
BARAD OOO AUK WO sas. eos aac dermne
Bloomfield, Kenosha Co...-....-..

Name of observer.

North  lati-
tude

loc Ae eC

Bintord Rees. see ee- 36 50
Brown, Rev. J. A -.--.-- 36 55
Clarke,Dr.J.T.,& Miss B.| 38 17
Covells Ja @s225 <5 =... | 38 8
Jones, Benjamin W...-. 37 10
Martin, William A...... 38 50
Meriwether, Charles I...) 37 18
Moore; | CoRiata a: -sens55 37 22
Naval Hospital. -........ 36 25
Ruiner. Wialyene so ace 37 46
SHErMAN: dla Mie s- asc By (es)
Shriver, Howard. .-...-..-| 36 51
Smith) Prof, ReMi. =< Wel? Bay e8)
Stalnaker, J. W....5-=--- 37
Wayloe, Hdiwe Tess ssses pacer sone
Williams, Franklin -.... 38 50
Williams, H. C., & Miss | 38 53

L. R. Thrift.
Sampson, Alexander M..|...........-
SIMMORSs AUiHen. ase" 46 5
Hay Sacohilssss.e see - 38 45
INGO w elle Wis bias -ce==|esoeete eat
HROttes Geiliieaaceee ee aco 38 30
Sharp; ddr oWeble- asses! jesasoeseenc.
Breeds WiBis es25l2e<cse 41 51
Curtiss; We W222. 2558 43 26
Daniells, Prof. W. W.---| 43 5
De Eycer, Jolinias=.222-2 43 36
Dungan- Ji. Ly... ---5.- 43 45
Boye, tot. WiG@eracsee=- 44 10
Lapham, Dr. I. A..-.-.--. 43 3
Lupps, Jacob: .--....--- 44.7
Mend Ge - = Sassen <- 44 20
MoailersGeaac- feo se 43 44
Shintz Had) scsseseccee 42 30
MaterAndRew. 2-52-22 |2c5eeenoe a.
Wiarte MEG 2. 54256 5.55 43 Si 1
Waliitin oe WE see cael ce seem ee xen

* Estimated.

DEATHS OF OBSERVERS.

Dr. J. Heisely, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, September 18, 1869.
tev. Daniel Hunt, Pomfret, Connecticut, July 2. 1869.

Rey. S. R. Williams, Lexington, Kentucky, July —, 1869.

t=)

West longi-
tude.

30

5 10

TT

2 |g
8 |es
g Se
FE; ao
B=} =)
nD sv
aie
TURN ae
B, LER, 12
eR 4
A. 12
aye 12
IR 2
at 12
B.T.R.| 12
Been ete
Rt
RS pe
We 5
Baw a
MeRe || 512
mIRes| 12
fae 2
7 TR: 5
aise 8
(Roe 2
R. 2
1 a
MeRT A e12
T. 3
Re eke
Teed aati
| ale
Gh 12
at 12
Bee 8
Ae 12
B.T.R.| 12
ms 12
aBS TBR Iie4 | al!
MER |e
Te 9
TRS iy 1s
tae ph
78

METEORLOGICAL REGISTERS.

Colleges and other institutions from which meteorological registers were re-
ceived during the year 1869, included in the preceding list.

State. Institutions. Location.
Novadscolldensss-5-s52-"- AcadiaiCollecera.--ss-eeee eae Wolfville.
INES TPM Sao 5o5nR0 ceases Greene Springs School-) 22-2222. - == Havana.
Arkansasineeccns-osasineo 4], NORMAL School 22: — sees sane eres ae Helena.
Coliforms seesee eae. cee Pacific Methodist College. .---........ Vacaville.
Connecticut )=2--=---- ---- Collegiate Institute...- .-.------....- Waterbury.

Wesleyan’ University 2=-- =---2es-- =~ Middletown.
Geeraibas:=-— ss6->- --<1-2 MerceniUmiy ersibycs oso ses = 1 eee Penfield.
Tilimeraee Yona rs on SUL Lombard University-*..<2-.=4.-..2t-2- Galesburg. ’
Northwestern University....--..---:-| Evanston.
Indiana. -- -- C poweseseoear City Hospital et sies seemeste omer Indianapolis.
Indiana State University. .--.--------- Bloomington.
Owes rs See cece | (Comnelll Colleen. seer ee eae Mount Vernon
| Griswold Colle PERE Ae meee eee Davenport.
| Iowa State University ...--...---.-..- Iowa City.
INAMISAG fe eye) 2 5s See eins | Agricultural College -....-.---......- Manhattan.
State: Universiby- (325 = seso. oe ee Lawrence.
IMGT a se5e eae See arouose Sayresmnstitnte o--- 2-4. =-- 4-4 | exIme ton:
Mamylamdss- pecs oe Mount St. Mary’s College. Re Re ees Emmittsburg.
Massachusetts) :---- 2-2": ApnherstaColleme ccs yen seems Amherst.
State Lunatic Hospital............--- Worcester.
| Williams Colleoe 2a sae 222). oo Williamstown.
Michiganieeer pte seen | State Aoricultural College Beas eens Lansing.
Missouri) a25 soca merc St. Louis Univer SIU Stee eee ea St. Louis.
New Hampshire = 22-22-22 St. Suu 8 School ARE eee ne Ona. Concord.

New Jersey
Wew Mork Siac - 2 ache joel

Pennsylvania

NEMNESSEGes ees s feos ces

4 RU a eae eae ans eg ee Tt
Mermonbsc.s- asthe Pee.
Virginia

WHS COMSIN Sac e osc cc see

| Oneida Conference Seminary

eee tes wee eee ee

Observatory, Central Park
Rockland Female Institute....-.....-
Rutgers Female College-...-..-.- Lets
4 bay inity College
Goldsboro F emale Collepe.24-53 28 o:

| University of North Carolina........-

Kenyon Saiees Sasa ms eaeda Son se eee

Mount Auburn Youn g¢ Ladies’ Institute -

Otterbein University
UibanayUniversityone-s o-a---eoe eee
Woodward High School..-........-.-
Beaver Seminary
Jetierson) Collegenc. 2.25... seeeee eee
Lehigh University
Lewisburg University .....-.--..-----
East Tennessee University
Lookout Mountain Educational Inst. .-
Stewart Colleve 2.222 2o- cease e ee eee
PusculumiColleseessse-2 o.oo
Institution for Deaf and Dumb.-.----.
Normals School: cass. -- =o eeeeeetee
Woodstock Academy Natural erences:
Institute for Deaf, Dumb, and Blind.
Randolph Macon College. nem ee ee
Lawrence University
State-Umiversitiy 7. eee eee ie oee eee

New Brunswick.
New York.
Flatbush.

New York.
Fort Edward.
Cazenovia.
New York.
Nyack.

New York.
Randolph County.
Goldsboro.
Chapel Hill.
Kenansville.
Gambier.
Mount Auburn.
Westerville.
Urbana.
Cincinnati.
Beaver.
Cannonsburg.
Bethlehem.
Lewisburg.
Knoxville.
Hamilton County.
Clarksville.
Greenville.
Austin.
Castleton.
Woodstock.
Staunton.
Ashland.
Appleton.
Madison.

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 79

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL CONTRIBUTED IN ADDITION TO THE
REGULAR OBSERVATIONS DURING THE YEAR 1869.

Académie Impériale des Sciences de St. Petersbourg.—Mémoires. VII
Séries, tome xii, No. 4. Untersuchungen iiber Constitution der At-
mosphire und die Strahlenbrechung in derselben. (2te Abhandlung.)
Von Dr. H. Gylden, 1868. 4° 57 pp.

Académie Royale de Belgique.—Observations des phénoménes périodi-
ques pendant les années 1865 et 1866. (Extrait du tome xxxvii des
Mémoires.) 4° 74 pp. et 60 pp.

Ackermann, Professor.—Newspapers containing articles on tempera-
ture and rainfall of Port au Prince, Hayti.

Australian Horticulturaland Agricultural Society Horticultural Maga-
zine and Gardeners’ and Amateurs’ Chronicle. Containing meteor ologi-

cal observations at Yarella, Concord, New South Wales, by A. Stephen.

Baird, Professor S. F. — Newspapers giving accounts of the great
storms in New England in September and October, 1869.

Bartlett, EH. B.— Review of the weather at Palermo, New York, during
the year 1868. (Newspaper slip.)

Record of periodical phenomena, arrival of birds, &c., at Palermo,
New York, for nineteen years, from 1851 to 1869, inclusive.

Bath and North of England Agricultural Journal.—On the temperature
of the sea and its influence on the climate and agriculture of the British
Isles. By Nicholas Whitley, F. M.S. (Reprinted by permission.) 8°.
36 pp. London, 1869.

Boardman, G. A.—Thermometrical observations made on the St. John

Liver, Florida, between Jacksonville and Enterprise, during the months

of January, February, March, and April, 1869.

Bruins, Dr. C. —Resultate AUS den meteorologischen Beobachtungen
angestellt an den fiinfundzwanzig Kéniglichen Siichsischen Stationen
im Jahre 1867. 4°. 71 pp. Leipzig, 1869.

C. K. Towarzystwa Nankow, Krakow.—Materyaly do klimatografii

- galicyi, zebrani przez sekcyi meteorologiczna komisyi przyograficznej C.
K. Towarzystwa Nankow. Rok, 1867. 8°. 209 pp. Rok, 1868. 85. 253
pp.

Campbell, Prof—Barometrical reports for the months of March, April _
and May, 1869, at Washington College, Virginia.

Clingman, T. L.—Notes on the climate of Western North Carolina.
(Printed slip.)

Coe, Charles C.—Meteorological register kept at Hood’s River, Oregon,
during the years 1865~66-67 and 1868.

Collins, Colonel— Hourly observations of the thermometer from 4 p. m.,
January 4, 1864, to 4 p.m. January 7, 1864, at Fort Laramie, Dakota
Territory.

. Corbett, Hon. H. W.—Weather record for eleven years, at Portland,
Oregon, from 1858 to 1868, inclusive; kept by Mr. Thomas Frazer.
(Newspaper ay )

Crosier, Dr. FE. S.—Meteorological registers for Nov ember and Decem-
ber, 1865, at New Albany, Indiana.

Dall, W. H.—Tr anslation of meteorological register kept at St.
Michaels, Ikagmut, and Nulato, Russian America, during the years 1842
and 1843.

Daubrée, M. A—Expériences synthétiques relatives aux météorites.

‘Paris, 1868. 8°. 68 pp.
Davenport Female College. — Meteorological report from the Daven-

86 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

port Female College, Lenoir, North Carolina, for the months of May,
June, July, August and September, 1869.

Dove, H. W.—Ueber den Sturm vom 17 November 1866, von H. W.
Dove, aus dem Abhandlungen der Koniglichen Akademie der Wissen-
schaften zu Berlin, 1867, (mit 2 2 Tafeln.) “Berlin, 1868. 4°. 49 pp.

Eldridge, W. V.— Abstract of meteorological observations at Gol-
conda, Pope County, Illinois, during the year 1869.

Ellis, Jacob M.—Review of the “weather at Philadelphia for each
month of the year 1869. (Newspaper slips.)

French, J. B., agent Winnipisseogee Cotton and Woolen Manufacturing
Company. —Register of rainfall at Laconia and Lake Village, New Hamp-
shire, during the year 1869.

Galle, Ey ofessor Dr. J. G.—Ueber die Bahn des am 30 January 1868,
beobachteten und bei Pultulsk im K6nigreiche Polen als Steinregen
niedergefallenen Meteors durch die Atmosphiire von Professor Dr. J. G.
Galle, Director der Sternwarte zu Breslau, 8°. 43 pp.

Goldericke, O. J.—Pamphlets and newspaper slips relating to the
climate, &c., ’ of Colorado Territor Ni

Goulier, C. M.—Etudes géometriques sur les étoiles filantes. Metz,
1868, 8°. pp. 164, (Extrait des Mémoires de ’ Académie Impériale de
Metz, année 1866 et 1867.

Grayson, A. J.—Meteorological observations, and remarks upon the
climate of Mazatlan, Mexico.

Haidinger, W. Ritter von.—Elektrische Meteore am 20ten October, 1868,
in Wien beobachtet. Bericht von W. Ritter von Haidinger, Wirk.
lichem Mitgliede der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften.
(Mit 1 Tafel.) 8°. 12 pp.

Der Meteorsteinfall am 22 Mai 1868, bei Sclavetic. Zweiter Bericht
von W. Ritter von Haidinger, Mitgliede der K Akademie der Wissen-
schaften, (mit 1 Tafel und 5 Holzschnitten.) 8°. 12 pp.

Der Meteorsteinfall von Sclavetic in Croatien, am 22 Mai 1868.
Vorlaufiger Bericht von W. Ritter von Haidinger, wirklichem Mitgliede
der K Akadmie der Wissenschaften. 89°. 7 pp.

Huntingdon, G. C.—Climatalogy of Kelly’s Island, Ohio. (Newspaper
slip.)

Report of proceedings of Lake Shore Grape Growers Association,
containing address by George C. Huntingdon on “ Grape rot and the
weather.” (Newspaper slip.)

Ingram, Dr. J—Record of periodical phenomena at Vineland, New
Jersey, during the year 1868.

James, J. W. —Summuary of meteorological observations during the
year 1869 at Riley, McHenry County, ‘Tllinois. Also sunumary “from
1861 to 1868 inclusiv e, and for each month of 1869,

Jones, Benjamin W.—Synopsis of meteorological observations made
during the winter of 1868 and 1869 at Cottage Home, uy County,
Virginia.

Kaiserliche Academ ie der Wissenchaften, Wien.—Die Temperatur- Ver-
haltnisse der Jahre 1848-’63, an den Stationen des ésterreichischen Be-
obachtungsnetzes, durch fiinftiigige Mittel dargestellt, von Dr. C. Jeli-
nek. 4°. 146 pp., 2 Tafeln. Wien, 1869.

— Erster Bericht der stiindigen Commission fiir die Adria. 8°. 122 pp.
Wien, 1869.

Kongliga Svenska Vetenskaps Academien, Rescue —Meteorologiska
Jakttagelser i Sverige. 1864, Sjette Bandet. Obl. 4°. 192 pp. 1865,
Sjunde. Bandet. Obl. 4°. 186 pp. 1866, Attonde Bandet, Obl. Ato.
182 pp.
.

METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 81

Kaiserlich-Koniglische Central Anstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnet-
ism.—Jahrbiicher von Dr. C. Jelinek. Neue Folge, iv Band. Jahr-
gang, 1867. 4°. 227 pp. Wien, 1869.

Kaiserlich-Konigliche Sternwarte, Vienna.—Anleitung zur Anstellung
meteorologischer Beobachtungen und Sammlung von Hilfstafeln, mit
besonderer Riicksicht auf die meteorologischen Stationen in Oester-
reich und Ungarn. Von Dr. Carl Jelinek. 8°. 173 pp.

— Normale fiinftiigige Wiirmemittel fiir 88 Stationen, bezogen auf
den 20-jiihrigen Zeitraum 1848~67. Von Dr. Carl Jelinek. 8°. 45 pp.

— Beobachtungen an der K. K. Centralanstalt fiir Meteorologie und
Erdmagnetismus. 8°. 64 pp.

Lapham, Dr. I. A.—Atmospheric tide at Milwaukee, deduced from
hourly observations at the time of new moon in October, November,
and December 1868, and January and February 1869.

— Dates of opening and closing of the Milwaukee River from 1836 to
1869, inclusive.

Tull, James S.—Meteorological registers for 1860 to 1869, (portion of
previous record interrupted by the war ;) also, a table of rainfall from the
Ist of May, 1853, until January 1, 1870.

Loehr, Charles H., United Statis consul, La Guayra, Ecuador.—Statis-
tics from the United States consulate at La Guayra, South America, in-

-cluding particulars in reference to earthquakes, meteorology, &c.

Mapes, H. H.—Manuscript reports of the weather at various points
in Kalamazoo and Allegan counties, Michigan, during each month of
the year 1859. ;

McAulay, John P.—Thermometrical record kept at the Louisiana
State Seminary, Alexandria, Louisiana, during the months of October,
November, and December 1868, and January, February and March 15869.

McCall, C.—Monthly reports on the weather at Cathlamet, Waukia-
kum County, Washington Territory.

Merriam, C. C—Manuscript meteorological report for January and
February 1869, at Leyden, Lewis County, New York.

Merriam, C. L., Leyden, New York.—Newspaper slips containing re-
marks on the weather. Monthly.

Meteorological Observatory, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.—Published
meteorological report for April 1869,

Meteorological Office, London.—Charts of the surface temperature of
the South Atlantic Ocean ineach monthof the year. Folio. 27 pp., 12
charts. London, 1869.

— Report on the meteorology of the North Atlantic, between the paral-
lels of 40° and 50°, as illustrated by eight diagrams of observations taken
on board of the mail steamers running to and from America, with re-
marks on the difference of the winds, &c. By Captain H. Toynbee,
F.R.A.S. 8°. 8 charts. London, 1869.

— Report of the meteorological committee of the Royal Society for the
year ending December 31, 1866. 8°. 72 pp. London, 1869.

Meteorological Society, London.—Proceedings issued monthly. 8vo.

— Meteorology of England for the quarter ending September 30, 1868.
By James Glaisher, president Meteorological Society.

Montrose Natural History and Antiquarian Society, Montrose, Scot-
land.—Report of the directors for 1868, containing a meteorological
register for the year.

Moss, G. B.—Summary of meteorological observations at Belvidere,
Illinois, during the year 1869.

Miihry, Dr. Adolf—Untersuchungen iiber die Theorie und das allge-
meine geographische System der Winde. 8°. 254 pp. Gottingen, 1869.

6s
82 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Naturaliste Canadien.—Containing meteorological observations at Port
Neuf and Montreal.

Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Basel.—Verhandlungen der Naturfor-
schenden Gesellschaft in Basel, 1869. Containing: ‘Bericht tiber einige
Blitzschliige. Von Ed. Hagenbach.

Naturforscher Verein zu Riga. —Correspondenzblatt, 16%™ Jahrgang,
1869. Containing meteorological observations at Riga, from September
1867 to July 1868, (new style, ,) inclusive.

Naturwissenschaftliche ‘Gesellschaft, St. Gallen.—Bericht iiber die
Thiitigkeit der St. Galleschen Naturwissenschaftllichen Gesellschaft
wiihrend des Vereinsjahres, 1867~68. Containing: Einige Ertahrun-
gen iiber klimatische Kuren und Kurorte. Von Dr. W. Steinlin.

Nelson, S. Augustus, Georgetown, Massachusetts —Newspaper accounts
of the great storms of September and October, in New England.

Observatoire Impérial de Paris.—Atlas des mouvements généraux de
Vatmospehre. Année 1865; Janvier, Février, Mars. Obl. folio. 90
charts. Atlas métécrologique, 1867.

Observatoire Royal de Brucelles—Annales météorologiques. Brux-
elles, 1868. 4°. 104 pp.

Osservatorio del Real Collegio Carlo Alberto in Moncaliert.—Bulletino
meteorologico del Osservatorio del Real Colligea Carlo Alberto in Mon-

salieri, con corrispondenza del Osservatorio del Seminario di Alesssan-
dria. Vols. i, ii, iii, (1865-66~67—68,) 4°. Vol. i, 120 pp. ; Vol. ii, 112
pp.; Vol. ii, 104 pp.

Paine, R. T.—Meteorological report for October, at Boston, Massachu-
setts, Newark, New Jersey, and St. Paul, Minnesota. (Newspaper slip.)

L -arker, SDs, Steuben, Maine.—Ne ow spaper accounts of the great
storms of September and October, 1869, in Maine.

Printed abstract of meteorological register for 1860, at Portland,
Maine, by Henry Willis. Also newspaper slips for sev eral months of
1859 and 1861.

Pearce, T.—Weather record for September, 1869, at Ela, Polk County,
Georgia.

Petterson, F.., hospital steward, United States Army.—Table of mean
temperature, humidity, and rainfall, at San Antonio, Texas, during the
years 1868 and 1869.

Plantamour, E.—Résumé météorologique de Vannée 1866, pour
Genéve et le Grand St. Bernard; par EK Plantamour. Tiré des Archives
des Sciences de la Biblitiotheque Universelle, Geneve, September 1869,
§°, 232 pp.

— Résumé météorologique de Papper 1867, pour Geneve et Je Grand
St. Bernard. Octobre 1868. 8°. 132 pp.

Real Osservatorio di Modena.—Sui coefficienti ozonometrici, dell’
unidita e della temperatura, nota del Prof. D. Ragona. 8°. 10 pp.

— Sulle oseillazioni reg olari ed ir regolari della temperatura, dal Prof.
D. Ragona. 8°. 12 pp.

Sen Riduzione della pressione atmosferica al medio-livello del mare, per
gli stazioni meteorologiche italiane, del Prof. D. Ragona. 8°. 8 pp.

— Sulle variazioni diurne della temperatura e sul coefiiciente di Kaemtz
in Palermo. Lettera al chiar. Signor A. Quetelet, direttore del Real
Osservatorio di Brussselles, del Prof. D. Ragona, direttore del Real Os-
servatorio di Palermo. Palermo, 1859. 8°. 5A pp.

— Osservazioni su la evaporazione, del Prof. D. Ragona. 4°. 8 pp.

— Riassunta delle osservazioni meteorologiche, eseguite nel Real Os-
servatorio di Modena nell anno 1866, dal Prof. D. Ragona, direttore dell
osservatorio. Stessa. 4° 7 pp.
METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL. 83

— Sul calcolo dei valori medii in meteorologia, nota del Prof. D. Ragona,
direttore dell Real Osservatorio di Modena. 40, 2 pp.

— Descrizione del barometro registratore del Real Osservatorio di Mo-
dena, del Prof. D. Ragona. 4°. 8 pp.

— Sulle variazione periodicie del barometro nel clima di Milano, me-
moria di G. V. Schiaparelli e G. Celoria. 4°. 31 pp. Tay. iii.

Real Osservatorio di Palermo.—Giornale Astronomico e Meteorolo-
gico, pubbl. dal Prof. D. Ragona. Vol.i, Palermo, 1855. 4°. 375 pp.
Vol. ii, Palermo, 1857. 4°. 391 pp., (three volumes in one.) Vol. iii,
Palermo, 1859. 4°. 375 pp.

Regio Osservatorio dell Universita di Torino.—Bolletino meteorologico
ed astronomico. Anno ii, 1868. Oblong 4°. 76 pp.

Roche, Edouard.—Recherches sur les affuscations du soliel et les mé-
teioroscos miques. Paris, 1868. 49°. 80 pp.

Royal Observatory, Greenwich.—Results of magnetical and meteorolog-
ie observations, 1566. 4°. 503 pp.

Sanford, Professor S. P.—Meterological registers for 1866~67~68, at
Penfield, Georgia.

Sartorius, Dr. C. urvey of meteorological observations at Mirador,
Mexico, during the year 1868.

Sawyer, H., United States consul—Newspaper slips containing meteo-
rological observations at Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana, for the first half
of the year 1569, (January to June, inclusive.)

Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Bern.—Schwei ea:
meteorologische Beobachtungen. 5'* Jahrgang, 1868. 4°. 22 pp, pl. 2
(Also September, November, December, 1868. 4°. pp. 470-622.)

Scottish Meteorological Society.—J our nal for the half year ending June
30, 1868. Large 5°. 47 pp. Journal for the half year ending January,
1869, with tables fer the quarter ending September, 1868. 8°. pp. at.

Shepher d, Smiley—Monthly means, &e., of temperature at Hennepin,
Illinois, for 1869.

Sisson, .—Mean temperature of twenty months, commencing April,
1868, at Factoryville, Pennsylvania, with comparisons of the month of
November with former years.

Smith, G., hospital steward, United States Army.—Meteorological reg-
isters for the months of July and August, 1869, at Camp Date Creek,
Arizona Territory.

Snow, Edwin M., M. D.—Fifteenth registration report, State of Rhode
Island, 1867, (containing meteorological tables, and remarks by E. T.
Caswell. )

Société W@ Agriculture, Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres du Département
@ Indre-et-Loive.—Annales. Containing: Observations météoroiogiques
faites 4 Tours, par M. de Tastes.

Société @ Agriculture, Sciences et Arts de la Sarthe—Bulletin. 112™°
série, tome xi, 1867-68. Containing: Observations météorologiques
faites 4 Mans, par M. Bonhomet.

Société W Horticulture deVAllier, Moulins, France. —Annales. Contain-
ing meteorological observations by M. Doumet, at Baleine, Allier, for
a series of years, (1855-’66.)

Société Metéorologique de France.—Annuaire de la Société Météorolo-
giquede France. Tome5™, 1869, tableaux météorologiques, feuilles 7-11,
3°: 39 pp. Tome 6”, 1863, feuilles 1-5. Bulletin des seeances. 8°.
40 pp. Tableaux météorologiques. 8°. 40 pp. Nouvelles météoro-
logiques. Pamphlet. Large 8°. 30 pp.

: Stanley, J. H. S—Monthly reports of the weather (mss.) at Houston,
exas.

84 METEOROLOGICAL MATERIAL.

Stewart, W. M.—Diagram of the annual quantity of rain fallen at
Glenwood, Tennessee, from observations made during the years from
1851 to 1868, inclusive. (The same that is referred to on page 523 of
Professor Safford’s report on the geology of Tennessee.)

Thomas, Rev. C.—Copy of monthly aggregates from the rain register
kept at Fort Garland, Colorado Territory, from April 1853 to Septem-
ber, 1869, inclusive.

Tutwiler, H.—Account of a meteorite-observed near Frankfort, Ala-
bama. (Newspaper slip.)

United States consulate, Valencia, Spain.—Newspaper slips with me-
teorological records made at the Meteorological Observatory of the Uni-
versity of Valencia.

Vacher, Dr.—Carte représentant la mortalité et état météorologique
de Paris en 1865.

Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichtein Mecklenburg, Giistrow.—Arch-
ive, 22te Jahre, 1869. Containing Uebersecht der aus den meteorolo-
gischen Beobachtungen zu Hinrichhagen im Jahre 1867 gefundenen Mit-
tel, (20 Jahre.)

Vinal, W. I.— Weather record at Vinal Haven, Maine, during a por-
tion of October, 1869.

Warren, W. J.—Record of the weather at Chilukweyuk Depot, North-
west Boundary Commission, from December 29, 1558, to April 24, 1859.

Whitaker, B.—Newspaper slips containing accounts of the weather at
Warsaw, Illinois.

White, Captain A. T., United States revenue marine.—Meteorological
register kept on board of the United States revenue steamer Wayanda,
cruising on the coast of Alaska from May 13 to October 14, 1868.

Williams, Rev. R. G.—Hourly thermometrical and barometrical obser-
vations at Waterbury, Connecticut, and Castleton, Vermont, (in addi-
tion to regular observations on Smithsonian blanks.)

Zeledon, José.—Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la cindad de
San José durante el primer semestre de 1868. Oficina Central de Esta-
distica, San José.

Observaciones meteorologicas hechas en la cindad de Heredia (Costa
Rica, Setior Rohrmoser) durante el ato de 1868. °

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

WASHINGTON, D. C., February 1, 1870.
The Executive Committee of the Smithsonian Institution respectfully
submits the following statement of the financial condition of Smithson’s
trust fund, and the application of the income for the year ending 31st
December, 1869, with estimates of receipts and proposed appropriations
for 1870:

The bequest of Smithson in the United States treasury is.. $541,379 63
The Regents have added to this investment from savings,

Pa ES SS aus 32 ee ee aerator Sheet he 108, 620 37
Making the Smithson fund in the U.S. Treasury, as a per-

petual loan, at 6 per cent., on the Ist January, 1870.... 650,000 00.
And in Virginia State 6 per cent. registered stock. $53, 500
With unpaid interest to January, 1867.........- 19, 260

$72, 760
The value of which, at the present time, may be estimated

ih Wis VGUE GEL feels reacted chee ct aera aM aes ewit ak eee 42, 200 80
Touiinwested capitalos..22u5 PSR Ree fe oe 692, 200-80
meine, Casi Palace! in: baile Of: 72 5se tse si lo. ese So. 20, 969 65

eee lis. ska ee ee ee ae 713,170 45

RECEIPTS IN 1869.

Interest from the Treasurer of the United States, on
$650,000, at 6 per cent., for the year ending 31st Decem-

“EER, NSTI Mee gis homme gh) yeaa Mat aS, AAO sR eae ae $39, 000 00:
Premium on sale of gold, at 343 and 193 per cent. premium. 10,515 20
Pees PuDlCAbIOnS: 2 oa4s tee we 3 oie oot a sen Pap bonse 235 58.
Sales of old and useless material ....................--- 232 07
Repayment of expenses of explorations and collections. -. 732 15.
Repayment for freights on literary and scientific exchanges. 517 56.

Potalincometor the. year 1869)... ....-- .-..5. 51, 232 56.
Cash balance in bank, January, 1869..................:- 10, 352 74
Amount available in 1869............. sia 9) bee $61,585 30)

In addition to this sum, the Institution received from and accounted.
for to the Department of the Interior the sum of $4,000, appropriated:
by Congress for the preservation and care of the property in the mu-
seum, collected by Government exploring expeditions.
86 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

Statement in detail of expenditures during the year 1869.

Leaves a balance in bank, January, 1870..... Pear

BUILDING.
For reconstruction of parts of building destroyed
Dyefires) be SE Aap oereg ate rare incre ae $1, 764 70
For general repairs of the building -..-....-.- 2,345 25
For foasiane and fixtures, cases, carpets, stoves,
RSG tek cee, on eee ee 2, 520 95
GENERAL EXPENSES.
For meetings of the Board of Regents..-..... $122 00
Forlighting-the binlding: 2... 22.52. 2.2 se aac S 239 13
Horwarmines the building. 2. 362 - .- +. — ee 1,389 77
OE IPOSHAGE = 25.5): ae tsibyerctomtsieiele ocainietieys se pe 289 50
IPOTSSUALIODER Vie ps dee ow Cue ec jolepere haem othe el 437 18
For printing blanks, circulars, receipts, &c.- --. 322 25
For tools, materials for cleaning and incidentals. 328 89
For salaries of secretary, chief clerk, and assist-
AM Pa a aa cteedinia a ae eo ease ie oe sage 505508 7, 814 92
PUBLICATIONS AND RESEARCHES.
‘For publishing Smithsonian contributions, 4to.. $1,987 18
For publishing miscellaneous collections, 8vo.. 3, 037 50
Hor publishing Smithsonian reports, 8vo...-..- 1,458 55
For meteorology, salaries of clerks and comput-
ers, rain gauges, and thermometers.......-..- 1,581 10
For apparatus for researches....:.....-....-- 146 80
For explorations, natural history, and archeol-
ogy in Mexico, Florida, Alaska, New Mexico,
Hudson’s Bay, Alabama, and Nova Scotia. .. G11 54
LIBRARY, MUSEUM, AND EXCHANGES.
‘For purchase of books, periodicals, and binding. $436 04
For literary and scientific exchanges, agencies
at Leipsic, London, Paris, and Amsterdam... 4, 860 94
Yor assistants in museum, janitor, watchmen,
FADOLEES nh) 2 osm eee Oe eo eee eet e meeeatoe 5, 307 50
For incidentals to museum, freight, alcohol, tax-
EW VEY TU Ay 66 CNA ah at Sh be a ee Py Aca ere 3,513 96
or gallery of art: Portrait in oil of the late Dr.
Robert Hare, who gave his collection of chem-
ical and philosophical apparatus to the Insti-
PELEULOBS Soeur a ysi2 SAS etal oe ee ee eee ae 100 00.
‘Expenditures during the year 1869........... Serene
Deducting this amount from the receipts of the
year and cash in bank in January, 1869, viz:
SVCD eho ci are Boe Ne optepi oae Ree ae $61,585 30

86, 630 90

10,943 64

14,218 44
40, 615 65

REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

ESTIMATES AND APPROPRIATIONS FOR 1870.
Receipts.

Interest on the Smithson Fund in the treasury of the
United States, $650,000, payable 1st July, 1870, and 1st
January, 1871, at 6 per cent. gold

Probable premium on sale of coin, at 18 per cent

wee alae es me = ae a0 «ow w,

87

$39, 000 06
7, 020 00

Interest on Virginia 6 per cent. stock, 1869, 2 per cent-.-.-- 1, 454 00
Interest on Virginia 6 per cent. stock, 1870, 2 per cent. ... 1, 454 00
pocnauoaseless property, Ges. o22-- a2. 2-2. 5-22-22 = 500 00
meome: forthe: year tS (02 ances ao aa tals ao 49,428 00
APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE YEAR 1870.
Mare omeral expenses.) =... sca neces oes $12,000 00
For publications and researches ......--.-..-- 15,000 00
For museum and collections, not including the
apropriation by Congress for care and pre-
servation of the Wilkes and other explor-
(UE AGS SUSU RS ie be ee a ei 6,000 00
For literary and scientific exchanges........- 5, 000. 00
For building and contingencies.............-. 5, 000 00
43, 000 00

EXAMINATION OF ACCOUNTS.

The committee examined 497 receipted vouchers for payments made
during the four quarters of the year 1869. In every case the approval of
the secretary of the Institution is given on the face of each voucher,
and the certificate of an authorized agent of the Institution is appended
to each voucher, setting forth that the materials and property and ser-
vices rendered were for the Institution and applied to the purposes
stated in the account.

The quarterly accounts-current, bank book, check book, and ledger
were also examined, and showed that the payments were made in con-
formity with the regulations prescribed by the Regents, and that the
cash balance stated in the accounts current for each quarter was in
deposit to the credit of the Institution in the authorized depository,
after all the quarterly accounts charged in the abstracts were paid.

In conclusion, the committee finds that all the expenses of the Insti-
tution have been paid in full to the end of the year, leaving a cash
balance in bank on the 1st January, 1870, of $20,969 65.

All of which is respectfully submitted, by—

: RICHARD DELAFIELD,
PETER PARKER,
JOHN MACLEAN,
Baecutive Committee.
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

THE BOARD OF REGENTS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION.

WASHINGTON, D. C., February 3, 1870.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution

was held on Thursday, February 3, 1870, at 7 o’clock p. m., at the Insti-
tution.

Present: Chief Justice Chase, Chancellor of the Institution, Messrs.
Hamlin, Trumbull, Poland, Cox, Maclean, Delafield, Parker, and the
secretary.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and adopted.

Professor Henry, the secretary, announced that Hon. Hannibal Ham-
lin, of the Senate, had been appointed a Regent, vice Mr. Fessenden,
deceased; that Hon. James A. Garfield and L. P. Poland had been
reappointed from the House of Representatives; and that Hon. 8.8.
Cox had been appointed, vice Mr. Pruyn, whose term had expired.

The secretary announced the death of Charles Armistead Alexander,
esq., a valued collaborator of the Institution, whose series of spirited
translations of the eulogies of eminent men, delivered before foreign
academies, have added much value to the annual reports of this estab-
lishment, and have been received in several cases with much commen-
dation by the original authors.

On motion of Dr. Maclean, it was

Resolved, That the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution recognize,

in the death of Charles A. Alexander, esq., the loss of a valued collabo-
rator, and that they sympathize with his friends and relatives in the
bereavement to which they are subjected.

The secretary presented a general statement of the financial condition
of the Institution.

General Delafield presented the annual report of the Executive Com-
mittee relative to the receipts and expenditures during the year 1869,
and the estimates for the year 1870, which was read and accepted.

On motion of Dr. Maclean the secretary was directed to have an in-
surance effected on the east wing and range of the Smithsonian building
to such amount as he may think necessary.

The secretary presented the eulogy on the late Professor A. D. Bache,
which was received and ordered to be printed in the annual report.

General Delafield, for the Executive Committee, reported that they
were still collecting facts and statistics relative to the city canal, and
would hereafter present a further report.

The secretary stated that it was his painful duty to announce that
since the last meeting of the Board the death had occurred of one of its
most distinguished members—the Hon. William Pitt Fessenden.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS. 89

Appropriate remarks were then made relative to the services, charac-
ter, and virtues of the deceased, by Messrs. Trumbull, Hamlin, Parker,
and the Chancellor, Chief J ustice Chase.

On motion of Mr. Trumbull the following resolutions were adopted :

Resolved, That the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
deeply mourn the loss of their distinguished fellow-regent, William Pitt
Fessenden.

Resolved, That in the death of Mr. Fessenden our country has lost a
refined and influential citizen, the Senate of the United States an able,
judicious, honest statesman, and this Institution an active, intelligent,
and learned Regent.

Resolved, That we sincerely condole with the afflicted family of Mr.
Fessenden, and offer to them our heartfelt sympathy in their great
bereavement.

Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated by the
Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution to the family of the deceased.

Resolved, That Chief Justice Chase be requested to prepare a eulogy
on Mr. Fessenden, for insertion in the journal of the Board of Regents.

General Delafield In behalf of the Executive Committee, stated that
they deemed it highly important for the interests of the Institution in
the promotion of science, and due to the secretary for his long and
devoted services, that he should visit Hurope to consult with the savans
and societies of Great Britain and the continent, and he therefore hoped
that a leave of absence would be granted to Professor Henry for several
months, and that an allowance be made for his expenses.

On motion of Dr. Maclean, it was unanimously—

Resolved, That Professor Henr y, Secretary of the Institution, be
authorized to visit Europe in behalt of the interests of the Smithsonian
Institution, and that he be granted from three to six months leave of
absence, and two thousand dollars for traveling expenses for this
purpose.

Judge Poland moved, that in consideration of the extra services which
had been rendered by “Mr. Kthees, chief clerk, since the death of Mr.
Randolph, bookkeeper of the Institution, in auditing and keeping the
accounts for the last three years, he be allowed $350, in addition to $250
already received, or $200 per year.

This proposition was advocated by the secretary, who considered it
just not only in regard to the particular services in question, but also
for his efficiency in the conduct of the general business of the
establishment.

The motion was agreed to.

Adjourned to meet on the 10th instant, at 7 o’clock.

WASHINGTON, D. C., February 10, 1870.

A meeting of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution
was held on Thursday, February 10, 1870, at 7 o’clock p. m., at the
Institution.

Present, Messrs. Chase, Trumbull, Hamlin,, Davis, Garfield, Poland,
Delafield, Parker, Bowen, and the Secretary.

The Chancellor took the chair.

The minutes were read and approved.

Professor Henry presented his annual report, which was accepted.

On motion of General Garfield, it was—

Resolved, That the Executive Committee and the secretary be directed
90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.

to prepare a detailed statement of all the money expended on the
museum during the past year,. distinguishing between the items directly
and exclusively chargeable to the care of the collections of the Govern-
ment, and those of a contingent or indirect character.

Mr. Hamlin presented the following, which were adopted :

Having learned that the chief clerk of this Institution, Mr. William
J. Rhees, is about to resign the office he has filled for seventeen years,
to engage in an active business enterprise—

Resolved, That the Board of Regents highly appreciate his worth as a
man, and his services as an officer of this Institution.

Resolved, That while they regret his resignation of an office which he
has filled with honor to himself and advantage to the Institution, they
hope that he may be equally successful in the career on which he is
about to enter, and that a copy of these resolutions be presented to him
by the secretary.

The Board then adjourned to meet at the call of the secretary.

[Nore.—After this meeting the annual report was submitted to Con-
gress and ordered to be printed; therefore, the subsequent proceedings
of the Board for the session of the beginning of 1870 will be found in

' the next annual report.—J. H.]

Ee
GENERAL APPENDIX

TO THE

REPORL FOR .1369:
The object of this appendix is to illustrate the operations of the In-
stitution by reports of lectures and extracts from correspondence, as
well as*to furnish information of a character suited especially to the
meteorological observers and other persons interested in the promo-
tion of knowledge. |

KEPLER: HIS LIFE: AND WORKS.

By M. Berrranp, Member of the French Academy of Sciences.*

[ Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C. A. Alexander. ]

The highest laws of the physical world have been established by
geometers; the hypotheses on which those laws rest acquire real import-
ance only after having been submitted to their decision; and yet the
progress of natural philosophy would have been impossible if the great
men to whom they are due, imbued only with a geometrical spirit, had
regarded only its inflexible rigor.

Let us imagine a geometer initiated in the most elevated theories of
abstract science. I speak not merely of a disciple of Euclid and Archi-
medes, but an intelligent reader of Jacobi and of Abel; and let us suppose
that, while a stranger to every idea of astronomy, he ‘should ae
to penetrate by his own independent efforts the eeneral structure of th
universe and the arrangement of its parts. Let us place him, beset ie,
in the most favorable conditions; let us admit that, free in spirit as Co-
pernicus, he reposes iot in the deceptive representations of the Senses
which, veiling from us the movements of the earth, have caused its
immobility to be so long regarded as an axiom: what impossibilities
will present themselves to his imagination! Borne along by an un-
known movement, perceiving no fixed direction, no stable basis on
which to rely for the determination of distances, he finds himself with-
out data for the solution of the problem. Our geometer will attain,
perhaps, to a conception of our own incommensurable littleness; but,
perceiving no certain route, he will stop short by asserting in the name
of a science which he believes infallible, because it leaves nothing to
hazard, that, whatever the genius of man and the resources with which
art may endow his org gans, our path through cua is to him as undis-
coverable as would be that of a grain of dust borne on the wind to the
animaleules which inhabit it.

Happily Pascal has gone too far in asserting that what transcends
geometry lies beyond our reach. This discouraging appreciation takes
no account of a sentiment implanted in the depths of the human soul;
a sentiment which sustained Copernicus after having inspired Pytha-
goras. Outside of all demonstration, in effect man believ es in the har-
mony of the universe andthe simplicit y of its mechanism; and, although
imagination stands in strong contrast to geometry, the history of as-
tronomy presents them to us united in a strict alliance; the former sus-
tained by well-regulated reason, in somesort outstripping truth in order
to reveal, as if by intuition, the beauty and general order of the system
of worlds; the latter exerting its powers to test. the true and_the false,
and by separating one from the other, finally to arrive at certainty.

The situation of the astronomer w ho seeks to divine the sy mmetrical
and regular order of the celestial bodies, presents a certain degree of an-
dlogy with that of the philologist who, with unknown characters before

* Mémoires de V Académie de Sciences de UInstitut Impérial de France, t. xxxv, 1266.
94 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

him, strives to reconstruct the words and ideas which they express. Fo1
the philologist as for the astronomer the problem is indeterminate, and
it might be assumed that its solution is arbitrary; what assurance is
there in fact that those strange figures are not simply decorative
designs, capriciously traced without ‘order and without object? And
if they have in reality a meaning, no train of rigorous deductions
can reveal it by leading us from the known to the unknown through a
logical and sure chain of reasoning. It is necessary in such an inquiry
to proceed tentatively, to accept conjectures founded on fugitive and
remote analogies, to establish systems which the further study of facts
will often overthrow, to frame hypotheses which will presently be re-
jected, but which will be patiently replaced by others, and to do this
without discouragement, because the true solution, we may be certain in
advance, will, when once detected and in whatsoever manner obtained,
offer such a character of certainty that no further place will be left for
doubt. The same is the case with the true astronomical systems ; it is
impossible to establish it by a series of rigorous deductions, and
successively to demonstrate its different parts according to the method
of the geometers. But, when a man of genius shall have divined, in
whatever way it may be, the principles which reconcile the uniform and
simple reality with the complex and variable appearances, judicious
minds will at once recognize the truth of the hypothesis, without seruti-
nizing the means which have led to it, and without waiting for the
solid and luminous proofs which, accumulating from age to age, will at
length convert the most refractory by enlightening even the blindest.

It is not my purpose to retrace, here, the history of the efforts succes-
sively made in this direction, which would be the history of astronomy.
From among the great men ‘who, withdrawing the veils which hide it,
have by degrees revealed the universe in its “ ‘full and sublime majesty,”
I have simply selected, in order to sketch the part which he performed,
the most intrepid, persevering, and inspired of them all; by these terms
I designate Kepler.

John Kepler was born at Weil, in Wiirtemberg, 27th of December,
1571, twenty-eight years after the death of Copernicus. His father,
Henry Kepler, who belonged to the noble family of Keppel, was not
worthy of such a son; he several times abandoned his wile, who herself
was of evil reputation, and scarcely gave any attention to his four
children. The early education of John was, therefore, much neglected ;
his mother, who could not read, sent him, it is true, to school, but kept
him at home whenever his services could be turned to account in the
inn, which reverse of fortune had reduced her to the necessity of keep-
ing. The boy’s weak constitution, fortunately, rendered him but little
fit for such employments, and it was decided that he should study theol-
ogy. Atthe age of thirteen he was gratuitously admitted into the
Protestant seminary of Maulbronn; a favor easily obtained, for instrue-
tion was at that time propagated throughout Protestant Germany with
‘a zeal equally liberal and enlightened. “ Itis the head and not the arm
which governs the world,” said the rector of the University of Maul-
bronn, in 1578; “there is need, then, of educated men, and such fruit
does not grow upon trees.”

From Maulbronn, Kepler, who advanced rapidly in his studies, passed
to the seminary of Tiibingen, where he applied himself to theology, but
without giving to it his whole attention. He here composed some Latin
verses on the “ubiquity of the body of Christ, the elegant precision ot
which attracted the admiration of the secretary of the national depu-
ties. Yet, when he quitted, at the age of twenty-two, the school of Ti-

oor
LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 95

bingen, he was not thought qualified to labor for the advancement of

the church, and, furnished only with a flattering attestation of eloquence

and capacity, he was named professor of mathematics and morais in the
college of Griitz, in Styria.

The Archduke Charles, of Austria, who then governed Styria, pro-
fessed the Catholic religion; but, what was very rare and little ‘to be
expected at that epoch, he extended to heretics an absolute toleranee ;
so that the Protestants, who then constituted a majority of the rich and
enlightened classes, enjoyed full liberty to call to their service for all
offices such of their co-religionists as had been instructed elsewhere.
Hence it was, that Kepler received an invitation to Gritz. Instruction
in astronomy being one of his duties, he was charged with the compila-
tion of an almanac, and it was but natural that in a Catholic country,
he should adopt the Gregorian reform which the Protestants obstinately
rejected ; choosing much rather, as was said, to be at variance with the
sun than in accordance with the Pope. Kepler, who never consented under
the most difficult circumstances to compound for the free expression of his
religious sentiments, separated, on this occasion, from his co-religion-
ists; the question, as he justly urged, was a purely Scientific one. More
than once in his career did he encounter it, and his opinion never varied.
Sixteen years later, in 1613, in order to induce Germany. to accept the
new calendar, he composed, at the instance of the Emperor Matthias, a
dialogue between two Catholics, two Protestants, and a mathematician,
the latter of whom enlightens, and finally convinces the others; put
Kepler was not equally successful with the Diet, to which the question
was submitted, and, in spite of his efforts, the ’ Gregorian reform was
postponed till a long time afterward.

To increase the sale of his almanacs, Kepler did not shrink from in-
serting astrological predictions of political and other events, and, as a
few happened to be realized nearly at the time predicted, not a little
credit accrued to him on that account. His biographers have affirmed,
however, that, superior to the prejudices of his age, he had no faith in
astrological divination, but his correspondence shows that at this epoch,
and even many years afterward, he was persuaded of the influence of
the stars on events of every nature. In one of his letters he makes an
applicatio nof his principles to the newly-born son of his master, Meest-
lin, and announces that he is threatened witha great danger. “IT doubt,’ is
he’ says, ‘“‘ whether he can survive it;” and, in fact, the child died. Just
at that time one of his own children was ‘also taken away; and when,
on occasion of this double bereavement, we find him, with expressions
of affectionate interest for his master, again speaking of the fears which
he had conceived, how is it possible to ae e that he was not in earnest?
But his predictions were not always so exactly fulfilled, and, after being
often deceived, Kepler became less and less credulous. Thus it fared
with astrology as with many other errors which entered his mind with-
out taking root. He said, indeed, that, as the daughter of astronomy,
astrology ought to nourish her mother; and he continued during life
to make for those who asked it, and for a consideration, predictions and
horoscopes conformable to the rules of the art. But, so far from abusing
the credulity of his clients, he avowed to them that, in his opinion, his
conclusions should be regarded as uncertain and suspicious; telling
them, as Tiresias tells Ulysses, (in Horace:) Quicquid dicam aut erit aut
non—(What I may say will or will not come to pass.)

The first scientific work of Kepler is entitled Mysterium cosmographi-
cum, and was composed during the earlier part of his residence at Gritz.

L undertake to prove,” he says in his preface, “that God, in creating
96 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

the universe and regulating the order of the cosmos, had in view the
five regular bodies of eeometr y aS known since the days of Pythagoras
and Plato, and that he has fixed, according to those dimensions, the
number of heavens, their proportions, and the relations of their move-
ments.” —

It is impossible not to be struck with the confident ardor of the young
author and his enthusiastic admiration for the wisdom which governs
the world and the majesty of the problems to which his life was to be
consecrated. ‘ Happy the man,” says he, ‘who devotes himself to the
study of the heavens; he learns to set less value on what the world ad-
mires the most; the works of God are for him above ail else, and their
study will furnish him with the purest of enjoyments. Father of the
world,” he adds, “the creature whom Thou hast deigned to raise to the
intelligent contemplation of Thy glorytis like the king of a vast empire;
he is almost comparable to-a god, since he has learned to comprehend
Thy thoughts.” The theory which inspired such transports is to-day
disavowed by science. That brilliant edifice was destined to crumble
away, little by little, for want of sure foundations, and Kepler, at that
epoch, may be likened, according to Bacon’s happy comparison, to the
lark which soars to the skies, but brings back nothing from her excur-
Sions.

He always entertained, however, a great tenderness for this first labor,
and, although he himself has, in a second edition, pointed out grave
errors, he insists that no debut in science was ever more happy. Of
this work little is recollected but some solid and convincing arguments
in favor of the system of Copernicus. Kepler does not hesitate to cen-
sure emphatically, in a note, the tribunal which had dared to place in
the Index of the Lateran the works of the illustrious Pole. ‘When we
have used,” he says, “the edge of an axe upon iron, it cannot serve af-
terward even to cut wood.” The calculations which he executed on this
occasion served, so to speak, to clear the field which was to yield him so
ample a harvest; and the learned world, not less charmed by the agree-
- able and brilliant form of his exposition than surprised by the novelty
of his ideas, became attentive to what the young astronomer night in
future submit to it.

Having acquired a modest competence by his marriage with the young
and fair Barbara Miiller, already the widow of a first and separated
from a second husband by divorce, Kepler seemed permanently fixed in
Styria, and devoted himself, amid general applause, to the study of
the science in which he delighted. His correspondence shows him to
have been, at this epoch, fully satisfied with his labors and in the serene
enjoyment of domestic happiness. This period of sweet tranquillity and
studious leisure makes its appearance in his life as a peaceful oasis,
where he was to repose but for a short time, and which he was destined
never to find again. The Archduke Charles had as successor his son
Ferdinand, who, a far better Catholic than he, chose as generalissimo of
his troops the holy Virgin, and made a vow to exting ish heresy in his

estates; the most sim ple means was to drive out the heretics, and it was
that to which he resorted, Kepler, protected by learned Jesuits, who
knew how to appreciate his merit, was treated with an exceptional in-
dulgence. After having been forced to quit Griitz, he was permitted to
return on condition of observing due prudence and reserve. This, we
must conclude, he did not do to a satisfactory degree; for, shortly atter,
he was banished anew, forty-five days being allowed him to sell or rent
the lands of his wife. It was of such acts, doubtless, that a celebrated
historian was thinking when he wrote that, without disturbance and

»

LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 97

without cruelty, Ferdinand succeeded in suppressing the Protestant wor-
ship in Styria.

However this may be, Kepler, thus deprived of the means of subsist-
ence and banished from Sty ria, Where numerous friends had surrounded
him, remained unshaken in his faith. The Counsellor Herwart in vain
proposed to him terms of accommodation; his integrity could not be
made to bend. Kepler, so ingenious in his researches, was by no means
so in paltering with his conscience. Unable to yield his reason to the
Catholic creed, he obstinately refused it his homage. The reasons on
which he based his resolution, equally remote from the weakness which
bends to persecution and the arrogance which braves it, are impressed
with a calm and gentle dignity: “I am a Christian,” he writes to Her-
wart, ‘‘attached to the confession of Augsburg by a thorough examina-
tion of the doctrine, not less than by the instruction of my parents.
That is my faith; I have already suffered for it, and I know not the art
of dissembling. Religion is for mea serious affair, which I cannot treat
with levity.” And he continued, without losing heart, to find a refuge
in science, devoting to it his hours of labor, his ‘studious ratchings, the
ardent yearnings of his enthusiastic intellect. But this could not wholly
preclude the bitter thoughts of exile and of poverty; if little concerned
for himself, he could not help feeling how nearly those afflictions touched
those who were dear to him. ‘TI entreat you,” he writes to Meestlin, “if
there is a place vacant at Tiibingen, contrive to obtain it for me; let me
know,” he adds, ‘the price of bread, of wine, and the necessaries of life,
for my wife has not been accustomed to a diet of beans.” It was under
these trying circumstances that he received from the celebrated Tycho-
Brahé, who had become acquainted with his adversity, a proposition to
unite with him in the astronomical labors with which he had been charged
by the Emperor Rudolph. Kepler did not hesitate, and repaired with
his family to Prague.

Nothing could hav e been more fortunate for astronomy than the union
of Kepler with such a man, whose researches, less brilliant perhaps than
his own, are distinguished, by a laborious precision, which no previous
astronomer had ever carried to the same degree of perfection. Kepler,
himself, seems to have foreseen all its adv antages when, speaking of the
observ ations accumulated by Tycho, he wrote the year previous to
Meestlin: “Tycho is loaded with riches which, like most of the rich, he
makes no use of.” He had practiced observation, in effect, for thirty-
five years, without any preconceived idea, while keeping an exact and
minute register of the phenomena of the heavens. These accumulated
results, without directly disclosing the truth, were admirably calculated
to preserve Kepler from error by fur nishing a solid point of support to
the boldness of his inventive genius, and as a limit established in ad-
vance to prohibit its excesses. Having soon afterwards become, by the
death of Tycho, possessor of the precious materials destined to fertilize
his ideas, he was not slow in perceiving that under the confusion of
those elements, which he might justly compare to the scattered leaves
of the Sibyl, was concealed an eternal and immutable order, and he
sought it duringnine years with the unwearied devotion which triumphs
over discouragement, and with the energy which assures success.

But with a view to proceeding in order, he first directed his attention
to the elimination of a cause of error already indicated by Tycho, and
one with which all the astronomical observations are infected: he stud-
ied the laws of refraction.

Hipparchus relates that twice in the same day he had observed the
sun in the equator, and consequently two equinoxes. From this Ptolemy

78
98 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

simply concludes that one of these observations is erroneous ; but the
same singularity presented itself on different occasions to Tycho, who,
certain of his own skill and of the precision of his instruments, could
not admit such an explanation. He pointed out the true cause in the
refraction of the luminous rays, which, null at the zenith, acquires at
the horizon its greatest value ; consequently, when the sun is, in the morn-
ing, a little below the equator, the yefraction, by elevating its rays, may
produce the impression of the observation of the equinox. Some hours
later, when the sun is nearing the zenith, the refraction is less, and this
cause of depression, compensating for the distance which the sun has
traversed in its orbit, may cause it to be observed anew in the equator.

Pliny cites another contradiction not less palpable, which, while
equally showing the importance of the phenomenon ofrefraction, should
have led the ancient astronomers to make it the subject of their study.
“ An eclipse of the moon,” he says, ‘‘has been observed at the moment
when the sun was still visible above the horizon.” The moon conse-
quently disappeared although the right line which joins its center with
that of the sun appeared not to encounter the earth. The fact is a con-
stant one; it was observed particularly by Meestlin and by Tycho; yet
there is evidently a necessity that the earth, inorder to eclipse the moon
by its shadow, must be placed in a right line between the moon and sun.
It is undeniable, therefore, that the three bodies are really in a right
line at the moment of the eclipse, and the phenomenon must be ex-
plained by the refraction which brings the two luminaries into an appar-
ently simultaneous opposition above the horizon. It will be seen from
these instances how important it is that this cause of error should be
taken into account in the discussion of observations. The Arabian as-
tronomer Alhazen and the Polonese Vitellion were the first to call at-
tention to this point, and Tycho, who thoroughly felt its importance, gave
still later a table of refractions relative to different inclinations.

The difficulty of such an investigation is readily perceived, not to

say that any direct determination isimpossible. Refraction is the angle
for med by the right line which really connects the luminous body with
our eye, and the line resulting from the direction in which it is per-
ceived. Now, of these two directions the second alone is open to actual
observation; the angle which it forms with the other cannot be meas-
ured, and it is necessary to calculate it by an indirect process. The con-
tinuous observation of a star followed from the zenith to the horizor
might give it; the diurnal movement, the laws of which are not contested,
causes the star, in effect, to describe a perfect circle in the heavens, and
knowing at every instant where it ought to be, we may place to the ac
count of refraction the observed irregularities.

The process followed by Tycho is a little different, but he was far from
attaining the object in view; according to him, the refraction of the
light of the stars completely ceases at 20° from the horizon ; that of the
sun, being more considerable, becomes null only at 45°. This is alto-
gether inexact, refraction follows the same laws for all these luminaries,
and becomes null only at the zenith. Kepler, therefore, took up the
question from the beginning, and composed, under the modest title of
Paratipomena ad Vitallionem, a complete treatise of optics. This work,
though containing serious errors, is truly remarkable for the time when
it was composed. We find therein the correct theory of telescopes, ex-
act rules for determining the focal distance of lenses and the augment:
ative powerofan instrument. Here, for the first time, was given an exact
description of the eye and the explanation of its mechanism; it is here,
finally, that we find an explanation of the cinereous light of the moon, at-

LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 99

tributed in a spirit of loyalty to his old master Meestlin. Although en-
tirely misled as to an elementary law of refraction, Kepler has here eal-
culated a table of astronomical refractions, which from the zenith to 76°
does not differ more than 9” from that adopted at present, but in ap-
proaching the horizon the deviations become more considerable. We
recognize in this book the hand of no ordinary artificer; its perusal is
embarrassed by few difficulties, and although in its doctrines tares be
mingled in abundance with the good grain, the student who wishes to
prove all things for himself would still find much to repay his labor.
Descartes, who cites it with honor in his Dioptrics, expressly acknowl-
edged the obligations which he owed to it.

But, while striving to attain the objects which he had proposed to
himself, Kepler, as astronomer to the emperor, could not properly re-
main inattentive to the events which were taking place in the skies.
He wrote, in 1606, a long dissertation on a star which had appeared in
the constellation of the Serpent, and which, after having shone with a
brillianey greater than that of Jupiter, disappeared as mysteriously as
it had come. This phenomenon, strange but not unexampled, caused
a great sensation. ‘If I should be asked, ” said Kepler, “ what will
come to pass; what it is that this apparition forebodes? I shall an-
swer without hesitation: First of all a flood of writings, published by
numerous authors, and much labor for the printers. If I should be ae-
cused of having in my dissertation passed too slightingly over the the-
ological and politic al consequences, I shall reply that my charge i imposes
on me the obligation of promoting astronomy to the best of my ability,
but not of fulfilling the office of public prophet. I am glad of it; if I
had to speak freely of all that passes in Europe and in the church, I
should be much in danger of giving offense to all the world, for as Hor-
ace says,

“ Tliacos intra muros peccatur et extra.”*

One would scarcely suppose on reading these lines that they were
written in 1606!

He proceeds to inquire whence this star could have sprung and of what
matter it was formed; but he does not succeed in solving the question,
and concludes only that the blind force of atoms has nothing to do with
it. Of this opinion also was his wife Barbara; Kepler tells us so in one
of those personal digressions in which he sometimes indulges, and
which are so vivid and sprightly that in reading them we almost seem
to hear and see him, and at the same time are so naturally introduced
that we feel no surprise at finding them mixed up with the serious
thoughts on which he is intent. ‘“ Yesterday,” he says, ‘“ fatigued with
writing and troubled in mind with meditations upon atoms, I was called
to dinner, and my wife placed a salad on the table. Do you think, said
I to her, that if tin-plates, lettuce leaves, grains of salt, drops of oil and
vinegar, and fragments of hard-boiled eggs had been floating in space
ever since the creation, in every direction and without order, chance
could have brought them together to-day to form a salad ?—Not so good
aone, Lam certain, replied my fair spouse, nor so well made as this
oue is.”

The treatise on the new star, which contains thirty chapters, leaves
the reader as ignorant as the author himself was and as we to-day are
of the nature and causes of the catastrophe which, from the presumed

* Trojans and Greeks, seditious, base, unjust,
Offend alike in violence and lust.—FRrancts’s translation.
100 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

distance of the stars, must have been accomplished in the heavens
and have troubled the systems of the cosmos many ages before the
observations of Kepler.

After nine years of efforts prosecuted with an intense application of
mind which sometimes, as he tells us, had tormented him almost to
madness, diu nos torserat ad insaniam, Kepler succeeded in exactly
representing the movement of Mars by two of the laws which have since
been recognized as applicable to the other planets, and which have im-
mortalized his name. His work is entitled: Astronomia nova, seu Physica
celestis, &c. (The new astronomy, or celestial physics, founded on the
study of the movement of Mars, deduced from the observations of Tycho-
Brahé.) The preface, addressed to the Emperor Rudolph, furnishes a
curious example of the spirit of the epoch, even more than of the genius
of Kepler:

‘“T bring to your Majesty,” he says, “‘ a noble prisoner, a trophy of an
arduous and long doubtful war, prosecuted under your auspices. Nor
do I fear that he will refuse or scorn the name of captive, since it is not
the first time that he has borne it; long ago, as we are informed, the ter-
rible god of war fell ingloriously into the toils spread for him by Vulcan.
Yet, until now, none had more completely triumphed over all human
stratagems; it was in vain that the astronomers prepared every thing
for the struggle; in vain that they brought all their resources into action
and marshalled all their forces. Mars, mocking at their attempts, dis-
concerted their plans and baffled their hopes. Withdrawn in an im-
penetrable secrecy, he succeeded in veiling his skillful evolutions from
hostile observation. The ancients complained of this deceptive strategy
more than once, and that indefatigable explorer of the mysteries of
nature, Pliny, pronounced Mars inscrutable to human eye.

‘‘ For myself, I ought first of all to extol the activity and pertinacity of
the valiant chieftain Tycho-Brahé, who, under the auspices of the Dan-
ish sovereigns, Frederick and Christian, studied every night for twenty
years the procedures of the enemy, in order to discover the plans of the
campaign and the secret of his movements. The observations be-
queathed to me by my predecessor have aided me in dispelling that
vague and indefinite apprehension which is at first felt in the presence
of a mysterious foe.

‘During the uncertainties of the contest how many disasters have
desolated our camp! The loss of an illustrious chieftain, sedition and
desertion among the troops, contagious maladies, all contributed to aug-
ment our distress. Domestic solace and suffering alike interfered with
business ; a new enemy, as I have reported in my book on the late evan-
escent star, precipitated himself on the rear of our army; the veterans
withdrew, the new recruits were untrained, and, worst of all, provisions
were exhausted. Finally, however, the enemy became reconciled to
peace, and by the mediation of his mother, Nature, sent me the avowal
of his defeat. He surrendered on his parole, and Arithmetic and Geo-
metry escorted him into our camp. From that time he has shown that
he can be entirely trusted, and, content with his lot, asks but one favor
of your majesty. All his family is in the sky; Jupiter is his father,
Saturn his grandsire, Mereury his brother, and Venus his bosom friend
and sister. Accustomed to their august society he is ardently desirous of
recovering it, and would wish that like himself they were all received into
your majesty’s common hospitality. To that end it is important to profit
by our success and to pursue the war with vigor; its hazards are at an
end, since Mars is in our power. But I entreat your majesty to remeim-
ber that money constitutes the nerves of war, and to be pleased to order
LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 101

your treasurer to deliver to your general the sums necessary for the
levy of new troops.”

In commencing the study of the movements of Mars, it was incumbent
on Kepler to ascertain with precision the time of its revolution, which
was not unknown to Tycho, nor even to Ptolemy, who had caleulated it
with nearly equal exactness. It is a problem, in fact, which, notwith-
standing its apparent difficulties, is of easy solution. The imaginary
right line, called the radius vector, which connects the fixed center of
the sun with the movable center of the planet, may be compared to the
hand of a clock, and the time occupied in traversing its vast dial is the
time of the revolution of Mars; the radius vector which unites the earth
with the sun may be regarded as a shorter hand than the preceding
and as turning in the same direction. The movement of the latter is
well known; it makes its circuit ina year. Suppose, now, though it
be not absolutely exact, that the planes of the two orbits coincide; in
other terms that the two hands, of unequal length, move on the same dial-
plate. Placed as we are at the extremity of the smaller, it is easy for
us to note its coincidences with the greater, and the astronomers who
attentively observe the sun and the planet Mars will be able to say at
what moment we are on the line which unites them. It has been long
known that these oppositions of Mars and the sun, or, what amounts to
the same thing, the coincidences of the two hands of the dial, take place
on a mean every 795 days. The longer hand, therefore, makes in 795
days one circuit less than the shorter ; and as the movement of the latter
is known to us, the tyro in astronomy can deduce therefrom the move-
ment, assumed to be uniform ; that is to say, the mean movement of the

other. It is thus that the period of the revolution of Mars has been
found equal to 687 days.

This result being well known to Kepler, he conceived the idea of col-
lating, in the observations of Tycho, those which differed precisely by
that number of days, and for which, consequently, Mars, after having
accomplished a circuit, had returned to the same point of its course.
He thus very ingeniously eluded the difficulty, apparently insurmount-
able, which results from its continual displacement in space. The two
positions of the earth in its orbit being known through the previous
study which had been made of its movement, the line which unites them
becomes the base, at the two extremities of which the inquirer is con-
sidered as placed for the observation of a planet, which, having returned
to the same position, may be regarded as motionless. One of the posi-
tions of Mars will thus be found with the date of two epochs, separated
by an interval of 687 days, on which it has arrived at that place. By
interposing other observations separated from the first by a period of
two or three revolutions of the planet, the same result will be obtained,
a result which furnishes a means of verifying the calculations, and at
the same time, what is still more valuable, a contirmation of the hypoth-
esis adopted for the law of the movement of the earth.

Encouraged by this first success, Kepler recommenced the operation
a great number of times, following the planet step by step, in order, so
to say, to stake out its course through space; but how many points are
needed to determine the geometric nature of a curve? Rigorous geom-
etry answers that, however great the number, it will not sutiice, and
that by any given "points an infinite number of distinct curves of very
different properties may always be made to pass; it is for this reason
that so many tables admirably precise obtained by physicists have never
been found susceptible, notwithstanding their efforts, of being converted
into mathematical laws. The uncertainty and incompetence of science
102 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

in presence of such a problem require that patience should come to the
aid of genius. Kepler attempted at first the verification of the hypo-
theses previously admitted, by seeking to place all his pvints on the
same circle; but his efforts were futile; his calculations left errors of
seven to eight minutes subsisting, and he proved that no better could
be done. Bight minutes seem but a small matter; it is about a fourth
of the apparent diameter of the sun; but it is in astronomy especially
that it may be said with truth: He who despises small things shall fall by
little and little. Kepler knew it, and this little error, which he was
unwilling to accept, became considerable by its consequences. “The
Divine Goodness,” he says, ‘has given us in Tycho an observer so exact
that an error of eight minutes is impossible. ” The hypothesis of a cir-
cular orbit was therefore in: admissible; but Kepler does not on that
account despair of victory, nor is his confidence at all shaken. He
fancies that, like the wanton Galatea (in Virgil,) Mars flies to covert,
but in hiding wishes not to escape unseen: .
Et fugit ad salices, et se cupit ante videri.

This is the first line of his fifty-eighth chapter.

After numerous attempts and laborious calculations, Kepler at last
found that an elliptical orbit satisfies all the observations of Tycho;
then it was that, as he, expresses himself in his preface, he regarded
Mars as a prisoner on parole. In a position thenceforth to interrogate
the captive at leisure, he continued to press the inquiry more closely,
by marking the places which the new theory indicated for the future,
and he had the satisfaction of seeing the planet, punctual to the appoint.
ments which he had fixed, respond, so to say, to his summons, as the
stars reply to their Creator in the book of Baruch, which La Fontaine
so much admired: You have called me; behold, I am here!

This complete and persistent conformity furnished the irresistible
evidence of the two celebrated laws which he couid at length announce
with certainty: Mars describes an ellipsis of which the sun occupies a
focus. The areas described by the radius vector are proportional to
the time.

But our statement of the great discovery of Kepler would be incom-
plete did we not particularize two remarkable circumstances which,
coming fortuitously to the aid of his penetration, conducted him with
more facility to the goal from which they might otherwise have turned
him aside.

The movement of the earth, the presumed knowledge of which had
served as a basis for all his caleulations, was theoretically as imperfectly
known as that of Mars. The circle in which he makes our planet move
should be replaced by an ellipsis; but this ellipsis fortunately differs
from a cirele in a sufficiently small degree to render the substitution of
one for the other a matter of indifference for the rate of approximation
to be adopted. Had it been otherwise, the method would have become
inexact, and the numbers, by contradicting one another, would have
warned and discouraged the accurate and conscientious inquirer. The
second circumstance, still more remarkable, perhaps, was the impertec-
tion of the methods of observation and of the instruments of Tycho.
Kepler might affirm, it is true, that an error of eight minutes was
impossible, and this confidence saved everything; had he said as much
of an error of eight seconds, all would have been lost. The internal
organ of judgment, to use an expression of Goethe, would have ceased
to “be in harmony with the external organ of sight, become too delicate
and too precise.
LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 103

Kepler had, in fact, deceived himself by regarding the important
advantage obtained over the refractory and stubborn planet, as one of
those decisive victories which forever terminate the contest; the great
laws to which he had given expression, eternally true as they are within
due limits, are not rigorous and mathematical. Numerous perturba-
tions cause Mars incessantly to deviate from his path, and release him
from time to time from the frail bonds in which the exulting calculator
thought him entangled forever. For those, it is true, who are enabled
to penetrate more deeply, the irregularities in question, once explained
and foreseen, brilliantly confirm the theory of attraction which they
both enlarge ‘and elucidate; but the premature knowledge of those per-
turbations, a necessary consequence of more precise observations, would
perhaps, by involving the truth in inextricable embarrassments, have
retarded for a long time the progress of celestial nechanics. Kepler
would then have been forced, since the elliptical orbit must have been
rejected on the same grounds with the circular, to seek by direct means
the laws of the disturbed movement, at the risk of exhausting, against
insuperable obstacles, all the resources of his penetration and the
obstinacy of his patience.

Kepler now conceived the idea of penetrating more deeply into the
mysteries of nature and discovering the cause of the movements whose
laws he had revealed. After havi ing destroyed forever the old error of
obligatory circular orbits, he announced the simple and true principle
on which rests to-day all rational mechanics: the natural movement
of a body is always rectilinear; but unfortunately he adds: ‘* Pro-
vided there be not a soul which directs it,” and this restriction mars
everything. Nego ullum motum perennam non rectum a Deo conditum esse,
presidio mentali destitutum. There needs, ace ording to this principle, an
unceasing force to conduct the planet in its cur ved or bit, and this force
resides in the sun. Kepler afiirms this expressly: Solis igitur corpus esse
fontem virtutis que planetas omnes circumagit. It is the doctrine ot
Newton, or to speak more generally, it is truth.

Admirers of Kepler have seen in the two phrases just quoted one of
his highest titles to renown. On this point I cannot agree with them.
Impatient of the mystery of the planetary movements, Kepler has here
not been faithful to the inspirations of his genius; uncertain and irres-
olute, he has attempted on the contrary all kinds of explanations with-
out adopting and vindicating any one ‘of them, and when the true idea
crossed his mind, he was not able to appreciate or employ it.

After having said that the cause of the movement is in the body of
the sun, he supposes that the rotation of that orb is transmitted to the
planets and impels them; he introduces, further, a magnetic force de-
pending on the direction of the axis of the body thus impelled. Views
of an extremely vague kind on the nature of attraction lead him more-
over to believe that it is inversely proportional to the distance, and it
has been remarked that with a very slight modification, his reasoning
would have conducted him to the true law. That does not hinder him
from believing that the planet, being sometimes nearer to the sun, some-
times more distant from it, must be alternately attracted and repelled.
With a contradiction which shows beyond all else the uncertainty of his
ideas, he asks whether the planet, comprising its force within itself, is
not endowed with an active principle which guides as well as moves it,
and without going so far as to accord to it the faculty of reasoning, he
bestows upon it a soul, which, instructed as to the route it must follow
for preserving the e ternal order of the universe, directs and maintains
it therein with unflagging power and exhaustless energy. But how,
104 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

upon this hypothesis, does the planet succeed in recognizing its path ?
The expression of its velocity necessarily includes sines, and admitting
even that this soul has a perception of angles, by what mysterious
operation, he asks, could it calculate the sines of those angles? Reeur-
ring, finally, to the idea of a magnetic attraction, he is apprehensive of
a conflict between the magnetic power and the ‘animal power. These
confused reveries in which the genius of Kepler involves itself, make
us involuntarily think of the words we have cited: ‘ Torquebar pane ad
insaniam ;” they add nothing to his glory; it imports little that inter-
polated among these opinions, which are so many errors, he has for once
announced the truth without founding it upon solid reasons. When a
traveler seeks his way in the darkness. of a rayless night, and hesitating
at every step, exclaims anxiously from time to time: Perhaps itis there!
shall we praise his sagacity because he has happened for once to guess
right and has then passed on?

‘It would be unjust, therefore, to claim for Kepler the discovery of
universal attraction, but there is no room for surprise at this. Mechan-
ics, scarcely in its infancy, did not enable him, however clear-sighted,
to test his ideas on motive forces and to transform them into precise:
and calculated theories; the labors of Galileo and of Huyghens were
necessary to prepare even Newton for this, his immortal achievement.

The studies and meditations of Kepler were often interrupted and
constantly troubled by chagrins and embarrassments of every kind.
The heirs of Tycho were entitled to a share in the property of the as-
tronomic tables which Kepler had promised; they complained of his
deferring their publication while he occupied his time with researches
in physies and with empty speculations, while the celebrated astron-
omer Longomontanus constituted himself the organ of their reproaches
and unjust suspicions. Ina letter, at the outset of which he still treats
Kepler as a learned man and a friend of long standing, he accuses him
of indulging an immoderate zeal in the refutation of the theories of Tycho,
of allowing himself to be diverted from the occupations of his office by
the passion for criticising everything, and of breaking, by attacking the
works of his friends, the ties of affection which bound them to him. “If
my engagements had permitted,” says Longomontanus, ‘I would have
gone to Prague expressly to have an explanation with you; but,” he
adds with i increasing acrimony, “of what, after all, my dear Kepler, do
you so much vaunt yourself? All your researches rest on bases estab-
lished by Tycho, in which you have changed nothing. You may per-
suade the ignorant, but cease to maintain absurdities before those who
thoroughly understand the matter. You do not fear to compare the
works of Tycho to the muck of the Augean stables, and, like another
Hercules, announce yourself ready to cleanse them; but no one is
deceived thereby or prefers you to our great astronomer. Your arro-
gance disgusts all sensible people.”

Accusations so remote from truth could not wound Kepler. He
despised all this empty objurgation which re-echoed around him... A
few notes on the margin of the letter from Longomontanus show in
what estimation our philosopher held it. << Pretty abuse,” he writes ;
and again, ‘decent phrases, if you please, to disguise your spleen.”
His reply, in which he declines a useless discussion, display s unbounded
kindliness; it enables us to discern the serenity of his mind and moder.
ation of his character. ‘At the moment when I received your militant
epistle, peace had long been made with the son-in-law of Ty cho. You
and I would resemble, in quarreling, Portuguese and E nglish vessels
which should fight in the Indies when peace was alre ady ratified at
LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 105

home. . . . . You blame my manner of accusing and refuting. I
yield the point, though I do not think that I have deserved your re-
proaches. From you, my friend, there is no reproof which I do not
accept. I regret that you did not come to Prague; I would have
explained my theories, and you would have returned, I trust, fully satis-
fied. You jeer me. So be it; let us laugh together. But why accuse
me of comparing the works of Tycho w ith the 1 muck-heaps of Augeas ?
You had not my letters under your eye; you would have seen that they
contained nothing of the kind. The name of Augeas has found a lodg-
ment only in your own imagination. Ido not dishonor my é stronomical
labors by scurrilities.” And in concluding: ‘* Adieu,” he says; “ write
to me as soon as possible, to the end that I may know that my letter
has changed your feelings in regard to me.”

The peace with the heirs of Tycho, was but a brief truce; they
addressed themselves to the Emperor himself; but Rudolph, though
incapable as Emperor and King, had an enlightened and sincere love
for the sciences, and put aside all these importunate cavilings. Sur-
rounded, however, with enemies and rebels, the Emperor of Germany
could scarce pay his astronomer some light installments on the con-
siderable amount which he had fixed as his salary, and Kepler, in order
to support his family, was compelled to accept labor of every sort, to
make almanacs, calculate horoscopes, and place his erudition at the
service of every one who could pay for it.

After the death of Rudolph, his successor, Matthias, less favorable
to science and not less embarrassed by the incurable divisions which
distracted the empire, entirely abandoned the observatory of Prague,
so that its labors were interrupted through the failure of the most in-
dispensable supplies. Kepler was constrained to relinquish employ-
ments which no longer yielded him even bread, and to accept the fune-
tions of professor at the University of Linz. It was in this city that
he lost his wife, Barbara. Not long afterward, in order, he said, to give
a mother to his three children, but without atlecting to have m: ide by
doing so any great sacrifice on their account, he married again. After
having compared with much care and subtlety of discrimination, as we
see in one of his letters, the merits and attractions of eleven young per-
sons commended to him by his friends, he espoused Susannah Reut-
linger, orphan daughter of a simple artisan, who had been carefully
educated in one of the most distinguished boarding-schools of the
country. ‘Her beauty, her habits, her form,” he writes, “‘ everything
about her suits me. Patient and industrious, : she will know how to
conduct a modest household, and, though not in her first youth, she is
of an age to learn all that may ’be wanting. ” This marriage was the
oceasion of an important work, in which Kepler shows by a hew example
that his genius, in its cor prehensive survey, embraced all the depart-
ments of science. “As I was about to be married, ” he says in the pre-
face, “and the vintage was abundant and wine che: ap, it was incumbent
on a good father of a family to make provision thereof and replenish
his cellar. Having therefore bought several casks, the vintner, a few
days after, made his appearance with a view to ascertain the price by
me asuring their capacity, and, without making any calculation, plunged
an iron rod into each cask and at once pronounced its contents. ” * Kep-
ler then recalls that on the banks of the Rhine, doubtless because wine
is there more costly, the trouble is taken of emptying the barrel in order
to count exactly the number of quarts it contains. Is the much more
expeditious method practiced in Austria sufficiently exact? ‘This is
a@ question,” says Kepler, ‘‘the study of which is not unworthy of a
106 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

geometer newly married;” and, to solve it, he proceeds to discuss pro
blems of geometry which may be accounted among the most difficult
which had been till then undertaken. A singular consequence deduced
is the following:

‘* Under the influence of a good genius who was, no doubt, a geometer,
the constructors of casks have given them precisely the form which, for
a line of the same length as that measured by the gaugers, affords the
greatest possible ¢ capacity ; and, as in the neighborhood of the maximum
the variations are insensible, small accidental deviations exert no appre-
ciable influence on the capacity, the expeditious measurement of which
is consequently sufficiently exact.” This idea respecting maxima, thrown
out in passing, but in such absolute terms, by Kepler, received its devel-
opment twenty years later from Fermat, of whom it is one of the titles
to honor.

Kepler adds: *“* Who will deny that nature alone, without aay process
of reasoning, can teach geometry, when our coopers, guided only by their
eyes and an instinctive sense of ‘the becoming, are ‘thus seen to ‘divine
the form which best comports with an exact measurement?” In con-
formity, at the same time, with his habit of mingling reminiscences of
the classic poets with his scientific labors, he terminates this treatise
on the Art of measuring casks with two verses, imitated from Catullus,
which, freely translated, signify that, when indulging in conviviality,
we should not count the glasses:

Ht quum pocula mille mensi erimus,
Conturbabimus illa, ne sciamus.

This very learned work could be of no assistance to Kepler in the
support of his family, becoming every year more numerous; he was
living, therefore, with great economy and amid continual anxieties for
the future, when afflictions still more poignant came to embitter his
latter years. A letter from his sister apprised him that their mother, at
the advanced age of seventy, had just been cast into prison on an accu-
sation of the crime of sorcery. Ineensed at the impertinent absurdity
of the questions addressed to her by the judge of instruction, Catharine
Kepler had aggravated her position by becoming accuser in turn, and
scornfully reproaching the magistrate with his abuse of office in the
acquisition of sudden wealth. Unhappily, public opinion held her guilty,

and without any precise allegation overwhelmed her with the odium of

all the calamities of the vicinage; especially was general horror excited
when the fact was established ‘that she never looked any one in the face

and had never been seen to shed a tear. These signs of malignity, it is
true, were not conclusive, but as the judges, in impeachments of this
kind, were absolved from the ordinary restraints and had no fear before
their eyes but that of seeming too lenient, the usage was to extort by
torture such confessions as would conduct the victim to the stake.
Kepler hastened to the scene, and for five years of cruel apprehensions
struggled unceasingly for the safety of his mother. Not all the prestige
of his renown, however, nor his earnestness in demonstrating that
‘‘these tests of patience rather than of truth,” as Montaigne expressed
it, involve the judge in a deeper condemnation than that which he pro-
nounces, could avail to hinder the instruments of torture from being
exhibited to the aged Catharine, their uses explained to her, and their
application threatened if her obstinate silence could not be otherwise
overcome. But nothing could shake her constancy; she declared her-
self ready to suffer everything, and her lofty and resigned bearing saved

her finally from the punishment, but not from the “disgrace, which of

course was reflected painfully on her son.

—— a ee
LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 107

- During these times of trouble and disorder all Germany, agitated, as
it were, by a violent storm, seemed little else than a theater for the evo-
lution of armies and the calamities which accompany them. One of the
most terrible contests which history records, the war of thirty years,
spread desolation and the contagion of deadly maladies through all the
provinces. In this cruel extremity Kepler, who to assist his mother had
renounced the functions of professor, was plunged in an ever-increasing
destitution, against which his ardent spirit struggled without respite.
But a last affliction was in reserve for him: he lost a daughter of the
age of seventeen years. It was now that, bearing up against these dis-
tresses, he sought refuge in those serene regions into which the troubles
of earth do not penetrate, and, casting aside the importunate burden of
obligatory or lucrative labors, devoted all his thoughts to the composi-
tion of a work which, as he tells us, yielded him more pleasure than all
its readers together could -experience in its perusal. Those infinite
Spaces which surround us, whose eternal silence dismayed the sceptical
reason of Pascal, possessed, in the harmonious diversity of movements
which they accomplish, an inexhaustible attraction for the mystical im-
agination of Kepler; and as he thought that he had long heard in the
depth of his soul the perpetual chorus of the mysterious voices of nature,
he endeavored to give it utterance in the strange work entitled, “ Har-
monices mundi, libri quingue,” Five books of the harmony of the world.

He first studies, geometrically, many regular figures, and the analyt-
ical views to which he is led would have sufficed, as one of our most
distinguished colleagues has said, to preserve the work from oblivion.
He reduces his problem to an equation, and interprets with exactness all
its solutions. This, and nothing more, is regarded as within the scope
of science at the present day; but such a result does not satisfy Kepler.
“It is proved,” he says, “that the sides of regular polygons must ne-
cessarily remain unknown, being, from their nature, undiscoverable.
Nor is there anything surprising in the fact that what occurs in the arch-
etype of the world cannot be expressed in the conformation of its parts.”
Proceeding afterward to the consideration of human music, and recalling
the idea of Pythagoras, who, we are told, compared the planets to the
seven chords of the lyre, he aims to show how man, imitating the Cre-
ator, by a natural instinct is led, as regards the notes of his voice, to
make the same choice and observe the same proportion which God has
seen fit to introduce into the general harmony of the celestial move-
ments; the same thought of the Creator being thus translated into all
his designs, of which one may serve as the interpreter and figure for
another.

Seeking harmonies wherever they are possible, Kepler devotes a
chapter to politics: “‘ Cyrus,” he says, “having seen in childhood a man
of tall stature clothed in short tunic, and near him a dwarf habited ina
long and flowing robe, was of opinion that they should exchange gar-
ments in order that each might have what suited his size; but his
master pronounced that each should be left in possession of what be-
longed to him. The two opinions might be reconciled by decreeing that
the first should, after the exchange, give to the dwarf a certain sum of
money. very one,” adds Kepler, ‘clearly sees by this example that a
geometric proportion may be harmonic, such is 1, 2, 4, or the beneficial
arrangement which gives to the tallest the longest robe. An arithmet-
ical proportion may also be harmonic: such is 2, 3, 4, or the useful ex-
change which allows not the dwarf, possessing a long robe, to lose his
property, but enables him to change it into money which he may apply
to a better purpose.”
108 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

This passage, which I transiate as closely as pessible, and I need not
say without well comprehending its meaning, will suffice, I think, to
give an idea of the chapter on politics. The last chapter of the work is
oceupied in determining precisely the nature of the planetary concords.
Saturn and Jupiter constitute the bass, Mars the tenor, Venus the con-
tralto, and Mercury the falsetto.

These obscure and chimerical ideas, in which the mind of Kepler
wearies and loses itself, seem the profitless and vain amusement of an
imagination released from the control of reason; we read on with sad-
ness, without venturing to sound the mysterious depths of that great
intellect led, by an inspiration without light, into the pure domain of
phantasy. But in the last pages of the book the genius of the inspired
dreamer awakens of a sudden to dictate to him those bold and august
expressions which have become not less immortal than the discovery
which they herald:

‘“‘Kight months since,” he says, “I had a glimpse of the first ray of
light; six months since I saw the dawn; a few days ago only did the
sun arise in its transcendent glory.. I give myself up to my enthusiasm,
and venture to brave my fellow-mortals by the ingenuous avowal that
I have stolen the golden vessels of the Egyptians in order to raise a
tabernacle to my God far from the confines of Egypt. If I am par-
doned I shall rejoice at it; if it is made a reproach to me I shall bear
it; the die is cast. I write my book; whether it be read by the present
age or by posterity imports little; it may well await a reader; has not
God waited six thousand years for an observer of his works?”

Then, recurring to the precise language of science, he announces the
celebrated law which, binding together all the elements of our system,
connects the greater axes of the planetary orbits with the time of their
revolutions. Nothing can be more unexpected than this vivid light,
which seems to spring out of chaos; the astonished reader asks himself
how it is that these precise rules and mathematical proportions appear
all of a sudden in a world which Kepler seems to have been traversing
as in a dream; how such abrupt clearness succeeds such profound ob-
security, such pure melody the uncertain harmonies which precede it.
There is nothing to-day to inform us. Kepler announces his law; verifies
it, without communicating to us, as was his wont, the history of his
ideas; and then, transported with the full and entire possession of one
of the secrets longest and most ardently sought, he breaks forth into
raptures of thanksgiving, and, not content with the common language
of humanity, borrows the majestic symphonies of the Psalmist: “The
wisdom of the Lord is infinite, so also are His glory and His power. Ye
heavens, sing His praises! Sun, moon, and planets, glorify Him in your
ineffable language! Celestial harmonies, and all ye who comprehend
His marvelous works, praise Him! And thou, my soul, praise thy Cre-
ator! It is by Him and in Him that all exists. That which we know not
is comprised in Him, as well as our vain science. To Him be praise,
honor, and glory throughout eternity!”

And in a note not less animated, and more touching, perhaps, than
the text, he adds: “Glory also to my old master, Meestlin!”

The Emperor Matthias was dead. His successor was his nephew
Ferdinand, of Austria, whose pious energy, intent on extirpating the
Protestant worship in Styria, had, twenty years before, troubled the life
of Kepler. His zeal had not relaxed, and the persecution was rekindled
with inereasing violence: “Whither shall I betake myself?” writes
Kepler to a friend. ‘Should I seek a province already devastated, or
one of those which will not fail soon to be so?” He had fortunately

—— << )
LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER. 109

preserved his friendly relations with the most distinguished of the
Jesuits, and, as their influence over the mind of Ferdinand was un-
bounded, they managed, when Wallenstein was named duke of Fried-
land, to have an article introduced into the decree which might secure
Kepler’s safety by attaching him to the duke’s service; it was also stip-
ulated that the arrears of his salary as imperial astronomer should be
paid out of the revenues of the duchy. But new difficulties soon arese:
the gentle-spirited and affectionate Kepler, separated from his wife and
children, could not become reconciled to the tumult and disorder of the
camps. Little fitted for the calling of a courtier, he was deficient in
the assiduity and pliancy necessary to win the favor of a haughty and
imperious master, whose protection was but a disguised servitude.
Wallenstein, seeing with extreme impatience the little faith reposed in
the language of the stars by him whom he considered as his astrologer,
did not long defer the dismissal of Kepler, replacing him by the Vene-
tian, Seni, whose delusive and accommodating science flattered, to the
last, the presumptuous ambition of a soldier who, as Schiller says,
“could searcely tolerate that his will was not authoritative even in the
skies.”

Kepler feared not, in his weakness, to dare the resentment of the all-
powerful man who had imposed his laws on the Emperor himself; he
demanded with pertinacity the payment of the sum stipulated in the
imperial decree; but his strength was exhausted in vain in the numerous
journeys rendered necessary by the prosecution of his claim, and he
died at Ratisbon, in 1629, at the age of fifty-eight years.

By the union of the most opposite qualities, Kepler occupies in the
history of science an altogether exceptional place. By evineing, from
his first steps in the study of astronomy, the presumptuous hope of
deciphering the enigma of nature, and of elevating himself by pure
reasoning to a knowledge of the esthetic views of the Creator, he
seemed at first to wander with an insensate audacity, and without find-
ing soundings or shore, over that vast and agitated ocean where Des-
cartes, pursuing the same object, was destined soon to lose himself
beyond retrieval; but, in the ardent and sincere aspirations of his soul
toward truth, if the curiosity of Kepler disquiets and impels him, it
never delivers him over to the blindness of self-conceit. Regarding as
certain only what had been demonstrated, he was always ready to cor-
rect his determinations by the sacrifice of his most cherished discoveries
as soon as a severe and laborious examination refused to confirm them ;
but what sublime emotions, what utterances of enthusiasm and exulta-
tion, when success has justified his temerity, and by persistent efforts
he has attained his end! The noble pride which elevates and sometimes
inflates his language has nothing in common with the vain-glorious
satisfaction of a vulgar discoverer. Confident and daring when he is
seeking, Kepler becomes modest and simple when what he seeks is
found, and, in the transports of triumph, it is to God alone that he
ascribes the praise. His soul, equally comprehensive and exalted, was
without ambition as without vanity; he coveted neither the honors nor
applause of men; affecting no superiority over the cultivators of sci-
ence, obscure as they now are, to whom his correspondence is addressed,
he never ceases to express the same respectful deference for the aged
Meestlin, whose sole glory in our eyes is that of having formed such a
disciple. When, after having mastered his greatest discoveries, it be-
came necessary for him to descend every day from the most exalted
contemplations to struggle with the vulgar necessities of life, he never
complained at seeing his merit overlooked or disputed, and always
110 LIFE AND WORKS OF KEPLER.

accepted unaffectedly, without murmuring or repining, the labors and
employments, whatever they might be, which would aid him in the
sustenance of his family.

The laws of Kepler are the solid and impregnable foundation of modern
astronomy, the immutable and eternal rule of the displacement of the
heavenly bodies in space; no other discovery, perhaps, has better justi-
fied the words of the sage: He who increases knowledge increases labor ;
no other has given birth to more numerous researches and greater dis-
coveries; but the long and laborious route which led to it is ‘known but
to the few. None of the numerous writings of Kepler are regarded as
classical; his renown alone will be immorta! ; it is written in the heay-
ens; the progress of science can neither diminish nor obscure it, and
the planets, by the always constant succession of their regular move-
ments, will proclaim it from age to age.

[Notr.—Nothing is wanting to the completeness of the above memoir; but, having
been addressed in the first instance to an assemblage of men of science, the learned
author has probably thought it superfluous to give so distinct and formal a statement
of the three laws, as they are called, of Kepler, (Regule Kepleri,) as it may be convenient
for the general reader to have beneath his eye. For this reason, the following brief
exposition of those celebrated astronomical axioms is here transcribed from the Eney-
clopedia Americana.—Tr.

“ The first of these laws is that the planets do not move, as Copernicus had imagined,
in circles, but in ellipses, of which the sun is in one of the foci. For this, Kepler was
indebted to the observations which Tycho had made on the planet Mars, whose eccen-
tricity is considerable, and agrees particularly with the rule; in determining which
Kepler went through an indescribably laborious analysis. The second law is, that an
imaginary straight line from the sun to the planets, radius vector, always de scribes
equal sectors in ‘equal times. By this rule Kepler calculated his tables, imagining the
whole plane of revolution divided into a number of such sectors, and, from this, he
investigated their respective angles at the sun. This was called Kepler’ 8 ’ problem. The
third law teaches that, in the motion of the planets, the squares of the times of revo-
lution are as the cubes of the mean distances from the sun; one instance of the appli-

cation of which law, in the want of other means, is in the determination of the distance
of the planet Herschel from the sun, it having been ascer tained that its time of revolu-
tion amounts to a little more than eighty-two years.”

EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

By M. ARAGO.

READ AT A PUBLIC SITTING OF THE ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, NOVEMBER
26, 1832.

[The previous eulogies which have been published in the appendix to the Smithsonian
report, have been translated for the Institution from the original French. The follow-
ing eulogy, however, is reprinted from a translation by the late Baden Powell, pro-
fessor of natural philosophy in the university of Oxford.—J. H.]

GENTLEMEN: It seems as if death, who is incessantly thinning our
ranks, directed his stroke with a fatal predilection against that class of
our body, so limited in number, our foreign associates. In a short space
of time the Academy has lost, from the lists of its members, Herschel,
whose bold ideas on the structure of the universe have acquired every
year more of probability; Piazzi, who, on the first day of the present
century, presented our solar system with a new planet; Watt, who, if
not the inventor of the steam-engine, the inventor having been a
Frenchman,* was at least the creator of so many admirable con-
trivances by the aid of which the little instrument of Papin has become
the most ingenious, the most useful, the most powerful means of apply-
ing industry; Volta, who has been immortalized by his electric pile;
Davy, equally celebrated for the decomposition of the alkalies and for
the invaluable safety-lamp of the miner; Wollaston, whom the English
called the Pope, because he never proved fallible in any of his numerous
experiments, or of his subtile theoretical speculations; Jenner, lastly,
whose discovery I have no need to extol in the presence of fathers of
families. To pay to such of its distinguished ornaments the legitimate
tribute of the regret, of the admiration, and of the gratitude of all
men devoted to study, is one of the principal duties which the Academy
imposes on those whom it invests with the responsible honor of speak-
ing in its name in these solemn meetings. To pay this grand debt, with
the least possible delay, seems an obligation not less imperative. Gen-
tlemen, the native Academician always leaves behind him, among the
colleagues with whom he has been united by the election of the Academy,
many confidants of his secret thoughts, of the origin and course of his
researches, of the vicissitudes which he has gone through. The foreign
associate, on the contrary, resides far away from us; he rarely joins in
our meetings; we know nothing of his life, his habits, his character,
unless from the reports of travelers. When several years have passed
over such fugitive documents, if we still find any traces of them, we
cannot reckon on their accuracy. Literary intelligence which has not

found a record in print is a sort of coin the circulation of which alters

* This is not the place to enter on the controversy respecting the invention of the
steam-engine. It may, however, be remarked that we may be well content to allow it
to remain a question of degree. Every tea-kettle is a steam-engine. A very slight and
obvious contrivance will enable steam to raise a piston. Let any one define what he
means precisely by the term steam-engine, and the question of priority of invention
will be easily settled.—TRANSLATOR.
te EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

at the same time the impression, the weight, and the inscription.
These reflections tend to show why the names of such men as Herschel,
Davy, or Volta ought to be mentioned in our assemblies before those
of many celebrated Academicians whom death has snatched from our
more immediate circle. Moreover, I hope that after what I shail be
able to adduce, even in a few minutes, no one will be able to deny that
the man of universal science, whose life I am about to describe, and
whose labors I shall analyze, has some real claims to preference.

BIRTH OF YOUNG—HIS CHILDHOOD—FIRST ENTRANCE ON HIS SCIEN-
TIFIC CAREER.

Thomas Young was born at. Milverton, in the county of Somerset,
June 13, 1773, of parents who belonged to the Society of Friends. He
passed his earliest years at the house of his maternal grandfather, Mr.
Robert Davies, of Minehead, whom the active business of commerce
had not been able to divert from the cultivation of classical literature.
Young could read fluently at the age of two years. His memory was
extraordinary. In the intervals of his attendance at the house of a
village schoolmistress in the neighborhood of Minehead, at four years
old, he had learned by heart a number of English authors, and even
several Latin poems, which he could repeat from beginning to end, al-
though he did not understand a word of the language. The example
of Young, like many others ot celebrity recorded by biographers, may,
then, contribute to keep up the common prepossession of so many good
fathers of families, who see in certain lessons, according as they may be
recited without faults on the one hand, or are badly, learned on the
other, infallible indications of an eternal ‘mediocrity in the one case, or
the beginning of a glorious career in the other. It would, indeed, be
far from our object if these historical notices should tend to strengthen
such prejudices. Thus, without wishing to weaken the vivid and pure
emotions which every year the distribution of prizes excites, we may
remind some, in order that they may not abandon themselves to dreams
which they w rill not realize, and other rs, in order to fortify them against
discouragement, that Picus de Mirandola, the phenix of learners of all
ages and countries, became in mature age an insignificant writer; that
Newton, that powerful intellect of whom Voltaire in some well-known
lines asks the angels whether they are not jealous—the great Newton,
we observe, made but indifferent progress in the classes of his school;
that study had for him no attractions; that the first time he felt the
wish to labor, it was merely to take the place of a turbulent school-
fellow who, by reason of his rank in the school, was seated ona form above
him and annoyed him by kicks; that at the age of twenty-two he was
a candidate tor a fellowship at Cambridge, and was beaten by one Robert
Uvedale, whose name but for this circumstance would have remained
to this day perfectly unknown; that. Fontenelle, lastly, was more inge-
nious than exact when he applied to Newton the words of Lucan, “Ttis
not given to men to see the Nile feeble and at its source.”

At the age of six years Young entered under a teacher at Bristol,*
whose mediocrity was a fortunate circumstance for him. ‘This, gentle-
men, is no paradox; the pupil, not being able to accommodate himself to
the slow and limited steps which his master took, became bis own in-
structor. It is thus that those brilliant qualities developed themselves
which too much aid would certainly have enervated.

*The master, whose name was King, at first kept school at Stapleton, and thence
removed to Townend, both near Bristol. Young’s acquaintance with the surveyor
commenced after he quitted that school. (See Peacock’s Life, p. 5.)—TRANSLATOR.

]
Z
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. Fis

Young was only eight years of age when chance, whose influence in
the events of man’s life is more considerable than our vanity often allows
us to admit, took him from studies exclusively literary and revealed his
real vocation. A surveyor of much merit in the neighborhood took a
great fancy for him; he took him out into the country sometimes on
holidays, and permitted him to amuse himself with his instruments of
surveying and natural philosophy. The operations by whose aid the
young scholar saw the distances and elevations of inaccessible objects de-
termined powerfully struck his imagination; but soon several chap-
ters of a mathematical dictionary made all that seemed: mysterious in
the matter disappear. From this moment, in his Holyday excursions,
the quadrant took the place of the kite. In the evening, by way of
amusement, the engineering novice calculated the heights measured
in the morning.

From the age of nine to fourteen Young went to a school at Compton,
in Dorsetshire, kept by Mr. Thomson, whose memory he always cher-
ished. During these five years all the pupils of the school were occupied
exclusively, according to the practice of English schools, in a minute
study of the principal writers of Greece and Rome.* Young continually
maintained his place at the head of his class, and yet he learned at the
same time French, Italian, Hebrew, Persian, and Arabic; French and
Italian, from the chance object of satisfying the curiosity of a school-
fellow, who possessed some works printed at Paris, of which he was
desirous to know the contents ; Hebrew, in order to read the Old Testa-
ment in the original; Persian and Arabic, with the view of deciding a
question started at table, whether there were as marked differences
between the Oriental languages as between those of Europe.

I perceive the necessity of mentioning that I write from authentic
documents before I add that, during what might appear so fabulous a
progress in languages, Young, during his walks at Compton, was seized
- with a violent passion for botany; and that being destitute of the
means of magnifying objects of which naturalists make use when they
wish to examine the delicate parts of plants, he undertook to construct
a microscope himself, without any other guide than a description of the
instrument ina work by Benjamin Martin; that to arrive at this diffi-
cult result it was necessary to acquire some skill in the art of turning;
that the algebraic formulas of the optician having presented to him
symbols of which he had no idea, (those of fluxions,) he was for a mo-
ment in great perplexity; but not being willing at last to give up the
enlargement of his pistils and stamens, he found it more simple to learn
the differential calculus, in order to comprehend the unlucky formula,
than to send to the neighboring town to buy a microscope. The ardent
activity of the juvenile Young had led him to exertions beyond the
strength of his constitution. At the age of fourteen his health was
sadly altered. Various indications excited fears of a disease of the
lungs; but'these menacing symptoms at length yielded to the preserip-
tions of art, and the anxious cares of which this maiady made him the
object on the part of all his relations.

It is rare among our neighbors on the other side of the Channel that

“It would appear from Young’s own account that afar more liberal system was
really pursued in this school. Also, the praises of the usher, Josiah Jeffery, should
never be omitted, who initiated Young at leisure hours into a variety of experimental
and practical subjects, which contributed materially to his future success. (See Pea-
cock’s Life, p. 6.)—TRANSLATOR.

t The reader will of course make due allowance in this and many other passages for
the ideas of a foreigner as to English habits. The anecdote of Young’s penmanship
which follows is ditierently given by Dr. Peacock, p. 12. —TRANSLATOR. |

8s
114 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG,

a rich person, intrusting his son to the care of a private instructor, does
not seek for him a fellow- pupil of the same age among these who have
been remarkable for their success. It was in this capacity that Young
became, in 1787, the fellow-pupil of the grandson of Mr. David Barclay,
of Youngsbury, in Hertfordshire. On the day of his first appearance
there Mr. Barclay, who doubtless felt the right of showing himself some-
what exacting with a scholar of fourteen years of age, gave him several
phrases to copy, with the view of ascertaining his ‘skill in penmanship.
Young, perhaps somewhat humiliated by this kind of trial, demanded,
in order to satisfy him, permission to retire to another room; this ab-
sence being prolonged beyond the time which the transcription would
have required, Mr. Barclay began to joke on the want of dexterity he
must evince, when at length he reéntered the room. The copy was
remarkably beautiful; no writing-master could have executed it better.
As to the delay, there was no longer any need to speak of it, for *“‘the
little Quaker,”* as Mr. Barclay called him, had not been content to tran-
seribe the Eaptish phrases set him; he had also translated them into
nine different languages.

The preceptor, or, as they call him on the other side of the Channel,
the tutor, who had to direct the two scholars at Youngsbury, was a young
man of much distinction, at that time entirely occupied in perfecting
himself in the knowledge of the ancient languages. He was the future
authort of Calligr aphia Greca. He was not long , however, in perceiv-
ing the immense superiority of one of his pupils, and he recognized,
with praiseworthy modesty, that in their common studies the true tutor

vas not always he who bore that title. At this period Young drew up,
continually referring to the original sources, a detailed analysis of the
numerous systems of philosophy which were professed in the different
schools of Greeee.t His friends spoke of this work with the most lively
admiration. I know not whether the public is destined ever to see it.
At all events, it was not without influence on the life of its author; for,
in giving himself up to an attentive and minute examination of the sin-
eularities (to use a mild term) with which the conceptions of the Greek
philosophers teemed, Young perceived that the attachment which he re-
tained to the principles of the sectin which he was born became weakened.
However, he did not separate entirely from it till some years afterward,
during his sojourn in Edinburgh.

The little studious colony at Youngsbury quitted the country during
some months in the winter, to reside in London. During one of these
excursions Young met with a teacher worthy of him. He was initiated
into chemistry by Dr. Higgins,§ whose name I can the less dispense with
mentioning, since, in spite of his earnest and frequent remonstrances,
there was an obstinate disinclination to acknowledge the share which
legitimately belonged to him in the establishment of the theory of defi-
nite proportions, one of the most valuable discoveries of modern chem-
istry.

Dr. Brocklesby, the maternal uncle of Young, one of the most popu-
lar physicians in London at the time, justly confident of the distinguished
success of the young scholar, communicated occasionally his productions
to men of science and literature , and to men of the world, whose appro-

*'This seems improbable, as Mr. Barclay’s family were of the same sect.—TRANSLATOR.

+ Mr. Hodgkin.

{ This work is not mentioned by Dr. Peacock.—TRANSLATOR.

§ The share borne by Dr. Higgins in the suggestion or discovery of the atomic theory
has been variously estimated. “For an apparently pertectly fair view of the case, the
reader is referred to Dr. Daubeny’s Atomic Theory, p. 33.—TRANSLATOR.
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 115

bation might have greatly flattered his vanity. Young thus found him-
self at an early period in personal relation with those celebrated men,
Burke and Wyndham of the House of Commons, and the Duke of Rich-
mond. The last nobleman, then master of the ordnance, offered him
the place of private secretary. The two other statesmen, although they
wished him also to follow a career connected with the public adminis-
tration, yet advised him first to go through a course of law at Cam-
bridge.* With such powerful patrons, Young might reckon on one of
those lucrative offices which persons in power are not slow to bestow on
those who will spare them all study and application, and daily furnish
them with the means of shining at the court, the council, the senate, with-
out compromising their vanity by committing any indiscretion. Young,
happily, had a consciousness of his powers; he perceived in himself the
germ of those brilliant discoveries which have since adorned his name;
he preferred the laborious but independent career of the man of letters
to the golden chains which they exhibited so temptingly to his eyes.
Honor be to him for such a determination! May his example serve as a
lesson to somany young men whom political ambition diverts from a
more noble vocation to transform themselves into mere officials, but who
might learn, like Young, to turn their eyes to the future, and not sacri-
fice to the futile and tr ansitory satisfaction of being surrounded by per-

sons soliciting favors the solid testimonies of esteem and gratitude which
the public rarely fails to offer to intellectual labors of a high order; and
if it happen in the illusions of inexperience that they should think too
heavy a sacrifice imposed on them, we would ask them to take a lesson
of ambition from the mouth of a great captain, whose ambition knew no
bounds; to meditate on the words which the First Consul, the victor of
Maren @0, addressed to one of our most honored colle: agues (M. Lemer-
cier) on the day when he, quite in accordance with his char: acter, had
just refused a place then of great importance, that of councilor of state:

‘‘T understand, sir, you love liter rature, and you wish to belong alto-
gether to it. I have ‘nothing to oppose to this resolution. Yes; I. my-
self, if I had not become a general-in-chief and the instrument of the
fate of a great nation, do you think [ would have gone through the offices
and the salons to put myself in dependence on whoever might happen
to be in power in the position of minister or ambassador ? ‘No! nos Ti
would have taken to the exact sciences. I would have made my way in
the path of Galileo and Newton; and, since I have succeeded constantly
in my great enterprises, truly I should have been equally distinguished
by my scientific labors. I should have left behind me the remembrance
of great discoveries. No other kind of glory would have tempted my
ambition.”

Young made choice of the profession of medicine, in which he hoped
to find fortune and independence. His medical studies were commenced
in London under Baillie and Cruikshank. He continued them at
Edinburgh, where at that time Drs. Black, Munroe, and Gregory were
in the height of their celebrity. It was only at GOttingen in the fol-
lowing year (1795) that he took the degree of doctor. “Before going

*“Mr. Wyndham advised him not to accept the appointment, and recommended
him rather to proceed to Cambridge and study the law.’ (Peacock’s Life, p. 45.)—
TRANSLATOR.

+The author has omitted that, in 1797, Young entered as a fellow-commoner at
Jimanuel College, Cambridge, and in due time eraduated there regularly in medicine,
a step at that time necessary for his admission to the College of Physicians, in order to
enable him to practice as a physician in London. (See Peacock’s Life, p. 115.) In the
university he was familiarly known by the name of “ Phenomenon Young.”—TRans-
LATOR.
116 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

through this form, so empty, yet always so imperatively exacted, Young,
hardly beyond the period of youth, had become known to the scientific
world by a note relative to the gum ladanum; by the controversy which
he sustained against Dr. Beddoes on the subject of Crawford’s theory
of heat; by a memoir on the habits of spiders, and the theory of Fabri-
cius, the whole enriched with erudite researches; and, lastly, by an in-
quiry, on which I will enlarge on account of its great merit, the unusual
favor with which it wasreceived at its first production, and the neglect
into which it has since fallen.
The Royal Society of London enjoys throughout the whole kingdom

a vast and deserved consideration. The Philosophical Transactions
which it publishes have been for more than a century and a half the
glorious archives in which British genius holds it an honor to deposit
its titles to the recognition of posterity. The wish to see his name in-
seribed in the list of fellow-laborers in this truly national collection be-
side the names of Newton, Bradley, Priestley, and Cavendish, has
always been among the students of the celebrated universities of Cam-
bridge, Oxford, Edinburgh, and Dublin* the most anxious as well as
legitimate object of emulation. Here is always the highest point of
ambition of the man of science; he does not aspire to it “unless on oc-

casion of some capital inv estigation ; and the first attempts of his youth

came before the public by a channel better suited to their importance, by
the aid of one of those numerous periodicals which, among our neighbors,
have contributed so much to the progress of human knowledge. Such
is the ordinary course ; such, consequently, ought not to have been the
course followed by Young. At the age of twenty he addressed a paper
to the Royal Society. The council, composed of the most eminent
men of the society, honored this paper with their suffrage, and it soon
after appeared in the Philosophical Transactions. The author treated in
it of the subject of vision.

THEORY OF VISION.

The problem was anything but new. — Plato and his disciples, four cen-
turies before our era, were occupied with it; but at the present day their
conceptions can hardly be cited but to justify the celebrated and little
flattering sentence of Cicero: “ There is nothing so absurd that it has
not been said by some of the philosophers.”

After passing over an interval of two thousand years, we must from
Greece transport ourselves to Italy, if we should find any ideas on the
wonderful subject of vision which merit the remembrance of the histo-

rian, where, without having ever, like the philosopher of Aigina,
proudly closed their school against all who were not geometers, careful
experimenters marked out the sole route by which “it is permitted to
man to arrive without false steps at the conquest of unknown regions of
truth; there Maurolycus and Porta proclaimed to their contempor aries
that the problem of discovering what is presents sufficient difficulties to
render it at least somewhat presumptuous to cast ourselves upon the
world of intelligences to search after what ought to be ; there these two
celebrated fellow-countrymen of Archimedes commenced the-explana-
tion of the functions of the different media of which the eye is com-
posed, and showed themselves contented, as were at a later period
Galileo and Newton, not to ascend above those kinds of knowledge
which are capable of being elaborated or corrected by the aid of our

* And, it might be added, probably to a far more numerous class not of those bodies.—
TRANSLATOR.
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. DLT

senses, and which have been stigmatized under the porticoes of the
Academy by the contemptuous ‘epithet of simple opinion. Such is
always human weakness that, after having followed with a rare success
the principal deviations which light ander goes in passing through the
cornea and the crystalline, Mauroly cus and Port ta, when very near attain-
ing their object, stopped shor t, as ‘if before an insurmountable difficulty,
when it was objected to their theory that objects ought to appear in an
inverted position if the images formed in the eye are themselves in-
verted. The adventurous spirit of Kepler, on the contrary, did not re-
main embarrassed. it was from psychology that the attack originated ;
it was equally from psychology, clear, precise, and mathematical, that he
overthrew the objection. Under the powerful hand of this great man
the eye became, definitively, the simple optical apparatus known by the
name of the camera-obscura ; the retina is the ground of the picture,
the crystalline replaces the ol: uss lens.*

This assimilation, gener rally adopted since Kepler’s time, remains open
only to one difficulty ; the camera- obscura, like an ordinary telescope, re-
quires to be br ought ‘to a proper focus, according to the distance of ob-
jects. When objects are near, it is indispensable | to increase the distance
of the picture from the lens ; a contrary movement becomes necessary
as they become more distant. To preserve to the images all the dis-
tinctness which is desirable, without changing the position of the sur-
face which receives them, is therefore impossible ; at least, always sup-
posing the curvature of the lens to remain invariable, that it cannot
increase when we look at near objects, or diminish for distant objects.

-Among the different modes of obtaining distinct images, nature has
assuredly made a choice, since man can see with great distinctness at
very differ ent distances. The question thus put has afforded a wide
subject of remark ree discussion to physicists, and great names have
figured in the debat Kepler and Descartes held that the whole ball
of the eye is Se Ge of being elongated and flattened. Porter-
field and Zinn contended that the ery stalline lens was mov able, and that
it could place itself nearer to or further from the retina, as might be
needed. Jurin and Musschenbreeck believed in a change in the curva-
ture of the cornea. Sauvages and Bourdelot supposed also that a
change in curvature took place, but only in the erystalline lens. Such
is also the system of Young. Two memoirs, which our colleague suc-
cessively submitted to the Royal Society of London, include the com-
plete development of his views.

In the first of these the question is treated almost entirely in an
anatomical point of view. Young there demonstrates, by the aid of
direct observations of a very delicate kind, that the crystalline is en-
dowed with a fibrous or muscular constitution, admirably adapted to
all sorts of changes of form. This discovery overthrew the only solid
objection which had, till then, opposed tlie hypothesis of Sauvages and
Bourdelot. That hypothesis had no sooner been announced than it had
been attacked by Hunter. Thus this celebrated anatomist aided the
cause of the young experimenter by the attention drawn to the subject,

*The author seems to have left this illustration incomplete. Kepler’s suggestion of
the identity of the eye with the camera-obscura, after all, does not touch the “difficulty
of the inversion of the image. Nor has it been considered as completely cleared up even
till much later times. The solution w hich, it is believed, is now most generally as-
sented to is this: It is a law of our constitution, dependent on some phy siological
principle unknown, that we refer impressions on the retina to objects existing, or be-
lieved to exist, in the rectilinear direction from which the impression comes to the retina.
Consequently, as rays cross at the pupil, falling on the upper part of the retina a ray
suggests an object lying below, or an inverted image suggests an erect object.
118 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

while his labors were as yet unpublished, and not even communicated
to any one. However, this point of the discussion soon lost its impor-
tance. The learned Leuwenhoek, armed with his powerful microscopes,
traced out and gave figures of the muscular fibres in all their ramifica-
tions in the crystalline of a fish. To awaken the attention of the
scientific world, tired with these long debates, nothing less was neces-
sary than the high renown of the two new members of the Royal
Society who entered the lists—one a celebrated anatomist; the other
the most eminent instrument-maker of whom England could boast.
These jointly presented to the Royal Society a memoir, the fruit of their
combined labors, intended to establish the complete unalterability of
the form of the crystalline. The scientific world was not prepared to
admit that Sir Everard Home and Ramsden together could possibly
make inaccurate experiments, or be deceived in micrometrical measure-
ments. Young himself could not believe it, and in consequence he did
not hesitate publicly to renounce his theory. This readiness to own
himself vanquished, so rare in a young man of twenty-five, and
especially on the occasion of a first publication, was, in this instance,
an act of modesty without example. Young, however, had really
nothing to retract. In 1800, after having withdrawn his former dis-
avowal, our colleague developed anew the theory of the change of form
of the erystalline in a memoir against which, from that time, no serious
objection has been brought.

Nothing could be more simple than his line of argument; nothing
more ingenious than his experiments. Young, in the first instance, got
rid of the hypothesis of a change of curvature in the cornea by the aid
of microscopic observations, which were of a kind to render the most
minute variations appreciable. We can say more: he placed the eye in
special conditions where changes of curvature in the cornea would have
been without effect ; he plunged the eye in water, and proved that there
was still the same faculty of seeing at different distances preserved.
The second of three possible suppositions, that of an alteration in the
dimensions of the whole organ, was again overthrown by a multitude
of objections and of experiments which it was difficult to resist.

The problem thus seemed finally settled. Who does not see, in fact,
that if, of three only possible solutions, two are put out of the question
the third is necessarily established; that if the radius of curvature of
the cornea and the longitudinal diameter of the whole eye are invariable,
it must follow that the form of the crystalline js invariable? Young,
however, did not stop there; he proved directly, by the minute phe-
nomena of the changes in the images, that the crystalline really changes
its curvature; he invented, or at least gave perfection to, an instrument
susceptible of being employed even by the least intelligent persons, and
those least accustomed to delicate experiments, and armed with this
new means of investigation, he assured himself that those individuals
in whose eyes the crystalline has been removed.in the operation for
cataract did not enjoy the faculty of seeing equally distinctly at all dis-
tances.*

* This instrument, called an “optometer,” was originally proposed by Dr. Porterfield, .
and consists of a simple and ingenious contrivance for ascertaining the focal length of
the eye, which varies so greatly in different individuals, and often in two eyes of the
same person, and in the same eye under different conditions. Dr. Young greatly im-
proved upon the original construction. It will be founu described in the Lectures on
Natural Philosophy, vol. ii, p.576. The principle of it consists in measuring accurately
the distance of an object from the eye at which perfectly distinct vision is obtained,
and which is determined when the object seen through two small apertures close to
the eye presents only a single image, while in other positions it shows two images.—
TRANSLATOR.
oe

roa
=

EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. EES

We might fairly be astonished that this admirable theory of vision,
this combination so well framed when the most ingenious reasonings
and experiments lent each other mutual support, did not occupy that
distinguished rank in the science of the country which it deserved.
But to explain this anomaly, must we necessarily recur to a sort of
fatality? Was Young then really, as he sometimes described himself
with vexation, a new Cassandra, proclaiming incessantly important
truths which his ungrateful contemporaries refused to receive? We
should be less poetical but more true, it seems to me, if we remarked
that the discoveries of Young were not known to the majority of those
who would have been able to appreciate them. The physiologists did
not read his able memoir, because in it he presumes upon more mathe-
matical knowledge than is usually attained in that branch.

The physicists neglected it in their turn, because in oral lectures or
printed works the public demands little more at the present day than
superficial notions, which an ordinary mind can penetrate without diffi-
culty. In all this, whatever our distinguished colleague may have
believed, we perceive nothing out of the ordinary course. Like all those
who sound the greatest depths of science, he was misunderstood by the
multitude; but the applauses of some of the select few ought to have
recompensed him. In such a question we ought not to count the suf-
frages ; it is more wise to weigh them.*

INTERFERENCES.

The most beautiful discovery of Young, that which will render his

name imperishable, was suggested to him by an object in appearance

very trivial—by those soap-bubbles so brilliantly colored, so light,
which when just blown out of a pipe become the sport of every imper-

*Arago, in assigning the probable causes of the neglect of Young’s speculations,
seems to fall short of his usual point and perspicuity. It might be true that his
memoir was neglected by physiologists because it was mathematical, and by parity of
reason it might have been neglected by physicists and mathematicians as being physio-
logical. But it is surely no reason to say that it was neglected by physicists because
the public are superficial, &c. Young may have been in most of his speculations too
profound for the many; but this particular instance of the structure of the eye and
theory of vision is, perhaps, of all his researches, that which can be the least open to
this charge. The subject is not itself abstruse; it is one easily understood by every
educated person, without mathematical atttainments; and the point at issue was a
simple question of fact, requiring no profound physiological knowledge to appreciate
whether the crystalline has or has not a muscular structure capable of changing its
convexity. The real state of the case seems to be very satisfactorily explained by
Dean Peacock, (p. 36 et seq.,) from whose account, as well as from what has been since
written, it appears, after all that has been done both by Dr. Young and others, that
there is even at the present day considerable difference of opinion on the subject.

Perhaps the most comprehensive survey of the whole subject which recent investi-
gation has produced will be found in the paper of Professor J. D. Forbes in the Edin-
burgh Transactions, vol. xvi, pt. i, 1845. After giving a summary view of preceding
researches, and adverting to the prevalent opinion among men of science that the true
explanation yet remains to be discovered, (most anatomists denying as a fact the exist-
ence of the muscular strueture which Young conceived he had proved,) Professor Forbes
proposes as his own view of the cause the consideration of the remarkable variation in
density of the crystalline toward its central part ; coats of different density, being dis-
posed in different layers, may be acted on by the pressure of the humors of the eye
when the external action of the muscle compresses them, and thus increase the curva-
ture of the lens when the eye is directed to a near object, the whole consistence, espe-
cially in the outer parts, being of a gelatinous or compressible nature, and the central
part more solid and more convex. Thus uniform pressure on the outer parts would
tend to make the outer parts conform more nearly to the more convex interior nucleus.

It may be added that many physiologists are of opinion that, after all, there does
not exist a sufficient compressive action on the ball of the eye to produce the etiect
Bupposed.— TRANSLATOR.
120 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

ceptible current of air. Before so enlightened an audience it would,
without doubt, be superfluous to remark that the difficulty of producing
a phenomenon, its variety, its utility to the arts, are not the necessary
indications of its importance in a scientific point of view. I have, there-
fore, to connect with a child’s sport the discovery which I proceed to
analyze, with the certainty that its credit will not suffer from its origin.
At any rate, I shall have no need to recall the apple, which, dropping
from its stock and falling unexpectedly at the feet of Newton, develope?’
the ideas of that great man respecting the simple and comprehensiv:

laws which regulate the celestial motions; nor the frog and the touch
of the bistoury, to which physical science has recently been indebted
for the marvelous pile of Volta. Without referring in particular to soap-
bubbies, I will suppose that a physicist has taken for the subject of ex-
periment some distilled water, that is te say, a liquid which in its state
of purity never shows any more than some very slight shade of color,
blue or green, hardly sensible, and that only when the light traverses
ereat thicknesses. I would next ask what we should think of his vera-
city if he were to announce to us, without further explanation, that to
this water, so limpid, he could at pleasure communicate the most
resplendent colors; that he knew how to make it violet, blue, green 5
then yellow like the peel of citron, or red of a scarlet tint, without
affecting its purity, without mixing with it any foreign substance, with-
out changing the preportions of its constituent gaseous elements.
Would not the public regard our physicist as unworthy of all belief,
especially when, after such strange assertions, he should add, that to
produce color in water, it suffices to reduce it to the state of a thin film ;
that “thin” is, so to speak, the synonym of “colored ;” that the passage
of each tint into one the most different from itis the necessary conse-
quence of a simple variation of the thickness of the liquid film; that
this yariation, for instance, in passing from red to green, is not the
thousandth part of the thickness of a hair? Yet these incredible propo-
sitions are only the necessary consequences deduced from the accidental
observation of the colors presented by soap-bubbles, and even by ex-
tremely thin films of all sorts of substances.

To comprehend how such phenomena have, during more than two
thousand years, daily met the eyes of philosophers without exciting
their attention, we have need to recollect to how few persons nature
imparts the valuable faculty of being astonished to any purpose. Boyle
was the first to penetrate into this rich mine. He confined himself,
however, to the minute description of the varied circumstances which
gave rise to these iridescent colors. Hooke, his fellow-laborer, went
further. He believed that he had discovered the cause of this kind of
colors in the coincidences of the rays, or, to speak in his own language,
in the mutual action on each other of the eaves reflected by the two
surfaces of the thin film. This was, we may admit, a suggestion charac-
teristic of genius; but it could not be made use of at an epoch when
the compound nature of white light was not as yet understood.

Newton made the colors of thin films a favorite object of study. He
devoted to them an entire book of his celebrated treatise, the ‘ Optics.”
Le established the laws of their formation by an admirably connected
ehain of experiments, which no one has since surpassed in excellence.
In illuminating with homogeneous light the very regularly-formed
series of bands of which Hooke had already made mention, and which
originated round the point of contact of two lenses. pressed closely
together, he proved that for each species of simple color there exists, in
thin films of every substance, a series of thicknesses gradually increasing,
EULOGY,.ON THOMAS YOUNG. 12?

at each of which no light is reflected from the film. This result was of
capital importance ; it included the key to all these phenomena.

Newton was less happy in the theoretical views which these remark-
able observations suggested to him. Tosay, with him, that the luminous
ray which is reflected is “in a fit of easy reflection ;” to say that the ray
which passes through the film entire is ‘‘in a fit of easy transmission”—
what is it but to announce, in obseure terms, merely the a e fact which
the experiment with the two lenses has already taught us ?

The theory of Thomas Young is not amenable to this c reiar Here
there is no longer admitted any peculiar kind of “fits” as primordial
properties of the rays. The thin film is here assimilated in all respects
to any thicker reflector of the same substance. If at certain points in
its surface no light is visible, Young did not conclude that therefore its
reflection had ceased; he supposed that, in the special directions of
those points, the rays reflected by the second surface proceeded to meet
with those reflected from the first surface, and completely destroyed
them. This conflict of the rays is what the author designated by the
term “interference,” which has since become so famous.

Observe, then, here the most singular of hypotheses. We must cer-
tainly feel surprised at finding night in full sunshine at points where
the rays of that luminary arrive freely; but who would have imagined
that we should thence come to suppose that darkness could be engen-
dered by adding light to light?

A physicist is truly eminent when he is able to announce any result
which, to such an extent, clashes with all received ideas; but he ought,
without delay, to support his views by demonstrative proofs, under “the
penalty of being assimilated to those Oriental writers whose fantastic
reveries charmed the thousand and one nights of the Sultan Schahriar.

Young had not this degree of prudence. He showed at once that his
theory would agree with the phenomena, but without going beyond
mere possibility. When at a later period he arrived at real proofs of it,
the public had other prepossessions, which he was not able to overcome.
However, the experiment, whence our colleague deduced so memorable
a discovery, could not excite the shadow of a doubt. t

* In regard to the theory of the “ fits,” the author here seems to represent Newton’s
view as, in fact, mere tautology ; while in other places he is supposed to have indulged
in a visionary theory on the subject. Newton, however, expressly says: “What kind
of action or disposition this is—whether it consists in a circulating or vibrating
motion of the ray, or of the medium, or something else, I do not here inquire.” (Op-
tics, p. 255, ed. 1721. )

The fact is, Newton in his optical researches expressed the same avowed and syste-
matic dislike in indulging in any gratuitous theories as in his other inquiries. ‘‘ Hypo-
theses non fingo,” was his motto in these as well as in other researches. In adopting
the idea of “ fits of easy reflection and transmission,” we are of opinion that he did not
violate that maxim, and that it was in fact the only legitimate first expression of the
conelision which the facts warranted. At certain points no light appearcd; it was the
legitimate inference, in the then state of knowledge, that none was reflected. But
light was clearly under the same circumstances transmitted ; at a distance a little
greater along the ray, an opposite effect was witnessed; and so on. It was nothing
more than the strict inference that at those points successively something occurred in the
course of the ray which disposed it for, or induced, reflection in the one case, and non-
reflection in the other ; accompanied i in the latter case by like tendency to transmis-
sion. These apparent “fits” must be still acknowledged as phenomena ; the mechanism
by which they are produced is, however, now known to be nothing inherent in the
light, no essential property recurring, but the simple periodicity of conspiring or
counteracting wave action.— TRANSL ATOR.

tIn the retrospective glance which the author thus gives over the progress of dis-
covery previous to the peridd at which Dr. Young first entered on the field, what we
have chiefly to observe is, that up to that date nothing like a connected view of the
physical character of this wonderful agent had been attained ; ; a few isolated specula-
122 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

Two rays proceeding from the same source by slightly unequal routes,
crossed one another at a certain point in space. At this point was
placed a sheet of white paper. Each ray, taken by itself, made the
paper more bright at that point, but when the two rays united and
arrived at that point together all brightness disappeared; complete
night succeeded to day.

Two rays do not always annihilate each other completely at their
point of intersection. Sometimes we observe only a partial weakening
of intensity; sometimes, on the other hand, the rays conspire and in-
crease the illumination. Everything depends on the difference in the
length of route which they have gone through, and that according to

{

tions had, indeed, been put forth respecting a theory of emitted molecules on the one
hand, and of waves in an ethereal medium on the other, and a few experimental facts
bearing on the choice between such hypotheses had been ascertained.

The several distinct phenomena of common reflection and refraction, of double
refraction, of inflection or diffraction, and of the colored rings did not seem to be con-
nected by any common principle, nor, even separately considered, could it be said that
they were very satisfactorily explained. It was now the peculiar distinction of Young
to perceive, and to establish in the most incontestable manner, a great principle of the
simplest kind, which at once rendered the wave hypothesis applicable to the two last-
named classes of facts, and thus directly connected them with the former. It is not
always that we are enabled to trace the first rise and progress of the idea of a great
discovery in the inventor’s mind. We cannot forbear from here noticing that Dr.
Young has left on record the progress of the first suggestions which occurred to him
on the subject of interference. The first view which ‘presented itself was that of the
analogies furnished by sound, which, as is well known, is conveyed by means of waves
propagated in air; and in the case of two sounds differing a very little from the same
pitch, produced at the same time, we have not a continuous sound, but beats—that is,
alternations of sound and silence; the waves in the one case conspiring with and reén-
forcing each other, in the other counter acting, neutralizing, and destroyi ing each other.
But in more speci: al reference to light, Dr. Young’s account of the origin ot his ideas is
so clear and striking that we must | give it in his own words: “It was in May, 1801, that
I discovered, by reflecting on the beautiful experiments of Newton, a law aw hich appears
to me to account for a ereater variety of interesting phenomena than any other optical
principle that has yet ‘been made known. I shall endeavor to explain this law by a
comparison: Suppose a number of equal waves of water to move upon the surface of a
stagnant lake with a certain constant velocity, and to enter a narrow channel leading out
of the lake. Suppose, then, another similar cause to have excited another equal series
of waves, which arrive at the same channel with the same velocity, and at the same time
with the first. Neither series of waves will destroy the other, ‘put their effects will
be combined; if they enter the channel in such a manner that the clevations of the
one series coincide with those of the other, they must together produce a series of
greater joint elevations; but if the elevations of one series are so situated as to cor-
respond to the depressions of the other, they must exactly fill up those depressions,
and the surface of the water must remain smooth; atleast, I can discover no alternative,
either from theory or from experiment. Now, I maintain that similar effects take
place whenever two portions of light are thus mixed, and this I call the general law of
the interference of light.”—TRANSLATOR.

For the sake of many readers it may not be superfluous or useless here briefly to
illustrate the application of these theoretical ideas. We have only to imagine in like
manner, in the case of the rays of light, two sets of waves propagated thr ough an ethe-
real medium and coinciding in direction, when it will be easily apparent that just as
in the case of the supposed canal, they may have their waves either conspiring or
counteracting, and consequently giving a point of brightness or darkness accordingly.
Thus, a coincidence in the periods, or an interval of an integer number of entire wave-
lengths would cause the two systems of waves to conspire and reénforce each other ;
a difference of periods of half a wave-length, or any odd number of half wayve- -lengths,
would cause the two sy stems to counteract or neutralize each other. Thus, according
to the thickness, there would be a point of darkness or of brightness for each primary
ray, and the succession of tints would be perfectly explained.

This would directly apply tothe thin films. A ray impinging would be partly reflected
at the first surface of the thin film; partly entering, it would be reflected internally at
its second surface, and emerge coinciding in direction with the first, but retarded behind
it from the thickness traversed i in its undulations either by a w hole or half undulation,
or some multiples of these, thus giving either a point of brightness or one of darkness
accordingly ; or by some intermediate fraction giving an ‘jntermediate shade. And
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. {25

very simple laws, the discovery of which, in any age, would suffice to
immortalize a physicist.

The differences of route which produce these conflicts between the
rays, accompanied by their entire mutual destruction, have not the same
numerical value for the differently colored primary rays. When two
white rays cross, it is then possible that one of their chief constituent
parts, the red for example, may alone be in a condition fit for mutual
destruction. But white deprived of its red, becomes green. Thus, in-
terference of light manifests itself in the phenomena of coloration.
Thus, the different elementary colors are placed in evidence without any
prism to separate them. We should, however, remark that there does

this would go on alternately at successively greater thicknesses of the film, giving a
succession of such points or bands.

Thus, at two successive F
thicknesses of the plate p,
the incident rays, falling
on it in parallel directions
i i, are reflected partially
from the first surface 77,
and partially from the sec-
ond 77’. According to the *
difference of thickness trav-
ersed, these may be in ac-
cordance giving a point of
brightness as ++, or in dis-
cordance giving a point of
darkness as at o.

If two rays or sets of waves, instead of being exactly superimposed, be supposed to
meet inclined at a very acute angle, in a somewhat similar way they would, at a series
of points, alternately conspire or clash with each other, thus giving rise to a series of
bright and dark points, the assemblage of which will produce bands
or stripes on a screen intercepting the rays. Now, as to actual exper-

imental cases, it was in the application of this latter theoretical idea
that the invention of Dr. Young was peculiarly displayed. The |
former case was that alone which seems to have occurred to Hooke, |

in reference to the colors of thin plates, and even this was in his | |
mind but a very indefinite conception; nor did it seem at first sight | |
readily comparable with such cases as the diffraction fringes, or still | |
less with the internal bands of a shadow observed by Grimaldi. If |
Hooke had imagined any theoretical views of this kind, it was prob- |
ably confined to the one case of the thin films. Young’s great merit |
was the comprehensiveness of his principle; and in following out the
investigation he proceeded at once to such a generalization as evinced
that comprehensiveness, and connected immediately those classes of |
phenomena apparently so different in character—the thin films, the | |
internal bands, and the external fringes. When, as in Grimaldi’s | |
experiment, (since called the phenomena of diffraction,) a narrow
slip of card was placed in a very narrow beam of solar light, dark |
and bright stripes parallel to the sides internally marked the whole || |
Shadow longitudinally, while the external fringes appeared on the
outside at each edge. The general appearance of the shadow of a
long narrow body with parallel sides in a beam of solar light issu-
ing from a minute hole in a shutter, or, what is better, the focus of |
a small lens collecting the rays to a point, is that of ashadowmarked |
with longitudinal stripes and externally bordered by parallel fringes |
or bands of light slightly colored, as seen in the annexed figure.

To exhibit these appearances ordinarily requires the sun’s light.
But the translator has found a very simple method of exhibiting
these phenomena on a minute scale by candle light, by merely placing
a fine wire across one surface of a lens of short focus, and looking through it at light
admitted through a narrow slit parallel to the wire, or even the flame of a candle at a
considerable distance.

Next, as to the theoretical explanation, an inspection of the accompanying diagram
will perhaps help to convey an idea of the manner in which the several sets of waves
are formed, and interfere in the case now supposed.

Young conceived the beam of light as a series of waves propagated onward till, on
reaching the card, they were broken up into two new sets of waves, spreading in circles

124 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

not exist a single point in space where a thousand rays of the same
origin do not proceed to cross one another after reflections more or less
oblique, and we shall perceive at a glance the whoie extent of the unex-
plored region which interferences open to the investigations of experi-
menters.

When Young published this theory, many phenomena of periodical
colors had been already offered to the notice of observers, and, we should
add, had resisted all attempts at explanation. Among the number we
night instance the colored rings which are formed by reflection, not 01
thin films, but on mirrors of thick glass slightly concave; the iridescent
bands of different breadtls, with which the shadows of bodies are bor-
dered on the outside, and in some instances covered within, which Gri-
maldi first noticed, and which afterward uselessly exercised the genius
of Newton, and of which the completion of the theory was reserved for
Fresnel; the bows, colored red and green, which are perceived in greater
or less number immediately under the innermost of the prismatic bands
of the rainbow,* and which seemed so completely inexplicable that the
writers of elementary books on physics had given up making mention of
them; and, lastly, the “coronas,” or broad colored circles with varying
diameters, which often appear surrounding the sun and moon.

round each edge as a new center, while part of the original set continued to pass on at
each side. On the principle just mentioned, these would interfere with the new por-
tions on the outside ; and the two new portions would interfere with each other in the
inside of the shadow, in either case giving stripes or bands. To complete the proof,
when an opaque screen was placed so as to intercept the rays on one side, though

abundance of light was presented on the other, yet all the internal bands immediately
disappeared, demonstrating that the effect was due solely to the concurrence of the
light from both sides. The bands produced by light admitted through narrow apertures,
and numerous other phenomena of the same kind, may receive a general and popular
explanation in the same way.—TRANSLATOR,

* This explanation has been recently controverted by Professor Potter.—Philosophical
Magazine, May, 1855. é
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 125

If [ call to mind how many persons do not appreciate scientific theo-
ries except in proportion to the immediate applications which they may
offer, I cannot terminate this enumeration of the phenomena which
characterize the several series of more or less numerous periodical col-
ors without mentioning the rings, so remarkable by their regularity of
form and purity of tint, with which every brilliant light appears sur-
rounded when we look at it through a mass of fine molecules or fila-
ments of equal dimensions. These rings, in fact, suggested to Young
the idea of an instrument, extremely simple, which he called an “eri-
ometer,” and with which we can measure, without difficulty, the dimen-
sions of the most minute bodies. The eriometer, as yet so little known
to observers, has an immense advantage over the microscope in giving
at a single glance the mean magnitude of millions of particles which are
contained in the field of view. It possesses, moreover, the singular
property of remaining silent when the particles differ much in magni-
tude among themselves, or, in other words, when the question of deter-
mining their dimensions has no real meaning.

Young applied his eriometer to the measurement of the globules of
blood in different classes of animals; to that of powders furnished by
different species of vegetables; of the fineness of different kinds of fur
used in the manufacture of different fabrics, from that of the beaver,
the most valuable of all, down to that of the common sheep of the Sus-
sex breed, which stands at the other extremity of the scale, and is com-
posed of filaments four times and a half thicker than that of the beaver.

Before the researches of Young the numerous phenomena of colors*
which I have just pointed out were not only inexplicable, but nothing
had been found to connect them with each other. Newton, who was
jong engaged on the subject, had not perceived any connection between
the rings in thin films and the bands of diffraction. Young reduced
these two kinds of colored bands alike to the law of interference. At
a later period, when the colored phenomena of polarization had been
discovered, he observed in certain measures of the thickness at which
they occurred some remarkable numerical analogies, which made it very
reasonable to expect that sooner or later this singular kind of polariza-
tion would be found connected with his doctrine. He had in this in-
stance, however, we must admit, a very wide hiatus to fill up. The
knowledge of some important properties of light, then completely un-
known, would have been necessary to permit him to conceive the whole
Singularity of the effects which, in certain crystals cut in certain direc-
tions, double refraction produces by the destruction of light resulting
from the interference of rays ; but it is to Young that the honor belongs
of having opened the way; it was he who was the first to decipher
these hieroglyphies of opties.t

*Every one may have remarked the threads of a spider’s web occasionally exhibiting
brilliant colors in the sunshine. The same thing is seen in fine scratches on the surface
of polished metal, produced in a more regular way by the fine engraved parallel
grooves in Barton’s buttons. The colors of mother-of-pearl are of the same kind; all
these colors Dr. Young showed were due to interference of the portions of light reflected
from the sides of the narrow transparent thread or groove.—TRANSLATOR.

tIt has been well observed that simplicity is not always a fruit of the first growth,
and accordingly some of the earliest of Young’s researches were complicated by unne-
cessary conditions. Thus, to exhibit the effect of two rays interfering, he at first not
unnaturally transmitted the narrow beam of light through two small apertures near
together. In point of fact, though the real effect is here seen, it is mixed up with
others of a more complex kind. The narrow apertures each exhibited colored fringes
in addition to the interference stripes seen between them. The colored fringes of aper-
tures, unless very wide, are distinct from those formed by one external edge of an
opaque body, the light from each side conspires to the effects in a somewhat complex
126 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

EGYPTIAN HIEROGLYPHICS—HISTORY OF THE FIRST EXACT INTER- ~
PRETATION GIVEN OF THEM,

The word hieroglyphic, regarded not metaphysically, but in its natu-
ral acceptation, carries us into a field which has been long the theater
of numerous and animated debates. I have hesitated whether to risk

manner. Ifthe aperture be otherwise than long with parallel sides, the phenomenon
becomes still more complex, and the calculation difficult; few such cases have ever yet
been solved, and some such cases have been dwelt upon as formidable objections to
the theory ; they are simply cases to which the formula, from its mathematical difti-
culties, has not yet been extended.

In all these eases of diffraction an opaque body was used, and it might still be sus-
pected that some action of the edge of that body might be concerned in the result. Nu-
merous experiments of Maraldi, Dutour, Biot, and others were directed to the investi-
gation of this point. Biot showed that an opaque body was not necessary, inasmuch
as the edge of the plate of glass, or even the bounding line of two faces of a glass, cut
at a slight inclination to each other, gave the same fringes ; indeed, Newton also had
noticed something of the kind. Haldat varied the conditions of the edge in every
conceivable way, whether of form or nature, by the influence of magnetism, galvan-
ism, electricity, or temperature from freezing to a red heat, without producing the
slightest difference in the fringes—a result which it would be impossible to conceive
compatible with any idea of an atmosphere of attraction or repulsion surrounding the
edge.

Again: Though we have given the explanation of the external fringes in its simple
and correct form, yet both Young and Fresnel failed in the first instance to see it in
that light, both believing that the reflection of a portion of rays from the edge of the
opaque body was mainly concerned in producing the interference. Subsequent experi-
ments showed that even in eases where that edge reflects any sensible amount of light,
its influence on the diffracted fringes is quite inappreciable. In fact, Young, in a let-
ter to Fresnel, in returning thanks for a copy of a later memoir, in which he had shown
this supposition to be unnecessary, also concurs in abandoning it. It did but compli-
eate and injure the beauty of the result, (Young’s Works, i, 593;) and every doubt
must have disappeared in the minds of those who compared the minute arithmetical
accuracy with which the places of the fringes, as computed from the simple theory
in the investigations of Fresnel, agreed with those actually determined by the nicest
micrometrical measurments.

In enumerating the discoveries of Young in the first establishment of the wave
theory, it is somewhat singular that Arago, whether from accident or design, should
have overlooked one investigation which must be regarded as among the most important.
The great support which the emission theory received inrecent times was that derived
from Laplace’s memoir on the law of double refraction, (1809,) in which, on the prin-
ciple of “least action,” as maintained by Maupertius and applied to the idea of lumi-
nous molecules, he explained the observed laws of ordinary and extraordinary refrac-
tion in Iceland spar. This investigation exercised a powerful influence in favor of the
molecular theory over the minds of the men of science in France, who bowed implicitly
to the authority of Laplace. But the memoir of Laplace was the subject of a very
powerful attack on the part of Dr. Young, carried on in an article in the Quarterly
Review, November, 1809, in which he disputed the mechanical and mathematical
grounds of Laplace’s theory, and showed that the same laws of double refraction
could be far more easily deduced from the undulatory hypothesis. Next to the dis-
covery of interference, this refutation of the strongest point of the emission theory
cannot but be regarded as one of the most material in the development and establish-
ment of the undulatory view.

To the statement of these various cases of interference it should be added, that when
the tints of polarized light were discovered, Young in i#14 applied to the phenomena
the general consideration of interference ; that is to say, he showed that, owing to
the differing obliquities of the paths of the rays within the crystal, they would
be unequally retarded in their passage, and would consequently emerge in con-
ditions, with regard to length of route, respectively of accordance or discordance at
corresponding distances round the central line or axis of the crystal, and thus might
give rise to colored rings. Arago, however, soon noticed that the explanation was
incomplete ; the main point, in tact, remained to be accounted for, viz, why we see no
colors till the analyzer is applied, and why even the previous polarization is necessary
to the result. It was not until about two years afterward that Arago and Fresnel
jointly succeeded in discovering a new law, which not only furnished the complete
solution of the polarized rings, but at length cleared away all the difficulties which,
from the first, had surrounded the idea of polarization itself. For an account of this
see memoir of Fresnel.— TRANSLATOR.

EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. Ye",

offending the feelings which this question hasexcited. The secretary of
an academy occupied exclusively with the exact sciences might indeed,
without impropriety, remit this philological subject to other more com-
petent judges. I also feared, I will avow, to find myself in disagree-
ment on several important points with the illustrious man of science
whose labors it has been so delightful to me to analyze, without having
to add a word of criticism from my pen. All these scruples, however,
vanish when I reflect that the interpretation of hieroglyphies has been
one of the most beautiful discoveries of our age; that Young himself
has mixed up my name with discussions relating to it; that to examine
whether France can pretend to this new title to glory, is to enhance the
importance of the task confided to me at this moment, and to perform
the duty of a good citizen. JI am aware that some may find narrowness
in these sentiments. I am not ignorant that the cosmopolitan spirit has
its good side; but with what name shall I stigmatize it, if, when all
neighboring nations enumerate with triumph the discoveries of their
sons, it should hinder me from seeking, even in the present circle
among those colleagues whose modesty I would not hurt, the proof that
France is not degenerate; that she also adds every year her glorious
contingent to the vast deposit of human knowledge ?*

I approach, then, the question of Egyptian writing, and I do so free
from all prejudice, with the firm wish of being just; with the lively
desire to conciliate the rival pretensions of two men of science, whose
premature death has been to all Europe a legitimate subject of regret.
Lastly, I shall not in this discussion on hieroglyphies transgress the
bounds imposed on me; happy if those who listen to me, and whose
indulgence Lask, may find that I have known howto escape the influence
of a subject whose obscurity is proverbial.

Men have imagined two systems of writing entirely distinct. One is
that employed by the Chinese, which is the system of hieroglyphies ;
the other, at present in use among all other nations, bears the name of
the alphabetical or phonetic system.

The Chinese have no letters properly so called: the characters which
they use in writing are strictly hieroglyphics; they do not represent
sounds or articulations, but zdeas. Thus a house is represented by a
unique and special character, which does not change even when the
Chinese have come to calla house, in their spoken language, by a name
totally different from that which they formerly pronounced. Does this
result appear surprising? Imagine the case of our ciphers, which are
also hieroglyphies; the idea of one added to itself seven times is expressed
everywhere in France, in England, in Spain, &c., by the aid of two cir-
cles placed vertically one over the other, and touching in one point; but
in looking at this hieroglyphic sign (8) the Frenchman pronounces * huit,”
the Englishman “eight,” the Spaniard “ocho.” No oneis ignorant that it
isthe same with compoundnumbers. Thus, to speak briefly, if the Chinese
ideographic signs were generaliy adopted, as the Arabic numerals are,
every one would read in his own language the works which they pre-

*Tn bringing out a part of this chapter on Egyptian hieroglyphies in the Annuaire
for 1836, Arago has added: “The first exact interpretation which has been given of
Egyptian hieroglyphics will certainly take its place among the most beautiful discoy-
eries of the age. Besides, after the animated debates to which it has given birth,
every one would desire to know whether France can conscientiously pretend to this new
title to glory. Thus the importance of the question, and the national self-love prop-
erly understood, unite in encouraging me to publish the result of a minute examina-
tion to which I have devoted myself. Can I, then, be blind to the danger which there
always isin attempting difficult subjects in matters which we have not made the
special subject of our studies ?”
128 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

sented to him, without the need of knowing a single word of the lan-
guage spoken by the authors who Lave written them.
It is not so with alphabetical writing.

“He who first taught us the ingenions art
To paint our words, and speak them to our eyes,”

having made the capital remark that all words of a spoken language,
even the most rich, are compounded of a very limited number of
elementary articulate sounds, invented artificial signs or letters to the
number of twenty-four or thirty torepresent them. By the aid of these
signs differently combined he could write every word which struck his
ear, even without knowing the meaning of it.

The Chinese or hieroglyphic writing seems to be the infancy of the
art. It is not always, as has been sometimes said, that to learn to read
it, even in China, occupies the whole life of a studious Mandarin. Reé-
musat (whose name I cannot mention without recalling one of the most
heavy losses which literature has lately sustained) has established, both
by his own experience and by the fact of the excellent scholars he has
formed every year by his lectures, that we may learn Chinese like any
other language. It is not true, as was once imagined, that the char-
acters are appropriated solely to the expression of common ideas; several
pages of the romance of Yu-kiao-li, or The Two Cousins, will suffice to
show that the most subtle abstractions, the quintessence of refinements,
are not beyond the range of the Chinese writing. The chief fault of this
mode of writing is, that it gives no means of expressing new names. A
letter from Canton might have told at Pekin that on the 14th of June,
1800, a great and memorable battle saved France from great peril; but
it would not have been able to express in these purely hieroglyphic char-
acters that this glorious event took place near the village of Marengo,
or that the victorious general was called Bonaparte. A people among
whom the communication of proper names, from one place to another,
could only take place by means of special messengers, would be, as we
see, only in the first rudiments of civilization. These preliminary re-
marks are not useless. The question of priority, which the graphic
methods of Egypt have called forth, thus comes to be easy to explain and
to comprehend. As we proceed, in fact, we find in the hieroglyphies of
the ancient people of the Pharoahs all the artifices of which the Chinese
make use at the present day.

Many passages of Herodotus, of Diodorus Siculus, of Clement of Al-
exandria, have taught us that the Egyptians had two or three different
sorts of writing g, and that in one of these, at least, symbolic characters,
or the representatives of ideas, played a principal part. Horapollon
has even preserved to us the signification of a certain number of these
characters. Thus we know that the hawk designated the soul; the ibis,
the heart; the dove, (which might seem strange,) a violent man; the
jlute, an alien; the number siz, pleasure; a frog, an impudent man; the
ant, wisdom; a running knot, love; &e.

The signs thus preserved by Horapollon form only a very small part
of the eight or nine hundred characters which have been found in the
ancient inscriptions. The moderns, Kircher among others, have en-
deavored to enlarge the number. Their efforts have not given any use-
ful result, unless it be so to show to what errors even the best-instructed
men expose themselves when in the search after facts they abandon
themselves without restraint to imagination. In the want of data, the
interpretation of the Egyptian writings appeared for a long time, to all
sound minds, a problem completely incapable of solution, when, in 1799,
M. Boussard, an engineer officer, discovered in the excavations which
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 129

he was making near Rosetta a large stone covered with inscriptions in
three kinds of characters quite distinct.

One of the series of characters was Greek. This, in spite of some
mutilations, made clearly known that the authors of the monument had
ordained that the same inscription should be traced in three different
sorts of characters, viz, in the sacred characters or Egyptian hieroglyph-
ics, in the local or vulgar characters, and in Greek. Thus, by an unex-
pected good fortune, the philologists found themselves in possession of
a Greek text, having also before them its translation into the Egyptian
language, or at least a transcription in two sorts of characters anciently
in use on the banks of the Nile.

This Rosetta stone, since so celebrated, and which M. Boussard pre-
sented to the Institute of Cairo, was taken from that body at the period
when the French army evacuated Egypt. It was preserved, however,
in the British Museum, where it figured, as Thomas Young said, as a
monument of British valor. Putting valor out of the question, the cele-
brated philosopher might have added, without too much partiality, that
this invaluable trilingual monument thus bears some witness to the
advanced views which guided all the details of the memorable expedition
into Egypt, as also to the indefatigable zeal of the distinguished savants
whose labors, often carried on ander the fire of the forts, have added so
much to the glory of their country. The importance of the Rosetta
stone struck them, in fact, so forcibly, that, in order not to abandon
this precious treasure to the adventurous chances of a sea voyage, they
earnestly applied themselves, from the first, to reproduce it by copies,
by impressions taken in the way of printing from engravings, by molds
in plaster or sulphur. We must add that antiquaries of all countries
beeame first acquainted with the Rosetta stone from the designs given
by the French savants.

One of the most illustrious members of the institute, M. Silvestre de
Sacy, entered first in 1802 on the career which the trilingual inscription
opened to the investigations of philologists. He only occupied himself
on the Egyptian text in common characters. He there discovered the
groups which represent the different proper names, and their phonetic
nature. Thus, in one of two inscriptions, at least, the Egyptians had
the signs of sounds, or true letters. This important result found no
opponents after a Swedish man of science, M. Akerblad, in completing
the labors of our fellow-countryman, had assigned, with a probability
bordering on certainty, the phonetic value of each of the different char-
acters employed in the transcription of the proper names which the
Greek text disclosed. There remained all along the purely hieroglyphic
part of the inscription, or what was supposed such; this remained un-
touched; no one had ventured to attempt to decipher it. It is here
that we find Young declaring, as if by a species of inspiration, that in
the multitude of sculptured signs on the stone representing either entire
animals, or fantastic forms, or again instruments, products of art, or
geometrical forms, those of these signs which were found inclosed in
elliptic borders corresponded to the proper names in the Greek inscrip-
tion, in particular to the name of Ptolemy, the only one which in the
hieroglyphic inscription remains uninjured. Immediately afterward
Young said that in the special case of the border or scroll, the signs
included represented no longer ideas, but sounds. In a word, he sought
by a minute and refined analysis to assign an individual hieroglyphic
to each of the sounds which the ear receives in the name of Ptolemy in
the Rosetta stone, and in that of Berenice in another monument. Thus
‘ve sea, unless I mistake, in the researches of Young on the graphic sys-

9s
130 EULOGY ON. THOMAS YOUNG.

tems of the Egyptians, the three culminating points. No one, it is said,
had perceived them, or at least had pointed them out before the Eng-
lish philosopher. This opinion, although generally admitted, appears to
me open to dispute. It is, in fact, certain that in 1766 M. de Guignes,
in a printed memoir, had indicated that the scrolls in Egyptian in-
scriptions included all the proper names. Every one might also see
in the same work the arguments on which the learned orientalist relied
to establish the opinion which he had embraced on the constant pho-
netic character of the Egyptian hieroglyphics. Young, then, has the
priority on this point alone. To him belongs the first attempt which
had been made to decompose in letters the groups of the scrolls, to give
a phonetic value to the hieroglyphics which composed in the stone of
Rosetta the name of Ptolemy. In this research, as we might expect,
Young furnished new proofs of his immense penetration; but, mislead
by a false system, his efforts had not a full success. Thus sometimes
he attributes to the hieroglyphic characters a value simply alphabetical.
Further on he gives them a value which is syllabic or dissylabie, with-
out being struck by what must seem so strange in this mixture of dif-
ferent characters. The fragment of an alphabet published by Young
includes, then, something both of truth and falsehood, but the false
so much abounds that it would be impossible to apply the value of let-
ters which compose it to any other reading than that of the two proper
names from which it was derived. The word impossible is so rarely met
with in the scientific career of Young, that I must hasten to justify it.
I will say, then, that after the composition of his alphabet Young him-
self believed that he saw in the scroll of an Egyptian monument the
name of ‘‘ Arsinoe,” where his celebrated competitor had since shown
with irresistible evidence the word “ autocrator;” that he believed he
had found “ euwergetes” in a group where we ought to read “Cesar.”

The labors of Champollion, as to the discovery of the phonetic value
of hieroglyphics, are clear, distinct, and cannot involve any doubt.
Each sign is equivalent to a single vowel or consonant. Its value is
not arbitrary. Every phonetic hieroglyphic is the image of a physical
object whose name in the Egyptian language commences with the vowel
or the consonant which it is wished to represent.*

The alphabet of Champollion, once modeled from the stone of Rosetta
and two or three other monuments, enables us to read inscriptions en-
tirely different; for example, the name of Cleopatra on the obelisk of
Phil6é, long ago transported into England, and where Dr. Young,
armed with his alphabet, could discover nothing. On the temple of
Karnac, Champollion read twice the name of Alexander; on the Zodiac
of Denderah, the title of a Roman emperor; on the grand edifice above
which it is placed, the names and surnames of the emperors Augustus,
Tiberius, Claudius, Nero, Domitian, &c. Thus, to speak briefly, we

* This will become clear to every one, if we seek, by following the Egyptian system,
to compose hieroglyphics in the French language. A may be represented by (agneai)
alamb, (aigle,) an eagle, an ass, anemone, artichoke, &c.; B, by a balance, a whale,
(baleine,) a boat, &c.; C, by cabana, (badger,) cheval, (horse,) cat, cedar, &c.; E, by
épic, (a sword,) elephant, épagneul, (spaniel,) &c. Abbé, then, would be written in
French hieroglyphics by putting any of the following figures in succession: A lamb,
a balance, a whale, an elephant; or an eagle, a boat, a sword, &c. This kind of writ-
ing has some analogy, as we see, with the rebusin which confectioners wrap their bon-
bons. Thus we see at what stage these Egyptian priests were, of whom antiquity has
so much boasted, but who, we must say, have taught us so little.

M. Champollion calls homophones all those signs which, representing the same sound
or the same articulation, can be substituted indifferently for each other. In the actual
state of the Egyptian alphabet I perceive six or seven homophone signs for A and
more than twelve fpr the Greek sigma.—ARAGo.
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. lok

find on one hand the lively discussion to which the age of these monu-
ments had given rise completely terminated; on the other, we observe
it established beyond question that under the Roman dominion hiero-
glyphics were still in full use on the banks of the Nile.

The alphabet which had given such unhoped-for results, whether
applied to the great obelisks at Karnae, or to other monuments which
are also recognized as being of the age of the Pharaohs, presents to us
the names of many other kings of this ancient race; the names of
Egyptian deities; we can say more, substantives, adjectives, and verbs
of the Coptie language. Young was then deceived when he regarded
the phonetic hierogly phies as a modern invention; when he advanced
that they served solely for the transcription of proper names foreign to
Egypt. M. de Guignes, and, above all, M. Etienne Quatremére estab-
lished, on the contrary, a real fact, and one of great importance—that
the reading of the inscriptions of the Pharaohs is corroborated by irresist-
ible proofs, while they show that the existing Coptic language was that

of the ancient subjects of Sesostris.
-  Wenow know the facts. I may, then, confine myself to confirm, by
a few short observations, the consequences which appear to me to result
from them.

Discussions of priority, even under the dominion of national preju-
dices, will have become embittered if they can be reduced to fixed rules ;
but in certain cases the first idea is everything ; in others, the details offer
the chief difficulties; sometimes the merit seems to consist less in the
conception of a theory than in its demonstration. We then infer how
much the choice of a particular point of view must depend on arbitrary
conditions; and, lastly, how much influence it will have on the definite
conclusion. To escape from these embarrassments, I have sought an
example in which the parts respectively played by two rival claimants
for an invention may be assimilated to those of Champollion and Young,
and which has, on the other hand, united all opinions. This example,
I believe, I have found in the inter ferences, even leaving out of the ques-
tion, as regards the subject of the hieroglyphics, the quotations from the
memoir of M. de Guignes. It is as follows: Hooke, in fact, had an-
nounced, before Dr. Young, that luminous rays interfered, just as the latter
had asserted, before Champollion, that the Egyptian hieroglyphics are
sometimes phonetic. Hooke did not prove directly his hypothesis; the
proof of the phonetic values assigned by Young to different hieroglyphics
could only rest on readings which had not, as yet, been made, and which
could not then be made. From want of knowing the composition of
white light, Hooke had not an exact idea of the nature of interferences,
as Young on his part deceived himself by an imagined syllabic or dis-
syllabic value of hieroglyphics. Young, by unanimous consent, is
regarded as the author of the theory of interferences. Thence, by a
parity of reasoning which seems to me inevitable, Champollion ought
to be regarded as the author of the discovery of hieroglyphies.

I regret not to have sooner thought of this comparison. If, in his
lifetime, Young had been placed in the alternative of being the origina-
tor of the doctrine of interferences, leaving the hieroglyphies to Cham-
pollion, or to keep the hieroglyphics, giving up to Hooke the ingenious
optical theory, I do not doubt he would have felt obliged to recognize
the claims of our illustrious fellow-countryman. At ‘all events, there
would have remained with him what no one could have contested, the
right to appear in the history of the memorable discovery of the inter-
pretation of hieroglyphics in the same relative position as that in which
132 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

Kepler, Borelli, Hooke, and Wren appeared in the history of universal
gravitation.

Notre.—We have here put before our readers the literal version of
Arago’s statement respecting the claims of Young in regard to the dis-
eovery of the principle of interpreting the Egyptian hieroglyphics.
Arago’s representations have been, as is well known, greatly called in
question. And though he throughout speaks in a tone of marked
courtesy and candor toward Young, yet it is clear that he espouses the
cause of Champollion with an ardor which many, in this country, believe
has, in some degree, blinded him to the truth of the case. At any rate,
in the vivid and highly-colored sketch here presented by M. ‘Arago, the
reader may need some caution in discriminating the fair share of merit
which may be claimed by the respective parties engaged in the inquiry.
The author’s national partialities may very naturally have had some influ-
ence in biasing his judgment. It is impossible here to enter on details
of controversy. But both as to the actual amount and accuracy of Dr.
Young’s investigations and the relative claims of M. Champollion, the
reader may find it desirable to refer to the extended discussion of the
subject given in Dr. Peacock’s Life of Young. Without the pretension,
or indeed the possibility, of adequately going into this question within
the limits of such a commentary as can be here given, we shall content
ourselves with pointing out to the notice of our readers a few of those
passages in that work in which Dr. Young’s claims are powerfully vin-
dicated. The conclusions turn out such a variety of points of details
that it would be wholly impracticable to attempt any analysis of them
in this place. But the result tends to assign a considerably larger share
of credit in the discovery to Dr. Young than Arago seems disposed to
allow him. Dr. Peacock’s able and elaborate work is doubtless in the
hands of all those who take any interest in a question so important to
the advance of philological and ethnological science as well as to gen-
eral literature. Yet a slight sketch of the chief points referred to may
not be useless.

We may first mention that Dr. Young’s article “‘ Egypt,” in the Sup-
plement to the Encyclopedia Britannica, published in 1819, contains the
most comprehensive survey of his labors and conclusions on the subject
of hieroglyphic literature up to that date. It does not profess to go into
those minutia of critical detail, for which reference must be made to
his numerous other writings on the subject; but as a general and popu-
lar view it will always be consulted with advantage. Nevertheless, the
reader must always bear in mind that in the statements just given much
had to be revised, or even reversed, from the improved disclosures of
his later researches.

Dr. Peacock has alluded but briefly to the views of Arago, and toward
the conclusion of the chapter sums up the representation of the case as
given in the éloge, remarking only that the whole of his previous state-
ments constitute the refutation of it.

The following extract will show the main claims of Young, insisted on
»y his biographer:

“It was Dr. Young who first determined, and by no easy process, that
the rings* on the Rosetta stone contained the name of Ptolemy. It
was Dr. Young who determined that the semicircle and oval, found at
the end of the second ring, in connection with the former, was expressive
of the feminine gender; and it was Dr. Young who had not only first

* Certain portions of the hieroglyphical characters are found surrounded by a ring
or inclosure called by the French cartouches.

EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 133

suggested that the characters in the ring of Ptolemy were phonetic, but
had determined, with one very unimportant inaccuracy, the values of
four of those which were common to the name of Cleopatra, which were
required to be analyzed. All the principles involved in the discovery
of an alphabet of phonetic hieroglyphics were not only distinetly laid
down but fully exemplified by him; and it only required the further
identification of one or two royal names with the rings, which expressed
them in hieroglyphics, to extend the alphabet already known sufficiently
to bring even names which were not already identified under its opera-
tion.”

Dr. Peacock states that Champollion and Young, while engaged sim-
ultaneously in the prosecution of the researches “connected With these
points, in some instances had opportunities of personal communication
with each other. But Champollion enjoyed especial advantages from
circumstances which placed some of the papyri in his possession, and
thus enabled him to take precedence, in the publication of results;
while his competitor, if he had enjoyed the same facilities, would, no
doubt, have been equally competent to perceive the force of the new
evidence thus adduced, and equally ready to make use of it, even if set-
ting aside some of his earlier inferences and conjectures.

Dr. Peacock, after reflecting with much severity on Champollion, ex-
presses his regret to find so eminent a writer as Chevalier Bunsen,
whose remarks are quoted before, (p. 311,) ‘‘ supporting, by the weight
of his authority, some of the grossest of these misrepresentations,” (p.
337.)

Dr. Young displayed singular modesty and forbearance in his contro-
versy with Champollion, treating him throughout with all the respect
due to his acknowledged eminence, and while mildly reproaching him
with omitting to give him the due credit for his own share in the re-
search, yet in no way insinuating that any discreditable motive led to
the omission. Dr. Peacock, however, thinks a far more stringent tone
of criticism might have fairly applied; he takes up the cause of Young
with a less scrupulous zeal, and, though with perfect good temper, yet
with deeply damaging force of argument and statement of facts, ex-
poses the very unjustifiable nature of Champollion’s assumptions, and
vindicates the claims of Young to his fair and important share in these
discoveries. He dwells onthe tone of assumption in which Champollion
presents himself to his readers as in exclusive possession of a province
of which he had long since been the sole conqueror, and regards every
question raised as to his exclusive rights as an unjustifiable attack to be
resented and repelled, while he studiously suppresses the dates of the
successive stages of the discovery, and thus attacks Young on the as-
sertions made on imperfect knowledge in the earlier stages of his in-
vestigations with the aid of all his own accumulated information ac-
quired subsequently, a proceeding the iniquity of which needs only
stating to stand exposed. As instances of this, it is mentiowed that
Young, in 1816, onthe strength of comparatively imperfect information
then acquired, made some representations respecting the enchorial char
acters in the Rosetta inscription, and their relation to those employed
in the funeral rolls. These Champollion criticises and exposes without
reserve from the more full knowledge he had obtained in 1824, entirely
passing over Young’s own later statement on the same subject, correct-
ing his former views, and from which even Dr. Peacock considers Cham-
pollion himself probably derived a large portion of his own knowledge of
the subject. Dr. Peacock has collected in one point of view Champol-
lion’s main assertions as representing the state of the case. But he has
134: EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

shown that some of the propositions dwelt upon were, in point of fact,
never maintained by Dr. Young; and it was chiefly by his later re-
searches that the erroneous impressions at first entertained, respecting
the points to which they relate, had been corrected and their true na-
ture established.

In 1821 Champollion denied altogether the existence of an alphabetic
element among the hieroglyphics; but in the following year he
adopted the whole of Young’s principles, and apphed them with one
modification only. The analogy of certain marks in the Chinese hiero-
glyphies to signify proper names, the principle that the phonetic power
of the symbol is derived from the initial letter or syllable of the name
of the object which it represents in the Egyptian language, are among
the chief of those which he borrows without acknowledgment, or claims
without regard to their prior announcement by Young. ‘It would be
difficult,” says Dr. Peacock, ‘‘ to point out in the history of literature a
more flagrant example of dismgenuous suppression of the real facts
bearing on an important discovery.”—TRANSLATOR.

MISCELLANEOUS WORKS OF DR. YOUNG.

The limits prescribed do not permit me even to quote the mere titles
of all the numerous writings which Dr. Young published. Nevertheless
the public reading of so rich a catalogue would certainly have sufficed
to establish the celebrity of our colleague. Who would not imagine, in
fact, that he had before him the register of the labors of several acade-
mnies, and not those of a single individual, on hearing, for instance, the
following list of titles:

Memoir on the Establishments where Iron is wrought.

Essays on Music and Painting.

Remarks on the Habits of Spiders and the Theory of Fabricius.

On the Stability of the Arches of Bridges.

On the Atmosphere of the Moon.

Description of a new Species of Opercularia.

Mathematical Theory of Epicycloidal Curves.

Restoration and Translation of different Greek Inscriptions.

On the Means of Strengthening the Construction of Ships of the Line.

On the Play of the Heart and of the Arteries in the Phenomena of Circulation.

Theory of Tides.

On the Diseases of the Chest.

On the Friction of the Axes of Machines.

On the Yellow Fever.

On the Calculation of Eclipses.

Essays on Grammar, &c.*

CHARACTER OF YOUNG—HIS POSITION AS A PHYSICIAN—HIS ENGAGE-
MENT ON THE NAUTICAL ALMANAC—HIS DEATH.

Labors so numerous and varied seem as if they must have required
the laborious and retired life of that class of men of science, which, to
say the truth, is beginning to disappear, who from their earliest youth
separate themselves from their companions to shut themselves up com-
pletely in their studies. Thomas Young was, on the contrary, what is
usually called a man of the world. He constantly frequented the best
society in London. The graces of his wit, the elegance of his manners,
were ainply sufficient to make him remarkable. But when we figure to
ourselves those numerous assemblies in which fifty different subjects in

* This list, it should be borne in mind, is intended by the author merely as a speci-
men of the vast catalogue which might be made of Young’s writings ; the reader will
find ample details as to his innumerable productions in Peacock’s Life.—TRANSLATOR,

—
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 135

turn are skimmed over in a few minutes, we may conceive what value
would be attached to one who was a true living library, from whom every
one could find, at a moment, an exact, precise, substantial answer on
all kinds of questions which they could propose to him. Young was
much occupied with the fine arts. Many of his memoits testify the pro-
found knowledge which he had happily acquired of the theory of music.
He carried out also to a great extent the talent of executing it; and I
believe it is certain that of all known instruments, even including the
Scottish bagpipe, only one or two could be named on which he could
not play. His taste for painting developed itself during a visit which
he paid to Germany. There the magnificent collection at Dresden ab-
sorbed his attention entirely ; for he aspired not solely to the easy credit
of connecting together, without mistake, the name of such or such an
artist with such or such a painting; the defects and the characteristic
qualities of the greatest masters, their frequent changes of manner, the
material objects which they introduced into their works, the moditica-
tions which those objects and the colors underwent in progress of time,
among other points, occupied him in succession. Young, in one word,
studied painting in Saxony as he had before studied languages in his
own country, and as he afterward studied the sciences. Everything,
in fact, was a subject of meditation and research. The university
contemporaries of the illustrious physicist recalled a laughable instance
of this trait of his mind. They related that entering his room one day,
when for the first time he had taken a lesson in dancing the minuet, at
Edinburgh, they found him occupied in tracing out minutely with the
rule and compasses the route gone through by the two dancers, and the
different improvements of which these figures seemed to him susceptible.

Young borrowed with happy effect from the sect of the Friends, to
which he then belonged, the opinion that the intellectual faculties of
children differ originally from each other much less than is commonly
supposed. ‘‘Any man can do what any other man has done,” became
his favorite maxim. And further, never did he personally himself recoil
before trials of any kind to which he wished to subject his system. The
first time he mounted ahorse in eompany with the grandson of Mr. Bar-
clay, the horseman who preceded them leaped a high fence. Young
wished to imitate him, but he fell at ten paces. He remounted without
saying a word, made a second attempt, was again unseated, but this
time was not thrown further than on the horse’s neck, to which he
clung. At the third trial the young learner, as his favorite motto taught,
succeeded in executing what another had done before him.* This experi-
ment need not have been referred to here, but that it had been repeated
at Edinburgh, and afterward at Géttingen, and carried out to a further
extent beyond what might seem credible. In one of these two cities
Young soon afterward entered into a trial of skill with a celebrated
rope-dancer ; in the other, (and in each case the result of a challenge,)
he acquired the art of executing feats on horseback with remarkable
skill, even in the midst of consummate artistes, whose feats of agility
attract every evening such numerous crowds to the circus of Franconi.
Thus, those who are fond of drawing contrasts may, on the one side,
represent to themselves the timid Newton,f never riding in a carriage,
so much did the fear of being upset preoccupy him, without holding to

*This anecdote seems at variance with what is stated on the authority of a Cam-
bridge contemporary of Young in Dr. Peacock’s Life, (p. 119,) that he only: once there
attempted to follow the hounds, when a severe fall prevented any further exbibitions
of the kind.—TRaNSLATOR.

t This practice has been described as that of Newton’s, but the motive assigned by
Arago is novel.
156 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

both the doors with extended arms, and, on the other, his distinguished
rival galloping on the backs of two horses with all the confidence of an
equestrian by profession.

In England, a physician, if he does not wish to lose the confidence of
the public, ought to abstain from occupying himself with any scientific
or literary research which may be thought foreign to the art of curing
diseases. Young for a long time did homage to this prejudice. His
writings appeared under an anonymous veil. This veil, it is true, was
very transparent. Two consecutive letters of a certain Latin motto
served successively in regular order as the signature to each memoir.
But Yount communicated the three Latin words to all his friends both
in his own country and abroad, without enjoining secrecy on any one.

Besides, who would be ignorant that the distinguished author of the
theory of interferences was the foreign secretary of the Royal Society
of London ; that he gave in the theater of the Royal Institution a course
of lectures on mathematical physics ; that, associated with Sir H. Davy,
he published a journal of the sciences, &c.? And, moreover, we must say
that his anonymous disguise was not rigorously observed even in his
smaller memoirs; and on important occasions, when, for instance, in
1807, the two volumes in quarto appeared, of 800 or 900 pages each, in
which all branches of natural philosophy were treated in a manner so
new and profound, the self-love of the author made him forget the in-
terests of the physician, and the name of Young in large letters replaced
the two small italics, whose series was then terminated, and which
would have figured in a rather ridiculous manner in the title-page of
this colossal work.

Young had not then, as a physician, either in London or at Worthing,
where he passed the sea-bathing season, any extended practice. The
public found him, in fact, too scientific. We must also avow that his
public lectures on medicine, those for instance which he delivered at
St. George’s Hospital, were generally but ill-attended. It has been said,
to explain this, that his lectures were too dry, too full of matter, and
that they were beyond the apprehension of ordinary understandings.
But might not the want of success be rather ascribed to the freedom,
not very common, with which Young pointed out the inextricable diffi-
culties which encounter us at every step in the study of the numerous
disorders of our frail machine ?

Would any one expect at Paris, and especially in an age when every
one seeks to attain his end quickly and without labor, that a professor
of the faculty would retain many auditors if he were to commence with
these words, which I borrow literally from Dr. Young: ‘No study is
so complicated as that of medicine; it exceeds the limits of human in-
telligence. Those physicians who precipitately go on without trying to
comprehend what they observe, are often just as much advanced as
those who give themselves up to generalizations hastily made on obser-
vations in regard to which all analogy is at fault.” And if the profes-
sor, continuing in the same style, should add, ‘ In the lottery of medi-
cine the chances of the possessor of ten tickets must evidently be greater
than those of the possessor of five,” when they believed themselves en-
gaged in a lottery, would those of his auditors whom the first phrase
had not driven away be at all disposed to make any great efforts to
procure for themselves more tickets, or, to explain the meaning of our
professor, the greatest amount of knowledge possible ?

In spite of his knowledge, perhaps even from the very cause that it
was so extensive, Young was totally wanting in confidence at the bed-
side of the patient. Then the mischievous effects which might event-

nant —-t-
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 13¢

ually result from the action of the medicine, even the most clearly
called for, presented themselves in a mass to his mind; seemed to coun-
terbalance the favorable chances which might attend the use of them ;
and thus threw him into a state of indecision, no doubt very natural,
yet on which the publie will always put an unfavorable construction.
The same timidity showed itself in all the works of Young which treated
on medical subjects.* This man, so eminently remarkable for the bold-
ness of his scientific conceptions, gives here no more than a bare enumera-
tion of facts. He seems hardly convinced of the soundness of his
thesis, either when he attacks the celebrated Dr. Radcliffe, whose whole
secret in the most brilliant and successful practice was, as he has him-
self said, to employ remedies exactly the reverse of the usual way; or
when he combats Dr. Brown, who found himself, as he says, in the dis-
agreeable necessity of recognizing, and that in accordance with the offi-
cial documents of an hospital, attended by the most eminent physicians,
that, on the average, fevers left to their natural course are neither more
severe nor of Jonger duration than those treated by the best methods.

In 1818 Young, having been named secretary to the Board of Longi-
tude, abandoned entirely the practice of medicine to give himself up to
the close superintendence of the celebrated periodical work known
under the name of the Nautical Almanac. From this date the Journal
of the Royal Institution gave every quarter his numerous dissertations
on the most important problems of navigation and astronomy. <A vol-
ume entitled “ Iilustration of the Mécanique Céleste of Laplace,” a scien-
tific discussion on the tides, amply attested that Young did not consider
the employment he had accepted as a sinecure. This employment bé-
came, nevertheless, to him a source of unceasing disgust. The Nautical
Almanac had always been, from its commencement, a work exclusively
destined to the service of the navy. Some persons demanded that it
ought to be made, besides, a complete astronomical ephemeris. The
Board of Longitude, whether right or wrong, not having shown itself a
strong partisan of the projected change, found itself suddenly the object
of the most violent attacks. The journals of every party, whig or tory,
took part in the conflict.

We were no longer to view it as a union of such men as Davy, Wol-
laston, Young, Herschel, Kater, and Pond, but an assembly of individ-
nals (I quote the words) “who obeyed a Beotian influence.” The
Nautical Almanac, hitherto so renowned, was now declared to have be-
come an object of shame to the English nation. If an error of the
press was discovered, such as there must be in any collection of figures
at all voluminous, the British navy, from the smallest bark up to the
colossal three-decker, misled by an incorrect figure, would all together
be engulfed in the ocean, &e.

It has been pretended that the principal promoter of these foolish
exaggerations did not perceive such foolish errors in the Nautical
Almanae until after he had unsuccessfully attempted himself to obtain
a place in the Board of Longitude. I know not whether the facet was
so. In any case, I would not make myself the echo of the malicious
commentaries to which it gave rise. I ought not to forget, in fact, that

*This timidity in medical speculation is entirely borne out by the tenor of Young’s
intellectual character, as exhibited in such forcible lineaments in the portrait presented
to us by Dr. Peacock. His mind was essentially cast in a matter-of-fact, positive, demon-
strative mold; hence all subjects of abstract or doubtful inquiry, in which probabilities
alone could be estimated, or when the conclusions were to be the result of meral dis-
crimination, were utterly unsuited to him. His medical character has been viewed,
however, in a much higher light by Dr. Peacock, who has sought to combat the an-
favorable impressions here advanced. (See especially pp. 213, 222.)—TRANSLATOR.
135 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

for many years past that member of the Royal Society to whom I allude
has nobly devoted a part of his large fortune to the advancement of
science. This commendable astronomer, like all men of science whose
thoughts are concentrated on one sole object, fell into the error, which
1 do not pretend to excuse, of measuring through a magnifying-glass
the importance of the projects he had conceived. But that with which,
above all, he must be reproached is, that he did not foresee that the
hyperbolic language of his attacks would be taken literally; that he
forgot that at all epochs and in all countries there are a great number
of persons who, having nothing to console them for their littleness, seize
as a prey on all occasions of scandal, and, under the mask of zeal for
the public good, enjoy the delight of being ignoble defamers of those of
their contemporaries whose success has been proclaimed by fame. In
Rome, he whose office it was to insult the triumphant conqueror was
altogether a slave; in London it was a member of the House of Com-
mons from whom the men of science received a cruel affront. An orator
notorious for his prejudices, but who had hitherto vented his bitterness
only against productions of French origin, attacked the most celebrated
names in England, and retailed against them, in open Parliament,
puerile accusations with a laughable gravity. Ministers, whose elo-
quence was exercised for hours on the privileges of a rotten borough,
did not pronounce a single word in favor of genius. The Board ot
Longitude was suppressed without opposition. The next day, it is true,
the wants of an innumerable marine service made their imperative voice
heard, and one of the men of science who had been displaced, the former
secretary of the board, Dr. Young, found himself recalled to his old
labors. Paltry reparation! Would the man of science feel less the
separation from his illustrious colleagues? Would the man of feeling
less perceive that the noble fruits of human intellect were subjected to
tariff by the representatives of the country, in pounds, shillings, and
pence, like sugar, pepper, or cinnamon ?

The health of our colleague, which had already become somewhat
precarious, declined from this sad epoch with fearful rapidity. Skillful
physicians, by whom he was attended, soon lost hope. Young himself
had a consciousness that his end was approaching, and saw it come with
an admirable calmness. Until his last hour he occupied himself with-
out intermission on an Egyptian dictionary then in the press, and which
was not published till after his death. When his powers did not permit
him any longer to sit up or to employ a pen, he corrected the proofs
with a pencil. One of the last acts of his life was to exact the sup-
pression of a small publication written with talent by a friendly hand,
and directed against all those who had contributed to the destruction ot
the Board of Longitude.* Young died surrounded by a family by whom

* The whole account of the transactions connected with the abolition of the Board
of Longitude must be received with some qualification. Arago writes on the subject
in his usual vehement tone, and in the feeling in which the whole affair would
naturally be viewed by a foreigner perhaps not intimately acquainted with the
minute points of the case, and the somewhat different relative position occupied by
the parties in England to that in which they might stand in France. It may be right
very briefly to point out a few particulars in the case, which are necessary for forming
a correct impression of it. The Board of Longitude, originally instituted, as its name
implied, for one specific object, which it was considered had been sufficiently attained,
was, in 1818, remodeled by act of Parliament, when Dr. Young was appointed secre-
tary to the board and superintendent of the Nautical Almanac. The late Mr. F. Baily,
whose eminence in astronomical science may perhaps be dated from that event,
strongly pointed out the numerous defects of the Nantical Almanac. This led to some
controversy of rather a sharp nature between himself and Dr. Young, who defended
the existing system. Other astronomers joined in the desire for these and even more
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 139

he was adored, May 10, 1829, barely at the age of fifty-six. Examina-
tion showed that he suffered ‘from ossification of the aorta.

I have not dwelt too long on the task imposed on ine if I have brought
out, as I wished to do, the importance and novelty of the admirable law

extensive improvements, all which (with one slight concession) were steadily opposed
by Dr. Young. Among these advocates for reform were several members of the board
itself, who urged them at its meetings. There was also a very prevalent impression,
even among its own members, that the board was not well constituted, and might
have been capable of much better service to the nation if its functions were less re-

stricted and the selection of its members placed en a better footing. In other quar-
ters impressions unfavorabie to its utility were prevalent, and it can hardly be matter
of surprise that, when the board was itself divided in opinion, the public or the legis-
lature should entertain doubts of its utility, or even hostile feelings toward it. What
were the precise notions of the government, or the machinations by which they were
influenced, it is impossible to say; but it is certain that, in 1828, chiefly through the
influence of Mr. Croker, its dissolution was determined upon and carried by act of
Parliament without any opposition being attempted. Instead, however, of an enlarged
board, with increased powers, three scientific advisers of the admiralty were appointed,
of whom Dr. Young was one, retaining the superintendence of the Nautical Almanac—
a system which has been since remodeled, in accordance with the report of a committee
appointed out of the Astronomical Society:

Dr. Young appears all along to have been affected only by the personal acrimony of
some of the attacks upon himself in relation to the editorship of the Nantical Almanac,
and not at all by any feeling for the Board of Longitude, as Arago would regard it.
That board, as already observed, was divided against itself, and it therefore fell. It
was never ‘upheld on the only’ right ground. Neither the board nor the friends of
science sufficiently urged the strong and irresistible claims which they might have
preferred to the government of the country, that “a council of science,” with extended
powers, properly selected and adequately remunerated, would be the appropriate ad-
junct of the government of a country all whose resources are so powerfully developed
in exclusive dependence on the applications of science.

Tbe government would thus have had the means of sound scientific advice con-
stantly at hand, of which experience proves they are in daily want on every emer-
gency, and which they obtain by asking the gratuitous services of men of science, and
the Crown would have possessed the means of making a graceful acknowledgment of
the services, and paying a just tribute to the genius of men devoted to the higher
branches of the abstract sciences, which are of a nature incapable of themselves of
aftording any kind of remuneration, or, in the ordinary course, leading to any of those
honors or preferments which await eminence in other professions. —TRANSLATOR.

The reader may be referred, for details of the questions here considered, to the fol-
tomas documents:

1. “Astronomical Tables and Remarks for 1822; published December, 1821,” by F.
Baily, esq., with ‘‘ Remarks on the present defective state of the Nautical Almanac.”

2. A reply to these remarks appeared in Mr. Brande’s Quarterly Journal of Science,
April, 1822. (Attributed to Dr. Young.)

3. Practical observations on the Nautical Almanac, &c., by James South, F. R. S.,
1822.

4. Reply to a letter in the Morning Chronicle relative to the government and astro-
nomical science, &c., by the same. 1829.

5. Refutation of misstatements, &c., in a paper presented to the admiralty by Dr. T.
Young, and printed by order of the House of Commons, by the same. 1829.

6. Further remarks on the present defective state of the Nautical Almanac, &e., by
FP. pay esq., FP. R.S., &e. 1829.

Report of the committee of the Astronomical Society relative to the improvement
of “aK Nautical Almanac, adopted by the council of the society, and approved and
ordered to be carried into eftect by the lords commissioners of the admiralty, 1530.
oe of the Astronomical Society, vol. iv, p. 447.)

8. A motion was made in the House of Commons February. 23, 1829, for certain
returns respecting the Board of Longitude and the Nautical Almanac, &e. The re-
turns were made and printed, consisting of: 1. A memorandum of a statement made
to the chancellor of the exchequer for Teforming the Nautical Almanae and estab-
lishment of a new Board of Longitude. 2. A paper read at the board by J. Herschel,
esq. 3. A report on a memorandum, &c., by Thomas Young, M. D. In the last, Dr.
Young makes answer to what he considers objections raised in the “ Memorandum,” and
also replies to those of Mr. Baily and Mr. South. Sir J. South’s pamphlet contains
the Memorandum, the objections raised or inferred by Dr. Young, his replies to them ;
all which are severely criticised. At page 60 is a curious account of some discussions
at Sir H. Davy’s soiree, between Sir J. South and Dr. Young.
140 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

of interferences. Young is now placed before your ‘eyes as one of the
most illustrious men of science, in whom England may justly take pride.
Your thoughts, anticipating my words, may perhaps perceive already,
in the recital of the just honors shown to the author of so beautiful.a
discovery, the peroration of this historical notice. These anticipations,
I regret to say, will not berealized. The death of Young has in his own
countr Vv created very little sensation. ‘The doors of Westminster* Ab-
bey, so easily accessible to titled mediocrity, remained shut upon a man
of genius, who was not even a baronet. It was in the village of Farn-
borough, in the modest tomb of the family of his wife, that the remains of
Thomas Young were deposited. The indifference of the English nation
for those se ientific labors which ought to add so much to its elory isarare
anomaly, of which it would be curious to trace the causes. I should be
wanting in frankness, I should be the panegyrist, not the historian, if I
did not : avow that, in general, Young did not sufficiently ace commodate
himself to the capacity of his readers; that the greater part of the writ-
ings for which the sciences are indebted to him are justly chargeable
with a certain obscurity. But the neglect to which they were long con-
signed did not depend solely on this cause.

‘The exact sciences have an advantage over the works of art or imagi-
nation which has often been pointed out. The truths of which they
consist remain constant through ages without suffering in any respect
from the caprices of fashion or the decline of taste; but thus, when
once these researches rise into more elevated regions of thought, on how
many competent judges of their merits can we reckon? When Richelieu
let loose against the great Corneille a crowd of that class of men whom
envy of the merit of others renders furicus, the Parisians vehemently
hissed the partisans of the despot cardinal, and applauded the poet.
This reparation is denied to the geometer, the astronomer, or the physi-
cist who cultivates the highest parts of science. Those who even com-
petently appreciate them throughout the whole extent of Europe never
rise above the number of eight or ten. Imagine these unjust, indifferent,
or even jealous, (for I suppose that may sometimes be the case,) and the
public, reduced to believe on hearsay, would be ignorant that D’Alem-
bert had connected the great phenomenon of precession of equinoxes
with the principle of universal gravitation; that Lagrange had arrived
at the discovery of the physical cause of the libration of the moon;
that since the researches of Laplace, the acceleration of the motion of
that luminary is found to be connected with a particular change in the
form of the earth’s orbit, &c. The journals of science, when they are
edited by men of recognized merit, thus acquire, on certain subjects,
an influence which sometimes becomes fatal. It is thus, I conceive, that
we may describe the influence which the Edinburgh Review has some-
times exercised. Among the contributors to that celebrated journal at
its commencement, a young writer was eminently distinguished, in whom
the discoveries of Newton had inspired an ardent admiration. This
sentiment, so natural, so legitimate, unfortunately led him to miscon-
ceive the ’ plausible, ingenious, and fertile character of the doctrine of
interferences. The author of this theory had not, perhaps, always taken
care to clothe his decisions, his statements, his critiques, with those
more polished forms of expression the claims of which ought never to

* The frequenters of Poet’s Corner need not be reminded that literature and science
are not excluded from their share of funereal honors in Westminster Abbey. M. Arago
here, as in some other passages, may naturally be a little incorrect in referring ‘to

national usages. The delay which occurred in regard to Young’s monument is, how-
ever, not fully explained by Dean Peacock. (See Life of Young, p. 465. )—TRANSLATOR.
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 141

be neglected, and which, moreover, became a matter of imperative duty
when the question referred to the immortal author of the Natural Phi-
losophy,* (the Principia?) The penalty of retaliation was applied to him

*Tt seems impossible to make this sentence intelligible, unless we suppose the “ im-
mortal author” spoken of to be Newton, and by consequence that the title Natural Philos-
ophy was a slip of the writer’s pen for Principia. Yet the supposition that the hostility
of the Edinburgh Review was at all called forth by any want of courtesy toward New-
ton in the writings of Young is wholly unsupported by anything in Young’s papers,
in which he cites the views of Newton with the greatest respect. —TRANSLATOR.

Newton’s support of the emission theory of light—The authority of names can never be
of any avail to the truly inductive philosopher; his motto is emphatically “nullius in
verba.” But there has been always a propensity among writers on the subject to dwell
on such authority, and to array great names on either side of any of those controverted
points which have divided the scientific world. Perhaps, where the question is purely
one of opinion, and refers simply to hypotheses upheld for what they are worth as
such, the weight of a name may not be unworthy of due estimation: great experience
and high genius may add value to a pure hypothesis, though it could not to a positive .
conclusion. In regard to theories of light this has been conspicuously exemplified, and
during a long continuance of controversial discussion it has been a matter of triumph
to the opponents of the undulatory theory that the authority of Newton is on their
side. And even Arago, as well as some other supporters of it, have spoken as if regret-
ting that they were thus constrained to put themselves in antagonism to Newton.
They have pictured two rival theories, the one headed by Newton and supported by
Laplace, Biot, Brewster, and Potter; the other upheld in opposition to them by Huy-
ghens, Hooke, Euler, Fresnel, Young, Airy, and all the Cambridge school.

But a very slight inquiry into the real facts entirely dispels this view of the case. In
particular, Dr. Young himself, in proposing his theory, so far from opposing the Newto-
nian views, expressly endeavors to conciliate attention by claiming the weight of New-
ton’s authority on his own side; thus, in his paper ‘On the theory of light and colors,”
(Phil. Trans., 1801,) he commences by highly extolling the optical researches of New-
ton, and then observes, “Those who are attached, as they may be, with the greatest
justice, to every doctrine which is stamped with the Newtonian approbation, will proba-
bly be disposed to bestow on these considerations (i. e., his own views) so much the
more of their attention as they shall appear to coincide more nearly with Newton’s
opinion.” He then proceeds to examine in detail a number of passages from Newton’s
writings, in which the theory of waves is distinctly upheld and even applied with some
precision to the explanation of various phenomena of light, illustrated by their analo-
gies to those of sound.

It is perfectly true that Newton. in the actual investigation of several phenomena of
light, adopts other hypotheses than those of waves, and chiefly the idea of light
(whatever may be its nature) being subject to certain attractions and repulsions, to
certain bendings when approaching near the edges of solid bodies, to certain peculiar
modifications or changes in its nature recurring periodically at certain minute inter-
vals along the length of a ray, to the idea of a ray having “sides” endued with dif-
ferent properties ; in a word, a variety of conceptions which he introduces for the pur-
pose of giving some kind of imaginary physical representation of the modus operandi in
each of the several curious experimental cases which he had examined. In all these
there is no unity or community of principle ; there is at least nothing like the spirit of
theory, no continual recurrence to one leading idea, no perpetual appeal to any one
principle, however imaginary, but an attempt in each isolated case to frame something
like an isolated hypothesis to suit it, and in some way to represent its phenomena,
though without any attempt to connect them with the others. It may perhaps be said
that all these various suppositions agree in supposing light to be material, to be some-
thing emitted from the luminous source. But on a closer examination it seems far
from certain that even this can be maintained. The only part of these investigations,
perhaps, in which anything very positive of this kind is distinctly introduced, is when
Newton investigates the laws of refraction on the express supposition of small mole-
cules attracted by the molecules of the medium. But in this instance it has been truly
observed that, at the time when Newton wrote, no mathematical method existed by
which this kind of action could be reduced to calculation, except those involving the
action of attractive force. To give, then, a mathematical theory of ordinary reflection
and refraction, he was necessitated to make use of thismethod. When he came to in-
vestigate those more recondite phenomena which he (very appropriately to their ap-
parent nature) called “inflection,” the idea most naturally and obviously presented was,
that some power or influence, analogous to attraction and repulsion, existing in the
edge of an opaque body to bend out of their course rays passing very near it, and this
might seem to imply the materiality of those rays. A kind of alternating action of this
sort, which le imagined necessary to account for a part of the effect, would, however,
hardly be reconcilable to the idea of direct emission. It would be a difficult matter
142 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

with interest; the Edinburgh Review attacked the man of erudition,
the writer, the geometer, the experimenter, with a vehemence, with a
severity of expression, almost without example in scientific discussion.
The public usually keep on their guard when such violent language is
addressed to them; but in this instance they adopted, at the first onset,
the opinions of the journalist, in which we cannot fairly accuse them of in-
considerateness. ‘The journalist, in fact, was not one of those unfledged
critics Whose mission is not justified by any previous study of the sub-
ject. Several good papers, received by the Royal Society, had attested
his mathematical knowledge, and had assigned him a distinguished
place among the physicists to whom optical science was indebted; the
profession of the bar in London had acknowledged him one of its shin-
ing luminaries; the whig section of the House of Commens saw in him
an efficient orator, who, in parliamentary struggles, was often the happy
antagonist of Canning. This was the future president of the House of
Peers—the present lord chancellor,* How could opposition be offered
to unjust criticisms proceeding from so high a quarter? J am not igno-
rant what firmness some minds enjoy in the consciousness of their being
in the right, in the certainty that sooner or later truth will triumph;
but I know, also, that we shall act wisely in not reckoning too much on
such exceptions. Listen, for example, to Galileo himself, repeating in
a whisper, after his abjuration, “ pur si muove!” and do not seek in
these immortal words an augury for the future, for they are but the ex-
pression of the cruel vexation which the illustrious old man experienced.
Young, also, in writing a few pages which he published as an answer to
the Edinburgh Review, showed. himself deeply discouraged. The
vivacity, the vehemence of his expressions, ill concealed the sentiment
which oppressed him. In a word, let us hasten to say that justice, com-
plete justice, was at length rendered to the great physicist. After sev- -
eral years the whole world recognized in him one of the brightest lumi-

to conceive particles darted through space with such inconceivable velocity as must
belong to those of light, and yet stopping to wave about, in and out, as Newton ex-
presses it, ‘like an eel,” close to the edge of a body, by virtue of some mysterious in-
fluence which it exercises upon them.

Again: the theory of those alternating states, conditions, or “fits,” as he termed
them, at such minute intervals along the length of ray, alternately putting it in astate
to be reflected, and again to be transmitted by a transparent medium, seem very remote
from the idea of a single rectilinear progress of molecules through space following one
another at immense intervals of distance, though in inconceivably rapid succession in
time. It would be easy to extend such remarks; but it will probably be seen, with
sufficient evidence for our present purpose, that neither in profession nor in fact can
Newton’s name be appealed to as at all an exclusive supporter of the material hypoth-
esis of light, even if in other passages he had not distinctly referred to that of undu-
lations; and of these references a large number are quoted from different portions of
his writings by Dr. Young in the paper above cited. In some of these, while he ad-
mits the readiness with which the idea of waves represents the phenomena, he yet
dwells on certain apparent objections which seemed to invalidate that idea.

Upon the whole, it appears that the name of Newton can in no way be legitimately
claimed as a partisan of either theory. Indeed, it is surprising that any claim of the
kind could have been set up as regards the emission theory, after his own distinct
avowal : ;

‘Tis true, that from theory I argue the corporeity of light; but I do it without any
absolute positiveness, as the word ‘ perhaps’ intimates; and make it at most but a very
plausible consequence of the doctrine, and not a fundamental supposition, nor so much
as any part of it.”—(Phil. Trans., vol. x, 1675, p. 5086.)

While in respect to either hypothesis, it is sufficiently evident to those acquainted
with his writings that he never systematically upheld either the one or the other; but
from time to time, as each particular investigation seemed to require, he adopted the
one or the other principle, just as it seemed to give the more ready explanation of the
point before him.—TRANSLATOR.

* Lord Brougham, who held that office when this biography was written.
EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG. 143

naries of the age. It is from France (and Young took pleasure in him-
self proclaiming it) that the tirst sign of this tardy reparation showed
itself. I will add that, at an epoch considerably before the doctrine of in-
terferences had made converts either in England or on the Continent,
Young found within his own family circle one who comprehended it.
and whose assent to it might well console him for the neglect of the
pubhe. The distinguished person whom I here point out to the notice
of the physicists of Europe will excuse me if I.complete chis indiscre-
tion by stating the circumstances. In the year 1816 I made a tour ip
England with my scientific friend, M. Gay-Lussac. Fresnel had just
then entered on his scientific career in the most brilliant manner by the
publication of his memoir on diffraction. This work, which, in our opin-
ion, contained a capital experiment irreconcilable with the Newtoniap
theory of light, became naturally the first subject of our discussion witb
Dr. Young. We were astonished at the numerous qualifications which
he put upon our praises of it, until at length he stated to us that the very
experiment which we so much commended had been peblished, so long
since as 1807, in his treatise on Natural Philosophy. This assertion did
not seem to us well founded. It caused a long and minute discussion.
Mrs. Young was present, without appearing to take any part in the con-
versation; but we imagined that the weak fear of being designated by
the ridiculous sobriquet of bas-bleuw rendered the ladies of England very
reserved in the presence of foreigners, and our want of discernment did
not strike us till the moment when Mrs. Young quickly quitted her place;
we then began to attempt excuses to her husband, until we saw her re-
enter the room carrying under her arm a large quarto volume. This
was the first volume of the Natural Philosophy. She placed it on the
table, and without saying a word opened it at page 787, and pointed with
her finger to a diagram in which the curvilinear route of the diffracted
bands, on which the discussion turned, was theoretically established.

I trust I shall be pardoned these little details. Too numerous exam-
ples may almost have habituated the public to consider destitution, in-
justice, persecution, and misery as the natural wages of those who devote
their vigils to the development of the human mind. Let us not, then,
forget to point out the exceptions whenever they present themselves.
If we wish that youth should give itself up with ardor to intellectual
labors, let us show them that the glory attached to great discoveries
allies itself, sometimes at least, with some degree of tranquillity and
happiness. Let us even withdraw, if it be possible, from the history of
science so many pages which tarnish its glory. Let us try to persuade
ourselves that in the dungeons of the inquisitors a friendly voice had
caused Galileo to hear some of the delightful expressions which posterity
has kept sacred for his memory; that behind the thick walis of the
Bastile, Freret might yet have learned from the world of science the
glorious rank which it had reserved for him among the men of erudition,
whom France honors; that before going to die in a hospital, Borelli
had found sometimes in the city of Rome a shelter against the inclem-
ency of the atmosphere, and a little straw on which to lay his head;
and, lastly, that the great Kepler had not experienced the sufferings of
hunger.

NOTE BY THE AUTHOR.—The journals having done we the honor to
mention sometimes the numerous testimonies of good-will and friend-
ship which Lord Brougham had shown me in 1854, as well in Scotland
asin Paris, a word or two of explanation here seems indispensable.
The éloge of Dr. Young was read at a public sitting of the Academy of
Sciences, November 26, 1832. At this period I had never had any per-
144 EULOGY ON THOMAS YOUNG.

sonal acquaintance with the writer in the Edinburgh Review, and thus
all charge of ingratitude must fall to the ground. But could you not,
some might perhaps say, have suppressed entirely, when your paper was
going to the press, all that related to so unfortunate a controversy? I
could have done so, and in fact the idea had occurred to me; but I soon
renounced it. I know too well the elevated feelings of my illustrious
friend to fear that he will take offense at my frankness in regard to
a question on which I have profound conviction that the great extent of
his genius has not preserved him from error. The homage which I
render to the noble character of Lord Brougham, in now publishing this
passage of the éloge of Young without any modification, is, in my mind,
sufficiently significant to render it needless to add a word more.
MEMOIR OF. AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.*

By M. Erm De Beaumont,
Perpetual Secretary of the French Academy of Sciences.

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution by C. A. Alexander. ]

One of the highest gifts of the human intellect is to lift itself to the
contemplation of the future; to enjoy in advance the benefits which it
prepares for the after-races of mankind; to feel itself already recom-
pensed for long and laborious efforts by the thought that a measure of
glory will, some day, encircle a name which is still unknown.

It is your noble privilege, members of the Academy, to pay this tribute
of the future; to discharge by anticipation the debt bequeathed to
posterity, especially in the case of those whom an untimely death has
precluded from the enjoyment of their success; and when a savant,
prematurely snatched away from his studies, leaves works as yet but
little known, though well worthy of being so, works deprived of the
brilliant retinue with which he would in good time have surrounded
them, these are orphans the guardianship of which peculiarly belongs
to you. Such are the motives which have determined your administra-
tive committee to call your attention to-day to a colleague who, struck
down in your ranks almost at the moment when he had just entered
them, will leave in several branches of the sciences ineffaceable traces
through the labors by which he had earned your suffrages.

Auguste Bravais was born August 23, 1811, at Annonay, in the de-
partment of Ardéche. His paternal family sprang from the neighboring
town of Saint-Peray, where it had enjoyed for several centuries the con-
sideration and esteem which have, in all ages, been associated with long
traditions of honor and loyalty. His father, born in 1764, had completed
his scientific studies at Montpellier, where he had been preparator for
the chemical courses of Chaptal, and had received the degree of doctor
of medicine in 1790. Devoted to natural history, he had successively
solicited permission to take part in the two expeditions sent in 1791 and
1792 in search of La Pérouse, but had been stopped by different obsta-
cles, and finally by the opposition of his family, alarmed at the first
symptoms of the Revolution, by which, like so many others, it was se-
verely tried. When tranquillity reappeared Dr. Bravais established
himself at Annonay, a small town picturesquely situated at the entrance
of one of the gorges of the Vivarais, known for its manufactures of
paper and for having been the country of the celebrated Montgolfier.
Here he was soon recognized as an excellent practitioner, and for forty
years exercised gratuitously the functions of physician of the hospital.
With his devotion to the sick and to the welfare of his fellow-citizens
was always allied in Dr. Bravais an enthusiastic love of botany. He
undertook a flora of the Cevennes and Alps, and maintained a constant
correspondence and commerce of exchanges with the most distinguished
botanists of Paris and Montpellier. It was in this way that he received

10s *Read at the annual public sitting of the 6th February, 1865.
146 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

one day the seeds of the Dahlia, a plant then new to Europe, and to him
is due the introduction of that fine flower into the center of France.

Dr. Bravais had become one of the most considerable men of Anno-
nay, When he espoused, early in the century, an estimable member of
the ‘ancient and noble family of Thomé, which had given counsellors to
the parliaments of Paris and Grenoble and a lieutenant general to the
armies of the King. A few years saw him surrounded with a family of
four sons and a daughter, of whom the youngest of the sons was our
future colleague, Aug uste Bravais. Their mother died shortly after the
birth of her daughter, and neither she nor the little Auguste could re-
member having seen her. Feeling the approach of death, the thoughts
of Madame Bravais dwelt chiefly on her children, and having long” re-
marked the piety and pure sentiments of one of the female members of
her household, she drew from this person a promise not to quit them.
Never was confidence better bestowed. The excellent creature remained
forty years in the house, and from her the two infants yet in the cradle
received, with the maternal care demanded by their age, those first im-
pr essions of childhood which are never effaced. The rapid development
of their intelligence reflected honor on hers. At the age of three years
Auguste could - read, without its being well known how he had learned
to do so, and there was for him no oveater enjoyment than to gather with
his sister the flowers, the pebbles, the insects of brilliant colors, which
attracted notice in their rambles ; these were the toys of their childish
years.

They were soon capable of following the excursions of their elder
brothers, whom they had seen bringing back every day objects which
stimulated their curiosity. When his occupations permitted, Dr. Bra-

yais himself conducted these explorations. It was a touching t ableau,
that of this young family herborizing, classifying plants, insects, min-
erals, under the eye and direction of its head, at once father and pro-
fessor, whose soul, profoundly religious, habitually lifted that of the
youthful naturalists to the Author of creation. His mind, at once acute
and playful, was well qualified to render attractive the explanations sug-
gested to him by the collections of the day, with which he frequently
mingled classic citations suited to stimulate his children in their studies ;
for it was his good fortune to have himself received, among the Orato-
ians, a solid instruction which contributed to the happines ss of his lite
-and finally conferred consolation on his honored and serene old age.

The memory of this man of worth is still held in veneration at An-
nonay, where more than one of its workmen may even now be seen in-
stinctively to raise his hat on passing before his uninhabited mansion.
His children, while following their different tendencies, preserved the
impressions of their first education. Auguste manifested in good sea-
son a turn for observation, and a decided inclination for indulging it.
When yet a child, he was attentive to atmospheric phenomena. He
night have been seen descending of a morning to the terrace, there to
observe the sky, the wind, the clouds. Still later, when become a little
more learned, he would establish of an evening his observatory on the
balcony, and ‘point out to the assembled family a thousand phenomena
which without him would have passed unperceived, the effects of :cer
tain rays of the setting sun; the moon with the accidents of light which
environ it; the rainbows, the halos, in which he knew not as yet that he
should one day find a title to celebrity.

The paternal residence had for its horizon a mountain of moderate
height, yet sufficient to serve, as we say, for a barometer. It is called
the Roche de Vent. The clouds heaped themselves around it, the snow
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 147

left its traces, mists sometimes visited it. It played no indifferent par
in this childish existence. Conducted thither by his father and broth-

ers, it became the point to which his yet narrow observations and ex-
peditions were directed, though it required four or five hours to ascend
and return. His ambition, however, § soared much higher when he saw
his brothers return from the P ilat, a ‘mountain well known to naturalists,
bringing thence new flowers, unknown insects, and heard them describe
the splendors of the sun rising behind Mont Blane. He was not ten
years old, and five or six hours were necessary to reach the summit.
Yet, havi ing well pondered his plans, he departs alone one morning, deter-
mined that he also would sleep on the mountaintop, and collect its
plants, its stones, its insects. His absence excited little inquietude at
home, for the sagacity with which he was accustomed to explore the
complicated recesses of the mountains of the Vivarais was well known ;
and, in fact, he returned safely the next morning with the objects
which he had coveted, having drunk at the source of the Gier and seen
the sun rise behind Mont Blane, throwing into magnificent perspective
the long chain of the Alps. Here we see the embryo adventurer des-
tined one day to climb the perilous heights of Mont Blanc itself.

Habits of meditation early announced the aptness which he was to
exert at a later period in the advancement of science. Those who fre-
quented the paternal mansion remember having often met a child
apparently absorbed in profound reflection, and who, to the inquiries
which he excited, would naively answer: I am thinking. And, indeed,
so active and fruitful was this habit of thought that at the age of four-
teen he had completed all the classical and literary courses of the Col-
lege of Annonay. His father now thought proper to send him to Paris,
that he might devote a year to rhetoric and another to philosophy in
the College of Stanislas. The young Auguste carried thither habits of
obedience and modesty which did not prevent him to be an indocile
‘pupil. He pursued w ith the utmost exactness the prescribed studies,
aud succeeded in acquiring that pure, clear, and precise style which
is the usual index of a good education; but he did not evince for classi-
cal studies the ardor for which the premiums at the end of the year are
reserved. His predilections were directed elsewhere. Some books,
hidden at the bottom of his trunk, had escaped notice. These were
works on mathematics ; and these he found means of studying at night.
He solved problems and wrote letters full of intelligence to M. Reynaud,
the modest and learned professor of the College of Annonay, who had
already given him lessons in arithmetic and geometry.

On his return from Paris he was again placed under the charge of M.
Reynaud, of whom he had become rather the friend than pupil, and as he
had been destined by his father for the Polytechnic School, a certain in-
sight into all that is required for admission was afforded him by the
professor in the course of a single year. In 1828, therefore, he ventured
to present himself at Nismes for examination ; but his preparation had
been too rapid, and he was not received. Happily for himself and for
science, the boundaries of which it was his fortune afterwards to extend,
he had fallen into the hands of a discriminative examiner, M. Bourdon,
who, while verifying the insufficiency of his studies, recognized the
aptitude of his genius. This excellent man, to whom many among us
besides owe a debt of gratitude, reflected on the future of this youthful

candidate whom he was obliged to reject, and, with the ingenuous ear-
nestness which he more than once displayed in behalf of students of
whom he augured favorably, pleaded with the father of Auguste, and
succeeded in persuading him that the career of the unsuccessful appli-
148 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

cant still lay in the polytechnic tine. After this Dr. Bravais no longer
hesitated, but sent his son anew to Paris, where he was placed in the
institution of M. Barbet, then distinguished as one of the best sem-
inaries of preparation for the Poly technic School.

Auguste Bravais pursued at the College of St. Louis, under M. Delille,
the course of special mathematics. At the end of the year he obtained
at the general competition the first prize of mathematics, and was re-

ceived at the Polytechnic School as number two of the list. On pass-
ing inte the first ‘division, after a year’s study, he was classed as first,
and at his exit made choice, with his father’s approbation, of the marine
service. The sea! How many opportunities did that name suggest of
seeing distant shores, of studying nature in its different aspects, and of
continuing, with enlarged knowledge, the studies which had formed the
delight of a happy childhood.

He embarked in January, 1832, on board the Finistére, which then navi-
gated the waters of the Mediterranean ; ; but he soon passed to the brig
Loiret, commanded by M. Bérard, whom we have since counted among
the correspondents of our section of geography, and who was at that
time charged with the exploration of the coasts of Algeria. The Loiret,
on board of which was also M. De Tessan , hydrographical engineer, and
now our colleague, was employed two summers in making the coast sur-
vey of our African possessions, and the work was completed when the
vessel re-entered the port of Toulon, October 25, 1833. The minister of
marine, with a sagacity which does ‘honor to his memory, had composed
of future academicians the official staff of a vessel charged with a scien-
tific mission, and the commander, M. Bérard, in his excellent work, De-
scription Nautique des Cotes de V Algérie, took. occasion to convey to his
assistants, and expressly to M. Bravais, his warm acknowledgments of
the important share which they had borne in the common labor.

The Loiret was next employed in maintaining the communications be-
tween Algiers, Bona, and Oran, being armed on account of the hostile:
disposition of the inhabitants of the shores. In these incessant passages
from one extremity of the Algerine coast to the other, it was necessary
to make many different ports, and M. Bravais, who had been named lien-
tenant in 1834, lost none of these invaluable opportunities of satisfying
his passion for natural history. A floraand fauna, different from those
of the Cevennes, offered a multitude of objects calculated to pique his
curiosity. Magnificent collections of plants, insects, crustacea, fish, ter-
restrial or marine mollusks, rewarded his activity. Of these he made
frequent remittances to Annonay, and sometimes carried thither in per-
son the fruits of his researches, for, since leaving the Polytechnic School,
he invariably passed there all the vacations and furloughs he could ob-
tain. On these occasions of areturn to his native place, he never failed
to revisit his dear mountains, Pilat and Roche de Vent, and resumed,
though on a wider scale, the walks and herborizations which had formed
of old the happiness of the Bravais family. Knapsack on his back, the
young mariner then made long excursions, accompanied by his brother
nearest in age to himself, the “Abbé Camille Bravais, now professor of
natural histor y at the College of Annonay, and keeper of the museum
of that city, composed in great part of his own gifts and those of his
family.

3ut it was with his eldest brother, Dr. Louis Bravais, that our future
colleague devoted himself to the more profound investigations of botany.
At the beginning of the year 1835, the two brothers united in present-
ing to the “Academy a memoir entitled : Essai géométrique sur la symé-
trie des feuilles curvisériées et rectisériées, (Geometrical essay on cur-
ia

MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS, a. eee

viserial and rectiserial leaves.) This memoir had nothing in common
with the ordinary labors of botany relating to the description of species,
or to botanical geography. As little was it 2 memoir on vegetable phy-
siology in the usual acceptation of the word. It was a work of a wholly
special and original character on the relations of symmetry, presented
by the insertions, at different points of the stem, of the leaves and or-
gans which spring from it. This subject, although MM. Bravais had no
knowledge of the fact, had shortly before been the subject of a memoir
published by two distinguished botanists, MM. Schimper and Alexander
Braun, who had pointed out its importance, and had arrived at some
very curious results. M. Adolph Brongniart, however, in the report
which he made to the Academy in 1837, pronounced that MM. Louis
and Auguste Bravais had brought more precision to the study of the
numerous facts which they had collected than had been before exem-
plified. The subject, moreover, could not be completely elucidated
without a profound knowledge of the helix and of the different spirals
in which the insertions of the leaves are aligned with so remarkable a
regularity, and without a singular dexterity in the management of con-
tinuous fractions, recurrent series, and other mathematical combinations
of a delicate nature. M. Auguste Bravais had employed them, with the
elegant simplicity which is always the stamp of an accomplished mathe-
matician, for expressing the relations of position of the leaves with one
another, and for arriving in a clear and precise manner at consequences
which could not otherwise be obtained except by long and tedious ten-
tatives. These deductions have brought to light, in a degree but little
suspected by many, a regularity of arrangement in the organs of vege-

tables, which, without being precisely analogous to the laws of cry stal-
lography, is equally as precise and admir able.

The brothers still further drew up in common different memoirs on
botany, and it was not at Paris only that their labors obtained a de-
served success. They equally attracted the attention of botanists in
other parts of Europe, and M. De Candolle dedicated to the two authors,
under the name of Bravaisia, a new species of the family of the Bignon-

iace. The objects of natural history which M. Auguste Bravais sent

from Algeria were also highly appreciated. In 1835 he found on the
Island of Rachgoun a serpent which was new to him, the Amphisbena
cinerea, and which he transmitted to M. De Blainville, who testified his
surprise at the occurrence of such an animal in that country. Other
remittances of seeds and living plants, collected in the province of Oran,
earned for him letters of thanks from the administration of the Museum
of Paris, and warm encouragements to complete the herbal of Desfon-
taines, and to continue his researches in botany during the voyages it
was hoped he would undertake to other regions.

The ardor of the young officer was so much increased by this success
as sometimes to make him forget that he was no longer in the peace-
able mountains of the Ardéche or of Dauphiny; it drew upon him, on
several oceasions, the kindly reproaches of his superiors for rashness.
But these reproaches were changed into felicitations when, August 12,
1836, at the head of thirty-seven marines, he extricated the command-
ant and surgeon of the Loiret, surrounded, during a hunting excursion,
by the troops of the Emir.

Unluckily, he did not arrive in time to rescue another officer, whom
the Arabs had already carried off. But from the point where he then
stood M. De France had witnessed the combat, which he describes in his
interesting account of the prisoners of Abd-el-Kader. ** J will not con-
clude,” he says, “‘ without speaking of the bravery, the coolness, and
150 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

address of my colleague, M. Bravais, lieutenant of the frigate. This
courageous friend commanded the sailors who flew to our succor; he
disposed his troop so skillfully, and fell so vigorously on the enemy,
that he forced them to fly precipitately, and, if conduct and intrepidity
could have saved me, undoubtedly the conduct and intrepidity of M.
Bravais would have secured my release.”

‘ne commandant, being wounded in the arm, could not write, and as
the first lieutenant was prisoner, the duty of making the report upon
the fight, in which two sailors had been re devolved on M. Bravais.
dn drawing up this paper he avoided, as far as possible, under the im-
pulse of his habitual modesty, all mention of himself; hence, while the
minister of marine bestowed praise upon the Loiret, ‘the author of the
report received no decoration, as all around him would have wished.
Yet, in the eyes of those who knew all the details of the affair, the un-
designed omission of the minister reflected more honor on the young
officer than the star itself of the order would have conferred. He re-
ceived that distinction, however, on another occasion, and for services
of a wholly different character.

Nature had largely endowed M. Bravais. With the brilliant officer
and zealous naturalist there was united in him, according to the ex-
pression of M. Cauchy, assuredly a competent judge in such matters,
the true geometer. The former student of the College of Stanislas, who,
in pursuing his course of rhetoric and philosophy, passed the night in
studying books of mathematics, had resumed, on board the Loiret, anal-
ogous habits. With the consent of the superior officers, by whom he
was rightly appreciated, his comrades, themselves highly distinguished,
though with a different turn of mind, replaced him on the quarterdeck
when his watch recurred, and M. Bravais shut himself up in his cabin,
where he spent the night in executing his calculations, or in solving
such problems as pr esented themselves. It was thus that he made the

calculations necessary for the reduction of the hydrographic projection
of the coasts of Algeria; and thus, likewise, that he composed the math-
ematical part of the botanical memoir which he published with his
brother. Thus, too, a career was eventually opened to him of a special
nature, and such as appealed most directly to his natural proclivities.

Among other mathematical labors which M. Bravais had executed on
board the Loiret, he had composed two memoirs, one on the Aethods
employed in taking bearings under sail, and the other on the Lquilibrium
of floating bodies. Having obtained leave of absence from the minister
of marine, he formed from these memoirs two theses which he sustained
before the Faculty of Sciences of Lyons, in consequence of which he
was received as doctor of sciences. These theses attracted just notice,
and the minister subscribed for several copies of the second for the
libraries of the ports. In thus acquiring the doctorate of mathematical
sciences, M. Bravais was conforming to the friendly advice of M. Pois-
son, who, after conducting his examinaton at his exit from the Poly-
technic School, had asked him why he did not enter upon the career of
science. He still followed that advice in presenting to the Academy
several memoirs of analysis and geometry, upon which MM. Poisson,
Sturm, and Savary, made favorable reports,

From this period the minister of marine chose that M. Bravais snould
be released from the clandestine pursuit of science, and assigned him
service in a mission purely scientific. He attached him to the Scientific
Commission of the North, which was under the conduct of M. Gaimard,
and of which M. Victor Lottin, lieutenant, had for several years formed
a part. The commission had been inaugurated under melancholy cir-
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 151

cumstances. M. De Blosseville, already celebrated for two important
scientific voyages, had received, in 1833, the command of the brig La
Lilloise, charged with the superintendence of the fishery in the seas of
Iceland, and was accompanied, as second in command, by M. LePele-
tier d@Aunay. Both these young officers were animated by an ardent
zeal for discovery, and had promised to effect for the advancement of
science all that was compatible with the objects of their official mission.
After a thorough exploration of the coasts of Iceland, they determined
to reconnoiter the east coast of Greenland, which had been blockaded
by ice forcenturies. Ona first attempt they penetrated, July 29, in the
midst of broken ice, to a distance of about twenty-four een from
Greenland. They could already take the bearings of the mountains, but
their vessel, whose construction was not suitable for an enterprise of
this sort, having undergone great damage from the floating ice, they
had been constrained to disengage them selve es with a view to repairs,
while decided on making afterward a new attempt. There was rea-
son to suppose that, in fact, they had become a second time entangled
in the ice toward the end of August. From the 25th none of the fish-
ing barks had seen the Lilloise.

Mue h solicitude had been naturally excited during the ensuing winter
for the fate of the expedition, and in the spring of 1834 a vessel was
sent in search, whose return without success afforded only new grounds
for anxiety. "In 1835 the attempt was renewed, and the corvette La
Recherche, commanded by M. Tréhouart, was dispatched on a similar
mission. M. Gaimard, who six years before had taken an active part
in the discovery, on the reefs of Vanikoro, of the remains of La
Pérouse’s expedition, generously proffered his services to co-operate in
the search for M. De Blosseville. Desiring at the same time that the
exploration should subserve the interests of science as well as of hu-
manity, he associated with himself several distinguished savants, art-
ists, and men of letters. Such was the nucleus of the Scientific Com-
mission of the North.

All efforts to discover traces of the missing vessel were fruitless ; but
the scientific commission having collected in Iceland the elements of a
magnificent work, the design was embraced of exploring also Spitzber-
gen and Lapland, and of leaving a part of the scientific body to winter
in the latter country, in order to make observations in physics and
meteorology. It was determined to increase the number of savants who
composed the commission, and M. Martins, one of our best botanists
and a distinguished meteorologist, was added to it, together with M.
Bravais and several learned Scandinavians. Instructions were asked
of the Academy of Sciences, and their preparation was confided to a
special commission, whose recommendations were adopted in the sitting
of April 23, 1838.

The Recherche was equipped anew, and, under the command of M.
Fabvre, left the port of Havre June 13, 1838, bearing the greater part
of the "members of the commission and all the material necessary for
their operations. After touching at Drontheim, the ancient capital of
Norway, where she received the Swedish, Norwegian and Danish
savants designated by their respective governments, and at Hammer-
fest, where she landed the stores provided for wintering, the Recherche
turned her head toward Spitzbergen and moored, July 25, in the roads
of Bell Sound, on the western coast of that group of islands, in 70°
30/ north latitude. The savants and officers of marine immediately
addressed themselves to their work. Astronomy, physics, meteorology;
the movements and temperature of the sea ; the vast elaciers dese ending
152 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

from the tops of the mountains to the bay; the geological constitution
of those naked and declivitous mountains; the scanty traces of vegeta-
tion, very different from that of Algeria, stretched at their foot along
the bes ach, were the subjects of indefatigable study. M. Bravais, habit-
tated from childhood to climbing rocks, was the first to reach the sum-
mit of a peak of difficult access, on which the commission conferred his
name. The officers of the vessel constructed a detailed plan of the
Bay of Bell Sound, in concert, with MM. Lottin and Bravais, who de-
termined the azimuth of the bay, the heighth of the mountains, and the
declination of the magnetic needle.

But summer is of short duration in those high latitudes. On August
5, the commandant judged proper to give the signal of departure, ‘and
the techerche again came to anchor, on the 12th, in the port of Ham-
minerfest. Careful observations of the temperature of the waters of the
sea at different depths were made during the passage by MM. Bravais
and Martins, the former of whom, with Professor Siljestrém, Swedish
physicist, Professor LilliehOék, Norwegian physicist and astronomer,
and M. Bevalet, draughtsman, landed at Hammerfest to winter in Lap-
land. The corvette returned to Brest.

The climate of the western coasts of Norway and of the coasts of
Lapland is of a remarkable mildness in comparison with that of other
points of the globe situated in the same latitude. The tepid waters of
the Gulf of Mexico, borne by the ocean current, known as the Gulf
Stream, diffuse a perpetual warmth and produce there a wholly ex-
ceptional temperature. From this it results that the deep arms of the
sea which, under the name of jiords, penetrate these singularly indented
coasts, are scarcely ever obstructed by ice. Navigation, ‘instead of being
suspended for several months, as in the White Sea and the Baltic, is
there generally open; and this circumstance gives to the c: pints and
excellent ports of the fiords of Lapland a certain strategic importance,
calculated to enhance the scientific interest which the ‘exceptional cli.
mate would of itself inspire. But from its comparatively high tempera-
ture the northern part of the Atlantic Ocean is enveloped, during win-
ter, in almost permanent fogs, whose density is sufficient to shut. out a
view of the heavens. The port of Hammerfest being too near the sea
and exposed to this disadvantage, our physicists chose for their winter
station the village of Bossekop, situated on a narrow shelf at the ex-
treme point of the Altenfiord, an arm of the sea which penetrates the
land to the distance of seventy kilometres, whence it results that the
climate is there colder and the sky more frequently clear than on the
shores of the ocean. At this place the four physicists established, Sep-
tember 1, the numerous instruments, telescopes, theodolites, gigantic
compasses, barometers, thermometers, actinometers, pytheliometers, &e.,
which had been landed from the corvette. These instruments had been
constructed at Paris by the best artists and on the most perfect models.
A small wooden structure, which might be taken down and rebuilt else-
where, formed the astronomical observatory, while five other cabins
served as meteorological and magnetical observatories, &e.

Bossekop is situated in 69° 58/ north latitude, and is therefore 5° 25!
beyond the polar circle. The sun does not rise there every day in the
year, and on that of the winter solstice, at noon, its center is 38° 25/ be-
low the horizon. After the middle of November its disk is no longer
seen entire, the lower part is lost to sight, and the luminary is w holly
invisible after the 17th of that month. For some time a crepuscular
light illumines, toward mid-day, the southern are of the horizon, but
toward the 21st of December even this glimmer vanishes. It r cap-
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 1B 53

pears in the beginning of January and increases by degrees. Finally, on
the 51st of January, the solar disk begins again to show itself. It pro-
jects a first ray, which is hailed by the universal acclamations of the
population stationed at windows or on eminences to salute the benefi-
cent orb, whose priceless value is better felt after such an absence. On
that day all labor is suspended, felicitations are exchanged, dances ex-
press the common joy, pledges are drunk to the resurrection of the sun ;
it is the time also for settling the bets which have been made on the
rate of watches which, not having been regulated for two and a half
months, are liable to have become deranged. The sun, after this, rises
every day, at first for a few minutes only; but the days gradually
lengthen; at the equinox they are equal to the nights; then the nights
grow shorter, and finally extinct; the sun ceases to set, and a continued
day of nearly three months forms the compensation for the long night
of winter.

The perpetual day of the polar summer has never wanted witnesses ;
but it needed the resolution inspired by an ardent love of science to
await at Bossekop the festival of the resurrection of the sun. More
resolution still was needed to undertake the labors which the commis-
sion was charged with executing at that point. Notwithstanding the
relative moderation of the climate, the thermometer often descends at
Bossekop, not, indeed, to 40 or 50 degrees centigrade below zero, as in
the north of Asia and America, but, according to the observations of
the commission, to 20° or 25°; nor is the depression restricted, as in
our climates, to the last hours of the night. Here the night does not
terminate, and the diurnal variation of the temperature, evidently inde-
pendent of the action of the sun, the maximum occurring at 11 o’clock
in the morning and the minimum at 6 o’clock in the evening, does not
exceed on a mean the tenth of a degree. The wind which at Bossekop
is least cold is that of the north, under the influence of the Northerr
Ocean; while the coldest is that from the south, which bears the frozet.
air of the Scandinavian Alps. The temperature of the air is at its
minimum at the surface of the ground. It rises gradually by some de-
grees to a height of about one hundred metres, and afterward dimin-
ishes agreeably to the usual law. All the elements of the climate were
collected by our physicists through observations made uninterruptedly
at intervals of two hours, and sometimes hourly, on the barometer, the
thermometer, the direction of the wind, the state of the sky, the tem-
perature of the earth at its surface, the magnetic apparatus, &c. All
these determinations, inscribed on registers kept constantly and with
pertect order, have been published in the great work of the Scientific
Commission of the North.

The two marines and two professors divided between them the labor
and the watching, the latter being observed with as much regularity as
on board a man-of-war; but if an aurora borealis presented an extra-
ordinary brillianey there was a general turnout; every one was at his
post. Some drops of coffee, seasonably taken, dispelled the importunate
somnolence of the Lapland night. Of the observers, while a portion
noted every five minutes the positions assumed by the magnetic needle
under the disturbing influence of the aurora, others, in the #pen air,
recorded, watch in hand, the different phases of the phenomenon and
measured the altitudes above the horizon. The adjusting screws of
their instruments often became so cold that it was necessary to cover
them with cloth, without which precaution their fingers would have .d-
hered to the brass through the sudden congelation of the humidity of
the skin.
154 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

Independently of the detailed journal of observations of the auroras,
printed in the work already referred to, and the splendid plates of the
physical atlas, which represent the most remarkable appearances ob-
served by the "four physicists, M. Bravais has inserted in the same pub-
lication a Mémoire sur les aurores boréales, cited by competent judges as
more precise than anything heretofore written on the subject. The fol-
lowing rapid summary of the contents of this essay may not be without
intérest.

When the first doubtful gleams of an aurora begin to diffuse them-
selves in the sky, there is first perceived at the horizon, a little to the
west of north, a nos segment, which, according to the very probable
conjectures of M. Bravais, is nothing else than the compact mass of
fogs with which the ra Thee waters of the Polar Sea are almost con-
stantly covered. Above the dark See gleams of light like those of
a contl: veration soon make their appearance, simply resulting , perhaps,
from the still distant glow of the aurora reflected on the surface of the
marine vapors. Some time afterward a luminous are is traced above
the segment, its two extremities resting on the horizon, and its culmi-
nating point, which divides it into two equal and symmetrical parts,
being situated most frequently in the neighborhood of the magnetic
meridian. On an average it falls a little to the west of that meridian,
from which it progressively diverges as it becomes more remote from
the northern edge of the horizon, especially when, having passed the
zenith, it approaches the southern horizon, from which in “certain cases
it is distant but a few degrees. Sometimes several different arcs show
themselves at the same time; very often there are two, more rarely three,
but as many as nine have been counted at one time. Their breadth,
which at a mean is from seven to eight degrees, occasionally exceeds
twenty-five degrees, particularly in the culminant part when it passes near
the zenith. Through a combination of measurements this last remark
has led to the conclusion that the arcs of the aurora borealis are flat:
tened parallel to the surface of the earth, and thus one of the means
proper for furnishing the measure of the height at which these ares are
situated above the surface was suggested to M. Bravais.

The height in question had long r before occupied attention, and it had
with reason been thought that it might be calculated from the parallax
resulting from two observations of the same are, made simultaneously
by two observers placed at a known distance. With a view to this
means of determination M. Bravais passed thirteen days of January
1838 at Jupvig, situated fifteen kilometres to the north of Bossekop, in
order to observe the auroras from that point, while his colleagues ob-
served them at the same instants of time from their usual station. The
forms of a great number of ares, and especially those of the most regu-
lar ares, were taken with much care by the commission, and M. Bravais,
by discussing them, through means of elegant geometric constructions
and trigonometric al formulas skillfully reduced to the greatest simpli-
city, has shown that all these arcs, copformably with the hypothesis of
our distinguished correspondent, M. Hansteen, of Christiania, may be
considered as the perspectives of circular rings, having their center on
the terrestrial radius directed toward the magnetic pole, and their plane
perpendicular to that radius. His formulas have given him, for each

case, the elevation of the ring above the surface of the earth, and this
me ans of measurement, combined with the two others already indic: ale
have led him to the conclusion that the ares of the aurora borealis re
situated at an altitude of one hundred to two hundred eA in
the region where the shooting stars and bolides become incandescent
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 155

and luminous, that is to say, toward the extreme limits of the terres-
trial atmosphere, the extent of which had long been supposed to be less
considerable.

The color of the ares is usually of a uniform yellowish white. They
are of sufficient transparence to allow the stars to be seen through
them, and while the radiance of the most brilliant ares equals that of
stars of the first magnitude, the greater number are only comparable to
those of the second, ‘third, and fourth. The position of each are does
not remain invariable during its whole duration; on the contrary, it
oe with much rapidity, so as to compel the observ er to operate w ith

great quickness, if he would give to the different partsgf the same are
positions exactly corresponding as regards one another. In their move-
ments the ares sometimes approach the zenith and sometimes withdraw
from it, whether toward the north or toward the south. Their edge
nearest to the horizon is usually the best defined. They have not alway Ss
regular forms ; we see them assume a thousand fantastic configurations,
such as that of an undulating searf, or even of a crook. They some-
times show, especially toward the end, a tendency to become decomposed
into short ray s in a direction confor mable to the width of the are.

After the ares, at a rather more advanced hour, appear the rays prop-
erly so ¢alled, which form the second type to which the gleams of the
aurora borealis may be referred. The rays are luminous columns of
much greater length than breadth, the prolongation of which on high
would terminate at the magnetic zenith, the point of apparent concourse
of all the lines parallel to the needle of inclination, and situated, at
Bossekop, only 13° toward the south of the astronomical zenith. The
brillianey of the rays is variable like that of the ares, and generally
more vivid. They are susceptible of two movements; one in virtue of
which the ray prolongs itself toward the zenith or toward the horizon,
the other by which it is displaced laterally and parallel to itself. These
movements are sometimes of an excessive rapidity, and it is not rare to
see the rays dart their light, with a vibratory movement, toward the
zenith, and still more frequently toward the horizon, with extreme viva-
city. When these movements are alternate, the ray seems to gambol
or dance ; hence, the capre saltantes of old authors, the marionnettes of
the inhabitants of Newfoundland, the merry dancers of England. In
general the more rapid the movements the more brilliant become the
rays. The color of these is usually white or pale yellow, sometimes of a
reddish hue. When the vibratory movements of the rays become very
precipitate, the brilliant yellow tint is concentrated in their middle part
and the opposite extremities take the color of violet-red and green, the
red always showing itself on the side to which the ray darts its light.
Occasionally the rays unite with one another at the magnetic zenith to
form a crown either complete or incomplete; and when, in executing
this movement, they lose their usual yellowish tint and glow with an
intenser luster, passing into red and green, the crown presents the great-
est degree of magnificence which the aurora is capable of displaying.
At certain moments the vibratory movements by which the rays are
animated change into a sort of general palpitation in which all the
gleams of the aurora are confounded, the ares as well as rays. It is
the announcement of a diminution more or less proximate of this splen-
did meteor.

The refulgence of the aurora borealis might seem to have been given
to the polar regions as a compensation for “the absence of the sun; for
these arctic lights, barely visible two or three times a year on the hori-
zon of Paris, illumine almost every evening the latitudes from which
156 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

the star of day is withdrawn. They are no longer observed there dur.
ing the uninterrupted day of summer ; it is at the end of August, and
especially at the period of the autumnal equinox, that their number is
multiplied in Lapland, and their frequency diminishes at the vernal
equinox, and still more toward the end of April. During this interval
of more than six months very few nights are destitute of the auroral
display.

The apparition of the auroras is therefore subject to the course of the
seasons, and it is not less remarkable that even during the hibernal
night the hours of their commencement and of their different phases
maintain a constant relation to the hour of the passage at the meridian
of the sun, which has become invisible. Their appearance always takes
place during the hours which correspond to the night of our temperate
zones. It is generally between ten and eleven in the evening that they
assume the effulgent colors by which some of them are distinguished,
and, in all, their greatest brilliancy corresponds to the same period of
the night. The meteor usually disappears toward morning.

M. Bravais states that by the light of a brilliant aurora he could read
a page printed in small type almost as easily as by the light of the full
moon. When the sun no longer rises, the moon, which af its full is in
opposition with the sun, is seen almost constantly on the horizon, and
the double effulgence of that planet and of the aurora greatly dimin-
ishes the obscurity of the polar night. Irregular as are these lights,
they suffice to enable the Lapps, the Samoieds, and the Esquimaux to
traverse in sleds the limitless snows which cover their country ; and
when the absence of the sun would tend to dull their minds, the fantas-
tic images presented by a fitful illumination serve to arouse their imag-
ination and afford a pabulum on which it is marvellously exercised.

Notwithstanding the movements with which the ares and rays of the
aurora are endowed, it is evident that they follow the movement of ro-
tation of the earth. The aurora borealis is therefore an atmospheric
and not a cosmical phenomenon. Canton, M. Becquerel, and other phy-
sicists, have pointed out the resemblance which exists between the vio-
let-red tints of this meteor and those which electricity displays when
moving in a vacuum. This circumstance, added to the action of the
aurora on the magnetic needle, has led physicists to class it among elec-
tric phenomena. M. Bravais gives his adhesion to this opinion, the
verification of which has been recently corroborated by a remarkable
experiment of our distinguished colleague, M. De La Rive.

After a sojourn of seven months the commission quitted Bossekop,
April 1839, and returned to Hammerfest in order to execute sundry
labors and await the corvette which was to convey them a second time
to Spitzbergen. Vegetation was renewing and developing itself with
that astonishing rapidity which, from the commencement of May, an
almost continual day gives to it in Lapland. M. Bravais could not resist
his passion for herborizing, but unfortunately, in attempting to gather
a plant springing from the crevice of a rock, he sustained a violent fall
and fractured a knee, so that when the corvette bore off his companions
he found himself under the necessity of remaining at Hammerfest until
the end of the polar summer should bring back the other members of
the commission. Far from being discouraged, however, by so vexatious
a mishap, he continued the series of meteorological and magnetic obser-

rations, and as soon as the injury permitted him to walk, labored at the
zompletion of two memoirs commenced during his stay at Bossekop,
one on the tides, and the other on the lines of the ancient level of the sea.

A sojourn of more than a year had enabled him to perfect his obser-
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 15a

vation of the tides, and having afterward collated his own measure-
ments with those executed at Reikiavik, in Iceland, and Bell Sound, in
Spitzbergen, by MM. Lottin and Laroche-Poncié, and submitted the
whole to a thorough discussion, he determined the units of height of
tide in several ports of the North Atlantic Ocean. He also calculated
for those coasts the value of the semi-diurnal tide and that of the diur-
nal tide for both the sun and moon. He was struck with the relative
importance which the diurnal tide there assumes, and this circumstance,
compared with the analogous fact already observed in the Sea of Kamt-
chatka, led him to infer that the tides of the Atlantic and Pacific
mutually influence one another through the Straits of Behring.

The banks of the Altenfiord, in the environs of Bossekop and Ham-
merfest, as well as at many intermediate localities, present terraces
having almost horizontal surfaces, whose regularity recalls the construe-
tions of fortification, though there is nothing artificial about them. Each
of these terminates at the foot of the rocks in a line marked by erosions
similar to those which the sea produces on its present beach. In each
terrace is easily recognized an ancient marine coast, on which the sea
has beaten for a long time at a well-defined height. At some points
several of these are to be seen, one above the other. M. Bravais occu-
pied himself in a determination of the actual elevation of all these
traces of the ancient level of the sea, and here botany has furnished
him a useful resource. A marine plant, the Fucus vesiculosus, widely
dispersed on those coasts, grows upon the rocks only at a certain dis-
tance beneath the mean surface of the sea, and forms a yellowish zone,
of which the upper limit is well marked and perfectly horizontal. This
line supplied the plane to which M. Bravais referred, by precise level-
ings, the ancient marks of erosion by the sea; and he thus rect ognized
that all these traces of its ancient altitude form five series, more or less
distinct, two of which especially are perfectly unbroken : that these
last are slightly inclined from the interior of the continent toward the
ocean, and that one of them in particular presents two parts of which
the inclinations are different. From this we are authorized to conclude
that these terraces and the ground which supports them have been
lifted above the level of the sea; for, if it were the sea which had sub-
sided, each of the two series of terraces would have been perfectly hori-
zontal. The mobility of the solid crust of our globe is thereby fully
demonstrated. It might be said that the expression, firm as a rock, if
taken in too absolute a sense, embodies an illusion, and that there is
nothing more unstable in the world than the mean level of the sea.

M. Bravais was occupied with these subjects till the moment when
the corvette, returning from Spitzbergen, again arrived at Hammerfest.
The members of the commission then separated for the last time, in
order to return to their respective countries by different routes. M. Bra-
vais associated himself with M. Martins to return by land, and, still
herborizing, traversed, barometer in hand, the plateau of Lapland,
where the two travelers determined with precision the altitudes of the
upper and lower limits of the different zones of vegetation. In this
way they completed, not the Atlantic flora of Desfontaines, as M. Bra-
vais had seemed destined to do, but the admirable labors in botanical
geography of Leopold von Buch and the celebrated flora of Wahlem-
berg.

In the vast forests of Sweden, MM. Martins and Bravais had many
opportunities of observing the Pinus silvestris, (Scotch fir,) of which
those forests are in great part composed, and published at their return
a memoir on the growth of that tree, a work which had been recom-
158 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

mended by M. De Candolle, and which comprises a mathematical for.
mula for arriving at the probable age of a fir-tree whose diameter is
known. At Stockholm they carefully compared their meteorological
instruments, and particularly their barometers, with those that were
employed for quotidian meteorological observations. This comparison
was repeated in all the capitals and great cities through which they
passed in returning to France, and their instruments having been com-
pared before their departure, as they were at their return, with those of
the Observatory of Paris, a means was thus created of reducing to en-
tire harmony, and of referring in some sort to the same diapason, the me-
‘eorological observatious which are prosecuted in a large part of Hurope.

Having returned to Paris in January 1840, they addressed to M.
Arago a detailed letter on the labors of the Commission of the North,
which was inserted in the Comptes-Rendus of the Academy. Their efforts
were justly appreciated and well-earned rewards conferred on them, M.
Bravais receiving on his part the decoration of the Legion of Honor,
and authority to wear that of the Swedish Order of the Sword. In his
capacity of marine officer he was charged by the minister with the duty
of collecting, jointly with M. Lottin, all the observations on general
physics made by the commission, and superintending the publication.
He was permitted at the same time to occupy a chair in one of the fae-
ulties of science, then lately created in different cities of France, and
was pamed professor of mathematics applied to astronomy in that of
Lyons, of which faculty M. Tabereau, his future brother-in-law, the dis-
tinguished founder of the school of La Martiniere, was dean. Among
the observations made by M. Bravais at the Observatory of Lyons
many would deserve to be cited, particularly one on a magnificent ap-
pearance of the zodiacal light 1 in the month of February 1842. The re-
searches incident to a preparation for his new functions led also to the
composition of an important memoir on the movement of translation of
the sun, which he addressed to the Academy of Sciences, in 1843. From
the profounder theorems of mechanics on the mutual attractions of the
stars and the sun, he here establishes that the proper movement of our
total system is towards the star 7 of the constellation Hercules.

Elected, on hisarrival, a member of the Academy of Lyons, M. Bravais
bore, with his father and two of his brothers, a very active part in the
labors of the scientific congress assembled in that city, and laid before
it in detail various important considerations on the meteorology of the
south of France. He also contributed efficiently, with MM. Lortet and
Fournet, to the establishment of the Hydrometric Society of Lyons,
widely known for its important and useful labors. With these occupa-
tions was united an assiduous co-operation in the production of a work
entitled Patria, which he edited during the three years of his residence
at Lyons, in conjunction with MM. Lalanne, Le Pileur, and Martins.
This work, undertaken with a view to utility, presents, in a condensed
and portable form, a miniature encyclopedia of every thing relating to
France which it is most desirable to have for immediate reference. The
articles in this collection on geography, physies of the soil, as well as
many others compiled by M. Bravais, must always be regarded as models
of conciseness and lucidity.

But Lyons is not remote from Switzerland and Savoy; the sight of
the sumiits of the Alps, those old friends of his childhood, the sight of
the eternal snows, which recalled to him Spitzbergen and Lapland, easily
awakened in M. Bravais his instincts as a traveler. In 1841, after the
close of his first course, he undertook a journey into Switzerland, and
in order to render it subservient to the continuation of his meteorologi-
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 159

cal labors, he established himself on the Faulhorn, in company with his
elder brother, M. Louis Bravais, and his friend M. Martins.

The Faulhorn is an isolated mountain, elevated 2,680 metres above
the sea and placed like a belvidere in face of the highest mountains of
the canton of Berne, the Eiger, the Ménch, the Jungfrau. Every sum-
mer thousands of tourists ascend this peak, in order to enjoy the mag-
nificent view of the snows and glaciers of the Oberland. The inn estab-
lished to receive them became the meteorological station of MM. Martins
and Bravais. They re-established there the Observ atory of Bossekop,
and from the 17th of July to the 5th of August made a series of obser-
vations similar to those of Lapland, saving the absence of the aurora
borealis. Nor was natural history forgotten ; familiar with mountains
and with the application of physics to the geography of plants, the re-
searches of our savants were rewarded by an ample harvest gathered on
the acclivities and in the environs of the Faulhorn. Experiments in
physics also, of high interest, were instituted by MM. Bravais and Mar-
tins. M. Dumas, our distinguished colleague, had caused to be pre-
pared at Paris several glass balloons provided with taps, in which as
complete a vacuum as possible had been established. These balloons
were filled with the air which enveloped the summit of the mountain,
then closed with the greatest care, and sent back to M. Dumas. Analy-
sis showed that the air inclosed in these balloons contained the same
proportions of oxygen and nitrogen with the air taken at Paris; whence
it resulted that, contr ary to the opinion formerly entertained by Dalton,
but controv erted by Gay-Lussac and Humboldt, the constituent pro-
portions of the air do not vary with the height. M. Bravais devoted
the evenings, when the sky was sufficiently clear, to the study of ere-
puscular phenomena. His ‘observations, united with those of other me-
teorologists and submitted to calculation, furnished him a new measure
of the height of the atmosphere, equal at least to one hundred kilo-
metres, a result quite approximate to that which had been given him by
the auroras of Bossekop.

In 1842 the meeting at the Faulhorn was repeated, and the same series
of meteorological observatious were continued, but MM. Bravais and
Martins applied themselves moreover to researches in physics of a new
order. M. Peltier, one of our most distinguished and most exact phy-
sicists, snatched away too soon from science, joined them on this occasion
and united with M. Bravais in measuring the temperature of ebullition
of water under different barometric pressures. The object of these
studies was to perfect the tables which serve to determine the elevation
above the sea, from the degree of the thermometer at which water enters
into ebullition, a method of less inconvenient application than the baro-
metric method.

MM. Bravais and Martins, aided by M. Camille Bravais, who now
replaced the elder brother, made also important experiments on the
propagation of sound. Mortars were fired on the Faulhorn and on the
shore of the Lake of Brienz, 2,041 metres lower down, the flash being
visible and the report heard from each station at the other. The per-
ception of the ight might be regarded as instantaneous, and by measur-
ing with a seconds watch the retardation of the. sound, the velocity of
its propagation was determined. It was thus found that, for dry air,
at the temperature of melting ice, the velocity of the propagation of
sound, whether ascending or ‘descending, is 332 metres 4 centimetres
per second. This result accords with that of the celebrated experiments
made between Villejuif and Montlhéry, when sound was propagated
horizontally.
160 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

In 1843 M. Bravais made no excursion; it was for him a year of mourn-
ing. His eldest brother, M. Louis Bravais, his coadjutor in the memoiz
on the symmetrical arrangement of leaves, died at the commencement
of summer, after six months of suffering, borne with Christian resigna-
tion, in the midst of which he occupied himself, to his last day, with
researches in botany. This painful separation slackened but transiently
the labors of M. Auguste Bravais. He speedily returned to them with
his accustomed ar dor, and the year following entered upon a new ex-
pedition, the last and perhaps the most remark able of those which it
was given him to accomplish.

The supposition is not improbable that two of our distinguished per-
petual secretaries, always pleased at meeting one another on neutra
ground, had, about that time, exchanged some words on the subject of
M. Bravais. M. Arago had, from the tribune of the Chamber of Depu-
ties, cited him as one of the officers who, by their knowledge, reflected
most honor on our marine, even comparing him, in his extemporization,
with the geometers of antiquity. M. Villemain, then minister of public
instruction, enlightened also by our learned colleague M. Pouillet, had
the merit of comprehending the expediency of an adventure which
would crown, by the ascent of Mont Blane, the previous labors of M.
Bravais, and drew upon the budget of his department for the expenses
of this difficult enterprise.

De Saussure was the first physicist who had made the ascent of Mont
Blanc; M. Bravais was the second. He shared this distinction with his
friend M. Ch. Martins, and with Dr. Pileur, his collaborator in editing
the Patria.

It was with no little interest that learned Europe had heard that M.
De Saussure, already celebrated for his travels in the Alps, had suc-
ceeded in carrying his barometer to the summit of Mont Blane, and had
fixed the height of the mountain at 2,450 toises. He had made at the
same time several experiments in physics, which have never ceased to
hold an honorable place in all treatises on meteorology. But physics
had made great progress in the space of fifty-seven years; it had be-
come time to renew the experiments of De Saussure, and to add new
ones, of which no idea could exist in his time. Such was the path which
the enlightened liberality of M. Villemain now opened to the hardihood
and skill of the three modern physicists.

Having left Paris, July 16, 1844, with a complete series of instruments
of better construction than had ever before been employed in a work of
this nature, the travelers stopped at Geneva in order to compare them
with those ‘which are there daily employed, with a care and dexterity
worthy of the country of De Saussur e, and arrived at Chamouni, where,
in 1757, this last-named savant had been obliged to wait four weeks for
weather propitious to his undertaking. M. Bravais and his companions
were scarcely more favored. <A first and second attempt failed from
atmospheric accidents, which were not unattended with danger, but at
length they arrived, August 28, for the third time at a wide “plateau ot
snow, 880 metres below the summit of the mountain, where their instru-
ments had been permanently fixed for three weeks, under shelter of a
smali tent. The night passed cold and calm, and next day, the obser-
vations of the morning being completed, the adventurers proceeded, at
ten o'clock, to climb to the top of Mont Blane. This was reached, with-
out any extraordinary difficulties, at forty-five minutes after one o'clock.
The wind was blowing with great force from the northwest; the ther-
mometer marked 7° below zero. The sun shone brightly, but vapors
veiled the more remote parts of the vast horizon, which extends from
—s

MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 161

the Cote @Or to the mountains of Liguria. The circumjacent mountains,
on the contrary, were seen with great distinctness. After throwing a
glance on this magnificent panorama, MM. Bravais, Martins, and Le
Pileur hastened to arrange their instruments—barometer, thermometer,
hygrometer, psychrometer, pyrheliometer, actinometer, compass; the
instrument for measuring the horizontal magnetic intensity; another
for measuring the inclination of the magnetic needle; another for measur-
ing the temperature of ebullition of water; instruments for observing
the tints of the sky and transparence of the atmosphere, &c., another for
measuring the electric intensity. The genius of De Saussure had sug-
gested a part of the same experiments, but his extemporized instruments
were less complicated than those of to-day, whose precision is paid for
by the minute precautions which their management exacts.

During the five hours passed on the summit of Mont Blanc, our three
physicists had time to derive from their instruments all they were ¢a-
pable of yielding, and to collect a series of measurements which left
little to desire. At the approach of evening, the principal experiments
in physics having been nearly terminated, M. Bravais established the
theodolite, and, assisted by M. Le Pileur, who wrote the angles at his
dictation, commenced a survey of the horizon, measuring the angle of
depression of each of the mountains which formed 1k, and the azimuth
which expressed the direction in which it was seen. This circuit of the
horizon of Mont Blanc, which had never before been made, (for De
Saussure had confined himself to general remarks,) will remain a valua-
ble monument for geodesy and geology. The work was almost finished,
and nothing remained to be taken but the least interesting parts of the
panorama, when the process was interrupted by a phenomenon which
equally surprised the eight persons (guides and travelers) then assembled
on Mont Blanc, because, in none of the ascents previously made, had
any one ventured to remain there till the setting of the sun.

“ At forty minutes after six,” says M. Bravais, in the little work which
contains his tour @horizon, “the sun approaching the moment of its
disappearance, we cast our eyes on the side opposite to the luminary,
and saw, not without wonder, the shadow of Mont Blane projected on
the snow- covered mountains in the eastern part of our panorama. I
took the summit of that shadow with the thedolite, and obtained the
depression of —1°. A minute afterwards it was—0° 48’, ascending
in proportion as the sun declined. We still remained some ten minutes
occupied in packing our baggage, and rather anxious to descend on ac-
count of the shortness of twilight on high mountains. * * * J have
delineated ia the panorama the form then presented by the shadow of
Mont Blane. It rose gradually into the atmosphere, as though this were
a canvass on which it was just portraying itself. The separation of the
shadow and the light was strongly defined in its outlines, and it thus
continued to ascend, rising above the mountains of the Valley of Aosta,
until it attained the height of 19, still remaining perfectly visible. The
air above the cone of shadow was of that rose-purple tint which, in fine
sunsets, is seen to color the western sky, while the border of this tint,
along the line of separation, presented a more intense hue of red, con-
tributing greatly to enhance the splendor of the phenomenon.

‘Let the mountains of the great Valley of Aosta be now conceived
as also simultaneously projecting their shadows into the atmosphere ;
the outline of their mighty spires distinctly visible; dark, or rather
faintly green below, but soaring up into that expanse of rose-colored
light from which they were separated by a band of deeper hue; to this
be added the precision of the cones of shadow, and especially of the

lls
162 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

outline of their crests, and, finally, the effect of the laws of perspective,
causing all these lines to converge toward one another and toward the
reflected summit of Mont Blane, where our own shadows might also be
supposed to find a place; still but an incomplete idea can be formed of
the grandeur of the meteorological phenomenon which, for those few in-
stants, displayed itself before us. It might seem as if some invisible
being, seated on a throne edged with fire, received the homage of bright-
winged angels who, on their knees, bent in adoration toward him.

“At the view of so much magnificence, our arms and those of our
guides remained inactive, and cries of enthusiasm burst from our lips.
I have seen the splendid auroras of the north, with their zenith-crowns
of variegated and moveable columns, not to be equalled in effect by the
richest displays of pyrotechny; but the sight of the shadow of Mont
Blane on the sky appears to me more august by far. After indulging
for ten minutes in the contemplation of this spectacle, we were forced
again to think of returning. Fortunately, the full moon, rising brightly
above the eastern horizon, sufficed for that stage of our journey which
conducted us again to our tent, where we arrived after fifty minutes
of very rapid descent.”

This poetic sally enables us to judge whether the cold of twelve de-
grees, which then existed on Mont Blane, and the management of grad-
uated instruments, had chilled the imagination. We may be sure that
observers who, at the close of the day, remained accessible to such vivid
impressions, had neglected, during its course, nothing which formed the
special object of their toilsome and perilous ascent; and we may say,
without further commentary, that skiliful physicists who have employed
fifteen hours of assiduous labor to conduct, on the top of Mont Blane,
the operations of the best instruments known, who, moreover, have oc-
cupied four days in following their action on the plateau near the sum-
mit, could not fail to have put us in possession of scientific documents
of high value, before which a multitude of doubts and uncertainties
must disappear.

Having completed, at their tent on the grand plateau, the four days
of observation, the travelers descended, September 1, to Chamouni.
Here they rejoined M. Camille Bravais, who had been meanwhile en-
gaged in making, every two hours, corresponding observations at the
same point where M. Theodore de Saussure, since so celebrated for his
investigations in vegetable physiology, had co-operated in like manner
in the labors of his distinguished father, while the latter was operating
on Mont Blane. Nor were others indifferent to the issue of the ascent.
For a month the father and sister of M. Bravais had gone, every day,
to seat themselves at a spot, in the entrance of the Vale of Annonay,
whence Mont Blane and the snowy crests of the Alps may be seen, and
whence he had himself in childhood often contemplated them. They
had not failed to be there on the 29th of August, but the zone of vapors
which, from Mont Blane, obscured the plains, hid everything from their
view. The same disappointment existed at Lyons. With the best tele-
scopes the adventurers could not be perceived on the top of the great
mountain, and the preparations made by learned colleagues, MM. Ta-
bareau, Fournet, Lortet, and other eminent physicists, with a view to
codperate in the enterprise by their own observations, remained for the
most part unfruitful.

The professor of astronomy had secured for himself, through the
amenities of intercourse, a large share in the affection of the faculty.
Lively, though reflective, in disposition, full of kindness, of delicacy,
and disinterestedness, M. Bravais knew how to enjoy the success of
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 163

others, and no shade of rivalry ever found access to him. Always dis-
posed to render service and to give counsel, when asked for, he fulfilled
his own duties with the most scrupulous exactness. His lectures drew
a numerous auditory, for they were enlivened by the associations which
the variety of his studies and experiences presented without effort to
his mind, and to which his vivid imagination gave an endlessly diversi-
fied expression. In spite of the aridity supposed to be inherent in
mathematical pursuits, his conversation was picturesque and sportive,
and often heightened by sallies in which science allied itself with poetry.
It was never without regret, therefore, that his colleagues of Lyons heard
him speak of withdrawing. Yet, this M. Bravais was bound to think
of, for the publication of the voyage of the Scientific Commission of
the North was advancing, and w ith that would finish the mission with
which he had been charged by the minister of marine. To remain at
Lyons would have been to renounce his career as an officer in that
branch of service, and he sometimes thought of requesting to be sent
on some new voyage. Those who justly saw in him the ideal of the
scientific traveler could not forbear from encouraging him to do so, but
an unforeseen circumstance put an end to these deliberations.

Our distinguished colleague, M. Lamé, had just relinquished the chair
of physics in “the Polytechnic School to oce upy the place of examiner of
graduates. The council, with great unanimity, designated M. Bravais
to succeed him. The latter, therefore, a naval lieutenant, Was nominated
to replace M. Lamé, chief engineer of mines, in a school which furnishes
as well officers to the marine as engineers to the corps of mines and of
civil constructions.

The preparation of a course so high as that with which he was now
charged, gave, for some time, a particular direction to the studies of M.
Bravais, and he delayed not to publish several excellent memoirs on
atmospheric optics and the molescular constitution of bodies. A year
after his ascent of Mont Blane he presented to the Academy a memoir
on the white rainbow, which completed in a very happy manner one of
the most admirable theories of physics.

Until these latter ages mankind had seen in the rainbow a sign of
hope, without knowing the causes of its appearance. Theodorich, De
Dominis, Descartes, had explained its formation by the refractions and
reflections undergone, in drops of rain, by the rays of the sun. Newton
had completed this explanation by the consideration of the unequal
refrangibility of colors; but none of these eminent physicists, and none
of those who after them had been occupied with the details of the
phenomenon, had explained in a satisfactory manner the formation of the
white rainbow, which is sometimes seen to make its appearance on fogs of
little elevation and not far remote from the spectator, with a rx radius
sensibly inferior to that of the ordinary rainbow. It was reserved for
M. Bravais to demonstrate that if a cloud is formed of small hollow
spheres in which the thickness of the watery envelope is comprised be-
tween thirty-eight and fifty-five-hundredths of the radius of the internal
vacuum, it must form a white luminous are of thirty-four to forty degrees
of radius, and consequently not so large as the ordinary rainbow of the
first order, whose radius is 42° 20/. In ordinar Vv clouds the envelope of
the elobules of vesicular vapor is thinner than that required by the
theory of the white rainbow, whence it results that it is not formed.
It is only to be seen on heavy fogs attached to the surface of the land
or sea. True, this white rainbow is not one of those phenomena which
strongly captivate the imagination; but it is enough for the honor of
our colleague to remark that all physicists and Newton himself had left
164 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

it without explanation. His memoir has filled a gap in the labors of
the first masters of science.

The rainbow is not the only phenomenon which describes on the vault
of the heavens geometrical figures more or less brilliant, more or less
vividly colored. Parhelions and halos, less frequent, but not less strik-
ing than the rainbow, are formed under circumstances so visibly differ-
ent, that, far from appearing of good augury, they have been regarded
by the amazed populations as signs of divine wrath. Mariotte had pro-
posed to attribute these luminous apparitions to the action exerted on
the rays of the sun or moon by the frozen particles which remain, for
some time, suspended in the atmosphere before falling in the form of
snow orrain. But Huyghens had combated this explanation, and, for
more than a century, it had been left in abandonment. Brandes, Young,
Galle, Kiimtz, and other celebrated physicists, however, had recurred to
it with better success. | But M. Bravais has removed all doubts by rep-
resenting by formulas, reduced with the ingenuity of which he possessed
the secret to great simplicity, the course of the reflected and refracted
rays, and by deducing from their discussion the forms, however strange,
of the observed phenomena.

According to the greater or less depression of the temperature of the
elevated regions of the atmosphere, the vapor is there condensed into
water which gives rain, or into particles of ice which produce snow, sleet,
or hail. The ice crystallizes in regular hexagonal prisms, which, in their
most elementary form, are terminated by plane faces perpendicular to
the axis of the prism. The prism is sometimes much elongated, some-
times, on the contrary, extremely short. In the first case the frozen
particles formed in the air are small needles of microscopic diameter;
in the second they are small hexagonal or stellate plates, of a thickness
hardly measureable. In both cases these little crystals are very light.
They dance in the air like those grains of dust which are seen quivering
by myriads in a sunbeam. They fall, however, though slowly, in air
perfectly calm. Although microscopic, they have forms of the utmost
exactness, for the regularity of crystallization is never more admirable
than in the smallest particles of matter.

When the frozen particles are acicular prisms, the luminous rays pro-
ceeding from the sun or the moon, in being refracted across two faces
not contiguous of the prism, under the angle of minimum deviation, are
broken and pursue their route, by making with their first direction an
angle of about 22°. In this case, if the small prisms quiver in the air,
a colored are is produced comparable to a rainbow, but of 22° only of
radius, of which the luminous body occupies the center and in which
the red band is situated on the inner side. This is the halo of 22°, the
most frequent of all. If the small prisms, or only a part of them, fall
gently through tranquil air, and take a vertical position, there is
formed, on each side of the sun and at the same height, an image of
that body which is called a parhelion, and which is distant from it, very
nearly as is the are of the halo, about 22°. The rays of light which
are refracted, at the angle of minimum deviation, across a diedral
angle of 90°, like that which results from the rectangular incidence of
the faces of the hexagonal prism on its bases, are more strongly deflected
than in the preceding case and produce the halo of 46°. If the prisms
are vertical, they give rise to horizontal circles, decked with very lively
colors, which are tangents to the upper part or to the lower part of the
halo of 46°.

When the frozen particles have the form of small, very thin hexagonal
plates, the diedral angles of 90°, presented by the outline of their base,
MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 165

concur in the formation of the halo of 46°; and should their fall through
tranquil air render one of their diagonals vertical, the parhelion of 46° and
the anthelion make their appearance. Therays reflected, without disper-
sion of colors, on the vertical faces of the prisms and hexagonal tablets
produce the parhelic circle of M. Babinet, which is brilliant but colorless.

Other combinations may be conceived, almost all realized in nature ;
moreover, the microscopic crystals of ice, besides their principal faces,
sometimes present secondary facets, which also give rise to refractions
and reflections, the effect of which is to break the ray of light, in each
case, under a special angle. The analysis of all the possible cases of
this kind, and the complete explanation which results therefrom of all
the phenomena observed, even the most singular and most rare, fur-
nished M. Bravais the subject of the consummate memoir which is fresh
in the admiration of learned Europe.

Considering the phenomenon under all points of view, M. Bravais
completes the study which M. Arago had given to the polarization of
light in halos properly so-called, by extending it to all the parts of me-
teors of this nature.

Equally skilled as an experimenter, and versed in the management
of analytic formulas, he conceives an ingenious apparatus which, by the
rapid rotation of a transparent prism with vertical axis, represents with
much exactness the multitude of needles or vertical flakes of ice sus-
pended in the atmosphere, whose horizontal movement, dispersed in all
directions, produces the greatest number of atmospheric iluminations.
By means of this new instrument, and of artificial light, we are able to
reproduce in a cabinet of physics most of the phenomena of meteoro-
logical optics.

In Lapland and on Mont Blane M. Bravais had had numerous oppor-
tunities of observing the crystalline forms of snow. He had often met
with admirable ecrystallizations of congealed water, and had always de-
seribed them with a peculiar predilection. In his memoir on halos he
employs the notations and formulas which represent the erystalline sys- .
tem of the ice, as one perfectly conversant with them and thoroughly
master of their principle. But he did not stop there, and his studies
eventually extended to the whole science of crystallography.

In his view crystals are assemblages of molecules, identical as regards
one another, and similarly oriented or arranged, which—being reduced
in thought to a single point, their center of gravity—are disposed in
rectilinear and parallel rows, in each of which the distance of two points
is constant.

The points of an assemblage are aligned in rows, corresponding to an
endless number of different directions; but the knowledge of three rows
not parallel and not comprised in the same plane is sufiicient completely
to determine the assemblage of which they form a part. An infinitade
of assemblages entirely different may be conceived. By a profound
mathematical study M. Bravais had succeeded in discovering the de-
grees of symmetry, more or Jess great, of which they are susceptible.
He finds the axes and the planes of symmetry which they may present,
and establishes that according to the number and arrangement of these
axes and planes of symmetry, the assemblages possessing them are divided
into six classes. By adding to these the asymmetric assemblages, in
which there exist neither axes nor planes of symmetry, we have seven
classes of assemblages. Thus are evolved the most simple and general
laws of the symmetry observed in crystals, and the adoption, in crys-
tallography, of seven crystalline systems is a necessary consequence. Of
this Haiiy had had an indistinet perception; but he concluded that two
166 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

of the systems might be blended in a single one, and after him all erys-
tallographers had admitted six crystalline systems only. M. Bravais
demonstrates that it is necessary to return to the number seven, and this
demonstration, accompanied by all the light which results from a ge-
ometric analysis so profound as his, is no slight addition to the immor
tal creation of Haiiy. Lagrange and Laplace had followed, in 1784, the
lessons of the ingenious investigator of crystals, but had been content
with simply admiring them. The grounds of the beautiful science due
to his genius had never been studied from so high a point and with so
much generality as in the memoir of M. Bravais on the systems formed
by points ; a memoir to which our illustrious Cauchy has, in a remarka-
ble report, given his most unreserved sanction.

You do not expect me, gentlemen, to enter here into the detail of pro-
ceedings, though simple, yet rigorous, by which in a second memoir, en-
titled Hiudes crystallographiques, replacing empirical rules by the theo-
rems of geometry, M. Bravais deduced from his fundamental results
all the formulas of crystallography with that marvellous facility which
denotes almost infallibility in the radical solution of the difficulties of
a subject. Being limited as to time I shall restrict myself to the state-
ment that in the second part of this memoir, ceasing to regard the mo-
lecules as points and considering them as small bodies, which he calls
atomic polyhedrons, he throws light upon the relations which exist be-
tween these latter and the various crystalline systems. He reduces to
simple laws the phenomenon, until then almost unknown, of the hemi-
hedral, upon which our learned fellow-member, M. Delafosse, in a justly
celebrated memoir, has diffused unexpected light. M. Bravais demon-
strates that he could exhibit twenty-five cases of hemihedral forms, of
which only eleven had before been discovered, though these were for a
long time amply sufficient to exercise the sagacity of erystallographers.

Not forgetting dimorphism, one of the claims of Mitscherlich to dis-
tinction, nor the curious discoveries previously made by our ingenious
fellow-member, M. Pasteur, M. Bravais, in a third memoir, gives the
results of his equally successful labors on the peculiar form of erystal-
lization exhibited in a mineral called macle and hémitropes, which had
been in their turn a stumbling-block to the crystallographer. About this
time he was also at work upon investigations relative to the connection
of atmospheric optics and crystallization, as well as composing various
memoirs upon subjects entirely different, but relating for the most part
to meteorology, some of which are not the less remarkable from being
outside of this branch of physical geography.

He was endowed with a remarkable facility for all kinds of intellect-
ual labor, and he possessed the rare faculty of occupying himself at the
same time with the most varied subjects: hydrography, navigation,
astronomy, atmospheric optics, physics, properly so called, geometry,
crystallography, pure analysis, and natural sciences, were at once the
subjects of his investigations. It might be said of him, notwithstand-
ing the apparent opposition of words, that the universal was his spe-
clalty.

All his memoirs have received honorable notice in our ‘ Comptes-
Rendus,” and met with merited success by their publication in the most
esteemed scientific transactions of the day. They continually present
ingenious and frequently profound conceptions, which are well worthy
of special attention, but which, for want of time, I am not at present
able to specify. The works of Bravais, taken in their totality, are of
immense extent, and Lam forced to limit myself to a sketch of the prin-
cipal treatise. , As an astronomer, called upon to give an abridged idea
of the firmament, can only speak in detail of the stars of the first mag-
eee chee |

MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS. 167

nitude, so I must be content merely to mention among the works of M.
Bravais those which form his chief claim to the approbation of the
Academy.

By his investigations on erystallography he associated his name with
that of the immortal Haitiy; from his ascension of Mont Blane he con-
nected it with that of De Saussure; in his work on Lapland he was the
worthy continuator of the celebrated voyages of Leopold von Buch, and
of the profound studies of Hansteen. His memoirs upon halos, parhe-
lions, and upon the white rainbow, completed in the most happy manner
the theories of Mariotte, of Huyghens, and even of Descartes and New-
ton. After such achievements, gentlemen, the name of M. Bravais could
no longer remain separated from those of the members of the Academy.
In the beginning of the year 1854, by the death of Admiral Roussin, a
place was made vacant in the section of geography and navigation which
M. Bravais was elected to fill. You were right in supposing that this
was in your ranks the most befitting place for a sailor and a traveler
who had enriched by so large and so varied a mass of observations the
domain of physical geography.

Admitted to a seat in the Academy, M. Bravais testified his gratitude
by his assiduity, by the number and importance of his communications.
Still he did not enjoy as he would have done several years previous, the
honor, long and ardently desired, which crowned so worthily an ex-
tended career of labor illuminated with flashes of genius. He was no
longer what he had been; a visible change was wrought upon him. A
veil of sadness was thrown over that countenance, marked with open-
ness, modesty, and amiability. At the close of the year 1847 M. Bra-
vais was united in marriage to Mademoiselle Antoinette Moutié, of
Paris; and he found in this union all the charms of a new life. His
time divided between the pleasures of family intercourse and the con-
tinuation of his works, he had never labored with more ardor nor taken
a more active part in scientific enterprise. Independently of his innu-
merable publications, he had assisted in establishing the Annuaire Meé-
téorologique de France, and was one of the principal founders of the
Meteorological Society, which, at its first session, in 1852, elected him
its annual president. But the year 1853, which preceded his election to
the Academy, was for him one of disastrous auspices. At the com-
mencement of this fatal year he lost his father, the venerable friend
who, having been his first teacher, continued deeply interested in his
labors, regarding them with tenderness mixed with noble pride. Almost
at the same time his only son was taken from him by an epidemic of which
the fatal influence was particularly felt at Parisamong children. This was
a mortal blow, from which he never recovered. Peculiarly susceptible
to family affection, which was the charm and support of his life, with
his father disappeared the enchantment of his earliest and sweetest re-
membrances. One brother died soon after; he had-lost another ten
years previous. With his beloved child vanished forever the joys of pater-
nity—labor still remained for him, and he applied himself without re-
laxation. He was stimulated by the desire to reply to the kind wel-
come of the Academy, and by the counsels of his friends, who endeavored
to win him by work from tle remembrance of .his griefs. He finished a
number of memoirs containing important results, and evidently went
beyond his strength. Unceasing labor soon began to tell upon him.
Sleep fled from his eyelids during the night, and overpowered him
during the day. This was in accordance with his feelings. He wished,
as in his cabin of the Loiret, to consecrate his nights to work; he even
desired, as in Lapland, to vanquish sleep by coffee; but his organs no
longer retained the flexibility of youth.
168 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTE BRAVAIS.

Madame Bravais was convinced that labor would be a salutary diver-
sion for her husband, while at the same time she dreaded excessive
fatigue. ‘Tenderness came to her aid and prompted her to resort to a
plan to avoid this evil.. It was a charming and at the same time heart-
rending sight to see her as early as four o’clock in the morning assisting at
his table; forgetting her own ‘eriefs, by turns endeavoring to moderate
his ardor, and to aise his waning cour age. But the evil continually in-
creased, the work no longer amounted to any thing; memory was at
fault; he could no longer recover the ingenious ideas which he liad pre-
viously remembered without committing ‘them to paper. He wished to put
the last touches to a lar ge memoir upon mirage, which would have com-
pleted his labors on meteorologic: al opties, and which, with his usual
modesty, he pronounced the most imperfect of his wor ks. He corrected
it; he curtailed it; he spoiled it, and, alas, finally made the sad discovery
that it was impossible for him to complete it. The darkness of the night
seemed to shroud the intellect hitherto so active and brilliant; he lett
the Polytechnic School for ever, and we ceased to see him among us.

A well-known disease developed itself, accompanied with fever and
great suffering. He was sustained in this trying period by deep re-
ligious sentiments, the unalterable sweetness of his character manifest-
ing itself in a wonderful resignation.

Madame Bravais went with him to Versailles. She obtained quarters
at the entrance of the park, and later near the Bois de Vaucresson and
of Lamarche, changing her residence as often as was needful, in order
to obtain new and picturesque situations. This at first seemed to please
him, but at length ceased to produce any effect. He still took quite long
walks with his friends, who remained faithful to him in his misfortunes,
particularly with Doctor Bérigny, collaborator in the Annuaire Meétéo-
rologique, whose unceasing devotion continued to the end. He retained
his stre neth, and pre eserved all the sweetness and kind expression of his
countenance, but his memory was gone beyond recall. He recognized
neither objects nor individuals, perhaps even did not always know dis-
tinectly the one who became to him a tender mother, consecrating her life
to relieving his sufferings, and administering to his wants.

Some g glimpse of light occasionally pierced through this cruel night,
and gav e rise to hopes which unfortunately were destined soon to vanish.
One day he saw, on entering his chamber, his uniform as a marine
officer, hanging over a chair; his face brightened, and a tear escaped
from his eye. Another day he smiled on receiving a bouquet of wild
flowers, which his sister had gathered for him and laid upon his knee.
This was the last smile of cur fellow-member; he passed away on the
30th of ora) 1863.

Madame Bravais only left her pillow to pray near his coffin. The
tomb alone ceracated her from one to whom for seven years she had
been as a guardian angel. Having lost all whom she loved on earth,
her only son and her husband, she felt as though there was no longer
a place for her in the world. She embraced a religious life in a convent
belonging to one of the most austere orders, where | happily she has found
consolation in her devotion and in the assurance which has been given
her that the threads which were broken upon earth will be united in
Heaven.

Gentlemen, may the honor which you bestow to-day on the remein-
brance of a dearly beloved husband penetrate into this asylum of grief,
and become a balm for a wound which even time will not have power
to heal. The voice of the heart is heard under these sacred vaults,
where the voice of the world may not penetrate.
MEMOIR OF C. F. P.-VON MARTIUS.*

By CHarzes Rav.

The family of the celebrated botanist and ethnologist, to whose mem-
ory this sketch is dedicated, traces its origin back to Galeottus Mar-
tius, a famous physician and astrologer, born in 1427, at Narni, in
Umbria. About the year 1450 he occupied a professorial chair at
Padua, but, persecuted by the Inquisition on account of reformatory
tendencies and compelled to leave Itaty, he subsequently went to the
court of the learned King Matthias Corvinus of Hungary, who ap-
pointed him his counsellor and librarian. The descendants of Galeot-
tus mostly spread themselves over Germany, and many are known to
have pursued learned professions, thus forming an ancestry worthy of
their distinguished successor.

Carl Friedrich Philipp von Martius was born on the 17th of April
1794, at Erlangen, Bavaria, where his father, Ernst Wilhelm Martius,
owned an apothecary establishment, holding at the same time the po-
sition of honorary professor of pharmacy in the university of that city.
A man of superior general acquirements, he was especially interested
in botany, and has left some writings relative to his favorite study. At
the advanced age of ninety, he published an interesting and well-writ-
ten book, containing recollections of his long and eventful life. He
died in 1849, in his ninety-third year.

His eldest son, the subject of this sketch, was carefully educated at
home and in the schools of Erlangen. At an early age he already dis-
played the germs of those talents which afterward made him conspicu-
ous in the world of letters, and, when still quite young, he manifested
a determined resolution to devote himself to a scientific career. Though
his juvenile inclinations leaned toward natural history, he also exhibited
much taste for the study of ancient classics, a tendency which, nurtured
by skillful teachers, not only developed and strengthened his intel-
lectual capacities, but also enabled him, when in after years he
composed many of his writings in Latin, to express himself in
that language with a precision and elegance not often met with
in our time. In fact, during his whole life the reading of Latin
and Greek authors formed one of his principal recreations. When
only sixteen years of age, Martius was admitted, in 1810, as a
student in the university of his native town. He had decided to
prepare himself for the medical profession, chiefly because this study
afforded him the widest field for indulging in his love for natural
sciences. His favorite branch, botany, was then taught at Erlangen by
a pupil of Linnzus, the learned Schreber, who does not seem, however,
to have been gifted with a happy method of. imparting information ;
hence Martius and his fellow-students felt more attracted by the lectures

* Norre.—It is but fair tostate that most of the facts contain ed in this sketch have been
furnished by C. F. Meissner’s Denkschrift auf Carl Friedr. Phil. von Martius, (Munich,
1869.) The article Carl Philipp von Martius, sein Leben und seine Leistungen, in the
Ausland, (No, 38, 1869,) has also been used.
170 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS.

of other professors of the university, such as Hildebrandt, Harless,
Goldfuss, Vogel, Wendt, and others who flourished at that period. In
1814 Martius received the diploma of doctor medicine, having passed
with honors the examination necessary to obtain that grade. His in-
augural dissertation was a critical catalogue of the plants in the botan-
ical garden of Erlangen.* In this first literary attempt, which forms an
octavo volume of 210 pages, he followed the classification of Linnzus.
Shortly afterward we find Martius among the éléves of the Royal Acade-
my of Sciences at Munich, deeply engaged in botanical studies, and
appointed assistant to Schrank, the conservator of the botanical garden.
An excellent opportunity being thus offered to the young botanist of
enlarging the knowledge already acquired, he devoted himself with en-
thusiastic zeal to a pursuit that harmonized so well with his taste.
While in this position he published his Flora Cryptogamica Erlangensis,
(Norimberge, 1817,) a work already begun at Erlangen, which embraced
his first independent investigations, and attracted by its merits consid-
erable attention from competent botanists. His superior talents, com-
bined with an indefatigable industry and excellent personal qualities,
could not fail to endear him to the older members of the Academy, men
eminent in their special departments of science, who exerted a most bene-
ficial and lasting influence on his mind. Indeed, he was placed in an
enviable position ; fortune smiled on him and smoothed his path to dis-
tinction. One circumstance, however, must be particularly mentioned
in this place; for it is that on which his future success in life chietly
depended. The King of Bavaria, Max Joseph I, an ardent lover of
botany, frequently visited the botanical garden of his capital, on which
occasions he usually selected Martius for his companion and guide.
Thus becoming acquainted with the young naturalist’s acquirements
and talents, he honored him with his special favor, and seized upon
the first opportunity of showing his good will in a practical manner.
This excellent monarch had for some time conceived the plan of sending
scientific explorers to South America, and in 1815 he had already con-
ferred with the Academy in relation to this matter; yet two years
elapsed before the realization of his design. In 1817, when the Austrian
Archduchess Leopoldina, the bride of the crown-prince of Brazil, after-
ward Emperor Dom Pedro I, was about to depart for the New World,
Metternich caused some Austrian savants, charged with scientific labors
in Brazil, to be added to the suite of the princess. The Bavarian gov-
ernment, wishing to profit by this occasion, asked, and was granted,
permission to send in the same vessel two naturalists, who, upon their
arrival in South America, were to carry on their investigations inde-
pendently of the Austrian corps. For this purpose Max Joseph selected
as botanist his gifted protegé Martius, then a young man of twenty-
three, and Johann Baptist von Spix, a member of the Academy, who
was to take charge of the zoological department. On the 2d of April,
1817, the party left the harbor of Trieste in the Austrian frigate Austria,
and touching at Malta, Gibraltar and Madeira, reached Rio Janeiro,
after a prosperous voyage, in the middle of July. One may easily
imagine the feelings of the two travelers, especially of the youthful and
enthusiastic Martius, when they stood upon the soil of the wonderful
country that lay before them with all its treasures of nature—the very
El Dorado of a naturalist, then far less explored than at the present
time, and promising the richest harvest in every field of natural science.

On the 8th of December, 1817, the two Bavarian savants set out on
their expedition into the interior. Having first visited the province of

* Plantarum Horti Academici Erlangensis Enumeratio. Lrlange, 1814.
MEMOIR OF C. F. P VON MARTIUS. Ea

San Paolo, they passed in a northeasterly direction through the prov-
ince of Minas Geraés as far as Minas Novas; then through the Serra
Diamantina, touching the province of Goyaz, when they turned again
toward the northeast and proceeded to San Salvador, the capital of the
province of Bahia. They arrived there in November 1818. After a
short sojourn at this place, and having visited the Botocudos and other
adjacent Indian tribes, they continued their journey toward the north,
traversing the provinces of Pernambuco, Piauhy, and Maranhao, until
they reached San Luiz, situated at the mouth of the Itapicuru. From
there they went by sea to the estuary of the Amazon River, arriving at
Para in June 1819. They then ascended this mighty stream for more
than two-thirds of its length, as far as Tabatinga, close to the frontier
of Peru. The travelers having separated for awhile to visit different
parts of this region, Martius explored one of the tributaries of the
Amazon, the Rio Japura, (Yupuraé) until he arrived at the cataract
Salto Grande de Araracoara, which impeded a further advance. The
larger affluents of the great river, the Rio Negro and Rio Madeira, were
likewise explored some distance, the latter as far as the districts of the
Mundruci and Mauhé Indians. It must be remembered that the navi-
gation of those waters, which is now greatly facilitated by steam ves-
sels, had then to be performed in hired or purchased boats, which, being
manned with Indian rowers, afforded hardly room for the travelers and
their ever increasing luggage, and offered no other protection against
the burning equatorial sun and the heavy rains but a slight cover con-
structed of boughs. Amid a multitude of inconveniences, and some-
times exposed to real danger, they had to keep their journals, and to
prepare and preserve the natural objects obtained during their excur-
sions on the banks; yet the collections they brought back, which now
enrich the museums of Munich, bear evidence of their great success.*
Descending the Amazon, they arrived again in Para in the middle of
April 1820. Two months afterward they embarked for Lisbon, and
reached Munich in December 1820, after an absence of nearly four years.

The expedition of Spix and Martius certainly ranks among the most
important enterprises undertaken for scientific purposes in this century.
Their explorations extended over a distance of nearly one thousand
four hundred geographical miles, and have, like the travels of Alex-
ander von Humboldt, furnished the material for numerous works em-
bracing many departments of science; indeed, the period of nearly half
a century, which has elapsed since the return of the naturalists, was
not sufficient for fully developing, and giving to the scientific world, all
results of their researches. Since La Condamine descended the Ama-
zon, Spix and Martius were the first learned Europeans who visited
those mighty waters; and though others had previously explored cer-
tain portions of Brazil, the country, on the whole, still remained com-
paratively unknown. Hence the importance of the Bavarian expedi-
tion. The names of Spix and Martius are intimately connected with the
natural history and ethnology of the empire, and will be gratefully
remembered in future times by all those who take a scientific interest in
that country, or wish to inform themselves concerning its condition in
the early part of our century.

* Besides valuable mineralogical and geological specimens, their collections embraced :
mammals, 85 species; birds, 350; amphibia, 130; fishes, 116; insects, 2,700; arachnidae
and crustaceans, each 50; plants, about 6,500. The latter, mostly represented by sev-
eral specimens and carefully preserved, constitute now the most valuable portion of
the royal herbarium at Munich. The botanical garden also received its share, partly
in living plants, partly in such as were raised from the collected seeds. The whole
was placed under the care of the Academy.
172 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS.

The Brazilian voyage laid the foundation of Martius’ future success.
On the very day of their return, he and Spix were decorated by the
King with the civil order of Bavaria, and shortly afterward Martius was
elected a member of the Royal Academy, and appointed second con-
servator of the botanical garden. At the age of twenty-six Martius
already enjoyed a reputation which, in common life, is usually only
acquired by men of riper years; for not many are favored with advan-
tages such as were offered to him. His sojourn in a country perfectly
new to him, and hence the necessity of acting independently, had made
him self-reliant and practical, while the number of objects constantly
claiming his attention had served to quicken his power of perception,
and to develop all those qualities which, when combined, constitute the
true naturalist. His experiences in the wilds of Brazil were to him a far
better school than many years spent in constant closet-study.

His return from Brazil marked the beginning of a long-continued lit-
erary activity, resulting in highly important works, to which reference
will be made hereafter. As an event of this period we have also to
record his marriage with an accomplished lady of noble descent, a union
which gave him a “home and a family, and promoted in no small degree
the happiness of his existence. The domestic circle was to him through-
out life an asylum of peace and contentment, where he rested from his
professional labors, enjoying the society of his family and of numerous
friends who loved to gather under his hospitable roof. <A great change
occurred in Martius’ position in the year 1826, when King Ludwig I,
who had ascended the throne of Bavaria, transferred the university of
Landshut to Munich, and appointed him professor of botany. Six years
later, the first conservator of the botanical garden, Von Schrank, being
then’ very old, retired from office, and Martius was installed i in his place.
He was eminently qualified for discharging the duties now incumbent
on him. Perfectly acquainted with his science, he possessed the faculty
of presenting it in an easy and attractive manner. He spoke with ele-
gance and fluency, and sometimes, when carried away by the subject,
his eloquence even partook of a poetical character. For practical de-
monstration the botanical garden, carefully superintended by Martius, and
the herbarium, afforded ample means, to which must be added frequent
botanical excursions undertaken in company with the students, with
whom he entertained very amicable relations, gaining their affections
no less by conscientious instruction than by the benevolent, paternal
friendship he bestowed on them. Among the number of his pupils who
became prominent, may be named Alexander Braun, Hugo von Mohl,
Carl Schimper, O. Sendtner, C. H. Schultz-Bipontinus, and Spring.

In 1840 Martius was elected secretary of the physico-mathematical
class of the Academy, an honorary office imposing much labor, which
he performed until his death with care and punctuality, and oreat ad-
vantage to that scientific body. By this position he was charged with
all correspondence and literary exchanges with other learned institu-
tions, and whenever a foreign or resident member of the Academy died
it was his duty to deliver an address commemorative of the life and
merits of the deceased. These eulogies have been much admired for
the excellent style in which they are composed, and the skill displayed
in the general treatment. They are deemed fully equal to the celebrated
éloges by Cuvier and Flourens.*

* The eulogies read by Martius are contained in an octavo volume of 619 pages,
entitled Akademische Denkreden von C.F. Ph. von Mar tius, (Leipzig, 1866.) Those of a
later date (on Faraday, Brewster, Flourens, &c.) were published in the transactions of
the Academy of the year 1868.
; ee

MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS. 173

For the rest, the professional career of Martius is not marked by any
striking incidents. Lectures, literary labors, and the superintendence
of the botanical garden fully occupied his time, and his t#avels, after
the American voyage, extended not farther than France, Belgium, Hol-
land, England, and Switzerland. Heused to spend his summer vaca-
tions in the picturesque Bavarian mountains, especially at Schlehdorf,
on the Kochel-See, where his hospitable house formed a rallying-place
for his numerous friends, who remember with feelings of gratitude the
days passed there amid delightful natural scenes and in a highly intel-
lectual, refined society. Though of a vigorous constitution, Von Martius
was in later years subject to those chronic indispositions which usually
result from the sedentary habits of men of letters, and he found himself
therefore obliged to resort repeatedly to watering places, especially to
the mineral springs of Kissingen. The salutary effect derived from the
use of these waters was in some measure counteracted by the bustle
and distractions peculiar to such localities; for, meeting there distin-
guished friends, and being, moreover, naturally inclined to social life,
the mental excitement produced was rather unfavorable to the improve-
ment of his physical condition.

In the year 1854 an unexpected event caused the premature termina-
tion of Martius’ official activity. It was decided by the government
that the glass building for the industrial exhibition then to be held at
Munich should be erected within the area of the botanical garden,
which had but lately undergone great improvements at a sacrifice of
much time and labor. It was in vain that Martius remonstrated against
a measure which threatened his beloved institution with serious disad-
vantages, and when he found his objections unavailing, he finally re-
signed, deeply disappointed, both his professorship and the superintend-
ence of the botanical garden.

The literary activity of Professor Von Martius was very great. The
writer has in his possession a printed list of his works and minor writ-
ings, which embraces no less than one hundred and sixty titles. A
number of these publications are written in the Latin language, and
most of them, of course, relate to botany, his specialty in science; but
there are also valuable contributions to ethnology among them. In
treating of his merits as an author, it is proper to mention first the nar-
rative of the Brazilian voyage performed by him and Spix.* This is a
substantial and most carefully prepared work, in three quarto volumes,
accompanied by an atlas of large size. The volumes appeared respect-
ively in 1823, 1828, and 1831; Spix, however, died in 1826, and hence
the two last volumes were almost entirely written by Martius alone.
Every one who examines this work must be struck by the vast amount
of varied information it contains, for the travelers directed their atten-
tion not merely to the natural history of Brazil, but investigated also
with searching care everything else within their reach which they
deemed worthy of inquiry. The nature of the country, its productions,
different races, social condition, commerce, agriculture, mining, statis-
tics, &c., are treated with a surprising minuteness, and, where the sub-
ject is of an elevated character, in a superior style, which has repeatedly

* Reise in Brasilien, auf Befchl Sr. Majestiét Maximilian Joseph I, Kénigs von Bayern, in
den Jahren 1817, 1818, 1819 und 1820 gemacht, und beschrieben von J. B. von Spix und C.F.
Ph. von Martius. Three vols., 4to; Munich, 1823-31; with an atlas.

There is an English translation of the first volume by H. E. Lloyd; London, 1824,
2 vols., 8vo.; plates reduced to the size of the volumes.
174 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS.

elicited the praise of Goethe, the great master of German composition.
In fact, certain portions of the work, such as give the impressions pro-
duced upon the travelers by the sublime natural scenes of Brazil, have
passed into collections containing model pieces of German prose.* The
large atlas, ornamented with a well-executed ailegorical title-page,
comprises maps, orographical diagrams, panoramic views of mountain
chains, landscapes, representations of typical animals and plants, and
quite a number of plates illustrating the domestic and hunting life, the
feasts, dances, and ceremonies of the aboriginal inhabitants. Their
fabrics and arms are figured on two plates. In addition, there are many
faithfully executed, large portraits of Indians of various tribes, exhibit-
ing their peculiar features and the curious manner in which they dis-
figure their ears, lips, and chins by the insertion of ornaments. Of
particular interest are some plates containing representations of figures
sculptured on rocks, as affording the means of comparing the pictogra-
phy of the Brazilian aborigines with that of other indigenous inhabit-
ants of the American continent.

On the whole, the narrative of Spix and Martius is one of the most
important and comprehensive works of travel published in modern
times, equaling in merit the researches of Humboldt relative to Mex-
ico and other parts of America. It will remain a lasting monument of
the zeal and perseverance of its authors, and an honorable testimo-
nial to the enlightened prince who brought about its realization.

Simultaneously with the account of their travels, Spix and Martius
began to prepare their strictly scientific works on the botany and zoo-
logy of Brazil; the former department, of course, being in charge of
Martius, while Spix treated the subject of zoology. But as Spix had

* We cannot refrain from inserting here, as a specimen, the description of evenings
spent at the country house of Mr. Von Langsdorft, near Rio Janeiro:

“Nothing can be compared to the beauty of this retreat when the most sultry hours
of the day are past, and gentle breezes, impregnated with balsamic perfumes from the
neighboring wooded mountains, cool the air. This enjoyment continues to increase as
the night spreads over the land and the sea, which shines at a distance, and the city,
where the noise of business has subsided, is gradually lighted. He who has not per-
sonally experienced the enchantment of tranquil moonlight nights in these happy
latitudes can never be inspired, even by the most faithful description, with those teel-
ings which scenes of such wondrous beauty excite in the mind of the beholder. A
delicate, transparent mist hangs over the country, the moon shines brightly amidst
heavy and singularly grouped clouds; the outlines of the objects which are illuminated
by it are clear and well defined, while a magic twilight seems to remove from the eye
those which are in the shade. Scarce a breath of air is stirring, and the neighboring
mimosas, that have folded up their leaves to sleep, stand motionless beside the dark
crowns of the manga, the jaca, and the ethereal jambos; or sometimes a sudden wind
arises, and the juiceless leaves of the acaju rustle, the richly flowered grumijama and
pitanga let drop a fragrant shower of snow-white blossoms; the crowns of the ma-
jestic palms wave slowly over the silent roof which they overshade, like a symbol of
peace and tranquillity. Shrill cries of the cicada, the grasshopper, and the tree-frog
make an incessant hum, and produce by their monotony, a pleasing melancholy. A
stream, gently murmuring, descends from the mountains, and the macue, (Perdrix guya-
nensis,) with its almost human voice, seems to call for help from a distance. Every
quarter of an hour different balsamic odors fill the air, and other flowers alternately
unfold their leaves to the night, and almost overpower the senses with their perfume ;
now it is the bowers of paullinias, or the neighboring orange grove, then the thick
tufts of the eupatoria, or the bunches of the flowers of the palms, suddenly bursting,
which disclose their blossoms, and thus maintain a constant succession of fragrance.
While the silent vegetable world, illuminated by swarms of fire-flies, as by a thousand
moving stars, charms the night by its delicious effluvia, brilliant lightnings play
incessantly in the horizon and elevate the mind in joyful admiration to the stars,
which, glowing in solemn silence in the firmament above the continent and ocean, fill
the soul with a presentiment of still sublimer wonders. In the enjoyment of the
peaceful and magic influence of such nights, the newly-arrived European remembers
with tender longings his native home, till the luxuriant scenery of the tropics has
become to him a second country.”—(English translation, vol. i, p. 160.)
MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS. 175

died in 1826, the assistance of Agassiz, Perty, and Andreas Wagner
was required to continue the zoological labors, which resulted in the
publication of several folios with beautifully executed plates. We men-
tion the following:

New species of Brazilian monkeys and bats, by Spix.* New spe-
cies of lizards, snakes, turtles, and frogs, by Spix.t New species of
birds, by Spix.t Fluviatile testaceans, by J. A. Wagner.§ Fishes, by
Agassiz.|| Insects, by Perty.]]

In treating of the Brazilian flora,** Martius first confined himself to a,
selection of the plants collected by him, which he described in two
works, entitled Nova Genera et Species Plantarum Brasiliensium tt and
Icones Selecte Plantarum Cryptogamicarum Brasilie.tt In the prepara-
tion of the first volume of the first-named work, which describes the
phanerogamous plants, he was assisted by his too-early-deceased col-
league Zucearini. The object of the Icones Selecte, &c., is indicated in
the title. To the latter work Hugo von Mohl contributed an excellent
treatise on the structure of the stems of tree-ferns. Both works are
highly esteemed. They contain full and precise descriptions of single
plants as well as of whole series and groups of kindred species; and it
is particularly worthy of notice that many of these monographic trea-
tises have laid the foundation of a thorough knowledge of the plants
to which they relate. The drawings of whole plants and their anatom-
ical details are executed with a degree of faithfulness and art surpass-
ing almost anything of asimilar character that had previously appeared
in the literature of botany.

As early as 1823 Martius began the publication of his “ Natural His-
tory of Palms,”§§ a work which is considered his most important contri-
bution to botany, and that by which he has most conspicuously linked
his name for future times with that science. <Atthe first sight of these
majestic trees, which Linneus already had designated as the “ princes
of the vegetable kingdom,” he conceived the plan of making them the
object of his special observation and scientific treatment. He, there-
fore, studied with attention the many species of palms he saw during
his travels in Brazil, and collected after his return from that country
with the utmost diligence all the material concerning the palms of other
parts of the world, which was required to render his work complete.
He thus succeeded, after the labor of many years, in producing a mono-
graph unique in its kind, which caused Alexander von Humboldt to
exclaim, ‘As long as palms are known and mentioned, the name of

* Simiarun et Vespertilionum Brasiliensium Species Nove. Ed. J. B. de Spix. Monachii,
1823. Large folio, with 38 colored plates.

+t Animalia Nova, s. Species Nove Lacertarum, Serpentum, Testudinum, Ranarum, quas in
Itinere per Brasiliam a. 1817~20 suscepto, collegit et descripsit J. B. de Spix. Monachii,
1824-39. Folio, with 95 colored plates.

t Avium Species Nove quas in Itinere per Brasiliam a. 181720 suscepto collegit et descrip-
J. B. de Spic. Monachii, 1824~25. Two volumes folio, with 115 and 118 colored
plates.

§ Testacea Fluviatilia que collegit J. B. de Spix, descripsit J. A. Wagner, edd. F.
a Paula de Schrank et C. F. P. de Martius. Monachii, 1827. Folio, with 29 colored plates.

|| Selecta Genera et Species Piscium quos —— collegit et pingendos curavit J. B. de
Spix, digessit L. Agassiz, ed. Martius. Monachii, 1829. Folio, with plates.

§| Delectus Animalium Articulatorum que —— —— collegerunt Spix et Martius, descripsit
Max. Perty, ed. Martius. Monachii, 1830-34. Folio, with 40 colored plates.

** Not being a botanist himself, and consequently unacquainted with most of the
works mentioned hereafter, the writer keeps closely to the statements given by Pro-
fessor Meissner in his Denkschrift.

tt Monachii, 1823-30. Three volumes folio, with 300 colored plates.

tt Monachti, 1826-31. Small folio, with 76 colored plates.

§§ Historia Naturalis Palmarum. Monachii, 1823~50, Three volumes imperial folio,
with 245 plates, partly colored.

176 MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS.

Martius will not be forgotten!” Certain specialties embraced in this
large work were treated by skillful co-laborers: the anatomy, by H. von
Mohl; the fossil palms, by Unger; anda part of the morphology by
Alexander Braun and O. Sendtner.

While the preceding works were commenced and in progress, Martius
entered upon another literary undertaking of still larger extent, namely,
the systematic enumeration and description of the whole flora of Brazil.
But as a labor of such magnitude could not be carried out without the
assistance of persons in high stations, the patronage of King Ludwig I,
of Bavaria, and of the Emperor of Austria, Ferdinand I, was success-
fully solicited, and the work commenced under their auspices.* The
Emperor Dom Pedro LI, of Brazil, afterward united his aid to that of the
two German sovereigns. At the outset Martius had secured the co-
operation of competent botanists, each of whom was to take charge of a
certain portion of the work; and their united efforts resulted in the
publication of the Flora Brasiliensis,} one of the greatest literary achieve-
ments of our time. The work was commenced in 1840, and though yet
far from completion, already consists of forty-seven parts, with more
than eleven hundred plates in folio. Notwithstanding the ample mate-
rial which Martius had at his command, the researches necessary to
arrive at full and satisfactory results extended over many botanical col-
lections of Europe, and everything in the shape of manuscripts and
drawings bearing on the subject was critically examined and used when
found available. The immense work connected with the editing of the
Fiora prevented Martius from participating conspicuously in the botan-
ical labors themselves; yet he has furnished two entire monographs
(Anonacee and Agavee) and many highly valuable additions relating
to the geographical distribution and the use of the plants deseribed.
In view of the important bearing of this publication upon the develop-
ment of the vegetable resources of Brazil, the ambassador from that
country to the court of Vienna lately spent some time at Munich, in
order to confer with Professor Von Martius concerning the completion
of the work. The Brazilian government agreed to pay 100,000 florins
for that purpose; but as Martius was already far advanced in years, he
thought it expedient to appoint, in the person of Dr. Hichler, a successor
to superintend the publication in case of his decease. Thus the work
will suffer no interruption.

* Tt must not be left unnoticed that the patronage of the Emperor of Austria in this
case was owing to the influence of Prince Metternich. This much-abused statesman,
it is well known, took a lively interest in the promotion of science. His letters to A.
von Humboldt, contained in the correspondence between Humboldt and Varnhagen
von Ense, bear witness to the fact.

+ Flora Brasiliensis, s. Enumeratio Plantarum in Brasilia hactenus detectarwm quas — —
ediderunt C. IF’. Ph. de Martius et St. L. Endlicher. Vindob. et Lips., 1840~69, fase. 1-47,
folio . The first nine parts were edited by Martius and Endlicher; the rest, after
Endlicher’s death, by Martius alone.

t Of Martius’ numerous less extensive publications relating to botany we will men-
tion only the following:

Herbarium Flore Brasiliensis. Monachii, 1837-40.—Systema Materie Medica Vegetabilis
Brasiliensis. (8°: Leipzig, 1843.) This is a systematically arranged enumeration of the
plants used for medicinal purposes by the inhabitants of Brazil. The preparation,
manner of application, and effects are carefully described. This work has been trans-
lated into the Portuguese language by H. Velloso d’Oliveira. Rio de Janeiro, 1854.

Specimen Materie Medice Brasiliensis (in vol. ix, of the Memoirs of the Academy of
Sciences.) A number of articles likewise relating to the medicinal plants of Brazil and
their uses were published in Buchner’s Repertorium der Pharmacie,

Worthy of especial mention is a publication on the potato-rot: Die Kartoffel-Epidemie
der ietzten Jahre (Munich, 1843. 4°. With plates.) Martius was the first who noticed
in the diseased fruit a microscopic fungus, called by him Fusisporium solani. He
accounted for the spreading of the rot by the transmission of the spores of that fungus
to sound potatoes.
MEMOIR OF C. F. P. VON MARTIUS. 1G

Having given some account of Martius’ more important botanical
labors, we will briefly allude to his great merits as an ethnologist.
During his travels in South America he became deeply interested in the
aboriginal tribes, and collected, in conjunction with his traveling com-
panion, many valuable facts relating to their mode of life, relationship,
languages, migrations, &c. It has already been stated that a consider-
able portion of the “Travels in Brazil,” by Spix and Martius, is devoted
to the ethnology of that country. Martius, however, published subse-
quently several valuable treatises relating to ethnological subjects,
which will be mentioned hereafter; but his most important ethnologi-
cal work, entitled Beitrige zur Ethnographie und Sprachenkunde Amerikas,
zumal Brasiliens, (Leipzig, 1867,)* which was published shortly before
his death, and therefore contains his matured views, deserves particu-
lar notice. The Beitridge comprise two octavo volumes, the first of 802,
the second of 548 pages. An ethnographic map is added to the first
volume. Its contents are:

1. Die Vergangenheit und Zukunft der amerikanischen Menschheit,t a
lecture delivered in 1838, at a meeting of German naturalists and phy-
sicians, and first published in 1839.

2. A republication of the admirable treatise Von dem Rechtszustande
unter den Ureinwohnern Brasiliens,i first published in 1832. This is cer-
tainly one of the most interesting essays ever written on American
ethnology, although Martius’ view of a degeneration of the Brazilian
Indians from a higher state of civilization may be contrary to the
opinions of many anthropologists.

3. The remainder of the volume (pp. 145-801) is taken up with a
description of the native tribes who inhabit Brazil and the adjacent
regions. It is minute, accurate, and vivid, much more full than Waitz,
and enriched by numerous personal observations. Martius is a believer
in the gradual extension of the Tupi language and blood from the head-
waters of the La Plata northward, quite to the Antilles and Baha-
mas. §

The second volume, entirely devoted to South American languages
contains over a hundred vocabularies, which are arranged in alliea
groups exhibiting the affinity of tongues. Being of the utmost import-
ance in tracing the relationship of nations, they furnish highly valuable
material to the student of American ethnology. Many of these vocab-
ularies are from manuscript sources. In rendering the aboriginal words
the Latin, Portuguese, German, and French languages have been
employed. The articles Pflanzennamen in der Tupi-Sprache|| and Thier-
namen in der Tupi-Sprache, first printed, respectively, in 1858 and 1860,
are repub.ished with additions in this volume.

Besides the above-mentioned ethnological essays reprinted in the
Beitrige, Martius, as stated, has left some other contributions of kindred
character, which appeared in periodical publications. We give here the
following titles translated into English: On the sculptures on Mount
- Gabia,” near Rio Janeiro.** On Buschmann’s work—‘ The traces of the

* Contributions to the ethnography and philology of America, especially of Brazil.

t The past and future of the American race.

t On the civil and social condition of the aborigines of Brazil.

§ In a letter which Martius addressed, shortly before his death, to Dr. D. G. Brinton,
of Philadelphia, he expresses himself on this point even more decidedly than in the
Beitriige.

|| Names of plants in the Tupi language.

4; Names of animals in the Tupi language.

, = Ueber die Sculpturen auf dem Berge Gabia bei Rio de Janeiro. (Gelehrte Anzeigen, 1845,
Nos. 38, 39.) '

128
178 MEMOIR OF C. E. P. VON MARTIUS.

Aztec language in Northern Mexico.”* The physical condition, dis-
eases, physicians, and remedies of the aborigines of Brazil.t On the
‘preparation of the arrow-poison Urari among the Juri Indians on the
Rio Yupura, in North Brazil.{ The creation of the Negro: a Brazilian
legend.§

The time intervening between Professor Von Martius’ retirement from
official duties in 1854 and his death was to him no period of repose; ||
on the contrary, having now more leisure at his command, he devoted
himself exclusively to scientific labors. Much of his time was taken up
in editing the Flora Brasiliensis, and his position as secretary of the

Royal Bavarian Academy demanded his constant care and attention.
Only one year before his death, at the age of seventy-four, he published
the Beitrdge, his most important contr ibution to American ethnology.

He was one of those few whose merits are duly acknowledged and
appreciated during their life-time. He maintained intimate relations
with many of the most distinguished men of our time, and most learned
societies of note counted him among their members. Numerous works
are dedicated to him; his name is perpetuated in the scientific denomi-
nations of plants and animals; even a mountain in New Zealand, Mount
Martius, is called after him. Medals were struck in his honor, and
crowned heads manifested their esteem by decorating him with the
insignia of their orders.

Martius enjoyed the full possession of his mental faculties to the last
moment of his life, and even his physical appearance betokened no con-
siderable degree of decline; it was only during the years immediately
preceding his death that his altered features and somewhat stooping
figure indicated the changes which advanced age will produce upon the
strongest constitution. But the lively expression of his eye, his ani-
mated conversation, and the interest he took in everything that passed
around him, gave evidence of his unimpaired mental vigor. In the fall of
1868. being then in his seventy-fifth year, he made a journey to Berlina
and Dresden to visit his son and his old friends. He returned in good
nealth, and nothing intimated his approaching end. But shortly after-
ward, having been exposed to a severe storm, he was attacked by a febrile

ndisposition, which, increasing, developed itself into inflammation of
he lungs. His strength sank rapidly, and on the 13th of December,
1868, after an illness of nine days, his earthly career was closed by an
easy death. Fresh palin leaves decorated, signifies antly, the coffin in
which his mortal remains were conveyed to their last place of rest.

* Ueber Buschmann’s Werk: Die Spuren der Aztekischen Sprache im nérdlichen Mexiko.
(Gel. An., 1860, Nos. 41-43.)

t Das Naturell, die Krankheiten, das Arztthum und die Heilmittel der Urbewohner Bra-
siliens. (Buchner’s Repertorium der Pharmacie, vol. 33, p. 289, &c.)

{ Ueber die Bereitung des Pfeilgiftes Urari bei den Indianern Juris am Rio Yupurda in Nord-
brasilien. (Buchner’s Rep. d. Pharm., vol. 36, 1830, p. 337, &c.)

§ Die Erschaffung des Negers, eine Brasilianische Volks-Sage. (Augsburger Allgem. Zeit.,
1839.)

|| ‘‘ Der Ruhestand war fiir ihn kein Stand der Ruhe.”—Meissner’s Denkschrift, p. 24.
NOTICE OF THE LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF STEFANO
MARIANINI,

By Carto MATTEvccr,
President of the “Italian Society of Sciences, founded by Anton Mario Lorgna.”

[Translated for the Smithsonian Institution. ]

It is not such a eulogy as is usually pronounced for the members
whom the Italian Society of the XL may have lost that I at present
undertake. This several reasons forbid, not the least of which is my
own unskillfulness in the polished style of composition which such labors
demand, joined to a conviction that the highest eulogy of those who
have consecrated their lives to science consists in the record of the
progress which it owes to their exertions, and the part reserved for them
in its history. I shall speak, therefore, with the utmost brevity of the
simple habits, the pure and unassuming spirit, the integrity of character,
and the great scientific activity of Marianini, although these qualities
constitute in themselves the best eulogy of the man, and shall dwell at
somewhat greater length on his principal labors in physies.

Marianini was born at Mortara, a small town of Piedmont. He was
professor of physics at Venice, and more recently in the University of
Modena; he was a corresponding member of the Institute of France,
and president of the Italian Society of the XL for many years.

The first work by which he attracted the attention of the learned was
an Lssay on electro-metrical experiments,* a work which I remember to
have heard spoken of, at the time, in terms of the highest praise by
Arago. It appeared at Venice in 1825. On account of the original ex-
periments with which it is replete we need not hesitate to pronounce it
the most important production of the author. When it is considered
that in various chapters of this essay all parts of electro-dynamics and
of the pile are treated by methods and with instruments which were
then barely beginning to be known, we need not be surprised if the re-
sults at which Marianini arrived at that time have not remained in
science as he himself obtained them forty years ago. If we except the
discoveries of elementary laws and of physico-mathematical theories, .
this is the lot which befalls, after a certain number of years, even those
who have opened new fields in physics.

Marianini, in this essay, began by studying the relation between the
intensity of the current of a battery and the extension of the elements
and tension of the electro-motors: that is to say, the number and nature
of the pairs which compose the pile. He then proceeded to experiment
on the relative electro motive power of conductors of the first class, and
studied the phenomenon of the secondary current, respecting which he
has left us some valuable experiments. In the third chapter of the essay
are comprised many original researches on the conductive capacity of
liquids for electricity. It is beyond doubt that this treatise marks a
great progress in our knowledge on the most obscure and difficult points

* Saggio di esperienze elettro-metricha.
180 LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF STEFANO MARIANINI.

of dynamic electricity; and the discovery then made by Marianini, which
may in some measure be considered as the experimental basis of the
theory of Ohm, is still a fundamental one, namely, that the action of
simple electro-motive machines on magnets, to use his own words, is di-
rectly proportional to their surface, and that ina cireuit having a resist-
ance quasi null in comparison with that of the battery, the current of
a pile of a single pair has the same intensity with that of any number
of pairs whatever.

In the same chapter the author studies the phenomenon of metallic
diaphragms interposed in a liquid stratum to the passage of the current.
The catalogue which is given in the essay of conductors of the first class,
according to the decreasing order of théir relative electro-motive power,
is established with much exactness, and may even now be said closely
to approximate the truth.

In speaking of the conductibility of liquids, a subject in regard to
which the physicists of our own day well know the difficulty of arriving
at exact measurements, Marianini proves for the first time, what has
never since been contradicted, that the conductibility of liquids increases
with the temperature ; that this augmentation is less in liquids endowed
with a great conductibility, and that a heated liquid preserves for a certain
time in growing cold a greater conductibility than it first had at a given
temperature. Here he finds by experiment that the resistance of a
liquid stratum increases with the thickness of the stratum, and shows
by many researches the augmentation of the effects of a battery by
increasing the size of the plate of copper which incloses the zine. There
are also contained in the chapter on the conductibility of liquids some
experiments, among which I will cite, as worthy of being varied and
extended, that of the conductibility communicated by certain salts and
organic compounds to a liquid such as alcohol, which is itself scarcely
a conductor.

In 1826 Marianini read before the Atheneum of Venice a memoir on

titter’s battery, and on secondary polarity, in which by many well--
devised experiments he more conclusively proved, what had been as-
serted by Volta, that the polarities of secondary batteries depended on
the alterations which the current of the pile produces in the surface of
the metallic disks of Ritter’s column. In fact, after these disks have
been washed and wiped dry. the column remains as active as before.

More recently Marianimi undertook the study of electro-physiological
phenomena, and in the memoir presented to the Academy of Roveredc
in 1827, and which was translated in the Annales de physique et de
chimie, t. XL, p. 225, the experiments are described on which is founded
the law, still known in Germany as the law of Marianini, that the elec-
tric current in traversing the nerves in the direction of their ramifica-
tion, or the direct current, as Nobili called it, excites a contraction when
it enters and a sensation when it ceases to pass; and that, on the con-
trary, when the current is inverse or traverses the nerves in the direction
contrary to their ramification, a contraction is produced at the instant
at which it ceases to pass, and a sensation at that when it begins to
traverse the nerves. In this memoir, Marianini distinguishes the con-
tractions produced by electricity into tdiopathic contractions, which are
excited whatever be the direction in which the current traverses the
muscles, and sympathetic contractions depending on the direction in
which the current traverses the motor nerves. In a second memoir, in
which he treats specially of the voltaic alternations, he shows that these
depend on the diminution of excitability of the nerves, produced by the
passage of the current in a certain direction. Among these experiments,
LIFE AND SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF STEFANO MARIANINI. 181

we must not fail to recall that by which Marianini obtains the shock at
the opening of the circuit, although in the act of closing the circuit by
means of the finger or other unmoistened body, this shock be not ob-
tained. He subsequently occupied himself with the application of his
studies on electro-physiology to the cure of certain cases of paralysis,
and is, perhaps, the only physicist who has studied this subject with
suitable attention, and obtained by electricity the restoration in some
cases of those afflicted with this disorder.

Among the numerous memoirs of Marianini, we must also cite as
worthy of remembrance and full of ingenious experiments, those with
which he sought to sustain the theory of the electro-motive force of
Volta and to combat the chemical theory of the pile. Although it be
scarcely necessary to say that at present the latter theory is with reason
generally embraced, there are, nevertheless, some experiments of Maria-
nini which show that there are certain cases in which distinct signs
present themselves of the electro-motive force as understood by Volta,
without the appearance of any phenomena of chemical action to which
those signs might be attributed.

It remains, finally, to cite a long series of memoirs in which our col-
league studied the magnetizing force of the electric discharge of the
Leyden jar, as well as the inductive discharges. For the prosecution
of these experiments, Marianini commenced by inventing a re-electro-
meter, aS he called it, which even now might be of service in many
researches, and which consists of an iron wire surrounded by one of
copper winding spirally about it, and placed above a compass in a direec-
tion perpendicular to the magnetized needle. A discharge from the jar,
however weak, now passes by the spiral and magnetizes the iron wire,
and the needle of the compass is deflected ; the direction of the deviation
indicating the.direction of the discharge. In this memoir a great number
of experiments are described, by which it is proved that, after the mag-
netization generated by an instantaneous discharge, if the magnetization
be annulled either by mechanical means or by contrary discharges, the
iron acquires a susceptibility of being magnetized in the first direction,
and loses the susceptibility of being magnetized in the opposite direc-
tion. The author has studied with much sagacity all the other condi-
tions of this phenomenon, namely, the thickness of the iron wires,
the capacity of the Leyden jar from which the discharge is obtained,
and compares the effects of a bundle of fine iron wires with those of a
large and full cylindrical wire.

In continuation of these studies, Marianini proceeded to experiment
on the effects produced by metallic envelopes in diminishing the mag-
netizing action of electric currents on the iron placed in the interior of
those envelopes, and demonstrated that the effects depend on the action
of the inductive discharge developed in the envelopes. He proceeded
afterwards to the study of inductive discharges; discovered the induc-
tions of the second and third order, which had been found at the same
time by Henry, in America, and saw that the Leyden-electric induction
was exerted also between liquid conductors.

These notices, by which we have certainly had no thought of render-
ing justice to the various labors of Marianini, will serve at least to show
how assiduous and productive was the scientific life of our lamented
2olleague, and how admirable an example that life, prolonged as it for-
tunately was, offers, in its unobtrusive and tranquil course, to the youth
of Italy—how imperishable an honor it will always reflect upon our
country. :

FLORENCE, April 1, 1867.
ON THE CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

By T. SterRy Hunt, LL. D., F. BR. S.

In the following pages I have endeavored, at the request of Professor
Henry, to give a brief summary of certain views in chemical geology
which have been put forward by me in various scientific journals dur-
ing the past twelve years, the germ of them having appeared in a com-
munication to the American Journal of Science in January, 1858. In _
addition to the foot-notes, I have appended a list of my principal pub-
lications on the subject, where those who desire to follow up the various
questions here suggested will find them treated more at length. The
last three of these papers are in part reprinted in the present abstract.
I take this occasion to say that the views here embodied will be devel-
oped in a work on the chemistry of the globe, the preparation of which

is now well advanced.
T. STERRY HUNT.
MONTREAL, January 6, 1870.

List of the principal papers, by Mr. T. Sterry Hunt, relating to Chemical Geology.

On the Chemistry of the Primeval Earth. American Journal of Science, January,
1858.
On the part which the Silicates of the Alkalies may play in ft: MMotandinitines of
Rocks. Proc. Royal Society of London, May 7, 1857, and American Journal of Science,
March, 1858.

On the origin of Feldspars, and on some points of Chemical Lithology. American
Journal of Science, May, 1858.

On the Theory of Igneous Rocks and Volcanoes. Canadian Journal of Toronto,
March, 1858.

On some points in Chemical Geology. Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society,
November, 1859.

Review of the last-named paper. American Journal of Science, July, 1860.

On Gypsums and Magnesian Rocks. American Journal of Science, September, No-
vember, 1859.

On the History of Lime and Magnesia Salts. American Journal of Science, July,
1866. é

Contributions to Lithology. American Journal of Science, March, May, July, 1864.

Chemistry of Natural Waters. American Journal of Science, March, July, Septem-
ber, 1865.

Chemistry and Mineralogy of Metamorphic Rocks. Dublin Quarterly Journal,
July, 1863.

Ovigin of some Magnesian and Aluminous Rocks. American Journal of Science,
September, 1861.

La Chimie de la Terre. Comptes-Rendus de ’Académie, June 9, 1862.

The Earth’s Climate in Paleozoic Times. American Journal of Science, 1863.

On some points in American Geology. American Journal of Science, May, 1851.

On the Chemical Geology of Mr. David Forbes. Geological Magazine, February,
1868.

On the Chemical Geology of Mr. David Forbes. Chemical News, February, 1868.

The Chemistry of the Primeval Earth. Lecture before the Royal Institution, May,
1837.

Volcanoes and Earthquakes. Lecture before the American Geographical Society.
April, 1869,

On the Probable Scat of Volcanic Action. Geological Magazine, June, 1869.
CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 183

CONTENTS OF SECTIONS.

1-3, classification of the sciences; 4, objects of chemical geology; 5, nebular hypo-
thesis ; 6, dissociation ; 7, 8, the sun; 9, the cooling earth; 10-13, its solidification ;
14, relations of solution to pressure ; 15, on the ear th’s crust; 16,17, probable composi-
tion and relation of earth’s crust and atmosphere ; 18, fixation of carbonic acid, its
effect on climate; 19, chemical influence of vegetation ‘as a reducing agent ; origin of

carbon and sulphurets ; 20, origin of limestones, dolomites, and gypsums ; 21, silicated

waters; 22, relations of potash and soda; 23- 26, disintegration of silicated rocks ; at;
their division into two groups ; 23, chemically- -formed aluminous and non-aluminous
ailicated rocks; 29, changes in composition of sediments; 30, 31,metamorphism of
rocks ; 32, chemical alter ration ; 33, molecular alteration; 34, porosity of sediments,
sheir ¢ondensation ; 35, ultimate result of chemical metamorphism ; 36, theory of vol-
zanic action; 37, views ‘of Keferstein and Herschel ; 38, the primitive crust ; 39, internal
heat ; 40, 41, "influence of pressure; 42, 43, types of igneous rocks ; 44, origin of granites ;
15, indigenous and exotic rocks ; endogenous rocks or vein- -stones ; ; 46, filling of mineral
veins ; ‘47, source of metals, and theory of metalliferous deposits ; 48, e earthquakes ; 5 AQ;
voleanoes } 50, 51, their distribution ; 52, causes of subsidence and accumulation of sedi-
nents ; theory of. mountains ; 53, origin of lavas; 54, relations of sedimentary deposi-
tion to voleanic phenomena ; ancient volcanoes ; 3 95, modern voleanoes.

§ 1. In approaching the study of the chemistry of the earth, or what
may be designated chemical geology, it becomes necessary to define the
natural objects of that complex study to which is given the general
name of geology, and also to consider its connection with the various
sciences. To this end, some notions as to the order and the relation of
these sciences may not be out of place. Following the classification
established by Comte, we distinguish between the abstract sciences, which
deal with laws, and the conerete sciences , Which have to do with things.
In their order the abstract sciences form ‘anh ascending series, according
to the degree of complexity of their phenomena, “so that each science
depends on the truths of all those which precede it, with the addition of
peculiar truths of its own.”—(J. 8S. Mill.) At the base of this series are
thus placed—lst, Mathematics, with its successive divisions of number,
geometry and mechanics; 2d, Abstract Astronomy, which considers, in
addition to these, gravitation, taking cognizjnce of number, extension,
equilibrium, and motion; 3d, Physics, comprehending the laws of weight,

cohesion, sound, light, electricity, 2 and magnetism ; 4th, Chemistry, which
treats of the relations to one another of the different forms of mineral

matter, and their transformations under the physical agencies of light,
heat, and electricity; 5th, Biology, or Physiology, to which belongs the
study of the laws of or eanized g growth and development; 6th, Psyc hology,
which considers the laws of mental phenomena; and, 7th, Sociolog, gy, or
the laws of human society.

§ 2. Parallel with these abstract sciences is a series of concrete or his-
torical sciences, dealing not with laws and general principles, but with.
objects and facts. Of these concrete sciences the first is Descriptive
Astronomy, which is the natural history of the planetary and stellar
worlds, treating of their movements, dimensions, and cosmical relations.
Coming, in the next place, to the history of our own planet, the study of the
accidents of its surface and its interior gives rise to Physical Geography
and to Structural and Dynamical Geognosy ; while the bodies which it
presents to us are naturally divided into two great classes, the inorganic
or mineral kingdom, and the or: ganic, including the vegetable and ani-
mal kingdom. The study of these two classes gives rise to two great
branches of natural history, Mineralogy and Organography, t the latter
including Botany and Zoology. The concrete science of mineralogy has
for its subject the natural history of all the forms of unorganized mat-
184 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

ter; that is to say, those substances which are exempt from biological
laws , but come within the domain of physies and chemistry. Chemical
change implies disorganization, and all so-called chemieal species are
inorganic, that is to say, unorganized, and belong to the mineral king-
dom, w hose natural history is thus physical and chemical, while that of
the vegetable and animal kingdoms is biological.*

§ 3. It might, at first sight, seem foreign to our present subject to
speak in this connection of the moral, social, and political history of
mankind, dependent upon the laws of psychology and sociology. It is,
however, to be remarked, that while in the abstract order each science
is independent of that which follows it in the series, it is far different in
the concrete sciences. This is seen in the familiar example of the de-
pendence upon each other of the animal, vegetable, and mineral king-
doms, and it is evident that man puts in movement agencies which are
constantly at work modifying alike physical veography and the rela-
tions of the mineral, vegetable, and animal world to such an extent that
human history must not be disregarded in the study of the lower reigns
of nature.

§ 4. From what has gone before it will be evident that under the com-
mon term of geology are generally confounded two distinct branches of
study ; the first or abstract division being that of the physical, chemical,
and biological laws which have presided over the development of the
globe, and the second or concrete division, the natural history of the
earth as displayed in its physical structure, stratigraphy, mineralogy,
paleontology. The name of geognosy, employed by some authors, may
very appropriately be retained for the latter, while that of geology is
restricted to the former division. It is proposed in the following pages
to consider briefly some of the more important points in the chemical
history of the globe; in doing which it will be necessary to notice also
its astronomical and phy sical histor y, and the relations of organic life, in
so far as they are concerned in the chemical history of the earth in its
various stages of development. The scheme thus embraced is so great
that in the limits of the present essay nothing more can be attempted
than a sketch which shall embrace some of the most. striking facts in
the history of the forming globe considered as a condensing nebulous
mass, in the chemistry of the air, sea, and earth in past ages, and in the
relations of the central heat to the superficial portions of the earth, by
which we shall endeavor to explain certain facts in dynamical geology,
such as the great movements of the earth’s crust and the phenomena of
ear rthquales and volcanoes.

§ 5. The nebular hypothesis, as it is called, which supposes that our
scleat system and all the worlds of space have come from the condensa-
tion of diffused vapors, has received strong confirmation from the dis-
coveries made by the spectroscope. We now know that there exist in

he heavens nebule consisting of luminous gas; that is to say, vaporous
matter shining by its own light, which we may, with great probability,
regard as the “primal matter out of which, as the elder Herschel sug-
gested, suns and planets have been formed by a process of condensation.
By the aid of the telescope and the spectroscope we find in the heavens,
planets—bodies like our earth, shining only by reflected light; suns,—
selfluminous, radiating light from solid matter; and, moreover, true
nebule, or masses of Juminous vapor. These three forms represent
three distinct phases in the condensation of the primeval matter, from
which our own and other planetary systems have been formed.

*T. S. Hunt, on the Objects and Method of Mineralogy. American Journal of Seé~
ence, [2,] xl; 203. '
CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 185

This nebulous matter is conceived to be so intensely heated as to be in
the state of true gas or vapor, and, for this reason, feebly luminous
when compared with the sun. It would here be out of place to discuss
the detailed results of spectroscopic investigation, or the beautiful and
ingenious methods by which modern science has shown the existence in
the sun, and in many other luminous bodies in space, of the same chem-
ical elements that are met with in our earth.

§ 6. Calculations based on the amount of light and heat radiated from
the sun show that the temperature which reigns at its surface is so great
that we can hardly form an adequate idea of it. Of the chemical rela-
tions of such intensely heated matter modern chemistry has made known
to us some curious facts, which help to throw light on the constitution
and luminosity of the sun. Heat, under ordinary conditions, is favor-
able to chemical combination, but a higher temperature reverses all
affinities. Thus, the so-called noble metals, gold, silver, mercury, &c.,
unite with oxygen and other elements ; but these compounds are decom-
posed by heat, and the pure metals are regenerated. A similar reaction
was many years since shown by Mr. Grove with regard to water, whose
elements—oxygen and hydrogen—when mingled and kindled by flame,
or by the electric spark, unite to form water, which, however, at a much
higher temperature, is again resolved into its component gases. Hence,
if we had these two gases existing in admixture at a very high tempera-
ture, cold would actually effect their combination precisely as heat would
do if-the mixed gases were at the ordinary temperature, and literally it
would be found that “frost performs the effect of fire.” The recent re-
searches of Henry Sainte-Claire Deville and others go far to show that this
breaking-up of compounds, or dissociation of elements by intense heat
is a pr inciple of universal application ; so that we may suppose that all
the elements which make up the sun or our planet would, when so in-
tensely heated as to be in .that gaseous condition which all matter is
capable of assuming, remain uncombined, that is to say, would exist
together in the condition of what we call chemical elements, whose fur-
ther dissociation in stellar or nebulous masses may even give us evi-
dence of matter still more elemental than that revealed by “the experli-

ments of the laboratory, where we can only conjecture the compound
nature of many of the so-called elementary substances.

§ 7. The sun, then, is to be conceived of as an immense mass of intensely
heated gaseous and dissociated matter, so condensed, however, that not-
withstanding itsexcessive temperature, it has a specific gravity not much
below that of water; probably offering a condition analogous to that
which Cagniard de la Tour observed for volatile bodies when submitted
to great pressure at temperatures much above their boiling point. The
radiation of heat going on from the surface of such an intensely heated
mass of uncombined gases will produce a superficial cooling, which will
permit the combination of certain elements, and the production of solid
or liquid particles ; these, suspended in the still dissociated vapors,
become intensely luminous, and form the solar photosphere. The con-
densed particles, ¢ carried down into the intensely heated mass, again
meet with a heat of dissociation, so that the process of combination at
the surface is incessantly renewed, while the heat of the sun may be
supposed to oS maintained by the slow condensation of itsmass; a dim-
inution by ,J;;th of its present diameter being sufficient, according to
Helmholtz, t 0 Oo maintain the present supply of heat for twenty-one thou-
sand years.

§8. This hypothesis of the nature of the sun and of the luminous
process going on at its surface is the one lately put forward by Faye,
186 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

and, although it has met with opposition, appears to be that which ac
cords best with our present knowledge of the chemical and physical con-
ditions of matter, such as we must suppose it to exist in the condensing
gaseous mass which, according to the nebular hypothesis, should form
the center of our solar system. Taking this, as we have already done,
for granted, it matters little whether we imagine the different planets
to have been successively detached as rings during the rotation of the
primal mass, as is generally conceived, or whether we admit with Cha-
cornac a process of aggregation or concretion operating within the
primal nebular mass, resulting in the production of sun and planets.
In either case we come to the conclusion that our earth must at one time
have been in an intensely heated gaseous condition such as the sun
now presents, self-luminous, and with a process of condensation going
on at first at the surface only, until by cooling it must have reached the
point where the gaseous center was exchanged for one of combined and
liquefied matter.

§9. Here commences the chemistry of the earth, to the discussion of
which the foregoing considerations have been only preliminary. So
long as the gaseous condition of the earth lasted, we may suppose the
whole mass to have been homogeneous; but when the temperature be-
came so reduced that the existence of chemical compounds at the center
became possible, those which were most stable at the elevated tempera-
ture then prevailing, would be first formed. Thus, for example, while
compounds of oxygen with mercury, or even with hydrogen, could not
exist, oxides of silicon, aluminium, calcium, magnesium, and iron might
be formed and condensed in a liquid form at the center of the globe.
By progressive cooling, still other elements would be removed trom the
gaseous mass, which would form the atmosphere of the non-gaseous
nucleus. We may suppose an arrangement of the condensed matters
at the center according to their respective specific gravities, and thus
the fact that the density of the earth as a whole is about twice the mean
density of the matters which form its solid surface may be explained.
Metallic or metalloidal compounds of elements, grouped differently from
any compounds known to us, and far more dense, may exist in the cen-
ter of the earth. The condensing effect of pressure as we approach the
center of the globe has, however, been regarded by some as far more
than sufficient to account for the considerable mean density of the planet,
and, according to Dr. Young, would be sufiicient to reduce a mass of
granite, transported to the earth’s center, to one-eighth of the bulk
which it occupied at the surface, which would give to the earth a mean
density equal to twelve or thirteen times that of water. This considera-
tion has led a recent writer to conclude, with Herbert Speucer, that our
earth and the other planets may be only shells of varying thickness,
inclosing a central cavity filled with vaporous matter, by which hypoth-
esis may be explained their apparently feeble density. It is, however,
a matter of indifference, so far as our argument is concerned, whether
the process of condensation commenced around such a central cavity,
or at the center of the globe itself.

§10. The processes of combination and cooling having gone on until
those elements which are not volatile in the heat of our ordinary fur-
naces were condensed into a liquid form, we may here inquire what
would be the result, upon the mass, of a further reduction of tempera-
ture. It is generally assumed that in the cooling of a liquid globe of
mineral matter, congelation would commence at the surface, as in the
case of water; but water offers an exception to most other liquids, in-
CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 187
asmuch as it is denser in the liquid than in the solid form. | Hence, ice
floats on water, and freezing water becomes covered with a layer of
ice, which protects the liquid “below. Some metals and alloys resemble
water in this respect. With regard to most other substances, and
notably the various minerals and earthy compounds like those which
may be supposed to have made up the mass of the molten globe, the
case is entirely different. The numerous and detailed experiments of
Charles Deville, and those of Delesse, besides the earlier ones of Bi-
schof, unite in showing that the density of fused rocks is much less than
that of the crystalline products resulting from their slow cooling, these
being, according to Deville, from one- seventh to one-sixteenth heavier
than the fused mass, so that if formed at its surface they would, in.
obedience to the laws of gravity, tend to sink as soon as formed.

§11. The stony materials of the earth’s crust then, unlike ice and cer-
tain metals, expand in melting and contract in passing into the solid
state. The melting of ice is a process of condensation, and hence pres-
sure favors its liquefaction, causing it to melt at a lower temperature
than it would otherwise do; but for bodies with which melting is a pro-
cess of expansion, pressure produces an opposite effect, namely, that of
augmenting the fusing point. These conclusions of James Thompson
and William Thompson have been experimentally verified by Bunsen,
Fairbairn, and Hopkins. It results from this physical law that the
effect of pressure upon materials like molten rocks would be such that
solidification at a depth from the surface would take place at a temper-
ature much higher than that required for their solidification at tlie sur-
face. Hence, in opposition to the notion of a congealed layer, like a
sheet of ice, resting upon the surface of a molten globe, Hopkins, and
with him Scrope, supposes solidification to have commenced at the cen-
ter of the liquid mass and to have advanced toward the circumference.
Mr. Hopkins concludes that the pressure existing at great depths must
have induced congelation of the molten mass at temperatures at which,
under a less pressure, it would have remained liquid. Before the last
portions became solidified, there was produced, it is conceived by Mr.
Hopkins, a condition of imperfect liquidity, preventing the sinking of
the cooled and heavier particles, and giving rise to a superficial crust,
from which solidification would proceed downward. There would thus
be inclosed between the inner and outer solid parts, a portion of
uncongealed matter, which, according to him, may be supposed still
to retain its liquid condition, and to be the seat of volcanic action,
whether existing in isolated reservoirs or subterranean lakes, or whether,
as suggested by Scrope, forming a continuous sheet surrounding the
solid nucleus.

12. This view of the constitution of the globe, or one analogous to
it, has found favor with many theorists. Professor N. S. Shaler, of
Harvard, who, in a recent essay on the formation of mountain chains,
in the proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, has
adopted it, concisely states it as follows: ‘The earth consists of an
immense solid nucleus, a hardened outer crust, and an intermediate
region of comparatively slight depth, in an imperfect state of igneous
fusion.” In this connection iti is curious to remark that, as lately pointed
out by Mr. J. Clifton Ward, Halley was led, from the study of terres-
trial magnetism, to a similar hypothesis. He supposed the existence of
two magnetic poles situated in the earth’s outer crust, and two others
in an interior mass, separated from the solid envelope by a fluid
medium, and revolving, by a very small degree, slower than the
188 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

outer crust.* The same conclusion was subsequently adopted by Han-
steen.

§15. Apart from these considerations, however, many of the best
modern physicists and geologists have found numerous reasons for
rejecting the popular notion which regards our globe as a liquid molten
mass covered by a layer of twenty or thirty miles of solidified rock.
The deductions of Hopkins from the phenomena of precession and nuta-
tion, those of Pratt from the crushing force of immense mountain masses
like ‘those of the Himalaya, and those of Sir William Thompson from the
tides, showing the great rigidity of the earth, all unite to prove that
the earth, if not solid to the center, must have a firm and solid crust
several hundred miles in thickness. Under these conditions, if there
still exist a liquid center, it must, so far as superficial phenomena are
concerned, be as inert as if it were not. Weare thus prepared to accept
the conslusions to which the line of argument in § 11 leads us, and admit
that our globe solidified from the center.

§14. It is, then, with the superficial portions of the earth, alone, that
we have to do from the moment of its solidification; and as in the sub-
sequent pages of our history air and water must play an important part,
it becomes necessary, bofore going further, to consider briefly the nature
of the process of aqueous solution and its relations to pressure. Solu-
tion may, for our present purpose, be defined as a chemical union between
two or more bodies, of which one is liquid, resulting in a liquid product,
and accompanied by a change of volume.t In ordinary cases, as in that
of most bodies dissolving in water, this change is in the direction of con-
densation, and hence, as might be expected, pressure exerts an influence
similar to that in the liquefaction of certain bodies by fusion, explained
in §11.. Pressure facilitates the liquefaction of ice, which is attended
by condensation, and acts in like manner in the case of solution, so that
the solubility of salts in water, as shown by the experiments of Sorby, is
increased by pressure. We can searcely doubt that these phenomena
of fusion and solution come under one general physical law, and that
for all those bodies which contract in dissolving, (to which there are
but few exceptions,) their solubility in water must be augmented by
and in proportion to the pressure. As expressed by Mr. Sorby, mechani-
cal is thus converted into chemical force. ¢

§15, Reverting now to the solidified globe, in whose superficial por-
tions and in the surrounding gases and vapors were present all the
chemical elements with which we have to do, it is necessary to consider
briefly its physical and its chemical condition at this early period.

The formation of a crust at the surface of the viscid layer which still
enveloped the solidified mass of the globe, as conceived by Hopkins,
is readily admissible; but that this process commenced when the remain-
ing envelope of liquid matter was yet so deep that the refrigeration up
to the present time has not been sufficient for its entire solidification
is not probable. Such a crust on the cooling superficial layer would,
from the contraction consequent on the further refrigeration of the
liquid stratum beneath, become more or less depressed, corrugated, and

*'The elevated temperature of the interior of the globe would probably offer no ob-
stacle to the development of magnetism. In a recent experiment of M. Tréve, com-
municated by M. Faye to the French Academy of Sciences, it was found that molten
cast iron when poured into a mold, surrounded by a helix which was traversed by an
electric current, became a strong magnet when liquid at a temperature of 1,300° C.,,
and retained its magnetism while cooling. (Comptes-Itendus de V Académie des Sciences,
February, 1869.)

t T. S. Hunt, Thoughts on Solution, American Journal of Science, [2,] xix, 100.
¢ Bakerian Lecture for 1863, L. E. and D, Philosophical Magazine, February, 1864.
CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 189

broken up, thus causing the extravasation of the yet unsolidified portion,
which wouid contribute to the vast amount of mineral matter brought
within the chemical influences of the surrounding atmosphere. Further
contraction from cooling would render this material more or less porous
and permeable, preparing it for that process of combined mechanical
and chemical disintegration which would result from the action of the
acid liquids afterwards to be precipitated from the atmosphere.

§16. We have next to consider the chemical constitution of this irregu-
lar surfaced and broken-up crust of anhydrous and primitive igneous
rock, which is now everywhere buried beneath the products of its disin-
tegration. It is evident that, with the exception of those which were
still in a gaseous form, it must have contained all the elements which
now make up the known rocks of the earth’s crust. If we conceive these,
together with the air, the ocean, and its dissolved salts, now to react
upon each other under the influence of an intense heat, it will enable us
to form some notion of the chemical relations of the elements of the
globe at the time when they were cooling down from that condition of
igneous vapor which we suppose to have been that of our planet at an
early stage in its history. To the chemist it is evident that from such
a process applied to our globe would result the oxidation of all carbona-
ceous matter, the conversion of all carbonates, chlorides, and sulphates,
into silicates, and the separation of the carbon, chlorine and sulphur in
the form of acid gases, which, with nitrogen, watery vapor, and an excess
of oxygen, would form an exceedingly dense atmosphere. The resulting
fused mass would contain all the bases as silicates, and would probably
nearly resemble in composition certain furnace-slags or basic voleanic
glasses. Such we may conceive to have been the nature of the primitive
igneous rock, and such the composition of the primeval atmosphere, which
must have been one of very great density. Under the pressure of a high
barometric column condensation would take place at a temperature
much above the present boiling point of water, and the lower levels of
the half-cooled crust would be drenched with a highly heated solution
of hydrochloric acid, whose decomposing action would be powerfully
aided by the temperature. The formation of chlorides of the various
bases, and the separation of silica, would go on until the affinities of the
acid were satisfied, while there would result a sea-water holding in the
solution, besides the chlorides of sodium, calcium, and magnesium, salts
of aluminum and other metallic bases. At a later period the gradual
combination of oxygen with sulphurous acid would eliminate this from
the atmosphere in the form of sulphuric acid. The atmosphere being thus
deprived of its volatile compounds of chlorine and sulphur, would ap-
proach to that of our own time, but differ in its much greater amount
of carbonic acid. It will be remarked that from the affinities which
would come into play in the conditions above supposed, all the elements,
with the exception of the noble metals, nitrogen, chlorine, the related,
haloids, and the hydrogen combined with these, would be united with
oxygen. The volatility of gold, silver, and platinum, would keep them
still in a gaseous condition at temperatures where silicon, and with it
the baser metals, were precipitated in the form of oxides.

§17. The process just described ceased with the separation from the
air of the compounds of sulphur and chlorine, and then commenced
the second stage in the action of the atmosphere on the earth’s crust,
by which, under the influence of carbonic acid and moisture, its com-
plex aluminous silicates dre converted into a hydrated silicate of alum-
ina or clay; while the separated lime, magnesia, and alkalies, being
changed into bicarbonates, are conveyed to the sea in a state of solution.
190 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

The first effect of these dissolved carbonates would be to precipitate
the dissolved alumina and the heavy metals, after which came the de-
composition of the chloride of calcium and the formation of carbonate of
lime and chloride of sodium. This action of carbonic acid is still going
on at the earth’s surface, slowly breaking down and destroying the
hardest rocks, and, aided by mechanical processes, transforming them
into clays; although the action, from the comparative rarity of carbonic
acid in the atmosphere, i is now less energetic than in earlier times, when
the abundance of this gas, and a higher temperature, fav ored the
chemical decomposition of the rocks. But now, as then, every clod of
clay formed from the decay of a crystalline rock corresponded to an
equivalent of carbonic acid abstracted from the atmosphere, and to
equivalents of carbonate of lime and common salt formed from the
chloride of calcium of the sea-water.

It is very instructive, in this connection, to compare the composition
of the waters of the modern ocean with that of the sea in ancient times,
whose composition we learn from the fossil sea-waters which are still to
be found in certain regions, imprisoned in the pores of the older stratified
rocks, and are the source of many of our saline mineral waters*. These
are vastly richer in salts of lime and magnesia than those of the present
sea, from which have been separated, by chemical processes, all the car-
bonate of lime of our limestones, with the exception of that derived from
the sub-aérial decay of calcareous and magnesian silicates belonging to
the primitive crust.

§18. The gradual removal, in the form of carbonate of lime, of the
carbonic acid from the primeval atmosphere, has been connected with
great changes in the organic life of the globe. The air was doubtless
at first unfit for the respiration of warm-blooded animals, and we find
the higher forms of life coming gradually into existence as we approach
the present period of a purer air. Calculations based upon the proba-
ble amount of limestone in the earth’s crust, lead us to conclude that
the amount of carbon thus removed in the form of carbonic acid has
been so enormous, that we must suppose the earlier forms of air-breath-
ing animals to have been peculiarly adapted to live in an atmosphere
which would probably be too impure to support modern reptilian life.

Growing plants under the stimulus of light possess, as is well
known, the power to absorb carbonic acid, appropriating the carbon and
liberating oxygen. The importance of this agency in purifying the
primitive atmosphere was long since pointed out by Brongniart, and
our great stores of fossil fuel have been derived from the decomposition,
by the ancient vegetation, of the excess of carbonic acid of the early
atmosphere, which, through this agency, was exchanged for oxygen gas.
In this connection the vegetation of former periods presents the curious
phenomenon of plants allied to those now growing beneath the tropics
flourishing within the polar circles. Many ingenious hypotheses have
been proposed to account for the warmer climate of earlier times, but
are at best unsatisfactory, and it would appear that the true solution
of the problem may be found in the constitution of the early atmosphere,
when considered in the light of Dr. Tyndal’s beautiful researches on
radiant heat. He has found that the presence of a few hundredths of
carbonic acid gas in the atmosphere, while offering almost no obstacle
to the passage of the solar rays, would suffice to prevent almost entirely
the loss by radiation of obscure heat.

The aqueous vapor which our atmosphere contains exerts a powerful

*T.S. Hunt. Contributions to the Chemistry of Natural Waters, American J ournal
of Science, [2.] XX XIX, 184.
CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 191

influence of the same kind, allowing the sun’s rays to reach the earth,
but preventing to a great extent the loss by radiation of the heat thus
communicated. When, however, the supply of heat from the sun is in-*
terrupted at night, the radiation which goes on into space causes the
precipitation of a great part of the watery vapor from the air, and the
earth, being thus deprived of its protecting shield, becomes more and
more rapidly cooled. If now we could suppose the atmosphere to be
mingled with some permanent gas which should possess an absorptive
power like that of aqueous vapor, this cooling process would be in a
great measure arrested, and an effect would be produced similar to that
of a screen of glass, which keeps up the temperature beneath it, both
directly by preventing the escape of radiant heat, and indirectly by
hindering the condensation of the aqueous vapor in the air confined be-
neath. Such a gas is carbonic acid, and the large amount of it which
existed in the atmosphere during former geological periods must have
aided greatly to maintain the elevated temperatures which then existed
at the earth’s surface. Without doubt the greater extent of sea and the
absence or rarity of high mountains contributed much to the mild eli-
mate of former geologic ages; but to these must be added the influence
of the whole of the carbon since condensed in the forms of carbonate of
lime and coal, which then existed as a transparent and permanent gas
mingled with the atmosphere surrounding the earth, and protecting it
like a dome of glass. To this effect of carbonic acid it is possible that
other gases may have contributed. The ozone which is mingled with
the oxygen set free from growing plants, and the marsh-gas which is now
evolved from decomposing vegetation, may, by their absorptive powers,
which are far greater than that of carbohic acid, have contributed
greatly to maintain a high temperature at the earth’s surface in early
times.*

§ 19. The part which vegetation has played in the chemical history of the
globe has not been limited to the purification of the atmosphere. It
seems to have been the great agent through which solar force has effected
a partial deoxidation of the thoroughly burned or oxidized materials of
the primitive world. By means of growing plants: carbonic acid and
water are reduced, giving rise to the various forms of carbon and to
hydrocarbonaceous bodies, and these have been the agents by which the
sulphates of the metals have been deoxidized, and sulphur, native
metals, and metallic sulphides produced. It is moreover by the reducing
action of decaying organic matters that the peroxide of iron is partially re-
duced and removed in a soluble form from sediments, to bé afterwards
deposited in the form of iron ore. The evidences of this reducing and
dissolving action of organic matter are met with not only in the fire-
clays and iron-stones of the carboniferous system, and among secondary,
tertiary, and modern deposits, but on a grand scale in the Laurentian
system, where great thicknesses of sediments are found almost destitute
of iron, while beds of iron ore more extensive than at any subsequent
periods are evidences of the abundance of organic matters at that early
time. If these are not more frequently preserved in the form of an-
thracite and graphite, it is because the amount of peroxide of iron dif-
fused through the sediments of the period furnished the oxygen neces-
sary for the oxidation of the carbon. Inasmuch as the ores of these old
rocks, in their present forms of hematite and magnetite, are very insolu-
ble, and represent so much iron withdrawn from the terrestrial circula-
tion, it is evident that the proportion of this element, existing in a dif-

*'T, S. Hunt, On the Earth’s Climate, ete., American Journal of Science, [2, ] xxxvi, 396,
1863.
192 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

tused aid oxidized state in recent sediments, must be less in those of
more remote times.* ,

To the chemist the presence of graphite, or of a metallic sulphide in
a rock, affords clear evidences of the intervention of organic life; and
these indirect evidences are met with not only in the oldest known strati-
fied rocks, those of the Laurentian system, but in the eruptive
diorites, which rise from beneath them, and are pyritiferous. Thepresence
of graphite, native iron, and sulphurets in most aérolites, not to mention
the hydrocarbonaceous matters which they sometimes contain, tells us
in unmistakable language that these bodies come from a region where
vegetable life has performed a part not unlike that which still plays on
our globe, and even lead us to hope for the discovery in them of organic
forms which may give us some notion of life in other worlds than our
own.

§20. Animal life has played in the chemical history of our planet a
part much less important than vegetation, since it is entirely depend-
ent for support upon the products elaborated for it by plants, and by
chemical forces. ‘Thus, although many limestones are made up chiefly,
and even wholly of the calcareous remains of marine animals, these
did no more than appropriate from the water the carbonate of lime
generated by the chemical actions explained in §17. If the waters of
the present ocean do not deposit carbonate of lime, it is simply because
the amount of it now generated by the slow decomposition of the solid
rocksis not more than is required for the living organisms which it con-
tains. Let these become extinct and the supply of carbonate of lime,
which would still continue, would soon cause deposits of precipitated
carbonate of lime. Such acondition of things existing in past ages, in
limited basins, has given rise to sediments of this kind, which constitute
some of the finest statuary marbles.

The waters charged with the products of the sub-aérial decay of rocks,
convey to the sea, as we have seen, bicarbonates of alkalies, lime, and
magnesia; but from the reaction of these on the chloride and sulphate of
calcium in the ocean waters carbonate of lime alone separates, since bi-
carbonate of magnesia decomposes chloride of calcium with formation
of magnesian chloride. When, however, in a closed sea-basin all of the
chloride of caleium is decomposed, the chloride of magnesium is attacked
by the alkaline carbonates, and the resulting carbonate of magnesia is
separated, mixed with the carbonate of lime which had accompanied
these. ;

When into a similar closed basin, or an evaporating salt lake in a dry
region, holding sulphate of magnesia, there is conveyed a water charged
with bicarbonate of lime, there results a double decomposition, giving
rise to sulphate of lime and bicarbonate of magnesia. The latter, being
the more soluble salt, remains dissolved, while the sulphate of lime erys-
tallizes out in the form of gypsum, but at a later period is deposited as a
hydrated carbonate of magnesia, generally mixed with carbonate of lime.
To effect this reaction it is necessary that there should be present such an
excess of carbonic acid as to keep the magnesia in the condition of bi-
carbonate until the gypsum has crystallized out, inasmuch as dissolved
sulphate of lime is readily decomposed by carbonate of magnesia. This
condition can only be attained by especial precautions in the atmosphere
of our period; but by operating in an atmosphere more highly charged
with carbonic acid, the production of gypsum and magnesian carbonate
by this reaction is readily effected. We may hence conclude that it
was the more highly carbonated atmosphere of early periods which

* Geology of Canada, 1863, p. 573.
CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 193

favored the accumulation of the great beds of gypsum and magnesian
limestones which generally accompany the salt deposits of past geologi-
cal periods. The hydrated magnesian carbonate, whether the con-
comitant of gypsum, as in this case, or of chloride of sodium, as in the
former reaction, unites chemically with the associated carbonate of lime,
and gives rise to dolomite or magnesian limestone.*

§ 21. The action of carbonated alkaline waters ou tne salts of the sea
under ordinary conditions thus gives rise to carbonate of lime, and it is
only under peculiar circumstances that magnesian carbonate is sep-
arated. The case is, however, changed with silicated alkaline waters
coming from deep-seated silicated rocks, which undergo a decomposi-
tion without the intervention of the atmospheric air, and hold dissolved
silicates of alkalies and of lime. These reacting on the magnesian salts
dissolved in sea-water give rise to magnesian silicates, which are very
insoluble. Hence we frequently find deposits of magnesian silicates
in sediments, while silicates of lime are comparatively rare. In the
solubility of bicarbonate of magnesia and the insolubility of the cor-
responding lime salt, and in the insolubility of magnesian silicate and
the solubility of silicate of lime, we find a simple explanation of the geo-
logical relation of calcareous and magnesian silicates and carbonates.t

§ 22. The relations of the alkalies, potash and soda, require some
consideration in this connection. The silico-aluminous compounds of
potash possess a much greater degree of stability than those of soda.
This is exemplified in the case of rocks which contain, side by side,
orthoclase and albite, or oligoclase, when it is often found that the soda-
feldspar has undergone decomposition from a loss of a portion of its
alkali and partial disintegration, while the orthoclase or potash-feldspar
remains unchanged. It is well known that waters holding large portions
of potash salts in solution, exchange the potash for soda when filtered
through a stratum of earth in which the amount of potash is, neverthe-
less, as great or greater than the soda; and we find that in natural spring-
waters, which often contain considerable amounts of alkaline carbonates,
the proportion of potash to the soda is as small as in the ocean. Sur-
face-waters bearing the unfiltered wash of the land carry considerable
portions of potash to the sea, but it is constantly removed, partly, at
least, by the agency of fucoids, which, as Forchammer has shown, like
land-plants, take up large amounts of potash, and subsequently, by
their decay in contact with the argillaceous mud, restore the alkali in an
insoluble form to the earth. The formation of glauconite, a peculiar
silicate rich in potash, which has been going on in the bottom of the sea
from avery early period to the present time, has also been constantly
withdrawing the potash from the ocean, so that soda is still the predomi-
nant base in its waters.

§ 23. The changes of silicated rocks under the influence of water,
carbonic acid, and the products of decaying organic matter, present
several points of interest. The chemical decomposition of feldspars con-
sists in the removal of their protoxide bases, alkalies, and lime, together
with a portion of silica, leaving as a final result a hydrous silicate of alu-
mina or clay. This change is favored by mechanical division, and Dau-
brée has shown that by the prolonged attrition of the particles of granite
under water, the softer and cleavable feldspar is, in great part, reduced
to an impalpable powder, while the uncleavable quartz forms rounded
grains of sand, the water at the same time dissolving from the feldspar a

hy e Hunt, On the Salts of Lime and Magnesia. American Journal of Science, [2,]
xl, 49.
,/ 2.8. Hunt, American Journal of Science, [2,] x1, 49.

13s

194 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

certain portion of alkaliand silica. The soda-feldspars, being more easily
decomposed and disintegrated by atmospheric influences, are broken up
by mechanical agencies more readily than the potash-feldspar. The same
is true of silicates like hornblende and pyroxene, which are less hard than
the feldspars. From the mechanical and chemical disintegration of
ordinary crystalline rocks, which consist chiefly of these various minerals,
together with quartz, there will result a coarse sandy sediment, in which
quartz with more or less orthoclase will prevail, while the finer mud
will contain only the more minutely divided particles of these, together
with partially decomposed soda-feldspar, clay, and the comminuted
hornblende and pyroxene.

§ 24. This process is evidently one which must go on in the wear-
ing away of rocks by aqueous agency, and explains the fact that while
quartz, or an excess of combined silica, is, for the most part, wanting in
rocks which contain a large portion of alumina, it is generally abundant
in those rocks in which potash-feldspar predominates. The coarser and
more silicious sediments are readily permeable to infiltrating waters,
which gradually remove from them the soda, lime, and magnesia which
they still contain, and, if organic matters intervene, the oxide of iron,
leaving at last little more than silica, alumina, and potash, the elements
of granite, trachyte, gneiss, and mica-schist. On the other hand, the finer
sediments, whose origin, simultaneous with the coarser, we have just
explained, resisting the penetration of waters, will retain all their soda,
lime, magnesia, and iron-oxide, and containing an excess of alumina,
with a small amount of silica, may, by their metamorphism, give rise to
basic lime and soda-feldspars, and to pyroxene and hornblende—the
elements of diorites and dolerites.

25. The disintegration of alkaliferous rocks, however, frequently
takes place under such conditions as to be more mechanical than chemi-
eal, and it may often happen that sediments still retaining a considerable
amount of combined soda become mingled with carbonates of lime and
magnesia. The reaction which then goes on between the liberated
alkaline silicate and these earthy carbonates gradually effects the con-
version of these into silicates, while the alkali is eliminated in the form
of soluble carbonate of soda, giving rise to alkaline mineral waters, which,
as I have shown, are abundantly generated in sediments where feldspathic
matters and earthy carbonates are intermingled. It is only from rocks
destitute of these carbonates that silicated alkaline waters can issue.

§ 26. A decomposition more exclusively chemical is observed particu:
larly among the crystalline schists of tropical and semi-tropical regions,
where a process of disintegration often destroys the cohesion of the
rocks to a considerable depth. This change, which has been but imper-
feetly studied, is probably dependent in great part on the action of the
soluble products of vegetable decomposition, aided by the elevated tem-
perature. It, however, requires careful investigation; and a considera-
tion of the causes which have induced it, and the extent to which it may
have in former periods prevailed on the earth’s surface, is of great geolo-
gical importance, since the immense erosion of which geognosy afiords
us evidence, and which seems so difficult to explain if we conceive the
rocks to have been as hard as we now find them in many regions, becomes
more easily intelligible if we suppose the cohesion of the crystalline rocks
to have been previously much weakened by decay.

§ 27. The operation of the mechanical and chemical agencies which pre-
side over the disintegration of pre-existing rocks naturally divides the
insoluble products into two types, approaching in chemical composition,
as we have shown, to granites, gneiss, and mica-schist, on the one hand
CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH. 195

and to diorites and dolerites onthe other. These correspond to the two
classes of igneous rocks designated by Bunsen as the trachytie and
pyroxenic types.

§ 28. There is, however, a third source of silicated rocks, to which
some allusion has already been made in speaking of the production of
magnesian silicates by direct precipitation, as the result of chemical
changes in solutions. In this way have been formed, besides these and
related protoxide silicates, other silicates, including alumina. This base
in certain conditions as yet but imperfectly understood, passes into
solution in water, and has given rise to complex silicates, including pro-
toxide bases. As I have elsewhere expressed it, not only steatite, pyrox-
ene, hornblende, and serpentine, but chlorite and, in many cases, garnet
and epidote, have had their origin in the crystallization and molecular
re-arrangement of natural silicates, generated by chemical processes in
aqueous solutions at the earth’s surface. To these must be added other
silicates, containing alkalies, chiefly potash, such as glauconite, and a
hydrous silicate of alumina and potash which has the composition of
pinite or agalmatolite and forms beds in the sedimentary rocks of dif-
ferent geological periods. Evidences abound of the solution of alumina,
and of the generation, as chemical precipitates, of various aluminiferous
silicates. These, like the similarly-formed protoxide silicates, are in
most, if not all cases, highly basic, and moreover, from the mechanical
conditions of their production and deposition, are found associated and
even intermingled with the finely-divided basic sediments of mechanical
origin. The aluminous silicates thus formed, though mineralogically
important, are probably small in amount when compared with the great
mass of argillaceous sediments.

§ 29. The chemical changes which are wrought in the silicated rocks
during their mechanical disintegration are, as we have seen, chiefly the
elimination of the alkalies, especially the soda, in a soluble form from
its aluminous compounds, and the separation and accumulation of the
oxide of iron. The decomposition of the silicates of lime and magnesia
which takes place is, toa great extent, compensated for by the regene-
ration of similar compounds by the reaction already explained, but the
mean composition of the argillaceous sediments of any geological epoch
will depend not only upon the age of a formation, but upon the number
of times which its materials have been broken up, and the length of the
periods during which they have been exposed, in an unmetamorphosed
condition, to the action of water, carbonic acid, and vegetation, If, how-
ever, we may assume that this action, other things being equal, has on
the whole been most complete in the newest formations, it is evident
that the chemical and mineralogical composition of different systems of
rocks must vary with their antiquity, so that we may find in their com-
parative study a guide to their respective ages. Silicious deposits, and
chemical precipitates, like the carbonates and silicates of lime and mag
nesia, may exist, with similar characters, in the geological formations of
any age,* not only forming beds apart, but mingled with the less perme
able silico-aluminous sediments of mechanical origin. Inasmuch as the
chemical agencies giving rise to these compounds were then most active,
they may be expected in greatest abundance in the rocks of the earlier
periods. In the case of the more permeable and more highly silicious
sediments already noticed, (§ 24,) whose principal elements are silica,
alumina, and alkalies, the deposits of different ages will be marked
chiefly by a progressive diminution in the amount of potash and in the
disappearance of the soda which they contain. In the oldest or least

* Geology of Canada, Report, 1866, page 230.
196 CHEMISTRY OF THE EARTH.

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt

lixiviated rocks the proportion of alkali will be nearly or quite sufficient
fytper anth aalaan ayn albiterith the whale of the.aln mina nracont hnt
